

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING TH >i\ INANCIAL TIMES
JR Rjjpl IH9^
fP& . 's§§!&■ w M l ' lP jH
- ' jPil?. 4 - v t-A -■ v - - M mm's $ w
■R ,i i •y* B B & § | . ,•' St
8 B s k 11» 9 fiLjl 9JB B 888 |f" 98»r | MBB 8 S *
A| ||BllBlB£L mSMj S w^smWW l iflB 188 V
" mmk.'f J
e 9<stered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


tiff
, m
■
*
4f
*» *
-aiff' ; ® ®4®rp«f ® >
mm
m
M.,
WMim^
smm.. m
f M
k «
Geon vinyl resins are used in the manufacture of upholstery and wall coverings, as specified by
Moulded Products (A’asia) Ltd
rides the Southern Aurora
This is first class travel to remain that way for years to come
. . . upholstery and wall covering of Geon vinyl used on the Southern Aurora.
Here are materials as modern as the train itself . . . tough and easy to
clean, water proof and stain proof. Upholstery and wall coverings
such as these are further examples of Geon’s versatility. In every
industry, Geon improves products or evolves new ones.
Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.B. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2.
Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road, North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319.
GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A., and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
MS 634


• • •
Wm
mm
o
m
mm
■
how do you move
use this.
A Grace Bros, expert is only a
phone call away to move any sized
office quickly, economically, effi-
ciently. □ Guarantee to have the
office back in operation on sched-
ule □ Offer you a foolproof cata-
loguing system which prevents
confusion and mix-ups □ Have
Australia’s biggest office removal
equipment pool □ Also specialise
in executive, government depart-
ment and consular moves □ Cus-
toms and forwarding services
□ World-wide removals. Grace
Bros. will safely store inactive files
and records, allowing immediate
access at anytime. Grace Bros*
are geared to give
you the most rea-
sonable quote.
ACROSS THE STREET . ACROSS THE WORLD
Sydney 2-0946 n Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 □ Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Lismore 2265 □ Murwiilumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
GR63
The Bulletin
Established 1880
SEPTEMBER 25, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4465
LEE KUAN YEW
, . . and the Americans 23
CRASH-PROGRAMME
ARMY
'The National Servicemen’s
Duntroon 39
BARRY HUMPHRIES IN
TAHITI
Gauguin a go-go 28
MELBOURNE CATHOLICS
Two years after Dr Mannix 41
TANNER 12 LETTERS .... 43
BATMAN 21
JHIS AUSTRALIA
ACTU: Good old-fashioned guts .. 14
The Vernon Report 15
The Fairhall Letter 17
Gauging the injuries 19
OVERSEAS
flew Guinea: Papty without a cause 35
China: The 3 million-strong army .. 31
Vietnam: The US build-up 31
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Tivoli learns lessons 44
Windmill girl, drawing by
Lymburner 44
REVIEWS
TELEVISION: Frances Faye 47
THEATRE: Phillip’s new revue .... 47
BOOKS: Cock Crow 53
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Dampening bank talk 56
i Backing good luck 57
! Speculator’s Diary 78
man on the land
Vacate or consolidate 60
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Bpx 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
1 Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
j Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


mm
••i.WJrt.
Si
3s ; 5 §:•; ,j;?, * ?..m
>4 W W*:
m «
>w « j
,v 4.
1
r ;
5 •
nr
»?
Travel in complete comfort
across Australia.
To “see Australia first” is commendable; to see Austra-
lia in comfort is wise. As any seasoned traveller will tell
you, by modem train is the way to go. Only by train do
you get on eye-level terms with scenery while given over
to complete relaxation in travelling. Comfort? Any of
the modern mainliners on any of Australia’s railway
systems offer world standards in train comfort. Cosy
seating, restful berths (if you’re an overnight traveller),
up-to-the-minute catering services, wide vision windows
for close-up viewing, attentive service these are
reasons why train travel is best. And, mile for mile,
by train is still the most economical way to go.
So next time you travel, be wise take the train.
i
Inserted by Authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia
R0A.1129.FP


p ! Sfj
, . > :
, •
m
%
3 « ivV y'i .
K:.*
; . :
w*
:
'
... ■
r;
*v
.
-
c &ms*x&
mm ■&
m:-.
“if all you ask for is petrol
you are making a big mistake.”
There’s one brand that means far more to you than merely filling the tank of
your car—that's Ampol, the Australian-owned brand.
Ampol’s earnings remain in Australia to be re-invested in further Australian-
owned projects.
For instance, Ampol’s expansion into refining is a saving to Australia of
considerable foreign exchange.
Ampol dividends go to 85,000 Australian stock-holders, keeping that money in
the family, too.
So, in a sense, you are contributing to your own social security, when you buy
Ampol.
How about you?
BUILD AUSTRALIA, BUY AUSTRALIAN, BUY AMPOL
AP-tgagfl-


GOODYEAR
immmm
■ > s
8£»
*B&*s
WHEN MINING IS YOUR BUSINESS
7
mM m
M %
m
. . . WHEN YOU HANDLE LIQUIDS . . .
m
I*4
■' ' V
m
vim-
...whatever the job
GOODYEAR
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS PROVIDE YOU
WITH “TOTAL CAPABILITY”
This “Total Capability” carries right through every phase of Goodyear
activity, from the processing of raw materials to design and on to actual
installation.
With conveyor belting, transmission belting, hose or any industrial rubber
application, Goodyear industrial products offer not only “total capability”
but the long-term experience and know-how of the G.T.M. (Goodyear
Technical Man) in determining exact needs and meeting them efficiently
and economically.
If you have an industrial rubber problem, phone or write Industrial
Products Division of the Goodyear branch in your State.
GOODYEAR
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
FZB7


J'
SUP INTO FRANCE
as you board UTA FRENCH AIRLINES
TAHITI ..the world’s most lovable island, Is
only BV2 flying hours from Sydney..you can spend
23 heavenly days there .. at an excursion fare of
saving you £7B.
FLY FRENCH to this enchanting Pacific para-
dise . . . Tahiti is French, too! But English is
everybody’s second language. You can dance the
night away, sail the Sea of the Moon, laze in blue
lagoons, and take part in torchlit Tahitian feasts
on moon-splashed beaches. And what about
stopping over at Noumea and Fiji en route, at no
extra air-fare? U.T.A. French Airlines’ special
excursion fare, there and back, is available from
Ist Nov. 1965, to 31st Mar. 1966. Our unique
Welcome Service will arrange tours, and make
you happily at home in this excitingly exotic Isle.
“Were spending our holidays overseas in TAHITI . . . and saving £7B with UTA’s excursion fare!'
- . .
-
-J
:
CONTACT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR A
A
A
A
A
AIR FRANCE
THE WORLD’S LARGEST NETWORK
33 Bligh St., Sydney, 28 0471
327 Collins St., Melbourne, 62 1635
331 Queen St., Brisbane, 2 8358
NB3OA


m
mw^
m
IllH
II
Australia
tex
| V * e ftoUlnv^
»
M
m - ::■:■•
•■■■iSy
people approve when you do!
Be Wine-wise
demand Dalwood
w
n
BURGirai
CLAREI
URGUNDY
RIESLING br.^-
When your choice of Claret is important demand Dalwood,
people approve when you do. Your guests will
compliment you on its flavour, mellowness and distinctive bouquet.
Dalwood Australia’s top selling table wines.
Claret, Burgundy, Riesling, White Burgundy and Chablis.
BE WINE WISE, CHOOSE
PENF@LDS
WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844
PENFOLDS SHOW SUCCESSES 1965: SYDNEY RAS—3 TROPHIES (TABLE WINES) MELBOURNE—2 TROPHIES, 3 CHAMPIONSHIPS. BRISBANE—S 7 MEDALS
PW1075


National Notebook
New Look
IT was interesting to see 30-year-old
John Menadue endorsed as the Labor
Party’s candidate for the Federal seat
of Hume this week not least of all
because the present membership of
Parliament is such that the man for
whom Menadue works as private secre-
tary, the Deputy Leader of the Opposi-
tion, Mr Gough Whitlam, is still
regarded as “a young man” at the age
of 49.
Menadue was quickly tagged a “new
look” Labor man. There can be no
quarrel about that. He is an honors,
graduate in economics from the Uni-
versity of Adelaide, where he tutored
for a time. Like another “new look”
Labor candidate for the 1966 Federal
election, Dr Rex Patterson, head of the
Government’s ill-starred Northern Divi-
sion within the Department of National
Development, who is contesting the
Queensland seat of Dawson, Menadue
is a Commonwealth public servant. He
has been a research officer with the
Bureau of Census and Statistics in
Adelaide and then in Canberra. Overseas
investment was his field. He spent a
brief period at Treasury in the financial
and economic policy sections before
joining Mr Whitlam’s staff retaining
his public service status five years ago.
There are firmer links between Mena-
due and Dr Patterson than their
common Public Service background. Mr
Whitlam strongly encouraged both to
stand for pre-selection and will be doing
all that he can to help them in their
campaigns. Menadue has the best of
the bargain. The' Murrumbidgee seat of
Hume is at present held by Country
Party member Mr J. Pettit, who won the
seat at the last election by only 610
votes, but Mr G. Shaw holds the Dawson
seat for the Country Party with a
thumping majority.
In encouraging Menadue, who lives
in Canberra, to stand for Hume, Mr
Whitlam showed his taste for long-term
planning. Menadue would undoubtedly
be a Whitlam supporter in Caucus (one
Reason why perhaps not the slightest
sound of jubilation about Menadue’s
candidature has come from Mr Calwell’s
office) but if he wins the seat he could
he a most serious loss for the Deputy
Leader in the short term.
Those admirers of Mr Whitlam’s well-
researched speeches who know Menadue
realise how much is owed to the quiet
industry of his private secretary. Par-
liament provides the Opposition with a
grossly inadequate staff and it takes a
high degree of dedication to the Labor
cause for those who are there to remain.
Salaries are certainly no inducement.
Old Labor politicians have a well-
firmed suspicion of any glamor candi-
date whom they suspect has had an
arm-chair ride. It seems that Menadue
has found time to do his homework in
the six months since it was first known
that he was to be a pre-selection candi-
date for Hume. The former Labor
occupant of Hume, Mr Arthur Fuller,
now in his seventies, was thought to
have a stranglehold on the Murrumbidgee
electorate (more than 200 Party members
in Mr Fuller’s home town of Tumut,
more than in all the other electoral
centres, Labor men were quick to point
out). However, against expectations Mr
Fuller decided not to contest the pre-
selection. The decision may not have
been unconnected with Menadue’s
organising abilities.
Now there are the voters.
Political Footballers
is an old, mostly weather-
board suburb on the Hume High-
way a few miles north of Melbourne.
Two things make Coburg, 1965, different
from Coburg, 1964: The Coburg foot-
ball ground, formerly the headquarters
of the Coburg Football Club in the Vic-
torian Football Association, is now
occupied by the League team, North
Melbourne, and the Labor Party, which
formerly held a ten-to-two majority on
the local Council, is now a minority of
four to eight.
Because of the decision of the Labor
Caucus and, therefore, of the Coburg
Council to push out the local football
team, there have been ratepayers’ protest
meetings, police attendance at Council
meetings to curb interjectors, allegations
of graft, resignations from the Labor
Party, questions in State Parliament and
a radical change in the Coburg City
Council’s balance of power.
It all started when the North Mel-
bourne Football Club decided to follow
the example of St Kilda and Richmond
League teams and look for a ground
which would attract a larger crowd to
its home matches. North Melbourne,
which has been in the Victorian Football
League for nearly 40 years, is the only
League team never to have won a
premiership.
"Crime doesn't pay, son -well, not enough to afford both
senior AND junior counsel."


From Oct. 7 (PAL Day):
a
, *
■■■■'■■ v" ■■-
.
: :
jiIMM
:S
■
■ :K ■■.■'■■
111111
r : - .:
i .. r
: :>; . •
w
r: . '.
§
4 rf
f 11
NC»
■
.
&
ipWwMiM
■ ' ,:■
■
'■;SV-;: : : : '-
■
f V
Maawg<l(Mel^^
«S«
Until October, you can enjoy Philippine Air Lines service only from Manila on. On to Hong Kong.
On to Taipei. Even on to San Francisco (East from the East!). But from early October, the
East starts just eight miles out of Sydney. When PAL flies from Kingsford Smith Airport with
the finest jets aflight. The only way you get extra services likejnternational cooking, not just
food. First-run, in-flight colour movies, not just magazines. Nine music channels (two stereo),
not only conversation. And to top it all Filipina-style personal attention a rare combina-
tion of Eastern manners, Spanish grace, and American savvy. All on the most modern fan jets
flying, giant DCB's, the smoothest yet. At no extra charge. So jet East best. AH the way. With
PAL (that's the one airline that services eight others and serves everyone who flies it!)
m
69/45A
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
For details. PAL flight schedules, and complete Philippines tour
information see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanston Street. Melbourne. Cnr.
Ann St. and North Quay. Brisbane. 140 North Terrace. Adelaide.
98 Williams Street. Perth. 62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra.
178 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Name .
Addre55.....................
Phone


After a series of delicate negotiations,
Coburg Council granted North Mel-
bourne a seven-year use of the Coburg
Oval and permission to establish a
licensed club on the premises. Included
in the deed of contract was an agree-
ment by the Coburg Council to build
a grandstand, worth at least £75,000,
and to undertake extensive ground im-
provements.
Apart from the doubts about the
nature of the signed agreement itself,
the present issue will become an im-
portant test case in the matter of how
much councils are bound by decisions
of previous councils. On present in-
dications, it may not be long before
North Melbourne are back on their old
ground behind a gasometer. On the
other hand, it will probably be a long
time before the citizens of working-class
Coburg elect a Labor local council.
Varied Talents
T ong known as a prolific letter writer
to newspapers and news magazines
[ Cambodia’s Prince Norodom Sihanouk
tdecided earlier this year that he would
J publish his own journal. So “Kambuja”,
ja monthly illustrated review made its
j first appearance, the only journal we
know of to boast a prince as “manager”
lon its cover, chief editoral writer on its
first news pages, and exclusive song-
writer and photographer,
j The fourth issue of “Kambuja” which
reached us from the Royal Cambodian
'Embassy in Canberra includes in its 120
| pages articles on urban development,
j industry, the arts, health, agriculture,
sports and women’s interests. But pride
l of place is given to the main editorial
jby Prince Norodom Sihanouk. “Is
) Nationalism Anachronistic?” asks the
j prince, and in 3500 words answers
I No”. The editorial emphasises the
similarity of outlook between Cambodia
under Prince Sihanouk and France under
President de Gaulle. “The firm fashion
which de Gaulle’s France has always
> supported our legitimate aspirations,
together with the approach France has
adopted to very complex problems
such as that of South Vietnam shows
that true nationalism makes for clarity
of vision.”
I To reinforce his views about national-
psm Prince Sihanouk quotes from Arnold
Toynbee, and selects sympathetic reports
’and news items from the foreign press
in a section headed “The Press and
Books”. There are attacks on “Time”
and “Newsweek” as well as quotations
from friendly Lee Kuan Yew and former
US State Department official Roger Hils-
ijpan. Hilsman is quoted as saying that
i ft is vital that the American Govern-
ment and public understand the differ-
ence between the new nationalism and
Communism.”
But the Prince does more than write
damnations of the West. In a two page
spread, he contributes an “exclusive
composition” “The Night I Met You”,
described as a bolero-cha-cha-cha.
Prince Sihanouk wrote the music while
the original Cambodian words were writ-
ten by the prince and Ouk Maut. Sample
verses:
When you did guide
Sweet love to my side
There to abide.
No more shall 1 roam
Where the ocean waves comb
Their crests barbed M>ith foam.
Perhaps it loses something in the
translation.
Gaslight
'T'he paraphernalia of the gaslight era
still holds an irresistible charm for
collectors, according to bookseller Stan-
ley Nicholls. Mr Nicholls, who traded
in antiquarian books and in cigarette-
cards, postcards, theatre posters and
programmes, and clothing of the
Edwardian and Victorian ages for 12
years in Crane Place, Circular Quay,
Sydney, recently moved his wares up-
town to the Piccadilly Arcade. He reports
as great a vogue for them as there
apparently was at the beginning of the
century. “Although not so far from
us today in terms of time, the manner,
outlook and clothing of that age puts it
almost as far away from us as the
Regency; 1880 was another world
entirely,” said Mr Nicholls.
“Victoriana collecting generally
curios and antiques runs into a lot
of money. My collecting is done on the
fringe and might be more what you’d
call trivia,” he said. Many of Mr
Nicholls’ prize items are not up for sale.
Bringing from the back room a couple
of albums chock-full of autographed
pictures of actresses in melodramatic
poses, he said: “I don’t think [ would
sell them; it’d break my heart.” Mr
Nicholls hastened to assure us that he
was “alive but not of theatre-going age”
at the time of Nellie Stewart, Ellen
Terry, Maud Jeffries, Constance Collier,
Ruth Vincent and Lily Langtry. “Lily
Langtry was a favorite of King Edward
VII, you know she put an ice-cream
down his back. Not a great actress but
a tremendous personality,” he said, leaf-
ing through the pages. “There is an old-
fashioned word for these stars —presence.
When they walked on the stage there
was a hush. The lads and lasses were
allowed more individuality those
times. There was not the grooming of
performers to a particular type that you
get today. In films, for instance.”
Cover Note
/"\ur cover shows Private Bill Brooks,
of Queensland, who is in Vietnam
with the Royal Australian Regiment.
To coincide with the Commonwealth
Festival in London, pages 49 to 51 are
devoted to an article by Charles Higham
on the international situation in Com-
monwealth writing (with special
emphasis on the upsurge in Negro verse
and prose during the last decade) and a
selection of verse by distinguished Com-
monwealth poets, including Edward
Lucie-Smith, James K. Baxter, Earle
Birney and Douglas Livingstone, pub-
lished for the first time.
PERSECUTING SECULARISTS
ffifeuttetin
80 Years Ago: October 3, 1885
Melbourne, as in most cities at the
present day, there are a number of
good people who hold unpopular views
on subjects beyond the range of know-
ledge, and believe that it is for the
welfare of their fellow-creatures that
these offensive opinions of theirs should
be made as public as possible. They
term themselves Secularists. Some two
years ago these sturdy heretics sent to
England to engage a preacher—a lec-
turer, as they prefer to term him-—and
one of Charles Bradlaugh's most active
and industrious lieutenants, to wit, Joseph
Symes, a man who, some 10 years
earlier, had emerged from the darkness
of a Wesleyan pulpit, agreed to come
out and occupy the Secular platform.
Now we have no more sympathy with
the ways of Joseph Symes than we have
with those of Captain Hallelujah, Pastor
Orange, or Father Shillaly. All we are
anxious about is fairplay and the good
name of Australia. A musty old law of
George Ill's time has been exhumed
from its crypt of dishonour, and under
its provisions Symes has absolutely been
hauled up before the magistrates and
committed to take his trial for keeping
a disorderly house!
We can scarcely credit the news, but
it has duly appeared in the most "re-
spectable" journals. Because the Secu-
larists and their leader are unpopular,
a mean, truckling, subservient Press is
silent when it ought to speak out with
a voice of thunder. The very unpopu-
larity of the cause should make it
thunder the louder.


Tanner
"We bring you here to teach you the fundamentals of democracy and you abuse your privilege by
exercising them."


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Lesson for the Timid
Is it too much to hope that the Labor
Party will hear the message
[delivered loud and clear by the Aus-
tralian Council of Trades Unions at
Sits Congress in Sydney last week? The
'Congress showed Labor’s political
fwing, which is still dominated by the
that Communists can be de-
feated when the Right wing and
moderate forces organise, in John
ißrockett’s words in his report on page
14, with determination and old-
'fashioned guts. As John Brockett
out, the Congress was in “bit-
ter contrast to the display of the
Iso-called Right wing of the ALP at
(its recent Federal Conference in
!Sydney”.
: The Congress victories over the
•Communists were certainly mixed with
defeats—notably on the issue of re-
lorming the method of electing industry
'representatives to the ACTU Execu-
jtive. (The Right wing advocated that
the six industry representatives should
be elected by the Congress as a whole
and not, as at present, by the delegates
from within the particular industry
groups.) But, having been defeated on
this issue, the Right wing did not cave
in —as it did at the ALP Federal
Conference where, after early defeats,
it gave up any attempt at direct inter-
vention in the notorious affairs of the
Victorian ALP branch.
The ousting of two of the three
Communists from the ACTU Execu-
tive was the more dramatic last week
because the unions are the Com-
munist Party’s power base in Aus-
tralia. Since the Labor split of a
decade ago the ALP has dodged con-
frontation with Communists, even
when they were weak and divided, as
much from fear of defeat as through
submission to the self-defeating doc-
trine of non-interference in trade union
affairs. The timid should now take
heart from the ACTU Congress.
Manifesto Without a Party
One point which emerges clearly
from lan Macphee’s articles (see
j)age 35) on the new political party
|n the Territory of Papua and New
(Guinea, is that it began with little
chance of success. Any political party
itrying to establish itself in the Terri-
ory faces immense difficulties-given
absence of an active indigenous
gioitical life. What he po 1 ica y
•hopeful must overcome is a socially
ragmented group of tribes and peoples
S mg , n 'nnguages, the lack of
f. 1 laaa ideas ol po i ica orgams
hon, the severe problems of com-
Smcation m sparsely populated and
difficult country, and the absence of
effher a „ organisational base for a
WHeal party or the administrative
tolls which usually accompany it.
|f is last problem is what distinguishes
U Terntcry , ron } °’ lcr . countries in
fv nca 01 * ,n pre-independence
I ase. It is the failure to develop
fites which is undermining efforts to
let the Territory moving. In this situa-
jion the New Guinea United National
ptfty, led by Mr Oala Oala-Rarua, has
Peen a courageous but probably
-‘Oomed attempt to by-pass these un-
realities. But the fact re-
fcains that it has put the cart of
political manifestos before the horse
of political organisation.
Apart from Mr Macphee’s criticism
that the UNP’s programme is not ad-
venturous enough to attract support,
any political party in the Territory
must have, in addition to an adven-
turous and attractive programme, a
nucleus of people who have learned
their organisational skills in voluntary
associations, such as trade unions,
youth movements, professional and
business organisations. But there are
very few voluntary associations in the
Territory and they have never been
encouraged they have indeed been
positively discouraged—from becom-
ing politically active. Therefore Mr
Oala-Rarua needs help less in fram-
ing finely worded policy manifestos
than in calling and running public
meetings, selecting candidates for
nomination to a committee, running
an office, raising funds, organising
Press relations, recruiting members,
establishing cadres throughout the
country. He and others like him need
the help of full-time experts in com-
munity organisation and development
who are free to participate in the
political life of the country and who
are not bound by Public Service regu-
lations. This is a challenge for Aus-
tralia’s political parties which they all
have failed to meet.
Only one small body, the Australian
Volunteers Abroad, has made any sort
of start on this essential work by
arranging for a young graduate to
assist the Port Moresby Workers’
Association. And it is planning to
extend its help to other voluntary
associations. Only when there are
enough of these associations will any
political party have a chance of
success. Yet the Australian Volunteers
Abroad has to struggle for financial
assistance and gets none from the
Federal Government.
It is in Australia’s interests that
political parties led by reasonable
moderates like Mr Oala-Rarua should
succeed. Since the dangers in the Ter-
ritory arise from regional differences,
the best way of overcoming them is
by developing political and ideological
loyalties.
Minerals Hour
ThiE decision last week to award the
A Gove bauxite leases to an Aus-
tralian-Swiss group on a fifty-fifty
basis can only be applauded, not least
because the Swiss participation will
both provide access to markets for
bauxite and alumina and bring a new
source of capital at a time when
traditional supplies are in doubt.
The question still remains, how-
ever, whether we are doing enough in
the development of mineral resources.
The CSIRO obviously thinks we are
not. In its annual report, tabled during
the week, it stated that “Australian
Government agencies are not carrying
out research for the mining industries
on a scale in keeping with their im-
portance in the economy”. This may
be because insufficient funds have
been made available to them or be-
cause bodies like the Bureau of
Minerals Resources, the various mining
departments of State Governments and
the CSIRO itself need a shake-up, the
transfusion of new blood awake to
the excitements of the minerals hour.
If we quibbled rather less about
where the funds for development of
national resources should come from,
and if the Federal Government were
more disposed to get down to business,
there could be a salutary awakening
in Government agencies. Government
should be in the van of discovery in-
stead of lagging behind private in-
terests, both national and international.


THIS AUSTRALIA
ACTU
Good Old-fashioned Guts
Problems of victory
By JOHN BROCKETT
A problem came with the victory of the controlling moderate element of the
trade union movement at the ACTU Congress in Sydney last week. Now that the
power of the extreme militants has been drastically cut, they could launch a full-scale
attack on the ACTU, from outside.
If, however, an attempt is made to
dismantle the organisation, the interstate
executive is now in a better position to
meet it without having to make its
decisions with an eye to a significant
dissident section.
A rise in the number of unofficial
strikes is likely as a test of the determina-
tion and control of the new hierarchy.
It does not follow, as has been widely
suggested, that the interstate executive,
the administrative and executive arm of
the ACTU between congresses, will be
more conservative. It should, however,
be more constructive. The most impor-
tant positive result is that the movement
towards irresponsible militancy from
within has been destroyed.
Though there were other achievements,
the brake on uncontrolled militancy
alone provided an industrial milestone,
but also with it went a fresh endorse-
ment of conciliation and arbitration; the
demise of the utopian £22 “needs” basic
Wage, and agreement on a legislative ap-
proach to the repeal of industrial penal
clauses. The break-through came be-
cause a majority of unions, narrowly but
clearly rejected a call to go “Left” and
in so doing cut from three to one the
number of Communist representatives on
the interstate executive.
The result followed a display of good
old-fashioned guts and organisation from
the Right and moderate forces. Though
some rounds were lost they clearly won
the fight a bitter contrast to the dis-
play of the so-called Right wing of the!
ALP at its recent Federal conference in
Sydney.
There were three distinct phases tc'
the congress. First, the early skirmish
ing in which the Left had its first vic-
tory after an argument over the cre-j
dentials of three delegates from the
Postal Workers’ Union. There was the !
recovery of the Right on the second and
third days, as it organised more efficient-
ly. And finally, Right’s clear win in the
ballot for executive positions. The con-
gress itself was a jumble of contradic-
tions, with unions changing sides fre-
quently, complicated at one stage by
an apparent split in the Communist
ranks.
The Electrical Trades Union, for ex-
ample, supported the proposal for a
change in the method of election ofj
group representatives on the executive,,
but later, to the embarrassment of some!
of its delegates, voted in a bloc for a
“needs” basic wage. Later 18 of the
union’s 19-man delegation voted for
Mr J. B. Holmes, Federal secretary of
the Australasian Society of Engineers, to
help defeat the reigning Communist, Mr
T. Wright, for the Metal Group posi-
tion. The Printing Industry Employees’
Union voted against the group change,
but then swung back to support the
executive recommendations for the re-
mainder of the congress.
The proposal for a change in the
method of group elections originated
from the Clerks’ Union and provided the
flashpoint of the conference. In the
past, executive representatives for the
six groups or industries were elected by
the votes of delegates from within
particular group. It was proposed that
the w'hole of conference should decide I
each position. The Right wing view-
ed the proposal as the strengthening of;
a democratic process. The Left saw it
as a plot to eliminate its supporters from
the executive.
Although the Federal secretary of the
Clerks’ union, Mr J. Riordan, was able'
TANNER at the ACTU Congress


to say that a similar change had been
proposed in 1957 by Left-wingers
Messrs J. V. Stout, secretary of the
Melbourne Trades Hall Council, and A.
McNolty, Federal secretary of the Sheet
Metal Workers’ Union, the scheme was
defeated by 28 votes. The defeat came
as a surprise to those who had counted
heads knowingly. The key lay in the un-
explained absence of 25 delegates, includ-
ing the entire delegation from the Police
Association. While the plan itself fail-
ed, its purpose was achieved later when
Messrs Wright and P. Clancy, NSW
secretary of the Building Workers’ Indus-
trial Union, were defeated under the old
ballot provisions.
The £22 “needs basic wage” in recent
months has been the focal point of the
Leftist and Communist unions’ wage
campaign. Since April this year 17
articles have appeared in the Communist
paper “Tribune” in support of the cam-
paign. But it received a jolt early when
the ACTU advocate, Mr R. J. Hawke,
appealed to the congress not to tie him to
a needs concept.
The needs idea was put forward by
Mr J. Bevan, Federal secretary of the
Boilermakers’ Society, who had not com-
pleted his argument at Tuesday’s ad-
journment. When he resumed on Wed-
nesday he appeared half-hearted, almost
uninterested, although he was formally
supported by Mr Pat Clancy.
Then, to the surprise of most delegates,
Mr T. Wright moved an amendment
endorsing the “needs” idea, but without
the figure of £22.
The switch was decided on at an over-
night party caucus after it was clear
that the £22 proposal was unacceptable
to the congress. What finally was decid-
ed amounted to a retention of the
“prices, productivity and capacity to pay”
concept which the ACTU has used in its
wage claims over many years.
The vigor of ACTU secretary Mr
H. Souter on penal clauses brought fire
back into the congress. In measured and
clear tones he urged caution on the de-
mands of some unions for a sustained in-
dustrial campaign against penal clauses.
Some unions, he said pointedly, had
deliberately incurred penalties to bolster
their case for direct action.
| An appeal from Mr P. Doyle, of the
Victorian Transport Workers’ Union for
the congress to “take the bit between its
teeth” in a 24-hour national protest stop-
page was coolly received. Although no
new policy was determined on the con-
trol of strikes, the existing provisions were
made clearer.
The executive ballot in the dying stages
of the congress provided a shattering
a nd unexpected defeat for the com-
munists. Not merely had they confi-
dently expected to retain the positions
already held, but they believed they
would take the senior vice-president,
Mr J. D. Kenny, down a peg to the
junior vice-presidency, and also bring
about the defeat of Mr J. Riordan, who
represents the services group on the
executive. Strongly anti - communist,
shrewd and intelligent, Riordan has been
anathema to the extreme Left since his
appointment to the executive shortly
before the 1963 congress.
Before the results were announced,
three to one was being offered about
Riordan’s return. However, while the
Left’s organisation was concentrated un-
successfully on Kenny and Riordan,
Wright, and Clancy, who was running
in place of Gerry Dawson of Queens-
land for the Building group, crashed to
defeat.
Mr J. B. Holmes, Wright’s replace-
ment, unsuccessfully contested the posi-
tion at the 1963 congress and went down
by 10 votes. Mr J. Anderson, Federal
secretary of the Painters’ Union, who
defeated Clancy, is said to be a Left-
winger, but has not shown this as a
member of the NSW Labor Party ex-
ecutive. He was able, however, to drain
sufficient support from Left-wing unions
to bring Clancy down.
VERNON REPORT
Fabric of Fear
“ Siege ” economy?
The Vernon Committee Report has
proved to be a massive disappointment
for the Commonwealth Government and
senior Ministers have already described
the report as being “childish”.
Within the Commonwealth Treasury
the main sections of the report dealing
with Overseas Trade and Investment,
Tariff Policy and Protection (these two
subjects alone take up almost one-third of
the main Volume One) have been attack-
ed relentlessly, and this attack has carried
over into the Cabinet room where the
forecasts and policies proposedj have
been thoroughly discredited.
When it is not merely descriptive
(which is most of the time), the Vernon
Report presents a blueprint for a high-
tariff Australian economy with mounting
levels of personal income taxation, con-
trols over the inflow of overseas invest-
ment and a ceiling on migration. It is a
blueprint, as one Minister has described
it, for a “siege” economy. As such, it has
been largely rejected by the Common-
wealth Government. Proposals for an
independent “Advisory Council on
Economic Growth” and for some other
independent advisory bodies have also
been rejected. After this performance
the Commonwealth Government is going
to steer clear of anything to do with
the Vernon Committee.
The key to the analysis of the “siege
economy” in the coming decade is the
extremely indeed unrealistically
gloomy forecasts of exports and of the
amount of dividends and profits which
will be payable overseas in 1974-75 com-
pared with today. It was in this area that
the Treasury concentrated its most in-
tense fire, for on the gloomy balance-of-
payments predictions depended the whole
fabric of protection and restrictions pro-
posed by the report. A figure of £1750
million was struck for 1974-75 exports
this was the higher estimate given in
the report and Cabinet was soon con-
vinced that the figure was unrealistically
low. It implied an annual rise of about
2L per cent in rural exports between
1962-63 and 1974-75, even though the
rate of increase in recent years has been
4-5 per cent. It implied a figure for
minerals exports of only £165 million in
1974-75 even though the 1964-65 figure
was already £123 million.
On the issue of the amount of divi-
dends and profits payable in 1974-75,
another crucial estimate, the Treasury
was able to show that the report’s
estimated figure of £212 million for
1964-65, compared with the actual
amount of £133 million, relied on
unrealistic estimates of the earning rate


:-v : . ~V>- i£'
Pi
•.. , „• 'V,
• ... ’
:gg:
> .
mm
i i«:rA
1964
1 I\T\CS
ORLANDO
Tallin
,f *H. ALLY VINTACED AUSTRALIAN
m*
CCRAMPGSONS^
‘’"‘"■’m'PiNlMn
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
O. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’*
famous Barossa Valley.
10983
of foreign investment. The discrediting
of this particular forecast in the Report
undermined the whole fabric of fear of
overseas investment built into the
analysis.
Particularly disillusioning for Liberal
Ministers was the heavy emphasis in the
report on handouts to manufacturing
interests. Sir James Vernon has come
under heavy Ministerial criticism for
what looks like undue emphasis on com-
mercial and industrial interests close to
his own business interests. There was a
good deal of anger over the proposal
in the report that: “as we see it, an
industry would be regarded as economic
if it could earn normal profits and pay
normal wages behind a -tariff barrier”
of 30 per cent MFN, which the
report then takes to be the “general cost
disability” of Australian industry, even
though only 19 per cent of Australian
imports attract such a high apparent rate
of protection. This extraordinary gener-
osity to manufacturing interests has
disturbed the Government and has been
the subject of much worried comment
in Cabinet, where the tariff proposals of
the report have been largely rejected.
Also worrying to the Government has
been the whole trend of analysis, sum-
marised in Appendix N of the report,
in which the authors draw up the plan
of a coming balance-of-payments crisis
in the 1970 s and then use this imaginary
crisis to propose continuing increases in
personal income tax, ceilings on immigra-
tion and overseas investment and a
forced diversion of resources from ter-
tiary industry to manufacturing. There is
no doubt that the Minister for Labor
and National Service, Mr William
McMahon, provided a trenchant attack
on this central theme and received the
support of Cabinet. The attack was not
merely on the sort of Australian society
envisaged in the report where manu-
facturing interests were supreme but
also on the forecasts themselves, which
were full of glaring mistakes.
What does worry some Ministers and
officials, however, is that much of the
material in the report —which was almost
entirely the work of Sir John Crawford
and Sir James Vernon will provide
excellent propaganda material for manu-
facturing interests in favor of high tariff
and other protection just at a time when
the Government, after much pain and
effort over the last five years, feels it is
getting the Australian economy on the
path to greater competitiveness and
efficiency. As far as the outlook for the
future is concerned, knowledgeable
Ministers and officials, particularly in the
Treasury, are becoming more bullish
every day about the outlook for Aus-
tralia and find the gloom and restrictive-
ness of the Vernon Report thinking very
much out of tune with their own growing
optimism.


The Fairhall Letter
McEwen’s quarrels
By ALAN REID
With his letter to grazier constituents in the Merriwa district, Supply Minister
Alan Fairhall joins a constantly growing group. This group consists of Liberal
Ministers with whom Country Party leader John McEwen has clashed on (1) policy
issues, (2) organisational interests, or (3) personal grounds.
McEwen is now abroad. But a copy
of the Fairhall letter has been sent to
him and his Parliamentary Country
jParty followers are marking time until
they get his advice on how the letter
should be handled by the Country Party
in its own right and as a junior partner
in the Liberal-Country Party coalition
Federal Government.
Irrespective of what McEwen’s advice
| is, the Fairhall letter is not going to
-endear Fairhall (who is also abroad) to
McEwen or his Country Party
followers. Country Party members
showed publicly in the Parliament last
week that they were prepared to clash
head-on with those Liberal backbenchers
who went so far as to suggest that the
.woolgrowers should be supplied with the
[fullest possible information as to what
;they were voting on before they voted
in the proposed referendum by wool-
growers on the wool reserve price scheme,
for adoption of which the Chairman of
the Wool Board. Sir William Gunn (who
is currently seeking CP preselection for
the safe Country Party Queensland
Federal seat of Maranoa), has been the
(main advocate.
Fairhall in his letter, which was sent
shortly before he left Australia on an
official Government mission, seemed to
I go much farther than even the most vocal
jof the anti-wool reserve price scheme
;Liberal backbenchers. He did not con-
| fine himself to advocacy of greater
' access to information by woolgrow'ers
before they cast their votes. “Let me
begin by saying that I distrust the reserve
price plan as much as you do and
sincerely hope it will be thrown out,”
Fairhall wrote. “The conditions of the
referendum had Government majority
approval, and as a member of the Gov-
ernment I am obliged to go along with it,
inevitably accepting the criticism of dis-
senting constituents. I would hope to see
the referendum fail . . .”
By writing this letter Fairhall publicised
discord within the coalition Cabinet, not
only on this issue but on other issues.
The position now is that a majority of
the Liberal Ministers in inner Cabinet
of twelve as well as a number of minor
Liberal Ministers have fallen out with
McEwen on a number of matters. The
list includes:
• Treasurer Harold Holt, Menzies’
heir-apparent as Prime Minister, who has
clashed repeatedly and publicly with
McEwen not on personal matters (they
have worked together sufficiently long
to maintain reasonable and civilised per-
sonal relationships). These clashes go
back a long way to when Treasury, in
opposition to the Trade Department ad-
ministered by McEwen, successfully
advocated an unrestricted import policy
against Trade’s advocacy of continuance
of import restrictions. Over recent
months McEwen has been critical of
Treasury’s policy on foreign investment,
insisting (so far unsuccessfully) that Aus-
tralia should adopt a more selective
approach to foreign investment, en-
couraging only that which provides new
industrial potential and know-how and
discouraging the takeover of existing
Australian industry.
• The Minister for Labor, William
McMahon, who has had personal dif-
ficulties with McEwen.
• The Defence Minister, Senator
Shane Paltridge, who got involved in a
Liberal versus Country Party brawl in
his home State of Western Australia and
who also got involved with McEwen in
a wrangle over the price of WA iron ore
exported abroad.
• The Minister for Civil Aviation,
Senator Denham Henty, who wanted to
permit the import of planes without pay-
ment of import duties (because of the
effect upon transport costs) but who lost
out on this fight to McEwen.
• The Postmaster - General, Alan
Hulme, who has always been anti-
Country Party and who has been blamed
by Country Party members in the Federal
Parliament for promoting Liberal forays
into Country Party territory in Queens-
land.
The only Liberal Ministers in the inner
Cabinet with whom McEwen does not
appear to have clashed are the Minister
for External Affairs, Paul Hasluck (whose
preoccupation is with international affairs
to which there is no distinctive Country
Party approach), am the Minister for
National Development (a Ministry that
the Country Party will be seeking in the
inevitable reshuffle if and when Sir
Robert Menzies decides to quit the Prime
Ministership).
Among the minor Liberal Ministers
who have clashed with McEwen are
Works Minister Gordon Freeth (who
SWAINSVILLE


Dinner for two
( f 4 J
k i-
V'!
r \jr
/
M
*£>
or a sumptuous banquet
Whatever your taste in food from the
simple to the sumptuous Menzies can
cater for it. Right in the centre of
Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
controlled air-conditioning, genuine 24-
hour room service, and free in-hotel
parking for your car. Menzies wide
range of restaurants brings you food
from the four corners of the world!
Emperor Room Nightclub features gourmet
menu with floor show nightly at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children.)
dr mi
M_njn njn nr rr nn
_B_rn_r.n.rr nr rr rn
rLß_irn_pn_.rn._r n_n n__n r
... nn nr nn rtn n n
..in. rn..rn rr rn rr in
inn rr rr rr rr rr nr
I'll IHI HI! 1111 1111 1111
Menzies
Jig Sydney
S Hotel
MZI/34
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “mENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA—Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza. MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal. MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND-Lennons, BRISBANE; Lennons. TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA—Wrest Point Riviera. HOBART.
attacked McEwen in a letter to the Press
in a WA Liberal-CP brawl) and Housing
Minister Leslie Bury (who lost his head
and his Air portfolio when he took a
different line from McEwen in 1962 on
the European Common Market issue).
While Menzies remains Prime Minister
the present conflicts within the Liberal-
Country Party coalition can almost cer-
tainly be contained. But if he should
retire- —and he has hinted he might—the
conflicts will undoubtedly intensify.
Once Menzies goes there is no one of
his prestige or stature to match McEwen
in the Liberal ranks. With his own
prestige enlarged by the disappearance
from the political scene of his dominat-
ing senior partner, McEwen might be
proceeding on the basis that, if he is
strong and tough enough, he might be
able to force a better coalition deal for
the CP with Menzies’ successor.
DRUGS
Slugging
Suppliers
The £2.6 million reduction
Further cuts revealed in the cost of
drugs to the National Health Service
during the week suggested similar vigi-
lance in other avenues of Government
expenditure would pay off for taxpayers.
The cost of drugs to the Department
of Health ii still enormously high at
£43 million, the biggest item in its budget,
but a reduction of £2.6 million last year,
making £7.3 million saved in the last
three years is in the right direction. These
economies have of course rubbed off on
suppliers who, despite the bigger volume
of trade, have suffered more than most
in public company investment status in
recent years. One of the worst affected
has been Drug Houses of Australia which
has been virtually knocked off its pede-
stal as a long standing market favorite.
Suppliers have now had to bow further
to the dictates of the Health Ministry
with three of them agreeing to cheapen
the price of antibiotics. Two of these
are import agencies, E. R. Squibb and
Sons, and Pfizer, who have cut prices
by 20 to 25 per cent. The other, a Drug
Houses subsidiary, has requested some
concession on these reductions in its role
as a local producer and supplier. DHA
has been producing these drugs here
since 1961 and evidently believes it is
entitled to a margin of protection, but
will have to put its production costs up
for a further examination and make a
case. Along with the other two firms it
has had two cuts already following size-
able reductions in import prices (the UK
price of Tetracycline was recently re-
duced by 14 per cent.)


SURGERY
Gauging the Injuries
“Just a little unusual”
PATRICK MUSETH: Before ... the plate ... and after.
By GORDON CHESTER MAN
A 30-square-inch cobalt chrome alloy plate costing £Bl 10s., air-freighted 10,000
miles from New York, and advanced techniques in the field of neuro-surgery, has
given 10-year-old Sydney schoolboy Patrick Museth a chance for a normal life.
Last week the boy was released from
the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital with
5-inch by 6-inch Vitallium plate per-
manently in the front of his skull, held in
[place by 17 Vitallium screws. (Last year
- $42 million worth Of Vitallium was used
in America’s space research programme.)
[Six months ago Patrick was playing
| “chicken” with trains between Newtown
land Macdonaldtown when the under-
carriage of a passing train sheared-off
imuch of the front of his forehead, turn-
ing back the skin and virtually scalping
jhim.
j For two months Patrick lay in the hos-
(pital unconscious, being kept alive by
(intravenous and other feeding methods,
(and a tracheotomy operation w r as per-
formed to assist his breathing. The doc-
tors protected his brain with a layer of
skin from his head. When Patrick even-
tually became conscious, and slowly re-
gained his powers of speech, it was
realised he was making a normal re-
covery and plans were made for the
metal prosthesis.
I A dentist at the Royal Prince Alfred
.Hospital constructed a mould of Patrick’s
[head, using an acrylic material normally
.used for the making of artificial den-
tures. The Australasian representatives of
.a New York-based company air-freighted
the mould to America and within 16
Hays the plate was back in Sydney: it
look the surgeon an hour to fit it.
l The surgeon responsible for Patrick’s
'“new lease of life” was reluctant to dis-
fcuss his achievements. “The operation
ls n’t as novel as the daily Press has made
[out j us t a little unusual,” he said.
[He did say, however, that while similar
plates had been fitted, this was the largest
yet used in Australia. From the medical
viewpoint, said the surgeon, the most
important aspect of the case was the
knowledge gained from nursing Patrick
through the six months. He said there
was no way to gauge how a head injury
case would respond, or react, to any
particular treatment. The problem was,
he said, the basis of a report.
Recognising the importance of investi-
gating head injury cases, incidence, treat-
ment and response, the Post-Graduate
Committee in Medicine and the Post-
Graduate Medical Foundation in Sydney
have made an initial grant of £lO,OOO
for a survey which is expected to begin
shortly. Even the NRMA in Sydney is
investigating the possibility of conducting
an on-the-spot accident report in the
metropolitan area, linking this with the
head injuries survey. As yet there has
been no official announcement by the
NRMA, but it is understood this will be
considered by its executives. (Accident
surveys such as this have been carried
out in Brisbane and Adelaide.)
Preparation for the survey, which will
be concerned mainly with head injuries
ranging from simple concussion to those
resulting in death, has been carried out
during the past 12 months. The ultimate
aim is a comprehensive report on where
the accidents occur, how, the best
methods of treatment, patient response,
and how to reduce or prevent these
accidents.
Case histories of 10,000 patients in
the 27 major hospitals in the Sydney
metropolitan area will be carefully re-
corded and fed into electronic computers.
It will take at least another year to com-
pile all the relevant information and a
further 18 months before any conclusion
can be reached.
LAW
Shoplifters
Self-service?
By GORDON HAWKINS
Imposing suspended sentences of one
month’s hard labor on two women shop-
lifters last week Sydney Magistrate
Mr G. A. Locke commented: “The pur-
pose of the law is to deter. I can’t help
feeling that the monetary penalty being
imposed by the Court is not having a
deterrent effect. The number of cases
of this offence seems to be increasing.**
Had he been seeking publicity he could
not have chosen a better occasion for
this further display of magisterial rigor;
for apart from murder and sex offences
there are few crimes which attract more
public interest than shoplifting. But
although some shopowners and store-
keepers may have been warmed by Mr
Locke’s admonitory action, there are
grounds for scepticism regarding his
approach to the problem.
In the first place although headlines
like “SHOPLIFTING CONVICTIONS
INCREASING DAILY” may not be in-
accurate they could well be misleading;
for the number of persons convicted of
shoplifting is far from a reliable index
of the incidence of that offence. The
number of shoplifters appearing before
the courts depends to a very great extent
not only on the vigilance and efficiency
of security officers and store detectives,
but also on the arresting and charging
policy of the shops concerned.
Indeed there are such great variations
and fluctuations in the policies of stores
regarding detection, arrest and prosecu-
tion, that trends in convictions probably
reflect actual crime trends less accurately
in this context than in regard to almost
any other type of offence. At one extreme
there are stores which never make a
charge and make little or no attempt
at detection. Others prosecute only in
selected cases.
It is unwise to assume that a sharp
increase in shoplifting cases in a particu-
lar magistrate’s court represents a real
local increase in shoplifting calling for
exemplary punishment. This is not to
deny that there has been a general in-
crease in shoplifting in the years since
the war. The evidence suggests that this
is the case, and at The Hague Congress
of the International Society of Crimino-
logy in 1960 shoplifting was a special


WHOLE WORLD
I
IMM
MORE FLIGHTS
m
'0 MORE PLACES
BY THE FINEST JETS
Get there fast or holiday your way . . .
BOAC’s superb Rolls-Royce jet services
make travel a pleasure wherever you go.
For full details of BOAC’s eleven inter-
national jet flights weekly from Australia,
and the facilities of the BOAC world net-
work, talk to your Travel Agent, BOAC or
Qantas (BOAC's General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BOAC
British Overseas Airways Corporation with Air India,
Qantas and Air New Zealand
10452
IC.IOI
JET THE DAYTIME WAY TO EUROPE
TAKE A
SINGAPORE
AND THE SUPERB NEW VC 10
Experienced travellers, are welcoming this
new daytime way to Europe. Jet BOAC 707
by day to Singapore; fly on refreshed next
morning by day to Europe and the UK by
the superb BOAC VC 10. (Ask for a VC 10
flight between London and New York or
San Francisco, too.)
KOUS-RWCE JETS
British Overseas Airways Corporation with
Air-lndia, Qantas and Air New Zealand
10484
BC.I
topic of discussion. It was significant that
those delegates most concerned with this
problem came from countries where self-
service methods had shown the greatest
development.
In fact there is a marked correlation
between the adoption of the open counter
system and self-service methods, and in-
creases in pilferage. There is no doubt
whatever that shoplifting' could easily
be reduced by protecting goods more
securely and this is well recognised in
the retail business. The trouble is that
protection against theft can only be pur-
chased at the cost of diminished tempta-
tion to buy.
It is questionable whether it is the
duty of magistrates to come to the aid
of shopkeepers, who have deliberately
abandoned reasonable precautions against
theft and set out to tempt customers with
displays of quite unprotected goods. A
woman who pleaded that she had merely
obeyed a large printed injunction to
“HELP YOURSELF” some years ago
was convicted despite this; but the de-
fence was not entirely specious.
Recently a very thorough piece of
research into shoplifting was completed
by the Institute for the Study and Treat-
ment of Delinquency in the UK.
Financed by such interested parties as
Foyle’s Bookshop and Marks and Spen-
cer Ltd, the published report on this
research is extremely illuminating. It is
noted in the report that, while shop-
owners in the UK tend to demand exem-
plary punishment, “magistrates for their
part, feel bound to take into account
that many offenders have a generally
good character and are first offenders
who have been seriously tempted by
enticing displays”. Both women sen-
tenced in Paddington Court last week
were first offenders.
Although there are many kinds of
shoplifters, this offence is committed
with unusual frequency by women over
40. Many of them are depressed, middle-
aged women facing some kind of crisis
which threatens to leave them neglected
and alone. “The motive for shoplifting
in many of these depressed women,”
says the report, “is like that of attempted
suicides a cry for help. It is like
a miniature suicide or moral suicide. In
less severely disturbed cases it similarly
draws the attention of a negligent hus-
band.” It is notable that they are much
less likely to be reconvicted than other
types of thieves.
Sydney security officers “believe that
there is a school for shoplifters operated
by a woman criminal in Sydney” and
that she “cases” stores and provides a
market for stolen goods. This may well
be true although the ISTTD researchers
found very few professionals only
6.2 per cent in fact.


AROUND MELBOURNE
“Norm and I Adore Satire and Yoga”
The return of Barry Humphries
Oerhaps he wouldn’t like the com-
-1 parison but, like Queen Elizabeth,
on his second visit Barry Humphries
was immensely more polished and
confident. His suit was a better cut,
his hair a little longer and he knew
exactly what to do for the cameras.
For one photographer he ran up an
aircraft ladder, threw out his chin
and posed as Joan Sutherland.
He had with him his wife Rosalind,
his two children and his 21-year-old
French nurse Dominique, who looked
very fetching in black stockings.
“Dominique will stay at home to look
after the kiddies,” said he.
He was wearing a badge which read
“I WILL DOMINATE" YOU”, but
a far better one was to arrive later.
Designed like an RSL rosette it was
large with the printing in the centre,
“KEEP VIETNAM YELLOW”. “Ah
yes, too many young fellows of my
age are getting rifles put into their
hands. I am planning to get K. G.
Luke to make a thousand or so of
these. A good job, you know, revers-
ible with the message in Vietnamese
on the other side. I will apply to the
Melbourne City Council for a Button
Day in Collins Street. Then I will sell
them on behalf of the Melbourne
Grammar Building Fund . . . the
Old School.”
Inside the TAA VIP room he pur-
red. “Copolov’s wall-to-wall. Isn’t it
lovely? Just like your own home.” He
explained the new show. There would
be different characters, the new set
with their leather ties, a bit of money,
and primitives on the wall. But Mrs
Norm Everage would be back: “Now
don’t think that Mrs Everage has re-
mained still. She’s broadened, you
know. Norm and I just adore satire.
We can’t get enough of it in our home.
Also she is now planting avocado pips.
She hangs out her own pasta on the
clothesline and she is doing yoga.”
On his last visit “A Nice Night’s
Entertainment” was performed in the
Prim, cramped Presbyterian surround-
ings of the Assembly Hall and he is
rather pleased with his graduation to
the Comedy Theatre. “Might I say
that I am proud to be associated with
the great J. C. Williamson Company.
“Oh dear, I struggled for a name
for the show. Would I call it the
Oldaker-Sutherland Co., the Teen-Age
Gladys Moncrieff? No, finally I set-
tled for ‘Excuse I Another Nice
Night’s Entertainment’.”
And the show would be completely
up-to-date. Everybody would be in
it. “Yes, and we’ll have the Premier
of Victoria. What’s his name again?
I know it’s something beginning with
B ... is it Sir Irving Benson or Nor-
man Banks?”
Two days later your correspondent
tracked down Barry Humphries again
and he was in a more restful mood.
He said: “There’s rather a nice irony
about Mrs Everage. When I walk
around London the police have no
time for me. One even said: ‘You
ought to get your hair cut’.
“But it’s curious. Once I put on
that dress I get the most extraordinary
courage. I’ll do anything. Mrs Everage
has improved. Instead of color slides
now she has color movies and we had
to get these for the show. You have
no idea what a job it was to get a
professional photographer who could
do them badly enough.”
Of course, his finest and bravest
effort was the famous meeting with
the Prime Minister at the Savoy. “I
waited outside the Savoy, dressed as
Mrs Everage for 2\ hours. I nearly
died with the cold. But I had my
Australian flag and everybody at the
Savoy was very impressed with this
devotion. ‘You must be very very
loyal,’ they said. The doorman gave
me a place to stand out of the wind.
His chauffeur said, ‘lt’s all right...
he’s coming now.’ Then he arrived.
I ran out shouting, ‘l’m one of your
electors. You’re doing a fine job, Sir
Robert.’ He was very touched by this.
He smiled, waved and kept on waving
all the way off in his car. But, do you
know, the fellow who was doing the
photography laughed so much the pic-
tures didn’t come out.”
When he returns to England he
hopes to put on a show at the Mer-
maid titled “An Evening of British
Boredom”. “We won’t charge anyone
to come in. We’ll make them pay to
leave. The earlier you go the more
you have to pay. There’s some mar-
vellous things we could read, “The
Times”, the Railways’ Lost Property
Catalogue, quite hilarious really. And
John Betjeman has a poem he can
read, a sort of Monty Blandford’s
Philosopher’s Scrapbook.”
The book “Bizarre” will reach Aus-
tralia in five weeks in time for the
Christmas trade. Price: £4. “There’s
value for the money. It’s very heavy.
It’s exactly nine inches square, like a
heavy tile, and 260 pages. It’s full of
literary oddities, surrealistic, vague,
erotic. Not Rylahish, Chatterley ero-
ticism but Ancient Roman type . . .
WEIRD, STRAAANGE, EROTICA.
I really don’t know whether it will
get into Victoria or not. Among the
illustrations there’s a nude picture of
a three-legged man and an operation
on Siamese twins.”
He is confident about the show with
a confidence he didn’t have three years
ago. “I’d really like to steep them in
the ’thirties. I’d like to have a Ham-
mond organ, a very old programme
printed on cream paper in sepia.
Then I’d like to have the Val Morgan
ad slides with Keith Humphries
shoes, Peters ice cream, the Wattle
Restaurant . . .”
And he began to reminisce. “Do
you know the best gag I had last time.
It worked everywhere. I set it all up
very carefully. I described the house
where these people lived. Up high,
wonderful view, all around. If it was
in Sydney it was alongside the Catholic
Bishop’s palace. Then I’d say: ‘Ah,
they get all the best places, don’t they?’
You would notice immediately the
prejudice flowing out, the feeling of
relief like a boil being lanced. Then
the prejudice would close up once
more. I don’t think I’ll ever get a gag
as good as that again.”
BATMAN


>
wmmmmm
m
If you can’t afford to buy
a computer, buy part of one.
It works just as well.
Try it. Chip in with other firms in your area and buy an
NCR computer. You can all use it. It’s being done by many
banks and other businesses, all over the world, that need
the speed, accuracy and efficiency of electronic computa-
tion. Or rent time on an NCR-owned computer at your local
NCR data processing centre. Either way, you’ll get the
benefits of NCR’s unmatched systems and service. Your
local NCR man will help you make either arrangement.
N
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTV. LTP.


Lee Kuan Yew and the Americans
In this assessment of the dangers now facing Malaysia
and Singapore of civil war and foreign intervention,
Professor K. G . Tregonning—who has discussed the issues
with Singapore’s Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew ex-
plains what Lee Kuan Yew meant in his recent attack on
the Americans’ role in Asia and the operations of the CIA.
K. G. Tregonning, from Western Australia, is Raffles
Professor of History in the University of Singapore.
The recent statement by Singapore’s
Prime Minister, Lee Kuan Yew
which he repeated to me last
week on his 42nd birthday that “I
am not going to have the Americans
in Singapore, and I hope not in
Malaysia”, has been particularly perplex-
ing to Australia with its ANZUS Treaty
and its twenty-year-old reliance on the
USA.
I The problem has been compounded
by the manner of its utterance. It took
place at a Press interview on August 31,
when the Prime Minister was asked if
he thought there might not be many
years before the British left the bases.
He replied that he saw a danger of
British disillusionment, that he would
be prepared to accept the Australians
and the New Zealanders, but not the
Americans. He then went into what was
a sensational expose of CIA intrigue in
Singapore, and other seemingly rather
minor if discreditable actions by Ameri-
cans. So sensational was the CIA action,
so personal were the other blunderings
by US officialdom, that many observers,
while excited, were confused. “Condemn
America on that?” they asked.
It has been maintained by many cor-
respondents that Mr Lee was shouting
abuse at America in order to win Afro-
Asian friends. This insults the intelli-
gence of the man, and the position he
'had secured already. As early as Febru-
ary, 1964, during his African tour, the
very firmest of understandings was
established by Mr Lee Kuan Yew with
perhaps Africa’s most Leftist leader,
President Sekou Toure of Guinea. He
came out unequivocally in support of
Malaysia, and accepted it, Singapore,
British Base and all, as an independent
State with right on its side in the Indo-
nesian dispute. The two leaders main-
tained contact, and Sekou Toure’s
recognition of independent Singapore
came in the warmest terms. So, too, did
that of India and, amongst others,
Nasser’s United Arab Republic. I have
no doubt that Mr Lee did not have to
demonstrate an anti-American attitude
to win Afro-Asian support. Nor would
he have done so. It is not in the man
to make gestures like that. What then
was the reason? Was it even necessary?
Mr Lee Kuan Yew has demonstrated
time and again that he is the reverse of
impulsive. He is a calculating and hard-
headed man, an intellectual with a com-
mon touch. His criticism of America
indicates a deeply rooted fear that in fact
Britain might become disillusioned and
that America might intervene in Malay-
sia. Should this happen, Malaysia could
well become another fire-storm like Viet-
nam. Mr Lee’s criticisms of American
maladroitness in his personal affairs were
calculated sops, to save America’s face
from the unpalatable truth that, in his
estimation, if it intervened it would
make any situation in Malaysia far worse
than it was.
But given that Britain might realise
Mr Lee’s apprehensions and, to the
delight of some in Kuala Lumpur, with-
draw, what possible cause for American
intervention into Malaysia could there
be? Lee Kuan Yew is prepared to fight
them rather than let them take over the
bases. “This is not Santo Domingo,” he
has said, “and if they think they can
install a government more to their liking
here they would plunge this island into
anarchy.” He has a very poor opinion
of their political understanding of Asia.
Their presence he feels would be
calamitous.
Yet it seems, from the drift of events,
that American force would not be
unacceptable in the Malay Peninsula. A
closer and closer link has been discern-
ible between Kuala Lumpur and Wash-
ington for some time. Such straws as the
Tunku’s open support for the US in
Vietnam; the growing Formosa-Malaysia
contacts, encouraged by the USA; South
Korean exchanges; the open Washington
support for Maphilindo, the Malay race
Federation; all this points to close con-
tacts. It would not be too much to
believe that given certain circumstances,
an understanding of intervention does
exist.
What circumstances? Dato Dr Ismail,
Malaysia’s Internal Security Minister,
has gone on record as saying, in Aus-
tralia, that their Federal system should
be examined afresh in order to make
Malaysia more effective. If this is done,
and the grievances of Sabah and Sarawak
met at least half way, then the possibility
of the States breaking away recedes;
already it is less likely than a few weeks
ago. It is not here that major danger
lies, even though Sabah and Sarawak are
beginning to appreciate that when they
joined Malaysia the whole process, to
Malaya, was similar to the ceremony
when a married Malay takes another
wife. She joins the family, but nothing
is particularly changed in that family
to accommodate her. Similarly, when
Singapore was dismissed, it was
essentially a Malay divorce; “I divorce
you, I divorce you, I divorce you”; the
deed is done, and the two perhaps can
become friends again.
But Dato Dr Ismail also has pointed
out that before the split, tension inside
Malaysia was mounting as a result of
the language issue. This is the imple-
mentation by August 31, 1967 of Malay
as the sole official language. The opposi-
tion to this, he said, “would have led to
real racial strife and racial clashes as
never before seen in the history of
Malaysia”. Here is the danger. Here is
the cause for intervention: civil war.
With Malays and Chinese fighting in
Malaysia, Indonesians coming across by
invitation, a stream of refugees pouring
across the causeway and violent anti-
Malay reactions in Singapore, the Ameri-
cans would then intervene. This would
present Lee Kuan Yew with the violent
necessity of having to rethink his entire
position.
Alarmist? Long residence here, with
many graduates of mine now in posi-


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
SSF.
m
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
A
*
FLY AND DRIVE IN ’65. It’s time-saving .. . money-saving . .
worry free! Drive a great new Falcon or other fine car from the Avis
fleet. Fly/Drive is the jet age way to travel . . . gives you extra time
for business or pleasure . . . lets you see more, do more. For instant
service book your Avis car when you book your Ansett-ANA flight
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENT A CAR
t£9t/83/«a
lions of delicate trust in Malaysia and
Singapore, convinces me that this is
becoming a sober possibility. A tragedy
(which can yet be averted) is being pre-
pared, not by the many nationalists who
seek wisely to establish a bridge between
the divided peoples, to have a common
tongue and, perhaps, common loyalties
to a green and pleasant land, but by the
few now climbing to power. They seek
to ride rough-shod over the genuine
desires of the many races to maintain
also their own tongue and much of their
own culture.
In 1954 the Malayan Communist
Party, then slinking through the jungle
on its way to its sanctuary in South
Thailand, accepted Malay as the national
language. It no longer does so. It is
growing in strength and it has come out
actively on this issue. It is helping by
underground methods to inflame emo-
tions over the decline of the Chinese
language in particular. Again Chinese
language is being equated in American
and other eyes with Communism. Many
years ago Lee Kuan Yew claimed that
his Government in Singapore had
defused this bomb, as indeed it did,
by recognising all four major languages
in Singapore and by making Malay first
among equals. No one who was a
nationalist could quarrel with that. In
Malaysia to-day, however, again the
bomb is burning.
One of my former students, now head
of the women teachers’ union in
Malaysia, told me that her grandparents,
when they migrated to Malaya, spoke
only Tamil. Her parents spoke Tamil
and English, she spoke only English
but was learning Malay; and her child-
ren would speak Malay and perhaps
English. She saw and accepted this pat-
tern, a change by generation. To many
Chinese or Tamils, however, who speak
only their native tongue, the nearness
of implementation and the implications
of imposed uniformity in other ways, is
disturbing. Has Ceylon not taught a
lesson? Or India? Mr Lee, I feel, fears
not.
Slowly, slowly
Tn Malaysia, although 45 per cent of
the people speak Malay, 55 per cent
do not. They are as inextricably mixed
together as Catholics and Protestants in
Australia. For some time after merdeka
in 1957 the official attitude over lan-
guage was the sensible one of “pelahan,
pelahan” (slowly, slowly), and the
moderateness of this won all in its favor.
Now, however, a new element, victors of
the 1964 elections, Malay-educated, are
attempting to seize the reins and to
gallop the horse, with a frightened group
in the carriage behind.
This I believe is the fear of Lee
Kuan Yew. By his public pronounce-
ments one can sense that he values the
British presence not merely to ensure
the survival of his island that least
of all. Like all nationalists he wishes that
he were able to do that himself. He has
based his foreign policy, however, on
the two major planks of physical sur-
vival and economic stability. Both planks
link it to Malaysia, and involve it in the
hostility of Indonesia. Unaided, he can-
not defend his island, and therefore must
rely on the British. He will seek to re-
negotiate the position of these bases,
and it may well be that Britain’s willing-
ness to accept this re-negotiation as right
and proper is one of the factors account-
ing for his appreciation of it. The bases,
to Lee and all other nationalists in
Singapore, are not “outposts of colonial-
ism” but are tangible, welcome proofs
of Britain’s defence posture in this part
of the world.
It is in both Britain’s and Singapore's
interest that they be shown to be
there willingly and by the consent of
both countries.


HELP
m=C CfAl «4
all the year round
Paint the town
blue in your
m
suit
m
©
m
m
mm
m
m
m
m
SSS
jss^gaaßs
A Touch of Blue - That's the fashion tone
this Spring and Summer
Not brilliant blues. Not extravagant blues. Just a touch of blue.
A touch of blue to browns. A touch to olives. To greys. But only a
touch. Skilfully tailored. Carefully hand detailed. Keith Courtenay
suits feature, not only these latest fashion tonings, but the
“Forward Line" too!
The “Forward Line" up-grades your chest and shoulders, down-
grades your waist. A Keith Courtenay suitJs not
mass produced. It is individually tailored. That's
why it is the only suit that's guaranteed. From
£25.19.6 at all stores who know good clothes.
KEITH COURTENAY CLOTHES
125 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
A
TOUCH OF
111
KCI/102
This acceptance of the British is a
new factor in Afro-Asian nationalism
that should not escape notice. Here is
a dedicated anti-colonialist, as fierce an
Asian nationalist as one could find,
publicly accepting the presence of a
European as necessary for survival in a
struggle with Indonesia, another Asian,
and the erstwhile leader of Afro-
Asia at that. This difficult but realistic
posture has been accepted by the
remainder of Afro-Asia. Their acquies-
cence, as well as Lee’s stand, heralds a
new, less emotional, more rational
appreciation by the newly independent
States of the necessities for survival. A
more pragmatic approach to problems
of independence, in which European
countries can assist, is opened up. It is
a development of world significance.
Australia’s opportunity
Lee and the Asian nationalists of
Singapore also have accepted as allies
Australia and New Zealand. This offers
us exceptional opportunities and respon-
sibilities if we are to carry out effectively
any good-neighbor policy Of immediate
practical concern is the question of the
bases. The three airfields, the naval
establishment and the numerous army
depots, together with schools, married
quarters and other facilities, cost Bri-
tain £(sterling) 50 million a year. If the
pay, allowances, equipment and other
items of the troops in the area are
added, the RAF and the Army would
account for a total of £lOO million, and
the Navy about £125 million. That is,
a total base cost, each year, of £225
million. In this Australia and New
Zealand should share.
However, a mere contribution to the
running expenses of the bases is not an
answer to the more basic, and more
critical, problem of the time bomb in
Malaysia and the fire-storm that could
sweep the country should America
intervene. For the good of this part of
Asia, America must stay out and Bri-
tain must be encouraged to remain. A
problem of diplomacy, a difficult exer-
cise in tact and moderating counsel is
called for; Britain alone, it seems to
me, could perform this with success.
It is thus offered an opportunity to per-
form a role separate from that of the
USA, and to be an independent agent
for the stability of this part of South-
East Asia. This'is a political decision of
the gravest significance to Australia. Aus-
tralia then should participate, in every
Way possible, to see that that decision
is implemented.


The Unpredictable
Liberal
Tom Hughes on a tight-rope to success
By BRIAN JOHNS
No one seems less at ease than a new Federal Member of Parliament trying to
look as if he belongs some place, any place, in the wide sweep of King’s Hall where
politicians stop to chat on their way to or from the Parliamentary chambers. At first
like new boys anywhere the Members find safety in their own numbers. But it
was not long before Thomas Eyre Forrest Hughes looked as if he felt well and truly at
home in Parliament House, Canberra.
When Hughes arrived in Canberra in
February, 1964, as the new Member for
Parkes, the reputation he carried with
him ensured that he would face quick
and bitter tests in Parliament. There was
his comparative youth, 40, always an
open invitation for attention from the
gerontocracy of Parliament and Press.
He was a Queen’s Counsel —and doesn’t
everyone know that there are too many
of them in Parliament? But most dan-
gerous of all, he had won his seat from
Labor Leftist veteran Leslie Haylen in
the 1963 election, and Labor members
were waiting for any opportunity to cut
the brash young man down to size.
“I felt as if I was walking a tight-rope,”
Hughes recollects now. It was a tight-
rope that showed every sign of breaking
under the weight of his repeated broad-
sides charging Communist and Leftist
influences in the Opposition ranks. It
soon began to sound that the bright young
man in fact had a very limited reper-
toire. Predictability is fatal in politics
and these days it is not only the Labor
Party which suffers from a surfeit of
foreign affairs “experts”. The South-East
Asian situation is more easily discovered
and yields more resounding speeches
than a close analysis of the intricacies of,
say, our social welfare anomalies.
While he was rankling the Opposition
in the House, Hughes was starting on his
political homework. “It was hard to
adjust at first. Time lay heavily on my
hands. There was the frustration of
waiting around for divisions. Listening
to debates on subjects in which there
was no real interest.” Hughes missed
the immediacy and intensity of the law
with its deadlines. “But I soon found
how little, one knew and then embarked
on a programme of self-education.”
The Hughes pattern of adjustment
was little different to that of most new
Members. Being a barrister did give him
certain advantages: from the nature of
their vocation, barristers do have to be
self-starters; a facility, taken for granted
in the law, of knowing how to use a
library for research is a considerable help
in Canberra where the Parliamentary
library is under-staffed and over-worked.
Once on his course of “self-education”,
Hughes did the usual thing for new
Members joined Parliamentary com-
mittees: “too many”. He has dropped off
the Attorney-General’s Committee and
the Education Committee, but he is still
a member of the Foreign Affairs, De-
fence and Industrial Relations Commit-
tees.
As he says now, Hughes gave him-
self time “to grow into the place”. In
the growing he received one particular
drubbing from one of the most capable
debaters in Parliament, South Australian
Labor front-bencher Mr Clyde Cameron,
Late one night last October on the ad-
journment debate, Hughes decided to
take Mr Cameron apart for the South
Australian’s alleged disclosure to a Com-
munist of his personal opposition to the
establishment of the American com-
munications base on North-West Cape,
in the face of approval by South Aus-
tralian ALP authorities.
In the course of his eloquent and emo-
tional speech to the House, Mr Hughes
asked rhetorically: “The country will be
interested to hear why Mr Cameron
saw fit to disclose matters of great con-
fidence to a Communist!” The only dif-
ficulty was, as Mr Cameron was able to
explain, Mr Cameron had first voiced
his opposition to the base at an ALP
Council meeting and that meeting had
been open to the Press!
“It was a good lesson know your
facts. I would never have made the
same mistake in a brief.” Inevitably,
much was made of the mistake, just as
in earlier exchanges those, whose ears
are finely attuned to any suggestion of
a squeak of personal criticism of a Com-
munist but are curiously blind to smears
of anyone on the Right, were more than
prepared to decide that Hughes had been
bested by various Labor spokesmen.
It is easy to see the irritant Hughes
was to Labor in the House. Apart
from his Red-baiting, to class-conscious
Labor he would look the height of
Liberal privilege. A Sydney Eastern
Suburbs background—he continues to live
in Double Bay with GPS education,
pilot in the RAAF, third-generation legal
man (grandfather Sir Thomas Hughes
was first Lord Mayor of Sydney), tall,
pin-striped, groomed and full of social
confidence. True, a Catholic, but from
that as unyet socially charted group close
to the English upper class Catholic
tradition, far removed from the publican
Irish. Apart from the image, on first


BOTTLED BY THE WINEGROWERS, COONAWARRA ESTATE LTD,
s<,
S 4
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
VINTAGE 1960
AUSTRALIAN HERMITAGE NET • TINT A ft. OUNCES
BOTTLED ST THE WINEGROWERS, COONAWARRA ESTATE LTD
SfS
s-c
m
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
VINTAGE 1960
AUSTRALIAN HERMITAGE WET I TINT » ft. OUNCES
Now is the time to lay-down
Coonawarra Estate Claret 1960
Few Australian wines have as much potential for age improve-
ment as those from Coonawarra, where the select wines are labelled
Coonawarra Estate.
Vintage 1960 Coonawarra Estate claret, currently on sale after
more than 5 years in the winegrowers’ cellarage, is one of the finest
in recent years. It becomes all the more valuable because, due to
severe frost, there will be no 1961, as that year’s wine did not reach
the particularly high standards set for the Coonawarra Estate label.
The 1960 Vintage remains unchanged in price despite its additional
value, and you are strongly advised to invest in supplies of this
claret while it is still available.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CLARET
Vintage 1960
an ESTATE WINE OF S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
meeting, Hughes is a shyly nervous
person, who once at ease is warm and
communicative.
Hughes suffered no loss of face within
the Liberal Party. Backbenchers are not
as lonely in the power game as it might
seem from a quick Canberra view. Even
in the Liberal Party, standing in the State
branches matters. And there has been
an enthusiasm for Hughes from the out-
set in New South Wales.
There seems little doubt that he was
approached by Ash Street to contest the
Liberal pre-selection for Parkes. From
what he says himself it is clear that, while
he had been a Liberal Party member of
some five or six years’ standing, his most
activist role had been to hand out how-
to-vote cards on polling days. He had
been an unsuccessful Civic Reform
candidate for the Sydney City Council,
but was defeated after a rather per-
functory campaign.
Pragmatic
ITughes is not a predictable Liberal. Al-
though he is adamant that the Labor
Party never had the slightest appeal to
him. he is by no means doctrinaire in his
opposition to Labor principles. On the
issue of public ownership, for instance,
he maintains a pragmatic approach. If
he was convinced that nationalisation of
the stevedoring industry —he is watch-
ing closely the current strife on the
waterfront was the only step to a
satisfactory solution, he would support
it. Similarly, he says he has an open
mind on the question of the establish-
ment of an overseas shipping line by the
Government.
Despite the fact that Parkes had long
been a marginal seat, few expected him
to win it. Hughes confesses that it was
not until “right at the end” that he
thought he had a chance. In this cam-
paign he worked really hard, starting
with speeches on railway platforms at
6.30 in the morning and ending on street
corners well after dark. Ash Street
knew what it took to achieve victory.
Liberals were obviously delighted that
he followed up his electoral success with
his hard-line anti-Communism in Parlia-
ment. Outside Parliamentary circles, the
name of Hughes began to crop up as an
early candidate for the Ministerial lists.
This talk did not slacken when he
decided that he had had enough time
“to grow into the place” and began to
make critical noises about Government
policy in Parliament and in the party
room. When the Liberal backbench was
agitating for the re-introduction of
national service and a general step-up
in defence effort, the Service Ministers
received a regular flow of sharp questions
on numbers in the Forces from the
Member for Parkes.
On the major issue of the Restrictive


rn!S3i , JSiBU-!i
° '! 1
■ 7 1
mm
SONY SUPREME
SOUND SYSTEM
SETS HIGHER STANDARDS
IN SOUND RECORDING
The SONY TC-500A tape recorder is the ultimate
for the musically sophisticated. With high
fidelity it covers the full sound spectrum audible
to the most sensitive and trained ear. Further
features to set the TC-500A apart are: 4 track,
stereophonic and monophonic recording, sound
on sound. 2 infinite baffle speaker systems.
Separate controls for mix recordings. 2 VU
meters, 2 probe microphones, comprehensive
accessories. PRICE 204 gns. If you want easy
portability you might prefer the TC-200 at
142 gns. See and hear SONY at your retailer.
RESEARCH MAKES THE DIFFERENCE
'»
Distr.; Jacoby, Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd:, Sydney, Melbourne
Trade Practices Bill, still to come before
Parliament, Hughes has made it t lear
that he has massive reservations. How-
ever, it is on the Wool Reserve Price
Scheme that he has been most outspoken.
It remains to be seen if this latest,
strongest assertion of independence
brings any setback to Hughes.
It is relevant to note that, on defence,
restrictive trade practices and now the
wool scheme, Hughes has been in the
mainstream of Liberal opinion. Against
the Government, yes, though in no way
looking like a member of what more
conformist Liberals often regard as the
lunatic fringe in Parliament.
Limelight is a politician’s friend, but
not so for stage-shy Hughes. However,
by not voting against the Government
on the Wool Scheme on Thursday night
Hughes has run the risk of being billed
as an inconsistent performer; but there
is no doubt that he is an able one. He
could easily take his place in the present
Government Ministry.
Gauguin a go-go
A visit to the fortune-hunting isles
By BARRY HUMPHRIES
Ihave always been an over-avid
tourist trying to do everything
wherever I found myself. For in-
stance, I read Ruskin’s “Stones of Ven-
ice” most religiously while in that most
beautiful and nacreous city, and I looked
again at J. A. Symonds, Thomas Mann,
and Corvo in order to season my ap-
preciation of the place with just that
necessary clove of decadence. All very
conscientious of me, but a bit of a waste
of time. I still do this sort of thing, but
I’ve managed to break the church habit
and I don’t go near museums unless I
know what I’m looking for.
Thus, in Genoa, I only visited
a picture gallery to see the Mag-
nascos; in Toronto I eschewed
all else for their surprising wail-
ful of Monticellis; and in Edin-
burgh I could only be bothered
with McWhirter. So it is that
the omnivorous tourist must, of
necessity, grow more selective
or go mad.
However, I’m still keen on a
literary companion on my
travels, and when I knew I was
going to Tahiti I cast around
for someone's “Stones of Pap-
eete”. The obvious book seemed
to be Maugham's “Moon and
Sixpence”, but then, of course,
there was Stevenson. Had the
author of “The Weir of Hermi-
ston” and “Treasure Island”
written something which I
really ought to devour before
setting foot on Gauguin’s island. But
of course Gauguin’s own “Noa-
Noa”; the perfect companion if I could
get a copy in London. But London is the
worst city in the world to buy books.
“How do you spell it, sir?” It's that sir
which gives foreigners the totally false
impression that they are the beneficiaries
of a very special and knowledgeable
service. Not at all. Most London book-
sellers are the veriest silly-billies who
wouldn’t have heard of Nabokov except
for “Lolita” and can’t pronounce William
Plomer for toffee. After a good deal of
trouble, “sir” was shown a dog-eared
monograph on Gauguin and a copy of
Obey’s drama “Noah”. I was directed
to another “famous” bookstore, but a
profound weariness overtook me and I
gave up the search.
At any rate, I had never been terribly
keen on Gauguin. The exoticism had al-
ways seemed to me to be rather mere-
tricious and all those ladies sitting around
in grass huts painted on what looked like
burlap left me cold. But then, I don’t
much care for Cezanne either, though I
agree with Arthur Boyd that he paints
clothes rather well. But Gauguin’s reclin-
ing boongs didn’t even wear clothes; just
occasionally the nursery curtains a la
hipster. In short, I was to see Tahiti
without the companionship of a solitary
page of print.
We had flown there on the Qantas
“Fiesta Route” via Mexico, which every
Australian should adore, if only for the
gladioli and those Spanish Mission houses.
There, amid the open-cut silver shops
of lovely Taxeo, I had re-read (that I
insist) Malcolm Lowry’s “Under the Vol-
cano”; but nothing of D. H.
Lawrence who is so occasionally
brilliant and so consistently
awful that one is glad he is so
definitely out
It’s a fact that in many of
Mexico’s smaller towns you are
often woken at dawn by the as-
tounding sound of gunfire in
the streets, and if you chance to
peep through the Venetians you
may well be vouchsafed a
glimpse of some local Robert
Mitchum, pistol awisp, melo-
dramatically trellised against
your hotel wall. In Mexico,
also, you may expect to encoun-
ter the voice, if not the incarna-
tion, of Gene Autry.
But in Tahiti the exdigenous
inhabitants all belong, more or
less, to the Trevor Howard fam-
ily; sauntering along the dusty
streets of Papeete's shanty town on thin,
arachnidic legs, with their island mapped
accurately in sweat on the backs of their
limp aloha shirts. The islanders them-
selves are more charming, despite the
nursery curtains they all insist on wear-
ing, with a hibiscus or a yellow propeller
of frangipani over one ear; safe as a
grocer's pencil.
Tahiti is a healthy island and I was
assured that the leprosarium, a delight-
ful group of buildings, is now untenan-
ted. My driver gave me no opportunity
to verify this as we sped past what I
had rather sentimentally hoped would
be a veritable gallery of human sculp-
ture. Mors Syphilitica, however, a flower
over one ravaged ear, is by no means an
unknown lady on the island. Not that you
are really aware of pestilence in this
delicious haven; not, for instance, as
you are in Bangkok where every visitor
complains of a slight catarrh soon after
arrival. Not seriously incommoding, this
Thai hay-fever is as I am assured by


SUCCESSFUL
CONVENTIONS
TAKE PLACE AT...
The hotel conveniently situated close
to the commercial heart of the Aus-
tralian capital.
The hotel with the experience, the staff
and special facilities conventions re-
quire.
The hotel with truly comfortable ac-
commodation.
Your convention runs really smoothly at The
Hotel Canberra. Your particular requirements
are closely attended to by experienced staff
and you use special rooms giving you the
comfort and privacy you require. Projection
facilities are available and of course you
receive the same renowned Hotel Canberra
service as other guests. Accommodation is
tasteful and comfortable. Every room has
bath or shower and toilet facilities. Round-
the-clock room service, naturally. Single
rooms 'from £3/17/6 a dav.
THE
HOTEL CANBERRA
Commonwealth Avenue, A.C.T.
Telephone: 7-2251.
The hotel that caters specially for conventions.
HC-24
Wi
THE
H
0
rjp
E
L
C
A
N
B
E
R
R
A
an eminent venereologist no less than
the side effect from a mild inoculation of
syphilis.
However costly might be the pleasures
on Tahiti, the prosaic expenses of daily
life are dear enough. Though no spend-
thrift, I am, God wot, no pinch-penny
either. I enjoy my comfort. Yet I suppose
a single man could, at a pinch, live
pleasurably in Tahiti on less than eighty
pounds a day. Certainly one assumes that
Gauguin got by on considerably less in
those days before the airstrip, having
lived Crusoe-like on the delicious fruits
which tumble abundantly from tree and
shrub. Yet despite all this natural plenty I
paid an astoundingly large sum for a
“typically Tahitian” lunch of roasted
breadfruit, wild pork, and raw fish marin-
ated in the juice of limes. No doubt I was
paying for the susurration of the Pacific
close at hand, the clash of palm leaves
overhead, and the unequivocal if gappy
smile of the big-fingered girl who brought
the garnet-colored wine and laced my
coffee with coconut milk.
The girls are certainly pretty in a South
Seas sort of way, yet even were their
appearance of excellent health a decep-
tion, one traveller would prefer the more
sullied beauties of Europe and America.
I Vet could it be that Gauguin has cast
over this island a spell which may never
be broken? He painted before his dusky
models took to the motor-bike which they
now stertorously pedipulate around the
island, but he nonetheless invented the
modern Tahitian.
I sought his “son” whom tourists may
for a dollar photograph and who seems
stranded like an ageing hunk of human
ambergris on local beaches; but a clever
journalist has whisked him off to the
States along with his “paintings”, exe-
cuted by a Chinaman, but signed by the
Master’s bastard.
Some people say that he isn’t Gauguin’s
son at all, and that it’s all a myth; which
seems unduly cynical. Rather like those
boring old seafarers in is it Gauguin’s
favorite poet Mallarme? who said that
they had sailed all seas and there were
no Fortunate Isles.
What To Do Until
Dr Banks Comes
A bouncing ball of fun
By CHARLES HIGHAM
world renowned New York
Psychologist with a Sense of
Humor Who Clutches You
Where You’re Ticklish . . . The Answers
to all the Problems of Male, Female
and Others . . . More Laughs than six
comedies, 14 farces, five musicals and
12 months’ subscription to ‘Esquire’ . . .
MORE FUN PER RUNNING
MINUTE THAN A TICKLISH
HAREM GIRL . . ”
After meeting Dr Murray Banks, one
can have no doubt of who wrote his
publicity. A bouncing ball of fun and
laughter with a cropped head, eyes that
miss nothing and a whiter-than-white
shirt, he arrived at his motel to find
his optimism sorely tried: he had left
his passport, jewellery and travel docu-
ments at Sydney Airport. No sooner was
he in the lobby than he was gone, to
re-emerge in a tiny car, tinkling with
laughter and clutching his valuables.
“Would have could you have gone
on with tonight’s performance if you
hadn’t found them, Dr Banks?” asked his
companion, an elderly man with silver
hair and a whisky advertisement suntan,
who handles his Australian record
releases.
“Lilian Roth wrote a very fine book


Pick, ft, pouchy
AMPHORA
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
gentle
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
gentle
jti
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there i$
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
2 or.
I riIIDCT OF tom EGBERTS lOTU FtCIOIIES, DTBECHT. tOUtll
‘l’ll Cry Tomorrow’,” the doctor said.
“That title is something a lot of people
should keep remembering. They should
cry tomorrow, not cry today. Why cry
today? Why worry today? It’s no good
to you. You’re only going to get out
of this world one way. So I say, ‘Don’t
cry.’ I’d have cried, maybe, if I’d lost
the documents, but I’d have cried
tomorrow.”
How had his audience been in Mel-
bourne? “ Packed. Just packed. The first
four days, not so good. Then, they
couldn’t get in at all. And they toured
me. You know that? They toured me.
If I’d have known they were going
to tour me like this I wouldn’t have
accepted the deal in the first place. They
rushed me out just when I was doing so
well. And for Tex Morton! He had to
give away 2000 seats for the first night!
Nobody .vent! And they toured me! But
I won’t worry. I’ll worry tomorrow.”
How had he first
become known here?
“I’m a word-of-
mouth man. My
records have sold;
how many? How
many did ‘What To
Do Till The Psychia-
trist Comes’ sell
here?” “Eight
thousand copies,”
said the silver-haired
man. “That means
40,000 people heard
it. Five people to
each record. Word
of mouth. I didn’t
do anything—didn’t
spend two cents
even to promote
that record. And I
gave it as a lecture
before President
Eisenhower. And Mrs Eisenhower. At
the White House. And in the audience
there was Mrs Ford. And Mrs Got
Rocks. And Mrs Got More Rocks.
“And there was my record, ‘Just In
Case You Think You’re Normal’. That
was a big hit too. I recorded it in Johan-
nesburg. ‘What To Do’ was recorded
in New York and my other record, ‘The
Drama of Sex’, live, in my bedroom . . .
“And ‘The Drama of Sex’ hasn’t been
banned in Australia. Isn’t that an
achievement? Why, you even banned
‘Lady Chatterley’. And a child of six
can read that book and it won’t do him
any harm.
“How did I start out? I was a pro-
fessor of psychiatry. I conducted group
psychology and it would make me feel
better. Then I’d have lecture-dances in
New York. For people over 28 who
were desperately lonely. I’d give a lec-
ture and teach them how to develop
their sense of psychology . . .
“After the talk there was a dance.
That way they could put my ideas into
practice. Quite a few were married as
a result.
“People are too repressed. You too.
You Australians.” What about all those
happy, sunburnt faces in the street
outside? “You see them, then you don’t
see them. Tomorrow they’re faces in a
mental hospital. To get into a mental
hospital in Sydney you have to have
influence.
“It’s because you’ve got this sexual
hyprocrisy that you’ve got full-to-
capacity mental hospitals. Police records
show that sex crimes here have tripled in
the period 1953 to You’re getting
repressed. There’s no progress. You
can’t suppress a sex drive. Is my idea
to break up people’s inhibitions? No,
it’s to make people into good, intelligent,
well-adjusted hypo-
crites. And non-
smokers. My new
record is the best
thing I’ve ever done.
It’s called ‘How to
Quit Smoking in Six
Days or Drop Dead
in Seven’.
“You have to get
children young. On
sex education they
are well-adjusted.
It’s only the parents
who aren’t. But
there are so many
restrictions, so many
pressures. You see
that table. I could
lean on that table
and lean on that
table and it wouldn’t
break straight away,
but in the end it would break.
People can break too. The faster the
pace, the greater the pressure. People
break. You must acquire the knowledge
of what is the best way to face a prob-
lem. Suppose you hate your boss. Well,
you can resign, try to change him or
shoot him dead. But make a decision.
“Religion? If it hurts then it’s sinful.
Religions that teach hell and damnation
are bad f&r mental hygiene. In Victoria
they ban the fruit-fly but yet people kill
themselves. That’s not logical. I believe
in mental hygiene. If religion helps you
to be happy then it’s good.”
Was he, finally, able to practise the
happiness religion at home? “I have a
child of three. He’s so well-adjusted he
makes me neurotic. No. Not really, of
course. But I am raising him with an
absolute minimum of fears and tensions.
Of course my wife’s highly neurotic. She
married me to get treatment for free.”


TABULA
an essential aid in
Commerce, Industry and
Educational Establishments!
Locally made to suit Australian conditions,
"Tabula" educational boards are featured In
notable installations throughout each State.
"Tabula" is available in an extensive range—
Glass, Hardboard, vertical or horizontal, re-
volving, sliding, magnetic, projection, cork
bulletin boards, flannelgraph, pin-up boards
and many others to suit your exact require-
ments.
We tender realistically and boast a "Unique"
personal service to please you or your client.
For detailed information and/or
demonstration, please write, phone
or coll:
UNIQUE HOUSE
SHOWROOMS IN ALL STATES
N.S.W.: 68T Parramatta Road, Leichhardt.
Telephone: 56 7313.
A.C.T.: 89 Petrie Street, Canberra.
Telephone: 4 5554.
VIC.: 139 Boundary Road, North Melbourne.
Telephone: 30 1381.
THE WEEK
OVERSEAS
CHINA
Three Million
Servicemen
Peking’s ultimatum to India focuses
*■ attention on Communist China’s
military strength. Analysts say that Red
China now has three million men in
uniform, supported by 20 million more
in the “organised militia” or reserves.
The Army is believed to total 2,500,000
with 250,000 men each in the Air Force
and Navy.
Divided into 40 field armies of 40,000
men each, plus other specialised units,
China’s forces are deployed along borders
from the Yalu River above North Korea
to the Himalayas. As many as 300,000
men may be stationed opposite Formosa,
and another 400,000 could enter North
Vietnam in a few days if President
Ho Chi-minh called for help.
Although manpower is still China’s
largest resource, observers report the
development of industries capable of
making destroyer escorts, tanks, sub-
marines, artillery, MIG 15, 17 and 19
aircraft —in fact all the accoutrements
of modern “conventional” war.
The Americans in South Vietnam have
captured from Vietcong and North Viet-
namese troops, Chinese-made rifles,
bazookas, mines, grenades, shells and
other weapons. Unmanned US U-2
reconnaissance aircraft regularly fly over
the Chinese mainland and US submarines
are believed to have nudged perilously
close to Chinese harbors in pursuit of
clues to China’s naval strength. But no
one has any real way of telling for certain
how long China could -hold out in a
major war, how much fuel and other
supplies she holds in reserve, how quickly
spare parts could be made, how fast
troops could be moved from the interior
to the fronts all the factors that could
make the difference between victory and
defeat in a showdown.
VIETNAM
The Build-up
IVithin a few months, possibly before
Christmas, there will be a quarter
of a million American troops in Vietnam
as the massive build-up continues.
American and Vietnamese military plan-
ners expect to confront the Vietcong
with no less than 750,000 men—Viet-
namese, American, Australian, New
Zealand and Korean —by the spring.
The build-up, which has already
reached the 125,000 mark, finally makes
possible large operations of the type
under way last weekend in the Vietcong
stronghold of War Zone “C”. The opera-
tion is the biggest joint effort of the war.
But if the size of this “clear and destroy”
operation is significant, so, too, is the
fact that it has led to no important
contact with the Vietcong. Vietcong
casualties have been high in numerous
minor engagements, but the build-up has
led to no new decisive phase in the war.
The great “set-piece” battle American
commanders yearn for remains, like the
Vietcong, as elusive as ever. The build-
up can deny living space to the Vietcong
but it is unlikely to produce a sweeping
victory in the short term.
It has, however, removed in the nick
of time the danger of a military collapse
by taking the strain off an overtaxed
Vietnamese Army that up to July was
virtually fighting the ground war alone.
And it must have forced the Vietcong,
who no longer monopolise the initiative,
to an agonising reappraisal of tactics.
They may now have to abandon cojn-
pletely their attacks in battalion or regi-
mental strength and resort once more
to the hit-and-run terrorism they are so
adept at.
For the American threat to the Viet-
cong lies not solely in sheer numbers
but in an amazing ability, unprecedented
in any other war, to bring air or ground
fire power to bear wherever necessary, to
switch large numbers of men from one
sector to another with staggering speed.
Mobility is the key to the American
strategy. The Vietcong, who have
hitherto relaxed in the hidden security
of extensive camps and underground
headquarters, are no longer safe, (ofns.)
VATICAN
Curia v. Synod?
said a radical French priest
in Rome, “are firing off every
cartridge they have got.” “They” are
the extremely active conservative
minority of Italian, Spanish and Latin-
American prelates who call themselves
the “glorious minority”. In the first week
of the Ecumenical Council they have
already mounted a full-scale attack on
the decree on religious liberty. And it is
almost certain that they have watered
down the declaration absolving the
Jews of the guilt of the Crucifixion,
securing the omission of the word
“decide”.
Ecumenical councils have tradition-
ally given birth to schisms, and schisms
are one of the Pope’s nightmares. The
threat to provoke a schism is one of
the main cards up the sleeves of the
diehards. Their leader is still the aged
Roman Cardinal Ottaviani, one of 14
children of a baker who, as an argument
against birth control, cites the size of
his father’s family and his father’s trust
in divine providence. Precisely because
of the danger of schism it is understood
that Cardinal Ottaviani is regaining his
influence with the Pope.
The Pope’s blueprint on the Synod of
Bishops, presented with dash on the
opening day, seems to have satisfied
initially the majority of the Council
fathers. There remain many gaps in the
blueprint. Where exactly will the Synod
fit into present Church structure? What
will be its relation with the Curia and
the College of Cardinals? How often will
it meet? What will it discuss?
The Curia will have a strong hand
in the Synod still of the Episcopal dele-
gates are elected session by session and


r\
*4xl
|,i 5 * ?r
* >« • * * J J, '"
■ „ ...... y.-4 .. ..? .
'<.rnL*m iir
*
m
mm
S
f
V
/
55KSoSo«»x«w<ic^^
V
>v'
:x.
/:
x
•>-...
young Bobby
has his own business ...
. . . chances are he’ll be using Phil-
gas from Phillips 66, world’s
largest producers and marketers of
L.P. Gas. Clean-burning Philgas is
ideal for flame cutting, drying tun-
nels and ovens, aerosol propellants,
saltbath heating. In fact, wherever
and whenever heat is required in
industry or the home Philgas is the
efficient, low-cost answer. Philgas
also offers tremendous savings as
fuel for fork lift trucks, other indus-
trial trucks and stationary engines.
Philgas brings to Australia a wealth
of experience and know-how in L.P.
Gas that will benefit homemakers,
commerce and every industry today
and all the young “Bobbys”,
businessmen of the future.
©PHILGAS
From the world’s largest LP. Gas Company


*
m
%
p'.-
Wl
th Jy
m
i
i
A new angle
—on industrial buildings. The angle we are referring to is the
LOWLINE roof of the Armco Rigid Frame Building, so reveal-
ingly portrayed above by our photographer who got a little out
of control when he saw the beautiful job we'd made of it.
It's modern. It's low. You like it? It means that you can plan
a building around the versatile Armco Rigid Frame System and
have it look mighty attractive.
Drop us a line if you’ve got something in the wind. We’d like
to help you right from the start.
ARMCO
V
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Victoria: 32 Levanswell Road, Moorabbin, 5.20. 95-0241.
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane. 4-3214.
Adelaide SSI-4282'5 S l-4282' M ‘ L ' C * Bui,ding ' Victoria S^uare .
ARI39A.S3
the members of the Curia in it are
elected permanently: and especially if
its permanent secretary is a “Curia man”.
The proof of the pudding will be in
the eating. But in the crucial post-
Council period, when Church renewal
will have to be effected, it should, at
least, mean that the views of the Bishops
of the world will reach the Pope directly
without being filtered through the con-
servative Roman Curia, (ofns.)
FRANCE
De Gaulle's Poles
President de Gaulle’s project for new
and closer relations with the Com-
munist regimes of Eastern Europe was
greatly strengthened and almost rounded
off with the visit to Paris last week of
a high-level Polish delegation led by
Premier Jozef Cyrankiewicz. The new
Europe visualised by President de
Gaulle “stretching from the Atlantic to
the Urals” made a tremendous impact on
East European Communist leaders striv-
ing for independence from Moscow.
None of them, however, dared accept
the French invitation to direct talks
with the President until the Rumanians
went to Paris in defiance of the Kremlin
in July, 1964. De Gaulle said to the
Rumanians: “If you want independence;
if you want to rejoin the mainstream of
your history, culture and tradition, reach
out to France.” With these words in
mind the Czechs, Bulgars and Hun-
garians also sent missions to Paris. But
the Poles were suspicious, and waited.
Now the prominent Warsaw weekly,
“Dzienik Ludowy”, says: “Premier
Cyrankiewicz’s visit to France results
from seven years of endeavor on both
sides to develop traditional French-
Polish links in new historical conditions.
Though the differences between the two
countries are fully appreciated, these are
counter-balancd by fundamental political
aims linking them, including views on
European security and the German
problem.”
One reason for Warsaw’s long delay
in taking up the President’s invitation is
the existence of the Paris-Bonn axis
and Polish anxiety about the French
attitude to the Oder-Neisse line, the post-
war boundary between Poland and East
Germany, (ofns.)
INTERNATIONAL COURT
South-West Africa
Qhortly after the opening of the
present stage of the South-West
Africa case at The Hague, one of the
leading South African participants in the
proceedings is said to have remarked
that his Government regarded the case
as a matter of life and death, and would
fight accordingly. It is in stark contrast
to the confident manner adopted by the
South African Government on the ques-
tion of South-West Africa until now, and
especially at the start of the case more
than five years ago. It also carries a hint
of possible defiance, should the result of
the International Court proceedings be
unfavorable to South Africa.
In 1960 it went into the case satisfied
that it would not even be necessary to
defend apartheid against the charges
made by the Governments of Ethiopia
and Liberia. It seemed doubtful whether
the International Court had the requisite
jurisdiction to consider the case at all,
and the South African team of counsel
argued for all they were worth that it
did not.
It took nearly two years for the Court
to decide this issue alone, but in the end
it did hold that the issues were justiciable.
The judgment was a complicated one,
and the court was sharply divided on
the matter. It only held for the appli-
cants by a majority of eight judges to
seven, and the dissentient judges in-
cluded the highly respected and authori-
tative views of Sir Gerald Fitzmaurice of
Great Britain and Sir Percy Spender of
Australia (now the President of the
Court).
But the decision had gone against
South Africa, and this was the signal for
a distinct change of approach to the case.
From then on the South African Gov-
ernment was not prepared to rely solely
on the forensic skill of its legal rep-
resentatives. An immense team of
researchers was assembled and the full
resources of the State were put at their
disposal. It is estimated that, so far, a
sum in excess of £4,000,000 has been
spent and there is no doubt a great
deal more available should it prove
necessary.
The case that South Africa has to meet
is this: that it has failed to carry out
the obligations placed upon it by the
League of Nations in 1920, by applying
apartheid to the territory.


Tec-Felt can ease costs and
increase plant product efficiency
The questions are simply where and
how much will Tec-Felt save you?
Tec-Felt has thousands of applications
and yet the industrial felt specialists at
Felt and Textiles are constantly finding
new uses for felt and new felt for uses.
They will develop a felt for your needs.
For instance, of the almost 1,000 types,
grades and colours of Tec-Felt only
about 200 are standard.
Tec-Felt can be manufactured to con-
form to a specific thickness, a specific
resilience, a specific shape, absorption
and density. It can be brought to almost
any consistency of softness or hardness.
It can be proofed against moths, flame,
water, fungi and corrosion. Write for
that free book today.
A
m
H
This heavy roll grinder, in the John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. mill at Port Kembla, is
cushioned on a hidden layer of Laminated Vibrasorb Anti-vibration Tec-Felt. The
grinder is completely isolated from the rest of the building.
Polishers from tiny polishing discs
for precious stones to large buffing
wheels are available in Tec-Feit.
Vibrations in this metal stamping press
at Gadsden-Hughes Ltd., Five Dock,
N S W., are isolated by Vibrasorb Blue
Line Tec-Felt. The pads bond to machine
and floor anchor bolts are eliminated.
FREE BOOK
Write on your
Company stationery:
Industrial Pelt
Sales, 791 Botany
Road, Waterloo,
N.S.W.
Phone MU 2451
<»
nßc *«.r
Tec-Felt
The Industrial Felt Sales Division of Felt and Textiles is the
developer and producer of Industrial Felts in Australia
FF6 9I


PLATFORM
L AST , week lan Macphee discussed the
political and international policies of
the newly formed New Guinea United
National Party. Of its social and economic
policies he writes:
The aims listed in the platform under
the headings "Education", "Health" and
"Social" are substantially the same as
the policy of the Administration. Those
listed under "Economics" are of more
interest, however.
The most important of these proposals
are as follows:
1. That (i) New Guinea employees in
private enterprise be rapidly and pro-
gressively trained in all the technical,
managerial and professional skills of the
enterprise concerned, with the definite
objective of giving New Guineans an ever
increasing share of managerial functions
at all, and especially, top levels; (ii) a
standing, independent Commission be
established to survey and investigate the
economic consequences of this policy; and
(iii) this Commission act as an independent
tribunal in assessing claims and awarding
compensation arising from loss of profits
and/or efficiency suffered by private enter-
prise as a direct consequence of imple-
menting this policy.
2. "To encourage a system of profit
sharing in private enterprise which will
enable New Guineans to acquire capital,
establish their own industries and take
shares in industries and enterprises now
controlled by expatriate interests."
3. "The extension of Government
finance and other forms of assistance
necessary to establish co-operative
societies, and extend those already in
existence, administered and Owned by
New Guineans."
4. To set up a national Planning
Authority.
Several other matters of policy listed
tinder this head deserve comment. A
clause in the platform calls for "the ex-
tension of the Local Government Council
system as rapidly as possible to include
all citizens of New Guinea". Administra-
tion policy in this regard has now brought
under the control of such Councils all
persons with the slightest degree of
sophistication and those who are as yet
unaffected are so primitive that they will
remain so for many, many years.
The platform also calls for "the im-
mediate establishment of a Conciliation
and Arbitration system to determine and
bring into being adequate wages, stand-
ards and working conditions". This is a
matter of the gravest importance but it
cannot be done "immediately".
The promotion and development of a
strong trade-union movement is also pro-
posed and in this regard Australian ex-
perience will be valuable. The ACTU has
begun to render assistance but much more
aid from the moderate and wealthier
unions is needed. Clause 10 under
the Territory's most
urgent and far-reaching problem in a
disappointing manner. It reads: "The im-
mediate establishment of a Lands Com-
mission whose first duty shall be to survey
existing indigenous customary land-tenure
Q ud expatriate land-holdings and leases."
H properly developed this aspect of the
platform, as published, is the one most
likely to fire the hearts of the people.
Party Without a Cause
No Kenyatta for New Guinea Part II
From IAN MACPHEE in Port Moresby
At the public meeting called to an-
nounce the policies of th£ New
Guinea United National Party, Mr
Oala-Rarua stated that eighteen members
of the House of Assembly had been
involved in the preliminary discussions
which contemplated the existence of the
UNP but that five have since dissociated
themselves from the party. He believed
that many others felt that they could not
form a Parliamentary party during the life
of this House as this would be a breach of
faith with their electors whom they had
faced as unendorsed candidates. He add-
ed, however, that if any other party were
formed in the House then the members
supporting the UNP might be forced to
reconsider their' position.
Amongst the members of the House
who had dissociated themselves from the
UNP was Mr John Guise, leader of the
elected members. Mr Oala-Rarua stres-
sed that Mr Guise has not “resigned”
from the party for no party had existed
at the time Mr Guise made his announce-
ment. So far as I can establish, Mr Guise
took an interest more out of natural
curiosity than anything. He was not
originally invited to take part in the
initial discussions but, as Mr Oala-Rarua
observed to me, ’’When news of the party
leaked out, Guise asked to be allowed
to join in the discussions”.
No doubt, having allowed Mr Guise
to take part in the discussions, Mr Oala-
Rarua felt that the presence of the leader
of the elected members would add pres-
tige and an appearance of permanency
to the party. Certainly, when the news
first broke on the morning of Friday,
August 27, it was freely mooted that Mr
Guise would be the parliamentary leader
of the UNP. Along with this rumor came
the strong and understandable beliefs that
the UNP had been well and secretly
organised over a period of months and
that its announcement during the im-
portant Budget sittings of the House was
a minor coup d’etat. Later events have
indicated that one of the reasons it may
have been secret for so long was that
very little organisation had been done at
all. \
Mr Guise’s hasty withdrawal from as-
sociation with the new party brought
bitter criticism from its sympathisers who
said that he should have been “right in
or right out, not fence-sitting”. I think,
however, that it was more a case of
curiosity killing the cat and that Mr
Guise had not really defined his own
attitude to the UNP when the news of
its proposed formation was announced.
Be this as it may, Mr Guise’s position
has been the cause of much comment
and his own failure to be as positive as
Mr Oala-Rarua (even if his action comes
to nothing) has led to much speculation
about his political future. His support,
shortly afterwards, for a Bill imposing
a duty on the import of outboard motors
was not really the type of act which wins
respect from fellow elected members or
earns a reputation as a fighter for the
people’s interests, especially when Mr
Guise, who represents Milne Bay, had
previously stressed the need for outboard
motors for coastal people.
Apart from the members of the House
actually involved in the early discussions,
few of the other members had any know-
ledge of the existence of the UNP until
the public announcement was made. At
first, there was surprise and speculation
feelings shared by all persons inter-
ested in the political development of this
country but by the time the sittings
had ended, a week later, few regarded


Business trip to the U.5.A....
London...or beyond?
Don’t buy your ticket until you
study these seven facts
about Pan Am.
INo matter where your business calls you, Pan Am
has just the ticket —going and coming home. Pan Am
flies to 127 cities in 86 lands on 6 continents. No
other airline flies more jets to more places.
2 Pan Am’s world-wide reservations system takes the
trouble out of planning your extended business trips.
One telephone call from your secretary and your
tickets, itinerary, hotel reservations and baggage
details are all arranged.
3 No matter where you are in the world, Pan Am can
help you make your trip a success. With tips on
local business, climates, foreign exchange, sources
of business information, just to name a few things. In
many places Pan Am can even arrange
introductions to local businessmen.
A Pan Am’s wide choice of flights ’round the world
saves you hours of travel time. Straight-through
flights to the U.S.A., nonstop and straight-through
flights from the U.S.A. to 27 cities in Europe. Daily
’round the world flights from Europe. This means
extra time for work. Extra time to relax. Less time
away from home. Less time getting home.
5 Pan Am’s efficient in-flight and airport personnel
stay on top of those “little” details —that often turn
a business trip into a nightmare. (And just in case
things do get snarled, there are 900 Pan Am offices
throughout the world to help you with the unravelling.)
6 On a Pan Am flight your business trip is a pleasure.
Friendly, courteous cabin attendants see to your
every need. And the cuisine! C’est merveilleux!
(It’s by Maxim’s of Paris.)
7 When you fly Pan Am you’re flying with the very
best—the World’s Most Experienced Airline. That
means you're confident. Assured. Ask any Pan Am
traveller. He’ll tell you. It’s a good feeling. Call
your Pan Am Travel Agent or call Pan Am.
World’s most
experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA
FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST ROUND THE WORLO
mm
9mm i iYi
£
.
m
SYDNEY: 82 ELIZABETH STREET. 28-2621 • MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET. 63-9077


ASAHI
PENTAX
SPOTMATIC
TA
Entirely New Concept
in Photographic Design
and Capability
The new Asahi Pentax Spotmatic has
a highly sensitive, completely integral
and invisible meter which reads your
exposure through the taking lens, from
your subject’s image in focus on the
viewing screen (in focus on the film
plane) ~. the most ideal method of
exposure determination! Use any one
of the 23 Takumar lenses (from 18mm
to 1000 mm), plus .accessories ... the
meter reads exactly what your lens
sees ... the lens sees what your film
records ... without parallax! No more
exposure adjustments ... it automati-
cally compensates for exposure factors
for correct exposures every time.
Price, with case, £lO5/0/0.
Other Asahi Pentax models available:
Asahi Pentax SV with fully-automatic f/1.8
Super-Takumar lens; speeds to 1/1000-sec.;
self-timer. With case, £75/0/0.
Asahi Pentax Sla —with fully-automatic f/2 Super
Takumar lens; speeds to 1/500-sec. With
case, £62/10/0.
At your photo dealer now!
the UNP as any more than the courage-
ous, if premature, attempt of a sincere
man to form a political party. They know
it is a stated aim of the UNP to endorse
candidates at the 1968 elections but there
seems plenty of time for members to
observe the party’s progress and, mean-
while, not take any action themselves.
Speaking in support of Mr Oala-Rarua
at the public meeting, Mr Barry Hollo-
way, member for Kainantu, said that a
party was needed in the House to bring
unity; at present, members are willing
to voice only the views of their own
electorate and have no national policy.
He said that members were unaware of
vital national issues.
One may agree that each member
speaks, at present, for his own electorate
and that few (amongst the native mem-
bers anyway) think on a national level.
But this is symptomatic of the country’s
present stage of development rather than
a result of failings on the part of mem-
bers. The matters of national policy which
affect members are those concerning
roads, airstrips, schools, hospitals and
industry. These affect the nation but
more directly affect the electorate. A
natural and prime consideration, for con-
stituent and member alike, is whether
funds have been allocated for a road or
school in a part of that electorate. Mat-
ters such as defence and general overall
economic development are, at present,
left to Australia. In this fashion the
members are making a real contribution
to the development of the areas they
represent.
It is difficult to see the emergence,
for some years, of a burning national
issue which will unite the elected mem-
bers into one or more parties. Few seem
to have thoughts to advance on the com-
plex land problems, or on the question
of constitutional ties with Australia,
both of which are capable of becoming
national issues, and few have clearly de-
fined views on the type of constitution
needed to govern the country. Mean-
while, pending the emergence of national
and controversial issues, there is much
merit in a non-party House.
The handing over to the House of the
purse-strings of internal revenue may
provide the impetus needed to form par-
ties then. This being so, the UNP may
have a future in the next House, pro-
vided it can become organised in the
interim and make out a case to justify
the taking of some of the credit for the
more or less inevitable changes mentioned
above. Becoming organised will be no
mean task and there seems little doubt
that this must be done from outside the
House and that efforts will have to be
made to win the support of the Local
Government councils as a means of
reaching the villages.
In a country where the villagers are
basically content with Government policy
and desire only to be left as undisturbed
as possible, this problem may prove in-
superable for years. The loyalty of the
Local Government councils is towards
the Administration and there appears in-
sufficient dissatisfaction with Govern-
ment policy to alter the allegiance at the
present time.
Thus, one can only conclude that the
party’s stated objective of reaching the
villages has little hope of succeeding at
present and that the UNP may be forced
to merely “exist” for a few years in the
hope that eventually the time may be
ripe for the reception of its ideas in the
villages. And even this form of survival
will depend upon financial backing.
Mr Oala-Rarua’s problems are those
which could confront any party formed
in the next few years and he can take
heart, too, from the further fact that
he would not be the first politician to
lose one party and have to start again.
It is to be hoped, however, that, in his
battle for the survival of his party, he
does not seek the support of extremist
organisations. It would be far better
for his immediate plans to fail than for
him to be forever tainted as one who
was either easily influenced by, or sold
his soul to, extremists.
Success and failure
formation of the UNP has been
a significant and valuable step in the
political progress of this country. It is
the third endeavor to form a political
party in Papua-New Guinea and even
though its main aim is unlikely to suc-
ceed at least immediately it has
provided, at a time when the House
of Assembly is beginning to make its
presence felt, an opportunity for an
analysis of the problems involved in
introducing party politics into Papua-
New Guinea.
Should Oala Oala-Rarua find a
solution to enough of his party’s
difficulties to enable it to con-
tinue limited operations for a few
years, it may be able to influence Ad-
ministration policy just enough to win
the confidence of the people as they
grow to political maturity. This would
be no mean feat and it would increase
his already enhanced stature in the eyes
of both races. Multi-racial societies are
unpredictable, however, and no Papuan
will find it easy to lead a party which,
if it is to be of any consequence, will
have to rely on a large New Guinea fol-
lowing. Gaudi Mirau, the Papuan who
represents a New Guinea electorate, and
who is one of the most colorful char-
acters and gifted orators in the House
(speaking in pidgin), may be the excep-
tion.
It may be doubted, therefore, that Mr
Oala-Rarua, who does not have the same
gifts, will ever lead his country (as Aus-
tralian newspapers are prone to prophesy
he will). But, provided he is not embit-
tered by the probable failure of his mod-
erate, well-balanced attitudes, he may
well reach Cabinet rank one day. His
present initiative and courage render
this more probable than previously. It is
of great interest, too, that his principal
Papuan rival in recent years, Mr Guise,
may, by his conduct in relation to the
party, have finally destroyed what slim
chance he had of ever becoming Prime
Minister.


*
tnrrMn r~\
□
u_i l_sj uJVLii
A magnetic stripe stores figures and words (all that
you’ll really need) on the back of the ledger card.
The 6400 itself has a memory store. These two
stores combine to give you automatic processing of
accounting tasks and timely management reports.
The gleaming IBM type-core brilliantly eliminates
the moving carriage and provides superior continuous
forms-handling.
MM 6400
:
. u>
:
MAGNETIC LEDGER CARD ACCOUNTING MACHINE
Three hours ago, she was one of your office typists.
Now, after a morning’s tuition, she’s operating that
phenomenal new accounting machine—the IBM 6400!
With unprecedented speed and simplicity, the IBM
6400 enables her to deal with complex and routine
accounting tasks in a startling new way. Example:
in just one machine operation, the 6400 prepares
invoices, posts to the debtor’s ledger, and updates
stock records.
What makes the IBM 6400 so much more effective?
Its memory store, its alpha-numeric ledger card
stripe, its amazing type-core. There are less manual
operations—less risk of operator error.
And how much will decimal conversion cost you?
Nothing. In fact, you’ll actually save money!
ANY
TYPIST
CAN
OPERATE IT!
ltM29.Wr


The Crash-Programme Army
The National Serviceman and his Duntroon
By SAM LIPSKI
WfTH their 160 mm recoilless rifle
slung under the belly of the Iro-
quois helicopter, an anti-tank de-
tachment from the sth Battalion, Royal
Australian Regiment (SRAR), last week
joined two mortar crews from the same
battalion in an airlift not into the
paddy fields near Bien Hoa but into
the rugged gorge country near Gospers,
'75 miles north-west of Sydney. The
“enemy” were members of the Sydney
University Regiment and the troops
were members of the Regular Army.
At any time after February next year
the enemy could be the Vietcong and the
regular troops could be fighting along-
side National Servicemen from the first
intake of selective conscription which
marched into training in July. For of
the 1979 recruits who
completed their ten
Weeks’ basic training
•earlier this month,
|770, by far the largest
single group, will join
the Infantry Corps for
the second phase of
the two-year scheme-
icorps training. The
new infantrymen have
joined 2R A R and
6RAR at Enoggera,
Brisbane, and SRAR
at Holsworthy, Syd-
ney.
Whether the present unit in Vietnam,
IRAR, is replaced or whether additional
units are sent to reinforce it, the troops
will almost certainly come from these
three front-line battalions as 3RAR and
4RAR, two other battle-ready units,
have this month changed over in Mal-
aysia. Whichever units go to Vietnam,
the National Servicemen will be going
with them. After the end of their com-
wg three months of corps training they
will be regarded as the first lot of
‘trained soldiers” to emerge from the
scheme.
In last week’s exercise 150 men of
SRAR took part in a five-day company
air movement. After flying in to Gos-
pers by RAAF Caribou from Hols-
Worthy they boarded Iroquois helicopters
lor search operations against what the
Army PR release described as “an in-
surgent-type enemy” in a South-East
Asian setting. Throughout the exercise
|ue troops moved regularly by RAAF
Iroquois while an Army Sioux helicopter
moved “casualties”, re-supplied stores
and provided reconnaissance. The men
from SRAR practised “search and kill”
techniques, setting ambushes and de-
fending themselves against them.
The exercise demonstrated one of the
newest features of Army training—
the growing use of air transport, both
large carriers like the Caribou and the
smaller helicopter. While still far in either
size, scope or concept from the stun-
ningly large airborne units of the US
forces which last week landed 20,000
troops in Vietnam, complete with armor,
trucks, weapons, artillery, and supplies
in one huge airlift, the Australian Army
is increasing its emphasis on air mobility
for its infantry.
The exercise also demonstrated
another relatively recent feature of Aus-
tralian Army training the attempt to
simulate realistic conditions of battle.
Such “realism” in training depends on a
number of factors; on a clear under-
standing of where the possible theatres
of conflict might be, what sorts of coun-
try they provide, the nature of the enemy,
and the nature of the conflict —whether
it is limited conventional warfare or
counter-insurgency or, as in Vietnam, a
complex mixture of both.
It is only in the last five years or so
that the Army has been able to concen-
trate on South-East Asia alone as the
likely theatre of conflict. Until then there
was still the possibility that Australian
troops would have to serve in the Middle
East or elsewhere. The changes in em-
phasis which have followed at all levels of
training, from tactics to the organisation
of battle groups, have made themselves
felt, particularly in the last two years, as
seen from the nature of the exercises held.
Viewed coldly from the point of view
of his efficiency as a soldier the National
Serviceman is probably better off now
than if the scheme had been introduced
three years ago. Even now the Armf
faces difficulties in carrying out full-
scale exercises. It is patently hard to
stage exercises involving regimental
strength if there are not enough troops
to form a regiment.
From the Army’s point of view, there-
fore, the addition of the recruits means
that the exercises can be made more
real. Senior officers believe that by the
beginning of 1967 when the Army will
have some 10,000 National Servicemen
who will have done their corps train-
ing, there will be a dramatic influence
on the effectiveness of training pro-
grammes, not to mention the capacity
of the Army to meet more of its com-
mitments more readily. As they survey
the recruits of the first
intake’s training pro-
gramme and prepare
for the second, Army
officers see other
benefits accruing.
One colonel at East-
ern Command, echo-
ing the feelings of
others, said simply:
“National Service is
the best thing that’s
happened to the
Army.” Whatever
manpower problems
the call-up may or
may not solve it has been an undoubted
morale-booster at every level.
Army officers say they can notice it
in the bearing of regulars, some of whom
had begun to look upon the Army a? a
pleasant place to retire. The call-up,
coming together with the Vietnam com-
mitment, has brought a sudden burst of
urgency. While this can be seen openly
at training camps like Puckapunyal,
Kapooka and Scheyville, it is also spread-
ing to other establishments, especially
the administrative barracks in Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra, where the scheme
was planned and organised. The leisurely
lunches, the extra hour at golf, and the
nine-to-five slackness are fast becoming
memories.
The Army has surprised itself, as much
as anybody, with the efficiency which
marked the first call-up and training
period. But the scheme highlighted how
critically under-staffed the Army has
been, and still is, when it comes to deal-
ing with something as big as National
Service. One of the long-term benefits


the Army is hoping for is that a pro-
gressively larger number of those called
up will volunteer to join the Regular
Army and thus boost the normal recruit-
ing rate which has remained steady since
the introduction of the compulsory
scheme. Without such a boost the con-
scription rate will have to be increased
if the sick, but pointed, jokes about Aus-
tralia’s “pitifully small” forces are to
lose their point.
The Army sees some hopeful indica-
tions in the number of National Ser-
vicemen who have already shown an in-
terest in joining the regular forces and
the ease with which they filled the quotas
for the “fighting” corps like Infantry,
Artillery and Armored. Infantry was
the first choice for something like half
of the first intake, a higher percentage
than the normal among regular troops.
The Army interprets" the enthusiasm
as due to a desire to go overseas. But
considering that overseas could mean
a hole in the ground somewhere in Viet-
nam or the Borneo jungle, the explana-
tion is not altogether satisfactory. It
will be worth watching the coming in-
takes closely to see if this trend is main-
tained and then handing over to the
sociologists to explain why young men
of 20, however aware they are of the
country’s defence needs (and many are
informed and sober about them), are so
ready to choose Infantry. After all, the
most consistently found attitude among
recruits has been, “I’m in the Army for
two years. I might as well make the
most of it.” With such an attitude it
could be expected that corps like En-
gineers, Signals, Surveyors, Service Corps
and others which offer training more
directly useful on return to civilian life
would get a much higher percentage of
volunteers.
The attitude of “making the best of
it” seems to have been the motivating
factor in the case of most of the 400
trainees who were considered initially
eligible for selection as officer cadets.
Only eight potential candidates refused
to train as officers. Of the 100 who
were finally chosen to go to the Officer
Training Unit at Scheyville, 35 miles
west of Sydney, only one has since de-
cided that he did not want to become
an officer.
The training at Scheyville, where the
Army hopes to produce officers at the
rate of 400 a year, is the most extreme
example of the “crash-programme” ap-
proach affecting much of the Army’s
current activities. Where Duntroon takes
four years and the Officer Cadet School
at Portsea one year to produce a Lieu-
tenant, Scheyville will take 22 weeks.
As at Portsea the Scheyville trainee will
graduate as a second lieutenant (Dun-
troon trainees graduate as first lieu-
tenants) and will be attached to regular
units throughout the Army. Thus, de-
spite the reservations some Regular
Army officers have, some of the Schey-
ville graduates may find themselves in
command of combat platoons less than
a year after they started their basic
training. Certainly they will be training
other National Servicemen and com-
manding regular platoons at camps
throughout Australia within that time.
The instructors at Scheyville aim to
produce an officer who will be able to
command an infantry platoon or its
equivalent in other corps after special
corps training. Based on the programme
at Portsea but shorn of many extras,
the course consists of 1430 periods jam-
med into 22 weeks. The day is a long
one for the Scheyville cadet with twelve
periods of training to 9.30 p.m. five days
a week, and five periods every Saturday
morning to 12.30. The scheme combines
both the basic training given to other
National Servicemen plus training in the
special skills advanced field training,
military arts, and leadership.
Officers at Scheyville claim that in the
basic military skills the OTU scheme will
result in an officer as readily equipped
as those from Duntroon or Portsea. He
will probably not be as mature as some of
his older counterparts, they say, and
he will lack some of the understanding
of most of the academic subjects taught
at Portsea and Duntroon. But whatever
the theoretical differences, in the practi-
cal job of leading regular soldiers as
distinct from fellow-cadets, he will start
off roughly equal.
The emergent leaders
Intense though it is, the pace at Schey-
A ville is offset by some tangible com-
pensations. Because of the premium on
time the cadets do not do normal camp
duties. They receive nearly £4 a week
more than the National Serviceman’s
basic £l5-£l7 and will get more than
£26 when they are commissioned as sec-
ond lieutenants the normal pay rate
for that rank. Despite the cramming the
training is rarely routine. A small camp,
the atmosphere at Scheyville is casual
and relaxed compared with the greater
formality and ceremony of Duntroon
and even Portsea.
There are novel departures in training
techniques and assessment, some of
which the Army is using for the first
time. There is an emphasis, in every-
thing the cadets do, on the likelihood
of service in South-East Asia. Military
history is concerned with one subject
the Indo-China war, and Bernard
Fall’s book, “Street Without Joy”, is
the Clausewitz.
The cadets, chosen in July, were
selected by procedures basically the same
as those used for applicants to Duntroon
and Portsea. Intermediate certificate is
the minimum requirement and 69 of the
cadets have 4heir Leaving.
By the time the Officer Selection
Boards arrived at Puckapunyal and Ka-
pooka during the second week of train-
ing, the 400 eligible candidates had been
through written psychological tests, an!
interview and a medical board examina-
tion. The aim of all these procedures
was a negative one to reject those,
candidates who were intellectually,
educationally, physically or psycho-
logically unfit. The 400 candidates found
suitable on these grounds now came be-
fore senior Army officers whose job it
was to assess “military compatibility and
leadership potential”.
Despite the advances in psychological
testing and the growing fund of informa-
tion about leadership assessment, there
is still considerable controversy among
psychologists about the best way to sel-
ect men who will make good officers. It
is not only that senior officers disagree
among themselves about what makes a
good officer; many psychologists do
also. There are differences about what
the right criteria should be. For instance,
it is reasonable to assume that a front-
line infantry officer may be a different
sort of leader from an officer in the
engineers. Yet the Australian Army takes
the view that, despite the difficulties,
“the pooled judgment of senior serving
officers still remains the most acceptable
means of predicting officer suitability”.
As well as their subjective judgments,
the senior officers have a series of group
tests to help them decide.
The officer selection board, which in
the case of Scheyville candidates con-
sisted of a colonel assisted by two other
officers as well as psychologists, ob-
served recruits for a whole day as they
gave lectures, participated in group dis-
cussions and were confronted with tasks
like building a bridge across an imagin-
ary stream with some planks and a piece
of string. Here the board looked for the
emergent leader, for how he establishes
relations between members of the group,
for qualities of initiative and persistence.
The Camp Commandant at Scheyville,
Colonel I. A. Geddes, is as pleased with
the results of the selection as he is with
the progress recruits are making. The big-
gest doubts he and other officers have
had were whether the pace was too in-
tense and whether too much was being
crammed in with little prospect of re-
tention by the cadets. But while some
doubts still remain as to how long
they can keep up the present pace, he
is satisfied from written comments cadetsl
have made that they are accepting thej
course and the officers at Scheyville.
Critically short of junior officers, the!
Army hopes it can persuade the Scbey-


National Servicemen
arrive at Marrickville,
NSW.
Officer recruits check camouflage
at Scheyville, NSW.
RSM L. Moon drills
officer recruits, Schey
ville, NSW.
This group of three pictures shows Aus-
tralian infantrymen on patrol in Vietnam.




m
-
a
\
High-fashion, full wheel-covers
ml * r
■ r^
\\
SU/iE lJ FHJ&StUtT
Super Pursuit” engine
v:
tssarJ
K R
tps # h • *s.*
***"’ ...
V.
■
.uxury interiors feature individual, contour-cushioned front seats that recline to any position you desire, and ‘‘Doe Skin” vinyl upholsteries
Power disc brakes
m
z
Ui
* usU
' ±3
■
NV «
I
. n»
-jfcl
■ t-
H 1 /
ni
r”
'
a
... . -
Folding centre armrest in rear
The whole car floor is flood-lit by opening any door
Clean, discreet styling set off IVe chrome mouldings and "Fairmont” script
Meet the
Fairmont:
A new inspiration
in luxury and value
Enter the silent and luxurious world of
the new Fairmont by Ford, and discover
deep-down comfort that knows no limits.
You relax in individual, contour-cush-
ioned front seats that recline to any position
you desire. Extravagant use of sound-
deadening materials provides a remarkably
quiet ride quiet beyond anything you
imagined possible in a motor car. Under-
foot is thick, cut-pile, wall-to-wall carpet-
ing the most expensive we could find.
Rich “Doe Skin” expanding-type vinyl
upholsteries are the world’s softest and
most supple. The Fairmont’s headlining
is acoustically-perforated and colour-
matched to upholsteries and door trims.
A walnut wood-grained finish sweeps
across the instrument panel.
There’s also a 2-speed heater/demister;
a fully-padded safety dashboard and safety
sun-visors; and the whole car floor is
flooded with light by opening any door.
(Handy for locating dropped articles.)
Outside clean, discreet styling is set
off by high-fashion wheel covers, and
accentuated by carefully selected chrome
mouldings and distinctive FAIRMONT
script.
Gown by Hartnell of Melbourne
Fur by Ajax Furs
Performance is very special, too. The
ultra-high-performing “Super Pursuit 200”
engine is teamed with Fordomatic 3-speed
automatic transmission. Power disc brakes
at the front and balanced power-assisted
rear brakes are also standard equipment.
To complete your driving pleasure there
are wide-beam “back-up” lights for easy
reversing at night; windscreen washers for
better visibility; and low-profile tyres for
unequalled traction and handling-ease.
Like to take a closer look? There’s a
luxurious Fairmont waiting for your inspec-
tion, at your Ford Dealer’s, now!
Available in two models Fairmont Sedan
and Fairmont Station Wagon. The Fairmont
Station Wagon features carpeting which
extends throughout the entire load area ,
and an electric tailgate window which can
be raised or lowered by pressing a switch
from the driver's seat , or by turning a key
in the tailgate.
BY FORD
FORD OF AUSTRALI


'ib
m
■i ;■
c °<f
s3fc>~-
60'i jnS
#1
M
I
mum
ilium >
mmu <
I I * i i i I I
II M M M i 70 1
»1 1 nit Mol
\ i \
v IHA* 11 o
|lltv
Iffl I t t IU
MU
fiimiii
Mb4l I i 9
°// /r
o°a
erry
ffy.
-iCV 5
ft
h»-
KS
iviij
e is If IJ
If
rll
«l>
*e
gpr
For the Best EXPERIENCE in Australia
.ON
B
SYDNEY
Where experience and new concepts of luxury satisfy the world's most dis-
criminating pleasure seekers or business men European elegance and
Australian informality blend together at Chevron.
All rooms and suites fully air-conditioned own bath, toilet, TV, radio and
phone overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
Chevron is in the heart of fascinating Kings Cross minutes from sporting
facilities and business houses.
The world’s finest entertainers perform for you in the Silver Spade room
exquisite dining in your choice of restaurants or just relax in one of Chevron's
intimate bars.
When you stay Chevron it will be your best experience ever!
BOOK THROUGH HOTEL EXPEDITERS, INC.
NEW YORK: 501 Madison Ave., N.Y. 10022. Tel: PLaza 25660:Teletype: 710-581-5015: Cab:
HEDEGRAFF. SAN FRANCISCO: 291 Geary St. Tel. YU 6-2858. Teletype: 910-372-6035 Cab:
EDSULLIVAN. HONG KONG: Union House, 9 Connaught Rd. Tel. 32862. TOKYO:
C.P.O. Box 703, Tokyo, Japan. Tel: 211-5920: Cables: SWIRE. LONDON: 16 Berkeley St.
London, W.l, England. Tel. Hyde Park 5755. AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED: LOCAL RESERVA-
TIONS: MELBOURNE 51.1281 or any TRAVEL AGENT or direct with CHEVRON HOTEL.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun
when you drive a sparkling new AVIS
car. Arrange for an AVIS car to be
waiting for you at the Hotel or Airport
when you book your travel.
CHEVRON HOTEL, MACLEAY ST., POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W. TELEPHONE: 35-0433. CABLES ‘CHEVRON SYDNEY’


ville graduates to stay, but it is not
pressing them to make up their minds.
While a National Service recruit can
elect to join the Regular Army at any
stage during his two-year stay, the of-
ficer cadet will have to have nine months’
experience as a platoon commander be-
fore he can apply for a regular com-
mission and, under present policy, a life-
time career.
The toughness of the course means a
probable failure rate of something like 10
to 15 per cent. Those who pass will have
been the most processed, assessed and
re-assessed officers in Australian military
history. The most important item in the
assessment procedure is again leader-
ship qualities. Similar to those used at
Duntroon and Portsea, but differing in
wording, the qualities number 14. They
include seeing the essential points of
a problem, drive, application, liveliness,
team spirit, remaining cool under stress,
sense of responsibility, physical endur-
ance. These qualities account for one
third of the total allocation of marks.
Every three weeks each officer in-
structor assesses as many cadets as pos-
sible in as many attributes in which he
feels he knows enough about the cadet.
He does this on the basis of a definition
of each quality and a definition of five
gradations of each quality. These rat-
ings are then collected and fed into a
computer.
For the Army Scheyville is more than
an experiment. It has sent some of its
best available instructors and officers to
the project, for on its success depends
much of the success of the National Ser-
vice scheme. Without a continual sup-
ply of junior officers to command
platoons, the Army’s administration and
leadership structure, already over-taxed,
would be hard-pressed to cope at all.
How successful the Scheyville “quick-
ies” will be depends on some unpredict-
able factors. One sergeant-instructor at
the camp said he thought it depended
on how the Duntroon graduates and
Portsea graduates accepted them. “Dun-
troon blokes used to look down their
noses at Portsea blokes. Now the Port-
sea blokes will have someone to kick,”
he said. Another sergeant disagreed. He
thought it was entirely up to the way the
regular soldiers accepted the new of-
ficers. The idea that there is discrimina-
tion among officers between Duntroon
graduates and Portsea graduates or those
commissioned from the ranks is scoffed
at by officers at Victoria Barracks, in
Sydney, and at Scheyville, to whom I
mentioned the suggestion.
But whatever determines his success
0r failure, it is clear that the Scheyville
officer cadet will not lose the feeling
that he is being watched very closely
for some time to come.
FORUM
Melbourne’s Catholics
Two Years After
Without Archbishop Mannix’s anti-clericalism
ARCHBISHOP SIMONDS
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
When Archbishop Justin Simonds
became leader of the Catholic
Archdiocese of Melbourne in
1963 he was already 73 years old and
not in good health. He had been for
21 years, almost a generation, Coadjutor
Archbishop of Melbourne, and during
that time he watched the Church in Mel-
bourne administered by a man with
whose pastoral and political attitudes he
had little sympathy.
In those days his frequent complaint
—it mellowed towards the end into a
resigned observation was: “Nobody
ever tells me anything.” The reference
was to the fact that Archbishop Mannix
never invited him to share in the chief
areas of administration of the arch-
diocese. Apart from one or two pastoral
duties such as the performance of
confirmations, Coadjutor Archbishop
Simonds had no more real authority
under Archbishop Mannix than the
average parish priest.
Archbishop Simonds knew he was
taking a risk when he accepted the
invitation of the Vatican to become
Coadjutor with right of succession in
Melbourne. He knew that Archbishop
Mannix had not asked for an assistant
and did not want one, but the fact that
Archbishop Mannix was only a couple
of years off 80 may have been a factor
in his decision to come to Melbourne.
Previously he had been rector of a
New South Wales seminary and Arch-
bishop of Hobart. He had a reputation
as a good scholar of scholastic philosophy
and sacred scripture, and had taken a
keen interest in the theory of Catholic
Action and the lay apostolate. He had
been a strong supporter of the now for-
gotten notion that Catholic Action was
“the participation of the laity in the
apostolate of the hierarchy”. The chilly
reception he got from Archbishop Man-
nix was only one of his early troubles
in Melbourne; another was that Catholic
Action in his new Archdiocese was run
not by the hierarchy, in the person of
Daniel Mannix, but by the laity in the
person of Mr B. A. Santamaria.
Archbishop Simonds was to become
antipathetic to Santamaria on three
grounds: the first was in the area of
straight politics; the second was con-
cerned with the theory of Catholic
Action; the third arose overhis objection
to any layman having a lot of power in
the Church. A story went the rounds


in clerical circles in the early 'fifties that
the Coadjutor had remarked to a fellow
priest: “The Pope defines Catholic Action
as the participation of the laity in the
apostolate of the hierarchy, but in Mel-
bourne Catholic Action looks very much
like the participation of the hierarchy in
the apostolate of Layman Santamaria.”
His hostility to Santamaria, “the
Movement”, and some of the attitudes of
Archbishop Mannix was rarely manifest
in public. Apart from a Christmas state-
ment about six years ago which was
generally believed to be an attack on
Archbishop Mannix’s support for the
DLP (a statement which, I understand,
upset Archbishop Mannix), and one or
two other more veiled remarks at official
Catholic functions, he reserved his
opinions for a small circle of friends.
This circle included, until recently,
Arthur Calwell and other supporters of
the ALP, but there was never any sug-
gestion that Archbishop Simonds would
publicly support that party. His main
aim was rather to take the Church in
Melbourne out of the party political
arena.
Driving through Kew one afternoon
a few years ago he pointed to the Arch-
bishop’s palace, “Raheen”, and remarked
wryly: “See that large house. I’ve got
an option on it but I can’t get the tenant
out.” However, even Daniel Mannix
was subject to the laws of nature and
in 1963 Ajchbishop Simonds’ right of
succession was exercised.
The evening-up campaign began with
the removal of Santamaria from the
Catholic TV programme “Sunday Maga-
zine”, an instruction issued on the morn-
ing Archbishop Mannix was buried.
He next banned the sale of the organ
of the National Civic Council, “News
Weekly”, at church doors in the Mel-
bourne Archdiocese, a prohibition en-
forced by most but not all parish priests.
The National Civic Council and the
DLP have not been much affected .other-
wise by the new regime. Those priests
and laymen who supported them before
have maintained their loyalty. If there
is to be a drifting away it will be gradual,
as gradual as the fading of the memory
of Archbishop Mannix.
Perhaps of greater significance to the
Catholic Church in Melbourne than
Archbishop Simonds’ political stance
has been his endeavors to get some plan-
ning and order into the chaos that is
called the Catholic education system.
There was little of the deliberate planner
in the spirit of the late Archbishop Man-
nix. He was inclined to let the parishes
and schools solve their own problems in
their own way. In practice this meant
that some parishes were well supplied
with Catholic schools but the majority
were not. Until recently there were
Catholic schools in Melbourne with
pupil-teacher ratios of more than 100
to 1. The teaching levels and general
morale of some of these schools was
consequently sometimes appallingly low.
Pupils learnt little and suffered much,
teachers suffered more.
Archbishop Simonds has instructed
that Catholic schools are to limit the
size of their classes to a maximum of
50 pupils. He has also established an
education committee of clerics and lay-
men which is making an extensive survey
of the problems of Catholic schools.
This body will assist in the overall plan-
ning of Catholic education facilities.
Archbishop Simonds is anxious that the
physical resources of the Church be used
in the most economical way. Under his
administration there is no likelihood of
the construction of such costly mon-
strosities as the Mount Waverley semin-
ary, a huge cream-brick horror which
Robin Boyd described as being of the
“Catholic portentous” style, and which
a senior priest called “half as spacious
as necessary, twice as expensive as neces-
sary, and three times uglier than con-
ceivable”.
The “Catholic Worker”
Tn terms of pastoral efficacy on higher
levels, the brief reign of the new
Archbishop is more difficult to estimate.
Although he has always shown a strong
interest in the lay apostolate, there has
been no obvious quickening of the pulse
of lay movements. Archbishop Mannix
was not noted for keen concern for most
of the lay organisations in his arch-
diocese, but, unlike some of his ecclesias-
tical colleagues in northern States, he
rarely interfered with them. There was,
indeed, a hint of anti-clericalism in the
attitudes of Archbishop Mannix. He did
not welcome directions from Rome and
he had a distaste for clerical control of
things that were not strictly ecclesiastical.
Some of those who have worked with
Archbishop Simonds claim that he does
not share this approach. It has been
suggested that since the Roman authori-
ties stopped talking in the language of
‘ participation of the laity in the aposto-
late of the hierarchy”, Archbishop
Simonds’ interest in the lay apostolate
has waned.
One group which might have expected
an improvement in its circumstances
under the new Archbishop is the body
of Catholic lawyers, academics and
teachers concerned with producing the
monthly “Catholic Wor k e r”. The
“Catholic Worker” shared with Arch-
bishop Simonds a strong hostility to the
Santamaria movement and suffered for
this view in finance and circulation
under Archbishop Mannix. Some of its
members hoped its fortunes would rise
again under an anti-Santamaria admini-
stration. So far this rise is not apparent.
If there has been a weakening of
Archbishop Simonds’ support for the
“Catholic Worker” it is probably due to
the magazine’s printing a number of
relatively radical articles on theology
and morality in the past few years.—
When it was founded, back in the
’thirties, the “Catholic Worker” was
mainly concerned with economic and
political questions. The focus of its
interest has now changed towards theo-
logical, moral, and general social issues.
It was the first Catholic publication in
the country to suggest that not all
Catholics were happy with the Church’s
teaching on birth control. This temerity
raised a storm of protest for a few
months and the charge of heresy was
hurled at the “Catholic Worker” from
some clerical fortresses. Now, and a
few years later, that whole controversy
looks silly; as everybody knows, even the
Pope is worried about the Church’s atti-
tude to birth control!
More recently the “Catholic Worker”
has dealt with other touchy theological
issues and this has kept a certain amount
of clerical and lay opposition to it sim-
mering. There has never been much
evidence that Archbishop Simonds wel-
comes laymen into the arena of theo-
logical debate and there is some evidence
that he does not. His attitude to contra-
ception has been, at least until recently,
conservative: he has been a leading
exponent of the natural law school of
opposition to most forms of birth
control.
The other major centre of Catholic
lay activity, Melbourne University New-
man Society, although generally opposed
to a number of “Catholic Worker”
writers on defence and foreign policy
issues, shares with that magazine a keen
concern for theological and spiritual
realism and a good instinct for detecting
and exposing religious cant. The New-
man Society is anxious that Archbishop
Simonds give support and encourage-
ment to lay apostolate movements in the
archdiocese but is not so anxious to
make too close contact with him in case
its freedom to talk and write fall under
closer supervision.
Although Archbishop Simonds has a
much less permissive attitude to pastoral
care than his predecessor, it is likely
that the diminution of his energies by
age and ill-health will prevent him from
toning down the multi-voiced Catholi-
cism of Melbourne. Now that the
National Civic Council has been removed
from the shadow of the Church, perhaps
the only Catholic body with much to
fear is the Jesuit Order, which became
a powerful influence in the Melbourne
Archdiocese under Archbishop Mannix.
Religious orders in general and Jesuits
in particular are reported to be not right
at the top of Archbishop Simonds’ list of
favorite things.


Letters to the Editor
Clueless In Asia
SIR. I have just read Mr Beazley's article
"Clueless in Asia" (8., Sept. 4). What Mr
Beazley says on Australia's trade policy to-
wards China is an internal matter for your
country to decide. Mr Beazley's suggestions
concerning India, however, will be received
with considerable interest here. Two of the
major factors in the food shortage in India
are lack of fertilizers and excessive loss of
grain through bad storage and rats. On both
counts Mr Beazley's suggestions are con-
structive.
If Australia could assist in speedily putting
up a fertilizer plant of the dimensions
suggested by Mr Beazley, it would go a long
way in helping the food shortage. If for any
reason an outright gift is not possible, the
Australian Government might even consider
sale of a fertilizer plant on a rupee payment
and use those rupees for various other con-
structive activities within India. For example,
the US Government which supplies wheat
without charging us foreign exchange under
a certain programme, collects the money in
India and uses it for purposes of education,
text books, etc. Rats and pests are estimated
to consume 20-25 _ ,er cent of our food qrains.
The suggestion foT grain si’os is also very
sensible. I hope more Australian MPs will
take the chance to visit India in the future.
R M. LALA
Editor, "Himmat"
Bombay (India).
The Wool Scheme
SIR. Your polite correspondent Croesus
has rather kindly labelled me an empiri-
cist (8., August 28), and having now con-
sulted a dictionary I find with some pleasure
that the title is far more complimentary than
others bestowed upon myself by those op-
posed to wool marketing. But as Croesus
is I understand a writer on financial matters,
may I suggest he have a more careful look
at the ratio of differences in prices of wool
clips from Australia, New Zealand, South
Africa and the United Kingdom.
If the "progressive narrowing of the dif-
ference in returns" was due to the fact that
"imperfections in the world wool market
have been progressively reduced since
South Africa and New Zealand introduced
reserve price schemes", how come that the
closest that the gap has ever been was in
1960-61, not 1963-64? How come also that
the United Kingdom managed to sell her
very coarse (by Australian standards) clip
at 4.44 d. more per pound in 1960-61 than we
in Australia were able to sell our clip?
Not being a woolgrower. Croesus may not
recall that in 1960-61 consumption of wool
was running at a level well ahead of pro-
duction and in fact the consumption for the
years 1960, 1961 and 1962 were all records.
In that year our Australian wool market
fell almost continuously from opening of the
season until December and then rallied
slightly until in March it had reached a
level that South Africa did not need to buy
in or bid on any wool. Later, in March,
1961, of course, the Philp Committee started
to take evidence and our market in Aus-
tralia jumped some 12d. on a clean basis
in 10 weeks. The fact that South Africa
actually bid on some 392,000 bales out of
a total clip of just over a million bales, but
only bought in 104,000 of those bales, should
be clear indication that wool was not
making the price that the buyers were
prepared to pay, because South Africa
raised the price on some 273,000 bales of
wool merely because there was a bid made
on those bales at the reserve price.
Whilst it, no doubt, is fit to look forward
rather than backward when there are con-
crete examples of the operation of any pro-
posed practice it would be very, very foolish
to overlook these examples. It is appre-
ciated, however, that a number of people,
with a very jaundiced outlook on any
marketing system for our wool clip, close
their eyes tightly when any concrete evi-
dence of the value of marketing is produced.
These same persons can then truthfully say:
"We could not see any good in the scheme
at all."
L. A. SIMPSON (Director),
Nowranie Pastoral Company Pty Ltd
Oaklands (NSW).
Croesus replies: I agree with Mr Simpson
that the empirical approach has its merits
but I fear he is flogging it to death.
Catholic Moment Of Truth
SIR.—Mr Brian Johns (8., Sept. 11) drew atten-
tion to an important, and certainly legitimate,
question posed by Father Brian Crittenden to
an education seminar held at Melbourne Uni-
versity's Newman College. Father Crittenden
asked whether the Catholic school system
should be dismantled.
This question is not so radical or "hereti-
cal" that it warrants Father Crittenden's
name being omitted from the report of the
seminar by Sydney's "Catholic Weekly" or
that it deserves Father O'Reilly's comment:
"To propagate the idea that Catholic schools
may not be necessary is surely treason."
In fact, the question seems essential to force
realistic assessment of the present value and
purpose of Catholic education, even if the
drastic recourse to dismantling the system
is not finally taken. After all, some Catholic
educationalists have suggested, if a little
sadly, that Catholic education has not pro-
duced anything more distinctive, when com-
pared with State education, than a daily
period of religious instruction.
The State system is becoming ideologically
inbred. It paternalistically nurtures its teachers
from the cradle to the grave. The average
State school teacher probably entered
a State primary school at the age of 6,
where he was taught by departmentally
trained teachers who in turn were supervised
by departmental officials; he then proceeded
to secondary school, equally as dominated
by the department; then to tertiary educa-
tion, once again under the department. In
other words, from the age of G to 65, the
average State school teacher is taught,
bonded, trained, appointed, paid, inspected,
assessed, supervised, promoted and retired
at the ultimate instigation of a small band
of State administration officials. The Martin
Report made mention of this, but few have
heeded it. Surely, the last thing we want in a
pluralist, democratic society is 100 per cent
of Australian children intellectually moulded
by a monolithic, inbred, bureaucratically
dominated education system?
R. W. BROWNING
North Croydon (Vic.).
SIR. The article "Catholic Moment of
Truth", by Brian Johns, will be resented by
most Catholics, and his attempt to use Father
Crittenden as a means of splitting Catholics
on the Education Question is doomed to
failure. The fact that Catholic papers do
not publish Father Crittenden's propaganda
shows that he is out of step with the
Church, and other methods won't get him
very far.
His plea not to be regarded as "a
traitor or disloyal" proves the truth of the
old proverb, "a guilty man needs no ac-
cuser", as he knows he is providing am-
munition for those who would close the
schools that educated him, thus enablinq
him to hold the position he now holds. His
idea of replacing our present schools with
parish schools of religion", which would
provide special instruction and counselling
for parents, is unnecessary as our priests
have always regarded this as one of their
most important duties. Thousands of cate-
chists have been trained to give instruction
in religion, and retreats are available for
those who wish to meditate on our reliqion,
or extend their knowledae of it. The New-
man College Seminar was not an admission
of defeat by ArchbishoD Simonds but a
frank statement of our difficulties, and a call
to action to meet the situation and expand
our schools still further.
MICHAEL K. CASH.
Northcote (Vic.).
The Flavor of Life
SIR. My thanks to Miss Patricia Rolfe and
yourself for the article "The Flavor of Life"
(8., Sept. 4). "The Bulletin's" unsimulated
interest in young Australian writers takes
away that sense of working in an uncared-for
vacuum, which most writers must feel,
especially those who have few associations
with the literary world.
There was, however, one sentence which I
must vehemently disclaim, because of its
inaccuracy as a generalisation, and because
of its capacity to hurt and confuse. That is the
reported statement: "Australia, with Ireland
end, perhaps. South America, must be the
most old-fashioned Catholic country in the
world."
THOMAS KENEALLY
Sydney (NSW).
Art and Derision
SIR.—A fortnight's absence right after my
own enjoyable attendance at the recent
Hunter's Hill literary portion of the North
Shore Arts Festival left me late with my
usual weekly "Bulletin" browsing. All the
same I do not feel it is too late to lodge my
irate protest at the quality of your publica-
tion's report of that event. (8.. Aug. 28.)
Although the Convenor, Dr Grace Perry's
kindly and very appreciated daily discussions
and criticisms of young poets' efforts only
earned your reporter's derision (and the
notable speakers and teachers who gave pro-
grammes on the five days and evenings also
were entirely ignored), still that is never
unexpected. There has always been a pre-
ponderance of that attitude in our population.
A mind and pen like that, however, should
have been able to report an easy subject like
catering with veracity. During five days,
dozens of those peculiar beings, who are
interested in what the qualified have to say
about letters, were freely served with fine,
filling soups, plentiful sandwiches, savories,
sweets and good "writers' brews" of tea/
and coffee. No mean effort on the part of any
group. So I hereby allocate to your reporter
a deserved smack in the moosh for that un-
truthful, sneering, description "leftovers".
KAY M. BROWN
Chatswood (NSW).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Keeping the
Doors Open
By PATRICIA ROLFE
When Marlene Dietrich comes to
Australia next month she will play
at J. C. Williamson’s Royal in
Sydney and Garnet Carroll’s Princess in
Melbourne. The Tivoli Circuit, which,
with Aztec Services, is bringing her to
Australia, has no theatre of its own avail-
able with the “Windmill Revue” in Syd-
ney and “Instant Marriage” in Melbourne
both doing well.
This is gratifying for the Tivoli
management, but it comes in the second
half of a year during which the Tivoli
has been dealt some of the sharpest les-
sons it has had in its 60-odd years history.
But even these, according to the
Tivoli’s managing director in Sydney.
Mr Lloyd Martin, are lessons which
teach you what not to do, the only les-
sons the entertainment business offers.
Earlier this year Max Bygraves came
to Australia with a solid British reputa-
tion although he was not widely known
here. He opened in Melbourne and did
phenomenally good business. In the thick
of this sell-out season the Tivoli took
him off to fulfil his Sydney commitment.
In Sydney the season began slowly and
never picked up. “It would have paid
us,” Mr Martin, wise after the event,
said, “to have closed the Sydney Tivoli
and kept Bygraves on in Melbourne.”
This experience has somewhat shaken
Mr Martin’s basic belief that Sydney and
Melbourne are not very different. His
general rule is that '‘either you have a
success or you don’t”. However, he felt
that Sydney now has so many counter-
attractions in night-clubs and suburban
clubs, as well as the übiquitous tele-
vision, that another entertainment
truism, “talent will out”, no longer al-
ways applies.
Another negative lesson which the
Tivoli learnt this year is that shows about
show business don’t have great appeal
in Australia, although they are almost
always successful in the United States.
This lesson was learnt at some expense
with “Fade Out, Fade In”, and the Tivoli
is not prepared to learn it over again
with “Funny Girl”, which, without Bar-
bra Streisand, would, according to Mr
Martin, be “just another story about
show business”.
Present success doesn’t make any
easier the task of finding suitable future
productions. Mr Martin said that the
prospect of finding something suitable to
Lymburner at the Windmill Revue
fill his theatres is “terrifying”. On his
last trip overseas he didn’t see a show
he wanted to buy. Or, rather, there was
“Fiddler on the Roof”. “But what pub-
lic is there for a musical about Jewish
peasants in Russia in 1905?” he asked.
“It would be very cheap to produce. The
cast wear the same old rags throughout,
but don’t people want spectacle and
glamor in the theatre that they can’t
get on television or in the clubs?”
Mr Martin believes that the public
wants to see the “Windmill Revue” now,
but would not want a similar production
for, perhaps, two years.
The Tivoli has already gone far afield.
Since a long stretch of variety was broken
by the Ballet Rambert and the Old Vic
companies, which D. D. O'Connor
brought to Australia in 1948, the Tivoli
must have had as wide a range of pres-
entations as any theatre in Australia. It
has housed, among others, the Shake-
speare Memorial Theatre, the Vienna
Boys’ Choir, the Chinese National
Theatre, J. C. Williamson’s opera com-
pany of 1950, the Trapp Family Singers,
Irish Guards Band, Don Cossack Sing-
ers and Dancers, “Orpheus in the Under-
world”, and the National Ballet Com-
pany’s “Corroboree” and “Swan Lake”.


The Tivoli in Sydney has been living
on borrowed time since the 50-year lease
w ith the City Council expired in 1961.
However, in spite of optimistic talk about
redeveloping the southern end of the
city, the Tivoli management is sanguine
about planning ahead.
The Tivoli has, perhaps, a greater air
of unreality about it than any other
theatre. It would be hard for it not to.
In no theatre is the smell of greasepaint
so strong or the atmosphere so redolent
of past triumphs and past failures. In
spite of the range of its production over
nearly 20 years, the “Tiv.” is still pre-
sumed to have a miraculously loyal audi-
ence, which somehow survived the initial
shock of Laurence Olivier instead of a
chorus-line in 1948 and still turns up
for every show. In fact, Mr Martin esti-
mates the loyal audience at about 100
first-nighters; after that houses come
from anywhere.
Mr Martin seemed to feel that in his
management’s experience the lowest point
for variety was after the 1961 credit
squeeze. “It nearly finished us,” he said.
“We had three variety shows one after
another. Only one of them was a bad
show. The others were pretty good. All
of them did fairly well in Melbourne but
flopped in Sydney. Then we got hold of
Fonteyn in 1962 for a brief season of
ballet. We did very well with them, of
course. They kept the doors open. Then
we had a show, ‘Paris by Night’, lined
up. We said to ourselves, ‘lf this doesn’t
go, we shut up shop.’ It went all right,
but it was k close thing. But then Garnet
Carroll used to say before every show,
‘lf this doesn’t go we close the doors,’
and he kept going.”
But living dangerously financially
grows harder because of two factors
the fact that the Tivoli, like many Aus-
tralian theatre managements, either owns
or leases its own theatres, and rising
production costs.
Just His Cup of Tea
By JAN SMITH
John McKellar is a modest young
man, crew-cut and horn-rimmed in
ad agency style, who describes himself as
cadaverous. McKellar is 35, although
he doesn’t look it. It is an age when one
does not get too starry-eyed about writing
one’s first full-length Phillip Theatre
revue.
Nor, beneath the thoughtful, boyish
exterior, does there lurk the fervent
social reformer.
“A Cup of Tea, a Bex and a Good
Lie Down,” which opened at the Phillip
Theatre, Sydney, this week, stars Gloria
Dawn, Reg Livermore, John Ewart,
Kevan Johnston, Barbara Wyndon,
Ruth Cracknell, Donald Macdonald and
Judith Roberts. It has nearly 40 scripts
and McKellar will get an undisclosed
percentage of the gross.
McKellar, who gave up full-time work
with a Sydney advertising agency this
year, wrote his first scripts for University
revues in the early fifties, when he was at
the Teachers’ College. He dismisses them
as “typical Uni revue stuff, very specialis-
ed about people who are probably all
dead by now”.
After his first dash to England, follow-
ing a wretched 18 months teaching in
Albury, he took a clerical job with an
insurance firm and went overseas again
to work in advertising with TV adapta-
tions and revue scripts on the side.
McKellar thinks he’s about the only
scriptwriter in Sydney who hasn’t writ-
ten for “Mavis Bramston”, although they
have used some of his numbers from
earlier Phillip Theatre revues, including
the “Man from Yagoona” sketch and the
Australian musical comedy where Gordon
Chater went droving in a Holden.
Why not “Mavis”, which pays in the
region of £3O and £4O for songs and
sketches? McKellar is quick to say he has
no holier-than-thou attitude to Chater
and company, although he does think
the show is falling down lately. But with
Mavis being a quick, topical show, he
thinks there could be last-minute script
changes he mightn’t tike, and that his
kind of writing is better if you work in
a close-knit team, with the actors.
Unfortunately, the Phillip cannot go in
too heavily for subtle nuances, or too
radical savagery, although McKellar says
there are some who would like to.
He considers the “Downstairs Revue”
of a few years ago the ideal set-up for
satirical scripts, although liquor on the
premises meant policemen more often.
John McKellar does not want to live
in England, although he has no trouble
finding work there. He feels that Aus-
tralia, culturally, is where the action is
about to be. But he thinks this attitude
can be overdone. “I think the people who
talk about the film industry, for instance,
are a bit of a joke. They talk about
Government grants as if they were wait-
ing for the Messiah”. Nor has he any
patience with the great Australian habit
of forming committees.
“In any case I think any form of
Government subsidy is dangerous. It
simply means your money is being con-
trolled by a civil servant, who is pro-
bably the very sort of person you’re going
to offend.”
McKellar sits alone at his typewriter,
drafting out scripts and tearing them up
until he is satisfied. “A Cup of Tea” took
him 2i months. “It is times like this
when I think very fondly of advertising,”
he confided. “You can laugh at the
Madison Avenue types but it’s good
money.”
There is no attempt at message in
the Phillip’s latest show, and a variety of
subjects not the pill, or the RSL —-
are being done over. McKellar is well
aware of the dangers of going too far.
“ ‘Beyond The Fringe’ sent up the First
World War, which is pretty close to being
sacred, and it didn’t do very well finan-
cially. But if you put it on today it
would be a different story.”
This time, says McKellar, no one
should be offended. But he is not over-
looking the power of the poster, and has
fond memories of a first night at the
African ballet, with the foyer crammed
with Press and television interviewers
to record audience reaction before the
show had even begun.
FILMS
In the Right
Direction
The Ipcress File. Director, Sidney J. Furie.
Victory Theatre, Sydney.
The Amorous Adventures Of Moll Flanders.
Director, Terence Young. Prince Edward
Theatre, Sydney.
In Harm’s Way. Director, Otto Preminger.
Forum Theatre, Sydney.
direction is all the go these
days, and one often has the impres-
sion that directors look on films merely
as a showcase for their own cleverness.
Wonderful then to find a movie like
“The Ipcress File”, where imaginative
use of camera, sound and color are sub-
ordinate to the making of an exciting
story. The spectator is swept along by
the narrative, and while the originality
of the treatment adds immeasurably to
his enjoyment, he isn’t all the time
having his nose rubbed in the director’s
artistry.
Based on a Len Deighton novel, it is
a spy thriller midway between lan Flem-
ing and John le Carre. The sort of hero
(you can’t call him anti-hero) is a
counter-spy as handsome and attractive
as Bond, but lower-class and far more
insolent; on the other hand he has it
made with his hi-fi and nice food so you
can’t see him sinking into John le Carre
despair. Brilliantly played by Michael
Caine, the character is engagingly off-
beat; he enjoys cooking, Mozart and
female companionship and has got into
his profession not from motives of
patriotism but in order to avoid a court-
martial for black-marketeering. Richard
Hannay must be turning in his grave.
Still he’s just the man to foil a


to get
the best
rent a car
service
in Australia
use
this card
S*i
■
WOOCO 1*1(1 s
Hbb) 000 ?
PAUL ALFRED HICKSON
111 HARDING£ STREET
BELLEVUE HEIGHTS
AUSTRALIA
Gems* zhv
SYDNEY
to get
the best
rent a car
service
World-wide
use
this card
wewfctip wo*
liPOty
mm mm 9% § mt
MHT A CA#
: V
ew> w etc, >•.ss
Ibbt 000 1
PAUL ALFRED HICKSON
171 HARDINGE STREET
BELLEVUE HEIGHTS
SYDNEY AUSTRALIA
• « A#*
The Card opens your account at
all offices throughout Australia-a/?c/ the World.
Just show the Hertz Internationa! Charge Card at any Hertz Office in over 73 countries around the globe and you’ve got a new
Chevrolet, Holden or other fine car—there’s no deposit—no waiting, and with Hertz and only Hertz you get ‘Certified Service.'
If at any time you're not completely satisfied with Hertz service, simply fill out a form available at any Hertz Rent-a-Car
Office. Immediately upon verification you will receive £22/4/8 in Car Rental Certificates.
Hertz and only Hertz give you truly International Rent-a-Car facilities with the unique ‘Certified Service.’ Contact your nearest
Hertz Office and arrange for your Hertz International Charge Card right away.
ONE CALL TO YOUR LOCAL HERTZ OFFICE OR TRAVEL AGENT RESERVES A CAR HERE ... OR ANYWHERE
I WORLD WIDE
HERTZ
RENTA CAR
Let Hertz put you
in the driver's seat!
AUSTRALIA’S ONLY TRULY INTERNATIONAL RENT A CAR SERVICE
HNC 3658


dastardly plot to brainwash Britain’s top
scientists. The film has amusing, irrever-
ent dialogue as well as Furie’s always
imaginative direction.
“Moll Flanders” has been compared to
its detriment with “Tom Jones” one of
the director’s showcase films, by the way
_-but this seems hardly fair to a movie
which makes few pretensions to anything
but noisy, knockabout fun and is a very
jolly romp in its own right. Photo-
graphed in extremely pretty color and
with a surprisingly lively central per-
formance by Kim Novak, this can hardly
be regarded as an artistic experience, but
it is undemanding entertainment, and
some scenes notably those involving
Leo McKern are. genuinely hilarious.
A bit of directorial gimmickry would
be a welcome relief in “In Harm’s Way”,
in which Otto Preminger achieves the
minor miracle of making a ponderous
bore of a story that starts with the bomb-
ing of Pearl Harbor and goes on for
three hours of adultery, rape, suicide, sea
'battles and heroic self-sacrifice. It’s sad
to see a generally competent cast
struggling to make sense of all this;
Patricia Neal in particular gives yet an-
other demonstration of her ability to
'make something of nothing. Stanley
(Holloway, equipped with funny clothes
tand a disconcerting accent, makes a sur-
prising appearance as an Australian
coast-watcher.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
Wild About
Frances
IThe best and worst of locally produced
A shows last week were made and
exhibited by the channels which call
themselves independent without saying of
what. The best, not only of the week
hut in a long, long time, was “An Hour
With Frances Faye”. Miss Faye arrived
on screen with very little ballyhoo and
was, in Ray Taylor’s words, “a very great
entertainer”, or in her own, “not pretty,
but wild”. And wild she was, great she
was, and rarely has an hour seemed to
pass so quickly, or a Melbourne tele-
vision audience from young to old
warmed so immediately to any enter-
tainer.
The visible equipment for this show
, was three cameras, Frances Faye at
: Piano, her group of about nine excellent
Musicians backing her, some micro-
phones, and the audience. The invisible
e< iuipment was talent, of which Miss
Faye has a ton as arranger, piano player
and singer. She faced the cameras dead-
pan, smiled when a phrase or run pleased
her, and in her unique style, which might
be called a muffled shout, sang about 50
songs, verses of songs, snatches and half
phrases.
The equipment for the worst show of
the week was described as “15 top enter-
tainers, nine sparkling acts, a 30-piece
orchestra . . . the biggest and richest
talent quest in Australian show business
history”, with nine different sets, Gordon
Boyd as compere. In fewer words,
“Showcase ‘65”.
Charitably, one could credit Crawford
Productions and Channel 0, Melbourne,
with reckless courage for trying a talent
quest on TV, and the other “indepen-
dent” channels for supporting it. One
could do that. But how much charity
does an over-publicised bad show de-
serve? The format is straight from the
days of stream radio with one or two
visual acts a magician, a dancer
added. The total prizemoney, £BOOO,
and the first prize, £lOOO and an over-
seas trip for two, do not compare, in
1965, with the value of the prizes offered
in radio 30 years ago.
The compere, Gordon Boyd, is a star
of the musical stage who should be told
that the projection of dimpled charm
which may be fine on the boards looks
ridiculous under the close-up scrutiny of
television cameras. This may be capable
of adjustment, but I doubt that anything
can be done about his complete inability
to ad lib, or his talent for the fatuous
remark.
The “nine sparkling acts”, straight
from the RSL clubs, the musical comedy
scene, and the night clubs, were neither
very bad nor very good. “Showcase ’65”,
on its premiere showing, might have
attracted a modest audience of in-
somniacs after midnight, but is an un-
likely proposition in prime viewing time.
Unless its producers realise that a tele-
vision variety show needs more than a
disjointed procession of acts, there will
be no “Showcase ’66”.
DALE MILLER
THEATRE
Good, Clean Fun
A Cup of Tea, a Bex and a Good Lie Down,
Phillip Theatre, Sydney.
“A Cup of Tea, a Bex and a Good
Lie Down,” the new revue at the
Phillip, is what—in the days before satire
became an industry employing sweated
labor—used to be called, without irony,
good, clean fun. The Phillip in these
days of television's “Mavis Bramston”
and Ray Taylor returned with some
trepidation to revue, and it is to be hoped
that television doesn’t raid John McKel-
lar’s storehouse of sketches too quickly.
“A Cup of Tea” mostly pokes gentle fun
at You, Me, All of Us instead of the
scorned They which the “serious”
satirist loves to hammer away at.
Mr McKellar, swimming over bright
surfaces, is aware of depths of “A Cup
of Tea, a Bex and a Good Lie Down”
as the Australian solution for any
problem, social, moral or international:
of the Great Australian Apathy which
leads the American tourist to jump from
the roof of the Chevron because nobody
cares about anything here but he isn’t
beating anyone over the head.
Mr McKellar may not have aimed at
many new targets and may not have
aimed very high, but consider all the
old ones he has resisted! No Menzies.
No Pill. There are inevitable soggy
patches which McKellar and producer
William Orr could mop up in a few days.
To balance these there are some brilliant
spots and an enlivening finale.
The strength is in the team of eight
which, from Gloria Dawn, the only new-
comer to the Phillip, to the relatively
inexperienced Judith Roberts, go about
their job with tremendous enthusiasm and
talent to spare.
PATRICIA ROLFE
"Spare us o coupla bob for a cuppa tea and a Bex, ”


\t=?y
Ini
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end ol Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 63 6031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
& RHI43/64
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE "
OPERA
Lone Hand
The Merry Wives of Windsor: Nicolai. Rus-
sell Street Theatre, Melbourne.
After a better-than-passable Australian
premiere of Kurt Weill’s 4 Maha-
gonny” earlier this year, the Victorian
Opera Company is now presenting a most
excellent production of “The Merry
Wives of Windsor” for a season in the
heart of Melbourne. This group of non-
professional artists is way above amateur
standing and must be commended for
choosing a repertoire of works well
within its own acknowledged limits. Why
they are playing a lone, though success-
ful, hand without any form of sponsor-
ship or subsidy while second-rate Ameri-
can musicals are guaranteed against
losses is a mystery.
After a string of Italian operas which
failed miserably, Otto Nicolai turned to
his native Germany and to Shakespeare to
produce his only success and promptly
died of apoplexy. The failings of the
current production (mainly scenic) are
so few that little of the charm and tune-
fulness, which have kept “The Merry
Wives” in the repertoire for 116 years,
are lost. The standard of orchestral play-
ing under Leonard Spira was very much
better than that we usually hear in local
professional theatres: it was, in fact,
almost faultless.
The large cast also turned in many
performances which could hold their
own in professional company. John
Pringle was a superb Falstaff, Margaret
Fields a delightful Mistress Ford who
contrasted well with Robert Tuttleby as
her cadaverous husband, and Janice
Taylor sang very well indeed as Anne
Page.
I commend this production and this
company as an example of the wonders
which can be worked with a little
enthusiasm, hard work and no money
at all. Who knows that we may not be
witnessing the birth of some form of
local Sadler’s Wells right here in staid
old Melbourne.
JOHN CARGHER
LETTER FROM LONDON
Where’s the Festival
Going On?
As I write this, the first Common-
wealth Arts Festival has just got
under way The time may have been
ill-chosen, with two of the biggest Com-
monwealth countries fighting it out; more
importantly, the place, London, may
well be too large. With the autumn
season beginning, so much else is going
on in theatre, music and the arts gene-
rally in London just now, that it’s diffi-
cult to remember the Festival is in fact
taking place: a state of affairs which
couldn’t exist in Edinburgh, Salzburg or
Adelaide.
However, although the musical and
dramatic events, having to compete
against such various un-Commonwealth
rivals as Ingrid Bergman, Gielgud,
Redgrave, Olivier, Klemperer, Fischer-
Dieskau, Giulini et al, may tend to get
lost, the Festival’s literary aspect, though
relatively slight, is more unusual, and
so manages to stand out with a certain
emphasis.
There has, not surprisingly, been no
great rush to produce special Common-
wealth issues of magazines, Neither the
“New Statesman” nor “The Spectator”
is doing anything other than covering
some of the events: “The London Maga-
zine” decided that, rather than produce
an edition including every Common-
wealth country, it would instead get
together a number in which every con-
tributor happened to be a Common-
wealth citizen. It has been left to the
“Times Literary Supplement” to produce
a full-scale special issue. In it, various
Australian books are reviewed, there is
an article on “Meanjin”, poems by
Judith Wright and Charles Higham, and
Barry Humphries on the language of his
comic-strip character, Barry MacKenzie;
from other countries Zulfikar Ghose,
William Plomer and Khadambi Asalache
are represented.
The programme of Australian poetry
on September 29 is part of a two-weei
season at the Royal Court, called “Verse
and Voice”, which constitutes the entire
literary content of the Festival. The
first week, “Empire into Common
wealth”, consists of poems, songs ane
ballads reflecting the beginnings ane
growth of the Empire and the Common
wealth. The opening night, for in-
stance, “From the Island of Britain”,
will concern itself principally with the
16th and 17th century explorers and ad-
venturers. The following evening, “The
New World” introduces the colonies,
trade, slavery, the rise of independent
spirit in America, and so on. The next
programme, “The Antipodes”, is deviset
and presented by A. L. Lloyd, the
student and collector of folk-songs. On
other nights there are “Africa: A Con-
trast of Cultures”, “The Enchantment o
the Orient”, and “The Seven Seas”.
The second week is devoted to con-
temporary Commonwealth verse: various
countries have their own programmes,
there will be a general poets’ debate
chaired by John Wain, Jonathan Miller
will present some TV films of British
and Australian poets (Philip Larkin,
R. S. Thomas, Stevie Smith, Judith
Wright and Douglas Stewart), and the
“Verse and Voice” fortnight will end
with a programme presented by Far
East, Indian, Pakistani and African
poets. We are promised Christopher
Okigbo drumming for three African
girls who chant his “Dance of the
Painted Maidens”, and Wole Soyinka
declaiming his “Idanre” with xylophone
accompaniment.
Heinemann, in association with the
Cardiff Commonwealth Arts Festival,
has published an anthology, “Young
Commonwealth Poets, 1965”, edited by
P. L. Brent. It contains two or three
hundred poems from Australia, Canada,
Ceylon, England, Gambia, Ghana, India,
Kenya, Malawi, Malaysia and New
Zealand, among other countries. The
overwhelming majority of them should
never have been published. The big
mistake was to have appointed a separate
editor for each country, in each country,
and to have allowed the Welsh editor of
the Welsh section to assume responsi-
bility for the entire volume. He appears
simply to have printed all the guff that
came pouring in.
If the literary events of the Festival
have any value at all, it will be in allow-
ing a number of poets from different
countries to get together and shout their
misunderstandings at one another. This
is always an amusing and edifying
spectacle, and I may be able to report
on it next month.
CHARLES OSBOENE


THE COMMONWEALTH FESTIVAL
A Negro Elizabethan Age
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The advent of the Commonwealth
Festival in London, the appearance
of special Commonwealth issues of
the “Times Literary Supplement” and
“The London Magazine”, and the pub-
lication of at least one major anthology
of the younger Commonwealth poets
(from Heinemann): it looks as though one
of the most neglected and most misunder-
stood areas of literature is at last coming
in for a proper scrutiny. So far, only
African and, to a lesser extent, Carib-
bean writing has attracted wide critical
attention in London and , New York:
exoticism has no doubt played a part in
this, as well as the fact that rather more
writers from those areas have settled in
‘ the two metropolises than writers from
i 1 the white Commonwealth.
Canadian, New Zealand and Austra-
| lian writing have made little impression
) so far: the Canadian novelist Mordecai
1 Richler has settled in London and
.written for the weeklies, thereby attract-
ing attention to his own work; Dan
Davin from New Zealand has worked in
England for several years, and has prob-
ably helped to make his country’s
writing rather better known there; one
recalls, too, that Frank Sargeson ap-
peared in the long defunct Penguin New
Writing of John Lehmann and that James
K. Baxter appears (like the British ex-
patriate Peter Bland) in “The London
Magazine.” Australia is known for
Patrick White, Judith Wright and
Randolph Stow; Morris West, Kylie
Tennant and others have been heard of
but aren’t thought of as literary writers.
Only a very few would know R. D. Fitz-
gerald, Kenneth Slessor, Douglas Stewart,
or James McAuley.
Ignorance of most Commonwealth
writing in England is balanced only by
knowledge of British writing in the Com-
monwealth: the flow of interest still
moves towards the centre. But for poets
(unlike novelists) in Canada, New Zea-
land, Africa and Australia ther* is no
longer a need to publish at the centre:
per capita, the audience for verse is
likely to be larger and more sympathetic
in their own countries than in Britain.
Only the Caribbean writers both in verse
and prose are faced with the really crucial
problem of lack of outlets for their work
in a beautiful but intellectually vacant
area, and George Lamming, Samuel
Selvon, V. S. Naipaul, and the late Edgar
Mittelholzer all felt the pressure of need
to live and write in England. The pov-
erty, deprivation and cultural deracin-
ation most of them experienced there is
brilliantly chronicled in the writings of
Selvon and, especially, Lamming, whose
“The Emigrants’’ recorded for all time
the agonies of a colored writer in the icy
smog of the metropolis.
The colored authors of the Common-
wealth have probably provided the world
with the richest flow of material from
this community of nations. Naipaul's
dazzling “A House for Mr Biswas”,
Lamming’s “In the Castle of My Skin”,
the glittering poetry of Derek Walcott (a
St Lucia Creole of startlingly individual
gifts), Zulfikar Ghose’s wry meditations,
Samuel Selvon’s beautiful novel, “A
Brighter Sun”, Amos Tutuola’s inspired
“The Palm Wine Drinkard”, Chinua
Achebe’s “Things Fall Apart”, and the
incredibly rich resources of Nigeria,
dominated by Wole Soyinka and the
Negritude group; the emergence of this
whole vein of writing has been easily the
most exciting thing to have happened in
New Commonwealth Poetry
Commissioned by THE BULLETIN
The Adolescence of Leda
Observe this youthful, rather sexy swan
Rolling his downy neck among the reeds,
Framed in a crystalline flat space of water.
Here in the tedium of the afternoon
The Princess comes, and sews, or dreams,
’ or reads,
Fleeing her girl-friends’ innocent chatter.
Look how he paddles his brick-red feet,
Silently gliding into the dubious shade
Of an old low twisted overhanging alder.
Where water-midges, many a shining fleet
(U.S. destroyers at Villefranche displayed)
| Anchor until declining day grows colder.
, Now watch! To please the girl his snowy
plume,
j Like a pure flower in the shaggy green,
..Rises and rustles Stifle your clownish
laughter!
See, she lies panting in the mossy gloom
Of tunnelled boughs but no, the willows
screen
AH that portends, now and hereafter.
A. J. M. SMITH
/ (Canada)
El Greco: Espolio
The carpenter is intent on the pressure of
his hand
on the awl, and the trick of pinpointing
his strength
through the awl to the wood, which is
tough.
He has no effort to spare for despoilings
nor to worry if he’ll be cut in on the dice.
His skill is vital to the scene, and the
safety of the state.
Anyone can perform the indignities; it’s
his hard arms
and craft that hold the eyes of the
convict’s women.
There is the problem of getting the holes
exact
(in the middle of this elbowing crowd)
and deep enough to hold the spikes
after they’ve sunk through those soft feet
and wrists waiting behind him.
The carpenter isn’t aware that one of the
hands
is held in a curious beseechment over
him
but what is besought forgiveness or
blessing?
nor if he saw would he take the time to
be puzzled.
EARLE BIRNEY
(Canada)
D. LIVINGSTONE
(Rhodesia)
Criminals come in all sorts, as anyone
knows who makes crosses,
are as mad or sane as those who decide
on their killings.
Our one at least has been quiet so far
though they say he talked himself into
this trouble
a carpenter’s son who got notions of
preaching.
Well here’s a carpenter’s son who’ll have
carpenter sons,
God willing, and build what’s wanted,
temples or tables,
mangers or crosses, and shape them
decently,
working alone in that firm and profound
abstraction
which blots out the bawling of rag-
snatchers.
To construct with hands, knee-weight,
braced thigh,
keeps the back turned from death.


the Commonwealth in a decade. And one
could add a bright string of names from
India and elsewhere: Raja Rao, R. K.
Narayan, Mulk Raj Anand, Wilson
Harris, John Hearne, Jan Carew . . .
this is only to mention the most famous
and distinguished.
The establishment of Andre Deutsch’s
African Universities Press in Lagos and
the increased visits of British publishers
to Africa have indicated both a massively
growing market there and the existence of
a staggering range of talent. As Wole
Soyinka was shocked to find on his visit
to Sydney three years ago, the immense
resources of literary skill within the
colored peoples of the Commonwealth
has been far too little explored and un-
derstood in Australia, and one would like
to see this rectified in the literary quar-
terlies, together with some notice of the
brilliant African writing outside the Com-
monwealth, in the French African
territories. There, the Institut Francais
d’Afrique Noire has encouraged the
Negro writer in a way no British Govern-
ment has done, and the publishing house
Presence Africaine has promoted at least
one figure of tremendous stature:
Leopold Senghor, whose iridescent re-
flections, intensely sophisticated and
complex, on man and nature represent
the supreme flowering of the African
genius.
The white Commonwealth has rarely
been able to show anything as dazzling
as this, perhaps because its sanguine,
predominantly suburban, middle-class and
middle-brow character does not provoke
the sharper inspirations of genius. In-
fluences have been rather too obviously
present: in Canada from North America
and the Pound-Eliot axis, in Australia
from Yeats and the Georgians, in New
Zealand from the Faber Book of Modern
Verse. Nevertheless, several really major
figures have emerged since the war
and the late ’forties in particular
yielded some memorable work. In Can-
ada, the powerful and rugged force of
Earle Birney’s verse and P. K. Page’s
piercing poetic analyses of city life have
been especially notable. In New Zealand,
the fine short stories of Maurice Shad-
bolt, Louis Johnson’s gripping poems
about suburban life and Peter Bland's
sharp but tender comments in verse on
the daily chores of a New Zealand hus-
band have rightly attracted wide notice,
and James K. Baxter has shown an un-
diminished vigor; Charles Branch's “Land-
fall continues to be the best of the
Commonwealth Literary magazmes.
By con trast in Australia the remarkable
proliferation of academic quarterlies
s j nce j 96 q seems to have provided little
. .
>n the way of discovering new talent,
flushin § out y° un § wr,ters from the cov ;
erts ’ or encouraging experiment and
enterprise: for this, the palm must still go
to C. B. Christesen’s beautifully pro-
duced “Meanjin.” But despite discourage-
ment, several striking talents flourish:
Patrick White’s brilliant misanthropic
gifts were in their greatest abundance in
his latest novel, “Riders in the Chariot”;
Randolph Stow’s “Outrider” was a most
welcome breakaway from the drab flat-
ness of so much Australian verse, Judith
Wright continues at strength, the elegant
Rilkean meditations of Vivian Smith con-
tinue to defy neglect, and W. Hart-
Smith’s, Douglas Stewart’s, J. R. Row-
land’s and A. D. Hope’s works are written
in a diction recognisably de nos jours;
elsewhere, anachronisms are distressingly
evident, and some poets have gone
back half a century or more for their
poetic mode: it is astonishing to come
across poems today still written, as the
young poet John Croyston has pointed
out, in “the idiom of Longfellow and
Newbolt.”
Commonwealth poetry has on the
whole been better than the fiction, and
the novel in Australia in particular still
seems to be hamstrung by that mode of
sceptica , documentary realism and insis-
(ence Qn flat , precise diction which is s 0
destructive of the creative imagination
anc j so lowering to the reader,
Sneak in» broadlv the literature of the
white Commonwealth seems to be in a
whlte Commonwealtn seems to oe in a
watershed (although the poems on
this page and pages 49 and 51 may, one
hopes , suggest the range of talent that ex-
ists in it). We must look at the writing of
our fellow colored peoples with friendly
envy, and become rather better informed
about it, regretting that one vast area of
Negro writing has been removed from
the Commonwealth itself.
But it’s too late now for the other car-
penter’s boy
to return to this peace before the nails are
hammered.
EARLE BIRNEY
(Canada)
The Old Man on the
Esplanade
The old man on the Esplanade
unzips the pouches of his eyes
and looks at girls.
He leans there every afternoon,
eyes closed against the sun
until the footsteps.
He waits for one that got away
over forty years ago . . .
he’ll know her yet.
Time must have filmed her face;
the dress, the very steps
quite different now.
Girls shy from him askance,
smooth skirts and clutch their handbags;
speeding up, edge past.
Yet he’ll know her, there being not
many eighteen-year-olds around
born in ’O4.
DOUGLAS LIVINGSTONE
(Rhodesia)
MOHDHJSALLEH
(Singapore)
JAMES K. BAXTER
(New Zealand)
Courting
Where the silver river bares
a coolly naked elbow
around the reeds to dull only
for exhaled ripples on a moon-steel night,
a lovedrunk tribesman twists his canoe
into the invisible terrain
of a maverick hippo.
The coventried bull, quickening
to the pulse of the paddle he hears
where he has been
barrage ballooning it underwater,
swells his ballast
and surfaces, crossly
shaking his terrier’s ears.
The footlong crushing tusks
curl closely sudden from a sky
intagliated with murder
to savage with a venomous
mindless spleen, snapping
the hollowed treetrunk:
its red and black sap of thigh.
Ejecting unsavory shards
he bellows once at the height
of his cowless moon
to submerge among ill-
tempered furrows of debris,
leaving the newly alert
but still still night.
DOUGLAS LIVINGSTONE
(Rhodesia)
this region
once in this corner there were whispering
grasses,
wind rushing between the dancing stalks
and birds noisily playing with the padi
straw.
a small boy naked with joy
ran with the wind,
ran with his heart flapping.
the grasses grew and died and were
replaced.
the youth came with his beloved; and
alone.
here half the heart was returned.


darkness has put out this region
the grasses have shrivelled, strangled by
the night
a dry brownness in the wet of the night.
night at the edge of twilight has settled
this region
in blindness, the lover seeks for a flame to
light himself,
in the wilderness of dead grasses, the
leaves and flowers fall to the ground.
; sparrows are dumb, muted by the strange
silence
that shrieks in the face of an emptiness,
recovered, only to die again.
the sun does not visit this region
the season has passed
. only the night is the environment of the
lover.
I this blackness shall burn itself
I break and die in its own ashes
in its own darkness.
MOHDHJSALLEH
(Singapore)
The Invisible
Although apple-trees are prolific
Jin English gardens, a drier mood
ifrom no real shrubland or desert
(stings my face. Impossible this trick
.of confounded vision, bitter food
'lor truth: looking, looking, my eyes hurt.
How the wind drags down the trees this
wet
autumn morning, tying chains of rain-
drops between the leaves and the firm
, ground!
And yet how easily I neglect
the visible. The trees rise again,
taller and nobler on the rebound.
I would hear silk, see patterns on cloth.
Not birch-bark, not lime-leaves tied in
knots
i by the blinding wind. Let me not touch
I solid things, but keep away from growth
and from the suggestions of ink-blots.
’.Trying not to see, I see too much.
| Not delusions entirely support
i a sense of loss. Oh but delusions
! wake seas navigable, compel flight.
No sensation is true which cannot
I contain a metaphor. Her presence
t l * everywhere clearly in my sight.
ZULFIKAR GHOSE
(Pakistan)
| Dog for Sale
I Would you like to be sold a pup?
1 1 can offer this little bitch
(Whom I’ve named Welfare State
J (Out of Birth Control by Social Security),
(East of a long line of hopes and hurts,
j Accidentally spayed at birth.
: that’s an advantage: the way
fWe live now, we don’t want a cluttered
: future;
(Only enough for the day as it dawns,
And extra mouths may swing the wrong
balance.
She's quite domesticated, won’t soil
Carpets, leave bones lying about
Eats meat only, slightly overdone,
And is always careful to bury unsightly
remains.
Hair in good condition, properly registered
Inoculated against worms and distemper,
Friendly, cold in the nose, as is proper,
And doesn’t keep the neighborhood awake
With harks and squeals: too trusting
It’s true, to be a good watchdog,
But in your street, let’s face it,
You wouldn’t want a dog to assume your
precautions.
Why am I selling?
Well, to be honest,
I’ve never been strong on perfection; I
like
A few rough edges of possibility,
The give and take, the uncertainty
Of personality. Virtue of this kind can
So easily convince me it’s a dog’s life
Anyway: and I want to make a shift
To a climate that wouldn t suit my four-
foot friend.
She’s got too used to running with the
pack.
LOUIS JOHNSON
(New Zealand)
LOUIS JOHNSON
(New Zealand)
PETER BLAND
(New Zealand)
Lines to Phillip Wilson
Shining huge and globular
like the balls of a Martian
the two swivel domes that crown
the Botanical Gardens
embody the illusion
of technological power
(in the sun, silver, but at
midnight inhumanly cold
begetting nothing) you see
them glitter from your fog-filled
study window, grappling the
incubus of air and night,
self-obsessed and word-obsessed
as a writer must be. I
liked well that girl who crouched
by a hedge gap and heard the
bull’s thundering leap that touched
her own bruised God-mounted ghost,
but we who interpret must
lie down in our own graves for
a thousand nights (you know it
well enough) drink slime, eat ordure,
before the words will come straight
and the tribes talk from the dust.
JAMES K. BAXTER
(New Zealand)
Hospitals
A school friend, sick . . .
Setting fire to a silent bird in its cage,
Laughing as it whistled its life away,
Howling for the cinder that chilled his
hurt.
My mother, dying . . .
Dressed as for a lover. The dark begun,
Remarking that the orange in her sky-blue
bowl
Was single and whole like the pulsing sun.
PETER BLAND
(New Zealand)
Poem for an Anthology of
Commonwealth Verse
Unnatural thing, a plant
Living on air, whose roots are
Plunged only in rumor, whose
Soil shifts with the wind it is
Myself I speak of. Displaced,
I will say what you expect,
Will describe that paradise
Columbus found, Jamaica,
Heaving from my mind's ocean.
A sound of many insects
Keening in the night; a moon
Dogs howl at; abrupt mountains;
Trees looped thick with vines; black rocks
Where waterfalls glitter. These
Also: in the towns, the lives
Penned in huts built of palm thatch
And flattened gasoline tins;
Empty bellies, empty minds.
But I see that this is not
What you wanted, a poem
About my green lost island.
What shall I tell you? Eden
Is corrupt. The innocence
You talk of is leprous, white
As the sails of Columbus
Lifting over the skyline—
Signs of disease and terror.
EDWARD LUCIE-SMITH
(Jamaica)
In School
Through a tall window enters
A golden envoy, sunlight
Arrayed in chalk-dust. The words
Suddenly fill these four walls—
A poem in a boy’s mouth.
Even the sun bows to him.
Listen, it lives on his tongue,
Our dominion of verse.
We are the starved kings feed us!
Though our gems are glass, our pearls
Paper, we rule in men’s minds.
The boy’s voice builds, stone on stone,
Many toppling cities.
EDWARD LUCIE-SMITH
(Jamaica)


COMMONWEALTH BANKING CORPORATION
Combined Assets and Liabilities of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and its constituent
banks as at 30th June, 1965.
Cash balances and money at short call .. .. ..
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with Reserve Bank ..
Other deposits with the Reserve Bank
Australian public securities (including Commonwealth
Treasury Bills and Treasury Notes) ..
Loans, advances and bills discounted .. .. ..
Bank premises .. .. . . .. .. ..
Bills receivable, remittances in transit and all other assets ..
Total .. .. .. .. .. ..
Highlights for 1964/65 were:—
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
The Commonwealth Trading Bank continued to expand during 1964/65.
During the year deposits exceeded £4OO million for the first time and by June, 1965, had reached
£423 million.
Loans were well spread and covered industrial, commercial, rural and social purposes. In the rural
and industrial sectors substantial advances were made to assist increases in production and loans for export
purposes were given preference.
Total advances outstanding rose by £3O million during the year.
The Commonwealth Trading Bank extended its services to a further 41 points and is now represented
at 1,019 branches and agencies.
1964/65 profit after tax £1,009,322
COMMONWEALTH SAYINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA
1964/65 was a year of substantial growth for the Commonwealth Savings Bank and it was again
ranked the largest in the world among savings banks of its type.
Depositors’ balances increased to £l,lOO million, the increase of £69 million being one of the largest
in recent years.
New accounts opened exceeded last year’s record and at 30th June, the Bank conducted 6,120,000
active accounts.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank was again the largest lender for housing in Australia. Loans
approved during the year totalled more than £56 million. Since 1946, it has lent some £4OO million for
housing alone.
A record £23 million was approved during the year for essential community service projects, including
roads, electricity, water and sewerage.
For essential personal needs, loans to depositors totalled 13,281, for £2.4 million.
Commonwealth Savings Bank services are now available at more than 9,000 branches and agencies.
1964/65 profit £4,006,121
COMMONWEALTH DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AUSTRALIA
The Commonwealth Development Bank, which provides financial assistance for primary and secondary
industry, does not compete with conventional and traditional lenders, but provides help where, in the opinion
of the Bank, such help is desirable, and the finance would not otherwise be available on reasonable and
suitable terms and conditions.
The Commonwealth Development Bank, experienced strong demand for term loan and equipment
finance and £36.8 million was approved in 1964/65. In a little over five and a half years since its establish-
ment the Development Bank has approved financial assistance to the extent of £160.4 million, and has proved
a valuable adjunct to the Australian financial system.
Outstanding advance balances at 30th June, 1965, totalled £73 million.
1964/65 profit £1,069,552
'-VccoV
The Reports and Financial Statements are available at any branch
of the
COMMONWEALTH
BANKS


H OIJ GH' , ' o N
Tffale
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
‘Tffiite c /3ufa/und(/
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
BOOKS
Tensions and Landscapes
By VIVIAN SMITH
Cock Crow. Rosemary Dobson. Angus &
Robertson. 17s. 6d.
Ihe Feast of Ancestors. J. R. Rowland.
Angus & Robertson. 17s. 6d.
The two new poetry releases from
Angus & Robertson are the most
attractively designed and printed volumes
of verse they have published for years:
the first, “Cock Crow”, is Rosemary
Dobson’s latest book since “Child with
a Cockatoo”, published ten years ago,
and will confirm her reputation as one
of Australia’s finest women poets.
Divided into two parts, the book in fact
consists of three distinct cycles: the first,
deeply personal lyrics about childbirth,
the relation of the self to others, a
mother’s fear for her children in a world
of dread and disaster, poems about ill-
ness, the passing but sometimes insistent
temptation to leave things behind and
escape from it all (a persistent and
haunting note in many of Miss Dobson’s
(poems and the theme of the lucid and
.'direct title piece).
The second group, of poems consists
of experiments in a new field: the use
of Greek legends in an Australian setting
to show the eternal relevance and possi-
bilities of the old myths. Thus “Across
the Straits” shows Leander swimming to
Hero through the seas of evening city
traffic; Europa is questioned while the
billy boils “underneath the she-oaks,
underneath the willows”; and the story
of Andromeda is given a fun-fair setting:
As Miss Dobson says in her poem “For
a Young Child”: “The time of myth is
over, / She shall not have for lover/
Zeus, divine philanderer, /Or some
Olympian wanderer / Descending from
the mountain / As river or as boulder.”;
and it is, I think, the note of delighted
disbelief that accounts for the charm of
these pieces.
The third section consists of a group
of poems with Australian settings the
beautiful “Ghost Town, New England”;
a portrait of a rabbiter; and an exquisite
etching of the poet’s grandmQther Amy
Caroline, who “living to be ninety, met/
Whatever chanced with kindness, held
her head / On one side like a sparrow
• • as well as the well-known “Captain
Svenson” and the poem, “The Sailor:
May, 1960”, written after the failure of
the summit talks.
Miss Dobson has always eschewed
the sensational either of matter or
Partner; the poem as an achieved whole
rather than as a collection of isolated
felicities is the ideal she represents. She
has never been satisfied with the virtuoso
image, the colored phrase, the provoca-
tive thought.
Her diction is the plain diction of an
Edwin Muir or a Walter de la Mare.
Exactness of tune and line characterises
her at her best.
My mind like a white butterfly
Moves from the curtain to the sheet,
From sheet to mirror, which returns
All it receives of sky. 1 seek
The gravity of etchings, lines
As thin as veins, as light as cinders.
There are in this book a number of
experiments, like “The Dolphin” and
“The Ecology of Fishes” which show
Miss Dobson striking out in new and
totally unexpected directions in search of
a renewal of modes and themes. “The
ROSEMARY DOBSON
Dolphin”, in particular, starts as a piece
of fancy—and suddenly grows in depth
and imaginative span. But this has often
been Miss Dobson’s way in both “The
Ship of Ice” and “Child with a Cocka-
too” where what appears as fantasy turns
out to be quietly charged with insight.
Some of Miss Dobson’s poems im-
plicitly or explicitly lament a certain
lack of intensity and daring, the sense
of being a bystander rather than an
active participator. Other poems, how-
ever, like “Cock Crow” are fully aware
of the betrayals, the lusts and greeds
inherent in all forms of self-assertion.
Miss Dobson is one of the least self-
assertive of Australian poets, but the
special intensity of her work, its fine-
ness, comes from this tension between
something rejected and something re-
gretted. This edge of dissatisfaction and
latent distress accounts for the piercing
quality of so many of her poems; and
it touches a hidden fear in most of us.
J. R. Rowland’s “The Feast of
Ancestors” has been long awaited; it is
an impressive and admirable first book.
Including poems written when Rowland
was 20 or so, the scope and plan of
the book reflect the places he has worked
in as a diplomat from Cairns to Can-
berra, Moscow to London; while a
whole separate group of poems is devoted
to South-East Asia.
Rowland has an eye for the arresting
and characteristic image—rather like the
gifted photographer who knows at what
unusual angle best to photograph a city
or place so as to avoid the old post-card
cliches and yet still retain an image,
a view that all can recognise. Thus he
writes of London in December:
Seagulls, mudflats; the sick river
Wrinkled, silkshining. Hushed grey
air
Ending nearby in a flat frieze . . .
He shows how in a winter landscape


Write
your
way to
success!
m
m
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( ) Short Story Writing { ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott's step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
ADDRESS
AGE
I understand that no sales representative will
call on me. 82365
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc Moderate fee only if
successful.
at Zagorsk “A vivid light . . ./Separates
every house / Delineates every tree/
Makes a fallen twig a statement/
Irrevocable and precise.”; or how at
Lake George “Tree-freckled hills” are
“Violet-blue and white / As fragile China
cups”. As a whole, though, his poems
build up accumulated total impressions,
and suggest a pattern of seeing which is
a way of feeling, rather than depending
exclusively on a few separate images. He
tends to catalogue things seen and the
enumeration becomes song.
These are poems of a traveller in
other ways as well. Some poems are set
in planes or trains. Several are about
travel by sea; the witty and urbane “Sea
Voyage”, the early “Returning” with its
detached and amusing view of passengers
on their way home, and the first view of
Fremantle when the traveller sees Aus-
tralia with a fresh, astonished and wryly
affectionate eye. It is a polished, cos-
mopolitan world: an album of places.
Even the local poems set around Can-
berra suggest a holiday atmosphere of
time off from more pressing things,
interludes between a diplomat’s demands.
Reading the ten or more years old
poems on South-East Asia one inevitably
thinks of D. J. Enright, one of the most
cosmopolitan of contemporary poets.
Rowland’s poems lack D. J. Enright’s
challenge and grit, his urgency and bite,
his scouring wit. Where Enright sees
injustice and protests—and sees, above
all, people, Rowland sees places, patterns
of light, things contrasts between
imagination and reality. There is in his
poems a slight sense of remoteness from
people, or if not actual remoteness, a
sometimes too urbane detachment. (“He
sees, but chooses / To steer a little clear
of such abuses, / Declares in life or art/
The judicious sharp observer is his part” )
It is a problem he is aware of himself
as the poem “A Diplomat” shows; and
it is neatly suggested in that extra-
ordinarily accurate poem, “Cairo Hotel”:
“The great room / Smelling of dryness
and impermanence / Withheld its oppor-
tunities: yet I felt / That, given time
there, something would have happened.”
There is in his poetry delicacy of
perception, an irony not too self-
consciously charmed with itself; and a
remarkable gift as not yet fully
developed for the delayed image,
employed with special agility in thej
opening of one of his London poems;
“As if some irremediable poison / Were
secretly destroying sight, and you stood
to w 7 atch, / Without even horror, the
development of blindness, / The quiet
approach of the horizon / Fading to-
wards you in perpetual twilight —” Some
of the early poems show the influence
of Auden; but the best have a fluent
originality of shape and tone. Row-
land is one of the finest Australian poets
to have emerged since the war and “Can-
berra in April”, “At Noosa”, “Decem-
ber”, “Cairo Hotel”, “Bachelor’s Songs”
and “Autumn Landscapes” are among
the best Australian poems of recent
years.
Over a richer green
The last golfer moves
Halting as a crane
In a world of willows
Sound travels, epiphanies
Blaze in rick and leaf
Sky holds, like pure water,
A taste of grief
In that remote clear region
Edging his thin knife
Winter, dispassionate surgeon,
Prepares to enter
And we two, turning homeward
Not touching, are silenced
By some abrupt, awkward
Exhaustion of heart.
Very few of our poets of forty or
under would be capable of the exactitude
and the subdued intensity of those lines.
Britain from the Fifteenth Floor
By OWEN HARRIES
Anatomy of Britain Today. Anthony Samp-
son. Hodder & Stoughton. 555.
fTIHE obvious comparison is with Gun-
ther’s “Inside” books. Like the best
of them, the revised version of Anthony
Sampson’s “Anatomy” is a marvellously
readable book. Open it anywhere and you
will find out something interesting that
you didn’t know before. Mr Sampson has
the first class journalist’s eye for detail
and anecdote. He has a lot to say about
money salaries, profits, the value of
property which is always fascinating.
He deals in personalities and is capable of
sharp, deft characterisation. Like Gun-
ther, he is good at explaining simply-how
complicated organisations work (a skill
few academics possess or try to develop).
But Sampson differs from Gunther in
two important respects. First, unlike
Gunther, he is not concerned with telling
us everything about a country. There is
next to nothing, for example, about the
cultural life of Britain, or about recrea-
tion or material living standards. In fact,
someone reading it will get very little im-
pression at all of what life is like at street
level. Sampson is concerned not with the
man on the pavement but with the mao
up in the o'ffice suite on the fifteenth
floor. He is concerned with how Britain
works: which organisations do what? Who
make the important decisions and hoW
are they recruited? How are institutions
interlocked? The “people” hardly figure
in the book at all.
Secondly, and more importantly, Samp-
son, unlike Gunther, has a thesis. He is,
concerned to show that virtually all major
British institutions reflect, and reflect pro-'
foundly, the country’s class systems; that'
this contributes substantially to their
inefficiency and unadaptability; and that
major breakthroughs are required in re-f
cruiting talent, in attitudes towards work
and in decision-making if these instiUH


the
Dolphin
motel
Princes Highway,
Merimbula
’phone
Merimbula 328
For overnight
accommodation or a
relaxing holiday, it’s wonderful in winter, superb
in summer—Merimbula, located on the coastal
Princes Highway (between Sydney and Mel-
bourne), is famous as a year-round holiday
resort It’s a fishing paradise, located right on
the lake with nearby surf beaches, and in
winter Merimbula is famous for its oysters and
its climate warmed by tropical currents. A
motel of distinction, the Black Dolphin has the
usual licensed restaurant, guests’ lounge, air-
conditioning, swimming pool, private jetty and
superb cuisine.
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
Offices in all Capita! Cities, or direct to
The Black Dolphin Motel, Merimbula. Phone 326
A MEMBER COMPANY Of ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES UMiTtO
•AT1.711
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. When writing please give
information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C.3.
tions are to be effective in contemporary
circumstances.
This is not exactly a new thesis. Any-
one who has lived in Britain and who is
at all sensitive is aware that the whole
society is saturated with class attitudes
and prejudices. Many people have con-
sidered this a good reason for getting
out of the country. Other, perhaps braver,
spirits have stayed and tried to change
things. For the last few years there has
been a struggle, in some ways not dis-
similar to the current struggle between
the pragmatists and the ideologists in the
Soviet Union, to rationalise and galvanise
British institutions by destroying the
nexus between social privilege and the
ideology which supports it, on the one
hand, and political, economic and admini-
strative power on the other.
This struggle has assumed various
forms in the last decade. The most an-
noying (because the least discriminating)
have been the often hysterical rantings
of the Angries, though even these are
understandable in the English context.
The most futile (because, if successful, it
would result merely in transferring con-
trol trombone section of the existing
elite to another) has been the Labor
Party's faithful parroting, at least in
opposition, of the nationalisation slogans.
The most promising (although it may in-
volve a considerable cultural cost) has
been the concentration on educational
reform, both because it stands a better
chance of being implemented, and be-
cause it goes to the roots of the trouble.
Much potential support for the
struggle, both in Britain and outside, has
been alienated because it has taken ideo-
logical forms which are unacceptable both
in themselves (in many respects, they are
simply mirror-images of what they are
denouncing) and because of the attitudes
they imply towards wider political issues.
It is, however, possible, without inconsis-
tency, both to deplore these and to con-
tinue to support the struggle itself as
something which must succeed if the
international influence of Britain is not to
decline steadily, and if British intellec-
tuals are ever to be freed from their
obsessional concern with class and privil-
ege, a concern which has deadly side
effects.
For those who take this view,
“Anatomy of Britain Today” will be a
very welcome book. Sampson is not a
class-warrior, or an ideologist, or a
moraliser. He is not moved by hatred,
or contempt, or even dislike of the
°ligarchs who wield power —on the
contrary, he finds them, in general,
charming and able men. His exposure
°f the system they represent is all the
m ore effective for this. Sampson is
essentially an urbane Fabian. It is the
inefficiency, the waste, the absurdity of
a system which draws nearly all its talent
from the five per cent of the population
which goes to the public schools which
he exposes and attacks. His voice is
never raised, there are no purple pas-
sages of abuse. He simply moves from
institution to institution and describes
the situation.
Sandhurst? In 1891, ten public schools
supplied 179 of the cadet intake; in 1961,
ten public schools (six of them the same
schools) supplied 187. It is still essen-
tially the same institution which once
dismissed Cadet Bernard Montgomery
as “a troublesome and erratic figure, far
too self-opinionated and grievously lack-
ing in the polished manner one would
like to see in a Sandhurst cadet”.
The Institute of Directors? Its Direc-
tor-General, Sir Richard Powell (Eton),
recently summed up the situation with:
“I know it is a dangerous phrase, but
you could say we were a gigantic Old
Boy network”. The facts substantially
bear him out.
The Banks? In them there exists a
sharp dividing line between directors and
managers which Lord Langford, a power
bank chairman, described as “a funda-
mental anachronism” stemming from
and perpetuating “a quasi-feudal era in
which boards, drawn primarily from out-
side commercial banking, are the first-
class citizens” (these are the men which
“Fortune” once described as the “Old
Freddies” of British banking).
The Foreign Office? In the decade
1952-62, 78 per cent of its recruits
were from the public and direct grant
schools and 94.2 per cent from Oxford
and Cambridge.
And so it goes on from one in-
stitution to the next. On.e does not have
to deny the quality of the public school
and Oxbridge products to condemn the
system (though there is no need to be
starry-eyed about these either: their best
are excellent but their worst are un-
usually bad). What is wrong is not that
these are used but that others the
products of the State schools and the
concrete, granite and red-brick univer-
sities are neglected or discriminated
against. This has two results: first, it
produces bitterness and frustration
among an increasingly large section of
the educated population, and this is in-
creasing steadily as the rationale of the
old system becomes less and less con-
vincing; secondly, in an increasingly
competitive world it amounts to a crip-
pling, self-imposed handicap.
To accept all this is not to subscribe
to a “power elite” theory which con-
fuses social origins and interests.
Although the “Old Boy network” does
give a cohesiveness to the power wielders
in Britain, it is only rarely strong enough
to withstand the conflicts of institutional
and group interests. English gentlemen
can be notoriously ruthless in their deal-
ings with each other when interests seem
to require it. The objection is not against
conspiracy but against limitations of out-
look and performance.
Are things changing? On the evidence
of this book, yes, but not much. Things
are best in the newer scientific, tech-
nological and business fields, where there
was least entrenched opposition. But
the overriding impression one is left with
is the strength of the system and its
capacity to withstand attack by the use
of a variety of strategies, not the least
effective of which is still the selective
absorption of its enemies into its own
ranks and on its own terms. If you want
to lick them, recruit (some of) them: this
policy has served the British ruling
oligarchy well since at least 1832.
Perhaps those of us who decided to
leave did the wisest thing, though one
hopes not.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Dampening Bank Talk
AUSTRALIA can expect another run-down in its international reserves of about
£2oom. in 1965-66. This was the impression gained at the Commonwealth
Banking Corporation’s Press conference in Sydney last week.
Housing loans are not expected to in-
crease beyond the £s6m. level lent by
the Commonwealth Savings Bank last
year, though, if the growth in Savings
Bank deposits is maintained, the bank
expects to lend money at the same rate
as last year.
Demands for drought relief have not
been as extensive as expected. Bank
officials expect these demands to become
heavier when rural borrowers attempt to
restotk their herds after a difficult year
in north-west NSW and in Queensland,
There was no indication that bank
lending in other directions had to be
curtailed seriously to provide funds for
drought relief. Treasurer Holt later in
the week said the Reserve Bank had
made it clear to trading banks that they
were not to regard themselves as bound
within any general limit of advances in
cases where these were made for drought
relief.
The consumer bad debts position
being reported throughout private in-
dustry in hire purchase and term credit
sales has not shown up in Common-
wealth Development Bank accounts,
where lending is pretty much restricted
to agricultural equipment and term loans
for development projects.
Growth in the commercial bills market
has remained very slow; there is a great
deal of education still necessary in this
field. Plenty of takers are discounting
the bills, yet the flow of bills into the
market has not been heavy.
The housing loans insurance scheme
has not been established yet; regulations
are still awaited on how this housing
loan insurance scheme will operate, in-
cluding term of the loan, interest rate, etc.
The Savings Bank already lends up to
75 p.c. of its valuation on homes and
it has plenty of business offering from
people who have sufficient money to pay
the deposit required by the bank.
Getting back to imports, the Com-
monwealth Banking Corporation does
not believe that stocks of imported con-
sumer goods are high. There has been
a strong build-up in raw materials, with
producer equipment the big component.
Nevertheless, under Australia’s present
rate of expansion, the need for a strong
flow of raw materials is obvious. This
explains how the bank expects a con-
tinuing reduction in overseas reserves
combined with a further strong growth
of spending within Australia.
The Bank goes along with everyone
else in the conclusion that liquidity will
tighten further, with dampening effects
on home construction, etc. The National
Bank of Australasia Ltd also spoke of
the restraining effect of the Budget in its
latest monthly summary.
If the bank officials speak of caution,
they are not pessimistic about Australia’s
credit standing, since Australia’s draw-
ing rights in the International Monetary
Fund would permit a fairly heavy run-
down in reserves.
The Bulletin agrees with this. But
it should not be taken as an encourage-
ment to import indiscriminately, particu-
larly as some imports could be supplied
locally.
Please Woo Investors
A lthough the rumpus has subsided
after Mr Shepherd’s tilt at BHP, it
remains a talking point among small in-
vestors as they mull over the big guns
brought out by the large institutional in-
vestors which backed the BHP board.
Regardless of whether Mr Shepherd
was justified in his request for higher
dividends, etc., small investors (meaning
the public) expressed the opinion that
it is a good thing to draw attention to
their role in the affairs of public com-
GEORGE BROWN
parties. Some of these people disagree
with Mr Shepherd and feel their invest-
ment is stronger because of the heavy
retention-of funds within the company.
But they all agree that the small investor’s
views should be heard.
The difficulty of raising new money at
the moment has influenced a long string
of public company share issues. The little
fellow is saying that, when the chips are
down, the companies still fall back on
the insignificant shareholder.
Institutional support for the BHP
cause may be very powerful, yet it is
worth pointing out that institutions them-
selves owe their existence to shareholders
(or policyholders in the case of insurance
companies).
Most directors, to give them their due,
recognise this fact and each of them has
British and American Share Markets
Plan and sterling were the two
most obvious outside influences upon
the London stock markets last week. There
can be little doubt which item business,
and investors, are regarding as of prime
importance. Sterling remains well at the
centre of the stage, all the more so at a
time when its present performance and
future possibilities look better assured.
At any rate sterling has lately been
behaving with reasonable strength on the
international markets, following Bank of
England and central banks' organised
support. In London that situation even
served to overcome much of the mood of
disappointment induced by the August
overseas trade figures.
Though index movements were some-
what variable during the week, a positive
4.8 points gain was recorded over the
whole trading period. Once more, leaders
received plenty of attention. The market
has remained terrifically impressed with
the great success of ICl's loan issue. A
hopeful interest spread to steel, engineer-
ing and electrical shares; gilt-edged, under
sterling's improvement, made further
gains.
Mr George Brown, the Minister for
Economic Affairs, launched the Labor
Government's five-year plan on Thursday.
Industry and commerce does not seem to
have greeted it with much enthusiasm.
The newly proposed growth rates have
still to overcome the existing mood in-
duced by the credit squeeze.
Meanwhile Wall Street was also dis-
playing some mild index ups-and-downs.
But trading overall has been considerably
active. The New York Federal Reserve
Bank confirmed many analysts' feelings
by stating that the US economy "is clearly
vulnerable to inflationary pressures”. The
Dow Jones gave a typical investment
reaction to that, reaching 931.18 on Thurs-
day, to compare with May 14's 936.62
peak. The week finished at 928.99.
Leaders are helping the advance all
the time just now. A special feature,
following the recent troubles, is the notice-
able return of steel stocks, which have
made some really impressive gains.


a fund of stories about the irascible and
often unreasonable type of shareholder
who badgers them without real cause.
It is a fact of business life that, although
keen brains may harness the savings of
little people and put them to work, it is
necessary, after all, to have those little
.people.
Unfortunately, today there is a wide
range of once enthusiastic investors who
have been soured of investment. Com-
pany crashes like Reid Murray and ex-
tensive market falls in still-flourishing
industrial companies have made them a
little bitter, apart from speculative losses
in oil and mining shares.
If these people lose money at the races,
they are philosophical. If they lose it on
shares, they claim they were misled.
The need to restore public confidence
in investment is urgent. Brokers with
empty offices will testify to that. Money
is coming from overseas, certainly, but
more confidence is needed at home to
encourage the public to put money into
Australian projects.
Investors in Australia don’t put risk
money into shares, like their counter-
parts in America and elsewhere. They
want to see their money grow quickly
instead of putting it into the market for
long-term growth. They want to turn it
over to buy a home unit or a car. They
still haven't developed a savings complex
in terms of equity investment.
It has been said that Australians need
to display more confidence in their own
country. Well, the total number of Aus-
tralians (Ilf million) at present available
to put money into shares at some time of
their lives is not large compared with
big institutional investors both here and
overseas.
Yet it would be a good thing if they
were wooed a little more diligently by
established institutions (and not by share
pushers, please!). An enthusiastic inves-
tor works wonders in attracting other
investors to a stock.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Backing Our Good Luck
Too Much?
Sir Ian Potter's timely warning
TN his masterly interpretation of the financial prospect, Sir lan Potter at the annual
meeting of Australian United Corporation seemed anxious to give a stern warning
without creating alarm and despondency. In passing the buck to the authorities to
ensure sound financial management to get us through the next twelve months “without
too much disturbance”, he gave the hint that it would be wrong to back our luck too
much.
It was no mere coincidence, with the
accustomed chilly winds blowing up from
the Royal Show rings, that Sir lan, whose
arguments we will come to presently,
uttered these thoughts at a time when
industrial leviathans like Sir Colin Syme
and his legal stablemate, J. A. Forrest,
were casting their own doubts on
prospects in the Elysian fields. Indeed,
from the sheltered portals of the Com-
monwealth Banking Corporation, Sir
Warren McDonald could also see some
tricky writing on the national economic
wall.
As Sir lan sees it, the main problems
arise from diminishing liquidity, some-
thing which Mr Holt also was at pains
to stress to the economic forum in Mel-
bourne recently. Some of the liquidity
which was drained off in the years of
surplus can now be re-injected to sustain
activity in the ecpnomy, said Potter. But
he thinks the problem is less simple than
it looks on the surface, because “the
broad financial picture tends to conceal
some of the basic trends which have been
developing over the last year or so”.
One of these, he said, was that the
liabilities of the private sector have been
increasing more rapidly than its financial
assets, in fact by well over £2OO million
more in 1964-65. This may not seem
so terrible measured against a GNP of
£9500 million, he stated, but stern stock
must be taken of the situation when it
is realised that the greater part of the
net reduction has come from overseas
funds, whose rate of depletion is likely
to accelerate this year. He therefore
postulates the need for shorter-range
policy if the need for drastic action is
to be averted in the attempt to restore
lost liquidity without exaggerating in-
herently inflationary tendencies,
A strong impression is given that, while
Sir lan sees no reason why we should not
successfully negotiate the difficulties
given the prevailing high vigilance of the
authorities, he doesn’t rule out direct
steps to curb imports. “At some stage,”
he suggests, “a persistent deterioration
in the balance of payments may be
remedied only at the political level.”
Correction of the external imbalance
through the credit structure may, he says,
prove more onerous and inexact than
the economy can handle without major
dislocation.
He does not rule out the possibility
that the emerging situation may well
prove to be transitory. “Capital inflow,
at the moment under a cloud, may prove
to be more substantial than originally
expected and the flow of imports may
EXPORT ACTON
"A most satisfactory order . ..
It's a pity about . . .
their method of payment."


level off or even fall.” On the other hand,
he doesn’t shrink from the possibility
that it will demand restrictions on trade
and capital in a world setting where they
have been much in evidence in the last
five years.
Against this background it becomes all
the more important to give full recog-
nition to the Treasury view that pressures
on resources show little prospect of
relenting. The widening gap between
vacancies and applications in the labor
market, as revealed last week, indicates
no abatement of the pressures there at
any rate. But quite apart from Sir lan’s
apparent confidence in the vigilance of
the authorities, these pressures must be
considered in relation to the prospects
for the various income-generators as
examined in this column last week and
also with regard to the pointers on
pressures given by Sir Colin Syme and
Mr Forrest at the BHP and ACI meetings
last week.
these two chairmen, possibly Mr
Forrest was the more forthright in
pronouncing an easing of pressures and
also in underlining the balance-of-pay-
ments problems looming up. Though he
regards the economy as basically sound,
as for pressures Forrest thinks the full
effect of the recent Budget on community
spending has still to be felt. If this is
taken together with exports and overseas-
reserves trends, persistently-rising in-
dustrial costs and the marked shortage
of available credit resources, the prospect
Was for a slowing dow'n of business
activity and this would have adverse
repercussions on the various industries
in which ACI is engaged.
Sir Colin Syme was by no means pessi-
mistic but one possibly shouldn’t neglect
his intimation that demand for some of
BHP’s end-products was easing. The
passage ran, “indications are that in
the current year demand for wire pro-
ducts will be somewhat lower under the
combined influence on the farming com-
munity of drought conditions and lower
export prices. Again, the demand for
strip and merchant bar also appears to
be easing back from last year’s excep-
tional levels”. When coupled with his
further remark that the group’s output
of almost every type of product will be
higher this year, this must represent a
better equated demand-supply position
for the most basic of all our productive
resources.
Furthermore it could well mean a sub-
stantial reduction in steel imports, which
have figured very prominently in record
import bills of recent months and last
year exceeded steel exports by £18.3
million (compared with net exports of £5
million in 1963-64). It would certainly
serve the balance of payments well if
BHP were in a position to substitute a
substantial part of last year’s £48.8
million steel imports for its own products
and, by the same token, export more
steel. On the other hand, Sir Colin was
at pains to point out that “Japanese mills
delivered in Australia some types of
steel products at prices lower than Aus-
tralian prices and apparently less than
sales of similar material in Japan”. So
the way for substitution may not be as
clear as might seem. Equally, he spoke
of more intensive competition in export
markets.
In his review accompanying the re-
port of the Commonwealth Banking Cor-
poration, which, incidentally, surveys the
general scene in a much more compre-
hensive manner than of yore, Sir Warren
McDonald takes full cognisance of the
existing pressures on resources, but also
sees mitigating factors. Some of these
have already been noted above, but his
treatment is very much to the point.
Like Sir lan Potter he believes “a
continuing sharp appetite for imports is
to be expected throughout the current
financial year in the absence of limiting
action” and that this will be sharpened
by rising defence requirements. He also
envisages a reduction in liquidity both
of the banks and the community gener-
ally as conforming with declining over-
seas reserves.
Even so, “Within Australia,” he states,
“there is likely to be further strong
growth in spending. Defence spending,
in particular, will increase substantially
both in Australia and overseas, with
probable multiplier effects throughout
the economy. With the economy already
in a condition of very full employment,
this will be a factor adding to inflation-
ary pressures. A large increase in imports
in 1964-65 relieved the pressures on local
resources, but it seems unlikely that Aus-
tralia could afford to obtain much ad-
ditional relief, if any, in this way in
1965-66.
“However, there are,” he says, “likely
to be several important factors serving
to moderate these pressures. A tightening
of liquidity, such as could stem from a
large balance-of-payments deficit, and
a fall in farm incomes due to the drought
would have dampening effects, while
spending on home construction will
probably be a less expansive factor than
in 1964-65. Moreover, there have been
signs of increasing caution in business
expectations related to uncertainties
stemming from drought, the balance-of-
payments position and the political situa-
tion in South-East Asia.
“All in all, it will be difficult for the
authorities to steer an appropriate course
in order to achieve a balanced rate of
growth in 1965-66.” That seems to sum
it up very nicely.
CROESUS
Widows and Orphans
Bearding the BHP board
SPHERE’S a legend in Melbourne that, at the annual meeting of one of his com-
panies, Sir lan Potter had trouble in finding a chair for the one and only
shareholder in attendance. Audiences at company meetings are not usually as that
as that but, since the heyday of the Bamboo Room when crowds used to gather
to hear the likes of Stanley Korman and Rex Testro, they have dwindled almost to
vanishing point on some occasions.
So it was with high expectations of a
first-night performance that a thousand
or more theatre-starved investors fol-
lowed Mr Albert Shepherd, freshened
up by his Gold Coast holiday, down to
500 Bourke Street where he was billed
to beard the BHP board in its den
only to find that the play had been trans-
ferred to a bigger auditorium down the
street. The move could have been anti-
climax, but it was not, because it al-
lowed for theatrical entrances for the
actors and the tenser atmosphere which
goes with crowded aisles. The anti-cli-
max was to come later. Mr Shepherd
proved to be from repertory, Sir Colin
Syme straight from the West End.
Mr Shepherd’s basic complaint against
the board was that it has been less than
generous to shareholders. To repair this
fault his motion was that shareholders
be given without delay a one-for-eight
free bonus and a ten p.c. dividend on
the capital so increased. He was not wor-
ried so much for himself, he claimed, be-
cause any additional income this would
attract for the 320,000 £1 shares held
by himself and family would mostly be
siphoned off by the Federal Treasury.
As the biggest shareholder in the com-
pany he was doing what he considered
his duty, to espouse the cause of the
smaller shareholders, the widows and
orphans so to speak, whose voices were
not so well backed by BHP, paper.
I went along to this tear-wringing per-
formance armed with a few calculations
of my own. One set showed that, if the
proposals were acted on by the board,
the market value of Mr Shepherd’s hold-
ing could reasonably be expected to in-
crease, from £BOO,OOO (at 50s. a share)


Fix It Yourself
AUTO-MOTO
MAGIC OVRHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
Engine Self-Reconditioner While • U • Drive,
REPLATES WORN upper cyls., main bearings,
diflFs., gears. SAVES rebore, ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new
compression, power, top speed, zipp. SAVES.
Adds £ s.d. to resale value. GUAR, up to
25,000 miles. HARMLESS finest engine.
SIMPLY add amazing expanding mineral Nu-
Metal (pat.) in oil. petrol or plug holes.
1,2, 4,6, 8 cyls. 15/6, 30/-, 60/-, 70/-,
80/-. Testimonials, engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat- morn. Dis. req.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58
Swan St. (opp. Richmond Stn.), Vic. 42 1755.
I enclose £ tor
or send free particulars describing action of
Mu-Metal.
"BUL.‘
NAME
ADDRESS
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL:
NORTH SYDNEY
Junior Scholarships each tenable at this
School for four years and of annual value
equal to tuition fees, will be awarded at
the end of this year after examination to
be held at the School on Friday, 29th
October, 1965. There are four Scholarships
of which three are open to candidates out-
side the school. The standard of examination
is approximately that of Sixth Class of
Primary Education.
The Archbishop's Exhibition for sons of
clergy of the Church of England will also
be awarded at the end of the year.
Entries close on Thursday, 14th October,
1965. Entry forms and further details are
obtainable from the Headmaster's Secretary.
B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster.
SIR COLIN SYME
by something between £50,000 and
£lOO,OOO. If he ultimately cashed in on
this, the gain would be entirely tax-free
How altruistic can one get in pitying
widows and orphans!
I can only hypothecate on how much
BHP shares would rise if the BHP
board had lost. I wouldn’t pretend to be
able to crystallise into a single percent-
age increase the myriad of market in-
fluences that might bear on the actual
result, nor to know what all these in-
fluences might turn out to be. On the
other hand, adopting the empirical ap-
proach, some significant comparisons
emerge. Taking a dozen substantial
public companies with similar earnings-
growth experience as BHP in the six
years to June, 1964 (allowing for all
bonus issues and bonus elements in cash
issues), it transpires that, whereas the
price of BHP shares (again after allow-
ing for bonuses and bonus elements)
has about doubled since 1958, the aver-
age price of the shares of the dozen
selected companies has nearly trebled.
BHP shareholders will doubtless be
able to think of a number of reasons
why the price of their shares has lagged
behind (not that an effective doubling
in six years is exactly a widow’s mite!).
We will not go into them all here, ex-
cept to say that undoubtedly one weighty
drag on the share price has been the
thickening of the wedge of prior charges
in front of a share capital which has it-
self increased from £48.7 million to £ll3
million since 1958.
Expressed as a ratio to prior charges,
the equity was 4.65-to-l in 1956, 3-to-l
in 1961, and is now 1.85-to-l. For the
profit and loss account this has meant
that the ratio of net profit to interest
on debentures and loans has dropped
from l-to-24 in 1956, to l-to-18 in 1961,
and to l-to-8.6 last year. Nor can share-
holders escape the conclusion that, on
top of this, the watering of the capital
through generous bonus handouts has
prejudiced the growth of the share price.
(They can’t have their cake continually
being split into smaller parts and expect
each part to grow on the same scale
as if nothing had happened.)
Even if the capital appreciation shown
by BHP shares over the past six years
hasn’t been as big as a number of other
shares enjoying similar earnings’ experi-
ences, it certainly compares very favor-
ably with the capital experience of bond-
holders. Before putting BHP shares on
the same income basis (51 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds) as bonds, Mr Shepherd
should ponder the thought that, with the
rise in long-term bond rate since 1958,
bondholders have suffered an erosion of
capital. This is quite apart from their
loss of purchasing power consequent on
the fall in the value of money (one of
the reasons in the cause of the widows
and orphans again, of course he ad-
vanced for wanting BHP to increase its
dividend to 10 p.c.).
Sir Colin gave the shareholders a
timely reminder that “it will be a disaster
for this company if it is believed that the
directors are regardless of the national
interest.” Mr Shepherd, as its biggest
shareholder, cannot fail to get the full
implication of such a remark. He, least
of all, would hardly relish BHP being
nationalised and getting steel stock at
a fixed rate of interest in substitution
for the shares which, though they have
stood him in very handsomely over the
years, have apparently not yet paid
off to the fullest of his expectations.
Looking at the earnings prospect, it
was not just a question of BHP blud-
geoning consumers of steel with higher
monopolist prices instead of supposedly
subsidising them by keeping prices low
in the national interest (the suggestion
was that any subsidisation should be
done by the Government, not by the
company). Apart from the national view-
point, said Sir Colin, there was the stark
economic one that “even taking a rela-
tively short term view, it is dangerous
to assume that we can make a substan-
tial increase in prices and at the same
time maintain the volume of sales.” More
specifically, he instanced certain weak-
nesses which have emerged in the mar-
ket for steel.
Mr Shepherd got his loudest claps
from the ladies (especially from one
just in front of the Press table) when
projecting his dividend targets. But let
us look again at those twelve big com-
panies with similar earnings’ experiences
(average increases of 63 p.c.) to BHP
(67 p.c.) in the six years to June, 1964.
Surprisingly enough we find that (dis-
counting for bonuses, of course) their
dividends increased on average by 53
p.c., whereas BHP’s increased by 99 p.c.
Only two of the twelve, John Fairfax
and the Herald and Weekly Times, in-
creased their dividends more than BHP
(in the case of the Herald, it was only
by a small fraction) in this period.
Or, take a group of companies which
increased their dividends by about the
same'percentage as BHP (again allow-
ing for bonuses). What was their earn-
ings experience in the past six years?
These eight companies increased their
dividends on average by 102 p.c. as
against BHP’s 99 p.c. But on average
their earnings increased by 80 p.c., com-
pared with BHP’s 67 p.c. Obviously Mr
Shepherd would argue that the boards
of all eight deserve a bigger shake-up
than BHP’s. On the other hand, as in the
case of BHP, the boards would argue
that in deciding the dividend rate they
look primarily at what is good for the
company and not the shareholders in
isolation. When somebody put the lat-
ter point to the BHP meeting he was
howled down.


THE MAN ON THE LAND
Vacate or Consolidate
What’s happening in Australia?
“T WOULD not, at any time, do anything to damage, the dairying industry, but I
-*■ would likeHt to be Government policy to provide financial assistance to farmers
in marginal areas, either to vacate their farms or consolidate with neighboring farms.”
The Minister for Trade, Mr McEwen, said it.
It is possible to make too much, per-
haps, of one paragraph. But it is an hon-
est statement and, at the same time, a
frightening one.
Anyone who is close to the farming
scene knows that the odds are against
the small man making a go of it, that
every week “consolidation” of proper-
ties is going on. A property comes up
for sale and in nine cases out of ten it
is bought by someone who already has
a farming property. Yet this is the first
time that there has been any indication
that there is approval of the process at
Government level.
Mr McEwen, it should be noted, said
he would “like” it to be Government
policy to provide assistance either to
vacate or consolidate. That would seem
to suggest that other parliamentarians
may not share his view, or that he has
not made them aware of it. He made the
statement in answering a series of ques-
tions from the Australian Dairy Industry
Council, which was seeking a better deal
for Australian farmers in the Australia-
New Zealand trade agreement.
The main point at issue: permission
for New Zealand to send 1000 tons of
cheddar cheese duty-free to Australia a
year. Understandably, the dairy-farmers
are perturbed. Understandably, the agree-
ment must make it easier for New Zea-
land dairy-produce to enter Australia
if it is to have any sort of meaning
at all.
Mr McEwen denied that it was the
Government’s policy to discourage Aus-
tralian dairy-production, to hold it at
existing levels, or to encourage farmers in
certain areas to give up dairying or con-
vert to something else. This, somehow,
does not quite balance out with the
“vacate or consolidate” statement,
which is why that particular statement
is so interesting.
The trend in farming today is un-
questionably towards consolidation of
"They call him BHP hoard nothing will shift him.”
properties and applies in all branches,
not only dairvmg Vet it is a mixed-up
situation and it needs straightening out
Whatever the Federal Government may
think, and whatever one Minister (Mc-
Ewen) may think, the fact is that State
Governments are continuing with closer-
settlement plans. There is an overlap-
ping in these matters, and people can
get hurt.
A policy of closer settlement is de-
cided upon at higher level; then a de-
partment is set up to administer the
policy; jobs are created, and ihe bureau-
cratic machine is built. Once it is built
it cannot be shut down just like that.
If this sounds a little vague, let’s deal
in specific realities. At the very moment
Mr McEwen is hinting at the need for
“vacate or consolidate” moves in the
dairying industry, the Victorian Govern-
ment is pressing ahead with a large land-
resumption in the Rochester area of Vic-
toria. Involved in this resumption-plan
are some 16 farms, averaging about 400
acres each. Four of these farms, in-
credibly, are held by soldier-settlers from
World War 11. If they are to be resumed,
they will have the dubious honor of be-
ing the first soldier-settlers to have their
land taken away from them by a govern-
ment.
Anyone naive enough to think that re-
sumptions only apply to inefficient
estates, run by absentee-owners, clearly
knows little of the way in which the mind
of the planner works. To the planner,
the Rochester farms are ideal for re-
sumption because there is surplus water
from Eppalock dam. What better way to
use up this water than turn the sixteen
existing fat lamb and mixed farms into
forty-odd dairy farms equipped for
irrigation?
The fact that dairying is already a
subsidised industry, that overproduction
exists in dairying, and that the agreement
with New Zealand will further limit
dairying potential, cannot stand in the
way of a plan which was begun ten
years ago. All the months of planning,
the blueprints and the reports, the hours
of work at the drawing boards, can-
not be allowed to go to waste. Once a
plan is started it must be carried through.
There is a further irony here. The six-
teen farmers who look like being re-
sumed were among the forefront of
those who petitioned for Eppalock
dam years ago, when it was in the plan-
ning stage. Probably a different lot of
planners there’s no sentiment.in this
business.
All the farmers have got for their
trouble is the unenviable choice of sel-
ling out (at a figure which they claim
is not good enough) or becoming dairy-
farmers themselves by applying for one
of the proposed dairy-blocks (they would
get preference, which is only fair). None


NEW ISSUE
NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March, 1950.
4,6 or TO YEARS
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
18328
of them, apparently, wants to become
a dairy-farmer, because they feel there
are enough dairy-farmers already. The
economics of the dairy-industry at pres-
ent would tend to support their lack
of enthusiasm.
To be sure, this particular issue is a
complicated one because the existing
sixteen fat-lamb raisers have been al-
lowed a certain quantity of irrigation
water for many years. They feel that
they should be paid a price which would
take this into account. They allege that
the Victorian Government wants to pay
them “dry-land” prices for their farms.
It is quite possible that the problem
will be ironed out to the satisfaction
of both the farmers and the State Gov-
ernment. The point, in the national sense,
is that here we have a prime example
of the lack of flexibility, and the devo-
tion to antiquated ideals, which charac-
terises so much official planning in this
country. One gets the feeling, at times,
that heads of Government Departments
(State and Federal), and their senior staff
members, are carrying chips on their
shoulders from thirty years ago.
A revision of Federal and State Gov-
ernment attitudes to land-settlement is
needed badly. There are thousands of
people wanting to become farmers. There
is no shortage of land. There is a grave
shortage of long-term finance to permit
would-be settlers to purchase farms. But
there appears little chance of this finance
being made available while so many Gov-
ernment millions are being spent to per-
mit big farmers to become bigger still,
and to provide more and more Govern-
ment plans which no one, except the
planners, really wants.
Barry Goldwater, in the US, wanted
to sell the Tennessee Valley Authority
to private enterprise. Nothing so drastic
is required here. What is needed is an
integrated, common-sense, national plan
for land-settlement and irrigation.
The Commonwealth Government
backs the Ord River project and, when
all the millions of taxpayers’ money are
spent up there, a mere 300 farmers will
be settled on the land. At present there
are only 25, and a quarter of these are
Americans understandable when it is
realised that, despite the Government
spending, it still needs capital to the tune
of about £40,000 for the individual settler
to get started. Yet Coleambally, where
300 farmers are already established
(1000 eventually) gets no Federal grant.
Victoria, on the Rochester experience,
may have come to the end of the line
as far as suitable land for closer settle-
ment/irrigation is concerned. There are
many other examples. It is not the prin-
ciple but the quality of these settlement
schemes which needs review.
AGRISEARCH
Steps Towards Fluke Control
A University of Adelaide zoologist,
Dr J. J. Lynch, has discovered that,
the larvae of a native predatory fly
( Dichactophora biroi) may be suppressing
the incidence of fluke disease. The fly’s
larvae, which inhabit moist places such as
the edges of lakes, ponds, marshes, and
streams, attack the fluke’s intermediate
host the water snail, Lymmaea tom-
entosa. Under the right conditions the
snail population is virtually wiped out.
Human efforts to annihilate the snail by
draining or fencing off snail areas or by
broadcasting the snail poisons, bluestone
and copper pentachlorphenate, could
hardly be more successful. Unfortunately,
this natural enemy of the snail can strike
only when the water level has fallen to
the point where the snail is partially pro-
jecting above the surface.
A closer look under laboratory con-
ditions revealed the reason for this. The
larva needs atmospheric oxygen and can-
not hunt snails beyond the depth where
its breathing tube becomes submerged.
Indeed, Dr Lynch observed that snails
which were caught on the surface but
dropped to the bottom on being attacked
normally survived because the larva had
to disengage. The high kill under the
right conditions is due to the fact that
the larva does not set up house in a
snail, having found one, but merely eats
enough to satisfy its immediate ap-
petite. It then leaves this victim, bleeding
to death, and finds another when hunger
again prompts. The larva has a hooked
tooth which it drives into the snail’s
heart.
American zoologists have made a
parallel finding and are attempting to
capitalise on it. They found that a fly
belonging to the same family preyed on
the snail, which is intermediate host to
the large fluke. This species does not
occur in Australia but is a serious pest of
domestic animals elsewhere, as, for in-
stance, in Hawaii. In an effort to exert
biological control over this fluke, the
Americans introduced the fly to Hawaii
a few years ago. The latest report claims
that the fly has managed to establish
itself, but that it is still too soon to gauge
the fly’s effect on the frequency of fluke
infestation.
Likewise, the studies started at Ade-
laide have not gone far enough yet to
permit an appraisal to be made of the
practical or potential value of this nat-
ural predator. It may be that, in many
places, the "fly merely achieves what
desiccation would bring about a few


INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
4
YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable front!
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE "WALES' FOR DETAILS
N013.N.
weeks later near total destruction of
snails. However, in the irrigation dis-
tricts, at least, where, perforce, water
levels are kept low for long periods, it is
quite possible that the fly is a valuable
ally of the sheepmen. We just don’t know
yet; as more information is gained we
may find ourselves in a position to aid
and abet.
Snail-killing is one way of tackling
fluke disease; the other is by killing the
flukes themselves inside the sheep with
drugs. There have been obstacles to this
course, however. Chief has been the lack
of a chemical which was one hundred
per cent effective against the fluke but
did not harm the sheep. Carbon tetra-
chloride, the safest drench available to
date though by no means entirely
safe does not kill flukes which are
not fully mature at the time of drench-
ing. Consequently, the treatment must
be administered repeatedly, perhaps half-
a-dozen times a year, and even then
quite enough flukes mature and lay eggs
to keep their kind flourishing.
No Comprehend
/"’lan you understand all the words that
appear on pesticide labels? Do you
know the real meaning of such words
as “poison”, “toxic”, “hazardous”, “fumi-
gant”, “fungicide”, “herbicide”, “insecti-
cide”, “residues”, “residual spray”, “pro-
longed, contact”, “infestation”, etc? As
Bulletin readers you probably do,
but, if the word power of Wisconsin’s
farmers is any guide, many of our farm-
ers would have only a hazy idea of what
such terms imply. It is a fair bet that
these words would often stump, say,
Italian tobacco-growers.
't'he Wisconsin students of meaning,
with dollars from the Accident Preven-
tion Division of the US Public Health
Service, tested the vocabulary of 200
local people, mainly farmers. Some wives
and agricultural high school pupils were
also included. The subjects were asked
to check the right definition among four
choices and indicate how sure they were
of their answer (very sure, fairly sure,
guess). Not unexpectedly the wives
generally were more sure of their an-
swers, and they were also more often
correct. Thus, all the women got the
meaning of “toxic” right, though about a
third of the farmers and a smaller pro-
portion of the students failed to pick the
correct definition. Some thought that a
toxic substance would harm insects but
not people. Others endowed the term with
a selective action for killing objectionable
insects without injuring the helpful ones.
“Fungicide” tripped up more than half
the farmers, nearly half the students,
and about 10 per cent of the wives. They
tended to confuse a fungicide with a
fungus and thought that it caused disease
of crop plants. So the answers went sur-
prisingly on.
When the word “poisonous” was sub-
stituted for “toxic” no one had trouble.
Similarly “fungus killer” was not mis-
construed, nor “weed killer” instead of
“herbicide”, and so on. It seemed pos-
sible to find more comprehensible al-
ternatives for all the usual terms. Some-
times they weren’t as elegant or as tech-
nically correct; why worry, they got the
message across.
The Fertiliser Go-operative
Questions on its success
/"''an Farmers Co-operative Fertilisers
(Euroa) Ltd make a go of it? A good
question one which is being asked in
many country areas of Australia far
removed from Euroa, Victoria.
The venture now has 75 per cent of
the funds needed to start operations.
The funds stand at 1,400,000 15s. shares
and 120,000 £5 debentures. Already (as
mentioned in J. C. Horsfall’s article on
trade practices in The Bulletin, Sept.
11) there is evidence that Euroa Fertili-
sers is not too popular with the major
Victorian distributor, ICIANZ. There is
much talk too, in Melbourne, by fellows
in the fertilisers business.
The gist of it is this: every economic
argument is against an inland super works
becoming a paying proposition. This ap-
plies to any firm, regardless of whether
it is a co-operative or not.
The fellows with a flair for figures
declare, almost to a man, that the sea-
board is the only place to establish a
super works. The Euroa men, of course
know all about this and they went into
it thoroughly, they say. They believe they
will be a paying proposition. So do the
farmers who have supported them finan-
cially.
Much rides on this. Decentralisation,
that wonderful theory, could do with the
shot in the arm that a prosperous country-
based super works would provide.
The news, just recently, of likely rises
in the price of sulphuric acid will not
make Euroa’s task any easier. Sulphuric
acid is an essential requirement in the
super process. One might assume that
Euroa would not be in as good a posi-
tion to buy it as ICIANZ.
The continuation of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s superphosphate bounty to
farmers may be another key to Euroa’s
survival. The bounty was the major rea-
son for the big increase in super sales
last year; if it is cut out, then demand
might be expected to recede. A great
many Australian farmers suddenly got
interested in pasture improvement when
they found that the Government was pre-
pared to pay for part of it. Will their
enthusiasm continue?
The here-and-there millions going to
primary industry generally are beginning
to mount up. It would not be surprising
if, before the next election, there was a
show of economy. It would be only a
show.


AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Registered Office: 500 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ADDRESS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS (MR. J. A. FORREST) AT THE ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS ON WEDNESDAY, 15th SEPTEMBER, 7965
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Following our usual practice, I wish to ad-
dress you now on the position of the Company
and on the results of the financial period ended
31st March, 1965, but, before doing so, I will
refer to changes on the Board of Directors
which have taken place since our last Meeting.
In April of this year, Mr. A. E. Smith re-
tired from the Board and, in so doing, ended
a notable association with our industries ex-
tending over 48 years. Mr. Smith joined the
glass making industry in 1917 and after holding
various positions became General Manager and
a Director of the Company in 1939. In 1960,
he retired from the position of General Manager
and remained in office as a Director.
In May of this year, Mr. C. N. McKay re-
tired after being a Director of the Company
for 10 years.
The resignations of both gentlemen were ac-
cepted with regret and understanding. They
served the Company well and their guidance and
wise counsel contributed significantly to its
growth and diversification. I know I speak for
all in expressing thanks and good wishes to
them both.
Mr. T. M. Ramsay joined the Board in July.
He is overseas on business at present and re-
grets being unable to be with us today.
REVIEW OF ACCOUNTS
The Group Report for 1965 including the
Accounts and Balance Sheet has been cir-
culated to all Shareholders and you will have
had the opportunity of reading and studying
it.
The Net Profit of the Group for 1965 after
providing for income taxes was £4,963,000.
On this occasion, the treatment in the Ac-
counts of certain regular provisions has been
changed. Items previously charged against
profits are now reported as appropriations of
profits. Details of this change are set out
under the heading of “Transfers to Reserves
and Provisions” on page 5 of the Report. The
results for last year on a comparable basis
of reporting were £4,429,000 as set out in
the Report at page 10.
Another change made in the Accounts this
year, of which you will be aware, is to adopt
for the Parent Company the balancing date
common to the subsidiaries, namely 31st March.
This change was made to accord with require-
ments of the Companies Act and as only the
Parent Company was involved, there was little
effect on results reported. In my following
remarks, I shall refer to the “year” ended
31st March, 1965, rather than the “period”
ended on that date.
The proportion of income of certain sub-
sidiary companies due to outside minority
shareholders this year was £553,000 compared
with £381,000 last year. Shareholders will re-
member that these Companies are Malayan
Containers Limited in which the public of
Singapore and Malaya holds 48.3% of the is-
sued capital and A.W.G. Holdings Proprietary
Limited in which Pilkington Brothers Limited
and Pilkington Brothers (Australia) Proprietary
Limited have a combined holding of 49%.
A.C.I. in turn holds 49% of the issued shares
of Pilkington Brothers (Australia) Proprietary
Limited.
This year certain companies transferred to
General Reserves a total of £568,000 com-
pared with £748,000 last year. Profits re-
maining unappropriated at the end of the year
were £1 881,000 compared with £1.351,000 at
the close of 1964. General Reserves in the
Group stand at £13,732,000 compared with
£12,894,000 last year.
Shareholders’ Funds
By the end of the year, Shareholders’ Funds
in the Group had increased from the pre-
vious year by £1.962,000 mainly from operating
Profits to a total of £49,736,000 after making
certain provisions and retting aside the sum
necessary to pay the proposed final dividend.
The Shareholders’ Funds are a substantial por-
tion of the total funds of £71,324,000 employed
in the operations of the Group.
Working Capital
Total Group Current Liabilities and Pro-
visions at the end of the year were £15,703,000
and were covered by Current Assets amounting
to £25,675,000. Included with the liabilities is
a total of £5,633,000 for estimated income
taxes payable. About £1,900,000 of this sum
refers to taxes in respect of 1964 not payable
until after 31st March, 1965. The Group con-
tinued to use overdraft money and short term
loans and deposits during the year. Debtors
and Stocks increased during the year mainly
as the result of increased production and
sales throughout the Group, although the Debt-
ors figure does include a non-trading amount
of £605,000 due to be received soon after the
end of the year for sale of certain freeholds.
Investments
The Company’s investments reported at cost
as at the end of the year were £6,740,000.
Most of the increase over the previous year
took place under the heading of “Other In-
vestments”, comprising £271,000 further in-
vestment in the partnership of New Zealand
Window Glass Company. It will be noted that
the market value of securities in companies
dealt with on Stock Exchanges is still well in
excess of cost, despite the heavy drop in values
during the year.
Fixed Assets
The increase of investment in fixed assets
made during the year was £4,657,000 and,
after deducting depreciation provided, the fixed
asset total for the Group stood at £38,910,000
at the end of the year. Several items of free-
hold, not required for the Company’s purposes
were sold, including the land and buildings at
52 William Street, Sydney. The proceeds, re-
ceived after the end of the year, have been
applied elsewhere in Group activities.
Decimal Currency
Plans are well in hand for the change to
decimal currency on 14th February, 1966. For
internal purposes we will convert as from Ist
January, 1966, so that by the official conver-
sion day we should be able to change smoothly
over to the new currency. When the change-
over has settled down, we propose to consider
splitting the £1 shares of the Company into
$1 units.
As from the year ending 31st March, 1966,
our accounts of course will be published in
dollar terms and, by way of preview, we will
send to Shareholders an insert, with the printed
proceedings of this Meeting, showing how our
Group Consolidated Accounts for 1965 would
have appeared in dollars together with a com-
parative statement in dollars for the year 1959
to 1965.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
In the Published Report, you will have read
a comprehensive review by the General
Manager of the activities of the Subsidiary
Companies and it is not my intention to cover
the same ground in these remarks.
HEADQUARTERS BUILDING
The new building at 550 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, being constructed as a headquarters
for the Group is progressing on schedule and
is expected to be ready for occupation during
the second half of 1966. Finance for this
project has been arranged with an institution
on a long term basis.
NEW ZEALAND
Business conditions in New Zealand were
generally buoyant throughout the year but
some pressures on the economy are present
and come from the tendency for internal costs
to rise and from deterioration in the national
balance of payments position. In its recent
budget, the Government took certain measures
to relieve the growing pressure and for the
short term future at least, the outlook is sound.
Our Companies operating in New Zealand
showed, overall, a steady increase in business
and in profits with indications of continued
growth in the current year.
New Zealand Window Glass Company, in
which we are partners with Pilkington Brothers
Limited, is now well established making good
glass and earning modest profits.
SOUTH-EAST ASIA
The results from operations by Thai Glass
Manufacturers in Bangkok showed improve-
ment compared with the previous year. Con-
ditions in Thailand throughout the year were
not affected to the extent one might have ex-
pected in view of the troubles of other coun-
tries in that area. Results so far for their cur-
rent year (which ends 31st December) indicate
a small downward trend in profits but we ex-
pect, nevertheless, that Thai Glass Manufac-
turers will return a reasonable, if somewhat
lower, profit for the period.
Malayan Containers Limited, our Subsidiary
which operates through Singapore Glass Manu-
facturers Company Limited and Malayan
Fibre Containers Limited, showed a fall of
about 10% in pre-tax profits compared with
1964. This reduction was due to lower sales
and narrower profit margins in the Singapore
Company which was affected by contraction
of export business and competition from im-
ported goods on its home market. Results so
far for this current year show further deteriora-
tion and this must be expected until the new
situation is clarified.
Shareholders will remember that over the
years, the Company has made provision against
its assets overseas. References to this were made
in the Directors’ Reports of 1957 and 1959.
The amounts so set aside are held in various
Australian reserve and provision accounts in
the Group and are adequate to cover any loss
that might arise in future from a serious de-
terioration affecting our interests in South-East
Asia. However, we hope and it is our earnest
wish that we shall never have to deal with
such a situation.
We all share the regret that the concept of
Malaysia has not worked out the way everyone
hoped it would and trust that, with wisdom
and patience, those who have the heavy re-
sponsibility of making the immediate adjust-
ments and guiding the future of Malaysia and
Singapore will be able to maintain the stability
and promote the prosperity of both countries.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
Overall Group results for the first five
months of the current financial year are ahead
of those for the corresponding period of last
year. While we expect that the results for the
full year will compare favorably with those of
1965, there are problems in the national econ-
omy which cause us to look to the months
ahead with some caution. The full effect of the
recent Commonwealth Budget on community
spending is yet to be felt. Imports continue at
a very high rate and, with export income show-
ing little sign of substantial upward swing, it
appears that the trend in overseas reserves will
continue downward. Internally, costs continue
to rise and there is a marked shortage of avail-
able credit resources. Taken together, all these
factors point to some slowing down of current
business and in the national economic growth
rate and, in turn, can be expected to affect the
various industries in which the Company is
engaged. At the same time, it is recognised that
the economy is basically sound with good
growth prospects and the Company is planning
accordingly.
VOTE OF THANKS TO STAFF
On your behalf Ladies and Gentlemen and
on behalf of the Board, I wish to thank all
people employed in the Group in Australia and
overseas who. under the capable direction of
the General Manager, rendered loyal and com-
mendable service in making 1965 a successful
year.


Finance
Corporation
Limited
INCORPORATED IN.SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
Zh
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
73
4
0,
0
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
7
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
A
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
5k
*±/0
PfR AMNIMB MONTHS
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
%
Applications for.debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten <L Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. jdn. j
INVESTMENT
Electronic Eases the Mind
Tax problems not so bad
HPhe directors of Electronic Industries
A have certainly eased shareholders’
minds by pointing out that, although the
record 1964-65 profit was after less-than-
normal tax, special amounts written off
for other items total the same amount
as the tax saving. Over the past two
years there has been some concern, with
such a low earning rate, that dividends
might suffer when normal tax became
payable. Although this still seems to be
a year or more off, the fact of other
items absorbing the savings keeps profit
figures on a realistic basis for the time
being.
Profit in the year to June 30 rose from
£651,000 to £759,000. Although a
record, earning rate is still mediocre at
13.4 p.c., up from 11.2 p.c. previously.
Nevertheless, it gives a somewhat more
comfortable cover for the steady 10 p.c.
dividend. The result was after tax, up
substantially from £163,000 to £336,000,
and fairly heavy depreciation of
£418,000, previously £344,000. Tax
benefits are still being derived from the
past losses of some subsidiaries.
Among the special amounts which
counter the tax benefits is the deprecia-
tion figure itself. It includes an allow-
ance for office equipment in connection
with the conversion to decimal currency
and an additional £50,000 provision for
plant and machinery. The first item at
least is non-recurring. There was also
a special write-off of bad debts and an
extra amount for long-service leave.
The validity of the directors’ argument
as to the cancelling effect these items
had on the tax saving depends entirely
on their non-recurring nature. Share-
holders would be wise to ensure that all
these items are of such a nature when
the annual meeting is held. Only then
can it be said that profits will not suffer
once a full tax liability is incurred.
Such questions would be particularly
pertinent in view of the fact that profit
over the full year gained only 16 p.c.,
compared with 20 p.c. in the first half.
Is the growth rate tapering? Perhaps not,
for, if the second half did start off
rather slowly, there is evidence to suggest
that there was a sharp rise in business
towards the close of the year. In March
directors estimated that the full profit
would be £715,000 even they must
have been a little surprised at the sub-
stantially better final outcome.
Palm to Statham
palm for the most improved result
A in 1964-65 should go to R. and N.
Statham Ltd, Newcastle rural and in-
dustrial equipment supplier.
Profit rocketed from £83,271 to
£210,110, after tax of £139,161 (1964,
£62,849) and depreciation of £22,664
(£10,803),
Investors were well informed of the
company’s unprecedented business. The
interim report spoke of a 106 p.c. in-
crease in turnover over the correspond-
ing half-year of 1963, and of a premium
placement and a one-for-five par issue.
(There had already been a two-for-five
par issue at the beginning of the financial
year.)
The notice of the terms of the second
issue reported at length on the new


For men who look for quality before the price tag.
Exxford suits
Superbly hand tailored from individually selected English cloths.
Made in Australia for men who usually prefer imported clothes and
recognise the perfection of craftsman tailoring. For men who look
for quality first and then the price tag. To £75 at stores of fine taste.
Exxford the only suit that rates a golden hanger
GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
ask any branch
Of THE C.B.A.
up to i=i 5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
GENERAL
Elia
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
6840
developments which necessitated fresh
capital.
Turnover for the full year was over
50 p.c. greater than in 1963-64, due
largely to the diversification into manu-
factured products, and sales by the in-
dustrial division. This saved the com-
pany from ill-effects of the drought on
its rural business.'
Issue of the accounts around October
22 will enlighten shareholders as to the
importance of the rolling of aluminium
into building sheeting for Alcoa of Aus-
tralia Pty.
Statham entered Queensland during the
year by the acquisition of Buildings and
Industrial Suppliers Pty, a similar busi-
ness to its own, and has since expanded
to Victoria, South and Western Aus-
tralia, so it is now on a national footing.
Directors have not been carried away
by their success; probably they are watch-
ing liquidity Despite an earning rate
of 36.9 p.c. on the greatly enlarged
capital, they recommend nothing more
than the usual distribution of 10 p.c.
Around 11s. 9d. the ss. shares give
an immediate yield of 4.3 p.c., while the
earnings yield is a promising 15.9 p.c.
Tempting Biscuits
Sunshine Biscuits, the only Australian-
controlled biscuit manufacturer listed
on the Stock Exchange, scored another
record profit in the year to June 30. Un-
doubtedly this will make the group look
a little more attractive to the often all-
consuming overseas giants.
And shareholders will now be a little
more inclined to sell out, despite the very
year. Because of capital in-
creases, earning rate fell from 18.2 to
13 p.c. Actually the increase was made
in 1963-64, but the shares did not rank
for dividends until the current year. In
all, 221,000 new 10s. units came into
existence through a note conversion.
It seems only a matter of time before
the group receives a takeover offer of
some description. Any branch of the
food game seems worth diversifying into
these days. The company is one of the
few independent biscuit makers in Aus-
tralia. The Australian Biscuit Co.
Guests, Arnott, Brockhoff and Swallows,
among others has most of the market.
No More Big Prizes
distributor LNC Industries Ltd
found the year to June 30 very
competitive, and profits fell 30 p.c.
short of the 1963-64 record.
Loss of the sole distributorship for
(Continued on page 68)


THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Chairman's
Address
EXTRACTS FROM SIR COLIN SYMES' ADDRESS
AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD AT
526 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, ON FRIDAY,
10th SEPTEMBER, 1965.
FINANCIAL
rjTHE year under review was a satisfactory
one for your Company and its Sub-
sidiaries, Group profit and production
reaching record figures. Consolidated net
profit at £19.6 million was 11% above that
of the previous year. There were several
factors of an unusual nature which had a
bearing on this result. For the first time all
Subsidiary Companies’ accounts were bal-
anced at the same time as the Parent Com-
pany and this meant that the accounts as
consolidated covered a period longer than
12 months in some cases. The effect of
these extended periods was to increase net
profit by some £600,000. On the other hand,
the mining operations at Groote Eylandt
and in Western Australia were transferred
to subsidiary companies which were incor-
porated during the year and this had the
effect of temporarily deferring certain taxa-
tion deductions. In subsequent years, the
effect of following this course will be to our
advantage but the adverse effect on net
profit for the year under review more than
outweighed the gain arising from the change
in" balancing dates.
As mentioned in the Directors’ Report,
substantial benefits were again derived from
investment allowances.
Depreciation, which is a major element
of our costs, continued to rise significantly,
due to new facilities being brought into
operation. It continues to be calculated on
a replacement cost basis and is therefore
greater than the amount allowed for income
tax purposes.
The provision for income tax is £3 million
higher due to the increased gross earnings
and the lower amount appropriated for ex-
penditure on mining plant and development
during the current year. These increases
were only partly offset by the greater
depreciation and investment allowances.
Dividends for the year totalled l/Bid. per
share, which was an increase of 2d. per
share, or £940,000, over the amount dis-
tributed in the pievious year. Although the
issued capital has remained virtually
unchanged since 31st May, 1962, the
total amount paid out in dividends has
increased from £6.5 million in that
year to £9.6 million in the year now
under review.
The liquid balances of the Group
declined to £33.4 million, a fall of
£B.B million, and the current asset ratio
of 1.54 to 1 is the lowest it has been
since 1959. The principal balance sheet
item reflecting this decline is the Group
holding of Government Stocks and
Bonds, which fell by about £ll mil-
lion and at balancing date amounted to
£38.2 million. This latter figure should
be compared with the Group’s com-
mitments for uncompleted capital ex-
penditure which at 31st May, 1965,
stood at £47.7 million compared with
£29.2 million a year earlier. This
£47.7 million represents only that part of
the expenditure authorised by the Board
as has been made the subject of contracts
with suppliers and, of course, the total of
Board approvals amount to a much higher
figure.
The need for capital expenditure at a
high rate shows every sign of being main-
tained and, of course, our working capital
requirements grow with the increased
volume of production.
SHARE ISSUE
JJAVING regard to all these facts, it was
decided and announced on 23rd July
that an amount of approximately £l6
million would be raised by an issue to
shareholders at par of one share for every
seven shares held at Ist October, 1965.
Notices of entitlement will be posted to
shareholders as soon as possible after that
date.
It is a matter of regret that the require-
ments of the Securities Act of U.S.A. are
such that, in the case of a foreign company
such as ours, compliance is virtually im-
practicable, in consequence of which the
offer cannot be made to those of our share-
holders having registered addresses in U.S.A-
The future expansion and development
programme of the Company and its Sub-
sidiaries is aimed at providing capacity to
meet the needs of Australian industry and,
in addition, to provide a worthwhile con-
tribution to export earnings. In a period
in which the level of employment in the
community is very high, the maintenance
of investment at the rate necessary to
achieve this objective involves considerable
difficulties.
As you know, the operations of your
Company are in the main outside capital
cities and they are also in rapidly growing
areas. We are, therefore, faced not only
with a general labour shortage but also
with the problems of housing shortages and
the need for the rapid expansion of various
public facilities. We are grateful to Com-
monwealth and State authorities for their
efforts to help in solving these problems,
but we have to recognise that there are
many claims on their resources.
IRON AND STEEL PRICES
TOURING the year prices of iron and steel
products were increased by an average
of 2%. The increases in the case of wire
products averaged about 5%. These were
the first general price increases for five
years.
Whilst the price of most types of foreign
steel in the country of origin, with the
addition of freight to Australia, is higher
than the price of Australian steel, too much
can be inferred from this comparison.
Excess production capacity in many of the
major steel producing countries has created
intense competition in international trade
with the result that some producers are
prepared to sell for export at belo.w
domestic prices. For example. Japanese
mills delivered in Australia some types of
steel products at prices lower than Aus-
tralian prices and apparently yielding less
than sales of similar material in Japan.
Further, many of our customers cannot
afford to pay higher prices for their steel,
as much of their production is in com-
petition with manufactured imports or is
competing on an export market. As well
as this, we are also facing direct and
vigorous competition from other materials,
such as concrete, glass, plastics, non-ferrous
metals and various other materials. Con-
siderations of this nature tend to be over-
looked at a time when the principal pre-
occupation is the need to produce enough
steel to meet the demand, but this situation
will not always be with us. Even taking a
relatively short-term view, it is dangerous
to assume that we can make a substantial
increase in prices and, at the same time,
maintain the volume of our sales.
COMPANY POLICY
TTAVING regard to the position of the
Company in the Australian economy,
it is natural and proper that its policies
should from time to time be a matter of
public discussion. During the past few
years there has been debate on such matters
as to whether we have expanded fast
enough; whether we have given sufficient
attention to export; and whether customers
are being asked to pay too high prices in
order to help pay for our capital expansion.
And always, of course, there is publicity
relating to the Trade Unions pressure for
higher wages or other benefits for their
members. More recently a good deal of
publicity has been initiated to the effect
(Continued on facing page)


that shareholders should receive greater
benefits than they are now receiving.
It is the duty of Directors to give full
consideration to these matters and to do
the best they can to reach proper decisions
in regard to the courses which are urged
upon them and which frequently are con-
flicting courses.
The test they have to apply and the
test they do apply is what, in their judg-
ment, is in the best interests of the Com-
pany. Being a matter of judgment, other
people in the same position may reach dif-
ferent conclusions, but the test remains the
same.
All of this may sound very obvious, but
the recent criticisms charge the Directors
with being pro-national in their outlook,
and it has been suggested that this pro-
national outlook has become a religion or
obsession. Except for myself, the personnel
of the Board has changed completely since
I first became a Director, but, despite the
changes that have taken place, the outlook
of the Board is and always has been pro-
national. It is net a religion or obsession
it is, in my view, merely an application
of the view that Directors must act in the
best interests of the Company. It will be
a disaster for this Company if it is believed
that the Directors are regardless of the
national interest. Under current circum-
stances there is no conflict between a pro-
national outlook and the interests of the
Company. It is essential in the interests of
the Company that the Directors should have
a pro-national outlook and that this fact
should be understood and accepted by all
shareholders and the Australian public at
large.
MILESTONES
the year three milestones in the
Company’s history were passed. The
first of these was the official opening of the
Whyalla Steelworks in May, following the
earlier successful commissioning of the
Bloom and Structural Mills. The second
was the 50th Anniversary of the opening of
the Newcastle Steelworks in 1915. The third
was that the Company produced in one
year five million tons of ingots for the first
time. With these achievements behind us
we are pushing ahead with the largest
expansion programme in the Company’s
history.
WORKS EXPANSION
is in hand for further expansion at
Whyalla. The new No. 2 Blast Furnace
will be blown in shortly, providing additional
feed for the steel plant which will then have
a capacity of 500,000 tons per annum. Other
projects now under way will lift this capa-
city to over 900,000 tons per annum by 1967.
Work is also in hand for the installation of a
H million ton per annum pelletising plant
and associated shipping facilities at a cost
of about £lO million. This plant, which
will be the first of its type in the Southern
Hemisphere, will provide a new form of
blast furnace feed and will also be a step
in the direction of the beneficiation of the
lower grade ores in the Whyalla area.
The development programme at New-
castle will involve the introduction of con-
tinuous casting on a substantial scale, a
technique which has only recently been
brought to full scale commercial use and
one which should yield useful economies.
Other facilities to be added include an
additional 8.0.5. furnace and a high pre-
cision merchant mill.
As announced recently, preparations are
now under way for a major expansion pro-
gramme at Port Kembla. The plans involve
the erection of No. 2 Plate and Hot Strip
Mills, to be developed from the existing
140" Plate Mill by the addition of six con-
tinuous finishing stands. Increased plate
capacity will be provided by the addition
of a second 4 high 140" reversing Plate
Mill stand and another 120" plate finishing
line. These new facilities will bring plate
and hot strip rolling capacity to 4.5 mil-
lion tons per annum, which is approximate-
ly double the existing level.
In order to feed these new mills at Port
Kembla, new iron and steel capacity will be
installed. Initially, a fifth blast furnace, with
an annual output in excess of one million
tons, is to be built. It will be one of the
largest furnaces in the world and is pro-
grammed for commissioning in 1968.
These facilities at Port Kembla will cost
more than £4O million. The complete pro-
gramme, however, will ultimately embrace
new coke ovens and new steelmaking and
primary rolling equipment and additions
to the tinplate plant. The completion of
these projects will make the Port Kembla
Steelworks one of the world’s major pro-
ducing centres for flat products and will
involve a total capital expenditure of over
£9O million.
Work is proceeding on the development
of the Koolyanobbing iron ore deposits in
preparation for the commencement of iron
making at Kwinana. Initial production
facilities to be installed at Kwinana include
a 1-million ton per annum sinter plant and
a large blast furnace.
At Groote Eylandt, development of the
mafiganese deposits is being pushed ahead
rapidly. Initial production to supply ore
for the ferro-manganese furnace at Bell
Bay in Tasmania is expected to commence
about the end of this year. Further develop-
ments are well advanced to bring the ore-
winning capacity up to 200,000 tons per an-
num by next June.
\
PRODUCTION RECORDS
PRODUCTION during the past year was
at record levels. Over 5.1 million tons
of ingots were produced, an increase of
7.6% on the previous year’s figure. Output
of pig iron was almost 4 million tons, or
more than 7% greater than in 1963/64.
The collieries also operated at record levels.
Nevertheless, we were unable to meet the
demand for all steel products and imports
were necessary in several categories.
Indications are that, in the current year,
the demand for wire products will be some-
what lower under the combined influence
on the farming community ot drought con-
ditions and lower export prices. The
demand for strip and merchant bar also ap-
pears to be easing back from last year’s ex-
ceptional levels. Nevertheless our steel
plants continue to operate to capacity. In-
creased tonnages of almost eveiy type of
product we make will be available this
year.
EXPLORATION
EXPLORATION for new sources of raw
materials is being carried out extensively
throughout Australia, the major centres of
interest currently being in Arnhem Land,
the Rockhampton district and parts of West-
ern Australia and Tasmania.
The discovery of natural gas in the first
well drilled by Esso Exploration Australia
under its agreement with our wholly-owned
Subsidiary, Haematite Explorations Pty.
Ltd., was a welcome development.
Following a further successful strike at
a step-out well Esso Gippsland No. 2
an assessment is now being made of the
many complex technical, commercial and
legal factors which must be taken into ac-
count before the field can be exploited.
It will be some time before a view can
be formed as to the course of this de-
velopment.
The drilling rig has been moved to a site
in Bass Strait between Flinders and King
Islands where Esso Bass No. 1 Well was
spudded in on 21st July. Geological study
of the Otway Basin is nearing completion.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
activities of our Subsidiary Com-
panies were generally at satisfactory
levels during the period. However, the
importation of flat stainless steel products,
which I mentioned last year, has continued
and has made further inroads into the
market for the products of Commonwealth
Steel Co. Ltd. at Unanderra.
LABOUR PROBLEMS
T HE shortage of labour continues to give
cause for concern, despite the most
vigorous efforts to recruit personnel, both
in Australia and abroad.
As at 31st May, 1965, our three major
Works were short of more than 1,700
men, including 700 tradesmen. Our over-
seas recruiting work has added 461 trades-
men and 956 unskilled men to our labour
force since April, 1964, when the current
campaign was introduced.
The Company’s staff training scheme con-
tinues to provide a valuable flow of train-
ed and qualified personnel and, as at this
date, there are 4,033 young people under
the scheme. Included in this figure are
2,540 apprentices, 775 technicians, 603
degree trainees and 87 young men attend-
ing universities on a full-time basis under
Company Scholarships.
RETIREMENT PLAN
L AST month the Company announced
the introduction of a Contributory
Retirement Benefits Scheme for most of the
employees not covered by the Staff Pro-
vident Fund. Membership will be voluntary
and, in general, will be open to permanent
non-staff adult employees of The
B.H.P. Co. and Subsidiaries.
The Company will contribute
to the Scheme £1.10.0 for each
£1 contributed by the members.


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
UP TO
Debenture Issue
Applications accepted only on application form attached to and
referred to in a printed copy of the Prospectus obtainable from
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative Office, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Or any branch of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
Ilk HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 Underwood Street, Sydney
Mo/csm
Volkswagen in NSW as from June 30
puts a damper on 1965-66 prospects.
Directors are also wary of the effects of
the drought and possible Tariff Board
decisions.
Group turnover increased 9 p.c. to
£l9m. in 1964-65. Profit of £227,728
gave 50 p.c. margin over the 20 p.c.
dividend.
But profit margins, at least in the VW
distributing and servicing subsidiaries of
Lanock Motors, were affected by the
intense competition.
LNC will continue to act as a dealer
in VW vehicles, be sole distributor
of VW spares in NSW, and service VWs
in nine metropolitan and country areas.
But obviously the days of the “grand
prix” are over.
NSW distribution rights have been
secured for Bellett and Colt vehicles,
and the company is concentrating on
strengthening Grenville Motors Ltd,
NSW distributor of Rover, Land Rover
and Rambler, and Ruslit Motors Ltd,
distributor of Deutz, Commer and Per-
kins trucks and engines.
Recovery Road
recovery appears complete
and the group is set for a brilliant
1965-66. The latest year to June 30
completed a lengthy period of financial
reconstruction outside liabilities were
reduced by £300,000 and at balance date
total liabilities were at last fractionally
lower than shareholders’ funds.
Profit jumped from £134,000 to
£247,000 to equal 16.4 p.c. on capital.
The company has returned to the divi-
dend list with a 5 p.c. distribution. The
only factor detracting from the result was
tax. At £66,000 it was well below normal
levels, thanks to past losses.
Any increase in the rate of tax during
the current year should be offset by the
continuing rise in profits. The group is
well under way with a £300,000 ex-
pansion programme. It is being financed
from internal sources. Directors have
found it impossible to boost turnover
any further without expanding facilities.
Providing economic conditions do not
deteriorate they, too, are extremely con-
fident of a buoyant current year. In
fact, they have predicted that the divi-
dend will be lifed to 8 p.c. The interim
report will be watched with interest as
they have forecast that the payout will
be made in two equal amounts.
Hanimex Enlarges
A 17 p.c. sales increase, and qualifica-
tion for tax relief by virtue of export
promotion and investment allowances on
capital expenditure, helped Hanimex
Corporation Ltd to new profit records.
In the year to June 30 profit escalated
from £225,547 to £298,373, and earning
rate from 41.7 p.c. to 49.0 p.c. Tax was
lowered from £96,347 to £83,313.
Dividend is a generous 20 p.c. (last
year, 15 p.c.), arid shareholders are now
offered ss. shares at ss. premium in the
ratio of one-for-five held. A private
placement at 14s. 3d. was made through
a Melbourne sharebroker in June last,
to raise £140,000 as extra working
capital.
Cum rights, the shares now bring close
to 175., which means they should average
down to around 15s. 4d. after the issue.
This importer and manufacturer of
photographic equipment has come a long
way since the dim days of 1957-58 when
a loss of £55,103 led to three years’
absence from the dividend list.
Whew!
TUTyttons, manufacturer of cutlery and
stainless-steel products, continues to
bombard shareholders with issues. After
nearly doubling profit in 1964-65, it
will make a one-for-eight bonus issue.
The last bonus issue was a one-for-five
in 1962-63. The latest issue will make
a total of six bonus handouts and one
par issue over the last 15 years. This
is equivalent to an issue every two years!
Dividends have been held at 12 p.c.
over most of this period. Directors make
no prediction of the rate after this issue,
though there is little doubt that it will be
maintained. The £368,000 result equals
26.4 p.c. on higher capital. The 1963-64
result was equal to only 16.7 p.c
Apart from a depreciation saving, the
main reason for the increase seems to be
the acquisition of J. and H. Marks and
York House during the year. These


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
NEW ISSUE
PER ANNUM
SYEARS &
7-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
All interest payable quarterly. Applications accepted only on the form referred
to in and attached to the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. AT ANY OF ITS BRANCHES.
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
THE JOINT UNDERWRITERS
Pring Dean & Co.
20 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
A. B. S. White & Co.
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LIMITED
316 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone 61-9701, 61-6421.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
Trustee for Unsecured Noteholders: P.T. Limited.
MA.216 NSW
moves lifted paid capital by £250,000.
The current year looks like being as
buoyant as the last. During 1964-65 all
members of the group achieved record
profits and turnover; this trend has con-
tinued into the current year. No doubt
the rights will be good buying on the
strength of another issue within two years
or so.
Corf am, Too
A s indicated in the interim report, Mel-
bourne-based Associated Leathers
earned a lower profit in the full 1964-65
year. The result came back from
£340,000 to £288,000. Although direc-
tors gave no reason for the downturn,
there is little doubt that the conditions
which prevailed in the first half of the
year continued in the second half. In
the first half profit suffered from rising
costs. The group may also have been
affected by the temporary surcharge
placed on imports into the UK.
Despite the lower result there is little
to concern shareholders. Earning rate,
down from 23.3 to 19.2 p.c., easily covers
the 11 p.c. dividend. Unfortunately the
dividend has been cut from 131 p.c. by
the elimination of the 1963-64 bonus
element.
But the current year should see a
recovery in profits and possibly a re-
stored or perhaps higher dividend. The
result will benefit from a full year’s
trading by Arthur Cooper, a hide and
skin merchant recently acquired. In
addition, great things are expected of
“Corfam”, a new “wonder” product
from America which is expected to make
inroads into leather as a material for the
manufacture of shoes.
Surprising Turn
William Haughton took a surprising
" turn for the better during 1964-65
and managed to convert a loss in the
first half of the year into a £12,000 pro-
fit by the time balance date came around.
The result was despite the effects, if any,
of the drought during the second half.
The full result compares with a profit of
£109,000 in 1963-64, when shareholders
collected an 8 p.c. dividend. This was
the first distribution for three years.
Needless to say, there will be no payout
for 1964-65.
Trading conditions for the company
were better during the second half. Fol-
lowing a continuing reorganisation, there
was a further reduction in expenses. The
curtailment of unprofitable activities
contributed to the strength of the profit-
able departments, improved liquidity and
enabled a more efficient use of resources.
Despite all this, the directors feel that the
year was one of the most difficult since
the war. The profit, low as it is, should
be judged against this background.
Although the drought may make itself
felt on trading during the current year,
the reorganisation already undertaken
will be providing benefits to the company
for a full 12 months. In addition several
other factors will come into play. A
newly formed hide-trading company, in
which Haughton has a third interest, will
bring in results for the first time.
Costs will be further lowered by ces-
sation of membership of the Sydney
Greasy Wool Futures Exchange. Opera-
tions were profitable in this field during
1964-65, but administrative costs con-
nected with such a highly specialised
activity were out of all proportion. The
group intends to maintain its associate
membership, however, through a sub-
sidiary company.
Add to these factors the £167,000 the
company has on hand from profits on the
sale of fixed assets during 1964-65 and


ESANDA
LIMITED
The main business of
Esanda Limited is to
conduct hire purchase
leasing and other
finance operations
Unsecured notes up to
o
o
Debenture stock
Unsecured notes
interest per annum
payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only
on one of the forms of application
referred to in, and attached to printed
copies of the prospectus which
are available from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited
ESANDA
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
287 Collins Street, Melbourne.
it could be concluded that even William
Haughton, a company beset by erratic
trading and frequent cash shortages, will
be able to withstand any ill effects the
drought may have on 1965-66 results.
More Dough from Fielder
Shareholders of the Tamworth flour
miller Geo. Fielder and Co. Ltd re-
ceive a final 5 p.c. making 9 p.c. total
from profits for the period to June 30,
compared with 8 p.c. in 1963-64.
To be more specific, the profit of
£239,576 was the result of 12 months’
trading by the subsidiaries and nine
months by the parent.
It marked excellent progress from the
1964 profit of £173,643, but provision
for tax of £33,964 (£24,904) was still
unusually low, owing to the recoupment
of past trading losses in certain sub-
sidiaries which are now operating
profitably.
Few companies on the list have had
such a variable profit and dividend rec-
ord in the past seven years as Fielder.
Profit has been, since 1959, £14,000,
£84,000, £40,000, £151,000, £99,000,
£174,000, and now £240,000. Dividends
have not fully reflected these variations.
For the same years the rates were 8,
10, 3i, 8,8, 8, and now 9 p.c.
The latest earning rate of 19.8 p.c.
is encouraging, but investors would like
some lead from directors in their an-
nual report as to what effect the drought
will have on 1965-66 results.
W. Mofflin Troubled
Wool, hide and skin merchant Wilcox
Mofflin Ltd lost £92,335 in trading
for the year to June 30, 1965.
This old-established firm last lost
money in 1957-58, but the profit in
1960-61 was also insufficient to pay a
dividend.
In March directors reported a loss of
£84,838 for the first half of the year,
and blamed world-wide unfavorable con-
ditions in the sheepskin trade. They said
that some buyers were restricted by bal-
ance of payment or currency difficulties,
•but others were reluctant to support fal-
ling markets.
The ss. shares sold recently around
2s. Any further trading difficulties and
the company will look interesting from
an assets and tax loss point of view to
takeover bidders.
\ Rich Get Richer
old song “The rich get richer and
A the poor get poorer” sums up the re-
tail situation in major Australian cities.
While the last couple of years has
seen the decline and fall of several large
and old firms in the Sydney city, especial-
ly at the southern end, David Jones Ltd,
entrenched in the heart of the city and
with branch stores in the NSW suburbs
and provincial cities, in Queensland,
Adelaide and Perth, continues to set new
records.
The profit of £2,458,417 for the year
to July 31, 1964 was 18 p.c. higher
than the year before, and encouraged
directors to recommend a 131 p.c. divi-
dend after six years’ distribution of
p.c.
New earning rate is 24.1 p.c., so that
at 14s. 9d. the ss. shares show an at-
tractive earnings yield of 8.2 p.c. In-
come return at that entry price is 4.6
p.c.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
A Summary of Finance Companies
Dividend growth prospects appear limited
Aver the past ten weeks, the prospects
and past performances of nine of
the bank-affiliated finance companies
have been examined. During this period
some of these companies have been re-
porting in detail on the results of their
1964-65 year. It therefore seems approp-
riate to make a summarisation and to
examine, with the combined results of
the “bank-affiliates”, the results of some
other listed finance companies. In this
connection, I must mention that two
out of the three which will be men-
tioned in this article also have quite
strong associations with overseas insti-
tutions. These three additional companies
do not exhaust the list of companies
i, which are engaged in this industry (and
' whose shares are listed on the Stock
Exchange). I have, however, decided to
restrict consideration to companies whose
I paid capital exceeded £1 million and
which had at least announced their re-
sult for 1964-65.
In examining the individual companies,
I have looked at the trends in three main
areas, namely the return on total “out-
standings”, the average rate of interest
paid, and the gearing (that is, the rela-
tionship between borrowings and share-
holders’ funds). It will probably be ap-
propriate to compare the companies on
| the basis of these ratios and I will start
with the return on outstandings.
In some cases, this ratio has involved
estimation, because I have sought to ex-
clude as far as possible the profits (or
losses) of the insurance subsidiaries as
well as the assets of these subsidiaries.
The results appear as follows:
Company 1962 1963 1964 1965
i Associated Securities 9.9 8.7 8.6 8.7
I Aust. G'tee Corpn 8.8 9.5 9.3 9 0
CAGA 8.2 7.8 8.0 8.3
r Custom Credit 8.7 8.6 8.6 8 6
FCA n.c. 9.3 8.8 8.7
r General Credits n.c. n.c. 7.2 7 7
lAC 8.6 8.4 8.5 n.a.
I Muluai Acceptance 10.1 9.8 9.5 n.a.
Mercantile Credits 9.4 9.3 9.3 n.a.
I Alliance 8.3 7.8 7.9
Beneficial Finance n.a. 9.8 9.0 8.8
Cambridge Credit 9.7 10.4 9.5
Hooker Finance 10.0 9.3 9.1
From these figures, I draw the con-
clusion that this ratio should be some-
where between 8i p.c. and 9 p.c. If the
1 return is higher, one must have a close
l look at the type of business being trans-
it acted and try to decide whether it carries
1 a high risk of default, or if there is a
I high cost factor in the interest charge.
Details of expenses, other than the in-
terest charge, are rarely given in the pub-
lished accounts, but two companies pro-
vided sufficient information to allow the
ratio of expenses to be calculated:
Company 1961 1962 1963 1964
Custom Credit 3.5 3.3 3.7 3.8
CAGA n.a. 4.4 4.2 4.0
The most striking fact about these
figures is that the ratio is increasing for
one company and declining for the other.
This would suggest that there is also a
possibility that “running” costs can be
reduced, though the figures do not give
any indication as to the ratio that might
be regarded as an optimum. It would
seem most likely that a fair proportion of
these costs would not vary directly with
outstandings, so the overall percentage
would tend to fall as outstandings in-
creased.
The average interest charge of the
various companies has been as follows:
Company 1962 1963 1964 1965
Associated Securities 8.3 7.0 7.3 6.8
Aust. G'tee Corpn 6.5 6.4 6.6 6.4
CAGA 6.6 6.4 6.6 6.4
Custom Credit 7.5 7.7 7.0 7.0
FCA n.a. 6.9 6.6 6.7
General Credits 6.5 6.5 6.8 6.7
lAC 6.9 6.8 6.7 n.a.
Mutual Acceptance 7.7 7.3 7.9 n.a.
Mercantile Credits 7.8 7.6 7.4 n.a.
Alliance 7.1 7.2 6.6 n.a.
Beneficial Finance n.a. 8.4 7.8 7.3
Cambridge Credit 8.4 9.0 8.3 n.a.
Hooker Finance n.a. 9.1 8.7 n.a.
The figures in this table clearly indi-
cate that the major factor in deciding
the average borrowing rate seems to be
the associations of the borrower. With
the exception of Custom Credit, all the
local bank associates have managed to
keep their average rate below 7 p.c. and
the average would seem to be about
6.6 p.c. The others have been able to
keep the rate for the past two years at
least below 8 p.c. and it seems possible
that Alliance may have moved into the
“local bank associate” class. Cambridge
Credit and Hooker Finance are still in
the “over 8 p.c.” category.
Tt seems that, as the interest rate de-
creases, the rate of return on outstand-
ings decreases also. In fact, it is quite
surprising how consistent the difference
between the return on funds and the
average borrowing cost is. Probably, as
a company moves into the rather select
class of low cost borrowers, it tends
to offer lower rates to its customers to ob-
tain the most attractive business. Eight
of the thirteen companies had a net mar-
gin (the difference between the pre-
interest return and the average interest
rate) around 1.5 p.c., and only three,
Australian Guarantee Corp., Finance
Corp. and Mutual Acceptance, had a
net margin in excess of 2 p.c.
The other factor which has a direct
bearing on the profits that will become
available to the equity shareholders is
the relationship between equity share-
holders’ funds and the funds supplied
by others, including not only borrow-
ings but also preference capital. Today
there is a tendency to place a limitation
on the outside liabilities that a finance
company may incur, and this limitation is
either related to shareholders’ funds (in-
cluding preference capital) or to “liquid
assets”. Of the companies listed in this
article, eight have limitations based on
shareholders’ funds and five have limita-
tions based on either “liquid assets” or
“total tangible assets”. In all cases these
“assets” include gross outstandings, i.e.,
without deducting the income to mature
provision. Many consider that this does
not amount to a limitation because, if
the company may borrow up to 80 p.c.
of liquid assets and if the amount added
to the sum advanced in respect of the
hiring charges is in excess of 25 p.c.,
borrowing may continue indefinitely de-
spite the so-called limitation.
However, I do not propose to debate
the question of what may be a desirable
limit to finance companies’ borrowings.
I would point out that, other things be-
ing equal, the higher the gearing the
greater the profit for the equity, pro-
vided all funds raised are profitably em-
ployed. So, although we have noted that
three companies have a net margin in
excess of 2 p.c., it must also be noted
that these same three companies appear
to show a downward trend in the re-
turn on outstandings. In fact, the in-
crease in funds during the year of Aus-
tralian Guarantee seem to have earned
a return of about 8.6 p.c. However, even
if this should be correct, the ordinary
capital about to be raised in AGC’s new
one-for-four issue will earn about 18.8
p.c. when fully geared. If AGC’s borrow-
ing limitation was seven times share-
holders' funds and not six times, the rate
would increase to 20.6 p.c. If the issue
had been made at par, the earning rate
on equity capital could hardly have risen
above 12.5 p.c.
The finance companies seem to be “in-
come” stocks today, and one wonders
whether a dividend yield of less than,
say, 6 p.c. should be accepted when
the future growth prospects for dividend
income seem to be so limited. However,
there are a number of quite sound
finance companies yielding 7 p.c. or
better today.


m
see
ELECTRICITY LOAN
51’/
2/0
FOR 10 OR 15 YEARS
511
FOR 7 YEARS
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED CASH AND CONVERSION LOAN
Secured on the Council’s total Income estimated at £43,000,000 in 1965
'
'
i'W'.^
;
mi
«»»? *»
„ 5 ' \ «vj
. .
■ n
ELECTRICITY-BASIC TO MODERN LIVING
You may invest cash, or, if you hold securities in
SCO Loans No. 41 JJ (314% maturing 1/10/65)
and 154 (514% maturing 1/12/65) you can easily
convert, taking advantage of these attractive
rates.
Invest at any office of the Commonwealth Trad-
ing Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited; Bank of New South Wales; The Com-
mercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
The Rural Bank of New South Wales; or through
a stockbroker, or at the Council’s Head Office,
Queen Victoria Building, George Street, Sydney
(Phone 2-0259).
An Authorised Trustee Investment in New South
Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and
Tasmania.
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
underwritten by lan Potter arid Company , Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
m
44.823


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION
LTD.
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
FOR 5 YEARS
or
How to apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to
the Prospectus. Your copy available from all
Members of Stock Exchanges, all Branches of
the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8870
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
High and Reliable Income
Good image for Hopkins Odium
ITopkins Odlum Ltd was formed in
Victoria in August, 1952, to acquire
the shares of an operating company,
Hopkins Odium Pty Ltd. The business
was founded in 1890 by the brothers
Hopkins Arthur and Charles. In 1891,
a George Odium was admitted to the
partnership, which was then renamed
Hopkins Bros and Odium. In 1910 Hop-
kins Odium Pty Ltd was formed.
Today the company manufactures
every type of machine belting, including
vee link, leather and rubber transmis-
sion, conveyor, elevator and vee belts.
There are two subsidiaries Apex Belt-
ing Pty Ltd (incorporated in Victoria)
and Apex Belting (NSW) Pty Ltd. The
latter was acquired in June, 1960, under
the name of John O'Neill Pty Ltd and
its name was subsequently changed. The
products are distributed in every State
through a number of well-known houses,
most of which have acted as branch
agents for nigh on 50 years.
Despite the competitive field in which
the group operates (especially as a re-
sult of imports), it has managed to earn
a reputation as a steady dividend payer.
In 1953, the first year on the public
lists, 8 p.c. was distributed from the 14.2
p.c. earnings. From 1954 to 1960 in-
clusive the payout was held at 10 p.c.
every year and a one-for-four par issue
was made in 1957. During the 7-year
period, earning rates ranged from 26.7
to 15.7 p.c., so the dividend was always
adequately covered. In 1961 the payout
was reduced to 8i p.c. after the economic
recession had reduced earnings to 9.4
p.c. The 10 p.c. rate was restored in
1962 and maintained in 1963 and 1964,
when earnings recovered to an all-time
peak of 34.3 p.c.
Sales were also a record last year, es-
pecially so in the last half. Turnover rose
about 27 p.c. over 1963. The sales rise,
combined with more efficient production
methods and a less than proportionate in-
crease in overhead expenses, brought
about the sharp profit rise from £69,000
to £llO,OOO. The group invested £50,000
in extensions to buildings and plant, en-
abling it to extend the product range
and to improve research facilities, test-
ing and quality control methods. All of
these are vitally important in the com-
pany’s field of operations today.
Undoubtedly the highlight of the
group’s history was the four-for-five
bonus issue last February. It was made
from a revaluation of the parent com-
pany’s holding in the Victorian sub-
sidiary. Needless to say, the effect on
capital was rather drastic, lifting it from
£320,200 to £576,360, or 80 p.c. If the
1964 profit was maintained in the cur-
rent year, earning rate would come out
at 19.1 p.c., providing almost double
cover for another 10 p.c. dividend.
At present a steady or slightly higher
profit and another 10 p.c. dividend seem
fairly well on the cards. In the six
months to June 30, sales rose 32 p.c.
and profit was appreciably higher at
£65,000. Directors estimated that the
full result would at least equal 1964. The
second half of the year is not usually
as lucrative as the first half and they
pointed out that the wage bill would be
higher this year. In addition, several large
orders for conveyor belting have been
placed overseas and not locally, indicat-
ing again the continuing keen competi-
tion from imports. An interim 5 p.c.
dividend was declared in view of the
steady profit expected.
The accompanying table reflects no
particular trend for current assets and
current liabilities until 1964, when the
rapid increase in business expanded both
quite considerably. The overall effect on
working capital was favorable. The slow
growth in fixed assets reflects gradual
expansion and continuous modernisation.
Ordinary capital has been steady for
some time the bonus increase will not
be shown until the 1965 balance sheet is
available. Reserves show continual
growth and last year managed to top
the paid capital figure. They will be well
below it now, of course. The £395,000
figure will be augmented in the current
year by unappropriated profits and any
balance from the revaluation of assets
made last February.
Loan capital is no doubt a little high
for the comfort of the more conservative
shareholders, but there seem to be few
problems as far as redemption is con-
cerned. The £260,000 figure comprises a
secured mortgage loan of £114,000 and
unsecured notes of £146,000, £86,000 of
which is due for repayment on August
31 next year and the rest on December
1, 1972. The 1966 series was originally
£lOO,OOO, but the company has been
offering early redemptions. The balance
is no doubt below £86,000 now and plans
have already been made for the redemp-
tion of the rest on the due date. The rest
of the loan capital is more than adequate-
ly covered by the £345,000 held in ap-
propriated profits at balance date last
year, though there is little doubt that the
redemptions will be easily met by pro-
ceeds from trading over the years.
The table shows in actual figures the
more-than-complete recovery profit has
made from the 1961 low point. The share
prices and yields since 1960 indicate the
company’s role as a steady dividend payer


EZM53310
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Debenture Stock
and
Unsecured Deposit
Notes
up to
p.a
Interest paid quarterly
Debenture
Stock
L
Unsecured
Deposit
Notesi
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be
accepted on the appropriate
form issued with the Prospectus
how available from:
• Any Branch of The National
Bank of Australasia Limited
• Any Stockbroker
• Any Waltons store or office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
V/39
TO WALTONS CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of
your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
and highlight the surprise with which
the generous bonus issue was met. The
current ex-bonus price of 13s. for each
10s. share is extremely buoyant in the
light of the price ranges of earlier years.
To sum up: a 10 p.c. dividend seems
definite this year and a purchase at pres-
ent prices would yield the buyer 7} p.c.
after brokerage and stamp duty. High
as this may seem, the company is well
placed to continue 10 p.c. dividends for
many years. Thus, there is the offer of a
high and reliable income.
However, the investor will have to
keep a close eye on the import situation.
This is a constant threat to the group.
Any relief from the members of the
Tariff Board will go a long way to en-
suring security. If orders going overseas
are brought back to the local scene the
company may find it necessary to ex-
pand, financing such expansion through
a cash issue. That possibility is only
slight, however, and a buyer of the
shares should be primarily interested in
income for the moment. Each 10s. unit
had an asset backing of 22s. 4d. before
the bonus issue.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 423 376 441 497 662
Less current liabilities 221 177 165 216 350
Working capital 202 199 276 281 312
Fixed assets 598 602 607 667 663
800 801 883 948 975
Ordinary capital 320 320 320 320 320
Reserves 245 251 278 317 395
Loan capital 235 230 285 311 260
800 801 883 948 975
Depreciation 40 43 39 56 52
Tax 43 20 38 55 85
Net profit 70 30 58 69 110
Dividend 29 27 32 32 32
Surplus 41 3 26 37 78
Earning rate 24.3 9.4 18.2 21.7 34,3
Dividend rate 10 8£ 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 6.3 7.1 6.7 7.5 58
High price (b) 17/- 14/- 16/- 15/9 20/6
Low price (b) 14/6 11/6 10/6 12/8 15/3
(a) End February, month results announced.
(b) Calendar year.
WILLIAM ATKINS HOLDINGS LTD
Gaining New Dimensions
of William Atkins Hold-
A ings Ltd can get a lead on how
their company is faring by watching the
performance of William Adams and
Company Ltd.
Wm Adams is the largest steel mer-
chant in Australia, and supplies industrial
and engineering requisites. It recently
became one of the two distributors of
aluminium mill products for Alcoa of
Australia.
Wm Atkins is a steel merchant, too,
but on a much smaller scale. It also
supplies engineering requisites, paints
and tanks. In 1960 it formed a sub-
sidiary to distribute aluminium sheet and
extrusions for Australuco in NSW and
Queensland.
In May of this year Atkins announced
that, when the Australuco agreement
expired later this year, it would become
sole distributor in NSW, Queensland,
Victoria and South Australia for the
aluminium products of G. E. Crane
Holdings Ltd (associated in the produc-
tion of semi-fabricated aluminium with
Comalco). The Australuco agreement
would lapse.
Atkins will also handle the copper
and brass products of the Crane group.
These moves give Atkins an entirely
new dimension.
Although Adams is probably three to
three and a half times the size of Atkins,
the two businesses do run fairly parallel.
When Adams suffers, the same
economic conditions generally apply to
Atkins. As Adams’ year ends in March,
and accounts are presented in July, the
market has two or three months’ warning
of what Atkins’ results are liable to be.
In 1961-62 Adams felt the economic
squeeze, profit fell heavily and dividend
was cut from 15 to 10 p.c. Atkins’ profit
fell, though not so dramatically, but
enough to threaten the dividend on
higher average capital, so it too was
chopped from 15 to 10 p.c. Adams, in
subsequent years, paid 11£ p.c., 12} p.c.
and 15 p.c. Atkins paid 10 p.c. again
in 1963, then lli p.c. and 12i p.c., so
it seems likely that Atkins will aim also
for a 15 p.c. in the next year or two,
if liquidity permits.
(Atkins’ distributions were in fact
more generous than they seem, for in
September, 1963, it made a one-for-five
bonus, yet raised the payout to Hi p.c.,
which was equivalent to 13 } p.c. on the
pre-bonus capital.)
Established in 1888 as a branch of
William Atkins and Co. Ltd of England,
the holding company was registered in
1937 in Sydney. It has had a creditable
profit and dividend record since then
with one important exception in 1953-54,
when a loss of £164,866 was incurred.
The 1953 recession caught the company
with huge stocks of imported steel which
were then disposed of at a loss.
In 1962 directors reported that 99 p.c.
of stocks were Australian-made, so the
possibility of again having to adjust
values had been eliminated. They an-
nounced then, too, that general admini-
stration had been strengthened and, by
careful control of credit, bad debts had


Some go sailing ... Some go driving ... Some are standing
' J - *
Hi
m Hi
*** i.
to
■-/'.to
iggl
r
i
m
sr*
: ..
* : -
«*»
.'■if
to
:
m
:: i.
but OF ALL
SYDNEY TV FAMILIES
WATCH CHANNEL 9
SUNDAY AFTERNOONS
Whichever way you read the figures, Sunday
afternoon is a busy time on TCN 9—221,000
different families, one quarter of all men in Sydney
TV homes, one quarter of all people in Sydney TV
homes, all tuning to Channel 9 for the popular
Sunday afternoon programmes. Have you planned
for your commercial to reach this big, relaxed,
receptive audience?
FOR A BREAKDOWN OF THE DAILY VIEWING PATTERNS
AND OTHER PERTINENT FACTS, CONTACT YOUR LOCAL
TCN9 REPRESENTATIVE.
The above figures were specially prepared for Channel 9 by The
Anderson Analysis Pty. Ltd. by a re-analysis of their Sydney Tele
vision Audience Survey No. 7, 1965.
Channel
191
4%
4^
%
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Road,
Willoughby 43-0444 • Sales Sydney: Ist
Fioor, Cricket House, George Street, 27-2881
• Melbourne: 247 Collins Street, 63-8336.
V2ll


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
JLo
ypi
0
FlPo/
a /o
11 0
0
TWO
YEARS
SIX
YEARS
TWELVE
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS .... 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5 3 /*%
270-360 DAYS 5V*%
ONE YEAR ; 6%
TWO YEARS 6Va%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
SIX YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
NINE YEARS 7!4%
TWELVE YEARS .... 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of tha
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
JtB3
been confined to “almost negligible
limits”
The same year local operations and
group administration were centralised at
Chisholm Road, Auburn, to bring con-
siderable direct savings. The aluminium
offices and store were also established
at that location.
Atkins claims the best and most
modern steel and aluminium distributing
centre in Queensland at JGngsford Smith
Drive, Eagle Farm. During the latest
year to June, extensions to these build-
ings were completed and additional land
purchased adjoining the warehouse to
provide for future needs.
The Melbourne warehouse at Geelong
Road, Brooklyn, was added to during
1964-65 also.
The new arrangements with Crane
necessitate the establishment of a new
subsidiary in South Australia. The corn-
party has purchased land and a “sub-
stantial” warehouse and offices are being
built, to be ready for operations before
the end of the year.
To finance the South Australian entry,
which directors expect will make “very
good contributions to group profits within
the near future”, Atkins raised £200,000
by the issue of 5s. shares at a 5s.
premium in the ratio of one-for-six held
at July 1, 1965.
The previous last cash calls were a
one-for-four issue at 2s. 6d. premium
in January, 1961, and a one-for-two par
issue in'January, 1959, concurrent with
a bonus issue in the same ratio. There
was another one-for-two par issue back
in May, 1956.
The latest trading result of £144,365
profit, net of £107,800 tax and after
£14,144 depreciation, was *a distinct
advance all round on the 1964 figures
of £116,782 profit, £86,600 tax and
£12,175 depreciation. Earning rate
jumped from 19.5 to 24.1 p.c., almost
twice covering the new dividend rate
of 12+ p.c.
Stocks and debtors were both greater
at 1965 balance date than the year
before, as was the reliance on bank
borrowing (£298,199). There are no
long-term liabilities.
In 1964 Atkins attributed its then
record result to improved economic
conditions, an increase in efficiency after
the regrouping of operations in NSW,
and a- vigorous marketing policy. It is
hoped that these conditions still apply.
Although the new capital may not be
earning at full capacity in the current
year, so that earning rate may slow
down a little, shareholders can anticipate
significant expansion in the next year
or two, barring economic relapses.
The shares currently bring about
13s. 3d. (to yield 4.7 p.c. for the buyer).
This is well within their usual price
range over the year. They should not be
discarded without great reluctance.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 812 843 920 963 1075
Less current liabilities 338 419 530 525 631
Working capital 474 429 390 438 444
Investments and
long-term debtors 6 30 29 74 69
Fixed assets 314 368 450 407 476
Intangibles 175 175 175 175 175
969 1002 1044 1094 1164
Ordinary capital 500 500 500 600 600
Reserves 469 502 544 494 564
969 1002 1044 1094 1164
Depreciation 8 10 12 12 14
Taxation 60 50 60 87 108
Net profit 87 79 88 117 144
Dividends 67 50 50 68 75
Surplus 20 29 33 49 69
Earning rate p.c. 19.6 15.8 17.5 19.5 24.1
Dividend rate p.c. 15 10 10 111 124
Dividend yield (a) 4.8 3.8 3.5 4.0 —■
High price (b) 20/6 17/6 16/- 15/- 15/-
Low price (b) 13/3 13/6 11/- 10/7 12/3
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: THOMAS HENRY BROWN. TAKE
NOTICE that MARY MELVA BROWN has
filed a Petition No. 2801 of 1965 for Divorce
on the grounds of desertion and separation.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before 11th November, 1965,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS lAN DUNCAN, KNUD-
SEN & CO., Solicitors, 403-411 George Street,
'Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
i IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: DOREEN JUNE POTT. TAKE NOTICE
that GEORGE KENNETH POTT has filed a
petition for Divorce No. 3096 of 1965 on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
[Registry. Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 29th
day of October, 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition, without charge, from MESSRS
G. M. STAFFORD AND CO., 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: MERVYN GEORGE HENRY CASTNER.
TAKE NOTICE that PEGGY PRIMROSE
CASTNER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2853 of 1965 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 20th day of
October, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition, without charge, from MESSRS
G. M. STAFFORD AND CO., Solicitors, 79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: JOHN JAMES LIDDEN. TAKE NOTICE
that ANN LIDDEN has filed a Petition No.
3039 of 1965 for Divorce on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the Ist day of
November, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition, without charge, from R. S. HICKS,
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: RONALD NEIL WILLIAMS. TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET WILLIAMS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2713 of 1964
on the ground of cruelty. If you wish to
defend you may file on Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 25th day of
October, 1965. and obtain a copy of the
Petition, without charge, from CHARLES A.
MORGAN & COMPANY, Solicitors, 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: OLIVE SMITH, late of Balmain. TAKE
NOTICE that HENRY AUGUSTUS SMITH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3243 of
1965 on the grounds of desertion and/or
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the Ist day of November, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice
of Petition, without charge, from GREGG
MILNE & CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS
AT
CRANBROOK SCHOOL
An Independent Church of England School
FULL DAY AND BOARDER
SCHOLARSHIPS WILL BE
AWARDED TO SUITABLE
APPLICANTS ON FRIDAY,
OCTOBER 29, 1965
A number of Exhibitions and Bursaries are
also to be awarded.
Details from the Registrar, Cranbrook School,
Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill. 36-1110.
FRIENDS IN BRITAIN?
Hampers, turkeys, fruits, cakes, gourmet foods
from £1 delivered U.K. 12 days.
Send stamp for latest free
FINE FOODS CATALOGUE. Wine list.
POSTAL GIFT SERVICE
DEPT. 8., P.O. BOX 32, ELIZABETH, S.A.
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL,
CHARTERS TOWERS
Staff Vacancies from January, 1966
1. Music with some Art and Crafts.
2. Science and Maths, some to matric.
Accommodation available single men; possible
Housemastership. For particulars apply:
Headmaster.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 866
ACROSS
I—Doesn’t forget about club personnel. (9)
6—A Drag back in the lake (5)
9 Remembering the state of the baby-sitter at the
doorbell. (7, 2,4)
10— Not a gangster's mother country, but novel. (4, 8)
12— Girl and boy sang with swaying rhythm. (6)
13— Aluminium may be thus when a sign of assent is
given the Empire Decoration. (8)
15—Knobby duel soon arranged with no pennies you
lose. (8) /
17—Portent gratification in peritoneal folds. (6)
21—Fat professor takes its major
gains. (5, 7)
23 Gunnery offsiders attempt to
make well-groomed beauties
out of the apes. (6, 7)
24 Fam o u s Australian war
photographer is a trimmer. (5)
25 An element in trigonometry
heals such sweet cops. (9)
DOWN
1— Dessert for Hudson, your
crossword-setter and Chaney.
(4, 5)
2 Warm, spice and sweeten part
of Scotland to make a mess
of a soft muslin snuff-box. (4)
3 A Brooklyn slaying for
money? (7)
4 Swallow up the improper leg
fun. (6)
5 Scald not treated in Caledonia.
(8)
6 King George batting with
Kelly showed some amuse-
ment. (7)
7 Righting a wrong when again
donning apparel. (10)
8— A couple of hundred em-
ployed the defendant. (7)
11—Rustic receptacle for turf?
(10)
14 —Soviet as distinct from im-
perial Russia is so. (8)
16—Armageddon? (4, 3)
18— How’s the. moon’s 19-year
cycle giving me a pick-me-up.
(7)
19— Alternative names a Moslem
as Esmond. (7)
20— From chaps like the slips,
point and cover. (3, 3)
21— Royal George with a serpent
hold. (5)
22 Put up with Teddy. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 865


BINDERS
for The Bulletin
For 15/- you can keep three rqonths’ copies of The Bulletin
in a cloth-bound, gold-lettered binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is in constant demand, and for business houses where frequent
reference is made to past financial features; ideal, too, as a
gift for a friend.
Send 15/- (cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to “Bulletin
Binder,” Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the coupon
and address label below.
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney
Please PISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS , price 15 A a copy (post free),
enclose £ / / cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address .#••»••• * *
/
State
IS more than one hinder is ordered, attach list giving full
name, address. State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name •
Address
State ~,,,
Sender ....
If undelivered, please return to Box 5352, G.P.0., Sydney,
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Mr Punch’s Advice Again
The fate of two “Don’ts”
TWO “Don’ts” presented themselves this week. The first was the “Don’t speculate”
advice given by economist Mr P. Shrapnel during his usual half-year talk on the
Australian economy. Although he’s cautious about the stock market, at least he’s
hopeful about the rest of the economy.
The second “Don’t” did not come so
directly. Nevertheless the meaning of
“Don’t invest” was plain enough by the
time I finished reading through the an-
nual report of Reinvestment (Australia)
Ltd. After operating for more than six
years as an investment company, and
retaining all income earned in that period,
the best the company could do was to
come up with an asset backing of 19s.
lid. for each 20s. share. If in fact all
profits earned since the inception of the
company'had been paid out as dividend
at the end of the 1965 financial year,
then asset backing would be only 16s. 2d.
per 20s. share. Thus, after six years, the
present net value of the portfolio is 20
p.c. less than cost value. Dear me! And
in that time directors have been drawing
annual fees which last year totalled
£l5OO.
We’ve all been caught in the market
fall. But the sellers of some shares to
Reinvestment (Aust.) Ltd in the last
year must be very happy now. Prices
like 465. for Mt Isa, 30s. for Boral,
445. for North Broken Hill and 38s. for
W. R. Carpenter look very high against
today’s market.
Yet, as two negatives make a positive
and I’m an optimist, I launched into the
market. A purchase of 500 Fire Fight-
ing at 6s. 3d. cum the dividend was the
first entry on my ledger card. I empha-
sise the dividend entitlement, since it
amounts to aim *st sd. and ,o more than
pays for the commission both ways.
In a year of extraordinary profit in-
creases, Fire Fighting comes out near
the top with a 160 p.c. profit rise. While
there was some responst to the announce-
ment of the annual result, the effect soon
petered out and the shares fell back from
6s. lOd. to 6s. 3d.
Ourely the earning rate of 21.3 p.c.
(highest yet recorded by the company)
should ultimately cause a more appro-
priate valuation by the market. The
market seems to be treating the loss in
1963 too harshly. At that time, wet
weather and building delays were the
reasons given for the reversal in profit-
ability. Unless the weather suddenly
changes its mood, the problem won’t
arise this year. The chairman’s address
at the annual general meeting next month
should give a very good indication of
current trading. If the company can
maintain last year’s performance, the
dividend for the 1965-66 year could well
be raised to 10 p.c.
At first glance, the profit performance
of Pongrass comes a poor second to
Fire Fighting. But behind the steady
profit of £85,000 was the tax provision
of £BB,OOO. As the tax liability of Pon-
grass is only £lO,OOO, the balance of
£78,000 is simply a reserve. If this had
not been chargeo against revenue, earn-
ing rate would have been over 100 p.c.
Whatever way you care to treat this
amount, it won’t alter the fact that there
is a huge cash flew. Pongrass thus comes
into that exclusive class headed by Kolo-
tex. Anyone looking for potential bonus
issues should not go past this company.
Pongrass shares actually eased on the
profit announcement and I managed to
buy 400 at 11s.
The one sale this week was the 200
Hanimex at 17s. The earning rate of
45 p.c. is most impressive, but the 1-for-
-5 premium issue won’t help the share
price.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
200 Hanimex, 17/- £166
BOUGHT
500 Fire Fighting, 6/3 £159
400 Pongrass, 11/- £225
All this leaves me with a debit of £534.
It would have been a few pounds more
if I had decided to buy 200 AOG. Very
tempting, now that they’ve reacted back
to 245.
The week’s dealings left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Steamships
Trading, new 2 5/5/65 9/6 9/3
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 7/3
2 Ford debentures 5/7/65 £2OO £2OO
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/3
200 Aberfoyle 11/8/65 18/6 18/6
400 Wibroc 19/8/65 13/6 13/6
400 Tennyson 19/8/65 7/9 8/-
200 Merco 25/8/65 13/6 13/9
500 Tooheys 1/9/65 10/3 11/3
200 Mf Isa 7/9/65 36/6 37/-
500 Concrete Ind. 8/9/65 4/7 4/7
500 Fire Fighting 13/9/65 6/3 6/-
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/- 11/-


Omega Constellation. Requires no winding. Can be worn while swimming or golfing. The calendar feature is invaluable when dating letters and cheques.
As Illustrated. * In JBct. gold with 18ct. gold bracelet, £360.
Few men are destined to receive the new Constellation
-the hnest Chronometer Omega has ever made
Gravity-powered rotor winds the Constellation as you wear it. Pre-tested for 360 hours, in 5 wrist-positions,
the Constellation Chronometer is Omega’s finest watch . . . built for a lifetime of proud possession.
They make it with love. Ask Omega
craftsmen about the Constellation and
they will talk like proud parents.
Because they have an inborn love of
fine craftsmanship.
They gift it with accuracy. Skill and ex-
perience tell them that an error of no
more than one-ninth the diameter of a
hair can seriously affect accuracy and
durability. Therefore they work —-
and think in thousandths of mil-
limeters.
\
They endow it with long life. They know
that friction is the deadly enemy of
longevity. That high-speed metal-to-
metal contact can produce wear. That
one tiny particle of dust is dangerous
to a watch mechanism. Therefore they
polish the moving parts until they
gleam like mirrors. Furnish the watch
with jewelled bearings. “Scrub” the'
components ultrasonically and chem-
ically, 1215 times in all. Work in
spotless, hygienic surroundings.
They put it to the test. Each Constell-
ation must prove its accuracy during
360 hours in a Swiss Institute for
Official Chronometer Tests; it must
also receive a certificate endorsed
“Especially Good Results.” This is the
highest accuracy rating the Institute
can confer.
They place it in trustworthy hands. You
won’t find an Omega Constellation in
every jeweller’s shop. Its sale has been
entrusted only to jewellers who thor-
oughly understand and love watches.
The Omega jeweller is inspired by the
same pride and enthusiasm as the
Omega craftsman. That is why he
consistently recommends. — and sells
the Constellation.
They give it full after-care. There are
fully-equipped Omega Services Centres
in 156 countries. Wherever you go
they are within easy reach. Each
Centre is headed by a technician who is
Omega trained. The Omega one-year
International Guarantee is honoured
everywhere.
They remember it forever. Your Con-
stellation is linked to Omega craftsmen
by the number engraved on the move-
ment. They have lavished care on your
watch. They know that its accurate
heart will beat stoutly and surely. On
and on and on . . .
Some day you, too, will own an Omega.
*For enhanced beauty and legibility , the
hour-markers are inlaid with onyx.
OMEGA


life with craven filter
! :S
....
'
.
1 '
r.
■ 1
£
OF
. ;
yt-
|
ID
%
%
MjSm
m
People who get most enjoyment from lne get most enjoy-
ment in a cigarette from Craven Filter. Buy a pack today
and discover for yourself that Craven Filter are better
than ever.
CRAVEN
FILTER
Better than ever!
