

The Bulletin
DECEMBER 4, 1965
0^
sORPORATING THE FINANCyfIH^ES
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $1, Malaysia $1


mm
•mxwm
' . x
l 1 }|
'// 'Ot
f,] ? /
awmvA
3
«
m mm *
pH
■ ■
fMont °w
V
fsl
3*Hi
4
mvA
\
l
It
13^
i
v.
V
ff
fen
&
‘e?‘&A
f» .
*3Yj,NtA
£96!
mm* tmm
cw?
SWli
o***
\
I?
£943 I
mm
s t7g
&
m
&
« *
Get to know fine table wines Ask for Yalumba!
The reds and whites of Yalumba are highly prized in every
worthwhile cellar.
Selected Barossa Valley grapes are handled with painstaking
care to produce these superb examples of the vignerons' art.
But then, the Smiths of Yalumba have devoted five genera-
tions to making quality wines.
You expect the best from Yalumba—And you get it!
GALWAY VINTAGE CLARET. Delightfully light Claret. Matured in
French oak casks and then laid down in the bottle to further mature.
MOSELLE. Light and bright, with the delicate sweet finish of a true
Moselle.
FOUR CROWN BURGUNDY. A soft and fuller flavoured red, beloved
of gourmets.
CARTE D'OR RIESLING. Pale and crisp, and made from Rhine
Riesling grapes grown in the Eden Valley district.
JLJ.
alumna
TABLE
WINES
S. Smith and Son Pty. Ltd. Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia


ATSC •JP"'
: ■ •": ■ ■:' ■
mu * ° *«
KODAK INSTAMATIC 250 CAMERA
makes it easier-tkan-ever lor you to take better pictures
Just drop in the film and it’s loaded.
Like all the other Kodak Instamatic
Cameras it's incredibly easy to load.
Simply drop in the Kodapak Film Cartridge
and you’re ready to shoot. There’s a
choice of four films for colour or black-
and-white prints, or colour slides,
available in Kodapak Cartridges.
Built-in flash reflector for indoor
pictures. The built-in flash reflector
accepts AGI flashbulbs. Includes a
flash-exposure guide, enabling you to
take high-quality pictures indoors or out,
day or night.
Combines precision and elegance, at
an attractive price. Combining beauty
with ease of operation, slim elegance with
German precision—this is the camera for
the man who wants to have complete
control to get top-quality pictures. It has
a colour-corrected f/2.8 lens, fast shutter
to 1/250 sec., buiit-in ‘‘weather guide" for
correct exposures. Includes quality carry-
ing case. See it soon at your local
Chemist or Kodak Dealer.
Price £24.17.6
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD. Branches in all States.
• If
KMII 10
The Bulletin
Established 1380
.DECEMBER 4, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4475
WHATEVER HAPPENED
frO FEMINISM?
rln 10 years the position will he
totally changed” 18
CHAMBER OF HORRORS
Ijhe dark side of Barry Humphries 24
Utterson’S flagrant
Iraud
flVhy don’t you fight?” 30
Ln fairweather
\The hand of a master 38
/MEMORIES OF A
CATHOLIC BOYHOOD
"Sure different from Protestants” .... 41
■-
TANNER 13 LETTERS 43
.BATMAN 28
THIS AUSTRALIA
fin being a Palmer 10
I Cltteing'up Fulbright 11
{circulation and the Pill 15
[l7r<? small boys’ gesture 17
!
i
.'OVERSEAS
),ifter Kashmir, the famine 33
Singapore, Malaysia divorce 34
f China and the United Nations 36
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Furiott. about “furious shapes” .... 46
.We’re watching you watching 47
OPERA: “ Porgy”, thirty years after 48
MUSIC: ABC Symphony Orchestra
Youili Concert 49
■TELEVISION: Bill Dana Show 50
RECORDS: Faded Garland 50
r
BOOKS: Jack the Ripper in Fact
and Fiction 52
Life at the Cross 55
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Snedden’s comedy of errors 58
Making friends with Millers 70
Speculator’s Diary 74
man on the land
Reserve price: the closing stages .... 61
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088, Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone; 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


5 .1
...and that
goes for the
birds too!
o
o
O'
'£BsE2E2rzz ~
':zl
***""**• in«M|ni||-| - ■ -- •~~
♦V. . ~jg»» -in. .7 "~~~ , j
- ■-
... . .—"
'■• r „ ■
, ~*■ &"**&»* .. —^^- 1 -|f ir v rfWW i i |
Wk».
&*#&% y£
w,„.
- ' -•— •
..limuaWlin
....but water
will be
fashionable
this
Summer
... fifty-fifty with
TEACHERS
HIGHLAND CREAM
SCOTCH WHISKY
Fashions change! Stripes could make a big come-
back. So play it cool!
Dive into the summer season with a splash.
And a dash. On or off the rocks. But play it safe.
Stick to WATER, fifty-fifty with TEACHER’S Scotch
Whisky. Fashionable! Sociable! Unmistakable!
tom Australia' £.4 5* Ba Jl z V*2 Lt *V- Melbourne. Queensland: Swift and Moore Tty. Limited. Brisbane,
ooutn Australia. Elder Smith Goldsborough Mort Limited, Adelaide. West Australia: Benson’s Liquor Sales Co., Perth. Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart .
9344 555! -““ ■■■• ■ • - ~ : _ ■ ST
TW3&107


This carriage weighs less than conventional cars,
yet it seats 62 more passengers
It's another achievement in Australuco Aluminium
f
\ ..
V
SI 111
HBiMK
£
iiimißfitt
«mr«:?aF©®
■ -•••. .. '• \? -
" -Twn • - - ***>&&
7m
-
Jar.
■H4P
■
?**<
ssSSSx
The problem was complex: to the carrying capacity of electric
train carriages without increasing the load to be hauled by
existing prime movers. The answer? A unique development in
rolling-stock design based on the use of strong, lightweight
aluminium. Tulloch Ltd. are using Australuco aluminium
exclusively for the bodywork on the N.S.W. Government Rail-
ways’ new double-deck rail cars. Individual carriage weight
has been cut by 28 cwt. yet the seating capacity has been
almost doubled. Light weight and strength, of course, are not
the only reasons for using aluminium: its durability, and its
outstanding resistance to corrosion, are also vitally important
factors. Of course, there’s more to achievement than aluminium
alone. Achievement also means Australuco’s years of experi-
ence in research, testing, design, metallurgical improvements
. . . years of practical application which can be summed up in
two words: know-how. So, when you add technical skill and
expertise to aluminium’s inherent qualities (no rust or rot, no
maintenance, no painting, corrosion resistance), achievement is
the natural result.
Australuco’s engineers and technicians, backed by the world-
wide experience and knowledge of the Alcan Group, are able to
supply the latest information about the many applications of
aluminium in all phases of Australian industry. _
AUSTRALUCO
i\/i i f\i 11 i i\/i
Australian Aluminium Company Limited
Sydney 637-0133 • Melbourne 94-0557 • Brisbane 2-7483
Adelaide 51-1516 • Perth 23-0211 • Hobart 2-2771
A member of the Alcan Group. A participant in the Queensland Alumina Project
AUSISOB/63


From now on:
K MENUS EASI
Manilas’... j
i | -
dp
m
hhi
m
:
M
■
t
A big wheel new to Australia. Hying East. Tuesdays and Thursdays from now on. The name:
Philippine Air Lines, international line for 20 years, 50 planes strong, operator of 75 airports,
servicing eight international airlines and four air forces. Flies to and from San Francisco, Hawaii,
Manila, Hong Kong, Taipei, etc. With the most modern fan jets in the world, DCB’s. Best of all,
PAL opens the East welcoming-wide to Australian Big Wheels. For Export. For Import. As only
great experience in the East can help you do. All in the best smoothness, silence and comfort
aflight. (If you've only flown before this, be prepared for Big Wheel service: first-run in-flight
colour movies, a choice of nine music channels (two of them stereo), superb food and Filipina
persona! attention). About time you checked The East from the inside. On the Big Wheel.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
for details. PAL flight schedules, and complete Philippines tour
information see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
•PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place. Sydney. 489 Swanston Street. Melbourne. Cnr.
Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane. 140 North Terrace. Adelaide.
98 Williams Street, Perth. 62 Northbourne Avenue. Canberra.
178 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street. Launceston.
Name
Address..
Phone.....
69-48


What kind of
did you have?
i
How did it compare with your targets ... with the same
month last year... which product lines are up... down..?
We can tell you—fast!
No matter what kind of business
you’re in there’s a good chance
you’re spending more time than
necessary in analysing your market-
ing activity. It’s vital to find better
meThoas to keep sales effort tuned
to peak efficiency—to spot trouble
and eliminate it before it's a problem.
Unfortunately, an accurate “crystal
ball” hasn't yet been invented.
The next best thing is an NCR Data
Processing Centre. Here an NCR
computer handles, at electronic
speed, the mass of figures relating
to your business and produces the
prompt management reports you
need.
Yet you save more than time. This
NCR service considerably shrinks the
cost of processing. And the only
additional equipment needed to
enjoy this service is the attachment of
a punched paper tape recorder or
card punch to any NCR business
machine, or the installation of the
new NCR Optical Font.
If prompt financial reports and mer-
chandise control are a matter of
concern, start sending your paper
work out to NCR. They’ll do it fast
. . . and inexpensively.
For full details, call your local NCR
office, or write to NCR, 14-16. York
Street, Sydney.
i n
HELPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


i one of the five 50-ton Hautpaks with special side dump bodies used for iron ore haulage at Cockatoo IslandW.A.
#W.
N
■ >'
7rm
m
mm
*?•
m
r
-
-'x,:
~C,
m
••
to IH9IHI HUM
LW
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION.
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, OLD. ■ BAUXITE MINING, OLD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
E for EXPORT
firj» earthmoving equipment manufacturer to receive me Award
tor Outstanding- export- Achievement*
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINCHOUSE PTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Safes; Service and Parts facilities inr all States.
v -■ r -
LW249.106


ONE
MORE
WEEK
'Subtlety
Uustralia may not, in the estimation
* of Senator Fulbright, be playing a
arge part in South-East Asia, but it
iurely is one of some subtlety. As Sir
James Plimsoll, head of External Affairs,
iiointed out at the Association for
Cultural Freedom’s annual dinner in
lydney at the weekend, Australia now
epresents the United States in Cam-
iodia, and Cambodia in Saigon.
f)owdy
(Journalism, as Professor Henry Mayer
f made clear in his “The Press in Aus-
tralia”, is a dowdy profession. It is also
ane which he accused of having “in-
credibly poor” public relations.
However, a number of journalists have
[written something about their job for
'“The Journalist’s Craft”, commissioned
the AJA and to be published by
dngus and Robertson on December 10,
Vice 555. The book, according to ad-
vance publicity, is to serve, as a guide
o young journalists as well as to young
tnen and women who wish to enter the
profession.
Apart from this gesture out of the blue,
I the AJA seems to be dickering with the
possibilities of getting something more
useful and prestigious out of the univer-
sities than the diploma courses in Mel-
bourne and Brisbane. The best hope is
Macquarie in Sydney, which is showing
inclination to gather up all the un-
loved and unwanted ones into its school
of general studies. However, rather than
1 Chair of Journalism, the feeling is
towards courses in something like mass
communications as part of a general
BA.
i Rohan Rivett, who has contributed a
chapter “The Press Today” to the new
book, claims that one of the best young
journalists he ever recruited came on
the staff while doing his last year of an
honors course in geology.
“Until we have in Australia schools
journalism comparable with those at
ifolumbia, North-Western, the Univer-
|‘ty of Minnesota and other top American
faculties, one would prefer the student
,f ° choose almost any course other than
journalism even where a degree or
diploma in journalism is available,” he
writes.
The Perfect Peal
'W/’ith Sydney’s two afternoon papers
" so preoccupied with the Pill, we
were enchanted to read an item about
an Israeli professor who had discovered
that bells affect the fertility of rats and
rabbits. When they are exposed to a bell,
at intervals over a period, their fertility
rate drops, but the effect is not per-
manent. Rats made infertile recovered
their powers after a 12-day respite from
the noise.
We look forward now to having the
whole question of the perfect Pill handed
over to the music critic and the anti-Pill
campaign lining up behind the banner
of the Noise Abatement Society.
Breakthrough
HThis season seems to have produced a
A larger than usual crop of fat picture
books for the marble-top coffee-table and
valued-overseas-client trade.
However, one feels that the big break-
through from the panorama tradition of
Frank Hurley still has to come.
The breakthrough may come mid-1966
when Rigby’s produce the book for which
George Johnston is doing the text and
Bob Goodman, who came here first for
“National Geographic”, has taken 30,000
color transparencies. The title is being
kept secret as long as possible, so keen
is the competition in this field.
The project is being co-ordinated by
Australian National Travel Association
with 12 firms, including Qantas, Ansett,
P & O, as well as industrial and finan-
cial concerns (including, incidentally,
"Florence Nightingale, Edith Cavell
and Helen of Troy - they're just a
bunch of sheilas; but you, you're a
woman."
the MLC) providing some finance am
getting the use of color transparencie
in return.
Another book being planned has photo-
graphs by Davydd Beal and text by
Donald Horne. Beal, as this photograph
shows, is a painstaking and imaginative
photographer. He sat for three hours at
an art show in Hyde Park, Sydney, until
he captured two passersby in exactly the
right position behind a bit of pop art.
And, personally, we think the result was
worth every minute.
Modest Means
Elizabethan is auditioning this week
for next year’s opera season. How-
ever, by Sutherland standards, this will
be very modest. Country tours are plan-
ning with Gilbert and Sullivan’s “The
Mikado” the most likely production so
far.
After the country, the company being
assembled will probably play only Syd-
ney, Canberra and Melbourne. It is
unlikely that it or, in fact, any ex-
cept the most optimistic companies
will go to Brisbane. Williamson’s have
turned Her Majesty’s in Brisbane over
to the “My Fair Lady” film, and both
“Porgy and Bess” and Barry Humphries
died the death in that city, although
Humphries has been spectacularly
successful elsewhere and “Porgy” has
begun very well in Melbourne.
It’s been a very slim year for singers
who weren’t in the Sutherland season.
Some have been in competition with
poker machines, doing “Oklahoma!” and
“Show Boat” at Sydney clubs.
Even the ABC has done only four
opera productions this year. The ABC
puts its cut in production down to a
slimmer budget, which everyone around
the Commission seems to blame on Aus-
tralia’s defence bill. Logically, if we only
increase our defence commitments
sharply enough, the ABC will disappear
altogether. Which mightn't be a bad
thing.


THIS AUSTRALIA
BUSINESS
On Being a Palmer
For the many holders of life assurance policies with the Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd, the news that the Commonwealth Insurance Commissioner, Mr
S. Caffin, would hold a formal investigation into the company’s investment procedures
was, in a word, reassuring.
Many knew that the MLC’s loss in the
H. G. Palmer group had come from other
sections of the company’s business, or at
least most of it. But it was still comfort-
ing last week when the Treasurer, Mr
H. Holt, announced the formal inquiry
in Parliament. It looks as if only about
one or two per cent of the total funds
in the life office are in jeopardy at H. G.
Palmers; the rest comes from the share-
holders’ funds in the parent company,
the general insurance branch or the fire
and general company.
By one of those co-incidences which
fiction cannot hope to match, last
week also saw the name Palmer figure in
another company upheaval. Until re-
cently it would have been quite pleasant
to be a Palmer, if you were Mr Herbert
George, or Mr Frederick J. Palmer (no
relation).
One ran a successful-looking chain of
electrical appliance stores; the other a
long-established group of men’s and
boys’ wear stores. Both lived comfortably
lives, one at his home at Kangaroo Point,
on the George’s River, the other with
his young second wife and family at
Double Bay, spending much of the
winter at his luxury ski lodge at Thredbo,
and much of the summer sailing his
yacht.
Mr F.J. inherited his position; Mr
H.G. created his. Herbert George
Palmer started off his electrical business
at 17, selling appliances door-to-door in
the depression, before he set up his first
shop in 1934. When he sold out to the
MLC in 1963 he got £1.3 million worth
of MLC shares for his shares in H. G.
Palmers. He had already made quite a
bit of money out of the Palmer group,
not only through payments as its top ex-
ecutive but also in consideration for
selling a share of it to the public when
it floated on the stock exchanges 16
years ago.
But the heyday of the Palmers has
passed. Last week the new owners of
the H. G. Palmer group, Australia’s
biggest chain of appliance stores, served
a £5 million writ, Australia’s biggest
commercial writ, on Mr H. G. Palmer.
And last week, too, Mr F. J. Palmer
was voted off the board of the company
his great-grandfather founded in 1879,
leaving the company without a Palmer as
a director for the first time in 86 years.
Both men had “retired” as managing
directors of their companies earlier this
year, but had stayed on as directors,
although at last week’s annual meeting
of his company Mr F.J. said he was
pushed out of the top job—he did not
retire. He said this had happened at a
board meeting at which Mr A. G. Lee
was not present. Mr Lee, who is Mr
Palmer’s son-in-law, appears to be
associated more with the “new broom”
at Palmers than the old order.
1%/Ir H. G. Palmer’s retirement from
the board of his company lacked all
the drama of last week’s tense meeting of
100 shareholders in F. J. Palmers, where
the new chairman, Mr Jones, and Mr
Palmer said some quite unkind things
about each other. Mr H.G.’s departure
was made public almost by accident. The
MLC earlier this month filed a docu-
ment signed by directors of H. G.
Palmer (Consolidated), and 10, H.G.’s
name did not lead all the rest.
The MLC have since apologised to
the Stock Exchange for forgetting to
report Mr Palmer’s resignation, for
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd is still
under Stock Exchange control, as theiL,
are 830,000 publicly held preferencX r
shares listed on the Sydney market. \ -
Both Palmer companies have had theijc
share of troubles in recent times -i e
troubles that so far have cost their sharet'i
holders about £lO million between themke
Both appeared to suffer - but in difVe
ferent degrees—from the common prob-«ai
lems of overstating assets and of bafcj
debts. Most of this £lO million loss h% (
come from the H. G. Palmer grouX]
which is now in the hands of the receiveL
and' whose losses could well exceed thfc
£8.7 million already written off or pro^ t
vided for by the MLC Ltd, which
all the ordinary shares in the company]^
Things are not nearly so bad at F. p
Palmers, where the new board of direct
tors headed by Mr Norman Jonei
the former chief executive of Britisllto
Tobacco and now a Sydney stockbroker
has made a clean sweep through
company. They have discovered lossesfc
or made provisions totalling only £l,l
million, which seems hardly worth men&f
tioning in these days of regular anw;
nouncements of multi - million pounJ
losses by retailers. fl
So two of Australia’s best -
Palmers are unemployed. Mr F.J, isih
looking for a job; Mr H.G. is not talking
because of the writ served on him lasfl
week. Cause of action of the writ hasfr
not been stated yet. But it was served
out of the legal office of Mr Brian Page,l|
one of whose more important
ships is the Palmer group’s owners, the
MLC Ltd.
The writ has effectively stopped dis-f
cussion outside Parliament of tW J
H. G. Palmer affair. But the simple backr
ground is that in April, 1963, the ML(f
Ltd made a successful takeover offe J
worth £4.1 million for H. G. Palme 1
(Consolidated) Ltd. The only strangeP
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
I don’t think the Prime Minister is
answerable to this House for what has
happened to someone whose name 1
can't even pronounce.
Sir John McLeay,
Speaker, House of Representatives.
It would be wrong to think that
adolescents have sexual intercourse
indiscriminately.
Craig McGregor,
in “The Sydney Morning Herald
It is becoming more painful every
day to write about the things this
country is doing. That’s what comes
of being born a nonconformist.
Douglas Brass,
in “The Australian”.
The politicians are right when they
say we are getting the aircraft but the
trouble is getting them off the ground.
RAAF spokesman.
I received a letter from a man in
Woy Woy who said he had been
forced to travel in the corridor be-
cause of decibel-induced madness.
—M. A. Morris,
NSW Minister for Transport.
Lady Senators are quite capable of
protecting themselves.
Sir Alister McMullin,
President of the Senate.
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
are wonderful old places. All three
have a tremendously strong feeling of
the past century, which, as you know,
interests me very much.
Richard Bonynge.


Tiling about this was the nature of the
4mpany making the bid.
j There were those, like Victoria’s elec-
4ical knight, Sir Arthur Warner, who
4ere already forecasting doom for the
falmer group at this time, saying that
tie Palmer television service contracts
ifVere not really profitable, that the com-
b-many was not writting off enough in bad
ittbts, that there was too much stock
ashd that the whole chain w'as overcapi-
talised. But Sir Arthur’s view was not
e|fhe popular one; and there was no doubt
hjfoat Mr Palmer and his no deposit, easy
o||erms trading was making it tough for
liihe Warner group which also had a large
yichain of retail appliance stores as an ad-
junct to its main business of making
castor appliances.
!j In fact, Mr Palmer was making it
i] lough for everyone in the business, and
staggering number of company fail-
les in the retail appliance industry in
; 4e last few years seemed to have some-
jiing to do with the methods the Palmer
nJjroup used and which the rest of the
n/trade adopted.
J Whatever the reason for the MLC’s
11963 takeover of Palmer, there was no
nploubt about the friendly relations that
islfien existed between the MLC and Mr
igfalmer. On April 8 of that year the
stfULC wrote to Mr Palmer when making
isfie takeover offer in warm terms,
d,
, 1 stockbroker at the tune printed the
letters in a circular to clients headed
e T marriage proposal between H. G.
Calmer (Consolidated) Ltd and the MLC
i .jud, and its acceptance” But the love
Jffair is weli and truly over. So far it has
lost the MLC group £8.7 million in losses
|iade or provided for. And in the NSW
Itate Parliament last w'eek. the Labor
Jmember for Dulwich Hill. Mr C. Mallam,
pointed out there was another £2 million
|ent by the MLC in new mortgages over
falmer properties between May 21 and
August 17 this year.
The NSW Attorney - General, Mr
dcCaw, revealed in Parliament last
reek that the Registrar of Companies
jiad been conducting an enquiry into the
ft G. Palmer group of companies since
fey of this year.
I Mr McCaw said that these investiga-
tions, assisted by two company inspec-
tors and two officers of the fraud squad,
fere being helped along by the MLC
W H. G. Palmer managements, and
®at, unless this co-operation stopped,
here was no need to appoint inspectors
lr tder Section 173 of the Companies
hct. But the H. G. Palmer gaffe has set
he Sydney financial establishment right
pick on its heels. Some big names and
Ijhig reputations will take a long time to
[recover after being involved in an
<feir that the übiquitous Mr Mallam has
as “one of the most infamous
j® the commercial life of this State”.
Clueing Up Fulbright
By ALAN REID
Just how much do the Americans, especially the “opinion-makers”, know about
Australia's military and political support for their policies? It is a pointed question.
But even the Chairman of Labor’s Defence Committee, Mr Pat Galvin, who asked it
recently in the House of Representatives, did not expect so soon an answer.
Last week Galvin got his reply from
a man who, because of his official
position, must be regarded as one of
the major “opinion-makers” on foreign
affairs in the US Senator J. William
Fulbright, Chairman of the US Senate
Foreign Relations Committee. Almost
as though he was seeking to confirm
Galvin's thesis that the Menzies Govern-
ment was relying too heavily upon an
Australian-US alliance with the US Ad-
ministration rather than upon an alliance
with the American people as a whole,
Fulbright revealed, on arrival in Can-
berra for a brief visit, that he had not a
clue as to what Australian support for
American policies in Vietnam meant,
either to the US or to Australia.
Asked if he had any views on Aus-
tralia’s commitment in Vietnam, Ful-
bright said: “No, I don’t have any
views. I was not aware of
Australia’s commitment. I
thought you were supporting
our commitment with a very
small contingent of troops.
How many troops do you
have there? About a thou-
sand. 1 knew you were sup-
porting us. We have, I think,
160,000.”
Reminded gently that on
a population basis this rep-
resented a contribution
roughly comparable with that
of the US, Fulbright maintained a dig-
nified and unenthusiastic silence. Ful-
bright will undoubtedly leave better in-
formed. He spent a long period in close
consultation with Prime Minister Sir
Robert Menzies at a reception later at
the US Embassy. He will no doubt refer
in the future to the value of Australia’s
support for the US policy in Vietnam.
But this will be the synthetic public
relations reaction of an important poli-
tician visiting a country and warned of
the natives' sensitivities rather than the
product of spontaneity. Against the
background of Fulbright's “Haven't-got-
a-clue” attitude, Galvin’s speech bears re-
examination, as does the course of action
he proposed to remedy a situation which
from the Australian viewpoint must be
considered as undesirable, if not dan-
gerous.
Galvin’s fears appeared to have been
touched off by an address made by Mr
Richard Nixon, former Vice-President of
the US, to the National Press Club dur-
SENATOR FULBRIGHT
ing his recent visit here. Galvin drew
attention to the fact that Nixon, a Re-
publican Party leader at 52, was still
relatively a young man who might be a
future occupant of the White House.
Said Galvin: “He (Nixon) said some
quite important things. He said that if
things went wrong in Vietnam the ‘cork
would be out of the bottle’. Cambodia
and Laos would go. Thailand would be
under tremendous pressures and Burma
would be lost. Indonesia could be pushed
over the brink and Malaysia and Singa-
pore threatened. But, he said, the US
would be prepared to fight a war a
big war if necessary—to save the Philip-
pines.
“What interested me was what he did
not say. He did not automatically in-
clude Australia with the Philippines as
a country for which the US would be
prepared to risk war.”
Galvin argued that it was
not good enough merely to
have the US Administration
aware of the risks we had
taken and undoubtedly would
take in this part of the world
in supporting US policies.
Administrations changed and
the US Administration was
particularly susceptible to
public opinion and to power-
ful lobbies operating through
public opinion.
Galvin saw as a solution the setting
up in Washington of an Australian
agency to see that opinion-formers such
as Mr Nixon (and Senator Fulbright)
were made aware personally—he empha-
sised the word “personally'’ —of the
value of the Australian alliance and the
risks for Australia in being involved in
the alliance. He did not want somebody
just to feed propaganda out to the news-
papers. The US newspapers were not
likely to be interested in Australia in
a worthwhile way until after she was in-
volved in a crisis and we needed US
attitudes formed before there was a
crisis. He thought the Australian Em-
bassy in Washington unsuited for such
a task (and Fulbright’s obvious ignor-
ance justifies his judgment).
Galvin did not boggle at the thought
that such an agency might, under US
laws, have to be registered as a lobby.
“Let us do it honestly and above-board,”
said Galvin.


THE REGION
The Bank of Asia
At two meetings in Manila this week the Minister for External Affairs, Mr P*
Hasluck, is leading a large Australian delegation of officials from his own and other
departments in what could be one of the region’s most important co-operative ventures
in a decade the establishment of the Asian Development Bank.
Australia has already announced her
support for the proposal to set up the
bank, which will promote development in
the region which comes under the aegis
of the UN Economic Commission for
Asia and the Far East. At the ECAFE
meetings in Manila this week, Mr
Hasluck is explaining that the Common-
wealth Government is prepared to con-
tribute its allocated share of about £33
million provided that the whole bank
proposal “as finally constituted” is satis-
factory to all concerned. The Manila
meetings follow earlier conferences in
Bangkok, about which John Stirling
writes:
At this point in Asian affairs, when
a Thai citizen cannot cross the border
into Cambodia, and when the currency
of almost any Asian country is belittled
by its neighbors, it seems almost
quixotic to talk of a co-operative, inter-
governmental Asian Bank. Yet the pro-
cess of setting up such an institution is
well advanced.
A meeting in Bangkok of 15 Asian
delegations, plus the representatives of
16 non-Asian countries, including Bri-
tain, the Soviet Union, the United States
of America, Australia and New Zealand,
has reached agreement on the draft
charter of the Asian Development Bank.
It will start with a capital of $lOOO mil-
lion (£357,143,000), and its declared
purpose is to “mobilise additional re-
sources within the (Asian) region, to at-
tract additional funds from outside the
region, and to finance projects either
not financed, or only inadequately finan-
ced, by existing institutions.”
One of the delegates to the Bangkok
conference remarked: “The founding
fathers (of the bank) are anxious that the
infant be as Asian as possible in charac-
ter”. The founding fathers, in this in-
stance, are the back-room boys of a
United Nations agency, the Economic
Commission for Asia and the Far East
(ECAFE). Though it rarely attracts the
Press spotlight, ECAFE is performing an
almost indispensable role in the co-
ordination of Asian economies. Among
its more dramatic projects are the Asian
highway, which will eventually provide
a land link between European cities and
Singapore, the Mekong development pro-
ject, which will exploit the vast latent
energy of this river for the benefit of
the four Riparian States, and the Asian
Development Bank.
The bank was one of the many seminal
ideas put forward as a contribution to
the United Nations’ “development
decade”. Last year, a group of banking
experts drew up a rough outline of the
bank. Asian Governments made it clear
that they favored the idea only if the
bank was in fact in principle free from
the dominance of the big powers. To
protect the Asian infant from its rich
uncles, it was decided that - the non-
regional members of ECAFE (Britain,
the USA, the Soviet Union and the
Netherlands) should contribute not more
than 40 per cent of the total capital. The
Asian share of the paid-up capital is
permitted to rise above 60 per cent, with
a corresponding fall in the non-Asian
share.
As another precaution, Japan, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, though listed as
regional members, were further classified
against the objections of New Zea-
land ' — as “developed” countries, and
were permitted to lend money to the
bank, but not to borrow. Asian control
is further emphasised by the structure of
the bank’s controlling body. Seven of
the 10 directors must be from regional
countries, and the chairman of the board
will almost certainly be an Asian. Un-
usually swift agreement on these basic
points meant that when the banking
experts met last month in Bangkok,
they had before them a document which
most of them had already approved. The
delegation which drew the most attention
was the Soviet Union, headed by Mr
S. M. Borisov, “senior scientific worker”
of the Research Financial Institute,
Moscow. It was the first time the Soviet
Union had attended a meeting of bankers
since the Bretton Woods Conference in
1947.
Oome observers in Bangkok thought the
Russians would offer to match the
United States, dollar for dollar, in set-
ting up the bank (which would have
meant a Soviet contribution of $2OO
million), or that the Russians would
simply denounce the project as a neo-
colonialist trap. But in the closed sessions,
held to discuss the bank’s charter, the
Russian line turned out to be remark-
ably mild and flexible. They indicated-
that they would be happier if the bank
had few “developed” members, and ex-
pressed fears that the state-controlled
economies in ECAFE (for example,
Burma’s and Cambodia’s) would not
benefit greatly from the bank, as it is
now constituted.
The Soviet comments were heard I
carefully by the other delegates if 0 |
because they represented the an
capitalist point of view. But the possibil
of the bank’s being dominated by
non-Asian members is guarded agaii
by the capital structure, and by (
fact that Asians will dominate the boarl
There appears to be no real danger U
Asian taxpayers’ money will be funnel!
into capitalistic schemes. However,
seems at the moment that the Sovi
Union is reluctant to plunge headlort
into the Asian Bank. At the same tip
it does not want to dissociate itself fro
a project which may turn out to be
from Moscow’s point of view a usfc
ful ticket of entry into the Asian Cluj
TRADE PRACTICES
Snedden’s Opus
It seems as if some of the widespread
criticism has got through to him al
some credit must go to the Attorned
General, Mr B. M. Snedden, for clarify
ing the import of the Trade Practices Bl
in matters of detail and definition, j
—But unless he scraps its underlying
principle of registration and adopts iq
stead a complaint procedure it will ng
matter how hard he works on it: m
business world will still be left saddle!
with a needless, hamstringing instrumef
of control. Imagine how the trade
would react if restrictive labor practiced
were made similarly subject to registry
tion and judicial examination.
Yet, despite the favorable working!
complaint procedures in other countrie
notably New Zealand and Canada, \
Snedden remains blind on this vife
aspect. Nor has he yet been pressed l|
members on either side of the House!
relent, despite the Victorian Government'
declaration last week in favjr of a com
plaint procedure on the US mode fd
practices not deemed obnoxious enoujj
to outlaw. (Both the new Victorian Col
lusive Practices Bill and the Federa
Trade Practices Bill outlaw collusiv
bidding and tendering.)
Mr Snedden must be painfully awat:
of the legal complexities involved! 1
covering all the possible abusive trad|
practices in a bill based on his selecte|
procedures for rigid registration and dj 1
amination. Most of the amendments, ifl l
eluding some major ones dealing wif
monopolisation and arrangements exempt
from examination, arise from the new
to make watertight definitions of a “iM
tiplexity” of trade practices which woip
be unnecessary under a complaint sf
tern. The Canadian bill covers a


ipages. Even without the latest amend-
'ments, Mr Snedden's bill got up to 48.
„ On the vital question of secrecy, the
amendments go some way to allay fears
a e pu ic will be shut out although
revision is still there for the tribunal to
sessions in camera and for keeping
e register of trade practices secret. A
* ajor concession is that, except in special
prcurnstances, a member of the public
1 * e to inspect and obtain
itrW C i CO P ies documents filed in the
itnounal or recorded in its records. Less
‘ • .u • • r
“iiportant perhaps is the provision for
the commission to make an annual report
to Parliament on his operations. It is
[surprising that nobody appears to have
thought of that one before or, as Mr
jS&edden conceded in his earlier reply to
i The Bulletin’s criticisms, that mem-
hers of the public should have clearly
defined legal access to lodge complaints
before the commissioner.
Jn several respects the bm improves
safeguards against the unnecessary public
revelation of innocent trade practices and
also f or businesses to mend their ways
without the stigma of going before the
tribunal. The important thing of course
j s purge the business world of anti-
social trade practices, not to punish it for
past s - ns ebber G f commission or omis-
slon -
The tribunal itself gets a more legal
’ n t* l6 amendment providing that
on ty members of the judiciary can be
presidential members. But, although it is
in line with British practice, the adhesion
of part-time members (as opposed say to
assessors or advisers) seems a sloppy
arrangement which could open the door
for more “jobs for the boys” in the twi-
light of their business careers,
1 m inclined to agree with Professor
E- Richardson that everybody on the
tribunal should be full-time. Time will
show whether this will be necessary. As
with the Tariff Board one would have
thought that a nucleus of experienced
men in the prime of life capable of hand-
ling the tribunal's business on a full-time
. ~ , , , . .....
basis could be found to mix in with the
. , , , . , , A . ,
judges. Nobody would say that judges on
their own, as in the case of the Arbit-
ration Commission, can be expected to
reach the height of perfection in adjudi-
eating on economic issues,
J.C. HORSFALL
Tamer
"Our Embassy's got terrific security—our Vietnam policy is one of the best-kept secrets in Washington."


PILKINGTONS
lead the world in glassmaking
*
m
:
<•*'" >•%
.
1
mm
mm
There’s no more searching test of a
glass than to make it into a mirror, and
reflect an object in it again and again.
There's no doubt which glass makes to-
day's finest, truest mirrors Float glass,
invented and developed by Pilkingtons.
1
Pilkington glasses made or processed
in up-to-date plants in nine countries,
and behind every product are the vast
resources of some of the glass industrys’
largest laboratories, working on quality
control, and on research and development.
Pilkington research and development
produced Float glass which, with its new
clarity and brilliance, outdates Plate
glass in modern building, for mirror
making and for toughening into
safety glass.
For the finest glass specify Pilkingtons.
Pilkingtons’ Agent in Australia . ..
Pilkingtons’ service in Australia is
provided by Mr. C. Rogers who can help
you in any problem concerning the use
of glass. Just write to Mr. C. Rogers,
4 Bridge Street (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney,
N.S.W. Pilkingtons' glass is available
from glass merchants throughout
Australia. Head Office: Pilkington
Brothers Limited, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England.
FOR MODERN BUILDING SPECIFI GLASS RY PILKIHGTONS-INVEKTORS OF FLOil
1502/65


MEDICINE
Circulation and the Pill
In all the doubts and confusion about the pill which Sydney’s two afternoon
newspapers were able to create last week, all that was made clear was that there has
been a significant change in social attitudes to birth-control in the last five years.
And with it the ideas among newspaper executives as to what will build circulation
have also changed.
Caught in the middle of the sales war
last week was the Professor of Obstetrics
and Gynaecology at the University of
New South Wales, Professor H. M.
Carey. Professor Carey had given a
public lecture on oral contraception
based on his research at Sydney hos-
pitals. In the ensuing publicity his
sober and clinical findings were for the
most part forgotten by the afternoon
papers in the campaign of accusation
•and counter-accusation. In high moral
dudgeon both papers showed a now
Ifamiliar lack of concern with just what
had been said and written.
What has Professor Carey found out
about the pill? Based on his booklet,
[“The Pill, Principles and Practice”, which
fie published for the “non-medical uni-
versity graduate”, here is a summary of
bis findings.
, How popular is the pill?
f Initial trials were carried out in
1956, but it was not until 1961 that a
ipromotional drive was launched in Aus-
Itralia by one of the drug firms to
doctors to prescribe this method
A contraception. The pharmaceutical in-
[dustry estimated that by the end of 1962
about 100,000 Australian women were
taking these tablets regularly, and by
1965 the number had risen to 350,000,
or one in five in the 20 to 40 age group.
What effect has it had on the incidence
of venereal disease?
It has probably led to the increase in
venereal disease. The risk of spreading
venereal disease is less with mechanical
methods of contraception than with oral
fertility control. A recent survey amongst
mainly married women in the middle to
lower economic brackets who were using
the pill revealed that one in seven were
suffering from low-grade gonorrhoea
with symptoms not sufficiently severe to
stimulate the patient to seek treatment.
There is also a danger that the small
doses of penicillin used to treat gonor-
rhoea will suppress the early manifesta-
tions of syphilis without curing the
disease or preventing the development
of the more important late manifestations
of this dread infection.
What effect has the pill had on the
abortion rate?
In the past, a large percentage of the
induced miscarriages occurred amongst
married women. They represented one
method of dealing with an unwanted
pregnancy. With more efficient family
planning, the number of unwanted preg-
nancies has fallen with a corresponding
reduction in the number of induced mis-
carriages, which influences the number
of septic miscarriages admitted to hos-
pital.
At the Royal Hospital for Women in
Sydney there has been a marked drop—
from 130 cases in 1959 to 24 in 1964
in the number of women suffering from
septic miscarriages admitted to the hos-
pital. There has also been a drop,
although less marked, at Crown Street
Hospital. The reduction in the incidence
of septic abortion amongst married
women has been greater than amongst
single patients.
How many kinds of pill are there?
There are three main types of piH.
The “combined” pill, the “sequential”
pill and the “serial” pill.
1. The “combined” pill contains both
oestrogen and a progestogen and both
hormones are taken from the sth to 25th
day of the cycle. The first type of oral
contraceptive to be widely used was a
combined pill and hence is the one most
women have become accustomed to
taking. However, the combined tablet is
probably not the best type of pill as the
administration of the progestogen from
the sth to the 25th day is longer than
occurs normally. In a normal cycle,
progesterone is produced only during
the 15th to 25th days. The administra-
tion of progestogen produces many of
the side effects of the pill. The only
important side effect which is not due to
the progestogen is nausea, which is pro-
duced by oestrogen.
2. In the “sequential” pill, oestrogen
only is taken from the sth (or 2nd) day
of the cycle to the 20th day. Both
oestrogen and a progestogen are given
from the 21st to the 25th day of the
cycle. The smaller dose and shorter
course of the progestogen reduces the
incidence of side effects. Some types of
sequential pills still on the market contain
too low a dose of oestrogen and too
much progestogen. This has discouraged
the general acceptance of the sequential
type of therapy because of the occasional
pregnancy that occurred with the early
but badly designed sequential pills.
3. The “serial” pill is the same as the
“sequential” pill except that lactose tab-
lets are taken on the nights between
courses of active tablets. Thus one tablet
is taken every night continuously. This
reduces the likelihood of forgetting to
take the tablets on the correct days.
What about the side-effects?
Oral contraceptives have proved to
be efficient methods of family planning
but as many as one in three women
SWAINSVILLB
COME ANt> LISTEN, EVERYBODY ! -
f've JUST FINISHED ANOTHER
PROTEST SONG. AND I'VE GOT A
NEW TECHNIQUE FROMSOMEONE-
...WHO WAS TAUGHT BY THE
COUSIN OF A STUDENT OF
SEGOVIA L^
CHEEK UK qu/TAR. strings
sometimes BREAK.


M3OO TRANSISTOR
Record a parrot in a tree,
the band in the park, a child
at play. Recordings will
be faithful to the original
sound with the
M3OO. A
truly portable
recorder with all con-
trols convenient to one hand,
distortion free, 7 lb. weight, up to
lk hours playing time.
3po
EFUNK
WR
i>
PRINCESS CONCERT STEREOGRAM
Designed to complement a modern home setting.
A s/w radiogram with a rich, full tone from an
outstanding amplifier section and six carefully
balanced and housed loudspeakers. Has a Scandina-
vian oil finish over selected walnut veneers.
o
TELE
FUN
>;N
V/
EN
means a world of progress
For six decades Telefunken has led the field with
new achievements in the world of sound—2,ooo scientists
working in Telefunken laboratories maintain that lead. This
policy of progress and research gave the world the first
tape recorder and assures you of up-to-the-minute design
and lasting quality in all Telefunken products.
For comprehensive catalogues on radios, radio-
grams, tape recorders or record players, write to
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
W. C. WEDDERSPOON PTY. LTD,
193 Clarence Street. Bex 3597, 8.P.0., SYDNEY
W.A.: Musgroves Ltd., Perth. QLD.: Hendrix Electrix, Brisbane,
i S.A.: Ernsmiths Ltd., Adelaide. Finney Isles, Brisbane.
yt.C.T.: David Jones, Canberra. VIC.: Rekla-Electro Sound, Prahran.
taking these tablets suffer at one time or
another from one of their side effects.
Medical research, by improving the for-
mulation of these preparations, is en-
deavoring to reduce the incidence of side
effects. Most of these are of an annoying
rather than a serious nature.
Considerable publicity has been given
to the risk of thrombosis. While it is
true that this more serious complica-
tion occurs more commonly during
pregnancy or shortly after delivery due
to the larger amounts of proges-
terone circulating in the body during
these periods, there is little evidence to
suggest that the progestogen in the oral
contraceptive tablets carries a similar
risk. With the combined tablet the
amount of progestogen ingested would
be more than the amount of progester-
one produced during a normal menstrual
cycle and to this extent the risk would
be very slightly increased. However,
with the sequential type of oral contra-
ceptive the total progestogen taken is
less than that produced in normal non-
pregnant women. The risk of a woman'
being killed in a motor car accident it
considerably greater than the risk 0
formation of a thrombosis due to thi
use of oral contraceptives, but no om
would recommend that women stoj
riding in motor cars.
There is no evidence that either oestro-
gen or progesterone increases the incid-
ence of cancer. However, it is known
that some cancers of the breast and
female reproductive tract may grow mort
rapidly under the influence of oestrogen
About 2 per cent of women
during their lifetime will develop cancer
of the uterus (cervix or endometrium)
and about three times this number will
develop cancer of the breast. Many ol
these cases develop during the reproduc
tive period. In women over 30 who an
still menstruating, five in every thousanc
have an early cancer of the cervix which
is symptomless and so small that it can-
not be seen with the naked eye. How-
ever, it can be detected by the micro
scopic examination of the cells obtained
from a cervical smear, a test which ii
a simple, painless, one.
All women on oral contraceptives
should have a cervical smear at yearlyi
intervals.
VTausea is the side effect experienced,
at least initially, by most women. It
is due to the oestrogen in the pill and is
found with both the combined and
sequential types of formulations. During
the first month on the pill about one in
three women experience some degree of
nausea, but this gradually wears off so
that by the third month only about om
in 20 are troubled in this way.
As with other side effects skilfu
medical management can do much to
relieve nausea by changing the type of
pill.
Weight gain is another side effect of
the 19-nor-testosterone type of proges-
togen. On some of the early combined
tablets containing this type of progesto-
gen, one in three women gained three
pounds or more in weight over a six-'
month period. Changing over to a com-
bined tablet containing a 17-acetom
progesterone or to sequential therapyj
results in the loss of this extra weight.
Libido: When oral contraceptives re-
lieve a woman of the anxiety of an un-
wanted pregnancy, they may increase
libido. In those who are troubled by mild
nausea leading to lethargy, libido may
be decreased. In most women it is un-
altered.
When should women stop taking tk
pill?
Many doctors have advised, as a pre*
cautionary measure, that oral contracep-
tion should not be practiced continuously
for more than two years at a time. The
reason for this was that knowledge ofj


the long term effects was still incomplete.
There appears to be no valid basis for
such a recommendation and the data
currently available has revealed no ill-
effects from the continuous use of this
r tvP e of fertility control for periods of
1 , .
up to ten years.
Many women ask at what age they
can sa f e *> discontinue taking oral con-
traceptives? With other methods of con-
traception the onset of the menopause
the time wben ovulation stops,
b “‘ menstruation wil occur irrespective
of age so long as oral contraceptive tab-
lets are taken in the usual way .
POLITICS
The Small Boys’ Gesture
Again the lobbies in Canberra heard the murmurs of a “spill” of a threat to
Mr Arthur Calwell’s leadership, and again there was just about everything short
of it. Violent tempers, threats, guarded and blatant, and divisions in Caucus about
basic political issues.
But no “spill” for the leadership such
as had been promised, predicted, and
no doubt by some, eagerly sought. This
time the issue seemed to be State Aid.
But was it? Alan Reid writes from Can-
berra:
State Aid may have been the issue
which meant votes at the next election.
But it was the motion moved by young-
ish Frank Stewart from Sydney which
probed unsuccessfully at the cancer that
is eating away Labor's electoral vitals.
Stewart's motion drew attention to
the fact that it was the Party’s failure
to take action against ALP members
who, contrary to the Federal ALP ban,
participated in unity tickets with Com-
munists to give the Communist Party
control of ALP affiliated unions that was
responsible for the poor electoral sup-
port of the Party over recent years. It
was a moment at which Caucus would
probably have accepted determined
leadership.
Allan Fraser, Labor's MHR for Eden-
Monaro, had already given an example
of successful leadership on the State Aid
issue. Though confronted by Senator
J. Keefe who, as ALP Federal President,
is titular head of the machine that has
reduced Labor parliamentarians to the
role of subservients, Fraser made it clear
that he was not backing up an inch in
his support for State Aid.
He was aware that “sabre-toothed
tigers” were waiting to pounce on him
for his stand on State Aid. But he did
not propose to make himself an easily
digestible meal for these forces. He
completely supported State Aid, as there
was both moral justice and great political
wisdom in accepting the proposition of
a share in public funds for private
schools. He would continue to fight for
State Aid within the Party. To stand
mute and silent on great public issues
and not to speak out boldly was not the
way to win and Tetain seats for the
Labor Party.
With Fraser determinedly outspoken,
Caucus showed a flash of independence
for the first time for years. It voted
down overwhelmingly, and on the voices,
Keefe’s motion which sought to have
Fraser's TV broadcast “congratulating
and supporting” the Menzies Govern-
ment for its extension of aid to private
schools referred to the Federal ALP
parliamentary executive for investiga-
tion. Presumably this would have meant
discipline if the Executive found that
Fraser had breached the anti-State Aid
policy endorsed by the Federal ALP
conference in August.
But the leadership began and ended
there. When Mr A. Caldwell was asked
by those supporting the machine and
wishing to save Keefe from the loss of
face involved in a Caucus defeat to rule
the Keefe motion out of order (on the
grounds that disciplining of Labor par-
liamentarians was a matter for the ALP
machine and not the Federal Parliamen-
tary Labor Party) Calwell said that he
was “only acting as an agent of the
executive”.
TTe was obviously neutral, determined
to stay so, and if there was machine
disapproval for his neutrality he already
had his excuse prepared. He was merely
following a course of action imposed on
him by a majority vote of the Federal
Parliamentary Labor-Party Executive.
The Deputy Opposition Leader, Mr
Gough Whitlam, similarly took no signifi-
cant part in the debate on either the State
Aid or unity ticket issue. He spoke
lucidly, tellingly and ably as he always
does, but on a matter of procedure.
Despite the fact that it was his
“baby” he had raised the subject with
the Federal ALP Executive Whitlam
let Stewart go it alone. He listened while
Clyde Cameron and Martin Nicholls,
both from South Australia and both
staunchly loyal to the ALP machine
control, got the call to argue success-
fully against Caucus approving the
Stewart motion. Their theme was that
Stewart motion.
Prodded by Fraser’s uncompromising
determination the Caucus thumbed its
nose at the ALP Federal Executive. But
it was the gesture of small boys pre-
pared to run if those at whom the nose
was thumbed turned threateningly.
EDUCATION
The Pedlars
It has been a bad week for Melbourne
University. First came the story from
“Truth” that matriculation English ex-
pression papers were on sale for £5.
Then followed the report tabled in State
Parliament severely criticising Melbourne
University for “weak financial and gen-
eral administration”.
A slightly comic note is struck by the
report in the section dealing with salary
advances to staff. One staff member was
advanced £4OO to bring his mother-in-
law out from England; another got £5O
to buy a new school uniform for his
daughter; another got £l4O to install a
new septic sewer. A former university
accountant is severely censured for
making an improperly authorised with-
drawal of £4OO from trust funds for a
house he did not intend to occupy. Under
University regulations, salary advances
to staff members are available in cases of
real financial difficulties, in cases of ill-
ness, to help the raising of deposits on
houses, or to assist with travel finance
on sabbatical leave. The report claims
that a high proportion of the advances
were not within the rules.
More importantly the report claims
that the University Council could not
possibly exercise the full control over the
University required under State legisla-
tion, and that the volume of detail re-
quiring the personal attention of the
vice-chancellor was too much for one
man to handle.
The presentation by “Truth” to the
Victorian Universities and Schools Exam-
ination Board of the next day’s matricula-
tion English expression paper was the
first concrete confirmation of a disturb-
ing rumor which has been circulating for
a few years. The rumor has been that
exam, papers could be bought from
“someone who knew someone who
worked at the Government printers”.
The fastest response to the leakage of
the English expression paper came from
a group of University students who com-
posed a history and mathematics paper
and tried to peddle them as genuine. It
is not known whether they managed to
sell any, but they have pointed out that
they are performing a public service
because they are punishing cheats and
destroying the market for anyone who
has genuine papers to peddle. A more
disturbing rumor that the exam, paper
scandal has uncovered is the story that
some Monash University students have
been hiring themselves out at £2O a
time to sit for matriculation, mathematics
and science exams. Cash, we understand,
on delivery.
BRIAN BUCKLEY


No Folk-songs for
Feminism
“In 10 years the position will be totally changed”
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The Feminist Club is on the seventh
floor of a bank building in King
Street, Sydney. The 100-odd mem-
bers meet every Tuesday for luncheon
and generally arrange a musicale for
Fridays. The purposes of the club these
days, the president, Mrs B. G. Cubitt,
explained, are “educational and charit-
able”.
The education derives from speakers
each Tuesday—“ The Fascinating Insect
Kingdom”, “Mexico, with Colored
Slides”. Each year the club selects a
charity—-this year it is the Pallister Girls’
Home—and raises money for it.
The Feminist Club is, then, a pleasant
backwater in a busy city. No one, watch-
ing elderly women in elaborate hats chat-
ting over tea, would think that this club
was once part of a movement which
fought battles as bitter and prolonged
as any civil rights struggle in the United
States and was one of the strongholds of
what has been one of the great causes,
in its imaginative scope and social con-
sequences, of the 20th century, a century
of causes.
But feminism, as any folk-singer could
tell you, is not fashionable any more. To
recount its history is to slide into the
slough of cliche from which it is difficult
to extricate oneself. Its history in Aus-
tralia is much the same as its history
anywhere else, although its supporters
here tend to parrot that Australia “gave”
the vote to women sooner than other
countries did, so why did the machine
slow down so quickly?
In essence, feminists became ridiculous,
or were made to appear so. That is,
female feminists. Male feminists have
always appeared wise and generous and
continue to do so.
Some success was achieved after which
all except the most ardent fell away; that
is the general course of revolutions.
But justice, one supposes, is an absolute
quality. One cannot offer near-enough
and really offer anything at all. And
there is no relation between justice and
the aesthetic quality of its recipient.
Injustice is no less ugly if its victim is
a pretty public servant in Canberra than
if it is a fly-blown Aboriginal stockman
on a Northern Territory cattle-station.
Mostly Australian women have not
“ Lesh face it, kid. There are some things men are just better at than women."
"The younger generation just aren't
interested in feminism."
been so much held back as diverted.
They were diverted into women’s organ-
isations, a range of territory which artist
Desmond Digby is now exploring with
some thoroughness.
Mr Digby’s three women at the Troca-
dero (our cover) shine at every pore with
self-satisfaction. They nobly bear the
scars of years of struggle for office: to
be the one, wearing long white gloves
over mottled arms, to shake the hand of
the distinguished guest or drop a wobbly
curtsy before the Princess. They are
prepared to speak on any subject under
the sun as a “wife and mother”. Every
now and then one of them is chosen to
sit on some public committee to rep-
resent “women’s interests”, whatever
they may be. Dope and sex, in some
cases, of course. But behind the butter-
fly spectacles, the organisation woman’s
eyes make it clear that she knows.
All in all, they present a fairly fright-
ening picture. If this type of woman has
been part 01 a pressure group, as pressure
groups go, it has been almost totally
ineffectual. But they have not been a
pressure group. In fact, few of them
seem to have much aim beyond self-
congratulation and self - perpetuation.
But for a long time they may have made
it more difficult for women either to
take much place in the community as
citizens rather than as “wives and
mothers” or to organise effectively to
seek improvement in the areas where
there is still discrimination against
women.
However, even Australia cannot re-
main a self-admiring, simple society f° r
ever, and as Australian society changes
so do women and the part women play


in it, n °t, perhaps, for all the early
endeavors, faster than other sections, but
in pace.
It is no longer quite so easy for men—
or women —to have their random pre-
judices about women accepted as essen-
tial truth. And it must be only in the
arid acres of the women’s sections of the
daily newspapers where something must
be found to separate the advertisements
for one brand of cosmetics or detergents
from the other, that it remains a matter
for remark that a percentage of graduates
at a graduation ceremony is female, or
that a fairly ordinary woman by doing
some fairly ordinary job is “invading
a man’s world”.
Now, it seems, more women are begin-
ning to desert the bitter in-fighting of the
women’s groups to struggle for position
in the open community Specifically,
feminist organisations are being formed,
not with large, noble, indefinite aims,
but with one simple, specific object in
view.
The woman who is working and think-
ing this way could almost be called the
new new woman, if you had any con-
fidence left in new women. To get a
fairly generalised picture, she has prob-
ably been to a university or may have
been in the Services during the war. She
has the regulation two or three children,
probably now of school age. She has
resumed working in her profession and
lives in a household and environment
where vestiges of the Victorian middle-
class vanit> of keeping women idle have
gone.
Better educated and more used to
working in the community than the early
spectacular, exhibitionistic feminists, she
more easily sees women’s disadvantages
in relation to disadvantages suffered by
other sections of the community and not
as an isolated, absorbing crusade. She
works as a matter of course, rather than
to prove something to someone. She
joins organisations only if they are active
in promoting something she actively
believes in, rather than to fill in inter-
minable time on her hands.
She takes for granted something with
which sociologists are still grappling
that she has a statistical 30-odd years,
active and healthy, from the time she
finishes her primary task of bearing and
raising her children beyond early child-
hood. She sees these years as a rich
gift and responsibility, and has begun
to use them. Perhaps, inevitably, she
compares them with the few years which
so many men have after they at last
finish their primary task of providing for
and educating a family. This sort of
time on her hands, although it involves
decisions and adjustments, and often
difficulties, seems to be giving some
women a self-confidence which few other
factors have done.
Again, the new new woman does not
see women’s employment and wage con-
ditions as isolated but as part of broader
patterns. For example, employment
opportunities for the next decade at least
must be linked with automation. There
is not much point in struggling to enter
a calling which may disappear. There
may also be some dawning realisation
that discrimination in social and family
laws, as well as employment, can work
both ways, something which would never
have occurred to the old feminists.
This new reasonableness does not
mean that there are not still a number of
hard-core feminists in the community.
Many of these are clustered around the
sturdy League of Women Voters, which
dates back in South Australia to the end
of the last century and is almost as old
in the other States. The membership is
"What are your views on equality of the sexes?"
not large, but the league is fairly active.
The president of the NSW branch, Mrs
Lorelei Booker, said that after a recent
meeting she sent off 18 letters, exhorting
and reprimanding.
Mrs Booker is sufficiently alert and
dedicated to have prevailed upon the
NSW Education Deparment to change
its method of publishing the results of
public examinations. The department
used to publish boys first, then girls, until
Mrs Booker pointed out this created the
impression that girls’ results were less
important. Since then the sexes have
alternated.
Mrs Booker has no truck with women
who hedge about declaring themselves
feminists. “Look at the dictionary
definition if you don’t know what femin-
ist means,” she commands, “then see if
you aren’t one.”
And along with other long-time work-
ers in the field, she deplores but under-
stands that generations are growing up
who simply do not understand what talk
of discrimination against women is about.
She talks of the “strange but justifiable
selfishness of youth” and knows that
beyond a certain age women just want
tea and gossip, but still feels that there
should be some time in their lives when
women “care”.
The National Council of Women is
fairly active, but what you might call
a bit soft around the edges, what with
luncheons for Joan Sutherland and so
on. It has a large number of affiliations,
including the Ladies’ Golf Union, Quota
and Soroptimist Clubs, and even ex-
student associations, so can hardly be
held to have a consistent point of view
on anything much. It is a favorite when
a committee is looking for someone to
represent “the women”.
The University Women’s Graduates’
Association organised a seminar on em-
ployment opportunities for women at the
University of NSW last August. How-
ever, it may be that a large part of its
membership is women who have gradu-
ated then retired to the suburbs. They
are looking for a point of view, rather
than being in a position to provide one.
The most active and effective specific-
ally feminist organisation must be the
Business and Professional Women’s As-
sociation. This association has a mem-
bership of about 3000 in Australia, and
something like 175,000 members in the


' -:
l!
S
■
mmmmm
■ ■
WM
*
:• ,
:
::
•i
VxU' -V
. :,t \> - - >
f
>1 K •:
£ - <P
r : *-y
■
tv
His /
\
WSmm,
4
MM
n
■H" ,
'', ' V/ -’
i :fi! . ;. ' t
Before paper-work gets on top of you . . .
visit the 3IVI Business Communications Centre
You get a whole new approach to paper-work
from the 3M Business Communications people.
They will suggest new methods and systems
that save man-hours and reduce office over-
heads. More important, they’ll design them so
your business won’t outgrow them.
When a 3M Business Communications Con-
sultant meets you, he won’t talk much. He
wants you to! About the paper-work you have
to tackle. Because equipping an office is like
measuring someone for a suit—the product
must fit the individual’s need.
But he will ask questions . . . what type of
paper-work do you have? Correspondence?
Reports? Financial records? Internal forms?
Which departments handle the most paper-
work?
Then he assesses how and where 3M’s Systems
and Copying Products can save typing and
clerical effort, and speed the paper-work flow
throughout your organisation.
But first he’ll invite you to the 3M Business
Communications Centre, to see for yourself the
3M range of machines and papers. But why
wait for an invitation? Come and see what’s
new in money-saving paper-work methods any
time at 3M.
BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE
MINNESOTA (TUNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Adelaide
51-5971 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Perth 28-4651 • Hobart
3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 29-5109
SM2/431/6SQ
3tn


don’t be
vague
ask for
Haig
Over 300 years’ experience has
produced the mellow, golden
perfection of Haig Scotch
Whisky.
If you happen not to be a
regular drinker of Haig, when
next you order Scotch, be sure
to mention our name.
There’s a rare treat in
store for you.
?OLBJLAB|i
4O*
HAIG SAUCE
for Shrimps, Prawns, Crab, Lob-
ster and Scampi. Mix 1/3 cream,
1/3 tomato ketchup, 1/3 Haig
with a dash of Worcester sauce.
Good with hard-boiled eggs, too!
The Oldest Name
In
Scotch Whisky
FAMOUS SINCE 1627
B. 1.64
United States. It has a fairly liberal
interpretation of qualifications for mem-
bership, but splits up into suburban and
country branches, so that the member-
ship has to be active for the branch to
survive.
It was in the B. and P. that the first
germ of the movement to get more
women into local government grew in
1958. This seems to be the direction in
which women are moving with the great-
est co-ordination and spirit. Local gov-
ernment would seem a modest aim to the
old feminists who talked of feminine
Prime Ministers and Cabinets. One
woman, whose concern is with Public
Service salaries, spoke scathingly of
women in local governments as “one step
up from ladies’ auxiliaries”.
In 1950 there were eight women on
councils in NSW. At the 1962 elections
66 were elected. There are now about
140 women serving on councils through-
out Australia, spread over something
under 1000 local government bodies.
The success of women in local govern-
ment has often been the result of the
activities of the Local Government
Women’s Association, membership of
which is confined to aldermen or ex-
aldermen. Its membership is about 62.
About eight women, eligible to join,
haven't, because, according to Alderman
Marjorie Propsting, Mayor of Lane
Cove, they “don’t believe” in women’s
organisations.
An alderman like any other
HThe relative ease of passage into
local government, compared with
other political fields, is perhaps due to
acceptance by members of the associa-
tion of a slightly illogical attitude, but
one which works very well. This is that
the association will train, encourage and
work for women of almost any political
shade who wish to enter local govern-
ment. because it believes that more
women, as women, should be on councils,
but once a woman is on a council she
no longer represents her sex or the
association which helped to put her there.
She becomes, in fact, an alderman like
any other.
It seems women have now been elected
to local government bodies in sufficient
numbers to go some way to disproving
that women will not vote for women or
that women are at some particular dis-
advantage electors.
However, there is no doubt that
women going up for local government
are still selected candidates, better
equipped and better prepared than their
male adversaries. As numbers rise
quality must fall. However, it is hard
to gainsay that women, living close to
the community, have something practical,
and perhaps more than men, to offer
local government.
Mrs Propsting and most members of
the Local Government Women’s Associa-
tion look to the time when pushing and
special briefing won’t be needed to get
women into councils. She estimates a
possible 30 per cent of women in local
government. However, she believes that,
although she is not a “joiner”, women
will always like to belong to an associa-
tion with other women for similar in-
terests, simply for human reasons.
Experience in local government has
not so far made it easier for women to
get pre-selection for State or Federal
Parliament. However, some of them
seem determined that it will. Mrs Joan
Pilone, who is top of the Civic Reform
ticket for the Sydney City Council elec-
tions on December 4, and virtually cer-
tain to become the first woman alderman
of the council, is one of them.
Women’s path into councils has un-
doubtedly been made easier because they
are not after posts which carry great
prestige or much, or any, financial
reward. Financial reward is important.
The two words most fashionable at
the moment to describe Australians are
pragmatic and sentimental. By Aus-
tralians are meant male Australians, of
course. Women may be pragmatic; they
can rarely afford to be sentimental.
A ustralian pragmatism sees the cash
1 that goes with the job rather than the
job. To give an example, when drama
was struggling for any toehold in Sydney,
it was people like Doris Fitton, May
Hollinworth and Beryl Bryant who could
do the struggling. When there was some
money in it it became a job for men,
who could support a family and a Volks-
wagen on it.
So it is in the field of women’s salaries
and employment conditions that there is
a longer, harder row to hoe.
Business houses, including banks and
insurance companies, have notably re-
pressive policies, so much so that one
headmistress said she would not allow
representatives of some of these, who
canvass for possible staff at the year end,
to enter her school to spread his illiberal
ideas.
But world experience is that the Public
Service sets the pace and gives the lead.
However, the Commonwealth Public
Service, if anything, lags behind private
business. It not only pays women lower
rates but maintains the so-called marriage
bar.
New South Wales, with its Female
Rates Act, passed when Mr J. J. Cahill
was Premier in 1958, is the only State
which has legislated for a measure of
equality. However, this Act was con-
sidered a “first step”, but no other step
has been taken since.
To Queen Elizabeth, Sir Robert Men-


zies may be a courtly old gentleman, but
to many working women in Australia he
is a considerable humbug. The Minister
for Labor, Mr McMahon, is held in
hardly higher regard.
As guest speaker at the meeting of
the International Federation of Business
and Professional Women in Canberra in
April last year, Sir Robert, after some
coy remarks about being “unnerved”
because he “did not understand women”,
went on to spell out: “Entering political
life requires first a basic knowledge of
the political and governmental structure.
The first thing is to understand that the
business of politics and government is of
the utmost seriousness.”
This sort of statement to this sort of
gathering was about the equivalent of
President Johnson telling Dr Martin
Luther King and his colleagues that
Negroes will never get anywhere unless
they learn to read and write. After which,
of course, President Johnson would
be justifiably lynched. But Australia’s
Prime Minister lived on.
Mr McMahon seems particularly fond
of periodical Jarge statements on women
at work. Only 10 days ago he was telling
the National Council of Women that
“women were playing a useful part in
the work force by taking jobs formerly
done by men and releasing men for other
work for which they were better suited”.
Mr McMahon was not specific about
which jobs, and he did not say what
women were paid for doing them.
So far as wages and job opportunities
go, women are neatly caught between
the Arbitration Court, that instrument
for justice of which Australia was so
proud —about 50 years ago—and the
Commonwealth Government, with the
States naturally waiting for a lead from
the Commonwealth.
The general view of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court is that equal pay
for men and women is a “social and
economic change” and that the Court is
not a social or economic legislature. The
view of.the Commonwealth, back to the
days when Harold Holt was Minister
for Labor, and reiterated at intervals,
is that it is a “matter for the Courts”.
In 1951 the Australian Government
refused to ratify Convention 100 of the
International Labor Organisation, which
established equal pay for men and
women. Forty-eight countries have done
this. The Australian Government ac-
cepted the ILO’s Recommendation 90,
which set out certain steps to achieve
equal pay, but has since taken none of
these steps.
The Australian Council of Trades
Unions campaigns for ratification and
holds an Equal Pay Week each year.
However, as the Business and Profes-
sional Women’s Club points out, this
creates the impression that equal pay is
a Labor Party inspiration, whereas equal
pay in the British Civil Service was
achieved under a Conservative Govern-
ment.
The proceedings of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court over the past
half-century have been very involved.
The first basic wage in 1907 was to cover
“the average weekly expenditure for a
laborer’s home of about five persons”
and was established on the basis of what
“public bodies which jdo not aim at
profit” pay. There was no attempt to
find out what the items required for
the laborer’s home actually cost.
Oince then, in successive judgments, the
claim that the basic wage is set for
a family has been specifically rejected by
the Court. The Court has been concerned
with finding out what the economy can
stand, rather than the needs of any
recipient of the wage. However, there
still seems to be a general belief in the
Courts , that a working woman is single
with no dependants.
Persisting inequalities between men’s
and women’s salaries might be easier to
sustain for women affected if there was
even uniformity in women’s rates. How-
ever, since the Female Rates Act of
1958, NSW Public Servants working as
teachers and in some other occupations
in Canberra receive equal pay with men,
while women in some similar callings
in the Commonwealth Public Service do
not.
"You've no idea how you cheapen
yourself using sex as a weapon- I
said I'd wash up."
As conceivably nothing may ever be
done to break the impasse between the
Court and the Commonwealth, the
Business and Professional Women’s Club
is urging that the Commonwealth should
establish a Wpmen’s Bureau such as has
existed in the United States Department
of Labor for more than 40 years.
When President Kennedy in 1961
established his Commission on the Status
of Women to review progress and recom-
mend methods of overcoming the re-
maining discrimination against women in
employment and in civil, political and
property rights in the United States, the
B. and P. suggested to Sir Robert Men-
zies that something similar could be set
up here. Sir Robert’s reply was that such
a commission might be necessary in the
United States but it wasn’t here.
The Commonwealth Department of
Labor has for the past four years had a
research officer on women’s employment,
but it would be difficult to see how with-
out reinforcement she could do more
than plot changes in employment pat-
terns. Influencing policy would neces-
sarily involve extra-Public-Service pres-
sure.
But even in this confused and rigid
position there seems to be some small
cracks. The Reserve Bank of Australia,
undoubtedly for practical reasons, has
now rejected the marriage bar for its
employees. Psychiatric nurses in New
South Wales intend to press for a new
award which will specify that their work
is not “essentially or usually performed
by females’’. Something like 50 per cent
of psychiatric nurses are male. The argu-
ment the nurses intend to offer is that
there are not integrated wards at CallaD
Park Hospital.
But the greatest breakdown is cer-
tainly in the teaching profession in New
South Wales. Teachers in New South
Wales now have both equal pay and
equal opportunity and a single promotion
list.
Next year for the first time a woman
will become headmistress of a co-educa-
tional school when Miss Doris Osborne,
at present headmistress of Strathfield
Girls’ High School, goes to West Wya-
long. She looks to the future with some
excitement. She believes that the changed
status of teachers will be the greatest
factor in changing attitudes to women
in employment.
“Until a few years ago a boy never
saw a woman in any position of authority
in a school,” she said. “Even in a' prim-
ary school the headmaster was always
a man. So, of course, boys grew U P
believing that women were of little; im-
portance and women’s work of little
value. But children accept readily what
they see. In another 10 years the whole
position will be totally changed.”


; .
i-v V
MS
m
2l~r.
msm,
-
■■■
S»S
m
&
,- x ~
1
'•' 3.-:
m
i/
'V-
*iK
* l>-
<:. ;: ;;S
m
i $
mm
■
l ? m
m
M
V
M
m
-
1
THE INTERNAL PHONE WITH THE EXPANDING FUTURE
In thousands of building and rebuilding projects throughout Aus-
tralia, prime consideration is being given to provision for potential
growth. One important aspect is the inevitably required expansion
of telephone facilities within an organisation. The STC PAX
provides the most economical, most efficient, solution to this vital
problem.
STC PAX systems commence where required, with a basic 10 line
system, available in one compact unit. When further lines are
needed the system can be quickly and economically developed to
accommodate them.
Further, tie lines can be used to connect together two PAX systems
thus providing complete intercommunication between all exten-
sions of both. Special facilities such as central dictation, loud
speaking telephones, secretarial system, full range of modern
lightweight coloured handsets are also included in the economical
STC PAX.
An important feature is that STC PAX provides fully automatic
inter-communication between extensions with complete secrecy.
Executive priority is provided for selected extensions.
For further information on STC PAX contact Standard Telephones
and Cables Pty. Limited, 252 Botany Road, Alexandria, Sydney,
Phone: 69 0444 • Melbourne 44 5161 • Canberra 9 1 043.
Distributors: OLD: Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane. 4 1771. S.A.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide. 51 3731. W.A.: M. J.
Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth. 21 6461. TAS.: W. &. G. Genders Pty.
Ltd., Launceston 2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
"ITT
associate
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
MIB2C


CHAMBER OF HORRORS
The Dark Side of Barry Humphries
By CHARLES HIGHAM
BIZARRE
A majestic Beardsley woman m fin-
de-siecle decollete, wielding a
triple-thonged whip over a kneel-
ing victim; a monkey-woman, daintily
poised on the knee of her owner-trainer;
two healthy-looking, crew-cut American
boys jojned by a band of flesh at the
waist; a man driving, bound fast in a
desert of gigantic concrete blocks; a man
opening a series of doors, following
arrows that lead at last to a brick wall;
a girl pushing a doll hearse containing
a tiny skeleton: merely opening Barry
Humphries’ anthology “Bizarre” (Elek,
88s.) is apt to provoke a violent attack
of vertigo, a giddy spell brought on by
a kind of prone assemblage of horrors
for a mortician's coffee-table.
Introduced by a flock of quotations—
the most notable, of course, by De Sade
—a self-fondling Rops nude, and a figure
of Satan sowing deadly tares (new-born
babies) over a grim-looking Paris, the
book represents the most self-indulgent
of lucky dips, a triumph of serendipity
unmarred by bourgeois caution. The first
big picture we see is of a youth whose
entrails are unzipped by a phallic key:
we are evidently going to be spared
nothing in exploring the horrors that go
on behind the bland surface of life, and
it’s probably meant to be significant that,
in those exposed entrails, a spider and
The Customs Department has not yet
released Barry Humphries’ new book,
“Bizarre”, in Australia but in the United
Kingdom one bookstall chain gave it un-
expected publicity by refusing to distri-
bute it and Philip Toynbee in the London
“ Observer” attacked it as a “bestially
vulgar compilation”.
Barry Humphries says his chamber of
horrors “is addressed, frankly, to the
jaded palate, to those who find a literary
diet of steak and eggs insufficient”.
a wasp lurk, reptiles crawl, and there
are clusters of evil-looking eggs.
The literary side of the volume gets off
to an hysterical start with Huysmans,
writing on satanic works of art by Rops:
“(The artist) has seized upon the stern
and ardent flesh and petrified it, writhing
in its feverish excesses; he has revealed,
in short, the preternatural aspect of those
superannuated physiognomies, bursting
forth into transports so violent that the
expression of their features pursues you
to the point of anguish,” is one typical
Huysmans tongue-twister. A poem by
Stefan George celebrates a load of rich
food, spiced wine, tangled limbs wrapped
in erotic embrace, split fruits and splashed
blood and spittle. From Sacher-Masoch’s
“Venus in Furs” an excerpt which feads
like a series of subtitles from a Theda
Bara movie (“Do you know, you little
fool, I shall whip you for a while?”) and
features, of course, one of those massive
fur-clad women who lash their mates.
The tone is sharply misogynist: “All of
a sudden I saw with horrible clarity


whither blind passion and lust have led
man . . . into the net of women’s treach-
ery, into misery, slavery and death.”
From this spectacular example of
literary dithering, Mr Humphries leads
us on to the next stage of his fun laby-
rinth: an account of the exquisite agonies
to be had from eating certain varieties
of toadstools, or the pleasures of fly-
agaric, which brings on a sharply pleasur-
able intoxication, delirium, and splendid
hallucinations. Cartoons by Sine show
us a pianist performing on a lavatory
seat, a woman placing a coin in a lavatory
instead of a poor-box in church, a
bearded man settling down to eat at a
lavatory, a woman carrying a birthday-
cake lavatory with 12 candles, a woman
under a lavatory hair-dryer and two
boxers facing each other from corner
lavatories. What larks! And there are
still almost 200 pages to go!
There has been no attempt to arrange
most of the book under different kinds
of perversions or distortions: sado-
masochism, sexual oddities, lavatory
jokes, medical or spiritual abnormalities,
all are jostled together in virtually un-
controlled profusion. If the collection
has any consistent tone at all, it is one
of a desire to abase the normal, to show
the worm in the bright apple-red cheeks
of the supposedly healthy: the male
phallus which dangles a skull on page 70
probably sums up the book’s flavor better
than any other illustration in these pages.
The longest and best literary excerpts
generally occur in the field of sadism or
masochism: one of the best of these
passages comes from Octave Mirbeau’s
“Le Jardin des Supplices”. characteristic-
ally described by Oscar Wilde: “It is
very revolting, but, for all that, wonder-
ful.”
IVf r Humphries has wisely picked out a
fine description of Mirbeau’s villain-
ess Clara’s visit to the caged poet, hideous-
ly gangrenous and starved, who once had
written erotic verses in her honor, tortur-
ing him with excerpts from his (very fine)
poems, and watching him grovel and bark
like an animal in response to the rhapso-
dies he had once penned. After the
recital. Clara feeds the wretch portions
of meat, which he savages: all this
vividly presages Wells’s “Island of Dr
Moreau” with its ape-men turning in
their agony on the insane physician who
Had reduced them below the human level
with his diabolical skills. The extreme
decadence of M. Mirbeau’s prose is ad-
mirably contrasted later with the extro-
vert vigor of Aretino’s sonnets, boasting
without restraint of his sexual powers.
(But isn’t this sequence too aggressively
norma] for a book of bizarreries?)
Perhaps the most intriguing part of the
book comes under the heading “A Gal-
lery of Monsters”. Here the swoonings,
heats and candied erotic conceits of so
much of the first half of the book give
way to a museum of freaks, culled with
considerable industry from an array of
which Barnum himself would have been
envious. We learn again about Chang
and Eng, the delightful Siamese twins,
who married two women who hated each
other; they spent alternate nights at
these women’s houses (this after refusing
to wed a woman named Gloria who
claimed that the laws of bigamy could
not stop her from marrying the pair of
them). There is a splendid circus
catalogue: it includes Jo-Jo, who had
“the most perceptive mind in the head
of a dog”, a man “with an ostrich
stomach” who ate cottonwool washed
down with ammonia, a dwarf who so—
this is an incongruously modern touch
—“resembles a living doll that children
want to take her home with them and
piay with her”, and a Japanese girl who
offers specialised delights “Few people
could do with their hands what this
clever, though incomplete, girl does with
her feet.”
Tod Browning’s (surely not “neglect-
ed”?) film “Freaks” gets a showing: it
was brilliant of Mr Humphries to find
a rare quotation of Julien Greens
describing this work. The gorilla-woman
and the dog-man appear, though not, to
my disappointment, the woman with the
head of a sheep. I very much admired
the picture of Lionel, the dog-man: a
most notable and distinguished looking
gentleman, with the finest head of hair
I have ever seen. There is a white Negro,
more than one pygmy, a group of Siam-
ese twins (Rosa and Josepha are particu-
larly healthy specimens), a three-legged
Scotsman “hidden by his family for 50
years” why? and an Italian photo-
graphed with his third leg behind him,
and a look of considerable self-satisfac-
tion on his face. There is the living skele-
ton—a most cheerful-looking 28-year-old
in a jolly hat —the “Australian Samson”,
49 stone, eight pounds of flesh engaged in
labor in a tin mine at Maranboy, giants,
dwarfs and (we must be careful not to
confuse them, lest we insult them
mortally) midgets.
After this section the book again be-
comes a rather confused gallimaufry of
sick titbits, including a horror story, “The
Shifting Growth”, I hadn’t seen in 10
years (it used to crop up in the horror
omnibuses that were popular just after


m
-:• •>
■
r
■
%
n
tl
1
•: : :: : : •.
m
m
m
<»■**««
*#
w
the face of Email you know best...
Such household names and brands as
Westinghouse, Electrice, Carmichael,
Eicon, Harford and Fyrside.
Yes, that is your Westinghouse refrig-
erator. And that is the range you plan
for your new home. Yes, your washer,
water-heater, television set, radio, fan,
your coffeemaker.
All these are products of Email. They
are well-known and demonstrate a
proud record of service and efficiency.
But the interesting thing is that they
are only one facet of the Email story.
Way and beyond the consumer products
activities that are demonstrated here
are the many Email interests that range
from power distribution apparatus to
automotive components. This wide
diversification of interests, that is so
typical of Email, works for Australia
in many ways. It means shared skills
and resources for each Email Division.
It offers financial stability and strength.
Here then is the promise and realisa-
tion of Email’s policy—a policy of finer
products and continued growth.
Email Limited.
ELECTRICAL & INDUSTRIAL
MANUFACTURERS
C5D.18328


- : .........
' ' i:
O.
w ™
ms***’
.:- 1 ■:
mm
m
m
■-<
m
a cigar that’s really appreciated
HENRI WINTERMANS
At this time of year the gift that will really delight is a box of
Henri Wintermans cigars. As Christmas
gifts or at celebrations, these are the
cigars that are truly appreciated. They
are extra mild cigars and are available
in a wide choice of sizes—at prices to
suit everyone.
Ask for Henri Wintermans in their gay
Christmas wrappers at tobacconists and
stores everywhere—Henri Wintermans
are the nicest cigar in the world.
, HENRI >
„WINTERMANS,
SCOOTERS are
smaller cigars,
tins of 20 for
12/-. Boxes of 25
for 15/-.
m
PANATELLA, the
long thin cigar. 5
for 6/8 or gift-
wrapped drum,
25 for 33/-.
BOUQUET Half
Corona size. Wood
box of 10 for 14/-
or 25 box for only
35/-.
FINE FLEUR
Corona shape
known through-
out the world.
Wood box of 25
for 60/-.
World War II), Alfred Jarry’s rich
account of the raptures of Messalina in
the arms of a succession of athletes, and
a chillingly neurotic example of necro-
philia from that remarkable writer
Richard Middleton, himself a suicide at
29.
The cinema gets a surprisingly fleeting
look into these pages: why nothing from
the diabolical “Mask of Fu Manchu”, a
marvellous chronical of perversions? One
wishes Mr Humphries had called on
the help of Forrest J. Ackerman, editor
of “Famous Monsters of Filmland”,
whose collection of weird film stills and
books must be unique in this field (I
shan’t easily forget visiting his pale green
Hollywood house, with its masks, extra-
ordinary array of fantastic literature,
and figure of the “Metropolis” robot to
greet me at the door). Bat one is glad
to see an (uncaptioned) still of Elsa Lan-
chester as the Bride of Frankenstein
complete with tall, crackling electric
bush of hair, and a rare picture of
Warren William (from “Three on a
Match”?) brooding over a skull abacus
set in a dragon frame. .
Despite its chaotic presentation and
the presence of too much “straight” sex
writing which goes against the overall
tenor of the anthology, I enjoyed Mr
Humphries’ collation. Only once does he
lapse into the really silly and vulgar:
when two Siamese twins, joined hip to
hip, are shown smoking, with the caption:
“You’re never alone with a cigarette.”
And the lack of an index, or information
on some of the cartoonists and other
artists, is very annoying indeed. Other-
wise, though, Mr Humphries has
threaded his sideshows and his distorting
mirror mazes with an evident respect,
awe, and a most agreeably good-natured
diligence.
"Lower your head and you'll look
like a sprinter!"


AROUND MELBOURNE
One and a Half Million Bottles of Champagne
Like something out of Beau Geste
/~|ver the years the Hunter River has
been smarter at picking up pub-
licity, but Victorian vineyards are
creeping up on the vine. For one
thing they have taken to picking up
plaques, National Trust plaques. The
winery at Chateau Tahbilk picked up
a “B” grading in 1960. Then just
this past week the winery at All Saints,
Wahgunyah, scored a “B”, and so
did the cellars at Great Western. A
“B” is a very good rating. It means
in effect: “We’ll do everything in our
power to save this place as long as
we don’t have to pay for it.”
Chateau Tahbilk is 105 years old,
there are the white-washed walls, the
olives, and a gorgeous old tower,
which gives Tahbilk the edge even on
some of the in France. At the
centenary in 1960 the Prime Minister,
Sir Robert Menzies, picked up a
bottle of red and a bottle of white,
not to be opened until 2060. He said
he felt he was doing something for
temperance by keeping those bottles
out of harm’s way for such a period.
Great Western, on the other hand,
has been celebrating its centenary just
this year. It is half way between
Stawell and Ararat and it has been
in the hands of the Seppelt family
since 1918. It may seem a little sur-
prising that a plaque should go to a
hole in the ground, but at the Great
Western there are 3i miles of man-
made tunnels. Melbourne, which has
never been able to develop an under-
ground of any kind, has always been
rather jealous of Great Western. Your
correspondent visited there recently
and went on a grand tour with the
• manager, Mr Les Francis. The place
was dimly lit, and the walls utterly
black, not clammy, but covered with
a bacterial mould, soft and hairy to
the touch like a cocker spaniel. At
times there was the feeling that one
might never find one’s way out again,
but this was countered by another
more comforting feeling. As Mr
Francis put it, we were surrounded
by one-and-a-half million bottles of
champagne.
The tunnels, in the old gold mining
tradition, were called “drives” and
named after distinguished visitors.
There was a Lady Somers Drive, a
Lord Hopetoun Drive, a Sir Dallas
Brooks Drive and Splendid Drive
called for Dame Nellie Melba. The
former manager, Mr Colin Preece,
who was at Great Western for 30
years, says that Dame Nellie made
two visits to Great Western, once
about 1902 and again in 1929. The
legendary tale was that she refused
to go in 1902 unless they gave a bath
of champagne. One needed about 180
bottles for a champagne bath, said Mr
Preece.
Hans Irvine, MLC, who created the
Great Western champagne tradition,
was the owner in 1902, and it was
at this time that he entertained the
Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun.
Mr Preece says the guest was so
distinguished they had the bath
enamelled for the occasion. Regret-
tably, by the time His Excellency took
his bath, the enamel had not set. It
was a grave emergency and Hans
Irvine had to send to Ararat for a
medication to repair the damage to
Lord Hopetoun. Mr Preece says the
medication did such a fine job that
an Ararat chemist still has the sign
that the shop was under Vice-Regal
patronage.
TJowever, the Governor of Victoria,
Sir Rohan Delacombe, did not
take a bath when he visited All Saints
vineyards at Wahgunyah last week.
All Saints is the oldest of the family
vineyards, and the Sutherland Smiths
are now up to the fifth generation.
Sir Rohan was greeted by George
Sutherland Smith 111. The Smiths
came to Wahgunyah on the Murray
in the early 1860 s. They were joiners
at the Castle of Mey, in Scotland,
now occupied by the Queen Mother.
The original G. S. Smith must have
been homesick. In 1880 he completed
his winery, an enormous building
covering several acres, a perfect
replica of the Castle of Mey. If you
see it now, it looks like something
out of Beau Geste. A few machine-
guns around the battlements and you
could keep out the entire Vietcong.
As for the vineyard, it was named All
Saints after the old parish back home.
It is indeed a nice, reverent name for
a vineyard.
The thing to do is to get to a nice
high vantage point inside the winery,
and look down. As George Sutherland
Smith always says: “There you see
the largest oak storage in the Southern
Hemisphere.” Altogether there are
close on half a million gallons all
stored in great barrels, which in the
gloom look like dozing elephants.
Most of the barrels were made before
the turn of the century. All Saints
had a superb cooper, named P. O.
Sullivan, the best in the world, accord-
ing to George. Every year he won
the first prize at the Corowa Show.
About 1896, he said, Penfolds sent
to Germany and had two oak barrels
specially made by the best cooper
there. Sullivan still came first, Pen-
folds second, said George, happily.
There are still about 10 vineyards
in the Rutherglen district, but at the
unveiling of the plaque George
Sutherland Smith, spoke of the glories
of the north-east in the hearty op-
timistic days of the ’eighties. Then this
was the greatest wine area in Aus-
tralia. There were 30,000 acres under
vine and Victoria was being described
as “John Bull’s vineyard”. We saw
ourselves even as a possible replace-
ment for France. Then came phyl-
loxera, the black death of the vine,
and the great industry was virtually
wiped out as the disease slowly spread
across the State. The wine acreage
of the north-east is now more like
3000 acres, a tenth of its former glory.
However, the quality is remarkably
high. Inside the Castle last week long
tables were placed between the tuns.
There were plates of good cheese,
good garlic sausage and unlimited
quantities of excellent All Saints, Ries-
ling, Cabernet-Shiraz, Edgerly Port
and Muscat. We did our best to
stimulate local consumption on behalf
of the 20th century.
BATMAN


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
Some New
Prejudices
rERE’s a lot of money to be made
out of women’s magazines. Divi-
dends proclaim it and the frequent
appearance of new ones hammers home
the obvious. For no matter how unlikely
the image they offer us, we stiff ask our-
selves guiltily, “Should I be like that?”
The one I have beside me now, a new
British one called “Nova”, says, “A New
Kind of Magazine for the New Kind of
Woman”. What is she like?
From the illustrations and advertise-
ments middle-class (“sitting pretty.
In her Volvo.”), under 35, a very sharp
but economical and not outlandish dres-
ser (no Mary Quant Ginger Group
except underclothes lots of synthetics,
no furs or diamonds), susceptible to new
make-up and hair colors (Vidal Sassoon
the most frequently mentioned hair-
dresser), child orientated (driving child-
ren home from the nursery, doing her
isometric exercises accompanied by a
two-year-old), job orientated in a re-
creational way (being a “beauty coun-
sellor”), “emancipated” (“You’re his
wife. Who’s his girl-friend? Answer:
YOU because you shampoo . . .”)
| From the articles a mixture of
intelligence and credulity. Bright enough
|to cope with Sir Julian Huxley on
iHumanism and silly enough to accept
what looks like a marvellous piece of
codding on “Sex and the Single
Daughter” what Daddy did when his
daughter took him up on his liberal prin-
ciples about having your pre-marital
sexual relationships cosily at home where
Mum and Dad can supervise them.
The magazine carries one story, a
clever, sophisticated piece about a man
who almost loses his wife because he
doesn’t understand her foreign complex-
ity (i.e., sexual needs).
This is very revealing. As Betty
;Friedan pointed out, the 1930 magazine
image of the spirited, independent career
girl who didn’t need marriage to give
content to her life was replaced in the
1940 s and 1950 s by the housewife-
bother image, utterly dependent on
others for meaning and fulfilment.
| She related this change to the failure
of women to keep control over what
went into the magazines to the return
of male comfort-longing journalists from
the war, to the retirement of older
feminist writers, and to the disappear-
ance of serious fiction from magazines,
the substitution of “service articles” deal-
ing with “feminine topics”.
But while I welcome the appearance
in this new magazine of both fiction and
serious articles (even though most of
them seem to be about morality), I can’t
find “the New Kind of Woman”.
There is more interest in women’s
sexual role, but in our society that surely
involves dependent, non-aggressive be-
havior. The jobs shown are always ex-
tensions of marriage only the very
young girls are not married; and they all
hope to be. And woman is still the great
consumer—of clothes, cars, cosmetics,
food and men.
As far as I can see, Mum has got a
new hair color, a new car, some new
prejudices and a part-time job but it’s
still good old Mum.
Helpful
People tell you that shop assistants
in department stores are surly and
unhelpful. I have seldom found
this.
Last week I went to buy a sweater. It
was about three o’clock in the afternoon.
I had time off. Everyone was tired and
limp. Though there weren’t many people
actually shopping.
After only a few minutes standing at
the counter, I was approached by an
efficient-looking woman with short, grey
hair and glasses. I knew exactly what I
wanted a powder-blue, imitation cash-
mere sweater with embroidery and beads
on the yoke. I wanted it to wear in the
evenings with blue slacks. Because when
I come home from work 1 feel as if I
have just taken part in the ride of the
Valkyries and if my husband isn't to
think so, too. I have to change into some-
thing less chewed-up looking. Something
soft and feminine. I had been saving up
for some weeks for this.
Yes, she did have a sweater like that.
I was rather small, but it might fit me.
She brought it out. It was just what I
wanted and I was sure it would fit me.
“Of course, it’s Japanese, and the
finish is very poor.”
“Yes, but a lot of Japanese goods are
really very well made. That old myth
doesn’t apply any more.”
“This one isn’t well made. Look.” She
began to rattle the beads on the yoke.
“Oh well, I can easily sew those on
again.”
“And it’s not very thick.” She held it
up to the light, showing me that you
could see through it. “It won’t wear well.
Now this blue Botany wool is a much
better buy. Better quality and value. It
hasn’t any of that tizzy beading. It costs
less and it will wear twice as long. It
looks a better fit to me. too.”
She thrust it into my hand. It was
twice as thick, well made and my size.
“Yes, but I want something soft and
feminine. I want it to relax in.”
“Of course, if you don’t mind spend-
ing a lot of money on something shoddy
. . . but I wouldn’t buy it mvseif, dear.”
I bought the blue Botanv wool. I wear
it every evening with my slacks. It
washes beautifully and will wear twice as
long And I loathe it.
CLARISSA BLACK


Vtckcu pouch,
AMPHORA
gentle
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
■
.
..
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
SAI7S/1
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
6'9
2 or.
( MOCK! OF SOUWE EGBERTS lOTAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, lILLARI
Patterson’s Flagrant
Fraud
“Come on , White American , why don’t you fight?”
From GEORGE McGANN in Las Vegas
The afternoon I arrived in Las Vegas,
two days before the Clay-Patterson
world championship bout, the local
newspaper carried a scare headline:
“Shotgun Suicide Threat Paralyses
Downtown Vegas.”
The accompanying article described
how a loser in a downtown gambling
casino had sat in a car on the main street
for four hours with a shotgun pointed
against his chest, resisting pleas of police,
who had cordoned off the area, and
clergymen to hand over the weapon.
Finally, Hank Greenspun, a well-known
local identity (and publisher of the news-
paper), walked over
to the car and took
the gun away from
the unhappy gam-
bler, who was car-
ried away to hospital
for psychiatric ob-
servation.
The incident, with
its overtones of des-
peration, self - de-
struction, violence
and frontier brav-
ado, somehow typi-
fied the desert metro-
polis as I have come
to know it from
previous visits and
this most recent
stay. With the con-
siderable help of
enforced financial
tribute from the
gaming casino-
hotels, the Las Vegas
Chamber of Commerce does an emin-
ently successful job of presenting the
Nevada oasis to the world in glamor
terms —Fun City of the West, Heart of
Show Business, Town where the Action
is, and the like. What the Chamber of
Commerce does not publicise are the
vital statistics relating to suicides,
assaults, murders, robberies and assorted
felonies which, in total, constitute the
highest crime rate of any city, of any
size, in America.
It was peculiarly appropriate, there-
fore, that Las Vegas should become the
scene of one of the most flagrant crimes
in recent boxing history—the fraudulent
attempt by Floyd Patterson to recapture
the heavyweight title from the arrogant
young racist who now insists upon being
called by his Black Muslim name,
Muhammad Ali, but who is better known
by his “slave name”, Cassius Marcellus
Clay. The fraud was perpetrated by
Patterson, heretofore regarded as a hero
possessing solely noble qualities. He had
suffered such a severe recurrence of a
chronic back ailment one week before
the bout that it forced him to discontinue
further heavy training; nevertheless, he
insisted upon going on with the fight,
This displacement of the sacro-iliac
bone of the lower back crippled Patter-
son to such an extent after the third
round that he could not stand erect,
could not sit on his stool between late
MUHAMMAD ALI
rounds, and could
offer only pitifully
inadequate resist-
ance to the blows of
his taunting, merci-
less foe, who pro-
longed Patterson’s
agony until the
twelfth round when
the referee finally
stepped in to halt
the appalling mis-
match. Patterson’s
courage throughout
his ordeal was com-
mendable but could
not relieve him of
the full blame for
concealing the in-
jury from the Ne-
vada Athletic Com-
mission physician
who examined him
prio: to the bout or
—presumably—from
the promoters and closed-circuit TV
people who broadcast the degrading
spectacle to hundreds of theatres in
North America and by way of Early Bird
satellite to England and the Continent.
Patterson’s deliberate deception, which
cost his backers unknown amounts in
wagers and constituted “a four million
dollar hoax against the public”, as one
New York newspaper put it, was un-
justifiable. But so was the sadistic
behavior of his opponent, who taunted
Patterson throughout his ordeal with:
“Come on, White American, why don’t
you fight?”, and chose to slap, cuff and
jab him, in the most humiliating fashion,
rather than go for the clean knockont
blow. It was an exhibition of cold,
calculated cruelty which made a mockery
of sportsmanship.


-pTT '
.1964
‘/vtac.v
■■J '/■
1
. ORLANDO
YINTACED AUSTRALIAN
•; -■
mm
Wmm
mm. f
tiill
vnnan R> Cl ,jc PIY -Ifi
§§« cTiRAMPOSON^
PI
;J>
ii i i
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
• throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’*
famous Barossa Valley,
I 0983
Clay’s treatment of Patterson, a devout
Roman Catholic, indicated, among other
things, the depth of his commitment to
the Muslim movement, a fanatical band
of Negroes who preach hatred of all
whites, segregation of the races and the
ultimate establishment of a separate
black State on this continent. Clay is
accompanied everywhere by “the Fruit
of Islam”, a bodyguard of specially
picked, conservatively dressed young
Negroes. The bodyguards caused con-
siderable trouble at ringside, despite
the presence of an awesome number of
Las Vegas City policemen and pistol-
packing deputy sheriffs attired in powder-
blue frontier suits and ten-gallon hats.
During the early rounds some of the
bodyguards insisted on standing up in
their seats near Clay’s corner, blocking
the view of others who held one-hun-
dred-dollar tickets in the ringside section.
When they resisted shouts to “sit down”
and the commands of ushers, a phalanx
of sheriffs descended on the bodyguards,
handcuffed them and removed them to
gaol. At the end of the fight another
Black Muslim leaped into the ring,
where he was seized by two burly cops
who hurled him high in the air, in a
graceful parabola, into the laps of people
in the sixth row.
At a Press conference next day, Clay
sarcastically referred to Patterson (who
was sitting beside him) as “a good, clean
American boy—I'm just a bad Muslim”.
Putting an arm about Patterson’s shoul-
der, Clay said to him: “You fought for
your country, the Government should
give you money—I know they won’t do
it, but you should always have a job.”
Asked if he did not consider the United
States his country, Clay shot back: “I
pay Uncle Sam seventy-five per cent of
my money—that makes it my country,
don’t it?”
Clay seized the occasion to lecture the
Press on the strict morals of his Black
Muslim companions. “When we were
in Sweden the people there told us they
never saw American Negroes who did not
even look at their women,” he said. “The
girls there told us most Negroes had only
one object in mind. But we turned our
'eyes the other way when a flirt came
near. We don’t smoke, we don’t drink
and we don’t commit adultery.”
This unsavory fraud at Las Vegas
ought to disgust the public, coming, as
it did, after a succession of four
utterly ridiculous heavyweight title bouts
involving Sonny Liston, Clay and Patter-
son, which produced less than nine
rounds of boxing. But the memories of
boxing buffs are short and their gullibility
limitless. The Press conference ended
Mth a discussion of Clay’s next title
|defence and, God forbid, the possibility
uf Patterson carrying on in the ring,
jSacro-iliac and all.


~*>v
"-X,,.
"•"iw.
0%
zMWMz
.-:••••••
$
W«
-'.tato
J|
§Jr. N*
4
ill Jt
:/
>
fy
#P
X
»w %
X
Burroughs make the BIG ones
And the big news in electronic computer usage.
Behind the U.S. Space shots, for example, and Tel-
star, nuclear submarines and early warning defence
systems you’ll find Burroughs at work. And in
industry and business, Burroughs computer systems
Burroughs
are being installed at the rate of two every day.
Above is the 8300, Burroughs latest, a pace-setter
in big-boy computers. You’d like to hear about it? Or
details of the world s most complete line of business
machines? ’Phone now. Call your Burroughs man!
8U215C


The Gravest Test
After Kashmir, the famine
From CYRIL DUNN in New Delhi
Congress leaders have sobered down
since those exultant September
days when it seemed that India’s
soldiers had subdued Pakistan and
opened the way for Mr Shastri to domi-
nate South Asia like a miniature Genghis
Khan.
In last week’s debate on foreign policy,
the Front Bench at least has not been
unduly boastful about India’s new place
and function in the world,
j It has been left mostly to the Hindus
■of the lana Saugh (the Hindu Right-wing
[party) to beat the war drums. India,
[they said, should stop bothering about
Iwhat foreigners think. She should stop
'sucking up to the Arabs of Islam. She
,should oppose China’s entry into the
I United Nations and drive Britain out of
the Commonwealth. Above all, her
commanders should note that
Ithe Chinese on their Himalayan ledges
[will soon be immobilised for months by
[heavy snow. This made it “an opportune
lime” for the Indian Army to move
again and to drive Pakistan altogether
from Kashmir.
Some Congress back-benchers obvious-
ly found this last idea alluring. They also
(summoned India to consolidate her
new position of power by making a
nuclear bomb of her own. And one or
two of them earnestly begged Mr Shastri
to find some way of really hurting
Britain for her want of sympathy with
India in her righteous cause.
I In the shadowy movement of Big
Powers, of which the debate made one
aware, Britain’s role is reckoned here,
with satisfaction, to be minor. Yet the
scales of public feeling are still tipped
grievously against her and nothing shows
this more vividly than the transformation
of Mr Frank Anthony, leader in Par-
liament of the Anglo-Indian community.
For years Mr Anthony has been the
last real bastion of English mannerisms
and tailoring in the House. For his de-
fence of English as an Indian language
lie has been called “an agent of British
Imperialism” by the less rational sup-
porters of Hindi. But he has been
changed totally and overnight by the up-
surge of national unity and also, no
doubt, by the acclaimed heroism of
young Anglo-Indians as fighter pilots in
the war. He now comes into the House
wearing something loose and Indian and
the other day gave the British a going
over at once brilliant and terrible.
There was something faintly ominous
about his theme. The Anglo-Indian lead-
er spoke of the current conflict almost
wholly in racial terms. He said India
should not allow whites to dominate the
Commonwealth, that America was kind-
er to whites than to non-whites in doling
out aid and that Britain was gentler in
her dealings with white Rhodesia than
with non-white Aden.
By chance last week a remarkable
outsider took this same idea to its logi-
cal, though awesome, conclusion. Mr
Mihir Sen is a distinguished Calcutta
product of Lincoln’s Inn and of D. N.
Pritt’s chambers. He was the first Indian
to swim the English Channel. And he
now writes repeatedly to the Indian
papers about the problem of color. He
has just sent a long and startling letter
to “The Statesman” telling resurgent
India to recognise and take her true
place in what he calls the Pigmented
World.
Looking back on the humiliations
piled on Asians and Africans for cen-
turies by Europeans, Mr Sen predicts
that “the retaliatory phase of man’s his-
tory” is about to burst upon the world.
To Mr Shastri's India, Russia is officially
an Asian nation, but not to Mr Sen. He
says Russia holds the world’s biggest
land mass and that much of it is Asian
territory and almost empty. He wonders
how long the Kremlin can hope to stave
off “the just demands” of her overcrowd-
ed Asian neighbors. He says that if In-
dian politicians are caught on the wrong
foot by these new stirrings in Asia, the
tidal wave of history may wash them
into oblivion.
Tt is unlikely that Mr Shastri ever thinks
in this excited way. In Parliament
last week he stayed calm and showed no
inclination to follow the roads to great-
ness members kept pointing out to him.
Indeed, he seemed barely aware of the
great changes now thought to be dis-
turbing the Big Power pattern that sur-
rounds and involves his country.
At all events, he has allowed no major
change in India’s foreign policy, in spite
of many ebullient demands. It is believed
here that he has stuck to non-alignment
chiefly to please the Russians, who need
a counterweight in Asia to offset the
pretensions of China and the West. And
certainly India’s love affair with the
Soviet Union has lately reached new
heights of emotion, with an Indian Min-
ister in Moscow quoting an Indian poet
to say: “How can I estimate or describe
this love which is growing from moment
MR SHASTRI
to moment?” And at the Kremlin’s
urgent request, Mrs Indira Gandhi has
directed the Indian censor’s attention to
the Bond film, “From Russia With
Love”, now showing in Bombay. As a
result, this work has been re-titled “From
007 With Love”, and the action trans-
ported to Ruritania.
However, there’s been something odd
and non-amorous about Mr Shastri’s
response to Russia’s plan for him to
meet President Ayub Khan, of Pakistan,
in Tashkent. President Ayub is said to
have accepted the plan without condi-
tions. But Mr Shastri has used the old
dodge of slipping in a clause about wait-
ing for “a calmer atmosphere”—which,
as in the case of Kashmir, may never
come. And repeating the line taken by
India in Nagaland, he has undertaken
to discuss everything except the chief
issue of the war, in this instance the
future of Kashmir.
The little Minister has, of course, a
stubborn mind of his own. He is deter-
mined to hang on to Kashmir, has
reason to believe that Russia is less firm
than she used to be about India’s claim,
and so he might be unwilling to risk
Russian enchantment in Uzbekistan. He
must also know that India depends
utterly on America’s still uncertain aid,
for whose loss Russia could offer no
adequate compensation.
And meanwhile, because in this year
of crisis the rains have failed, India is
moving steadily and with patriotic cries
towards the gravest test she has known
since she became free. A few months
from now, as the merciless hot weather
sets in again, a Government denied air
conditioning because of power cuts may
have to watch the new spirit of national
unity intolerably strained by unemploy-
ment and hunger in the cities and by
hunger and actual thirst in the country-
side.


BELLS
r. s. t
iHH
OHSQE^
j,|l |l || lKMUW<Jlllllllllimtllllllllllllllllltlllllllllfi||
ONVUOOS SU3THxs|q
iv7 o I/k
■ty\ X
sxiaa
ot» an
A
GIFT-PACKED
FOR
CHRISTMAS
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
An Independent Company
8W9.65N
Cold War Across the
Causeway
Three months after 0secession
From HARVEY STOCKWIN in Kuala Lumpur
Tt is a good measure of the extent to
which Kuala Lumpur - Singapore
relations have further degenerated that
Devan Nair (now an “independent” MP
since the de-registration of the Malayan
PAP) spoke wistfully in Parliament last
week of the extent to which there has
been a Soviet-American detente. The
Kuala Lumpur - Singapore “cold war”
shows no signs of thawing. The co-opera-
tion which Singapore’s separation from
Malaysia was supposed to bring forth
has not materialised. Economically, as
well as politically, the situation has got
worse.
This can best be seen in the crucial
fields of common market, trade and
currency. With hindsight it will be easy,
too easy, to write off pre-separation
“Malaysia” as having been too hastily
formed, too full of political irreconcil-
ables. But there can be no denying that
economically it was both logical and
quickly desirable. The British era in this
region produced seven distinct customs
areas —Malaya, Sabah, Sarawak (though
there was a limited area of free trade
agreement in Borneo), Brunei, and the
free ports of Labuan, Singapore and
Penang. Apart from the obvious need to
reduce these to a more consistent pattern,
steeply rising population dictated a
common market to effect speedier i n j
dustrialisation.
Significantly, the common market
cept was a latecomer to the negotiations
that preceded Malaysia’s formation
Prior to August 9 progress towards its
implementation was slow. A Tariff
Advisory Board was set up only after I
prolonged delay. Once it got going how-
ever, under the energetic, good humored'
chairmanship of New Zealander Les
Williamson, there was at least the!
promise of performance. I
Since separation the promise has'
receded. The first steps to form the)
Malayan Common Market without Singa-
pore have only led to the creation of
new barriers—tariff walls on each side
of the Causeway. Singapore manu-
facturers always had to pay to enter the
Federation; now Malayan ones do, too,
in the reverse direction.
Theoretically, of course, there should,
be no difficulty in going ahead towards'
economic union even if only on a com-|
modity-by-commodity approach. Factory!
growth can only be retarded by these)
and any further restrictions. Practically,*
there are no signs that factories can
expect such succor, simply because the
political “give and take”, lacking during
the PAP-Alliance “cold war”, is still
conspicuous by its absence now that
domestic politics have become inter-
national relations.
Kuala Lumpur insists that Singapore’s
higher per capita income, greater attrac-
tive power and other advantages must
be offset by some “giving”. Singapore
offers no persuasion or initiative and
stresses that paying for a common market
hardly accords with ECM practice.
Finance Minister Lim Kim San has
merely offered to discuss any proposals
Kuala Lumpur may make, but Kuala
Lumpur makes no proposals.
She is unlikely to make any at all in
view of the furore worked up over Singa-
pore’s southerly initiative towards re-
opening barter trade with Indonesia.
Once again no sensible accommodation
is in sight. Once again Singapore pre-
ferred public pronouncements to quiet
persuasion. Once again Kuala Lumpur
chose to be indignantly angry rather than
patiently tolerant.
Singapore maintains her sovereign
right to survive in face of others’ in-
transigence, and claims Kuala Lumpur
is turning a blind eye to the barter trade
along her own coast. The short terra
value of Msloom. -200 m. worth of
barter trade temporarily returning (as if
there is no economic nationalism
Indonesia which will ultimately seek to
eliminate Singapore’s “colonial” role m
the Indonesian economy) is apparently
preferred to the long term hope of B
common market.
Kuala Lumpur not only raises security


mm
m
m-'
m
E
I dreamed I was hosing the garden one hot day when suddenly
the water pressure reduced to a mere frustrating trickle. I went
indoors, turned on the kitchen tap. Water came out all right
but rusty. My wife screamed from the shower that the water
in there was scorching her. I called the plumber. He said the
pipes were corroded needed replacing urgently all of
them. He quoted me a price. The shock woke me up.
And then I smiled with relief. I had already paid the plumber
for a quick clean installation job in copper.
The bill was about the same as it would have been for any
other kind of pipes, but copper is for keeps can’t rust or
corrode ever. The water pressure’s wonderful now, and
always will be, thanks to copper. And because of our new
copper pipes our house is worth more. In short, copper pipes
mean T can now sleep easy at nights.
9 COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE
.Northgate House, 321 Kent Street, Sydney, Telephone 29 1831
CB-82
objections, but talks as if she still “con-
trolled” Singapore’s defence and will re-
main obdurate even if the security objec-
tions are met. Further, the whole affair
is regarded as a further sign of Lee Kuan
Yew’s untrustworthiness, and, more im-
portant, as an implicit offence against
the spirit of the separation agreement.
In short, as political relations are
further strained, the economic conse-
quences of separation multiply, and in-
crease their disaster potential. Even the
prolonged retention of the common
currency the Malayan dollar now
seems unlikely, which could well be the
most serious of all these developments.
Tied up with this is the continuance of
the Central Bank’s —the. Bank Negara—
operations in Singapore, over which it
only began to exercise authority on
January 1 this year.
TUNKU ABDUL RAHMAN
In the first place, it is doubtful when
there will be enough agreement on
economic matters to allow the Bank to
operate effectively, especially when it
takes over currency-issuing functions
sometime next year. Further in his
Budget address Malaysian Finance Mini-
ster, Tan Siew Sin, indicated that no
arrangement could be accepted if ability
to act required “the prior concurrence
of an outside authority”. This will almost
certainly strengthen Singapore’s convic-
tion that the continuance of the Bank
and the currency depends on their
deferring to Kuala Lumpur whenever
there is a disagreement on policy—a
condition which is quite unacceptable.
The signs increase that the paths will
continue to diverge; that the economic
inconsistencies of the colonial era will be
accentuated, not diminished. What is
being done today may not provoke any
headline-catching crisis, but it is well
nigh certain to have serious adverse


MAC BAREN’S FINEST
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
PLUM CAKE
Vus^h/
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN'S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 8/11
SAIBB
HELP
LEGACY
effect on the prospects for economic
stability in the near future.
While it is understandable that Singa-
pore will continue to assert her newly-
won sovereignty, it is questionable
whether the more vocal assertions are
necessary, or advantageous, for her
survival.
Kuala Lumpur understandably takes
umbrage at what she regards as rash
actions and rude speeches, but it is
questionable whether such reactions
hasten the transition that has yet to be
made —from regarding Singapore as one
state amongst 14 to accepting her
emotionally as, legally, an equal partner.
Australia must continue to support
the two countries. Yet it would be under-
standable if such support were in future
related to the extent that they stop hurt-
ing and destroying each other.
Shock of Recognition
China and the United Nations
From MURRAY KEMPTON
rpHE tied vote in the General Assembly
on the seating of Communist China
seems to have come as a considerable
shock to most private Americans, even
though it was a relief to most official
ones, who had expected worse.
Our ambassadors seem, in point of
fact, to have performed prodigies in
holding the issue to a tie. Some of the
result was a tribute, if not to our majesty,
at least to our reputation among the
delegations as a people of common sense,
open to strong hints. One hopes the
reputation is deserved, but common
sense often requires a strenuous poetic
leap. The Russians are an unexpectedly
commonsensical people, yet it was
terribly difficult for them to undertand
that they had lost control of the revolu-
tion, and it seems to be as hard for us
to recognise that we have lost control of
the counter-revolution.
When the day was over, the Chinese
were only seventeen votes away from the
two-thirds majority they would need to
unfrock Chiang Kai-Shek’s Nationalist
delegation, three votes had gone all the
way from “No” to “Yes” in the last
year and ten abstentions represented
delegations which, until a year ago, had
voted against offering China a United
Nations seat. We are, in fact, dreadfully
alone in this matter. The United States
is the only great power in the UN which
clings to the resistance, it could not even
hold a majority of its NATO allies, and
even Chile has now broken the Latin
American front by abstaining. We have
altogether arrived at that point in United
Nations affairs where Communist China
can do more to keep herself out than can
the United Nations.
The Chinese indeed seem to have
swung more doubtful delegates against
themselves than our ambassadors did.
Until the weekend before the vote, their
twelve sponsoring delegations circulated
a draft resolution which confined itself to
the declaration that the UN henceforth
“recognises the representatives of the
People’s Republic of China as the only
lawful representative of China to the
United Nations”. But then, quite sud-
denly, the sponsors added a paragraph
committing the UN to expel “forthwith
the representatives of Chiang Kai-Shek
from the place which they unlawfully
occupy at the United Nations”.
The contribution added nothing of
substance to the resolution except a
certain venom against a group of old
pensioners who are founding members
and have shown themselves eminently
clubbable and earned the claim not to
be unnecessarily insulted in club resolu-
tions. Without that offensive paragraph
China would have had a simple, although


Selling to women?
YOUR ADVERTISEMENT IN
WOMENS WEEKLY
reaches more than
2,500,000
every week !
■■
«fIR
a *
* :* fV
k
1
frtettcU ’for faffed
Friends’ Provident the name to remember when you’re thinking of
assurance the Office with the personal approach, who have advised
on Life Assurance for more than 130 years.
Group Funds Exceed £200,000,000
FRIENDS’ PROVIDENT
AND CENTURY LIFE OFFICE
Head Office For Australia: “Century House” 70 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Chairman: Lieut-General Sir John Northcott, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C,B.
Deputy Chairman: Major-General Sir Denzil Macarthur-Onslow, C.B.E. D. 5.0., E.D.
FP.i
not binding, majority of the assembly.
At least five delegations made it their
excuse for abstaining instead of voting
for her as they had promised.
There is the chance, of course, that,
for the sake of our feelings, some of
these abstainers were anxious for an
excuse. It is one of the arts of political
warfare, however, not to give one’s
weaker ally an excuse to defect. Still,
we are left with a situation where only
our great enemy rescued us from serious
embarrassment before our friends, and
where Communist China can be kept
from claiming her UN seat only by the
incapacity of two great powers to forget
old insults, one the United States, the
other China herself.
We can then no longer hope to isolate
China, the only possible hope for what
has been our position for twelve years
now is that she will insist on isolating
herself. Yet the case against admitting
her to the United Nations has, in some
ways, never been more persuasive; she
will enter, if she chooses to come, at a
moment peculiarly unsettling to the UN’s
stability.
Out the balance of forces which made
** the American position practical no
longer exists. Last week’s vote on China
was a warning of how we have gone
on much too long saying things which
have ceased to be true. Americans
continue to say those things: early this
week Mr Nixon, as part of an address
in support of President Johnson’s course
in Vietnam, observed that time in Asia
is on the side of the Communists and that
we must fight them or see the Pacific
become a Red Sea. But the same history
which has brought us to a place where we
can no longer expect the United Nations
to divide automatically and abstractly
into countries which are for and against
Communism ought to have instructed us
that time has worked neither for us nor
for the Communists, but for .unexpected
and inconvenient national adventurers.
Time is absolutely neutral except for
being unkind to persons imprisoned in
the notion that it is not. The Chinese
seem, on their inflexible performance in
the UN negotiations, rather clearly to be
thus imprisoned, it is unfortunate that
we are in much the same position.
The nation is unexpectedly aroused,
as an instance, by hearing again, in this
case from a recollection of Adlai Steven-
son’s last long conversation, that in
August, 1964, Hanoi suggested to us
that some bargain might be struck in
South-East Asia. Most of the resultant
complaints make an implausible leap
from hint to offer. There is, after all, no
firm reason to believe that Hanoi meant
seriously to negotiate. But the true cause
for unease is serious enough. Last Febru-
ary, President Johnson flatly denied that
he had ever received the faintest sugges-
tion that North Vietnam was interested
in discussing the end of a war which he
rather desperately wants to be over.
Now, the State Department tells us that
the offer was transmitted and immedi-
ately turned down because it would not
possibly have been made in good faith.
Persons who do not explore cannot define
possibilities. We do not inhabit a real
world when our governors feel virtuous
when they conceal the existence of a
possibility and would have felt wicked
had they pursued it.
And now the UN has done us the
enormous kindness to suggest that, be-
fore too long, we’re going to have to try
and bargain with the Chinese. If they
cannot be bargained with, then we shall
at least have been correct in our present
position. But, if they can be bargained
with, then we are better off than if we
had been right and so is the world
which began to hint so strongly last week
that we had best begin to try.


The Hand of a Master
From Complexity to Seeming Simplicity
By LAURIE THOMAS
When Fairweather left Bribie Island
a few months ago, the rumor
was that he had gone for good.
Some said he’d gone to Singapore, to
London, to China, to India. Nobody
really knew. He had given away half a
dozen paintings, packed up and tramped
down the road, and that was all.
Some of us went over to the island
a couple of days later and stood looking
at the huts he’d thatched with swamp
grass in the conifer glade where he set-
tled about eleven years ago. His pres-
ence was still there. And so were the
thousands of mosquitoes. It was sad to
think he might never come back. We
thought of trying to preserve the place
in some way as a permanent reminder of
his stay there. But the idea of fencing
it off or of putting a building round it
or a roof over the top seemed silly and
out of character. The thought that well-
meaning people might go there to tend
it at weekends, tidying it up and mak-
ing it spick and span, tramping through
his huts with all the old paint tins,
his charts of Chinese calligraphy, his
bunk up on stilts, the hat and windjacket
hanging on a rail, seemed like invading
a privacy.
In the event, the local police kept an
eye on it, put a bit of barbed wire here
and there, and now he has come back
from India —no doubt gently sur-
prised that his absence should have
caused a stir.
Of course, he might wander off again
just as he did from Darwin one
day in 1952 when he put together a raft
made of aircraft belly-tanks and pieces
of wood, took a few loaves of bread
and some tins of wheat and drifted off,
he hoped, to Bali. Sixteen days later he
was, luckily, washed ashore on Roti
Island, south of Timor. It was said that
he hardly slept during the whole sixteen
days and nights because the seas were
steep and he had to keep one leg locked
around the mast. His interest in the
East and his determination to find ways
of getting there have been lifelong. He
is now 74 and perhaps he may settle
down, though he thinks fondly of Lon-
don and who knows?
His paintings reflect this interest, not
merely in subject matter but rather in
the subtlety of his manner of working,
the Chinese-like way he refines complexity
to seeming simplicity.
Some of the early paintings in the
retrospective exhibition of nearly ninety
of his works, which is now touring Aus-
tralia, were indeed either painted in
China or from memories of Chinese
landscapes villages, rivers, canals,
monasteries, the teeming life of the
market place. But it is their style which
is their distinctive quality. The brush
draws with that economy and lack of
overemphasis which suggest both form
and mystery at once and which remind
one of the Chinese masters on the one
hand and of Rembrandt’s drawings on
the other.
There are two paintings, “Chinese
Mountain” and “Yellow River”, which
seem to have arrived on the paper by
magic, so simple are they and yet so
infinitely expressive. They are, as it
were, brush drawings in oil paint, blur-
red outlines only, their extreme reticence
leaving all the rest to imagination but
guiding it and quickening it to such
an extent that the paintings remain in
the mind as bigger than they are, calm
and complete, with the intangible defini-
tion and suggestibility of dreams.
Single flowing line
understanding of the
A power of drawing, of the pen,
pencil or brush line drawn somewhere
between finiteness and infiniteness, was
nurtured in the Slade School for a little
while after the First World War. This
understanding underlies all his paint-
ing. In the very early pictures it is
apparent. Some of the half-drawings,
half-paintings of boys boxing, of bust-
ling people, of crowded fishing villages,
of heads, and groups of figures, are
masterpieces of expressive line, under-
stated yet conveying depth, roundness
and all the characteristics of singularity
and wholeness. With a single, simple,
flowing line, broken or seemingly incom-
plete, turning with deceptive facility to
reveal shapes, attitudes, feelings, his
line re-creates a body, a crowd, a boat,
a market place as though it had been
only called into existence for the first
time by his brush.
At other times the line is merely a
hint. In pictures like “Temple Yard,
Peking” it lies under or emerges from
layer after layer of paint in which the
quiet tones are so delicately related to
each other that they nearly fuse.
Perhaps the key to much of the later
work lies in such a painting as “Boats
at Soochow Creek” where the drawing,
though evident, is complemented by a
variegated pattern of broken shapes.
It seems to me that this picture brings
together the previous tendencies of Fair-
weather's work and holds the seeds of a
great deal of its later development. The
tendency here is to re-state a landscape
and to make a work of art in such a
way that nothing is seen or visualised as
more important than anything else.
Trees, boats, water, figures, are all one
thing, all part of the choppy light which
breaks off the water and suffuses the
whole in a quiet dazzle. I think it is
Fairweather’s preoccupation with the
painting of light which makes him an
admirer of Rembrandt and Turner.
As time goes on, the tendency to see
all things as one becomes more and
more apparent and it could be that this
visual approach is the reflection of an
attitude of mind, a philosophical belief
akin to some forms of Buddhism.
However that may be, the fact is that
the paintings themselves bring to mind
such a phrase as “the pattern of life”.
In “Mangrove” the roots of the man-
groves and the water between mingle in
a blinding light. And in “Epiphany” the
figures and their environment are woven
.together like a great tapestry where
everything has an equal value and where
all distinctions between background and
foreground have been completely erased.
One of the striking things about the
retrospective exhibition of Fairweather’s
work is its continuity. His paintings do
not seem so much to have changed over
the years as to have developed. If the
recent ones are more “abstract” than
the others this is only because he has
come to make the spaces between his
lines as important as the lines.
His use of color, too, has always an
appropriateness to the subject. For
example, in that most beautiful painting
“Monastery”, painted in 1961, there is
a pearly use of greys touched with pinks
and yellows which have the chill air of
quiet cells, a dawn light on walls and
stones of a monastery set high in moun-
tain air. Each of his paintings is norm-
ally based on a single color key with
subtle variations as though in each he
were exploring the possibilities, not only
of a situation, but of a color.
Another thing that comes to light is
the manner in which Fairweather has
somehow brought together the styles of
East and West. Some artists struggle all
their lives to achieve this integration.
Fairweather does it effortlessly.
But the greatest value of the exhibi-
tion lies simply in its allowing one to
see, in many and varied examples, the
hand of a master at work.
Color pictures on page 3 of portfolio


lllBlililSSl'lllllil’gi 1 ;'":;
■
I
I*
I
A
mm tm
99
dOiNno
O
I
I
I
FOR EXTRA
DISTANCE
GREATER
DURABILITY
I
THE WORLD’S GREATEST GOLF BALL USED BY THE
WORLD’S GREATEST GOLFERS
PETER THOMSON—WINNER OF 5 BRITISH OPENS
—ALWAYS PLAYS DUNLOP 65
C5179.103C4


For the Best EXPERIENCE in Australia
B
* : : •. v
6u
m
a<s
■V
aA
>
* t I
«i i
1 1 <
ni n
• m
r
i i i
11 1
* i ♦
*'WTTi iltf
! UJ Mfir
i i
vdv>
O//
UiOO^
i
• i
a a
'i
a!
a!*
aasfe
sr.
CHEVRON
Tr
SYDNEY
Where experience and new concepts of luxury satisfy the world’s most dis-
criminating pleasure seekers or business men European elegance and
Australian informality blend together at Chevron.
All rooms and suites fully air-conditioned own bath, toilet, TV, radio and
phone overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
Chevron is in the heart of fascinating Kings Cross minutes from sporting
facilities and business houses.
The world’s finest entertainers perform for you in the Silver Spade room
exquisite dining in your choice of restaurants or just relax in one of Chevron’s
intimate bars.
When you stay Chevron it will be your best experience ever!
BOOK THROUGH HOTEL EXPEDITERS, INC.
NEW YORK: 501 Madison Ave., N.Y. 10022. Tel:PLaza 25660:Teletype: 710-581-5015: Cab:
HEDEGRAFF. SAN FRANCISCO: 291 Geary St. Tel. YU 6-2858. Teletype: 910-372-6035 Cab:
EDSULLIVAN. HONG KONG: Union House, 9 Connaught Rd. Tel. 32862. TOKYO:
C.P.O. Box 703, Tokyo, Japan. Tel: 211-5920: Cables: SWIRE. LONDON: 16 Berkeley St.
London, W.l, England. Tel. Hyde Park 5755. AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED: LOCAL RESERVA-
TIONS: MELBOURNE 51.1201 or any TRAVEL AGENT or direct with CHEVRON HOTEL.
-'iV
•*?
fi • . -
AVIS
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun
when you drive a sparkling new AVIS
car. Arrange for an AVIS car to be
waiting for you at the Hotel or Airport
when you book your travel.
CHEVRON HOTEL, MACLEAY ST., POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W. TELEPHONE: 35-0433. CABLES ‘CHEVRON SYDNEY’


FAIRWEATHER
Boats at Soochow Creek (1938), 43¼ x 44¼.
Collection Mrs Lina Bryans.
Two Women (about 1934?). 18¾ x 14¾.
Collection Mrs Russell Drysdale.
Below: Night Life (1962). 26½ x 36¾.
Collection Mrs Clive Bennett.


■
lit
.
1 4 *3% i ,#
# *
„t«*
* * * % *
* i 0 ' o*.
i® 1 *
fc* " €
#>
ft
#
§
w
f B
i
?-
m
t,°sm
&
*«#*
.*•
J,
fe; -■ :
ft
4'
Never again will you get out of bed
on the wrong side!!!
Relaxing just to look at, aren't they?
Well, why not? Why shouldn’t
pyjamas have a little style? Think of
the hours you spend every week in
nothing but pyjamas.
Here’s a chance to assert your in-
dividuality. Our wide awake collec-
tion includes Judo Jamas with long
pants and sleeves. Summer Nighters
with short Coolie Tops. Beach-
combers with Matador fitting pants.
Night Shirts for the stout-hearted.
What about colours and patterns?
Rest easy. The choice is as wide as
your imagination. The comfort is,
too. We make a specialty of cut-
ting them generously so that you
have room to spread. And it’s
comforting to know that they wash
and wear like a dream. The price?
From 39/11 for our regular styles to
£5/17/6 for our top classic style.
Tomorrow make a date to get out of
bed on the right side for a change.
Zzzzzzz!
HOLEPROOF
Pyjamas
-I
FOR THE MAN
WITH THE CLEAN CUT LOOK


TEACHER REQUIRED FOR 1966 for
NEWINGTON COLLEGE, STANMORE
(The Methodist G.P.S. in Sydney)
ENGLISH
Qualified to teach throughout the school including Matriculation
standard.
(Qualifications in History and/or Social Studies an advantage.)
Sound salary and superannuation scheme.
For details write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN, Headmaster.
“Going
to Asia”
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
who has left Australia for South
Vietnam and a tour of “Asia”. His
reports will appear regularly in The
Bulletin.
For the rich of Bellevue Hill Asia
seems to mean Hong Kong; for
the ex-soldiers it means “The
Islands”; for the chambermaid at my
Kings Cross hotel it means South Viet-
nam at present (“Just like us in the Battle
of Britain, dear—fifth columnists every-
where.”). But most people say: “So
you’re going to Asia,” as though you
were going somewhere specific in itself
like hospital or school.
And it is this use of Asia as a descrip-
tive term that never fails to intrigue
and exasperate me. I wonder what people
see when they talk about Asia. Then, not
being clairvoyant, I begin to wonder,
each time I go away, what it means to
me —so far as seeing, and not intel-
lectualising, is concerned. Immediately,
images crowd in and re-create in the
mind “the primeval welter of the oriental
[bazaar”.
Very early impressions jostle their way
in first: the extraordinary grandeur of an
(Indian hawker driving his black treasure-
part across the paddock in Victoria; and
!the vague horror of unseen “Chinamen”
who, nanny gravely assured me, licked
in a fashion devastating to small
loys who chanced to lick them there-
after; and murmurings about my eccen-
tric grandfather who retired early in life,
obsessed with the “Yellow Peril”, to read
over and over again Gibbon’s
“Decline and Fall of the Roman Em-
pire”, which I was given to understand
dealt with that awful fate.
Then came the Arabs in “Chum’s
Annual” who removed the eyelids of
brave and very fair young English
soldiers under a sun hotter than British
boys had ever seen; and there were
young English officers “winning their
spurs” shooting crafty Afghans in the
Khyber Pass; and Errol Flynn’s friends
in "The Charge of the Light Brigade”
being treacherously done to death while
reading a Bible at Cawnpore in 1857;
and a young Englishman in “The Bengal
Lancers” collapsing under torture ad-
ministered by another treacherous Indian
princeling.
Cruelty and treachery seemed to mark
The Asiatic”, as he was then called.
The “Chinamen”, of course, were even
worse: they weren’t even brave (and this
was after the Long March!), and were
venal into the bargain. The Mexicans
• well, for a long time I thought they
lived in “the East”, too, such was their
Apparently invariable compound of
treachery and knifing—until I found out
that they were the same as Portuguese,
Spaniards, and Portuguese-Dagoes.
But fortunately, before I was ten years
old, experience had irremediably oblit-
erated the huge machinations of the
Anglo-Saxon propaganda apparatus (sub-
ject for a university thesis, if there ever
was one). The experience was Egypt:
Egyptian servants and the spoils of
Tutankhamen’s Tomb. Certainly, nanny
pointed the flies blackening the festering
upturned faces of small children in the
street. When years later I saw the Aldous
Huxley title “Eyeless in Gaza” I thought
of those children, but I don’t think I
cared much at the time. I was far too
busy delighting in the soft drinks brought
to me by the gentle houseboy, Saleh, who
induced ecstasy by always calling me
“the little prince”. Saleh and the other
servants taught me forever even the
gimlet - eyed and far from obsequious
chauffeur that “Asiatics” could be
awfully nice. And the jewellery and
the shapes of Egyptian court tombery
persuaded me that they could be awfully
clever.
Of course, the idea of “Asiatic
Treachery” was peripherally reinforced
here: driving to see the Aswan Dam with
our host, the acting High Commissioner,
our car not only contained a detective
but moved in the midst of armed motor-
cyclists and cars full of military police—
because a former High Commissioner
had been assassinated, treacherously I
imagined. But I was prepared to view
treachery with rather less British horror
if it resulted in a turn-out like that one.
Anyway, the Indian steward in the
ship taking us from Egypt to England
was so sweet and gentle that I began
seriously to doubt such stories. A few
months later an aristocratic Indian boy,
much stronger than I, used to administer
such punishment in the boxing ring that
I began to consider that perhaps cruelty
was a barely hidden characteristic of
“Asiatics”. But I was beyond consider-
ing even that idea very seriously by
then.
There were always the Japanese, mind
you. By the ’thirties they were the “Yel-
low Peril”, according to the nursery
grapevine. It didn’t seem to be relevant
that they were fighting the “Chinamen”
who licked pennies when they were not
doing nasty things with vegetable gardens
to returned soldiers with little shops. The
point apparently was that the Japanese
were after Singapore, which couldn’t be
taken because of the Royal Navy, any-
way, so I couldn’t get into a lather about
them.
I realised only very much later that
boys of my generation were submitted
to a very insidious, because never self-
acknowledged (even by its apparatniks),


Si
SK
m,
L.JL3B
w
S'*
■s'
3?
COONAYVARRA ESTATE
HERMITAGE
PRIDE
t*s
m
Z*S
,
OF PLACE
%
COONAWARRA ESTATE
RIESLING
0'
Sf
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CABERNET
The fine wines of the world have always been associated with specific places
and no wines are more specific about, or prouder of, their origin than
COONAWARRA estate. Coonawarra is located (refer to the map on the back
label) in the south-east corner of South Australia, remote from other wine-
growing areas hence its exclusive character and strong touch of personality.
You will find Coonawarra ESTATE worthy the pride of place on your table.
; 7X,
M m
llllMMWid
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra estate.
There are two Coonawarra
estate Clarets.
hermitage —1962 Vintage
cabernet —1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
1965 Vintage
A new Riesling wine-lovers will
welcome.
AN S. WYNN & CO. ESTATE
C4B
propaganda campaign: “Asia” was those
aspects of human nature which the
British successfully transferred elsewhere.
Today, the inevitable price is being
paid. “Asia” has transferred its neuroses
to Anglo-Saxondom to such an extent
that large parts of the educated public
see cruelty and treachery and “nasty
habits” as specifically Western charac-
teristics. The “double standard” of
judgment which has become such an
unattractive feature of Anglo-Saxon “pro-
gressive” thinking is basically a reaction
to the same parochial “double standard”
—in reverse of a very recent yesteryear
—and it is equally subversive of mean-
ingful dialogue between people belonging
to nations of very different economic
development.
However, there is one enormously im-
portant difference between the two situa-
tions. The West contained (and still
contains) within itself a self-correcting
mechanism that worked (even if alto-
gether too feverishly) interiorally —not
as the result of power-pressing events;
and it worked in such a fashion as not
only to realise an excoriation of its own
unwonted pride which lies at the
bottom of all such “transferences”
but in doing so contributed to the
political liberation of mankind.
Today the process is altogether differ-
ent in effect. Those in Anglo-Saxondom
today who use a new equally untruthful
concept of “Asia” “Asia” as a recog-
nisable mass violated by past Western
domination —in order to weaken their
own society’s will to resist expansionary
totalitarianism, not only risk the rape of
their own whole tradition of liberty but
conspire with those who would destroy
it at birth in “Asia” —and destroy it with
the European weapon of a Leninist
“understanding” of the human condition
that is being disavowed throughout the
Communist world outside Peking’s orbit.
Admiring naked force hostile to their
own environment, which they find too
exacting personally; believing in any
apparently irresistible totalitarian force
that promises to subsume their own
neuroses in a simplistic “solution”; pos-
sessed of a reactive dream that “Asia"
represents purities denied to them by
their own societies, the “progressives”
unwittingly, perhaps, collaborate only
with those who believe that violence is
at the heart of things, that war is “the
highest form of struggle”.
But the people who talk like that to-
day talk derivatively and obsolescent
this is not “Asia”: it is that “Asiatic
Restoration” which even Lenin feared:
the restoration of ugly tendencies
despotism, militarism, cruelty, thought"
control, treachery—which it has been the
concern of men of gentle spirit to strive
against throughout history.


Memories of a Catholic Boyhood
By PETER GOUGH
that 1 knew tlie way, the dear
II way back to the land of
childhood.”
| Patrick, a seven-year-old Catholic
boy, and Penelope, a six-year-old Pro-
testant girl, were great friends. And on
l hoi summer's day they decided to go
swimming; however, on arrival at the
r.mmmg-hole it was found that they
lad both forgotten to bring bathing
■costumes But innocence won the day,
and they decided, nevertheless, to strip
off their clothes before entering the
water. It was only after they had disrobed
that Penelope was heard to remark:
“Catholics are sure different from Pro-
testants.”
The fact that I was horn into a
ine ract tnat i was Dorn into a
Catholic household 40-odd years ago set
in mntinn nf mv i rven
motion the pattern of my life I can-
ot recall a single hour without some
advertence to the reality that I was a
Catholic. In all honesty, .t is impossible
for me to imagine life other than as a
3 01C
My first awareness of Catholicism as
a massive public-entity came by way of
the 29th International Eucharistic Con-
gress held in Sydney during 1928. A few
weeks beforehand I had my sixth birth-
day. My mother, a widow, was most
excited by the Congress, and it was con-
sidered a great treat for us to attend
the Sunday procession that terminated
4 St Mary s Cathedral. I was led by
4y mother to a position overlooking the
foute near Queen s Square, and I can
l? 11 h ear her hushed whisper telling me
•hat the man now passing by was Car-
I Cerretti, the Papal Legate. I caught
his eye. He looked squat, sallow and
foreign. I was not impressed.
It was at this time that I commenced
my schooling at the local parish school,
and for me it was an event that would
sow the seed and spell out the future
mould of my life; also it brought home
to me an awareness that “we” were dif-
ferent from “those” who attended the
public school in our district. The parish
school was for most of our neighborhood
the line of demarcation that separated
“them” from “us”. It was as simple as
that. My two closest friends at this time
were, however, Protestants, and both
attended the local public, school.
Tn those days, it was the hallowed cus-
tom in our parish to receive First
Holy Communion at eight years of age.
This notable and long-awaited event was
foreshadowed by months of intensive
preparation at the expert hands of a
dwarf-like nun who was reputed to be
over 80; and, in fact, this nun had
prepared an aunt of mine for her First
Communion some 40 years previous to
ushering me through the steps that would
guide me to the Lord’s table.
I was chosen to lead the First Com-
municants to the altar rails; it was hinted
that favor was showered upon me due
to an aunt of mine being the Reverend
Mother Superior of a nearby convent.
Prior to receiving Communion, how-
ever, I made my First Confession. The
dark confessional was, of course, a chal-
lenge to an eight-year-old, but the
months of preparation stood by me and
it was a reasonably easy exercise. I
sensed quickly that the priest did not
regard me as a hardened sinner. He was,
on the contrary, kind and considerate,
and seemed intent on making things as
easy as possible for me.
The next move in my Catholic ex-
perience was to bid farewell to the nuns
and move some 30-odd yards across the
parish grounds in order to further my
scholastic endeavors by sitting at the
feet of the Irish Christian Brothers. It
was a change of traumatic proportions;
since the angelic qualities so dear to a
nun's heart now gave way to a young
brother’s mighty enthusiasm to pack you
into a Rugby League scrum.
Sport was the consolation of the
brothers and their spiritual charges (our-
selves) in that hard and depressing 1930
era set in the middle of a Sydney slum.
The education pattern followed by the
brothers was dull and unimaginative, but
this was only a reflection of the then
State school system. Religious instruc-
tion imparted also by the brothers was
confined within the time-honored limita-
tions of memorising catechism answers
plus incomprehensible snippets of Bible
history. But in the long run we were far
from disturbed, since we had the Irish
faith of our grandparents and could
rattle off the “4” marks of the “True”
Church.
Above all the sporting prowess of the
brothers was viewed by us with awe.
Memories flood the imagination of
brothers who could kick a football half
the length of the field, and swim like Boy
Charlton. I was shocked some twenty
years later to meet one of these sporting


Introducing ... DAIIY freight service
'Ar Adelaide Depot: 885 South Rd., St. Marys.
Telephone: 76 6134
•jt Brisbane Depot:.lpswich and Elmes Rd., Rockiea.
Telephone: 47 2984 or 47 1510
DIRECT TO BRISBANE
Via Mildura • West Wyalong • Dubbo • Moree with
OVERLAND TRUCKING 40.
giants and find that he hardly came up
to my shoulder.
The great Depression was, of course,
a blot upon the times, and unemploy-
ment was the unhappy concomitant in
the homes of many of my schoolfriends.
In her simple shrewdness, my mother,
the daughter of poor Irish migrants, was
most anxious that her large family of
sons would get permanent positions (the
word job was distasteful to her) in the
clerical division of the State Public
Service or banks.
This would mean a considerable social
and economic lift to our family; how-
ever, it is absolutely certain that my
mother was in no way thinking that
this would make things easier for her,
since life for her presented no rosy
horizons.
This welfare for her sons found its
way, I have no doubt, into her long
prayers; a prominent item in a full pro-
gramme of burdensome daily chores.
But her religion was neither showy nor
sentimental; the Catholic faith and life
mingled together in happy unison in the
day-to-day activities of my mother; no
single rough edge, for a mere instant, was
ever sighted by me in her life that would
suggest the slightest dichotomy between
religion and the challenge of being a
widow and mother.
A matter of fascination for me at
this time was to look across the
water from our school and see in the
distance the building of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge. It was a spectacular
thrill to view the gap between the north
and the south pylons being bridged
before one’s very eyes; finally, there were
the boyish anxieties chat conjured up the
stark possibility of a minute miscalcula-
tion in the construction; an error breed-
ing gross failure that would hurl into
jeopardy the glorious prospect of walk-
ing, in the near future, across the Sydney
Harbor Bridge. At no stage did it occur
to me to pray for the success of the
bridge; that sort of thing, even then, was
not my kind of Catholicism.
Politics had, if the evidence of near
relatives bears belief, been an avid
interest with me almost from the first
moments that I was able to talk and
comprehend. A clear memory still
lingers of being fascinated by Mr Jack
Lang long before the first decade of my
life had passed away.
It was during this time that an uncle
of mine held a petty post in the local
Labor League; at election time, in those
days there always seemed to be elections,
a Labor how-to-vote sign was proudly
displayed on the pokey front veranda
of my maternal-grandparents’ home. My
uncle was a bachelor and lived with his
parents. Our house was, literally, a street
and a few yards away. I loved to look
at the how-to-vote placard with its con-
notations that “our” family was on the
inside, at least, when it came to politics.
The local Catholic member was said,
however, to attend Mass only at the time
of a forthcoming election.
Cricket had assumed gigantic propor-
tions in my life even before I commenced
my schooling with the nuns; it brought
compensations to me in the classroom,
since I was slow in picking up the funda-
mentals of spelling and reading. But the
coverage given to cricket in the news-
papers was of greedy interest to me, and
my ability to read now started to improve
at a considerable rate.
I recall most vividly leaving the
school grounds during the lunch-break
as an eager 10-year-old to listen to a
broadcast of the First Test in the famous
bodyline series of 1932-33. A crowd of
some 200 had gathered around a sleazy
unemployment club to follow the ball-
to-ball description of play; the faces
were glum and it was not from lack of
food, however acute that problem was,
but the fact that Australia was batting
and wickets were toppling to the
ferocious speed-attack of Larwood, Voce
and Allen.
The following day was a fairy-tale
experience, since an older brother took
me to the Sydney Cricket Ground to
watch the second day’s play. It was a
gem of boyish delight to see Stan
McCabe blast the English speedsters all
over the ground, and carry his bat for
an unconquered innings of 187. Our
little group took religious delight in the
fact that McCabe had been a recent pupil
of St Joseph’s College, Hunters Hill,
NSW.
Joeys and their fabulous sporting
victories were a matter of much talk
and pride with my brothers; however,
in my boyish estimation, Joeys rep.]
resented a Catholic experience far di{.
ferent from my own, since I associated
Joeys’ boys as being the sons of rich-
wealthy held no descriptive meaning f or
me publicans and bookmakers, the
only occupations then known to a Chris,
tian Brothers’ boy that spelled out money
in abundance.
The Head-of-the-River was an oppor,
tunity to pledge Catholic support for
Joeys. My mother would pin the cerise,
and-blue of Joeys to my shirt on the
morning of the regatta. It never crossed
my mind to support Riverview, the
college run by the Jesuit fathers.
Riverview did not muster with me
the familiar Catholic image. The college 1
was also, at this time, somewhat of an
Aunt Sally in sport, and this, I thought,
was a bad advertisement for the Catholic
Church. Riverview boys, according to
my then 16-year-old brother, were the
sons of lawyers, doctors and business-
men, and this accounted for their poor
sporting performances; also, the fact
that priests and not brothers, the normal
teachers in my mind at a Catholic boys’
school, taught at Riverview made it
somewhat suspect with me. I was in-
trigued and impressed, however, when
an aged and pious Christian Brother told
our class that the Jesuits were the great
scholars and educators in the Catholic
Church.
It was part of our Sunday programme
at this time for a brother of my mother
to visit us each week. This uncle was
an avid reader of Catholic publications,
and he aroused my interest with his pre-
diction that Communism was the great
threat to the world; shortly afterwards
I experienced a confrontation with the
Red menace.
A family had recently moved into a
vacant corner-store cum residence some
thirty yards from our house, but they
did not open the store for business, and
soon it became just another eye-sore of
the area.
There was a boy of my own age in
the family and I soon got to know him;
however, he acquired few friends, and
I gathered this met with his father’s
approval; further, he looked different
from the rest of us with his hair almost
cropped down to the roots, in similar
fashion to his father. One day he invited


(smawa^
r
srtOUcH l ' ol^
llfu'te sukyn >i<ly
/
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
TtMUe^utyimc/j/
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
me into the shop-premises and I was
surprised to see his father and two other
men operating a printing press. My
presence seemed to disturb one of the
men, but I could faintly discern the
father of the boy protecting himself by
assuring the disturbed man that I came
from a good family and was most trust-
worthy.
This brought about a new turn of
events, and now the man took an interest
in me and proudly showed the paper
that was being printed in the shop. He
explained to me that the men in the
picture at the top of the page were
Russians; they were, he asserted, healthy
and handsome, since Russia had plenty
of food and work for its people.
The Catholic priesthood was always
treated with courteous regard by mem-
bers of our family; nevertheless, there
was no undue or sickly fuss made of the
priests who visited our home. There was,
of course, the Irish tradition that upheld
the priesthood as the highest vocation
open to man; however, our relationship
with priests was both natural and respect-
ful.
But an episode lingers in my memory,
since it was rare and startling to a 10-
year-old boy; it took place at a school
bazaar and concert in the parish hall.
I happened to be in the company of a
young curate who had recently arrived
from Ireland; however, he seemed ill-at-
ease and hardly spoke to me. A girl of
about 18 years was performing a song
and dance act on the stage. It was lively
entertainment, and the artist now started
to kick up her trim legs in gay abandon,
but the moment of reckoning had arrived
to defend the faith. The Irish brogue of
the florid-faced priest now hurled out
invectives that accused the girl of being
a brazen hussy and a scandal to the
young and innocent. There was no
encore.
At our school it was an annual custom
for the more senior classes to be
addressed by the Director of Vocations
for the Christian Brothers; in all charity,
the effect could be startling. I remember
a cousin of mine, some four years my
senior, telling me that he had given in
his name for consideration to the direc-
tor. The life of a Christian Brother
appealed to him, he said, because the
brothers played a great amount of sport;
apparently, religion had nothing to do
with his particular brand of vocation.
The matter was never again mentioned;
and, of course, my cousin never became
a brother, but he did continue to play
a lot of sport.
Already the basic chapter of my
Catholic boyhood was at an end; the
foundation had been laid that would give
shape to my future. I was saddled with
the Catholic Church, and the Catholic
Church was saddled with me.
LETTERS
The Film Censor
SIR. Mr Fligham’s article “Faces on
the Cutting Room Floor” (8., Nov. 20)
includes a paragraph designed for no
other reason apparently than to put the
ABC in the worst possible light. None
of the three points is true.
(1) The ABC did not ban “This Was
The. Week That Was”. On the contrary
it expressed interest in the programme
and asked for a print, only to be told
by the BBC that rights for showing in
Australia could not be cleared. This fact
can be verified by the BBC’s Sydney
office.
(2) AO episodes of “Z Cars” were not
“prohibited”. Like any other TV
station, the ABC has its scheduling dif-
ficulties. Since it wished to show this
series in an “A” time area (7.30-8.30
p.m.) it wanted to avoid having to clear
time-spots in a tightly packed programme
after 8.30 p.m. for odd films out of series
marked “AO”. Since the BBC had no
objection to the ABC buying only those
films in the series classified “G” and “A”,
this seemed a sensible arrangement. To
raise the bogey of censorship in such
circumstances is as absurd as it is unfair.
(3) Mr Higham is entitled to put his
own interpretation on the “Four Corners”
Capital Punishment incident. Since I
was Head of Programmes at the time,
and made the decision referred to, 1 re-
affirm that it was made solely in the
interests of good taste —it seemed to me
(and still does) that to have shown a
film on hanging a day or so before a
man (whose story was included in ihe
film) was to be hanged, contributed
nothing to the sum total of human
decency. There were no political issues
prompting the decision which was made
before the issue was raised politically.
This fact was accepted and applauded
by the “Daily Telegraph” even if not
by Mr Higham.
Finally, the ABC does not choose to
disclose details of films banned by the
Censor since it regards these as a matter
between itself and the Censor. Nor can
it see what useful purpose is served by
publishing a list of titles most of which
convey little real information about the
nature of the films concerned, even with
the assistance of Mr Higham’s “pre-
sumed reasons for banning”.
CLEMENT SEMMLER
Deputy General Manager,
Aust. Broadcasting Commission
Sydney {NSW).
Charles Higham replies:
(1) Since Mr Semmler refused to dis-
close details of censorship to me on
request, I was compelled to rely on
information from a former employee of
the ABC who told me that the ABC
showed “TWTWTW” to its staff but was
too nervous to release it for television.
(2) The “AO” episodes of “Z Cars”
were, in fact, effectively prohibited since
the original agreement was that “AO”
episodes wo-uld not be shown. The whole
series could easily have been shown at
a later time of night if the intention at
any time was to show the “AO” episodes;
I believe it was decided in advance that
they would not be shown. And I should
like to remind Mr Semmler that some
episodes of “Dr Finlay’s Casebook”
were shown late at night because they
were passed for Adults Only.
(3) I put no interpretation on the
banning of the “four Corners” Capital
Punishment programme, but simply put
down the banning as a fact. Mr
Semmler’s reasons, specious or otherwise,


ASAHI
PENTAX
SPOTMATIC
jBESg SjpSjf
ASAHI
PENTAK
u
Entirely New Concept
in Photographic Design
and Capability
The new Asahi Pentax Spotmatic has
a highly sensitive, completely integral
and invisible meter which reads your
exposure through the taking lens, from
your subject’s image in focus on the
viewing screen (in focus on the film
plane) . .. the most ideal method of
exposure determination! Use any one
of the 23 Takumar lenses (from 18mm
to 1000 mm), plus accessories ... the
meter reads' exactly what your lens
sees ... the lens sees what your film
records ... without parallax! No more
exposure adjustments ... it automati-
cally compensates for exposure factors
for correct exposures every time.
Price, with case, £lO5/0/0.
Other Asabi Pentax models available:
Asahi Pentax SV with fully-automatic f/1.8
Super-Takumar lens; speeds to 1/1000-sec.;
self-timer. With case, £75/0/0.
Asahi Pentax Sia with fully-automatic f/2 Super
Takumar lens; speeds to 1/500-sec. With
case, £62/10/0.
At your photo dealer now!
KD.2217
for the banning do not affect my state-
ment that the programme was banned:
how can he possibly say that I was
■wrong in saying this when he admits in
his letter that my statement is correct?
(4) Fortunately, the film industry as
a whole does see a useful purpose in
releasing information on banned films,
and its trade journal, “Film Weekly”,
has welcomed the list. That Mr Semmler
does not see any value in its publication
seems to me sufficient comment on the
ABC’s attitude to its public.
SIR. —Charles Higham’s article on
film censorship (8., Nov. 20) is both
welcome and enlightening. Perhaps its
greatest value lies in revealing who it is
that decides what the public may and
may not see. I’m not making a personal
attack but why is it that people such
as those listed should be film censors?
The Customs Department, the YWCA,
local government, Women’s Graduate
Society, a women’s college, does not
seem to me to be a very healthy mix-
ture. Rather it is a concoction, like the
hash made of food scraps one might
feed to fowls.
ROWAN JOHN CAHILL
Gordon (NSW).
Little Mother Always
SIR. —Mr Geoffrey Dutton (8., Nov.
20) is evidently still brooding over the
ignominy of being taken for an English-
man when he was lecturing at the Uni-
versity of Kansas a couple of years ago.
However, his advance account of the
book he is editing on Australia and the
Crown in your last issue opens up the
field for fascinating speculation. He
thinks that Australia needs the “dynamic
leadership” which she does not get from
a moth-eaten monarchy. Hence his
desire for a President which will lead us
to the Promised Land, a John F. Ken-
nedy perhaps. But have we any cer-
tainty that Australia would not be
more likely to produce a Calvin Cool-
idge or a Warren Harding? Granted
that royalty is a bore, and to Mr Dut-
ton a deadly one. But is not a bore
12,000 miles away preferable to a bore
whose platitudes will be dinned
incessantly into our ears, and whose
mug will be a constant feature of TV?
I can quite see that the British Roy-
alty is very uninspiring to Mr Dutton
or any other writer. But would its super-
cession by an Australian President be
any more uplifting? At present a good
deal of the controversial literature
which comes into Australia does so be-
cause there is some idea that Australia
should not be less tolerant than England.
But would literature of the kind Mr Dut-
ton approves get better shrift under a
Republic than under the present rather
indeterminate arrangement? I suspect
that the tendency would be to stiffen
rather than loosen censorship control
and a corresponding standardising of
values in order to assert Australia’s
severance of her cultural as well as
political links with England. No, no, Mr
Dutton, better Little Mother far over
the sea than Big Brother bang on your
doorstep.
M. BRYN DAVIES
University of Adelaide.
The China Traders
SIR.—Following on from Mr Brian
Buckley's article, “A China Lobby?” (8.,
Nov. 20), one fact needs to be pub-
licised, and it is that the Federal Lib.-
CP Government has all the power it
needs to stop trade with Communist
China, if it wants to. The Federal Lib.-
CP Government has for year success-
fully evaded its responsibilities by its
spokesmen, both in Parliament and out-
side, spreading the false impression that
trade with Communist China was solely
a matter for the Wheat Board, or the
Wooj Board, or the individual exporter,
and the Government had no powers nor
responsibilities about it.
The fact is clearly recorded in the
1964 Commonwealth Year Book at Page
512 that the Federal Government can
prohibit the export of any goods under
Section 112 of the Customs Act. The
Commonwealth Year Book goes on to
say the Federal Government has a sec-
ond string to its bow under the Bank-
ing (Foreign Exchange) Regulations.
Whether the Federal Government
should supervise trade with Communist
China is a legitimate matter for debate.
What is not in doubt is whether the
Federal Government has the power to
do so.
GEORGE COOK
Brisbane ( Q'ld ).
Manhattan Moon
SIR. —Joshua, son of Nun, told a tall
story about stopping the sun, but even
he must acknowledge himself worsted
now. For on the night of New York’s
big blackout, George McGann tells us
(8., Nov. 20) a “new moon” was
“sailing high” in the sky; and remained
above the horizon, furthermore, for
“the next ten hours”. What kind of
tomfoolery is this?
D. STOVE
Mulgoa (NSW).
Encouragement
SlR.—Forever Tanner! Long may he
continue to give us brilliant cartoons “in
shocking bad taste” that are “anti*
Royalty, anti-Menzies” and, in Mr Chas,
W. £)owling's (8., Nov. 20) eyes, “anti-
British”!
ELIZABETH REID
Petersham (NSW).
Deserted Wives
SIR. —As a public servant, the special
nature of whose work involves some
first-hand acquaintance with what fol-
lows marriage breakdown, I congratu-
late the writer of “In a Category of
Their Own’' (8., Nov. 13) on her re-
strained and thoughtful handling of this


somewhat neglected and emotionally
charged subject.
While marriage itself remains one of
the ever-interesting topics, little attention
is paid by other than family casework
agencies to the demoralisation threaten-
ing a woman and her children who wake
up one bright morning to find them-
selves “deserted”. The writer’s plea for
some concentrated investigation leading
to some constructive activity is therefore
most welcome. For granting that in
some cases the woman may have “had
it coming to her”, and that in others her
immediate sensation is one of profound
relief, the almost universal experience,
nevertheless, is to be confronted by a
truly fearsome array of problems, only
partly soluble at best and by means that
are often as nerve-wrecking and humili-
ating as they are unavoidably tortuous.
Nor might the first array of problems
be all. I was particularly interested in
your writer’s comments concerning
access. There are some husbands who
simply disappear. Of those who don’t,
some feel a genuine concern and affec-
tion for the children they left behind,
but in the experience of people like my-
self too many use access as a weapon
in a marital war of nerves regardless of
the devastation this can produce in the
emotional well-being of the children
concerned. The old argument that un-
happy couples should stay together “for
the sake of the children” has fortunately
lost its strength. The idea of access as
a right to be demanded, not earned, calls
for some scrutiny.
E. H. Ford
Mosman (NSW).
SIR.—My congratulations to you and
to “Deserted Wife”. The article was
written with remarkable restraint, re-
vealing a personal loss with which many
would sympathise, and which would
touch very deeply those, like myself,
whose experience has been similar. '
M.L.M.
Hornsby (NSW).
“TV Times”
SIR.—Mr Robin Brampton's interesting
article “Is the Writing on the Wall-
paper” (8., Nov. 20) was based on cir-
culation figures of Australian magazines
for the six months ending March 31,
1965. These were the latest available to
Mr Brampton but in some instances, at
least, they appear sadly out of date in
an article published in November.
I can speak only for “TV Times”,
the circulation of which was quoted as
253,000 (the March 31 figure). The
ABC audit for “TV Times” for the
six months ending September 30, 1965,
is in excess of 292,000. This is an in-
crease of 39,000 over the March 31
figure. More significantly, it is an in-
crease of 31,000 over the ABC audit
for the similar period in 1964 (six
months, April 1 to September 30).
J. G. PATON
Managing Editor,
TV Times.
Sydney.
Smut (cont.)
SIR.—Your reputation for balance and
objectivity was maintained by Brian
Buckley’s article “Smut” (B., Nov. 13),
especially his comments on one of the
fifteen issues of this year’s “Tharunka”.
Allan Hogan
Co-Editor (1965),
“Tharunka”.
Coogee (NSW).
SIR. — To date I haven’t worried much
about the anti-“Whisper”, “Drongo”
brayings in the “popular” Press. In a
country where the mass media use their
most obvious weapons on interlopers,
these blasts were predictable not only in
fact, but in amateurish and pseudo-
moralistic content. What does get me
a little riled is the attitude of the flips
who write this drivel. Not one of them
could hold a carbon paper to the regular
contributors of “Drongo” and “Whisper”,
all of whom are experienced and dis-
ciplined enough to be able to write copy
without the comfortable prop of a pay
packet at the end of the week and a boss
breathing down their necks to make sure
the job gets done.
Unlike the bulk of Australian journal-
ists, they write copy that rarely needs
subbing and usually hits where we want
it. They cater effectively and honestly
for nearly 200,000 Australians who are
sick of the hysterical claptrap they get
in the dailies and the formularised junk
dished up in periodicals. We cater for
people who want to laugh, and if there’s
one writer on The Bulletin who could
hold down a job with us, you must have
him well hidden.
Terry Blake
Editor,
Kings Cross “Whisper”, “Drongo”.
Sydney (NSW).
LICENTIOUS IMPERIALISM
ffij^ulCetCn
80 Years Ago: Decmber 5, 1885
A|R WILLIAM THOMAS STEAD, editor
X of the Pall Mall Gazette, London,
languishes in prison, while the aristocratic
villains and noble blackguards, whose
brutal lust impelled him to risk his
liberty for the sake of their unfortunate
victims, are giving entertainments to
nobility on the Continent or yachting in
Royal state on the Baltic. As we said,
England is run in the interests of the
aristocracy. This case of the Pall Mall
Gazette is the triumph of Imperialism.
May we in Australia never be cursed
with such a political system. Some of
our New South Wales legislators are
working to fix it on the colony. Our
Churches here are as ready as ever they
were in England to worship him who
lays most money at the altar. And the
Sydney daily journals have shown most
clearly that they desire the advent of a
season of nobility-worship. It is, there-
fore, the work of true Australians to
resist every attempt made by politician,
parson, or newspaper to rivet upon us
such a system of Imperialism as that
which in England delivers over, with the
approbation of constituted authority, the
daughter of the poor man as the helpless
prey to the lustful Prince or licentious
Peer.
Dr K.
SIR. — Your summing up of the Knop-
felmacher scandal failed to make a
number of important points.
1. The improper behavior of two pro-
fessors in making public attacks on Dr
Knopfelmacher while his application was
being considered: Professor May in a
piece printed in among the nudes in the
magazine “Esquire”, and Professor Alex-
ander in the letters columns of “The
Sydney Morning Herald”.
2. The fact that the campaign against
Dr Knopfelmacher was initiated by Pro-
fessors Christiansen and Alexander who,
with their record of associations with
Communist-front “peace” organisations,
have an obvious political interest in ex-
cluding an anti-Communist from the
University.
3. The disgraceful behavior of the
Federation of Australian University Staff
Associations which, without even con-
sulting members of the knocked Selection
Committee, issued a statement that all
was right and proper in the procedures
followed.
The complete lack of interest of the
association in this particular case is of
course not surprising when it is realised
that the secretary is another well-known
man of the Left, Professor E. L. Wheel-
wright.
P. Ashton
Sydney (NSW).
SIR. — Concerning Dr Knopfelmacher,
The Bulletin may be quite right in
pursuing the matter of injustice in the
sphere of academics. But surely there is
a much more “revolting injustice” to be
remedied — the raw deal inflicted on
Captain John Robertson, RAN (see Dr
T. B. Millar’s review of Vice-Admiral
Hickling’s book, “One Minute of Time”
B., Nov. 20).
Craster C. M. Usher
Hornsby (NSW).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Furious About “Furious Shapes”
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The pleasant - Sunday - afternoon
atmosphere of a seminar on art,
organised by the Australian As-
sociation for Cultural Freedom, and held
in the florid Hotel Belvedere, would
hardly be expected to yield the same fire
and fervor, or reach the same conclusions,
as the many heated discussions among art
students and teachers in Sydney and
Canberra in recent weeks.
The seminar is one of a series, organ-
ised by the Association, and chiefly con-
cerned with the economics of the arts.
However, the recent petition by students
of the National Art School for drastic
changes in the syllabus made discussion
of art teaching opportune. Some strong
points were made, but as no representa-
tive of the Department of Technical
Education was asked or willing to
attend, there was nothing to feed the
flames. Discussion was inconclusive, or as
inconclusive as a resolution to the NSW
Minister for Education may be taken to
be.
The resolution called on the Minister
to institute an inquiry into art education,
as conducted by the Department of Tech-
nical Education, because of widespread
dissatisfaction among students, teachers
and informed members of the public.
Artist John Ogburn, who runs his own
art school, took the absolute view that
“art cannot be taught”. Art involved a
feeling judgment, he said, and it was
impossible to give so many marks out of
100 per cent for any work of art. “Tech-
nique springs from creativeness, not vice
versa,” he said. “You cannot send a
young painter into the world and say,
‘Now be creative’.”
Mr Ogburn said he did not believe that
problems connected with teaching art
were money ones. When he belonged to
an art society in Melbourne the fee was
ss. a year. Because large numbers of
people belonged to the society and paid
their 55., artists had the use of a model
for lengthy periods each week and could
work as they pleased.
Mr Ogburn believes there is a “trivial
approach” to the teaching of art in NSW
schools, and what he called an “attitude
of facetiousness and sentimentality.”
To illustrate what he meant by face-
tiousness, he quoted from a school
syllabus in which the compiler spoke of
having “great faith in the potential of
children”. “Who else could she have
faith in when the syllabus is for chil-
dren?” he demanded.
Mr Ogburn referred to something in
the syllabus which was called the “seven
elements of design”. “I do not know
what they are,” he said. “But I know
they talk about a ‘furious’ shape and a
‘happy’ line. I could not for the life of me
draw a furious shape or a happy line.”
Mr Ogburn said that one of his pupils,
who was an art teacher, had been repri-
manded by the Education Department
because the drawings her pupils were
doing were not sufficiently “refined”.
“This,” he said, “I believe, means that the
children do not draw the way laid down.
One way laid down is to draw a line
across the top of the paper. That is the
head. Then you draw two dots at the
bottom. They are the feet. Then you draw
a line somewhere through the middle.
That is the seat, but whether it is sup-
"Oh, no ... nothing ritualistic ... just brightening up the place a bit!"
posed to be the anatomical seat or the
seat of wisdom I do not know.”
Mr Ogburn said that before attending
the seminar he had tried to find out what
the syllabus at the National Art School
was. After a couple of trips across the
city he finally was given a simple pam-
phlet from which he read of such things
as aesthetic appreciation, perspective
composition.
“These,” he said, “are the sort of thing
which enable you to specialise in intel-
lectual graffiti. You know, drawing tri-
angles over Raphael's Madonnas to show
how it was done. There is also something
called color sense. Color in the abstract
has no meaning at all.
“This sort of thing must do more harm
than good. I believe that education is
never neutral.”
The syllabus at the National Art
School seemed to him to be an “extra-
ordinarily idiotic document”, but he
agreed that an extraordinarily idiotic
document may be backed up by reason-
able people and fair results.
Mr Ogburn said he had tried to find
out about the Power bequest to Sydney
University but that it was “shrouded in
mystery”. “I think this mystery is pur-
poseful,” he said. “The University of
Sydney is extremely embarrassed by the
bequest. They would like to find out that
an aspirate had been dropped and that it
is really a Heart bequest. If it had been
for medical research,. I am sure there
would already be a gleaming aggregate
building functioning by now.”
1%/fR Dennis Colsey, of the Darling-
hurst Galleries, Sydney, discussing
what he likes to call commercial galleries
rather than private ones, said that dealers
may be called racketeers, but if art deal-
ing was a racket it was a gentlemanly
one. Most dealings with artists were
under unwritten contracts.
Mr Colsey said that the greater part of
a commercial gallery’s work was done in
the back room, rather than out of exhibi-
tions. This included securing paintings
for overseas and interstate galleries and
other clients, taking paintings back from
clients who had “run out of wall-space”
(sometimes a euphemism for other diffi-
culties) and reselling them and disposing
of paintings for deceased estates.
“Recently we acquired 78 paintings
from an estate in order to get the two
paintings among them we really wanted,”
he said. “Sixty of them were completely
useless but, fortunately, Barry Humph-
ries was interested in the other 16.”
Mr Colsey said he had recently gone
through his accountant’s figures and
realised that the gallery’s running costs
averaged £202 15s. a week. He estimated
that it was necessary to sell £ 1000-worth
of paintings a week to operate profitably,
and said that any profit was made in the
back room rather than from exhibitions.


“Of course, all our problems are solved
by exhibitions by people like Donald
Friend and Ray Crooke,” he said. “Not
only did Ray Crooke’s recent exhibition
sell out but we have 74 names on a wait-
ing list.
“Just the same, the challenging exhi-
bition is the marginal seller and I believe
every gallery should have prestige exhi-
bitions. Next year we shall be showing
contemporary Irish painting. I think every
commercial gallery should do this sort of
thing, and do it as often as it can.”
Mr Daniel Thomas, assistant to the
director of the Art Gallery of NSW, was
happy to concede that many of the
gallery’s problems were financial. He said
Sydney had a curatorial staff of three,
including the director, for a population
of four million. This compared with
seven in Melbourne and four in both
Perth and Adelaide.
He said that the State Government’s
grant had gone up to £20,000 two years
ago, but at the end of the last century it
had been £5OOO. Although the Art Gal-
lery of New South Wales, with its large
collection of local paintings, could be
classed as both educational and a tourist
attraction, it was only in the last few
years that the city of Sydney had con-
tributed to its upkeep The amount was
£lOO a year, although it contributed
“several thousand” to the Australian
Museum.
Mr Thomas said the Art Gallery of
NSW was certainly the oldest unfinished
public building in NSW. It was begun in
1885 and the last additions were done in
1896. Large sections, behind the imposing
facade, were still temporary. Plans to
build a new, air-conditioned wing which
would enable the gallery to show some
exhibitions from other countries, which
would not be sent to galleries which were
not air-conditioned, had been discussed
for some time. Unfortunately, he believed
the sketches for the extensions were not
done before Mr Askin became Premier
and so may be further postponed.
Mr Thomas said he believed that New
South Wales was well and truly over-
supplied with art competitions and
prizes, although some other States may
not be.
“This all began in 1899 when the
Wynne Prize was established,” he said.
“This set a pretty bad example. Donors
are encouraged to commission works
rather than offer prizes, but they will
rarely do so. Awards tend to prop de-
clining art forms. Now we have the
Portia Geach prize for a portrait as well
as the Archibald, so we will have two
fairly bad exhibitions instead of one.”
We’re Watching You Watching
By SIMON LEIGH
Professor Charles Allen, of
Oklahoma, USA, has invented
a device he calls a dynascope
which allows TV programmers, spon-
sors and advertisers to take a look at
their audience and see who really is
watching their shows and absorbing
their ads.
Professor Allen designed it to go
one better than existing methods of
TV audience measurement used in
the USA —the viewer diary, in which
the housewife has to enter details of
what programmes have been watched,
with its inevitable inaccuracies and
bias, and the recording-tape device
built into the TV set which records,
with the housewife’s permission, how
many hours a week the set .spends
tuned to each channel.
The dynascope (technical name:
“photochronograph”) tells all this
how long the set is turned on for,
which programmes are selected but
also shows who is in the audience.
It consists of a small black box that
sits on top of the TV set, and switches
on when the TV is switched on. It is
unbreakable, emits only a soft, steady
buzz in operation, and shows no out-
ward signs that it does anything at all.
In fact, it takes clear, miniature photo-
graphs, one every 15 seconds, and
each photograph shows:
• Everyone in the TV viewing
area and what they are doing.
• An exact image of the TV screen
(through a mirror arrangement),
and
• A superimposed clock face, in-
dicating time and date.
Left to itself, the dynascope will
take up to 16,000 photographs, each
one showing who is watching what,
and when. After two weeks or so the
film is removed and processed.
Analysts can then skim through the
mass of photos to sift out the in-
formation required. Specific pro-
grammes or TV commercials can, of
course, be located through the time,
date and screen image.
Surprisingly perhaps, Professor
Allen’s team has found that most
housewives approached are willing to
have a dynascope installed in their
home, the bait being five dollars a
week and free TV repairs, plus the
assurance that none of the photos will
ever be published or used except for
“research purposes”.
The first large-scale dynascope
study, in Oklahoma and Kansas,
brought out some interesting findings.
Dynascopes were installed for two
weeks in 95 homes, and produced
1,500,000 separate photos to be
scanned.
The first few pictures from each
dynascope film would typically show
an attentive family group sitting
around staring straight at the dyna-
scope, ignoring the TV completely.
One or two frames would often con-
sist of a huge close-up eye peering
into the lens.
Very quickly, however, the enig-
matic black box would lose its novelty
value and from then on would be
completely ignored. In fact, Professor
Allen reports finding that “adults eat,
drink, sleep, play, argue, fight and
occasionally make love in front of the
TV set”.
Numerical analysis of the material
showed that any measure of “number
of sets tuned in” is wildly optimistic
as an indicator of how many people
are actually watching a show.
The professor found that, for a full
fifth of the time the TV set was on,
there was no audience at all—just a
roomful of empty chairs. For another
fifth of the time the TV was playing
to an “inattentive audience”, i.e., a
group in which no one was watching
the set. In short, two-fifths of the TV
shown (in this USA study) went un-
watched.
As soon as a commercial came on
a further 10 per cent of the audience
dropped out, either by leaving the
room, stopping watching, or (and the
dynascope can’t always pick up these
ones) by instantly switching channels.
So only one commercial in two being
shown has anyone watching it, bear-
ing on the advertising man’s classic
complaint: “I’ve always known half
of my advertising budget was wasted
I wish somebody could tell me
which half.”
No dynascope studies have been re-
ported in Australia as yet, but it
should be just a matter of time. In
the USA, dynascopes, pre-set to take
pictures at various intervals, have
already been used with success in
studies of the oehavior of kinder-
garten children, customers and sales-
men in new-car salesrooms, a mother
cat giving birth to six kittens, fluctua-
tions in electric current, reading pat-
terns of newspapers and magazines,
metal fatigue, detection of shop-
lifters, losses of ice from an ice-
making plant, and customer reactions
to point-of-sale display. In advertising,
dynascopes may be used for pre-test-
ing and audience reaction to television
commercials.


OPERA
“Porgy,” Thirty years after
Porgy and Bess. Gershwin. Princess Theatre,
Melbourne.
Just for once Australia’s backwardness
in matters musical may prove to be a
blessing in disguise. Short of importing a
complete American production, no local
management would have had a hope of
coming within miles of this first Aus-
tralian Porgy and Bess which has been
brought to us from New Zealand, of all
places.
Thirty years have passed since George
Gershwin wrote the one great failure of
his life, or at least so he thought. He had
a dream of writing the American opera
and saw his hopes crumble when both
music and subject met with indifference
and often scorn in his lifetime. Or course,
there were voices in the wilderness which
saw hidden glories behind the sordid
facade of Catfish Row, but it was only
during and after the war that Porgy came
to be accepted universally.
Gershwin broke new ground in his
only full-length opera. Apart from Kurt
Weill's efforts in Europe which cer-
tainly failed to leave any mark on Porgy
he only had conventional operas and
avant-garde musicals like “Show Boat”
to guide him. That the finished result
was not perfect is not surprising; that it
proved to be a milestone which influ-
enced others is. Now “Porgy and Bess”
makes the best of two worlds. Opera
lovers have been conditioned via Men-
otti, Britten & Co. until Gershwin’s revo-
lutionary ideas seem almost old hat. At
the same time the development of the
American musical from “Oklahoma!” to
“West Side Story” and “The Most Happy
Fella” has brought Porgy within the
reach of ordinary theatregoers. The cur-
rent superb, if unconventional, produc-
tion should by all counts prove no ex-
ception.
The story of “Porgy and Bess” is so
complicated as to be both an asset and a
liability. On the one hand its mass of
detail prohibits any extended scenes
which could flag in visual or musical
interest; on the other it makes it hard
for the audience to identify the multi-
tude of characters. Catfish Row is a
maelstrom of varied characters and
Porgy’s greatest attraction is the reality
of the many small parts. What a pleasure
it is to watch real people going about
their business instead of stock characters
from some dusty opera libretto!
Words cannot sufficiently express the
debt owed to Inia Te Wiata as Porgy by
all concerned with this production on
both sides of the curtain. The production
of Ella Gerber and the musical direction
of Dobbs Franks follow him closely on
the credit side. The magnificent set is
truly alive, Catfish Row becomes a real
place for us from the moment the curtain
rises. Perhaps the dressing is too good
poverty was surely the keystone to this
particular tragedy which ends in hope
and this brings me to the inauthenticity
of the whole which, surprisingly, seems
to matter not at all. The Maori is not and
cannot be a genuine Negro. Yet somehow
the differences in looks and language
simply transfer the scene to some other
city, say New Orleans, in which Negroes,
Creoles and other half-castes mix happily.
It may also be well to note that the
libretto has been cleaned up to eliminate
the many racial aspects of action and
language which could give offence in
these more enlightened (?) days.
This version contains almost all the
original music written by Gershwin for
“Porgy and Bess”. At least three major
items, including the delightful “Struttin’
Style”, did not appear in the original pro-
duction, the film or the full recording of
the postwar New York production.
We like to boast of the fine theatrical
talent found among our small population.
At this moment I feel we are backward
compared with New Zealand. I don’t
think I have ever seen a more talented
collection of small-part players on one
stage at any one time and the thought is
inescapable that they could also have
coped with the major parts. Newha
Taiaka is not listed on the programme as
a principal, but her playing of Maria is
of international calibre. Toni Williams
provides a strong, if unsubtle, Sportin’
Life and it would be unfair to single out
anyone else among these talented New
Zealanders. I quite unfairly enjoyed Bob
Hirini and Peti Rei in tiny parts.
Fortunately, the standard of the
Midd y looks at
"Porgy and Bess".


NEW ADDITION TO
RANGE OF TABLE WINES
ST. CORA
WHITE
BURGUNDY
The new addition to Lindeman’s
popular range of Table Wines is
a pleasant dry white wine with a
soft round character and flavour.
It will accompany all sea foods,
salads and light meat dishes, and
is best served chilled.
m&iA V>'-
His- i- R
LIN DEMANS
S T COR& WHITE
BIIRgUNDY
MOOWV'Uf AWtW*‘ "V
American guest artists is high enough to
justify their engagement. Delores Ivory
has the plum of “Summertime” to sus-
tain her and is so good as almost to sus-
tain it instead. Loretta Fowlkes, as
Serena, acts and sings superbly and Irv-
ing Barnes is a fine Jake. Beauty of face
and figure, plus a magnificient singing
voice and considerable acting ability,
should make Phyllis Bash an outstanding
Bess. Unfortunately, to coin a phrase, it
ain’t necessarily so. Miss Bash is as yet
too immature to make the most of this
demanding part and, pitted against Inia
Te Wiata, who simply is Porgy, her Bess
is but a pale shadow.
JOHN CARGHER
MUSIC
Winning Post
ABC Symphony Orchestra Youth Concert.
Conductor, Post. Soloist, Vasary. Sydney
Town Hall.
HPhe institution of a series of Youth
A Concerts has been one of the ABC’s
most commendable enterprises and I
doubt that anyone has ever challenged
the soundness of the idea. But from an
idea to its full realisation can be quite
a long step and it is very gratifying when
a sound idea is found to be spectacularly
realised. This is just what happened at
the last of Sydney’s 1965 Youth Con-
certs, for a number of happily coinciding
reasons.
First, and making all else possible,
there was Joseph Post. A fine conductor,
with a wide repertoire, perennially
capable of verve and youthful en-
thusiasms, Post is always conducting in
such a way as to fire an orchestra as
well as a receptive audience. Then, of
course, there was the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, still at peak form.
A first-class conductor and responsive
orchestra are prerequisites, but a re-
sponsive audience is every bit as im-
portant—not the kind of audience that,
after monopolising subscription bookings
to the exclusion of many keen listeners,
leaves one-third of the seats unoccupied.
The audience at Youth Concerts con-
tinues to be near-ideal; though critical,
these are fresh-minded, keen-eared people
who, whatever their statutory age, remain
young in perception. There were few
vacant seats, and even fewer who sat
on their hands.
Given such premises, a concert can
be an exhilarating experience, if there is
the right catalyst; on this occasion, that
bnlliant pianist Tamas Vasary. With
excellent orchestral support, he con-
cluded his Sydney appearances with
Liszt’s Ist piano concerto. His perform-
ance was a fairly conservative one, not
nearly as individualistic as his interpreta-
tion of the Chopin concerto in the
[Previous week, but far from conven-
tional. The result was delightful and
Vasary may well have gained new friends
for Liszt, the much-maligned, among the
young listeners.
The orchestral works, before the con-
certo, competently presented, consisted
of Benjamin’s “Italian Comedy” Over-
ture —a popular war-horse of spectacular
coloration and Elgar’s “Introduction
and Allegro for Strings”. This is one of
Mr Post’s favorites, which I heard ex-
tremely well done under his direction
during a “Little Symphony” season; this
time, played by a larger ensemble, it
was less lively though distinguished by
Mr Pikler’s particularly fine viola play-
ing.
The remainder of the evening was
devoted to Bartok’s great Concerto for
Orchestra. Not only is this fine music
and a wonderful showpiece, but the
work has become peculiarly associated
with the SSO, thanks to the fine film
made by the ABC, bearing the same title,
about the SSO and its musical director,
Dean Dixon.
Mr Post’s interpretation of Bartok’s
gorgeous score was markedly different
from Dixon’s. There was less acerbity
and bite to the playing in the first and
third movements, a generally greater
emphasis on sheer beauty of sound. More
timid listeners would have been sur-
prised by the apparent mildness of the
music which is, in fact, very approach-
able and, when played in the Post man-
ner, a wonderful introduction to Bartok’s
work.
The Youth Concerts season bore the
title “Bach to Bartok”, and this areat
work was a fitting finale to the season,
The audience obviously loved and ap-
predated what had been offered to them
and I was again, and uncomfortably,
reminded of recent reactions from adult,
unimaginative orchestral subscribers. It
rea lly seems to be time for some of
them to give up their hereditary bookings
and to allow their seats, so often left
vacant, to be occupied by members of
the younger, responsive and open-minded
generation of listeners who have been
educated during the years of Youth
Concert programmes,
PAUL FROLICH


AN EYE
LIKE A
HAWK
The Rokkor lens is the hawk-eye in ail Minolta cameras-and especially
in the SR-1 and SR-7. Rokkor picks out the tiniest details, the smallest
movement. Rokkor gives accurate definition. Top Amateurs and Profes-
sionals out for photographic prey, use Minolta SR-1 or SR-7 cameras for
the sharpest results, and unequalled colour fidelity. More than 100 inter-
changeable lenses and accessory combinations make Minolta SR tha
finest and most versatile camera to own.
<s>
m
r 7
MINOLTA
SINGLE
LENS
REFLEX
• Single lens reflex interchangeable from 21
to 1000 mm. • Apochromatic Rokkor lens 1.4,
1.8 and 2.0 with fully automatic diaphragm, depth
of field preview. • Patented mirror action prevents vignetting even with largest tele-
lens. • Brightest viewfinder with disappearing microprism focusing. • Fully syn-
chronised focal plane shutter 2 sec. to 1/500-1/1000 sec. selftimer. • Most sensitive
coupled CdS exposure meter ... MINOLTA SR-1 from £68.0.0 ($136); SR-7 from
£84.19.0 ($169.99).
Minolta
. . . the name qualify made famous.
A little Geisha comes
free with every Minolta.
Ask for Minolta at camera
dealers and chemists.
FREE Brochures From: PHOTIMPORT PTV. LTD-,
153 Barkly Street, EAST BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
TELEVISION
Everyman
Bill Dana Show. Channel 10, Sydney.
fFire Bill Dana Show is funny, senti-
mental and tart, and probably will
not be around much longer, as the cook-
ies crumble in American television. It
could never win a high rating in a world
that applauds such waffles as McHale’s
Navy, The Beverly Hillbillies and the
Patty Duke Show, which depend on un-
limited variations on one limited joke
that anyone can comprehend. I am not
sneering at these universal successes, but
do regret that too many people are too
easily satisfied by two-dimensional com-
edy. Only Bill Dana’s fun has the senti-
ment, occasional pathos, and opposing
tartness that probes for and sometimes
reaches the area of full-bodied comedy.
To most Australians who encountered
him, Bill Dana was first a voice on
records, a mildly amusing character
named “Jose Jiminez” whose J’s were
H’s and who needed a straight man to
feed him lines. He was funny enough on
record, but limited. In television he
emerged as a Mexican bell boy in the
“Park Central Hotel”, with Gary Crosby
as one of his foils, the sophisticated bell-
boy Eddy. Another was Jonathan Harris
(“Brad” of the “Third Man” series) as
the hotel’s monstrously sarcastic manager,
Mr Phillips. A more recent creation was
Don Adams as a hopelessly inefficient
hotel detective named Glick, a role which
led directly to his place in the “Get
Smart” series. *
“Hose Himinez”, the bell boy, with his
chubby, trusting face and expressive
eyes, is the complete, sentimental dope.
He is so happy in America that he can
decide to overpay his income tax and
cause endless worry to officials of the
Internal Revenue Bureau. He crawls on to
a ledge to rescue a kitten and wonders
“what all those people are doing down
there, looking up”. He is too humble to
attend a nephew’s graduation, asks Mr
Phillips to act in loco parentis, then is
forced to make a speech in his own
brand of broken English which somehow
comes out well. The American virtues,
spelled out so loudly in so many televis-
ion series, are never so believable as when
they come from the mouth of the Mexi-
can bell boy Jose Jiminez.
The marvel is that this series uses
almost no outdoor settings. The hotel is
Jose’s world, and the technical economy
is something to watch. For a comparison
one would have to go to “Steptoe and
Son”, and even that series moved out-
doors more often. The rancor in the
English series is also present in The Bill
Dana Show, but never in Bill Dana’s own
character, and the series is all the better
for that.
In a word, The Bill Dana Show is per-
fect television for the cynics who loathe
the false sentimentality of so many
American television series, and yet are
fools for gentle sentiment and the
triumph of Everyman.
DALE MILLER
RECORDS
Faded Garland
Judy Garland and Liza Minnelli “Live” at
the London Palladium. Capitol. SWBO
2295. Two records.
That’s All. Mel Torme. CBS. BP 233227.
Oeginning with “Hooray for Love”
sung in unison, Judy Garland and
her daughter plunge into close on two
hours of briskly aggressive performing
to a wild and at times almost hysterical
audience at the London Palladium, a
performance recently telecast here and
now issued on two deafening discs by
Capitol. For sheer nervous energy and


postal bookings are open for
the fourth adelaide festival
of arts/march 10-261966
Be sure of seats: post your order now
Full programmes and booking forms available
from all Airlines and Travel Agents or from
The South Australian Government Tourist Bureau
390 George Street, Sydney, 8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne,
18 King William Street, Adelaide, or from
the Festival Office, Box 1960, G.P.0., Adelaid®
book now! P
i
London Symphony Orchestra
Louis Kentner/ The Australian Ballet
Athens Drama Company
Modern Jazz Quartet / Porgy and Bess
Dame Judith Anderson
Berlioz's Requiem Mass
"The Royal Hunt of the Sun”
Die Kammermusiker of Zurich
Kalakshetra of Madras / The Tintookies
and many other exciting attractions
drive, the two singers are astonishing;
at times they are virtually indistinguish-
able, and one regrets once again that
Miss Minnelli didn’t, early on, decide
to develop her own individual style. But
the Palladium crowd, very unsophisti-
cated, greets all the caterwauling and
screaming—as well as the handful of
really well delivered numbers • with
equal rapture.
1 My own most happy experience of
ijudy Garland was (pace several critics)
[at the Stadium in Sydney, when
although frequently off key, disastrously
wobbly, schmaltzy and at times danger-
ously unsteady on her feet she came
through with electrifying force, all that
wonderful spontaneity easily making up
(for the increasing insecurity of the tech-
nique. On the Palladium disc, though,
she seems sadly below form: singing hard
against the voice all the way through
(how on earth does it keep going?) and
in the really testing numbers, like Harold
Arlen’s “The Man That Got Away” no-
where near her Stadium standard, let
alone that displayed in Cukor’s “A Star
is Born”. An anonymous band works
loyally and desperately hard.
, By contrast, Mel Torme’s modestly
entitled “That’s All” is a superb record:
superbly played and arranged, and still
more superbly sung. Torme—too little
known in this country, by the way, and
la long overdue visitor is even better
than Dick Haymes or Bob Manning as
a purveyor of melancholy, autumnal
ballads. Like a well-played saxophone,
his voice has a fine combination of sur-
face sheen and a throbbing, haunting
undercurrent of sadness. The slow
coming-in of the voice on the piano in
“That’s All”, the sophisticated gloss put
on the banal words of “The Folks that
Live on the Hill”, the impeccable varia-
tions on “Hoo-ba-la-la”: all these, to-
gether with a dozen other examples one
could name, are evidence of an admir-
able musicianship and poise. Above all,
in Torme’s performing, one senses that
rarest of qualities in the ’sixties: exultancy
in sheer professionalism.
CHARLES HIGHAM
Flawless “Flute”
The Magic Flute —Mozart—Philharmonia
and Chorus under Otto Klemperer
Stereo HMV SAN 137/9.
Diabelli Variations Op. 120 Beethoven
Hans Richter-Haaser Columbia
Mono 33 OCX 1911.
Complete Dances and Marches Vol. 3
Mozart Vienna Mozart Ensemble
Boskovsky Decca Stereo SXLA 6133.
TI/|ozart’s opera “The Magic Flute”,
in the hands of the usually so severe
and serious Klemperer, is without any
doubt the most flawlessly conceived
“Magic Flute” ever put on record. In
comparison, Karajan seems in a hurry,
Beecham is over-romantic and Toscanini
cracks the whip.
Finding a cast for “The Magic Flute”
is notoriously difficult and the record
company must have been lucky to get
such a galaxy of talent. Bass Gottlob
Frick is incomparable as Sarastro.
Hitherto unknown soprano Lucia Popp,
as Queen of the Night, gives an inter-
pretation which surely will bring her last-
ing fame. The Philharmonia Orchestra’s
wind players excel themselves and pro-
duce the kind of magic Mozart intended
for his “Flute”.
Hans Richter-Haaser works his way
brilliantly and effortlessly through Beet-
hoven’s 33 variations to Diabelli’s trite
little waltz. The work is not often heard,
probably because of its length. There-
fore, this fantastic contribution to the
pasticcio music publisher Diabelli organ-
ised in 1823, especially as represented by
this splendid record, is worth having.
In Decca’s third volume of Mozart’s
Complete Dances and Marches, the
Vienna Mozart Ensemble is tangibly in
tune with the spirit in which the pieces
were written. The record contains the
March in D, K 249, six German Dances,
K6OO, the March in D, K335/1, and 12
Minuets, K 568.
JACK KUNST


BOOKS
Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Jack the Ripper in Fact and Fiction. Robin
Odell. Harrap. 425.
Autumn of Terror. Tom Cullen. Bodley
Head. 38s. 6d.
Jack the Ripper case has, of course,
everything: as a drama, it preserves
the unities five murders in ten weeks,
in a circumscribed area of the East End
—it has the wild and savage humor of
Jack himself as disclosed in his letters
and superb poems sent to Scotland Yard,
it is easily the best of murder mysteries,
and for the amateur sociologist it pro-
vides a field day: Shaw was convinced
the killings were done to pinpoint the
conditions of the poor at the time. The
literature on the case is already substan-
tial, although the definitive book still
remains to be written.
Mr Cullen’s is the better done of these
two recent excursions into the story. It
is a work executed with real relish, and
the author —an American journalist
has tracked through the murder area
with Holmesian doggedness. The style
has a Lyceum glow: “All too soon that
autumn the bloodshot sunsets which
some interpreted as portents were blot-
ted out by thick, sulphurous fogs of the
variety that are known as ‘London par-
ticulars’, and thus a new dimension was
added to terror.” The first killing took
place on August 31, of Mary Ann
Nicholls, who lived in a lodging house
in Spitalfields; she had been murdered by
a left-handed man, her throat cut and
her genitals mutilated. Just over a week
later, Annie Chapman met her end; she,
too, was a prostitute. On September 30,
the killer struck twice: both Elizabeth
Stride and Catherine Eddowes - poor
street drudges met their end in an
area crowded with police. Letters began
to arrive at Scotland Yard, written with
manic zeal by Jack, and the panic
brought on a flood of anti-Semitism:
the “Leather Apron” men Jewish
"PUNCH'S" IMPRESSION OF JACK THE RIPPER
slaughterers of cattle were suspected.
These were the shochets, ordained
priests whose skill ensured the removal
of portions of a beast offensive to mem-
bers of the religion among those por-
tions, the sciatic nerve. It was suggested
that the technique of killing the prosti-
tutes resembled that used in shochet
butchery: the knife drawn across the
throat in precisely the same manner.
The last victim, Mary Jane Kelly’s
body was, of all those found, the most
appallingly mutilated: the murderer bad
even placed he severed breasts on a
table.
After that, Jack disappeared: rumors
of his identity persisted, he was supposed
to have popped up in Paris, New York
and South America, but the fact was
that at least partly due to the inept
handling of Scotland Yard resulting
in the dismissal of Sir Charles Warren,
the Commissioner of Metropolitan
Police, who had at one stage actually
removed a sample of Jack’s writing
from a wall the Ripper had com-
pletely triumphed over his adversaries.
Mr Odell and Mr Cullen differ start-
lingly in their accounts of the crimes.
According to Mr Cullen, the message
Sir Charles Warren removed from the
wall read: “The Juwes are the men that
will not be blamed for nothing.”
According to Mr Odell it read: “The
Jewes are not the men to be blamed for
nothing.” Mr Cullen has Mary Jane
Kelly twenty-nine shillings in arrears
with her rent; Mr Odell calls her Marie
Kelly and has her thirty-five shillings y
arrears. Mr Cullen says that John DavieJ
discovered Annie Chapman’s body; Mi(
Odell says his name was John Davis. In'
one book rings are wrenched from the
fingers of a corpse; in the other one ring
is wrenched from the third finger. A
George Cross finds a body in Mr Cul l
len’s pages, a William Cross in Mr
Odell’s. One of these authors or per-
haps both would deserve a severe
drubbing from a latter-day Holmes. If
Jack is still alive, and that is certainly
not impossible, he must be having the|
laugh of a lifetime at the confusion his
activities are still causing in the minds
of his chroniclers.
Nevertheless, there are things in both=
books to admire. Mr Cullen’s splendid
command of dramatic irony serves him
well, as he cinematically cuts from the
Lord Mayor’s procession to Jack’s
grimly concentrated killing in the East
End. Fogs, huddled groups of terrified
people. Sir Charles Warren’s absurd 1
bloodhounds, entrails draped around sor-
did rooms, lanterns shining on dead faces
in the dark: the material is written up
with an almost Victorian flair. The organ
grinds, the monkey dances, and Mr Cul-
len, with a twirling of antique mous-
tachios, strikes up a sinister refrain. Mr
Odell is more cumbersome, leans rather
too heavily on some unsatisfactory
books, but comes up with a really
striking resuscitation of the shochet
theory in the last pages. Mr Cullen
piumps instead for the guilt of Monta-
gue John Druitt, Prefect of Winchester
Chapel, barrister, early suicide and
strong suspect in the killings. Unfor-
tunately, his theory would collapse like
a house of cards in any court of law.
Have I my own theory? I have.
Everyone seems to have overlooked the
significance of the poem Jack sent to
Scotland Yard in answer to the “Leather
Apron” and American sailor theories, 1
both with their burden of typical Brit-
ish prejudice:
I’m not a butcher,
I’m not a Yid,
Nor yet a foreign skipper,
But I’m your own light-hearted friend,
Yours truly, Jack the Ripper.
This extremely well-turned lyric could
scarcely have been the work of the kind
of semi-illiterate the police were chasing
after, and its fourth line seems to me its
most significant one. As both Mr Odell
and Mr Cullen disclose, the various chief,
police officers who wrote memoirs re-
ferring to the case hinted that they had
private knowledge of the killer they had
not revealed. Much of the behavior of
Scotland Yard suggests that certain
dreaded possibilities were being over-
looked or ignored. Could it not be that
in fact Jack the Ripper was “your own
MID-SENTENCE
The last word I wrote was “Oriental”.
Returning to it after meeting you,
I end the sentence clumsily,
Having outlived the experience.
For how can I go on repeating
Deeds of another lifetime?
Somehow I can, but it surprises me.
Each time I expect to lose my memory,
Or my whole past, or to have grown a
new face.
HUGO WILLIAMS


HELP
LEGACY
all th<e year
round ~
sjight-hearted friend”, a very high-rank-
ing official known to those to whom he
was addressing the notes, in full posses-
sion of knowledge of their every move
(this would explain his rapid getaways),
Lnd the kind of person anyway whose
[presence in the murder areas would not
[only not be suspicious to those police in
(the area, but expected?
The air of intelligence behind the
writing in the various notes, the awful
intimacy of the humor addressed to what
I believe to be his colleagues: I should
like to see some sleuth take the crime
right back to where I believe they origin-
ated, and where I believe many officials
knew they did: in the mind of one of
their own closest associates.
Peter Pan of Literature
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
[Jack London. Richard O’Connor. Gollancz.
i 475.
’ 4 lot of inflated nonsense has been
[**■ written about Jack Fondon. He has
Teen hailed as the primitive forerunner
[of Hemingway and O’Neill! Stephen
[Graham in “The Death of Yesterday”
called him “a bugle, an awakener, an
(annunciator, a wall-shatterer, a herald
'of the dawn”. To Upton Sinclair, for-
getting perhaps the sad decline of Lon-
don’s socialism into the monomaniac
fancies of the squire of the Valley of the
'Moon, he was “the true king of our story
[tellers, the brightest star that flashed
[upon our skies”. Even that hangman of
'reputations, H. L. Mencken, demanded:
f“Where did he get his hot artistic pas-
sion, his delicate feeling for form and
color, his extraordinary skill with
words?”
i It must be said of Richard O'Connor’s
•new biography that his literary judg-
ments are rather perfunctory. O'Connor
|is obviously more interested in London
[the man than London the artist. The
'books are dismissed with comment that
will bring cold comfort to London de-
fvotees, ranging from mildly commenda-
tory in the case of the earlier novels,
“The Call of the Wild”, “The Sea Wolf”
land “White Fang”, to a noticeable lack
[ of enthusiasm for the later books. What
[O’Connor has written is a good straight-
I forward, old-fashioned “life”, well-docu-
mented, allowing the story to tell itself
I without hyperbole’s artless aid.
[ All of London's previous biographers
had an axe of some kind to grind. The
[two volumes produced by his second
Charmian, in 1921 were, as
/O’Connor remarks, “a widow’s monu-
ment, pious, romantic and sentimental”.
[Charmian, a remarkable and not very
I attractive figure in her own right, had a
vested interest in stoking the fires of Lon-
[Jon idolatry and much of the rubbish
-.written later about London derived from
her highly-charged imagination. Irving
[Stone, in his “Sailor on Horseback”
[0938), disarmed criticism of his facts by
inscribing the book as a biographical
novel. “Jack London and His Times”, a
Fold-blooded and disillusioned view by
*’is daughter, Joan, was a useful antidote
!o Charmian’s vaporings, but Joan also
JACK LONDON
was too emotionally involved to be really
objective. London, of course, was like
that. It was almost impossible for anyone
to write about him without fervid admir-
ation or an itching desire to cut him
down to size. The fact is a significant
indication of London’s fascination as a
man, apart altogether from his value to
literature.
O’Connor’s book is likely to remain
the definitive biography for some time to
come. It is London, warts and all, sym-
pathetic but coolly reasonable, and from
it London emerges neither as a hero nor
as an anti-hero but as an extremely
interesting and Protean personality. He
was a man with an enormous capacity for
living, a vivid sense of the wonder and
beauty of the universe, and unbounded
affections. But it was a dangerously
flawed character and the flaws were fatal
to his work as a serious writer. He was
a Peter Pan of literature who never grew
upi, a perpetual adolescent whose cloudy
visions—except in his early handful of
hooks—soared far above his technical
ability to transmute them into words. As
long as he worked over his personal ex-
periences— in the snows of the Yukon,
before the mast on the Pacific sealing
grounds or among the oyster pirates of
San Francisco Bay he wrote with an
unaffected gusto that, in a few memor-
able descriptive sections, rose to sheer
lyrical beauty. But when London was
writing about women, economics or phil-
osophy—subjects in which he was keenly
interested and about which he considered
himself a notable authority his taste
utterly deserted him. The romantic pas-
sages in “The Sea Wolf”, for instance,
plumb the deepest abyss of banality. And
“The Iron Heel”, once so lavishly praised
for its grim sociological prophecy, is
quite unreadably turgid.
Like many another famous bastard,
Jack London was a young man with a
chip on his shoulder. He was pitched into
life by the scruff of the neck amid the
slums and taverns of the Oakland water-
front and he fought back with desperate
self-assertion. Before he was out of his
teens he was the Boy Socialist of San
Francisco Bay and the self-proclaimed
King of the Oyster Pirates. He shipped
on a sealing voyage to the North Pacific
and tramped over the Chilkoot Pass to
the Yukon goldfields. He hoboed his way
with a little army of derelicts half-way
across America. When he began to write
seriously he had already accumulated
more of the raw ore of experience than
most men do in a lifetime.
His early short stories, some of the
best things he ever wrote, won him
recognition despite the stuffiness of the
New England school of critics who still
dominated the literary scene at the turn
of the century. Real fame came with “The
Call of the Wild”, the Yukon saga of
Buck the superdog, which eventually sold
more than two million copies in America
alone. “The Sea Wolf' and “White Fang”
clinched his reputation, except among a
few caustic denigrators like Arnbose
Bierce. Much of the praise showered on
London seems extraordinarily fulsome
now, but one must look at him in his
contemporary setting. Into the America
of the early 20th century, with its crude
cut-throat industrialism, its political cor-
ruption and the advancing tide of grimy
urbanisation, he brought a breath of the
old frontiers. He wrote of a fast-vanish-
ing world, a world of sailing ships, of
men who lived beyond the reach of law
and order and of the struggle of human
brain and brawn against the ferocity of
untamed Nature.
It is a platitude that London was ruined
by success. But the pathetic picture of
the simple genius spoilt by women, whisky
and a horde of adulatory hangers-on is
not the entire truth. By 1910, when he


was still in his mid-thirties. London had,
in fact, written himself out. From his
homestead in the Californian hilts—the
centre of the great estate that he vainly
hoped would be the seat of a London
dynasty—he went on churning out stories
and novels. His income soared to
$lOO,OOO a year. But the old fire had
gone and London himself was bitterly
conscious that he had become simply a
well-paid hack. He ended a sick, self-
pitying man, his frustrated egotism ran-
ning in his veins like poison. Before he
was 41 he was dead.
London’s reputation continued high
throughout the 19205, sagged in the
1930 s and has never really made a come-
back. Of his 50 novels and collections of
short stories only a handful are worth
serious consideration. Mr O’Connor has
written an excellent account of London’s
stormy life, but I doubt whether he will
encourage many readers to go back to
his subject’s writings.
A Poet Against Tyranny
By VIVIAN SMITH
Wildtrack. John Wain. Macmillan. 28s.
Fox on a Barn Door. Ted Walker. Cape.
255. 6d. .
The Eye of the Hurricane. Fleur Adcock.
Reed. 16s. 6d.
Biography. Ml Reld on Weidenfdd "and
Nicolson. 465.
For the last three years John Wain has
been incorporating all of his verse
into one long, ambitious work now pub-
lished under the title “Wildtrack”. It is
not a long poem in the usual sense, con-
ceived as a whole and with its own inner
unity and coherence; but it is not a collec-
tion of separately imagined poems either.
Its method is varied, uneven, discontin-
nous. Its unity comes from the fact that
all of its sections are concerned with one
theme: human independence and inter-
dependence. It ranges through a variety
of forms and tones: formal sonnets like
those on Dean Swift and Jeanne Duval;
adaptations of pop-tunes (“Henry is my
darling / And I’m his model T”); the
long, sustained questioning of Alexander
Blok; the unsubtle “Hymn to Steel” (for
5 million human voices), to more fully
shaped protests against totalitarian tyran-
nies, misery and the depersonalisation of
the modern world without mentioning
more delicate and tender interludes like
those in the section “The Night Self
Contemplates the Arrival of Conscious-
ness”. It touches upon a multiplicity of
concerns from the historical factors that
have shaped and changed the destiny of
" ,odern man 10 ® contemplation of the
forces or what Wain calls the day-self
ant * t^ie night-self. The day-self joins
with f ea S er o,lae / '. The
no fr ' ends - only brothers / The day-self
,s . P ol,roon or , he ™ : ' The n.ght-self ts
f' car °- P'errot/ The day-self can choose
,0 l,es t / /he night-self speaks the
*™">> or h ? d,es : The poem examines
th f P lace ° f ,he irrational in the human
the conflicting demands and
n f ds ol "] e /’Vf personality. The
* ho , l ' ,s a deeply felt oratorio in praise
° hheral-humanist values,
It > s dear from the impulses of anger
and protest that motivate sections of
this work that Mr Wain has felt the
need to write poetry of direct political
and social comment; poetry with an
immediate message and relevance. This
accounts, I think, for a certain lack of
subtlety in its total impact; in spite of a
variety of tones and modes, it is some-
times too insistently oratorical. The
anger can be finer than the verse. But in
spite of its flaws, “Wildtrack” is to be
welcomed in every way: if shows a po«
prepared to take enormous risks, to g
back to the styles of a Byron or
Lamartine, to write activist poetry ant
to comment directly on the pressures a
work in the world today. Mr Wain j
not afraid of sentimentality, compas
sion, or the absurdities of excess. He hat
consequently written a poem that i|
always engaging and. frequently o f|
unusual force. „
Ted Walker might be described as a
gentler and verbally less adventurous Tedl
Hughes. He is essentially, almost exclii
sively, a nature poet and his favorite land
scape seems to be that of coastal stretches
with inlets and estuaries, disused canals]
terrains vagues. He has a fine commanc
of the virtuoso image, as when in tin
excellent poem “Porpoises” he write
that the sea in summer looks “infrangibli
. . . dull steel / dimpled like a dinner
gong”; and of the porpoises: “Sometimes
along the shore, / you come across one
stranded / like a great, obscene, black
slug.” Elsewhere he savs of a confer’'
scales that they are apt. “like a wrestler’
tiny eyes”.
Both Ted Walker and Fleur Adcockj
are young poets, both born in 1934. But
where Mr Walker already displays the
control of a considerable poetic talent,
Miss Adcock's work remains tentative
and uncertain. She is, however, the more
varied of the two. She has a greater range
of themes and concerns; she tries to
handle a larger variety of verse forms.
But it is only in the last poems in the
book that an individual tone of voice)
emerges and the language quickens rhyth-
mically.
“The Days of Dylan Thomas” seems
to have been inspired by the pictorial
biographies of artists that have beet]
popular in Europe for many years now)
and is remarkable for its brilliant se-
quence of photographs, taken by Rollie,
McKenna. If you want to see a photo
of a Thomas manuscript, the chained
cup the hunchback in the park drank)
from, the grave of the original Ann)
Jones, or photos of Thomas from the
age of 11 to the last American pictures
before his death, then you can find them,
here, along with reproductions of the
portraits of him by John, Allred James
and the magnificent sketch by Michael]
Ayrton; and wonderful views of Lang-|
harne (“Milk Wood”) itself, and Sir
John’s Hill. The text by Bill Read is
straightforwardly factual and will remain
the best biographical account of Thomas
that exists until the appearance of Fitz-
gibbon’s official biography. Its chapter
“Craftmanship” should serve a useful
purpose in reminding us how conscien-
tious at maker of poems Thomas was.
This is a particularly pleasant and intel-
ligent book.
A Fire of Flowers
The red azaleas, roses, geraniums
in the white bowl are burning away their
names.
Definition blurs where meaning spreads to
flames.
They draw from a white oval of shallow
water
the cold, clear and inconstant source of
their nature,
intensity of tissue, heat and lustre.
Some at their black centres shine like
coal,
but time will heap more scarlet on the
whole,
run crimson and magenta through each
dark whorl.
Their unconsuming fire burns all day,
until at the edge of their reality
metaphor and petal start to fray.
Someone adds to the bowl a wan
verbena
texture of daytime’s moon and morning’s
nadir,-
pallor that tints the neutral mask of
water.
Dusk quenches all red flowers. The
violet-white
verbena turns to ash, sifting through
dimmed sight.
Fire’s sediment is the last to relinquish
light.
MARGARET IRVIN


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDIN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV / 19988
r THU
Cantbeworried
TALES
mim as sxmv**?™#* arnmm :
nmtt t# wawr% ttoctm
as sms CHAvem.wissxr
DAVID SWAIN
Vf7
THE
CANTBEWORRIED
TALES
by
David Swain
With us ther was a Doctor:' by his dresse
And big and shynyng Bentley I wolde
gesse
His praklis bisye was; and trewthe to tel,
The sicke he treated kept him verray wel.
—ln sparkling verse with a keen satirical
edge, David Swain deals Chaucerwise
with twenty modern types. Illustrated by
the author.
Available now at all booksellers 7/6
URE SMITH Pty Limited
166 Phillip Street, Sydney. 28 8711
Slessor at the Cross
By NANCY KEESING
JJfe at the Cross. Kenneth Slessor and
( Robert Walker. Rigby. 455.
,T once walked to school with the up-
turned brim of my uniform hat filled
twith prawn heads and tails. I mention
»lhe incident to show that we all have
jour own vision of “Life at the Cross”
[and nobody else’s will quite satisfy any
Sydneysider worth the name. The prawn
incident is easily explained. Each day
I walked up Clapton Place to school,
dressed just like the “crocodile” of
'youngsters on page 99. From an upper
'window of a block of flats someone
chucked their rubbish, and school rules
were rigid on the subject of “hats to be
worn in the street at all times . . .”.
!’ My own vision contains other things
not photographed here. Nuns, for in-
stance; fire-engines on hair-raising train-
ing gallops; females arguing outside the
' fire-station which is built on the triangle
where Victoria Street and Darlinghurst
Road meet, and whose wall, in my
[schooldays, obviously marked the limits
of tw'o defined beats. I never realised
[what the rows were about, but greatly
enjoyed the hair-pulling from an op-
posite pavement where a fruiterer had
the shiniest apples in Sydney —he spat
individually on each one and polished
it with a red handkerchief which kept
his neck cool when he turned to other
( tasks.
j But if everything I would like is not
pictured in this beautiful book, Slessor’s
(text, with most deceptive simplicity,
covers practically everything. He man-
ages to accompany the photographs
while at the same time giving an admir-
ably concise idea of how past and present
■merge. Reminiscent older people will
as much enjoyment in these pages
ias will ardent young explorers. No one
could better this poet, who loves the
place, at describing vanished mansions
and strip-tease performances; the smell
and feel of mouldering rooming houses
and the gaiety of smart little shops; old
churches and newest of new chapels.
In any event there still remains much
that is unchanged for Robert Walker’s
camera to commemorate together with
what is new, brash, exciting. The book’s
area ranges from Rushcutters Bay Oval
to Woolloomooloo. Some of the children
so well pictured here may well still use
the route skipped over in the 1890 s by;
Johnny and Jane and Jack and Lou,
Butler’s Stairs through Woolloomooloo;
Round the Block, and home again!
Heigh ho! Tipsy toe,
Give us a kiss, and away we g 0...
Butler’s and McElhone’s Stair's make
splendid photographs, and so does the
Alamein Fountain (dia any book have
better end papers?), and so do people,
for people make the Cross: one photo-
graph on page 79 of an aged, dejected
woman sitting on a kerb-stone against a
background of theatrical posters is out-
standing.
Slessor’s John Benbow, “Suddenly
paid-off and forgotten in Woolloomoo-
loo”, might regret the string of “Three
course meals for 9d. Dole tickets ac-
cepted” cafes which, with pawnshops,
used to line William Street, but probably
no one else would. Yet behind today’s
facade, Benbow, in various guises, still
exists, as these pictures remind us.
One of the virtues of the book, apart
from its obvious solution of the Christ-
mas “better” gift problem, is that it so
well conveys the spirit of a really quite
inexplicable region which, paradoxically,
for each successive generation, seems to
become younger as it grows older.
Cowman
'Moonlight thickens in the rheum
tacky in my lids. My years
stare me out now, nights The boom
,oT heifers loose with the stars
stirs me. I must go to them.
Once, my father had a son
to mend the fences, hurdle
them from harm. I am alone
and glad sometimes to huddle
in a stall till calving’s done.
They will be at the brook now,
drinking mconskim. Listen, look,
this is my byre, my meadow;
m y father planted this oak
and left me to watch it grow.
They never wander far. Far
j a go, far, my son was born
the night he died. Remember,
remember. With the longhorn
I was. I pulled the limber
bull-calf out of her that lived.
I love them wading with such mopn.
That year it was, yes, I paved
the yard, chiselled in the stone
his name. Him I might have loved.
Hark to them. Fifty-odd
winters together we were,
helping, both, to fill the bed
against the damp. They took her
away, left me to my herd.
Not a day now but the moss
picks out a flint; the coping
soaks up wet and the thatch sags.
My father’s tree needs lopping.
I wait for May and new grass.
TED WALKER


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Optimism Needs Funds
THE National Bank of Australasia Ltd needled investors in its latest monthly
summary by suggesting in effect that investors were “chicken” in their attitude
to the stock market. The summary implies that, outside the stock markets, there is
little evidence of doubts or lack of confidence.
The bank further suggests that, even if
several key production indicators seem
somewhat hesitant and retail sales and
consumption are not as buoyant as some
would like, the major economic indicators
point to reasonable optimism.
Getting closer to the heart of things,
as far as investors are concerned, the
bank points out that company results
generally have been encouraging and do
not justify recent behavior of share
prices.
Chastened investors should be a little
red-faced after being chided by the
National Bank. Obviously the investor is
being too careful, according to the bank,
which sees no apparent need for ad-
ditional restraints from the Government
in the foreseeable future.
In fact, should the economy actually
take an obvious downturn, official boost-
ing is likely to be applied promptly, says
the bank.
In support of those clots of investors
who apparently should be more discern-
ing, perhaps it should be pointed out that
there are various unsettling factors at
work apart from published figures of
depressed motor vehicle sales, lay-offs in
the automotive industry, falling overseas
reserves, a drop in exports, accumulated
effects of the drought, etc.
One of these restrictive influences on
investors is the much tighter credit in the
banking and financial system induced by
official policy this'year. Investors who
are meeting their regular commitments,
including rising costs in many fields, may
not have the funds available to permit
them to be optimistic in the share
market.
Further, because of the credit re-
straints over the past year and generally
higher interest rates, public companies
have been forced to put greater pressure
on their shareholders in seeking new
share issues. This in turn helps to soak
up any temporary liquidity which may
spring from optimistic investors.
The higher interest-rate structure
means that many finance institutions are
competing for public money in the fixed
interest field. This, together with the high
rate of bond interest now prevailing,
must influence investors to seek a com-
paratively higher rate of return from
ordinary shares (meaning lower share
prices).
On a long-term outlook, the National
Bank could be right in suggesting that
businessmen should pay less attention to
possible short-term gains and losses.
Yet when you are embroiled in those
day-to-day gains and losses, while fight-
ing to maintain profits, pay taxes, meet
rising costs (including bank charges), it
may be difficult to keep the bank mana-
ger happy if much-needed funds are
pulled out for investment in shares.
On behalf of some investors, at least,
it must be said that optimism is not
always easily financed.
Manafactarers .Uneasy
"Oecause of soft spots showing up in
the appliance industry, building
materials, construction equipment and
automotive parts, the Associated Cham-
bers of Manufactures of Australia is
urging the Commonwealth Government
to stimulate demand for locally pro-
duced goods.
Mr H. G. Ferrier, president of the
ACMA, told the annual conference
H. G. FERRIER
in Canberra that the Government
should be planning and implementing
selective corrective action to stimulate
demand for Australian - manufactured
goods.
Mr Ferrier said that manufacturers!
feared any attempt to reduce Australia's!
import bill by deflationary methods aim-
ed deliberately at reducing industrial ac-
tivity.
He recognised that some shift in re-
sources may be necessary to meet Aus-
tralia's defence commitments, but he
pleaded that the transition should be
smooth and without disruption to the
steady expansion of Australian industrial
growth. '
Other manufacturers have been less'
polite in their language and have openlyl
criticised the Commonwealth
ment for not placing more defencti
orders within Australia.
British and American Share Markets
and New York share markets
weren't able to spurt very far ahead
last week, even after one or two decidedly
bright days at each centre. Both ended
their sessions carefully, as if reluctant to
offer too many hostages to political and
economic factors still under examination.
Wall Street, of course, must now begin
to digest the just-proposed record Federal
Budget, especially its greatly increased
defence element. And any adjustments
have to be made in certain knowledge of
the Administration's desire for price
stability, together with the necessity to
control a balance of payments which has
again gone into deficit.
The Street will be paying plenty of
attention to a recent utterance by the
Secretary of the Treasury, Mr Henry
Fowler. The Government, he warned,
intends to "blow the whistle impartially
on labor and business" whenever they
"threaten economic stability and ex-
pansion".
Perhaps the Vietnam and space com-
mitments already influenced the most
popular sections last week. Electronics,
airlines and aircrafts definitely went
ahead, while steels rose mildly. Auto-
motive issues were variable,
Lots of cheerful predictions for future
trading health are going the rounds in
London. Yet here, as well, the week
closed with a decent restraint following
a Wednesday bringing the index reason-
ably close to the 1965 high,
Some money would doubtless have gone
into the market from Mr Clore's success-
ful £stgss million bid for the Lewis Invest-
ment Trust. The most hopeful investors
also operated in the light of President de
Gaulle's less churlish attitude towards
Britain’s chances of Common Market
entry.
Yet ICl's quarterly profit droop on
higher sales showed margins under
pressure throughout a wide range of
industry. Electricals and engineerings
grew indecisive. The market gave ground
on Friday.


CORPORATION LIMITED
interest up to
1
'2%
paid quarterly
UNSECURED NOTES
3 MONTHS 5i%
2 YEARS 7%
3 YEARS li%
Any branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
or
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
OTHER RATES ON APPLICATION
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms referred
to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus which
is now available from:
Any member of
A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
or the Underwriters
ORD MINNETT, T. J.
THOMPSON & PARTNERS
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE LTD
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Sir Richard’s Powers
of Discretion
Who will sit on what wages benches?
11/TTH commendable restraint the trade unions resisted the temptation to turn to
industrial action in protest against this year’s majority judgment of the Arbitration
Commission which discarded the traditional dichotomy of the basic wage and margins
by granting a H p.c. increase in the totality of the two in a single award. But, licking
their wounds in comparative silence, in the interim they have hatched a plot to put
the unwanted merging of the two elements in wages to a searching test in next year’s
wage hearings.
It should be said at once that the
unions’ strategy in going for a basic
wage rise of 38s a week and a margins’
increase of 565. a week for an electrical
fitter, total claims of 945. a week, appears
to pay no recognition at all to the pre-
vailing economic situation. Nor would
it seem to be related to the scale of
increase in consumer prices since the
last award. These considerations are
apart from the challenge the strategy
represents to the principles and various
criteria adjudged to be appropriate for
fixing award wages as seen by the
majority judgment of Justices Nimmo,
Sweeney and Gallagher.
So far, neither the employers nor the
Arbitration Commission have made
public reactions to the new claims. It
will be open to employers to adopt the
same tactics as they did this year, that
is to apply for a total wage, but their
approach will be complicated because
this year there was no margins’ case,
only a basic wage claim for them to
answer. Obviously they will have to
lodge counter claims, whether for a total
wage or otherwise, to the two union
ones, because the Arbitration Com-
mission is bound by statute to hear not
only the unions’ basic-wage claim but
also that for an increase in margins.
Despite this year’s single basic-wage
and margins award, it seems the unions
have already guaranteed themselves a
margins hearing as a result of having
applied for an increase in the electrical
fitters’ margin last year. Presumably the
substitution of the electrical fitter for
the metal trades’ fitter, the usual medium
employed by the unions for getting a
national increase in margins, stems from
this earlier establishment that a dispute
exists in respect to electrical fitters and
the allied affidavit seeking the translation
of the decision on it to industrial margins
generally.
It remains to be seen how the Arbi-
tration Commission will tackle this com-
plex situation, which involves not only
whether the basic-wage and margins
cases are to be heard concurrently but
also how the bench (or benches) will be
constituted. On the latter question,
naturally the unions will be hoping that,
at least, if a margins’ case is heard sep-
arately, it will be before a mixed bench
of presidential members and Commis-
sioners. As the unions also pressed that
this year’s basic-wage case be heard by
a mixed bench, they are doubtless in a
dilemma whether also to go for a mixed
bench for their basic-wage leg this year.
It is just conceivable that Sir Richard
Kirby would grant the request, but with
the rider that two cases (basic wage and
margins) be heard simultaneously. Pre-
sumably that would be the worst thing
that could happen from the unions’ view-
point, because it would make a repetition
of this year’s single award for basic
wage and , margins so much more
probable.
In his last annual report, issued a
week ago, Sir Richard threw some re-
vealing light on his attitude to the
appropriateness of mixed benches. This
may have an important bearing on how
the benches for next year’s hearings will
be constituted, because the President has
a unique discretionary power in this
field.
Sir Richard said that his consideration
of the judgment of Mr Justice Gallagher,
Mr Justice Sweeney and Mr Justice
Nimmo in the 1965 cases, containing
their opinion that “the alteration of
margins in a test case on general econ-
omic grounds” should be dealt with by
judges only, did not lead him to agree
with their opinion. On the less important
level, some technical problems immedi-
ately spring to mind, but in general
he thought phrases like “test case”
and “general economic grounds” difficult
to convert into legislative form and in
particular into a form which would pre-
vent parties from framing their claims


Why is this the time
to drink Australian Whisky?
Ask your favourite retailer for
the booklet which tells you about
Australian Whisky today
so as to secure or avoid benches of a
particular kind. “Certainly general econ-
omic considerations are present in any
major case, and not necessarily one be-
fore a full bench,” he said.
More importantly, Sir Richard thinks
great danger could ensue from any
attempt to prescribe precisely how all
full benches functioning under Sections
34 and 35 should be constituted. “My
experience makes me doubt,” he said,
“if it is possible to legislate for every
individual case there is no telling or
predicting how a party will frame its
claim. Against the background of the re-
quirements of the existing legislation the
flexibility which every varying circum-
stance demands can, I consider, most
safely be maintained by continuing in
the President a discretion as to the con-
stitution of full benches.
“My views on the contribution that
Commissioners can make to cases be-
fore full benches under Sections 34 and
35 are well known and need no restating
here,” he confirmed. “In retrospect I be-
lieve it was a pity that a Commissioner
or Commissioners did not participate in
the recent National Wage Case. I feel
sure that his or their presence would
have been found helpful by all members
of the bench. Generally speaking, there-
fore, whenever margins are before a full
bench I would propose to follow the
practice of the past and the pattern for
which Sections 34 and 35 provide. My
policy of encouraging the fullest possible
participation by the Commissioners in
the work of the Commission is also well
known and in my view has made a real
contribution to the successful working
of the Commission since 1956. I have,
as well, considered it to be the policy
underlying the Act and unless directed
to the contrary by Parliament I intend
to continue it.”
One gets the impression from the rest
of Sir Richard’s report that, given more
discretionary power, he could put right
much that needs to be put right in the
wages-fixing field. I find particularly im-
pressive what he has to say about the
benefits which could flow from the more
frequent use of the conciliation offices
of the Arbitration Commission as dis-
tinct from the dispute-settlement func-
tions.
As he says, bargaining about over-
award payments is going to continue in
certain industries. Irrespective of whether
this is a good thing or not, it is highly
desirable that it be conducted in as
orderly a manner as possible and with-
out industrial disruption. In his view
“there is a need for further investigation
in the area of over-award payments;
such investigation might well show that
help could be given to employers and
employees and the community in such
area by attempts at and advice gen-
erally on conciliation by members of this
Commission. Until such investigation
takes place or this Commission receives
legislative direction to that effect, how-
ever, its members will have to continue
to attempt to grapple with the problems
in similar manner as they have in the
past, namely by the exercise of a ‘nice’
but individual sense of judgment.”
He leaves no doubts as to the scope
open for exercising this judgment. “It
would appear that many employed in a
few important and powerful industries
may be receiving a grossly dispropor-
tionate share of the fruits of national
productivity by way of wages when com-
pared with those employed in less
favored industries. This may often
occur because of a combination of fac-
tors, namely the operation of the law
of supply and demand for labor; the use
of power by employees seeking higher
pay; and by employers agreeing to high-
er pay in order to obtain or retain labor
in competition with other employers. In
my opinion if this is the position and
it continues it could be a very bad thing
for the community.”
CROESUS
Snedden’s Comedy of Errors
Victoria's straight play preferred
A DMITTEDLY a century is a long span, but one wonders what David Syme in
his heyday a hundred years ago would have thought of his leader writer’s propound-
ing the idea that the all-embracing Federal legislation on restrictive trade practices
was to be preferred to the limited Bill now under consideration by the Victorian Parlia-
ment and designed merely to prohibit collusive bidding and tendering.
One can imagine what Syme’s re-
actions might be (projected to the
present age, when the States are hold-
ing on to their sovereignty over their
own industry by only slender threads)
to the attempt from Canberra to break
yet another thread. Yet an “Age” leader
last week scolded the Victorian Govern-
ment on the hollow grounds of being
more concerned to confound the Com-
monwealth than to protect the public.
Seldom has the stately morning
journal been more at odds with the
opinion of business in its State, which
has almost single-handed carried the
main burden of criticism against the sort
of trade practices legislation now in the
process of getting the Government’s rub-
ber stamp in Canberra.
It should be stated once and for all
that the opposition to Mr Snedden’s Bill
comes not from a desire in Victoria to
go it alone. It is rather that the main
body of business opinion in the State
objects strongly to the sledgehammer
the Attorney-General has produced to
crack what is only a small nut. It be-
lieves that, for a start, the main abuses
can be knocked on the head quite sim-
ply, as it is now doing, leaving perhaps
for a later measure the introduction of a
complaint procedure as outlined by Mr
Hammer in introducing the Collusive
Practices Bill.
The “Age” is quite wrong if its leader
on the subject is meant to imply that
the outlawing of collusive bidding and
tendering is the end of the matter so far


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION EIMI
i
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
o
2
o
7% 4 YEARS
61% 3 YEARS
61% 2 YEARS
m
51% 12 MONTHS
FOR 5 YEARS
How to apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
8880
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
B. M. SNEDDEN
as the Victorian Government is con-
cerned. It is admitted freely by the
business world that a complaint system
would throw up other instances of prac-
tices operating against the public in-
terest.
“The attitude of the Victorian Gov-
ernment is clear,” Mr Hammer emphas-
ised. “It is ready and willing to tackle
in co-operation with other States (he
does not mention the Commonwealth!)
any restrictive practices which operate
against public interest, but it would
much prefer (as indeed would The
Bulletin, as has often been stated in
these columns) to deal with such prac-
tices in a direct way, as in the Collusive
Practices Bill, through the investigation
of complaints and grievances and
through the ordinary process of law.”
Victoria’s insistence in outlawing the
presumed most obnoxious of the prac-
tices, collusive bidding and tendering
(this is also done in the Federal Bill)
and turning its back on the registration
system in favor of the principle of com-
plaint. gets to the heart of the matter.
It is rather beside the point for the
“Age” to find it curious that offences
against the outlawed practices in Victoria
will incur penalties under the criminal
law and not, as provided for in the
Snedden Act, through the Industrial
Court. Equally, as the Institute of Pub-
lic Affairs has found after a close study
of the working of the flabby trade prac-
tices legislation in Britain, the pro-
cedures in that country have nothing in
them to warrant their adoption here.
“In Britain,” it states, “which has
served as the main model for the pro-
posed Australian legislation, there is no
evidence that the trade laws have pro-
duced any notable general improvement
in the form of greater efficiency and
lower prices. The British laws, inciden-
tally, were introduced in the years after
World War 11, in the context of a des-
perate economic situation in which the
efficiency of much British industry was
being severely assailed. The present
economic environment in Australia, of
fast-moving progress and great develop-
ment, is a far remove from the economi-
cally sick Britain of the early post-war
years.”
The IPA’s other arguments against
the Federal legislation are also worth
consideration, not that they are likely to
stop the Snedden steamroller at this late
stage. Fundamentally it thinks that the
great progress being achieved under the
present conditions of business competi-
tion, and the extent to which the Aus-
tralian community as a whole is benefit-
ing in rising living standards and rapid
economic development, suggest there is
no need for such legislation. Even where
price agreements exist, it says, there is
already strong business competition in
quality of products, in service and in
substitute products.
In any case the Institute considers it
probably impracticable to try to introduce
a competitive environment of a kind
which business believes to be opposed
to its reasonable interests. “Ways can,
and will, be sought to defeat the pur-
pose of such legislation British experi-
ence confirms this,” it states. Moreover,
“it is unwise to introduce a far-reaching
piece of legislation which could seriously
divert the attentions of business enter-
prise from its central task of rapid large-
scale development and which could give
rise to uncertainty of outlook and con-
siderable confusion and frustration in
complying with the needs of the legisla-
tion.”


i
m
■•:/.
■Me**#*'
m.i:l
I
.
f ,: Mi
:v: : : : $ : **>: : x-::7 :*:■ . :
. ••••;;: •
% %
:■
888#
For easy
manoeuvrability
of any 10ad...
choose from the
TOYOTA
range of
Fork Lift Trucks.
Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd. have
now brought the complete range of
Toyota Fork Lift Trucks to Australia.
Like the famous Toyota trucks the
Fork Lift range is based on sound
engineering principles that guarantee
you efficient and reliable service
at all times. The range includes Fork
Lifts from 2,200 lbs. capacity
through to the massive 8,000 lbs',
capacity unit. All models available
with friction quick-change clutch
ortorqueconvertor. Sturdy heavy-duty
steel construction frame and engines
matched carefully to each vehicle’s
capacity ensure big economy with
maximum effective use of the high
torques. No matter whatyour material
handling need, TOYOTA Fork Lift
Trucks will do it more efficiently
at the lowest possible cost.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS AND DISTRIBUTORS
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD. Hayes Road, Rosebery, N.S.W. 67.3621
TOYOTA FORK
LIFT TRUCKS
THE TOUGHEST FORK LIFT TRUCKS IN THE BUSINESS
N.S.W.
QLD.
VIC.
DISTRIBUTORS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
BOTANY FORK & CRANE HIRE PTY. LTD.
38 Raymond Ave., Ma traville. 666.8529
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.
Kerry Road, Archerfield, Brisbane. 47.3977
Ingham Road, Garbuti, Townsville. 93.270
EMPTOR PTY. LTD.
212 Springvale Road, Springvale. 546.8661
W. AUST.
N.T.
S.A. &
T AS.
PRESTIGE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
65A Adelaide Terrace, Perth. 21.6051
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.
18 Smith Street, West Darwin. 2023
All enquiries to:
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.
Hayes Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
TFL.2.IO4NAT


kk
Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
. : INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7k
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
Ik
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
6%
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
3
0
PER ANNUM 9 AND 10 YEARS
54%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
44%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form referred
to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
NIN. 2
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Reserve Price: the Closing Stages
Mystery surrounds bought-in wool
1171 THIN a few weeks the wool referendum will be over. Woolgrowers will have
voted for reserve price marketing or against. But will this be the end of it?
Unless the vote is decisive either way it may very well be just another beginning to
a long period of argument and counter argument.
The vote is to be decided by a
“simple majority”. Applied to a muni-
cipal council or State or Federal Govern-
ment election, “simple majority” means
51 p.c. or better. Yet nowhere in the
thousands of words printed about the
wool referendum has anyone specifically
defined “simple majority”.
If the wool vote goes 51 p.c. in favor
of reserve price the opposition will, for
sure, set up a cry that this is just not
sufficient to bring in such a marked
change in the system of selling wool.
Likewise, if the vote is 51 p.c. against
the plan, the supporters will be certain
to demand another chance.
If the Government was fully in sup-
port of the plan, or against the plan, it
could, under these circumstances, make
a ruling and the vote would stick. But
the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies,
has made it clear, in no uncertain terms,
that the Government is neutral. It will
play its part (a mighty big one) if the
growers decide they want the plan.
The banks, which are to lend the £5O
million the growers will need to operate
the plan (on top of their own £3O mil-
lion), may want something better than
a 51 p.c. vote if they are to have peace
of mind.
What sort of a vote, then, is needed?
One would suggest that, to be satisfac-
tory, this referendum must be either
won, or lost, by at least 60 to 40. Even
at this stage there are some indications
that woolgrowers should regard them-
selves as very lucky people to be able to
decide this for themselves, with the Gov-
ernment strictly neutral. Some people
might argue that it is already quite
obvious that woolgrowers are not
deserving of this trust.
An incredible 25 p.c. of applications
for ballot papers, in Victoria alone, have
been found to be incorrectly completed.
It is all there in black and white, in very
simple terms really, yet 25 p.c. of grow-
ers evidently did not even bother to read
the conditions set out in such detail for
them.
As these are applications, and not
actual votes, the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Office is in a position to send them
back with instructions as to how they
must be filled in. What about actual
votes? Can you give a man a second
chance if he messes up his ballot paper?
None of us gets a second chance if we
fail to mark our voting cards properly in
a Federal election. Automatically such a
vote becomes informal and that is that.
Between now and December 9 it will
have to be decided one way or another.
It had better be stated very definitely,
because should the 51 p.c. win or loss
eventuate this matter of informal votes
will become a hot subject.
Being fair, one would think that second
chances are out of the question. Then it
is such an important matter that every
woolgrower entitled to vote should get
his vote. Someone will have to decide.
Once the decision is announced it must
be adhered to.
The closing stages of the reserve


SYDNEY CHURCH OF
ENGLAND GRAMMAR
SCHOOL
NORTH SYDNEY
Vacancies exist for two Science Masters
on the staff of this school, one of which
must include Biology. Apply in writing
to the Headmaster, B. H. Travers.
price battle have made it very clear that
the plan, if brought in, will not be the
fairly simple one presented to growers
six months ago. This is not necessarily
good for opponents of the plan; nor is
it necessarily good for the supporters.
It is simply that this plan, like all market-
ing plans, builds up as it goes along.
Plans never work out exactly as
formulated (witness the CEMA egg
plan). Some observers (this writer in-
cluded) go along with the theory that
some master-mind is responsible for this.
But it could just be a case of a plan
being bigger than any mere mortal.
There can never be a satisfactory
answer! It always does seeni to happen,
however.
With nothing in the legislation saying
that all bought-in wools must go back
through the auction room, the door is
wide open to a part or whole acquisition
scheme. The Wool Board, and the Wool
Industry Conference, have repeated time
and time again that the reserve price
plan is not an acquisition scheme. It
was not, once, because it was always
assumed (even by supporters) that all
bought-in wool would have to go back
through the auction room. Only about
a fortnight ago the International Wool
Secretariat general manager, Mr W. J.
Vines (a strongly pro-reserve price man),
was telling West German textilers that
there was no possibility of an acquisition
disposal of one or two bale lots.
One hazards the guess that the West
German textilers are on to this fact that
the legislation will not prevent sale, by
method other than auction, of bought-in
wool, Mr Vines probably believes what
he told the West Germans. He could
hardly complain if they did not believe
him.
One and two bale lots make up 10 p.c.
of the clip. The proposed Wool Market-
ing Authority (to administer the scheme
if it comes in) could arrange an acquisi-
tion disposal of these wools without too
much trouble. As a matter of fact, it
could arrange an acquisition disposal of
any percentage of the clip it likes simply
by adjusting the many reserve prices to
suit.
Now that there is no barrier to
bought-in wools being disposed of out-
side the auction system, the Wool Mar-
keting Authority will be in a position
to do just about what it wants pro-
vided it is clever enough. From one or
two names bandied around we can be
quite sure that the men on it will be
clever.
Withal, one must not lose sight of the
fact that many supporters of reserve
price will be giving hearty cheers for this
unsuspected opening in the plan. All
along, many of them have .actually been
more in favor of acquisition than reserve
price. The loophole is far from being a
reason why the plan might not go
through. It could be just the opposite.
It could be argued that, without the
ability to sell bought-in wool outside the
auction system, the plan would not in-
stil “confidence” in buyers. Knowing that
the bought-in wool could go another
route altogether will doubtless encourage
buyers to see that no wool has to be
bought in.
It can readily be understood why the
opening to acquisition (or part-acquisi-
tion) is there. What is objectionable is
the fact that it has been sneaked in at
the very last minute, with no time for
discussion and with complete disregard
for repeated assurances that it could not,
in fact, happen.
One also wonders why so much time
was spent in argument over the attitude
of the international wool textilers (cer-
tainly important) and no time at all over
the disposal of bought-in wool (extreme-
ly important).
AGRISEARCH
Clovers and Breeding Sheep
Some varieties found harmful
Csiro scientists have ranked the risk of
possible impairment of the reproduc-
tive performance of sheep as a result of
grazing various strains of sub. clover.
Most likely to be harmful are the varie-
ties Dinninup, Dwalganup and Yarloop.
Next in order of hazard they have put
Geraldton, Clare, Woogenellup and
Northam A. Least likely to interfere
with sexual functions are Mount Barker,
Bacchus Marsh, Northam C and Daliak.
The experimental work was done in
Western Australia by Mr H. Lloyd
Davies, so some varieties of sub. clover
that are grown in south-eastern Aus-
tralia were not included in the tests. Ac-
tually, the clovers listed above were
grown at two sites in WA, Kojonup and
Bakers Hill, and slightly different results
were obtained at each location. Even
greater differences may have appeared
had the varieties been compared in an
eastern State. Also, the results varied
somewhat from one year to the next.
However, the broad grouping into three
levels of risk, high, intermediate and
low, probably applies under most con-
ditions.
During the investigation further evi-
dence was obtained that when clover is
mature and dry it is safe to graze. This
held true in the experiment, at least, for
the usually highly potent strains, Dwal-
ganup and Dinninup. When these
strains were grazed as dry stands in the
field they did not evoke any untoward
symptoms in the sheep. Accordingly,
clover hay is generally regarded as
being safe also. And so it appeared dur-
ing this study too, until the sheep were
fed a really good quality clover hay.
Great care was taken to make the hay
so that as small a proportion as pos-
sible of the leaves was lost. Moreover,
the hay was cured rapidly with the aid
of a forced-draft dehydrator and correct-
ly stored. When such hay was made
from Yarloop, Dwalganup or Dinninup
and fed to sheep, they exhibited consider-
able sexual disturbance. The reaction was
similar even when hay comprising either
of these three strains was field-cured,
This suggests that farmers may be faced
with an awkward situation: the better
«*y ™ke the hay the worse it will be, at
least £ °t feed '"B breedmg ewes!
Mr Lloyd Davies used a bioassay tech-
nique to assess the risk of these clovers,
He removed the ovaries of ewes under
an anaesthetic to stop internal pro-
duction of the oestrogenic sex hormone.
These sheep were then allowed to graze
the c i OV er plots for about a week, after
which they were slaughtered and the
uterus of each sheep was weighed to
give an indication of the hormonal equi-
valent of the clover. This and other
bioassay methods do not provide an
absolute measure of the effect of sub.
clover on sheep fertility The actual re-
lationship between the hormonal activity
of varieties of clover estimated in this
way and the reproductive performance of
sheep grazed normally on these clovers
has yet to be worked out. However, as
a guide to which strain of sub. clover to
prefer for sowing or how to manage
the grazing of breeding ewes where a
choice of pasture is possible, a know-
ledge of the relative hormonal activity
of clovers is of undoubted value. Be-
cause clover disease and clover infertility
are already of great importance to the
sheep industry, agricultural scientists are
devoting more and more attention to
these problems. It was mentioned earlier


“I thought
they were all
good shares!”
So they were ... good solid shares ... when you bought them
years ago. But times change. Established companies face
new competition and their share values can drop rapidly ... or
slowly decline. Your dividends shrink, your capital melts away.
Always keep a weather eye on your investment portfolio ... or,
better, get the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company to do it for you.
Union-Fidelity has years of experience in investment
management. Our trained staff show you how to make the
most of your assets. They know how to cut income taxes
and death duties to the minimum . . . how to keep your
portfolio healthy, growing.
Times (and values) change fast. Don’t ignore the warning
signals. Call The Union-Fidelity Trustee Company now for a
consultation without obligation, or post the coupon for our
informative, helpful booklet, “Estate Planning”.
UNION-FIDELITY
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT, GEELONG, HAMILTON, TRARALGON, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, ALBURY, CANBERRA, BRISBANE, IOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, CAIRNS -V ND
CHARLEVILLE. _
100 Exhibition Street, Melbourne
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
1 would appreciate a complimentary copy of your “Estate Planning’’
Booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
11215
"T4a.102N
in this column that some promising at-
tempts have already been made to breed
and select new strains of sub. clover
that are sexually inert but which have
a carrying capacity as good as the pre-
sent commercial varieties.
Medics Too
T ast year a group of scientists, headed
by Dr A. J. Millington at the Insti-
tute of Agriculture, University of West-
ern Australia, announced that a Cyprus
medic pasture had produced oestrogenic
effects in sheep. Using a bioassay tech-
nique involving wethers, this same group
has now found several other medics that
contain an oestrogen-like hormone to a
potent degree. Unfortunately, they in-
clude some of the best commercial spe-
cies such as Harbinger medic and
M. truncatula. Lucerne, another im-
portant member of the medic family,
luckily does not appear to possess high
sexual potency, although the Ameri-
cans recently reported to the contrary.
They, however, happened to test a sward
which had suffered a severe fungal blight
and under this stress the lucerne may
have produced an unusually high amount
of the oestrogen-like compounds. Never-
theless, nTore investigations of lucerne
under different conditions in Australia
will have to be carried out before it
can be given a clean bill.
An interesting and somewhat alarming
aspect is that, whereas the sub. clovers
are dangerous when green, the medics
are more likely to cause sexual upsets
when they have matured and turned dry.
In many parts of Australia, including
especially Western Australia, sheep are
mated just at the time when medic
pastures have reached maturity. In view
of this it will be important to fjind out
to what extent medic grazing may be
affecting the lambing percentage on
farms. It may be necessary to avoid
mating ewes on mature medic pastures
as well as on immature clover pastures.
And these two strictures could make
planning the breeding programme pretty
difficult on some farms. Another dif-
ference is that while the sex hormone
effect of clovers is due to a group of
chemicals called isoffavones, in the
medics it is associated with their
coumestrol content.
The so-called “natural” medic pastures
which are usually composed of burr
medic, woolly burr medic, snail medic,
etc., are probably safe, as these species
were shown to have low coumestrol con-
tents. Even among the species and
varieties that are high in coumestrol,
occasional strains have been found that
have low levels of coumestrol Just as
is the case with the clovers, therefore, it
may be possible to breed or select medics
which will not present a threat to sheep
breeding. t


“Take a Letter, Miss ..
Business colleges and secretarial training
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
fFHOUSANDS of girls throughout Australia are now closely watching the situations
vacant columns in the morning newspapers, all looking for suitable positions as
private secretaries, stenographers and shorthand typists.
From now until well into the New
Year, these girls, armed with impressive
business college and technical college
diplomas, will front personnel officers
for placings in Public Service Depart-
ments, in banks, insurance companies,
solicitors’ offices, and what have you.
The personnel officers, indeed, have
an unenviable task ahead of them. Each
girl, whether a product of the Metropoli-
tan Business College, Miss Hales, Wil-
liams or the Sydney Technical College,
for example, will have almost frighten-
ing qualifications for any secretarial
position. All will be well conversant with
shorthand (120 words a minute), typing
(60 words a minute), English, business
correspondence, secretarial practice and
advanced book-keeping. They will have
been instructed in psychology and given
speech training.
Behind these highly qualified young
ladies are the business colleges and the
technical colleges themselves. The pri-
vately run business college has been
long established in Australia. It is be-
lieved the first, Stotts, was founded in
1886 by Sydney Stott, reputedly the first
man in the country to import a type-
writer and to learn shorthand.
There would be few of the major
establishments that have not been in
operation for less than half a century.
The Williams Business College of Syd-
ney, which concentrates on the suburbs,
now has a third-generation member of
the family involved in the organisation.
Unfortunately, in the past few years,
the business colleges have received a bad
press after investigations of some col-
leges involved in rather questionable
practices. Little has yet been done to
guard against this. Even now there is
no reason why Joe Blow couldn’t start
his own business college in his home,
without any qualifications and without
supervision of teaching standards.
Naturally the established colleges, un-
affected by Press criticisms, have not
had their reputations tarnished. These
colleges, however, have shown concern
at the way the small owner-principal
colleges are, as one college master said,
“springing up like mushrooms”. One tale
was recounted of a man who started a
college after hiring two rooms in a
house. He had no equipment and no
teachers, yet was successful in enrolling
six girls at 25 guineas each for the first
term.
A man most concerned by this trend
is the assistant supervisor of Sydney
Technical College, Mr R. Corish. “I
think there ought to be a supervision
of standards, and certainly there is an
urgent need for general supervision over
the growth of these small, virtually one-
man colleges,” he said. Mr Corish, very
justifiably, feels there should be some
form of registering body, which would
be in a position to supervise standards
and the colleges themselves.
The small colleges have obviously
“mushroomed” because of the tremen-
dous demands placed on the existing
major technical and business colleges.
Miss Hales, in Sydney, for example, has
always had a waiting list; at Sydney
Technical College there are 700 names
on a list for an advanced secretarial
course for which there is a limit of 200.
Added to this is the fact that several
of the larger business colleges have been
forced to close down. Only recently
Chartres, in Sydney, announced it would
be closing its doors after being in the
field for more than 70 years. A few
years ago Stotts in Sydney had to close.
The reasons for the closure of these two
colleges are not altogether financial. Both
were associated with, and ran their class-
rooms in business machine companies.
These companies merely decided the
classroom space could be put to better
use as storage for new commercial
machines or as showrooms.
The business college of 1965 is a far
cry from those of the early part of the
century. Then it was common for the
classrooms to be packed with mus-
tachioed young gentlemen, with only a
sprinkling of. young ladies. The colleges,
in fact, were only established by the
typewriter companies because of the de-
mand for “type-writers”. The type-
writer companies realised it was neces-
sary to provide the operators in order
to sell their merchandise. Stott and
Underwood was among the first such
“marriages”.
Many of the college principals The
Bulletin spoke to were quite nostalgic
for the days of old. Until the First World
War it was “the done thing” to have a
male secretary. With the advent of war,
the young men joined up and the office
work w'as left to the young women. Wil-
fred Williams, principal of Williams
Business College, recalls the college
then pitching its advertising at girls to
help the war effort by learning short-
hand and typing. “I think the young
man surrendered a lot by drifting away
from typing and shorthand. He surrend-
ered to the young girls the opportunity
of starting at a managerial level. Now
he has to start from the bottom,” said
Mr Williams. Company executives once
regarded the young man with shorthand
and typing as the young man most likely
to attain executive status.
Mr Williams says that now, in 1965,
the young man regards shorthand and
typing as “sissie”, although the Police
Department insists its cadets learn both,
and the Railways clerks and steamship
company clerks are encouraged to learn.
The trend toward female secretaries
developed more after the war. By the
Second World War there was only a


Missing Beneficiary
ESTATE of the late ALBERT ARMSTRONG
of Christchurch, New Zealand. Information
is sought as to the present address of BRIAN
ARMSTRONG, a beneficiary in the above
estate. He is 32 years of age and left Christ-
church about three years ago. He is known
to have been in a small coastal town in Vic-
toria about nine months ago. Please send
any information to TRUST MANAGER, THE
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO. LTD., P.O.
Box 9, Christchurch. New Zealand.
Bourbon doesn’t
taste like Irish,
Scotch or Rye.
Neither does
Bond 7: it has a
great Aostraliao
character
all of its own.
BOND 7
: l £fcru s/ Js<fueuhJ j
ON'E OF THE WORLD’S 5 GREAT WHISKIES
5974
handful of young men in Australia
attending secretarial classes.
The largest of the business colleges is
Metropolitan Business College Pty
Limited, in Sydney. Although its man-
aging director and principal, Mr J. F.
Serisier, LL.B., believes this to be true,
he didn’t wish to push the claim.
Metropolitan was among the pioneers
of business colleges in Australia, being
established in 1895 as a small school of
shorthand. In 1908, Mr T. Stanley
Summerhayes became its principal.
Thirty-one years later, Mr Summerhayes
revolutionised shorthand with the intro-
duction of an easier-to-learn system, the
Summerhayes, which has been officially
approved in law courts.
Today MBC offers either Pitman or
the Summerhayes systems. The actual
business colleges give girls the choice of
three courses the full business course
(shorthand, typewriting, elementary
book-keeping and postal procedure), a
modified business course (shorthand,
typewriting, book-keeping), and the
shorthand-typist course. Fees for these
range from £125 to £l6B.
It boasts among its pupils Joan Suth-
erland (shorthand-typing). Mr McCaw,
the Attorney - General (matriculation),
Senator William Spooner (shorthand),
Ken Rosewall (accountancy), and the
Rev. Allan Walker (matriculation). One
of MBC’s former lecturers in the 19305,
Sir Howard Beale, wrote several books
on company law which are still being
used.
Miss Hales, a comparative newcomer
with 56 years behind it, is one business
school known for its prestige. Miss
Hales, which runs colleges in Sydney,
Melbourne, and Adelaide, offers three
full courses the Macquarie Diploma,
the Phillip Secretarial Course, and short-
hand and typing. The main course, the
Macquarie, according to the college
principal, Mr A. L. Israel, equips the
secretary to “become the kind of secre-
tary who becomes indispensable to her
employer”.
One aspect of the course includes per-
sonal development, aiming at giving
tuition in the art of speech, grooming
and deportment, the enjoyment of
music, literature and art. The girls are
also taught psychology, business admin-
istration, modern history and the econ-
omic background of recent events. As
well, these graduates pass out with
minimum speeds of 120 words a minute
shorthand and 60 words a minute in
typing! Fees for the Macquarie and Phil-
lip courses are £165, while a girl is
charged £l5 a month for the shorthand-
typing course.
The Williams Business College in
NSW concentrates mainly on the sub-
urbs. One group of Williams is controll-
ed by Wilfred L. Williams and a separ-
ate group run by his brother Lloyd Wil-
liams. Mr Wilfred Williams is one of
the old school who believes the rock of
Gibraltar in the commercial subjects is
still made up of shorthand, typing and
book-keeping. Next year Williams will
introduce a course in dictation machines,
to run parallel with shorthand - typing.
Fees are £35 a term of three months for
the day student and £l2 a quarter for
the night student.
Sydney Technical College offers two
secretarial courses, one restricted to girls
with their Leaving Certificates and the
other for girls achieving intermediate
standard. The restricted course costs £24
a year and the other £l5.


Public Notice
WOULD any person having any information
concerning an accident which happened at
7.00 p.m. on Prince’s Highway, one mile south
of Moruya. on 24/8/65 when a 1957 Holden
car and trailer, travelling in an easterly direc-
tion, was forced from the road apparently
by a semi-trailer with lights on high beam
travelling in a northerly direction, please
communicate with ROY F. TURNER, JONES
& CO., Solicitors, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Phone: 25 1351.
TEACHER
Primary trained teacher, well qualified, required for First Term,
1966, at
NEWINGTON COLLEGE, STANMORE, N.S.W.
(The Sydney Methodist G.P.S.)
Apply for details re duties, sound salary scale, superannuation,
etc., to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN, Headmaster.
INVESTMENT
More Trouble for Tyres
Japanese pressure on the market
nPriE Victorian and possibly the Aus-
tralian tyre industry appears to be
headed for extremely stormy waters.
Japanese competition and the entry into
the market of a determined new Aus-
tralian manufacturer have given rise to
the possible cessation of the discount
agreements which govern retail sales in
Victoria. In that State, at least, it is an
open secret that dealers can only offer
their clients a range of standard discounts
set down by the manufacturers in accor-
dance with the size of the clients’ pur-
chase.
The rising quantities of Japanese tyres
on the market have been causing great
concern. At the annual meeting of H. C.
Sleigh a few weeks ago the chairman,
Mr H. M. Sleigh, actually attacked the
dumping of foreign-made tyres in Aus-
tralia. Added to these problems is the
Elizabeth plant of SA Rubber, which
started production last month. A US
rubber group has a 25 p.c. interest in
the £3-million plant. Once stocks and
productive capacity reach the necessary
levels, the group is expected to employ
aggressive marketing methods in a bid to
get a firm foothold in the domestic scene.
These conditions are forcing a situ-
ation where the discount set-up can do
little but break down if the established
local manufacturers wish to retain their
shares of the market. So far there has
been no word from them, but it is be-
lieved that they are discussing the shelv-
ing of the scheme and an official state-
ment seems likely in the near future.
Meanwhile, the groundwork is under
way for an approach to the Federal
Government, seeking a quantitative ceil-
ing on imports and other protection. The
manufacturers will have to pull some-
thing off if the profits they have enjoyed
in the past are to be maintained.
Tip Top Meeting
annual meeting of Toppa in Mel-
bourne recently was quite unique. It
struck a rare combination of being some-
what amusing and yet quite serious and
informative. After the chairman’s ad-
dress, Mr H. G. Tredinnick was faced
with a barrage of questions. Some proved
so long and comprehensive that a director
(former Federal Treasurer, Sir Arthur
Fadden) claimed the board was being
delivered a treatise which should have
been placed in its hand before the meet-
ing for consideration. Shareholders re-
taliated by submitting that the questions
(mostly connected with the Herbert
Adams bid and the British Tobacco in-
terest) should have been anticipated.
Virtually caught with their pants down,
directors decided to adjourn the meeting
to consider the questions and invited
shareholders to inspect the new factory.
This they did, spending the next hour
sampling ice cream and doughnuts from
the factory while talking to the staff.
This cooled a few warming tempers
and, more importantly, enabled directors
to formulate correct and reasonable
answers. The boards of most companies
would not have admitted they had been
caught unawares. They would attempt
to bluff-off their questioners and provide
answers which would be inadequate com-
pared with a reply which had been care-
fully thought out.
On reassembing, it was explained that
negotiations had been going on with
British Tobacco for some time when the
Adams’ bid was received. Moreover, it
was withdrawn before the expiry date set
down in the Companies Act. Directors
had not let it lapse intentionally. They
were considering a recommendation
when it was withdrawn. Thus, they
recommended the share issue to British
Tobacco—a move which had eased the
liquidity situation, resulted in substantial
new orders for Toppa products, fore-
shadowed a rapid increase in production
and given access to loan funds for future
expansion.
One could hardly criticise the excel-
lence of their reply. The meeting ended
and both the board and the shareholders,
having satisfied their curiosity, set about
satisfying their appetites with another
batch of the company's products—pies,
cakes and ice cream. A most rewarding
meeting on all counts.
For the Ladies
HPhe Stanley Home Products group of
the US, which last year chalked up
sales of more than $6O million and made
a net profit of $2,372,000 on those sales,
plans to attack the Australian market in
a big way. A $1 million factory is to be
built at Sunbury (Vic.), the satellite town
which fizzled out with the crash of the
Reid Murray group. The ’and has been
purchased from Payne's Properties, a
Reid Murray subsidiary which is cur-
rently under liquidation with the parent
and its fellow subsidiaries.
The land held by Payne's for the
satellite city covers about 2000 acres.
Only 130 homes have been built on it.
The new factory will be directly opposite
the housing development. The Stanley
group has already made its initial moves
into the Australian market through its
associate, Stanhome Pty Ltd, which has
been selling US-made products in Sydney.
The marketing will extend to all States
once the locally made goods are on hand.
The range will eventually cover a large
variety of cosmetics, household cleaners
and brushware. The key to the group’s
success overseas has been the medium
through which it sells hostess parties.
The guests end up buying or placing
orders for the goods they see displayed
at these friendly functions. Obviously
something especially for the ladies. Plans
are to develop the Sunbury property into
a smaller version of Stanley Park, a 100-
acre manufacturing and selling genius in
Massachusetts. It has facilities fo r meet-
ings and social functions and is available
to all groups of the community.
How successful the group will be out
here remains to be seen. However, it will
prove a great boon to the unfortunates
who settled in Sunbury when the area
was fast developing toward its satellite
status. The new factory and park should
boost population and attract further in-
dustries out there. This will make the


PSYCHOLOGISTS
CHANDLER AND MACLEOD PTY. LTD.
Location: Melbourne or Sydney
Applications are invited from Psychologists to join the consult-
ing firm of Chandler and Macleod Pty. Ltd., which operates
throughout Australia and has affiliations in New Zealand,
United Kingdom and United States of America.
We offer services to management in the field of industrial psy-
chology including: psychological appraisal testing; performance
evaluation; executive selection; and training in man management
skills and personnel organisation planning. Consequently, the
men we are seeking must be capable of combining in their
approach to work high standards of professional competence and
ethical conduct and sound practical judgment.
Appointees will undergo induction training in modern appraisal
techniques and opportunities exist for development into broader
areas of personnel consulting.
Applications may be made in writing or by telephoning Mr.
F. L. Spencer, Melbourne (26 3618), or Mr. A. Bower, Sydney
(27 6277).
CHANDLER AND MACLEOD PTY. LTD.
Personnel and Training Consultants
445 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £200,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/Q'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
rest of the land all the easier to sell and
could result in extra returns for those
unfortunate Reid Murray debenture-
holders.
No Sugar Fairy
IThe “inevitable” loss forecast by direc-
A tors of Fairymead Sugar Co. Ltd of
Bundaberg, in their interim report, for
1965 operations was something of a
shock to the market, even though the
low overseas sugar prices are very well
known.
But the poor crops (two-thirds of
normal) caused by drought and frost has
coincided with poor prices.
An interim dividend of 3 p.c. is recom-
mended, to be distributed from dividend
equalisation reserve. It looks as if the 12
p.c. dividend rate of the last two years
will at least be halved for this year to
December 30.
Best result in the past was a £453,133
profit in 1962-63, equal to 28.1 p.c. on
capital.
In a commendably detailed letter to
shareholders, directors said that the ex-
pansion programme will be completed
“as far as possible from existing re-
sources”. If extra funds are needed, re-
course could be made to the sale of
valuable properties. (Fairymead has cattle
stations at Bundaberg, Croydon and
Chiilagoe in Queensland, at Mittagong in
NSW.)
On a depressed market, directors
would be very reluctant to sell these
properties, they said.
The 10s. shares, which were selling for
19s. prior to the news of the loss, dropped
2s. 3d. next day and are bound to be
sticky for a while.
Henry Jones Hopes
T'he bonus - cash issue hopes which
annually fluctuate the prices of
Henry Jones shares will be raised by
last week’s announcement from the com-
pany. Declaring a steady final dividend
for the year, directors said an increase in
nominal capital and the splitting of the
20s. shares to dollar units was planned
before next March. A lift in nominal
capital is usually a bull point for any
company unless directors provide some
explanation for the increase.
Henry Jones provided no explanation
whatsoever. Speculation will be high,
especially as it comes on top of the
bullish note which was provided some
time back by the retirement of Mr
Palfreyman and the appointment of a
new chairman. Many shares were bought
in the hope that the new man would
prove a little more generous as far as
raising capital through shareholders was
concerned.


::: . -3
'
——
Our coverage rivals the summer sunshine
I -
M
■ . ■
m
0 • *
I• • •
0
i
*• • •
• *
If
C % % ••• • • «
U t* % *••
• *
# *
- •■■: ■
« *
ft ## «###^ #
*•& J . A
t *
• «*
* •
#
*%
_ • •
„ *ft ft ft ft* ~ *
% A ft # • I
% % • ## • * * • m m +:
, *%*•*•*•** ;
' ®,.*ft.„_ftft#* #
«, • • *
v % *
il ft % «*
*
«** ***
%
mm• * f
%
♦
»•* * # *
* *
■; ■
■f:' ;
!■
VV:; ' : ' :
■:■ -•:
' >■
. . . because
282,000 men*
303,000 women
321.000 children*
on Saturday and
Sunday afternoons!
Summer doesn't melt your audience on TCN-9.
We can still provide you with a big, relaxed,
receptive audience of 310,000 different families
who tune to our popular weekend programmes
from 12 noon to 6 p.m. Is your product reach-
ing this great reservoir of prospects?
For a breakdown of the daily viewing patterns
and other pertinent facts, contact your local
TCN-9 representative it makes good hearing!
The above figures were specialty prepared for Channel
9 by The Anderson Analysis Pty. Ltd. by a re-analysis
of their Sydney Television Audience Survey No. 11,
1965.
*Unduplicated
Channel
%
SYDNEY
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Road,
Willoughby. 43-0444. Sales —Sydney: Bth
Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street.
61-9931. Melbourne: 247 Collins Street.
63-8336.
Y 571


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Escaping from Recent Difficulties
Tooheys’ favorable market image
\ lthough Tooheys Limited is the
second largest brewer in New South
Wales, it is likely that in terms of beer
production Tooth is 2i times the size
of Tooheys. It is also apparent that
Tooheys seems to have had rather more
difficulties than Tooth in recent years;
after the Grafton Brewery was acquired
in 1961-62, Tooheys reduced its own
dividend rate from 9 p.c. to 8 p.c. Sur-
prisingly enough, the price of Tooheys’
shares actually increased when the divi-
dend was cut and the price has held well
in the 1965 “bear” market. Today, at
11s., the shares are selling only 11 p.c.
below their 1964 peak, while the Sydney
All Ordinary Index is down 15 p.c. from
its 1964 peak. The discrepancy may
seem rather small, yet when it is con-
sidered that, at the 1964 peak price,
Tooheys’ shares were only showing a
dividend yield of 3.2 p.c.. the favorable
view that the market takes of the com-
pany’s prospects is evident.
Since the end of World War 11, the
company has made four calls on its
shareholders for further funds. In 1950
a one-for-five issue was made at a 60
p.c. premium. In 1954 another one-for-
five issue was made, at par on this
occasion. In 1955 two calls were made.
In March a one-for-four issue was made
at par and in November an issue of con-
vertible notes was made on a three-for-
five basis. In this year also, share-
holders received a one-for-four bonus
issue when their 16s. shares were in-
creased to 20s. shares. Apart from the
1951-52 year when the rate was reduced
to 4 p.c., the company maintained its
8 p.c. dividend rate during this period
of capital expansion, so shareholders
saw their dividend income increase by
226 p.c. over a seven-year period. Dis-
closed net profit would have expanded
at the same rate, but in those days it
was a standing joke that the brewers’
profits were always sufficient to cover the
dividend 1.1 times.
The capital raisings of 1954 and 1955
produced over £3.6 million and a general
expansion and modernisation programme
was commenced. The new Auburn brew-
ery was officially opened in May, 1957,
and further plant and machinery were
installed at the Standard brewery near
Central Railway, Sydney. While I do
not have figures going back to 1955, it
seems that, since 1957, a sum of £2.8
million at least has been spent on hotel
properties, disregarding any expenditure
on hotel plant and furniture. In his
address in 1963, the chairman said that
“to compete successfully we must con-
tinually modernise our hotels”. In this
connection, it is interesting to note that
at July 31, 1963, “balance on contracts
of capital expenditure” stood at £243,299,
and at July 31, 1965, it stood at
£760,697. In addition to this programme,
the company has increased its outlets by
acquiring a 50 p.c. interest in Coach
House Motor Inns Ltd, which had hotel/
motels in six centres. One of these
centres is Canberra, where Tooheys is
currently completing a new hotel at
Dickson and where it already owns four
hotels, including the well-known Hotel
Canberra.
It is fairly clear that Tooheys is a
“country” brewer for, in his 1964
address, the chairman said: “. . . the
majority of Tooheys freehold hotels are
located in the country and more than
half of our products is consumed in the
country.” This has a short-term implica-
tion in that the drought will have affected
incomes in the country and this will
probably affect the beer consumption
there. There is good reason for believing
that variations in beer consumption are
related to the prosperity or otherwise of
the consumer.
TTnlike Tooth, Tooheys shows a break-
down between fixed assets of the
brewery operation and fixed assets of the
hotel operation. As at July 31, 1965, the
historical cost of the brewery assets was
£6.9 million, and of the hotel assets
approximately £8.9 million (approximate
because some of these assets are included
in the balance sheet at 1955 valuation).
No similar split-up is given in respect
of revenue and it is unrealistic to expect
it. However, net profit before tax,
depreciation and interest was £2,248,000
in 1964-65 and this would make the
return on cost just under 15 p.c. for the
whole undertaking. Looking at the
statistics produced by the Common-
wealth Statistician, one would have ex-
pected the figure for the brewery profit
only to be not very different from the
figure shown above and this would mean
that the hotels are just a break-even
operation. One assumes that this cannot
be so and that one is being deluded by
the official figures.
During 1961-62 and 1962-63, it seems
that the tax provision was rather low.
In the latter year it was stated that there
was a tax saving of £72,260, relating
mainly to pre-acquisition losses of Graf-
ton Brewery. These losses were fully
recouped in that year, but there was also
a small amount of tax saved in the fol-
lowing year. From the point of view of
the analyst, these tax savings present a
problem in arriving at an appropriate
earnings-per-share figure. This problem,
of course, occurs in many companies’
profit statements and probably the most
satisfactory way of dealing with it is
to base all considerations on the figures
for net profit before tax and to reduce
the pre-tax earnings per share by the
tax rate for the year. This will not give
a figure corresponding to after-tax earn-
ings per share because the actual tax
paid will not correspond with the amount
obtained by multiplying pre-tax profits
by the tax rate. Actual tax will be dif-
ferent from this figure for many reasons.
If we use this method for Tooheys
the adjusted earning rate for the last
four years would be as follows:
1962 1963 1964 1965
6.7 10.6 12.1 14.0
Not only do these figures indicate a
much greater rate of growth in per-share
earnings than the unadjusted figures. It
is also worth noting that the earnings
yield on the basis of a 14 p.c. earning
rate would be 6.4 p.c. This is rather
better than the 6.0 p.c. from the un-
adjusted rate, but it is still less than that
of Castlemaine Perkins although rather
higher than that of Tooth.
In the case of the three companies
examined to date, it seems as though
gallons of beer produced have the most
bearing on the share price, since Tooth
produces far more beer than Tooheys
and Tooheys more than Castlemaine
Perkins. On the face of it, Tooheys’
shares seem rather more attractive than
Tooths at current prices.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to July 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 3693 2716 3015 3211 3479
Current liabilities 2103 2396 3028 2830 3133
Net working capital 1590 320 (13) 381 366
-Land and buildings 8431 9009 8993 9047 9429
Plant and machinery 2458 2487 2284 2138 2035
Investments 113 266 252 245 2/6
Trade loans n.a. 879 985 936 759
Total capital 12592 12961 12501 12747 12865
Represented by:
Loan capital 2577 2374 2356 2449 2468
Long term provisions 38 49 77 100 114
Deferred lease income n.a. 409 450 431 340
Minority interests 781 750
Convertible noles 2339 -
Ordinary capital- 4126 6606 6606 6610 6610
Reserves 2731 2773 3012 3157 3333
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Interest on loans n.a. 172 178 164 167
Depreciation 321 373 373 415 457
Tax provided n.a. 230 419 602 749
Earnings 445 460 770 786 875
Ordinary dividends 358 489 528 529 562
Surplus 87 (29) 242 257 313
Earning rate p.c. 11.2 8.5 11.7 11.9 13.5
Dividend rale p.c. 9.0 9.0 8.0 8.0 8.5
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 6.0 5.5 4.3 3.5 4.0
High price (b) 8/1 9/6 11/3 12/6 12/2
Low price (b) 7/- 7/- 7/3 10/5 9/-
(a) Based on average of year's high and low
prices.
(b) Calendar year.


n
m
% '7
C/4
J«OMC<w/.v.V wv '
Kv. •'
Sfl
r J*~
A, '....•• ..-..': ...
C 7\>' V,5
i | T" i \ *-•••-% \t
4 v • 5 js ?> ■• ' a ; -
f'
“Vive la France . . .
and Vat 69
fine old Scotch Whisky”
All over the world . . » one Scotch stands out
VAT 69
NZLS7/G.2C
Why Not Make Friends with Millers?
High earning rate and bright prospects
By ROGER RANDERSON
companies in this period of m-
vestors’ discontent (apart from some
operating in the base metal industries)
can equal the splendid results achieved
by R. W. Miller (Holdings) Ltd for the
1964-65 year ended last June, or feel so
confident about prospects in the current
year.
Yet the share market at the time of
writing is pricing its 10s. share to show
a dividend yield of 5.4 p.c. from an
earnings yield of 14 p.c., while it values
this expanding group of industries at
only 7.2 times last year’s earnings.
Is it true, as an able financial editor
remarked, that R. W. Miller illustrates
the present phase when “the share
market wants the world; and even when
it gets it, is not impressed”?
Or are there substantial grounds for
regarding last year’s 72 p.c. jump in net
profit to £1,150,269 as due to non-recur-
ring items, and thus as a mere flash in
the pan?
Certainly, no one can believe that last
year’s earnings were over-stated. Before
determining its profit, R. W. Miller more
than doubled its provision for deprecia-
tion and amortisation to £628,177, and
increased its provision for income tax
by four-fifths to £739,479. Nor is this
all. Other prior provisions amounted to
£346.781 (£299,687 more than in the
previous year) under the headings of land
tax, long-service leave, holiday pay, ships’
surveys, doubtfut debts, insurance claims
and excess capital expenditure.
Although there was no change in the
10 p.c. dividend, shareholders benefited
by the one-for-five bonus issue. The
accompanying table allows for this by
giving adjusted figures for earnings and
yield.
Shareholders, attending on November
19 the usual friendly “get-together” of
an annual meeting at the Oceanic Hotel,
Coogee, heard that directors are con-
fident that the company will maintain its
10 p.c. dividend on capital increased by
the bonus issue of 750,065 10s. shares
to £4,500,392 10s. and “still retain suf-
ficient funds to continue its policy of
increased growth”.
It is intriguing, therefore, to consider
why an aggressively expanding group of
industries, which has made clubs, sports-
men and the drinking public “friends of
Millers”, has so far failed to achieve
similar results with the investing public
generally.
The group’s activities, from a business
that began as long ago as 1907, now
cover a wide range, including coal-mining,
distributing and exporting, bulk trans-
port of coal, oil and other goods by rail,
road and sea, brewing of beer on an in-
creasing scale and the running of a
growing chain of popular modern hotels
in fast-developing areas of the Sydney
metropolis, together with precision en-
gineering and manufacture to meet out-
side orders as well as internal require-
ments.
One could w'ish that Millers, as with
other highly diversified companies, would
give a break-down of results from each
of its many divisions.
Reading between the lines, it appears
that the largest contribution to last year’s
improvement in earnings came from the
brew'ery and hotel division, after many
years of seemingly expensive acquisitions
(which are now seen to have been justi-
fied) and much expenditure on construc-
tion and promotion. The hotels, accord-
ing to the directors, provided much
greater earnings than could possibly
have been anticipated.
As a pointer to current and future
years, directors added that they expected
even more substantial earnings from the
hotels.
Some analysts still decline to classify
Millers as a brewery stock, even though
more than half the company’s resources
are invested in the liquor trade. They
will have to change their attitude, how-
ever, if continuing informal relations with
Jos. Schlitz of Milwaukee give Millers
increasing entree to the American market
for exotic beers and eventually lead to
a joint venture here in Australia.
A further justifiable inference from


the usual brief chairman’s address is that
last year’s earnings received large con-
tributions from transport of grain, scrap
metal, timber and general haulage as well
as coal and coke a business that has
expanded at a rapid rate.
Expansion of the precision engineering
subsidiary was “well above expectations”.
Current and future years will show the
gains from contracts the company has
recently secured to supply Japanese steel
mills with three million tons of coking
coal worth about £l2 million in the next
five years. Present coal exports to Japan
were not significant in last year’s im-
provement in earnings.
Although there was a “most dis-
appointing” drop of 10 p.c. in tonnage
of coal shipped round the coast, and
the company diverted two of its vessels
from interstate to intrastate trade, the
impression is given by Mr R. W. Miller
that he is now in a much stronger
strategic position to deal with competi-
tion from “dumped” residual oil and to
gain his objective of a national fuel
policy eventually.
Not many months ago the company
was threatening to sell its fleet of three
oil-tankers, imported under bonds to
pay £425,000 deferred duty and to give
replacement orders to Australian ship-
yards.
Lingering uncertainty from the tanker
controversy, with its implications that
R. W. Miller might have to meet de-
ferred duty on imported tankers and a
penalty for not buying ships built locally,
probably accounts for investors’ wariness
about the company’s shares.
What light on this problem can we
glean from the chairman’s address?
First, it seems that the company no
longer intends to sell its tanker fleet,
although Mr R. W. Miller does not state
this specifically. It is a fair inference
from the following facts and statements:
• Results from the three tankers were
stated to be “up to expectations” in
1964-65 and directors express con-
fidence that these results will con-
tinue.
• The company has agreed to order a
20,000-ton tanker from an Australian
shipyard before March of next year,
as the Prime Minister requested.
• Conditions for a “substituted bond’
in relation to the placing of further
tanker orders are at present being
discussed.
• Mr Miller now regards this bond and
the commitment for deferred duty
{contingent liabilities totalling
£944,600) a$ “a normal, long-range
shipping transaction”, acceptable be-
cause Government policy is to compel
the use of Australian flag tankers on
the coast and to limit their total ton-
nage to four times that already
possessed by Millers.
® Mr Miller, giving an instance of pros-
pective coal orders from an Ameri-
can-controlled company in Victoria,
positively told his shareholders that
he was sure that “oil companies will
discontinue their policy of selling fuel
oil at prices which are lower than the
imported prices of crude oil”.
The “courageous and vigorous leader-
ship” of this man in the marketing of
NSW coal earned the tribute of the Joint
Coal Board in 1963.
The Board was then uncertain as to
the result of his company’s carrying of
competitive oil products, but it appears
that its forecast that “out of it might
grow a better, mutual understanding of
the related problems of the coal and
petroleum industries” is now being con-
firmed by events.
Now that it seems settled that Millers’
tankers will continue to hold a prominent
place in the coastal oil trade, the com-
pany has prepared a project for an over-
seas shipping line. Four 65,000 tonners
flying the Australian flag would carry
coal to Japan and, on the way back, load
iron ore at Yampi Sound and bring it
round to our eastern steel mills. Cheap
capital is available to build the vessels
in Japan and it is content to have a
minority interest in the proposed Aus-
tralian line.
The nation stands to gain a lot from
such a project in a reduction of the
increasing burden of foreign freights, so
that the company’s request for a period
of grace and exemptions on the coastal
part of operations should be acceptable
to the authorities.
A company under the bold and
imaginative leadership of a nationalistic
Australian is bound to arouse criticism
in some quarters and give rise to the
suggestion that it is a one-man band.
I cannot share the latter opinion, be-
cause efficiency, which is the key-note
throughout a widely ranging organisa-
tion, can only be secured by team-work,
and the company has an eye to the
future in recruiting and training young,
able executives for future command.
Shares in R. W. Miller a company
that is earning a high rate on its funds
in a period of rapid expansion can
scarcely fail to win higher regard from
the market when liquidity is restored
and many present unreasoning fears are
removed.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARY (£000)
Year ended: June 30 June 30 June 30
1963 1964 1965
Cash ..... 10 15 21
Debtors, etc. _. __ ..... 1,589 1,682 1,660
Stocks, etc 319 409 451
Current assets .... 1,918 2,106 ( + 188) 2,132 ( + 26)
Less current liabilities ___ _ 1,965 2,207 (+ 242) 1,462 ( 745)
—47 —lOl ( 54) 670 (+ 771)
Coal leases, land, buildings _.... 4,368 5,124 (+ 756) 5,315 ( + 191)
Ships, plant, vehicles, etc ..... 3,477 4,101 ( + 624) 5,395 (+1,294)
Club loans and other investments 439 671 ( + 232) 663 (—8)
Above par cost of subsidiary coys. 4,074 4,074 4,074
Goodwill and preliminary expenses 6 9(+ 3) 4( — 5)
12,317 13,878 (+1,561) 16,121 (+2,243)
Represented by Provisions:
Replacement _ 2,158 2,399 3,007
Premiums for subsidiaries 4,074 4,074 4,074
Doubtful debts ' 17 54 94
Tax and final dividend ...... 603 636 950
Other 484 478 738
7,336 7,641 (+ 305) 8,863 ( + 1,222)
Long-term liabilities ..... ..„ .... 445 1,054 (+ 609) 1,397 (+ 343)
Capital _ 3,585 3,750 (+ 165) 3,750
Reserves .... 951 1,433 (+ 482), 2,111 (+ 678)
12,317 13,878 ( + 1,561) 16,121 (+2,243)
1962-63 1963-64 1964-65 After l for-5
Bonus issue
Depreciation and amortisation 245 279 628
Income tax provision _.... 456 410 739
Stated profit ..... 602 669 1,150
Dividends paid and proposed 289 375 375
Retained earnings 313 294 785
Profit to capital, p.c. 16.2 17.8 30.7 25.6
Profit to shareholders’ funds, p.c. 13.3 12.9 19.6 19.6
Dividend rate, p.c 8 10 10 10
Last sale price, 26/11/65 jg/6
Dividend yield, p.c. - 54
Earnings yield, p.c 14
Price/earnings multiple 7,2


TEACHERS' COLLEGE
PRINCIPAL
Applications are invited for the position
of Principal for the new Catholic Teach-
ers' College to be opened at South Mel-
bourne in 1967.
It is expected that the Principal will
take up duty early in 1966, organize the
planning of the two-year course of train-
ing and consult with the Interim Council
on the appointment of staff. The quali-
fications required of the Principal, and
the salary to be paid, will be comparable
with those of principals of State Teach-
ers' Colleges.
Enquiries and applications should be
directed to: Rev. J. Kelly, Catholic
Education Office, 18 Brunswick Street,
Fitzroy.
The closing date for applications is
December 11.
CLYDE SCHOOL
FOR GIRLS
WOODEND, VICTORIA
Owing fo an increase in accommo-
dation, a limited number of vacan-
cies for girls aged 11 to 13 are
available in 1966.
Enquiries should be made as soon as
possible and addressed to:—
THE HEADMISTRESS,
Clyde School, Woodend.
Telephone: Woodend 2
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Lean Times Now Over
Anderson Meat's export channels
TYirectors’ report on trading for the
year to July 3, 1965. by Anderson
Meat Industries Ltd hints at an increase
in capital to improve the “proprietorship
ratio”.
At present, ordinary capital is
£688,992 and preference £150,000, as
against borrowings of £282,882, being
a mortgage on freehold, secured and
unsecured bank loans, and unsecured
sundry loans.
The last call on shareholders was a
one-for-ten at par in November, 1964,
to finance plant improvements to comply
with the Department of Primary
Industry’s standards of hygiene and to
finance increased sales. At the same time,
an issue of £150,000 6J p.c. cumulative
redeemable preference stock was made
to financial institutions. This raised a
total £230,022.
The company apparently suffers from
a chronic shortage of working capital.
Earning rates in the last two years
have been very satisfactory. Directors
arranged independent revaluations of
land and buildings, and wrote the
accounts up by £133,008 accordingly.
(Plant and machinery were valued at
£350,000 in excess of book value, but
no adjustment was made except "-to
insurances thereon.)
So the stage is set for an issue, but
in this capital-hungry market news of an
issue is apt to weaken the price of a
stock. In fact, Anderson shares at 65.,
are now close to their low point of
ss. 9d. for the year, compared with a
high of Bs. 6d. earlier.
Five years ago the company ran into
the red for dhe first time, with a loss
of £186,262, mainly attributed to whole-
sale and export meat activities. A bad
Queensland season after record
slaughterings caused acute shortage of
stock and thus high prices. This coin-
cided with a fall in the American export
market.
The following year, 1960-61, Ander-
son came out even on trading. As the
drought persisted, keeping local prices
high, export values in America were
low and the UK market was unstable.
Anderson describes the meat market
as “extremely competitive most of the
time”. Arrangements were apparently
made with other smallgoods manufac-
turers to reduce “unrealistic competi-
tion” during 1964-65.
The current drought is affecting NSW
and Queensland results. Despite this, a
satisfactory profit is predicted for 1965-
66. Anderson wisely extended operations
to Victoria, towards the end of the last
financial year, by leasing meat works at
Shepparton. This meatworks will be
subject to different weather patterns
from southern Queensland and northern
NSW, where Anderson’s slaughtering
operations are now concentrated.
Directors expect the Shepparton meat-
works to make significant contributions
to profits after 1965-66. Sales should
lift by £6m. as a resuit. (Group sales
rose during 1964-65 from £16,354,000
to £17,556,000.)
Anderson now produces meats of all
kinds and their by-products, smallgoods,
hams, bacon and specialty foods, at
Murgon, Roma and Brisbane in Queens-
land, Wallangarra, Byron Bay, Dubbo,
Orange, Wagga, Maitland, Newcastle
and Canberra.
A takeover offer was made during
the past year for Amagraze Ltd, meat
wholesalers and exporters, but was subse-
quently withdrawn.
Stocks rose over the year from
£914,886 to £1,624,389, due chiefly to
a change in policy with the incorpora-
tion of a subsidiary in USA. Most of the
latter stock was sold on firm contracts,
but invoicing is now deferred until
delivery.
A recent move in diversification,
towards catering, was the creation of
a division of Andersons Sausages Pty
to develop specialty foods.
In 1964 Australia was the world’s
largest meat exporter. In the four months
of the current financial year, exports
were 14 p.c. higher than the previous
corresponding period. Eastern and
European customers were replacing
American, who were limited by quotas.
A recent statement by a member of
the Australian Meat Board, at a meeting
of the Australian Wool and Meat Pro-
ducers’ Federation, was that producers
were not now endangering future pro-
duction by undue slaughtering of breed-
ing stock because of the drought.
Higher prices on the local market,
occasioned by the drought, have affected
local meat consumption, but Anderson
has the necessary channels to divert sup-
plies to export markets.
. A lower profit should be expected in
1965-66, so that the present earnings
yield of 21.5 p.c. offered on a buying
price of 6s. is an optimistic measure of
the company. Yet Anderson. should be
able to hold the 10 p.c. dividend just
established, so the 8.3 p.c. income yield
looks secure enough in the immediate
future.
As an income stock, with a cyclical
pattern, investors prepared to follow the
fortunes of the meat industry as a whole
could do worse than pick up a few
Anderson shares at the present price
level, with prospects of averaging lower
with a par issue within the year.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (E'000)
End of June 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 1661 1536 1681 2292 285
Less current liabilities 1943 1816 1851 2367 288 fr
Working capital -282 -280 -170 -75 -23
1091 U 63 1t77 122 US
Intangibles 4 4 oo
809 837 1012 1183 1631
Deferred liabilities 69 109 113 277 367
Minority interest 66 55 81
Preference capital
Ordinary capital 613 613 613 613 689
Reserves 6! 110 205 293 425
809 887 1 012 1183 1631
Sales n.a. n.a. n.a. 16354 17556
Depreciation 59 58 63 64 7/
Tax 16 104 134
Net profit 1 47 113 145 189
Net profit for ords. 1 47 113 145 179
Dividends 46 6/
Surplus 1 47 113 99 HO
Earning rate 7.7 18.4 23.7 25-9
Dividend rate 7\
Dividend yield (a) 5.4
Price/earnings ratio (a) 8.6 5.1 4.1
High price (b) 8/2 5/- 4/1 5/10 7/6
Low price (b) 4//4 2/10J 3/- 3/4 4/2
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year. Reduced to ss. units.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: STELLA GARRALL. TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN WILLIAM GARRALL has filed a Petition
No. 3974 of 1965 for Divorce on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 28th day of December, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from DAVID C. BIVENS & EMERY, Solicitors,
of Cessnock, by their Sydney Agent W. F.
::OLMES, 209 A Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHANN WILLIBRAND LERCH. TAKE
NOTICE that ROSALIA LERCH has filed a
Petition No. 3802 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 29th day of Decem-
ber, 1965. A copy of the Petition may be
obtained without charge from MESSRS W. R.
ROURKE & CO., Solicitors, 32 Bolton Street,
Newcastle, or from their Sydney Agents,
MESSRS A. J. P. HALL & HALL, Solicitors,
of 169 Phillip Street. Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WILLIAM THOMAS VENOS. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ERVENE JOAN
VENOS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4129 of 1965 on the ground of desertion and
is seeking the excise of the discretion of the
Court. If you wish to defend, you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 4th day of January, 1966. A copy
of the Petition may be obtained by vou with-
out charge from MESSRS JOHN I. EINFIELD
& CO., Solicitors, 251 George Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ALBERT JAMES CAMM. TAKE NOTICE
that WINIFRED IRENE LILLIAN CAMM has
filed a Petition No. 1065 of 1965 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, within 28 days after publication of
the notice and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS C. E. CHAP-
MAN & CO., Solicitors, 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
BETWEEN
MARGARET ANN PARDEY, Petitioner
AND
ROYCE GEORGE PARDEY, Respondent
TO: ROYCE GEORGE PARDEY, formerly of
Ulladulla. TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET
ANN PARDEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3734 of 1965 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you should file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 28th day of December, 1965, and obtain
a copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition
without charge from MAURICE J. McGRATH,
Solicitors, of 56 Hunter Street, Sydney, or
R. F. WALKER & CO:, Solicitors, 297 Cona-
dilly Street, Gunnedah. C. A. H. HARMS.
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JACK SHEARSKY, late of Brighton, New
South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that BELLA
SHEARSKY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3194 of 1965 on the grounds of desertion
and separation notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed herein. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
Thirtieth day of December, 1965, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS McCOY GROVE & ATKINSON,
Solicitors, 82 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: LESLIE EDWARD HENRY PITSON.
TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE ELIZABETH
AMELIA PITSON has filed a Petition No.
3959 of 1965 for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 30th day of December, 1965, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS lAN DUNCAN, KNUDSEN & CO.,
Solicitors, 403-411 George Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
lAN SMITH, late of Newtown.
TAKE NOTICE that HELEN ANN SMITH has
hied a Petition for Divorce No. 2420 of 1965
on the grounds of desertion notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in the
Discretion Statement filed herein. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 4th January, 1966, and obtain a copy
Petition without charge from BULL
SON SCHMIDT & BERG, Solicitors, of 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS.
Registrar. ’
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: GRAHAM ROBERT MAHER. TAKE
NOTICE that THERESA MARY BELIMAY
MAHER has filed a Petition No. 2940 of 1965
for Divorce from you on the ground of
desertion. Included in this Petition is a
request that she be granted the custody of
the children of the marriage and that you
pay maintenance for the children of the
marriage and also that you pay her costs.
She has also filed in the Court a Discretion
Statement. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 29th day of
January, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS
HOWARD A. MARKS & GRIFFITHS, Solici-
tors, of 8 Belgrave Street, Manly, or their
City Agents, MESSRS H. O. MARSHALL,
LUPTON & SCOTT, Solicitors, of 28 Bond
Street, Sydney, C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
PROBATE, DIVORCE AND ADMIRALTY
DIVISION
(DIVORCE)
CANTERBURY DISTRICT REGISTRY
A DIVORCE PETITION HAS BEEN FILED
AGAINST THE UNDERMENTIONED RODNEY
BALL late of 42 Lydia Road, Deal in the
County of Kent, ENGLAND who may apply to
the District Registrar, District Registry of the
High Court National Provincial Bank Cham-
bers, St George’s Street Canterbury in the
County of Kent, ENGLAND for a copy of the
petition. If within eighty six days he has not
communicated with the District Registrar, the
Court may here the case in his absence.
JOHN H. BOOTH District Registrar.
“The Bulletin" Crossword No. 876
ACROSS
1. Male check answer describes itself perfectly. (6)
4. As Kit was hiding the fylfot. (8)
10. A silent barracker couldn't care less. (6, 4,1, 4)
11. One in my deliveries which don’t get up among the
avaricious. (5-8)
13. Barrel needing a fish. (4)
14. Narrative kinsman. (8)
18. Burped in the graphic cup
edition. (8)
19. Does wrong! How literary! (4)
21. They help with the volume
control. (7, 6)
24. Star scene is done with re-
gard for others. (15)
26, Daylight carries fauna. (8)
27. Simply proceeds with gravity
as in beds and shores. (6)
DOWN
1. Punishment not to be seen. (6)
2. Am I the cur? (anagram) (9)
3. Where to put up a European
river. (3)
5. Scott work in which every law
is broken. (8)
6. Lucky lodger is not a porter.
(4-7)
7. Perfect way to hole out a
duck. (2, 3)
8. Sinatra’s disturbed by such
craftsmen. (8)
9. 111-favored. (4)
12. Orally declared a mother
superior to a vessel preposi-
tion I have. (11)
15. Kinswomen, at home when
called, are among those who
won’t take no for an answer.
(9)
16. Tea vermin’s vessels. (8)
17. Carissima is costly. (4, 4)
20. As among very young salutes.
(6)
22. A sweet loaf takes in a Nobel
Prize-winning Russian novel-
ist. (5)
23. Don't work for bread. (4)
25. I must be the goat dropping
that. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 875


GENERAL CREDITS
* LIMITED
ASK any BRANCH
OF THE C.B.A'
0
5-10 years
up to
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
ts>
UJ
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters;
6e40 lan Potter & Co.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Battle for Investment Survival
Learning to speculate or perish
“ITIHE Battle for Investment Survival” was a phrase of Gerald Loeb’s. Of course,
A he wrote about the American market. Yet much of bis advice is applicable to
our own market, especially in its present state.
Loeb's basic theme is speculate or
perish. He considers that stocks are
bought to be sold, particularly those that
don’t behave as well as expected. In
fact, if you only sold the stocks that
went down and held the ones that went
up, you’d be well on the road to success.
Loeb is really enthusiastic about a
buying system known as “pyramiding”.
It works the opposite way to averaging
down, in so far as you steadily add to
those stocks which are rising in price.
When the price trend turns downward,
the full number of shares is sold. The
effect of this investment policy is that
your funds are concentrated only in your
successful investment.
I should have applied this system to
my Cresco holding. Instead of selling the
shares at 81s. (the 50 shares I’d bought
at 68s. 6d.), I would have bought an
additional 50 shares. I’d now be almost
£lOO richer. According to the Esso
man, Mr Young, Grace had been forced
to “pay a million more”, so this £lOO
would have been tucked into this sum.
Back to earth, my first purchase this
week was 400 Kolotex at 12s. 6d. The
company has been mentioned several
times in the last month. This is my first
concrete move. Judging by the number
of brokers present at the annual meeting
and the large volume of shares being
traded on the market, the stock deserves
special attention. If it is poised to rise
then I want to be prepared,
People marvelled at the result last
year. Yet earning rate should be at least
as good this year and this is after the
recent l-for-4 bonus issue. The company
has just completed its programme of
factory modernisation and extension,
thus considerably enlarging production
capacity.
It’s difficult to reconcile the fact that
Kolotex was only selling at 6s. two years
ago. So was L. J. Hooker. Whereas one
has more than doubled in price, the
other has been halved.
The extraordinary part about L. J.
Hooker is that its prospects now are
better than they were two years ago.
Under the leadership of the general
manager, Mr Keith Campbell, the bal-
ance she'et shows a much improved
position.
L. J. Hooker has its interests spread
over sheep and cattle properties, real
estate development (including both resi-
dential and commercial), and hotels.
The company thinks cattle have much
more potential than do sheep, so it is
the cattle stations in Queensland and the
Northern Territory, rather than the
sheep stations in NSW, that are re-
ceiving the most attention.
The drought has meant that the com-
plete rehabilitation of the L. J. Hooker
group has been delayed by at least one
year. Nevertheless, Hooker should still
be in a position to pay a reasonable
dividend by 1968. That is looking too
much into the distant future. All 1 want
the shares to do is to move up from
3s. Id. to 3s. 9d. within the next few
months. They have already been through
this price range a few times this year,
The sales this week were the 100
Tableland Tin at 395. 6d. and the 500
Concrete Industries at 4s. Id. The world
tin price does not look as if it is going
to recover above £stg. 1400, so reluctant-
ly I think I’m better out of tin shares.
As for Concrete Industries, it now ap-
pears it will be several months before
the outcome of the North West Cape is
known. In the meantime I'll sit on the
sidelines.
The week's transactions were:
SOLD
500 Concrete Industries, 4/1 .... £lO3
100 Tableland Tin, 39/6 £194
BOUGHT
400 Kolotex, 12/6 £256
1000 L. J. Hooker, 3/1 £l5B
After these transactions, a nil balance
stands in the account. Very convenient
because the books are closed off next
week.
The portfolio now comprises:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 7/-
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/4
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/- 10/6
200 VAM 28/9/65 5/- 5/6
200 BHP ctg. 5/10/65 34/9 37/-
200 Hotel 2l/10/65 17/6 18/9
220 Tyree 27/10/65 19/- 19/6
500 Brambles rts 3/11/65 5/- 5/3
1000 Jaywoth ctg. 10/11/65 1/- 1 h
300 R. VV. Miller 11/11/65 19/- 18/6
300 Stocks & Holdings 17/11/65 12/6 12/6
200 Malleys 18/11/65 28/- 26/-
400 Kolotex 24/11/65 12/6 12/6
1000 L. J. Hooker 24/11/65 3/1 3/1


rk : M: '
tgr-
’tw-
ill*
\
It
I
5
1
i
1
\ .
1
m,
Omega Constellation. Requires no winding. Can be worn while swimming or golfing. The calendar feature is invaluable when dating letters and cheques.
As Illustrated. * In IBct. gold with JBct. gold bracelet, £360.
Few men are destined to receive the new Constellation
-the finest Chronometer Omega has ever made
Gravity-powered rotor winds the Constellation as you wear it. Pre-tested for 360 hours, in 5 wrist-positions,
the Constellation Chronometer is Omega’s finest watch . . . built for a lifetime of proud possession.
They make it with love. Ask Omega
craftsmen about the Constellation and
they will talk like proud parents.
Because they have an inborn love of
fine craftsmanship.
They gift it with accuracy. Skill and ex-
perience tell them that an error of no
more than one-ninth the diameter of a
hair can seriously affect accuracy and
durability. Therefore they work —-
and think in thousandths of mil-
limeters.
They endow it with long life. They know
that friction is the deadly enemy of
longevity. That high-speed metal-to-
metal contact can produce wear. That
one tiny particle of dust is dangerous
to a watch mechanism. Therefore they
polish the moving parts until they
gleam like mirrors. Furnish the watch
with jewelled bearings. “Scrub” the' 1
components ultrasonically and chem-
ically, 1215 times in all. Work in
spotless, hygienic surroundings.
They put it to the test. Each Constell-
ation must prove its accuracy during
360 hours in a Swiss Institute for
Official Chronometer Tests; it must
also receive a certificate endorsed
“Especially Good Results.” This is the
highest accuracy rating the Institute
can confer.
They place it in trustworthy hands. You
won’t find an Omega Constellation in
every jeweller’s shop. Its sale has been
entrusted only to jewellers who thor-
oughly understand and love watches.
The Omega jeweller is inspired by the
same pride and enthusiasm as the
Omega craftsman. That is why he
consistently recommends and sells
the Constellation.
They give it full after-care. There are
fully-equipped Omega Services Centres
in 156 countries. Wherever you go
they are within easy reach. Each
Centre is headed by a technician who is
Omega trained. The Omega one-year
International Guarantee is honoured
everywhere.
They remember it forever. Your Con-
stellation is linked to Omega craftsmen
by the number engraved on the move-
ment. They have lavished care on your
watch. They know that its accurate
heart will beat stoutly and surely. On
and on and on . . .
Some day you, too, will own an Omega.
*For enhanced beauty and legibility , the
hour-markers are inlaid with onyx.
OMEGA


mm
The lively look the
trend-setters like!
If it’s summer fun you’re after, Holden’s the car to match your mood. Sleekly curved
to give you more beauty outside, more room inside than any other car near its price.
And how it goes! Your choice of three eager engines up to the fiery twin-carburettor
X 2. Powerglide smoothest automatic transmission in the world. Power disc brakes.
So join the trend-setters —team up with the lively look and just watch Holden turn those
sun days into fun days! Australia’s Own Car. From £BB5 plus tax. General Motors-Holden’s.
featured are optional extras.
o
m
xT\
*\*'
I
*»* i
|M J
»•>»
r?
m
U
m
i m
v,%
? *»
FjS
*H
*
#|M
%
>
<>,
a
r*
44
4 i
"f
n
*
y
*
HI
T^l
.
-*l-
-
1
■ IS ’
Q,
*■ • •*
A
w
fl
aar*/
■
mm
W
!l , i'
»■»
' kit? '
r r
.■ •'
