

T he Bulletin
!NCO£P©F?Amfe THE AUSTRALIAhIFII^^CII^HfcSi
Rupert
Henderson
Retires


3
m
9
m
1
.. 9i
I
■ {jfiHHHj
‘I
%
lii
m
i;
mmMm
.Sfe
r
Make sure of
receiving your
Bulletin regularly
SUBSCRIPTIONS: 26 weeks £2/12/- Australian, £2/2/- Sterling and N.Z .
52 weeks £4/4/- Australian, £3/7/- Sterling and N.Z. Send dollar equivalents
to New York and Malaysian offices.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick y/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? Q or
A renewal subscription? Q]
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney; OR Box 965,
G.P.0., Wellington, New Zealand; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd ,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd., 229 West
43rd Street, New York, N.Y.; OR Marican & Son, P.O. Box 935, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition at £2 12 - New
Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand for 52 issues.


Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666, Ext. 2504
ydney more
CHEVRON
HILTON
drive AVIS
It costs no more for the best!
C hevron Hilton offers you every modern convenience and luxury
at a sensible price. Air-conditioned throughout, every room and suite
overlooks beautiful Sydney harbour. Elegant restaurants, exciting
Cocktail bars and 24 hour per-
sonalised service. Chevron Hilton
is conveniently situated for busi-
ness, shopping, all sporting
facilities and only a few paces
from fascinating Kings Cross
night life. Make the most of your
stay, arrange for a sparkling new
Avis car to be waiting when you
reserve your accommodation.
1 ' f
- - ■» ~ ■
m
Book through any travel agent or direct with
CHEVRON HILTON
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 35.0433. Cables 'CHEVRON SYDNEY’
The Bulletin
VOLUME 87
NUMBER 4428
Established 1880
JANUARY 9
1965
A Big Little Man
Retires
Page
The achievements of R. A. G.
Henderson 13
AROUND MELBOURNE 23
BUSINESS AND FINANCE 39
COLLETTE 8
CROSSWORD 50
LETTERS 26
MAN ON THE LAND 47
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 5
OVERSEAS 24
PLAIN ENGLISH 9
THIS AUSTRALIA 10
GENERAL
Senator Hannan’s Reshuffle 10
Reorganising the Army 11
The Hot-Rod Cult 17
Vandalism 19
The Bible as Cinema 21
Europe's Big Binge 24
Harlem’s New Pride 25
M H. Ellis Reminisces 27
REVIEWS
BALLET: The Alvin A Hey Dance
Theatre 31
FILMS: Holiday Shows 31
THEATRE: Finian’s Rainbow .... 33
BOOKS
Dr Manni.x by Niall Brennan .... 35
Malaysia by K. G. Tregonning .... 36
Lord Haw-Haw and William
Joyce by J. A. Cole 36
FINANCE
Australia and New Technology .. 41
The Hotel Situation 44
I.W.S. Defends Wool mark 47
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.


111 1
II
If j
:fi; ■
II:
mm
If
I:. '
iii
I ill
II
WM
iiiM
H H
Hi
..
. ii
-
' A:
■
■. -l&l
IS LI MITE!
Automotive Components Limited manufacture original
equipment and replacement parts for automobiles in Aus-
tralia and other countries. The important part ACL plays
jn the automotive community is reflected in the extensive
research and development programme it maintains, assisted
by a constant flow of information from overseas sources.
In Australia, in co-operation with vehicle manufacturers,
ACL works constantly on the development of new com-
ponents that will help make tomorrow’s exciting cars possible.
ACL studies world-wide techniques to produce better, more
economical equipment for today’s cars. This continuing
development ensures that ACL will always maintain a pre-
dominant position in the Australian automobile industry.
When service is needed specify genuine ACL parts.
PERFECT CIRCLE PISTON RINGS
ACL BEARINGS, PISTONS AND ENGINE PARTS
LORIMIER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
Available to the trade from leading wholesalers throughout Australia,
and Automotive Components (Services) Pty. Ltd., Queensland and
Victoria. Engine reconditioning facilities are also available in N.S.W.,
Victoria and Queensland. In addition, ACL parts are recommended
and fitted by a network of Doctors of Motors and Power Service Centres.
AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS LIMITED
87 Mitchell Street, Maidstone, Victoria. Phone 317 8981.
Branches all capital cities and in many country centres.
0931


National Notebook
Good Wishes
Tf we have a wish for 1965 it is that
the ABC manages to keep out of
trouble. After all, it is trying so hard.
On January 6 it is televising a local
production of “The Recruiting Officer”.
This was originally scheduled for last
year, but when it was discovered that
it would be shown on the same night
as a Labor pre-Senate election speech,
and the ABC reflected that conscription
was an election issue, it was shelved for
safety.
Farquhar’s play has, of course, great
historical significance for us as it was
the first play performed in the colony,
when we were all in chains.
Flying Doctor
Tn the remote reach of the Irish Foreign
A Office where expense accounts are
scrutinised, the Ambassador to Can-
berra, Dr Eoin Mac White, is known as
the Flying Doctor. Dr Mac White told
us this is one result of the eight or so
trips he has made from Canberra to
Sydney or Melbourne since his appoint-
ment last May.
Another result is that imports of Irish
goods into Australia from January to
August this year exceeded the whole of
1963. Dr Mac White looks after trade
as well as diplomatic duties for his
country.
Until Dr Mac White’s appointment as
Ambassador after six months as charge
d’affaires, the diplomatic link between
Ireland and Australia was extremely
weak. This, Dr Mac White says, was due
to the “Menzies mentality". Sir Robert,
Dr Mac White said, believed that calling
the representative of Ireland the Irish
Ambassador implied that Australia re-
cognised the south’s claim to the north.
“It was only in the ’fifties when my
predecessor returned home and Menzies
was in power that the question arose,”
he said. “We've never had any trouble
in Canada or New Zealand, and, of
course, we and the English agree to
differ on this matter.” How had the
difference with Menzies been resolved?
“Well, I am here,” Dr Mac White said.
Like the representatives of many of
the older “emerging" countries, Dr Mac-
White is rather anxious to point out that
our trade with Ireland is not substan-
tially in traditional Irish exports, such as
whisky.
The big items, he said, are textiles
with sisal carpeting the largest entry
under this heading. Another item is
nylon stockings, which come in under
British preferential tariff and are the
only large supply of imports competing
with the much criticised local products.
In spite of Dr Mac White’s speed on
the wing Australia sells between £3 and
£4 million worth of goods, mainly
primary products, to Ireland, while Ire-
land sends us about £300,000 worth.
Ireland hopes to send us more pianos,
cigarette lighters, wood laminates (the
Reserve Bank's new Sydney building is
already a customer for these) and air-
craft. Ireland is manufacturing a 22-
"Have you any back-to-work-you-loafing-scoundrel cards?"
Life-Like
Maclnnes’s book on Australia
and New Zealand for “Life” maga-
zine has just been published in the United
States but won't be here for perhaps a
year. It is probably just as well that it
won't come too close on the heels of
Donald Horne’s lively “The Lucky
Country”. Maclnnes in his highly com-
petent fashion has no doubt given “Life”
what it wanted, but what “Life” wants
generally sounds like splendid project
material for schoolchildren.
If there was one way to string the
writer's hands behind his back it was to
ask him to consider Australia and New
Zealand together. They are neither like
enough to be one country, nor unlike
enough to be interesting contrasts.
In this once-over-lightly sort of treat-
ment, there is no room for solid
judgments, but Maclnnes's brief remarks
on McAuley, White and Nolan are
perceptive and pleasant. However, he
lets all stops out for Robert Hughes:
“With the appearance of a tragic
dimension in Australian letters, there has
also been a deepening of the quality
of criticism. Traditionally, Australian
critics have been argumentative and
partisan, with little scholarship or intel-
lectual rigor. But with the growing
maturity of the nation, this is changing
fast, and in Robert Hughes, a man in his
twenties, Australia has found a critic of
astonishing erudition, intelligence and
imagination. Hughes, who comes from
an ‘old’ patrician family for even in
young Australia, such governing clans
do now exist—is the most amiable and
friendly of men, and one of the most
alarming to tangle with. And in a country
that resents criticism more than most, it
is his rare achievement to have swept like
a scythe through the artistic jungle, re-
assessing, defining and encouraging—and
in the end, if leaving many bleeding
heads, restoring to other men reputations
that were long neglected or denied.”
Maclnnes’s final summing up is:
“Australia, booming, brash and buoy-
ant, seems less to realise that its
prosperity and safety are not so much
inherent as dependent on the happy con-
junction of a series of historical accidents.
Traversing this splendid country, with its
sun and joy and sports and riches, one
may sometimes feel oneself to be in a
kind of paradise before the Fall, amid
a people committed to a life of mindless
beatitude. One cannot imagine Cas-
sandra getting a hearing in Australia, let
alone a Moses or a Dante. One cannot
even really imagine the existence of a
Romeo and Juliet. For in Australia
Cassandra would become a “personality”
on television —her warnings treated with
tolerant condescension — while Romeo
and Juliet would simply tell their
Montague and Capulet elders to stop
‘going crook’ about the situation and
themselves go off to Manly beach to join
in a surf carnival. These countries have
no tragic sense because they believe that
they have bypassed tragedy. So far they
have and all good wishes to them; but
history is tragic and has few favorites
for long.”


“You’ll
never export
diamonds
to
Kimberley... but
there are literally thousands of
products which can be success-
fully marketed in prosperous
South Africa, as many Aus-
tralian companies have already
found to their profit.
See for yourself on your next
overseas trip it’s just over-
night between Australia and
South Africa, and SAA’s big
Boeing Jets connect Johannes-
burg with U.K./Europe.
The extra cost of going this
way is negligible,* and if you’ve
a few days to spare,
the sightseeing is ter-
rific. Ask your travel
agent.
3:: '
■?V
'V
mm
m
m
7
m
mm
S,:.:
•Flying from Australia to
Europe via South Africa
costs from £15.10.0 extra,
depending on your departure
point. Three services fort-
nightly, operated by SAA
in association with Qantas.
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
The “Southern Hemisphere’
EUROPE
by SAA in association with fianlas, BDAC aci CAA
SOUTH
AFRICA
AUSTRALIA
BAA7O/40
seater French Potez aircraft and has
sold two to New Zealand.
Dr Mac White finds that there is no
great sentimental pull between Irish im-
migrants coming here now and the
second and third generation Irish.
Young people coming here rarely go to
stay with a relative, or even look up
family connections. Religious orders
are an exception. There's still a fair
one-way traffic in nuns, brothers and
priests.
Not only do the young Irish not look
up their relations, they do not come
here in any great numbers and fewer
of those who come stay. Dr Mac White
said that although between a quarter
and a fifth of the Australian popula-
tion was of Irish descent, only about
51,000 had come here since 1920 and
between 30,000 and 35,000 of these
remained Irish nationals. Dr Mac White
said that in the year 1962-63 600 Irish
came to Australia but 450 returned
home. In the ’fifties the figure for
arrivals was about 1000 per year and
departures about 300.
Dr Mac White said that this was part
of a world-wide tendency which was
reversing the pattern which began in
the 1840 s with the potato famines. “In
the third quarter of 1960 for the first
time in more than a hundred years the
natural increase of the Irish population
was greater than emigration,” he said.
“Under our second development plan,
we hope that by 1970 the number of
voluntary emigrants —that is people who
leave Ireland for reasons other than
being forced out by lack of work—will
be down to 10,000 a year.”
By Design
of Sydney’s private art gal-
leries, the Macquarie in Bligh Street,
breaks new ground on January 13 when
it opens an exhibition of hand-printed
fabrics by Fijian-born, New Zealand-edu-
cated Indian Douglas Ram Sanuij. This
will be the gallery's first venture outside
of painting and sculpture.
Ram Samuj’s fabric designs spring
from his interest in microscopic botany.
“I find some fascinating results by study-
ing tiny cell formations, the patterns of
minute twigs, specks of matter and leaves
under the microscope,” he told us, “but
my main interest is in early South Ameri-
can art.” He displayed a length of cloth
on which round symbols were subtly
printed. “That’s a design from an Aztec
medallion.”
Ram Samuj’s contacts with his native
Suva have almost petered out over the
years. “I was sent to New Zealand’s
Scots College when I was eight. I remem-
ber telling the head I wanted to become
a dress designer. He wasn’t very happy.
He was a Presbyterian and I suppose it
did sound outrageous to him. I concen-


trated on cricket. But my main thoughts
were of my responsibility to my mother
—my father died when I was young.”
His mother died while he was still at
school and, with no further obligations
to his family, Ram Samuj broke with
New Zealand, crossed the Tasman and
enrolled in the art department of Mel-
bourne Technical College. After a year
there, he sailed for Britain and enrolled
in the Manchester College of Art.
“I chose Manchester because it's the
centre of the textile industry and the
college has the reputation of producing
sortie of the foremost fabric designers. It
also gave me an opportunity to carry on
with my cricket.”
Later he worked with David White-
head and sold designs to Liberty, Heals
and Jacqmar the cream of Britain’s
fabric retailers. Since his coming to Syd-
ney, Beard Watsons has staged two ex-
hibitions and other shows have been held
in Melbourne and Adelaide. All of these
showings have been near sell-outs.
Ram Samuj told us much of the
material in his new Sydney exhibition
will be silk and fine cottons with all-over
design as opposed to the strip patterns
he has specialised in until now.
“I teach art at a high school, work in
my North Sydney studio and I’m quite
happy,” he said. “Money doesn’t mean
very much to me. I love children and
I suppose that’s why I’d like to teach
textile design exclusively. Perhaps when
I have children of my own some need
will be fulfilled and my satisfaction will
be complete.
“No, 1 don’t have a great deal of time
to practise sport these days, but I coach
cricket and hockey at the school. What
else? Oh, I’m a jazz fanatic. But I favor
the oldies Jelly Roll Morton, Fats
Waller and, of course, Ella. Then I also
like the romantic classicists. Quite a con-
tradiction. But, then, some people see a
contradiction between fabric designing
and sport,”
Good Fellows
r 1 'he Australian National University’s
two fellowships in the creative arts
will serve to repatriate two Australian
painters, Sidney Nolan and John
Perceval, who have been living in
London. Mr Nolan will return to Aus-
tralia this year for a few months under
one type of fellowship planned to have
“distinguished artists, usually from
abroad” associated with the university
for short periods. Mr Nolan certainly
fits this category.
Mr Perceval, primarily a ceramicist,
will return for a longer period on a
fellowship worth £2500 a year, which,
it has already been pointed out, is better
than the Commonwealth Literary Fund's
top rate.
The stated object of the fellowships
is to help the creative arts, but it is hard
to see painting in this country as stand-
ing most in need of help from the point
of view of either production or reward.
Comparisons between painting and, say,
musical composition or poetry, tend to
become ludicrous.
Perhaps the university was influenced
as much by the need for pleasant con-
versation in the common room as by the
need for helping the creative arts. In
this regard Mr Nolan and Mr Perceval
will serve handsomely.
On Their Tail
Jn the West the cray is not so much
a fish as a way of life. It is also a
£5,000,000 a year industry which is being
threatened by illegal traffic in under-
sized crayfish tails. Fisheries Department
inspectors have overcome the prob-
lems of an immense coastline, apathetic
or hostile fishermen and an organisation
which is said to rake off at least £50,000
a year.
The fishermen are paid 12s. a pound
and the racketeers sell the minced-up
tails for 19s. a pound. Consignments of
up to two tons have been found in
Sydney and Melbourne. Over the past
few weeks mobile patrols of inspectors,
operating after midnight, have been
flagging down between 20 and 40 vehicles
a day.
New higher penalties should lessen
the flow of tails that starts at isolated
beaches, moves to interstate transports
hidden under car bonnets or in dustbins
or other containers, and goes east labelled
“pet food”, “poultry” or “peeled prawns”.
Black and White
A N American correspondent reports
the death last month of black-and-
white artist John Richard Flanagan, who
was an early contributor to The Bul-
letin and apprenticed for some years
to the indestructible Norman Lindsay.
Mr Flanagan, who was at one time
the world’s highest paid illustrator, left
Australia in 1911. He lived in New York
and Philadelphia, doing black-and-white
work for magazines, books and other
media. He became widely known for
his illustrations of Sax Rohmer’s “Dr Fu
Manchu”, which appeared in Collier’s
years ago.
Mr Flanagan’s son, Dennis, is editor
of “Scientific American” and three years
ago was named as editor of the year by
a poll of American magazine editors.
Subscribers
r 1 ''he Bulletin was not published on
January 2. Recognition of the fact
that there are only 51 issues a year will
be made as far as subscriptions are con-
cerned.
IRISH-BAITING
ffij^ulLetCn
80 Years Ago: January 10, 1885
hatred of the Irish which is a
A mark of the bourgeois English-
man, and the detestation of Rome
which stamps the vulgar order of Pro-
testant parsons, have been any time
during the past twenty years exempli-
fied most exquisitely in the columns
of the “Sydney Morning Herald”. The
writers of that paper were never seen
to so great advantage as journalists,
and so little as philosophers, as when
the late Archbishop Vaughan’s denun-
ciations of the Public School system
were being combated by the
“Herald”. For once in a lifetime the
writers permitted themselves to go
straight. They abandoned the compro-
mising tone which ordinarily makes
the leading columns of the “Herald”
the laughing-stock of journalists
throughout Australia. They did not
say that the Archbishop was obviously
and totally wrong, with the exception
that he might very likely be plainly
and comprehensively right. They said
he was wrong and stood at that; and
they spared no device of language to
convince “all right-thinking people”
that he was a confounded fool. And
now Dr Vaughan’s successor, Dr
Moran, is receiving similar sauce.
Archbishop Moran told his people,
recently, that in the early times
Roman Catholic convicts had been
flogged as a consequence of their re-
ligion. The “Herald” immediately
jumps down Dr Moran’s throat; and,
while just falling short of suggesting
that he is a liar, very plainly intimates
that he is a fool and a bit of a
scoundrel. We can’t see that in this
instance Dr Moran is either fool or
scoundrel. In the old convict days,
men had the power to flog on very
slender pretences, and were not under
any particular necessity to allege the
right one. Seeing that the demure
editors of the “S. M. Herald” are per-
petually going out of their way and
seeking occasion to trounce and be-
labour the Papist Archbishop and the
horrid Irish, what occasion is there
to doubt that there may have been
convict warders in the old days stimu-
lated by equally contemptible preju-
dices and animosities? Surely a convict
warder might sink as low as a bigoted
Methodist.


Coll ette -Guest Cartoonist
"...I remain, yours faithfully.. ."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australian Freedom Riders
VText month a group of Aborigines
and students will set out on a
“freedom ride” through northern New
South Wales, which is sometimes re-
garded as the State’s “deep south”.
The “riders” say they hope both to
break the unwritten laws of segregation
in milk bars and picture theatres and
to conduct a social survey into the
conditions of Aboriginal housing,
education, health, employment and
general attitudes on race problems.
When all exaggerations are allowed
for, there is no doubt that a “freedom
ride” of this kind could arouse wide
public interest in a good cause. There
are, however, several risks involved.
Ironically, one of these is that it could
be undermined by some of the very
people it depends on for its success—
the television producers, Press photo-
graphers and reporters who are going
along.
This is not because of bad intentions
but simply because the need to get a
“good story” or a good picture do not
always coincide with the very real
need to arouse public awareness. In
the rush to get the cute or dramatic
picture on the front page ahead of the
opposition, there lies the likelihood of
the public conscience flickering for a
few days about the way an Aborigine
is ejected from a milk bar and then
just dying away without any particular
thought that the same Aborigine might
continue to live in a.humpy and remain
unemployed.
Another risk, of course, is that of
being undermined by irresponsible and
immature hangers-on who would treat
the whole thing as an excuse for pro-
voking the police and generally trying
to re-enact what they imagine to be
the American Deep South experience.
Singing “We Shall Overcome” or
“Blowin’ in the Wind” while going to
gaol in Mississippi may have a point.
In New South Wales, which can in no
respect be seriously compared with
Mississippi, another style of protest is
needed.
Finally, there is the possibility of an
attempt at takeover by political or
vested interests. The Communist Party
in particular has recently stepped up
its emphasis on using the Aborigines
for its own political ends.
Nevertheless, if these risks can be
avoided, any attempt such as the
“freedom ride” to draw attention to
the specific problems of Aborigines in
particular communities and to heighten
awareness of what life can be like for
an Aboriginal family in terms of
housing, getting a job, going to school,
is welcome all the more so in 1965
when the problem Australia’s Abo-
rigines face is no longer so much one
of “rights” as of public indifference.
While there are still anomalies and
injustices to be corrected, the legis-
lators are ahead of the public in find-
ing out what they are and in trying to
overcome them; 1964 was a year of
achievement in this respect. The
Queensland Government is redrafting
its legislation; South Australia and
Western Australia have at last given
Aborigines the right to drink, to travel
freely, to vote and own property; and
the new legislation in the Northern
Territory has given 18,000 Aborigines
freedom to own property and to live
where they choose.
Yet in the midst of the legislative
stirring, there is continuing public
apathy. The most recent example was
the failure of the Foundation for
Aboriginal Affairs to raise £150,000 in
a door-knock appeal in Sydney. (It
raised £80,000.) It is this indifference,
combined with the handicaps of Abo-
rigines themselves their lack of a
tradition of education and industrial
or agricultural enterprise make a
wall which it is difficult to break
down. If the “freedom riders” break
through at least one part of the wall
of public indifference, their “ride” will
have been worthwhile.
The Defamation of Hal Porter
TV/Ir Hal Porter has never concealed
his contempt for literary critics
“Reputation’s Blowflies”, as he once
called them in The Bulletin. But late
last year he went one step further and
took legal action against a critic on the
Hobart “Mercury” who had written
about his autobiography, “The
Watcher on the Cast-Iron Balcony”.
The judge in the case found that the
article criticising the book had de-
famed Mr Porter and he awarded him
£lOOO damages. He held that the re-
view imputed “literary dishonesty” to
Porter, suggesting that he deliberately
used “Anglo-Saxon” words for the
sake of publicity and that he boasted
the book would be banned. The judge
rejected the defence of fair com-
ment.
As a matter of law, The, Bulletin
assumes that this is the end of the
affair. Mr Porter was defamed and he
took advantage of his rights as a citizen
to claim financial compensation.
But the case raises other questions
besides legal ones. The line between
the sort of ridicule that is defamation
and the ridicule that is acceptable as
severe criticism is a fine one and, even
if it can be drawn in law, it is tradi-
tionally ignored in literary disputes.
After all, from Alexander Pope’s “The
New Dunciad” which called Colley
Cibber an idiot, a plagiariser, a fop and
a rake, on to Max Beerbohm’s regular
derision of Rudyard Kipling for his
alleged effeminacy, or Norman Mailer’s
recent “Advertisements for Myself” in
which he defamed many contemporary
writers, the literary practice has been
to deal out as good as one gets with-
out making a legal case out of it. Some
of these literary disputes have been
sad affairs (some of course have be-
come part of literature) and many
writers understandably disdain these
tactics, but it would take a good deal
of the life out of literary life if
everyone had to consult a lawyer be-
fore venturing to criticise, even ridi-
cule, a fellow-writer.
The Bulletin yields to few in its
admiration of Mr Hal Porter whose
work it has often published and it
sympathises with his sense of injury,
but there is a real risk that his legally
justified court action may help cause
literary criticism to become even more
lame and cautious than it too often is
already. Would he not have been better
advised, in the interests of literature
and criticism, to have kept the matter
in the literary field and given his critics
the sharp edge of his own pen instead
of going to law?


THIS AUSTRALIA
Senator Hannan’s Reshuffle
Random harvest
MELBOURNE—It was on the
night before Christmas when DLP
Senate candidate Mr Frank McManus,
Victorian DLP secretary Mr Frank
Dowling, and solicitor Mr B. Gaynor
arrived at the High Court Registry two
minutes before it closed. They took out
a writ for an injunction to bar the Com-
monwealth Electoral Officer for Victoria,
Mr C. J. Lack, from taking a recount of
votes in the December 5 Senate election.
The High Court's decision on what a
recount should be is expected this week.
The writ not only presented the Full
High Court with a complex problem of
legal definition; it bewildered journalists
and newspaper readers alike trying to
understand the intricacies of the pro-
portional representation system; it raised
questions about the justice or efficacy of
the procedural machinery in the count-
ing of the votes under that system; and
it opened up new perspectives for con-
sidering future relationships between the
DLP and its “friendly enemy” the LCP.
The writ in fact asked the High Court
to confirm the status quo in the counting
of votes, which would have meant the
certain election of Mr McManus and
the defeat of retiring Liberal Senator
Hannan.
The politically dramatic spectacle of
two men seeking a Senate seat revealed
flaws in the system of proportional rep-
resentation. It was the fear of one of
these flaws hitherto largely unknown
working against him which prompted
Mr McManus to act. He complained that
under the system a recount was not a
recount at all but in a sense another turn
of a lottery barrel. The basic argument
was that a full recount could mean a
different result even though such a re-
count might not find any arithmetical
error in the count up to that point. He
did not oppose a re-check of all votes.
The problem was a new random selec-
tion.
Under the system a candidate is
elected when he has polled the necessary
number of votes to reach the quota. This
quota is worked out by dividing the
total number of formal votes cast by
the number of vacant seats plus one.
Once candidates reach this figure any
surplus votes they have over this amount
are distributed among the remaining can-
didates— but distributed according to
their “transfer value” and not their “face
value”.
This is where much of the confusion
arises in trying to understand what effects
a random selection could have in a
recount. The “transfer value” of surplus
votes is expressed as a fraction. Thus a
candidate who had 300,000 votes surplus
out of a total 600,000 primary votes cast
would be passing on his preferences at
a value of exactly one half. Assuming
that in a particular division a successful
candidate was passing on 1000 surplus
votes the beneficiary of the votes would
really only be getting 500. Electoral staff
would have to physically select 500 ballot
papers from the pile of 1000 and lay to
one side the other 500.
But how to select those 500? The
answer according to the Electoral Act is
“random selection”. And it is here that
the element of chance arises in a recount.
This is because the ballot papers must
actually be chosen and physically put
in a basket to one side. They cannot be
designated by marbles or given numeri-
cal values. In a recount the chances are
that a slightly different 500 ballot papers,
with different orders of lower down the
ticket preferences, could be selected from
the original bundle of 1000. While the
differences in any one division may not
be very large they could be enough when
multiplied, for example, in Victoria’s 33
divisions, to change the result.
All that Senator Hannan requires is a
difference of 125 votes in his favor. Mr
McManus has been arguing that, once
laid aside, the unused surplus ballot
papers and their preferences should re-
main laid aside. He is not sceptical of
claims that in theory the same method
of “random selection - ’ should produce
F. McMANUS
virtually the same result. He is sceptical
as to what “virtually” means.
Criticism of another flaw in the ran-
dom selection method has come as a
by-product of the attention focused on
the system. This is the odd situation
whereby the electoral staff in each divi-
sion please themselves on what methods
of “random selection” they use without
receiving any direction from the Com-
monwealth Electoral Office.
When the electoral workers choose
randomly they might be doing so in the
everyday sense of the word, but statisti-
cians would say that they were choosing
haphazardly. The choice is not random
enough to satisfy a statistician that there
is no accidental or even systematic bias.
Assuming that, as happens in many cases,
ballot papers are'in packets of 100 this
means that in one division workers might
select 500 ballot papers from a pile of
1000 by taking the first five packets,
while in another they take every second
packet. Just what sort of effects this hap-
hazard selection might have had in the
past is difficult to assess, but in a close
election it must raise doubts.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
A Ruhr for S-E Asia?
Japanese development of the Pilbara
PERTH West Australia’s Premier
David Brand could afford to be confident
when he set the date for the State elec-
tions on February 20. He had just an-
nounced contracts that will start a mas-
sive programme of iron ore development
in the State’s far north west. The spend-
ing of about £50,000,000 will start at
once in the Pilbara, a fabulously rich
minerals field 170 miles inland from the
State’s north-western shoulder and 730
miles north of Perth.
The Pilbara deals are among the two
or three biggest things that have ever
happened in the State. In August, the
London “Times” said the discovery of
high-grade iron ore in the Pilbara had
transformed the State almost overnight
into the third biggest iron ore region in
the world. These discoveries, it said, had
revolutionised the entire economic out-
look not only of WA but of the Federal
Government and had led to “wholesale
rethinking of Australia's industrial
future”.
What the “Times” described as poten-


tially a second Ruhr for the whole South-
East Asian area had its beginnings in
1952 when farmer-prospector Mr Lang
Hancock landed his Auster in a remote
200 foot deep gorge to dodge a thunder-
head. It seemed to his experienced eye
that the whole mountain was made of
iron. His first impressions were not far
out.
But there was an embargo on the ex-
port of iron ore and Lang Hancock had
to sit on his secret until early in 1961
when the Federal Government lifted the
embargo.
The first contract with the tightly
organised Japanese steel mills was a
small one of 5,100,000 tons from Koola-
nooka, inland from Geraldton and not
part of the Pilbara.
Then last month came the undertaking
to buy 82,000,000 tons, worth
£400,000,000, from the Pilbara. Mt
Goldsworthy Mining Associates are to
supply 16,500,000 tons over seven years,
starting in April, 1966. Hamersley Iron
Pty Ltd start shipping out 65,000,000
tons in August, 1966.
Mt Goldsworthy’s equal partners are
Consolidated Gold Fields, Cyprus Mines,
and Utah Constructions. Australian in-
vestors have been promised a 20 per cent
equity in the group’s development, even-
tually. Hamersley is 60 per cent owned
by Conzinc Rio Tinto in partnership with
Kaiser Steel.
An even bigger contract, probably for
between 75,000,000 and 100,000,000
tons of iron, is promised soon for Mt
Newman Iron Ore Co. Ltd, owned 55 per
cent by American Metals Climax in
partnership with Colonial Sugar Re-
fineries.
From this point on the money will
move at a staggering rate. Already tenta-
tive tenders have been submitted in the
creation of three new Pilbara townsites
(at Mt Tom Price, King Bay and Mt
Goldsworthy), two deepwater ports (at
King Bay and Finucane Island), as well
as 250 miles of railway.
DEFENCE
Reorganising the Army
Almost back to taws
CANBERRA The Pentropic Or-
ganisation came in with a bang five years
ago and has now gone out with scarcely
a whimper. When the Minister for the
Army, Dr A. J. Forbes, wrote its obituary
a few days ago, he did not even name it.
Because it has been abandoned, how-
ever, this does not mean that it was a
bad idea or should never have been tried.
Although, as announced at the time, it
was basically similar to the American
“pentomic'’ division, a great deal of
thinking by Australia’s top Army officers
went into working it out in detail and
testing it by theoretical and model
exercises.
In some respects the pentropic division
was seen to be a considerable improve-
ment over the old jungle-warfare division.
Fire power of all kinds was increased.
The units were larger, with additional
sub-units. This made for extra manoeuvr-
ability, offensive action and protection,
and allowed for the customary wastage
of manpower in operations. The brigade
headquarters was eliminated, giving
direct and more speedy contact between
the divisional commander and his units.
The organisation was such that it was
easy to create battalion groups (known
as “battle groups'’) and so provide (much
better than an infantry battalion or an
ad hoc battalion group on the old
organisation) a hard-hitting and relatively
self-contained force for any independent
operation or as a contribution to an
Allied force. The task force head-
quarters built into the divisional head-
quarters ensured control if more than
one battle group was detached.
If the pentropic division was so good,
why, then, has it been dropped? The
point is not that it was so good (for we
never had a full division to try out in
peace or war) but that it appeared so
good. In an army the size of the
American or even the British, it is
possible to experiment with a new divi-
sional organisation without disturbing
the whole structure of the field force.
In Australia this was not possible,
although it could have been possible
to experiment with a battalion or a
battle group. Even this was not done;
a gamble was taken which appeared
justified in the context of the Ameri-
can pentomic division but which
has not paid off. Perhaps because of
faulty liaison, we did not know that the
United States was about to discard the
pentomic organisation in formations
where it had been introduced.
A number of things have become
clearer about the pentropic division
during the past five years, particularly
from the tactical and logistic exercises
conducted with the somewhat incomplete
two battle groups we have had. Firstly,
the logistics problems for the battle
group were found to be far greater than
anticipated. The problems of command-
ing additional units and sub-units were
not compensated for in the improved
communications equipment. Further, it
was realised that any task force of two
battle groups would lose its manoeuvr-
ability for lack of a reserve. There have
been many other criticisms, the most tell-
ing relating to the Australian battalion in
the Commonwealth Strategic Reserve in
Malaya (28th Commonwealth Brigade).
This brigade is on the British establish-
ment. Thus each time we sent a battalion
to Malaya, it had to be cut almost in
half and regrouped by sub-units, officers
and NCOs requiring to familiarise them-
selves with different tactical procedures.
On return to Australia the reverse process
took place. If we had had a dozen
battalions to play with, this might not
have mattered. With only three or four,
it mattered very much.
THE PENTROPIC DIVISION
PROBABLE ORGANISATION OF THE INFANTRY DIVISION


The Army is keen that no one should
think that, because there are nine
battalions in the reorganised division,
this is a complete return to the old jungle-
warfare establishment. There will be
three intermediate headquarters known as
“task forces”, the term “brigade” being
eschewed so that the concept of a flexible
grouping can be more easily accepted.
For training purposes, the task forces will
probably each control three battalions,
but in operations a task force may have
two, four or five battalions under it,
depending on the requirement. This was
not impossible under the brigade set-up,
depending on the strength and adapta-
bility of the divisional commander. Yet,
desirable as it is, flexibility brings its own
problems, especially in logistical plan-
ning. And since both the United King-
dom and (to a lesser degree) the United
States use the term “brigade", to elimi-
nate it from our terminology is doubtful
wisdom.
It can be seen from the organisational
diagrams that the armored regiment has
been removed from the new division.
What is remarkable is that it was ever
included, unless something far lighter,
more transportable and more amphibious
than the Centurion was envisaged but
never ordered. If a suitable armored
fighting vehicle is obtained (and several
countries have types that could be con-
sidered), no doubt it will be in the
combat support group, which is the
divisional equivalent of the old corps
troops of extra supporting arms and
services. The divisional armored re-
connaissance element has been increased
(by bringing the remainder out of the
combat support group) from a squadron
to a regiment.
The Minister in his statement on
December 20 spoke confidently of
additional air transport for the new bat-
talions —helicopters, Caribous and Her-
cules. What he did not say is where
these are coming from. There has been
no known order for any heavy-lift
helicopters, able to take a field gun
or twenty or so troops. There has been
on order (or a decision has been made
to order) an extra squadron of Hercules,
but this won’t get near the problem,
especially if the present squadron is
reserved for RAAF movement and
support. There are eighteen Caribous,
of which six are in South Vietnam, but
no more on order. It is to be hoped that
the three types of transports are high
on the priority list of undeclared Govern-
ment intentions.
There have been three separate an-
nouncements, in the past two or three
months, about an expansion in the CMF.
We have not yet heard the effect of the
change whereby CMF members are liable
to call-up in a defence emergency, but
it would be surprising if the figures had
gone up. The additional battalions re-
ferred to by the Minister of Defence just
before Christmas must presumably be in
areas not presently catered for, as well
as from the reorganised (ex-pentropic)
battalions. If the role of the CMF is as
the Minister says—to provide follow-up
units and formations to supplement
regular Army strength overseas, as well
as to be a basis for further expansion—
it involves calling up whole units and
perhaps filling them from the reserve
created by National Service. This is very
desirable, as compared with raising new
units from CMF and reserve personnel,
and is the first time such a step has been
possible. It should save, depending on
the strength and training of the CMF
units, three or four morfffis in the time
necessary to get a substantial force over-
seas.
National Service, when it is fully
operating, will add approximately 7000
trained available men to the field force,
This still will not enable us to provide
a complete infantry division, but it
should enable us, with the new organisa-
tion, to provide a task force or brigade
group for immediate action, with a
second one fairly close behind and a full
division (using CMF) four to six months
behind that. This will be our greatest
degree of active readiness achieved in
peacetime—when it is achieved.
TRAFFIC
The First 1000 Dead
In another 10 years: 2000
HThe type-written police report con-
tained almost all relevant details.
“At 7 p.m. on December 18, 1964,” it
said, “David Robert Rendle Dutton, 18,
of Orange, residing at 33 Musgrave
Street, Mosman, was a pillion passenger
on a motor cycle ridden by Mark Bar-
nett, 20, of 29 Parkview Road, Fairlight.
While travelling west in Lower Avenue
Road, Mosman, Barnett lost control of
the vehicle. It skidded into the near-side
front of a stationary sedan parked cor-
rectly on the north-side kerb of Lower
Avenue Road. Rider and passenger were
thrown from the cycle and it skidded a
further 60 feet. They were picked up by
Central District Ambulance and taken
and admitted to the Mater Misericordiae
Hospital, Crow's Nest.”
Nine days later another sentence was
added to the report: “Dutton died to-
night as a result of injuries received.” It
remained for the statisticians of road
deaths in NSW to note that David Dut-
ton was the 1000th person to be killed
on NSW roads during 1964. This was
the first year that the road-deaths toll
had reached four figures. Police and
traffic authorities say it will not be the
last.
On the basis of road deaths increasing
in direct ratio to the number of road
vehicles the 1000th victim was predicted
for the close of 1964. At the same rate
of increase an additional 90 people will
be killed in NSW road accidents during
1965. Unless there is a drastic reduction
in the accident rate, it will take less than
ten years for the annual death toll to
reach 2000.
Trying to ascertain the why of road
accidents, the NSW Road Safety Council
has found that what is generally believed
to be the main killer speed is only
third on the fatal causes list. The chief
fault of drivers responsible for accidents
during 1963-64 was inattentive driving.
Some 22 per cent of deaths were caused
by drivers not watching what they were
doing. A further 17 per cent happened
because vehicles were driven on the
wrong side of the road. Excessive speed
killed 17 per cent. Drunken driving killed
nine per cent. Other causes such as not
giving right of way, overtaking reck-
lessly, inexperience and falling asleep at
the wheel, accounted for the remaining
31 per cent of deaths.
Drivers were by far the main killers
and also were the most killed. Of an esti-
mated 640 deaths caused by bad driving,
exactly half of those killed were them-
selves drivers. Pedestrians were next on
the list with 318 dead. Of those, an esti-
mated 173 were responsible for their
own deaths. Passengers were the most
innocent victims. Of 282 killed only eight
were found to have caused the accident.
Motor cyclists were killed mostly
through their own fault. Of the 20 killed
prior to last June, 18 had their accident
attributed to them.
The worst-hit group of drivers was
aged 17-24. Nearly half of pedestrians
killed were aged 60 or older. The quick
and the dead were also accompanied by
the very young. Half of the pedal cyclists
killed were between the ages of seven
and 16. The largest group of passengers
killed were in their late ’teens or early
twenties.
A proportion of the approximately
26,000 maimed and injured survivors of
the State's road accidents can testify to
two other facts discovered by the Road
Safety Council. The worst day of the
week for accidents is Saturday, the most
dangerous time of the day is the two
hours between 6 and 8 p.m.


A Big Little Man
Retires
The achievements of R. A. G. Henderson
Rupert Albert Geary Henderson,
w'ho has been described as the
Black Prince of the John Fairfax
publishing empire, abdicated last week
at the age of 69 after nearly 50 years
in its service. He leaves behind him not
only his achievements but a legend. It
has to be a legend since few men
who worked for him penetrated the
lonely, implacable veneer of the man.
Most employees would not have recog-
nised the short, wiry dandy in his im-
ported English suits if they saw him
and knew' little more about him than is
in Who's Who and that is misleading,
since it lists his school as Glebe Public
School, implying a rags-to-riches story
w hen the school was in fact a Church of
England private school and he was the
son of a comfortable Glebe property-
owner who came from a long line of
NSW property-owners dating back to
the eighteenth century. But few knew
the man himself.
When he became general manager
of the patrician family business of John
Fairfax and Sons in 1940, the fortunes
of the Fairfax family were completely
in the hands and under the control of a
person outside the Fairfax family, as
had been the position with former gene-
ral managers for some years. The last
really active working newspaper Fairfax
was Sir James who died in 1927. From
then on the business was carried on by
a succession of general managers
Connolly, Harris, Stuart and finally
Rupert Henderson.
Not that Henderson was unknown to
the Fairfax family: he had been with
the company since he had left a solici-
tor's office as a 19-vear-old in 1915,
and after periods as reporter, as Lon-
don manager (between 1923 and 1926,
which coincided with Warwick Fairfax's
years at Oxford, and the two are believ-
ed to have been close), as circulation
manager, and as secretary to the gene-
ral manager, he already in 1938 had
reached the highest office then permitted
to outsiders general manager.
Although there had been many bril-
liant general managers in the history
of the Fairfax family organisation,
there had been up to 1927 a dominating
Fairfax in control. When Rupert Hen-
derson reached executive heights, how -
ever, the Fairfax Crown Prince, War-
wick Fairfax, lacked the incentive to
take much interest in newspaper man-
agement. Most of the rest of the family
had grown away from newspapers.
After Rupert Henderson had been
general manager for 10 years from
1939 to 1949, he became managing
director, and Mr Warwick Fairfax
became governing director. With his
absolute power as managing director
in 1949, Rupert Henderson set about,
with what in retrospect seems a clear
design, to bring the twentieth century
to the family business. It was living on
classified advertisements in the Sydney
Morning Herald a near monopoly it
had held for nearly 50 years. From
the basis of this daily wealth. Mr Hen-
derson built a publishing empire on
which the share market now r puts a
value of £4O million.
One of the first steps was to expand
into the Sunday newspaper field with
the Sunday Herald and into the family
magazine field with Home. But thirty
early years with the Fairfax tradition
did not die kindly for Rupert Hen-
derson, for neither publication could be
considered a success. They were steeped
in Fairfax conservatism in fields that
demanded revolutionary techniques.
Rupert Henderson did not attempt this
compromise again.
In 1953 Rupert Henderson forever
changed the character of the Fairfax
business. In August of 1953 Consoli-
dated Press made a takeover for the
Associated Newspapers group pub-
lishers of the Sun, Sunday Sun, Pix,
People and Woman but Rupert Hen-
RUPERT HENDERSON
derson went under its guard and nego-
tiated with the Board of Associated
Newspapers to purchase a controlling
interest in that company from the Deni-
sons. Despite a legal hangover, the
Henderson deal was successful and
John Fairfax and Sons became publish-
ers of a set of popular mass-market
newspapers and magazines of a type
that it had traditionally always shunned.
(Before the takeover a time-and-
motion expert employed by Associated
Newspapers reported that the group had
100 superfluous employees: character-
istically, Associated Newspapers sacked
the expert and left the 100 super-
numaries in their jobs. Equally charac-
teristically after the takeover, Hender-
son sacked the 100.)
This coup basically altered the econo-
mics of the whole Fairfax operation. It
enabled Mr Henderson to bring about
the merger of the Sunday Herald,
which was losing thousands of pounds
weekly, with the Sunday Sun. The
combining of these two Sunday publica-
tions, now known as the Sun-Herald,
gave them a circulation lead over the
Sunday Telegraph, which up to this
point had been the leader in the Sunday
field. The company had also suddenly
become a financial giant which even the
SMH's classified revenue could not
feed alone. If the Henderson plan was to
succeed it now 7 became essential to inte-
grate fully the two formerly alien organi-
sations. It was not enough for the Fairfax
group to provide management. With this
in mind, Rupert Henderson personally
engineered and executed plans to move
from the family home in stately Hunter
Street to new r rented premises in indus-
trial Ultimo. The Associated Newspapers
group of course joined its new master
at Broadway.
There was more than mere change of


WinMtii 1 1 r
•mm
These boards
spell storage economy
HIRE CHEP pallets and fork lifts to
store, stack and move raw materials,
containers and finished products
quickly, safely, easily and economi-
cally.
CHEP PALLET hire will solve your
problem, the problem of storage and
movement of goods, and won’t cost
you a penny of capital. If your busi-
ness involves delivery or receipt of
goods then CHEP’S pallet transfer
system will save you time and money.
SAVE SPACE by storing UP —watch
your storage costs drop.
CHECK WITH CHEP. Call the
nation’s most experienced advisers in
materials handling to review your
problems —without cost or obligation.
CHEP PTY. LTD.
Crescent Street, Glebe, N.S.W. 68 4211
CHEP PTY. LTD.
Sandgate Road, Albion, Brisbane, Qld. 6 2181
L. D. NICHOLLS LIMITED
205 Hanson Road, Woodville North, Adelaide. 45 4442
CH.3
premises. It was the end of an era.
Gentle working conditions, long a boast
of the Fairfaxes and confirmed by the
practice of jobs being handed down from
father to son among both journalists and
printers, were at an end. Rupert Hender-
son had created his word factory. By this
time he had proved he was not inhibited
by the traditions of the Fairfax family.
To cap this, although for motives not
quite clear, the SMH intensified an
apparently personal dislike of the Prime
Minister and converted the Conservative
Sydney Morning Herald into a strong
ALP supporter. (This policy was par-
tially dropped on the very eve of the
1963 Federal election.)
HThe new building and the then sophisti-
A cated method of financing it—a
buy-back lease from the AMP Society
—the enlarged operation, the difficulties
of private company taxation, and the
desire for even further expansion
brought the inevitable flotation of the
Fairfax company as a public company.
This flotation in March, 1956, added
more credit to Rupert Henderson's
achievements. He was no longer only
the Prince Regent of the Fairfax dyna-
sty but the chief executive officer of a
public company.
In these earlier years Rupert Hender-
son may not have proved to be a creator;
but he had shown remarkable ability as
an investor and developer. When John
Fairfax shares were first listed on the
stock exchanges the public did not realise
this. Embarrassing as it was for the Fair-
fax family, their £1 shares dropped below
par, to 18s. at one stage. It was the ad-
vent of television and Rupert Henderson’s
keen investment ability that caused the
market to think again. It thought plenty.
Today the now ss. shares are selling at
335. each—equal to £6 12s. on the old
£1 basis—and this despite a one-for-four
bonus issue in the interim.
Television suited Rupert Henderson’s
managerial talents. The nature of the in-
dustry— sole control, small staffs, high
cost operation suited his temperament.
Henderson was at first rather more tenta-
tive than other newspaper publishers who
went into TV. While he assumed mana-
gerial control of Amalgamated Television
Services Pty Ltd, the Fairfax company
at first only took up a 54 per cent interest
in what was a private company. Amalga-
mated Television, proprietor of ATN
Channel 7, was highly successful. Possibly
recognising the error of earlier tentative-
ness, he later purchased for John Fairfax
more shares in ATN at what appeared to
be very high prices (from Email and
AWA). He also organised the Fairfax
television investments over a wide field,
this time paying what appeared to be
reckless prices.
This willingness to pay high for estab-


lished enterprises rather than to create
them in the first place has marked Rupert
Henderson's career as managing director
of John Fairfax. In the later years this
trait became more pronounced. In 1962
John Fairfax paid an undisclosed but
high price for a substantial minority
interest in the Newcastle Morning
Herald, and in 1964 is believed to have
paid more than £700.000 for a complete
ownership of the Canberra Times.
Late last year Rupert Henderson
gathered further acquisitions for the Fair-
fax organisation by purchasing, for
£2.600.000. the Australian investments
of an English company, ATV, in Aus-
tralia. These shares included control of
the 2GB Macquarie network and many
smaller holdings in other communication
companies. (This deal, however, has not
yet been consummated. The Federal
Government so far has failed to approve
the change in shareholdings.)
Another daring move was the purchase
in 1958 of Mr Ezra Norton’s controlling
shareholding in Truth and Sportsman.
Using an outside front company, John
Fairfax financed the purchase of the
Norton shares. This gave the Fairfaxes
effective control over all the existing
newspaper publications in Sydney, except
the Daily and Sunday Telegraph group.
The remote control method proved the
undoing of this deal, and the Fairfax
group two years later took advantage of
an offer from the News Ltd of Adelaide
and sold, on terms and for a handsome
profit, the holding in the Mirror.
T)ossibly the scheme was designed for
this end, to protect the Fairfax
Sydney interest against entry of other
major publishers. In achieving this,
Mr Rupert Murdoch was given entry
into the daily newspaper field in Sydney.
Whether the profit to the Fairfax interest
from the sale of the Mirror and Sunday
Mirror, handsome though it was, has
compensated the company for the many
heartburns and financial headaches that
the entry of Murdoch into the evening
field has caused, cannot yet be decided.
A complete summary of Rupert Hen-
derson's career as an investor cannot
ignore his personal acquisitions. They
are believed to include the Building Pub-
lishing Company Pty Ltd (a trade maga-
zine publisher and job printer), the
Wagga Advertiser, the Wollongong Mer-
cury and the Gosford Times, as well as
various properties (including his farm
at Exeter, NSW) and share investments
(including reputedly substantial holdings
in television). Although he was not a
major shareholder of the proprietary
company when it turned public in 1956,
it is believed that since then he has be-
come a substantial shareholder.
It would be a mistake, however, to
think of Rupert Henderson purely as an
investor. He clearly was more than this.
His negotiating flair has been obvious in
all the company's takeovers (as well as,
incidentally, in his dealings with printing
and journalistic trade unions), but one
obvious element of his success has been
his relentless pursuit of long-laid plans
to the exclusion of almost all irrele-
vancies, including his personal life. It
was because of this that he developed his
reputation as an implacable foe, a hard
employer and a man indifferent to his
own popularity. The organisation always
came first, his personal interests ranging
from gardening and boxing to the theatre
and art collecting, second. (He is an
omnivorous reader and has a major col-
lection of Drysdales.)
TTis almost fanatical devotion to his
desk, his tremendous capacity to
concentrate for long periods, his is ola-
tion in his office and at home behind the
high walls he liked to build around his
houses —all add up to make the man
who acted so successfully as the Fairfax
general manager and managing director
for so long. The development of this
enormous and successful empire called
for everything a managing director could
give and Rupert Henderson gave it
everything he had.
Few people really knew Henderson
well, the man behind the mask. (A typi-
cal anecdote tells of a copy boy smiling
at him in the corridor. Henderson asked
him why he was smiling. The boy re-
plied: “You smiled at me first, Mr Hen-
derson”. “Smiled, be damned, I’ve got
indigestion.”)
While he was a hard negotiator, a
bitter rival, a tough competitor, a dour
personality, he was to those who knew
him admired for other characteristics
which were not so well known. His
tremendous loyalty to the Fairfax family,
which came first in his thinking and
always before any material gain for him-
self. when seen in action could not but
be admired. He had the quality of
sympathy in times of stress, a man of
his word when he gave it, and to people
who worked for him —or whom he
liked —he could be and was extraor-
dinarily generous.
Twice married (he has one son, Mr
R. W. G. “Chips” Henderson, the chief
production manager of John Fairfax
Ltd. and one daughter), those close to
him say that his emotions are strong and
wide. His departure from the active
field of journalism by his retirement on
December 31 saw going off the stage
one of the most brilliant and colorful
newspaper men in the history of Aus-
tralian newspapers. There will be many
among his colleagues sorry to see him
leave.
He was a big little man. He'll be
very much missed.
"With our knowledge of the sea why draft us into the ARMY?"


SAI26
now-
or anytime
youll
enjoya...
CAFE
crEme
After dinner, during theatre
intervals, or any time when
you just want to relax, Henri
Wintermans Cafe Creme
cigars are just right. Savour
the flavour and aroma of real
cigar leaf in these excellent
small cigars.
4'2
for a
tin of 10
BY
7 HENRI ~
.WINTERMANS,
OF COURSE
ON THE MARGIN
Juvenal’s Delinquents
TYid they do the Twist in ancient Rome?
This is the kind of public question
with which we at The Bulletin like
coming to grips. I admit I never gave
much serious thought to it until I read
the Eleventh Satire of Juvenal, but there
is a passage in that work which compels
one to face up to the problem.
The time is about 120 AD, and the
poet is inviting a friend to come to
dinner. Characteristically he takes the op-
portunity to point out that he, Juvenal,
is a clean-living chap compared with
the Roman dolce vita set; while at the
same time he describes the licentious
amusements of the latter with great
relish.
The catering at his dinner, he says, will
be on a modest scale, with no floor show.
He warns his friend not to expect that,
to loud applause from the onlookers,
“girls will go down to the ground with
wobbling behind” {ad terrain tremulo
descendant clime puellae). The meaning
of the words is not altogether clear. Just
what were these young ladies doing?
At first it struck me that they may
have been doing the Twist. A person
engaged in that vigorous exercise does go
down towards, if not quite to, the ground
in the same manner described. Yet the
word tremulo which Juvenal applied to
the behind suggests a more rapid vibra-
tion than the Twisting movement. It
could mean the sort of hip-shaking that
one sees sometimes on the stage and
screen. But was it possible to bend the
knees and go down to the ground while
wobbling at high speed? I tried it myself
and found it extremely difficult.
In search of further information I
looked the passage up in an old copy of
Juvenal which I possess. It is edited by
an earnest German scholar named
Ruperti, whose comments are full of un-
conscious if not always clean fun. (I am
fond of a footnote, referring to two
Roman gentlemen, in which the editor
describes them simply as “adulterers, but
unknown”.)
On the details of the floor show in
question, Ruperti was not at all illumina-
ting. However, with German thorough-
ness he had searched the w'hole of Latin
literature for references to the shaking of
behinds by dancing girls. The quotations
he had collected left no doubt that it was
a prominent feature of Roman choreo-
graphy. The Latin language had a special
verb, crisso, to describe the action, which
is something we do not have in English.
The most sought-after performers were
girls from Cadiz.
At the NSW Public Library I could
not find any book or article on ancient
Roman dancing. The upper classes did
not dance themselves; Cicero remarked:
“No one except a madman dances when
sober.” Perhaps the fact that dancing
was considered a disreputable and lower-
class pursuit in Rome is the reason why
scholars have paid so little attention to it.
It seems that my best chance of throw-
ing light on Juvenal’s vibrant corps de
ballet might be to consult professional
dancers. So I made an appointment to
interview Miss Lynette Keavney, ballet
mistress of (and dancer in) Harry
Wren’s Roaring Twenties. I also had a
telephone conversation with Miss Sheila
Cruze, who is a leading jazz choreo-
grapher and who arranged the dances in
the same production.
These ladies, who treated my inquiry
sympathetically, soon provided an ans-
wer. They both assured me it was quite
possible to bend the knees while wob-
bling rapidly. The dance described by
Juvenal, they said, sounded very like a
Tahitian fast shake. This differs fropn the
Twist in that the performer does not
move her feet.
At my request, Miss Keavney, who is
fair-haired and pretty, gave a demonstra-
tion in the Green Room at the Theatre
Royal. She lowered herself towards the
ground several times, moving in the man-
ner which Juvenal 'described and de-
plored. It was an agreeable sight.
Miss Cruze told me that the Tahitians
achieve their'very rapid shaking by a
trick of muscular control, rather as belly
dancers do. “Did the Romans have belly
dancing? - ’ she asked thoughtfully
It was a good question, They would
have had it like a shot if it had been
available. But so far as I know not even
the tireless Ruperti discovered any refer-
ence to belly dancing in Latin literature.
It is one of the achievements of modern
progress.
With my research project completed, I
felt a glow of pride at having made an
original contribution to learning. I had
visions of glittering academic perks. The
arrival of a telegram: “Would you con-
sider 10,000-dollar fee and expenses to
act as technical consultant for orgy
scenes in forthcoming production ‘The
Private Life of Nero" Samuel Bron-
ston. ’ No, perhaps that is too much to
expect. But at least I can hope for a
guest spot on the University of the Air
TV programme.
ROSS CAMPBELL


Some Like Them Hot
Beating it up in an egg-beater on wheels
By PETER GREEN
The Speed Shop, in the cluttered
commercial wilderness of Bronte
Road, flaunts bright signs: Isky
Cams, Vertex Magnetos, Mallory Igni-
tions. To the uninitiated, these hiero-
glyphics are lures for hot-rodders, the
obsessed hordes, mostly in their late
teens, who spend all their spare time
thinking, eating and sleeping about
racing souped-up cars across quarter-mile
stretches of protesting tarmac in the
suburbs of our cities.
The Speed Shop, run by Bill Warner,
is one of many that have sprung up in
the last few years, selling “drag”
sweaters with club names or googly-
eyed speed symbols on the back (for
boys) or front (for girls), gee-gaws and
badges to attach to their cars, and spare
engine parts. At the shop's rear, Warner
showed off a classic example of a hot-
rod. Costing around £2500, it looked
like an egg-beater on wheels. A sawn-
off T-Model Ford, it had been com-
pletely rebuilt from the chassis up. With
no engine bonnet, it had a single
bucket-seat set close behind the steering
wheel which was plumb in the middle
of a driver's cabin. Double sets of safety
belts—for lap and chest—rounded off
the picture of hot-rod splendor.
“This,” said Mr Warner, "is a Sports-
man. Actually anyone can make one if
they know anything about cars. You
can write to America and get the plans
and import all the parts. There’s a Do-
It-Yourself hot-rod kit available that
tells you how to put it all together.
“There's no gears in that gearbox,
of course,” he went on. “The gears go
straight into the diff. It's just a matter
of adjusting the gear ratio, then, for
whatever track you want to hot-rod on.
Your gear lever has only two positions:
In and Out. When it's in In you just
push your foot down on the accelerator
and let her go. The gear ratio takes
care of the rest. This Sportsman is set
for a maximum speed of about 80 m.p.h.
because we race her at the showgrounds
on the circular track. You'll notice
that the body of the car isn’t set mid-
way between the side wheels but is
closer to the right-hand side than the
left. That’s to assist cornering.”
A device described by a blue-jeaned
teenager nearby as a “weight-jacker”
was attached to the front axle of the
Sportsman. This, Mr Warner explained,
lifted the weight off the left-hand front
wheel so much that when the Sportsman
is standing still you can spin that wheel's
tyre with your hand. “That's for better
cornering, too. Races are won at the
showgrounds on corners.” What would
happen if they began racing clockwise
at the showgrounds? “We’d just have to
alter the bias of the car to the left. It
wouldn t be a difficult job. These hot-
rods are beautifully constructed and
ea W to adjust.”
What appeared to be a portion of
a Boeing 707 wing fixed to the roof of
the Sportsman was an example of aero-
dynamics applied to ground-level speed
design, he told us. “The air hits that
wing section with such a wallop that it
forces the rear of the hot-rod to stay on
the ground. If it was tilted the other
wa Y the car would probably take off.”
One of Mr Warner's recent achieve-
ments in souped-up cars has been the
conversion of a standard-model Ford
Falcon into a Ford VS. To do this
commercially he buys new-model Fal-
cons from Ford and, with the manu-
facturer’s tacit approval, installs under
their bonnets the V 8 engine normally
reserved for the Ford Fairlane. Ford
then receive back the Falcon engine and
credit him for it.
Mr Warner is selling his converted
new Falcons for £1750. (The regular
Falcon retails for approximately £1400.)
“They've attracted a lot of interest,” he
said. “The first day I advertised one
in a Sydney paper I got more than 100
enquiries. People love to speed away
from traffic lights in a smallish car,
leaving the big models for dead. With
this converted Falcon they can do that
and then further down the block make
people's heads turn when they hear the
V 8 sound coming out of a mere Fal-
con.” The urge to Score One Up On
Thy Neighbor seems to be one of the
driving forces of hot-rodders here as
abroad. But Mr Warner, whose shop
is something of a household word among
Australian hot-rodders, has also found a
genuine love of engines and mechanical
tinkering among his younger clients.
They are interested, for example, to
learn that as well as the 260 cubic inch
V 8 engine he has fitted to some Falcons
he also has a 289 cubic inch Fairlane
V 8 in others. The 289 job has high
compression pistons and special connect-
ing rods as well as a four-inch bore.
There is a stroke of 2.87 inches with a
four-barrel carburettor and the engine
runs on 10.5 to 1 compression, develop-
ing 271 b.h.p. at 6000 r.p.m. Naturally
Mr Warner has had to incorporate a
heavier clutch and different transmis-
sion to take the extra torque but, as yet,
there has been no basic change made in
the regular Falcon braking system. The
engine, he says, can spin to 7000 r.p.m.
without trouble.
Although hot-rodding and drag-
racing are terms loosely used in these
parts, they are not interchangeable. Hot-
rodding, strictly speaking, means racing
over long stretches of territory—
notably in the giant tracks run by the
Lions Clubs and Coca-Cola (among
others) in the US. Drag-racing is almost
invariably done on short stretches of
track, usually a quarter of a mile. Here
one finds the terms frequently inter-
changed.
In America, drag races are strictly
supervised, coming under the jurisdiction
of a national association. Times are
kept by a timekeeper, helmets and
goggles must be worn in an open vehicle,
there are special enclosures for the
judges and spectators, and the supervi-
sion throughout is strict. In Victoria,
the Riverside Dragway at Fisherman's
Bend has become the mecca for the
State’s addicts, and is run under super-
vision as careful as the American, with
the Victorian police and the local Hot


Rod Association keeping a sharp eye on
the proceedings. In New South Wales,
supervised races are held at the Castle-
reagh Drag (formerly air) Strip between
Richmond and Penrith. These occur
every four months, and anyone wishing
to enter for them has to join the Con-
federation of Australian Motor Sports.
In Queensland, hot-rod drivers belt
around a 440-yard circuit instead of
along a quarter-mile road-stretch; there,
the Queensland Stock Car and Hot Rod
Association sees that the rules are pre-
served.
Personalities have already erupted
from the cult. Among them are, in Vic-
toria, Daryl Harvey, whose famous 1934
Ford Roadster can beat the hell out of a
quarter-mile in 14 seconds, and Peter
Holder whose extended Standard 10
can make the quarter in three seconds
more than Harvey's. In Queensland,
there are Peter Dykes, who drives a
California-designed machine, and his
chief rival, Keith (“Count") Blicharski.
Although the hot-rodders’ official
races are widely attended, many hard-
core enthusiasts spurn them. They ob-
ject to paying £lO entry fee for their
cars. Moreover, they dislike the official
races because, although they are told
the time they have run along the track,
they are not told the exact speed they
were going at the time of the race’s
conclusion. (One would think a brief
glance at the speedometer would con-
vince them, but apparently they need
“official” confirmation, receipt of which
provides an indispensable thrill.)
In Sydney, the biggest races —“un-
official” and in fact illegal—are held at
a mysterious location between Suther-
land and Liverpool, although (local resi-
dents beware) they have been known
even in the “exclusive” areas of Double
Bay and Rose Bay, cars screaming along
the harbor foreshores in the small hours.
A correspondent of the writer's recently
submitted himself to one of these experi-
ences: in a darkened roadway shortly
after midnight, mercifully with “ordi-
nary” traffic out of the way, he settled
into a souped-up 1955 Ford Customline:
a second later he was being whisked
into nowhere, the speedometer flickering
over the 100 m.p.h. mark. The driver
crisply said, “We thrashed that Holden,”
and, less than a third of a minute after
his departure, our correspondent's ordeal
was over. Or not quite: the race's end
was followed by a cry of “The Feds
are coming!” and, we are reliably in-
formed, “within 30 seconds not one of
the 40 cars was left standing there”.
HPoday, hot-rodding or drag-racing has
yet to be big business in Australia.
But this may change. An American
visitor, Bob Feuerhelm of Pasadena,
California, said: “Your drag-racing is
about the same as it was 10 or 12 years
ago in the States. Over there today it’s
the biggest spectator sport. It's even
ahead of baseball . . .”
Bob, who is general manager of Milne
Brothers Automobile Center in Pasa-
dena and who was racing motor cycles
in Australia 18 years ago, says his com-
pany has 40,000 dollars invested in two
drag cars and a transporter.
“In the States 20 years ago there were
only 3000 rodders (which is about the
number in Australia now) and I reckon
now there’s something like two million,”
Feuerhelm said. “Most of these kids,
and adults too, me for example, are law-
abiding.
“It’s the minority dubbed shod-rodders
by the orthodox that isn’t. Naturally to
some there’s scant difference between
the shod-rodder and the hot-rodder. Put-
ting it briefly, the hot-rodder is inter-
ested in improving his car in some way
or another while the shod-rodder is inter-
ested in using his car as an instrument
of aggression.”
In Sydney, a magazine, “Australian
Hot Rod", has emerged. The publisher
is Peter Tyldsley and the editor Tom
Floyd. They began the magazine on
£lOO capital and soon got 10.000 cir-
culation; this has now trebled. “Our
only competition is ‘Dragster Monthly’
which sells between three and four
thousand copies and comes from Vic-
toria. Our average reader is between 14
and 22,” Floyd said.
A thoroughly built hot-rod has its
motor bored and stroked and its fuel
and exhaust systems redesigned. It is
fitted with a more convenient transmis-
sion, racing tyres and a comprehensive
range of instruments. The brakes are
improved and the suspension stiffened
and lowered, all with safety in mind.
But many of the backyard car build-
ers are only worried about speed. Motors
are bored out to explosive dimensions,
brakes and worn parts ignored and sus-
pensions lowered by cutting coil springs
and putting blocks in leaf springs.
Holdens, because of their availability,
are the most frequently hotted-up cars,
but the wave of speed shops spreading
over Sydney offers hot bits for almost
every car on the road.
TTot-rod records, a means of winter-
time employment for surfie singers,
serve up the excitement of speed with a
beat. They started about six years ago
with “Hot Rod Lincoln”, “I wound it out
to a hundred and ten; twisted the speedo-
meter cable off the end”. They made
the hit parades again last year with
“Drag City”, sparking the current craze.
At the moment transistors are blaring
a tune called “GTO”, which extols the
virtues of the Pontiac GTO, “Gonna
save all my money and buy a GTO/
Get a helmet and roll bar and I'll be
ready to go”. There was “The Little
Old Lady from Pasadena”, “She’s
gonna get a ticket sooner or later,
’cos she can't keep her foot off the
accelerator”, and “Dead Man's Curve”—
the hot-rod song with a moral —about
a race between an E-type Jaguar and
a Chev. Stingray, “The last thing I re-
member, Doc., I started to swerve . .
As well as records, hot-rodders and
dragsters have their colorfully named
clubs—in New South Wales we obtained
some choice examples: The Pharaohs,
The Shifters. The Gladiators. The North-
ern Beaches. The Chariots. The Romans,
The Ramrods, The Rickshaws, The
Road Knights. Their only rules are—
surprisingly—no drinking and neat
dress. They have recently carved down
their total membership to a startlingly
small 400-450 because “too many mem-
bers weren't doing enough for the
clubs”. Meetings of hot-rodders are
usually at beefburger joints where chal-
lenges are laid down and dragstrips
selected.
And what of the future? Floyd of
“Hot Rod” said: “That depends—in
NSW—on whether some businessman
will be prepared to part with £30.000
to establish a strip in the State. On this
strip the kids would be able to drive
their hot-rods without having to pay
£lO entry fee or be denied the chance
of knowing what speed they reached at
the finish.” In the other States, though,
there seems no problem about the future
of the sport. The crowds are growing,
there is increasing interest among motor
and oil companies, and businessmen and
police are solidly behind it. As for
the illegal races in those dark back
streets in the small hours . . . only the
“Feds”, ever ready to swoop unexpect-
edly, can answer that.
ROD JARGON
Blower—supercharger.
Bent eight—VB engine.
Custom—any car remodelled to the
owner’s personal design.
Deuce—l 932 Ford.
Drag—two cars pitted against one
another in an elementary time trial.
Eliminator—the winner of a class at a
drag.
Feds—police.
Flat-head—side valve engine.
Four banger—four cylinder side valve
engine.
Highway binge—rodding rally.
Headers—pipes running from motor to
the muffler.
Highboy—car with guards and running
boards removed and cycle guards
fitted.
Juice brakes—hydraulics.
Jug—carburettor.
Loot—trophies won.
Rail—dragster without body.
Shod-rodder—driver who uses his car
aggressively.
Slingshot—dragster with seating behind
rear axle.
T Bone—Model T Ford.


■?
m
G;\
■■■■■■
■
/
wm
■ .
A real live ANGE
wmimm \
MM
*k
in
In a wonderful world of fending and caring, our lovely
nurses are indeed real live angels. And every nurse you'il
ever see always looks fresh, crisp, and neat as a pin thanks
to Cesarine. Used almost exclusively by every leading Hospital
in Australia, Cesarine is proud of its wonderful record of
service. Hospital uniforms take really hard wear they're
laundered frequently severely. Thanks to Cesarine, they
always look smart, stylish, fresh and crisp. Make Cesarine your
first choice for uniforms.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD. —Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
■k
. . . SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
CP33I
Crime or “Kicks”?
By GORDON HAWKINS
Two years ago the New South Wales
Youth Policy Advisory Committee,
after considering reports from
Government and quasi - Government
authorities, stated that “£500,000 would
be a conservative estimate of the annual
cost of vandalism to private and public
property in this State”. And, in all
States, municipal and shire councils,
teachers’ organisations and newspapers
have protested at the increasing loss to
the community from this kind of activity.
Local government bodies have reported
damage to the extent of many thousands
of pounds per annum; and one school in
New South Wales estimated damage and
loss at the school in 1963 at £20,000.
It is significant that the term vandalism
has only relatively recently come into
official use and many authorities still
employ such terms as “malicious mis-
chief” and “wilful damage” to designate
this type of offence. Vandalism has been
defined as the deliberate defacement,
mutilation or destruction of property. It
takes a variety of forms. Public property
is frequently the object of attack: schools,
government buildings, parks, road signs,
trees, shrubs, benches, public lavatories
for example. Parked cars are a focus for
some kind of vandalism; such as tyre-
slashing, removing hub caps and in-
signia, window breaking, upholstery de-
struction and slashing convertible tops.
Railway coaches and other types of
public transport have always been
popular targets. Cinemas and dance-
halls have also suffered considerable
damage.
Unfortunately, although all this is
widely deplored, it is characteristic of the
public attitude to criminals and the
crime problem generally that little
attempt has been made to determine the
nature and extent of the malady or to
investigate its causes. It would require
a good deal of research to obtain the
bare facts about the incidence and the
cost of repairs involved in vandalism in
this country. The New South Wales
estimate cited above is admitted to be
no more than an informed guess; and
in other States even this is wanting. It
has been said that the cost to the
American public of deliberate property
destruction by youths is probably greater
than the combined costs of all other
forms of juvenile property offence.
What is the position here?
Such criminal statistics as are available
provide little in the way of information.
The figures moreover suggest that this
is one of the most consistently under-
reported of crimes. A lengthy “Report
on Juvenile Delinquency in Western
Australia”, published by the Child Wel-
fare Department in 1962, states that
wilful damage accounts for only 4 per
cent of all charges against boys, whereas
stealing, for example, constitutes 66 per
cent. Analysis of the figures given in the
Victorian annual “Statistical Review of
Crime” for “persons proceeded against”
reveals that a similar situation obtains
there. The figures listed under malicious
damage, malicious injury to property,
wilful damage and vandalism combined
come to little over 5 per cent of the total
for larceny and breaking in respect of
persons under 21 years. The latest
figures provided by the New South
Wales Child Welfare Department show
malicious damage as coming well below


break, enter and steal, stealing, taking
and using motor vehicles, sex offences,
robbery and assault in the list of offences
in order of most frequent occurrence.
Moreover, such offences constituted only
2.7 per cent of cases coming before
Children’s Courts in 1962-63. One thing
which is revealed by the figures is that
the proportion of persons proceeded
against and of crimes “cleared up” is
much lower than for other types of
property offence. This may in part
explain the under-reporting, for people
commonly neglect to report crimes where
there seems little likelihood of any
effective action being taken.
With regard to causation there has
been a good deal of speculative theorising
but little systematic research. Vandalism
has been said variously to be: a symptom
of personality maladjustment; a protest
against over - identification with the
mother; an expression of fears of homo-
sexuality; a substitute gratification for
personal violence. Some writers insist
that its significance lies in the fact
that it evidences social maladaptation.
It is a protest against middle-class con-
duct norms or alternatively a response
to the frustration felt by the adolescent
in a culture in wLich his status is
ambiguous and his role ill defined. No
doubt these suggestions may contain
elements of truth in relation to individual
cases but it seems that tw'o relatively
simple points often tend to get over-
looked.
In the first place it should hardly need
saying that man is the most violent and
destructive of creatures. Moreover, we
live in violent times, for the history of
the past half century shows a pheno-
menal quantitative increase in violence.
The present generation has been raised
in a world of unprecedented and widely
publicised violence. And our periodical
indulgence in orgies of destructiveness,
even if ostensibly in the best of causes,
can hardly be calculated to help inculcate
the lesson that property should be pre-
served and respected. It may be im-
possible to prove any causal connection
here but it is not altogether fanciful to
suggest that one may exist.
The second point is this. Studies in
both the United States and Great Britain
suggest that wilful damage to property
is largely the work of adolescent and
pre-adolescent males. It appears, too,
that destruction as a behavior problem
tends to decline with age and be out-
grown with the passage of time. Destruc-
tive mischief is not usually the first step
in an eventual criminal career. There is
no reason to regard what is often little
more than destructive play as patho-
logical, or evidence of criminal malice.
It is notable that we have not always
severely censured all adolescent destruc-
tiveness; and in a restricted setting it has
even been approved. When I was at
Oxford, members of my college annually
did damage amounting to several hun-
dreds of pounds taking part in “rags” of
various kinds. They were not regarded
as morally culpable and no one
suggested that they should see a
psychiatrist. Most of them have since
become almost unbearably worthy and
responsible citizens.
"It isn't officially oyer until Twelfth Night, you know!"
This is not to suggest that we can
dismiss all vandalism as so much boyish
fun due to a love of adventure, or that
it merits social approval. But we should
remember that young males unlike
females are often encouraged to be
aggressive, tough, self - assertive and
adventurous. Possibly in a competitive
society a degree of aggressiveness is
necessary to success in some fields;
although the demand for it on the
assembly line or among the filing
cabinets must be limited. At any rate
for youth in modern urban communities
the range of approved outlets for aggres-
sive energy is severely restricted. John
Barron Mays, whose studies of delin-
quency in Liverpool (England) are well
known, has said: “For the slum boy . . .
the side of the warehouse is his mountain
chasm, the railway cuttings his adventure
course; night-watchmen, patrolling police
and shopkeepers are worthy antagonists
to test his steel against . . .” Although
the environment in which young people
are brought up in Australia is less
cramped and restricted than in the
United Kingdom (and this is reflected
in the much lower delinquency rates),
Mays’ words are not without relevance.
Over half the population of Australia
resides in urban communities and the
proportion is increasing yearly.
What can be done about this? Apart
from more effective law enforcement,
which is clearly required in this area,
two moves could be initiated immediately.
Firstly, it is well known that juveniles
who engage in delinquent behavior of
all kinds frequently do not view their
activities as criminal. This is especially
true of vandalism. Whereas adults think
of teenage vandals as hoodlums the
vandal often has an entirely dilferent
self-image. He commonly regards him-
self as a practical joker or a madly gay
individual. It is done for “a giggle’’, for
‘"thrills”, for “kicks”, and the fact that
nothing is stolen during vandalism tends
to reinforce the vandal’s conception of
himself as non-delinquent. In this con-
nection the suggestion of the NSW Youth
Policy Advisory Committee that steps
be taken through the Education Depart-
ment and the Police Lecturing Squad to
induce a more realistic and less subjective
attitude has much to recommend it.
Something on the lines of the recent
anti-litter campaign in Sydney might also
be considered.
Secondly, some funds should be allo-
cated for the provision and expansion of
youth organisations to provide legitimate
channels for the employment of energies
expended in wilful damage offences.
Even if estimates of the cost of vandalism
to the community were grossly exag-
gerated—and most experts believe that
they err on the side of conservatism—the
investment would be profitable.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round '
If you mean business,
I’ll save you time”
m
FLY Ansett-ANA
DRIVE AVIS Fa/con
RENTA CAR
Avis Rent-a-Car and ANSETT-ANA will save you time, worry
and money on your next business trip.
DO MORE! SEE MORE! RELAX MORE!
With ANSETT-ANA you jet to your destination at 7 miles a
minute! You arrive fresh and relaxed after a comfortable,
trouble-free trip!
With a sparkling new AVIS Falcon waiting for you at any air-
port throughout Australia, you’re ready to get straight on the
job. You waste no time . . . you make more productive calls!
It's the modern, more efficient way of business travel. Reserve
your AVIS Falcon when you book your ANSETT-ANA flight,
it’s as simple as that!
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENT-A-CAR
67T/BS/M
In the Beginning was Dino
From a LONDON CORRESPONDENT
Dino de Laurentiis’ picture of “The
Bible” has run smack into trouble.
Columbia, originally slated to re-
lease the film, backed out upon seeing
a rough cut and so did Metro-Goldwyn
Mayer, Magna and other distributors.
There seem to be good reasons for this.
The asking price for the United States
and Canadian rights alone is between
five and six million dollars, a possibly
exorbitant figure in view of the fact that
Metro still has areas in which to release
its mammoth spectacle “King of Kings”,
and George Stevens’ “The Greatest Story
Ever Told”, another serious competitive
item, is to appear in New York on Feb-
ruary 15. The producer is releasing it
himself in Germany and Japan.
Dino de Laurentiis’ film is not quite
what he originally planned. It has shrunk
rather.
It ends with the sacrifice of Isaac
(Genesis xxii) and spans the first 30 of
the Bible's 1300 pages. It is, by its own
admission, the greatest movie ever made.
In a dusty valley south of Rome, the
forces of Abraham (George C. Scott)
descend at night to smite the sleeping
armies of Kings Chedorlaomer and
Tidal (Genesis XIV) and recapture
nephew Lot and Lot’s as-yet-unsalted
wife. The extras on the enemy’s side
got treble pay, because they had to
shave their heads and this upset Italian
male vanity. On the roof of the
camera-truck sat the sole surviving direc-
tor, John Huston, wearing neat, white
denims and chain-smoking cigarillos.
“I’m not religious about God,” he said,
when we saw him, “but I am religious
about the Bible as literature.” The sol-
diers charged waving rubber-tipped
spears. “The horses ran out of frame,”
said Huston. Horses galloped everywhere.
Huston bent down to examine a stallion.
“That’s a fine, fine animal,” he said. At
his home in Ireland he is MFH of the
Galway Blazers. “I promise you,” Hus-
ton said, “ ‘The Bible’ will bear no rela-
tion at all to the usual biblical film.”
Commercially, as well as artistically,
the film looks like one of the oddest
gambles that even the film world has
ever knowm. Dino de Laurentiis (every-
one calls him “Dino”) is risking huge
sums of money on “The Bible’ at a time
W'hen the Italian film industry is in a
grave crisis. He sees this film as part of
his crusade to set the industry (Europe's
largest) on a par with the big American
companies; and “The Bible” marks his
supreme offensive, sparing neither stars
nor money. But he’s run into trouble
ever since “The Bible’s” genesis.
It started with his stars and directors.
Dino likes to announce big projects with
a flourish. He does this, sometimes,
before the projects are actually fixed. He
started off by announcing that Maria
Callas would play Sarah. She wouldn’t.
He revealed that Olivier would be the
narrator and the Voice of God, off
screen. (Peter O’Toole was also men-
tioned for the role, and is now playing


Looking for a key
to international trade?
Your man from C. itoh
has a key
to every door
C. Itoh, one of Japan’s oldest and most experienced trading com-
panies, is a master locksmith when it comes to opening the doors
of international trade.
With a staff of almost 7,000 experts and over 70 branches
and affiliates throughout the world, C. Itoh offers you fast, efficient
service in export, import, triangular trade and joint investment
ventures.
Why not let your nearby C. Itoh man give you his expert
help? You’ll find one in every major city of the world.
ES
International Traders/General Importers and Exporters/Business Consultants
C. ITOH & CO. (Aust.) PTY. LTD.:
188 George St., Sydney. Telex: 20205. Tel.: 27-7611. Cable: “CITOH SYDNEY”
140 King St., Melbourne. Telex: 30313. Tel.: 62-3288. Cable: ‘‘CITOH MELBOURNE”
HEAD OFFICE: C.P.O. Box 117, Osaka, Japan. Cable: ‘‘CITOH OSAKA”
TOKYO OFFICE: C.P.O. Box 136, Tokyo, Japan. Cable: ‘‘CITOH TOKYO”
OTHER OFFICES: Fremantle, Noumea, Djakarta, Singapore, Bangkok, Hong Kong,
New Delhi, Teheran, Karachi, New York, Los Angeles, Montreal, Mexico City Sao
Paulo, Buenos Aires, London, Paris, Hamburg, Milano, Beyrouth, Johannesburg
and other major cities of the world.
The Angel of the Lord.) But Olivier, it is
now revealed, may not have time to play
God. De Laurentiis and Stravinsky would
write the music. That in fact seems to be
true and represents Dino's biggest actual
coup.
Most flamboyant revelation of all: Dino
said there would be three or four
directors—Robert Bresson for the Crea-
tion and the Fall, Orson Welles for Abra-
ham, Visconti for Joseph, and perhaps
Huston for the Flood (he will now play
Noah). Dino enlisted Christopher Fry,
who'd scripted “Barabbas” for him, to
give the directors something to direct.
Fry wrote a script that was reverent and
close m style to the original but it could
hardly satisfy de Laurentiis’ four asso-
ciate geniuses. They fell on it like Cain
on Abel and argued over it for more than
a year.
Bresson wanted an anthropological
approach to Adam and Eve, emphasising
theories of evolution and departing
widely from Fry, Genesis, and perhaps
box-office. Welles wanted the whole
Abraham story, including Sodom, to be
told by Abraham to Isaac on the way to
the sacrifice. Visconti hardly got started.
Then Huston saw the script, and was
delighted with it. Dino, delighted with
his delight, thereupon said he could do
the whole film. “I finally realised.” Dino
says, “that with three or four directors
1 would lose unity of style and approach.”
He now has unity of language (English)
as well, and with one director the film
could also come down more easily to a
sensible length and cost.
This was important because of the
second major problem with the film: its
budget. Dino was unable to get support
from Columbia, who had released
“Barabbas”, and he had to finance “The
Bible” privately—largely from Swiss
banks. Dino finally cut the film down
to $l3 million (£4,600,000) and its run-
ning time to 3i hours.


AROUND MELBOURNE
The “Perfidy” of Ron Barassi
How can you believe in anything any more?
T almost didn’t write this week. I was
too upset and miserable. I have
been through an almost unbearable
shock. How can I tell you? Ron
Barassi has applied for the job and been
accepted as playing coach of Carlton.
Sydney fellows wouldn't understand the
perfidy of this. There are two things
that good fathers do for their sons in
Melbourne, neither thing more impor-
tant than the other, but both must be
done on the date of birth and not a day
later. That is, put him down for a good
school and put his name on the waiting
list for the Melbourne Cricket Club.
The MCC, dating from 1838, is the
oldest club of any kind in Victoria. We
invented the game of Australian Rules
football back in 1856 and Carlton was
an upstart club that wasn't heard of until
1864. This is why we look in horror
at the departure of Barassi.
Barassi, until last week, was the great-
est demon of them all. He was Mr
Football in Melbourne. When the
electoral office puts out sample forms
they never use a name like John Doe
or John Smith. They put Ron Barassi.
If you ask a Melbourne newspaper man
for the greatest news story of 1964
automatically he will say: ‘'Ron Barassi’s
move to Carlton.”
You should have seen some of the
letters that have been in the papers.
Here's a couple from “The Sun". "A
staunch Demons supporter, 1 cried when
I learned of Ron Barassi’s appointment
to Carlton. If Barassi feels that he is
too good for Melbourne, then why go to
a lower club? The victories won't be as
frequent nor will the praise and sym-
pathy from his supporters, Carlton and
Melbourne alike. Demons Supporter
(Melbourne).”
“What does Ron Barassi think he is
doing? How about the thousands of
Demon fanatics who have defended
him when attacked, backed him up when
he is outspoken and supported him when
down?—Red and Blue (Burwood).”
But that's not all. Here in Melbourne
we love our budgies and it has always
been our custom to make our little ones
loyal footy supporters. So there have
been all sorts of letters from budgie
lovers. One lady at Lilydale reported
how patiently she taught her budgie
to sing “Come on Ron”. There was
another lady in the city who went even
further. She taught her budgie to say:
“Come on the Demons", “Kick a goal
Barassi”, and “Good kick Sarassi”.
What are these people to do now? As
I understand it budgies can be taught
only at a very early age, and it is too
late for them to turn now. I hate to say
it, but I think these budgies will have
to be strangled.
And there's this problem. Every
little kid in Melbourne as soon as he
can walk is given a football sweater by
his loving parents. Three out of four
of all sweaters would be exactly correct
Melbourne football sweaters. And of
the umpteen thousand little Melbourne
football sweaters, nine out of 10 would
have the number 31 on the back. This
is the number always worn by Ron
Barassi in battle. It was also worn by
his late father, Ron Barassi Snr, a for-
mer Melbourne rover.
Sweaters are one thing, but it goes
further. They also make these football
jackets for dogs in club colors. There
was a shop here called Poodles Paradise
and very nearly all the jackets they sold
for divine poodles were Melbourne jack-
ets with 31 on the back. Can you
imagine all the unstitching that will have
to be done?
Even now I find it all hard to believe.
There have been many coaching offers
before. Some time back there was an
offer from Woodville in South Austra-
lia, but Ron made it clear that he
wouldn’t go under £5OOO a year. Ron
makes £lOOO to £l5OO a year from his
TV and radio appearances alone. Then,
last December 10, Carlton made Barassi
this offer of playing coach for three
years at £3OOO a year; not bad for a
part-time seasonal job. We were happy
to note next day that he knocked the
job back. After all, why should he
want it? He is assistant coach at Mel-
bourne, he is heir apparent to Norm
Smith, who has been the brilliant coach
for 14 years. He has only to bide his
time to collect the most noble job in
football.
Then, incredibly, right on the eve of
Christmas, he changed his mind.
Despite the fact that he had some power-
ful rivals like Murray Weideman, the
former captain of Collingwood, Carlton
appointed Barassi as their new coach,
fast as you can bat your eyelid. Why
did he do it? I have thought and
thought about this one. Was it mere
hunger for money? Barassi is 28, still
at the height of his powers and still the
inspiration and power of the Demons.
I remember all too well the 1963
disaster, the trial of Ron Barassi when
he met the tribunal at Harrison House
on a charge of striking John Peck of
Hawthorn. You might say it was the
biggest court case of 1963. Over 250
people waited outside on the result and
every newspaper assigned three men to
the job, to say nothing of radio and TV.
Well, Ron was suspended for four
matches, which put him out for the
finals and unquestionably cost Mel-
bourne the premiership. This mustn't
happen again.
There’s the theory that all this is
part of a demonic plot. Ron is going
to Carlton just as a coach. If he is a
success, in three years’ time he will be
just beautifully ripened to take over as
coach from Norm Smith on his retire-
ment.
But already there have been threats
from the Melbourne committee that
never will they clear Barassi to Carlton.
They couldn't afford to have such a
player against them. It is all too much
for me. I don’t understand anything
any more. How can I sustain a worthy
loathing for the opposition if my idols
start ro.mping around from team to
team?
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
Europe’s Big Binge
Politics? Forget it!
By JAMES BURNHAM
As w 7 e stood in the queue at London’s
glittering new airlines terminal, we
were surrounded by the lavish
shops and display cases that nowadays
tempt international air travellers with
tax-free perfumes, silks, liquors, cameras
and jewels. The multiple screens of a
closed-circuit TV system alternated be-
tween flight announcements and ads for
Rolls-Royces, chocolates and holidays in
the Mediterranean sunshine. A long
bar nearby and an expensive glass-
walled restaurant w'ere crowded with
customers. A few places ahead of me
in the line I noticed two Chinese men
of thirty or so. I felt certain they were
junior representatives of some sort from
Peking, perhaps involved in the negoti-
ations currently in course in most Euro-
pean nations for more Sino-European
trade. They wore overcoats of drab
cloth cut with no attempt at style. Their
shoes w'ere ugly, their briefcases worn.
Their faces were not the round, moon-
faced Chinese stereotype, but handsome,
lean and bone-showing, with tight skin.
They looked proud, very intelligent and
very hard; and in their eyes as they
interrupted their soft talking to glance
now and then at the scene around them
there was, I could not help feeling, a
cold contempt. Their eyes seemed to
me to be saying: “So you soft people
of the West are far enough gone to
throw away your birthright for the sake
of this trash!”
Doubtless it was all no more than
a passing mood on my part. Probably
the two Chinese were partners in a
London laundry off to visit relatives in
Paris. That contempt I thought I saw
was quite likely envy or longing. But,
still, my momentary fancy was not
altogether idle.
Western Europe—just about all of it
except Ireland and Portugal—is on a
hedonistic binge, a mass rush to the
temples of Mammon, the doors of which
have suddenly been opened wide by
Europe's spectacular economic push.
It is not merely a question of a “de-
cadent ruling class’’ or “privileged
minority’’. Everybody is in on it. The
United States continues richer, per
capita, than any European nation, but
the change in Europe from a social situ-
ation in which the large majority was
poor and a good proportion often
hungry to the present widespread
abundance has come with an abruptness
that has turned many European heads.
In 1950 a car. in Europe, was the
badge of wealth or pow'er. Today the
traffic jams of London. Paris and Rome
are worse than New' York's; the ex-
panding wave of car ownership has
already engulfed the low'er middle-class
and skilled factory workers. In prime
farming districts it is now common for
a peasant to drive out from the village
to his land; the horses have given way
to tractors. Stores selling major house-
hold appliances are everywhere. Antique
shops—global symptom of suprasub-
sistence wealth —sprout by the thousand.
Tourism—until a decade ago in Europe
the pleasure of a small wealthy minority
—has become a total mass phenome-
non, a wandering of the peoples. (Ame-
ricans are now a small minority among
tourists in Europe.) There is a strip-
tease for every purse.
But the eating is the most impressive
symbol of Europe’s hedonist orgy. Even
in France, gourmet has been transmuted
into gourmand. The English will never
learn to cook well but they are presently
cooking much. The Germans, Belgians
and Dutch have always had a special
weakness for gluttony among the capital
sins, and the Devil is now successfully
tempting them five times daily—as
their ample bellies confess. In sheer
bulk and caloric total, the food and
drink millions of Europeans are now
consuming at a single meal is staggering.
A stranger wonders how it is possible
that those local shopkeepers, clerks and
farmers at the neighboring tables in a
provincial restaurant, after the terrine
de maison, parsleyed ham. sausage, cru-
dites, pickles and salads, after the trout,
maybe pigeon or guinea hen, the veal
and potatoes and carrots, after the great
slabs of rich cheeses and the fruits, after
the glass after glass of white wine and
red, are capable of topping it off with
a huge piece of glazed pastry fresh from
the oven. (And what an incredulous,
then pitying, look you get at lunch if
you order not a repas but an omelet and
green salad!) When we visited the cha-
teau of Clos de Vougeot, three days
after a banquet for six hundred had
been held there, the kitchpn maids were
still washing the last hundreds of the
three thousand wine glasses that had
been used.
This mass pursuit of material goods
and pleasures has much to do, I am
inclined to think, with the latterly
course of European affairs. The atten-
tion of most Europeans is focused on
food and cars, TV sets, vacations and
washing machines. They are uninter-
ested in empires, crusades, colonies,
liberations, wars in distant places, jus-
tice for others, dim future threats. The
French people, except for a few roman-
tics and professional soldiers, couldn't
have cared less whether France kept
Algeria; and therefore Algeria couldn't
be kept. The people would not support
the grim, expensive measures needed to
keep it. Seen in this perspective,
de Gaulle—superficially the very type
of the autonomous leader—seems mere
instrument of the mass will, like
Churchill's successors, in their own
fashion, as they presided over the
liquidation of the British Empire. There
is money to be made, jobs to add, by
trading with the Russians. Chinese or
Rumanians. Why not? Nothing visible
to worry about: the missiles have can-
celled each other out. There are lives
to be lost if we resist in South-East Asia


or Cuba or southern Africa? Forget it
then: what does it matter w t hc runs those
faraway jungles when we’ve never had
it so good and are going to get it better?
The political leader cannot operate
like an intellectual who declares what
ought to be and then calls on men and
governments to bring it about. If the
political leader moves too far ahead of
the mass, contact is broken and he is
isolated. Can President Johnson decide
on that sort of expansion of the Viet-
nam war that might defeat the Commu-
nist plan for conquest of South-East
Asia? If the people of this country will
not support the vast effort that would be
needed, if for them it would be a vile,
useless war like the war of the French
army in Algeria, then a decision by the
President could not be effective. Let us
therefore not condemn Lyndon Johnson
too quickly for his failure to decide, for
his continued temporising half-measures.
The failure, like so many others in the
world struggle of our epoch, is our own
as well as our leaders’. It is almost
true to say that we have the leaders we
deserve.
Harlem’s New Pride
From ANTHONY SAMPSON in New York
Where Seventh Avenue crosses
125th Street in Manhattan is the
hub of Harlem. At one corner
of the square is the Hotel Theresa, a
tall, bleak place where Castro stayed,
and where Malcolm X now has his head-
quarters. Next to it is Sugar Ray’s Bar,
where a big-bosomed bar-girl exchanges
quick banter with predatory drinkers.
And opposite the Theresa is a small-
looking bookshop, covered with placards
and slogans. It is called the National
Memorial African Book Store, and an-
nounces that it is “World History Book
Outlet on Two Billion Africans and Non-
White People”. Among the placards out-
side is one which says: “The God Damn
White Man”.
Inside, the shop is lined to the ceiling
with books about Africa and the Negroes
—books about Harlem, the Congo, the
South, Ghana, Liberia, South Africa,
tracing the whole history of African self-
awareness, from faded volumes of
“Who’s Who in Colored America” to the
Left-wing tracts of the 19305, to the
autobiographies and manifestos of
Nkrumah, Lumumba or Quaison-Sackey.
On some of the piles of books there
are miniature flagpoles with flags of the
African States. Round the walls, where
there are not books, there are photo-
graphs of all kinds of African leaders—
stern, Victorian Negro ministers, gay,
robed Ghanaians, and the lean bespec-
tacled head of Lumumba.
Presiding over the shop is a wizened
old Negro in a Jinnah cap, looking
rather like Dr Banda, called Lewis H.
Michaux. He’s been running the shop
for 30 years.
If you express an interest in the shop,
he will take you into his den at the back,
with still more photographs and tro-
phies, and a gas-mask in the corner “for
when there are riots”. He talks in quick
epigrams, sometimes in rhyme. “You
know the definition of Civil Rights?
It’s dollar-bills and silver. Take Sammy
Davis Junior—he’s got civil rights—he’s
got the bills!” “The white men are try-
ing to get to the moon, because they
know they’ve got to leave here soon.”
He will show you lovingly round the
slogans on the walls, whic' have an odd
mixture of ferocious sentiments with a
cosy wit, as if his campaigning was not
so much an active crusade as a source
of solace and dignity:
WHITE MAN’S DREAM
OF WHITES BEING SUPREME
HAS TURNED TO SOUR
CREAM
But Mr Michaux’s favorite exhibit at
the moment is a big broadsheet about
the Congo, passionately denouncing King
Leopold’s old regime, with a photograph
of one of Leopold’s mistresses alongside
a picture of an African with his hands
cut off.
Mr Michaux is certainly an eccentric,
and an extremist. He runs his own
“Back to Africa” movement, and the
bookshop also serves as “Repatriation
Centre”, but his movement has no more
than 900 members. He says he has been
negotiating with African States to receive
repatriated Negroes, but he admits that
a lot of his members don’t actually
want to go back to Africa.
Yet his shop, and his brisk and pas-
sionate trade, represent something which
is now not at all eccentric—the close
fellow-feeling between the American
Negroes and the Africans. Five years
ago the contact between the two was
"What redly concerns me is, after Menzies, what?"


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
CMERR'
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
L
ULOV
Vodka
slender, and their ideas about each other
were romantic or scornful.
But since then the American Negroes
have acquired a new indignation and
pride, and the new African States have
emerged from obscurity and humiliation
into diplomatic splendor.
Robed African Presidents drive in
Cadillacs to the United Nations and
make speeches which hit the front page
of the Harlem paper, the “New York
Amsterdam News”. African diplomats
have been beaten up by the New York
police, mistaking them for American
Negroes; but when it happens it pro-
vokes a diplomatic incident.
This new closeness has been clinched
by the Congo. While “Time” and “Life”
have been carrying horrific stories about
the murder of Carlson, the Negroes
have had no doubts about their loyal-
ties. As one pamphlet put it, “African-
Americans share the world-wide indigna-
tion of colored people against the brutal
intervention against our brothers in the
Congo”.
Negroes have demonstrated outside the
UN, and last week Malcolm X returned
full of fire against the American sup-
port of “Moise Tshombe’s hired killers”.
The Congo has brought a much closer
relationship between American domestic
politics and her international diplomacy.
In the run the effect is depressing,
for the Congo massacres have encour-
aged white Americans to think of black
men as savages, and have discouraged
notions of building a multi-racial
society.
But many Negroes believe that, in the
longer run, the Congo may be a help to
their cause—as the Mau Mau was. For
it has forced on Americans a new
awareness of the depth of the racial
problem. What American Negroes
dread most is to be ignored, to be the
“invisible men” (in Ralph Ellison’s
phrase) who are somehow left out.
The Congo, whatever else it might be,
is not invisible; it shows that Africans
can and will fight back. And there are
many Negroes, like Mr Michaux, to
whom the Congo rebels are a rallying
cry. (ofns)
Letters to the Editor
English in the Mass
SIR. Richard Newport in his recent
article (8., December 19) on “English in
the Mass” failed to give credit where it
is due. Though the Council Fathers
were praised for the changes in the
Church’s public worship which are al-
ready with us or are at least fore-
shadowed, the Bishops, in fact, run a
very tardy second to the pioneer priests
and laymen who got the lumbering
liturgical machine on the move to begin
with. The Bishops collectively have
merely given belated approval to a series
of changes which were initiated by indi-
vidual priests without the approval
and often without knowledge of the
local Hierarchies. If matters liturgical
had been left to the Bishops, very Tittle
would have been done.
Catholic Priest
Melbourne (Vic.).
Bob Dylan 's Jazz
SIR. Your record reviewer Mr Pick-
ering made some dire condemnations of
the American folksinger Bob Dylan in
his last review (8.. December 19).
Dylan expresses in poignant, essential
mode the very conscience, the collective
subconscious of his—and future—gener-
ations: his art, which is given a much
more absolute embodiment than that of
any other poetic prophet in the tradition
of William Blake (for instance, Henry
Miller or Kenneth Patchen), will endure
and come to be recognised alongside his
fellows (Blake, Isaiah, St John of the
Cross and the aforementioned) long
after Mr Pickering's pickering efforts at
either reportage or music-making have
faded to the dusty oblivion.
ADRIAN RAWLINS
Melbourne (Vic.).
The Death Penalty
SIR. —ln rejoinder to Gordon Hawkins’
further reply (8., December 26), (1) I un-
derstand Mr Hawkins to say that those
of us not already brutalised by the mass
killing of total war will not become
brutalised by the individual killing in-
volved in the death penalty. I still do not
know who “those of us” are and I do
not accept his conclusion anyway. I
ask again: what of those others, suscep-
tible to brutalising influences?
(2) It is entirely beside the point for
Mr Hawkins to suggest that the death
penalty is “peculiarly appropriate” for
a “particular type of crime”. Apart
from begging the question (what makes
it “peculiarly appropriate”—deterrence?),
what was said was that if supporters of
the death penalty supported it because
it deters, then they ought to consider
supporting it for other crimes, because
presumably it would deter them. This
point remains unanswered.
(3) It seems obvious to me that some
phrases commonly called “emotive” are
also informative. That, if I may say
so, is the distinction between Mr Hoover
and me.
A. KARPIN
Lind field (NSW).
"Arena"
SIR. Your comment on the maga-
zine “Arena” (“This Australia”, 8.,
December 12) seriously misstates • the
position. “Arena” is not published by
the Communist Party but by the Arena
Publications Committee, which is self-
organised, self-financed and self-run.
For the record, since you state that
the CP “does not want it generally
known that it finances ‘Arena’,” the
magazine’s financial position (since its
beginning) is:
Receipts: Subscriptions for member-
ship of Publications Committee (£5 a
head, less for wives and students): £298;
subs for magazine; £324; bulk sales:
£265; donations (all from individuals,
the largest single unit being £25): £327;
social functions: £119; advertisements,
etc.: £24. Total: £1357.
Expenditure: Printing and distributing
five issues £1141; publicity and secre-
tarial: £7O. Total: £l2ll.
Like most little magazines, “Arena”
survives precariously, depending on the
goodwill of individual supporters.
IAN TURNER
For the Editorial Committee
Melbourne (Vic.).


When the Bush was Open
Growing up out west in the 1890s
By M. H. ELLIS
Australian families are curious mix-
tures. Mine was no exception.
My father, six feet and more high
in his prime, brown-bearded and blue-
eyed, was Norman-Irish, son of a law-
yer in Dublin and, like a character in a
certain comic strip, “one of eight boys”.
His eldest brother was an LL.D. of
Trinity College, Dublin, a younger one
had played Rugby for Ireland. He him-
self in a brief span of 35 years had been
an Inniskilling Dragoon, a keeper of
Narragansett Lighthouse, a wheelbarrow
prospector in the Northern Territory, a
station bookkeeper. One day his doctor
had told him that a collapsed lung
spelt the end of his existence which
might be spun out a year or two if
he retired to the lovely dry climate of
Australia. So he came hither and over
sixty-five years later expired, knocking
hard at the door of ninety.
My mother, on the other hand, was
five feet one inch high, great-grand-
daughter of an officer of Louis XVl’s
Swiss Guards who had proved quicker
off the mark that Louis XVI himself.
He reached England (family tradition
declared) with no other possession
than a basket in which there lay
his infant eldest son. His descendants
included a treasurer of the Middle
Temple, the editor and owner of the
“Kentish Independent" who knew
Charles Dickens, a leading London
stockbroker, a headmistress of a great
county school in England and the
founder of the Church of England
Men's Society in Australia.
When my mother was a little girl, her
mother, who was a Price of Welshpool,
died aged nineteen, leaving two sons
and a daughter. My mother then lived
with her grandfather in Hastings and
later in Woolwich. And in Hastings
she dimly remembered an old gentleman
who came to see her grandfather, and
whose name she pronounced to be “Sir
Charles Mings". He was, it appeared,
a “military gentleman who had been
Governor of one of the colonies out in
Australia".
Wherefore, having gone to a fine
young ladies’ seminary in Sevenoaks in
her early teens, she turned her mind to
Australia when her father, a civil ser-
vant, invested her inheritance in mining
shares, with normal results.
She did not fancy the idea of spend-
ing her life as a poor relation capitali-
sing her talent —she was taught drawing
by Sir Hubert Herkomer—as a mistress
in a young ladies' seminary.
So off she went to Queensland. (“Sir
Charles Mings’’, who had turned her
mind southward, proved to be Lieuten-
ant-General Sir Charles Menzies of the
Royal Marines, who had commanded
the shore guard of HMS Calcutta the
night the Irish convicts rebelled at
¥N later instalments of these remi-
niscences M. H. Ellis recalls his
schooldays in the early 1900 s, his
experiences as a political reporter
in Brisbane, and Federal politics
in the 1920 s and 19305.
Castle Hill in March, 1804, and who
afterwards was sent the same year to
found the settlement at Newcastle as
a repository for rebels.)
So, indirectly because of him, a plump
little lady twenty-nine years of age, and
a brown tin trunk, were put on to the
western train at Roma Street Station in
Brisbane in May, 1889, bound for the
domain of a shepherd king out on
Kyabra Creek in the fringes of the
Channel Country. She was under the
impression that she was proceeding to
an opulent estancia in country fanned by
soft breezes, pastured like the Wiltshire
Downs and dotted with fatted kine.
There she was to become a lady com-
panion to assuage the loneliness of the
chatelaine of this attractive manor who,
if nothing else, was an imaginative
writer of advertisements. After five
weeks of travel by rail, Cobb and Co.,
and buckboard through the soaked black
soil of a western Queensland “wet", she
was duly welcomed to the opulent estan-
cia—Kyabra had been founded by the
Duracks 20 years earlier. Its mistress
turned out to be an eccentric old person,
surrounded by a phalanx of cats to keep
out the snakes, and a retinue of gins
arrayed in men's shirts or red Salvation
Army jackets, and naught else, whom
she treated “just like Negro slaves" and
distributed to obliging males irrespective
of their husbands’ wishes.
To keep order among these husbands
and the Chinese cook and all the other
numerous persons who felt a continuous
urge to murder her, she went about
armed with a Colt revolver slung on a


greenhide lanyard so long that it bump-
ed agvfinst her elastic-sided boots. And
at the same time she kept insect life,
sandy blight and barcoo rot at bay with
the aid of a mushroom hat, over which
was hung a sort of mosquito net meat-
safe enveloping her whole form and
reaching to the very ground.
The domestic situation when my
mother reached Kyabra was normal to
the beginning of the walkabout season
on the lip of spring. For sundry young
and sportive bucks of Kyabra had just
returned with a fine harvest of young
ladies from the Eromanga territory fur-
ther south, whom they had appropriated,
only to find at Kyabra a similar convoy
of Eromangas who had travelled by
devious routes northward into the Thy-
lungra country and had now called in
ai Kyabra en route for home, to top
off their seasonal collection of pulchri-
tude with a few choice Kyabra speci-
mens.
In consequence, my father, who was
the station storekeeper, was playing the
part of U Thant with a thick bit of
mulga, but with no Swedish or Irish
mercenaries to aid him, it appeared
that the Lady Companion was supposed
to act as the United Nations force. And
this, if exciting, was a little dangerous,
seeing that the warring nations were
armed with spears to the ends of which
razor-sharp shearblades were tied; and,
that, when roused by passion, their
owners did not in the least care whom
they sliced up with them.
It thus came about that my parents
were brought into an inter-dependent
relationship which produced common
agreement that a honeymoon in security
is better than a shearblade in the jugu-
lar. Various considerations, of course,
were involved and I am never quite sure
whether I owe my existence to true love
at first sight, to snakes, cats and the
chatelaine of Kyabra, or to the subli-
minal influence of indigenous marital
example.
In the “wallaby hotel”
Whatever the cause, in October, 1889,
five months after she had set out
from Brisbane for the West, my mother
was off again on a 150-mile jaunt south-
ward through Norley to Thargomindah,
observing decorum by travelling- separ-
ately from my father, who was ahead
breaking records in his attempt to inter-
cept an itinerant Anglican shepherd on
circuit at Thargomindah. The parson
being too quick for him, the (later)
Honorable John Leahy, MLA, a devout
Roman Catholic justice of the peace,
performed the nuptials. Naturally my
mother, who until a year or so before
had not lived beyond the sound of
several Anglican church bells, was never
fully convinced to the end of her days
that she had been securely married in
that fashion.
Yet the 700-mile honeymoon in New
South Wales that followed was an
immense success, though they rarely
slept anywhere but in the “wallaby
hotel”, which is the bare ground under
a sky full of stars.
Eventually, they crossed back into
Queensland via Barringun and reached
Narine, a bark-roofed outstation of the
Australian Pastoral Company's Noon-
doo, a day or two before an excited
Kamilaroi came in hell-for-leather one
bright and sunny afternoon with the
news scratched on the bottom of a tin
pannikin that floodwaters were coming
down from the Warrego watershed.
And down came the waters as a swift,
glinting, but very dirty liquid wall, feet
high and stretching from horizon to
horizon. The hungry birds above its
van darkened the sun. More agile fauna
arrived in masses a jump ahead of it. A
multitude of snakes, goannas and other
groundlings stole a free ride in it and
then crawled up on Narine's sandy ridge
where my mother and the local gins
welcomed them with a long-handled
shovel as the tide rolled on, turning the
surrounding country for months into a
quagmire forty miles wide, in tune with
the old local song that says;
Up to your neck in Cunnamulla mud,
Up to your neck in slaughter.
Wherever you go on the Paroo track,
It’s a divil of a track for water.
Four months later my father rode over
the border to Angledool, familiar to
those devoted modern lapidaries who
whirl up from Sydney over the bitumen
to spend weekends fossicking the opal
dumps of Lightning Ridge. He went for
a nurse and some material for baby
clothes, returning with a roll of calico
thick enough for a tent, but without the
nurse, who turned out to be so soft that
she would not brave the slight incon-
venience of swimming a horse across
an intervening half-mile of stagnant flood
water. So it seemed that my mother
would be faced with the task of bring-
ing an eight-pound infant into the world
alone, without a white woman beside
her.
Nevertheless, a white woman did turn
up on the eve of the event, in which her
part seems to have been the disposal of
a bottle of overproof brandy, which my
father apparently believed to be a vital
necessity for young nursing mothers.
This, to the horror of the mother her-
self, in whose stratum of society it was
held that a lady might sip champagne on
social occasions, but that no female
above the rank of sans culotte ever
debauched herself with spirits.
However, I arrived safe and sound,
and it is indicative of the then current
state of civilisation in the Far West that
I had a brother and had begun to talk
before I saw another white child of my
own age. And by that time I had been
transported several hundred miles
through the West by buckboard and
buggy as my father put together the
rest of a nest egg needed to establish a
selection on the Warrego outside Charle-
ville. There, just as he and my mother
with their own hands had built them-
selves a tiny homestead, financial dis-
aster put them on the road once more.
The strike of *.93
IV/|y father had an invariable recipe for
■L'*- dealing with such roadblocks to his
ambitions. He just grinned and re-
marked; ‘‘Well, change here for the Mul-
lingar!” and went in another direction
singing that charming Irish ditty ‘‘Mo
colleen das cruithe na mo” which some
clever American half a century later pro-
duced for Miss Judy Garland to warble
in the guise of “A Pretty Girl Milking
Her Cow”.
There was another period of slow
movement into regions further west,
pauses on outstations, camps beside
lagoons. I became conscious for the
first time of the life around me in places
where a white night-gowned figure with
hair down to her knees appeared of a
night to do the rounds with a hurricane
lantern and a long-handled shovel in her
war against snakes; where I was garbed
in turkey red so that I could be clearly
visible —and removed it to lend to small
blackboys so that I could become less
visible. There was a hut, dimly remem-
bered, where my mother — a la the cha-
telaine of Kyabra—wore on a lanyard
a large revolver (which I am sure she
did not know how to use and would
never have needed to use), just in case
some amorous native Romeo at the
woodheap or wanderer stricken by nar-
doo or sunstroke might have to be
deterred from mayhem.
But at last, my father, feeling fully
equipped against the future with a tilted
dray, a J7J-hands mare named Bloomer,
and a bag or two of flour, led us on our
way northward on a new adventure.
He built an annexe of canvas to roll
down from the tilt and peg out behind
the dray for a bedroom. He tied a
couple of milch goats to the tailboard,
hoisted up my mother's brown tin trunk
(“which I bought in Sevenoaks to take to
school with me in 1875”), hung the
washtubs under the dray with the camp
oven to make music and act as coracles
in which to carry the children across
creeks and. whistling up his dog, set out.
like many another dray-traveller belong-
ing to the flotsam and jetsam of the
aftermaths of the shearers’ strikes and
the disasters of “ ’ninety-three”, to seek
fortune anew. He was bound at a snail's
pace and by the roughest and most


As the West Indian Lime
said to the British Soda
GILBEY'S IS SUCH A GREAT INTERNATIONAL GIN
why mix With
°th.
&s
I
4
GIN RICKY. Stir 2 oz. Gilbey’s Gin, 1 des. spn. Lime Juice, 1 tble. spa powdered sugar in 8 oz. glass. Add 2 large ice cubes, fill
with soda water, stir and serve. Don’t worry if the Lime’s not Jamaican or the soda isn’t British —as long as the Gin is Gilbey’s!
waterless route he could select for the
promised land of Central Queensland.
For there, it was believed, the Queens-
land Government was doling out 100-
acre selections and endless bags of
wheat free to all-comers.
We enjoyed the journey immensely.
The bush was open. If you did not like
the “main road” you could cut a wire
fence, if you mended it afterwards. At
the stations “travellers” got meat and
flour and even a little work, especially
if they had children. There was game.
You needed little clothing—blue-striped
galatea, calico, moleskins, bluchers at
six shillings a pair; tea; golden syrup.
The road was sometimes rocky and,
horse and all, the dray fell into gullies.
But what matter? You had plenty of
time to dig it out. It was the land of
no hurry. When you found a good
camp you tarried in it through the sum-
mer heat.
Fires along the tracks
T iterally thousands of Australians
lived on the road or in “humpies”
in the last decade of the nineteenth
century. Their fires blazed along the
tracks, their concertinas and accordions
made music. They were far from being
all of what is called “the working
classes” and though many of them had
never heard of mateship, class dis-
appeared in the face of adversity.
Yard by yard we made our way up
the Dawson Valley, through Mt Hutton,
Gwambegwine, Glenhaughton, Hornet-
bank, the scene of the horrible Fraser
massacre, to Ghinghinda and Round-
stone and Moura.
I have been over the old track three
times since—once on horseback, once
in a T-model Ford and once, a year or
so ago, in Thiess Brothers’ Beechcraft
which hopped up and down like a
grasshopper among the draglines and
the huge yellow “cats” and bulldozers
which were tearing out the coal of Ki-
anga and Moura to sell it to Japan.
There was no machinery there during
our first journey; bits of wild bush,
native wells, rude tracks, quiet pools in
which huge barramundi hung seemingly
asleep; and the eerie outstation of John
Mayne’s Ghinghinda Station on the
edge of a vast reed bed, round which
the dingoes howled at night in packs
and one was apt to find a fifteen-foot


carpet snake on the verandah before
breakfast. There we buried my second
youngest sister, who died at birth, my
father digging the grave and reading
the service himself.
I do not think any of us ever looked
back on the exodus from the Warrego
with anything but nostalgia. We remem-
bered the smell of woodsmoke, the clink
of harness, the barking of our blue
cattle-dog, the wail of the curlew and
the other familiar night sounds and the
restlessness of “piccaninny daylight”
when the whole world first stirs in its
sleep at the false dawn. We have re-
membered all our lives what timber
makes the best white ash for cooking
johnny cakes and that you always put
the billycan on the side of the fire from
which the wind blows, and how to make
a hip hole and sleep in it.
I learnt to read on that journey-
with one eye, having destroyed the other
in an accident and become proud of the
loss since it was drummed into me that
it put me on a par with Ben Jonson
and Julius Caesar (to whom I have since
added among an astonishing company,
inter alia Kitchener, Wavell and Price,
the Demon Gaoler of Norfolk Island),
and, later, my friend, Russell Drysdale.
I suppose I learnt my ABC. My first
remembered knowledge of print was
acquired by being taught, sitting on the
brown tin trunk, to recite out of Pope’s
translation of the “Iliad”—the Routledge
edition with Flaxman illustrations —and
then identify words with sound in the
printed page:
Achilles’ wrath, to Greece the direful
spring
Of woes unnumbered, Heavenly God-
dess sing.
It was thirty years before I was able to
stand amid the ruins of Troy.
Before that journey was over I had
heard “David Copperfield”, “Marmion”,
Lane’s “Arabian Nights”, “Robinson
Crusoe”, “Swiss Family Robinson” and
the works of the horrific Grimm and
gentle Hans Andersen read aloud. And
against the day when my optimistic
teacher felt it inevitable that I would
somehow be sent to an English Public
School and mix with English relatives,
I was carefully instructed in what was
“U” and what was “non-U”: that a table
napkin was called a serviette only in
boarding houses and by servants was felt
to be knowledge as vital, if not as
immediately useful, as how to discover
the north with the aid of a Waterbury,
how to read weather from the timber
and the insects and how to tell a veno-
mous from a non-venomous snake.
I was nine years old in the year before
Federation when we went to live in a
town. The previous two years had been
spent partly in a timber camp—where
nobody ever paid for a licence—and in
a small railway whistlestop. There,
when the pupils at the little provisional
school were instructed to arrive with
natural history specimens, two tiny tots
came in on ponies and emptied two
brown snakes and a fat death adder out
of a corn sack on to the floor.
The town into which we moved was
Mt Morgan, then the greatest gold mine
in the world. Here the machinery
churned endlessly. The little electric
engines, a vast wonder like the electric
light, scuttled endlessly round the open
cut and the smoke of the high chimneys
could be seen at any time from ten miles
away. It was a place of Geordies, of
Cornish Jacks, of soldiers of the Queen,
of whistles blowing for the relief of
Mafeking and Ladysmith, of old soldiers,
of eisteddfodau, of creeks w'here one
could wash a little gold with pan or
cradle on a Saturday.
Gold at Struck Oil
‘VTou walked four miles up and down
craggy and stony hills to school
and four miles back and, when the gold
rush started at Struck Oil during the
great drought of 1903, you added a
seven-mile pony ride over perilous tracks
with rations twice a week at night. You
stole gelignite, obligingly left at the mine
mouth, to masticate stumps to keep the
home fires burning. You became used
to the hooters that blew every eight
hours round the twenty-four for the
changing of shifts. You earned an
honest penny on the way from school,
when the afternoon shift came off, by
“running the cutter” for the miners who
lined the gutter outside the Shamrock
Hotel and were glad to pay a penny for
the services of an agile boy who would
keep the three-quart billies, that passed
down the line from mouth to mouth,
rolling from bar to gullet without pause
till the shillings paid for them ran out.
You milked goats, you lived on porridge
and beef and kid and goat’s milk, drew
water and carried it in tins set in chaff
sacks slung across a pony, and had a
whale of a time “mooning” possums
and wild cats in the moonlight with a
fifteen-shilling pea rifle that one day
blew back and marked you for life.
You swam like a duck in the Big Dam,
having been taught the art almost before
you could walk by the Kamilaroi or
Mierli who, after their fashion, heaved
you into the creek where nature seemed
to do the rest.
I felt a faint qualm at leaving it all
when I won the second of the six bur-
saries of £3O a year which was the
Queensland Government’s contribution
towards higher education in those days.
My mother was not impressed, even
when it turned out that I had also won
the first Walter and Eliza Hall scholar-
ships ever given. She felt that this
meant the death of her ambition that I
should be sent to an English public
school by grace of some of her relatives,
who certainly did not share her enthusi-
asm for the project. She looked with
suspicion on schools where Eton jack-
ets and mortarboards were not worn,
and was only comforted when she
learned that the headmaster of Bris-
bane Grammar School was a nephew of
Bishop Heber and the second master an
undoubted product of Winchester.
She herself, throughout her ninety-
nine-and-a-half years of life, showed no
inclination to return to England, nor
any emotion save reminiscent pleasure
when discussing life on the “wallaby
track” and in the rough surroundings
of a goat-stocked miner’s homestead
block. But she hoped her sons would be
“English”.
Her four sons and three daughters
were born on the road, or on the bald
hill of Mt Morgan. One became editor
of a famous Melbourne weekly and
later general manager of the Overseas
Corporation and a leading figure in the
well-known financial firm of J. B. Were.
One is a spearhead of the New State
Movement. One became an historian
as well as a journalist, and the only
surviving daughter secretary to a Com-
monwealth Minister.
All the time my mother pervaded
their lives from her modest background.
In her later years men whose names
were household words in the Common-
wealth visited her and sent her tele-
grams on her birthday. At ninety-seven
she broke a hip but 'still had so much
sand in her that the bone knit and she
walked again, though she was apt by
this time to live in the distant past and
to come out with such remarks as,
“Browning! I didn't like the man. He
had lost a front tooth and sprayed
people when he talked.” Once at a
party in Canberra, when a very great
Statesman, having asked who the little
old lady in the corner was, approached
her with, “Ah, Mrs E., I know your
sons. I suppose they make you take an
interest in politics.”
“Mr So-and-so,” said my mother
starchily, “I have taken an interest in
politics all my life. I once sat on
Gladstone’s knee.” “And so have we
all,” intoned the Great Man with swell-
ing lungs, “we have all sat at Glad-
stone’s knee.”
“I said ‘O/2’ not ''at' ”, retorted the
old lady tartly, and made herself busy
with her tea.
Her proudest moment was when she
heard that Winston Churchill had in-
vited one of her sons, who was in Eng-
land for the Coronation of King
George VI. down to Chartwell for lunch
and had lent him his car for the after-
noon, so that he might visit the haunts
of her girlhood in Kent.


MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Have your favourite magazines
posted to you and enjoy the
convenience of home delivery. We
can arrange a subscription to any
magazine you require. Write or
phone for our big price lists
featuring all the well - known
magazines, classified under such
subject headings as Pictorials,
Hobbies, Business, etc. If possible
advise the name of magazine or
subject you are interested in.
JOHN HINTON PTY. LTD.
118 William Street
NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: 92 5904 (3 lines)
(When you reply olease quote "Dept. 22")
REVIEWS
CONTEMPORARY BALLET
A Dynamo of Modern Dance
By BETH DEAN
The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre.
With Brother John Sellers. Tivoli
Theatre, Sydney.
When the Alvin Ailey company opened
in Sydney on December 30 its dancers
created a tornado of clapping, stamping
and cheering. The audience, uninhibited
as the dancers on stage, w'ould not let
them go.
In his company, Mr Ailey has fused
seeming diversities into a whole.
He has fused the facility and pliability of
the Negro body with the terseness of
creative modern dance style peculiar to
USA dance innovators while building
upon a solid base of excellent ballet
technique expanded and enlarged.
Ailey's world is filled with elastic
bodies and lightning changes of mood.
Through Mr Ailey's people we live
deeply, painfully, fully; one evening en-
compasses the gamut of emotions of
many lifetimes. After such a magnifi-
cent “smorgasbord”, it would be an un-
believable feast if he would next show' us
a fully developed theme or story.
The male dancers far outshadow the
girls. This, surely, is what male dance
ought to be: strong, violent when re-
quired; subtle, controlled in the legato
sequences and, finally, giving us a noble
grace for contrast as in "Reflections in
D”. This item, choreographed by Alvin
Ailey, was danced w'ith flawless ease by
Dudley Williams. In Been here and
gone” acting, singing and dancing easily
became one in a folksy ‘total theatre”.
In “Blues Suite”, dance came alone to
develop the drama of moods, and in Mr
Ailey's final choreography of “Revela-
tions” dance as a sacred implement of
a people's faith was clearly delineated.
Tally Beatty's composition “Road of the
Phoebe Snow” moved from abstractions
of an unusual emotional impact to a
dramatic finale that left us limp.
Outstanding technicians among mem-
bers of the company were William
Louther. Dudley Williams and Joan
Peters. This tiny girl was powerful as
the wronged w'oman in the Tally Beatty
opus, while Georgia Collins w'as at her
best in the lyric role in “Revelations”
(Minnie Marshall danced it on the pre-
vious 1962 tour w'ith James Truitte).
Mr Truitte again performed this duet
“Fix me, Jesus” w'ith strength, authority
and compassion. Alvin Ailey and Hope
Clarke in “Backwater Blues” were a
quintessence of female-versus-male.
It is as much a part of the education
of a dancer-artist to see this type of
programme as for an Australian musi-
cian to hear contemporary music. A
classic ballet company is one thing, but
creative modern dance is something else.
With this form of dance the quality of
movement is more important than its
geometric designs. Its shape and out-
line, while acknowledging and using the
science that developed ballet as a classic-
ism, never, how'ever. is allowed to forget
that modern dance must speak first,
naked as it w'ere, in its native beauty
and then when fully motivated as a
valid idea. Only then can it be clothed
with a technique, an enlarged, expanded
movement vocabulary.
The revolt of Isadora Duncan, her
ideal of freeing the human body, has
borne fruit some half a century later.
The development of w'hip movements,
dartings, slitherings, lashings, contrac-
tions and expansions—these are what
can be, and are, used in dance today.
From the revolutionary, barefoot, often
music-less drum-beating pioneers of the
modern dance movement cult through
the 1920 s of the Ruth St Dcnis-Ted
Shawm, Mary Wigman era to the later
Doris Humphrey. Martha Graham,
Charles Weideman, Kurt Joos, Hanya
Holm, Anna Sokolow successes to that
innovator of the American musicals
Agnes de Mille and on through the
Merce Cunningham, Valerie Bettis,
Alvin Ailey, Jose Limon, Jerome Rob-
bins (of “West Side Story” fame) artists
we have become aware that a w'hole
era of thought and work which has been
developing for decades overseas is as un-
known to most Australian artists and
the general public as are the majority
of names listed above. This early revolt
has come full circle into an amalgam
that enlarges both ballet and modern
dance forms so that it was possible re-
cently for Martha Graham to perform
in “Episodes” combining her company
with the highly classical New Cork City
Ballet Co headed bv the Russian-trained
choreographer George Balanchine —said
by many critics to be the greatest ballet
choreographer of our time.
Fantastic as this company is. it is
necessary to point out that it is by no
means unusual to find such good danc-
ers with such all encompassing tech-
niques in the USA. This fact is due
partly to such institutions as the New
York State-run High School of Perform-
ing Arts where this writer saw young
dancers performing outstandingly in
such diverse w'orks as “Swan Lake” and
Doris Humphrey’s creative, modern
“The Shakers”. Alvin Ailey’s male
dancers in their frighteningly easy con-
trol of prodigious techniques, their mas-
culinity, their vitality, their undeviating
concentration in acting roles shame our
male dancers. If their visit can stimulate,
can infuse these qualities into our, at
present in general, bland, often narrow
in outlook and sometimes enervated-
looking male ballet dancers (influenced
too deeply by the Covent Garden “tea-
cup ballet" tradition), then indeed we
may look to the promise that lies w'ithin
the more appropriate athleticism of the
traditional Australian.
No review of the Alvin Ailey com-
pany w'ould be complete without a
mention of Brother John Sellers’ deeply
moving folk songs and the artistic light-
ing of Nicola Cernovitch.
FILMS
Summer Stock
Since any film that opens on or about
Christmas Eve is likely to continue its
run at least till the end of the school
holidays, it’s nice that this year there
are a few films designed for grown-ups
as well as those strictly for children
not to mention one (“Goodbye Charlie”)


■
s6*fi
ijjss i
>
>1 < C°>“
V U«l "
- << > ,,s
Pride of Place
The finest wines have always been
associated with specific places. No
wine is more specific about its origin
than Coonawarra Estate* Claret with
its back-label showing exactly where
it comes from.
*“Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in
France) is used to distinguish this claret
as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers own vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
CION
which seems to me unsuitable for prac-
tically anybody.
Then there are the old reliables
“Cleopatra”, “Tom Jones”, “Becket”, the
indestructible “Irma La Douce” by
now part of the local scenery—and even,
incomprehensibly, “The Fall of the
Roman Empire”.
Of the new releases, unquestionably
the best is Pietro Germi’s “Seduced and
Abandoned”, a notable film at any time
of year. Like the director’s “Divorce
Italian Style”, this ironic tragicomedy
takes a penetrating look at Sicily’s extra-
ordinary moral and social standards.
The seduction of an innocent girl by
her elder sister’s fiance arouses in her
family no pity for the girl's shame and
desperation; they are merely concerned
with the stain on the family honor.
The film is more outspoken than
“Divorce - Italian Style” in condemning
the double standard of morality how,
asks the seducer reasonably, can he be
expected to marry a girl who is no
longer chaste, to which another man
agrees sententiously that it is man’s
right to tempt woman and woman’s duty
to refuse.
Germi almost faultlessly blends irony,
broad comedy and tragedy; only to-
wards the end, when his indignation gets
the better of his sense of style, does he
lose control. The camerawork is always
distinguished, and the performances
beyond criticism.
“The Visit,” doggedly directed by
Bernhard Wicki and with Ingrid Bergman
staggeringly miscast, turns Duerren-
matt’s gripping play into the year’s most
pretentiously boring film.
A lively, intelligent Western, “Rio
Conchos”, is consistently interesting, with
inventive camerawork, a fine musical
score by Jerry Goldsmith and diverting
performances by Richard Boone, An-
thony Franciosa and Edmond O’Brien.
Sophia Loren and a rather subdued Mar-
cello Mastroianni star in the three
episodes of “Yesterday, Today and To-
morrow”. Despite Vittorio de Sica’s ram-
shackle direction, Loren appears to great
advantage, especially in the middle
sequence whose terse, understated script
(based on Moravia) keeps the director
from meandering.
“Good Neighbor Sam” . . . well any-
way it’s got Jack Lemmon. “Roust-
about” has got Elvis Presley; everyone
must make his personal assessment of
what that’s worth. It certainly isn’t
much of a movie.
Instead of the promised “John Gold-
farb, Please Come Home”, pronounced
by a US judge to be noisy and vulgar,
we’ve been inflicted with “Goodbye
Charlie”, a film whose surpassing vul-
garity left me agape. A notorious ladies’
man killed by a jealous husband is
reincarnated in the person of Debbie
Reynolds, a situation leading to jokes
which the grubbiest schoolboy would
reject with a yawn.
The distressingly energetic Miss Rey-
nolds also stars in “The Unsinkable
Molly Brown”, a garish musical with
few songs but plenty of noise.
Peter Sellers is at his peak as a monu-
mentally inefficient French detective in
“The Pink Panther”, a badly made but
often uproariously funny film. Director
Blake Edwards manages short comedy
scenes admirably and is a good man with
a sight gag, but between times he lets
the film sag badly.
A supremely foolish spectacle film,
“The Long Ships” may appeal to child-
ren —there’s plenty of noise and blood-
shed —but its preoccupation with the un-
draped female form and its leering jokes
about harems and eunuchs indicate that
its producers had an older audience in
mind.
The films specifically intended for
children are “Island of the Blue Dol-
phins”, a most engaging tale of a
marooned Indian girl, and Disney’s car-
toon feature “The Sword in the Stone”.
Though well below Disney’s best, this is
a jolly juvenile romp, even if it doesn’t
capture the spirit of the Arthurian legend.
After all neither does “Camelot” (also
based on T. H. White’s novels), and
“The Sword in the Stone” is a lot more
fun.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
RECORDINGS
Splendor of the Bard
Scenes and Speeches from Shakespeare.
George Baker, Laurence Baker, Anthony
Brothers, Tony Chamberlain, Kenneth
Corington, Carla Field, Jennie Goossens,
Patrick Bacon, Coral Browne, Paul
Rogers, Robert Hardy, Lewis Jones, Red-
vers Kyle, Roger Livesey, Anna Massey,
Lawrence Nixon, Kenneth Ratcliffe, Corin
Redgrave, Bill Wall. Vols. 1 and 2. His
Master’s Voice. OCLP 1738/9.
Dust Bowl Ballads. Woody Guthrie. RCA
LPV 502.
These readings of some of the best-
known speeches and scenes from Shake-
speare’s plays will be invaluable to young
actors, teachers and students; they will
also be enjoyed by anyone with a taste
for well-acted Shakespearian excerpts.
Some of the speeches are heard as in-
dividual items; others are recorded in
their own context. They are perhaps the
most obvious choices for a collection
like this, but all the more useful for
that and, as the comedies, tragedies and
histories are more or less equally re-
presented, there is as_ much variety as
one could expect.
The high level of most of the interpre-
tations more than makes up for the
occasional lapses when the lines are
delivered like speech-therapy recitations
(surely Redvers Kyle would have been
more animated in a stage performance of
the Chorus from "Henry V”). High spots
are provided by Paul Rogers and Coral
Browne in two scenes from “Macbeth”,
Robert Hardy with his fine reading of
Hamlet's “To be or not to be” the scene
from “A Midsummer Night's Dream”,
and Roger Livesey's fruity Sir Toby
Belch in “Twelfth Night”.
A key to the performances is pro-
vided by which the speeches can be
readily identified, but no information is
given regarding the nineteen actors other
than their names. Discreet sound effects
are occasionally introduced to help
stimulate the listener's imagination and
Michael Howley's brief but cogent nar-
ration unobtrusively sets the scenes.
Direction, by Denis Comper, is some-
times a trifle rushed, possibly in an
endeavor to compensate for the absence
of visual movement.
To the inner circle of the folk cult,
Woody Guthrie is a contemporary bal-
ladeer of god-like proportions; to me,


*
m
■l',
'
v
• *r
•Wifei
&
ii
A **SO V
His cigarette, too,
has a proud pedigree
Benson & Hedges Special Filter was once available only on blue-ribbon jet
flights between London and New York. Today, the cigarette has travelled,
and you too can enjoy its excellence. Benson & Hedges Special Filter, in the
elegant gold packet, is the right cigarette when only the best will do. And
isn’t that all the time?
D EW& GRf <md Hedges
8H39.3.64
despite the social protest of his lyrics, he
is a hillbilly. His songs (most of which
tell of the hardships and exploitation of
the poor, of dust, injustice and pneu-
monia) are melodically barren, har-
monically monotonous and are sung in
a dreary nasal drawl which may be
“authentic” but is far from pleasant.
These fourteen selections were record-
ed in 1940 and initially issued in two
78-rpm album sets of Dust Bowl Songs.
TOM PICKERING
THEATRE
Crock of Gold
Finian's Rainbow. Princess Theatre, Mel-
bourne.
Why bother to revive a curiosity which
never really lived? It's one thing to re-
furbish “Aladdin'’ and “Showboat”, or to
cash in on the second wave of “South
Pacific”, but “Finian”, which belongs to
the early ’forties, has neither the patina
of a genuine antique nor the glaze of the
modern musical, which properly began
with “Oklahoma!” Its swipes at racial-
ism, possibly quite daring in their day,
have dated and now smack of Uncle
Tom. The best arguments 1 can find why
it should have been brought here are that
there are enough children in the cast to
have made it seasonable in pantomime
month but the kids had more fun at
Her Majesty's, where Noddy Goes to the
Moon with verve and glamor and that
one character, Senator Billboard Raw-
kins, faintly resembled Barry Goldwater.
An Irish father (Bobby Howes, rather
frail though still endearing) and his
daughter, Sharon (Sheila Bradley, clever
and vital but big enough for a Celtic
queen), carry a crock of gold from the
auld sod to a Dogpatch community of
southern share-croppers. They are pur-
sued by Og, the fey manikin (Frank
Lloyd, trying very hard and not without
charm). The Federal Revenue bods
scheme to get hold of the loot, while
Rawkins (Reg Dell, good in spots) does
his dirty business and is temporarily
changed into a Negro. Woody Mahoney
(Bruce Berry) is the romantic lead, and
there is also a puckish deaf-mute, Susan,
danced by Patti Cox to the entire satis-
faction of the house.
Burton Lane is a good composer but
Harburg's thin book hardly gives him a
chance. A couple of nice songs, “Old
Devil Moon” and “How are Things in
Glocca Morra?” are reprised until they
run out of our ears. The choreography
has a certain cheerful vulgarity, but Ray
Wilson's costumes are not inspired, nor
is the scenic design. Gordon French’s
musical supervision does not err on the
side of discretion and Bury Fredrik’s
direction could have done with another
fortnight of rehearsing. There’s just so
much that can be got out of accidental


pyrotechnics, crossed trick-wires, a jam-
med backcloth and a torn curtain.
One doesn't want to be spiteful, and it
wouldn’t matter, except that Melbourne
has about had its fair quota of damp
squibs. When we put our mind to it we
know how to mount a musical as well as
anyone anywhere, but this sort of thing
is horribly bad for the industry.
It comes to us, by the way, with the
compliments of the Trust.
DAVID MARTIN
TELEVISION
Syrup of Figs
Amos V Andy. TCN-9 and ATV-0.
The Samurai. TCN-9.
The Legionaire. TCN-9.
Autumn Affair. HSV-7.
Story of Peter Grey. HSV-7.
This is the time of the year when Tele-
vision, in hot pursuit of seasonal tradi-
tions it has established over eight years,
usually offers its viewers a feast of
mouldy figs ranging from the several
worn versions of “A Christmas Carol”
through local pantomimes and neo-
pantos, produced, by the look of them,
outside Tibooburra and Halls Creek, to
repeats of the repeat series of two or
three summers ago.
But there has come to us this summer
a miracle, most visible in Sydney but
also discernible in other cities. Instead
of spreading its Christmas, Television
gave it one day this year and then re-
sumed normal programmes, which were
abnormal in that some new shows be-
gan in the week before New Year.
It has not happened before, and may
not happen again until Halley’s Comet
returns. The reason for it eludes me,
but it is notable that in Sydney four of
the seven new shows are 30-minute series
which TCN-9 has placed in a line on
week afternoons.
These new afternoon shows are a
break for the Sydney men who, for a
few days or weeks, spend some after-
noons at home in the early New Year.
A Melbourne male, straying into the
living-room these afternoons, is likely
to be staggered by the antics of the lady
novelist and her dreary friends and re-
luctant lovers in the Australian serial
re-run, “Autumn Affair”. If his scien-
tific curiosity is aroused, he may even
stay another 15 minutes to see the tea-
cups rattle in the manses of that great
saga of the cloth, “The Story of Peter
Grey”. Then he will head for the
decanter.
In Sydney now, the same man could
encounter the rich, earthy humor of
Amos, Andy and the Kingfish, not vis-
ible in Melbourne until the evening, on
ATV-0. This highly comical series, a
life-time favorite on US radio and tele-
vision, has more fun in one half-hour
than the average comedy show manages
in one month. If you missed an earlier
“Amos ’n’ Andy ” series the same voices
were heard, to less advantage I think,
in “Calvin and the Colonel”. Neither
the segregationists nor the followers of
Malcolm X would agree, but to me the
Kingfish, who would double-cross his
blood-brother to unload a mother-in-
law, has more room to be humanly
funny than the Colonel, who had to
edge over into the cartoon world's
sadism for his biggest laughs.
Accepting that “Amos ’n’ Andy” could
bring any man hurrying home from his
golf, the following 30 minutes might
leave him as stunned and as baffled as
any encounter with the Rev. Peter Grey.
To the best of my knowledge after a
single viewing, it’s one of those medieval
Samurai sagas, almost as dear to Japan-
ese hearts as Westerns, and along the
same simple hero-villain lines. Only
more so, as the hero, a dashing young
swordsman named Shintaro, has thirteen
members of a murderous secret society
to chop up in, I guess, as many episodes.
Viewed as a combination of wonder-
ful Old Japan settings, a glimpse into the
fearful side of the Japanese mind, and
sheer comedy, “The Samurai” becomes
quite a show. The villains wear black
and, in American voices woefully
dubbed, laugh ha, ha, ha, as in East
Lynne. The wide-eyed hero waddles.
His eyes narrow as obvious assassins
prance from tree trunk to wall behind
him, bearing a startling line of weapons
from star-shaped throwing blades to
black magic. All are expert acrobats.
If your son plays Samurais and Kyoogas,
bowing a lot and throwing flip flops, this
is where it all began.
If you have not joined our Melbourne
friend in retreat behind the cocktail bar,
the fourth of TCN-9's new shows will
take you right back to boyhood with
Buster Crabbe and Fuzzy Knight in
“Foreign Legionaire”, “stories of the
Foreign Legion today, filmed in Moroc-
co”. That's the trouble with modern
adventure series. No sooner is the film
made than events make it ridiculous.
You have to be quick, or as the King-
fish put it, “In de words of de poet
Omar Kayak, drink of de wine of
romance befo’ de jug done sprang a
leak.”
FRANK ROBERTS
SUNDRY SHOWS
THEATRE
MELBOURNE Comedy Theatre, Exhibi-
tion Street. 32 3211. Go Tell It On The Moun-
tain. (Reviewed 28/11/64.)
Her Majesty's, Exhibition Street. 32 3211. A
Funny Thing Happened.
Princess, Spring Street. 32 1211. Finian's
Rainbow.
Tivoli, Bourke Street. 63 2111. The Black and
White Minstrel Show.
St Martin's Theatre, St Martin's Lane, South
Yarra. 26 2188. The Glazed Look.
SYDNEY Her Majesty's, Central Square.
211 0472. Camelot, Lerner and Loewe's extrava-
gant musical. (Reviewed 31/10/64.)
Ensemble, North Sydney. 92 2181. Cages, by
Lewis John Cariino. Until end of January.
(Reviewed 21/11/64.)
Genesian, 420 Kent Street. 58 2500. The Ivory
Door by A. A. Milne.
Independent, North Sydney. 92 2718. The
Marriage of Mr Mississippi.
Phillip, Elizabeth Street. 61 9880. Is Australia
Really Necessary? With Miriam Karlin, Barbara
Wyndon and Darlene Johnson. Revised scripts,
funny performances. (Reviewed 17/10/64.)
Music Hall Restaurant, Neutral Bay. 90 1237.
How The West Was Lost. Noeline Brown, John
Unicomb and Sheila Kennedy help make this
still one of the best nights in town.
New Theatre, 151 William Street, East Sydney.
31 3237. Ballad of Angel's Alley.
Pocket Playhouse, Sydenham. 55 6411. Black
Chiffon, by Lesley Storm, produced by John
Fleming. Performances at 8 p.m. Thursdays,
Fridays and Saturdays.
Q Group Theatre, AMP, Circular Quay. 2 0530.
Dick Whittington and His Cat.
Royal, Castlereagh Street. 28 8255. Roaring
T wenties.
Tivoli, Castlereagh Street. 211 4288. Alvin
Ailey American Dance Theatre.
ADELAIDE Her Majesty's, 54 Grote
Street. 51 6171. How to Succeed. Until Janu-
ary 16.
BRISBANE Her Majesty's, Queen Street.
Carousel.
PERTH Playhouse, Pier Street. 21 5681.
Perth Gaieties.


BOOKS
The Archbishop’s Story
By VINCENT BUCKLEY
Dr Mannix. Niall Brennan. Rigby.
475. 6d.
Despite the balance and sanity of its
approach, I cannot bring myself to like
this book. I should not have thought
Niall Brennan a likely choice for deal-
ing with so complex a subject; but I
should at least have expected from the
author of “The Making of a Moron” a
sharper, more lively and economical
work than he has given us here.
Part of the trouble is that Archbishop
Mannix is both the best and the worst
subject for a full-length study: the best,
because incomparably fascinating; the
worst, because thwartingly elusive. Bren-
nan has recognised the danger:
“If then we are to speak of his life
and times, there may seem to be little
of his life and much of his times.
That was how he made it. He was a
man of history; and we must try to
find the man through the history.”
That is no doubt true. But the his-
tory we are offered is for the most part
of the potted, school-text-book variety;
and it is only at moments that the man
is found alive in it. The
book is less about the Man-
nix than about the Dr;
and, Brennan’s expository
method being what it is, his
account of the Dr (man of
history) tends to a certain
bloodless and repetitive re-
moteness.
It is not merely that
three-quarters of it is his-
torical background; it is also
that the background be-
comes the foreground, and
Mannix himself often
dwindies to a figure seen from time to
time gesticulating on a distant eminence.
The schoolmasterish quality in the
writing comes partly from an apparent
determination to explain every reference
and partly from a rather childish notion
of what an explanation should be:
“A diocese is the administrative
unit of the Church and is controlled
by a bishop; a more senior kind of
bishop is called an archbishop and he
runs an archdiocese. ‘Bishop’ comes
from the Greek word episkopos. . . .”
The frequent recurrence of this kind
of writing gives the whole work the
appearance of a piece of bookmaking;
and that is the main cause of my (per-
haps unreasonable) irritation with it.
Certainly, Brennan has many good
things to say about the historical issues
associated with the name of Mannix;
but, because his commentary is curious-
ly undisciplined, directionless, it varies
in quality from the very perceptive to
the nearly simple-minded.
He is at his worst when he is most
long-winded. It takes him 70 pages to
get Mannix to Australia, but another
150 to get him through his early contro-
versies and up to 1920. After that,
apparently there is little to be said about
either Mannix or his times until the
Movement controversy of more than
twenty years later; and on that, while
Brennan whites more purposefully and
thinks more consistently than in any
other part of the book, he is at his most
tendentious.
He is clearly a Movement partisan,
and for all I know the future may well
show him to be right. But surely to
goodness, after the discussions of the
past fifteen years, no one could maintain
that the chief argument against the
Movement in its heyday was simply
that it was “tangled at these several
points with Catholic Action”; and surely
it is a most unpleasantly tendentious
habit of mind which can
lead a man to say, “The
Catholic Labor men over
whom the Movement
trampled, in its earnest
haste, sometimes perhaps
harshly, were no more than
these: the corrupt on the
one hand, the naive on the
other.” No more than those.
It is true that Brennan
has an excellent understand-
ing of the Irish-Australian
syndrome, and he reveals it
on page after page. But he
never develops it into a full and con-
sistent interpretation of the forces he
deals with; what prevents him is that he
has the rhetorical habits of a Chesterton,
with little of the gusto or wit. His own
prose has a self-defeating tendency to
turn into blunt distinctions what pro-
mised to be sharp assessments. He has
an opinion about everything, and will
venture on an epigram in which to en-
capsulate each of them. At the length
of three pages this is a likeable trait (I
think with pleasure, for example, of his
splendid remark about the English
wardens for whom the Established
Church had the status almost of a
religion); but at the length of thirty pages
it is distracting, and at the length of three
hundred debilitating.
On Mannix in his prime he has some
very intriguing comments. In the con-
troversies which lay thick around the
new Archbishop between 1912 and 1922
he thinks Mannix made the following
dangerous mistakes: He mistook for sec-
tarianism and hostility what was in fact
an odd, Australian habit of tolerance;
he identified the permissive Protestant
majority with the extremist minorities;
he could not bring himself to recognise
that vigor of public debate may be a
good thing for Catholicism; and he
could not see that an association with a
man like John Wren would in itself
make him a suspect figure. Add to
these failures of diagnosis a habit of
remoteness amounting to incivility and
an inability to admit a mistake, and you
have Mannix the controversialist who
invited the hatred of some as much as
the reverence of others.
Well, it may be true; I am not my-
self persuaded of the great Australian
tolerance. But Brennan's thesis is a
detached and interesting one, rather dif-
ferent from the too-simple and even
tendentious account of the Movement.
Of Mannix as an old man he writes
much more warmly and engagingly; and
this final chapter, brimming with the
kind of anecdotes which turn a man
into a legend, seems to me by far the
best thing in the book.
I do not know whom we could count
on to give a really illuminating account
of that extraordinary personality. Bren-
nan makes as good a stab as most,
though he does not take enough account
of that dominant quality of personality
which is so hard to define, but which
combined elements of scepticism, of a
profound melancholy, and of the his-
trionic. Mannix was, among other
things, an actor; and what appeared, in
his public talks or private conversations,
as a superb sense of timing and inflection
appeared in his “political” action as a
superb sense of occasion. But his pleas-
ure in his own role always seemed to
me to have an undertone of melan-
choly.
One other grouch: In the difficult job
of “humanising” his subject, Brennan’s
tact has occasionally faltered into an
unintentional impertinence, of which I
may quote an example of the general
and one of the particular from the same
page: “We may never know what it was,
but there was certainly something
eccentric about the Mannix family; as
there is, perhaps, about all families”;
and “He visited his home town of Rath-
lure to meet his brother and sister: rtfis
mother had died the previous year with-
out seeing her distinguished Danny.” I
do not know how one goes about writ-
ing a book on Dr Mannix; I do know
that this is not the tone to take; one
does not condescend to the great dead.


Diverse Malaysia
Malaysia, k. G. Tregonning. F. W. Cheshire
Pty Ltd for the Australian Institute of
International Affairs. 1964. 13s. 6d.
This is the first of a series of small books
sponsored by the Australian Institute of
International Affairs with the idea of
informing the plain man in this country
about our neighbors. Professor Tre-
gonning, who holds the Chair of History
at Singapore University, is an acknow-
ledged authority on the subject, so that
his contribution has considerable weight.
Wisely he sets his foundation firmly
by describing the social geography of
Malaysia, stressing the climatic condi-
tions governing human life—notably the
isolating, impenetrable jungles and the
rivers, which still retain their historic
importance, notably in Borneo, where
they are almost the only means of com-
munication. He discusses, among other
things, the psychological effect of rice-
growing in producing a static attitude of
submissive traditionalism in this and
other Oriental lands.
Of the very diverse peoples of Malay-
sia we are given an excellent brief
account —in particular, the Chinese and
Malays. The author's unrivalled know-
ledge of the Chinese is displayed in his
discussion of their large internal differ-
ences as regards origin and character, of
which few Europeans are aware. He
stresses the importance of the Malay
Moslem culture, but curiously ignores
its divisive effect, as an obstacle to the
blending of races and cultures in this
region.
Tregonning has a habit of trying to
make his subject more comprehensible
by drawing comparisons between Ori-
ental and Anglo-Saxpn historic develop-
ments which I find misleading. Regional
loyalties in colonial America or Aus-
tralia, among people of the same
English-speaking Christian world, with
the same language, are not at all like
those in Malaysia, with its medley of
utterly different peoples, tongues and
cultures. I doubt whether Moslem
religious laxity is comparable with that
of eighteenth-century Anglicans: and
when we are told that the Malaysians
are “far more independent and far less
subservient to antique custom” in their
attitude to the Commonwealth than
Australians, one cannot help reflecting
that the “customs” imposed by an alien
colonial regime on a nation with deeply
rooted Asian loyalties and traditions are
something rather different from those to
which our people still cling, as the sym-
bols of a bond which they prize as part
of their own ancestral heritage.
Our writer is blessedly free from the
“anti-colonialist’’ bias which is a mark
of so much modern writing on Asian
and African topics. He gives due praise
to Britain’s “Pax” and unifying rule of
law, but blames the lack of coherent
colonial planning which produced the
unsystematic sprawl of political authori-
ties, and also the neglect of the educa-
tion needed to build a truly multi-racial,
as opposed to a plural society—a neglect
especially lamentable in the case of the
Chinese, who filled the gap with their
own separated national institutions,
which became hotbeds of Communist
influence.
The Japanese invasion, it is shown,
made a retention of the colonial bond
impossible; but the first attempt at plan-
ned reorganisation came up against a
new Malay “nationalism” provoked by
the attack upon the status of the Sultan-
ates; while the Chinese reacted by con-
tinuing a wartime “resistance” move-
ment, which had fallen under Communist
control, in order to “take over” from
the colonialists. The account of the
“emergence" of the new' Malaya and the
beginnings of Malaysia is excellently
done and we are given a clear picture of
the difficult problem of fitting Singapore,
with its dynamic, radical Chinese popu-
lation. and large trading network, into
any post-colonial framework of unity.
It was, of course, above all to solve this
problem that the scheme of Malaysia
was devised, the Bornean peoples being
brought in to even up the balance of
Chinese and Malays.
Of the Indonesian “confrontation”, our
writer has comparatively little to say:
he appears to consider that the real
problems of Malaysia are internal
rather than those of pressure from
without.
He stresses, however, the importance
of the Communists in the anti-Malay-
sian drive: and the fact that the evolu-
tionary development of Malaysia with
the protective co-operation of the British
has been the basis of Soekarno’s, view
that her "independence” is a mere
“colonialist” device. He is confident
that the roots of a real nationalism are
apparent among the native-born young
of all races —but he notes, as a weak-
ness of political life, the lack of any
Federal party structure with a trans-
racial appeal.
I think Tregonning dismisses the Fili-
pino claim to Sabah somewhat lightly.
It has a basis in historic and present
relationships between the peoples all
round the Sulu Sea, as well as in a
historic legal dispute exploited by
nationalist politics. His criticism of
SEATO, as based on incomprehension
of Asian attitudes to the European “cold
war” and feelings about military links
with ex-colonial powers, is justified.
But he fails to emphasise that the in-
effectiveness of the alliance in action
has added to its discredit, and that this
has been due to the attitude of the
British and French partners in applying
the brake against bringing it into play
in Vietnam and Laos, because of their
desire to discourage more American in-
volvement while avoiding their own.
The chapter on the Malaysian econ-
omy sums up a complex and changing
pattern in a masterly way, with parti-
cular emphasis on the place and-prob-
lems of Singapore. Of special interest
is the account of Razak’s great land
settlement project, of which little has
been heard outside Malaysia.
This is an excellent small work, which
fulfils the aim of providing factual in-
formation in a readable way, with a
widely ranging and knowledgeable im-
partial commentary on all the chief
aspects of the Malaysian situation.
D. G. M. JACKSON
A Traitor’s Voice
Lord Haw-Haw— and William Joyce. J. A.
Cole. Faber. 51s.
One of the most persistent myths of
World War II was the omniscience of
Lord Haw-Haw, the English-language
newsreader and commentator on the Nazi
foreign radio service. In particular, he
was supposed to be uncannily well-
informed about British clocks. All over
the country people related how Haw-
Haw had announced that the local town
hall clock was 10 minutes slow—and,
sure enough, so it was. Other snippets
of information in his broadcasts (about
the widening of Orpington High Street,
for instance, or the lunchtime pontoon
game in a Midlands munitions- factory)
showed the master-traitor’s intimate
knowledge of happenings in wartime
Britain, knowledge presumably garnered
by a vast network of fifth columnists in
towns and villages.
Such was the legend that lingered on
long after the end of the war and
William Joyce’s trial and execution.
However, as J. A. Cole's very readable
and instructive book points out, the
officials who monitored all Lord Haw-
Haw's broadcasts never heard a word
about clocks or pontoon games.
A few of the stories may have been
launched by deliberate scare-mongers;
most were probably born in the mysteri-
ous parthenogenetic manner of ordinary
rumors.
Cole's biography strips away a lot of
other accumulated nonsense about Lord
Haw-Haw's personality and activities.
The British public eventually came to
assume that William Joyce, in prewar
days one of Sir Oswald Mosley's best-
known Fascist bully boys, was not only
the sole Lord Haw-Haw but also turned
out Berlin's English-language radio pro-
grammes, virtually single-handed. Mr
Cole shows that Joyce was always one
of a team, and it was some time before
he supplanted a fellow-traitor, Norman
Baillie-Stewart, once the notorious
“officer in the Tower”, as the dominant
member of the team. In fact it seems


extremely likely that when Jonah
Barrington of the “Daily Express”
coined the name Haw-Haw in Septem-
ber, 1939, he had been listening to
Baillie-Stewart whose voice, parodied ad
nauseam by the Western Brothers, was
much closer to the “haw-haw, dammit-
get-out-of-my-way” variety than Joyce’s
nondescript Anglo-Irish accent.
Nevertheless, as the war continued
Joyce became unquestionably the Reichs-
rundf unk’s most valuable English-
speaking collaborator. As well as read-
ing and commenting on the news he
prepared hundreds of scripts for the
phoney “secret” radio stations that were
supposed to be operating on British soil.
He wrote a book, “Twilight over Eng-
land”, of which the Germans distributed
100,000 copies in neutral countries. By
1941 Britons had given up pretending
that Lord Haw-Haw was just a huge
joke. He was thoroughly hated, and at
the same time rather feared. In the dark
days of defeats, air raids and dwindling
rations, his grating, sardonic voice in-
creasingly got under people's skins.
He impressed his Nazi masters so
deeply that, when Germany's collapse
was inevitable, Dr Goebbels ordered that
Joyce must be kept out of Allied hands
at all costs. A last-minute plan to
smuggle Joyce to Ireland in a submarine
broke down because he was convinced
that the Royal Navy would sink him
en route. Instead he hung about aim-
lessly near the Danish frontier, and was
arrested by a pair of British army officers
collecting firewood in a forest at Flens-
burg.
Was William Joyce legally a traitor?
According to the Old Bailey judge, the
Court of Criminal Appeal and the law
lords of Parliament he was, and it would
be a rash layman who dared dispute their
decision. Joyce's defence at his trial was
that he was an American citizen, born
in New York of an Irish father who had
adopted American nationality, and that
therefore he could not be tried for trea-
son as a subject of King George VI.
1 here was no dispute about Joyce's
nationality. But the Crown claimed that
by acquiring and using a British passport,
even though he had made false declara-
tions to obtain it, Joyce had placed him-
self under the protection of His Britan-
nic Majesty and consequently owed
allegiance to him.
Once the judges and appeal lords up-
held the Crown's contention Joyce’s fate
was sealed. He was hanged in Wands-
worth Prison on January 3, 1946. In
the emotion-charged atmosphere of the
time, few people seem to have noticed
how remarkably the law relating to high
treason had been extended. As the
author remarks: “A great deal of legal
effort went into hanging Joyce.”
GEOFFREY SCOTT
Beckett’s World
The Novels of Samuel Beckett. John Fletch-
er. Chatto and Windus. 425. 6d.
Until quite recently, “interpreting”—
with a mixture of guesswork, enthusiasm
and personal prejudice—the works of
Samuel Beckett was one of the best-
loved intellectual parlor-games of our
generation. It was in 1953 that Beckett
made his name with “Waiting for
Godot”.
Yet, before “Godot”, Beckett had been
writing for the better part of 25 years,
and had given to a largely unresponsive
public not only the now famous trilogy
of novels (“Molloy”; “Malone Dies”;
“The Unnamable”), but also, in “Mur-
phy” (1938) and “Watt” (1945), two of
the finest ironical-philosophical parables
to have been written in the English
language since “Gulliver’s Travels”. Of
him it might have been said, during this
quarter-century of obscure and laborious
existence, what Eugene lonesco once
said of Caragiale: that he was the great-
est unknown novelist in Europe. There
were a few breaks during this period
when he was not either thinking or
writing—turning out a mass of poems,
stories, essays and articles, in which the
great themes of his later plays and novels
were gradually elaborated; but, being
obscure and unknown, he published them
in correspondingly obscure and unknown
periodicals. They were virtually un-
traceable; yet they, precisely, contained
the factual evidence which was missing.
The bibliographies and checklists were
unhelpful; and no one, until Mr Fletcher,
had ever the time, patience, persever-
ance and sufficient tact and courage to
wheedle information out of Beckett him-
self to discover where they were. Now,
at last, the buried city has been excava-
ted. This new volume is worth its price
for its bibliography alone; and for the
serious reader or the student it is more
than admirable—it is indispensable.
And what excellent use Mr Fletcher
has made of his material! Wiselv. he has
avoided involving himself too deeply in
the labyrinth of metaphysical paradoxes
among which Beckett's decrepit heroes
move and have their beins. This is the
world which has already been brilliantly
illuminated by the best of the “specula-
tive” critics Professor Hugh Kenner.
Jacqueline Hoefer, Ross Chambers and
Niklaus Gessner. By contrast, Mr
Fletcher’s method, like his material, is
resolutely factual: for the first time,
really accurate biographical detail; sum-
maries of unpublished or inaccessible
texts (“Mercier et Camier”, for instance,
or “The Dream of Fair to Middling
Women”); source-material of an invalu-
able character (the original sketch of
Murphy in search of his Nirvana in the
short-story “Assumption”, written in
1929); an accurate assessment of influ-
ences (episodes from the “Pilgrim’s Pro-
gress” paralleled and parodied in “Mol-
Joy”); above all, a knowledge of both
French and English texts so precise and
so exact, that almost all previous general
studies of Beckett will now need revising
in the light of this new mass of know-
ledge.
In view of this remarkable achieve-
ment, to reproach some of Mr Fletcher’s
generalisations with being uninspired—
or perhaps just oversimplified— must
seem ungrateful. He who has already
experienced the fascination of Beckett
will find, in this gradual unravelling of
mysteries, something of a revelation; but
he who meets Beckett for the first time
through Mr Fletcher might wonder where
the fascination lay, and what all the
fuss was about. Sometimes too close
a contact with an author so unassuming
(and ironical) can be misleading. Beckett
has a gift for understatement. “I’m not
interested in any system. I can't see any
trace of any system anywhere”, may be
true for Beckett the man; for all that,
his heroes have had glimpses of strange
and haunting “systems”, even from the
depths of their jars or prostrate on their
oozing beds of slime, and there are times
when we would be well-advised to listen
to their voices rather than to Beckett's
own. In any case, Beckett’s greatness
lies in his power of irrational, metaphysi-
cal or poetical suggestion; and if he
chooses, in interviews which he thorough-
ly dislikes, to make himself appear pro-
saic, disillusioned and down-to-earth, we
are entitled to recognise the dichotomy
and continue none the less to follow the
suggested trails as far as human thought
can take us . . . and then a bit further.
We risk, of course, being wrong; but
now, with the immense wealth of factual
certainties in Mr Fletcher's book at our
disposal, we have less excuse than for-
merly for getting ourselves lost altoge-
t*ier - RICHARD COE
The Chinese Style
A History' of Chinese Literature. Lai Ming.
With a Preface by Lin Yutang. Cassell.
61s. 6d.
Chinese Literature. No. 7, 1964. Monthly,
edited by Mao Tun. Foreign Languages
Press, Peking. 20s. per 12 issues (obtain-
able through Guozi Shudian, China Pub-
lications Centre, P.O. Box 399, Peking,
China).
Apart from 90 years under foreign
Mongol rule (1277-1367), China can
claim a continuous administrative history
of some 2000 years in which all official
positions, from that of local magistrate
to buyer of Imperial household silk and
jewels to Prime Minister, were filled by
successful candidates of the Civil Service
examination. These candidates were
“the scholars" who had spent much of
their lives studying and practising for
their examinations the poetic and prose
genres of their day. They were the poets
and essayists of the officially-approved
literary style.


One effect of this method of recruit-
ing literati to government-administrative
positions was to link closely the develop-
ment and change of literary genres with
the social and dynastic history of the
Chinese nation in general. Particular
genres can be identified with particular
dynasties or periods and each genre has
its “golden age" and its greatest ex-
ponents, just as it has its period of
decline and its deviating trends.
Another effect of the Civil Service
examination was to act as a general
(moral) censor on the writing (and
thought) of the scholars. [There were, in
addition, the official (police) censors
whose job it was to draw to the
Emperor's attention such writings as
might be interpreted as being, in modern
language, ''subversive".] Scholars who
were critical either of the prevailing
literary style or of social policies invited
the displeasure of the examiners and
risked being, first, blacklisted in the
examination and, later, overlooked in the
distribution of posts. At the worst of
times, therefore, prudent scholars con-
centrated on literary form, at the expense
of saying anything. They created a
highly artificial prose or poetry, safe
because its message, if any, could be
grasped only by a fellow accomplished
stylist.
In translations of particular works
and general exposition of Chinese
literature, the West has been reasonably
well served by such authorities as Pro-
fessor Arthur Waley and such popu-
larises as Dr Lin Yutang. But the long,
complex and rich history of Chinese
literature has been attempted by only
a very few. Mr Lai Ming's “A History
of Chinese Literature” is thus doubly
welcome, for its rich anthology of
translations (forming roughly a third of
the volume) and for its sketching of the
historical background.
Mr Lai breaks up his material into
chronological historical or dynastic
periods. In each, he deals with poetry,
prose and drama separately, sketching the
social and political background of the
period and bringing out the special
historical crises or conditions which en-
couraged and developed that particular
literary form. He then gives brief but
always lively accounts of the lives,
attitudes and impact of the originator(s)
of the genre, of its best exponents and,
finally, leading into the next period and
genre, its rebels and deviators. Here,
Mr Lai shares with the best of Chinese
traditional story-tellers the skill of hold-
ing the interest of his audience by a
lively arrangement of his material based
on really quite familiar sources and on
the use of well-known anecdotes as
illustrations. He rounds up each chapter
with a few examples of the literature
under discussion.
Generally, Mr Lai suggests, a number
of pervasive features run through the
whole of the history of Chinese literature:
the immense influence of Buddhist litera-
ture on the development of every sphere
of Chinese literature, forcing changes
and innovations into existing forms; the
role of the common people in providing,
by its spontaneous and popular expres-
sion in songs and narrative, literary
forms which were taken over and then
adapted by the literati', and, connected
with this last point, the close relationship
between music and Chinese literature.
Until the Literary Revolution of 1917-
1919, when straight plays in the Western
style were written for the first time,
poetry was song and drama was opera.
The Literary Revolution also brought
to the fore the conflict between two
traditional concepts of literature which
underlay Chinese attitudes to imaginative
literature. These arc: Literature for
“carrying moral teachings” as against
“expressing sentiments”. For a brief
period, between the Revolution and the
invasion by the Japanese, “literature as
a vehicle of Tao” (moral teaching) was
unanimously opposed and “creative
writing” much advocated and practised.
But the cry for “unity to resist oppres-
sion” soon put a halt to creative writing
based on personal experience and brought
back writing as an instrument of moral
teaching, “moral” becoming “political”.
In this form, both on the Mainland and
in Taiwan, Chinese literature is again
an instrument of (political) propaganda.
The Western reader can find in Mr
Lai’s “History” many satisfactions. He
can read it for its sample selections and
its arresting pictures of Chinese scholars
alone; many, I think, will find enjoy-
ment and interest in that. The more
serious student can read it also for an
understanding of China’s history and
outlook; here, he will find Mr Lai a
faithful representative of the old view—
cautious, comparatively uncritical, him-
self somewhat moralistic.
The English - language monthly
“Chinese Literature”, meant to give
foreigners the opportunity of becoming
acquainted with classical and modern
(Communist) Chinese literature, is being
offered to Australians at a very cheap
rate indeed. No. 7 of 1964 contains over
120 pages and several colored plates and
black-and-white illustrations. The text,
representative of other issues as well,
features extracts from such classical
Chinese writings as “Dream of the Red
Chamber”, translations of classical and
modern poems, short stories by con-
temporary Chinese writers, “Notes on
Literature and Art” and (adulatory)
“reviews” of recent Communist publica-
tions.
The translations are poor, the con-
temporary work is blatant in its propa-
ganda and infantile in its moralism. Ex-
planatory notes to the classical works
force “democratic" interpretations on to
the most unlikely situations. At Is. 8d ;
an issue, “Chinese Literature" is cheap.
Even so, one issue is quite enough.
ALICE ERH-SOON TAY
Smogsville
City of the Angels. Richard Gilbert. Seeker
& Warburg. 31s. 6d.
After reading history at Oxford Richard
Gilbert went to the University of Cali-
fornia to teach the History of Western
Civilisation in thirty - two weeks to
sophomores and freshmen. Unlike most
of the young teachers there Gilbert had
no intention of taking a second degree
and so, freed from the academic rat-race,
he had time to observe life both inside
and outside the university. The result
is an attractive book of 220 pages which
conveys to the reader something of the
fascination and repulsion engendered in
a visitor by the boom State of California,
now the wealthiest, the most populous,
and the most influential in the Union.
This book has chapters on the city
itself, the university, students and their
attitudes towards politics (interest limited
and views mostly conservative), puri-
tanical censorship, commercial exploita-
tion during the fall-out shelter craze, the
operations of the radical right (what
Gilbert says here about Goldwater has
been fully confirmed by the events of
recent months).
California has long been the home
of cranks, cultists, and extremists (not
that Gilbert ignores the dullness of the
conformist lives lived there) and provides
material ready-made for satire and
fantasy: Forest Lawn Memorial Park
“not one whit less grotesque” than
Waugh’s parody; Rear Admiral Chester
Ward's remark on a public platform,
“We must let it be known that we are
at all times ready for war to keep the
peace", parallels the slogan from
Orwell’s “Nineteen Eighty-Four", “War
is Peace”; the belief that the Com-
munists were trying to destroy the nation
by putting fluoride in the water supply,
and “Project Noah'’, which discussed the
establishment of underground colonies
for 100 years to avoid the radioactive
atmosphere, were embodied in “Dr
Strangelove”.
This is a brightly-written book, full of
sharp observation and often shrewd in
its analyses. Gilbert admits to an obses-
sion with California, which he justifies
by saying that it is “what a lot of the
United States is going to be like soon
and what a lot of Europe is going to
be like, after that”. He might well have
taken Pope’s lines on man as an epigraph:
Sole judge of Truth, in endless Error
hurl’d:
The glory, jest, and riddle of the
world. R. G. GEERING


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Prospects for 1965
Compared with most nations, Australia’s economic
performance in 1964 was quite good and, with
strong overseas reserves still existing at the close of
the year, there could be a tendency towards self-satisfaction.
Looking back on past performances, however, is non-
productive. It would be more pertinent to compare
prospects today with those which existed in January, 1963.
Inevitably, American prosperity also must be included in
the analysis because of the tremendous influence of US
buying in world commodity markets.
Last year, Australia and the US were moving forward
on a wave of prosperity. Most people were sanguine
because a further stimulus to the US economy was ex-
pected from tax reductions. It worked out that way, too,
because business psychology is based on reassurance that
things are going well; otherwise, businessmen would not
risk their money (or borrow more) for expansion.
Because of the auto strikes in America (and in Aus-
tralia), competitors strove vigorously to fill any gap, with
the result that sales (and imports) were promoted which
otherwise may not have been achieved. This, also prompted
some steel stockpiling in the US. The strikes in the US
caused some reduction in Gross National Product in the
final quarter of 1964 yet America ended up with a rise
of 6.7 p.c. in GNP for 1963, or about 5 p.c. in real terms
if adjustment is made foj the increased price level.
Australia did a little better with a gain of about 8 p.c.
in GNP (6 p.c. in,- real terms) but achieved this at the
expense of a growing labor shortage.
Both countries enter 1965 with their administrations
keeping a i ..'watchful eye on the rising cost structure and
(particul ar iy i n Australia) the sharp increase in wages.
The Inain conclusion is that there is less strength in the
'economy than there was a year ago and economic
forecasters are hoping that further tax concessions will
be made to stimulate renewed industrial activity. Exports
are not expected to maintain the growth rate of 1964 and
there is some concern at Britain’s ability to avoid devalua-
tion. Also, with the European nations vigorously attacking
inflation, the US exporter is becoming less competitive.
Australia’s sudden jump in wage costs also must render
her less competitive on world markets, and her exports
must come under closer scrutiny as Britain, and others,
attempt to solve balance of payments problems by curbing
imports.
Australia offers greater potential growth because of the
rapid development of basic resources (coal, iron ore, oil,
minerals). She is fortunate in having her wheat surplus
absorbed by unexpected windfall sales.
Australia, therefore, has more definite growth prospects
than many other nations at this stage. But the prosperity
and buying power of overseas countries must necessarily
put a brake on Australia’s economic development if export
returns from primary products like wheat, wool and base
metals are insufficient to cover the rising trend of imports.
Fortunately, overseas money continues to flow into Aus-
tralia, covering up any deficiency. This, no doubt, will be
a major determining factor in 1965. Any rundown in
overseas reserves, plus further pressure on sterling, possibly
could cause some rethinking on imports.
Developers Hit in UK
TTigh interest rates in Britain are having a sickening effect
•*"*- on property developers. The well-connected developers,
who have established satisfactory associations with banks
or institutions, are not unduly worried. But the developer
who relies heavily on short term finance, including
bridging finance, is finding the going most expensive.
Since November 4 there also has been a ban on re-
development of certain parts of Central London, thus
halting office redevelopment in that area (apart from exist-
ing building contracts). This has caused a switch by some
developers to town centre developments in the provinces
but, with intense competition and the local authorities
holding out for an attractive deal (ground rent plus some
percentage), the developers are finding that their finances
are stretched too far. Institutions usually finance only
80 p.c. of a project and several institutions which hold a
share equity in the property developer are worried lest
their developer goes to the wall. Some have. As a result,
more institutions are asking for a percentage of profits in
the development or a percentage of the rents.
Tin from Scrap
nPriE buoyant price of tin has not only encouraged
marginal producers back into the field, but has
stimulated the recovery of tin from scrap tinplate.
M. and T. Chemicals of USA is erecting a plant at Port
Kembla, NSW, to recover tin from scrap obtained from
BHP's subsidiary, Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, which
produces more than 200,000 tons of tinplate per annum.
About 10 p.c. of Australian Iron and Steel’s production
of hot-dip and electrolytic tinplate at Port Kembla, which
otherwise could end up as scrap, now may be treated by
de-tinning under an alkaline process used by M. and T.
This converts the tin back into stannous chloride, the
solution through which objects are passed when they are
tinplated under the electrolytic process.
Discussions have been going on for a considerable time.
Evidently the arrangements suit AIS because it also will
buy back any surplus tin which M. and T. extracts from
hot-dip scrap, thus permitting re-use in the hot-dip mill.
M. and T., which already operates a Sydney subsidiary
called M. and T. Chemicals (Aust.) Pty Ltd, additionally
will sell scrap steel back to AIS after the tin is extracted.
Estimated recovery of tin from AIS scrap has been
put at between 1 10 to 130 tons of tin, which would fetch
CONTENTS INCLUDE...
PAGE
The technological challenge . 41
New concepts for hotels 44
IWS defends Woolmark 47


Established 1908
Roseville College
A Private School for Girls
ENROLMENT 1965
Enquiries are now invited for student entry for the 1965 school
year.
Curriculum covers all subjects to Leaving Certificate Honours
classes commence from Kindergarten.
All academic subjects are taught by graduate teachers with
maximum classes of 30 pupils.
The school is noted for the individual attention given to each
student, and parents of prospective students are invited to discuss
all aspects of their daughters' education with the Principal.
Please address enquiries for further details and brochures to:
MRS M. HIGGINS, B.A.
Principal,
29 Bancroft Ave., Roseville.
Phone: 41 3461
upwards of £176,000 on current London prices. How-
ever, some agreement on prices at a lower level doubtless
would be arranged, including the sale of scrap steel.
On present indications the tin recovery method of
M. and T. would not solve the present shortage of tin,
which needs to be made up by imports over and above
local supplies. However, it does suggest that M. and T.
expects its production to increase. This, combined with
other mining groups entering the tin-producing business,
could make Australia independent of imports.
Curtains for Secrecy
J>erhaps it grew from the rather unsettled year under a
closer-than-ever scrutiny by the public eye, perhaps it
was precipitated by the news of attempts to establish a
national Stock Exchange, or perhaps it was just a Yule-
tide gesture to investors generally. Whatever caused it, the
move by the Melbourne Stock Exchange to disclose all
sales to the newspapers as from January 4 is a welcome
one.
For a long time the “pink slip” system enabled off-
’change transactions, often involving very large parcels, to
be reported to the exchange but excluded from the daily
turnover figures. These slips were unavailable for perusal or
publication. Deals made in brokers’ offices, share place-
ments by broking houses and transactions where brokers
were principals could all be “pink slipped”.
The revealing of moves made by brokers dealing as
principals should prove the most valuable. Under the new
system, all sales must be reported except those on overseas
or interstate markets. The exception of the latter, particu-
larly, is a loophole still to be covered. Brokers will have the
option of lodging sales slips progressively or when the
sale is completed. As their names will remain undisclosed,
finance journalists, if no one else, will again feel that the
system still leaves something to be desired. The price of
these special transactions will appear on the trading post
with an “s” symbol to denote their nature.
This move by the Melbourne Stock Exchange, along
with the rumors that the Associated Exchanges are con-
sidering a plan to eliminate double brokerage on short-term
buying and selling transactions, augurs well for the further
breaking down of the club image in 1965.
Well-baited Hook
Automotive Components’ directors have been com-
pletely successful in their attempts to boost the value
of the takeover approach made by Repco. Just before
Christmas it was announced that the value of the share-cash
bid had been lifted, on the existing market prices, from
7s. sd. to Bs. 6d. Actually the price was 9s. Id. but as
participation in Repco’s January one-for-eight issue will
not be permitted under the new terms, some adjustment is
necessary.
Surprisingly the revised bid caught the market unawares.
The day before it was announced, the scrip closed at 6s. Bd.
This was a further setback from the 7s. level reached a
week earlier, when the shares fell lOd. on the news of the
initial bid’s rejection. Having regard to the tone and
wording of the rejection statement, it was quite obvious
that directors were fishing for another bid, so the fall in
the share price was unwarranted and many ex-shareholders
must now be regretting the folly of .their ways.
To start with, the directors claimed that two other ap-
proaches were being investigated. It was to take “some
weeks” before the outcome was known. Such .may not have
been the case, however, as Repco spokesmen said long
ago that a higher bid would not be considered- until the
value of these other bids was known. Whether 1 --Repco
swallowed the bait or whether it was actually informed of
the outcome of the other bids will forever remain a mystery'.-
If the latter is the case, then shareholders, too, are .entitled
to know the worth of any other bids and who made them.
Together with this approach and a rather inconsequential
argument regarding dividend returns and asset backing, the
first offer was rejected. ACL directors also threw in a claim
that dividends and earnings would be lifted to “suitable”
levels within two or three years with the help of technical
aid from overseas (unsecured when the statement was
made). Noticeably, they did not mention that the rapidly
expanding Repco group would also grow appreciably in
the next two or three years. In fact, with the big develop-
ment plans on hand, more issues to shareholders can be
expected.
However, the fact that the ACL move was more a bait
for a bigger bid than a straightforward and justified rejec-
tion is not necessarily any ground for criticism. Too many
companies grab the first offer made to them, ignoring the
fact that, in the business world, any initial bid is usually
below what the buyer is really prepared to pay. ACL
directors are to be complimented on their competent hand-
ling of the situation, especially when Repco had taken the
rather unfair advantage of bidding when the shares had
been chopped down from 9s. 3d. to ss. 3d. after certain
1963-64 troubles.


tv e
mm
STG/10
%
o
1
PA
Jun
current rate
SECURITY: Strong liquidity
reserves. The Society's total
assets exceed £5 million.
WITHDRAWALS: Your money
is available ANY TIME, if
required. No brokerage or
other deductions.
DIVIDENDS: Paid twice yearly
Write jor brochure without obligation.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36
Ormonde Parade, Hurstville. Phone 57 0201
CITY: Berger House, 82 Elizabeth Street.
Phone 28 2801.
MIRANDA: 551 The Kingsway. Ph. 52 6466
AGENCIES:
Chatswood: Ist Floor, 389 Victoria Ave
Phone 41 4295.
Parramatta: 21a Smith St. Phone 635 7401
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Challenges of Change
Australia and new technology
fPHE opening months of 1965 are going
A to provide a feast of economic
thought for Australians. Quite apart
from the delayed appearance of the
Vernon report on the economy, which
can be expected to provide excellent fare
from indigenous sources, a host of inter-
national speakers will be at a series of
conferences in Melbourne proffering us
potted economic wisdom from overseas.
They include experts in investment, bank-
ing and automation.
We have already noted the strong line-
up to address the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne’s symposium on investment
next month (see The Bulletin, Decem-
ber 12, 1964, page 60). Now the Vic-
torian Employers’ Federation has re-
leased an equally impressive list for its
international conference on human
relations to be held in May. It is headed
by one of the biggest names of them all,
Professor John K. Galbraith, author of
“The Affluent Society”. He will be
supported by an imposing array of men
from Britain, the United States and Ger-
many, and a number of local leaders
from various fields.
The accent at the VEF congress will be
on automation, with the angles ranging
as widely as from the effects of tech-
nological change on the individual to
a discussion on “automation and the
arts”. Obviously, from the VEF’s intro-
ductory literature on the congress,
though, it expects the speakers to make
solid contributions to the down-to-earth
problems of infusing more automation
and improving technology in Australian
industry, a subject which Sir Robert
Webster highlighted in his recent
address on the “Challenge of overseas
competition and the problem of over-
seas costs” to the Australian Institute of
Cost Accountants.
In that address Sir Robert posed some
of the problems Australian industry has
to face in this field, but he did not be-
little what is being done here. Foremost,
he said, is that the “difficulty in obtain-
ing access to know-how by Australian
manufacturers is certainly much greater
than would apply in the case of our com-
petitors in Japan, Western Europe, the
United Kingdom or the United States.
We have not, up to the present, done
much in the way of inventing anything
which would result in the establishment
of industry which would be substantially
independent of overseas know-how.
“Although there are some exceptions
it would be generally correct to say that
many industries have to look overseas for
a major part of their technical know-how.
This is ever-changing. It is not satis-
factory to obtain information on tech-
nical processes and production pro-
cedures today and to then forget about
them for a few years. There never was
a time in the history of the world when
we had to contend with such rapid
changes as are now taking place. Where
this kind of know-how is necessary, in-
dustries concerned find it advisable to
associate themselves with some overseas
company willing to supply the knowledge
they require. For this they have to pay
substantial fees and it is not always
readily available.
“Modern production machinery in
SIR ROBERT WEBSTER
many industries has become very com-
plicated, particularly in those cases where
complex electronic controls have been
introduced. When something goes wrong
with the operation of equipment of this
kind because of lack of familiarity with
it, highly paid technicians have to be
brought from overseas to remedy the
trouble. This is an extremely costly pro-


8%
8% per annum short
term on an issue at par (£100) of
£250,000 of Debenture Stock and
Unsecured Notes. Three-year term
on Unsecured Notes, five-year
term on Debenture Stock. Interest
paid quarterly. Trustees for the
debenture stockholders and
unsecured noteholders: Perpetual
Custodians Limited, 33-39 Hunter
Street, Sydney, and P.T. Limited,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications can be accepted only
on the form of application
referred to in, and attached to,
a printed copy of the prospectus
which may be obtained from all
members of the Stock Exchange, or
from Direct Acceptance
Corporation Limited (Established
1926). Directors: J. W. Douglass
(Chairman), F. E. Jones,
W. J. Farram.
DIRECT ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED
Interocean House, 261 George St.,
Sydney. 27-8611
MSN669M
cedure. Even within the United States
I have come across cases where it is
cheaper to dismantle the machines, pack
them up and send them to the manu-
facturer for repair and servicing rather
than pay the cost of a technician to travel
the relatively shorter distances.”
Sir Robert said that “difficulties as-
sociated with obtaining technical staff
are often much the same as those apply-
ing to the obtaining of know-how. A
substantial proportion of these types of
employees has had to be brought from
overseas countries. This also is a costly
process, necessitating the payment of
high salaries, transport costs for whole
families coupled often with undertaking
to return them when the period of their
agreement expires. The finding of ac-
commodation and the settling of them
into their new surroundings introduces
other costs and problems.
“Over recent years there has been
some improvement. Universities are turn-
ing out more and more of the highly
skilled people, technical colleges and
corresponding educational establishments
help with production of trained operators,
and industry itself is doing a lot more
to train people to become skilled
operators. The problem, however, has
only been partly overcome and Aus-
tralian industry is still involved in much
cost because of the lack of sufficient
properly trained and skilled people in
Australia.
“Much has been said about research
work in Australia and the necessity for
it to be undertaken on a larger scale than
is the case at the present time.” Sir
Robert said he did not quarrel with this
objective, but thought a lot of nonsense
is talked about what can be done and
what should be done. The universities,
CSIRO and research establishments
which the major industrial companies
have established are all making a con-
tribution in the way of research, he
stated.
Again, “smaller companies also do
some research in a more limited way.
Most of it, however, is confined to re-
search necessary to overcome problems
associated with applied research relating
to the production of their own particular
industry. This should be continued and
expanded. When it comes to certain
major industries, however, such for in-
stance as the textile industry and many
others of similar proportions, there are
very severe limitations to anything
which can be done in the way of pure
research. When we look at the possi-
bilities and compare them with what is
being done by the major textile countries
in the world such as the United States
and Japan, our contribution could only
be relatively small.
“Millions and millions of pounds are
poured into this work, much of it often
with no practical result, although I expect
when discoveries are made they compen-
sate for expenditure in other directions.
Recently I was listening to an address
in which the lecturer listed what is re-
garded as being the 30 most important
discoveries over a period of fifty years.
It was interesting to notice that, of these,
Du Pont had been responsible for seven
or eight of the new discoveries and in
addition had been responsible for the
development of a number of the others
after they had been discovered or in-
vented by somebody else.
The VEF itself is at pains to point
out, however, that the cumulative effect
of technological changes in Australian
industry is now considerable and our in-
dustrial performance is nothing to be
ashamed of. The cumulative effect of a
series of small technological changes can
be just as important as some of the more
obvious changes. Moreover, the results
achieved by some of the more easily
grasped forms of innovation may be no
less than those achieved by a high degree
of technical sophistication.
This is not to deny, though, that a
major innovation like the advent of
electronic computers can be of over-
riding importance. Australia is grasping
this in a big way. There are now more
than 300 computers embracing all types
installed in this country and firm orders
have been lodged for another 160 or so.
By the end of 1970, the VEF estimates
that more than 600 computers will be in
operation here.
All these computers are going to have
a profound effect on the composition and
dispositions of the Australian workforce.
So far labor and management have been
approaching the problems of adjustment
sensibly and the VEF expects this to
continue. However, it contends that
Governments as well as those concerned
in industry and the community at large
will need to be increasingly vigilant and
should seek the maximum benefit of
overseas experience. For that reason it
considers that its forthcoming inter-
national congress on human relations
will be of profound significance.


30%
*
* : (<p
[ >vS3e
/t J o
Mi
i:
m
\
The Post Office HOUSEHOLDER "
Mail Service is now offered at 30%
less than ordinary postage rates.
“HOUSEHOLDER" MAIL REALLY
GETS YOUR MESSAGE INTO
EVERY NOME OR OFFICE
We guarantee delivery, with the mail,
to every address in the area you choose.
We’ll deliver to any area—from
a few streets, to the whole of Australia.
We’ll tell you exactly how many
homes and businesses in the area' —you
tell us how many you want covered.
You won’t need address lists.
You won’t have to type addresses.
You just print “Householder'' or a
similar title on each article and we
will do the rest.
Enquire NOW from your local Postmaster
or the Superintendent, Mail Exchange
Branch, in your State capital city.
Australian
Post
Office


The Jet Set Don’t Stay
New concepts for Australian hotels
“7T , 'he golden days of hotels are gone,”
said an executive, “and heaven only
knows when they'll come back.” He
was stating a fact that very few people
in the hotel industry are willing to dis-
pute—hotels are having a very hard time
keeping their heads above water.
A big industry, as far as both local
and tourist needs are concerned, one of
the main reasons for its doldrums is too
many bedrooms for too few people.
Where some hotel sites a few years ago
were under-capitalised, they are now so
over-capitalised that occupancy rates
hover dangerously near or under the
70 p.c. mark.
In Sydney alone, between 900 and
1000 hotel bedrooms have been added
to the market in the last five or so years.
“And guests are staying away in their
thousands,” a director of one hotel said.
“On top of this we've had increased
costs both for wages and food.”
The ever-increasing number of motels,
particularly in near-city areas, has also
taken its toll. Some industry observers
feel there has been far too little attention
paid to overcoming motel competition.
Others feel there is nothing that can
be done because of the lesser overheads
motels have to contain. Faster travel,
too, is blamed for decreasing occupancy
and shorter stays.
The table below shows the general
decline in hotel companies’ earnings
since 1960. The earning rates indica-
ted are for 1960 and 1964 respectively.
PROFITS IN E'OOO's
Hotel Co. 1960 1964 Earn, rate
Australia 166.3 3.2 18.1— 0.1
Federal 325.2 124.6 19.0 3.4
Hotel Metropole 67.4 93.6 16.7—16.6
Southern Cross Dr. 12.3 ('6l) Dr. 159.5 nil
Victoria Hotel 89.4 63.5 14.8—10.8
Windsor Hotel 87.5 31.6 19.8 6.9
As will be seen from the table, Syd-
ney’s Hotel Metropole is the only one
which has advanced profit. Earning rate
has remained virtually steady due to a
two-for-five premium issue in 1961.
The Bulletin asked the managing direc-
tor, Mr Max Small, how the Metropole
had continued to increase profits while
other hotels were on the downturn, and
what were the problems besetting the
hotel industry generally.
“We have a greater proportion of
country clientele than most hotels in
Australia,” Mr Small said. “And as we
have a large country patronage we can
depend on greater loyalty from them
than we could from the city guest. If
a man from the country stays with us,
then we can be pretty sure his son and
his son's son will stay with us too in
years to come.
“Over the last tw'o years the number
of guests staying in our place has in-
creased 6 p.c. a year. Because of the
increased occupancy we have been able
to keep our tariff static; in fact we have
not changed it since December, 1962.
During this time most other hotels have
altered their rates to keep up with the
increases in the basic wage, and other
costs. We can meet these charges be-
cause of increased occupancy.
“Although motels have had some effect
on occupancies I don't think their effect
in Sydney has been as great as it has in
Melbourne. In Melbourne you have a
couple of motels almost right in the city.
In Sydney they are more or less on the
periphery. When people come to Sydney
they generally seem to prefer to stay in
the centre of the city.”
Another reason for the Metropole’s
success, Mr Small feels, is the closure of
several middle-class hotels (the Metro-
pole, he says, is middle class). “In the
last two years the Grand Central, Arca-
dia, Aaron’s Royal Exchange and the
Sydney have all closed down. Their
clientele has had to go somewhere and
we've been fortunate enough to capture
some of them.
“The introduction of jet travel to
Australia has had an effect on occupancy
rates and duration of occupancy. No
longer does the businessman stay over-
night if he can get a plane which will
get him home at his normal hour. And
when he does stay it’s usually for a
shorter period, since he can get into his
business quicker.”
An executive of Menzies Hotel (one of
the newest in Sydney, it is located in the
heart of the business area of the city)
blamed the high cost of borrowing for
the poor position city hotels find them-
selves in today. “The hotel industry in
Australia at the moment is in rather bad
shape. The reason for this is the finan-
cial structure of the hotels. Money has
been borrowed at such high interest rates
that the rate of occupancy and operation
has to be much higher than in, say,
America.
“Money for hotels in Australia is
available for 8 to 84 p.c.; in America
you can get it for 4to 4f- p.c. In some
countries hotel building is
subsidised, since it is an export industry.
It is no less an export industry here than
it is anywhere else in the world. Hotels
take in a large amount of foreign cur-
rency a day, yet there is no concession
from the Government and no recogni-
tion of the fact that the industry is earn-
ing foreign income.”
Mr Frank Christie, general manager
of the Chevron Hotel at Kings Cross,
said there were more hotel rooms in
Sydney now than there have been for
the past five years. “And there just
hasn't been the increase in people travel-
ling to keep up with the increase. On top
of this, overheads are continually rising.
Take, for instance, last week, when we
had to pay £1 for a pound of John Dory.
“Another thing that has caused this


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
0
1
(PER ANNUM 5-10 YEARS)
7% 61% 6*l*
4 YEARS 3 YEARS 2 YEARS
(Shorter terms also available)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from:
• Any branch of The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited
• Any recognized stockbroker
• General Credits Ltd.,
277 William St., Melbourne. 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. 61 8581
Branches throughout Australia.
6820
The Underwriters
lAN POTTER & CO.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
NEWINGTON COLLEGE
PREPARATORY SCHOOL, KILLARA
(Locksley Street)
Preparatory School of the Methodist Great Public School.
School for Day Boys from Kindergarten to end of Primary.
For prospectus and further particulars apply to the Master-in-Charge.
Telephone: 49 2916
drop in hotel profitability is the increas-
ing speed of travel. Most Australians
visiting Sydney would come from Vic-
toria. The introduction of the Boeing
727 jet on the Melbourne-Sydney run
has almost cut out the need for over-
night stays. The days of the great big
expense accounts, which were really just
a flash in the pan in Australia, have
gone. So now, where a person has to
spend his own money, he'd rather go
back to the comfort of his own home.
But the industry will gradually grow back
to its former self. These poor days will
not last forever. We have to look for-
ward to the natural growth in population
and the work ANTA is doing in bringing
tourists to Australia. Provided there is
not too much new hotel building, the
next five years will see a big change. And
if there is building you can be sure
much more attention will be paid to the
economics of building than before.”
The bigger hotels in Sydney are anxi-
ously awaiting the effects of the new
Qantas Hotel, which opens in about two
years’ time. Most executives The
Bulletin spoke to were concerned with
the thought that Qantas would take the
lion's share of overseas travellers who
enter the country by air. They see some
consolation, however, in the fact that
Qantas will be promoting conventions
at its hotel. “When big conventions are
held, Qantas will probably not be able
to accommodate all the delegates. Other
hotels in Sydney will get a share of
them,” said one executive. “But I can't
see that there is a need for any more
rooms in Sydney.”
The Australia Hotel Co., which runs
Sydney's Hotel Australia, is not happy
about faster transportation and more
rooms either. Chairman of directors Mr
G. T. Hartigan said in his annual report:
“Bedroom occupancy constitutes the
hotel's principal source of income and
lack of patronage in this direction was
the main reason for the reduction in net
profit.”
The Melbourne side of the picture is
no happier than Sydney. A hotel author-
ity blamed motels as the prime culprit
for Melbourne failures. “Hotel manage-
ment has failed to combat them directly
in most cases and, perhaps just as im-
portant, there has been nothing more
than miserable efforts to attract the
patronage of anyone apart from the
overnight businessman. The Southern
Cross has proved to be enormously suc-
cessful in these other fields. It caters
for big conventions, gets involved in
these package travel deals and is cur-
rently moving in on the business from
country people, mainly by offering free
accommodation for members of the
family under fourteen. Japanese business-
men are expected to be a big target in
future.”


You may close your factory,
but can you afford to close your mind
to Advertising on ifo) in January?
If your point of view about advertising over
the holiday period is . . . “Don’t advertise
in January . . . nobody is home . . . every-
body is on holidays”, you could be missing
out on the best-selling months of the year.
HERE ARE THE FACTS ON JANUARY
Every year many commercial and industrial
organisations close down for three weeks.
At this time of the year the whole family is
free to go out buying. Their pockets are
loaded with holiday pay. They have nothing
but time on their hands to shop.
Retailers have realised this fact. January
is the month of big Summer Sales, Below
Cost Bargains, Specials, Save, Save, Save.
Retailers spend up big in January to grab
a share of this holiday money spending
market.
WHERE DO NATIONAL ADVERTISERS
FIT IN THE JANUARY SPEND UP?
Many advertisers and their agents be-
lieve people stop drinking coffee, buying
cigarettes, using soap, washing clothes, buy-
ing petrol. It certainly seems this way
because they don't bother to advertise during
this holiday season. The actual fact is more
coffee is consumed, more cigarettes smoked,
more washing powder used because more
clothes get dirty, and more petrol used be-
cause people on holidays have more time to
go places. But are they using your products?
What would happen if you stopped adver-
tising and your competitors did not for a
month or more in the middle of the year?
The answer undoubtedly is that your share
of market would decrease. The same over
the Christmas and New Year holiday period.
Not all advertisers stop advertising only
the ones that think they can afford to lose
a share of their market. These progressive
advertisers kept on advertising right through
the holiday period last year. They are big
advertisers who know the worth of January
selling.
Amoco
Ansett
William Arnott
Austral Bakeries
Australian Bankers Association
Australian Consolidated Industries
Australian Consolidated Press
Australian Consolidated Press Bulletin
Australian Dairy Produce Board
Australian National Lines
Beckers Bex
Beechams
Best and Gee
Birko
BP Australia
Bonds Industries
B.M.L.
Brockhoffs
Bushel Is
Campbell Soups
Cedel
Chesebrough-Ponds
Coca Cola
Colgate
Commercial Bank
Commonwealth Government
Cottee’s
Decore Sales
Kevin Dennis
Drug Houses of Australia
Gordon Edgell
Electrix
E. S. & A. Bank
Esso Australia
General Motors-Holden’s
Gillette
Glo-Weave
Goldberg International
Golden Poultry
Greythorn Electrics
T. B. Guest
Robert Harper
Heidelberg Bakeries
H. J. Heinz
Hoover
IGY Veterinary
Ilford Australia
King Gee
R. Kirby
Kodak
Lifesavers
Bob Martih
C. E. Miller
Monier Besser
Moores of Prahran
Philip Morris
Myer Emporium
James McEwan
Nabisco
Nestles Ice Cream
Neta Industries
Newman’s Chocolates
Nicholas
Norway Sardines
Ogden Industries
O. & G. Insurance
Maxwell House
Peters Ice Cream
Tom Piper
Proctor & Gamble
Red Robin
Lyall Roberts
Schweppes
Frank Sedgman
B. Seppelt
Shell Company
Simalex
Sitmar
Stamina Clothing
Sterling Drug
Stewart Alexander
Sunbeam
John Sutherland
David Syme
Tarax
Tuckfields
Vicks
Vincent Chemical
Walpamur
Webbs Radio
Woolworths
Alberto Culver
Brandella Sox
British Paints
Carnation Milk
Clarks Australia
Columbia Pictures
Darrods
Dural Leeds
Ford Motor Company
Halls Book Store
Houghton & Byrne
Inter. Home Pr.
Johnson & Johnson
S. C. Johnson
Kelloggs
Kiwi Polish
Kraft Foods
Kraft Peanut Butter
Mobil
Montines Longines
Macßobertsons
National Civic Council
Neals Motors
Palace Hotel (Perth)
Pennell
Godfrey Phillips
Phoenix Biscuits
Prahran City Council
Purnell Shoes
Reckitt & Colman
R. J. Reynolds
Rothmans
Scripto Pens
Star Theatrette
State Electricity Commission
Toppa Ice Cream
T.
Tri-Safe Brakes
Unilever
Victorian Milk Board
Warner Lambert
Western District Co-operative
W. D. & H. O. Wills
Wrigleys
WHAT IS GTV9 DOING FOR THE
ADVERTISER IN JANUARY?
During January, GTV9 is offering special
low-price packages to help you sustain your
advertising right through the holiday season
without a large advertising expenditure.
Special package rates apply from open to 6
p.m., 6 p.m. to close and Channel 9 Summer
Theatre (In Melbourne Tonight replace-
ment), with, of course, full-rate, all-year-
round Advertisers enjoying priority of place-
ment.
Don’t let the holiday market slip through
your fingers. Contact your GTV9 Account
Executive for full details on how GTV9
can help you plan your advertising over
January. Phone in Melbourne 42 0201, in
Sydney 27 2881, right now.
9
GTV9.I6


HONOURS
GRADUATES
IN ECONOMICS OR COMMERCE
required by
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
SYDNEY
Honours Graduates in Economics or
Commerce (male and female) required
for general research.
Apply in writing to Staff Manager,
Bank of New South Wales, Box 2722,
G.P.0., Sydney. Interviews can be
arranged in each capital city.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089
Public Notice
At about 3 p.m. on Friday, 23rd October, 1964,
a Holden Special sedan registered No.
DAB-560 coloured tan with a cream roof was
travelling on the Hume Highway in the direc-
tion of Sydney. At a point about 4 miles
south of Mittagong where a bridge passes
over Cuttaway Creek the Holden sedan was
forced off the road by another vehicle thought
to be a Valiant sedan of a black or dark
colour. The driver of the Holden was severely
injured. Would any person who witnessed
the accident, called the police or ambulance,
or was at the scene of the accident or who
might assist in establishing the identity of
the driver of the Valiant sedan, please con-
tact Mr. A. R. M. GIBSON, 28 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, phone 25 5113.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
IWS Defence of Woolmark
Managing Director's reply to criticisms
By W. J. VINES
Tt is not considered good public rela-
A tions to get angry. But after reading
“The Man on the Land” of December
12, I’m angry. So should everyone else
be who thinks the wool industry is some-
thing more to Australia than a play-
ground for irresponsible journalism.
The article claims the IWS is more
or less indiscriminately handing out £l5
million a year to manufacturers who
qualify for the Woolmark. Woolgrowers
and the public, it says, are almost com-
pletely in the dark about the way their
funds are being wasted. This is a serious
charge that vitally affects the nation's
greatest industry—and it is made with-
out a tittle of evidence. The “facts” as
they are presented are some of the worst
nonsense I have yet read on wool pro-
motion. It is all the worse because it is
just sufficiently facile to mislead some
readers, although a great many must
have heard Sir William Gunn and others
explaining IWS policy on Woolmark very
plainly.
For a start it is quite wrong to say
that a textile manufacturer who qualifies
for the Woolmark symbol also qualifies
for an IWS subsidy to his own private
advertising campaign. Not a word has
come from the IWS to suggest this.
What organisation would put itself in
such a strait-jacket? In some countries
(Britain among them) the Secretariat
must by law grant the mark to any firm
which meets the Woolmark specifications.
If compliance also meant an advertising
subsidy, there would be no end to the
Secretariat’s commitment.
The true policy is very different.
Hundreds of firms have applied for
Woolmark licences because of the value
of the mark to them. They do this be-
cause they will benefit from all the Sec-
retariat’s promotion of Woolmarked
goods. They do it because customers
will be looking for the mark. It will be-
come and we intend to make it a
universal symbol of quality in wool
goods.
The Secretariat's advertising, in future
as today, will be in collaboration with
those manufacturers and retailers who,
in our view, are “trend setters” the
firms which directly or indirectly in-
fluence great markets. We shall par-
ticularly be collaborating with firms
which introduce (often with our technical
assistance) new and modern processes.
It is quite wrong to say that, even with
this smaller group, we merely subsidise
their own private advertising. In fact we
design the general advertising pattern
ourselves and manufacturers pay 50 p.c.
or more of the cost of the advertising
that carries their name. In Britain at
the moment, scores of advertisements are
in the same style and carry the same
slogan: “You Feel So Good in Wool”.
Only the clothes differ, the names of the
manufacturers, and the details about
price and availability.
The manufacturers are happy to put
their money into this because it is good
advertising that pulls. And the Sec-
retariat is happy because this is “hard
sell”—fashionable garments, with names
and prices. It is true that we don't reveal
our financial arrangements with each
firm; that sort of candour would create
nightmarish problems. It is true also
that synthetics interests may discover
what happened in one or two instances,
but this does not concern us greatly.
“Man on the Land” is really criticising
us for not telling every grower exactly
how we spend his money. He is assailing
us because we do not give a national or
end-use breakdown of our advertising
expenditure to something like 200,000
people in three countries. In the com-
petitive world in which we operate, it
would be commercial suicide to do this.
However, the Board of the IWS like
that of every other commercial concern
not only knows in detail how the
money is spent but approves, in advance,
plans for spending it. Details of ex-
penditure are also known to the Aus-
tralian Wool Industry Conference, which,
like the Board, represents the wool-
grower organisations but has a much
wider representation. No one can argue
that the growers are not in effective
control of expenditure.
It is true we cannot dictate to a manu-
facturer how much of his output shall be
pure wool. It is quite wrong to say
American manufacturers may insist on
fixing Woolmark to blends. The laws
under which the mark is registered in
the United States would make it im-
possible for them to do so, or us to
allow it.
The estimate of £l5 million for Wool-
mark advertising is a guess, and a wild
one. Jt has been made clear that this
advertising will develop in step with the
production of Woolmarked goods and
the progressive extension of the label into
woollens, carpets and furnishing fabrics.
As there are no “handouts” to manu-
facturers, there is no point in calculating
the number of beneficiaries. Half the
article is devoted to this exercise. Neither
of the methods adopted counting the
delegates to the International Wool Tex-
tile Organisation’s Conference or count-
ing the entrants in the Woolmark design
contest has any relevance whatever.
There is more logic in deducing our
expenditure on science by studying the
color of my socks. It goes without saying


**s^
3C
ar
s*s*»T^
«f**»
*m
*m*
■
*?»&&?
-m
mw^st
*m
&&&?
&hi>M ***•'
u
%
****"*
jiminayrn...
Olu
mpic
AUSTRALIA GOES PLACES ON OLYMPIC
Australia advances on wheels . . . the wheels of cars, trucks and buses that move
people and products . . . the wheels of tractors and implements that bring wealth
from the soil. And these hard-working wheels perform best on tyres specially made for
Australian conditions . . . OLYMPIC tyres. The Olympic Rubber Company
Pty. Ltd., pioneer of all-Australian tyre production, has helped in a big way to keep this
country “on the go” for more than three decades.
For tyres of dependability— Olympic is the name to go on


Winchcombe Carson Trustee
Company Limited
offers
its facilities to all who require the
assistance of a Trustee Organisation
Competent Officers provide specialised,
personal attention to those associated
problems so often encountered by per-
sons, companies, societies, charitable
institutions, provident funds and the like.
W.C.T. services include acting as:—
• Executors (either solely or jointly
with others)
• Trustees (either solely or jointly
with others)
• Administrators
• Attorneys under power
• Managing Agents.
If we can be of assistance in any of these
capacities please write, telephone or
call on:—
WINCHCOMBE CARSON TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
48 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone 2 0552
fjpiPp
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES:
Winchcombe Carson Executors & Agency (Canberra) Pty. Ltd v
Winchcombe Carson Executors & Agency (Queensland) Pty. Ltd.
* —» y
amc
FOR ALL FINANCE
FACTORING AND LEASING
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
<N WHICH THE BANK OF N S W. HAS A 40% SHAREHOLDING
F 5
that the figure of 180 firms “whacking
up” £l5 million a year is sheer fantasy.
The IWS has never suggested that
manufacturers in 90 countries would be
using the mark. This is the number of
countries in which the mark has to be
safeguarded by registration. The Sec-
retariat has explained clearly how it will
regulate the marking of made-up gar-
ments. There is no confusion here. The
machinery which we have set up in each
country is working smoothly, and grow-
ing as required. Every manufacturer and
the few retailers who mark their own
garments will be subject to periodic
check. We can deal sternly with in-
fringements.
“The Man on the Land” is wrong in
supposing Miss World is meant to per-
suade other women to buy clothes similar
to her own. She is there to attract public
attention to wool and she is doing it very
successfully. She has only been working
on her IWS contract for three weeks or
so and already she has earned the money
(£11,250, not £12,500, by the way) in
terms of publicity gained for wool. She
is a valuable tool with which we are
attacking the teenage and young twenties
market.
Finally, it is said the IWS does not
appear to take seriously the pending
challenge to the promotion levy in the
courts. Of course we take it seriously.
What would “Man on the Land” have
us do? Close down wool promotion and
research until this action is heard? We
have a job to do and we intend to carry
on doing it.
To sum up, the whole point of the
Woolmark campaign is to give wool a
clear identity in the market place in an
age of a bewildering number of fibres.
Contrary to “Man on the Land’s” whole
argument, it will also give us the greatest
tactical control of the expenditure of
funds.
For the first time v/e have our mark
on our product. Because licensees give
us confidential statistics, we can more
closely measure the results of our pro-
motions. For the first time we have
funds and a plan which—given time to
make it effective in all the major con-
suming countries will maintain an
economic price for Australia’s wool.
This is an extremely complex opera-
tion and it is not hard at present to find
flaws. There have been no precedents for
the Woolmark project. Nobody has ever
set out to try to do this sort of thing
before. However, we have made such
progress in a short time that I am con-
vinced that the project will succeed and
that our difficulties will be overcome.
My colleagues and I appreciate the
interest, and even anxiety, with which
woolgrowers are following the course of
this undertaking. We welcome con-
structive criticism. Nevertheless, there
are some observers who find disaster
more entertaining than success, who
would rather see trouble than progress,
and who relish the prospect that a great
enterprise might be hamstrung by a legal
point. There will always be writers who
find honest enquiry and the truth too
dull, and who deck out speculation with
phrases like “some woolgrowers are ask-
ing . . .”


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ARTHUR JACK GRAY, late of Mascot,
N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that JEANETTE
KATHLEEN GRAY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4494 of 1964 on the grounds of
desertion and/or separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the Bth day of February,
1965, and obtain a copy of the Petition and
Notice of Petition without charge from
GREGG MILNE & CO., Solicitors, 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHNNY JOHAN. TAKE NOTICE that
EILEEN JOHAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4287 of 1964 on the ground of
desertion, notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in the discretion state-
ment filed. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 9th February, 1965, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
C. P. DIGNAM, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO: WILLIAM POWER THOMAS, formerly of
52 Kent Street, Rockingham, Western Aus-
tralia. TAKE NOTICE that your wife
FRANCES THOMAS has presented' a Petition
to the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for a Decree of Dissolution of Marriage
against you on the ground of desertion. If
you desire to defend the Petition or institute
proceedings against the Petitioner you must
file your Answer in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Perth within twenty-eight
(28) days from the date of this publication.
In default of your doing so the suit may
proceed and the Court will pronounce judge-
ment and make' orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 18th day of December
1964. CHARLES R. HOPKINS & CO., 44 Saint
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner. G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ALLAN KEITH TREVITHICK, late of
Glebe. TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE ELLEN
TREVITHICK has filed Petition No. 3331 of
1963 for Divorce on the grounds of separation.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 2nd February, 1965, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from J. C.
PAYNTER, Solicitor, 107 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FREDERICK GEORGE MAYO. TAKE
NOTICE that GEORGE KEITH WATSON has
filed a Petition No. 4351 of 1963 for Divorce
on the ground of adultery naming you as
the co-respondent. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the four-
teenth day of February, 1965, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
BRUCE R. MILES. Solicitor, 250 Pitt Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: VERONICA TERESA WATSON. TAKE
NOTICE that GEORGE KEITH WATSON has
filed a Petition No. 4351 of 1963 for Divorce
on the ground of adultery. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the four-
teenth day of February, 1965, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
BRUCE R. MILES, Solicitor, 250 Pitt Street
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
1964 W(D) No. 260
A DIVORCE PETITION has been filed against
the undermentioned MARNIE DAVID ADAM-
SON ROBINSON, late of 1 Waruda Street
Kirribilli, Sydney, New South Wales, who may
apply to the District Registrar, District
Registry of the High Court, Shirehall Cham-
bers, Norwich, Norfolk, NOR 668, England, for
a copy of the Petition. If within eighty-eight
days he has not communicated with the
District Registrar the Court mav hear the case
m his absence. STANLEY GEO. CLARK-
SON, District Registrar.
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHN MICHAEL REID. TAKE NOTICE
that AGNES MAY REID has filed a Petition
No. 4352 of 1963 for Divorce on the ground
of separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 9th day of
February, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JAMES L.
DIAMOND & CO., Solicitors, of 25 O’Connell
Street, Sydney. —C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ISTVAN SZELL. TAKE NOTICE that
IRMA SZELL has filed a Petition No. 4278 of
1964 for Divorce on the grounds of cruelty
and drunkenness. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the sth day of
February, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CEDRIC R.
SYMONDS, Solicitor, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FRANK SZEGVARY. TAKE NOTICE that
ROSALIA SZEGVARY has filed a Petition No.
2656 of 1964 for (1) a decree of nullity of
marriage or (2) a decree of dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 2nd day of February, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, 15 Blip-h
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
1963 (D) No. 200
A DIVORCE PETITION has been filed against
the undermentioned FREDERICK WINSTON
DOLMAN, late of Barford Street, Speer’s
Point, Boolaroo, New South Wales, Australia
who may apply to the District Registrar,
District Registry of the High Court, 9/11
Stanley Place, Chester, England, for a copy
of the Petition. If within 88 days he has not
communicated with the District Registrar,
the Court may hear the case in his absence.
W. H. R. JONES, Deputy District Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 829
ACROSS
I—Ladies wreck such lofty principles. (6)
4—Girl beneath fish to behave in a most maladroit
way. (8)
9—Spawning sailor opposed to death? (13)
1 I—A ruler's part collie by direction. (8)
12—A scandalmongering Japanese? (6)
15 —What makes a small department skilful? (5)
17—Hovell was presumably consulted about such
strategy bones. (9)
19—Death line reformed at the front. (2, 3,4)
20— Hot in the lava-lava. (5)
21 — Emu bid to become deeply
tinged. (6)
23—Pellets may be propelled by
this city. (8)
26—Private use allowed to the
pianissimo always used by
Diana, a composer. (8, 5)
28— Harmoniously sounding burro
riding an insect. (8)
29 Time for a stranded fellow's
loyal companion. (6)
DOWN
1— The state of not being got
by devil-donkey talent and
skill. (13)
2 Softening the East girl over
the Northern Territory. (9)
3 Where foxes hide flashy
fellows. (5)
5 Meagre list. (4)
6 Varsity is not me. (3)
7 A funny fellow on the Phili-
stine deity. (5)
8 — Ignorant suggestion that you
should stay close to Edward.
(9)
10—There’s extreme difficulty
here, but it’s shorthand out-
line is just like 1-down’s. (13)
13— Ventilated the first-class
Communist. (5)
14 — Where are the middies? (9)
16—This and this sheet is torn.
(5)
18—Suffocated male cats upset
over the male commo. (9)
22 —Phony command to make us
stick-in-the-muds. (5)
24 When is Jules knocked
about? (5)
25 -Knee damage is by no means
apathetic. (4)
27—Run into this vessel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 828


SYDNEY PEOPLE
HA VE BEEN SOLD
ON TCN
FOR
YEARS
STUDIO AND TRANSMITTER AT ARTARMON ROAD, WILLOUGHBY. 43-0444. SALES: SYDNEY, Ist FLOOR, CRICKET HOUSE. GEORGE STREET. 27-2881
MELBOURNE, 247 COLLINS STREET. 63-8336.
TC N -460


m
0
V
u
It all began with one truck nine years ago. Today, lpec moves li million ton/miles of
express freight every month . . . the needs of 18,000 consignees in all States. Such has
been the growth of Ipec, Australia’s largest express company.
Growth through anticipation of Industry's requirements. For
Ipec moves all types of freight. Fast. Efficiently, Economically.
AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE AT ITS MOST ENTERPRISING
