

The Bulletin
' ■- T \Kf 1 M fj! <%M '; \ «• •.• •--• ■;,
INCORPORATING,THE AUSTRALIAN FfIKIANCIAJ_ TIMES
VIETNAM
AUSTRALIANS
IN ACTION


For discerning people...
5
7
*l.
iA
■m.
****rZ.
who have a taste for luxury ..
m
m®
1
m,
IMP
st i.. tss£&£ - 1.
** £ T‘*i
and an eye for value
The new Ford Galaxie 500 is becoming the overwhelming
choice of people with an eye for good taste, and an appre-
ciation of the finer things the world has to offer.
For it represents unique investment value. Apart from its
eye-holding styling, luxurious quietness, and limousine
comfort, it features the following items as just some of its
standard equipment: Feather-touch power steering; power
brakes; heater/demister; deep-pile, fully-fitted carpeting;
reversing lights; “Cushion-Ride” four-wheel coil sus-
pension; “Cruise-O-Matic” dual-range 3-speed automatic
transmission; “Challenger 289” V 8 engine with twin-
venturi carburettor.
At your Ford Dealer’s now! £2,610 tax paid.
Best Year Yet To Go Ford!
FORD GALAXIE 500
Prestige and value matched perfectly together
FORD OF AUSTRALIA


Familiarity
breeds content
Getting to grips with things brings experience.
Always rewarding, one way or another. Makes us
useful in modern society. So we become familiar
with what makes things tick. Conventionwise,
Chevron Hotel's management is familiar with all
the needs of convention planners. The resulting
experience is at your service. A mighty fine hotel,
Chevron Hotel, places at your disposal all its
material and human resources for successful con-
ventioneering. Our convention team cares for all
the detail. Tailors a package deal to your require-
ments. Cost-wise most reasonably. Get with it . . s
with us.
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
CHEV /21 90
The Bulletin
Established 1880
AUG. 14, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4459
VIETCONG BLUES
A report from War Zone D 23
MICKEY ROONEY
Triumph of charm 29
THE BRITISH MIGRANTS
£lO to paradise 30
TALBOT DUCKMANTON
Time for a change at the ABC? 34
CHARM SCHOOU
Art portfolio 40
TANNER .... 12 LETTERS .... 42
BATMAN 28
THIS AUSTRALIA
The ALP conference , 14
Stunning the Press 16
Conscription: the other battle 18
The teach-in 18
Banks: “Tickling the Peter” 19
OVERSEAS
MALAYSIA: Is Britain leaving? .... 26
VIETNAM: Diplomacy fails 38
THE US: Votes for Negroes 39
ART & ENTERTAINMENT
The Representative 44
Leonard Hessing 46
Hollywood Diary: Part Two 50
OPERA: La Sonnambula 46
FILMS: Hush, Hush, Sweet
Charlotte 47
THEATRE: Instant Marriage 48
MUSIC: ABC Recital Series 49
BOOKS: Dien Bien Phu 52
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Background to the Budget 57
The private eye business 60
Speculator’s Diary 74
MAN ON THE LAND
Planned auctions for wool? 75
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


m
mm
m
mmm
m
A*
Si
WAS
lllllli
iiSi
AiSi
■


To this age
of modern transport
Rank Xerox
have added a
new vehicle:
K - :%
wMiMM
mm
i
mm
the hand cart
This man is pushing a Rank Xerox office copier on one of our new inter-
corporate-business-expediters. If you see a man pushing one of these, treat
him with kindness, invite him into your office.
Not because he's hot!
Not because you are sorry for him!
Because he can show you how you speed up the distribution of information
in your business. This means improved business efficiency.
“Ah, ha!” you say, “but it’s going to cost me money, lots of money, to buy
one of your inter-corporate thingameys!” "Not a cent!” we retaliate. “You don’t
buy a Rank Xerox office copier, you hire it . . . there’s no capital outlay and
all service is free.” So you hire a Rank Xerox office copier. Why not? Most
companies do! Did you know that 70% of Australia’s office copying is done
on Rank Xerox machines?
To Rank Xerox (Australia) Pty. Limited,
Box 1609, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W,
Please send me full details and information on Rank
Xerox 813 copier.
Name Position
Company & Address...—
&
RANK
XEROX
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Melbourne,
Perth, Adelaide, Canberra, Hobart. fo7s/658


£s^
n
T" 1 11.
H-H
JbjL
s?
e
)
\<d
V
Yt
FAR DO
HAVE TO MAKE A POUND STRETCH ?
Big income earners and small income
earners alike plan for their families’
future security. The more a single £1
means to you the more carefully you
must plan to be sure you and your
family are getting maximum benefit for
the money you spend.
How much would your family need to
live the way you want them to live?
How can such an income be provided
for them?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP will provide the answer
to these vitally important questions.
A
FOUR POINT. 5
FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP u
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
O Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
© Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave. 1
© Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
0 If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
Trained and reputable
field men working
everywhere with Aus-
tralia’s largest Life
Office make top-flight,
all-lines insurance ser-
vice a practical reality
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia, New Zealand and in the United Kingdom.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding £7OO 000 000 which the
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
P 2058


Another cost-saving idea from Pan Am!
New shipping containers
that can save you up
to £22/6/5.
Starting September I*, if you have a
product which can be shipped in one of
the new containers recommended by us,
our new Jetairpak® Savings Plan will en-
title you to a discount that can save you
up to £22/6/5 figured on the gross
weight or the shipment.
These containers are made of extra
strong, 3-ply corrugated board, and can
be purchased now simply by calling our
nearest office. They come in two sizes:
40% x 24% x 20 (inside dimensions in
inches) and 40% x 24% x 31 (inside
dimensions in inches). Because they en-
able us to handle your shipment more
efficiently, we can give you this preferen-
tial rate to and from Australia, North and
South America.
When the total weight of the shipment
in the containers equals 100 kilos, you
qualify for the discount. And, these con-
tainers often eliminate the need for other
forms of packing (and their costs!).
Let these new containers reduce your
shipping expenses. We’ll be glad to have
a Pan Am representative explore your
shipping needs with you . . . recommend
containers . . . and tell you approximately
how much your savings will be. Order
now . . . and you’ll be sure to have con-
tainers on hand September 1. Your local
Pan Am office or your Pan Am Cargo
Agent will be glad to help you make
arrangements.
*Subject to Government approval.
World’s largest Air Cargo carrier ‘World’s most experienced airline
First on the Pacific • First in Latin America • First on the Atlantic • First ’Round the World
’K-
PAN AM OFFICES # SYDNEY AIRPORT: 67-1384 • MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET, 63-9077
PA4B4R


What
should you
look for in
fire
■
a
m
¥■
w
; ; N -M
m
•: V, ..
lMl®l«l
experience
GRlftlNEl.il
Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System
WORMALD BROTHERS
Co mplete Fire Protection Service
Since Wormald Brothers first com-
menced fabrication and installation of
Grinnell Automatic Sprinkler and Fire
Alarm Systems towards the end of the
last century, Grinnell systems have
extinguished many thousands of fires
without a single life being lost. In the
cold facts of finance, the savings have
run into multi-millions.
Today Grinnell stands guard over
millions of pounds worth of property
throughout the world. Grinnell is
certain protection, automatic protection
. . . part of Wormald Brothers’ vast
experience in fire protection.
G 68.95
WB


National Notebook
Money Up In Smoke
Tacques De Vigne’s name had, we con-
** fess, been unknown to us before we
saw, the other day, his brilliant, two-
minute helicopter-shot commercial for
Craven A cigarettes, currently showing
on the Hoyts circuit. In exactly 120 sec-
onds the French-born M. de Vigne dis-
played more talent than we’ve seen in
hours of running time from far more
vaunted directors: “Robin and the Seven
Hoods,” shown on the same programme,
wasn’t in the same class photographically.
“I started my career in Morocco,” M.
de Vigne told us. “A documentary about
crossing the Sahara. And again I was
production assistant on Alfred Hitch-
cock’s film ‘The Man Who Knew Too
Much.’ and on Henri Verneuil’s ‘Therese
Raquin’, with Simone Signoret.”
After two years of military service, he
came to Australia on an impulse. With a
loan of £5OO he made a ballet film, “The
Death Cell,” with Robert Pomie. The
partnership split up (“I am a Frenchman,
and temperamental, but I say to you,
Monsieur Pomie was too much for me!”).
Later, de Vigne worked on a documen-
tary set in Newcastle and on Billy
Graham’s “Shadow of the Boomerang.”
For the past three years he had worked
with a leading agency turning out cigar-
ette commercials, most' notably “The
Pipers in the Blue Mountains”, a series of
images of a Scottish pipe-band emerging
from mountain mists that looked a good
deal better than M-G-M's more ambitious
efforts in “Brigadoon.”
The helicopter commercial a dazz-
ling evocation of the cliff-roads, wild seas
and bronzed holiday life of the New
South Wales coast cost £7OOO. “The
helicopter alone set us back £5O an hour
for several days. The models we used in
a swimming-pool sequence cost £25 a
day each.”
In view of this kind of cost for a two-
minute film, we couldn’t help noting the
futility of recent plans to start an industry
here on half a million, or even a million
pounds a year. “A good feature film
made here would cost at least £250,000,
M. de Vigne said. “The market in this
country wouldn't return this sum. I don’t
believe government sponsorship is the
answer. Too much control and too little
money. At the moment I can’t see a solu-
tion. But it’s worth remembering that in
Europe art films have been made with
£5OOO or less. The directors, of course,
have starved, and their friends have
undergone terrible sacrifices to raise the
money. Is anyone here prepared to do
that? I don’t think so. Life is too good
here. But if you want to be an artist in
film you must be prepared to pay . .
Untroubled Air
TI/Jore than £ 15-million is going up in
smoke in New South Wales; in
cleaner smoke, that is. The Air Pollution
Branch of the Health Department has
persuaded industry to spend this sum on
clean air equipment or processes.
The expenditure ranges from the £2.7-
million by BHP at Newcastle and the
£3-million by Australian Iron and Steel
at Port Kembla to a few thousand by
small firms.
The Air Pollution Branch reports
“99.9 per cent” co-operation from indus-
try since the Act came into force on
January 1, 1964. The Branch’s officers
are inclined to put its success in getting
the message across down to the fact that
most of their direct dealings are with
fellow-professionals, chemists and engi-
neers. However, the expenditure must
finally be approved by management, so
businessmen have, in fact, agreed to pay
out this £ 15-million for something which
"I only laugh on the outside."
Centenary
'T'he centenary of Dame Mary Gil-
more is being marked in Sydney on
August 16 by the publication by the
Australasian Book Society of a selection
of her prose and poetry. Although this
book contains a brief biography by
Barrie- Ovenden, apparently no one has
yet embarked on a major biography.
Dame Mary was, of course, an early
contributor to The Bulletin. Her first
pieces were bush sketches, which ap-
peared above the initials M.J.C., when
she was a bush schoolteacher in the
eighteen eighties and nineties. This was
before she joined William Lane’s New
Australia Movement and went to South
America.
In these early days Mary Gilmore
met Henry Lawson and tried very hard
to help him place his early contributions
in The Bulletin. However, the staff
judged that Lawson’s lack of formal
education would always tell against him.
But Mary Gilmore was so determined
that, judging that there was room for
only so many bush sketches in The
Bulletin, she gave up submitting her
own for publication for a time so that
Lawson would have a better chance.
Many years later, when someone re-
ferred to the incident, Dame Mary com-
mented: “We were young for our years,
and our years were young.”


•~»>
■
«it
.w-f"
Sill! 1
NO ONE AROUND TO PUSH!
How many kicks left in that battery? If she doesn’t >
fire quickly you’ve had it. So you’re glad you drive
on Butane-boosted Caltex Gasoline. Butane gives
the front-end volatility for instant starts under winter
conditions . . . the faster warm-up that saves undue
engine wear. It’s a double gift of life for your engine.
CALTEX GASOLINE
FOR INSTANT WINTER STARTS
CALTEX TAKES BETTER CARE OF YOUR CAR.
CALTEX
5


neither improves their product or their
sales, nor is, so far, tax deductible.
Before the Act came into force the Air
Pollution Branch had carried out a pro-
gramme of education in industry but few
firms undertook early measures lest these
should prove inadequate, or, perhaps,
over-elaborate once the Act was passed.
The Act contains penal clauses. How-
ever, so far the Branch has not had to
consider the use of these clauses.
The Act controls only “scheduled”
premises, which come under nine classi-
fications, including oil refineries, gas-
works, coke, cement and ceramic works
and some types of chemical manufacture.
Owners of scheduled premises there
are over 700 in New South Wales pay
annual licensing fees. About two-thirds
of scheduled premises have installed
clean-air equipment or are doing so.
The NSW Act is working well, but
how far will it go towards dissipating the
cloud of muddy-yellow smog which
hangs over Sydney at some times of the
year? The Act does not cover shipping,
private homes or motor cars. The do-
mestic fire is no problem in Australia, as
it is in Britain, and local experts feel
is may be some years before motor-car
fumes reach nuisance proportions in our
cities as they have already done in
America.
The main hope of most air pollution
nieasures (Queensland and Victoria also
have Acts) is to keep one gasp ahead
of industry. All industrial cities tend to
have some factors in common, and some
particular problems, such as climate.
Some of the common ground and par-
ticular problems will be covered by the
Clean Air Conference at the University
of NSW next week.
The conference secretary is the head
of the NSW Air Pollution Branch, Dr J.
L. Sullivan. Visitors will include the pre-
sident of the US Air Pollution Control
Association, Mr J. Fairweather; Mr S.
Smith Griswold, Air Pollution Control
officer, Los Angeles; Professor R. S.
Scorer, of the Imperial College, London;
Dr J. Goldsmith of the World Health
Organisation; and Mr F. E. Ireland, the
chief alkali inspector, of the British
Ministry of Housing.
Return to Greece
r 1 reece revisited for Sydney artist
Justin O'Brien was an experience
colored by the death he had seen all
around him as a prisoner of war there
more than 20 years ago. While nursing
in a hospital at Kokinia, outside Athens,
the Germans had once taken him to a
cemetery.
“I saw a woman with a billy-cart and
when I looked inside there was a dead
baby,” he recalled. “Looking to the
right of me I saw a mound of about 80
corpses; to the left was a long marble
table with a sheet over it; all I could
glimpse was some black hair under the
sheet it looked extraordinary against
the marble. When I got back to the hos-
pital I tried to draw what I had seen.
I tried again in Australia; but I could
never get it quite right.”
Nevertheless, Justin O’Brien’s return
to Greece in May last year was pri-
marily an idyllic four months on the
island of Skyros. He and fellow Aus-
tralian Jeff Smart painted in a fisher-
man’s hut by day and spent their nights
at the island’s taverns. “The Greek land-
scape, the shape of the mountains, the
light had all influenced my painting
ever since i had first been there,” he
said. “I always wanted to go back.”
Forty-eight-year-old O’Brien returned
to Sydney two months ago with an ex-
hibition of his Skyros paintings, which
has been a sell-out. They were done
on the island and, later, during ten
months in Rome.
O’Brien described the ceremonies on
Skyros on St George’s Day. “The three
papas came down the side of the moun-
tain wearing heavy, marvellous colored
vestments and tall black hats and veils.
The acolytes carried the icons. With the
wind blowing their clothing, they came
down to the little chapel below, where
the papas blessed big baskets of bread.”
He added that the priests were very
close to the people. “You never felt they
were at all separate. One we called the
French-speaking papas; one was the
drinking papas, a jolly man, who would
sit down and have an ouzo with us.”
There were echoes of Henry Miller’s
Greece, too. The wife of Miller’s color-
ful Greek, Katsimbalis, came across to
Skyros from Athens. She is now aged
about 60. O’Brien said he found her
charming and a brilliant conversation-
alist.
Dedicated as he is to Greece, O’Brien
had this to say: “Henry Miller’s ac-
count of the country is exaggerated. I
didn’t find it so colorful. We had some
interesting expatriates for company on
Skyros, including an American an-
thropologist called Hortense Powder-
maker, who has written a book on Holly-
wood. But I think I would go to pieces
if I stayed there too long. I noticed a
tremendous change in Athens since I
was there in the war. It’s like any other
modern city now. Best of all is the
Plaka, the old Turkish quarter.”
O’Brien is one of the so-called Charm
School of painters. “Apparently the
Charm School was not as bad as they
thought it was. The critics are looking
at it more seriously now,” he said.
“People often call my work Byzantine,
but I am most influenced by the Sienese
painters, especially Duccio.”
One of O’Brien’s paintings is repro-
duced in our color portfolio this week.
Mr Daniel Thomas discusses the Charm
School on page 40.
Cover Picture
/\ur cover shows members of A Com-
pany of the First Battalion, Royal
Australian Regiment, patrolling rubber
plantations and jungle about three miles
north of Bien Hoa airbase in Vietnam.
THE SOCIAL PURITY SOCIETY
ffi^ulCetCn
80 Years Ago: August 15, 1885
A NEW organisation is struggling for
existence in almost every colonial
city. It is called the "Social Purity Society"
and aims at putting the relationship of the
sexes on a sounder basis. But it is doubt-
ful whether, as society is at present con-
stituted, it is possible to appreciably abate
illicit intercourse. A good deal has, with
justice, been said of the unequal punish-
ment accorded the male and female part-
ners in sin. Indeed, so far as the man is
concerned, there is no punishment at all.
But women themselves are primarily to
blame for this. So long as a pure woman
will receive unhesitatingly in her drawing-
room the man she knows to have ruined
one of her weaker-minded sisters, the
game of seduction will go merrily on.
AT last there are signs of progress in
Adelaide they have begun to im-
prove even on New South Wales. A man
named James Callow was sentenced to
imprisonment for life and to be flogged as
well! "Prisoner's cries from the third stroke
to the finish were agonising, and after the
flogging he had to be led away by the
warder." This is how the telegram runs. To
find parallels for atrocities of this descrip-
tion we have to go back to the bloodiest
days of English penal legislation back
almost to the time of Titus Oates. To sen-
tence a person to imprisonment for life and
to be tortured as well is a piece gf
brutality as cowardly as it is useless
an example of savagery whose perpetra-
tion in Russia would send a thrill of horror
through Europe. We challenge Australians
to name another civilised country in the
world where such an infamy would be
tolerated.


Tanner
"At least we know where we stand now."


The Desperadoes
PLAIN ENGLISH
As good a clue as any to the present
desperate condition of the Austra-
lian Labor Party was the debate on
foreign and defence policy at its Fede-
ral Conference in Sydney last week.
Despite the recommendations of its
Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy
Committee, the Conference decided to
retain its goal of a nuclear-free zone in
the Southern Hemisphere. Yet this
policy — as everyone, including the
ALP Conference members, knows —is
a dead issue: Communist China will
deploy its nuclear weapons in the
Southern Hemisphere, Russian nuclear
submarine already patrol there, the
British Government has V-Bombers
designed to carry nuclear weapons in
Malaya, the USA maintains a variety
of nuclear weapons in the Southern
Hemisphere, Indonesia is building its
own nuclear weapons which President
Sukarno says will, “God willing”, be
ready soon, and France will carry out
nuclear tests in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. In any case since a North-
ern Hemisphere power with inter-
continental ballistic missiles could des-
troy an undefended Australia without
bothering to move into the Southern
Hemisphere, the only possible deter-
rent to such a threat are nuclear weap-
ons under the control of our allies in
the Southern Hemisphere.
Why, then, did the ALP adopt such
an absurd policy? Blindness and sim-
plicity are not the explanations, be-
cause most of the relevant facts were
pointed out to the Conference by Mr
D. Dunstan, the South Australian At-
torney-General, who is a member of
the Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy
Committee. The point is that, despite
knowing the facts, the Conference still
decided to adopt a policy which it
knows is impossible in practice, dan-
gerous as a doctrine, and effectual only
as an announcement to our allies that
what is laughingly called the alternative
government of Australia is not pre-
pared to assist them in the defence of
Australia.
The explanation for the decision
can only be that, for the time being,
the Left wing actually wants to destroy
the ALP’s public reputation so that
Right-wingers will suffer electorally and
the Parliamentary Party become a Left-
wing junta without serious internal op-
position from people such as Mr G.
Whitlam. It hopes then to gain office
if and when the Liberal-Country Party
coalition disintegrates, as do most
coalitions after many years in of-
fice and the retirement of their leaders.
It is, of course, a policy of despera-
tion and in any case may be too clever
by half. Already the DLP has more
than twice as many members as the
ALP in Victoria, and the ALP’s pre-
sent policies can only strengthen the
DLP (and the Liberals) in other States.
However; the fact remains that we still
have an official Opposition which on
major questions adopts policies in-
distinguishable from those of the Com-
munist Partv. All the marginal qualifi-
cations in the world cannot conceal
this fact.
The Prasad Mess
fPuE Prasad drama had few attractive
A characters except the girl Nancy.
It is a fine point who has been the most
heartless the Immigration Depart-
ment which would not allow an Austra-
lianised child to stay here; the girl’s
parents who now said they did not
want their daughter back; the sensa-
tionalist Press which cynically beat up
a range of false stories about the
parent’s poverty; the student demon-
strators who preferred to make a child
the centre of a publicity stunt rather
than show any serious concern for her
welfare.
But whatever judgments one makes
about these various characters in the
drama, one basic fact is that the whole
mess was made possible by the in-
flexibility of the Immigration Depart-
ment. It is true but irrelevant that its
policy throughout was logical and con-
sistent. Nancy’s parents had come to
Australia as tourists. When their visas
expired, they demanded the right to
stay. After some ridiculous publicity
they returned to their own country,
leaving their daughter Nancy behind
for hospital treatment. In the follow-
fog months various legal moves were
ma de to adopt the child, which were
rejected by the courts on ordinary
legal grounds. Meanwhile, her parents
in Fiji continued to state that they did
not want their daughter and could not
afford to bring her up, although they
are comfortably off. In due course the
girl was returned to her parents.
Australians entitled to administer its
immigration policy as it thinks fit and
not to have it fooled around with by
people in other countries. But how-
ever consistent its decisions have been,
it nevertheless deported a girl who was
fully integrated in the Australian com-
munity and whom Australian citizens
wanted to bring up. The Department
could easily have allowed Nancy to
stay without aay fear that it would be
establishing a dangerous precedent or
undermining the total immigration
policy. The student stuntsters and
their collaborators have probably made
it certain that Nancy will not come
back to Australia, but the fact re-
mains that a little imagination and
flexibility on the Department’s part be-
fore the case began would have avoided
the whole mess.
Super
Tn 1952 Mr Laurie Short established
a nationwide reputation for the
determination with which he overthrew
the Communist control of the Federat-
ed Ironworkers’ Association. Last week
he established yet another precedent
when he announced that the BHP,
Australia’s biggest private employer, is
offering superannuation benefits to its
30,000 employees, 20,000 of whom
are in the Ironworkers’ union. Short
was right in claiming that this is a
“milestone” in the history of Australian
industrial relations and significant-
ly it has been achieved by a so-called
“Right-wing” union that has shunned
strikes as a weapon of policy.
Since it is no reduction of Mr Short’s
achievement to point out that super-
annuation benefits of the kind his
union has arranged with BHP are com-
monplace in other advanced countries,
the question arises why it has taken so
long to introduce them here on any
scale. The answer can only be that too
many union leader "in live mentally
in the 19th century or have simply lack-
ed the enterprise to negotiate arrange-
ments of this sort. If it has been dif-
ficult for small individual unions to
do this, there has been no reasonable
excuse for the ACTU not to have done
it. Now that the Ironworkers have set
the example, unionists are entitled to
demand that the ACTU press for
the extension of such arrangements to
include all unions.


THIS AUSTRALIA
ALP CONFERENCE I
A Left Wing Push-over
Downing’s big mistake
NORDMEYER
N.2
0* 1 §
tijfjLx
'7<z^-us'P4'
It
£/}**■ x
Ur I
By ALAN REID
ALP Federal Conference in Sydney last week demonstrated precisely why the
Left wing is continually tightening its already dominant grip upon the ALP Federal
machine: the Right wing is prepared to make concessions and to compromise; the
Left wing is prepared to take all and give nothing.
From the outset it was clear that there
were two groups at the Federal ALP
Conference just as there were three key
and revelatory issues: Unity Tickets be-
tween ALP members and Communists in
trade union elections; State Aid; and
the Wyndham report recommending the
reorganisation of the ALP machine.
The attitudes and the approach to
basic issues of the two groups were
markedly different. The Right wing, of
which NSW was the banner-bearer, was
eminently reasonable and in my view
genuinely so. It was prepared to make
concessions and to compromise in the
interests of party unity and because of
its belief that one of the functions of a
democratic party is to win power so
that it can implement policies acceptable
both to its followers and the majority
of voters. It wanted to evolve policies
that would enable it to win power.
But the Left wing showed it was not
interested in winning power. It believes
that its basic function is not to evolve
policies acceptable either to the mass of
ALP members or the voters, but to main-
tain “pure” as against “impure” doc-
trine.
What constitutes “pure” as against
“impure” doctrine at any given time
depends upon which particular Left-wing
grouping, Marxist or non-Marxist, cur-
rently has ALP ascendancy. This is what
gives Unity Tickets which over a
period, as the Victorian ALP ex-presi-
dent Mr R. Holt has said, must inevitably
lead to either a unity front between the
ALP and Communist Party or the ALP
degenerating into a Communist front
their rightful importance as an issue in
both Right and Left wing eyes.
The Left wing, furthermore does not
believe that Labor has to win power. It
believes that power can and will be
thrust upon it by the disintegration or
failure of its non-Labor opponents, the
Liberal and Country parties which have
occupied the Commonwealth Treasury
benches since 1949. The Left would
prefer to receive that power when it
comes unfettered by the presence of
any “impurity” that might be the pro-
duct of a susceptibility to the desires of
the electorate. While this is a quite
negative approach, it can be politically


justified. It has been justified before
and could be justified again.
In my view NSW, exemplifying the
Right-wing element in the conference,
started last week under a disadvantage.
The major newcomer to the six-man
NSW delegation (actually there was one
woman on it Mrs K. Anderson) was
Mr Reg Downing, Attorney-General in
the former Renshaw State Labor Govern-
ment and acknowledged as one of the
brains behind keeping Labor in power in
NSW for 22 years. Later proceedings
showed that Downing was a tough, able
political thinker who knows what makes
people and politics tick in Australia. But
he was in an unfamiliar environment.
While the Right wing’s top political talent
has tended to concentrate upon the State
field, the Left wing knows where the real
political power lies. It has concentrated
its talent in the Federal field. The top
Leftists were operating in a familiar en-
vironment. Downing was in strange ter-
ritory.
Downing made another mistake. He
obviously thought he was dealing with
people like himself people who would
compromise rather than split a party and
who would agree that it is no good
evolving a perfect policy which the
voters did not want.
I feel pretty sure that if the Unity
Tickets issue had been decided after the
State Aid issue the decision would have
been the same, but NSW would have
fought it differently. On this issue NSW
theoretically had Victoria “dead to
rights”. The Victorian ALP Executive
had, according to the Deputy Labor
Leader Mr Gough Whitlam, tolerated
“flagrant” breaches of the Federal ban
on Unity Tickets between ALP members
and Communists in union elections. The
former ALP Victoriah President, Mr
Robert Holt, had made no bones about
it.
Communist influence was such that it
was a Communist and a Communist
alone who had decided that Holt should
no longer continue as Victorian ALP
President. Holt had the numbers to
survive even on the Trade Unions De-
fence Committee inner committee
that very odd group of 13 trade-union of-
ficials which officially has no connection
with the ALP and which moves heaven
and earth to prevent the ALP interven-
ing in union affairs to counter Com-
munist influence, but which has an im-
mense influence upon the Victorian ALP.
Seven of those who were present at the
inner committee meeting wanted Holt
to continue as Victorian President. Six
did not.
Then one of the seven left the room.
He consulted with the Communist trade-
union official who acts as one of the
Communist Party’s many liaison officers
with the ALP and ALP-Communist of-
ficered trade unions. The TUDC mem-
ber was told that Holt was no longer
“reliable”. He was complaining that if
Unity Tickets persisted the Communists
must end up with complete control of
ALP policy in Victoria. A type of com-
plaint that always makes an ALP mem-
ber “unreliable” in Communist eyes.
The member of the inner committee
went back into the room. He switched
his vote from “for” to “against” Holt.
Holt was out.
Personally I feel that Holt made a
A mistake in going quietly and resign-
ing instead of fighting back at the Vic-
torian Conference and making the forces
opposed to him throw him out of the
President’s job. He would probably still
have lost, but he would have gone out
with an explosion instead of with only
a flicker.
Against this background known to at
least the key delegates at the conference,
NSW could legitimately be expected to
seek action against Victoria. But Down-
ing undoubtedly still felt that he was
dealing with people like himself who
had some regard for the unity of tfw
party and the electoral standing of the
Labor Party.
For the sake of party unity and in the
hope that it would assist Labor’s elec-
toral standing, NSW did not fight on
the Unity Tickets. It withdrew its own
motion calling for ALP action in the
trade unions to counter what Mr Whit-
lam had already described to a NSW
State conference as the “subversion” of
the trade-union movement. This was the
vital resolution in the Unity Tickets
fight, not Victoria’s for the legalising of
Unity Tickets. The Communists have
run successful Unity Tickets without
ALP legal blessing in Victoria for years
and doubtless will continue to do so.
Those favoring Unity Tickets were
abandoning nothing when Victoria, as
a “compromise”, undertook to withdraw
its pro-Unity Tickets resolution. The
Right wing was abandoning everything
(probably even its future in the ALP as
the Left wing goes on steadily strengthen-
ing its representation at Conferences
and elsewhere through the Unity-Ticket
device) when NSW agreed to withdraw
its resolution for the re-entry of the
ALP into the industrial field to counter
the “subversion” of the unions.
Downing was soon disillusioned about
the people with whom he was dealing
when the State Aid issue came up for
discussion. A Federal Executive appoint-
ed Education Committee, on which were
three Federal Labor Parliamentarians
Senator R. Lacey (Tas.), and Messrs
L. Barnard (Tas.) and Bryant (Vic.)
made the recommendation for the lift-
ing of the ALP ban on State Aid. The
recommendation was moved by the
Federal ALP Secretary (Mr C. S. Wynd-
ham) in terms which showed that he
thought rejection by Conference would
TANNER
at the Federal
Labor Conference
£aJlsd?£- j j


be an act of political madness, and was
seconded by the ALP Senior Vice-Presi-
dent, Mr W. R. Colbourne, in a speech
which Mr Chamberlain was to say later
(much later) was the best and most
powerful case he had ever heard made
out for State Aid.
Despite this seemingly formidable
backing by a Federal Executive-appoint-
ed Committee, Wyndham and Colbourne,
the Left wing did not put up a speaker in
opposition. But it carried the vote by
30 to 6, speaker or no speaker, show-
ing clearly what kind of pressure had
been put on to bring people into line.
The Left wing was almost as contemp-
tuous and virtually as effective against
the Wyndham proposals which are
designed to secure some voice for Labor
Parliamentarians in Labor policy-mak-
ing. Conference did not even reach the
proposals. The proposals are now stood
over for another Conference in the inde-
finite future.
Wyndham himself, as the new ALP
Federal Secretary, came out of Confer-
ence very well. He showed himself not
only technically proficient (some of the
reports prepared and presented were
very good) but courageous. He had no
reason to put his neck out for NSW
when it was so obvious that the Left wing
had complete control of the party, but
he quite obviously thought that some of
the things put up by NSW were in the
party’s best interests and said so.
But the Conference was a personal
triumph for Chamberlain (who emerged
as the dominant figure) and Arthur Cal-
well (who backed Chamberlain through-
out and emerged with his Federal leader-
ship unscathed). But it could have been
a tragedy for the Labor party. The next
election results will show.
ALP CONFERENCE II
Stunning the Press
“The whole sorry performance ”
By BRIAN JOHNS
The memory, which nearly all of the 36 delegates who attended the ALP Federal
Conference at the Hellenic Club in Sydney last week will cherish most, will be that
they “stunned” the Press by passing in 60 seconds their motion on Unity Tickets.
This is the tragedy of the Labor Party.
Isssues are not resolved. The Right is
satisfied with paper victories, while the
Left gets about its business of maintain-
ing itself as the real power base.
Occasionally, as on last Tuesday, both
groups allow themselves the fun of
sitting back and giggling at their com-
mon enemy, the Press, while their Party
goes to the wall.
saw the Labor Party as the alternative
Government, who were almost helpless at
this conference because they had no base
from which to operate effectively.
Until the Unity-Ticket affair this
handful had counted on NSW as its
base. But. on Monday morning when
the NSW president, Mr C. T. Oliver,
announced that he would like time to
consider a communication from Vic-
toria on its Unity-Ticket resolution, this
base of action against the Left was
irrevocably lost. Had Mr Oliver insisted
at that time that the Victorians pursue
their own conference decision to legalise
Unity Tickets, several informed observers
are convinced that Victoria would have
been overwhelmed 30 to 6. And among
those at the Federal conference who
want to see Labor off the Federal
Of course there were not only two
groups operating at the Federal Con-
ference: the Right was a rabble of pro-
vincial interests, helpless in the face of
the Left’s common codex of policy and
action; and there were the handful who
Opposition benches, there is also the
conviction that, had NSW been constant
and courageous, a motion calling for
intervention in the Victorian branch
would have been carried 24-12, with
the Victorian and West Australian dele-
gations in the minority. This is the calcu-
lation most difficult to accept. It makes
the decision of NSW to recant incompre-
hensible.
As late as Sunday afternoon the NSW
delegation was declaring that it would
move for intervention in Victoria. What
happened in the meantime? The sec-
retary of the NSW Trades and Labor
Council, Mr F. Bowen, was one of the
six delegates who wanted no part of
appeasement.
He had powerful arguments. There
has been no suggestion that the ALP’s
rules on Unity Tickets were inadequate.
All the complaints have been that Vic-
toria is not prepared to enforce these
rules. Last week’s resolution does
nothing to change this. And to get the
foolscap page of re-statement, NSW
went back on its brave words of recent
months that Labor should be re-involved
in the trade unions, and deserted the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition, Mr
Gough Whitlam, whom it has been
encouraging in a forward run for leader-
ship.
At the conference last week the man
carrying the blame for the NSW cave-in
was Oliver. But the basic trouble was
that the bastions of the Right are not
Federally-minded. NSW, and for that
matter Tasmania, want to be allowed to
go their own way. Adherents of no
ideology themselves, they cannot see the
strength of the Left, and to the extent
that they do see what the Left is about,
they do not have the will to fight it,
except where it immediately encroaches
on their own home-State sphere of in-
fluence.
This was why, as it turned out, NSW
was most vehement about the issue of
State-aid. The former NSW Premier,
Mr J. Renshaw, made his point on this
issue in a speech to the conference in
which he made a plea for the re-
examination of Federal and State rights
within ALP policy bodies. He wants
State Conferences to be the supreme
body in those areas where the State and
not the Federal Government has
sovereign rights. The most important
of these areas is education, and naturally,
if the Renshaw concept held sway, NSW
Labor would be promising direct aid.
Friday’s State-Aid debate had no room
for concepts. The conference decision
on State-Aid, like that on Unity Tickets. .
amounted to the maintenance of the
status quo. Both issues will not be
remembered so much for the conference
conclusions, as for the way they were


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
m
m
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
nmm
FLY AND DRIVE IN '65. It’s time-saving . . . money-saving . . .
worry free! Drive a great new Falcon or other fine car from the Avis
fleet. Fly/Drive is the jet age way to travel . . . gives you extra time
for business or pleasure . . . lets you see more, do more. For instant
service book your Avis car when you book your Ansett-ANA flight
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENT A CAR
SBsa/as/ss
reached. On Unity Tickets NSW finally
showed that Right-wing Labor just can-
not be trusted to carry a fight, even a
losing fight. And on State Aid both Left
and Right showed that at the conference
old men and old ideas are now the Labor
Party.
There were young men —the Federal
Secretary, Mr Cyril Wyndham, the South
Australian Attorney-General, Mr D.
Dunstan were two but it was the old
and faction-minded reactionaries who
were in the ascendancy.
The blind bigotry of the Left was
fighting the bitter wheeler-dealers of the
Right whose strongest conviction was
that, if only they could give direct aid,
all would be well in their own State.
The sophistications of aid, such as
shared facilities, which were recom-
mended by the Education Committee
after careful canvassing of ideas outside
the Labor machine, were given scant
consideration. This was not merely
because of the mood of the conference,
but because the great majority of those
there were just past the stage of con-
sidering fresh Labor approaches. (It was
a miracle that the excellent science and
health reports were allowed to pass.)
And even more than the issue of aid
itself, they were concerned to settle old
scores, shown by the fact that in this
debate the flow of personal abuse was
strongest.
If there can be hope for the Labor
Party, the State Aid debate curiously
provides it. After the Unity-Ticket issue,
Right-wing members of the Federal
Labor Caucus, as well as the moderates,
and the Left, were rationalising the
whole sorry performance by blaming the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition, Mr
Gough Whitlam, for walking out of the
Federal Executive meetings the previous
week. Their line was that NSW had to
back down “to save Gough”. But after
the State Aid debate those Right-wingers
who had been on the sidelines in recent
weeks, when Whitlam had been doing all
he could to bring the Unity Ticket issue
to a head, were in a different mood.
One Federal NSW member said that
a spill would have to be moved at
Caucus on Monday to remove Calwell
from the leadership. And a prominent
NSW front-bencher, Mr Fred Daly, had
a bitter exchange with Calwell over his
recommendation for a referendum on
the State Aid issue.
One reason for so many of the Right
remaining calm before the Unity-Ticket
storm is that, as with defence and
foreign affairs issues, they calculate that
their personal standing in their own
electorates will stop them being blown
from their seats. State Aid is another
thing. They realise that this issue
unifies an important element in every
electorate. In the 1966 Federal election,
when an even greater swing must operate
against Labor as a result of the con-
ference debates on Unity Tickets and
foreign affairs, further ground lost on
State Aid could be fatal to those seats
held by Right-wingers and moderates.
The damage of Friday’s debate was
not merely that it robbed Catholics of
hopes of an extension of aid (hopes
which had been increased on the grounds
that the Senate and NSW election results
would chasten the Labor Party), but that
it indicated that the Labor Party is irre-
trievably set on a positively anti-Catholic
course.
Whitlam has made his stand clear on
State Aid. Now, although the Right so
far has not been prepared to congregate
around him in the interests of maintain-
ing the Labor Party, it might, as a result
of Friday’s debate, eventually go to him
in the interests of its own survival.


CONSCRIPTION
The Other Battle
“God rules the kingdom of men ”
The Department of Labor and Industry and National Service and the Army
are not quite sure how to interpret the figures available on conscientious objection
to military service.
Slightly more than 6000 registered as
conscientious objectors to the compul-
sory military service of the 19505, but
so far the' objectors to military service
in the present call-up number less than
three in a 1000. As was the case in
the ’fifties, most of the objectors base
their conscientious opposition on relig-
ious grounds, and the fundamentalist
sects Jehovah’s Witnesses predominat-
ing make up the bulk of the figures.
Seventh Day Adventists and Christa-
delphians also supply their share of
objectors, along with the Open and
Closed Brethren, the Denominational
Christian Church, the True Followers
of Jesus Christ, all on pacifist grounds.
(A Catholic conscientious objector
during the ’fifties was soundly abused
for his pacifist views by a Melbourne
magistrate who claimed that pacifism
was not consistent with the Catholic
religion. The magistrate, however,
granted him an exemption.)
It is not widely understood that con-
scientious objections need not be based
on religious grounds. They may, for
example, proceed from philosophical,
political, or general humanist attitudes.
The job of the court is not to examine
the truth or validity of the objections
but to ascertain whether they are
sincerely held in conscience.
Most magistrates throughout Aus-
tralia are careful to follow the meaning
of the law the National Service Act
in this regard but there have been
occasions when applicants for exemption
have found themselves in arguments with
the bench over the merits of their cases.
/Generally, applicants have their pleas
accepted by the courts and almost half
the objectors so far have been given
non-combatant duties. The law also
makes provision for those who develop
conscientious objections while in service.
Last week a 20-year-old trainee came
from Puckapunyal to appeal to a Mel-
bourne court for exemption from further
service because he could not bring him-
self to fire a rifle. “I have tried and
the officers have tried with me, but
I just can’t pull the trigger,” he
explained. The magistrate suggested
that the Army find the youth some non-
combatant duties and dismissed the case.
The first cases of conscientious objec-
tion in Australian selective compulsory
service were heard in Melbourne in
early June when three youths were
exempted because they were not pre-
pared to kill other human beings. An
apprentice electrician, who was a
Jehovah’s Witness, told the Melbourne
magistrate that the Bible declared: “We
are not to bow down to any graven
image”, and therefore he could not
accept Army discipline.
Altogether in Victoria 33 objectors
have applied for exemption from service.
Hearings have only just begun in
NSW and so far five applications for
exemption have been refused. In each
case the magistrate ordered the appli-
cants to carry out non-combatant duties.
The most publicised case was that of a
young Communist and member of the
Eureka Youth League (The Bulletin,
July 31) who told a magistrate he would
not fight for Australia even in war-time.
In addition to these cases there have
been 12 applications for non-combatant
duties and 89 for exemption because of
hardship. These will be heard by the
courts within the next two months.
Queensland has had remarkably few
conscientious objectors. In a State where
the old-timers still talk of people walking
the thousand-odd miles from Townsville
to Brisbane to join up in 1914, objectors
are looked on in poor light. To date there
have been 26 conscientious objectors in
a total of 86 deferment applications. A
dozen conscientious objectors have suc-
cessfully had their cases heard, most of
them being Jehovah's Witnesses or
Christadelphians. Two youths belonging
to a sect calling themselves the True
Followers-of Jesus Christ, a sect whose
members opt out of all organisations,
will not attend picture theatres, and do
not smoke or drink, were granted exemp-
tion at Dalby, 130 miles north-west of
Brisbane. Both refused to take the oath
on the Bible and instead made an affir-
mation to tell the truth.
South Australian courts have exempted
three youths, and a further three have
been ordered to carry out non-com-
batant duties. All six applied for
exemption on religious grounds. The
first youth to be totally exempted was
a member of the Denominational
Christian Church, a group which has no
set doctrine and no instructional views
on military service. The magistrate
hearing the case remarked that the appli-
cant’s answers appeared to be founded
on a wrong interpretation of the
scriptures.
Of the other two youths granted
exemption, one was a member of the
Christadelphian Brotherhood who told
the court, if he served in the Army, he
would break a rule of the church and
would lose membership. The other
youth exempted was a member of the
Christadelphian Ecclesia who, when
asked if a Communist attack on Australia
would be God-ordained, replied: “Yes,
because God rules the kingdom of men.”
He said war is an instrument of God
who permits war to punish evil-doers.
Two Christadelphians and two
Jehovah’s Witnesses have been fully
exempted from service in Western Aus-
tralia. However, 26 youths seeking tem-
porary deferment of their training are
finding things a lot tougher. Most have
been farmers, and the Minister for the
Interior, Mr D. Anthony, made it clear
last month at a Moore divisional council
meeting of the Country Party that
“farmers are not a privileged class. Any
suggestion that young farmers be
exempt because they are engaged in a
special occupation is unacceptable.”
Up until last week when Tasmanian
national service trainees flew off to
Puckapunyal, 15 youths had applied for
deferment on the ground of exceptional
hardship, and six sought exemption as
conscientious objectors. The majority of
applicants have been farmers. A youth
was granted three months deferment
because he had to do housework for his
ailing widowed mother and another
youth was given three months’ deferment
to sell wood he had cleared from a bush
block he had bought.
VIETNAM
Missing Class
Waning interest in the “teach-in”
Interest in “teach-ins” has waned
with surprising rapidity at the University
of Sydney. The “teach-in”, scheduled
last week, has been postponed until early
September, and a small private survey
conducted by the writer at the Univer-
sity last week indicated at least 60 per
cent of the students did not know what
a “teach-in” was.
Sponsored by Mr Paddy Dawson and
Professor S. Wright (of Pharmacy), both
active members of the University Left,
a meeting was held on June 16 to form
a “Staff-Student Committee to Stop the
War in Vietnam”. This meeting, attended
by about 90, decided to look for more
facts concerning the Vietnamese situa-
tion and to stage a “teach-in”. The
original committee then adopted the


more non-partisan title of the “Com-
mittee on Vietnam”.
Whether intentionally or not, the
effect of this procedure has been, unlike
those in Monash University and the
Australian National University, to leave
the organising of the “teach-in” wholly
in the hands of anti-Government indivi-
duals, most of whom are members of
the far Left.
The committee has gained the condi-
tional support of the Students’ Represen-
tative Council, largely through the
efforts of Miss Louise Higham, a Left-
wing member of both bodies.
Attendance at both committee and
executive meetings has been extremely
low. Of the speakers contacted, almost
all of the important ones have refused
the invitation to participate, including
the Leader of the Opposition, Mr
Gough Whitlam, Dr J. F. Cairns, Mr
B. A. Santamaria, Mr Geoffrey Fair-
bairn, Mr Morris West, Professor C. P.
Fitzgerald and Mr Dennis Warner.
PETER MANNING
BANKS
Tickling the Peter
The tellers’ protection
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
Commonwealth and private banks in Australia are worried by the increasing
number of defalcations, and last week a major banking association took steps to
protect its members.
The Federal council of the 35,000-
strong Australian Bank Officials’ As-
sociation, representing the private banks,
decided to press strongly that no one
under the age of 21 be appointed as a
teller. Mr L. D. Williams, the Federal
secretary, said in Melbourne that the
age problem was important in the ques-
tion of defalcations. “Those in trouble
increase their losses by chasing what
they’ve lost,” he said.
In South Australia an official of the
Commonwealth Bank Officers’ Associa-
tion has spoken of a “spate of defalca-
tions”. He pointed out that while he
did not know whether there had been
more losses than normal, in his opinion
“one would have been too many”. The
official said he thought too many bank
officers were being placed in positions
of trust before being morally responsible
to assume those positions, and before
they were receiving sufficient salary to
place them above temptation.
One bank officer told The Bulletin
that there have been innumerable cases
of young tellers (and for that matter
senior tellers) “tickling the peter” on
Friday night, going to the races on Satur-
day and on the Monday repaying the
amount providing “all goes well”. Bank
managers can only detect losses such as
this if they conduct a spot cash check
on the Monday. In most cases a young
teller (including the experienced ones)
has losses during the course of a week’s
trading. Each bank has its own views
on how much the teller is responsible
for. Some banks repay the loss except
for £l, while if regular losses of £lO-£I(S
are recorded the teller may have to pay
£5 of this out of his own pocket. One
bank expects its tellers to begia repay-
ments immediately and refunds a major
part after six months.
Only two weeks ago in Sydney a
young teller was £lOO short. He had
to repay this over a six-month period,
at the end of which he expects to be
repaid £9O. Yet another bank makes
its officers repay the entire loss—which
explains this bank’s difficulties in man-
ning the counters. Because they cannot
afford the losses, the officers are re-
luctant to take on tellers’ duties.
The Commonwealth Bank Officers’
Association has provided a form of pro-
tection for its members against the
temptation of “robbing Peter to pay
Paul”. A decade ago the CBOA Credit
Union was established in the Sydney
office of the bank (it has now be-
come Australia-wide) as a small loans
society. Its prime object was to assist
in providing finance to staff because
officers by legislation are unable to
borrow from the bank, except for home
loans.
"Whoops. There go the triplets."
ACTU
The Angry
Mood
Flexible principles
By J. G. HORSFALL
Smouldering union defiance of ttio
arbitration system flared up nation-wide
last week with the WWF’s unyielding
confrontation with Mr Justice Gallagher
in Sydney, the start of the rolling strikes
on the waterfront and union officials’
reaction to Sir Richard Kirby’s ruling
against a review of the recent majority
judgment of the Arbitration Commis-
sion.
All of these pointers came as the eco-
nomy is poised for a difficult Budget and
the Government is more anxious than
ever to keep wages issues out of politics.
The strong motion passed at the Fede-
ral Labour Conference on the Kirby
decision was mild compared with union
outbursts in Melbourne where both Mr
M. C. Jordan, Secretary of the Trades
Hall Council, and Mr L. Carmichael,
Melbourne District Secretary of the
Amalgamated Engineering Union, epito-
mised the angry mood.
If the Commission is going to change
its principles from year to year, said
Jordan, “we will have to decide whether
the Commission will be worthwhile in the
future: it may be we will have to change
our whole approach and at least a
serious review of the question will have
to be made”.
Even so, perhaps for Mr Jordan the


This machine does everything but smile. She'll do that.
Your operator will do the smiling! That's
because an NCR Accounting Machine makes
her job easier. Its many automatic features
save hundreds and hundreds of individual
posting operations, and in turn eliminate
the hundreds and hundreds of opportuni-
ties for error. She doesn’t suffer from
fatigue . . . you gain faster and more
accurate information along with neater
records.
There's over 80 years of know-how behind
NCR machines like this . . . years of help*
ing business save money with the most
advanced equipment. Today NCR offers a
complete line of decimal accounting mach-
ines for the business world. Whether your
business is large or small, you can depend
on NCR for a system tailored to your needs.
We think you’ll smile, too—as soon as you
hear the cost savings. Your local NCR man
will be happy to give you full details. Call
him today, or write to NCR, 14-16 York
Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY
211-2188
MELBOURNE
63-0271
BRISBANE
2-0631
TOWNSVILLE
3276
NEWCASTLE
2-4837
ADELAIDE
51-5821
PERTH
21-9727
HOBART
3-3887
CANBERRA
4-0327
WAGGA
4345
'
f*
■
' : : x-
-m t
pp
&
11 Hfll mll H I
_____
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


Invest in
HOOKER FINANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
CASH & CONVERSION ISSUE OF
Debenture Stock
UPTO
xm
PER
ANNUM
111
HOW TO INVEST: Applications will proceed only on the form of appli-
cation attached to and included in the prospectus and available from:
Any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
The Underwriting Brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
Any office of Hooker Finance Company Limited
Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
F 1465
vital consideration may not be whether
the Commission adopts a flexible attitude
to principles. It may be that any changes
must meet with the approval of the
unions, irrespective of whether they are
made in the interests of rationalising
wage fixation in the light of realistic eco-
nomic appraisals.
Carmichael minced his words even less
than Jordan. Turning his back on the
notion expressed off the cuff on a TV
nows spot by Mr R. W. Hawke, the
unions’ industrial advocate, that it was
not long to go until February when the
annual battle would be resumed, Car-
michael rapped, “We will not wait until
1966 or any other time: we will act now.”
He was possibly a bit envious of the
bravado of the wharfies and certainly
seemed to be forgetting the events of last
spring at Fisherman’s Bend and their
sequel (the Commission is about to
hear a claim for a £3 a week addition
to over-award payments at General
Motors-Holden’s, its first big venture in
the contentious land of wages drift).
As usual it was left to Mr Albert Monk
to counsel caution. So on Monday and
Tuesday this week the Executive of the
ACTU met to consider what the official
union attitude would be. This was not
determined before this issue of The
Bulletin went to press. The danger was
that, pushed along by the three Com-
munists in the 16-man Executive, the
ACTU would call a national 24-hour,
strike.
In his ruling against a review of the
wages decision, in his capacity of Presi-
dent of the Commission, Sir Richard
Kirby was somewhat equivocal. He com-
mended the unions for asking for the
review and spurning industrial action
until they knew the result. This sort of
pat on the back could not be conceded
to the WWF by Mr Justice Gallagher in
Sydney earlier in the week. On the other
hand, Kirby scolded those who have been,
as he called it, “improperly” speculating
on how a review bench should possibly
be constituted. He also conceded that the
employers were right in submitting that
a review by a new bench (as desired by
the unions)"would mean that it would
sit as a virtual bench of appeal. This
would breach the Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Act.
The National Employers’ Policy Com-
mittee could be more directly to the
point. Its acting chairman, Mr H. W.
Robinson, said the appeal should never
have been made.
Indeed perhaps it was merely a ges-
ture of defiance after all; the first shot
in a campaign of industrial action to get
the 1961 order of things restored and
possibly much else besides.
TRAFFIC
Trolleys
Away
The Brisbane report
A long-awaited traffic survey of Bris-
bane, presented to the State Govern-
ment and the Brisbane City Council
last week, is no smash hit.
The £126,000 survey, carried out by
Wilbur Smith and Associates, an Ameri-
can firm of traffic engineers, is the result
of almost five years of detailed study of
the city’s traffic problems. The pro-
posals recommended would cost £l7B
million over a 20-year period.
Among the many recommendations is
the abolition of Brisbane’s tram and
trolley-bus system and replacing them
with diesel buses; building five new
bridges over the serpentine Brisbane
River; building four major expressways,
some of them in the city, and building
eight trunk-freeways to speed the move-
ment of traffic through and around the
city.
One of the bones of contention in the
survey recommendations is the heavy
emphasis placed on private transport to
the city.
Criticism and disputes started as soon
as the report was received. The Premier,
Mr Frank Nicklin, said that the applica-
tion of the first stage of the plan, to
cost £27 million, depended on the wil-
lingness of the City Council to substitute
buses for the trams. The Lord Mayor,
Alderman Clem Jones, rejected this as a
prerequisite for starting on road prob-
lems and the Transport Minister, Mr
Gordon Chalk, declared that the survey’s
recommendations would turn Brisbane
into a concrete parking jungle.
The plan is sure to come under fire
from voices outside Brisbane. Queens-
land has 101,825 miles of roads cover-
ing its vast area, and less than 12,000
of them are sealed. There have been
protests already that too much is poured
into the seemingly bottomless pit of
Brisbane’s traffic problems.


wm
'j. "v h• m. • ' r z ■. < ' - m'■*' '<■ ?’ \
■
:
mm§ wmmm
hr- \ >: •
■BMpg
•«
'W ~ y !■>;, .
siiilsiftliv
' -3
9j»s y "■ w -> ;/ ; \ />■•• / v'jftj.
■ ■■; ■■■■ ■ ■ .■ . ■.■ ;■
du2fc.4f
%
SKiSM
•’; v.
>■
■
■
We 'mother’ your cargo
Qantas care of handling
safeguards against damage and loss
The order is for 70 items. You send 70 items. Your
customers gets 70 items. Qantas handling care and
round-the-clock security safeguard your goods against
pilferage, damage and loss. Also, air transportation’s
smoother, gentler ride ensures arrival of your consign-
ments in perfect condition. This, in turn, means lower
insurance rates —up to 90% lower.
So many other ways to save! You get reduced Costs all
round. Take cargo rates. Many recurring export
consignments qualify for special low rates from Qantas.
Savings range from 30% to 70%. Take packaging.
Here’s where you can expect substantial savings—
sometimes total! When required it is minimal—always
protective, functional. Fast, frequent deliveries cut
down on warehousing—mean you can replenish supplies
to major world markets within 36 hours. Yes, you
can certainly save with Qantas air freight—save more
money and serve more markets.
Have you really gone into the many advantages of
exporting by air? Whatever your products-animal,
vegetable or mineral-there’s increased profit potential
for you in the world trend to jet-age cargo with Qantas.
Send for this free booklet now! Please send me, post
free, this informative booklet called ‘Eight Ways to
Profit with Qantas Air Cargo’ for the full picture on
the many benefits of air freight.
Address coupon to: Export Consultant Service, Qantas
Empire Airways Limited, 70 Hunter St., Sydney.
8
WAYS
TO
PROFIT
NAME
ADDRESS.
INDUSTRY.
Daily flights to the export markets of the world
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 125 weekly flights
to and from Australia.
DP
44 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
MB mm AIK CAKOO
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, Air New Zealand, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A. A 31.107.85
QANTAS AIR CARGO: Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney. 'Phone 2-0369.


The Vietcong Blues
A report from War Zone D
By ANTHONY CAVE BROWN
A VIETCONG has just died at our feet in the padi War Zone D. He had a
minute wound in the area of his left kidney. A second Vietcong his right
thigh shattered by the nick of an Armalite .223 calibre tumbling bullet lies
in shock, close to the corpse. Five prisoners sit on padi dikes, blindfolded in black
cloth and with white prisoner-of-war labels around their necks.
We are waiting to be helicoptered out of War Zone D after four days in
which the zone has been hit by eight jet bombers from Guam, after day and night
shelling with white phosphorus, after burning the area with napalm, and riddling
it with rockets and machine-gun fire.
The second Indo-China war is being
prosecuted with new dimensions of fury
by both sides. But the currency of the
war is the same —the Americans call it
the “kill rate”; and the wounded and the
dying I saw in War Zone D is this
currency. Casualties run at the rate of
2000 dead in an average week.
The Vietcong has acquired a formid-
able military reputation. It is now recog-
nised that North Vietnam which has
deployed 20 battalions south of the 17th
Parallel has one of the best jungle
combat forces in the world. It is, further-
more, a thoroughly politicised army.
It is so effective that it seems probable
that the entire trained reserve of the
Army of South Vietnam has been so
chewed up chewed up battalion by
battalion in the series of ambushes which
mark the monsoon offensive that its
effectiveness as a fighting army has been
largely destroyed.
But although the Vietcong may hold
the initiative at the moment during this
monsoon season, they have achieved
nothing except this destruction of large
numbers of the forces of the Army of
South Vietnam. They have, so far, failed
to hold a town —a device to enable them
to proclaim a National Liberation Front
Government in South Vietnam the
essential prerequisite to Communist vic-
tory.
What they have achieved is an intensi-
fication of American determination. Jn
ever - increasing numbers the Ameri-
cans are committing some of their finest
troops. The vast cost in blood and
dollars is being accepted by the Ameri-
can Government. For example, it needed
520 Hercules to move the 173rd Air-
borne Brigade of the United States Army
into Bien Hoa airbase. The cream of the
United States’ military gadgetry is being
adapted in this strange war.
One of the reasons for the Vietcong
victories has been their troops’ superbly
subtle use of camouflage.
Now the Americans have a camera in
their “search and destroy” aircraft which
can detect camouflaged Vietcong posi-
tions. Plates developed from these
cameras show normal living foliage in
bright red; the foliage that has been
cut down shows up purplish brown on
the film. Intelligence has shown that
the Vietcong as do all Vietnamese
like to take a siesta in the early after-
noons to rest up for combat missions
which generally take place between mid-
night and 0200.
The American Air Force pilots of jets
peel off at 35,000 feet, screaming straight
down at full power to send out shock
waves which shatter glass and panic
animals and men with sonic booms which
sound like titanic explosions. Dakota
aircraft cruise over known Vietcong
positions at 3000 feet broadcasting to
the enemy like some monstrous celes-
tial voice.
The Air Force has created an organisa-
tion known as the “Dirty Thirty” whose
special mission is to drop parachute
flares over outposts and hamlets under
attack. Lie-detectors have been intro-
duced to detect, from the sweating and
consequent electrical conductivity of the
palms, whether a suspect is lying or not.
Ordnance men are experimenting with
pocket flame-throwers, no larger than
aerosol cans, and are working on a new
kind of uniform dye designed to change
colors automatically to match the sur-
rounding terrain.
In some areas they have introduced
bows and arrows for silent killing of
enemy sentries. The Armalite rifle its
high-velocity bullet tumbles in flight so
that a wound anywhere in the body is
often fatal is in general issue to the
troops. Complex devices to rain fire
are being introduced.
The long boulevards of Saigon still
resemble a piece of tired cote d’azur.
The compliant girls flow past in their
silks. The bars are still crowded with
American troops with pearl-handled
pistols in their belts or two-barrelled
derringers or Berretta .25 calibre auto-
matics.
The troops wear specially cut fatigue
uniforms which bring out the line of
the body in this curious world of
sexuality and violence. And there is a
new breed of men on the boulevards —-
men in Digger hats.
They do not play Wagner and Beet-
hoven on the Caravelle Musak any
longer. The Americans do not like
Wagner and Beethoven and the juke
boxes play the Vietcong blues.
These are the songs sung to a blues
air:
The Vietcong is cornin’
They just keep movin’ on
If we don't stop ’em soon
They gonna take Saigon.
But President Diem
And Madam Nhu
Said: “Special forces soldiers
No more twisting for you.”
Got a dirty mess kit
And a hole in my canteen
Met the Vietcong yesterday
Got a bullet in my spleen


eC-Felt can ease costs and
increase plant product efficiency
The questions are simply where and
how much will Tec-Felt save you?
Tec-Felt has thousands of applications
and yet the industrial felt specialists at
Felt and Textiles are constantly finding
new uses for felt and new felt for uses.
They will develop a felt for your needs.
For instance, of the almost 1,000 types,
grades and colours of Tec-Felt only
about 200 are standard.
Tec-Felt can be manufactured to con-
form to a specific thickness, a specific
resilience, a specific shape, absorption
and density. It can be brought to almost
any consistency of softness or hardness.
It can be proofed against moths, flame,
water, fungi and corrosion. Write for
that free book today.
mim
mr
m
S>w*i£
Hi
r~i
II
This heavy roll grinder, in the John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. mill at Port Kembla, is
cushioned on a hidden layer of Laminated Vibrasorb Anti-vibration Tec-Felt. The
grinder is completely isolated from the rest of the building.
>: : :v W- . :
m
■■■■■
Tec-Felt Filter in this Floover protects
mechanism from dirt. The Hoover polisher
uses Tec-Felt polishing pads.
Polishers from tiny polishing discs
for precious stones to large buffing
wheels are available in Tec-Felt.
The Industrial Felt Sales Division of Felt and Textiles is the
developer and producer ef Industrial Felts in Australia
V
Vibrations in this metal stamping press
at Gadsden-Hughes Ltd., Five Dock,
N.S.W., are isolated by Vibrasorb Blue
Line Tec-Felt. The pads bond to machine
and floor anchor bolts are eliminated.
FREE BOOK
Write on your
Company stationery:
Industrial Felt
Sales, 791 Botany
Road, Waterloo,
N.S.W.
Phone MU 2451
FF697


If
NEW ISSUE FROM
• • •
CUSTOM CREDIT
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which is
now available from any Member of a recognised
Stock Exchange and all Branches of . . .
THE NATIONAL BANK
and
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
OR THE UNDERWRITERS:
Ord Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
INTEREST
UP TO
0
0
sf 1
2
FOR
CC3.53.45
Got a special mission
We just train ’em and advise
But if we don’t do some shooting
We gonna have a quick demise.
I’ve got the Vietcong blues
Got bamboo spikes in my tennis shoes.
The conversation is all war, and all
wars have their own jargon. A pilot tells
his co-pilot before take-off: “With any
luck we will be back in time for martini
hour,” to which the co-pilot replies:
“Yeah, if we keep our dog tags together
this trip. I hear Old Vic has two com-
panies of hard hats, two clicks from the
elzee, and they have reckless rifles. We
are going to have to zap a few or they’ll
really spoil our day.” Which means “Yes,
if we live through this operation. I hear
the Vietcong has about 200 hard core
regular guerrillas two kilometres from
the landing zone, who have recoilless
cannon. We are going to have to shoot
a few or they’ll hit us badly, kill us.”
To illustrate the atmosphere of this
war, here is the text of a broadcast I
made while in War Zone D:
“This is Anthony Cave Brown broad-
casting from War Zone D at the end of
Operation Cobra ... I can see the Digger
battalion coming through the rubber
after three nights and four days in the
field on a rat hunt. I am with the
American paratroopers taking cover be-
hind padi dikes. There are rolling clouds
of white smoke from the phosphorus
shells which landed 200 metres from us.
We are waiting for lift-out after Opera-
tion Cobra.
“Four days ago in brigade strength the
173rd Airborne Brigade of the United
States Army, with the First Battalion of
the Royal Australian Regiment, and the
48th Regiment of Army of South Viet-
nam, moved deep into the heart of Viet-
cong territory and started a rat hunt
drenched by intense monsoon downpours.
“They have worked about 10,000
metres from the Dong Sai River, driving
the Vietcong before them. As the Viet-
cong retreated they were napalmed,
machine-gunned and rocketed. Over 200
of them are dead. The American casual-
ties are not really known probably
something less than 10 dead and 15 in-
jured—so far as is known only one
Australian was hit—hit in the face by
a sniper.
“We are now lying in deep padi wait-
ing for the heli-lift to take us back to
Bien Hoa air base. The padi in which we
are lying has been covered with shrapnel
as Americans brew coffee and dig frank-
furts and sauerkraut out of green com-
bat ration tins.
“Across the flat landscape, deep in mud
infectious with leeches and ticks and
snakes, are coming the Australians. Their
spirits are high; they «re full of vinegar.
The Americans have just brought in a
Vietcong prisoner she is a frail old
lady whom they found hiding in a Viet-
cong bunker. They say she may have
been a cook for the VC.
“T.wo burly paratroopers carried her
to the helicopter because the downblast
from the rotors was so strong that it
pressed the woman deep into the mud.
“The enemy has just lobbed in four
mortar shells. No one seems quite clear
where the mortars are. A few seconds ago
there was a sharp burst of machine-gun
fire 150 yards from me a tiny man,
dressed in black carrying two grenades,
suddenly fell out of a tree two para-
troopers grabbed him and dragged him
through the padi.
“He N appeared to be dying his right
thigh had been shattered by Armalite
rounds. It would appear that the VC are
all around us. Every few seconds there
appears to be brief sharp bursts of
machine-gun fire.
“As they are bringing the bleeding man
through the padi my photographer, Reg
Boulter, said to me: ‘That’s the roughest
thing I've seen.’ For the man left a
blood trail for 150 yards. He was dark,
swarthy, small-limbed, sltt-eyed. The
grenades appear to be British Mills
bombs. The VC was brought into the
command post, was laid down in the
open sunlight three feet from me. He
quickly entered into a state of shock
as his hands were bound with white rope.
“The airborne soldier who captured
him covered his brown body with a green
shirt —as a medic bound his wounds
with pressure packs. Then the medic took
his pulse rate, tested his heart and asked
permission to give a shot of morphine.
Morphine was injected.
“At the moment the medic is feeling
the VC’s pulse VC is lying silent, his
breast is heaving, his head rolling from
side to side in pain. Another soldier is
stroking his forehead whether an act
of compassion or to calm him down, 1 do
not know. Another soldier put on his
arm a label, a white label ‘Prisoner of
War’. This is one of the rare VC prison-
ers of war.
“I quote from his label: ‘Found hiding
in the bush, name unknown, with two
grenades’. To the man’s left is his cloth-
ing. In the clothing were bullets .30
calibre bullets. The kit was contained in
an ordinary small sack written ironi-
cally on the sack is ‘Flour enriched, un-
bleached. Made in the United States of
America General Mills Incorporated,
San Francisco, California’.”
“The medical corps man just said to
me after administering morphine: ‘l’m
damn sure he would not give me any
morphine’.”


Britain’s Withdrawal
from Malaysia?
After Singapore’s secession , the next threat
From a DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT
IN two Press conferences last week the British Secretary of State for Defence,
Mr Denis Healey, served public notice on Australia, New Zealand and the United
States, in sharper terms than has hitherto been done, of the conditions under which
Britain will retain and fulfil her military commitments overseas during the next
five to ten years.
Despite the precarious majority of the
Labor Government which could
cease to be the Government at any time
after the summer recess Mr Healey
was not saying anything with which a
Conservative Minister would not substan-
tially agree. Nor was his warning unex-
pected or unreasonable. Britain’s defence
commitments are currently costing her
some £3OO million sterling a year in
foreign exchange, which is more than
the total Australian defence budget. This
is the major item in Britain’s chronic and
economically enervating balance-of-pay-
ments problem, which any British Gover-
eminent must take steps to alleviate.
With the passing of the Empire and
the maturing of the Commonwealth, Bri-
tain has had less need, as well as less abi-
lity, to maintain large external military
forces. SEATO was entered into before
it was clear what would be the pattern
or the timing of the liquidation of British
political controls in her South and East
Asian dependencies, or the fate of in-
vestment in non-British areas such as
Indonesia. The only significant remaining
dependencies in the area are Hong Kong,
which is indefensible, and Brunei, which
awaits a formula. Commitment to the
defence of Malaya and, later, Malaysia
were undertaken during the decolonisa-
tion process, or they might not have been
fulfilled on the scale that they were,
When this protection is no longer re-
quired, Britain will have a strong incen-
five to withdraw from South-East Asia,
if, indeed, she is not forced to do so by
other circumstances,
“Looking ahead into the 19705,” Mr
Healey said, “it is not easy to see how
Britain should be in Southern Asia at
all unless she is co-operating very closely
at any rate with Australia and New
"I love television. I own a network."
Zealand. It should be possible to make
savings by the better co-operation be-
tween Britain and Commonwealth coun-
tries or whatever other ally or friend
we have in the area concerned.”
The 1970 s are only just over four
years away. We can assume that Mr
Healey is warning Australia and New
Zealand that if we wish to retain more
than a token British presence, we will
have to provide a greater percentage of
the cost and physical resources for the
defence of this area. He is warning us
not to put all our eggs into the American
basket.
Both these are justifiable admonitions,
of which Australia must take notice.
The security of Malaysia is today far
more in Australia’s interest than in Bri-
tain s, yet our contribution is probably
not a tenth of hers. As for a base on our
west coast and/or one in our north
the indications are that we would like
the British, with American assistance, to
cover most of the expense. This is not
especially credible, when you consider
who would benefit most from it. The
Australian Government would do well to
make the best terms it can with Britain
over the construction of such a base
while Britain’s interest in the area is as
strong as it is. The initiative will have to
come from us, since Britain is not going
to do anything to suggest lack of con-
fidence in the stability of Malaysia or the
future of Singapore.
The manufacture of military equip-
ment of all kinds has been a valuable
source of income and foreign exchange
for Britain for more than a century. In
this, also, the break-up of the Empire,
the gravitational pull of the American
umbrella, and the capacity and salesman-
ship of American industry have affected
Britain. She is not the only country to
complain of the high pressure sales-
techniques of American firms backed by
the American Government (or vice versa).
Other nations try to do the same, of
course, but do not have equivalent power
and are not as successful. The Australian
order of the FIIIA instead of the TSR2
may have been partly in terms of the
role and capacity of the aircraft, as
based on its drawing-board performance
(not the most reliable basis for such a
judgment). It seems to have been much
more due to financial considerations, and
to the greater expectation that the
United States would be able to provide
the aircraft on schedule, as well as addi-
tional aircraft if required, spare parts,
replacements, etc.
This decision may well have been a
nail in the coffin of the TSR2. By not
buying it, we helped make it economic-
ally disadvantageous for Britain to pro-
duce. Perhaps, in a measure, we were
over-influenced by American sales


Selling to women?
YOUR ADVERTISEMENT IN
TE fluilaftfecui
WOMENS WEEKLY
reaches more than
2,500,000
every week !
’ • ......
W
SSWjpWK;:
Carrier
air conditions
a whole jt
new town
w
fl
m
•fi?
iiil
* '
.
i
Wm
IptPlillll
(v S
m
:• ; :-..'; ; •
H;
'
m
The Hamersleys
The Hamersley Ranges—Western Australia —gigantic iron ore projects, where
complete small towns rise to house an army of workers. Some of the greatest
companies in iron are there . . . wresting mineral wealth from the barren earth.
The little town we have in mind was built by World-Wide Camps to house some
of the men. The air is hot, arid, dust-laden. Daytime temperatures soar to 1 15°.
So they called Carrier.
And Carrier had the answer —48 matched, air-cooled conditioning sets —that
don’t need water. Or gas. Or plumbing. Each one self-contained, needing only
electricity and air.
Sandovers O’Connor (Carrier’s Perth distributor) handled the installation.
The sets were to work continuously . . . battling to cool the sweltering
atmosphere. Carrier succeeded. No task of air conditioning is beyond them.
Call Carrier and prove it.
World’s first name in air conditioning.
1005/650
methods, as we may have been by the
French over the Mirage.
Britain is entitled to expect consider-
ation if her aid is to be sought in the
future as it has been in the past. The
Australian decision to buy Oberon sub-
marines may have been made in this
spirit. If eventually we decide to obtain
an aircraft-carrier, one factor in the
decision of where to buy it must be the'
effect on British naval production and
thus British naval effectiveness. It is very
much to our interest that Britain should
retain a carrier strike-force. At present
plans are going ahead for the first of
three new British-carriers, but the deci-
sion to begin production on it has not
been taken. We should encourage Bri-
tain to take it. It is not desirable that
the United States should be the only pro-
ducer of major defence items in the
Western world.
Powerful friends
Healey spoke bluntly on this to the
Press. “I have made it very clear to
the Americans,” he said, “that inevitably
the size and scope of the purchases we
make from the United States are bound
to depend on their readiness to buy suit-
able equipment from us. And so far we
have not really succeeded in doing very
much in this field . . . We have some-
times had a feeling that some of the
lower down people in the American Est-
ablishment have not entirely got the
message.”
Australia’s dependence on her two
“great and powerful friends” has the
effect of subjecting us to their pressures
on our allocation of military resources
and on the direction of our military
spending. This is one of the prices we
pay for protection. Perhaps we are lean-
ing too far towards Washington and are
too subject to American influences. If so,
Mr Healey’s warning is salutary. But
we would also like to be assured that
equipment of the type, quality and
quantity required is going to be avail-
able from Britain; and that if Australia
does make a substantially greater con-
tribution to British defence effort in
this region, we can expect the continu-
ance of British interest in our own se-
curity.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Just Waiting for " Chaos Day "
“I will speak to anyone , anywhere , anytime."
/Constantly your pioneer hears the
criticism that Melbourne lacks
interesting characters, but could one
offer Mr R. W. Parry, 35, chartered
accountant? Since August, 1963, he
has conducted a one-man campaign
against the Decimal Currency Board.
Entirely in an honorary capacity, he
has devoted 40 hours a week to this
heavy task." He says: “I will speak
to anyone, anywhere, anytime.”
He has appeared on practically
every panel show except Football
Forum and Beauty and the Beast. He
has campaigned in the letter columns,
written to the Prime Minister, Sir
Robert Menzies, and to Harold Holt,
Federal Treasurer. Indeed, he rather
treasures his reply from the Federal
Treasurer which says: “I admire the
tenacious manner in which you are
pursuing a lone role in presenting
what might be termed the contrary
view. I hope you will accept my
assurance that your comments are
read with interest and are always
fully investigated.”
In the early days when February 14,
1965, St Valentine’s Day, was referred
to as “D Day"’, Mr Parry called it
“Doom Day”. When they changed
to “C Day'’, he called it “Chaos Day”.
Instead of dollar bill, with him, it is
always dollar dill.
He says the Treasury has spent a
fortune in distributing pamphlets to all
the schools in the hope of overcoming
the penny shortage, but the situation
merely has become worse. Mayne
Nickless Ltd has circularised its clients
“that the shortage is so acute” that
within a few more weeks they will
have only a few of the pennies needed
for their requirements. So they have
asked firms to make pay rolls to the
nearest sixpence.
]y|ACHiNE Made Sales Pty Ltd, the
in a desperate position for cigarette
change. For lots over £5 they offer
2s. 2d. for every 24 pennies. Then,
says Mr Parry, there are people like
the tramways who employ people to
tour organisations such as newsagents
just on the penny hunt.
He says: “I've read that Treasury
officials are mystified by the penny
drought. There's nothing to be mysti-
fied about. They've brought it on
themselves. Lots of people are con-
vinced after next year they'll make
money out of it. I know of one
woman who has stopped bottling fruit.
She’s bottling pennies. She’s got row
upon row of bottled pennies in her
pantry.
“Now look. Under decimal cur-
rency one penny will be equal to five-
sixths of a cent. But even on the
latest pamphlet from the Decimal Cur-
rency Board, to be distributed to every
household, there’s a table which puts
down one penny equal to one cent.
There's a game on the market called
‘Hollar Dollar’ which teaches kids
that a cent is equal to a penny. And
how about the song—the board has
tried to ban it, but it’s still being
sung . . . ‘One penny one cent, Two
a penny two cent, Three a penny two
cent too’.”
Mr Parry, who has given at least
5000 lectures, was very eloquent. “So
when kids go to buy a lolly and they
have only pennies you’re not going
to tell me that shops won't treat them
as cents. And tell me, on trams. Tram
drivers are unskilled labor, no good at
figures. What will happen when a
passenger gives sevenpence for a six
cent fare? Sevenpence is five and
five-sixth cents. Will he tell his
passenger to get out and walk? And
the Treasury wants to know why
there’s a penny shortage. The collec-
tors are hoping they'll go up in value.
Do you know that until they w'ere
stopped they were shipping them out
of the country in kerosene-tin loads?”
Mr Parry also points out that there
is money to be made in melting them
down. During the Mt Isa strike cop-
per went to ss. a lb. There's not
much to be made in melting pennies.
He says it takes four shillings worth
of pennies to make a pound of cop-
per. However, half-pennies are not
such bad business. Three shillings
and four pence in half-pennies will
make a pound of copper.
But, he says, if we think there’s a
shortage of coins now, just wait until
“Chaos Day”. He has prepared a
chart carefully detailing all the deno-
minations of coins that will be avail-
able. The chart is too long and com-
plicated to give here, but he says there
will be 600 million decimal coins
available on February 14, according
to the board. At present there are
2525 million coins in circulation.
“You wait and see,” he said.
“Australia will run out of decimal
coins in the first couple of days. It
might even happen on the first day.
Look, as soon as the banks open there
will be queues outside just like you
get for Grand Final tickets at the
MCG. Why? Well, the collectors
will go crazy for one thing.
“This will be the first time in
memory that they will be able to go
to a bank with the guarantee that they
will get sets of new coins in mint con-
dition, completely unused. Then the
capacity of Australian mints is such
the shortage of decimal coin will con-
tinue for at least five years, that's
unless they import huge quantities.”
Thereupon Mr Parry—he’s always
magnificently armed brought out
some South African newspapers. He
pointed to ads for TV sets and refri-
gerators. They showed the prices in
pounds, shillings ancTpence in prefer-
ence to dollars and cents. “And that’s
three years afterwards,” he said.
The decimal coins are a different
thickness to the old coins, and Mr
Parry believes this will be another fine
contributor to the chaos. “Think of
all the coin-containers in the banks,”
he said. “Eighteen of the 20 cent
coins will stand roughly the same
height as 20 two shillings. That will
make for the jamming of vending
machines, particularly in the storage
section. And this will be interesting.
The two cent copper coin will work
quite beautifully in the one shilling
juke boxes.”
Mr Parry had lots more to say, but
his time was running out. “What,TV
show are you appearing on this
week?” I asked. “None,” he said.
“They're a bit sick of me at the
moment. But, you see, they’ll want
me back on ‘Chaos Day’.”
BATMAN


Triumph of Charm
Pulling a film industry out of the kangaroo’s pouch
By CHARLES HIGHAM
First, the years as an infant actor, pre-
tending to be a midget, breaking his
baby teeth on rubber cigars to get
by the below-age performing regulations;
then the discovery by Selznick for star-
dom, and the years at the top at MGM,
earning 150,000 dollars a year and out-
grossing Gable, Shearer, Garbo and
Tracy combined at the box-office; then the
long years of eclipse, the comeback in
musicals and on television, and the glum
reappearance in films like “Baby Face
Nelson”: Mickey Rooney’s is, like Judy
Garland’s, the almost too perfect show
biz career.
And his initial minutes at the Chevron’s
Silver Spade seemed to suggest an Aus-
tralian appearance no less disastrous than
Judy's: the sudden emergence in a zipped-
up blue jerkin, introducing a terrible
Alpine sketch; the grim jokes about his
marriages, balding head, alimony debts,
and reputation as a roue; and, worst of
all, the imitations of James Stewart,
James Cagney and Edward G. Robinson
(and even this seemed lost on the
audience his old co-star Wallace
Beery); it looked like the final fall of a
star. But, as everyone has remarked,
Rooney recovered sharply with essays
into mime, accompanied by the beauti-
fully elegant and polished dancing and
Pete Smith Speciality commentary of
Bobby Van, and one realised that all had
not yet been lost.
It was a triumph, finally, of charm
over material, and in his suite at the
hotel next day, polishing off a game of
gin-rummy, bouncing in a hideous multi-
colored pullover into a chair to talk,
Mickey Rooney was very much the
bright-as-a-button charmer of legend. The
clenched, wrinkled, nut-hard face; the
hurt, quick eyes in huge glasses with sand-
colored rims; the small, tough, mercu-
rially restless body: he hadn’t really
changed very much over the years.
We began by discussing the changes
that had taken place in the Hollywood
star system since he was the coming thing
in the Metro stable 30 years ago. Ross
Hunter, Universal’s wonder boy producer
of women’s pictures (“Back Street”, “The
Art of Love”), had, I pointed out, com-
plained that the stars nowadays were
demanding too much money, that they
were forcing up the costs of pictures too
high. “Ross Hunter!” the name had
struck a particularly sensitive nerve. “He
was a bad actor! I had him under contract
to me in 1941! And he came into pictures
as a producer in the war years, when
everybody was away!
“He’s been making ‘Milk Shake Love’
and ‘Fluffin’ Your Pillow Talk’ and now
he says stars ask too much! Why doesn’t
he star the gateman! See how far the
gateman gets!
“Ross Hunter doesn’t know how to
make pictures! And the old guard at the
studios! They don’t want to pay stars!
But who’s going to make people come?
The stars are going to make people come!
But they don’t bring up young stars!
Nowadays they don’t last! Elvis Presley,
sure, but who else? And you know why?
Because they don’t train them and raise
them! They throw them in! Sink or
swim!”
And what about the new stars who did
emerge? The Beatles’ name wasn’t actu-
ally mentioned but the thought of them
obviously hovered in the air. “There are
these long-hair groups! ‘The Five-Apart-
ment Houses’! ‘The Five Cats’! ‘The Five
Ping-Pong Balls’! They look like little
girls! And the little girls in the audience—-
maybe 10, 12, say, ‘that’s me up there! I
can associate myself with you!’ And if
the fellows want something up there,
that’s too bad! So I guess someone will
say, ‘Let’s have a group for them!’ And
they’ll call it ‘The Lesbians!’ It’ll be all
girls, all butch! And all the boys will
think it is them up there!”
Did Rooney welcome the phenomenon
of successful art pictures, something that
would have been out of the question in
his heyday at Metro? He said he regretted
the passing of the good taste MGM
pictures had. “I look, and I wonder where
it’s gone! I see something they call good
taste pornography, and that’s an art pic-
ture . . . well, I say, let’s start off with
the sideburns and the black stockings and
the dark glasses . . . let’s really call it
pornography . . .
“But art pictures aren't all bad, I saw
a good one, a Japanese picture called
‘The Hole’ . . . You know that picture
was made for, what? Sixty thousand? . . .
Sure they could make good low budget
pictures in Hollywood, but the old guard
keeps pulling the strings, putting down
the young . . . they don't want young
people in Hollywood . . .
“Australia, though. You could make
pictures here. I’ve written part of a script.
‘Caught in the Bush’. A kind of Mary
Poppins story. About two doomed avia-
tors down in the bush. They run across
this kangaroo. It can take a lot of magic
things out of its pouch . . . Somehow it
gets them through to safety . . .
“There’s a song in it, ‘Katie the Kanga-
roo’. I would like to discuss this with
some sincere business people here, to
start an industry here . . .” And with
the look of a pioneer in his eye, Mickey
Rooney turned bravely to confront a
brace of television cameras.


The Briton who strolls past the win-
dows on the Aldwych side of Aus-
tralia House, London, is confronted
by more enticements than a moth. For
this is where the United Kingdom spear-
head of the Commonwealth Department
of Immigration shows evidence of its
wares: the blow-ups of kids sucking pine-
apples, mums straggling through shop-
ping-centres in sun-suits, oceans of wheat
being devoured by machines, heroic views
of the Snowy Mountains Scheme, acres
of back and bosom at Bondi and texts
proclaiming Australia as a home-lover’s
paradise, complete with views of sub-
urbia that evoke the refrain of the cur-
rent American folk-song hit: “Little
boxes, little boxes, little boxes on the
hillside ...” All this for £lO. How can
Britons resist?
They are not resisting. The graph
of recent migration from Britain to Aus-
tralia has climbed steeply—from 29,000
in 1962 to 47,500 in 1963 and 65,000
last year.
So, while oral contraceptives damp
down Australia’s natural birthrate,
Britons are rushing to fill the gap, and
the signs are that the flow which has
tended hitherto to gush and splutter is
settling down to a strong, dependable
torrent.
The immigration target is reviewed
annually in Canberra to give a long-
term population gain of one per cent.
Usually the figure is issued with the
Budget in August, although modifications
can be made at any time in accordance
with Australian conditions. At present
the conditions are good.
Good, too, they say, are the range and
volume of labor available in Britain to
meet it. A majority of applicants who
make enquiries at Australia House pos-
sess both occupational skill and enough
capital to buy a house set by the Im-
migration Department as a minimum of
£lOOO.
The factors that have traditionally
propelled British migrants on their trek
around the world more money, pros-
pects for children, escape from the class
system, the craving for space that exists
even in those who have not known
it, the dullness of the weather and the
welfare state are not new. They op-
erated just as strongly when the rate of
£10 to Paradise
The boom in British migrants
From R. J. SCHOLFIELD in London
emigration was a sixth of what it is now.
Indeed, regardless of Britain’s economic
position nationally, Britons as individuals
have never before owned so many cars,
bought so many clothes, stared at so
much television, taken so many Con-
tinental holidays, played so much bingo,
eaten so much chocolate and drunk so
many pints of warm ale sitting in smoky
pubs crunching potato chips in a ritual-
istic cud-chewing assertion of rights.
Arrival in a state of affluence that looked
better from the outside has given many
Britons a glimpse of circumscriptions
that awaken instincts of flight.
The instincts are abetted by the fact
that the British know much more about
Australia now than they used to, less,
perhaps, through the efforts of Austra-
lia House than from the thousands of
Adelaide for preference
letters that have filtered back to Britain
from friends and relatives who know the
truth of the new life at first hand.
Indeed, if Australia House were struck
so dumb by the curiosity of the British
as some of its inmates were recently by
a woman journalist who went there to
make enquiries, the Australian Way
of Life would be one of its best-kept
secrets.
This woman began by loitering on the
floor of the immigration office, summing
up the surroundings. Other London
offices that day were bright with spring
flowers, and daffodils in the street out-
side were selling for 9d. a bunch, but
the immigration office made do with
bowls of plastic flowers a hint, per-' -
haps, at how to deal with water restric-
tions in the life ahead.
The young man who, made uneasy by
her presence, finally emerged from be-
hind the counter stiffened with terror
when she revealed her occupation and
asked whether he would answer a few
questions. She would have to go upstairs,
he grimaced, sidling away.
In a fifth-floor office she conveyed her
need to one of the two secretaries who
manned it. After nine different officials
had been telephoned in the quest for
permission for the journalist to ask ques-
tions, the project was abandoned.
One must assume that this was an
off day, for newspaper criticism worries
the Immigration people less than it once
did. If they are going to say something
nasty about Australia, most London
papers now give the Immigration De-
partment a chance to reply in the same
issue.
As the flow of migrants swells, so does
the demand for them, and organisations
who used to sit back waiting for the new-
comers to seek jobs after they had
reached Australia are now coming to
Britain to snap them up before they leave.
Firms advertise for migrants, briefly in-
terview those who respond and send them
off to Australia House for approval be-
fore completing arrangements. All that
is needed for an organisation to secure
the migrants it needs is to provide as-
surance of a job. Usually accommodation
is guaranteed too, although this is not
mandatory, since it can take, at least in
the beginning, the form of a Government
hostel.
Motor car manufacturers as a rule let
migrants come to them in Australia.
BHP, on the other hand, recruits
migrants on their home ground. Air-
lines also find crew and ground staff
here. But firms are coming and going all
the time, some this year in the market
for migrants on a large scale and others
next year taking their place.
Two Qantas teams, one for aircrew
and the other for ground staff, recently
returned to Australia after completing a
round of recruitments in Britain. They
even brought a doctor and nurse with
them so that medical examinations


Cartoons by Larry of “Punch”.
could be given along with other tests of
competence. They bagged 25 pilots and
120 ground staff.
Qantas, of course, is even more inter-
ested in migrants as passengers than as
employees. Last year, for the first time,
as many British migrants travelled to
Australia by air as by sea, and the policy
of the Immigration Department is to
maintain this ratio between the two
forms of travel. The privilege of conduc-
ting an airlift of 40,000-odd guaranteed
passengers a year belongs, of course, to
Australia’s overseas airline, which chan-
nels the overflow to its British partner,
BOAC.
Another of Qantas’s collaborators is
Finnair, the Finnish airline, whose own
angle on Australian immigration lies in
the offering of cut-price flights home for
holidays to the 8000 Finns who live in
Australia. Focusing on the 800 who
earn glamorous wages at Mt Isa,
the two airlines encourage Australian
Finns to form travel groups to fill air-
craft for the journey home, which is
shared between Qantas for the long Aus-
tralia-London leg and Finnair for the rest
of the trip
For British migrants, the tastiest bait
is assurance of security in the new coun-
try, and the most important component
in this, outranking even employment with
those sure of their skills, is housing.
Officials recruiting for TAA have found
that migrants continually inquire about
the possibility of working in Adelaide
even though the advertisements to which
they are reacting specify Melbourne as
the place where they are needed. The ex-
planation is the generosity of housing
conditions offered by a State renowned
for its eagerness to attract industry and
people.
So it is perhaps fitting that South
Australian firms should predominate
among those that have set up shop in
Britain to woo potential house-buyers be-
fore they leave home, just as the re-
cruiters have come to get labor at its
source. Four South Australian firms are
represented here, compared with two
Melbourne and one Sydney.
The London representative of a Mel-
bourne housing firm that has put 200
British families through its books in the
past year runs advertisements that under-
take to nominate approved migrants, find
employment for them, provide furnished
accommodation on arrival, accept no de-
posit or sign no contract until the migrant
has reached his destination, arrange for
mortgages and provide a choice of 16
different sites. The firm’s man in Aus-
Bringing in slapdash British
standards?
tralia meets the ship when it berths, takes
the migrants to their temporary accom-
modation and arranges jobs if required—-
all without anything being put on paper
and with no obligation to buy but with a
moral onus to look at this company’s
products first if the migrant decides to
buy a house.
One of the most impressive exercises
in obtaining migrants is being carried
out on behalf of Australian brick manu-
facturers by a West Australian named
John Spire. His interest in British re-
cruiting began when, as director of public
relations for the Western Australian Clay
Brick Manufacturers’ Association, he saw
that the shortage of bricklayers was in-
flating costs, hindering building projects
and tempting Governments to step in
and halt the drift with credit squeezes and
other measures. He calculated that it
would cost only 6d. a 1000 bricks (worth
about £3O) to come to Britain and re-
cruit as many brickies as were needed to
ease the shortage.
At first his proposal was rejected on
the grounds that no official shortage
existed. His answer was that the short-
age was so great that brickies had no
reason to register at labor exchanges
and employers were consequently not
seeking them there. He was told he
would' not be able to get enough men
because Britain's own shortage was even
worse. But last year Spire came here
and sent 100 bricklayers and their fami-
lies to Western Australia, where their
contribution to the stability of the build-
ing industry, he says, has been all he
promised.
New South Wales operators learned
of the West’s solution and were about
to try luring its brickies to their own
State, where wages of up to £7O a week
were being paid, when Spire learned
what was afoot and persuaded them
not to poach but to think big and do
what the West had done. So this year
he is in Britain again, seconded for four
months to the Brick Manufacturers’
Association of New South Wales with a
mandate to recruit 300 bricklayers.
He said in London recently that
although his efforts had received a
setback from publicity about Australian
heatwaves and bushfires earlier this year,
he thought he would get close to the
goal. His advertisements have drawn
1500 inquiries, mostly, from self-
employed brickies. His case, of course,
is good, for he can promise applicants
Australian earnings of £l5OO to £2OOO
a year compared with an average of
about £AIOOO in London and as little
as £7 10s. a 1000 bricks in depressed
areas like Northern Ireland and Glasgow.
As with some other kinds of trades-
men, standards of workmanship among
British bricklayers have at first proved
lower than those of their Australian
counterparts. Part of this is blamed on
the British labor shortage and employers’
acceptance of the relaxation that goes
with it, part on the British notion that
standards in a young country where
workers are better off must be slapdash.
At the same time, the sight of more
money than they have seen before sends
them into an orgy of earning that taxes
quality of workmanship still further.
The distortions, however, are short-
lived. Within a few weeks the new-


«. f:
um
-
I m
t
..
■
m
' * *
\- . - :,A •
m
& i
■
"4
•K:
-
■
m
~*% ; ?
*% V% - *v |
JNf,.WV *
•mSt? f
■■ :.,
■ ■:■ ' : ■ ■ :: :
m
: W? n^
m&msmml.
mw ..»HJ
OH®l
This new moneyrsaving Automatic Bag Sealer developed by 3M Tape Customer Engineering Service proves . . .
You get more than tape from 3M
scotch brand model S-605 Automatic Bag
Sealer is the first ever to seal polythene
bags with an easy-to-open re-sealable tab.
The tab is a short piece of pressure-
sensitive tape, laminated to printed paper.
Model S-605 processes up to 80 bags per
minute, taking bags up to 10 lb. capacity,
or adjusts easily for smaller bags.
It’s the latest product of 3M research and
designing skill, to make bag-sealing of pre-
weighed foodstuffs (or almost any dry bulk
material) an economic, split-second process.
A manual model, P3L/S, has also been
developed for smaller runs.
Let 3M explain its possibilities for you—
and help answer any of your bag-sealing
or taping problems. For details ask your
3M Salesman or Distributor representative
for . . .
Scotch TAPE
INDUSTRIAL TAPES DIVISION
miNNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455, Melbourne 61-3841, Adelaide 51-5971,
Canberra 4-0791, Brisbane 5-4131, Perth 28-4651,
Hobart 3-3104, Auckland 295-109. »na/«/esA
mm
■ camPANY


LONDON 1
\\
w
\\>
N FRANKFURT /
ROME^f
\ \ fczUßlCtt
/.\ x" /
x. VIpPARIS'
■- X j f
t'HpMADRID
!//
'LUANDA
lit
■ :;j
[SALISBURY
:¥•••■ ••
SiiSS
JOHANNESBURG
MAURITIUS.
.§>
tV' is-
Ms> PERTH
a*
BAABO/30
Business travel
gets a new lift
this way
Send your export figures UP by
a little on-tlie-spot investigating in
South Africa on your next round-
world trip! South Africa is prosperous
—expanding—a rich potential market
for many Australian products. And
further along the route, more new,
undeveloped export markets abound.
Flying to U.K./Europe via South
Africa is rich in travel enjoyment, too.
Spend a few days seeing the big game
in Kruger National Park, marvel at
the scenery, the peoples, fabled cities'
such as Johannesburg, Capetown,
Pretoria.
Stopover if you wish at Lisbon,
Madrid and other great European
capitals at little or no extra air fare.
The cost? Flying this way, from
a mere £15.10.0 extra in air fares,
depending on your departure point.
Rewarding in many ways, this
way. See your travel agent.
Two services weekly to South
Africa, with daily connections
at Johannesburg for U.K. and
Europe. Operated by S.A.A.,
in association with Qantas,
8.0.A.C., and C.A.A.
TO U.K./EUROPE VIA THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
comers gain perspective and adjust their
standards to those of their Australian
workmates, sometimes surpassing them.
Recruiting suitable migrants means
more than filling in forms. Men doing
it are sometimes exposed to pleas that
are agonisingly hard to refuse. They
must be psychologists, for people whose
lives are involved in the drama of emi-
gration act well. To the interviewer,
wives are as important as husbands. It
is little to his credit to recruit a family
that returns after a taste of exile, and
Mum is usually the one who works the
tiller. If a wife sighs across the desk
to an Australian interviewer that Granny
is going to miss the children, it is un-
likely that her family will finish up in
Australia, for she has flashed the re-
cruiter a warning of impending home-
sickness—an ailment to which, as Immi-
gration men know, few people will ever
admit.
Australia House, incidentally, may
soon have its own corner of the color
problem. Already, questions on the
subject make officials look sideways and
mumble about Canberra. Since the last
world war, about as many colored immi-
grants have settled in Britain as white
ones in Australia. It will not be sur-
prising if their children, British-born and
well-educated, soon start looking in the
same directions as their white compa-
triots. Inter-marriage makes the prob-
lem doubly delicate, and some people
are intrigued to know how Australia
House will solve it.
Officials there maintain, of course,
that there is no such thing as a “White
Australia” policy, and that the system
of permits it operates is based on accept-
ing people who are “predominantly
European in their way of life”. Such
predominance may not be hard for an
official to spot when he is comparing a
standard Englishman with a full-blooded
West Indian migrant, but the task will
become more subtle when pastel shades
start facing him across the counter.
Australia House officials say West
Indians have already come to the immi-
gration counter and been given forms to
take away, but I could not find out
whether any had been accepted as immi-
grants. I was told, however, that since
1950 about 15,000 people “not wholly of
European descent” had been admitted
to Australia.
Opposition to British immigration on
the present scale is being felt from some
Australian trade unions. A recruiter
said in London recently: “It may be
justifiable for unions to insist that elec-
trical engineers need five years to learn
their trade and qualify for membership,
but not bricklayers or painters.”
It will be interesting to see how the
expanded immigration programme makes
out against an alliance of British capital
and Australian labor.


The Four Corners
of Talbot Duckmanton
Time for a change at the ABC?
By SAM LIPSKI
The twelfth-floor suite of Mr Talbot
Duckmanton in the ABC's new
head-office building is a good place
to watch the late winter evening settling
over Sydney. After a conversation which
had lasted for more than two hours he lit
his pipe for the tenth or eleventh time
and, as I prepared to go, we had this ex-
change:
“Mr Duckmanton, is there something
about your job as General Manager of
the ABC that we have not discussed,
something important or serious which
you feel you would like to mention?”
(A pause.)
“I want very much to make it clear
that the ABC is a vital part of this nation
of ours. I get very concerned when we
are accused of being too Left wing . . .”
“But who accuses you of that except
Right-wing politicians?”
“Well, those accusations have been
made by different people. We certainly
have no desire to present a particular
point of view. It’s unfortunate that we
sometimes get that sort of reaction.”
“By the same token does it concern
you that you are sometimes criticised for
being too Establishment?”
“Yes, it does. I don’t think we are.”
(A pause.) “I’d like to think that we
play the same role in Australian life . . .
that we are as much a part of it as the
Holden motor car is, while at the same
time providing the service for those who
want something more . . .”
It was the first time during the inter-
view that I felt a break in the affable
but very collected managerial exterior
which confronts you across a large desk,
neatly laid out with orderly piles of
papers and files, folded tobacco pouch,
and a small tin of Sweetex. He was
really hurt that anyone should think the
ABC was politically biased. For the
rest of the time his answers had been
calmly thought out and carefully worded.
Like a train gathering momentum the
ABC’s General Manager (after six
months on the job he can still be thought
of as “newly-appointed”) takes time to
warm to his answer, but when he does he
keeps, going. (“Could I just add to
that? ’ and “Could I digress in a way
before answering that fully?” were the
two most used phrases.) He spoke
freely and never fell back on a direct
“I can’t comment on that”. The closest
we got to it was when I discussed his
relations with the Commission:
“How do you regard the Commission?
Do you see them as your employers or
co-workers, or what? Are you happy
with them or irritated . . ?”
“Well, it’s not my task to discuss the
relations between me and the Commis-
sion but I don’t think I regard them as
my employers. More like you suggested
—co-workers . . . They reflect the views
of the community and—”
“Do you feel that they do? Do they
really adequately represent the com-
munity?”
(A pause. It is at moments like these
one gets the impression that he is grateful
for his pipe.)
“Yes, I think so. Don’t you? I mean
I don’t know why you ask.”
I launched into the traditional criti-
cisms: did not the Commission represent
a predictable middle-class, conservative,
Christian ethic? Did not this extend not
only to the way the ABC handles contro-
versial programmes but to its whole
approach to other programmes? Were
not considerable sections of the com-
munity in a sense disfranchised because
they do not have representation on the
Commission? and so on. To all of which
Mr Duckmanton listened and said at the
end with a suggestion of a smile —-
“Well, you said all that.”
He is an open-faced man, with hair
which is described as “thinning”. He
wears a dark blue suit and has light blue
eyes. He is President of Legacy, lives
in Cheltenham and is married with three
children.
The interview began with a question
about his reaction to the Press publicity
and discussion of the ABC’s “New
Look”, “New Broom” or “Bright Look”
or “Personality Look” or whatever. He
felt satisfaction at the interest being
taken and “without wishing to sound
pompous it makes one mindful of the
responsibility of the job”.
Anxious to emphasise that it was the
Commission and not the General Mana-
ger who made policy, and that the
General Manager was the Commission’s
chief executive, he conceded that who-
ever had the job was supposed to advise
and recommend. “The ABC has to reflect
the life of the Australian people and its
culture; to stimulate the community
where appropriate; to insure that the
community is well-informed on matters
of substance —and of course it has rather
particular responsibilities in areas like
education and music ...” A clue that
the ABC might be relaxing its monopoly
in the music world came when he said,
“We have no desire to dominate the
Australian musical scene. We have no
intention, for instance, of moving into
the field of chamber music.”
As for the “New Look” itself: “I’ve
never said that I’m at war with the com-
mercials. What I want to do is attract


INSTANT LOAD...
%
7 ?9S 8 U9U
*m m szt 09 o&
lllffiliirriiii
p
FAST
SHUTTER...
f/2.8 LENS...
sNSTAMATIC
500 ms
.
EXACT EXPOSURE..
KODAK INSTAMATIC 500 CAMERA
It loads fast in an instant. Just drop in the lightproof Kodapak Film Cartridge
and you're ready for action. You have a choice of four Kodak films to give you
colour slides, colour prints or black-and-white prints.
It loves fast action Its precision Compur Shutter is speeded to 1/500
second, freezes fast action that would be a blurr to many cameras. It's flash
synchronized, too.
It captures every picture detail The critically-sharp Schneider Xenar
f/2.8 Lens won't miss a detail whether you shoot close-ups or distant shots.
You are in full control of focusing (21 ft. to infinity).
It gives exact exposure every time —Built-in exposure meter. You simply
match pointers in the viewfinder and the aperture is set automatically for the
selected shutter speed.
You could have fun with a Kodak Instamatic 500 Camera. Why not? See it
at your local Kodak Dealer. Price is £54. 6. 0. including case.
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
as many people as I can but I am not
concerned with obtaining a mass audi-
ence over all our areas of programmes.”
“What are the sorts of programmes
which you want to make more attrac-
tive?”
“I was going to say our more serious
programmes. What I mean is our in-
formative rather than our pure enter-
tainment ones. That’s not to say that
they can’t be entertaining at the same
time, but there ought not to be a barrier.
People don’t have to feel that it's an
exercise in self-discipline for them to
watch or listen. Obviously we can't
expect audiences of the size that watch
McHale’s Navy but we can get very
significant audiences without lowering
standards.” He felt that it was a little
early to judge what the ABC had already
tried in this direction because it was a
gradual process which would take time
before clear reactions could be gauged.
Had he drawn up anything like a Five
Year Plan which he had presented to
the Commission —a Duckmanton Plan?
Nothing as definite as that although he
and ABC senior executives were making
long-range plans. One thing which would
help would be the new offices in Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, which would allow
the “essential fall-out” which came from
discussions with senior programme staff
until now spread out in different build-
ings.
11/lost of the changes introduced and
some of those to come have been re-
ported. The ABC has completed agree-
ments for higher rates to be paid to
scriptwriters; there are plans for more
drama, possibly a half-hour series; and
more generally there is the division of
radio and television within the ABC.
Mr Duckmanton will shortly announce
the appointment of a new head of radio
programmes and a new Jiead of tele-
vision. “I know that we have had a
policy in the past—l have to be careful
what I say—of integration of the two
media. We ae trying to move away from
this. You’d better not describe it as
disintegration—it’s more like de-integra-
tion.”
Talbot Sydney Duckmanton, now 43,
joined the ABC in 1935 as an office boy.
Except for the years of war service he
has not worked for any other organisa-
tion. Having experienced the organisa-
tion at every level from cadet through
announcer, lower, middle, senior and
very senior executive positions, was he
aware of the need for an adequate “feed-
back” mechanism, a reliable way of
knowing what his staff felt about what he
was doing? “You can’t legislate for
this sort of thing. I think that it’s
important that in a large organisation
the senior executive should make his
own personal contacts and assessments.
I had the announcers in and I’m


Marbleised Pattern, Tango Tiles with Black Feature Strips.
CSR \/INYLFLEX
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
So durable ... so easy to keep clean
in kitchens, bedrooms, living areas and
rumpus rooms. You can choose your own
personal design from the wonderful new
range of colours and patterns. CSR Vinyl-
flex Floor Tiles resist wear and scuffing . . .
household spillings simply wipe off. Your
floors will be gay, colourful and so easy
to clean.
SAVE MONEY, LAY YOUR OWN VINYLFLEX TILES
Made in Australia by
<«sr>
ISIHIKi'XX'MMHIU*
i[(rH l)nibl \>efo\
VI. 109
planning to have the TV producers
in tor coffee and a biscuit and a talk.
Yes, 1 agree. In an organisation which
is dependent on the individual’s creative
abilities there has to be plenty of oppor-
tunity to get points of view.”
One point of view, which had been
suggested about the recent appointment
of Mr Clem Semmler to Deputy General
Manager and Mr Wally Hammond to
Assistant General Manager was that this
was a sign of the Duckmanton mana-
gerial and manipulative genius at work.
Here were two powerful executives
within the ABC one with Programmes
as his realm the other with News.
Now both were given purely administra-
tive jobs. Surely a sign that they had
been neutralised as possible counter-forces
within the organisation? And did not this
mean that the line of control was now
straight through to Mr Neil Hutchinson,
the senior programme executive?
“I don’t know how these stories start.
This thing about Hutchinson. . . . some-
thing abouUus being especially close . . .
Personalities aside, I believe there is a
need for a management group divorced
from any functional responsibility so that
when I'm not here the machine doesn’t
grind to a halt. It makes for good
management and effective continuity.”
Where did this fascination for manage-
ment arise and how? His only formal
qualifications are an almost completed
degree in Economics at Sydney Univer-
sity (dropped because promotion within
the ABC meant moving to Brisbane. “I’m
sorry only because I had nearly finished
the thing”) and a course at the Admini-
strative Staff College in Victoria. The
rest is experience, local and overseas.
Management is challenging. More chal-
lenging than radio broadcasting which
was his own field in the ABC?
‘'Yes, it is. I found my radio work
most interesting and I got a good deal
of satisfaction out of it. But it was,
well ... it can be a dead end . . . don’t
get me wrong when I say that. If tele-
vision had been available at the time I
might have gone into that.”
The philosophies of broadcasting and
the mass media which he has worked out
have been shaped by men like Sir
Richard Boyer (“the first Australian I
knew of who had a philosophy of broad-
casting”), Sir Charles Moses (his prede-
cessor and mentor), and Hugh Greene of
the BBC.
His overseas experience advising the
governments of Israel, Pakistan and the
then Tanganyika on television has
helped to shape his ideas, too.
“I’m grateful for having been able to
talk to men like Ben-Gurion and Nyrere,
to hear them talk about the problems of
nation-building. Africa, for instance, is
an important and intriguing continent.
I think we ought to know more about it.
We’re extending our work in Asia and
I hope we might be-able to in Africa
as well, training and helping their people
as well as informing our own.”
overseas experience had crystallised
ideas about the basic problem of
national broadcasting organisations—
“To allow the sort of freedom of expres-
sion that flows from creative talents with-
out overlooking responsibility.” What
did all this mean when one recalled that
Dr Darling, the ABC Chairman, had
made it clear that he did not think that
the ABC’s job, in programmes like Four
Corners, was “social crusading”.
“Well, Four Corners ought not at all.
times aim at being controversial. I agree
that its job is not social crusading. I
don't know if it might not now be time
for a change in that programme. Some
reassessment is needed. Even if it were
changed it would not mean that we would
vacate the field of the topical programme.
We’re planning to introduce a topical
programme next year along the lines of
the BBC’s Tonight show.” He thought
the recent telecast of the Monash Teach-
in was a good example of what the
ABC hopes to do in the future —more
outside broadcasts of debates and dis-
cussions like those at the Sydney Union.
One of the criticisms against him has
been that he is placing too much empha-
sis on presentation, not enough on con-
tent. “To borrow a phrase from outside
the ABC, we have to have a good pro-
duct and we have to be able to market, it
well. We are aiming to have both.”


SHELL’S WONDERFUL
WORLD OF
CHEMICALS
Nearly every industry—certainly every major one relies in some way
on the vast range of chemicalsavailable from Shell. Here are a few highlights
from Shell's widespread field of progress with chemicals from petroleum.
S'
A FANTASTIC PLASTIC
Polypropylene was specified
for this one-piece chair by
a famous designer. This new
thermoplastic is the latest
and lightest yet developed.
No other substance known
has so favourable a -combi-
nation of strength, weight,
chemical resistance, rigidity
and resilience as Shell
Polypropylene.
r
am
W
TARGET ON TERMITES
Aldrin and Dieldrin, famous
eradicators of a large
variety of insects that rav-
age agriculture and indus-
try, have been developed
for an all-out war against
termites in all building
constructions. Expertly ap-
plied as a “soil barrier” in
existing or new buildings,
they prevent white ants
from getting to their fav-
ourite meal.
■c ■ ;
“EPIKOTE” GOES UNDERSEA
Sheli Chemical engineers
have developed and proved
a new ‘‘Epikote” resin com-
pound that can be applied
underwater to protect steel
hulls, piers, bridges, etc.,
from sea water corrosion.
The new substance out-
lasts and outprotects even
special corrosion-resistant
metal sheathing. Yet it is
approximately one quarter
of the cost.
IT'S GOT TO BE GOOD TO BE
SHELL


THE WEEK
OVERSEAS
VIETNAM I
The Diplomacy
TN capital after capital last week the
" L theme was the same: How to persuade
North Vietnam to end the war through peace
negotiations. At the United Nations, the
"Little Six" of the Security Council —the
veto-less elected members - began a round
of private talks on how they might help
toward that end. They were earnest but
wary.
In Belgrade, President Tito and visiting
Prime Minister Shastri called for a halt to
United States bombing of North Vietnam to
clear the way for mediation between Hanoi
and Washington by the non-aligned nations.
In Cairo, President Nasser's ministers
sounded out the diplomatic missions of North
Vietnam, Communist China and the "National
Liberation ‘Front" the political arm of the
Vietcong —on the mediation idea. Egyptian
sources said the Chinese and the Vietcong
were cold-shouldering the move, believing
the Americans could be defeated militarily,
but that the North Vietnamese, feeling the
strain of American bombing, seemed in-
terested.
In Peking, French Minister of Culture
Andre Malraux met for three hours with
Mao Tse-tung their first meeting since the
Frenchman was in China 40 years ago
gathering material for his celebrated novel,
"Man's Fate". Malraux outlined the French
view of Asia, which includes the conviction
that Vietnam should be neutralised.
In Accra, President Nkrumah received a
letter from Ho Chi-minh responding to an
exploratory mission he had sent to Hanoi.
Nkrumah at once sent his Foreign Minister
to Washington with a letter to President
Johnson, asking that US bombing of North
Vietnam be suspended so it would be safe
for him to follow up with a personal trip to
Hanoi. Johnson refused on Saturday to halt
the bombings but stressed that Hanoi was
not being bombed.
In Washington, Averell Harriman re-
ported to Johnson on his "private visit" to
Moscow where he had met "unofficially"
with Premier Kosygin to see whether the
Russians might use their influence on Hanoi
on behalf of peace. Harriman reported he
gained the "clear impression" that the
Russians "sincerely wanted peace" in Viet-
nam but did not want to use their influence
—at least, not yet. Apparently the Russians
were afraid of being out-influenced by the
Chinese.
VIETNAM II
The War
J>ARATROOPERS were employed in the
longest American military operation to
date a six-day search of the thorny rain
forests of Phuoctuy province between Saigon
and the sea, where Saigon's troops are in
control in the daytime but where the night
belongs to the Vietcong. The paratroopers
combed the jungle at night. They found
caves and abandoned rice supplies, and a
few times almost epught up with retreating
Vietcong but never quite.
According to the "New York Times" the
marines went into action when Vietcong
artillery opened up on four helicopter land-
ing zones 10 miles from the Danang base.
Approaching the village of Chanson the
marines came under small arms fire. A
helicopter with a loudspeaker flew over the
village warning everyone to go out into
the open for safety. Several hundred
villagers did so. Then, under sniper fire, the
marines attacked. When they took the village
they found 25 dead. Among them were a
woman and three children killed by a marine
grenade hurled into a bunker. Another was
a child, apparently killed by fire from a
helicopter. The marines found the village
honeycombed with tunnels They were re-
ported to have burned some houses built
over tunnel entrances despite pleas by vil-
lagers.
Marines do not fight women and children,
a marine spokesman said, but in Vietnam they
have been fired on by women and have
caught children and oldsters assisting the
Vietcong. "Marines do not burn houses or
villages unless those houses and'villages are
fortified," he added but conceded that
most Vietnamese villages are fortified.
Later in the week guerrillas sneaked up
within mortar range of an oil depot near
Danang and laid down a heavy barrage.
About 2 million gallons of airplane fuel
40 per cent of the depot's stocks went up
in flames.
BASES
Indian Ocean
JAOCKETING land prices in Mauritius and
the Seychelles are complicating Anglo-
American plans for setting up a chain of
"communication bases" in the Indian Ocean.
It now seems that the cost of setting up these
two bases would not be less than £lOO
million and could well be much more. Never-
theless, plahning for the project is expected
to go on, with Britain offering to provide the
sites and America the equipment.
Other islands being considered as bases
are Diego Garcia in the Chagos Archipelago,
and the Cocos Islands, belonging to Aus-
tralia.
British sources blame America for delays
in reaching decisions, which are putting up
the cost every month. But American officials
complain of being asked to accept an "im-
possible" site in the Seychelles. It was
originally hoped that the British Govern-
ment would buy out the freehold of whole
islands and designate them as ships of the
Royal Navy, like HMS Ascension. This is
not proving easy. In fact British and Ameri-
can requirements seem to differ. The Ameri-
cans want simple telecommunications and an
airfield. The British want something more
elaborate, including a harbor. On the other
hand the US wants Britain—and not herself
to fill the "strategic vacuum" in the Indian
Ocean.
In support of this the US Government has
offered to deliver oil for the Royal Navy at
Diego Garcia, reducing the strain of British
support ships.
HUNGARY
Nationalists First
A, STERN warning was issued by Mr Istvan
Szirmai, the leading Hungarian Communist
ideologist, that "nationalism has become a
threat to Hungary's Communist system". He
described nationalism as an ideology with
"massive effects, which threaten the building
a Communism, to which the party could not
remain indifferent".
His warning comes at a time when there is
evidence of strong pressure within the Hun-
garian Communist Party and the Hungarian
Army for a more independent line in foreign
affairs and economic matters. It is en-
couraged by recent developments in neigh-
boring Eastern European countries, especially
Rumania. Demands for more independence
have come from the young members of the
Communist Party and the new officer class.
A recent confidential survey by party
officials disclosed that the young generation
in the party and army consider themselves
Hungarians first and Communists second.
SPACE
Rocket Surprises
STATES defence officials believe
that the Soviet Union is about to launch
a surprise in rocket development in the next
few weeks. One theory is that the Russians
plan a big manned space venture to over-
shadow America's Gemini-5 eight-day mission
due to be launched on August 19.
According to the well-informed journal
"Aviation Week", experts base their belief
on a number of events which have taken
place in the past fortnight. These include:
The orbiting of five satellites on a single
launch vehicle the most ambitious multi-
purpose payload ever announced by Russia.
The launching of the heaviest operational
payload, 26,896 lb, on what was called a
new and more powerful booster rocket. An-
other warning comes in the August issue of
"Air Force—Space Digest", which has close
connection with the US Air Force. It says
that the massive Soviet rockets shown at the
May 9 parade in Moscow are not the only
big ones the Russians now possess.
"More surprises are coming in Soviet
rocketry," it says. "At least one launch
vehicle, considerably larger than any shown,
has yet to be revealed."
The journal also says that recent revela-
tions about Soviet missile developments raise
the most basic doubts about the superior
quality of Western missiles.
Many Western experts would question this
"sophistication", particularly in relation to
rocket guidance and control at which the
Russians have repeatedly failed in deep
space probes. But there is a general admis-
sion that they may be far ahead in lift
power.
BRITAIN
Out of Aden
Defence Ministry is ready to give up
its military be se in Aden as a contri-
bution to the Government's squeeze on public
expenditure. The base at present costs
Britain approximately £lOO million a year,
which is half the total spent by Britain for
its Middle East defences. So long as Britain
preserves direct responsibility in the Persian
Gulf, Britain's defence chiefs believe it is


Stone-age
Stacking
in the
Jet Age?
J3>
MODERN packaged and crated
goods call for modern methods of
handling—methods which save time,
space, money and manpower, yet do
not involve the ownership of expen-
sive equipment.
ONE of the most revolutionary tools
of industry and commerce is the fork
lift truck. Hire modern fork lift
trucks from CHEP—by the hour, by
the week, or on a permanent basis.
CHECK WITH CHEP. Call the
nation’s most experienced advisers in
materials handling to review your
problems, without cost or obligation.
CHEP
Crescent Street, Glebe, N.S.W. 68 4211
CHEP
Sandgate Road, Albion, Brisbane, Qld. 6 2181
CHEP
205 Hanson Road, Athol Park, Adelaide, S.A. 45 7922
CH2.
necessary to retain Aden as a staging and
communications base. This, however, would
cost much less than keeping up the full
military paraphernalia.
The final decision rests not with the De-
fence Department but with those responsible
for the whole of Britain's overseas policies.
The Government is currently conducting an
inter-departmental reassessment of Britain's
responsibilities in the area. Mr Callaghan,
the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has an-
nounced that £lOO million will be saved in
the defence estimates without specifying
where the savings would be made. An
earlier commitment promised to keep the
defence expenditure down to a ceiling of
£2OOO million a year at present prices until
1970.
Negotiations have now been satisfactorily
concluded between the Treasury and the
Defence Department over these figures.
THE U.S.
Getting the Vote
”0 NE . of the most monumental laws in the
entire history of American freedom . . ."
So said President Johnson last Friday just
before he signed into law the Voting Rights
Act designed to guarantee finally the en-
franchisement of the Southern Negro.
The Voting Rights Act is expected to bring
up to a million new voters to the polls in
the South by next election day and thus bring
profound political changes in areas where
the franchise had been held almost exclu-
sively by whites. Under the new Federal law,
a Negro would have the Federal presence
with him at every step. If his application is
rejected by the local registrar, he may com-
plain to the Justice Department. If the Justice
Department receives 20 or more complaints
from any county or if the Attorney-General
decides there is discrimination he may appoint
an examiner for the county. Negroes could
then apply to register with the Federal
examiner, who would appoint poll-watchers
to see that qualified Negroes were permitted
to vote and their vote was properly tabulated.
U.S. IMMIGRATION
Who Are You?
national origins quota system, a device
long denounced by minority groups as
discriminatory, has been the keystone of
American immigration policy since it was first
written into law in 1924. Essentially, the sys-
tem asks of the prospective citizen not "who
are you?" but "where are you from?" The
quotas, which favor northern Europeans and
sharply restrict others, reflect an earlier era
when racial and ethnic discrimination was
widely accepted.
Last week one of the first legislative steps
to scrap the national origins quotas was
taken when the House Judiciary Committee
reported out by an overwhelming bipartisan
vote the Administration's new immigration bill.
The measure puts all nations on an equal
footing so far as immigration is concerned
and sets up new preference categories de-
signed primarily to reunite families that
have been separated by the arbitrary barriers
of the quota system.
First, there would be an early influx of
close relatives of one-time immigrants who
have become US citizens. Second, there pro-
bably would be a larger proportion of im-
migrants from Asian and African countries
whose nationals have been virtually ex-
cluded under the existing law.


Backward Glance at an Avant Garde
When Sydney and “The Hats ” ruled Australian art
By DANIEL THOMAS
At one time the Charm School,
which is, roughly, the painters who
were new in Sydney in the 19405,
was the whole of Australian art. It was
the avant garde.
Unless you lived in Melbourne, and
read the art reviews carefully, you prob-
ably knew nothing of Nolan, Boyd,
Tucker and co. until much later. They
were Melbourne’s vanguard in the
19405, but elsewhere the general public
probably didn’t hear about them till
the late 19505. Melbourne did not look
after its own avant-garde painters at all
well. Admittedly, they were much more
difficult, more genuinely an avant garde
than Sydney’s. And there were purely
accidental reasons.
For example, Sydney happened to be
the place where art books and magazines
were published; and when I was growing
up in the ’forties, in Tasmania, there
were quite a few around the house. The
magazine was “Art in Australia”, which
expired in 1942. The three picture books
were “Australian Present Day Art” of
1943, 1945 and 1949, and in them Mel-
bourne was represented only by Couni-
han, joined in the last of the three by
Constance Stokes and Eric Thake. They
should have been called “Sydney Present
Day Art”, but how was one to know
that in Tasmania? There were also books
about Dobell and Drysdale and two writ-
ten by Donald Friend.
Not till later did I come across the
two histories of Australian art, Bernard
Smith’s brilliant bit of pioneering in 1945,
or Herbert Badham’s pedestrian compi-
lation of 1949, but they didn’t illustrate
Nolan or Boyd either. What I did come
across was a booklet by Clive Turnbull
titled “Art Here”, subtitled “Buvelot to
Nolan”. This is a very alert subtitle
indeed for 1947; Drysdale, Nolan and
Thake are named as “perhaps Australia’s
most significant contemporary artists”
(Drysdale and Dobell were the most “ac-
complished”). But the pamphlet was pub-
lished rather obscurely, and in any case
this Melbourne writer said “the pre-
eminence of Sydney was indisputable”;
two years earlier nearly everybody had
said the same when he organised for the
Melbourne “Herald” a large survey ex-
hibition of Sydney painting in the Mel-
bourne Town Hall.
Through the ’fifties there were no
more books to show the provincials what
Australian art was up to until Kym Bony-
thon’s came out five years ago. Many
more have followed, and two years ago
a magazine began again, this time called
“Art and Australia”.
The Charm School scarcely exists in
the new books. But it's still alive, and
in a country where it’s more usual for
painters to get worse as they grow older
Streeton is a conspicuous example
some of them are painting better.
Several disappeared for a long time
in the ’fifties, Strachan to Paris, Lym-
burner to London, Donald Friend to
Ceylon, Mitty Lee-Brown to Rome, but
a couple of years ago they all seemed to
be back. A three-man show by Jessup,
Olley and Strachan at the Dominion
Galleries in 1962 was a sort of mani-
festo. On the other hand Loudon Saint-
hill, who has been an extremely success-
ful theatre designer in London for nearly
15 years, seems gone for good, and so
do some of their playmates like Wol-
fang Cardamatis and Jocelyn Rickards.
Among those who do send paintings
back to Australia Jean Bellette has lived
in Majorca for the past eight years,
while Fred Jessup, a second-generation
member of the group, is based in France.
Historical research
VlThen they were away the term Charm
’ " School was invented. John Olsen who
says it certainly didn’t exist when he left
for Europe in 1956 thought Robert
Hughes invented it, but when 1 asked
Hughes he said he’d got it from me, and
that it first appeared in print in 1962. I
first heard it from Tom Gleghorn in
1958 when it certainly signified a specific
group of artists. He now remembers that
he first heard it in 1957 when it was re-
marked that his exhibition of large and
lurid abstracts “certainly wasn’t charm
school”. A month later than that ex-
hibition I find an article by Elwyn Lynn
in his Contemporary Art Society Broad-
sheet probably the first serious attempt
in Australia to define abstract expression-
ism where the term charm school is
used generally of non-expressionist art
but is not attached to any specific group
of painters, Australian or foreign.
Thus it seems the term emerged
among the younger painters who helped
make the abstract revolution in the later
19505, and it was, of course, a term
of abuse. All new generations like to
accuse their predecessors of triviality;
all old generations like to accuse their
successors of being unable to paint or
draw.
By now it is clear that some of the
abstractionists can paint very well, and
that others of them are just as trivial
as the worst of the Charm School. It is
time for Charm School to become a
neutral word, usefully defining a
moment in art history. After all Gothic,
baroque and rococo were only dirty
words but are now neutral.
Some definitions:
The Charm School does not include
Dobell. He was immediately admired
on his return from abroad: Art Gallery
purchase even before he’d exhibited;
called “Australia’s best artist” in the
London “Studio” even before his famous
Archibald prize. He was much more
conservative than they, though he did
show with them in the Contemporary
Art Society’s first exhibitions.
Drysdale showed with the Contempor-
ary Art Society, too, and his work
seemed so modern in 1942 that people
were as genuinely surprised to find any
of it sold (C. F. Viner-Hall was the
principal early collector) as they are
now with, say, Colin Lanceley. Besides
modernity, he shared certain techniques
with them Friend’s way of drawing
is similar, Bellette once glazed and
scumbled as sumptuously as he. But
although they are all his close personal
friends, he is separate from them all m
being a regional painter (except for
Cedric Flower and for Donald Friend’s
occasional Australiana which is satirical
though affectionate). Drysdale interprets
Australian landscape and national life;
they prefer still-life, or the artificial life
of the theatre, or their private bohemia.
Since Sali Herman was so much a
regional interpreter of Australian themes
I exclude him, too, though his style is
very near to Charm School.
Nolan, who was on close terms with
them during the five years he spent in
Sydney before leaving Australia in 1953,
then had a lyric gaiety and lightness
which is indeed genuinely charming and
often makes them seem leaden-footed.
His interest in theatre design was typical
of-the group. But again his Australian
subject matter separates him from them,
as does his offhand, styleless spontaneity.
The Charm School were stylists to the
core. Unlike previous Australian genera-
tions they knew their art history and
they drew upon it frankly; Poussin and
Piero and Braque are easily recognised.
They impose style on raw nature until
the painting is more important than the
thing pictured. No impressionist sub-
mission to observed reality like their
predecessors; no expressionist exposure


The Charm School
i*N* ■
* Jfl
• *+r*” ’'•'- « ■rJJ7
i
s#*
V
~"* pm IP---; ;>* "”•-••
V «-.<*-->
1 t
*'/5
■J ! ‘tq»
j*
\
V'-
5*- .;...■'?
91
rf
! 1
. V
v L. .•
E t-'jr-r
sT- jJE '
s*ssa
'STRANGE CHILDREN" 1948 - Elaine Haxton.
mm
20" x 24" Collection Art Gallery of NSW.
¥
mm m
Ste
T
m
V
EASTER PROCESSION PALMA" 1964 —Jean Bellette.
.X.
$
ff
ns
30" x 39" Collection South Yarra Galleries.
PHOTOGRAPH BY N. BUESST


PHOTOGRAPHS BY E. NUTT
m
"CONVERSATION" C. 1945 Francis Lymburner.
15" x 20" Collection Mrs Gregory Blaxland.
"BOY SKYROS" 1965 —Justin O'Brien.
19" x 15" Collection Artist.
ft
"COSTUME FOR A VIVANDIERE" C. 1945 Loudon Sointhill.
18" x 12" Collection Mrs Carl Plate.
A,
STILL LIFE WITH ORANGES" 1964—David Strachan.
18" x 24" Collection Aitist.
"STILL
27" x


PHOTOGRAPH BY H. LLOYD-JONES
BIT OF AN ACCIDENT" 1963 Cedric Flower.
!" x 16" Collection Mr Graham Martin.
m **
4*
V.
.
te!>****
K
49 Margaret Olley.
in Donald Friend.
9
mf
"YOUTH, DEATH AND THE MAIDEN" 1965 Donald Friend.
30" x 22" Collection Gallery A.
i^ L -
-
'
■ j. ■;
m
'
„* \
v l :
i»;*•
•' •• i
r‘-‘
HHQI^
IS
2§§s
gg^s.
’-V;
£|&
•J»s, ■*»»
$2
i
«
Sif
- - ->'-
I*.*-, '
* V .V -
pii#
■.4 *'■■■•■* :
."-•
a
,S'f
s#
, -**
"p;
- ■ -
k<fe
;
* » ■ ■.>,. ;f
. •' ■■■"
kk. .r .v??
* ! iapsafr. '-tea, , 3
safe
**<*
*rd> g*
89
iii
t is
*■
rr^j-.C/PfcJ^V
ir
*#• 8?
p
**w
:*+•'
■ -;■
KSS
|S
"BENELONG'S BRIDE ABSCONDS WITH A LOVER" 1964 Donald Friend.
10" x 12" Collection Estate of Dr Stuart Scougall.


This is Measummatic
fits infinitely better than ordinary shirts. And for good reason!
Most shirts are made to fit the
average man. But who’s average?
That’s why you need a shirt that
fits you like Measurematic. What-
ever the shape you’re in, it fits
you trimly because it's made right
in proportioned sizes. How much
does it cost? Surprisingly, just
45/-. Not a lot, considering you’re
getting practically a tailor-made
shirt. So, to summarize; With
3391
Measurematic you get the exact
collar and sleeve length and a
slim, comfortable fit around your
body. It’s the best way to look
slimmer, without going on a diet.
And if that wasn’t enough, take
another look at Measurematic's
impeccable styling. The meticulous
attention to detail. And the fabric?
It’s a smooth imported spin-dry
cotton that washes with business-
like mastery. A fitting conclusion.
HOLEPROOF
FOR THE MAN WITH THE CLEAN CUT LOOK
t '


of their own emotions like their succes-
sors. At their worst when they neglect
to style things up, when they let it go -
flabby, the spectator is left to do all the
work, that is to inject all his own
pleasant memories or daydreams into the
passive emblem of something vaguely
agreeable, say the head of a pretty girl
or boy. They have been called neo-
romantics because their subject matter
is usually removed from everyday reality
and usually pleasant but their self con-
trol and their concern for a well-
structured painting are really neo-
classical.
They could be called the School of
Paris in Sydney. For it was the slightly
reactionary neo - classical aspects of
modern French painting that they seem
to have liked best Derain, Kisling and
so on, not surrealism or geometric
abstraction which were the big things
when they were young in the 19305.
(There was geometric abstraction in
Sydney in their day, by Grace Crowley
and Ralph Balson, but it was almost
completely neglected. There was sur-
realism, too, notably by James Gleeson,
but they drew little from this movement
which in various ways has nourished
Drysdale and Nolan and many other
Melbourne painters.)
Naturally, the Australian painters
whom they respected were the post-
impressionists, Wakelin, Cossington
Smith, late-period Bunny, lan Fair-
weather; and George Bell, the Mel-
bourne teacher under whom several had
studied.
Where did they exhibit? They stayed
with the Contemporary Art Society for
a while, but most of them exhibited with
the middle-of-the-road Society of Artists.
Then they formed The Sydney Group, a
small elite which held an annual exhibi-
tion for ten years from 1945. A second
generation appeared there in the early
’fifties with Kmit and Eric Smith; God-
frey Miller made his debut there; the
young John Olsen exhibited there to-
wards the end. For their one-man shows
there were only the Macquarie Galleries,
and, later, David Jones. There were
no other dealers except the conservative
Grosvenor Galleries.
Taste-makers
llThen did success come? Quite soon,
" perhaps 1943, but it seems to have
been the admiration of outsiders which
put them on the map. Neil McEacharn,
who was immensely rich, and his wife,
who was extremely beautiful, were oblig-
ed to leave Italy and chose to pass the
war in Sydney. They happened to like
these artists, and to buy their paintings.
Fashionable society, and statesmanlike
(or fence - sitting?) taste - makers like
Sydney Ure Smith, followed their lead.
Another visitor with the immense
wealth necessary for influencing people
was the American Edgar Kaufmann,
then a serviceman on leave in Sydney.
And the test of a- successful opening
was whether “The Hats” had come.
Hats, it seems, were large and wonder-
ful then, and the best of all were Mrs
McEacharn’s, Mrs McClure Smith’s,
Mrs Ivan Lewis’s and Mrs Gregory
Blaxland’s.
There were other tastemakers besides
the rich foreigners, “The Hats”, the
Macquarie Galleries, and Sydney Ure
Smith (who was the publisher of those
Australian Present Day Art picture
books, and was also president of the
Society of Artists). Mrs Alleyne Zander
who had brought modern exhibitions to
Australia in the ’thirties could always
put in a good word, and an effective
one, for a young artist.
And there was Paul Haefliger. A
painter himself, and the husband of Jean
Bellette, he was the moving spirit behind
Peter Bellew, editor of the magazine
“Art in Australia” in its two final years.
Then from 1942 he was art critic of
the “Sydney Morning Herald” for 15
years. Although he would scourge and
condemn fiercely enough, his criticism
was always made within the Charm
School’s own set of values: cosmopolitan
painting was better than regional Aus-
traliana; French art was better than
German (American didn’t yet exist on
the international level); surrealism was
too literary; abstraction was an arid,
dead end with no future (!); the Euro-
pean old masters were the proper
tradition to follow, not the degraded im-
pressionism more usual in Australia. He
was in a sense their own critic. And
since he was much the best critic in
Sydney at that time he had much in-
fluence.
A quieter tastemaker was Warwick
Fairfax, partly by virtue of having ap-
pointed Haefliger to his newspaper,
partly because of a genuine fondness for
the work of Francis Lymburner, and
partly because he was one of the links
between painting and theatre.
There seemed to be ballet-dancers
eveywhere in those days. They were in
Lymburner’s paintings, Loudon Sainthill
was always drawing costumes for them,
they appear with Society and the arts
in “Alec Murray’s Album”, a book of
portrait photographs which preserves
with embarrassing accuracy some of the
more pretentious aspects of the period
girls posing in matador pants on broken
obelisks, bare-bosomed men draped with
fish-nets and skulls, elegant portraits of
the backs of people’s heads.
The Album fixes their Merioola
period. After the war many of them lived
together in this down-at-heels mansion
(now demolished) at Edgecliff. It had
its resident ballerina too. In 1947 there
was a Merioola Group exhibition, shown
at David Jones and at Myers in Mel-
bourne with Friend, Sainthill, Edgar
Ritchard (who was another theatre de-
signer), Peter Kaiser who has gone
abstract and other birds of passage now
settled in Europe, and Justin O’Brien
who came on the scene after the war.
(Others lived in Kings Cross where
Elaine Haxton’s parties are well-remem-
bered; earlier some had lived near
Circular Quay in a building called Bug-
gery Barn.)
Theatre and painting
HToday Cedric Flower and Elaine Elaxton
A still do theatre work; Lymburner
still has a genuine feeling for backstage
life in his paintings. But if you decide
to become interested in the arts today
it’s not like the ’forties when theatre
and painting seemed to go hand in hand,
now you must keep them separate. Of
course, there is a distinction between
the witty entertainers and the more
solemn ones like Strachan and Bellette
whose work belongs most strictly to my
definition of School of Paris neo-
classicism.
It’s among the entertainers that you
get the Australiana —to deprive us of
these pleasures they feel would be too
puritan. There was Donald Friend’s
Ned Kelly ballet design in 1941, his
mock-history today. Nearly all Cedric
Flower’s work is private family legends
from Tilba Tilba on the south coast of
New South Wales. “A Bit of an Acci-
dent” is about his Edwardian aunts,
Molly and Poppy Flower.
One wonders whether this kind of
light-hearted approach to Australian
history had anything to do with Nolan’s
Kelly. There was a lot of it around in
Sydney and slightly earlier.
And among the less Parisian are two
who do give away something of them-
selves. Lymburner is a genuine romantic
—he really feels those tender love
scenes, he’s not calculating a guaranteed
sentimental response. And Donald
Friend, recently called King of the
Charm School, reveals an equally
genuine sensuality in his neo - Old
Masterly drawings of girls and boys.
The Charm School doesn’t really
break much new ground. Although it
was the avant garde of its day the rear
guard (gumtree art) was incredibly re-
actionary, and the Charm School is the
guardian of traditional painting values
and skills. As such it has a higher level
of professional craftsmanship than most
Australian art, and for this reason one
can predict a modest future, but cer-
tainly a lasting one, for their best paint-
ings.


Letters to the Editor
Fairbairn Or Cairns?
SIR. Geoffrey Fairbairn wrote of the con-
fusion that Dr Cairns tried to create in the
minds of his colleagues (8., July 31). We
would feel that Mr Fairbairn is attempting
(and probably succeeding) to confuse the
minds of those members of the public who
read "The Bulletin".
Nowhere in his article does Mr Fairbairn
produce evidence of Hanoi's actual control
over the Vietcong. He makes an attempt to
prove the existence of such a relationship
by the interpretation he has given to a state-
ment, made in 1960, by the Central Com-
mittee of the Communist Party in Hanoi:
"... in the South WE have to make every
effort to achieve a broad national unity...",
says this crucial statement. Mr Hasluck has
said ("Age", August 2): "It is OUR general
hope and intention that, by making it
impossible for North Vietnam to succeed,
North Vietnam will be willing to start talks."
Now, applying Fairbairn's line of argument,
in regard to the implications of the use of
the word "we", the Australian Government
must be considered as actually controlling
the Government in Saigon.
A. C. MILNER, N. J. DODD, P. J. LEWIS,
A. M. DOWSLEY, I. K. GRAHAM.
M. TIPPER, D. CAMFIELD, D. ROBB,
H. RIX, B. McINTYRE, B. VANKALKEN
Monash University (Vic.).
Literary Heresy
SIR. A generally favorable review of
Frank Sargeson's collected stories just isn’t
good enough for a worshipper like Dr W. H.
Pearson: obviously there have to be halle-
lujahs and heavenly choirs, too. In this
isolated country, ever the social laboratory
of the world, Arnold's prophecy about the
future of literature has already come to pass:
New Zealand writing has become a sub-
stitute for religion, complete with sacred
texts, theological disputation, and heresy-
hunters. The niggling personal tone of Pear-
son's letter should be its own sufficient reply.
But leaving his innuendo and fantasy aside,
there are a few facts at issue; he is so
grossly astray in simple matters of fact that
your readers may justly wonder what value
his opinions have.
I did not, in accepting a literary prize
two years ago, say that the prize should
have gone to Sargeson. This would have
been absurd: Sargeson had published
nothing in the period of two years for which
the prize was awarded. And I have certainly
never said (as Pearson directly quotes me
as saying) that the short story here would
have been impossible without Sargeson: just
what was it, pray, that Katherine Mansfield
wrote? My earliest published stories (in
which Pearson detects me paying the com-
pliment of imitation to Sargeson) were
written before I had read Sargeson or was
even aware that his stories existed. As
Pearson himself says, the work was long
out of print. Sad for professional hunters
of influence, but still.
I have neither said nor implied anywhere
that New Zealand writing reached maturity
in’ 1958 with lan Cross. Again absurd: who
on earth but Pearson would claim maturity
for New Zealand writing? In fact I admire
the work of prose-writers as diverse and
uneven as Maurice Gee, Janet Frame, Noel
Hilliard, Dan Davin, Maurice Duggan, David
Ballantyne, Phillip Wilson and Ronald Hugh
Morrieson (and others) quite as much as lan
Cross. But Cross is especially interesting
and significant for attempting so much
more than the others. In reviewing one can't
name everyone, but I should point out that
in the Sargeson piece I named Janet Frame
(who first published in 1952) as well as
Cross, and Cross only because his work has
been so grotesquely misread and disregarded
here. Likewise I have never said or
suggested that praise in London or New
York is better than praise in one's own
country (for what either is worth). I am at
least twice on record as saying just the
opposite, though I doubt whether it's worth
holding an opinion on the subject at all.
Perhaps Pearson, a parish-pump specialist,
is over sensitive about this.
Finally, Pearson quite deliberately leaves
the impression that I have published a great
deal of criticism (in which he detects
strategies, conspiracies, and shufflings of
shadow cabinets). Fact: in the past ten or
twelve years, all my writing life, I have
written just four reviews of New Zealand
' books and two general articles in which New
Zealand writing was briefly discussed. Three
of these items appeared in Australia, one
in South Africa. He is welcome to see
"noticeable fluctuations" in my assessment
of some writers in this meagre output if' he
can; I'm delighted to have so attentive a
reader.
But the last paragraph of Pearson's letter
explains everything: he is not really com-
plaining about the Sargeson review at all
(indeed he is so busy putting me down he
has pathetically little to say about it) but
about the way I dismissed his novel, "Coal
Flat", in "The Bulletin" last October. Well,
I'm sorry about "Coal Flat"; I really would
like to change my mind, if only to get
Pearson and his friends off my back. But
the point is that unlike Dr Pearson I am
sometimes capable of changing my mind or
at least qualifying an opinion: it would not
occur to him that this might explain those
dangerously subversive "fluctuations" he
observes. And unlike Pearson and his col-
leagues in the University of Auckland (who
hasten to trample the mildest dissent
wherever, they see it, even in Australia) I
believe a little heresy, particularly in New
Zealand, is a healthy thing.
MAURICE SHADBOLT
Auckland (NZ).
SIR.— From the portion of my letter (B„ July
31) your readers (and Mr Shadbolt) could be
excused for supposing that I went to all that
trouble for the satisfaction of scoring off
Mr Shadbolt. Had my remarks been printed
in their full context I think my prime concern
would have been plain. It was with Frank
Sargeson's reputation as a skilled humane
writer, and one likely to be congenial to
Australian readers. Mr Shadbolt's review
seemed to me to be unfair to Sargeson. I
should not otherwise have taken him up.
W. H. PEARSON
Auckland (NZ).
[This is the last paragraph of Dr Pearson's
original letter which for space reasons was
not printed in the July 31 issue:
There are many of us here, writers and
readers not engrossed in literary politics
who are grateful and admiring in the face
of Mr Sargeson's achievement, which was,
by dedicating himself to full-time writing
(and living on a pittance) to tackle unaided
the technical problem of representing some
of his countrymen's preoccupations in the
language they thought in, to make art from
it without imitation of overseas fashions in
theme or technique, and to create his own
readership. His overseas reputation must,
of course, rest on his art and his humanity;
but I believe they are strong enough to
establish him abroad as unobtrusively as at
home. Australians are likely to find him
more congenial than Mr Shadbolt's review
may have led them to believe.]
The Wool Scheme
SIR. —ln your issue of July 17 (page 60)
"Croesus" doubts if a reserve price is the
answer and if it can take some of the
fluctuation out of our wool market.
Whilst it must be admitted that we cannot
at this point of time say at what level our
reserve price would be set, it would be a
lot better than even money that it will be
53d. give or take a penny. The reason for
this assumption is that the reserve price will
most certainly be set reasonably close to
other reserve price schemes and as it is
estimated that New Zealand has its reserve
price set at a level equivalent to 51d,
average for the Australian clip.
Assuming a 53d. average, this would relate
to a set type of wool known as clean average
64's, at a price very close to 105d.-106d.
However, this line of wool has sold as low
as 85d. (in the early part of 1959), so that
even on these figures it will be clearly seen
that the reserve price scheme will give some
stability to our market.
But this is not the only measure of stability
that is given by a reserve price. Experience
in both South Africa and New Zealand has
shown that once the average price gets
within IQ p.c. of the reserve price, there is
10 p.c. of wool that has to be "bid on" by
the scheme. Otherwise it would sell for less
than its reserve. So even if our reserve price
is initially set at 53d„ this reserve will start
to have an effect on the market as soon as
the market drops below 59d.
In the season just concluded, if the Aus-
tralian growers had been protected by a
reserve price set at 53d., at least 600,000
bales of wool would have been sold at a
higher price. Judging by the writer's personal
experience, some of these bales of wool
would have made £8 per bale more than
they did under the present system of selling.
There is no reason to imagine that our
reserve price would not be increased once
the scheme was firmly established, as the
New Zealand reserve price has been in-
creased four times since its inception in
1951-52. Furthermore, in New Zealand in
1958-59 the Reserve Price Commission was
forced to bid on 15.6 p.c. of all wools, even
though the average for the season was some
9 p.c. above the reserve. In South Africa in
1960-61 the Reserve Price Commission was
forced to bid on 37 p.c. of the entire clip
and yet the average price realised was more
than 71 p.c. above the reserve price.
Figures being used by the Committee for
the Retention and Improvement of the Free
Auction System do not give a true picture
of the variations in fluctuations of wools of
nearly similar type in Australia and other
countries.
The writer will admit that, if one likes to
pick a time when Australian prices are low
and South African prices are high and then
compare them with a month when the
opposite position is the case, then it can be


m
m
.
i. ' ' '
‘V
jru--
s"®SISl@
«
1
For you . . .
only the best
c-4 Jik
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection
and personal prestige.
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SF with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R case, £9O/0/0
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with Auto Super
Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
said that the Australian prices fluctuate less
than the South African prices. However, if
the average monthly figures over a complete
season are taken, it will be found that in
any times of falling prices the Australian
wool is usually the one with the greatest
fall.
Up to the date of writing, none of the
opponents of the reserve price has come
forward with any constructive suggestion
as to what should be done with our wool
marketing. The "red herring" released at
Canberra by the Committee for the Retention
and Improvement of the Auction System
would be lucky to secure five of the fifty
AWIC votes, as the scheme did nothing at
all to give stability. Its proponents did
not appear to even hazard a guess as to
when the scheme would start to operate. It
was supposed to operate when there was a
"catastrophic" fall in wool prices but no one
would give details of just what was meant
by this phrase.
L. A. SIMPSON
Director,
Nowranie Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd
Nowianie, Oaklands (NSW).
"CROESUS" comments: My article didn't
doubt that a reserve price scheme "would
take some of the fluctuations out of our wool
market". Indeed it conceded that when the
auction price fell to the point where the
authority would be obliged to enter, its
appearance would instil confidence into the
market, bringing other bidders in and
minimising the quantity of wool which the
authority would have to buy in. I said this:
"I cannot gainsay the theory of how the
reserve price would affect the market," as
explained by Sir William Gunn. It may be
helpful to some people, but not necessarily
to me, for Mr Simpson to explain that the
average reserve price relates to a range of
types and qualities of wool, but this ex-
planation in no way vitiates my contention
that the authority would only be useful when
the auction price was low enough for it to
bid for any particular type or quality at
the appropriate reserve price. I still feel
that while the psychological influence of the
authority would have a substaining effect on
prices when the market was low, this would
be the exceptional situation and it seems to
me a sheer waste of resources, especially in
the 'current tight resources situation, to erect
an expensive apparatus just to achieve that.
It bespeaks unjustifiably poor confidence on
the part of the AWIC in the prospects for
world wool prices which, evened out over
the years, have served Australia certainly
as well as they have for the reserve price
countries. South Africa and New Zealand.
At least one of Mr Simpson's hand-selected
examples of squeezing more out of the
market than Australian woolgrowers got
looks rather an'iquated, and his other seems
to have been hard to come by.
The Army's Defense
'J'HE Army's Directorate of Public Relations has issued this comment on Press criticism ol the
equipment of Australian troops in Vietnam. (See "The Bulletin", July 31):
No complaints have been received concern-
ing the guality of the boots and shirts issued
to the Ist Battalion RAR in Vietnam. The
Press reports appear to be based on a mis-
understanding of an inspection by the
Minister of the Quartermaster's Store in 1
RAR in the course of which he was shown
worn and damaged boots and clothing
which had reached the end of its useful life
and had been replaced. There was never
any suggestion that new items (including
boots of 1945 manufacture) were in any way
unfit for use. In fact, the boots and clothing
freely available to the troops are the best
available quality and specifically designed
for use in normal jungle conditions.
Conditions in the Bien Hoa area are
amongst the worst in South-East Asia. Rugged
patrolling in the steamy, wet and muddy
conditions of this area causes even more
rapid deterioration of cotton clothing and
boots than would normally be expected in
tropical conditions and this has led to rapid
replacement of these items in Vietnam.
There has, however, been no suggestion
in the battalion that deterioration was other
than would normally be expected under the
extremely adverse conditions prevailing. The
boots used are tropical studded boots
designed to specifications which emerged
from our experience in World War 11.
A new boot has now been developed to
meet our specific requirements in collabora-
, ti° n with the Australian footwear trade after
extensive trials in Malaysia, New Guinea,
Vietnam and Australia. The introduction of
this boot, however, is part of normal develop-
ment and does not indicate any defect in the
old boot the basic reason for its introduc-
tion is to dispense with the separate gaiter.
Although the scope for further improve-
ment in the jungle clothing field is fully
appreciated, it is considered that, on balance,
neither the standard American or UK equiva-
lents represent the final answer. Although
the UK garments, in particular, offer certain
advantages, the shorter life introduces
logistical problems. Very recent information,
however, indicates that American Forces
have introduced in Vietnam on a very limited
supply a new, light-weight, guick-drying
material. The gualities and possible avail-
ability of this material are not yet known
here but are currently being investigated
on the spot, along with the general suit-
ability of combat clothing and other items
on issue to our troops in Vietnam, by an
officer expert in this field,
The battalion in Vietnam is equipped with
the wea pons produced after years of design
and testing j n this and other countries and
considered the most suitable for the type of
operations expected in Vietnam. The basic
items are the 7 62 m . m . Self Loading Rifle
(SLR), the M6O machine gun and the 81 m.m.
mortar, all of recent design and manufacture
and j ssued on an adequate scale. Since their
arrival in Vietnam, Australian troops have
already been committed to active operations
j n w bj c h these weapons have been ex-
tensively used and no complaints what-
ever have been received that would suggest
defects,
In “ So “ e quar . t ®”
concerning the 7.62 SLR and the possible
need for an automatic rule, experience has
pro ved that the SLR is undoubtedly effective
j n c ] ose . U p jungle fighting. It is, after all,
a rifle and it performs the tasks required of
a r jfle extremely well. Rifles are not re-
quired to fire bursts; they are needed to
produce accurate, controlled fire, and
accuracy is a prime characteristic of single-
shot rifles. Other weapons are provided in
the f n f an try section to fire short-range bursts
of fire when this form of response is needed,
A carefully designed balance of rifles and
other weapons is provided in each fighting
element. An infantry section or platoon which
was equipped entirely with fully automatic
weapons and denied rifles would, as all
experienced infantrymen know, be quit®
unbalanced and ill-equipped.
The Ist Battalion, Royal Australian Regi-
ment, is well satisfied with the weapons
which it has now in Vietnam. Its only
request, based on experience gained in the
conditions peculiar to South Vietnam, has
been for a limited number of the lightweight
small calibre Armalite rifles for use in
special roles. These are to be provided. The
Commanding Officer of 1 RAR has stated
quite emphatically that he would not accept
the Armalite or any other automatic weapon
as a replacement for the 7.62 m.m. SLR.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Three Scripts in
Search of a Theme
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Books about plays are, of course,
only too familiar, but a new
phenomenon is a book about the
controversy about the play. “The Storm
Over The Deputy”, a recently released
American paperback, is a collection of
critical reviews, editorials, critical essays,
interviews with the author, historical
judgments, and even Press releases, in
which Rolf Hochhuth’s drama of
modern history, more commonly called
in English “The Representative”, is
examined, analysed, admired and con-
demned from almost every conceivable
moral and aesthetic position.
In it are represented the views of
atheists, Jews, philosophers and play-
wrights, cardinals and liberal humanists,
and even the present Pope.
After reading the scripts of the
English and American productions of
the play and seeing the Sydney per-
formance at the Old Tote Theatre, I
burrowed into the book about the con-
troversy over “The Representative” to
see how the New York critics estimated
what they saw.
Attend to Albert Berrnel, the drama
critic for “The New Leader”: “The
Schumlin-Rothenberg version is, to use
a heavy word, a disgrace. Three entire
scenes have been lopped off, and the
remaining ones have been cut down to
Broadway measurements.
“The complexity of the plotting and
sub-plotting ~ . . has given way to a
harsh, simple-minded story line . . .
The production, a heap of disconnected
fragments, is a reduction in every sense
of what Hochhuth has written. But
before saying what the production is
not, I should try to outline what the
full play is. To start with, it is an
example of classical theatre . . .”
Robert Brustein declares in the “New
Republic”: “ ‘The Deputy’ reads like a
German doctoral dissertation in verse
. . . written in the ponderous heroic
style of Schiller, full of vaunting
speeches, generous sacrifices, and ex-
ternalised emotions . . .
“The New York production of his
play, however, preserves no integrity
at all . . . the Broadway performance is
beneath discussion. The adaptor has,
first of all, confused the need to cut
this six-hour work with the licence to
butcher it, for he has hacked away at
the most interesting feature—its intel-
lectual heart exposing the weakest
part of the anatomy the melodramatic
bones. Aside from excising four
whole scenes . . . decimating characters
. . . and cutting out just about every
literary, historical, political and religious
reference in the text, the adaptor has
also methodically proceeded to soften
the horror of the work and weaken the
accusation of the author . .
“The Reporter” critic, Tom F. Driver,
writes: “The phenomenon of this pro-
duction, hastily mounted by producer-
director Herman Schumlin, does not
evoke much admiration. It does not,
in my opinion, fairly represent the play
that Hochhuth wrote. Meanwhile half
the public shouts angry defences of Pope
and Church, while the other half luxuri-
ates in a ‘confession’ of Corporate ‘sin’,
safe in the knowledge that no one can
be punished for that. A sort of mer-
chandising of guilt is going on. Some
people are buying and others are trying
to sell. The theatre owner makes a
profit either way.
“Some of the blame for this debacle
belongs to Hochhuth, who wrote a script
so long that those producing it on stage
have had to cut it substantially. But a
larger share of the blame must be
addressed to the producer. As written,
the play, while by no means a great
drama, is interesting and subtle. In this
production, it has become simply an
MIDEY-at the Lunch Hour Theatre
"Miss, would you kindly eat your lunch."


anti-Catholic tract of almost no subtlety.”
The major charges that can be laid
against the New York script as against
the performance are that it reduces even
further the mediocre moral figure that
Hochhuth has made of Pope Pius XII,
and then, perhaps because of this, tears
out of the climactic passage in which
the Pope appears washing his ink-stained
hands; that it pays too little attention to
the character of the Nazis, and especially
the brilliantly conceived SS minister of
evil, the doctor; and that it allows little
weight to the last act of the play, “The
Question Asked of God”, in which the
young Jesuit, Riccardo Fontana, wrest-
ling in despair with the mystery of evil,
suffers martyrdom with and for the Jews.
But if the last criticism confronts the
New York production it must count
more seriously against the English and
Australian versions. The New York
play ends with the Satanic doctor turn-
ing on the young Jesuit at Auschwitz:
Doctor: The smell of that disgusts me
• the God and Jew in you!
Riccardo: Let me go. I belong with
them (i.e., the Jews).
Doctor: You are for burning. Go
on, go on with the others. Always the
same, priest - you tire me, you've
always tired me.
The doctor had hoped to have some
sport with the young priest; hoped to
use him as a kind of theological assistant
and adversary in his experiments to
tempt God; but he finally allows R:c-
cardo his way and sends him off to
death with the rest.
In the other two scripts the play closes:
Doctor (points to Riccardo): This man
will go along to the crematorium. No
games with him, understand. He is my
personal patient. He will be working
there (ironically to Riccardo) I shall
not forget you, Father. You get enough
to eat there and a normal working day
of nine hours more or less. You can
prosecute your studies, investigating
God. In a fortnight’s time I’ll take
you into the laboratory as my assistant,
if you like. And you will like. (To the
guard.) On your own ashes, not a hair
... not a hair of his head is to be
touched . . . Right, get out.
The suggestion is, to the Australian
a nd English audiences, that Riccardo has
been preserved from martyrdom by, of
all people, this minister of Satan,
whereas, in the play as Hochhuth wrote
it, Riccardo dies on the stage, shot down
by a burst of submachine-gun fire, and
breathing the Latin aspiration, “In hora
mortis meae voca me’’.
For this and other reasons the English
and Australian performances are not
adequate representations of the original,
and are even less so than the American
version. The reason for this, however,
lies in the almost impossible length and
complexity of the play as written.
Apart from the fact that it would take
over six hours to stage the full opus,
it is clear that Hochhuth has entangled
in an epic way two major but not
altogether complementary themes.
The first is concerned with the nature
of Christian faith encountering the
mystery and horror of evil and human
suffering on a scale that all but defies
the imagination: this theme is incarnate
in the movement of the young Jesuit
priest towards martyrdom and towards
challenging not just the Pope but God
with His Silence when confronted with
the greatest crime in human history l ,
The other theme concerns the failure
of the Pope to protest publicly against
the slaughter of the Jews,
The play as written has a double
climax: the first occurs when the Pope
decides, for reasons of State, political
prudence, and, so far as Hochhuth is
concerned, because he is too small a
man to care much for the troubles of
others, that he cannot intervene on
behalf of the Jews; the second occurs
in the final act which is illuminatingly
titled “Auschwitz or The Question
Asked of God”.
Faced with the almost impossible task
of dealing with the whole play, each of
the English-speaking producers has un-
ravelled the theme about the Pope in
preference to the theme about Riccardo
and God. Popes, presumably, are better
box-office than God.
The ot b er major difference between
t be scripts is that the New York and
Australian versions unlike the English
omf it scene which shows the German
police and the SS relaxing in a requisi-
tioned guesthouse. Although important
in the whole play this scene has little
relevance to the theme of the Pope’s
silence. The English production omits,
instead, the scene in the apartment of
Ger'stein, a humanitarian infiltrator of
the SS, which would appear to be of
central importance.
"There are some tears
whether it's our acting or
onions . . ."
"I'll have three pies rhubarb,
rhubarb, rhubarb."
"You didn't have to
throw your crusts at
the poor fellow."


m
wmm*.
BMWj
.KJZ
mm
]•■-’/ inSJ
SHfasS
S^S!
mm
H
,
BBEia^S
wm
'&h
£
m
■■ .
; sg
£3MI
o<75 >
//
ialaSi
Ws2
/.„4 v>‘ - - ; .,i; ~y
U
<%>
m?
WHY STICK TO POSTAGE STAMPS?
POSTAGE IMPRINTS
reduce your mail preparation time, control
your postage account. Choose from . . .
PERSONAL IMPRINTS
You print a “Postage Paid” design in advance on
a stock of your envelopes the design may be
your own but it must be approved.
When you make a posting, the total cost is
charged to your account or you simply pay in
cash a receipt is issued. Each posting must be
worth at least £l.
FRANKING MACHINE IMPRINTS
You run your envelopes through a franking
machine which imprints the selected postage value
on each envelope. Your own advertising slogan
can be included in the imprint.
Your postage costs are recorded on the machine’s
meter.
Full information from your local Postmaster or the
Superintendent, Mail Exchange Branch.
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
ART
Poker Faced
Sydney artist Leonard Hessing has
just left for a round-the-world trip,
to reacquaint himself with Europe,
where he was born and first began paint-
ing, and to “confront” himself. “The
exigencies of' my world have become
stronger and I am no longer able to
draw on my surroundings,” he said
before he left. “I seemed too far away
from the centre and unable to under-
stand the intracacies of the art world.
Rather than stagnate completely I felt
I had to go abroad so that I could
better understand both Australia and
my work.”
Hessing was born in Rumania of
Austrian parents in 1931, He came
to Australia when he was 20, having
already discovered the conflict of color
and form through contact with Fernand
Leger in Paris. His first impression of
Australia was of “desolation and stagna-
tion”, a “cold-shower effect”.
Hessing says now: “I couldn’t identify
myself with the environment as other
painters could. I was fascinated by the
extreme raw physicality of the place but
the people seemed totally unrelated to
it, living with their backs to the coun-
try, forming an unconscious conspiracy
to run away from the home truths.
Nobody knew the meaning of aesthetic-
ism and I felt a kind of artistic irrespon-
sibility which enabled me to paint quite
freely and keep this raw, unaesthetic
quality.”
The gulf between artistic freedom ot
thought and freedom of execution is
wide and demands the integration of
mind and hand, of Vision and technique.
The study and practice of architecture
which until 18 months ago occupied
much of Hessing’s time had, he feels,
a liberating effect on his technique.
Color, in Hessing’s eyes, is “fictitious
and static’. “It has never provided any
challenge,” he said. “It is, to me, purely
an embellishment. It has become what I
feel it should be the irrational prodi-
gal son. I feel that the structural needs
of a painting derive more closely from
social and environmental, rather than
aesthetic, pressures. I am very conscious
of the axiom that form follows function
and I often feel that form is more excit-
ing without color.”
Hessing seems to be a man vitally
aware of all that is going -on around
him. He explains: “My main object is
unification by irony. Art has drained
itself of pictorialism and aestheticism,
in an alien environment you have to
be on your toes most of the time, to
concentrate on circumstantial interfer-
ences such as commercial intrusion and
materialistic color for the purposes of
adaptation. You must devise a personal
weapon and I feel that irony produces
the necessary detachment and allows the
use of things I might normally not have
dared use in a painting. Brecht said:
‘lf we laugh, we laugh with a
wrinkled forehead’. Irony is the means
with which you face the chaos of an
urbanised mess.”
“The signs you see in the street have
a peculiar beauty of their own but they
are so insinuatingly effective. They make
you do things you do not basically want
to do. They make you aware of the
power of big business and you have
to develop an equally efficient weapon to
deal with them. You cannot shout aliena-
tion at the top of your voice because it
is an old club and everybody belongs
to it. The only way to accept it is to
laugh poker-faced with a wrinkled
forehead.”
NICHOLAS WATERLOW
OPERA
Top Tenor
La Sonnambula. Bellini. Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne.
Take one opera which has survived
solely as "a vehicle for great prima
donnas, add the world’s best soprano
at the peak of her form, and what do
you get? A rip-roaring success for the
tenor who doesn’t even have a
decent solo to sing all night! For any
tenor to create such a furore in “La
Sonnambula”, opposite Joan Sutherland
of all singers, is almost unbelievable.
Yet Luciano Pavarotti did exactly that
last week. I know of no singer today


TAKE A
DAYLIGHT
BREAK
IN FIJI
en route across
the Pacific
Why rush across the
fabulous Pacific? Air-
India’s Daylight
Flights to Fiji give
you a unique oppor-
tunity to taste the de-
lights of an island
paradise. See palm-fringed
tropical beaches ... an ex-
citing Fijian melee . . . enjoy
the pleasures of superb hotels,
with lavish swimming pools,
elegant cocktail bars, sophisti-
cated atmosphere. . . . Dance
to softly haunting island music.
Bargain hunt, successfully, •at
duty-free shops. Take a car
tour of Nandi and Lautoka at
economical rates. Then make
your onward connection re-
freshed and arrive at your des-
tination Tahiti, San Francisco,
Los Angeles, New York, Mexico
City. Fly Air-India’s Daylight
Flights to Fiji.
AfR-INDIA
the airline that treats you
like a Maharajah
Over 3.3 years’
flying experience
In association with BO AC and Qaiitas
9394 A 144.102
who could equal his performance and
none of the past who could surpass it.
This man must inevitably join the
operatic greats of this century unless
he seeks his future in heavier roles. (Why
do all tenors want to sing Manrico?)
He has a lyric tenor voice of great
beauty, yet ample resonance. An effort-
less mezza voce is topped by a wide-
open upper register, in contrast to the
usual constriction common among so-
called bel canto tenors. In my book this
Pavarotti is good value for anybody’s
seven guineas, even without Sutherland!
Bellini’s influence on opera and
music in general was out of all propor-
tion to his limited output. In the simplest
of terms, he brought emotion and feeling
into the musical line which had become
no more than a vehicle for vocal acro-
batics; this company’s “Semiramide”
showed exactly the point I am making.
Critics who dismiss Bellini as shallow
should consider his influence on Chopin,
but then they probably think Chopin
shallow as well.
Perhaps “La Sonnambula” has too
little contrast to be really interesting
today, but it tells a simple tale in simple
terms and does have a great deal of
charm and many delightful tunes. When
sung as superbly as in the current pro-
duction, it can still give a lot of pleasure
to a lot of people. There is no story to
speak of, no hero, no villain, just a
slight misunderstanding about a sleep-
walking girl who ends up in a man’s
bedroom. The only really exciting
moment, her dangerous balancing act
across a rotten plank, is further negated
in this version by a far too solid piece
of scenery. Otherwise the settings and
costumes are in line with what we have
come to expect from Miss Dorati, pretty
magazine illustrations without serious
artistic pretensions. The production is
aptly traditional. (But Swiss peasants
dancing on points?)
Joan Sutherland is now at the top
of her form and her first act was nothing
short of miraculous, the rest was merely
superb. But I did not care for the
veiled tone she adopted for the sleep-
walking scene. Joseph Rouleau made a
handsome, aristocratic Rodolfo. He is
now showing his real strength as a true
basso cantante, though the strong natural
vibrato of the voice causes some slurs
in fast passages. Elizabeth Harwood has
clearly not yet recovered from her indis-
position and is unwise to sing under
such a handicap. Dorothy Cole was a
good Teresa and Thomas McDonnell
showed a well-placed baritone voice in
a tiny part. Richard Bonynge conducted
well, though his rhythms were not as
incisive as in earlier productions. At
times Bellini’s lyricism came dangerously
near to languor.
The “second” cast of “La Traviata”
turned in a more satisfying performance
than the “first”, proving that the best
ingredients don’t necessarily make the
best pie. Joy Mammen wisely left the
vocal fireworks to Miss Sutherland and
thereby avoided any sense of strain in a
finely sung interpretation. Her greatest
strength lay in the convincing dramatic
conception of a part which is quite be-
yond the intelligence of most sopranos.
John Alexander and Robert Allman were
a more than satisfying pair of Germonts.
The orchestra did its best work of the
season under Georg Tintner who was the
the real architect of this success.
JOHN CARGHER
FILMS
High-class Horror
Hush, Hush, Sweet Charlotte. Director,
Robert Aldrich. Regent Theatre, Sydney.
Psyche 59. Director, Alexander Singer.
Capitol Theatre, Sydney.
The High, Bright Sun. Director, Ralph
Thomas. Embassy Theatre, Sydney.
If you really hate and disapprove of
horror films, “Hush, Hush, Sweet Char-
lotte” will fulfil your worst expectations.
I’ve always had a weakness for them
myself, and this is a ripe specimen of
the diverting genre. It isn’t as good a
film as “Whatever Happened To Baby
Jane?”, made by the same director and
star, but it’s still a lot of macabre fun.
The script and treatment of “Baby
Jane” took full advantage of the horrific
aspects of the plot, but essentially it was
the story of two recognisably human
people and their mutual destruction.
But in “Charlotte”, Robert Aldrich hasn’t
bothered much about characterisation.
He concentrates instead on a wonder-
fully involved and unlikely tale of a
ratty spinster still suspected of the dis-
memberment of a long-ago lover; to
give it flavor it includes madness,
severed heads, a drowned corpse and a
soupcon of incest.
The characters are almost con-
temptuously stereotyped and Aldrich
can and does pile shock upon shock
without fear of upsetting his audience:
in the early scenes there is a delicious
frisson, but towards the end we have
supped full with horrors and—as I’ve
no doubt is Aldrich’s deliberate intention
—find ourselves laughing heartily at the
new ones.
Bette Davis has the time of her life
hamming it up as Charlotte, ably abetted
by Agnes Moorehead and Olivia de
Havilland. Mary Astor’s two short,
brilliant scenes almost steal the picture,
and there’s an impeccable performance
from Cecil Kellaway.
Alexander Singer has adopted a pre-
tentious, pseudo-New Wave style in


Schimtnelpenninck
Con Mil Amores
(Actual size)
In tins of 10, 22/6.
Schimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Hollands finest
cigars now available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust.)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenninck —Sigarenfabrieken
V/HGeurts & Van SchuppenN.V. Wageningen
Holland.
RPMIIB
“Psyche 59”, full of distorted echoes of
Resnais and Antonioni. Unnecessarily
tricky camerawork and funereal pace
only underline the fact that the basic
plot, about a woman stricken with
hysterical blindness because of her hus-
band’s adultery with her younger sister,
is novelettish to a degree. Personally I
suspect that she went blind to avoid
looking at Curt Jurgens’ ill-advised
moustache. Remarkably enough, Patricia
Neal and Samantha Eggar manage to
give believable and moving performances
despite the plot and direction.
Though it’s set in Cyprus during the
troubles, “The High, Bright Sun” has
a strangely Edwardian atmosphere, with
its assumption that the British are auto-
matically right and that foreigners are
awful. With bland disregard of the
complexities of the Cyprus political
scene, it treats the subject as a straight-
forward, rather predictable adventure
story, competently acted by Dirk
Bogarde, Susan Strasberg and Denholm
Elliott. George Chakiris as a dressy
terrorist confirms the growing impres-
sion that he is the nonnest-actor at
present on the screen.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
Instant Success
Instant Marriage. Laurie Holloway and Bob
Grant. Tivoli, Melbourne.
The sob. in Joy Nichols’ throat during
her curtain speech was as genuine as
the applause for this unsophisticated,
engaging and unusually complete
English musical, and the anxiety she
expressed that, with Joan Sutherland in
town, it might not receive its fair share
of attention is groundless. Of its kind
“Instant Marriage” is as good a show
as the Tivoli has given us for a long
time. It revives a tradition for which
this particular theatre is famous and
which we feared has been crushed be-
tween the lavish spectacular and the
sentimental song-and-dance farce.
It is not outstanding in any one
department but it has that vital thing,
a sure touch. You won’t sing its songs
in the bath and dine out on its jokes,
but the tunes are pleasant and the book
funny. What sex there is, is jolly, and
even the “camp” by-play is sufficiently
innocuous not to rule it out as family
entertainment.
The comedians talk and two-step as in
the days of the Lambeth walk, police-
men are butts for jest. In the whole
line-up there’s not one remarkable voice,
but it is still lively and Stanley Willis-
Croft’s direction is sprightly and un-
inhibited. To say that “Instant Mar-
riage” is of pre-war quality is meant as
a coriipliment.
The story, downright and simple,
gives the producer every chance. Three
Yorkshire friends are setting out for
London to have themselves a good time.
One of the trio, George Eastwood, has
a sister, Lavinia, who is tired of spinster-
hood and has an appointment with Mr
Algernon Coker-Smith who runs a
marriage bureau in Soho. It so happens
that a strip-tease joint is located in the
same building, and there you have the
where-with-all to keep the action hum-
ming. Add to it that one of the York-
shiremen has a son studying in London
and that the lad is in love with Miranda,
the shapeliest of the teasers, plus the
fact that the whole party gets run in
and a detective-inspector falls for Lavinia
and what more can you ask?
Joy Nichols is Lavinia. Those who
remember her only in “Take It From
Here'’ wi’l be surprised how well she
handles a part that is comparatively
straight, with little scope for the mad-
cap. “Instant Marriage” has not been
written as a starring vehicle for any one
actor or actress, but when she is on
stage Miss Nichols makes her presence
felt. She projects a warm, outgoing
personality, and, like everybody in this
cast, has a nice sense of timing. The
mobility of her face is among her
strongest assets.
Johnny Lockwood, as her brother,
shows himself a very good comedian
indeed. Wallas Eaton is the marriage
broker. He is one of the funniest men
in the business and I would have liked
to see more of him. With Tony Holland
as his pansified assistant, he introduces
a welcome element of sureness into
what otherwise might have been a rather
monochrome pattern: they make a pair
whose light-handed precision sets off the
stereotypes of the rest to mutual ad-
vantages. Michael Boddy and Robert
Healey are the other two provincials.
Mr Boddy was there ever a performer
with a more suitable name? • carries
his bulk with the elegance of a royal
elephant. An actor who can bring force
to the part of Creon in “Oedipus Rex”
and go on to do the same with Alf
Bickerstaff need not worry about his
next dinner.
The choreography is modest but
adequate, the sets and costuming attrac-
tively bright. The rotating stage has
never been used to better effect as in
the third act of “Instant Marriage”,
when it begins to behave like the score-
board at the MCG in a closely fought
footy match. From start to finish scenes
move at their own proper rhythm:
sedately at first, then via the mutedly
naughty to a spanking climax. If London
could send us more shows like this, un-
pretentious but beautifully integrated,
we could more easily afford the Broad-
way blockbusters which so often burst
on impact
DAVID MARTIN


' - - - ■" 'v ISHI]
a.. -i- •'• • > !
• :!??>.•• :.;.^-'.: ; F'. •'.' . 'wv
5*5
111
%
1964
1
'% ■*
wmm
m
illlll
}' :rr
i . ■ ; „V< - . -r •••: :• lV* < ■>
*•.-.• i
: . ... ■••’ ■ : •
m
ORLANDO
VINTACED AUSTRALIAN WI* E
%
v
>:S^§x|
** m
%
viTOcm «> pTYW;
,,
OB LAN O O v "“V*r T iH 1)7
M-T 1 iMNTlti:—
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold arid
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, ‘France, world-famous centre
for wine Study and research.
Every bottle of BarQssa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green-bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged' 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
BABOSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’*
famous Barossa Valley.
10983
MUSIC
Temptations
of Bach
ABC Recital Series: Christian Ferras, violin.
Associate artist: Raymond Lambert.
Sydney Town Hall.
The unaccompanied suites and sonatas of
Bach represent the supreme test of
musicianship for string players. Bach is
at once tempting and prohibitive.
From a violinist of the stature of
Christian Ferras, the C major solo sonata
became the natural focus of attention
within a programme of considerably less
profound works. The concentrated har-
monic interest of Bach’s keyboard music
is here developed over a more melodic
structure, with the powerful double-
stopping passages being reserved for
moments of dramatic impact. An amaz-
ingly sombre piece to be set in such an
uncomplicated key, it revealed Ferras as
a musician whose sensitivity as yet ex-
ceeds his purely technical equipment.
Bowing and its direct relationship to
phrasing and dynamic control emerged
as the major area of uncertainty in an
otherwise impressive performance of the
sonata. Where Bach does indulge in
harmonic delights (as, for example, in the
enormously difficult fugue of the second
movement), Ferras employed an inap-
propriately harsh attack, a practice which
found its expression in the audible
crunch of his down bows. But this was
a small and acceptable sacrifice, easily
justified by the overwhelming urgency
which it allowed. The fugue surged with
a power and inevitability which con-
trasted so effectively with the relaxed,
almost pastoral feeling of the following
largo. Once again, in the concluding
allegro assai, Ferras preferred to sub-
ordinate technical accuracy in his quest
for rhythmic interest and vigor. This was
authoritative and deeply moving Bach,
presented with an expressive insight and
warmth which lacked only the final con-
trol of a Menuhin or Stern.
Straightforward, energetic, and often
lyrical, Beethoven’s Sonata No. 1 in D
served as an ideal opener for the pro-
gramme. The soloist’s asymmetrical
phrasing of the first allegro theme
seemed to upset Lambert initially, but by
the wonderfully mock heroic minore
variation of the andante, both violin and
piano were together contributing to the
performance.
As accompanist, Raymond Lambert
was a miracle of sensitivity and restraint.
Even in the Beethoven sonata, where the
piano often assumes the dominant role,
he was meticulous in maintaining the
necessary balance between the two parts.
DAVID SALTER


Trying to Recapture the Past
"Australia that’s another place again ”
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Each morning, the Hollywood ritual
is the same: the chauffeured car at
the overseas visitor's door with the
driver usually a writer or actor or part-
time producer, then the drive along the
freeways at 60-70 miles an hour to the
studio and the private tour, the pleasant
swift meetings and the indigestible com-
missary lunch. Universal is the biggest
of the studios, and the first the visitor
sees, driving down from San Francisco
through the humpbacked, denuded hills
above Lankershim Boulevard. A mas-
sive black tower looms up in the mid-
dle of the lot: rather like finding the
London “Daily Express” building in the
Gobi Desert. I am driven around the
vast and sad-looking backlot under an
angry-looking sky: as we turn a corner,
we are in London or a Paris back street;
and, as the tourist trams gaily pink
and black like advertisements for candy
slide past, I see a sharp and sinister
slope leading up to the “Psycho” motel,
and behind it the stern, cold hills.
The black Universal administration
building: you feel as though you are in
a safe with the door shut. Everything is
steel, so you can't knock a nail in the
wall. And in the commissary at lunch
one sees a moving sea of black or char-
coal suits: Lew Wasserman, boss of the
outfit, insists that everyone dress like an
undertaker . . .
With one exception. In the sea of
black, a brilliant spot of blue emerges
against the black glass windows, coats,
and leather chairs. It is Ross Hunter's
blazer, and from the top pocket a
Niagara of blue, polka-dot handkerchief
erupts. Dandyish and elegantly groomed,
Hunter is the most successful of the
younger Hollywood producers (“Imita-
tion of Life”, “Back Street”).
I asked him how he felt about the sav-
age critical reaction to his work. “They
call my films unreal. A New York critic
said to me, ‘You make films in color.
That’s unreal!’ I told him, ‘Black and
white is unreal. Your cheeks are pink!
Your hair is black! That’s real, isn’t it?’
He said, ‘You're wrong!’ I said, ‘l’m
not wrong! You're wrong!’ ”
Were there any new stars coming up
to replace these who were getting older?
“The trouble really is that the studios
aren’t getting the stars on long-term con-
tracts any more. Shirley MacLaine wants
a million dollars a picture. Shirley Mac-
Laine! I tell you, it’s ridiculous.” He
mentioned another famous star, now in
her ascendancy. “Look at —. She’s noth-
ing at the box-office, she’s got a terrible
body, no sex appeal at all, and look
what they’re giving her! Hundreds of
thousands of dollars! Fat parts! Every-
ing she wants! Crazy!” Of the newcom-
ers, would anybody replace Hayworth,
Turner, Hayward? “Maybe Sandra Dee
could be the new Lana Turner. I picked
her up in the street and made her a
star. I saw her the other day, and I
suddenly realised. ‘You're a young lady
now . . . and you're going to last . . .’ ”
Lunch next day with Ida Lupino,
actress turned television and film direc-
tor, and the producer, William Frye, in
the imitation tropical grotto of Don the
Beachcomber's in Hollywood. Together,
Frye and Lupino worked on television’s
one brilliantly successful excursion into
the Gothic mode, “Thriller”, and now
they are again collaborating, this time
on a feature, “Mother Superior”, a com-
edy to star Rosalind Russell in the title
role. Over cocktails, he with dark,
sharp, ironical eyes set in an oval, sun-
burnt face and she, small, tense and
pale in dark glasses stamped with silver
stars on the sides exude an expected
sophistication and charm.
“For our ‘Thriller’ episode, from Poe’s
‘The Premature Burial’,” Frye reminis-
ces, “we asked all the actors to lie
down in coffins for the credits. Patricia
Medina just wouldn’t do it ... I said,
‘Honey, you don’t get in that coffin you
don’t get to play the part.’ ” He
paused triumphantly, savoring the mem-
ory. “She got into the coffin!” For a
programme called “Pigeons From Hell”
he had needed a-supply of birds from
the art department. “They said to me,
‘How many pigeons do you want?
Fifty?’ I said, ‘Are you kidding? I want
350!’ But they said, ‘They cost 25 cents
a pigeon and you’re going to lose some!’
And I said, ‘I want them!’ And I only
lost four!
“You getting back to the sub-
ject of coffins” his voice took on a
note of relish “We found we couldn’t
borrow used ones for the episode in the
State of California . . . they just can’t
be had! So we had to order new ones!
The regulations here, I tell you, are just
terrible! My grandmother died recently.
She wanted to be cremated. They said
they wouldn’t do it unless she was dres-
sed up in an entirely new wardrobe.
Would you believe this, I had to go out
and buy a wardrobe for my dead grand-
mother. Stockings, undergarments ... I
had to go into a store and order her
underwear and dress her in it myself. ..”
Donald Prince, Press agent for 20th
Century-Fox, drives me through the
beautifully planted, verdant streets of
Bel Air to a house high in Stone Canyon
Road. The boxing figures flanking the
tops of the gate and the sharp, high-
pitched buzz which answers the arrival’s
pressure on the doorbell suggest the kind
of hunting-lodge hideaway Bette Davis
occupied in so many of her pictures, and
it was just what one had expected in
coming to her house. She greets us at
the kitchen door, a small, neat figure in
shirt and slacks, and shows us into the
living-cum-dining room: easy, brown
arm-chairs, a massive, circular wooden
table with king-size cruets and in the
centre a bowl brimming with white mag-
nolias; beyond the cosy quiet of the room
a glimpse of sporting prints, New
England scenes, a general air of old-
fashioned, slightly bookish comfort. The
high, raw laugh, the perpetually swing-
ing hips, the desperate quick puffs at a
cigarette, huge, inquisitive eyes and h- bit
of striking matches under the table are
all perfectly in keeping with the Bette
Davis who has haunted half a lifetime
of movie-going.
She has just got back from England,
where she has, she says, greatly enjoyed
shooting “The Nanny”, a story about a
murderous member of that peculiar
group directed by a man she admired,
Seth Holt. “I’ve got a theory that all
nannies are psychotic,” she said. “They
spend all their lives with children and
never have any of their own . . . you’d
have to be psychotic for a life like that.
And they’re a dying breed . . .”
She mentions the current surge of re-
gret around Hollywood that so much of
the studios’ power had fallen into the


*
■i
M
f/d
VJ
why do so many committees
choose Sebel chairs?
We've made it our business to put into every Sebel chair
the things committeemen must look for. Lasting good
looks .. . comfort. . . quality of design, materials and
workmanship .. . ease-of-handling ... the strength to
shrug off rough treatment... and a sensible price. For
good measure, we've added our unique 10 year struc-
tural guarantee. Result: a chair any organisation can be
proud of and sure of. If you have people-seating
problems now or in prospect drop a note to
Harry Sebel Chair-man at any of the addresses below.
N.S.W.: Sebels (Aust.) Ltd., 96 Canterbury Rd., Bankslown.
Phone 70-0771. VIC.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 151 Dandenong Rd.,
Windsor, S.l. Phone 51-7063. S.A.: R. G. Evans Pty, Ltd., 9 Lindes
Lane, Adelaide. Phone 23-3757. QLD.: Sebel Sales Ltd., 208
Wharf St., Brisbane. Phone 2-6963. T AS.: NU Sales Distributors,
Merino Street, Kings Meadow, Launceston, Phone 4-9889.
m
SEBELS KNOW-HOW TO SEAT PEOPLE
q)HMH
8478
SE22.IQSN
hands of the big agencies like MCA, and
that they were forcing up the price of
the stars. “The studios were desperate
back in the ’forties, they panicked when
TV came in ... So they gave everything
away to men like Jules Stein of MCA,
who started the package deals” ar-
rangements whereby independents pre-
pared production with stars, directors
and writers and released them through
the studios, thereby breaking the old
“studio system” “they said to the
agents, ‘help us,’ and they created a
great big Frankenstein . . .
“Now they call Jules” who with
Lew Wasserman runs Universal —“the
big octopus. But the trouble started long
before we got TV and got nervous. We
grew too lazy and rich and fat
and we had no competition! Isn’t that
right?
“But that’s the trouble everywhere in
the world! The world is a mess of leth-
argy! Nowadays people—young people!
—sit down and worry about security—
we didn’t worry—there’s no enthusiasm
today ... no one dares to be an in-
dividual . . . it’s an ice-cream world . . .
it’s probably my Yankee ancestry but
they couldn’t have given a damn what
people thought of them . . .
“And the critics have affected the cin-
ema. What are pictures about? Sex and
love. What does any woman want when
she has a drab home life? She wants to
see stories about sex and love. But the
critics aren’t men. They’ve attacked the
stories of sex and love because they
haven’t got any sex. They’re neuter. I
tell you, the homosexuals are coming in
everywhere. And they’re even worse in
England . . . they had them before us
. . . asexual critics . . .
“And there’s another thing. Nowadays
in this town they don’t want to make
pictures about anyone over 18, or 20,
making love . . . there are no sexy
dames, they say, beyond 30 years old
... we have made a fetish of youth
in this country, and we’re paying for it
in the lack of mature romance in our
movies . . . they won’t let us have adult
love . . .” She looks glum, frowning and
puffing away characteristically at a cig-
arette. Then suddenly she thinks of
something, her face brightens and she
snaps into action, “ Australia!” she cried
startlingly. “That’s another place again.
You know, I don’t believe I’ve ever had
an Australian reporter in my living-room.
And by the most fantastic coincidence
this morning I got a script they want
me to do in Australia something
under Capricorn . . . yes, ‘Naked Under
Capricorn’, by Olaf Ruhen . . . Aus-
tralia! I do hope the script will work
out. Then I’ll be there!” She laughed,
happy at the idea, all thoughts of leth-
argy and the ice-cream world swept
away . . .


BOOKS
A Vietnamese Tragedy
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Dien Bien Phu. Jules Roy. Faber. 665.
This is a very subjective, sometimes
muddled, always honest and honorable
account of a battle that might one day
rank with Valmy in the annals of mod-
ern man. Here at this village in north-
west Vietnam, at the cost of 10,000
dead, the Army of the People’s Republic
of Vietnam defeated some of the crack
units of the French Expeditionary Army,
in a battle of the latte. r ’s choosing.
Why was such a choice made? Partly
because of recent memories of Na San,
a fortified encampment that had surviv-
ed severe Vietminh attacks, though they
were not really thoroughgoing in nature.
Partly to draw off Vietminh troops from
their penetration of the vital Red River
Delta and to facilitate an offensive,
“Operation Atalante”, to the south. Part-
ly, indeed largely, according to the archi-
tect of Dien Bien Phu, General Henri
Navarre, to defend Laos. But, above all,
the fortification of Dien Bien Phu was
undertaken in order to provoke the
People’s Army into fighting a set-piece
battle, which the French believed they
must win. It was not only Navarre who
believed this; the defender of the Delta,
the commander in Tonkin, General
Cogny, a gunner, was also, however
equivocally, prepared to accept battle.
According to General Navarre, and there
seems no reason to disbelieve him, only
the Air General Fay clearly opposed the
operation on meteorological grounds.
However, the decision was Navarre’s
alone, and Navarre was an expert in
Intelligence.
In the light of events, the decision f o
fortify Dien Bien Phu seems almost in-
credible. It appears to have been based
on the assumption that General Giap of
the People’s Army would not be able f o
move artillery to the heights overlooking
those oh-so-French named defensive
positions, Huguette, Gabrielle, Domini-
que, Anne-Marie; or that if he tried, the
Air Force would kill the attempt. Of
course, the task of getting the guns there
was an epic performance: that army of
porters and manhandlers and- truck driv-
ers slowly moving the batteries and the
ammunition across terrible country play-
ed an heroic role: “The task was made
more enormous because of the primitive
methods employed. To reduce the dis-
tance, the slopes had been tackled at
dizzy angles; with no thought of saving
trouble, the tree trunks used for bridge-
building were carried on men’s backs,
and the roads went up sheer cliff faces,
without handrails, camouflaged, when
they were exposed to view, with wild
banana leaves and bamboos with long
curved stalks, which had been transplant-
ed there, roots and all.”
This done, Ho Chi-minh could turn
up his topee on the ground and say,
“The French are there” . . . down there,
inside; then, running a finger around the
rim, he could add, “We are here.” On
January 15, 1954, French aircraft drop-
ped leaflets on the People’s Army posi-
tion: “What are you waiting for? Why
don’t you attack if you aren’t cowards?”
They were not cowards; and General
Giap said: “They are staying. This time
I have them.”
The plans for “Operation Xenophon”,
the plan for the evacuation of the en-
trenched camp in the event of disaster,
reached Colonel Castries, Dien Bien
Phu’s aristocratic commander, a cavalry-
man with a pretty secretary at his head-
quarters the opponents of Communist
Puritanism had a brothel brought in to
camp as well as cheap wine about
January 23. But Castries insisted that
his garrison of 13,500 men should not
be doomed by an impracticable plan of
escape. And, so they sat there, the men
of the Foreign Legion, Moroccans, Al-
gerians, Thai partisans, Vietnamese, and
the heroic paratroops under some of the
great knights of the Indo-Chinese War,
Bigeard, the son of a railway worker,
Botella from French Algeria who com-
manded the Vietnamese paratroops, Bre-
chignac, a product of Saint Cyr, struck
off the Army list after the 1961 putsch
along with other heroes, and the Breton
Langlais.
Denied stone for fortifications, out-
gunned (Piroth, Castries’s gunner, com-
mitted suicide as a result), their few
tanks of limited use, the airstrip soon
to become a Hell’s runway, they fought,
some of them, an epic battle while they
waited for the appearance of Creve-
coeur’s column from Laos and while the
politicians of the West debated whether
American airpower, possibly using
atomic weapons, should he brought into
play. But these were mirages; Creve-
coeur’s column never came and “Eng-
land did not want to spoil the prospects
which had been opened up for markets
by her recognition, back in 1950, of the
Chinese Communist regime.” The par-
tisans of Colonel Trinquier were hold-
ing down a Vietminh force three times
their own size but they never succeeded
in seriously hampering Communist sup-
ply lines. Artificial rain was attempted
as a means of rendering the Vietminh’s
HO CHI-MINH
roads unworkable. “But it is not easy to
improvise control of the clouds and the
winds.”
On May 7, the soldiers of the Viet-
minh received Dien Bien Phu’s surren-
der. Jules .Roy, a gallant and honorable
Frenchman, who resigned from the
French Army in 1953 “in order not to
participate in a war which he considered
unjust and idiotic”, has paid eloquent
tribute to the courag of both sides. Dr
Grauwin and Professor Tung of the
People’s Army medical service shine out
in a shared nobility the
struggle, for example. But M. Roy al-
ready sees Dien Bien Phu as -a second
Valmy: “Like his friend Giap, Tung
remembered the lessons of that French
Revolution, which was still spreading the
virus of liberty across the world, and of
which at times they both felt themselves
to be the sons with greater justification
than the generals of its army and the
representatives of its government.”
Again M. Roy compares General
Navarre’s expressions in despatches that
belonged to the poker table with the
Vietminh attitude. Giap would
never have dared to compare them (his
troops) to a stake on a card table; they
were the Vietnamese Army of Libera-
tion and knew that they w'ere fighting
for their independence against a colonial-
ism in the process of disappearing from
the face of the earth. If they died, it
would be with the cry of liberty on their
lips.”
No one who has known the Vietnam-
ese, or felt, like the journalist heroine
Brigitte Friang, “more at ease amongst
men who risked their skin than in cow-
ardly bourgeois comfort” would be dis-
posed to denigrate that combination of
dourness and romanticism that marks the
Vietnamese soldier of both sides:
Vietnamese paras of the French-com-
manded army volunteered at the 11th
hour to drop into Dien Bien Phu and
since 1959 the Vietnamese, fighting their


CORRECTION
The price of the journal “New Guinea”
was last week given as 555. The correct
price should be ss.
Communist countrymen, have suffered
80,000 casualties and 26,000 dead. No
one should decently indulge in that
hideous modern fashion of trying ver-
bally to dehumanise those one is oppos-
ed to. No one who has hoped for a dif-
ferent, happier world could fail to be
moved by the Partisan’s song—“ Friend,
can you hear the muffled cry of the
country being loaded with chains?” Nor
deny that members of this People’s Army
were moved often by noble motives.
That said, it is necessary to notice the
outcome of the struggle for the peasants
of the North: a reign of terror and the
extinction of human liberty, more than
50,000 executions following public
humiliation of atrocious kinds and the
imposition of totalitarian rule upon
peasant freedom fighters who found
themselves the victims of a huge confi-
dence trick perpetrated by the Central
Committee of the Laodong, the Viet-
namese Communist Party.
The Plot Against Culture
By R. M. WILDING
The Irresponsible Arts. William Snaith.
Gollancz. 365.
Most of us, at one time or another, will
have felt some doubts about the worth
of some contemporary art. Most of us
will have felt some suspicion as to the
sincerity behind poems in numbers, the
worthwhileness of the sculpture of a bent
tube of steel, the meaningfulness of
Happenings, the point of action paintings.
And most of us will have
been bored or amused,
and turned to some more
interesting or more en-
gaging production. But
Mr Snaith is not content
to walk past the gallery
window or turn over the
page, nor is he amused.
“Man dare not speak out
with any conviction or
authority beyond com-
plaint of his bewilder-
ment.” But, assured in
the conviction that what
he fails to understand is
unintelligible, Mr Snaith
does speak out, un-
deterred by the lessons
of past generations.
They “rejected Monet, Cezanne, Van
Gogh among many others. This is a
powerful form of intellectual blackmail.
It is enough to halt questioning at the
outset.” But Mr Snaith is not halted. And
his reference to “intellectual blackmail”
is no verbal felicity but a crucial part of
his argument. He adheres to the con-
spiracy view of history, and takes up a
position similar to those who see modern
man as subjected to corrupting popular
entertainment and debased culture foisted
on him by journalists and criminal mag-
nates. Mr Snaith sees a plot to destroy
SALVADOR DALI
high art a plot run by the “establish-
ment” —aesthetes, mandarins, and “those
whose drives for separateness derive fr’om
their sexual estrangement from the nor-
malcy of society”. It is a plot to en-
courage contemporary art which no
longer is helpful to or intelligible by man.
“The present dehumanisation of art is
universal,” writes Mr Snaith, and he goes
on to characterise it as “antihuman”, and
consequently “man may
well question whether it
earns his continued love
and respect. If it no
longer recognises his
needs and desires, then
does it deserve his sup-
port?” And clearly, for
Mr Snaith, this is a
question that must be
asked, and that can be
answered only by No;
art must be regenerated
and redirected. Art now
“is verging on the absurd
with its endless contem-
plation of its own navel”.
This is the man who
would fescue us from
our benightedness.
Art is irresponsible now because of its
endless “feverish” is Mr Snaith's word
drive for originality. Artists are more
concerned with originality than with their
proper function, and “art, or at least
painting art, may become an aesthetic in-
dulgence, isolated and separate from the
realities of existence.” “Indulgence” sug-
gests that Mr Snaith has a sure sense of
what is proper. Duchamp, for instance,
who painted a moustache on the Mona
Lisa, showed a “disrespect for the
materials of his craft” by painting on
glass which he cracked. And Mr Snaith,
with a disdain for syntax provoked per-
haps by righteous indignation, tells us of
Duchamp: “And at last, his final act of
disdain for art itself, for he gave it up to
devote the rest of his days to chess.”
Although Mr Snaith explicitly dissociates
himself from the totalitarian directors of
art, he suspects those lost souls who
create art purely for the satisfaction of
creating art, those for whom art may be
one of the “realities of existence” he so
easily invokes.
There have always been experimenters
in art, but to represent the twentieth
century by Dali, Jarry, Max Ernst would
seem to be a very idiosyncratic selection
from the multiplicity of contemporary
art. It is the sort of distortion usually
made by the great traditionalists who,
having chosen their heroes, reject the
others as unserious, as doing the dirt
on life.
Mr Snaith would like to find artists
working within a tradition. One of his
enthusiasms is for finding rules. “Dis-
ciplines in art are not legislated into be-
ing, nor are they an edict of a divine
father. These disciplines come from the
artist himself in response to his own
needs for a framework of creativity.”
But different artists have different ideas
of a discipline, some may prefer to con-
sider their art as something organic that
develops, rather than as something that
has to be fitted into a framework. And
even if Valery did claim “that nothing
would please him more than to be re-
quired to write a poem of a given num-
ber of lines, even of words and letters”,
this still does not allow Mr Snaith to
make his authoritative generalisation of
“the demonstrated need for a disciplined
framework.” But then, Mr Snaith has a
flair for the boldly general. In explain-
ing his dislike of high glass-walled build-
ings he informs us that “most men share
a basic fear of heights”. And, with an
enviably lightly worn knowledge, he tells
us of the origin of art: “Art, which
began as a recording by primitive man
of the world around him. .
All the arts are equally culpable.
Sculpture, too, is “in tune with an aes-
thetic which shows little responsibility
either to itself or to the needs of man-
kind”. And Mr Snaith defines this re-
sponsibility. “When the energies and
dreams of the artist are concentrated
upon service to an abstract ideal which
increases the force of alienation, then he
is failing in his moral responsibility to
man.” Yet not all artists would accept as
readily as Mr Snaith accepts the role of
guiding and improving man; and perhaps
those who would, would insist on the pri-
mary responsibility of the artist to his
vision. But for Mr Snaith that would be
indulgence, and leading to the current
crisis where we have “value judgments
based solely on sensate reaction”. But
what else can you expect in a situation
where the artist “devotes his energies to-
ward asserting his need and right to de-
velop his own private vision; a right
which nobody seems any longer to con-
test or deny him”? Nobody, that is,
except for William Snaith.


I^lrl
*
You are welcomed as a friend
- • " - ■
at Tokyo’s Marunouchi Hotel
Coming to Japan? People who seem to
know you await your visit at the Marunouchi
Hotel. We've had years of experience in
Snaking Australian guests comfortable.
S Conveniently located one block from
Tokyo Central Station, we offer the quiet
hospitality you've told us you like. Fine
food and modern facilities are only part
Of the story.
Iv You'll be pleased to find large-size beds,
individual air conditioning controls and
many other extras in your room. Come
Sample the essence of Japanese "shibui"
i at the Marunouchi Hotel. ,
y
DAILY ROOM RATES
All rooms with bath
Main Bldg. Singles ....A£2.4. 6~A£3. 9.4
Doubles A£4.1.10
Twins A£4.6. 9~A£4.14.3
Suites A£5.6. 8
New Bldg.
Singles..
Twins ..
Twins ..
Suites ..
Regular Rates
~.A£ 5. 6.8...
...A£ 5.19.2...
...A£ 6.16.0...
...A£l2. 7.2
Off season Rates
A£4.14.3
A£5. 6.8
A£6. 3.7
Management: T. KOBAYASHI & SON
Cable: MARUHOTE TOKYO Tel: 231 0271
A Hindu Deity
By KHUSHWANT SINGH
Ramakrishna and His Disciples. Christopher
Isherwood. Methuen. 365.
It is often said that India has always
had at least 500 men who claim
to be incarnations of God or His
Messiahs. Of these the most famous
name in the last century was that of
Ramakrishna of Bengal (1836-1886). His
famous disciple, Vivekananda, spread his
Master’s gospel in the Western world and
was largely responsible for the network
of Ramakrishna missions in India and
abroad. These missions are amongst the
very few Indian institutions which
engage in social work and run schools,
hospitals and reception centres for
refugees. They are a refreshing depart-
ure from the generally accepted Hindu
belief that man’s primary concern should
be to make peace with himself and with
his God and that the tribulations of his
fellow-men should not distract him from
his battle with his ego.
Above all, what makes study of
Ramakrishna and Vivekananda of im-
portance is their hold on the minds of
educated and liberal-minded Hindus of
present-day India. Ramakrishna missions
are seats of learning for those interested
in Vedanta and comparative religion;
they represent all that is good in
Hinduism its tolerance and catholic-
ity against revivalist movements which
are viciously anti-Muslim and anti-
Christian. Ramakrishna institutions are
enlightened Hinduisms’ seminaries, moral
rearmament centres and YMCAs all
rolled in one.
Ramakrishna was born to a poor
Brahmin family in Bengal. His followers
claim that, like Jesus’, his conception
was immaculate.
To the believers Ramakrishna was
an avatar in whose frame God Himself
often descended to proclaim His glory.
It did not take much for Ramakrishna to
go into a trance; the sight of a flock
of cranes flying across the monsoon
clouds, meeting someone beautiful or
holy, the picture of the Madonna —
just everything was a “mystic” experi-
ence. To unbelievers, he was mentally
disturbed and therefore given to all kinds
of fantasies. Ramakrishna’s tutelary diety
was Kali, the consort of Shiva, the God
of death and destruction. Kali, too, is
the destroyer of evil, the Earth Mother,
from whose womb life comes forth and
by whose jaws it is again swallowed up.
To the unbeliever, the same Kali is
(Anne Marshall in “Hunting the Guru in
India”) “the archetypal witch of Western
fairy-tale. She is also a blood-drinking
goddess who demands appeasement
through the sacrifice of a male goat—the
proverbial scapegoat. In other words, she
is the devouring, menstruating mother
under the taboo of incest”!
It is to be remembered that it was the
cult of Kali which in the nineteenth
century produced thugs who murdered
over 50,000 people every year by strang-
ling them with a yellow scarf. And Kali
was the patron goddess of the Bengali
terrorists engaged in assassinating British
administrators. The believers believe that
Ramakrishna’s relations with his chief
disciple and successor were pure and
he passed on his wisdom to Vivekananda
as one lamp lights another. Unbelievers
spread ugly gossip about the way
Ramakrishna used to caress the hand-
some Vivekananda. Sceptics insist that
Ramakrishna died of cancer of the
throat. Believers believe that he attained
mcihascimaclhi — eternal trance — when
he felt his life's work had been done.
To get Ramakrishna and his disciples
in their proper perspective it is neces-
sary to read also the unbeliever’s point
of view. I recommend Arthur Koestler’s
“Lotus and the Robot” and, even more,
Anne Marshall’s delightfully readable
“Hunting the Guru in India”. Despite this
note of caution a Westerner who wants
to have an insight into the workings of
the Hindu mind can do no better than
start with this book by Isherwood.
Settling Down
A parent at twenty. Such desperation:
a family fathered from a schoolboy’s
sexual initiation. The trouble was
I couldn’t grow grey hairs. From
juvenile delinquency to middle age
in one stray night was too much to take.
I’ve had to compromise with the State
and learn to grow up less than gracefully-
At thirty I’m thinking of settling down;
a man needs a loan of his own, a roof
over his wig. It’s a sound investment.
Anyway, the kids are howling for a house
to break
and, frankly, I’m worried about my second
childhood.
PETES BLAND


\¥y
iRI
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Paris end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
LEARN TO WRITE
STORIES
THAT SELL!
It you have a flair tor writing then a Stott
Literary Course will develop your talent. Stott
students are taught how to write stories that
sell and are advised by the College ot the
names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it through Stott's practical Home-Study
instruction.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45
Gilles Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth.
POST THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full details of your Correspondence
Course/s in:
NAME
ADDRESS /.
AGE (8.2065)
No sales representative will call following your
inquiry.
The Prussian Tradition
By ERNEST BRAMSTED
The German Officer Corps in Society and
Stale, 1650-1945. Karl Demeter. Trans-
lated from the German by Angus
Malcolm. Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 78s.
The Officer Corps was an institution as
well as a caste. Its principles of selection
and education, its highly inflated code of
honor, its position in State and society
are examined with care in this largely
sociological enquiry. Since the days of
Frederick William I the Prussian officers
enjoyed the prestige of a First Estate
similar to that of the Samurai in Japan.
The Corps was a preserve for the sons of
the nobility who regarded ii as below
their dignity or were even forbidden to
engage in commerce or a profession. In
the middle of the 18th century Max
Joseph, the Elector of Bavaria, in an
order to his officers refused to believe
that any of them “would so far demean
himself as to have dealings with a bour-
geois or with any other sort inappro-
priate to his status”. If involved in a
quarrel witn such people he could not
apply the traditional method of the duel.
Nor was the monarch prepared to accept
the misalliance of an officer with a per-
son “who, however well endowed, was
not his social equal”.
The author's sociological approach
throws light on the gradual victory of
personal honor over the collective honor
of the Corps, on the relations of the
officers with their sovereign, on the prob-
lems of leadership and discipline, on their
attitude to the Churches, the Free-
masons and the Jews and last but not
least on their debts and manners. The
disadvantage of the method lies in a cer-
tain amount of overlapping of topics
and of fragmentation. For instance, the
position and attitudes of the Reichswehr
officers are offered the reader piecemeal
in various parts of the book. On the other
hand, he is given no less than 34 appen-
dices which make the text of some very
illuminating documents available for the
first time in English. These extend from
a Cabinet Order by King Frederick Wil-
liam 111 on Honor and Duelling to a
Minute by Emperor William II to his
Minister of War on the Maltreatment of
Subordinates, from a petition to the King
of Bavaria from non-commissioned offi-
cers in 1848, asking for promotion to the
officer rank, to, a statement made by
General Hans Oster to the Gestapo, fol-
lowing the abortive attempt on Hitler’s
life in July, 1944, on the intellectual and
political outlook of the professional
officers.
After 1918 the story of the Reichswehr
officers was not a happy one. The prob-
lematical “non-political” attitude dis-
played under the sphinx-like profession-
alism of General von Seeckt remained a
brief interlude during the Weimar Re-
public. By 1939 Hitler, the former lance-
corporal, had destroyed the corporate
independence of the Corps so effectively
that its story then forms little more than
a grisly epilogue. The author is rather in-
clined to overstress the dichotomy
between the Nazi Party and the Wehr-
macht during a period when the Army
had in fact become the “sword-arm” of
the Party. A fortnight before he com-
mitted suicide Hitler issued an order to
commanding officers declaring it their
prime task “to make their troops political
fanatics”. All commanding officers, the
Fuhrer went on, “will be responsible to
me for the National Socialist convictions
of their men”. The German officers had
come a long way from the not dishonor-
able traditions of a Scharnhorst, a Hell-
muth von Moltke and even a Hans von
Seeckt.
The Mature Reflection
Because I know myself, know the limits'
of my knowing, I know-what I must do.
He said he did not like himself;
in moments when he sought to find a place,
to make a portion of the world include
himself, he didn’t find his thoughts
attractive:
afraid of dreams that built
his fists like bombs, his arms
like fission,
and all the little girls
along the way, bare and beautiful,
with pleading eyes, who only cried
and made the motions of resist-
ance
until entangled in his hair
they found at last his strength was
gentle
and his presence all protection.
But they were only dreams. And he
despised
himself because he dreamt, and them
because he did not know them better.
Because I know myself, I know my limits,
know that I am human, like him,
and look at girls, and secretly engage
in personal war,
because I know his dreams, and mine,
I kill him first.
JOHN CROYSTON


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Bank Lending Tight
OVERDRAFT limits of Australian trading banks rose by only £1.2 million a week
in the five weeks to July 14, despite new and increased overdraft commitments
at the rate of £9.3m. a week. It is indicative that the Reserve Bank’s directive to
restrain new lending is taking effect. These figures illustrate that old overdrafts are
being reduced or cancelled to the tune of about £Bm. a week.
With the accent now on providing
funds for a hard-hit rural sector, the
commercial users of bank overdrafts
must be feeling the squeeze.
Overdraft limits are still at a peak
of £1964.9m., including new lending
limits to the rural sector. However,
with the end of the company tax season
still placing some strain on resources
during June, plus the additional emer-
gency funds needed during the drought,
a high figure of overdraft limits would
be expected.
There is some squeeze on the trading
banks, too, judged by their declining
liquidity.
Doubtless the inflow of overseas
money much higher than expected
according to the latest Treasury figures
has found its way through the bank-
ing system and helped to offset what
could have proved an even tighter
liquidity problem for the banks.
Now, with bank lending down to the
desired unofficial limit of around £9m.
a week, the Reserve Bank must feel that
its monetary policy is working quite
well.
Trade figures and capital inflow, how-
ever, do not give any promise of revers-
ing the declining balance of payments
showing up in 1965. It remains- to be
seen if the expected higher taxes in the
August 17 Budget will damp down the
rising trend of costly imports.
There will be heavy demands for
defence spending (via loan money) in
the year ahead and there is no immediate
promise that trading banks will have
surplus liquid funds to lend on over-
draft. So the overdraft picture still
looks tight. A sparse canvas and no
bold strokes.
Nevertheless, as the Budget ap-
proaches, the rather extreme economic
pessimism of a month or two back
appears to have been considerably tem-
pered. That is not to say the share-
markets, for instance, are viewing the
present situation, and in particular the
next few days, with anything but
caution. Last week’s hyper - careful
trading was certainly a pointer of this
attitude, even if most of the expected
Budget blows had already been dis-
counted.
There can be no doubt, as mentioned
above, that the banks have come under
a more sensitive control. Perhaps their
flexibility to official policy will be all
to the good in a position which is far
from gloomy yet is bound to be fairly
difficult, especially externally.
Inside Australia quite a few sources
seem to feel the economy will not
require any more dampening. They are
partly contented with the monetary
forces holding back inflation and can
only hope that the drought and falling
overseas balances don’t carry their re-
straining influences too deeply.
A further and reasonably exact .in-
dication of the immediate pre-Budget
atmosphere will be furnished by this
week’s results of the first 1965-66 Com-
monwealth Loan. Not the least of its
functions must be to display the validity,
or otherwise, of the current domestic
interest-rate structure.
Those Costly Wharves
Qne of the tragedies of waterfront
stoppages is that ships must leave
Australian wharves with their cargo
DR H. C. COOMBS
holds empty or carrying cargo which
should have been off-loaded, thus caus-
ing hardship to those who are awaiting
the delivery of vital equipment or
machinery.
The cargo which is over-carried mustj
be transhipped and sent back again-
— at the expense of the shipping
company. When the cargo arrives back
at its proper destination, it provides
more employment for waterside workers
who refused to unload it in the first
place.
Because waterside labor is restricted,
the waterside workers can catch up on
strike losses by working week-end shifts
at penalty rates. When they consider a
walk-off or a temporary strike, great 1
consideration- is given to a stoppage dur-
British and American Share Markets
M R HAROLD WILSON last week did his
level and forceful best to scotch both
domestic and external fears that the
pound sterling was on its way to a
devaluation. The eventuality can hardly
be dissipated by speeches alone, so
nervousness must continue to pervade the
London share market, and many other
financial activities, exactly as it has for
a great number of weeks past. Some
slight confidence hit equity dealings on
Friday, so the index took a mild kick.
Yet anxieties are far from dispelled.
Rather curiously, the whole week pro-
duced a reasonably good gain, though
much of this was due to specifically tech-
nical adjustment and jobbers' shortages.
But the institutions also gave some
evidence of re-entry. All in all, though,
equity dealings remain pretty modest.
The best inquiries are still for leader
industrials and here again companies with
overseas operations receive the most
attention. Quite a few experts are
already arguing that a sizeable uplift of
gilt-edged is the necessary condition for
a genuine equity recovery last week
gilts were quiet and easier.
The latest bout of deflationary medicine
from Mr Callaghan assuredly confirms
the Labor Government's intention to put
the pound above all things. Severe as
the new dosage is, there has been more
talk about higher bank rate and further
calls for special deposits from the banks.
A sterling recovery seems, without doubt,
the requisite factor to stir gilts, equities
and the economy.
Meanwhile Wall Street, which has a
good deal more reason to be bullish, does
not convey many signs of getting very
far off the ground. The week finished
quietly on a moderate rise, after mostly
dull trading.
Certainly the previous week's rally was
not confirmed, although the latest profit-
taking and other selling are not bringing
big losses. Once again the Vietnam
hesitancy penetrates large areas of the
market.
The Government is pushing more
military spending into the economy and
a few economists have raised the spectre
of inflation. Most experts, however, are
convinced of basic economic soundness.
The markets keep edgy above all on
Vietnam and such smaller repressive in-
fluences as the chances of a steel strike.


ing the week with the object of gaining
week-end work at penalty rates.
Average earnings of waterside work-
ers in 1963-64 were £29 6s. a week for
37.6 hours in Sydney and £3O 9s. a
week for 38.2 hours in Melbourne, de-
spite constant shipping hold-ups.
The reason why waterside workers
can earn such good money, despite
strikes, is because of the existing system
which limits the size of the casual labor
force, provides a monopoly of work
within a defined area and restricts the
number of recruits which can be brought
into the industry.
Under the equalised earnings system,
even a foreman has no incentive to get
extra work or efficiency out of his men.
The Waterside Workers’ Federation
in 1962-63 received an extra wage mar-
gin from the Conciliation and Arbitra-
tion Commission based on improved
cargo handling figures which the Com-
mission believed would continue.
A recent paper published by the As-
sociation of Employers of Waterside
Labor claims that the man-hours re-
quired to discharge a ton of cargo in
Sydney have risen by 22.6 p.c. since
June, 1962 (up from 1.501 man-hours
to 1.842 man-hours). In Brisbane the in-
crease has been 32.3 p.c.; Melbourne
is virtually steady, as the increase has
been only 0.4 p.c. However, the man-
hours per ton of loading-in Melbourne
rose by 14.3 p.c. in the same period,
against 18 p.c. in Sydney and 11.2 p.c.
in Brisbane.
The worst aspect of all this is that
the shipowners are forced to increase
freight rates to cope with the increased
cost of virtually guaranteeing lifetime
employment for waterside workers un-
der the Australian registration system.
This hurts Australia, because the cost of
freights, insurance, etc., on shipping leav-
ing Australia is deducted from the
nation’s overseas reserves.
Australian wharf-loading facilities are
described in other parts of the world
as 30 years behind the times. It is un-
fair, of course, to compare them with
rebuilt port facilities like Hamburg,
which were restored from rubble after
the war. But some shipping operators,
in despair, have claimed that Australian
ports would be more effective had the
wharves been destroyed during the war.
It is an unkind thought, yet it seems
obvious, in the light of modern port
handling facilities, that Australia is pay-
ing the penalty of an out-moded system.
If Australians can look beyond the
shipping companies, they should realise
that it is not the shipping companies
which are being soaked but fellow Aus-
tralians. Any decline in overseas re-
serves has to be met by export earnings,
Government borrowings or an inflow of
foreign capital.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Background to Australia's
Coming Budget
The tests of national income accounting
week’s Budget will be an historic one in many ways. Not least of these flows
from the change to decimal currency in the course of the year. Are we to expect
Mr Holt to give his estimates in the new currency as well as the old? A later mix-up
can be imagined if he fails to do this. It is going to be a tough enough task reconciling
past with future figures as it is, so the Treasury will do well to ease it by beating the
“C” Day gun.
Then there is the Vernon Committee’s
report which Mr Holt took to Bingil Bay
with him for pre-Budget exercises, sug-
gesting that some of the ideas in the
report would find reflection in the Budget.
What ones? As the Government has not
yet released the report, we can’t even
hazard a guess. Some of these may be the
big surprise packet in the Budget.
Equally intriguing will be the way the
Treasurer elects to finance the additional
£250 million of expenditure he has
envisaged for this year. Will he stick to
his second thoughts and go easy on his
original idea of making stiff increases
in taxation to follow those of last year,
when the 5 p.c. tax rebate went by the
board, companies got an extra slug of
6d. in the pound and there were nibbles
along the line of, sales tax, with motors
bearing most of the brunt. The eyes of
the public will be focused mainly on
this aspect, because here is something
tangible which the man in the street,
confused beyond words by the mechanics
of the Budget itself and modern forms of
its presentation, can readily understand.
For economic connoisseurs, of course,
there will be much else. Of overriding
HAROLD HOLT
importance will be the Treasurer's assess-
ment of the availability of resources to
the economy. This sets the background
for the whole exercise. Are earlier pre-
dictions of heavy pressures on the balance
of payments to be revised? What inter-
pretation is to be given to the more
modest rate of imports in July, the pos-
sible cuts in export income from drought-
reduced export quantities, and lower
prices?
What new assessments has the Govern-
ment made of the prospective level of
capital inflow this year and of the pos-
sibility of a devaluation of sterling in the
next two critical months? On the home
front, what measurement will be put on
the performance of production, which
has been levelling off lately, on the level
of private investment, and the availability
of labor in a year for which the Govern-
ment has already expressed its concern at
fitting in all the things its own sector will
be called upon to accomplish in a setting
where, in its view, the private sector will
remain at the fullest stretch compatible
with labor availability? Will it be a ques-
tion of the Budget trying to bring the
private sector back to a more restricted
field or will it postulate a sufficiency of
resources for Government and private
sectors alike to proceed uninhibited?
The unenviable role of the Treasury is
to translate all these imponderables into
terms of pounds, shillings and pence or,
more strictly'speaking now, dollars. It
will know soon enough the cold critical
general judgment on whether the Budget
fills the economic bill. In the light of the
extraordinary way the Budget worked
out last year, the Treasury itself will
need to keep its fingers firmly crossed
that its intelligent guesswork will be con-
sidered roughly satisfactory.
The exercise of understanding the Bud-
get has grown immeasurably more com-
plicated over the years, as statistical
sophistication has advanced in Canberra.
It is now no longer possible to see pre-
cisely what the Treasurer is aiming at
without a knowledge of national income
accounting. This puts the public at a big


disadvantage. The Treasury no longer
construes the Budget primarily in terms
of balance on a strict accounting basis.
All the old bits and pieces are still provid-
ed but they are put together a different
way. The inflationary or disinflationary
impact of the Budget is no longer judged
on the net movement in the Government’s
short-term indebtedness but in the Gov-
ernment’s overall indebtedness, without
differentiation between income and
capital transactions.
In effect, the Treasury has created the
illusion that all the Government’s finan-
cial transactions, whether relating to in-
come, capital or trust funds, can be
moulded into an amalgam of what, to
my mind, are two heterogeneous lumps
of incomings and outgoings. Subtracting
one from the other gives what is called
the year's “net increase in indebtedness”.
This makes little sense to me, yet I have
to go along with it. It is the now accepted
measure of the impact of the Budget on
the economy. - Last week's Treasury
bulletin gave the out-turn of last year’s
Budget in these terms. Despite the fact
that Mr Hawke used this stick to good
purpose in this year’s wages hearings to
beat the Government with, and despite
the fact that last year’s estimates in these
(and any other terms) went so sadly
astray, they will be the core of next
week’s Budget.
So the eyes of professional, though
possibly not public, critics next week will
focus primarily on whether the estimated
net increase in indebtedness of the
Federal Government is higher or lower
than actual out-turn last year as revealed
in last week’s Treasury bulletin. I hesi-
tate to hazard a guess at this, because,
although most of the expenditure items
look to be tied up this year, I have no
way of knowing how some of the big
imponderables (such as loan raising, the
heavy loan maturities falling due this
year, the flow of tax revenue and the
revenue gap to be filled by additional
taxation) are being viewed by the Trea-
sury. After last year, when the Treasury
proved to be miles out on all these three
vital ingredients in the sum, only a fool
would rush in to make a stab at an
estimate for 1965-66.
On the general point whether the
Budget is framed to give a bigger stimu-
lus (or depressant, according to how one
interprets the effect of a given level of
“net indebtedness”), I would imagine the
Treasury would err on the side of caution
in the present context of a tight labor
market, uncertain resources outlook,
doubtful loan market prospects and mas-
sive loan maturities coming up during
the year. Granted the growing need for
a flexible approach to fit fluctuating eco-
nomic conditions in the course of a year,
whatever the verdict Sir Roland Wilson
has worked out for Mr Holt next week,
it is to be hoped that his estimates, par-
ticularly of tax revenue and net loan re-
ceipts, are nearer the actual result than
last year, also that the effect of the Com-
monwealth's financial operations is much
more even from quarter to quarter.
As revealed last week, the increase in
net indebtedness in 1964-65 came out at
only £147 million, which was £55 million
less than the estimate made last August
and as much as £lOO million less than
the actual figure for 1963-64. The ques-
tion is whether this reduction was in-
spired by the Government’s expressed
desire to lessen the pressure on resources
or whether it was largely fortuitous. It
was certainly partly the result of fortui-
tous factors, especially the unexpected!'
high proportion of loan redemptions ti
maturities. It was also partly the resu
of sheer incompetence in estimatin
revenue, particularly tax revenue. Whai
ever the reason, it seems that, given th
general condition of buoyancy in the pr
vate sector and rising pressures on price
it was appropriate that over the year m
indebtedness proved to be less tha
intended.
As to the abrupt manner in which ti
lower overall figure of net indebtedne:
was effected by the Treasury squeeze i
the fourth quarter of the year, it will t
generally agreed that this was very ui
comfortable for the economy.
CROESUS
Budget Hints from Japan
Cocking a snook at capital inflow
HTHE recent flare-up on the question of foreign investment was puzzling, yet it at
least showed that, while the scare from President Johnson early in the year
quenched the popular fire on the subject, it still left a burning issue likely to burst
into flames again at the slightest provocation. Having recently been making some
enquiries into the background of Japan’s post-war economic miracle (as it is called),
Mr McEwen’s vigorous words on foreign investment in Perth rekindled in my mind
an old thought. Nations can count themselves very lucky indeed when they are able
to pursue expansive fiscal and monetary policies in pursuance of high growth rates,
knowing that their balances are virtually underwritten by the United States.
'
With reservations, this can be said to
have been the position of Japan in the
last fifteen years and, if capital inflow
from Britain is counted in, the same
might be said of Australia in some recent
years. At any rate we have been enjoy-
ing rather similar facilities on the capital
inflow side on a widening scale in the last
six years. Our growth rate, if'a bit below
Japan’s in this period, has averaged out
higher than at any time in our history.
It is no mere coincidence that this has
happened at a time when capital inflow
from Britain and the United States taken
together has averaged out higher than
for any previous period. We shouldn’t
be too chary about it or anxious to cut
the painter, even on ideological grounds.
In strict economic terms the underlying
logic of supporting capital inflow is not
without a parallel on the trade side. Only
reactionary purblinds (and Mr McEwen
is obviously not one of these) would
want to stop our bulk sales of primary
products to Red China. In getting at
the economic essence, rival ideologies,
even perhaps the obsession of local capi-
talists and trade unionists alike for retain-
ing control over our own resources in
an increasingly international environ-
ment, would have to be heavily discount-
ed both on viability and growth grounds.
Fast growth in Australia is impossible
without increasing involvement with
imports of both capital and people.
Maybe the capital import cycle has
run the full circle for Japan. The big
US flows started to roll in the early
19505, providing the basis for Japan's
industrial expansion. In the three years
t 0 1953, a yawning gap opened up in
Japan's visible trade as imports increased
about 21 times and exports by only about
b 7* be § ap was Ped by US ca P' lil|!
"h"* continued to redress the balance
“ ntl1 ' ,n , re^ nt years ’, Japan
" eXportS , ‘ 7 maUe T
?' ' eSS ' mp ° r,an ‘ f »
* e ba °. f . paymens ' 7 ?
"T ,7 Ce d , CXP ° r,S by J l
7'"°" d °" ars ' L ? s year ' ,'° h M “
21 il Tn eX “ eded lmporls , by J „
million dollars. For the current year to
~ 1Q „ r in
March 31, 1966, Japan, according to
the official estimates, is budgeting for
an even bigger surplus on overseas trad-
ing account that is, 350 million dol-
lars, with exports targeted at 7650 and
imports at 7300 million dollars.'
While Japan is currently going through
a tricky economic phase (of which the
malaise in share markets is probably the
most visible witness), this would appear
to have little to do with the balance of
payments or any slowing of US capital
inflow. It seems to have stemmed mostly
from internal causes, such as a falling-
off in profits following a long investment
boom, which over-reached itself in 1964
and left an aftermath of over-capacity-
Here is the country, more obligated


GENERAL CREDITS
• LIMITED
ask any BRANCH
OF THE C.B.A.
0
0
up to
5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK ii:
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form •;
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be ji
obtained from any recognized stockbroker, i:
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of ji
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
6840
JOHN McEWEN
than any to the United States for capital
inflow since the war, now operating its
fiscal policies on the assumption that
capital inflow can be taken for granted,
or at any rate as neutral in determining
fiscal policy. This may be strange read-
ing in Australia, but it is an authentic
view. The picture is of an economy
which one had assumed was virtually as
open as our own, yet acting as if it were
a closed one. I have always argued that
if Australia acted in a similar way (i.e.,
pursued fiscal policies as if the external
forces could be taken as neutral), the
worst would befall. Australian Govern-
ments have usually thought the same
way.
In the case of Japan, it seems that,
after so many years when US capital
inflow could be taken for granted to re-
dress any weakness in the current ac-
count balance of payments, the authori-
ties have taken the view that internal ex-
pansion must come first and be promoted
above all by fiscal policy, leaving any
repairs resulting either from over-invest-
ment at home or from adverse external
forces to be undertaken by monetary
policy. Nothing in the capital inflow and
external trade field has happened thus
far to put the Japanese authorities off
this course.
Ultra expansionists in Australia might
well feel that, also given reassurances in
both these directions, our own authori-
ties should raise their development sights
in the coming Budget. Unfortunately
things are otherwise. We have in pro-
spect not only a reduction in capital in-
flow, but also an increased deficit on
current account this year. In addition a
shortage of labor is an obstacle here and
a steep increase in defence expenditure
has to be accommodated. Defence is
something Japan has been most happy
to minimise, to the great benefit of its
industrial performance. Equally, labor
availability has not so far been a re-
strictive influence in Japan, though the
signs are that it could be in the near
future.
Economic expansion in Japan being
mainly contingent on budgetary plan-
ning, this instrument is the key. How-
ever, the system of budgeting in Japan
may have a bit too much oriental mystery
about it for the Treasury in Canberra,
not to speak of the Australian public
in general. The conception of balanced
budgeting is unique. The starting point
is that the Japanese authorities decide
on a “planned growth rate” for the
economy in the coming fiscal year and
much argument rages about what the
precise figure should be. Decimal
points assume the greatest importance.
For every 0.1 per cent of the agreed
target rate for growth in national income
the Japanese Treasury estimates that,
on existing tax rates, it can expect a given
amount of additional revenue.
By the rules of the Budget guessing
game, they budget for the expenditure of
that amount of additional revenue. And
proceed to spend it irrespective of the
consequences for the economy. Every-
thing depends on the decided growth rate
for national income. Thus, throughout
the post-war period, Government ex-
penditure has been increased by huge
amounts, even in years when they’ve cut
taxes and irrespective of whether pro-
duction is racing ahead or whether the
balance of payments is in the red. Thus,
in years when the economy is going flat
out, raging Government expenditure
makes it all the more buoyant. Equally,
if the economy is flagging, Government
expenditure can be relied on to give it
a lift, as is more or less the case at
present.
The severity of monetary policy in
Japan would in itself put many Aus-
tralians off if it were, as it seems to be,
an inescapable corollary to possibly other-
wise attractive fiscal procedures. Quite
apart from that, one has to consider the
effect of fiscal policy on consumer prices.
This, in my view, is critical. We have fail-
ed to match Japan’s growth rates in some
recent years (between 1959 and 1961 it
was 13£ per cent, last year 9.4 per cent,
and this year is expected to be 7.5 per
cent, all at constant prices). We have
succeeded in being not so very far behind
in growth in the last few years, incurring
nearly as much price inflation as Japan.
In the five years to March, 1965, con-
sumer prices rose by about 30 per cent
in Japan and 8.5 per cent here. But the
gap is closing. The current rate of in-
crease here is around 4 per cent a year,
while in Japan it is only half a per cent
more.


AS6S2N
Jmr '■
Jr Invest in |
Associated
Securities
Limited
INTEREST
P.A
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form attached
to the Prospectus available from
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
STOCKBROKERS,
BRANCHES OF ASSOCIATED SECURITIES LIMITED.
Brokers—Ord, Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners.
Private Eye and Private Ear
Professional investigators spread to commerce
By B. LEIGH
QYDNEY and Melbourne are blessed with about eighty licensed private inquiry
agencies each, some of them lonely individual operators, others quite large
organisations.
These latter publicly advertise their
resources of two-way radio cars, “spy”
cameras and the latest electronic listen-
ing devices. Business is steadily brisk,
without being violently competitive, and
is broadening into some very sensitive
areas indeed.
The agencies are readily recom-
mended by solicitors. They are used
more and more frequently by commerce
and industry. “Industrial espionage is
growing,” one agency manager stated
openly. Most services are available to
allcomers for fees roughly standardised
at between £1 10s. and £2 10s. per
hour.
There is no doubt that all of us are
well aware of the availability of the
services of private investigators to
assist in the producing of evidence of
the dereliction of a spouse to enable
a divorce petition to meet the legal
requirements of proof.
Recently in Sydney a mild rebuke
was administered by a judge in divorce
who presumably had been handed a
startling photograph of a couple in
flagrante delicto. The judge said to the
Private Eye, who had proudly pro-
duced the perfect piece of evidence,
“There is no need for the ultimate de-
gradation of the parties by pulling back
the covers before taking the photo-
graph.” The response of the investi-
gator was, “We act according to in-
structions. It is often the client’s wish
that this be done.”
Such a glimpse of the investigation
procedure that is implicit in this minor
judicial disclosure should be very
sobering. Most people know that a
private detective can be employed to
enter private premises for the purpose
of surprising a couple so engaged. They
probably assume that he stands dis-
creetly at a distance to take the photo-
graph, in order to create as little ap-
prehension as possible and to allow a
quick get-away. The PI is able to do
all this and still escape without moles-
tation primarily because of the perfect
timing of his entry. In fact a scuffle
rarely ensues.
How is this timing possible? In most
cases the professional PI has with
him a compact modern listening de-
vice which allows him to know pretty
well the appropriate time to throw
open the door. It is a simple, readily
available device, somewhat similar in
appearance to a medical stethoscope,
with the microphone more powerful
and battery-actuated. This is held
against the wall and every sound, in-
cluding the voices within the room, is
clearly heard. The device operates
quite well through a solid brick wall,
though not through a cavity brick wall,
which, however, is rarely encountered
within a house.
The cavity wall is by no means an
insuperable barrier, but it is necessary
to drill a minute hole through to the
second course of bricks; an adaptation
of the gadget mentioned above, using
a wire probe to make contact with the
inner wall, enables the conversation to
be heard. This is sometimes needed


HERTZ
puts car renting
in a new light
? J
£22.4.8 SAYS YOU’LL BE SATISFIED
EVERY TIME YOU RENT FROM HERTZ
Hertz calls it Certified Service. It's your assurance of satisfaction every time you rent a car from
any of the many Hertz offices in 73 countries around the globe. If at any time you're not
completely satisfied with Hertz service, simply fill out a form available at any Hertz Rent A
Car office. Immediately upon verification, you will receive £22.4.8 in car rental certificates. Next
time you need a car, in Australia or anywhere in the world, call Hertz to reserve a new Holden,
Chevrolet or other fine car. And ask about Hertz International Charge cards.
Hertz services include 'Fly-Drive/ 'Rent-it-here/Leave-it-there,' and free Airport; Hotel and City
office deliveries to save you time, money and simplify your travel plans.
WORLD WIDE
HERTZ
RENT A CA*R
&
Let Hertz put you
in the driver's seat!
AUSTRALIA’S ONLY TRULY INTERNATIONAL RENT A CAR SERVICE
HNC.26SRS


m
Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN.SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
mm
HHHrO
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
PER ANNIIM4 YEARS
m
tm
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
0
0
6
5
02
PER ANNUM I YEAR
4
f
ii
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for.debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. jdn.2
when the tryst is kept in a hotel. Here
the PI usually seeks to occupy an ad-
joining room so that he can bore the
hole beforehand. I have been told that
in some of our best hotels a careful
search would locate such holes, not only
drilied towards bedrooms but also to
enable a discussion or trade
meeting held in a conference room or
private dining-room to be heard and
recor e .
The code of ethics of the PI is
straightforward and simple. He will ac-
cept any practicable commission that
does not make him an accessory to a
felony. An action for trespass does not
worry him. That only brings the risk
of a fine of up to £5. A felony (apart
from the legal consequences) would
mean the loss of his licence as an en-
quiry agent and this must not be put
in jeopardy.
Thus , he p , wi „ nO , under
circLlmstances remove things from the
premises he enters. He will observe,
listen and photograph, but not steal,
(Perry Mason, please note.) Statements
were made both for the accused and
for the principal witness in the recent
case involving the Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly in NSW that
premises had been entered and evi-
dence in the form of documents had
been removed. If this were done by
Pis it was certainly exceptional and
involved putting their licences at risk.
The Pi’s approach to a commis-
sion is quite amoral. For instance, he
recognises the importance of trade in-
formation of .a competitor’s plans and
is available to assist anyone to obtain
prior knowledge of the intentions or
proposals of the rival house. No felony
need be involved here.
A leading investigator I spoke to told
proudly of a very successful commis-
sion he carried out recently in a Syd-
ney hotel, where, by drilling a minute
hole (which he says can still be seen
if you know where to look), he was
able to record the entire proceedings at
an important business gathering. His
justification of his actions (though he
would not concede that any moral
issue was implied) was that the client
needed the information and it was his
job to get it. He says he would wil-
lingly accept a commission to enter a
solicitors office and photograph docu-
ments, to enter a barrister’s chambers
to copy a brief or an advertising
agency for next year’s advertising pro-
gramme. Wherever the need exists and
the client is prepared to pay the fee,
his services are available and his
business acumen will find a way to
produce the desired result.
How does he gain entry to the
homes, offices and chambers where the
evidence or information is to.be found?
Not by burglary methods, he says. He
does not carry the traditional jemmy
and other housebreaking implements, j
His methods are his own trade secret
and he points out naively, “If I dis-
closed my methods you might do the
job yourself”. Also, he has a licence
granted by the police. Every employee
of his also holds a licence, even the
girls who control the two-way radios
or spend much of their time checking
names and information in the elec-
toral rolls.
The PI also finds clients among
the insurance and legal fraternity for
purposes other than divorce evidence.
He will watch the incapacitated worker
to see if his strained back is still giv- |
ing trouble when he digs his private
garden or enjoys his weekend sport.
Medical examination of a supposedly
injured back produces only wishy-
washy evidence that the jury often
doesn’t fully understand; a photograph
of the plaintiff shooting a wave or hit-
ting a golf ball is a case winner for the
defence. In these commissions the bin-


-
J
IlilSiiil!;!
J
■
: .: * ' ;
at
you
wo
cam a
IP
selfadhesivepressureseptiveselfstickinglabel?
It sounds ridiculous, but frankly, we’re looking for a name to
describe Avery Labels. Some people call them self-adhesive . . .
. , . others refer to them as pressure-sensitive, or self-sticking.
In point of fact, all are quite correct, but don’t go far enough.
For instance:
Avery labels require no moisture or glue to stick down □ Avery
labels are applied with just the lightest pressure of the finger
□ Avery labels can be stuck on wood, glass, paper, plastics,
metal or any clean smooth surface □ Avery labels are made of
paper, foil, acetate or cloth □ Avery labels are made in two types
PERMAGRIP for permanent adhesion and KUM-KLEEN
for temporary adhesion.
Avery labels are manufactured in Australia under franchise by:
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD,
75 Union Street. Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 5607177
W. J. CRYER (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
30 Cotham Road, Kew, Vic. 86 7911
M
ALII
Please send me free samples and full information on Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kum
Kleen labels.
COMPANY
NAME
ADDRESS.
B. 14/8/65
oculars and the telescopic lens take
the place of the wide range lens flash
camera that is normally employed. And
it is not so expensive when accidents
happen to the camera. His has an
ejector for the film so, when cornered,
he can surrender the camera without
the victim knowing that the film has
been ejected into his hand and is now
in his pocket.
The PI, too, gathers evidence in
motor accident and similar cases. Here
I think the legal fraternity could learn
a lesson about the use of modern re-
cording methods. A favorite aide
memoire when interviewing witnesses
is the wire recorder, which is kept in
the right breast pocket with a connect-
ing wire over the shoulder and down
the sleeve to the watch on the left
wrist, really a microphone. When in-
terviewing witnesses, the PI holds a
writing pad in his left hand (thus keep-
ing the microphone in a strategic posi-
tion) and makes a few sketchy notes,
while the whole conversation is being
recorded for transcription if it proves
to be useful. The tapes are sometimes
stored for years awaiting the hearing.
When the witnesses come into court,
the verbatim record of their earlier
remarks is most useful to the cross-
examining barrister.
TTnquestionably Pis have a useful
role to play. You can engage them to
conceal, at strategic points in your
factory or store, a device no larger than
a cigarette package and having a battery
sufficient to transmit continuously for
about 8 hours to a listening post a few
hundred yards away. This may not al-
ways pick up conversations, though at
least it will disclose the presence of
anyone who enters and thus enable you
to call the police. Of course the police
could provide this service; in fact they
do not.
Without giving reasons for your in-
terest, you can arrange for a car to
be followed in proper TV style
alternating between two tailers linked
by radio so the victim will not sus-
pect, even if his TV viewing has made
him conscious of the possibility of re-
ceiving the attentions of a PI.
The extension of these activities to
commercial matters surely doesn’t ac-
cord with normal concepts of business
morality. Many exciting developments
in acoustic electronics are now ap-
parently readily obtainable. It must
jolt most susceptibilities to learn that
they are being used to listen-in to pri-
vate business conferences and to crack
the secrets of processes developed by
competitors or their plans for business
expansion.


NEW! for all uniforms
%
\ TETORON
VOLYESTER FIBRE
\ and Viscose
we blend beauty and science...
for a miracle fabric that works with you!
Fashion goes to work! The new look in uniforms
is soft, lustrous Cesarella, an exciting new fabric
by the makers of famous Cesarine. We made silky
Cesarella specially for the trend to more style and
fashion in today’s uniforms. Easily laundered,
drip-drys overnight to its original beauty, and per-
manently pleatable, too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance offices, Cesarella
means more beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. Look for the Cesarella tag of quality
at your uniform supplier or just phone Caesar
Fabrics Ltd. in your state. But do it now!
CTB3IOB
CESARELU—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Torail TETO&ON'CC 0 /
POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
INVESTMENT
Spinning Out of the Noose
Davies Coop winning the struggle
TL¥r Oswald Burt’s six years as chair-
man of Melbourne-based Davies
Coop and Co Ltd have hardly been a
path of roses. He has had to battle all
the way.
Now the battle has been won, and on
a wider textile front. Last week the group
hoisted its second highest profit, £501,422
for the year to June 30. This has only
been bettered by the £511,151 for 1956-
57, before Mr Burt took over and pro-
ceeded to launch the group into a mas-
sive programme of re-equipment whose
expensive financing virtually put a rope
round the group’s neck.
Mr Burt has never lost faith that
Davies Coop would get out of the noose.
Year after year he has had to face dis-
illusioned shareholders with the tale that
inclement trading weather blighted his
hopes and that imports competition con-
tinued to clog trade outlets for the group’s
expanding production. Now, tradewise,
Davies Coop is in the clear, its prob-
lems of high labor turnover appear to
have eased, and the huge investment in
new plant and equipment completed in
1959-60 should soon begin to pay oft for
shareholders also.
The trouble is, of course, that con-
version into ordinary shares of the huge
sums raised on notes in the late 1950 s
to finance the modernisation programme
has left a legacy of a greatly expanded
number of ordinary shares. True, there
has been a big saving of interest on prior
charges as a result of the conversions
(the only one of these remaining is
£771,800 of registered unsecured notes
maturing in April, 1968). On the other
hand the ordinary capital has swelled to
£5.6 million, an increase from £3.2.mil-
lion five years ago (there is also £300,000
in 6 p.c. preferences). From a highly
geared affair the equity has, as a result
of the conversions, become a low-geared
one.
So the good profit shows up disap-
pointingly in terms of earning rate. The
effect of the rise in profits from £282,007
to the latest £501,422 is to increase the
earning rate merely marginally, from
7.0 to 8.6 p.c. In these circumstances,
though unappropriated profit is accumu-
lating nicely, the need to build reserves
obviously rules out any dividends yet
awhile. Shareholders have been without a
payment since they got 12+ p.c. in 1958-
59.
Conundrum in Sugar
XJLfnH one eye on droopy sugar com-
pany profits and the other on de-
pressed world prices, Millaquin share-
holders may scarcely know how to look
at the forthcoming new issue. Apart
from the undesirable absence of the
latest year’s profit, a further complica-
tion is Millaquin’s notably strong liquid
and reserves position.
Directors have also laid the ground for
additional puzzlement by frequent de-
clarations that shareholders would not
be asked to provide extra funds for the
currently proceeding expansion.
The fact remains that along has come
the company’s first cash issue since its
1914 listing—a one-for-three of 10s.
shares, at a 10s. premium. Total raising
will be £BOO,OOO, £400,000 each of


Four Square
original MIXTURE
An aromatic blend of fine Virginia
The Four
Square
colour
scheme
of things
We call it blue, this Oriental and Virginia
mixture of utter contentment —you’ll
pronounce it excellent. You can’t measure the
coolness, the aroma, the deep, deep flavour—
-you just enjoy it. Try a vacuum-sealed tin
and see for yourself. Four Square Blue.
One of seven great tobaccos.
8/4 for the 2 ounce tin.
V. 1681
MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
€k
D
f
[FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W.
IN
CAPITAL CITIES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pit! SI., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
MA.2I3.NSW
capital and premiums. Presumably, full
details and the missing pieces in the ex-
pansion jigsaw must arrive with prelimin-
ary profit advices.
Millaquin’s high earning rate for
1963-64, 36.3 p.c., could certainly take
a few knocks this year, though the com-
pany’s refining and distilling interests
furnish more reinforcement than the
purely growing and milling companies.
The 1963-64 consolidated earnings
actually rose by £92,191 to £435,492. A
20 p.c. dividend has been paid since 1962.
Sound Finance
"Danks and the quality finance com-
panies appear to have more than
held the profit fort during the latest
financial year. A distinguished contribu-
tion to the first few results came from
Australian Guarantee Corporation, one
of the two recognised leaders among the
finance houses, which hit a new record
in lifting earnings by 15 p.c. to
£2,307,956.
A 15 p.c. ordinary dividend is paid for
the twelfth successive time and needs
£1,245,000. A very healthy cover comes
from earnings representing nearly 28 p.c.
on capital.
Directors are able to report worth-
while support from subsidiaries in Malay-
sia, New Guinea and New Zealand. In
terms of receivables, AGC moved to a
top position by increasing these to
£121.7 million —an advance of £24
million over the year.
Total volume, of business handled
actually reached £159.6 million, with
collections at £135.2 million.
The chairman. Col. H. J. R. Clayton,
echoes most other insurers’ motor-
vehicle claims experience by mentioning
concern on this matter in the subsidiary
Transport and General Insurance. Apart
from motors, all underwriting sections
are “very satisfactory”.
Well-ordered diversification has cer-
tainly enhanced the very efficient AGC
group over the last year or two. Yet the
currently sceptical share market contin-
ues to treat the ss. shares with a degree
of modesty. They sell around 14s. 9d.,
after a best of 17s. this year and 19s. in
1964.
Conserving Funds
A second successive cut in dividend
brings Custom Credit’s annual pay-
ment down from 12* to 10 p.c. The
indication given by the 5 p.c. interim last
March has been followed in spite of a
small growth in group profit, up from
£1,142,361 to £1,166,888.
Earning rate, after allowing for
£32,500 preference charge, comes out


■£
■£* r ? *
4* t
* «*
d m«*
* If ill ******
**£«;**• • 4 .
*r*" \
ft.
jf Id
U $•
w* : -.-; v*->* ~ *~*~«*+
.... -w,,„ ■" W "-"" A " > 'V"'
NZL73
All States are United
in acclaiming Vat 69
fine old Scotch Whisky
All over the world . . . one Scotch stands out
VAT 69
Invest in
ocß
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
4
YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ’WALES' FOR DETAILS
NDI3.N.
at 16.2 p.c. The £1 million issue ct
64 p.c. preference shares was made in
November, 1964, to lift gearing and
enable the company to increase borrow-
ing power.
The latest profit does not include any-
thing from the former subsidiary Custom-
life Assurance, sold to Skandia Insurance
on June 15 for £1,225,000 cash, subject
to a prior £50,000 dividend payment.
A £225,000 surplus on this sale goes
to capital reserve.
During the year ended June 30, group
outstandings rose by £1.6 million -o
£84.4 million. A lowering of income yet
to mature suggests a shortening in the
period of outstandings.
“All accounts considered bad have
been written off,” directors state, and
prudence has dictated a further £250,000
provision for doubtful debts, which now
stands at £750,000.
Custom Credit is the subject of a
“Security Analysis” on page 69.
Bouncy Steel
"'SI/’ith companies in a similar line of
territory doing well, William Atkins
Holdings’ bumper 1964-65 results could
not have been unexpected. The Sydney-
based steel and aluminium distributor
notched its third successive profit rise,
bringing earnings to £144,365 and earn-
ing rate on higher capital to a hand-
some 24.1 p.c.
The result was after both higher tax
and depreciation. Naturally it justified
confirmation of a 124 p.c. dividend rate
by a final 64 p.c. The dividend has moved
up from 1963-64's 114 p.c., following
the two previous years at 10 p.c.
Atkin’s recently closed l-for-6 issue of
ss. shares at a 100 p.c. premium will lift
paid capital by £lOO,OOO to £700,000.
Directors have already announced that
the new 124 per rate should be held on
this.
The old shares now sell around 13s.
to yield 4.8 p.c., with earnings yield 9.2
p.c. The pre-issue peak for 1965 has been
14s. 6d.
Guarding the Future
VTot resting content with its fine repu-
tation as a “package” builder,
Paynter and Dixon Industries has started
to protect future stability by assembling
a quality investment portfolio pre-
sumably the shares of some of its high-
grade clients. Directors announce the


* .
, ■
7
%
m
Y<
m
Vy.-rA
as
i&m
: :>
%®il
g#:s \
His cigarette, too,
has travelled
Benson & Hedges Special Filter was once available only on blue-ribbon jet flights
between London and New York. Today, the cigarette has travelled, and you can
enjoy its distinctive excellence. Benson & Hedges Special Filter, in the elegant
gold packet, is the right cigarette when only the best will do. And isn’t that all
the time?
JBEIkTSDAf amcJj MM ED GES
BH7OA-3-6*
purchase of £78,310 in equities during
the last half of the 1964-65 year. Fur-
ther listed shares and real estate are to
be periodically acquired.
The group has also been able to
achieve a very favorable result for the
latest year. Consolidated net profit went
up 10 p.c., by £13,349 to £149,950, to
produce an earning rate on higher capi-
tal of 28.4 p.c. The one-for-three bonus
issue in October last and a placement
lifted paid capital by £147,097 to
£528,386. Before this, the previous
year’s profit gave an earning rate at
35.8 p.c.
A final 7i p.c. dividend is expected
to bring the year's payment in line with
the 15 p.c. forecast when the issue was
made. The company had paid 18 p.c.
for the 1963 and 1964 years; the two
prior years were at 15 p.c.
Directors have indicated a high vol-
ume of current work and mention that
the June half’s sales were greater than
in the corresponding 1963-64 period.
The ss. shares remain about 3s. below
their best 1964 level of 225., yielding 4
p.c. with an earnings yield of 7.6 p.c.
The group has continuously shown it-
self able to cope with the general ups
and downs of the building industry.
Still Troubles
T|eposit and Investment Co. is still
capable of providing rough jolts for
shareholders. After a batch of write-offs
totalling nearly £4 million, directors have
been forced to announce that “some
further bad debts have become apparent
during the three months ended June 30,
1965”.
The debts have not yet been precisely
ascertained, but directors hasten to add
that the losses “will not affect the ability
of the company to meet its obligations
under the provisions of the various trust
deeds”.
A wholly owned Victorian subsidiary,
Commercial Discounters (Vic.) Pty Ltd
has ceased lending and is now concerned
only in collecting outstandings.
Audited accounts for the 1964-65 year
will be out soon. After last year's
£535,487 loss, the ss. shares have not
moved above 3s. Bd. during 1965. They
now stand around 2s. 3d.
Trimmer Sims
Shareholders of Sydney scrap-metal
merchant Albert G. Sims Ltd must
remain a little longer in the dark
on directors’ intended dividend policy,
though they are doubtless duly pleased
that the projected capital return is now


ESANDA
LIMITED
The main business of
Esanda Limited is to
conduct hire purchase
leasing and other
finance operations
Unsecured notes up to
-■gmm
.r V
::v^
o
■
o
WiSM ii V : : V. ■.. V -I
- •■*> •' •:•':■• y ,-.-Vs v -.. ••<> ;• : *v : : :*
interest per annum
payable half-yearly
w
Applications can be accepted only
on one of the forms of application
referred to in, and attached to printed
copies of the prospectus which
are available from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited
E4p/ 63
HQ
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
287 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WOLAROI COLLEGE
ORANGE, NSW.
(A Headmasters' Conference School)
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR 1966
Applications for Scholarships for boarders and day boys entering Ist FORM or sth FORM
in 1966 close on AUGUST 27, 1965.
For full details please write to the Headmaster, D. H. Prest , M.Sc., C.Ed., M.A.C.E.
on the way. At any rate, on the strength
of that news, the ss. shares began to
creep towards their 1965 high of 75.,
adding 3d. to reach 6s. lid. They did
not move above 6s. 9d. during 1964, so
perhaps some belated capital apprecia-
tion will now ensue.
The return of Is. a share derives from
the May sale of 10 acres of Morts Dock
property. It will eventually bring back
paid ordinary capital by £603,294 to
£2,413,178.
Moves like this are certainly helping
to pull the formerly well-regarded com-
pany into much trimmer shape. Disposal
of the dock land and of the disastrous
shipping venture enabled a reduction of
borrowings and a consequent interest
saving. The stock position is also im-
proving.
The year to June 30 should benefit
more than 1963-64, when net profit at
£301,463 represented 9.6 p.c. on then
capital. Results for the December half-
year would give almost a 20 p.c. earning
rate on the new capital level.
Some optimists are looking for re-
sumption of the old 10 p.c. dividend
rate. The December interim of 3t p.c.
came after three years’ omission of
dividend payments.
Instant Credit
QJo Ready Credit Ltd, Perth-based
financier, has a buyer in its own
backyard, the highly rated Sydney At-
kinson Motors Ltd, a Perth Holden dis-
tributor whose shares sell at around 50s.
Mr lan Jacoby, who was responsible
for floating Ready Credit in Western
Australia in February, 1963, has been
back in the eastern States. It was known
around town that Ready Credit was for
sale to any interested party.
It also was suggested around the town
that Mr Jacoby might like to get back
on the board of Custom Credit.
If Sydney Atkinson’s offer of one ss.
ordinary share for every 10 Ready Credit
shares succeeds, the handsome premium
enjoyed by Sydney Atkinson will make
Ready Credit’s 4.4 p.c. earning rate of
1964 very attractive to the buyer. The
10 times par share rating of Sydney At-
kinson would convert Ready Credit’s
earning rate to 44 p.c. on the par value
of shares issued for the takeover.
It is a ready-made finance company
to assist Sydney Atkinson in its vehicle
sales.
Ready Credit shareholders, who have
watched their ss. shares fluctuate from
3s. 3d. to 2s. sd. in Perth and 4s. to
2s. sd. in Sydney this year, are receiving
at least a nominal par value of ss. a
share if they accept the offer and if
Sydney Atkinson shares stay at 50s.


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES
(£'000)
Year to June 30
1962
1963
1964
1965
Net outstandings
66165
69606
69286
71700
Other liquid assets
2883
3118
1667
—
Investments
1221
2972
1438
Life fund
920
1266
1529
—
Fixed assets
2679
2777
2799
Intangibles
249
99
83
—
Total assets
74117
79838
76802
—
Short term debt
16735
21825
15829
17100
Long term debt
40416
38327
43551
39800
Other liabilities
7371
10196
8020
—
Preference capital
—
—
—
1000
Ordinary capital
7000
7000
7000
7000
Reserves
2595
2490
2402
—
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES
(£'000)
Investment income
1
77
114
Interest
4100
4530
4160
Depreciation
103
107
106
—
Tax provided
948
790
891
926
Pieference dividend
—
—
—
32
Earnings
1308
1104
1142
1161
Ordinary dividend
1050
1050
875
700
Surplus
258
54
267
461
Earning rate p.c.
18.7
15.8
16.3
16.7
Dividend rate p.c.
15.0
15.0
12.5
10.0
Dividend yield p.c. (a)
7.0
6.7
6.8
7.1
High price (b)
14/1
13/-
14/3
9/-
Low price (b)
9/7
10/-
8/-
6/2
(a) Based on the last
sale in
the month accounts
presented.
(b) Calendar year. 1965 to July 31.
Fix It Yourself
AUTO-MOTO
MAGIC OVRHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
Engine Self-Reconditioner While •U ■ Drive,
REPLATES WORN upper cyls., main bearings,
diffs., gears. SAVES rebore, ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new
compression, power, top speed, zipp. SAVES.
Adds £ s.d. to resale value. GUAR, up to
25,000 miles. HARMLESS finest engine.
SIMPLY add amazing expanding mineral Nu-
Metal (pat.) in oil, petrol or plug holes.
1,2, 4,6, 8 cyls. 15/6, 30/-, 60/-, 70/-,
80/-. Testimonials, engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat. morn. Dis. req.
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58
Swan St. (opp. Richmond Stn.), Vic. 42 1755.
I enclose £ for
or send free particulars describing action of
Nu-Metal.
"BUL."
NAME
ADDRESS.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
On a Path to Improvement
Custom Credit's shares “not unattractive”
/Custom Credit Corporation Ltd an-
A 7 nounced its preliminary figures on
Friday, July 30, only a day ahead of
Australian Guarantee Corporation and
three days after Commercial and General
Acceptance. The days are now long gone
when Custom’s figures were available
only a few days after the close of the
financial year. Furthermore, the increase
in net profit after tax seems a much
lower percentage of last year’s profit than
that of the other finance companies which
have reported to date. As was believed,
the dividend rate on the ordinary shares
has been reduced yet again and is now
10 p.c. The market has reacted as might
well be expected. The shares have never
been above 9s. this year and at one time
they reached a low point of 6s. 2d. Those
people who sold out in 1961 (to the
Americans, they say) at 18s. 3d. must
be congratulating themselves on their
good judgment.
Nevertheless, it is always a good time
to take a close look at a stock when the
shares are close to the low point of the
last five years. It could be that the time
is now right to buy back into Custom
Credit.
During the ’fifties, Custom Credit was
regarded as the most dynamic of the
finance companies and always seemed to
be the first in the field with any new
ideas for providing consumer credit.
Capital increased rapidly with issues to
shareholders in 1954 (two issues), 1955,
1958 and 1960. Profit also rose rapidly
and in 1959-60 reached £1.7 million,
more than four times the 1954-55 figure.
One hesitates to lay the blame for
subsequent declines on any one activity
of the company, though there seems little
doubt that long-term housing loans,
which constituted as nuich as 20 p.c. of
the total business at one stage and may
have been higher, made a significant con-
tribution to the company’s problems. In
the first case, it-seems that it was not
appreciated that the Rule of 78 produced
considerable anomalies when applied to
contracts where the term was four
years.
The other problem seems to have re-
lated to a misunderstanding of effective
rates of interest in relation to the flat
rates of interest when the term lengthens.
A general mle of thumb (rather like the
Rule of 78) is that the effective rate is
twice the flat rate, i.e., if the company
charges a flat annual rate of 6 p.c. over
a period of twelve months, the effective
rate paid by the borrower is 12 p.c. per
annum. Unfortunately, when the term
is fourteen years, the effective rate is
little more than 8i p.c. As can be ima-
gined, this rate didn’t leave any scope
for profit. In fact, after deducting 3i
p.c. for administration, it would be by no
means sufficient to cover the costs of
borrowing (the interest payments).
As at June 30, 1964, debts with more
than five years to repayment represented
about 14 p.c. of the total. So to some ex-
tent the problem still exists, although it
would seem to be decreasing fairly rapid-
ly. During 1964-65, the company obtain-
ed funds of £2,225,000 from an issue of
preference shares and the sale of Custom-
life Assurance Ltd. The effective cost of
this money, based on the dividend pay-
ment that must be made on the prefer-
ence shares and the dividend forgone on
the shares in Customlife, seems to be
about 9 p.c. before tax at least, which
makes it rather more expensive than
debentures. But the preference capital
will permit further borrowing of about
£6 million.
Tf we look at the accounts for the
parent company only, we can see that
the dividends received from subsidiaries
have not formed a large percentage of
the profits over the last four years and
the life assurance subsidiary has con-
tributed about a third of these dividends.
This suggests that the parent company
has provided by far the largest proportion
of the group profits. Future trends in
group profit could perhaps be judged
from the parent company's performance.
In any event, quite detailed and con-
sistent figures are given, including ex-
penses, and permit the following percent-
ages of outstandings to be calculated:
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964
Gross income 12.2 12.0 12.3 12.4
Interest 5.9 6.0 6.4 6.3
Expenses 3.5 3.3 3.7 3.8
Net profit
before tax 2.8 2.7 2.2 2.3
This series would look more consistent
if the percentage of “Gross income” in
1962 was 12.2 p.c. and the percentage
for “Expenses” was 3.5 p.c. It would
then be possible to say that the company
was encountering the same difficulties
as all other companies, that is, of rising
expenses with stable profits. It is quite
likely that the steady improvement in the
percentage of gross income to outstand-
ings is due to the gradual running-off of
the long-term loans written from 1960 to
1962 and that this rate of improvement
could continue for some time yet. Un-
fortunately, this improvement seems to
have been matched by the rate of in-
crease in the percentage of expenses with
a continuing increase in the percentage
of interest (until 1964), net profit before
tax as a percentage of outstandings has
tended downwards.
The figures currently available for
1964-65 would suggest a further increase
in the percentage of net profit before
tax to average outstandings. Until the
full accounts are available, it is only
possible to guess that this increase has
arisen from a continuing improvement
in gross jncome and not from any re-
duction in the interest rate paid or in the
expenses rate.
It seems, then, that Custom’s results
should tend to improve from now on.
This suggests that the shares are not
unattractive at present prices.


€•-{,’
:-Wxm ■'•■'"
m
m
mm
Tl
»
free competition means better television for viewers and advertisers
1964 TWO COMMERCIAL CHANNELS
1,238,000
DIFFERENT SYDNEY PEOPLE WATCH THE NEWS ON 9
1965 THREE COMMERCIAL CHANNELS
1,291,000
DIFFERENT SYDNEY PEOPLE WATCH THE NEWS ON 9
CHANNEL 9 thrives on competition. These audience
figures for Channel 9 News are just one example they
show how more people watch the News on Nine now, with
three commercial channels, than were watching when there
were only two commercial channels. Free competition
means better television for viewers and advertisers.
For a breakdown of the daily viewing patterns and other
pertinent facts, contact your local TCN 9 Representative.
* The above figures were specially prepared for Channel 9 by The
Anderson Analysis Pty. Ltd. by a re-analysis of their Sydney Television
Audience Surveys No. 7 of 1964 and No. 6 of 1965.
Channel
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Rd., Willoughby. 43-3444
Sales Sydney: Ist Floor. Cricket House, George St.. 27-2881
Melbourne: 247 Collins St.. 63-8336.
U2l 6


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION UNITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
1
2
O
FOB 5 YEARS
(SECOND SERIES)
7% 4 YEARS
6i% 3 YEARS
64% 2 YEARS
•
5|% 12 MONTHS
wmwmwmw
mt ■
»•
HOW tO apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8880
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
The Cups That Still Cheer
Bushells holds investors ' confidence
OUSHELLS INVESTMENTS LTD
has had to change the balance date
of the publicly listed holding company
in order to meet the requirements of the
Companies Act, which oblige a parent
company and subsidiaries all to have a
common balance date. Although the
latest profit period covers only nine
months, the effect on earnings has been
negligible.
In fact, for the latest period, group
profit showed a 5 p.c. increase to a
record £475,452, equal to 22.3 p.c. on
capital. The reason is that all the opera-
ting subsidiaries balanced in March 31,
the new common date, while the holding
company, which balanced on June 30,
did not trade in its own name.
The company, Australia’s largest tea
and coffee group, has always been
considered one of the blue ribbon stocks.
This latest year has certainly done noth-
ing to shake investors’ confidence.
Bushells has a long and successful
history in the Australian tea world and
in 1937 spread its activities to New
Zealand. It floated as a public company
in 1958, when shareholders, mainly the
Bushell family, placed one-twelfth of the
issued capital of £1,704,499 in 20s.
shares with the investing public at 30s.
6d. Brooke Bond and Co. Ltd, of London,
holds about 20 p.c. of the issued capital.
Profit in the first year after flotation
showed a sharp setback because of keen
competition from a wide range of instant
coffee distributors. Since then the
recovery has been strong, culminating in
last year’s record result. Dividends have
been held at a well-covered 10 p.c.
There have been no cash issues to
shareholders since flotation. But late in
1963 they received one bonus share for
every four shares held, lifting paid-up
capital to the present £2,135,624. Divi-
dend was held on the higher capital.
The company has always been in a
strong liquid position, despite the need to
hold considerable stocks, both of pro-
cessed tea and coffee, and also of stock
in transit from overseas markets.
At last balance date, stock on hand
stood at £3,910,040, up sharply from the
£3,150,669 held nine months earlier.
Directors explained that this was caused
by the need to buy a considerable quan-
tity of coffee from New Guinea late in the
year since sufficient supplies were not
available earlier. The Federal Gov-
ernment’s tariff policy on coffee is similar
to that on tobacco. Processors are
required to buy 30 p.c. of total require-
ments from New Guinea, which are duty-
free, to qualify for a full duty rebate on
coffee purchased elsewhere.
Imports of tea and coffee, drawn
mainly from Ceylon, India and Africa,
are often disrupted by strikes and ship-
ping delays both locally and overseas,
making it necessary to carry larger stocks
than would otherwise be necessary.
To meet any immediate demand for
funds, the company always has consider-
able amounts in liquids this year there
is £300,000 on short-term deposits, com-
pared with £185,529 nine months earlier.
Bushells has a considerable amount
invested in fixed assets, which are in
the books well below market valuation.
Freehold land and buildings are in the
books at the depreciated figure of
£1,933,308, at 1954 valuation with addi-
tions at cost. Nine months earlier the
figure was 1,977,067; since then the
company has sold surplus properties fol-
lowing the consolidation of activities at
the factory at Concord. This is fitted with
the latest processing machinery, which ,1s
being further supplemented in the cur-


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
o
o
o
w
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
4301
4131
4150
4444
5355
Less current liabilities
2187
2168
1826
1720
2139
Working capital
2114
1963
2324
2724
3216
Fixed assets
2440
2900
2917
2843
2714
4554
4863
5241
5567
5930
—
—
—
-—-
—
Represented by:
Capital
1704
1704
1704
2136
2136
Capital reserves
1095
1095
1095
668
668
Other reserves
974
1222
1525
1774
2064
Outside shareholders
781
842
917
989
1062
4554
4363
5241
5567
5930
Depreciation
117
143
185
225
232
Taxation
387
425
444
511
548
Outside shareholders
87
99
107
107
109
Net profit
391
417
451
452
475
Sale of assets
—
2
dr]
dr 1
Dividend
170
170
170
213
214
Surplus
221
249
280
238
261
Dividend p.c.
10
10
10
10
10
Earnings p.c.
23.0
24.5
26.5
21.2
22.3
Dividend yield (a)
3.0
2.6
2.5
2.5
2.8(c)
High price (b)
77/-
81/-
82/6
95/-
82/-
Low price (b)
56/-
72/-
70/-
76/6
67/-
(a) End of September, month accounts
(b) Calendar year.
presented.
(c) End of July, month accounts
presented.
MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
UP
TO
fi
Debenture Issue
Applications accepted only on application form attached to and
referred to in a printed copy of the Prospectus obtainable from
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative Office 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Or any branch of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
f}iv HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 Underwood Street, Sydney
560/652
rent year with expenditure exceeding
£500,000.
Reserves position is strong, with
capital reserves at £668,588, sufficient
for another one - for - four bonus or
better when earnings permit. With no
intangibles in the books, net assets back-
ing of each 20s. share is 455. 7d.
The current year has begun on a con-
fident note, with the company’s packet
teas maintaining their share of the
market despite competition from low
price and low quality opposition lines.
Sales of instant coffee have been such
that expansion at the Concord factory is
necessary to meet demand. The only
dark cloud at the moment is the effect of
increased freight charges, which recently
rose by 1\ p.c.
The shares are currently selling around
725. to show a dividend yield of 2.8 p.c.
and an earnings yield of 6.2 p.c. Even at
these levels they are worth locking away
for future benefits.
F.H. FAULDING AND CO LTD
Sedate and Strong
Druggist
J'Phe pharmaceuticals field has been a
rather disturbed one in recent
years, noisy with charges and counter-
charges on profit margins, especially as
they concern the economic operation of
the National Health Scheme. Manu-
facturers in Australia have also felt the
backlash of overseas struggles about
patent rights and the controversy over
brand versus “official” drug names.
Throughout all these excitements,
Adelaide-based wholesale druggist and
chemist F. H. Faulding and Co. Ltd
manages to preserve a sedate, almost
torpid tone. Not for it the atmosphere
which lately surrounded, for instance,
the industry’s leader, Drug Houses of
Australia.
Yet Faulding last year suffered similar
drooping in the earning rate. So the
chairman, Mr A. F. Scammell, felt it
necessary to utter a dignified rebuke at
the October, 1964, annual meeting.
“There have been difficulties in the
pharmaceutical industry through Can-
berra imposing reductions in profit
margins,” he said. “Wholesale druggists
have never made excess profits, and in
a country as large as Australia with a
scattered population, wholesalers cannot
be expected to distribute at the same
low cost as American companies, where
the overall population is 18 times larger
than in Australia. In Canberra there has
been a wrong conception of the profits
made by our industry.”
During the 1963-64 year group sales
actually moved ahead, “despite the loss
of agencies which temporarily caused
a reduction in some sections”. Profits,
though, came back from £127,787 to
£104,471, producing a 12 p.c. earning
rate and thus narrowing the cover for
the 10 p.c. dividend paid since 1959.
No one can be expecting anything
like a radical change in the soon-to-be-
announced 1964-65 results. The mild
optimism expressed in October, though,
has certainly been confirmed by Marchs
interim report.
In October, Mr Scammell told share-
holders that improvement in the sales
of several major proprietaries had sent
the new year off “with considerably
more confidence than at the beginning
of 1963-64, and full production of
Faulding products is assured for many
months to come”.
The interim continued to report im-
proved sales and, significantly, a better
net profit than for the corresponding
December period of 1963-64.
Since solidity is the group’s most


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
2181
2260
2353
2397
2407
Current liabilities
1344
141 1
1169
1224
1213
Working capital
837
849
1184
1173
1194
Fixed assets
849
871
874
961
972
Intangible assets
20
20
20
20
20
1706
1740
2078
2154
2186
Represented by:
Preference capital
202
202
202
202
202
Ordinary capital
624
624
780
780
780
Reserves
543
583
603
669
724
Unappropriated profits 80
83
85
98
98
Mortgage
257
248
340
326
302
Long service leave
—
—
68
79
80
1706
1740
2078
2154
2186
Depreciation
—
—
48
46
Taxation
87
74
86
88
78
Net profit
118
115
126
128
104
Preference dividend
10
10
10
10
10
Ordinary dividend
62
62
69
78
78
Surplus
46
43
47
40
16
First pref. div p.c.
6
6
6
6
6
Second pref. div. p.c.
5
5
5
5
5
Opd. dividend p.c.
10
10
10
10
10
Ord. earnings p.c.
17.28
16.8
16.86
15.0
12.05
High price (a)
53/-
46/6
12/-
15/6
12/10
Low price (a)
40/-
38/-
10/9
11/-
7/10
(a) Calendar year. Prices for 1960 and 1961 per 20s.
share, thereafter per 5s. share.
;sfK
\?i» E
OTQR
'" w *m
•-
Sfy
i*^ISS
*r
A
r
«
PROTECTION
It pays to put all your
‘insurance eggs’
in one basket
FOR YOUR PROTECTION and FINANCIAL BENEFIT it could pay you hand-
somely to consult us now on all your insurance requirements. Simply
complete and post the coupon below or call us and we will be pleased
to provide you with full information without obligation.
m
THE AUTOMOBILE FIRE & GENERAL INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Founded 14)22)
Branch Offices:
Sub-Branches <
Melbourne 678531; Sydney 2114099; Brisbane 5 4726; Perth 23 2148; Hobart 26403
t Geelong, Canberra,. Albury, Wagga, Goulburn, Newcastle, Townsville.
SEE
A.F.G.
FIRST
PROMPT SETTLEMENT
* COMPETITIVE RATES
* LIBERAL POLICIES.
►
Post today:— A.F.G., P.O.'Box 1625 M, Melbourne.
Please supply me with further information regarding your special
benefits and services available to me.
I am especially interested
IN INSURANCE
NAME ADDRESS
PHONE
a’. F] GV2786
engaging characteristic, investors were
not markedly stirred by the interim
news. The ss. shares now sell around
.Bs. 4d., nudging their 1965 best at
Bs. 6d. They have been as low as 7s. 7d.
this year.
The company, one of the oldest in
Australia, was 120 years old on May
19, 1965. It first commenced business
in Adelaide under the jurisdiction of the
late Francis H. Faulding, and was joined
in 1861 by the late Luther Scammell
who was admitted to partnership. Perth
became the first interstate branch to be
established. In 1899 Sydney branch was
opened and later Queensland.
Subsequently the partnerships were
split into two private companies. The
parent was incorporated in Adelaide on
May 31, 1921. and operated in South
Australia, Victoria, New South Wales and
Queensland under the name F. H.
Faulding and Co. Ltd. The other com-
pany operated in Western Australia
under the same name.
In June, 1947, the Adelaide com-
pany (owned by the Scammell and
Garner families) acquired the West Aus-
tralian company. In September of the
same year, 100,000 5 p.c. second
cumulative preference shares and
100,000 20s. ordinary shares were issued
to the public and the group was listed.
In 1948 15,000 5 p.c. preference shares
were allotted to the Faulding Assurance
and Benefit Fund and, at the same time,
15,000 20s. ordinary shares were
allotted to the staff. Since then the
following issues have been made: Novem-
ber, 1950, 110,130 20s. ordinary shares
at 10s. premium on 3-for-10 basis; May,
1952, 143,170 20s. ordinary shares at
7s. 6d. premium on 3-for-10 basis;
January, 1962, 624,338 ss. ordinary
shares at par on l-for-4 basis, after the
20s. shares were “split” into ss. units.
Thus 100 20s. ordinary shares have
grown to 845 ss. ordinary shares at an
average cost of 6s. and with a net
tangible assets backing around 10s. 9d.
The strong financial position is seen
by the steady increase in reserves and
working capital. However, the down-
ward trend of earning-rate does bear
future inspection, for a like fall in 1965
would see the present 10 p.c. just
covered. Any reducing net profit must
rule out prospects, in the immediate or
near future, of any benefits from bonus
or rights issues. A strengthening of
interests by merger or acquisition could,
of course, be possible.
One point in the accounts worthy of
note for the future is that land and
buildings are shown at cost. Thus they
are well below market value.
Nothing very spectacular need be
expected in the course of the next few
years. In this industry, though, the
virtues of stability and caution should
not be under-rated. The stock possesses
reliable income merits.


CREDIT
corporation Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
DEBENTURE
STOCK
,6 or 10
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST: Application form and Prospectus
may be obtained from
• Any Branch of the BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge House, 249
George St., Sydney. 'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your Prospectus. 1 <’>■'?<
NAME
ADDRESS
1262/ FC
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Don’t Think the Market’s Dul
Shares are evidently on the move
IVfY theme last week was that the market was not as dull as a lot of people have
been making out. This week tan be used as further evidence that shares within
the market are on the move one way or another. One highlight in the industrial
market has been the Newcastle-based company of Steggles.
From 12s. 3d. it streaked to 14s. 9d.
in two days. It is one of the few com-
panies to benefit from the drought.
Before the drought poultry was subject
to violent competition from beef and
mutton. With these last two meatstuffs
suffering badly, poultry is out there on
its own.
Steggles, however, is not only a pro-
cessor of poultry. It also manufactures
stock feed, used by both the poultry
and dairy industry. This side of the
business must also have boomed in the
dry months of the last year. Thus an
excellent result for the year just past
seems assured.
Yet does one year’s performance
justify the share price being marked up
50 p.c.? The danger of such enthusiasm
was only too well illustrated by the sugar
millers in 1963. Come normal seasons
the earning rate of Steggles will probably
return to about 18 p.c. a rate that it
consistently .showed before 1965.
The moral is not to get too excited
by a temporary burst of prosperity
unless, of course, you're a speculator
like myself. One general lesson to be
deduced from the behavior of Steggles
is that the present market is responsive
enough to react to the prospect of a
good result.
A search among the lists revealed a
number of small companies which
should produce record profits. It was
from this group that I chose my two
investments for the week, Kolotex and
A. G. Sims. The Kolotex shares, pur-
chased at 11s. 6d., bring this company
back into the portfolio a little under
the price I sold it for several montns
ago.
Kolotex is probably a more familiar
name to women investors than almost
any other listed stock. Even many of
the other sex are conscious of the Kolo-
tex stocking, following the company’s
very effective advertising programme
over the last few years.
Since the business was reconstructed
in 1962, an outstanding record has been
built up. Profit in 1963 rose five-fold to
give an earning rate of 53 p.c. By 1964
profits were up another 50 p.c., causing
the earning rate to jump to 78 p.c. High
as these rates were, they would have
been so much higher if the depreciation
provisions had been normal. #
Those analysts who revel in cash flow
must have gone delirious with Kolotex’s
figures. The net cash flow almost
equalled issued capital in 1963; by 1964
it was 50 p.c. in excess of issued capital.
BHP pales against this sort of per-
formance!
Although the company made a l-for-4
par issue in March, earning rate for the
full year snould still be in the vicinity
of 80 p.c. I do not know of any other
listed company that should match this
rate this year. Furthermore, there seems
a pretty good chance of the final divi-
dend rate being higher than 5 p.c. In
the interim report, directors stated their
intention of reviewing the dividend
policy before the next annual general
meeting.
The other purchase, A. G. Sims, was
made on the temporary weakening of
the share price to 6s. 6d. A few days
before, directors had announced the Is.
per share return of capital and the
market had immediately risen to 7s.
Like Kolotex, A. G. Sims should please
its shareholders with a record profit.
To pay for these purchases, I took
delight in capitalising on profits on a
couple of very recent acquisitions.
Wreckair at 9s. 6d. showed a profit of
£2B, while Thiess produced a profit of
£9. Both could go a little higher, but,
like most other investors, I’ve learnt the
difference between a paper profit and a
real loss!
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
400 Wreckair, 9/6 £lB6
500 Thiess, 4/7 £H3
BOUGHT
400 A. G. Sims, 6/6 £133
400 Kolotex, 11/6 £235
After the above transactions, I’m left
with a debit of £302.
The week’s dealings left me holding:
.. , .. , Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 33 1\ 43/-
2000 Steamships
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 9/6
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 7/6
2 Ford Debentures 5/7/65 £2OO £2OO
400 Mr Whippy 7/7/65 5/9 5/10
50 CSR 22/7/65 62/9 63/-
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/4
400 King Island
Scheelite 29/7/65 14/5 13/6
400 Pioneer
Concrete (short) 29/7/65 13/9 13/3
400 A. G. Sims 4/8/65 6/6 6/9
400 Kdotex 4/8/65 11/6 11/6


Pick cu poucb
AMPHORA
gentle
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
>%:
(*nof
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
V
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
64
I PRODUCT OF DOUWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HOLLANI
SAI47
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Planned Auctions for Wool?
A long-range goal of reserve price?
is a planned, or managed, auction? It is about time woolgrowers found
** out. But it is doubtful if anyone will tell them exactly. The phrase has cropped
up three or four times in recent weeks and on each occasion the persons uttering
it have promptly bitten their tongues.
As all these people are close to market
goings-on, the matter is worth investigat-
ing.
In this writer's view the planned, or
managed, auction is the likely long-range
goal of the controversial reserve price
scheme over which growers are arguing
at the present time.
Opponents of the reserve price say that
it is the forerunner of an acquisition
scheme. This is denied strongly by the
Wool Board and by advocates of reserve
price outside the Wool Board. In this
instance the reserve price advocates may
well be right.
The International Wool Textile Organ-
isation, representing the customers for
wool, is ambiguous on a number of
aspects of the reserve price plan but not
on acquisition. It has said it would “dep-
recate” an acquisition scheme, with sales
at negotiated or quoted prices. It con-
cedes that an acquisition scheme with
sales at auction might, in theory, be run
in such a way “as to make no difference
to buyers while allowing each wool-
grower, in theory, to get a fair price”.
It has very grave doubts whether this
theoretical escalation from reserve price
would work in practice. In view of this
IWTO opinion, and in view of the strong
denials by the Wool Board, it seems fair
enough to assume that the reserve price
scheme is not intended to lead to an
acquisition scheme. There is nothing to
indicate that the members of the Wool
Board are complete fools. They would
hardly deny the acquisition theory so
strongly if, in their hearts, they knew they
were going to be caught out in years to
come.
Then there is another possible system
which reserve price might lead to. This
is a central appraisement scheme. Again
the IWTO has indicated clearly that it
does not approve of this system. Again,
one is inclined to go along. The reason,
this time, is a practical one. A vital com-
ponent of a central appraisement scheme
would be a large body of appraisers
working on behalf of woolbuyers gener-
afly. _ /
The difficulty of recruiting such a
body of appraisers would, in itself, appear
to be the strongest possible reason for
dismissing this system as a likely result
of reserve price.
This brings us to the unknown system
the planned auction. The IWTO has
said nothing at all on this officially. Nor
has the Wool Board. Yet it is known that
there was considerable discussion on
planned auction at the last meeting of
the IWTO in May in London.
This was the famous IWTO meeting
where, according to the Wool Board,
enthusiastic support for the reserve price
plan was voiced. The Committee for the
Retention and Improvement of the Free
Wool Market says that no such enthusi-
asm was voiced at all. There was no vote
taken and, in fact, the IWTO has never
taken a vote on reserve price in Australia.
The recent letter from IWTO secretary-
general, D. G. Price, to Free Market
chairman, Mr R. Macarthur-Onslow, is
a remarkable document in that it permits
each side to put their own interpretation
on it. If you are already in favor of
reserve price you would say that Sir
William Gunn has flogged the point of
IWTO support a bit hard but that the
IWTO is not against reserve price. If you
are already against reserve price, then
you would say that Sir William Gunn has
misstated the position and that the IWTO
is not in favor of reserve price. If you
are undecided and this is probably the
most important angle you would cer-
tainly start to think a bit more on the
subject.
There is much to suggest that a good
proportion of woolgrowers, the ones who
belong to no organisation and who do
not go to meetings, are not thinking
nearly enough about the reserve price
referendum which will be upon them in
a few months. It will not go away and it
will not take care of itself.
The IWTO letter has been described as
diplomatic. One could go further and say
it is casuistic.
What should be done is this: The Wool
Board, or the Free Market Committee,
should ask the IWTO for a clear defini-
tion of what might constitute a planned


STOP WISHING FOR A SKY HOOK
CROWN
ONE MAN ELECTRIC OR MANUAL TRUCKS
will get you
off the f100r...
up into the
A CROWN will double your storage
space, slash costs on ‘in between’
handling and, most important, operate
where other trucks cannot.
Anyone, after one hour’s tuition, can
efficiently operate a CROWN. Up to
130-inch lift and 2,000 lbs. capacity.
Crown has all the features of bigger,
more expensive machines.
• Easy steering and manoeuvring
• Precision lowering for fragile loads
• 200-inch steering arc
• Big lifting capacity • Smooth
selection of 3 forward and 3 reverse
speeds • Automatic charging with
built-in charger (electric models)
• Feather-touch control
® Four-point suspension
• Dynamic braking
MODELS FROM
£382
Choose from
54 Lift ModeTs
bv CROWN
f
::W:
L
::w.
&
*
Winner of the U.S. Industrial
Designers Institute Award and
American Iron and Steel Insti-
tute Award Citation for Design
Excellence of an Industrial
Product.
Manoeuvres easily in
4 ft. wide aisles.
• New CROWN 2 f ,000
lb. power Pallet Truck
does a ton of work
quickly and efficiently!
Arrange a free demon-
stration!
DAOTJIP
D IVIES INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT PTY. LIMITED
A division of R. B. Davies Industries Limited
450 lllawarra Road, Marrickville, N.S.W, Tele,* 55 1221
Send coupon for details
Davies Industrial Equipment Pty. Limited
450 Hlawarra Rd., Marrickville, N.S.W.
Please send free Brochure illustrating
the CROWN range
NAME
ADDRESS
BULLETIN
SALES & SERVICE—SYDNEY: 450 lllawarra Road,
Marrickville; 551221. MELBOURNE: 40 Robbs Road,
West Footscray; 314 9711. BRISBANE: 16 Thurlow
Street, Newmarket; 56 3496. ADELAIDE: Plant
Equipment & Co. Pty. Ltd., 71 Port Road,
Thebarton. PERTH: Sandovers Ltd., Belmont
Avenue, Belmont. HOBART: Eric E. Howard &
Sons Pty. Ltd., 166-170 Murray Street. LAUN-
CESTON: Eric E. Howard & Sons Pty. Ltd., 177
Brisbane Street
auction system. A clue is available to us
from the remarks to date uttered by
Japanese buyers and textile interests. The
Japanese have been very clever on reserve
price, really.
Months ago Sir William Gunn an-
nounced that he would be getting strong
words of support for the reserve price
scheme from Japan. If he had got it, he
would have released it with the bands
playing.
The Japanese, months ago, remarked
that if there was a bottom limit, or
reserve price, then there should also be
a range of ceiling prices. This was taken
as a sort of bantering comment at the
time. Is it possible that it was meant
to be taken more seriously than that?
It is difficult to see how a ceiling price
could be built into a reserve price system
without destroying the fundamentals of
an auction. Yet suppose, for example,
that woolgrowers (through their buying
authority) were responsible for their
bought-in stockpile of wool failing to
reach the reserve and buyers (through
a similar authority) were responsible for
stockpiling the wool reaching the upper
limit or ceiling reserve. It is guesswork,
one must admit that, but perhaps there is
something like this in some people’s
minds.
Before jumping to the conclusion that
it would be a terrible thing, there is one
particular matter which must be faced.
Logically, and sensibly, there could be
hardly anyone who could deny that in
the future some way must be devised to
sell wool in bulk quantities, on terms, to
under-developed countries. This applies
to most export commodities, of course.
Even the Philp Report, that finding of
a few years ago held so dear by oppo-
nents of reserve price, clearly stated that
in the future some means of bulk dispo-
sal on a nation-to-nation basis may be-
come desirable. It need not be to Red
China. It could, quite feasibly, be utterly
desirable in the case of India. There are
many other countries which would use
much more wool if they could buy it.
Reserve price, as it stands, does not
really make this any easier. The plan
states that bought-in wools must be re-
submitted through the auction system.
Strangely enough, this is not so in New
Zealand. The New Zealand authority
could sell any bought-in w'ool in bulk;
they have never done this. It is a point
which is also not very clear. A planned
auction system, however, might provide
a pool, say, of lower quality wool and
a pool of higher quality wool.
This is all theory and it ignores the
possibility that the reserve price pla fl
just might work well enough to need no
change to something else. Yet it would
not hurt anyone to know what this plan*


ST. JOSEPH'S COLLEGE
Hunters Hill
A competitive examination for TWO
SCHOLARSHIPS will be held on Saturday,
September 25th, 1965.
These Scholarships are open to Catholic
boys who complete their Primary schooling
in 1965.
Entries close on Friday, August 20th,
1965. Conditions and form of entry will
be supplied on application to the Head-
master.
Sydney Church of England Grammar
School: North Sydney
SCIENCE MASTER
A vacancy exists from the beginning of
Term 1, 1966, for a Science Master (must
have Biology) to teach to Higher School
Certificate. Apply in writing to the Head-
master, B. H. Travers.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FRANCIS HENRY L UNDIE. TAKE
NOTICE 'that MARGARET VALDA LUNDIE
(formerly Howe) has filed a Petition No.
3514 of 1964 for divorce ; on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry of the
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the twentieth
day of September 1965. and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from ROY C.
SERIO, Solicitor, 234-242 George Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHN HERBERT O’DONNELL. TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS IRENE O’DONNELL
has filed a Petition No 1238 of 1964 for divorce
on the grounds of desertion and separation.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 21st day of September 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS LINCOLN SMITH & CO.,
Solicitors, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: PAULINE MARY DEACON. TAKE NOTICE
that BERNARD DEACON has filed a Petition
No. 2285 of 1965 for divorce on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before Ist September, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS HOLMAN, WEBB & CO., Solici-
tors, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NELLIE GWENDOLINE CASE. TAKE
NOTICE that CYRIL NORMAN DOUGLAS
CASE has filed a Petition No. 850 of 1965 for
divorce on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street. Sydney, on or before
20th September, 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from DAVID S.
DIND & CO.. Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: FRANCIS RAYMOND STEPHENSON.
TAKE NOTICE that JANET EDITH STEPHEN-
SON has filed a Petition No. 1779 of 1965 for
divorce on the grounds of desertion and
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 20th day of Septem-
ber, 1965, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. G. KNOX, Solicitor,
of 55 Market Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ELSIE MAY LUTSCHINI: TAKE NOTICE
that MARK JOHN LUTSCHINI has filed a
Petition No. 152 of 1965 for divorce on the
grounds of desertion and separation. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
16th September. 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS
lAN DUNCAN. KNUDSEN & CO.. Solicitors.
403-411 George Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
ned auction idea is all about. The cynic
might say he knows what it is anyway.
It has been said, to this writer, that a
certain English textile man remarked
recently that a planned, or managed,
auction was “what we had before the war
and before the Japanese and the French
and the Italians and all those blighters
moved in on the wool market”. This,
simply, means that the world is a different
place now.
There is some truth, though, in the
contention that the greatest period of
growth in the Australian wool industry
coincided with a period during which
British buyers dominated the market.
These buyers, in turn, re-invested profits
in woolgrowing in Australia. Who is in-
vesting heavily in woolgrowing today? It
is an attractive life, perhaps, for a few
people with sufficient personal funds.. It
is simply not a good investment just as
an investment.
Of all the changes in the wool industry
in recent times this decline of interest,
on the part of overseas capital, to invest
in woolgrowing in Australia is the least
commented upon and may very well be
the most important change of them all.
Spreading to the Country
Confusion in a Canberra plan
TT is not difficult to be a critic especially when things are left wide open to criticism.
The Trade Department’s ten-year plan to discover how one million people could be
encouraged to live in Australian country areas instead of the metropolises is a case in
point. ~
In the first place it is not made clear
whether the moving of the people would
take 10 years or whether the working out
of the plan would take the 10 years.
Perhaps that doesn’t matter too much.
The plan does not envisage a vast in-
crease in farming, rather an increase in
country-based industries. Fair enough.
Farming would benefit and farming in-
centives would increase as a natural re-
sult of the plan.
Decentralisation is, of course, a burn-
ing topic with the Country Party. Un-
doubtedly the Minister for Trade, Mr
McEwen, would inspire the Trade
Department to go into this plan. Of the
observations so far made there are two,
however, which would undoubtedly make
Mr McEwen himself blink.
One deals with transport. Canberra
planners (unidentified) have been quoted
as saving that “transport costs for coun-
try industries are vastly overrated”. It
would not matter much, they say, where
certain industries are located "provided
they have access to the main rail and air
routes”. Rail and air routes?
At this stage, let us hope, it is simply
that the planners have not got around to
looking at the problems confronting road
transport in country areas. Any plan of
decentralisation which does not include
greater freedom for road transport is
just not a plan at all. Even today, or
tomorrow, a removal of the shackles on
road transport would encourage the
growth of country industries.
This has been stated over and over
again by so many people that one would
have thought it hardly needed re-stating.
Yet one must remember that nearly all
the people pushing for a freeing of road
transport taxes, penalties and by-laws are
outside Government circles.
Railways are governments’ most sacred
of cows in Australia. Airlines (if the
I PEC business is any indication) come a
close second.
Take the case of farmers who have to
get special permission, entailing filling in
of forms, to cart their own produce on
their own truck beyond a certain dis-
tance. It takes virtually a national disas-
ter, such as the drought, for these re-
strictions to be eased even temporarily.
We all know that the railways could
not have been built in Australia except
as government lines. But this is 1965,
not 1865. There is an attitude permeat-
ing all governments in all States in Aus-
tralia which somehow has it that railways
must be coddled, pampered and protect-
ed from competition offered by road
hauliers, who have the gall to run busi-
nesses at a profit.
The second part of the plan, or what
we have been told of it anyway, suggests
that the “hardest part would be to con-
vince the public that it would be doing
itself a good turn by accepting jobs in
the country”. Who arrived at this re-
markable conclusion? Probably some
planner in Canberra who would not like
to live in Armidale and give up all the
good things the public servants have given
themselves in the ivory tower!


• • 9
N
LkJ
■BINDERS
for The Bulletin
For 15/- you can keep three months’ copies of The Bulletin
m a cloth-bound, gold-lettered binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is in constant demand, and for business houses where frequent
reference is made to past financial features; ideal, too, as a
gift for a friend.
Send 15/- (cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to ’‘Bulletin
Binder, Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the coupon
and address label below.
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS, price 15/- a copy (post free). /
enclose £ / / cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address .
State
If more than one binder is ordered, attach list giving full
name, address. State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name .
Address
• State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box 5352, G.P.0., Sydney*
''The Bulletin Crossword No. 860
ACROSS
1—Narrow down the characteristics of superior avi-
fauna. (4, 8)
8— The French moved this bird. (3)
9— Multiple subtraction signals calls to vote in the
house. (8, 5)
10— The German XI shows a little spirit. (3)
11 — Organ lover doesn’t take over a nobleman. (4)
12— Convulsions backed the marshland to become more
rigid. (7)
16— It’s food, thanks to a sacred picture. (5)
17 — A feature in lettering backfires. (5)
18— Vowels matched eggs. (3)
19— Effortless poetry? (3)
20— How to take the blame for
a walk? (5)
21— A small recess in the Britan-
nic hegemony. (5)
22 They’re very, very funny
outcries. (7)
23 Settles in French country. (4)
25—Business’s detail of the trig
century bone. (3)
28—Cowardly idiot is in the soup.
(7, 6)
30— China drops in one of its
popular drinks. (3)
31— Taken along to the box-office
when called to answer for
misdemeanours. (7, 2,4)
DOWN
1— Hooey in the stop-press; it
takes a sweet tooth to swallow
it. (5)
2 H. P. Bourke’s beyond. (5-5)
3 Immovable fleet. (4)
4 Cupid upset it with fur, but
can be replaced by means of
money in a sinking fund. (11)
5 Husband dropping by Boston.
(3)
6 Unfed flier, (anagram) (6, 4)
7 Sounds as if a country has
done enough tucking in to
widow itself like Othello. (9)
8— Direction which makes the
Chinese featureless. (3)
13—Some blooming advice to
keep me in mind. (11)
14— Parent painters feature nothing
in liqueur. (10)
15— Don’t hang around after ask-
ing for money; it’s pretty pre-
carious! (5, 3,2)
16— Opium on tap? What balder-
dash! (9)
24—Shaw couldn’t stomach this
edition of Keats. (5)
26 Solidarity eroded by this evi-
dence of injury on the mend.
(4)
27 A famous Venetian sport. (4)
29—Cooper’s handiwork. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 859


I*
wss,
ill
htiega self-winding Seamaster: the world’s favourite sports watch. Winds itself automatically. Hermatically sealed against water.
As illustrated: Gold filled £4B. Also Stainless Steel £39.
This self-winding Omega Seamaster
is as tough as the sportsmen who will wear it.
Its accuracy and long life are assured by waterproof tests in a special simulator, unique to Omega.
Designed for a long, tough life.
The Seamaster is a sports watch. It has
been built to take the rough-and-
tumble of water skiing, motor racing,
power golf—and still give you pre-
cision timekeeping.
What makes the Omega Seamaster
a great watch?
Certain components of the Omega
Seamaster are machined to an accuracy
of 2/000th millimeter (1 /9th the dia-
meter of a hair). In watchmaking this
is the difference between greatness and
mediocrity, between accuracy and
poor timekeeping.
More accurate because you never
wind it.
The mainspring of a stemwound
watch releases much of its power
immediately after winding. It then
weakens progressively. As the main-
spring uncoils, the accuracy of the
watch is compromised. The mainspring,
of the Omega Seamaster reaches peak
tension shortly after you slip on the
watch. Thereafter, every flick of your
wrist winds the movement. The result:
a steady flow of power, i.e. enhanced
accuracy.
Waterproof to a depth of 200 feet.
When Omega say a watch is water-
proof they really mean it. Every Sea-
master has been put through the
unique Omega “diveproofing” test. In
45 minutes the watch is shot through
17 different pressure changes. It’s like
plunging a watch 200 feet below the
sea, then catapulting it to the top of
Mount Everest. Your Omega Sea-
master is therefore ready to accompany
you skindiving, solo-flying or moun-
tain climbing.
The world-famous Omega name.
Like all Omegas, the Seamaster has
been precision-engineered, lavished
with infinite care. It is styled on the
lines of classic elegance that Omega
is famous for. It is unconditionally
guaranteed for a year against any
possible mishap except loss, fire or
theft. All through its long life it will
receive the backing of the Omega
World Service Organization spread
over 156 countries. No wonder Omega
Seamaster is the most sought after
precision sports watch in the world.
You will find the Seamaster at the best
Jewellers only. They were appointed by
Omega because they merit your
confidence.
Q
OMEGA


A beautiful leap ahead
in style and space
m
WHITEWALL TYRES OPTIONAL EXTRA
You might think a Station Sedan as beautiful as the all-new
Holden could easily get by on looks alone. But this one has
a whole lot more good things going for you. New curved styling
that makes it the roomiest of any wagon near the price. An
even longer load space. A new kind of driving excitement from
your choice of three engines up to 140-hp. And just wait till
you try Holden’s ride . . . it’s quieter, smoother, more luxurious
than ever. But why wait at all? See your Holden Dealer now
. . . for the car that’s a leap ahead in all that means most for
motoring pleasure.
HOLDEN
STATION SEDAN
Prices from £960 plus tax
general motqrs-holoens
Discover the difference drive the one that's really new
8370
