

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
LEE' f\a
KUAN l ' eS
YEW’S SINGAPORE
-red in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Mass*
Australia 2/- f Hew Zealand 2/-, Malaysia.- $1


(
M| :
V
*5B
A mood of affection
for the private world of home
with the music of ice playing harmony
to the poetry of a fine Scotch
(PGUlums
the whisky—Perfection
Scots (ilhisky
3 *-4
D.u 'icd 0.,d b‘e"dcd « SCUTIHQ
•muo BHufcitooMMeMwHun««^ n
a product of Scotland ... of her soil, her rivers, her very atmosphere.
MC65.108C


BOTTLED BY THE WINEGROWERS, COONAWARRA ESTATE LTD.
weisqjsi
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CABERNET
VINTAGE 1958
AUSTRALIAN CLARET NET 1 PINT 6 FL. OUNCES
An Estate wine of S. WYNN & CO. P/L
The original plantings in 1890 at Coonawarra
Estate of Hermitage (Shiraz) vines have
been supplemented over recent years with
plantings of the rare and exquisite Cabernet
Sauvignon. Thus two distinctive high-quality
clarets are available from the Estate. We
recommend these vintages:
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET 1960 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CABERNET 19 5 8 Vintage
The Bulletin
Established 1880
AUGUST 21, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4460
LEE KUAN YEW’S
SINGAPORE
The birth of a nation 21
HUBERT OPPERMAN
A question of guts? 29
THE MARTIN REPORT
A year later 39
FIJI
A Malaysia in miniature 35
TANNER ... 12 LETTERS .... 42
ROSS CAMPBELL 28
BATMAN 33
THIS AUSTRALIA
Malaysia: Cabinet’s consolation .... 14
Economy: The evil day 15
Civil Rights: Beyond Kalumburu .... 17
Reflection from the Bar 18
OVERSEAS
America: Hotter than Harlem 37
India: The 18th year 37
Vietnam: Two new problems 37
ART & ENTERTAINMENT
Return of the Tintookies 44
Writer as necessary evil 44
OPERA: “Faust” Why? 45
FILMS: Sellers again 46
THEATRE: “Poor Bitos” 48
BOOKS: Voices of Hate 52
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Obligations of underwriters 58
New-type service apprentices 64
MAN ON THE LAND
More doubts on Woolmark 60
! Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
j Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504,


'7' TSi • v ’ :
-
- ' :•
§§tiili
m $
m
>
We make some of our chemicals for shipbuilders,
iiii
8
».v <a
wmmm§mm§WSi
s:■■ ■
w
•&
is*
:*,fi
7&
&
some for paper makers,
some for detergent makers
and some we even make for other chemical companies.
You never know where you’ll find
our chemicals. Chlorothene* NU
solvent cleans ships’ engine-room
equipment without fire and toxic
hazards. Separan* retention aid
improves paper. Dowfax* 2AI
surfactant goes into thousands of
bottles of detergent. And that’s just
a beginning. Our list of basic
chemicals for the chemical processing
industry goes on and on. What else?
Well, name an industry any
industry—and chances are good that
Dow makes at least one product for
it. Our products aren’t being
selected by accident, either. It all
comes about because of our reputa-
tion for reliability and uniformly
high quality chemicals, agricultural
chemicals and plastics, regardless of
quantity. We’d like to have the
privilege of putting our products in
whatever you make. May we? Dow
Chemical (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
M.L.C. Building, 105 Miller Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
*Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company.


- '
'
■
m
IPS
Ife :
•'•’■' - ■ ' . ••''''' ■• :
"
■
.#
!k i > -
■
■ i. ,»’'
H
r
:: » esas
: 1
ml
% ;
nn 1
S'-;* »§*
• "...
■UH
1i v> '■ :
il
gfli
K&..,
ill
■;■■■: ;
: ■; ?
#
; f
■ V .:,
wmlP
■: :
Mill
- /. v Si
. j
zc.oo>*o? : '‘ : ■■••■■> !
:
* v V 4 ' ', a $ %*' *,
: Xfi| • '^SMGK
IraHi
t
<
1
:, ■■ t'f ".:..'
Settle for any other brand of petrol
but Ampol?
Not me. I Buy Australian?”
It is vitally necessary that you, and every other Australian, should support Australian-owned
companies—companies whose earnings stay in Australia, who have a vital financial interest
in increasing Australia's prosperity.
Ampol invests heavily in projects like refineries—shipbuilding—oil search—mineral pros-
pecting . . . projects that will play a part in making us a world power. So next time you
need petrol ...
BUILD AUSTRALIA, BUY AUSTRALIAN, BUY AMPOL


'■■V,.
Miss Marina Hsieh CAT flight stewardess serving on The Mandarin Jet
Tisket-a-Tasket
what’s in the basket
Walnuts! Yes, deep fried walnuts ... a
traditional Chinese delicacy served as
appetizer*. This is only one of the many
extra touches that make for the gracious
service on The Mandarin Jet.
In the Orient, fly with us and see. You
can also get a free stop over in Taiwan
between Hong Kong and Japan (72 hours
no visa required).
* First Class
For bookings on
CAT
See your travel agent
7ke m
Serving: Seoul • Tokyo • Osaka • Okinawa • Taipei • Hong Kong • Manila • Bangkok
CAT*,


'
is a registered trade mark.
Union Carbide
™?v
i::
i
- .
I
-
as*
: : %K-
-■i-:
If you are not packaging them
in polyethylene film bags,
you are wasting your dough.
Polyethylene Sells:
Transparent polyethylene film is the
perfect package to sell the appetite
appeal of bread and other bakery
products.
Its superiority as a moisture barrier
prolongs the freshness of bakery
products, while the softness and
warmth of polyethylene film add
the feeling of freshness.
Hygienic polyethylene film bags
stay sealed, reducing returns. At the
retail store (or in the home)
refrigeration can prolong the life of
the polyethylene-packed loaf.
Polyethylene Sayes:
With all its performance advantages,
polyethylene film can cost you less
than the paper or waxed wrap you
may be using now. Polyethylene
film is one of the least expensive
packaging materials of all—a frac-
tion of the cost of other clear films.
Ask for Details:
Ask us for a free introduction to a
polyethylene film bag supplier who
can provide assistance and advice.
Simply contact the Union Carbide
office nearest you.
Union Carbide is the world’s lead-
ing supplier of polyethylene resins
from which high quality, polyethy-
lene film bread wraps are made.
Specify the Union Carbide poly-
ethylene resin UCAL42O2 for
bakery packaging film bags.
Union Carbide Australia Limited
Plastics Division
167 Kent Street, Sydney
Branch Offices in State Capitals
§§sa
Ss,


How did he do it?
w-
X
%
m
He arrived in Melbourne at 9.00 a.m.
He made six calls in different suburbs.
He drove across town to head office.
m
He went out to the new plant.
mmk
V
wamm.i
■■V - •
He detoured to visit friends—still made it to the hotel by 7.00 p.m. for dinner I
Avis was waiting for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to meet you
on arrival with a new Ford Falcon.
When business takes you interstate, it’s good business
to have an Avis Falcon waiting for you at the airport or
railway station. That way you get more done —with less
strain. Within a few moments of arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. An Avis
Falcon always comes to you in peak condition —
clean, shining and with the petrol tank full to the brim.
It’s yours to use as your own, for as long as you like. And
all the while, you and the car are protected by proper
insurance. Repeat—proper insurance. When next you
travel interstate, arrange for an Avis Rent a Car to meet you
on arrival. Book your Avis car with your travel ticket, or ask
your air hostess in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival.
mm-
.i
«r
«»
m
/
Ct
fi
AVIS
RENTA CAR
For a day 3 a week 3 or all the time.
AF3S7


National Notebook
The Wark Special ' "
■p*R lan William Wark, 66, is familiar
both with complex formulae and the
wiles of mountain trout. He may need
both sides of his wisdom in his new post
as chairman of the Commonwealth
Advisory Committee on Advanced Edu-
cation. This committee will advise the
Federal Government on how to spend
£5B-million of State and Commonwealth
money over the next three years in pro-
moting tertiary education to diploma
level in technical schools, business col-
leges and some other non-university in-
stitutions.
Dr Wark, a member of the executive
of the CSIRO, is a distinguished physical
chemist. A doctor of science of Mel-
bourne University and a doctor of philo-
sophy and Fellow —of 'University
College, London, he made his way up
from Deepdene State School, Melbourne,
and the old Melbourne Junior Technical
School by way of scholarships, exhibitions
and prizes. He made his name in his
own field first by the development of
flotation processes for mining companies
and then by the creation of CSlRO's in-
dustrial chemistry division.
Normally he would retire in a year or
two and take a pocketful of director-
ships, but his new position changes that.
The CSIRO pays him £6600 a year, and
he is expected to get something the same
as permanent committee chairman.
Dr Wark once played pretty good
tennis. He made the “B” Pennant team
for Albert Park, but his main hobby is
outwitting trout in mountain streams
near Melbourne. He is the inventor of the
Wark Special, an artificial ant that Vic-
torian fly-fishermen are using increasingly
in their subtle struggles.
One tangle he will have to solve is
how to get along best with Victoria’s
new Institute of Colleges, which the
Bolte Goverment has hurried into being.
This is a grouping of seven main techni-
cal schools including the Royal Mel-
bourne Institute of Technology which
the State Government is to raise from
diploma to degree level. An eighth is to
be added.
Up to diploma level the colleges will
come under the benefit scheme to be ad-
ministered by Dr Wark’s committee.
Going to the People
Tf you can’t get people to go to the
theatre the thing is to take the
theatre to people. Sydney’s theatre has
been decentralised to some extent but
the spread has been to where there are
theatres but not necessarily audiences
available. The new Peninsula Playhouse
at Avalon, one of Sydney’s northern
beaches, hopes to capture audiences from
the 50,000-odd people living in the area,
which has already more cultural and
community groups than you could shake
a surfboard at.
The theatre is actually the assembly
hall of the Avalon Public School, but
with the blessing of the NSW Education
Department and the help of the head-
master, Mr Les Maguire, it is being made
available as a playhouse at any time it
is not needed for school activities. The
Department regards Avalon as a pilot
scheme. If it works there, it may be
tried elsewhere.
The Playhouse intends during the year
mainly to be available as a try-out for
city theatres, or to stage productions from
other theatres after their initial run.
The Australian Theatre for Young
People will include the Playhouse in the
spring holidays itinerary of its produc-
tion of Goldoni’s “The Servant of Two
Masters”. Then the production will pro-
bably return during the Christmas holi-
days.
The Playhouse’s artistic director, actor
Nigel Lovell, said the first thing the
theatre hoped to create was a “relaxed
atmosphere”. “Going to the theatre in
the city becomes such an occasion,” he
said, “and for people living here,
20 or 30 miles from the city, it becomes
an expensive occasion with cost of trans-
port, probably dinner in town and a
babysitter added to the price of tickets.”
Although the Playhouse will have to
dodge in and out of the theatre be-
tween P. and C. meetings for most of
the year, it hopes to blossom into a
fully professional repertory theatre during
the Christmas holidays when the popu-
lation of the area swells with summer
visitors. If funds can be raised for
full-scale lighting and equipment in time,
the company will do two or three plays
for evening performances and one day-
time play for children in summer, when
the atmosphere is most relaxed and the
competition from city theatres at a
minimum.
Ready-mixed Religion
I'T'he old-style church signs such as
A “Jesus Saves” and “Repent Whilst
There is Still Time” are on the way
out. Witness to a new age of religious
evangelism is a large hoarding outside
a venerable bluestone church in the
Melbourne inner suburb of Richmond
which announces to the world in large
black and yellow letters, “Some Minds
Are Like Concrete All Mixed Up and
Permanently Set”. Nothing else, no ex-
“I wonder how they would go alongside a bloody Mary ."


't
...
mm,
rovoTH
* ..
..
I !>*.{
i #
H
*k.
if!
6/7 TONNER
Here’s the big, tough, money-saving Toyota 6/7 Tonner. Toyota
has teamed up a massive 236.7 cu. in. engine, rugged 4-speed
gearbox and 2-speed rear axle, and a G.V.W. of 24,000 lbs.
□ Toyota 6/7 Tonner’s incredibly strong steel girder frame—
multi-stressed—handles the heaviest loads with ease. A
longer cab-to-centre rear axle end handles bulkier loads.
A flat chassis plan makes individual body building easy.
□ The big power-economy engine of 145 b.h.p. at 4,000 r.p.m.
delivers a maximum torque of 230 ft./lbs. at a low 2,200 r.p.m.
Big, powerful vacuum boosted brakes give maximum driving
safety. The shorter wheelbase and narrow turning circle
give quick, precise manoeuvring. □ Business-like cab seats
three big men in comfort. Controls are well placed, smooth-
handling. Lights are extra powerful, glass area is bigger.
Efficiency is the keynote. □ Whatever your trucking job,
the big, tough Toyota 6/7 Tonner means outstanding durability,
greater profit. □ All Toyota commercial vehicles are sold
and serviced by an efficient network of Toyota dealers in
all main 'centres of the Commonwealth. Look for the
authorised sales and service sign—it’s your guarantee of
service that has helped to make Toyota famous. □
THIESS (SALES) PTY. LTD.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
AND IMPORTERS. N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTORS, 185 O’RIORDAN
STREET, MASCOT. 67.3621.
VIC. Distributors: Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 638 Footscray Rd., Footscray. Tel.: 68.4321.
QLD. Distributors: Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd., Kerry Rd., Archerfield. Tel.: 47.3977. S.A. Distri-
butors: Toyota Land Cruiser and Truck Sales, 138 South Rd., Richmond. Tel.: 57.6651. TAS.
Distributors: Co-Operative Motors Pty. Ltd., 131 Collins St., Hobart. NTH. QLD. Distributors:
Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd., Ingham Rd., Garbutt. Tel.: 93.270. W.A. Distributors: Premier
Motors (Toyota) Pty. Ltd., 65A Adelaide Terrace, Perth. Tel.: 21.7260. N.T. Distributors:
Thiess (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 18 Smith St., West Darwin. Tel.- 2023.


hortation to walk the paths of the Lord,
just the bold, secular aphorism, which
surely must have come from that in-
exhaustible mine of middlebrow wis-
dom, “The Reader’s Digest”.
Each man is to make of the message
what he can, each man is to judge for
himself how much it applies to him,
but he is given the strong tip that it may
not be for him at all. The sign is prob-
ably a clever attempt by the church to
get on-side with secular man, whose
characteristic response will probably be
to stare at the sign, murmur “quite
right,” and drive on with a slightly high-
er opinion of the shrewdness of the
clergy.
But the subtle approach is only one
of many methods used by the promoters
of the new-type religious billboard.
Much more to the point in these days
was the large sign outside another Mel-
bourne church some months ago which
read: “Beware of Brief Delight and Last-
ing Shame”.
An Unknown 10 per cent
Tf the critics of the Commonwealth’s
Secondary School scholarships are
right then the scheme favors those who
come from the wealthier homes and the
private schools, perpetuating rather than
breaking down class distinction. And it
seems from some unofficial investigations
that they are right, with the reservation
that the best schools do not always have
the wealthiest students.
Last year, when the scholarships were
first awarded, both the method of testing
and the social effects of the awards were
under fire and frequently confused. In
fact, the general aim of the scholarships
was made quite clear by the Federal
Government: the £4OO was to go to
“bright boys and girls at secondary
school”, irrespective of their means. The
test on which they are awarded had to
be common to all competitors in each
State. Undoubtedly the best test used is
that designed by the Australian Council
for Educational Research and recently
administered for the second time. It is
described as a test of “developed abili-
ties”, and takes scarcely any account of
the specific subject content of school
courses.
About 10 per cent of fourth year stu-
dents win a scholarship. As yet no one
knows for sure the social or economic
background of this 10 per cent; the
critics may have their points confirmed
in time.
But what rankles many State teachers,
at least in Victoria, is not so much that
the best private schools do better than the
best State schools but that those State
schools that do best in examinations are
better treated in staff and equipment, they
retain their staff, and they are increas-
ingly being sought out by ambitious
parents. It has often been noted that
State schools are neglected because the
most influential and articulate parents (as
well as most politicians) patronise the
private schools. Now, it seems, Victoria’s
State schools are beginning to divide in
much the same way.
Homage
T*he Director of the NSW Conser-
vatorium, Sir Bernard Heinze, has a
reputation for being something of a giant-
killer when it comes to Beethoven.
Memories of his journeys through the ac-
cumulated passions of the nine sympho-
nies live in the minds of those fortun-
ate and hardy enough to sit through
them. A team of four accomplished pia-
nists, Gordon Watson, Romola Costan-
tino, Eunice Gardiner and Albert
Landa, are at present carrying on this
homage. In eight separate concerts they
will play the 32 Beethoven piano sonatas.
Far from being simply an endurance
test for performer and audience alike,
this undertaking represents an effort on
the part of Sir Bernard to transform the
Conservatorium into an institution
actively involved in performance as well
as tuition.
The task of organising the series fell
to Gordon Watson. At the planning
stage, in which the various sonatas were
divided between the four players, it be-
came obvious that certain works were
not popular. By the time the 32 had
been shared, there remained a small
group, among them the notorious “Ham-
merklavier” sonata, which had been re-
jected by all four. Watson gallantly of-
fered to devote an additional concert to
the outcasts. On closer inspection, and
after considerable effort in practice, he
found that together these sonatas made
a fine programme.
Golden West
estern Australia’s goldfields people
may be able to stand pain
and disappointment, but they certainly
can’t stand criticism. British TV com-
mentator Dan Farson learnt of their
fierce pride in their surroundings when he
called Kalgoorlie “the most God-forsaken
place on earth”. Last week the Golden
Mile’s wrath was turned on another
critic. After his first trip to the Unit-
ed States the critic claimed that Kalgoor-
lie was dying on its feet and should be-
come a small Las Vegas.
An irresponsible remark would cer-
tainly be out of character with Mr Vic
Steffanoni, the Taxation Department’s
chief valuer, awarded an MBE in the
latest Queen’s Birthday honors list for
his 52 years’ service to the Young Aus-
tralia League, an organisation which
stimulates education through travel.
He feels that Kalgoorlie’s long-
standing affinity for gambling might
well save the old gold-mining boom
town. “If Kalgoorlie becomes a little Las
Vegas, a freeway from Perth would
be needed to handle the traffic,” he
added.
Speculators
lY een speculators may note that the
regular Bulletin feature, “Specu-
lator’s Diary”, is now to be found on
the back page, in this issue Page 78.
THE AUSTRALIAN CONFEDERACY
80 Years Ago: August 29, -1885
ENGLISHMEN who visit us for the pur-
pose of writing books never, by any
chance, forget to notice one characteristic
the jealousy entertained in New South
Wales against everything Victorian, and
the sincere manner with which the ieel-
™ ,h Vt er side , °
the Murray. Evidences of this mutual
attachment reach us from all quarters-
the Parliament, the Press, and the pulpit.
So long as the colonies are weak,
sparsely populated, and dependent, no
great harm is done by these manifesto-
tions. But as the years go by, as the
various provinces pass from adolescence
to manhood, and are filled with those
aspirations and desires which nothing
but complete national independence can
satisfy, there is no saying what mischief
might not result from the estrangement
which appears to us to be unhappily
growing greater day by day.
With New Zealand it is quite different.
So far as the proposed Australian Con-
federation is concerned, no analogy exists
be , ween her and New South Wales. In.
deed, it is extremely doubtful whether
... , ~ k , ,
® lthe " f e t ° r the Confed «acy would
beneflt by her i oinm 9- 11 ever a country
was intended by Nature for an indepen-
dent career il is New Zealand. Large and
fruitful enough to support an immense
population; isolated enough to possess
hut little interest in the affairs of even
her nearest neighbors, and possessing
resources second to none, her future is
enviable and secure. For her, isolation
is the true policy. Not so the continental
colonies particularly New South Wales.


Tanner
"Of course Knopfelmacher is a bad influence in Universities-look at all the unethical conduct among the
professors."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Singapore or Fremantle?
/\ne of the most important questions
raised by the secession, or ejec-
tion, of Singapore from the Federa-
tion of Malaysia is the future of the
vast British military base on Singa-
pore island. Even if Britain is offered,
and accepts, the same terms for its
retention as existed before the separa-
tion, the situation is obviously now
more unstable and both Singapore and
Malaysia especially a post-Tunku
Malaysia will be under strong in-
ternal pressures to change their foreign
policies, including those towards
Britain and Indonesia. Already the
British Prime Minister, Mr Harold
Wilson, has said that Britain is con-
sidering “alternative deployments of
forces” in this part of the world.
One need not assume any swift
closing down of the Singapore base,
even if only because Prime Minister
Lee Kuan Yew is well aware that
Indonesia eyes it hungrily and that
any trade with Indonesia that might
follow the closing of the base could
replace only a fraction of the income
now derived from British military and
civil expenditure on the island. Separ-
ated from Malaysia, with a strong
Communist Party within and a con-
tinuing Indonesian threat without, Lee
Kuan Yew may well want to retain
the British more than ever.
Nevertheless, Australians must re-
assess their position or rather their
dilemma: Singapore’s vulnerability is
now more evident and its future less
certain, but at the same time there
simplv is no adequate replacement for
Singapore anywhere else in South-East
Asia. For an air base, alternative or
supplementary Australian sites are not
difficult to find. Darwin would fulfil
many of the requirements and there
are also suitable islands But Darwin
is not the answer to the need for a
naval base with major docking and
repair facilities. Darwin’s port has a
large tidal variation. It is so close to
a potential aggressor as to allow easy
access for attack. It does not have
the industrial back-up essential for
a base, nor adequate electrical power,
basic supplies, fresh water, skilled
and unski'led manpower. The expense
of buildins these at Darwin or any
other northern port would be astro-
nomical.
The case for Fremantle, however, is
stronger. Some 50 per cent of our
external trade goes across the Indian
Ocean, using or passing near
Fremantle. The shipping has to be
maintained; it may have to be pro-
tected. Fremantle or its environs is
a most suitable location for a major
base, while advanced facilities will
also need to be developed, perhaps at
Exmouth, Darwin or elsewhere. The
cost will be disturbing but so is the
danger of having no base at all. At
the moment there are no sizeable dock-
ing facilities along 10,000 miles of
coastline from Melbourne around (the
long way) to Brisbane.
It may be that Britain and the
United States would be prepared to
assist us in such a costly project. Both
their navies would make use of the
facilities provided, and we are the one
stable, friendly industrial nation in the
region,
,
~ Yet , wl ! eth f the y h u e, P us or n ° ;
’ le , ma!n burden must be ours, as will
mam benefit. At whatever rate
*he Singapore base is run down, we
need a base of our own to meet present
expanding needs and as a military
insurance policy. We have talked
about the idea of a west coast base for
years; the time for the decision is now:
recently a ship had a major break-
down off the West Australian coast
and had to be towed to Hong Kong
for repairs!
The Double Code
of the more sanctimonious
features of the campaign against
Dr F. Knopfelmacher at Sydney Uni-
versity is the double code of his critics.
Although his most outspoken op-
ponents are Leftists, they claim that
their opposition is not a matter of
political discrimination and that they
simply doubt his suitability for
academic life. This in itself is ridicu-
lous enough, yet it is these same critics
who commit the most flagrant breaches
of established academic proprieties.
The standard was set by Professor
Frederick May. While the Profes-
sorial Board of Sydney University was
still waiting to make a final decision
on Dr Knopfelmacher's application
last April, this suitable academic saw
fit to write to the Press, using these
adjectives of Dr Knopfelmacher: “un-
ethical, paranoid, hyperbolic, illiterate
and windily meaningless”. Since then
Dr Knopfelmacher has re-applied for
the position at Sydney University, and,
keeping pace with Professor May,
Professor A. E. Alexander has seen
fit to write to the Press, commenting
on a report of some of Dr Knopfel-
macher’s opinions perfectly reason-
able ones: “What utter nonsense from
a person who (presumably) still be-
lieves he is worthy of an academic
position in the University of Sydney”!
Since it has long been one of the
academic proprieties that members of
Professorial Boards do not publicly
comment on, let alone insult appli-
cants, one might be excused for assum-
ing that, after each of these letters had
been printed, the Professorial Board
would have demanded the writers’
resignations or even that the Vice-
Chancellor might have dismissed them.
Naturally that did not happen. But if
these professors are prepared to broad-
cast their reasons for voting against Dr
Knopfelmacher, why is not the discus-
sion of all appointments held in
public? Or at least why is there not
a public Appeals Tribunal to deal
with complaints about academic ap-
pointments?
In view of the fact that people like
Professor May and Professor Alex-
ander can, with absolute impunity,
flout academic convention and insult
an applicant for a position in their
university, many people will assume
that the Professorial Board will now
reject Dr Knopfelmacher’s latest ap-
plication, just as they did his first,
(if and when the selection committee
again recommends him). If this does
happen, public sympathy for the idea
of an Appeals Tribunal may well be
intensified; in any case it should be.
No one likes to emphasise it, but it is,
after all, the public which pays for
universities and pays for their mis-
takes. It is surely entitled to more say
in university matters —especially when,
unfortunately, Professorial Boards in-
creasingly seem unworthy of the
privilege of running their own affairs
free from any outside corrective.


THIS AUSTRALIA
MALAYSIA
Cabinet’s Consolation
“Common interests and perils ”
MR LEE KUAN YEW
In the Malaysian crisis Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies and External Affairs
Minister Paul Hasluck are undoubtedly hoping for much from the political good
sense of the seeming antagonists, Tunku Abdul Rahman and Mr Lee Kuan Yew.
Either could probably have put a
match to the combustible material of
the split and created a situation in which
feelings would have been embittered irre-
treivably for years. Instead the Tunku’s
letter to the Singapore Government was
deliberately designed to minimise the
blow, emphasing as it did that he was
taking this action of breaking with
By ALAN REID
Singapore only because he saw it as the
only amicable and possible way out.
Similarly the statements of the Singapore
authorities since the break have empha-
sised that Singapore was willing to be
friends with all the world but was not
prepared to take “an attitude hostile to
and against the interests of Malaysia”.
Whether the Tunku and Mr Lee will
be able to persist in this approach of
eagerness to recognise mutual interests
and mutual perils, under the political and
international pressures to which both
leaders will undoubtedly be exposed, re-
mains to be seen.
But both are emphasising in private
communications with the Australian
authorities that this is their desire. Mr
Lee has told Australian representatives
that his approach to the problems of the
area is unchanged and that Singapore
will not be a party to action that could
threaten Malaysian security because to
do so would be to place Singapore in a
position where its own security would be
threatened. This view that if Malaysia's
security is threatened Singapore's security
also comes under immediate threat is
shared by Australian Ministers. They
say bluntly that their judgment is that
Malaysia cannot be defended without
Singapore, just as Singapore cannot be
defended without Malaysia.
The Australian Government believes
that its role should be to act as good
friends to both parties. It believes that
it is fortunate that Australia has good
relationships with both the Tunku and
Mr Lee. Sir Robert Menzies has been
close to the Tunku for quite a long
while. It was Sir Robert that the Tunku
used as his main ally at London confer-
ences of Commonwealth Prime Ministers
to get from that assembly declarations of
support for the concept of Malaysia and
its right to decide its own destiny free
from external pressures such as Indo-
nesia's confrontation.
Similarly, Mr Lee is held in high re-
gard by Sir Robert Menzies and Mr
Hasluck. Mr Lee recently visited Aus-
tralia as the guest of the Australian
Government. For Mr Lee the visit was
quite a triumph. He established not only
close contacts with the ALP, with which
as a Socialist he was an affinity, but also
profoundly impressed Government repre-
sentatives with the manner in which he
enunciated a tough, intelligent, non-Com-
munist approach to Asian problems, and
his advocacy of an Asia in which living
standards could be raised without resort
to the authoritarianism of Communism.
Apparently while the Australian
authorities have a high regard for Mr
Lee, the Singapore Prime Minister also
feels that basically Australia has a real
sympathy for him and his plight. Not
only did he take particular pains to see
that Australia was informed of his views
and intentions but he also said that in
drawing up a constitution for Singapore
he would look for assistance to Australia
and might even seek the Chief Justice,
Sir Garfield Barwick, as an adviser. One
of his first acts as the leader of an
independent country was to inform Aus-
tralia that Singapore would be repre-
sented by its Chief Justice at a meeting
in Canberra this month of Common-
wealth Chief Justices.
TRADE
Stoned in
Wellington?
The Tasman talks
There can be only limited optimism
that the Tasman Trade Talks in Can-
berra last week will pave the way for a
future free trade area or a Customs
union arrangement between Australia
and New Zealand.
Under the terms laid down in April,
1963, for the preparatory committee to
work on, some of the biggest industries
in both countries and the ones most
likely to be affected by such arrange-
ments did not figure in the discussions,
and the communique last week inevitably
reflected a guarded attitude on both sides.
On the hopeful side it is something


that the agreement envisages that
eventually most of the trade between
the two countries would be included.
Against this there is the admission that
“some items would always have to be
excluded”. This in itself underlines the
strict limits of the objectives canvassed
at the talks.
Clearly the Ministers were engaged in
an exercise of what was practicable in
the reasonably near future and were not
thinking about economic integration or
anything like that, even if it may have
been at the back of their minds.
It is also a hopeful sign that although
no trade items qualifying for concessions
on either side have yet been named,
there seems to have been provision for
timing of actual reductions in duties.
However, the communique is at pains to
reassure affected industries that there
will be a reasonable period of transition
for the introduction of changes in duties.
From New Zealand’s viewpoint it was
highly satisfactory that the Australian
delegation agreed not to impose import
restrictions on NZ products for balance
of payments reasons, but we could
hardly have done otherwise in the light
of our highly favorable trade balance
with the Dominion. Admittedly, as a
result of reduced exports of petroleum
products to NZ following the establish-
ment of a refinery there, our exports
dropped slightly last year, but they are
still just under four times higher than
NZ’s exports to us.
New Zealand found no impelling
reason to give similar assurances to us
about restricting imports for balance of
payments reasons. Indeed, no NZ Gov-
ernment would be in a position to do
this at present. It would be strongly
opposed, for instance, by the nascent
manufacturing industries in NZ and
would also be precluded by the pattern
of NZ’s export markets which are
primarily in the UK. The agreement
makes the point, in fact, that there will
be no disruption of trade for other
trading partners of the two countries.
One’s first impression is that Australia
has done little in this agreement to open
up any very worthwhile channels for
additional NZ exports to this country.
One hears that lamb imports will only
be permitted when there is an acute
scarcity here and that in the key dairy
products field the main questions have
been left unanswered. On the other
hand, NZ’s exports of timber products
could get a lift, depending, of course,
on the findings of the new joint Con-
sultative Committtee on forest products
to be set up under the agreement. We
can only hope that, with apparently so
little in their briefcases to appease their
own manufacturers and importers with,
the NZ team does not get stoned on its
return to Wellington.
ECONOMY
Come The Evil Day
At Paddington Town Hall
The Government’s Budget assessment that labor supplies will be the biggest
bottleneck in a tight year makes ironical the ACTU’s executive even division on
Budget eve over the proposed 24-hour national strike.
The deadlock at eight-all on the
proposal in the executive postponed the
evil day. It left the strike issue to be
resolved by the ACTU full congress of
520 delegates from 97 unions at the
Paddington Town Hall next month.
It was something that Victoria’s
Trades Hall Council endorsed the
ACTU’s executive’s refusal to call a
stoppage, but this was not before Mr L.
Carmichael, district secretary of the
Amalgamated Engineering Union, ram-
med home the point that the evenly split
vote of the executive showed only the
usual militant union leaders wanted the
strike. It was not made clear what
useful purpose the strike would serve,
though at least Mr G. Hayes, of the
Bread Trades, recognised that it would
not solve all the problems. Nobody ap-
parently suggested that a strike would
make things much worse, but the secret-
ary’s intimation that he’d had only five
letters requesting a stoppage and that
most unions were against it, held out a
firm hope that the congress in Sydney
would vote against a stoppage.
Non-militant counsels may well pre-
vail at Paddington. This would mean
the economy would be saved the general
waste of a national stoppage, but it will
still have to bear hit-and-run strikes of
the transport and waterside variety, and
these could have serious repercussions.
By J. C. HORSFALL
If pushed far enough, such stoppages
would restrict employment opportunities
and even prejudice the absorption of the
additional migrant intake the Govern-
ment is now to target for (in work-force
terms this year the Government is to seek
55,000 new migrant workers, 5000 more
than 1964-65's actual intake).
Admittedly the coast is not all that
clear on the economic front, and indeed
two income-generating forces, exports
and capital inflow, are under some threat
at present. But this threat is not, in
my view, sufficiently strong, or at least
predictable enough, to offset what would
appear to be very high income-genera-
ting potential in Government expenditure
and fixed investment. If private fixed
investment possibly tapers off later in
the year, all the signs are that fixed in-
vestment in the public sector will make
up for it.
Obviously, one of the key factors in
this is whether the country can afford to
draw down overseas funds at the 1964-65
rate when £147 million was drained.
The rate of fall has been at about £5
million a week on average in recent
weeks, rather higher than last year’s
average of about £3 million a week. One
of the troubles here is that the reserves
have possibly not yet taken the full
strain of recent high levels of imports
because of these being financed in part
on deferred payments. The liquidation
of the latter would sooner or later have
to be financed from reserves. This hap-
pened in 1953-54 and in 1962-63 follow-
ing years of heavy importing caused by
expectations that import restrictions
would be imposed.
However, one can take a measure of
reassurance from what Dr Harold Bell,
economic adviser of the AMP, told the
Australian Society of Accountants in
Sydney last week on the reserves out-
look. First, he made the well-recog-
nised point that the seriousness of last
year’s fall in reserves was, for one thing,
tempered by the fact front-line reserves
were still historically high. In addition
these were backed by substantial second-
line reserves in drawing rights with the
international monetary fund. These were
increased last year and all told reserves
would still be equivalent to about six to
seven months’ imports at the July rate.
Quite clearly, any further upward
movement in imports, or even a pro-
longed continuation of recent record
levels of imports, could make the balance-
of-payments drift assume disturbing
proportions. But. he said, at the present
juncture my personal view would be that
budgetary action, or physical controls,
aimed at drastic curtailment of imports
could impose more overall difficulties
than would be incurred if imports are
allowed a further few months to make
a natural correction.
The big imponderable in all this would
seem to be whether such a natural cor-
rection will in fact take place. To say
that it will is probably to assume that
there will be an .easing-off in internal
economic activity in the near future.
Even with the possibility of more strikes
looming up, this would be a very brave
assumption in face of the Budget’s big
boost to income generally.


■
rz%M*
"
.
: :;:.:;v>; : ;:
S
: w>-',
move this and keep it working?
use this.
A Grace Bros, expert is only a
phone call away to move any sized
office quickly, economically, effi-
ciently. □ Guarantee to have the
office back in operation on sched-
ule □ Offer you a foolproof cata-
loguing system which prevents
confusion and mix-ups □ Have
Australia’s biggest office removal
equipment pool □ Also specialise
in executive, government depart-
ment and consular moves □ Cus-
toms and forwarding services
□ World-wide removals. Grace
Bros. will safely store inactive files
and records, allowing immediate
access at anytime. Grace Bros*
are geared to give
you the most rea-
sonable quote.
GRACE BROS
ACROSS THE STREET . ACROSS THE WORLD
EM Vi Hi
Sydney 2-0946 □ Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 n Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Lismore 2265 Q Murwillumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
GRSS
SCIENCE
Back to
Napoleon
The gamma spectra
Testimony based on radio-activation
analysis of human hair, given during
an appeal against conviction for murder
in Sydney last week, was a milestone in
the history of forensic medicine in Aus-
tralia whether or not it proves to be
decisive in this appeal.
The head of the nuclear chemistry
section at the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, Lucas Heights, Dr Lloyd Earle
Smythe, gave evidence that neutron acti-
vation spectra of hair of the accused,
Terence Leslie Guerin, 22, and clutched
in the hand of the murdered woman,
Mrs Colleen Sherwood, who was found
strangled in. her Baulkham Hills home
early last year, were so different that
there was only about once chance in a
thousand that the two hair samples came
from the same scalp.
(The Crown claimed that the two
strands of hair found in the dead
woman's hand were similar to Guerin’s
hair and said that Dr Smythe's tests did
not prove otherwise.)
A' murderer was convicted in Canada
recently when the same technique was
used to prove that a single short strand
of hair in the hand of the victim was
identical with the hair of the accused.
According to forensic scientists, neutron
activation methods have a big future in
practically every field of legal chemistry.
Early work with the method involved
estimates of extremely small amounts of
arsenic in hair. This poisoner’s favorite
is present in most human hair but rises
when arsenic is eaten. A big early suc-
cess was the discovery that a lock of
Napoleon’s hair contained over 10 parts
per million of arsenic. This was much
more than that yet found in any normal
human hair examined, and upset his-
torians by showing that Napoleon had
met an unnatural end.
The method consists of bombardment
of the sample by neutrons. These atomic
particles change the nuclear structure of
many elements present, activating them
to emit characteristic gamma radiation.
The type and intensity of these radiations
identify each element and measure the
amount in the sample. The “hardware”
used to record the radiation varies from
geiger counters to complex scintillators
coupled to multi-channel pulse height
analysers that produce the “gamma
spectra” quoted in evidence by Dr
Smythe.


CIVIL RIGHTS
Beyond Kalumburu
The haunting question
“It is not much to show for fifty years’ work.” After weeks of relentless advocacy
by the Sydney Queen’s Counsel, Mr John Kerr, there could be none among those who
have followed the test case of equal pay for Aborigines before the Full Bench of the
Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, who would disagree with
this judgment.
~ 0
Kerr was quoting an old Spanish Bene-
dictine priest, at er osen o osa, w o
buru S inlh n e g h°ean S of a S toilf watred
valley where 300 full-blood Aborigines
are living in the remote North Kimber-
leys of Western Australia.
Kerr is appearing for pastoralists who,
for the past six weeks, have been con-
testing the historic claim by the North
Australian Workers’ Union for equal
r „ 1 r nn . _
pay for 1500 to 1600 Aboriginal station-
By BRIAN JOHNS
hands, and 500 to 600 Aboriginal dom-
estics employed on stations in the
Northern Territory.
By the time the Commission had ad-
journed the hearing in Sydney last week
until September 23, a full canvas of the
wretched plight of Aborigines had been
drawn. After the opening addresses in
the stoical, judicious atmosphere of the
Commission in the small third-floor
chambers in Phillip Street in Sydney last
month, the Full Bench adjourned to
Alice Springs to see for itself the con-
ditions and status of Aborigines. And last
week because of the absence owing
to illness —of the Sydney solicitor, Mr
A. T. Brodney, who is appearing for the
union, Kerr did not go ahead with his
plan to call new witnesses, but merely
addressed the Commission “as a further
stage of my opening address.”
what h( , did> as he has done since the
hearings opened, was to present the Com-
with views and opinions of
anthropologists, of the Federal Govern-
ment > of missionaries, of doctors, of
pastoralists, which together added up to
a picture in which the bulk of Aborigines
in the North were not equipped for or
disposed to “working to the level of a
member of the white community”. It
, .. T ,
was a cruel summation, or as Kerr
would have it, “the negative part of my
case”.
Cruel or negative, the case Kerr has
propounded leaves not the Government,
the pastoralists, the union, or the general
community, without grave and disturbing
responsibility. Listen to Kerr: “If we
take education for example, education is
still not available to most of these
people” . . . “In our submission it simply
would be absurd to suggest that we have
yet reached the position in which all
Aboriginal workers on stations, or indeed
very many of them” could work on equal
terms with whites.
As for the Government settlements,
which amount to almost the total official
effort to help Aborigines, Kerr de-
clared that his clients offered to the Com-
monwealth “the view that the people on
their stations do not want to go to the
settlements. They also offer the view that
to go to the settlements is destructive
psychology.
“If this result is to follow from any de-
cision by anyone, that decision will be one
in which my clients do not participate.”
This has been the haunting question
confronting the Commission. If the Abo-
rigines are granted equal pay will they
be forced off the cattle 'stations, their
last traditional tribal areas. (As the Vic-
torian Federal Labor member, Mr Gor-
don Bryant, told the Federal ALP Con-
ference when it was considering its Abo-
riginal policy in Sydney last week: “Ask
an Arnhem Land Aborigine where is his
land and he will point to the surrounding
country”.) Kerr has been clear on this.
He has told the Commission that if the
pastoralists are forced to give Aborigines
equal pay, they will either mechanise or
employ more white labor.
But as Kerr said in another context this
is only “one ingredient in a highly com-


plex situation”. On Wednesday the Presi-
dent of the Commission, Sir Richard
Kirby, parried a statement by Kerr that
“the task of the Commission is not to
try to achieve social revolution by a
wage-fixing determination” with the fol-
lowing question:
“No, but could you have the reverse
side of the coin? Should the Commission
set out the desire to maintain the status
quo as far as these station settlements
are concerned.”
Kerr said last week that it was his in-
tention at a later stage in the hearing “to
show lines of hope”. The pastoralists’
representatives in Sydney are believed to
have held discussions on a specific
training programme for Aboriginal
station-hands which could be submitted
to the Commission. One young pastor-
alist, Mr Denis John Driver, has already
told the Commission that the Aborigines
would have to achieve a “white line of
thought" which could only be reached
by the Aborigines being cut adrift from
their tribal environment and culture.
This price seems horrifyingly costly.
But on Wednesday Kerr read the Com-
mission a paper on ethnopsychiatry
written by a psychiatrist and former
superintendent of a psychiatric hospital
to which Aborigines from several areas
were admitted. The psychiatrist, Dr
Cawte, based the paper on the results of
a study of the Kalumburu Mission.
“In this observer’s view the prevalence
of conspicuous neurosis and personality
disorder is at least double that in an
Australian white population. Unmistak-
ably, these groups represent problems of
unusually large dimensions. The mission-
aries are in substantial agreement with
this estimate allowance being made
for differences in terminology and the
concept of illness.” In this last statement
Dr Cawte was referring to the fact that
traits such as laziness, irresponsibility,
suspicion and lasciviousness “tended to be
classified as moral defects rather than as
evidence of personality disorders”.
The Commission was told that the
Kalumburu Mission has minimal con-
tact with whites off the settlement. The
younger, progressive families live in
European-style houses and the men work
on the mission cattle station. Twenty-five
children attended a primary school.
But for all this, Dr Cawte reported
that “the personality disorder which per-
meates Kalumburu and which must be
recognised in this spirit, is the passive,
dependent variety, interwoven with pas-
sive-aggression. There is complete de-
pendence on the mission for shelter and
food; the old bushcraft and food-gather-
ing skills are being rapidly lost. There is
little resourcefulness and self-sufficiency,
There is little incentive to learn at school
and little application to work afterwards,
There is little desire to learn a special
occupation”.
In the face of this, how heavy is the
cost of radical change?
LAW
Reflection From The Bar
The heavy salvo
Last week the Bar Council of New South Wales fired its heaviest salvo in its
campaign for the retention of the jury system in motor accident actions with the
issue of a 50-page manifesto.
The Council in its explanation of pub-
lishing the booklet, “Your Right to a
Jury Trial", said it was at first reluctant
to “enter into public controversy with
certain judges who reflected on the Bar
and its motives for supporting juries”.
The argument that the Bar in defending
juries spoke only from motives of self-
interest lacked consistency as well as fair-
ness.
“If the abolition proposal will in fact
shorten trials, the Bar will be able to in-
crease its earnings by conducting more
cases in the same time,” the booklet said.
As expected, “Your Right to a Jury Trial”
argues skilfully the advantages of a trial
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
by jury, answers the criticism of juries,
and the disadvantage of a trial by judge.
The Attorney-General, Mr K. M.
McCaw, has said the time taken to em-
panel and read out the names of the jury;
that before the morning adjournment
counsel took turns in “addressing the
jury"; that after adjournments “the far-
cical process of calling out the jurors’
names took further time. All this rig-
marole trebles the time involved,” he
said. But the Council maintained that the
average time taken to strike a jury in
NSW would not exceed 15 minutes.
Calling out the names of jurors after each
adjournment took less than a minute on
each occasion, and often this practice
was dropped by many judges. It was nec-
essary, the Bar said, for counsel to take
time addressing the court if the client’s
case was to be properly presented. A trial
without jury would in no way eliminate
the need for addresses, nor was there
any reason to believe that the time taken
to address a judge would be reduced.
In 1961 there was a delay of up to
three years in bringing action for per-
sonal injury to trial in the Supreme
Court. Since then, owing to an improved
listing system, the period between setting
down and trial had been reduced from
18 months to three or four months. The
Bar claimed that, allowing for the time
spent in preparation before the case can
be set down, the delay from commence-
ment to hearing need be no longer than
a year. Certainly, the Bar said, no trial
for personal injury could satisfactorily
proceed until the plaintiff's final medical
condition was known.
Answering the argument that the aboli-
tion of juries in motor accidents would
save expense, the Bar maintained that
litigants, who were claiming or resisting
damages for serious injury, would want
proper and full representation. The ques-
tion of costs was decided by the taxing
officer of the Supreme Court, and the
majority of barristers charged fees ac-
cording to a scale adopted in 1960—•
not since revised. If litigants were crowd-
ing into court to an alarming extent they
were not being deterred by the fees. If
these fees were extortionate, however,
the Council felt it was a proper matter
for concern. But it had never been ex-
plained how the abolition of juries would
alter the level of fees in any way.
The risk that jurors might occasionally
reach a wrong conclusion, the Council
said, was to be weighed against a similar
occupational hazard affecting judges. It
had been argued that a jury’s verdict was
apt to be based on irrelevant considera-
tions, such as sympathy for a plaintiff
who has been injured, or a widow and
children of an employee who has been
killed in the course of employment. Be-
cause discussions in the jury-room were
confidential it was difficult to know what
substance there was in this contention.
But the Bar said certain statistics showed
that juries found for the plaintiff in six
cases out of seven.
The Bar felt it would still be necessary
even without a jury to have witnesses
come before the court. The suggestion


’mu mam
HAVE YOUR VEHICLES RIGHT IH YOUR OFFICE!
Communication is so much more powerful... more reliable with
STC’s new Mobile Radiophone system.
Today you can control your vehicle fleet on as efficient cost-time basis as your office
.. . thanks to the advanced techniques used in STC Radiophones. The STC Radio-
phone is so small it fits snugly under the dash of any vehicle. At the same time it has
that extra performance and reliability to suit your particular needs. There is only one
way to test and compare STC Radiophone superiority on your own premises. Let
us show you!
An experienced Communications Engineer will survey your operational area to
provide a complete system tailored to your needs. A convenient Purchase Plan
permits the system to pay for itself as you use it, and return extra profits through
greater fleet efficiency.
For further information on STC Mobile Radiophones contact Standard Telephones
and Cables Pty. Limited, Moorebank Avenue, Liverpool, N.S.W. Phone: 602 0333.
Melbourne 44 5161. Canberra 9 1043.
Distributors: OLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane, 4 1771. S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone
Pty. Ltd., Adelaide, 51 3731. W.A.: M.J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth, 21 6461. TAS.:
W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston, 2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport
ITT
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
T223A
that the time of medical witnesses would
be saved by having their reports tendered
was not supported by experience in the
District Court and the Workers’ Compen-
sation Commission. ~
On the disadvantages of trial by judge
the Council pointed out that different
judges had blindspots on different quest-
ions. Barristers could furnish illustrations
based on personal experience of cal-
louses in the minds of the most high-
minded judges.
It was necessary, the Council said, to
understand these individual preferences
and prejudices to know the particular
judge’s “form”. If judges were to replace
juries in 60 per cent (motor car cases)
or 96 per cent (all personal injury cases)
of the work of the Supreme Court at
common law, the “form” of the judge
would assume decisive importance.
The Bar said a single judge trying an
action for damages was in an awkward
position, being denied the moderating ad-
vantage available to every jury of an
exchange of views followed by group
decision. He must either act upon his
own uncorrected assessments or he must
try to harmonise his award with the
awards of other judges in other cases.
The Attorney-General, Mr McCaw,
last week said the State Government
would study the Bar Council’s documents
but felt the statement could not be taken
as the unanimous viewpoint of the Bar
members.
RSL
At Anzac House
“Foul charges ”
During last week’s New South Wales
RSL congress, the halls and passages of
Anzac House were strangely still and
for once the battles of both World Wars
were not re-fought.
Communism was the priority item for
the 100-odd delegates (representing al-
most 1 10,000 NSW League members).
On Wednesday, after a two-hour debate,
the Congress called on the Federal
Government to ban the Communist Party
in Australia, delegates claiming it was
“white-anting trade unions and dominat-
ing the stevedoring industry”. The next
day a three-man WWF delegation ap-
peared on the steps of Anzac Plouse,
demanding their “democratic right of
reply to the foul charges levelled against
the 3000 ex-servicemen in the WWF”.
While the delegation awaited a reply
from NSW League president Sir William
Yeo, a strong guard of police arrived, but
eventually, after much slogan-shouting
and with loud cries of “unfair”, the WWF
men left the scene, promising to return.
They failed to do so.
Inside Anzac House, the delegates got


back to business, which included requests
for the Federal Government to increase
the scope of National Service. The RSL
would like to see all eligible males be-
tween the ages of 18 and 24 included in
the call-up, and the call-up itself extended
to both the Royal Australian Navy and
the Air Force.
The congress also urged Canberra to
make it compulsory for all migrants to
apply for naturalisation after five years’
residence in Australia. By becoming
naturalised migrants would become elig-
ible for military training, not only build-
ing up the potential pool of National
Servicemen, but perhaps making their
acceptance in this country easier.
PETER HARVEY
POLITICS
Liberal Boys and Girls
Going with the YLM
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
The recent appointment of Melbourne solicitor, Mr Andrew Peacock, as pre-
sident of the Victorian division of th eLiberal Party, highlighted a significant behind-
the-headlines political development.
Mr Peacock is 26 and has risen to
power through the rapidly expanding
Young Liberal movement. Until re-
cently the Young Liberal movement was
usually dismissed from serious considera-
tion in political councils as a collection
of social butterflies and political ama-
teurs. The fact that it has always had
almost equal numbers of male and
female members (called “boys and girls”
in the movement) probably added force
to this dismissal. Whatever its history
the Young Liberals’ movement is now
very much a politically aware and edu-
cative body, and fast-growing.
In Victoria it has about 2000 members,
as compared with 500 five years ago. In
the last 12 months 15 new clubs have
been started, bringing the total to 38.
About half the club membership have
been successfully encouraged to join
Liberal Party branches. The numbers
are similar in New South Wales, and in
Queensland, where the movement is ex-
panding faster, with Young Liberals now
making up 20 per cent of the member-
ship of the Queensland division of the
Liberal Party.
The causes for the growth of the
Young Liberal movement, according to
Mr Charles Hider, chairman of the Vic-
torian Young Liberals, are, firstly, the
enthusiasm of recent leading organisers
of the movement, and secondly, the fact
that the movement now attempts to give
a full political training to its members.
“If they join only for social reasons they-
don’t last long, but if they join for
politics they get politics.”
Included in the Young Liberal training
scheme are leadership courses, political
science conferences, debating groups,
model parliaments, street corner meet-
ings (in Melbourne the Young Liberals
and the Salvation Army have almost a
monopoly of these), and door-knocking
campaigns. Members are expected to
distribute Liberal propaganda in their
suburbs and to man polling centres dur-
ing elections. In these activities they are
"Have you ever tried to go straight ?"
often assisted by members of Parliament,
increasing numbers of whom are coming
from the ranks of the Young Liberals.
Organisers are aware that the glamor of
mixing with MPs is an important factor
in sustaining the interest of members.
Direct access to decision-making insti-
tutions is also an important stimulant to
the participation of Young Liberals in
club activities. Club resolutions go be-
fore the central committee of the move-
ment, and from there they may go to the
State executive of the Liberal Party. The
movement is represented on all of the
State and Federal councils and executive
of the Party.
What appears to be of equal or more
significance in the revival of interest in
the Young Liberal movement is the
awakening of political perception
amongst middle-class youth because of
the Communist penetration in Asia and
the war in South Vietnam. A feature
of their membership lists is the relatively
high number of migrants.
PARLIAMENTARY SALARIES
Stage Shy
Money for wives
The most remarkable aspect about (he
Parliamentary Salary and Allowances
Committee sitting in Brisbane is She
reluctance with which members have
come forward to put their views.
The ALP has boycotted the committee
and a number of Country Party mem-
bers are reluctant to advocate increased
salaries currently £2650 a year plus
allowances —while their constituents are
suffering from what one CP member
described as “the worst drought in the
white man’s history”.
Reluctance to appear before the three-
man Done committee, which is sitting in
public, has been so great that the com-
mittee has warned members publicly that
it was to their own benefit to co-operate.
The committee was also disappointed with
the number of answers they received to
a questionnaire distributed to MPs,
which the ALP also boycotted.
One of the few members who was
not stage shy was the Transport Minister,
Mr Gordon Chalk, who last week
advocated to the committee that the
salary of backbench MLAs should be
increased by 32 per cent and that of
Ministers by 50 per cent. The Justice
Minister, Mr Delam, also suggested that
the wife of a State Parliamentarian
should get £2OO a year for secretarial
services to her husband. This would
compensate for family disturbance. The
committee is expected to give the Premier
its report by November, and Mr Nicklin,
the Premier, has said Parliament will act
on the report then. Members are tipping
an increase of about £350.


LEE KUAN YEW'S
SINGAPORE
The bird of a nation
SPHERE are no flags flying in Singapore. For a new nation which has just become independent, Singapore
seems to be singularly reluctant to celebrate the achievement in public. In the sultry heat of the nation’s
first Saturday afternoon the only sounds of singing and dancing come from Raffles Institution, Mr Lee Kuan
Yew’s old school.
On the green lawns earnest-look-
ing Chinese schoolgirls, Malay troops on
leave, and Indian teenage boys their
black hair greased and shiny in the sun
all tap their feet gently to the sound
of the latest rage in Singapore, the
Vampires, An all-girl quartet of 14-
year-old guitarists who, with a polite
“one, two”, launch into such Oriental
numbers as “A Whole Lotta Shakin’s
Goin’ On”.
But the shaking has nothing to do
with independence it is merely one of
the items in a concert and jumble sale
afternoon which the local branch of the
Junior Red Cross has organised. Across
the road at the Capitol Theatre the
giant hoardings proclaim the current
attraction, “Goldfinger”, doing record
business. In deference to the distinctive
brand of locql governmental puritanism,
the gilded lady in the poster advertising
the film is wearing a pair of strategically
painted bikinis. In the shops of High
Street, where everybody seems to be
having a special sale, the shopkeepers
are enthusiastically keen that you should
“just come and look”.
As evening comes, bringing little relief
from the mugginess unless you escape
into the air-conditioned nirvana of some
hotel room or private home which can
afford it, the roly-poly Sikh watchmen
surely the least fierce-looking watch-
men in the world take up their
traditional position, fast asleep on their
rope beds in front of the shops which
they guard. At Raffles Hotel a party of
American widows has returned from a
guided tour, hot and bothered.
On the surface then, nothing, it seems,
has changed. The public celebration
which one might expect in a newly-in-
dependent nation is missing. But it
would be a mistake to assume that this
reflects the feelings of the people of
Singapore on the momentous events of
the past week, either in terms of their
lack of concern at what has happened or
in terms of their lack of joy. What
matters is who among the people here
feel joy and who feel concern. There
are indications that the business and
trading sections of Singapore have wel-
corned the separation (now the preferred
word to “secession”) from Malaysia as
proof that Singapore now controls its
own economic destiny, as hope that
From SAM LIPSKI
Singapore will start trading with Indo-
nesia again and drop the economic boy-
cott which followed confrontation, as
encouragement to expand an already
growing trade with Communist China
and as a spur to investment by foreign
capital. For instance, the small traders
in Chinatown greeted the announcement
on Monday with fireworks, the Stock
Exchange had a week of record-break-
ing trading with some three million
shares changing hands and so overload-
ing the share clerks that business on
the Exchange came to a standstill at
regular intervals every day, and every
shopkeeper will tell you that the future
looks rosy.
There have been immediate and keenly
felt compensations for separation the
dropping of the turnover tax being
one of them. Singapore businessmen,
especially the Chinese, are always pre-
pared to operate on large turnovers and
comparatively small profits, at least in
the early stages of their business: they
certainly breathed a sigh of relief on
Monday when the tax was dropped.
The barter traders all along the coast
most directly hit by the Indonesian trade
embargo are optimistic and feel that
resumption of trade is only a matter of
time. Their counterparts across the sea
seem to feel similarly. Within 24 hours
of the announcement security authorities
had to turn back an Indonesian trading
vessel from the Rhio Islands laden with
fresh vegetables. When the seven Indo-
nesians were turned back, they insisted
that confrontation was all over. When
told that this was not so they demanded
that the water police check with “higher
authorities”. But there are strong rumors
that Singapore and Indonesian repre-
sentatives have already started unofficial
talks.
The business community and the small
traders have welcomed the separation
not only for immediate reasons of
economic advantage but because many
of them have felt irritated by what they
regarded as the domination of Kuala
Lumpur and its general attitude to
Singapore. The Chinese have had more
reason, they claim, to feel that they were
being exploited economically and politic-
ally by Kuala Lumpur. In the Malay
kampongs if is more difficult to find a
clear and definite opinion on the mean-
ing of the separation. There is a
hesitancy to talk. The few that express
feelings seem to be apprehensive,
although some say that they are better


The great
Malaysian hotel
in Singapore
is an
IHTERCONTIHEHTRL
Where else can your
client sip a bamboo cup
by chamadora palms,
poke a lion on the
bottom of a pool and
still pay as little as
$l2 for a room with a
verandah?
I
The mosaic lion at the bottom
of our swimming pool welcomes
your client to Singapore’s new-
est, most delightful hotel. 195 air-
conditioned rooms, flambee res-
taurant, piano bar, private bal-
conies, and air-conditioned taxis
to and from the airport.
SINGAPURA INTERCONTINENTAL
George Milne, General Manager.
One of the 29 incomparable Intercontinental
Hotels. Call your Travel Agent or Inter-
continental.
THE
INTERCONTINENTAL
off in Singapore than they would be on
the mainland. Those that spoke about
it at all were cautiously optimistic,
especially after Mr Lee announced that
there would be inbuilt constitutional
provisions which would protect their
minority rights. Significantly, despite a
tight police cordon which was thrown
around the Malay kampongs on Sunday
and kept on through Monday in antici-
pation of trouble, there was almost no
hostile reaction within the Malay areas.
Apart from few minor incidents in
which cars were damaged, there were
no injuries.
There are no cries of Merdeka Singa-
pore in any language; only a quiet con-
versational glee. A political secretary
in one of the Government departments
said that in Asia the people only cele-
brated independence from imperialism
and colonialism. More logically, part
of the explanation lies in the complete
shock of the announcement and the
failure for the realisation to sink in im-
mediately. Furthermore, there had been
no involvement, no referendum, no
public warning.
A “Malaysian” Malaysia
T>ut the key to what happened in
Singapore this last week lies in the
gulf between the way the majority feels
in the short term and what the minority
fears in the long term. That minority
includes the Government which has not
set any lead at all for the people to
emulate by way of dancing in the streets.
Just the opposite. Mr Lee Kuan Yew
has broken down at his Press confer-
ences and cried tears of anguish. Among
university students and civil servants
there are also mixed feelings. At the
Ministry of Culture, which has been
working flat out for the past two years
building up the idea of a “Malaysian
Malaysia”, there has had to be a minor
revolution as thousands of booklets and
pamphlets are being thrown out. In
other Ministries which have been in-
volved in the business of Federation an
initial euphora and sense of relief has
given way to the “morning after” feeling.
It is a feeling of isolation and frustra-
tion. One non-European journalist was
concerned at this development—“there
are too many masochists around this
place”, he said.
At the University of Singapore, on
holidays during the first historic week
but due to resume this week, students
had mixed feelings, also. Generally con-
temptuous of the Alliance leadership they
felt that what was done was the only
way out in the circumstances, and
although they felt that Singapore would
benefit by the separation, they were not
wholly jubilant. The more perceptive
summed up the many imponderables:
What further steps is Malaysia planning?
What does the Tunku mean when he
threatens action if Indonesia is recog-
nised? In this situation, where the small
island’s elite, except for the business
elite, not only fails to give a lead on
public celebration but in the case of
Government leaders positively deters
people by their doubts and sense of
failure, it would be an unusually brave
group of Singapore citizens who danced
in the streets while the Prime Minister
cried on television.
Why then did Mr Lee Kuan Yew cry?
Why did every journalist who saw him
this week get the feeling that he had
quite genuinely been shaken by what had
happened; that, as he said, the moment
that the separation agreement was signed
will always be a “moment of anguish”,
and that for all his thespian eloquence
and occasional melodrama he was talk-
ing as openly, and as sincerely, as the
delicate situation allowed. The answer
lies in the events surrounding the separa-
tion and the range of alternatives con-
sidered by 41-year-old Mr Lee and his
PAP colleagues. For all his tactical
calculation as to what the Kuala Lunipur
Government might do to deal with the
deteriorating relations between the two
capitals, Lee never seriously enough
considered separation.
He mistook his own reluctance to
seriously entertain this as a solution as
proof that this would not happen.
The worst he feared was that by June
he might be arrested or that the Central
Government would suppress the con-
stitution, but he did not anticipate the
less worse. He still felt it was possible
for a looser confederation to occur or
that there might be some disengagement
without a total break. One of the last
solutions which was suggested, and
which some people here believe might
have worked, was a plan whereby the
Kuala Lumpur Government would have
accepted two PAP Ministers, Dr Goh
Keng Swee and Dato Lim Kim San, into
the Alliance Cabinet in return for Mr
Lee Kuan Yew’s accepting the Malaysian
Ambassadorship at the United Nations.
Although this plan was not exactly
hailed by the Alliance leadership be-
cause it feared that Mr Lee would be
making his own foreign policy, it might
have worked if Mr Lee had not stipulated
that he would accept the job, but only
for two years. This left the Alliance
leaders fearing the return of a Mr Lee
firmly established as a world figure just
in time for the 1967 Federal elections.
This hitherto well-kept secret proposal
had the indirect blessing of Britain, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand.
It was one of the last of the altern-
atives which were serious considerations
before the most recent phase of South-


The great
Oriental hotel
in Hong Kong
is a member of
mmummi
Where else will you
be served as an
Oriental potentate
and still pay as
little as $ll for a
room with a balcony ?
Ns
Our Sikh welcomes you to the
most fabulous hotel in Hong
Kong’s history . . . Oriental
garden and swimming pool, air-
conditioning, cruises of the har-
bour on a private junk, and the
perfect location on Hong Kong
Island, overlooking the harbour.
THE MANDARIN
T. A. P. Ross, General Manager.
One of the 28 incomparable Intercontinental
Hotels. Call your Travel Agent or Inter-
continental.
f 9
MEMBER OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
East Asian history started—in Tunku Ab-
dul Rahman’s hospital bed in London
where, as he has said, he had thought
about the w'hole problem from “A to Z”
and “Z to A”. The Tunku has told re-
porters that he reached his painful deci-
sion on June 29 —the same day his
deputy, Tun Razak, was meeting Mr Lee
to “patch up differences”, but in fact to
leave the meeting with the feeling that
they were “not talking the same lan-
guage”. There were preliminary talks be-
tween the Tunku and the PAP’s Mr Lina
Kim San in London, further talks over the
first three weeks in July between senior
colleagues of the Tunku in Kuala Lum-
pur, and a final decision by the Tunku
while convalescing in France in late July
to go ahead with the implementation of
the necessary constitutional amendments.
Following the Tunku’s return on July 28,
events even by South-East Asian stand-
ards moved swiftly.
On Friday, August 6, while Mr Lee
was resting in the Cameron Highlands,
his Cabinet colleagues were told that the
position was hopeless and that the
Tunku had decided that Singapore must
go. After more talks on Saturday be-
tween Mr Lee and the Tunku, during
which Mr Lee asked again for a looser
confederation, he was rebuffed and
made to understand quite explicitly that
he might face a situation in which the
Tunku w'ould be unable to control
events, the constitution would be abro-
gated. martial law would be declared and
Singapore would be invaded.
During discussion with his Cabinet
colleagues, Mr Lee found that, although
the agreement had already been signed
by the Tunku and his Ministers, six out
of the 14 Cabinet and Party executive
colleagues who met at an emergency
meeting on Saturday night in Singapore
did not w'artt to sign. All sorts of possi-
bilities were considered. But the range
was narrowed down.
In little pieces
was a suggestion that a govern-
A ment-in-exile should be set up in
Prince Sihanouk’s Cambodia and that
resolutions and world-wide publicity
would bring the Kuala Lumpur Gov-
ernment around to reason. But this was
rejected when the likely loss of life was
considered. Mr Lee says would have
come back to a Malaysia in little pieces.
A suggestion that Mr Lee should re-
sign was rejected because, although he
was prepared to do so, his colleagues,
according to Mr Lee, calculated that any
replacement would have to be even
tougher in his dealings with Kuala Lum-
pur to avoid being dubbed a Malaysian
stooge. Secrecy was agreed on in the
Tunku’s case because he says that, if the
Commonwealth allies had known, they
would have moved heaven and earth to
stop it. In Mr Lee’s case, he claims that
it would not have made any difference
and, what is worse in his view, would
have dubbed Singapore as a neo-colo-
nialist stooge. In the end, frustrated and
angry though they were, Mr Lee not least
among them, the Cabinet signed and the
agreement, now part of South-East Asian
history, was sent back on a Royal Malay-
sian Air Force plane to Kuala Lumpur.
Mr Harold Wilson and Sir Robert Men-
zies got to hear about it before the of-
ficial announcement, but late on Sunday
night when there was no hope of per-
suading the Tunku to wait or change
his mind.
Tactically, Mr Lee and Singapore
were outmanoeuvred and outflanked by
the Tunku—left with no real alternatives
which could have been taken up with any
chance of success or prevention of wide-
scale bloodshed. So in one sense Mr Lee
was crying at the frustration of it all.
But this does him less than justice.
Even his political enemies, who insist that
he should not have goaded the Alliance
leaders and the Malays as he did, grant
that he is genuinely heart-broken at what
has happened.
But Mr Lee’s concern is not only with
the failure of a multi-racial society. The
basic problems of survival, economic and
political, have kept him as much awake
this week as the great amount of work,
the Press conferences punctuated w'ith
cups of tea, lozenges and - bursts of
emotion and the waiting for the right
sort of recognition, Afro-Asian recogni-
tion, to start coming in.
Mr Lee once said that if the States
of Malaysia did not federate together
they would be all hanged individually
by the Communists. Internally Mr Lee
insists that the Communist-front Barisan
Socialism presents no problem.
But there is a hypothetical situation,
which sounds less and less hypothetical
the longer one stays in Singapore, which
may w'ell keep Mr Lee awake for more
nights in the future. Communist China
at the next Singapore election in 1967
or 1968 could decide to extend formal
recognition to Singapore. Communist
China could offer grants of aid and
greater investment. If one considers the
already strong allegiance to Peking of
many of the overseas Chinese, and if
there were some conditions attached like
telling the British to go, and if, by then,
the West had alienated either Mr Lee or
the people of Singapore by a failure to
understand the paradoxical democratic
Socialism, which allows private enter-
prise in great quantities and the curious
foreign policy of non-alignment which
accepts a giant British naval base, then
W'ith all these “ifs” an election in 1968
will be a dangerous culmination to the
unfortunate phase in South-East Asian
history which began last time in a Lon-
don hospital bed.


The Tunku’s Style
A sick-bed decision?
By PETER BOYCE
When and why did the Tunku decide to cut the painter with Singapore? And
why did he not consult or even inform in advance the Governments of his three
Commonwealth allies?
Discussing the Tunku's political style,
Tom Silcock aptly wrote, in 1963, that he
has a “habit of playing it by ear and
relying on his political intuition”. It
seems to have been this habit which con-
verted him to the Malaysian project in
the first place. It may well have been
this habit which prompted the events of
last Saturday week. The Tunku’s deci-
sion to take up the Malaysian idea took
the world by surprise, because he had
opposed it consistently up to the week
(perhaps even the day) of his sensational
announcement to the Foreign Corre-
spondent’s conclusion of May 27, 1961.
His decision to shatter the very merger
which he himself had sponsored may
have been a decision flashed upon him
after his return from London on August
5, or, as the latest report suggests, it
may have been a decision taken tenta-
tively in his sick bed while abroad.
We do know that he was receiving regu-
lar reports from his deputy, Tun Razak,
and that he was prepared for a show-
down with extremists in his own party
after his return to Kuala Lumpur.
It is not difficult to see how long
hours of detailed reflection and solitude
from a hospital bed in Britain could
weary and depress a man like the
Tunku. The monotonous exchange of
insults must have seemed futile and
interminable when viewed from such a
distance, and the possibility of com-
munal violence very real. He is an old
man, he dislikes public argument, he
hates civil disturbance, and he avoids
complex political calculations. It would
not therefore be inconsistent with his
political style were he to have sealed
the whole matter well in advance of his
return to Kuala Lumpur.
If, however, his decision were taken
within the span of two short days after
his return, what did he see or hear to
so depress him? He was, it seems, pre-
sented with an urgent request from the
Malay extremists of his own party for
the arrest of Lee. Whether they
threatened either communal violence or
a challenge to the Tunku’s leadership
(or both) if he declined to take action
is uncertain: We have two clues that
the Malay ultras did threaten the Tunku
with positive action against the Singa-
pore Government. One is the Tunku’s
undated letter to Singapore’s Deputy
Prime Minister, in which he confessed:
“If I were strong enough and able to
exercise complete control of the situa-
tion I might perhaps have delayed
action, but I am not.” The second hint
was Seyed Ja’afar Albar’s resignation
and the reasons given for it.
Albar was Secretary-General of UMNO,
an implacable foe of Lee, an emotional
pleader for Malay privileges and in very
close touch with the Malay peasantry.
Opinions had differed in Kuala Lumpur
as to whether Albar’s public outbursts
reflected the Tunku’s basic sentiments,
but I suspect that they did not. At any
rate, Albar’s decision to quit UMNO
because he opposed Singapore’s secession
would be quite consistent with the
attitude of those Malay extremists who
had hoped to dominate Singapore rather
than amputate it from the Federation.
These people appreciate that an indepen-
dent Singapore is in far better position
to undermine Malay supremacy on the
peninsula than a State of Malaysia would
ever be. So, in all probability, the
Tunku chose to eject Singapore in
preference to police action against the
Singapore Government. According to
rumors, if Albar had not resigned he
would have been fired.
Was there no third alternative open to
the Prime Minister —to defy or expel
the Albar faction without ejecting Singa-
pore? At this point the Tunku acknow-
ledges his own helplessness, and this
admission is one of the saddest revela-
tions of the whole affair. He has since
assured the public that he is in full
command of the situation, but doubts
will linger in foreign chancelleries.
Now that Albar is relieved of formal
responsibilities in the party, might he
not organise a faction to challenge
Tunku’s leadership? Distinctly possible,
but he is not likely to stir up much
Malay support unless a few senior
Cabinet Ministers desert the Tunku,
which they show no sign of doing. Nor
is there yet a united front between Albar
and the few UMNO backbenchers
urging an accommodation with Djakarta.
Regardless of what pressures were
applied on the Tunku, why did he not
consult those Governments which were
pledged to Malaysia’s defence? Not only
did he fail to consult, he failed to inform
a failure both discourteous and pre-
sumptuous, the presumption being that
those countries which had agreed to help
underwrite the defence of Malaysia’s
Federal experiment would automatically
continue to underwrite a fragmented
Malaysia. It is cold comfort to Can-
berra that Lord Head, British High Com-
missioner, received no prior notice
either, though Head tracked down the
information a few hours after the
decision had been taken.
This breakdown in Anglo-Malaysian
or Australian-Malaysian communications
is unprecedented, and a reply to Prime
Minister Menzies’ complaint to Kuala
Lumpur will be eagerly awaited. Clearly
the Tunku suspected that both Canberra
and Whitehall would give the proposal
a somewhat chilly reception, and seek
to reverse or modify it. He preferred
the fait accompli, no doubt because he
dislikes argument and delay once his
mind is made up, and because any delay
might have afforded Ja’afar Albar and
co. an opportunity to marshal fresh
strength.
The course to be followed by main-
land Malaysia over the next few months
will depend to a large extent on the
Tunku’s willingness and ability to retain
Alliance leadership. He cannot be de-
feated electorally until 1969, but his
own party could vote him out of office.
This is unlikely.
The Malayan Chinese Association, a
subordinate member of the multi-racial
Alliance, must face the prospect of
stiffened political opposition from Left-
wing Chinese groups. Lee Kuan Yew
made very little dent in the MCA's
armor at the April, 1964, Malayan
elections, but there is every chance that
the enforced separation of Singapore
will inspire many peninsular Chinese to
campaign next time on a PAP-styled
platform. The strong Indian labor unions
may also re-appraise their attitude to
the Alliance Government, a Govern-
ment whose' Indian members are not
conspicuously able.
And what of Singapore's prospects
of survival? Provided Malaysia does not
try to divert her external trade from the
island, the new sovereign State should
prosper. Singapore will now keep all her
revenue except what she contributes to
the joint defence programme. She has
no further obligation to subsidise Bornean
development and will not be carrying
any of the burden of financing Malay
rural development. If foreign invest-
ment trails off or Britain retrenches her
military installations, the current un-
employment rate of about 10 per cent
would soar. The threat of Communism
is never far distant, but the internal
security problem is not nearly as grave
as it was in early 1961, when the
Tunku took fright.
The formal Separation Agreement
promises full co-operation with Malaysia
in the fields of foreign policy and


■
■
m
m
I
m
• ?■;
&
mm
J
mm
Send this coupon for free literature.
HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION
Anchor House, Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME. -
Please print clearly in block letters
ADDRESS -
Do you require this for a school project? O 1
A Cantonese Opera. As unique as Hong Kong itself. A
symbol of the Orient as much as Hong Kong is “hub
of the Orient.” A complete contrast of sound, colour
and movement from the serenity of a
sampan riding on quiet waters. But this
is Hong Kong. This is the gateway to
the East, the only city in the world where
East truly meets West, there is
complete co-existence of the old and the.
new. .Where the mysticism of the Orient
comes face to face with the reality of the West. Hong
Kong, including Kowloon, the New Territories, and
| I f \
•H I 1 f wmm
■ ®
IV I
I \|
\/O
I
the surrounding hundreds of tiny islands has a total
area of only 398 i square miles. Yet in this area abounds
some of the most breathtaking panoramic views in the
world. In complete contrast are the busi-
ness areas of Victoria and Kowloon, where
many goods may be purchased at prices
less than in their country of origin. So
for a holiday that’s different, take a
t 0 K° n §- Take a Hong Kong
vacation. If you’re on business plan your
itinerary so that you can spend some time in Hong Kong,
the place that has everything. You’ll be glad you did.


CORIO
5 Star
Whisky
PRIZE
for painting in oil
or similar media:
£5OO Acquisitive Prize
conducted by
Geelong Art Gallery
Association.
Entries close
24th September, 1965.
Judge:
Robert Campbell, 0.8. E,
Entry forms from
Geelong Art Gallery,
Little Malop Street,
Geelong.
defence, and military necessity is likely
to tie Lee and his Cabinet to pro-Com-
monwealth policies. But quite apart
from the possibility that Singapore might
feel herself to be driven by economic
desperation to foreign embraces frowned
upon in Kuala Lumpur, there are very
basic differences in mood and style
between the two Governments. These dif-
ferences have been most evident on the
domestic scene up till now, but they may
soon spill over into diplomacy. Lee has
long been eager to cut a dashing figure
on the international stage. He is articu-
late, energetic and imaginative in
diplomacy: and whether or not these
attributes lead him into an adventurous
foreign policy, his performances are not
likely to go down too well in the UMNO
or MCA committee rooms. His most
important external relationship will of
course be with Kuala Lumpur itself, and
if he continues to air his contempt for
the “six wild men” in UMNO and
caustic criticisms of the Tunku for fail-
ing to act earlier against Ja’afar Albar,
then the path to “"friendship through
separation” is certainly not strewn with
roses.
The prospects for Borneo seem none
too bright either inside Malaysia or
outside it. It is difficult to imagine how
peninsular Malaysians can sustain a pro-
found interest in the Borneo States now
that the Singapore economic plums are
no longer there to sweeten the sacrifice.
Sabah and Sarawak are administrative,
economic and military burdens. They
lie many hundreds of miles across an
open sea which Indonesia claims as
territorial waters, and they share with
her a wild 970-mile jungle frontier. They
have no direct air, shipping or cable
communications with Western Malaysia,
and the average income per head is little
more than half the average of the main-
land Malaysian.
In Sarawak scepticism as to the
relationship with Kuala Lumpur will be
more widespread and acute than in
Sabah. The biggest opposition party,
SUPP, has never been happy with the
terms of union, and wifi now almost
certainly press for their revision.
Assuming, though, that in the short
term both Borneo States remain loyal
to the Federal arrangement, a longer-
term problem will be Malaysian Borneo’s
reaction to the partial or total withdrawal
of Commonwealth forces. The current
boom in these States is due largely to
the construction work and heavy spend-
ing by 10,000 Commonwealth soldiers.
Secession is not a real alternative for
Malaysian Borneo, except in the un-
likely event of a British undertaking to
provide massive economic aid and full
military protection for an almost in-
definite period. Failing this, an in-
dependent Sarawak or Sabah (or union
of the two) would fall easy prey to the
Indonesians, either as client States or
annexed provinces.
does all this leave Australian-
Malaysian and Australian-Singapore
relations? Sir Robert Merizies’ first state-
ment on the matter accepted the fait
accompli of separation without a false
note of confidence and without handing
round any bouquets. It was a sound
statement, polite but making no attempt
to conceal his disappointment that Aus-
tralia was not consulted. He also
qualified our agreement to help defend
the Malaysian area with a hint that the
nature of this commitment would be
reviewed at a later date.
Australian Press opinion has been con-
siderably harsher on the Kuala Lumpur
regime than on the Singapore Govern-
ment. This is understandable, given the
evidence that Singapore was virtually
tossed out of the Federation. But Lee
has been able to exploit the very good
image he carved for himself during his
March-April visit to Australia and New
Zealand. We were most susceptible to
Lee’s dynamism, his oratory, intelligence,
and radical but non-Communist political
manifesto. What we may not have
noticed was his tendency to speak con-
temptuously of his Malay opponents
when it was not necessary to speak at
all, or the unattractive methods by
which his party has sometimes imposed
its will on the people. And how many
Australians will have noticed that Lee’s
Deputy. Dr Toh. has formally pledged
the PAP to help the Malaysia Solidarity
Convention topple the Alliance Govern-
ment?
It is a splendid thing that Lee should
find so many friends in Australia, but it
would be unfortunate if our enthusiasm
for Lee and his party were necessarily
at the expense of a sympathetic attempt
to interpret the more delicate and com-
plex political arrangements in the
Malayan States. Perhaps Tunku or Tun
Razak should visit Australia as soon
as present difficulties will allow.


TO
m
Prograss jut Mastics
came
the quiet
revolution—
and friction
lost its
power!
An industrial revolution began
quietly when plastics took over
from metals in certain fields of
engineering practice.
In those areas where friction is
a problem, ICI offer a range of
materials which have consider-
ably lower coefficients of fric-
tion than metal. With the
engineering principle in mind
“The lower the friction co*
efficient the better the opera-
tion” ICI research scientists
developed a group of these
plastics which offer industry
the economies of less wear and
less maintenance. If friction is
your problem, the technical
facilities and services of ICI
are at your disposal.
This table shows kinetic coefficients of friction
determined on an apparatus consisting essentially
of a loaded hemispherically-ended slide held in
contact with a moving plate. Applied load was
2 kg. and speed of slip, 1 cm/sec.
‘Fluon’ (p.t.f.e.)
‘Maranyl’ (Nylon)
‘Alkon' (Polyacetal)
‘Mild Steel'
Mild Steel Plate
0.04
0.31
0.20
0.6 1.0
ICI
Plastics Group of
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
PL302.3149


o
[Jf SYDNEY PERTH SINGAPORE BOMBAY TOKYO HONG KONG BANGKOK DELHI KARACHI BEIRUT ROME GENEVA FRANKFURT MOSCOW PARIS LONDON NEW YORI
o
. . . and so on, and so on . . . across the world. That’s where Air-India goes.
Equally important is how it goes. If you must know the truth, we
don’t really fly magic carpets, but the biggest of all inter-continental Boeing
707 jets. What’s more, we’ve gone the rest of the way and provided
only the best all down the line. Even our sari-clad hostesses are chosen
with meticulous care. Come fly with us next time you’re going anywhere. It’s fun.
your friendly travel agent about our world-wide, world-acclaimed air service
AIR/ND/A
The airline that treats you like a Maharajah
In association with HO AC & Qantas
A 1471021 02
ON THE MARGIN
The Golden Gum Bough
lyjjYTHs are j n _ Artists paint myths.
Poets and playwrights and movie
producers relate myths (Orpheus in par-
ticular has had a thorough going-over).
Any literary critic of standing is expected
to be able to spot a myth, or better
still a mythopoeic faculty, even in un-
favorable conditions.
Some countries are better at myths
than others, and are able to export
them. The Greeks are the most familiar
example. Whenever two or three ancient
Greeks were gathered together with
time on their hands they w'ould make
up a myth. They still have some good
ones stockpiled, that have scarcely been
used. (A favorite of mine is the story
of the Mineides, the girls who were
the world's first temperance workers.
They were turned into bats for making
critical remarks about Bacchanalian
orgies.)
Australians of earlier generations
showed distinct promise in the
mythology line. Ned Kelly was
their outstanding production,
and they also did good work
with the Eureka Stockade. But
lately, although the demand for
myths is more buoyant than
ever, something has gone
wrong at the supply end. The
old myths are wearing out, and
new ones are not being made
to replace them.
It w'as a bad sign when
Sidney Nolan, our leading
myth-painter, switched to Leda and the
Swan. This pointed to an unfavorable
swing in Australia's trade-balance in
myths.
The disturbing impression was not al-
together removed when Mr Nolan came
back with a series on Gallipoli. Young
Australians have made it regrettably
clear that they are tired of hearing about
the valor of the Anzacs at Gallipoli.
They W'ould welcome a story about a
nervous Anzac who showed reluctance
to bayonet Turks. No doubt there w>ere
one or two such on the peninsula.
Literary and artistic folk are Rattling
to preserve the myth of Ned Kelly as
a folk-hero, but the spirit of the times
is against them. I have not heard the
saying “game as Ned Kelly” for many
years, except from cultured persons.
The reason is a shift in public sympathy.
Shocking as it may seem to old-fashioned
Australians, the masses today tend to
side w'ith the police against the criminal
class.
Another myth that is due for an over-
haul is the compulsive gambling of Aus-
tralians. It often takes the form of a
statement that Australians will bet on
the behavior of flies, e.g., which fly will
leave a wall first. A Canadian journalist
who toured the country repeated this
story a few months ago. Yet in several
decades of research in hotel bars and
other likely places I have never yet seen
one of these bets on flies.
It is my belief that the Department of
Information has on its payroll some
men who impersonate typical rugged
Australians for the benefit of visiting
authors. Their job is to place bets on
flies, play two-up, and express warm
admiration for Phar Lap and Ned Kelly.
Behind much of our out-of-date
mythology is the assumption that this
country contains no city-dw'ellers in
w'hite collars. If we. are to have new
myths commanding popular support, as
good myths should, they must recognise
the existence of this class and
express its aspirations.
As the type of man who
might be built into a contem-
porary folk-hero, take Des
Jodson, of Sydney. Des is an
urban Ulysses, a man of many
wiles. He can always buy things
wholesale. When a neighbor is
on holiday, Des uses his gar-
bage tin as well as his own.
He parks his car in the busiest
part of town through his un-
canny knowledge of lanes. He
knows alternative routes to dodge the
traffic. He can barbecue chops without
burning them.
His artistry is seen at its best when
he is getting a front position in a foot-
ball or Test match crowd. Des pushes
his way through, muttering: “Sorry,
mate, I want to get back to my wife.
She’s down in front there.” Or: “It’s
harder getting back then getting out,
isn't it?” When he is near the front he
takes two cans of beer from his pockets,
drinks them, and (he is short in stature)
stands on them.
New myths are not easy to launch,
but if Nolan or Tucker painted a Des
Jodson series the theme could catch on. I
mean scenes like Des backing his car
into a one-way lane, or Des producing
chicken sandwiches from his golf bag.
But I am afraid Australian artists are
too conservative for the idea to appeal to
them. They will probably stick to bush-
rangers and gaunt Diggers who bet on
flies.
ROSS CAMPBELL


A Question of Guts?
“You’d like Opperman on your side in the jungle"
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Hubert Ferdinand Opperman is a
tough man, a man of endurance and
principle, and, some have said, an
inflexible man. His will and character
were largely formed as he crouched, arms
and back aching, legs straining, over the
handlebars of a racing bike. “To a tired
man,” he recalls, “the track has the mad-
dening monotony of solitary confinement.
It is so changeless in its resistance, so
consistently remorseless; giving back ex-
actly what one expends in energy and
not one inch more.”
His ability to withstand the rigors of
exhaustion and severe pain for mile after
mile, on track and road, brought him
great fame in the days when cycling was
perhaps the world’s most popular sport.
At the age of 24 he became more famous
in Europe than any Australian before
him. Bringing with him from Australia
a great reputation as a rider he started one
of the favorites for the 80l d’or, a 24-
hour, non-stop French classic for the
world's best riders.
Early in the race the chains of both
his racing machines broke; they had
been sawn half-through by a nobbier who
feared that the Australian might be the
big danger to the local heroes. Bruce
Small, his manager, managed to borrow
a heavy roadster, complete with mud-
guards, for Opperman to pedal whilst
the chains were repaired.
Opperman was 17 laps behind the
leaders by the time he was back on his
own machines, normally an unbridgeable
gap in this kind of event. He thrust his
feet into the pedals and forgot every-
thing except the gaining of inches each
lap. After 11 hours of almost mechani-
cally efficient riding he had made up the
leeway and caught the field. In another
hour he had taken the lead. Challenges
came hard and fast but he broke the
spirit of each rival with a ruthlessly high
average speed.
After a whole day’s riding he had
logged 565 miles, a record which still
stands. On the way he broke seven inter-
mediate world records. Overnight,
“Oppy”, as the French Press called him,
was the most celebrated man in Europe.
The fame was to increase in his subse-
quent career.
A generation later, a Minister of the
Crown in his home country, Mr Hubert
Opperman has gained a new. kind of
public attention, notoriety. He is learn-
ing, perhaps, with Rousseau, that “fame
is but the breath of the people and often
unwholesome”. In the case and, in some
ways, fable of Nancy Prasad, the Com-
monwealth Minister for Immigration is
commonly believed to be the villain.
Whatever the virtues and vices of Mr
Opperman’s policies and administration,
one of the features of the present migra-
tion episode is that the presentation of
the case by certain sensationalist news
media has been a disgrace. Some of the
pictures and stories have been deliber-
ately fabricated to lend extra pressure to
the tear-jerking aspects of the case.
Freely available information unfavorable
to the Prasads and Powditches has been
suppressed.
However, once this has been said, it
is also clear that those qualities of char-
acter which enabled “Oppy” to conquer
private weakness and public challenge on
the bike-track, are, unless tempered by
other strong qualities, dangerous for a
man with a difficult and delicate port-
folio.
In an interview with Mr Opperman
this week I suggested that he had a
reputation for being strong-principled but
rather inflexible, and that perhaps he still
thought that the major virtues necessary
in life were the same as those needed to
win a cycling marathon.
He said: “The ups and downs of phy-
sical form and hardship in cycling, ans
the guts you develop in fighting your way
through against all kinds of opposition,
is a good training for politics.” He added:
“Once you're convinced that you are do-
ing the right thing you must keep going.
If you yield on things only because it is
easier, overall you will not do any good.”
Mr Opperman also said that he did not
believe that he was “inflexible by
nature. I would prefer to be popular
so would any man but I must subdue
my personal feelings for the good of the
country.”
It is apparent from talking with Mr
Opperman that he has a lot of the
typical qualities (or alleged typical
qualities) of the Aussie Digger and
sportsman. He is a man of strong will-
power, which operates on a rather narrow
range of principles. To paraphrase Field
Marshal Montgomery, he is a man
“you’d like to have on your side in the
jungle”.
A fter leaving State school he had his
first introduction to the Public Ser-
vice as a telegraph messenger-boy. He
learnt little about the duties of public
office but began to develop those power-
ful calves and thighs delivering talegrams
to the inhabitants of Melton, a small
town about 30 miles west of Melbourne.
At 15 he joined the local cycling club
and for the next 20 years cycling was his
life. His first win was in a 10-mile Vic-
torian junior championship event; the
prize was 15s. A short time later he
came third in a Cycle Traders’ event and
won a bicycle donated by young manu-
facturer Bruce Small, whose Malvern
Star machines Opperman was to make
world famous. The friendship between
cyclist and astute manager continued
from that time, and each played an im-
portant part in the other’s rise to
eminence.
Although over 13 stone now, Opper-
man then generated his unmatched racing
power from a 10-stone frame. From the
time he turned 18 in 1922 he began to
win road and track classics all over the
country. He established complete
superiority over Australian riders and
usually defeated the best overseas riders
who were imported to challenge him,
riding at his incredible best in long-dis-
tance races where his will and stamina
could find no equal.
With three other riders he was sent
over to France by public subscription in
1928 to contest the Tour cle France,
over 3300 miles. The team failed to
overcome the manifold difficulties of that
most famous of races, but Opperman’s
later success on the 80l d or more than


1§
in
ii
«!
A: ,
' -
m
V: I tv*
mm
i i
ft
WOVEN IN
AUSTRALIA
mm
m
NEW! for all uniforms
To rail
\ tetoion6sZ|
\POLYESTER FIBRE
\ and Viscose
we blend beauty and science...
for a miracle fabric that works with you!
Fashion goes to work! The new look in uniforms
is soft, lustrous Cesarella, an exciting new fabric
by the makers of famous Cesarine. We made silky
Cesarella specially for the trend to more style and
fashion in today’s uniforms. Easily laundered,
drip-drys overnight to its original beauty, and per-
manently pleatable, too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance offices, Cesarella
means more beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. Look for the Cesarella tag of quality
at your uniform supplier or just phone Caesar
Fabrics Ltd. in your state. But do it now!
CTB3 fOB
CESARELLA—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
jjTorail TETORON * CE °/
j POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
satisfied the sporting chauvinism of the
Australian public.
Returning to France in 1931 he staged
his greatest victory. The world’s longest
one-stage road-race, the Paris-Brest-Paris
championship is held only once in 10
years and is limited to the world’s best
riders. For 49 hours, 21 minutes, mostly
through biting rain, the lone Australian
fought against cold, fatigue and the team-
work and experience of his opponents
over the 726 miles of the course. Sixty
miles from the finish he broke away from
the leaders and, setting a will-breaking
pace, defied the field to catch him.
The famous French sporting magazine
“L’Auto” conducted a vote to determine
the most popular athlete of the year in
any sport. Opperman won by a huge
majority. He then set about re-writing
the record books of the British Isles and
was presented with the Midlake Memorial
Prize for the outstanding sporting per-
formance of the year. After a series of
astonishing exhibitions of endurance in
Australia he joined the Air Force as an
ACI and rose to the rank of flight-
lieutenant.
His entry into politics after the war
came after a couple of cycling comebacks
and working as personnel manager for
the Bruce Small firm, of which he was
also a director. Living in the suburb of
Mentone he joined in the protest against
the seizure of the lands of a number of
local market-gardeners. The Chifley
Government wanted to build an airport
in the district, which was probably quite
reasonable, but the arbitrary manner in
which the local land-owners were treated
aroused strong opposition in the district.
Opperman joined the Liberal Party,
“not”, he claims, “because I was politic-
ally ambitious, or because I was then a
deeply committed Liberal, but because I
felt opposed to Socialism”. His appear-
ance was noticed by the shrewd Richard
Casey, who approached him with the
suggestion that he stand against the able
Labor Minister for Defence and Post-
War Reconstruction, Mr Dedman, in the
1949 election.
Closing the trap-door
JJe stood and won by 234 votes. He has
held the seat since, sometimes by
similarly tiny majorities. In Parliament
he rose slowly from a back-bench, to the
position of Government Whip, in which
role his energy, determination and reli-
ability impressed Government leaders
who had not been quite so assured of his
debating ability or his grasp of national
affairs.
His physical energy and mental ten-
acity won him the Shipping and Trans-
port portfolio in 1960, a post which he
enjoyed and to which he devoted himself
with untiring effort. In his subsequent
promotion to the post of Immigration,
however, he is learning something of the
terrors as well as the pleasures of public
office.
There is no doubting the capacity of
his morale and will to survive, whatever
challenges are made by personal and
public opponents. The danger is that
such opposition will only increase his
determination to apply the letter of the
immigration law and set him on a course
of greater inflexibility.
He believes that Australia is adminis-
tering the best migration programme in
the world. His final words on the White
Australia policy: “I do not like talking
about race because it only causes mis-
understanding, but as Minister for Immi-
gration of this country I will not open
the trap-doors which might import racial
problems’*.


sdnrfmftm
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
White Burgundy
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
The Life of Riley
Four men and a bear
By R. J. SCHOLFIELD
Britons opened their morning papers
recently to read that the police
had had words with an Australian
pilot who sent yachts fleeing for shore
when he swooped out of the sky in a
small amphibious plane to land on a
public lido in north-west London. The
incident was much less graphic than
reported, and will make no history on
this side of the world. But it might find
a niche in the annals of Australian avia-
tion. Bill Riley, the man at the controls,
was on his way round the world buying
light aircraft with which to give private
flying in Australia another dimension.
Riley, a wartime RAAF pilot from
Colac, Victoria, believes that although
Australia, with some 1500 privately
owned aircraft, is one of the more aero-
nautically favored countries of the world,
some aspects of light aviation there have
been neglected. He intends to introduce
“off-beat” machines with the emphasis
on sport rather than utility, and is now,
in the four-seater single-engined Lake
amphibian that figured in the London
episode,, collecting a variety of models to
start things rolling.
The money Riley is putting into aero-
planes comes from 20 years in the
domestic appliance business. If he can
transfer to aviation the success he has
found with washing machines and refri-
gerators, a lot of people will soon be
looking down instead of up.
Riley has lived in Colac all his life
except for five years when he flew Sun-
derlands from England in World War 11.
In Colac his father had a licensed gro-
cery, but when Bill came home he used
his Air Force training and £2OO to start
a radio and domestic appliance business,
gradually making the grocery shop over
to it. He called it The Home Centre,
by which name it is still known.
Riley worked hard and the business
became the biggest of its kind outside
Melbourne, breaking sales records each
year. “We kept our name so much
before the public that people would wait
months to get something from us when
competitors were offering immediate
delivery,” says Riley.
Eventually, Riley built a three-pronged
interest in wholesale distribution, retail-
ing and financing. As he began to move
out of retailing appliances, he turned to-
wards aircraft. Ever since his Air Force
days he had kept in touch with them,
borrowing or hiring a plane when he
could not afford to own one. He has
had three years of dealing in second-hand
aircraft, both gliders and powered, and
learned much that will augment his other
business experience in the weightier pro-
ject of selling new ones.
He did much research and wrote to
light aircraft manufacturers around the
world. Replies came from about 240
of them or their agents. Virtually none
came from Britain, and the few that
materialised after prodding were, in
Riley’s words, “very peculiar”. One
English firm wrote: “It is true that we
make aircraft, but only out of enthusi-
asm. On each plane we make, we lose
money. It follows that the more we
make the more we lose. For this reason,
we do not want to do business with you.”
The Americans pounced on any in-
quiry and gave it the most elaborate
follow-up. It is in the US that the best
possibilities exist for buying powered
aircraft, though not gliders; the places
for them are Germany, Poland and
Czechoslovakia. According to Riley,
Sud Aviation in France makes an impres-
sive range of light aircraft, but doesn’t
know how to merchandise them. He has
his eye on one or two Italian numbers,
including a small sports jet. Britain has
nothing for him; nor, indeed, with its
high landing dues and inadequate facili-
ties, does it appear to have any interest
in light aviation apart from discouraging
it something that saddens Riley as he
remembers how Britain led in light air-
craft before the war.
Because the Australian selling rights
are not quite sewn up, Riley does not
yet want to disclose the makes of the
other American planes he has bought to
take back, but this does not apply to
the one he is flying, the £14,000 Lake
amphibian, with which he has fallen in
love.
Vl/Tra its quaint angles, its propeller
facing backwards from a dorsal pod
and its widely spaced landing gear that
suggests an insect about to spring, the
little green Lake epitomises the “off-
beatness” Riley is seeking. He is sure
it will find favor in Australia for a per-
formance that is as unusual as its looks.
The four-seater has very short landing
and take-off, its undercarriage is spread
for maximum stability, and it has what is
termed “pond capability”, being able, if
necessary, to take off from water in a
curve. It is also at home on snow.
Bill Riley does not expect a fellowship-
type welcome from the other rulers of
light aviation in Australia, but thinks the
range of planes being offered there at
present is too narrow, and that by con-
centrating on filling the gaps with specia-
lised machines he will avoid colliding
with existing interests. He intends also
to offer his services as a consultant in the
procuring of land for airfields, the build-
ing of aerodromes and the forming of
clubs. He is hoping for the support of
the Federation of Aero Clubs and the
Gliding Federation of Australia. He is
maintaining his interest in second-hand
aircraft for the sake of people who would
like to own a plane but cannot afford a
new one, and is looking into the question
of group ownership for the same reason.
He finds officialdom in Australia co-
operative towards light aviation, and the
only modification he would wish to an
otherwise satisfactory picture is an in-
crease in the subsidy for flying train-
ing—not unnatural, perhaps, in a man
who undertakes to teach buyers of his
planes to fly solo in a fortnight, at a
present cost of some £250 each for the
bright ones and up to twice as much
for the others.


"% r
■
mmmm
M
•VV/-/'•:/
«
*k
■
>
■F'
8S
1
II
-
.
Dry, precise copies from all colours and originals
(and the copies are same size)
This new 3M Brand Dry Photo-Copier
needs no inks, chemicals or powders . . .
yet every copy is a precise reproduction of
the original on white dry bond-weight paper.
This compact typewriter-sized copier pro-
duces perfect copies from originals of all
colours: business letters, blueprints, price
sheets, illustrations, “spirit” copies and
even full-colour pages in bound books and
magazines.
For full information on this machine and
the 3M range of Copying Systems, mail
this coupon, or contact:
BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE
ITIINNESOTA miNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
• Sydney, 43-0455 • Melbourne, 61-3841 • Adelaide,
51-5971 • Brisbane, 5-4131 • Perth, 28-4651 • Hobart,
3-3104 • Canberra, 4-0791 • Auckland, 295-109.
3M Business Communications Centre, Alderson
Building, Pacific Highway, St. Leonards, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of the 3M Brand Dry
Photo-Copier and the 3M range of Copying
Systems.
NAME ;
ADDRESS
3M2/18/65
31*1
Eg COmPANY


AROUND MELBOURNE
The Needling of “Needle Ned"
An onslaught on medical myths
T ast week this page was pleading the
cause that Melbourne was not
entirely filled with dull people, but
there were some odd and interesting
characters. Could we continue our
saga episode with Dr Michael
Kelly, MD? It would be terribly un-
fair to say that Dr Kelly is opposed to
his colleagues, but he does with magni-
ficent enthusiasm maintain a one-man
onslaught on medical myths and
medical mores.
In his own words he has contri-
buted “more than 300 contributions
to more than 60 different journals in
12 different countries”. This is quite
apart from his historical papers like
“Nicholas Baudin (1754-1803), deni-
grated discoverer of Port Fairy”, or
the paper he delivered to the Inter-
national Congress of Rheumatology
at Rome in 1961 on gout as it affected
Benjamin Franklin and Pitt the Elder.
(Franklin took his gout philosophic-
ally and was a genial man to the end
of his life. Pitt was soured and slowly
sank into black depression.)
However, the two blockbusters of
particular interest are “sense No. 1”
and “sense No. 2”. “No. 1” on the
“Evils of Steroids” and the use of
cortisone came out two years ago and
was “greeted with the expected
number of abusive replies from
shocked friends and the cortisone
happy”. “No. 2” is just out and it is
headed “The Worldwide Collapse of
Medical Leadership" ... “a letter to
13,200 doctors and 900 members of
Parliament”.
The booklet has a nice aggressive
style and on one of the first pages
there is the promising line: “I thank
my father and mother for giving me
such an education that I have become,
by thinking for myself, a world leader
in medical thought.”
Indeed it was time to call on Dr
Kelly. His rooms are in Albert
Street, East Melbourne, just down the
road from St Patrick’s Cathedral and
the plate outside reads Institute of
Rheumatology. The sojourn in his
waiting room gave time to read every-
thing—there were cards from the
BMA and the American Medical
Assoc. A very ornate card from La
Societa Italiana di Reumatologia. an
invitation as sectional vice-president
to attend the 129th annual meeting
of the BMA in February, 1961, at
Auckland, and the name tag he wore
was hanging from the invitation. Then
there were membership cards of such
organisations as the Renaissance Soci-
ety of America and the History of
Science Society.
When he called me in we didn’t
waste any time on small talk. He
was an Adelaide graduate (1929). He
became interested in his speciality
in the ’thirties when he got arthritis
and discovered that the medical pro-
fession knew nothing about it. He
was in the army during the war and
the soldiers called him “Needle Ned”.
“But this booklet,” I said. “ ‘Sense
No. 2,’ how much did it cost?” “It
cost me £lOOO for ‘Sense No. 2’ and
£5OO for ‘Sense No. I’. Yes, I sent
them to all doctors on the register in
Australia, all members of Parliament,
all the newspapers, radio and TV
stations.”
But surely he ran into fearful
trouble with [he Australian Medical
Association. Smartly I was referred
to “Sense No. 2”, page 7 . . . “Another
example of dissociation from sense is
the atmosphere of fear since in Ade-
laide Sir Cecil Colville denounced
publicity for private doctors as the
worst sin . . . the public has little re-
spect for 13,000 educated and intelli-
gent men who are not allowed to ex-
press their opinions in public.”
11/fEDiCAL ethics is making a fool of
the whole profession,” he said. “In
South Australia it is better, you can
go on TV over there. In any other
State you would have known who the
doctors were that attended Sir Robert
Menzies when he went into hospital.
Not here.” One could sense the
dreadful trouble these thoughts would
cause with the AMA. “You don’t
have to join the AMA,” he said. “I
have never joined and there are 200
in Australia who are not members.
There are still 100 doctors who refer
their patients to me.”
We thumbed through “Sense No.
2”. Alas, one can’t give it all here,
but here are some quotable quotes:
“Drug manufacturers have got doc-
tors the world over in such a state
that they cannot refuse to prescribe
anti-coagulants after strokes and coro-
nary attacks. Statistical trials have
shown that anti-coagulants do not re-
duce occurrences and they cause
haemorrhages.”
“High blood pressure is a mythical
disease which harms the patient when
it is diagnosed, but seldom harms
when it is ignored. I have many rheu-
matic patients, told by doctors they
have high blood pressure, who go
round in fear of a stroke and ask me
to take their blood pressure at every
visit.”
“There is no evidence that radio-
therapy helps cancer. It is unethical
for cancer ‘educators’ to scare people
about smoking when evidence shows
that cancer has not increased in a
century.”
“Every second person you meet is
not allowed to eat fat. But Hunter and
Wong of New Zealand have shown by
careful comparative studies that you
cannot change the blood cholesterol
by dieting.”
Alas, here we are barely touching
the surface, and it is not all dull read-
ing. Frequently Sense breaks out into
verse.
For example on The Pill:
“The RCs who bate their own birth
rate have conscience good as
ours:
For them the ban episcopan roars
like a dove
Can a priest unwed from his single
bed with justice claim these
powers
O’er the daily chores and knightly
scores of a married man in love?”
Dr Kelly, whether right or wrong,
struck one as a man with a mission
about everything, even to the Colling-
wood tie around his neck: “Colling-
wood will be premiers this year” and
to the Anti-Alcohol Association Badge
in his button hole. “I gave up alcohol
at 50 in the hope that I could con-
vince some alcoholic to give it up.
Doctors see so much suffering.”
BATMAN


II
§.:■ $ ...,
• S li- A ,i
* - - ' * r w| ■
S:
fR I §M
ilfitll
- - ■' ■:' -: :f # Sill -:
fills;
llilS
j
h'-
iCrw
*1
ill
: ■'
'■*¥%s -
IP
v"
Esiix'iiKiS
W
!
- -;.. -v'ii-i. .-•■ S-S
: t-r- -;- iifi -M
I
■
45* 1
V
1
Only Qantas offers Honolulu
on direct flights through the U.S.A.to London
Only Qantas offers you enchanted holiday stop-
overs at Honolulu and the opportunity of then
continuing on a direct flight to London with the
same airline (including no-extra-airfare stopovers
at San Francisco and New York if you wish).
Only Qantas offers you 9 V-Jets a week to
Honolulu, 14 flights a week to London and a
choice of 25 world flights a week from Australia.
Travelling to any of the five continents the fleet
of Qantas V-Jets flies to, you’ll feel at home
with the unique Australian blend of friendliness
and efficiency that only Qantas offers. Start
discussing new travel
ideas today with your
local Qantas Travel
Agent or Qantas.
Australia's Round- World Airline
44 years of dependable service
QANJAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED/'in"asiociation"with Air India, Air New Zeb'l&fdflZQ?S?A?A'i-‘
Q 20.105.95


OVERSEAS
FIJI —a Malaysia
in Miniature
Where Australia is the foreign " exploiter ”
By BRUCE SMEE
Talks on the future of Fiji which
ended in London last week leave no
certainty that Australia will not
have a miniature Malaysia on her door-
step.
The Fijian and British delegates sup-
port the new constitution which will not
come into force until early next year,
but the IndiaoTepresentaiives dissociated
themselves from the statement issued at
the end of the talks.
The Indians, who outnumber Fijians
in the colony, want a one-man, one-vote
electoral system to replace the present
communal one, which is supported by
the Fijians and British, and which gives
the three main races parity of representa-
tion in the Legislative Council. The con-
ference rejected the Indian demand for
full self-government now and decided to
extend the franchise to racial minorities,
such as the Chinese.
The problems of the colony are many
and complicated. But in the end they boil
down to two factors: and Indian popula-
tion that has grown from 40,000 in 1916
to more than 250,000 today and now
outnumbers the Fijian sector, and in-
sufficient good sugarcane-growing land to
satisfy the demands of the expanding
population.
After a day or two in Suva’s Govern-
ment departments and business houses
the visitor becomes aware that the locals
are desperately anxious to reassure him
on two points. The first is that there is
no serious animosity between Fijians
and Indians. The second is that either
there is or is not a land problem (depend-
ing largely on the nationality of the
speaker).
On the surface, there is no racial
problem. Indians and Fijians work
alongside each other; in Suva’s only sub-
standard living area (where the main
thoroughfare is called Toorak Road)
they live in the same boarding houses.
Many Fijians count Indians amongst
their closest friends, and vice versa. But
there is no inter - marrying of any
account, there is distrust of Indians by
Fijian political leaders and the whole
situation has a suggestion of an uneasy
neutrality about it.
Fijians still throw up at Indians the
fact that in the last war the Indian com-
munity failed to rally to the Cause, that
only one Indian served outside Fiji. The
Indians defend their actions on the
grounds that they refused to fight for a
shilling a day, when Europeans received
2/- and ran no greater risk of losing
their lives. The Fijians ignore this
argument and the fact that the whole
thing happened 20 years ago and is al-
most ancient history in a country racing
into an exciting new future.
As for the land, both sides are right
to a certain extent. While it is-not
Fiji’s major problem, it certainly is a
problem. Or perhaps “symbol” is the
more correct word. For around the land
dispute crystallises Fiji’s real difficulty
and the one thing that casts a doubt
about prospects of a peaceful future.
On one hand the country has almost
200,000 Fijians, living pretty much the
same sort of life that their forbears
lived 500 years ago. Most still live a
communal life in villages scattered
around the coast and in the mountains,
sharing the common wealth, obeying
without question the orders of a tribal
chjef. They are an easy-going people
content with enough food to satisfy their
appetites, enough kava to dull their
senses at night-long drinking sessions.
But an increasing number feel that they
have been employees in their own coun-
try too long, that communal life and
blind obedience to a chieftain are bar-
riers to their entry into the 20th century.
Alongside them, the Indians multiply
and work, mostly for a pittance, on
sugarcane farms they have leased either
from the Fijian tribes or the CSR. For
60 years they have slaved to build the
sugarcane indusrty that is the backbone
of the colony's economy. They are in-
dustrious as the Fijians are lazy, as
ambitious as Fijians are happy-go-lucky.
For almost 50 years, while the Fijians
have played, they have toiled on 10-
acre farms as free settlers. The Indians
-—9 O per cent of them born in Fiji—-
are claiming the same rights as majority
groups anywhere else in the world. They
say they have earned the right to an
equal say in their country’s future.
The Fijians adopt the attitude that
it is still their country, that they volun-
tarily handed it over to Britain 90 years
ago, and they expect to be given back
control at the appropriate time. This
attitude, coupled with improved world
sugar prices in the past five years and the
easing of quota restrictions on cane pro-
duction, has spurred the Fijians to make
loud and increasing demands for the re-
turn of their farmlands to them. As leases
expire, more and more Indians are being
evicted from farms that have been in
the family for two and three generations.
They are not forced off the land alto-
gether. Instead of growing sugarcane,
they are invited to develop unoccupied
agricultural land suitable for other crops
—less profitable crops that demand more
work in cultivation and harvesting. The
numbers of the evicted farmers are small
so far. But they will multiply as the
years go on and the Fijian demands
increase.
Control of all Fijian land is in the
hands of the Native Land Trust Board,
a Government agency that has the final
say in the allocation of leases. In the last
12 months the Board has reviewed leases
covering some 5000 acres in the pro-
vince of Ba, north of Nadi. Last cen-
tury, the Government forced the Fijian


owners to lease the land to the CSR Co.
at peppercorn rentals as an inducement
to the company to set up operations in
the colony. Government pressure forced
renewal of the leases again in 1914 and
since then the CSR has sub-leased to
Indian farmers. But, as an indication of
the changed attitude of the Administra-
tion. the Native Land Trust Board is
re-allocating the entire area and in the
re-allocation many Indian farmers will
be forced off their lands to make way
for Fijians.
And just to add a further complica-
tion, this action is being taken in the
face of strong and repeated claims that
the Fijians, if given back their land,
will not put it to full use. There is
considerable historical support for this,
including one official report that farm-
lands given back to Fijians a few years
ago had become overgrown with bush
within two years.
Land has become the issue on which
Indian and Fijian have chosen to have
their first major clash. To date the
political leaders of both sides have not
made capital of the tesue. How long
this situation will continue depends al-
most entirely on the ability of the Ad-
ministration to walk the tightrope that
leads to a peaceful solution.
The Administration in some respects
seems to be as distrustful of the Indian
as do the Fijians. Certainly the Fijians
are the favored sons. They constitute
almost the entire army and police force.
Education is compulsory for Fijians,
optional for Indians, but free for neither.
Under the restricted franchise system
the Indian community elects four mem-
bers to the Legislative Council, the same
number as the Fijian community and the
European community (which represents
only five per cent of the population).
Differences in ranks
Britain can produce a demo-
cratic system that will ensure that
Fiji continues to be controlled by Fijians
when colonialism ends, is another
matter. Indians not only represent the
major section of the population. They
also, in association with a handful of
Chinese, own most of the commercial
undertakings not in the control of
foreign companies. And they still pro-
duce by far the bulk of sugarcane.
There are differences within the In-
dian ranks—for example, the Indian
shopkeepers are despised by many farm-
ers who claim they cheat them through
exorbitant prices and excessive interest
rates on loans. In spite of this it
is difficult to see how any sort of demo-
cratic system can be devised that \Vill
prevent Indians taking control of Fiji
within the next two decades.
Economically, Fiji's future presents
problems. Currently the Administration
works, to a budget under which Cus-
toms duty and taxation (the main inter-
nal revenue sources) are boosted from
time to lime by grants from the Colonial
Welfare and Development Fund, a fund
created and controlled by the British
Government.
But with the coming of self-govern-
ment, money will no longer be available
from this source. Fijians of both races
are frankly concerned both at the pros-
pect of finding some alternative income
source and at the amount of money
that must be spent if the colony is to
achieve any increase in living standards.
Fijian roads, for the most part, con-
sist of dirt-surfaced, pot-hole-ridden
thoroughfares. Less than 50 miles of
the 140-mile road linking Nadi with
Suva are paved. There is such a des-
perate shortage of schools that children
attend in “shifts”—one group from
morning to lunch time, a second group
in the afternoon.
Education is not free and the average
parent must pay almost 90 per cent of
his child's education costs. Fiji’s total
annual budget of around £AIO million
could well be spent on developing an
efficient road system and a free and
adequate educational system. But this,
of course, is impossible. Taxation could
be increased—particularly on the foreign-
owned (mostly Australian) companies.
While increased taxation might bring
more money to the Government, it would
do little to improve the lot of the average
Fijian who at the moment earns little
money but pays top prices for essential
items. As an example, butter costs
4s. 6d. a lb., eggs 6s. a dozen. Rents
are lower and clothing, too, is cheaper
—and inferior —to Australian standards.
But Fiji, in recent years, has dis-
covered that its climate and situation
are good for one other major industry,
apart from sugarcane. This is tourism.
Income from tourists has replaced gold as
Fiji’s second most important industry. Fiji
is a “natural” for tourist development.
Near-perfect weather, coral reefs, white
beaches, fascinating native villages built
for Fijians to live in, not, as in other
more commercialised climes, to impress
the tourist ... all these things and more
offer a perfect backdrop for a South
Pacific holiday.
Strong man
As yet, Fiji has not developed any
defined and influential political
parties. Perhaps the strongest group
politically is the Federation Committee,
led by Indian Legislative Councillor
A. D. Patel. Patel was Indian spokesman
at the London talks. Patel has established
himself as the strong man of the Indian
community, but not without incurring
the displeasure of the British authorities.
A fire-brand in his youth, held under
house arrest at one stage during World
War 11, Patel is described by some
people as being pro-Communist in his
outlook. In fairness, there seems little
evidence to justify this charge, although
it does seem certain that he is a man
anxious to achieve power on the grand
scale.
The Fijians have not produced a
clear-cut leader. - Two or three chiefs
have, at various times, assumed the role
of spokesman for their people. One
of these is Ratu Cokobau, a descendant
of the chief who handed Fiji over to
Britain in 1868. He could well be the
man to accept independence back from
Britain 100 years later.
While there have been half-hearted
attempts to establish a Labor Party in
the colony, these have proved abortive
so far, mainly because of a lack of wide-
spread trade union organisation. Fiji
does have some powerful and well-
organised trade unions. Currently, the
strongest group is the Public Works
Union, a body that has succeeded in
lifting members’ wages from 3d. an
hour in 1942 to 2s. today.
The Sugar Cane Workers’ Union,
once the most powerful force in the
colony, experienced a period of dissen-
sion some years ago and only now is
it recovering. Most disputes, whether
they be about wages or working condi-
tions, are the subject of negotiation
between employers and the unions.
Deadlocks are broken by an independ-
ent arbitrator.
What is the future of the “out-
siders.”—in particular the Australian
companies that dominate the economy?
“Most people would be content for the
foreign - owned companies to remain,
but there is a minority of Indian store-
keepers who see the Australians as an
insurmountable barrier to their own
plans for expansion,” one Indian said.
“I doubt if this minority can influence
the majority, but they represent another
threat to Fiji's peaceful transition.”
But the Commonwealth Government
does not stand high in the eyes of Fijian
community leaders and politicians. Said
one Fijian leader: “The Australian Gov-
ernment has poured millions into the
Colombo Plan, and in the same time
has made only token contributions to
the development of Fiji.
“We certainly don't want charity, but
we certainly do feel entitled to at least
as much assistance as some countries
that have benefited under the Colombo
Plan. It seems incongruous to us that
your Government gives aid to nations
that could well be termed hostile to
Australia, but does little to help us. If
we adopted a more hostile attitude, or
if it appeared that Fiji had become a
trouble spot, we would receive more
attention.”


THE WEEK
OVERSEAS
U.S.
Hotter Than Harlem
the US summer seemed even
hotter than the long, hot one of 1964.
The violence broke out first in Los Angeles
in rioting that far surpassed Harlem and
the other disturbances of last year. The
contagion leapt eastward in other outbreaks
in Chicago and Springfield, Mass.
Within metropolitan Los Angeles there are
now 523,000 Negroes, an increase of more
than 60,000 in five years. There are small
Negro pockets, but most live in the sprawl-
ing area of Watts in conditions four times
as congested as those on the average in
the rest of the city.
The crime statistics in Watts far exceed
the city average. In the last three months
there have been 1000 crimes, including 98
murders, rapes and felonious assaults. But
there had been little racial strife in Watts
or Los Angeles in the pfist.
About 8 p.m. last Wednesday a white
California highway patrolman, Lee Minikus,
noticed a car weaving along Avalon Boule-
vard in the Watts area. He stopped it and
routinely gave the driver, Marquette Frye,
21, a Negro, a sobriety test. A crowd of 20
or 30 gathered to watch. Patrolman Minikus
called for help and drew his pistol. The
young Negro shouted, "Go ahead, kill me!"
and the boy's mother jumped on the patrol-
man's back. The crowd, now swelled to
about 200, moved forward.
Then nobody seems quite sure just when
or how—the crowd turned into a mob and
rioters began spreading out into the surround-
ing area, breaking windows and looting
stores. Though more than 900 of Los Angeles,
5000 police officers were finally on the scene.
Police Chief William Parker said the situation
was out of control and he did not have
enough men to restore order. The police
pulled out and merely tried to seal off Watts
from the rest of the city. Within Watts the
rioters ran loose, looting, burning, rampaging.
Then the mood changed from one of in-
discriminate attacks on anyone to all-out war
on whites. The beatings of Negroes ended
and there were cries of "Let's go where
whitey lives". Twelve thousand National
Guard troops were ordered in and, with
bayonets fixed and accompanied by jeeps
mounted with machine-guns. Watts was taken
over.
The casualties after the first four days bq-
gan to be totalled. Property damaged from
fires was estimated at over 100 million dol-
lars. No one had even begun to figure v/hat
the damage was from looting and breakage.
More than 1700 were arrested. Hundreds
more were injured. Twenty-eight persons, in-
cluding a deputy fireman and a number of
Negroes most of these shot by National
Guardsmen were dead.
INDIA
The 18th Year
JNDIA marked its 18th year of independence
last week, gravely threatened by a wide
variety of ills: guerrilla war is being fought
in the north; students and political extremists
are rioting in Calcutta; and food demon-
strations have erupted in Bombay. India's
relations with neighboring Pakistan are ap-
proaching a new low; those with Com-
munist China and other neighboring nations
are not much better.
The most serious problem is the fighting
in Kashmir.
India charges Pakistan sent up to 3200
infiltrators into Indian territory on August 5
and made an unsuccessful attempt last week
to beef up guerrilla forces now being chased
by the Indian Army. Pakistan denies any
complicity, saying what is happening is that
Kashmir's predominantly Moslem population
is revolting against rule by Hindu India.
The worst danger to Mr Shastri's Govern-
ment is that Kashmir fighting will smoulder
expensively for months, tying up tens of
thousands of troops and draining India's
waning energy.
VIETNAM
Two New Problems
rpHE change in the nature of the Vietnam
war has confronted the United States
military force in South Vietnam with two
acute problems. They are: (1) How best to
fit American combat troops into the overall
strategy of forcing the Communists into
reasonable compromise, and (2) How to kill
the Vietcong guerrillas without killing
•innocent villagers.
The first problem was dramatised last
week by the siege of Ducco one of the
heaviest engagements of the war to date.
The question for General William C. West-
moreland, CO of the US forces in Vietnam,
was whether to send in the American para-
troopers and infantrymen being held in
readiness in Pleiku. In a war theatre that
constantly evokes memories of Dien Bien Phu,
the risks of committing more and more men
to a post besieged by Communist forces of
unknown strength are keenly felt. Westmore-
land did send American troops down the
road to Ducco. Just then the South Viet-
namese relief column linked with Ducco's
defenders and the Communists broke off
the fighting.
As for the second problem, it was in the
forefront last week as a result of publicised
battle incidents of the previous week. In
an incident near the Da Nang Air Base, United
States marines inadvertently killed one
civilian (usually a child) for every four
Vietcong.
INDONESIA
The Cairo Letter
anti-US demonstrations have
been a common feature of life in Indo-
nesia for some time, the recent arrival of
Mr Marshall Green, a Far East expert at
the State Department, to take up the post
of Ambassador, was the signal for a fresh
outburst of frenzy which President Sukarno
has done nothing to check. On his way to
present his credentials Mr Green had to
drive up a one-way street to avoid a mob,
and was then given a sharp lecture by
President Sukarno. He returned to the
Embassy to find a crowd 25,000-strong
yelling for his expulsion. Shortly afterwards
the US consulate in Medan, North Sumatra,
was stoned and "Yankee Go Home" splashed
on its walls.
The Indonesian Foreign Minister, Dr
Subandrio, is now reported to have said
that US aid is mostly being used to black-
mail recipient countries a delayed after-
thought to President Sukarno's earlier advice
to the Americans to "Go to Hell with their
aid", of which Indonesia has received
approximately $350 million since 1946.
Mr Green's predecessor, Mr Howard Jones,
seems to have felt that he "understood"
President Sukarno and was the advocate
of a patient, friendly approach to the Indo-
nesians. Now, ironically, the absent Mr Jones
is also being accused of having plotted
"aggression" against Indonesia and "other
emerging forces". A letter has suddenly
turned up in a Cairo newspaper—apparently
placed there by Dr Subandrio—supposedly
the report of a conversation between the
British Ambassador in Djakarta, Sir Andrew
Gilchrist, and Mr Jones, in which they
allegedly discussed plans for an "Anglo-
American" attack on Indonesia. The letter
has been denounced as a forgery by both
the British and the Americans, but the
damage has been done apparently with
the connivance of no less a person than
President Sukarno's Foreign Minister.
Relations between the US and Indonesia
have deteriorated to such an extent that
diplomatic observers in Djakarta now predict
an actual break.
Russia's Jews
agreement just reached between the
Chief Rabbi of Moscow, Yehuda Levin,
and the Soviet Government offers the first
ray of hope for a long time past to the
mass of Jews in Russia. But this agreement,
together with the demonstrative reception
given to an American Rabbinical delegation,
is only the beginning of a promise, not
fulfilment; and promises have been made be-
fore.
Indeed, the agreement that the Moscow-
Jews may now bake unleavened bread, that
10,000 copies of the Hebrew prayer book may
be printed, that the Jewish seminary may en-
rol 20 students from Moscow and 10 from
other parts of Russia, is most interesting be-
cause it makes nonsense of the repeated de-
nials of the Soviet leadership that the Jews
of Russia were in fact being discriminated
against. In truth, there was no ban on un-
leavened bread: it was only made impos-
sible for it to be obtained.
Similarly, there was no ban on the Mos-
cow seminary: all that happened was that
residence permits for would-be students were
refused.
The agreement as far as it goes touches
only the fringe of the problem. So far it ap-
plies only to Moscow. There is still no sign
that the many synagogues closed down in
past years all over the Soviet Union will be
reopened. Scores of these have gone, in-
cluding those in such Jewish centres as Lvov
with its 30,000 to 40,000 Jews. There have
been no Jewish theatres since the great
closures under Stalin. There are still no
Jewish newspapers or journals, except for a
small sheet limited to the remote Jewish
enclave in Birobidjan and a "shop-window"
fortnightly which is almost impossible to ob-
tain inside the Soviet Union.
Nevertheless, hope exists where it did not
exist before. ,


Feeling the pressure
of paper work?
Concerned about Decimal Currency?
You need Data Processing
know what it really costs?
If you’re typical of thousands of Australian businessmen, you’re probably plagued by a
mass of routine accounting. Are you finding it increasingly difficult to keep deadlines for
statement despatch, payrolls, trading reports? Does your stock record system let you down
with costly stock run-outs? Will decimal conversion add to your difficulties? If paper-work
is your problem, there’s a timely solution—lßM Data Processing.
With your situation in mind, IBM has devised two specific plans. They put at your
immediate disposal all the benefits of data processing (without having to purchase the
equipment) at a surprisingly reasonable cost.
THE IBM RENTAL PLAN
installs Data Processing on your own premises at
rentals that run as low as £250 per month. This
small company system handles routine accounting
operations and provides the control and measure-
ment you need over the vital operations of your
business.
9527-
THE IBM DATA SERVICE CENTRE
provides data processing services to customers large
and small. Expert N3M staff will accept full respon-
sibility for prompt, accurate processing of your work,-
Or you may prefer to hire these facilities and process
your own work. Fees are surprisingly reasonable, the
cost being based on actual facility usage or on block
time, weekly, daily even hourly.
What will this mean to your business? In one step, it
places you on a competitive footing with businesses
already using these modern methods. It eliminates
inaccuracy, delay and the high cost of manual
methods. It gives.you prompt trading results and.
informed control over trading operations. All this,’
and more, at a controllable cost with no capital
outlay.
The hiring charges are tax'deductible.
One of these low-cost IBM Data Processing
plans could well, be the ideal solution to your
biggest business problems.
-K K.f -iMijKLmow: r j/iiw :«»-»>: swioc -- \
11 11111111 l . -Ml 111 II .
~ ■•>■* |i t f. rs
j r ,, | ,,, Y*«Y " Y*'if''Y' ’y *"P'*?*'Y *''?'''r''
i! i! if i iii ’' ! i! !i ii|» * ** v * **E2s *■i l ! l ‘‘ ‘'
:.) 11 i|i i j Ijj i } ijj j I ijj j i ljli i jjj ij’ & j ‘
S* * Y 1 ** Y.* * y >i Y* l V* 1 1 *i * i ~sj * - * *’* ll
ii i! i'KJUjil' I? 11 if 11 *l* • 1 1 • jf • • <iiiiii hi •* »j
THIS PUNCHED CARD is
Working paper not paper work. It does
invoicing, updates stock records, tells
when supplies get low, forecasts pro-
'duction, handles ledger accounting,
analyses costs, projects safes forecasts,
makes up the payroll, even makes out
the cheques and saves you money
along the way.
IBM
IBM AUSTRALIA PTV. LTD.
in all principal cities
18M.39.107.855e,


No Pigeon-holes
For Sir Leslie?
The Martin Report one year later
By N. R. WILLS
AUSTRALIANS, of course, believe in education. We can read and write and
more or less add up; we are obliged by the State to stay at school until 15
or 16, mainly at the State’s expense. Until recently very few of us had much
desire to go beyond secondary school. Tertiary education, and especially the
universities, had a patrician flavor.
When war came in 1939 there were
barely more than 10,000 students in all
six of the State universities, and this after
the two largest and oldest had been in
existence for 75 years. Had it not been
for the impact of commercial agriculture
and large-scale mining, Australia’s flirta-
tion with tertiary education in those now
remote times, might well have begun and
ended with its six small universities. But
the needs of scientific agriculture and the
mining bonanza, from copper and gold
to silver, lead, zinc and iron, brought a
response in the shape of State-supported
agricultural institutes, schools of mines
and technical colleges.
These two, the universities and the
technical colleges, very largely went their
own ways. Universities granted degrees
to the fortunate few, and the technical
colleges, where they were concerned
with tertiary education, diplomas. Where-
as the universities, steeped in the British
tradition, fiercely asserted their indepen-
dence of governments, the larger tech-
nical colleges for the most part grew up
as parts of the State public service,
There were few changes to this pattern
up until the Second World War. The
depression of the 1930 s left its blighting
touch on tertiary education, as it did on
all other institutions. Many who might
have gone on to the universities or tech-
nical colleges were unable to do so and
Australia found itself educationally ill-
prepared for the technological challenges
of the 1940-45 period.
It was the traumatic experiences of
World War II which set Australians
moving along paths we have not since
departed from. What has been done to
put the house in order? Educational
reforms in the post-war period have been
part of much more massive shifts in the
balance of forces within Australia. The
few who, during the 1940-45 crisis, fore-
saw an industrial revolution in Australia,
were proved right.
The governments and the industrialists
saw their opportunity, and based their
post-war reconstruction and expansion
programmes very largely on the expected
rapid growth of secondary industry. To
achieve the desired rate of growth the
planners knew the population would
have to be increased rapidly, and
especially the technically skilled com-
ponent in it. The first realisation led
into the highly successful immigration
programme of the last 15 years, and
the second into increased public assist-
ance to tertiary education, Common-
wealth as well as State.
Confined, as it believed it was, by
the powers delegated to it in its written
constitution, the Commonwealth, before
1940, had remained financially aloof
from education, tertiary and secondary.
Its only concessions had been to assist
the universities with small financial
grants for specific research projects, a
step taken in 1936, and a mere crack
in the rigid edifice of pre-war Federalism.
Then in quick, succession came the war,
the accession to power of Labor, and
uniform taxation. The major financial
responsibility for Australia’s further
development, including education, thus
passed irreversibly from the six State
capitals to Canberra.
The last 15 years has seen, first, the
rescue by the Commonwealth of the old
universities from their financial plight,
and then the creation of machinery
designed to maintain them in a healthy
state of growth. After the war there
occurred an extraordinary rise in the
number seeking a university education.
The lecture halls of the old universities
were suddenly crowded to the doors with
ex-service men and women; and so were
the classrooms of the technical colleges.
Australia’s educational “renaissance” has
continued unabated ever since. The
universities now have 70,000 students
on their books a sevenfold increase in
25 years; and there are a further 50,000
students enrolled in technical colleges.
The Commonwealth seems to have
moved rather more slowly and cautiously
than it need have. But one by one
the pieces of machinery were installed.
The Commonwealth Reconstruction
Training Scheme justified the establish-
ment of a Commonwealth Universities
Commission and an Office of Education
Canberra had taken the plunge! Then
came the report of the'Mills Committee
in 1950 with its recommendation for
direct Commonwealth aid. The new
Liberal Government opened a new
phase when, in 1956, it invited Sir
Keith Murray, a distinguished British
university administrator, to review in
their entirety the problems facing the
Australian universities. The report of
the now-famous Murray Committee is
a landmark in the history of the uni-
versities. With all the weight of its
authority it placed the major responsi-
bility for their future fairly and squarely
with the Commonwealth. Since then
there has been no looking back.
An Australian Universities Commis-
sion was established in 1959 to admini-
ster the financial recommendation of the
Murray Committee and to co-ordinate
future development. With a large part
of the financial burden now lifted from
their shoulders, most of the States have
proceeded to establish additional uni-
versities within their boundaries Mon-


>sssSB&
—X. -'' - ■
')
/
#1
„¥ WA %\
l UTOMEB '
IEXCEIiiENC
w
%
, 1964
1
ORLANDO
VINTACED AUSTRALIAN Wl^
£!
WWm
cTrampcson^
°—"NmVlNTijy^
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine Study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random front
stock proof positive of the wine’s
■unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green-.bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORWNDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’s
famous Barossa Valley.
Jo<)B3
ash and La Trobe in Victoria, Bedford
Park in Adelaide, Macquarie and New-
castle in New South Wales.
Massive Commonwealth involvement
has thus transformed the Australian
university scene. With continued assist-
ance on the existing scale the future of
this vital part of tertiary education
seems assured.
But what else remains to be done? If
the Australian universities needed Com-
monwealth support, did it not follow
that what people tended to regard as
their lesser brethren, the technical
colleges, also need help? In 1961 the
Prime Minister made it his business to
find out by setting up a committee under
the chairmanship of Sir Leslie Martin
to enquire into “the pattern of tertiary
education in relation to the needs and
resources of Australia”. The Martin
Committee carried out an extraordinarily
comprehensive investigation during the
ensuing three years, and by August,
1964, had completed the major part of
its assignment. Its report was tabled by
the Prime Minister on March 24. With-
out doubt, and not excepting the report
of the Murray Committee, that of Martin
and his colleagues is unquestionably the
most important document of its kind yet
compiled in Australia.
The Martin Committee is opposed to
the creation of more universities, at
least during the next ten years. It
believes the existing 13, together with
their already established colleges or
divisions (all three of which may well
develop into universities) are capable of
absorbing an additional 50,000 students.
What Martin and his colleagues are par-
ticularly concerned to see is the rapid
vitalising of the existing institutes of
technology and the technical colleges,
to an extent at least proportional to the
resources now being directed to the 13
universities. The committee calls for
no less than a new charter for non-
. university technological education in
Australia. The technical institutes have
for too long lived within the shadows
of the universities. They have been
neglected and looked down upon. From
now on, as partners with the universities,
they are to enjoy the same recognition
and status. The universities, for instance,
will have to adjust themselves to a world
In which others have as much right as
they to grant degrees.
The committee recommends the set-
ting up of a Commonwealth Tertiary
Education Commission, to co-ordinate
the planning and financing not only of
the 13 or so universities but also of
the technical institutes and the teachers’
colleges.
Those who would preserve the old
order are already up in arms, but few,
surely, will work to obstruct the in*:


BRAMBLES
NEW
MULTI-STATE EXPANSION
Australian Owned — Australia Wide
Vol. 2, No. 5
August, 1965
I.P.A. Steel Company, Perth
Brambles Industries Limited announce the
conclusion of negotiations with Kauri Hold-
ings Limited for the purchase of the whole
of that Company’s steel merchandising in-
terests trading as John Sharp Steel Company
in Melbourne, and I.P.A. Steel Company in
Berth, Kalgoorlie and Darwin.
Each of these trading companies occupies a
significant position as Steel Merchants in the
centre in which it operates.
Brambles Steel Merchandising Division now
operates from six trading centres in four
Australian Mainland States.
I.P.A. Steel Company, Kalgoorlie
John Sharp, Steel Company, Melbourne


INDUSTRY
CHALLENGES
THE VASTNESS Of
AUSTRALIA
Australia is a land of vast areas, largely unbroken by the marks
of man’s civilisation. New areas are constantly being opened
up to exploit the riches of the earth, or to make way for new
cities and towns. Each development demonstrates the skill of
modern industry to overcome the difficulties of distance and
remoteness. Brambles (N.Q.) Engineering has been involved in
the construction of a new coal washing plant at Collinsville,
in a remote area of North Queensland. Dacon Colleries are
establishing the plant to wash coal from their Collinsville
colliery. The coal from the seam is classed as good coking
quality and a trial shipment will be sent to Japan when the
washing plant is in operation. Washed coal from the mine may
also be used to drive the generators of a new power station
under construction at Collinsville. Brambles (N.Q.) Engineering
were sub-contractors to the General Electric Co. for the supply
of materials, fabrication, delivery to the site and steel erection
Surrounded by the vastness of the Australian bush,
Brambles (N.Q.) Engineering erect steelwork for the
coal washing plant of Due on Colleries, Collinsville,
North Queensland.
°L t t 1 wnr C i< 0a fnr W t a h Shin8 P |ant - About f 300 *°"s °f steel were involved in the project. Brambles erected the main
r!?!,* 0 , a e c |: ushm g hou f e ’ t wo 40 °-t°n capacity coal bins, a coal refuse bin, conveyor galleries and
trestles, launders, hoppers and other miscellaneous structures. S
BRAMBLES OVERSEAS
Mr. S. A. Ferguson
Mr. W. S. (Bill) Johnston
Brambles Industries Limited are pleased to an-
nounce the appointment of Mr. W. S. (Bill) Johnston
as Regional Manager for the United Kingdom and
European area with Headquarters in London Mr
Johnston has already left Australia for his new
post, accompanied by Mr. S. A. Ferguson, General
Manager of Brambles Customs & Shipping Division.
En route, they are visiting the Company’s Agents
and studying transportation developments in the
Pacific Area and the Continent, including Eastern
European countries. Mr. Johnston is well known in
international trading circles as a result of his over-
seas experiences with the Bank of New South Wales.
An Enviable
Record
Three years and 5,600,000 miles
without accident . . . that is
the safety record set by the
interstate section of Brambles
Transport Division. Each vehicle
averaged about 70,000 per year
over Australia’s main highways.
So often the general public
is ready to blame road trans-
porters for accidents, but the
achievement of 5 million acci-
dent-free miles by the Brambles
drivers goes to prove that they
are very conscious of their road
safety obligations.


IIS BRANDS RSIBBAIlfS
AS OTHERS SEE US
by H. J. Heinz Co. of Australia Ltd.
People so often ask: “Is there really a Mr. Heinz and did he start all this?” The answer is: “Yes, there is a Mr. Heinz in command, he is
a grandson of the founder who was born in Pittsburgh, U.S.A., in 1844.”
The H. J. Heinz Company of Dandenong, Victoria, like all successful manufacturers, stress quality throughout every stage of their
operation. Quality in manufacture, packing, presentation—and right on down the line to the consumer.
Quality can be maintained until the goods leave the place of manufacture, but what happens during transportation and warehousing is
as critical to quality control as the initial stages of the manufacturing process. Heinz rely on Brambles for the quality of their goods
during transportation and distribution to New South Wales and South Australian markets.
Brambles Transport offered swift, efficient transport for the vast traffic of canned goods, and Brambles own reputation for quality
operations led the Heinz Company to select their services.
A clean Brambles truck, an efficient driver, a tray uncluttered with remnants of a previous load look good and make a good impression
on Heinz customers, retail and wholesale. Trucks in sound mechanical condition, not dropping oil on warehouse floors preserve good
relations with warehouse managers; receiving clerks are not presented with rain-soaked goods because of leaking tarpaulins. Small
points? No, essential items in the eyes of Brambles management.
Brambles executives are constantly in personal contact with Heinz. Melbourne Manager, John Linfoot, frequently visits Dandenong to see
loading operations, watches palletization, truck turn-around and scheduling. Dudley Wadsworth, Distribution Manager at Heinz, constantly
visits interstate warehouses and discusses various aspects of transportation. This co-operation paves the way to harmonious efficiency-
satisfying Heinz demand for quality transportation.


DID YOU
EVER
SEE...
A MONKEY
CARRYING
AN ElEPHANT?
People living between Adelaide and Whyalla could be excused for thinking they had witnessed some-
thing similar. Four 100-ton Dump Trailers and two 22-ton Euclid Prime were loaded onto
Brambles-Lee vehicles at Adelaide by our South Australian Subsidiary, Nicholls Crane Services, for
transport to the Whyalla Steelworks. The builders of the units, Freighter Industries, claim them to
be the largest single axle transporters in the world. Brambles, holders of the Australian record for
seivice and reliability, were natural travelling companions for such loads.
A
HANDSHAKE
FOR A NEW
VENTURE
Executives of CHEP and Towmotor ex-
change a handshake to mark the com-
mencement of CHEP Sales and Service,
which is marketing Towmotor Fork Lift
Trucks in New South Wales.
KEVIN ISBURG, Towmotor Field Repre-
sentative, Northern Area, congratulates
JIM ELBOURNE (on the right), New South
Wales Manager of CHEP, on the first day
of the new sales venture. TED NORTH,
Spares Supervisor, ARTHUR BEACH, Man-
ager, Sales and Service Section, and CYRIL
YOUNG of Towmotor look on with approval.


plementation of the Martin plan. The
Commonwealth has moved to imple-
ment some of the financial proposals
additional Commonwealth scholarships,
and capital grants to technical institutes,
for example. A move has also been made,
with the appointment of Dr I. W. Wark
to be chairman of the Commonwealth
Advisory Committee on Advanced Edu-
cation, to implement one of the machin-
ery proposals. These are only portents of
more to come. It would be a tragedy if
apathy, indifference and sheer weight of
vested interest in maintaining the status
quo were to allow the Martin Commit-
tee’s reports to be pigeon-holed.
The Union Charm School
The Ironworkers’ Super
By BRIAN JOHNS
THE Federated Ironworkers’ Association is frequently out of step in the union
world because of its own brand of militancy anti-Communism. Unions have
their own code of snobbery and it will take much more than the startling
announcement by the Ironworkers’ Association and the BHP of a £1 million a year
workers’ pension scheme to raise the union’s lowly position in the pecking order.
The touch of modernity in the habit
of the Ironworkers’ leadership of looking
to the United States for industrial pre-
cedents; their sustained anti-Communism
not to mention their Grouper links in
the campaigns of the turbulent years of
the late ’forties and early ’fifties; and
their liking for such battle calls as a
“sane union policy” have all helped to
earn suspicion for them in union eche-
lons. But if the Ironworkers’ Federation
rates a failure in a contemporary union
charm school, it does have the ingredi-
ents of a new look that might eventually
become the uniform of the industrial
movement.
The Federation opened negotiations
with the BHP for a pensions scheme back
in 1954 after a visit to the United States
by the ebullient national secretary, Mr
Laurie Short, after he had seen schemes
operating in the American steel industry.
Until 1962 the Federation pressed the
BHP for a non-contributory scheme,
which the company stonewalled on the
grounds that it amounted to straight-
out wage increase. Then in 1962 Short
and his assistant secretary, Mr Harry
Hurrell, who shoulders the burden of the
Federation’s detailed work in the steel
industry, changed their negotiating tack
by campaigning for a contributory
scheme.
Still, the Federation apparently made
little headway until last year they decided
to approach the NSW Government to
legislate for a pension scheme similar to
that provided for miners. There was a
Federation deputation to the former State
Premier, Mr J. Renshaw, shortly before
the State election. Then, after murmurs,
but only murmurs of direct action by
unionists, discussions were reopened be-
tween the BHP and Short and Hurrell.
It became clear from these discussions
that the BHP had for a considerable time
been studying the pension proposition,
and what were left to be worked out
were marginal amendments.
So there was the minimum of drama
in the whole affair. The BHP lost none
of the limelight by going further than
most pension schemes now in operation
by contributing 60 to 40 to the fund
established for its 30,000 employees, in-
stead of following the general 50-50 rate.
Although the company obviously stands
to gain from the employment stabilising
and drawing power of a pension scheme
of this type, even union officials grant
that the BHP ogre has shown a taste for
enlightenment.
Short has made shrewd use of the
Press ever since the headline days of
his campaign to wrest control of the
FIA from the hands of his one-time
Communist comrade Ernest Thornton
who controlled the union for a decade
until 1951. Looking at the nattily dressed,
nearing 50-year-old and executive-be-
spectacled Short today, it is difficult to
see him as the unionist courageously
standing up under bashings from Com-
munist thugs. It is by no means as hard
to see him as the successful litigant in a
libel action against Thornton who had
called him a liar, or as the path-breaker
who provided the first test of the Concili-
ation and Arbitration Act’s jurisdiction in
trade union ballots by successfully chal-
lenging the re-election of Thornton over
himself as national secretary of the FIA.
Firmly backed by Hurrell, whose
earthy manner is in its own way just
as misleading as Short’s because it sug-
gests the traditional trade union outlook,
the national secretary has established
probably the most efficient secretariat
of any Australian union. There are
three research officers —dealing mainly
with 80 awards and hundreds of indivi-
dual workshop agreements—a full-time
accountant looking after revenue which
last year amounted to £286,349 and out-
goings of £262,465, a Press officer, and
an organiser-specialist working among
New Australians (some 20 per cent of
the membership are post-war migrants),
as well as a full-time president.
Federation salaries, to use Short’s own
description, “are austere”. Until last
month Short was paid £37 a week and
Hurrell £33, but along with other union
officers they were given a £3 a week
raise. Short says there are few marginal
benefits.
Commenting on the announcement of
the BHP pension scheme, which is
already flowing on to other blue collar
workers in the steel industry, Short said
it was the Federation’s greatest achieve-
ment since 1951 when long-service leave
was introduced. The Federation was one
of the key unions spearheading this move,
which after NSW spread to all States and
all Federal awards, with successive im-
provements in long-service provisions
over the years. But it has not been such
a long distance between milestones.
Negotiations in December, 1963, between
the Newcastle company of John Lysaghts
and Short and Hurrell created a prece-
dent for Federation members retrenched
and demoted as a result of mechanisation.
The retrenchment numbered 390 out of
the company labor force of 1570. Those
retrenched were given severance pay
ranging from £lOO to £350 depending
on the employee's age and length of
service. The company agreed to “make-
up” pay—amounts up to £lO a week
for up to three months—to offset wage
losses or while they were being re-trained
for other jobs. The company also agreed
to pensions of up to £lO 10s. a week for
disabled employees forced to retire
before the age of 65. And the company
provided a death and disability cover of
£5OO and up to £lOOO for employees.
An industrial gain which the Federa-
tion spearheaded alone was the adoption
of the principle of “average pay” for
workers on long-service leave, and in
company with other unions successfully
agitated for the NSW Labor Govern-
ment last year to legislate on the issue.
From an Australian view the Iron-
workers’ Federation has a distinct Ameri-
can styling. This is not lessened by the
wide use of the collective bargaining de-
vice of over-award payments for the
union’s 62,000 members, who all are
unskilled, or in the Federation’s euphem-
ism, “semi-skilled”. And when Short
and Hurrell took over the Federation’s
affairs from the Communists, in their
words, “the level of overaward payments
was almost non-existent”. Of course the
Federation is only one union which has
found over-award payments a boon, but
an indication of its success in this field is
that it has progressively lifted its target
from £2 to £3, and in those areas where
it has exceeded this latter figure the last
conference set £4 a week in over-award
payments as its new schedule.


m
mm
For you . . .
only the best
ASAHI
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection
and personal prestige.
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with Auto Super
Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
Letters to the Editor
Screaming Parents
SIR. This week we received a letter from
our 11-year-old son's football coach. It was
a friendly, courteous letter; it pointed out
how well the team had been playing and
how discouraging it is for the boys if
their opponents have louder and more per-
sistent barrackers; and it urged us to come
along and cheer the team on in the semi-
finals.
It so happens that I have spent a couple
of days this week watching small boys play
football, but it is the behavior of the parents
that is interesting no, disturbing —in its
violence and passion.
The little boys, while I was watching,
were very well behaved. There was the
odd shove when the referee was not looking,
the occasional piece of abuse for a muffed
catch or a fumbled pass, but on the whole
they were as gentlemanly and sportsmanlike
as any coach could wish. They were keen
without being too aggressive, were quick to
go to an opponent's aid if he seemed hurt,
and were not unduly cast down by defeat.
Not so their parents. They screamed their
advice from the sidelines, they muttered dis-
contentedly when the referee gave an un-
popular decision, they gloated in victory.
"Use your boot!" bellowed a scarlet-faced
gentleman in dark business suit and trilby,
while a well-dressed lady shrilled: "Pick it
up!" What is the poor boy expected to
make of that? I asked a sympathetic-looking
and silent bystander. "It's all right," she
reassured me, "I don't think they hear any-
thing on the field." It is as well they don't.
All those character-building qualities that
Rugby Union is supposed to develop in the
young are likely to disappear if they listen
to their parents instead of the coaches.
ANN McCALLUM
Cammeray (NSW).
Film Censorship
SIR.—In the light of the newly relaxed atti-
tude on book censorship, as seen in the
release of four major titles, it is sad to report
that one of the important films shown at the
1965 Sydney Film Festival, the Japanese
"Woman in the Dunes", was cut by the
Commonwealth Film Censorship Board. From
information received we understand that Aus-
tralian Film Festivals were the only ones in
the world where this film was shown with any
censor cuts. This underlines many points
made in Mr Harry Whitmore's excellent
article on film censorship, "Wholesome or
Prissy?" (8., May 8).
The Sydney Film Festival would like to go
on record in stating its regret at the attitude
of the Film Censor towards Festivals and
Film Societies which screen only the world's
finest films to a limited, adult and discerning
audience.
Most Festivals and Film Societies overseas
(which also screen to restricted mature
audiences) are not subject to censorship at
all, and this is as it should be, as the work
of the world's major film directors should
not be subject to mutilation.
It is especially disturbing that the work
of the enormously talented Jean-Luc Godard
should suffer so much in this country: two of
his films have been banned entirely here,
another suffered cuts in a key sequence.
Godard's work is highly regarded overseas.
Films should be seen in their entirety, and
there was nothing, we believe, in "Woman
in the Dunes" that could not be seen by an
adult Festival audience. (Or, for that matter,
in any of the other major films which either
received minor cuts or, as has been the case,
were so heavily butchered they could not be
screened at all.)
In the 1920 s when the great Russian
classics like Eisenstein's "Battleship Potem-
kin" were generally banned in England, Film
Societies were formed in order to bring these
masterpieces to a minority audience who
would appreciate their artistry. It seems in-
congruous that forty years later in Australia,
minority audiences are still not permitted to
view some important films. In recent years
a highly commercial, but extremely sick,
horror film by a popular director has been
widely shown to general audiences, while
some major works of art cannot be seen by
any audience, even one formed solely to study
world cinema.
It just doesn't make sense.
It is to be hoped that Australian Film
Censorship may soon realise that there is
a specialised audience for the art of the
cinema and may view films for that audience
accordingly. Until then we shall continue
voicing our protests over the Government's
policy towards the films imported for their
brief Festival screenings.
The Censorship Board, it should.be added,
has always co-operated in the speedy pro-
cessing of films imported for the Festivals. We
realise they are carrying out the present law
on film censorship as they see it. We maintain
this is a bad law, one which should be
changed.
DIANNE M. SHAW
Hon. Secretary,
The Committee, Sydney Film Festival
Sydney (NSW).
Aborigines' Pay
SIR. With regard to Aborigines and equal
pay in the pastoral industry, the writer,
L. W. Ellis (8., July 31), quotes one witness
who clearly demonstrates the perpetuation
of class snobbery. Mr Driver, at 24 years of
age, would hardly reflect sound sociological
opinions. However, he does show with great
clarity the traditional opposition of white to
black. His "doubtful opinions about the
value of Aboriginal workers" can be taken
as a subtle reflection on his own ability to
control indigenous staff; a failing possessed
by many station managers and owners.
Having spent some years working amongst
Aborigines, I believe too little trust in them
is either tried or exercised. In all station
duties the Aboriginal is as well, if not better,
suited by nature and environment. He makes
a good stockman, or head stockman, if only
he were shown some respect and given some
controllable responsibility.
R. WOODWARD
Waitara (NSW).
The Monash Teach-in
SIR. —I am surprised that your correspondent
who repeated, without further checking, a
story concerning myself which was specifi-
cally defiied by me in the "Canberra Times
July 29. For the record let me say that I first
heard of the suggestion that Dr Knopfel-
macher should be invited to speak at the
Monash "teach-in" after the meeting at which
this proposal was made and rejected. I was
not asked for my opinion of the proposal. I
did not threaten to withdraw my sponsorship
of the "teach-in" either then, or before, or
after.
These are the simple facts and corrobora-
tive evidence can easily be provided. If y° ur
correspondent believes that he has evidence
to the contrary lam afraid that he is mis-
informed.
J. D. LEGGE
Professor of History
Monash University
Clayton (Vicj.


'
<e* a
sjai/m swßaq
■
■v
■-. ■ r ■••;’f^f*■ -
■
: -
II I '
i
*• ’
. V
* + s?V% +-?s£s&
. 7 ’ K - . /S' ,7 : .*:•*
V”
<•. -V
■
■ ■
; ; • i~ f
>
n' 1
IliSiiisi
>• • ><#
iS
:i:
a
> ’-*
<•■ : . •
i
.
■
Si? 1 .:
■■ ■' : v '■ ■'. :
S7.ri, : :
' '■ : ' -'77V..
■■■HHPP
Mil
iV i
4
\
H
>
8
. ; :
■7
%':
m
m
■ ■
\
"Deserted, the woman wonders how she will feed her children, so ... ”
"70 years pass him by, he has no home, no family, no money, so ... ”
"Released on bond, he returns to the streets, his future dim ...”
"Rescued as she attempts suicide, the girl needs guidance in life, so .. .
"Everything is lost in the fire —the children must be fed immediately,
/
so ..
Christianity with its s/eeves railed up
Help the Army in its campaign for those in need
Your donation goes further when administrated by the Salvation Army.
AUSTRALIAN EASTERN HEADQUARTERS: 140 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W. PHONE: 26-1711
Q


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Return of the Tintookies
By JAN SMITH
turkeys?” said the showground
gatekeeper. “You’re a bit late for
-*■ turkeys, love. Come back around
Show time ...”
Puppetry is not an important art form
in Australia. If it were, puppeteers would
not find themselves rehearsing, for a
national tour in the back of a grand-
stand at the Sydney Showground, short
on tea and radiators, and looking faintly
surprised that anyone should have ven-
tured so far to talk to them.
Standing in the middle of it all, a ciga-
rette dangling from his mouth, was Mr
Peter Scriven, without whose dedication
puppetry in Australia would largely be
extinct, and certainly far beneath the
notice of such august sponsors as the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust
and the Arts Council, which are sponsor-
ing the current tour of Brisbane, Sydney
and Melbourne. The Tintookies open
at the Phillip Theatre, Sydney, on Aug-
ust 24.
After earlier publicity with the Tin-
tookie show, and his second presenta-
tion, “Little Fella Bindi”, Peter Scriven
is known to most culturally minded
Australians as an example of what un-
faltering dedication can achieve making a
troupe of nearly 200 wallabies, wombats
and fairy princesses grow where only a
handful of rundown Punch and Judy
shows grew before.
Mr Scriven has been devoted to pup-
pets since he was 14 and, apart from a
couple of years as a breakfast session an-
nouncer with Victorian stations in Ham-
ilton and Shepparton, has worked steadily
towards reviving puppetry as an art form.
He is on record as saying Goethe wrote
“Faust” to be performed by puppets, and
that the Japanese Kabuki playwrights
originally wrote their dramas for puppets.
Unfortunately, puppets are not an easy
subject for small talk, and Mr Scriven, a
tall, fair young man, is not the person to
encourage it. Nor, said an assistant,
would Mr Scriven be too happy to talk
about his family, a staunch clan of
Melbourne bankers who, after sending
Peter to Geelong Grammar, were under-
standably bewildered by his intention, at
14, to become a puppeteer. He has a
private income from real estate, but
otherwise has been effectively cut off.
By the time Mr Scriven had dealt
with a couple of wombats, for publicity
pictures, the moment had come. “I sup-
pose you’ve heard all this nonsense about
my having a private income,” he said
sternly. “It’s only true up to a point.”
He had enough to live on, but resented
early publicity which made people think
he was a rich dilettante, not worth pub-
lic financial assistance.
True, he had gone hungry once or
twice, but strictly from mismanagement.
At 20 he was touring the provinces with
magician The Great Levant, learning
show business from the ground floor
while shooting patrons with dummy bul-
lets. A little later, a nightclub engage-
ment having fallen through, he had been
reduced to selling funny noses and kew-
pie dolls only yards from where we were
MR PIXIE AND HIS SON
standing, at an Easter Show. After drink-
ing with country friends in the mem-
bers’ stand, he had hidden behind a false
beard when they came past his stall an
hour later.
The family estrangement bit was
nearer the mark. He did, though, occa-
sionally see his brother, Dr Michael
Scriven, of Melbourne University, who
is a philosopher of the Passmore school.
“Don't ask me to explain it,” Scriven
said, with a faint smile. “You see, he
doesn’t like puppets and I don’t like
Western philosophy. I suppose the best
description of me would be a humanist-
Buddhist.”
Although Scriven denied, in a fey lit-
tle introduction on the 1956 Tintookie
programme, that he had anything to do
with creating the Tintookies —“I just
wished that Australia had some legendary
pixies like other countries” there is an
obvious dig at big brother, in both senses,
in the play’s themes. Three Wise Men
Anthropology, Philosophy and Law
represented as darkly gowned dither-
ing greybeards, who have forgotten their
Tintookie magic in the pursuit of learn-
ing, are bewildered by the markings on
the wishing stone, made by the more
ingenuous animals.
Further satire may come in the plays
on which Scriven has been working
while in Europe and the East. But he
refuses to discuss them, apart from say-
ing they are not exactly lightweight/
“Australians write about such piddling
problems,” Scriven said later. It was,
he felt, simply a reflection of our
national inability to think, for any length
of time, about a serious matter. “I know
perfectly well,” he said, “that peopie
get bored with me going on about Asia
and Eastern philosophy. 1 can almost
see them trying to steer me on to some-
thing less demanding, like the new
Holden or football.”
But Australians, he thinks, have one
advantage. They are honest. “Perhaps
we’re naive, but at least we carry out
our promises. Americans don’t.” For
promoting understanding between East
and West, he envisages a scheme where-
by Australian writers and intellectuals
can stop-over there on their way to
Europe, meeting their Eastern counter-
parts. “These cultural exchange things
they do now are just one great grog-
swilling session. I want them to meet
other writers and artists, not mayors
and politicians.”
But red tape may force him to aban-
don the idea, and when the current
show ends he will leave again on one of
his lengthy sabbaticals. Perhaps he will
go back to his old job of translations
for a Japanese book publisher, or re-
turn to Greece. “Going overseas tends
to make people remember you,” he
smiled. “If you stay around all the time
they take you for granted.”
The Writer As
Necessary Evil
By PATRICK TENNISON
years ago Chris Beard drew £35
a week for writing, appearing in and
announcing for the “Revue 61” television
series. Now briefly back in Australia, he
Will be returning to Canada next month
to draw $7OO a week writing the late
Wednesday night variety-comment pro-
gramme “Nightcap” for the Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation’s TV network.
He is still only 29. In Canada he
has seen writers he worked beside go to
the United States to draw $2OOO a week
writing for the Danny Kaye Show. There


is still plenty of time for this sort of
thing to happen to him, or for fulfilment
of his biggest ambition: to write and
produce his own films a la Billy Wilder.
Although he keeps talking about him-
self in the context of “Australian
writers”, Beard was born in Richmond,
England, and was 13 before he came to
Australia. His first job was as a panel
operator at 2UE and then 2UW in
Sydney. Then he started writing UW’s
breakfast session. For 3\ years he wrote,
produced and appeared in ATN-7’s child-
ren’s show “Small Time”. Then Barry
Lenihan began buying monologues he
was writing for “Curtain Call”, which
led to that “Revue ’6l” contract at a
hard-won £35 weekly.
“But, to be fair, it did rise to £5O a
week the following year,” Beard points
out quickly enough. “You’ve got to re-
member, too, that at that time Austral-
ians didn't know what TV writers were.
It’s different now. Since GTV-9 brought
me back to Melbourne to write a pilot
for a situation comedy series and story
lines for six of the series, I’ve been treat-
ed very splendidly and no complaints.
The picture is improving in Australia, but
it still has some distance to go.”
As well, he has been writing sketches
for Graham Kennedy’s “In Melbourne
Tonight” and has been discussing ideas
for GTV-9 for other projected new
shows, one of them a daytime soap
opera.
Beard went to Canada in mid-1962
and at once got a $2OO-a-week job in
Toronto. He has been building, show by
show, dollar by dollar, in the three years
since.
Not that it is all moonlight and roses
yet: “Everywhere in the world, to pro-
ducers and people, writers seem a neces-
sary evil,” he says. “But over there
writers are not looked on as just infe-
rior, like all creative people.
“As I see it, Australian TV is run by
salesmen. The sales side is considered
much more important than the creative.
But everywhere else they realise they
must have the creative thinking before
the salesmen come in.
“In Canada, they’ll spend $30,000 on
a pilot for a TV show and, in one case
I know, two minutes after some sponsors
looked at it, it was sold for $2 million.
But here they won’t do a show until they
have a sale. They won’t put any money
in until they’ve got it. Of course, it’s all
the trouble of the smaller population
and all that but the scale on which
it’s done is ridiculous at the moment.
They won’t invest to make here. They’d
rather make a small profit on something
that’s safe. It’s now changing, but slow-
ly.”
Really big thinking, he believes, would
set Australian networks and producers
aiming at making TV shows for inter-
national sale. In America and Britain,
every show made is slanted for inter-
national markets deliberately. But Aus-
tralian shows are still determinedly Aus-
tralian in every way. Lower wage scales
operating in Australia would mean our
shows being offered profitably at very
competitive prices. Australian techniques
were now world class, and our best shows
could be competitive in this regard
too.
“Everyone’s crying out for variety
shows,” he said. “Strictly musical shows
require no language and bingo
there's the whole big Continental Euro-
pean market available without any busi-
ness of dubbing voices for them.”
Coming back has produced a few
surprises. Strongly in Sydney, but less in
Melbourne where he is now, he found
himself greeted by many former col-
leagues with the attitude, “If you're doing
so well in Canada, why did you come
back?”
“They don’t understand the homing
instinct,” he said. “I’d like to be able
to live and work here because I regard
it as my home.”
But one delight here has been finding
Australian TV audiences, especially
studio audiences, much more willing to
laugh than American and Canadian ones.
With higher standards generally abroad,
audiences demand to be entertained and
are less willing to show their apprecia-
tion. “We still mix in canned laughs and
reactions with the live studio ones.”
Otherwise, audience loyalties, likes
and affections are the same here as any-
where. “For mass appeal and big ratings,
TV everywhere is still ruled by the mums
and dads,” Beard said. “And they’re the
same everywhere. The late-night show I
do isn’t really dependent on this type of
audience and we cater for more sophisti-
cated tastes. Even then, we are continu-
ally surprised at the good reactions we get
from some people who are obviously in
the mums-and-dads bracket. If I were
doing a peak-time show that had to at-
tract them, I’d write mums-and-dads
material readily enough.”
He has also been surprised doubly
surprised at the big popular success
of the “Mavis Bramston Show” in Aus-
tralia. “I’m surprised at the great step
forward it signifies but also at the step
backward it means, too. It almost can-
cels itself out, because it relies too
heavily on sheer, unadulterated bad taste
for a tag,” he said. “Our show has
innuendo, but always with some genuine
meaning and purpose. We’d never con-
sider a gag written deliberately and only
to work towards a tag about getting balls
in a knot.
“Still, I bow to the ratings and if that’s
what people want, well ...” and his
sentence trailed off into a silent, wry
shrug. “But taste must always be the final
"Whadda y a mean, Rapunzel, 'The
stairs are at the back'?"
arbiter and I think a show like this will
one day suddenly stop dead.”
Anyway, with Canada’s lush fields
soon welcoming him back he doesn’t feel
much like getting anything in a knot
about the local scene. Maybe one day,
but not yet.
OPERA
Faust-Why?
Faust, Gounod. Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
“-CW” is the subject of my favorite
A operatic pun, and thereby hangs a
tale. In the days of Jean de Reske (of
cigarette fame) “Faust” was played so
often at the Metropolitan in New York
that it became known as the “Faust-
spielhaus”. Today the opera is no better
and no worse than then, but tastes have
changed and the chocolate-box qualities
of the score need a masterly production
to overcome the barriers set up by
constant over-exposure. Nevertheless,
the music has some value as a period
piece and cannot be dismissed lightly.
The current production has all the
ingredients, of a successful “Faust” but
somehow never really gets off the
ground. A bad piece of miscasting is
its most serious fault. With Joseph
Rouleau in the company, it is hard to
see why Mephistopheles was given to
Richard Cross. He sang very well in-
deed, but the voice is too light and he
looked and acted like Ray Taylor play-


How you go
W
or
where you go
J*
St/ .
( Jsms
e>
...go through
rbit
TRAVEL
SERVICES
PTY. LTD.
it costs no more!
Free services include the
arranging of your trans-
portation and hotel reser-
vations, passports, visas
(also U.K. Entry Permits),
health documents, foreign
currency and personal
and baggage insurance.
Travel now—pay later
facilities.
SYDNEY:
116 Khg St., 28 2681
MELBOURNE:
374 Bourke St., 67 7071
BRISBANE:
119 Queen Street, 2-2328
Official agents for all
air, sea, rail and coach
companies throughout the
world.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
ing the Demon King in a pantomime.
Mephisto should be a black villain or a
sardonic gentleman, never a buffoon. As
usual, one could not fault Joan Suther-
land’s singing and 1 cannot blame her
for trying to get away from the stereo-
typed “Gretchen” image. But there
must be limits; Marguerite is no saucy
baggage, but an innocent young girl! To
make matters worse, Miss Sutherland
chose to appear in an elaborate coiffure
adorned with bright, colored ribbons
which made her look like a Katisha from
an amateur performance of “The
Mikado”. Really ! !
Fortunately John Alexander levelled
the score a little with an excellent,
musicianly, and well-acted Faust. Cor-
nells Opthof sang and acted Valentine
well, except for a monstrous interpolated
top note which completely ruined the
composer’s line in his big aria. I wonder
if he realises how much this lapse of
taste cost him in applause. Margreta
Elkins, with the help of a happily re-
stored aria in the duel scene, was the
best Siebel anyone is ever likely to see
or hear. Her well-filled silk tights were
appreciated, but (a) she is supposed to
be a man. and (b) how can Siebel, the
village youth, sport silk when Faust,
with the devil to help him, can only
afford cotton? This may be a small fault,
but typical of a shoddy production
which, among other things, allows a
bridge in Marguerite’s garden and then
has characters blithely walking through
the brook it presumably spans.
The restoration of the duet in the
last scene again shows that the com-
poser’s instincts are usually right and
we gladly accepted a further lengthening
of a long work. But why add —at ten
past eleven —a tatty ballet of seven girls
and a man on a bare stage, with choreo-
graphy which is climaxed by 1 M fouettes
executed out of time with the music?
Carolanne Ford has a clean attack and
nice line which augurs well for her
future, but we should not have to suffer
while she gains experience. This scene
can only help the opera by being
dropped.
That leaves the orchestra and its con-
ductor, William Weibel, who got his
musicians to play together very well in-
deed. Unfortunately, he failed to include
the singers in his beat and they went off
in all directions on their own. No doubt
many of these things will straighten
themselves in time, but the hundreds of
words I have written could be con-
densed more pithily, a la Alexander
Woolcott, by saying: “The Sutherland-
Williamson Opera Company presented
‘Faust’. Why?”
JOHN CARGHER
FILMS
Spoilt Baby
Baby, The Rain Must Fall. Director, Robert
Mulligan. Victory Theatre, Sydney.
A Shot In The Dark. Director, Blake
Edwards. Town Theatre, Sydney.
Oobert Mulligan is an annoying
director. His films have enough per-
ceptive, well-directed sequences to make
you thoroughly cross with the faulty bits.
In “Love With The Proper Stranger” his
feeling for the truth suddenly melted
into a rosy romantic glow as the whole
tone of the film was denied for the sake
of a happy ending. This doesn’t happen
in “Baby, The Rain Must Fall”. It all
ends badly; but it’s been such a muddle
all through that nobody seems to care
much; I didn’t, and it did not seem
that Mulligan was deeply engaged either.
What is the trouble then? Scripts
possibly? Mulligan might have been
stuck with the happy-ever-after bit in
his previous film, and this one has been
adapted by Horton Foote from his own
play and a ripe bit of twaddle it is. This
young man is just out of prison after
a stabbing rap you can’t really blame
him, he was a foundling given by the
local judge to a cruel foster mother
who beat him “till all the neighbors
complained”. Why was this eccentric,
child-hating woman given the child?
The judge excuses himself by remark-
ing drearily: “It seemed a good thing
at the time”.
Just out of gaol, our boy wants to
become a Presley-type singer, but is
hamstrung by his foster-mother’s dis-
approval and by the unexpected arrival
of his wife and a rather large child. An
awfully decent deputy sheriff tries to
help but seems to succumb to the general
hopelessness.
Greatly helped by the solid acting
of Steve McQueen and Lee Remick, and
Don Murray’s unobtrusively good per-
formance as the deputy, some of the
film is honestly affecting. But these
scenes are well spaced by others that
are slovenly in direction, meaningless in
intention, or overly affected.
Peter Sellers once again plays the
bumbling detective Inspector Clouseau
in “A Shot In The Dark”. Since he is
a very funny man, the film can’t help
but be intermittently entertaining. But
whereas in “The Pink Panther” he had
an inventive script to work with, and
expert collaboration from David Niven,
here Sellers has to carry the burden of
entertainment almost unaided. The rest
of the cast is capable enough but un-
impressive, the script is muddled and
repetitive and Blake Edwards cleaves
firmly to the theory that if a joke is
funny the first time, it’s ten times
funnier the tenth. After a time I began
to dread the appearance of any body
of water, so sure was I (and with reason)
that Sellers would fall into it.
This is strictly for Sellers’ fans and
surely that’s just about everyone.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


As the West Indian Lime
said to the British Soda
GILBEY'S IS SUCH A GREAT INTERNATIONAL GIN
WHY MIX With -
OTH^ s ,
i
m
GIN RICKY. Stir 2 oz. Gilbey's Gin, 1 des. spn. Lime Juice, 1 tble. spn. powdered sugar in 8 oz. glass. Add 2 large ice cubes; fill
<i- with soda water, stir and serve. Don’t worry if the Lime's not Jamaican or the soda isn't British —as long as the Gin is Gilbey’s!
3«J2/r
MUSIC
Full of Promise
Susan Prendiville: Classical Guitar. Cell
Block, Sydney.
Against a background of mauve and
_ orange lighting, Miss Prendiville
presented a programme of solo guitar
works, which, although occasionally
punctuated by technical difficulties, gave
promise of fruitful development.
Segovia’s adaptations of Bach key-
board and lute works, as well as of the
unaccompanied ’cello suites, are accepted
as the basis of any concert guitarist’s re-
pertoire. It was in the “Courante and
Gavotte” transcription that Miss Prendi-
ville first had an opportunity to show her
awareness of the stylistic demands of
individual composers. The Courante
progressed with rather stiff sewing-
machine precision, but in contrast, the
generous dip and swirl of the Gavotte
was effectively realised through subtle
variations in phrasing and tone. Similar-
ly, the “Siciliana” of Phillip Emanuel
Bach, was treated with a measured re-
straint which allowed the delicate octave
passages and ringing harmonics to pene-
trate the fussy ornamentation.
The “Capriccio Diabolico” of Ted-
esco, although well set off by the mischie-
vous harmonic ambiguities of Haydn’s
“Minuet in G”, emerged as a work of
interminable and disjointed melodrama.
Miss Prendiville was at her best in the
dense three-part writing of the middle
section, but no amount of enthusiasm or
care could raise this work from the level
of sheer display. At times, the co-ordina-
tion between left and right hands suffer-
ed under technical pressure, and the re-
sultant uncertainty of rhythmic accent
rendered the climax curiously inconclu-
sive.
There came, with the more modern
flavor of the final bracket of composi-
tions, an immediate improvement in Miss
Prendiville’s playing. Three short pieces
by Villa Lobos were dispatched with a
fluency and assurance which was ade-
quately balanced by the easy charm of
Lauro’s “Valse Venezualo”. By taste-
fully exploiting the mellowness and
warmth of her instrument’s v lower
strings, the soloist was able to reveal
fully the misty harmonies of Manuel
Ponce’s “Theme, Varie E Finale”.
Miss Prendiville has been awarded a


w”™
■
mm
71
CM
m
Nothing compares
with the
pleasure ...
of giving and receiving a fine
cigar—and there is no better
than Henri Wintermans. Imported
for men who appreciate a
mild but satisfying cigar.
"Scooter” a
smaller cigar,
5 for 2/9
“Fine Fleur”,
corona size,
for 2/3 each.
HENRI
IwiNTERMANSj
SA7B/1
scholarship by Segovia to study in his
master class at Santiago de Compostella
in Spain. A pupil of Jose Luis Gonzalez,
who is at present teaching in Sydney, she
intends to enter a Guitar Concerto in
next year’s ABC Concerto and Vocal
competition. With her go the best wishes
of the Sydney Society of the Classical
Guitar, which organised the debut of
this gifted young artist.
DAVID SALTER
THEATRE
Indictment
Poor Bitos. Jean Anouilh. Independent
Theatre. Sydney.
A Physician in Spite of Himself. Moliere;
and The Bear. Anton Chekhov. New
Theatre, Sydney.
“T>oor Bitos” was written in 1955
when the Fourth French Republic
was collapsing. It is a bitter attack
upon both the Right and the Left. When
it was produced in Paris it caused such
an outcry from both sides that Anouilh
forbade its performance outside France
until 1963.
In the great stone hall of a disused
priory, Maxime de Jaucourt, a French
aristocrat, has arranged a dinner party
at which the guests are to impersonate
figures of the French Revolution. The
year is 1955 but the imaginary time is
1793 during the Reign of Terror.
Maxime has instructed his upper-class
friends to swot up their revolutionary
history so that they can help him to
discomfit Andre Bitos, the guest of
dishonor. Bitos, the clever son of a
washerwoman, is the local Deputy Public
Prosecutor. A puritanical Leftist who
belonged to the Resistance during the
war, he now hounds former collabora-
tors to their deaths legally, but with-
out mercy.
Bitos has agreed to come as Robe-
spierre. Not understanding that this is
a “wig party”, he arrives in full sky-blue
period costume. The humiliation of
Bitos has begun.
Maxime and his friends dislike and
despise Bitos for being puritanically cruel
in the name of justice and principle. But
they themselves are snobbishly cruel, or
at least callous, in the name of good
taste and good breeding. Anouilh
cleverly manipulates the sympathies of
the audience so that they swing back and
forth between the unattractive Bitos and
his graceful and handsome persecutors.
A master of theatrical construction,
Anouilh has excelled himself in this
play. It catches strong hold of the
imagination and grips the attention of
the audience like a thriller.
But, finally, one feels like turning not
upon the Right or the Left but upon
the author. “Poor Bitos” is a savage in-
dictment of both the Left and the Right
for their lack of humanity. But in the
name of what? Except for one kind-
hearted girl and an idealistic school-
master, who palely represent the good,
humanity is depicted so harshly that one
wonders whether it is worth bothering
about.
So strong is the disgust expressed in
the play that one is tempted to turn
the simple psychological analysis, which
is Anouilh’s method of explaining
history, upon the author himself. Was
his mother a washerwoman? Did the
boys laugh at him at school?
Most effectively among Michelle’s
stone columns and vaulted arches, Doris
Fitton’s production exploits very well
the brilliant theatricality of “Poor Bitos”.
Almost continuously in the spotlight, by
turns brash, mean, touching, prissy,
vulgar, stoical and always graceless,
Bitos-Robespierre is a very demanding
role. Martin Redpath gives an excellent
performance.
James Condon plays Maxime-St Just,
Bitos’ host and chief tormentor, with an
impressive mixture of sadistic relish and
aristocratic disdain. A strong supporting
cast includes Julien Flett as a lusty
Danton and Zella Sandy as a lively
Marie Antoinette.
By contrast with the bitter disgust of
Anouilh, Moliere's romping comedy is
gaiety itself, although it contains no
illusions about human nature.
Keith Gow’s production has that
wonderful verve which amateur per-
formances sometimes achieve when the
enthusiasm of the actors for their play
is communicated to the audience. Norm
Slater seems born to p'ay the part of
the down-to-earth Sganarelle, the wood-
cutter who is cudgelled into becoming a
physician in spite of himself. With his
gravel voice and expansive manner, Mr
Slater is a natural comic. Likewise Tessa
Mallos as the nurse shows herself a
natural comedienne.
Chekhov’s “The Bear” is a less
boisterous farce than Moliere’s and the
company does not strike quite the right
key with this. But it is a pleasant
curtain-raiser.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


*
m
r
mr
mm
W
0m
m
Size is not the true measure of a grinding wheel
The consistent accuracy of measurement,
essential in good grinding wheels, is per-
haps taken for granted by their users. Not,
however, by Australian Abrasives, who are
extremely jealous of the high-precision
manufacturing standards they set. But
physical dimensions are only part of the
story! The true measure of a grinding wheel
lies in what it will do for you what you can
get from it in profit-making production.
When you buy from Australian Abrasives
you don’t just get a grinding wheel. You
profit to the full extent of years of advanced
research. You share the incalculable wealth
of experience. You have at your immediate
call the expert knowledge of AA engineers
and their Distributors’ engineers. Those are
the dimensions of value which define the
true measure of a grinding wheel. If you have
a grinding problem let us solve it for you.
AUSTRALIAN
mm.
ABRASIVES
AUSTRAL!AN ABRASIVES PTY. LTD. 302 PARRAMATTA ROAD, AUBURN, N.S.W., 6482361
AAIO2


Stars, Stories and
Survivors
Growing old gracefully
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The office of Hal Wallis, the most
successful single producer (apart
from Ross Hunter and Walt Dis-
ney) in Hollywood today, is, not sur-
prisingly, the most lavishly furnished l
am to see at Paramount: but Wallis
himself is a surprise. Unlike all the
other top brass I have met, he receives
me alone, without the usual flanking
publicity men to check an awkward
question or come in with a smooth
answer when the master fumbles. Re-
laxed in a short-sleeved casual shirt,
firmly intelligent and acute, he is the
exact opposite of the tycoons of myth,
and his career ranging over more
than 30 years from “I am a Fugitive
from a Chain Gang” all the way to the
Presley vehicles has been expertly
and shrewdly guided by a mind that has
never lost track of public taste. Like
others of his generation, he deplores the
vanishing of the old studio system: “At
Warners the stock company, directors
and producers all of us were part
of a working team
“If George Raft couldn’t make a pic-
ture or didn’t like the script we could
put Humphrey Bogart in it. Nowadays
actors will only do one picture a year.
Do you know something? I couldn’t
make ‘Becket’, which I did a couple
of years back, now. That’s how high
the costs of stars go in this business.
Burton, he’d want a million today.
O'Toole a million. And next year maybe
they’d want more . . .
“And the stars just don’t guarantee a
picture’s success.” Well, I asked him,
how was he going to sell his forthcom-
ing Anne Boleyn biography “Anne of a
Thousand Days” (from a Maxwell An-
derson play) without a star? “I’m giving
the role to Geraldine Chaplin, Chaplin’s
daughter. I believe a story sells a pic-
ture.” But Wallis had, reluctantly, to
admit he might have to cast a major
star as Henry VIII. As with so many
other producers, one felt his impatience
at the stars’ demands. But one also
couldn’t help feeling: aren’t stars what
the public, for one reason or another,
really goes to see?
★ ★ ★
A brief visit to the home of one
film personality who, unlike Hal Wal-
lis, has not survived the changing
fashions of the past three decades. Harold
Lloyd occupies the most splendid single
estate in Hollywood, and I spend a
couple of fascinating hours in his house,
looking at his mammoth, year-round
Christmas tree festooned with delicate
crystal globes containing miniature vil-
lages, his “Adventures of Robin Hood”
hallway and his tennis - court - sized
music-room with a collection of 4000
records and one of the biggest hi-fi
outfits in America. Lloyd, reminiscing
happily about the breakneck chases and
innocent love affairs of the silent period
in which he triumphed, is clearly enjoy-
ing, in his seventies, a happy old age.
A more successful survivor, Cary
Grant, receives me in his bungalow at
Universal, with a fine French cabinet
inside, and outside a court for sunning
himself between the usual bouts of smog.
He shows me round with pride: his
own enormous black leather chair, a
bedroom with a big, round table cov-
ered in.paintings of flowers (“Kind of
gays things up a little”), a television
set high in the wall, with doors like a
cocktail cabinet, for watching in bed, a
kitchen and bathroom (a few days be-
fore I had visited his neighbors in Bev-
erly Hills and had seen, to my amaze-
ment, washing hanging on his line). In
his office, Grant sits with hands folded
professorially, watching me carefully
with cool, firm, light eyes behind horn-
rimmed spectacles. His academic air is
slightly startling, and so is his conver-
sation fluent, loquacious, full of in-
volved clauses and sub-clauses; here is
a man for whom comedy, his lifetime’s
work, obviously has had to be studied
with the care of an aficionado. “Young
actors today can’t learn their work
from television,” he says. “The trouble
there is they don’t have an audience.
“I started out in vaudeville, on road
shows. I had to learn how to time every
joke. How to raise it to a peak, when to
drop it, and so on. The road shows were
a wonderful training-ground for an
actor. But I believe we will get the good
provincial theatre back. Recently I was
in Toronto. There was this wonderful
theatre, the O’Keefe Centre. Broadway
may be in trouble. But out in the pro-
vinces the theatre is coming back. And
that’s where we must look for our new
actors.”
★ ★ ★
Next day, there is a memorable meet-
ing with Vincent Price, whose mansion
in North Beverly Glen is the most ex-
traordinary single house I have seen in
Hollywood: overpoweringly opulent and
vast, seemingly as vast as Citizen Kane's
Xanadu, with giant figures from Africa,
a great golden cross from Mexico, black
candles as thick as your arm. a totem
pole, stolen by John Barrymore from
an Eskimo tribe, in the garden . . . Price
buys art for the Sears Roebuck cata-
logue, and the house is like a Sears
Roebuck catalogue come to life . . . one
by one he shows his astonishing trea-
sures, ranging all the way from carvings
dating from the remote past of the
Americas to 19th-century samovars.
Most extraordinary of all, these wildly
different periods of art don’t make the
house uninhabitable, and Price’s loom-
ing, searchlight charm seems totally un-
engulfed by the mammoth clutter sur-
rounding it. Price will be in Sydney in
September to introduce a TV series.
He was last here in the early 1950 s for
a radio version of “1984”, and remin-
isces lucidly about his visit. (“Sydney was
the ‘drinkingest’ town I ever.was in.”)
★ ★ ★
Barbara Stanwyck, I am pleased to
find, stages the full “elusive star” bit
for interviewers: her agent runs several
apartments under assumed names, and
Barbara is hidden in one of them, in
the midst of a gigantic complex of
buildings in Hollywood. I arrive late
after getting snarled up in corridors,
and the star greets me coldly. But after
a while she relaxes: a sharp, intelligent,
acute woman whose voice has a bitter
edge. She regrets everything: the pas-
sing of the studio stock companies, the
upsurge in teenage fads, the whole mod-
ern world she is confronted with. And,
above all, the lack of the kind of love
story that made her famous. “They all
say, where are the producers, the direc-
tors, the actors? But I say, WHERE ARE
THE WRITERS?” Here is the rear-
guard of Hollywood with a vengeance,
and one can’t help sympathising with
it. It’s years since this superlative act-
ress had a role worthy of her talents,
and in recent years she has been bog-
ged down in rubbishy TV series.


Mk
s'®
:
e>
o On
o* o’oc/oo’n
Op'o
°o_o‘n
n'o° Q Q QVr 0
0*032
vs-'uroo». s
CHEVRON
11l
GRILL
COMPLIMENTS
YOUR
GOOD TASTE
of gracious living, the foocf,
cellar amd service are supreme . . .
Whether in a hurry or with time to tarry, the
Service keeps pace with your wishes.
A snack, a sumptuous repast, a coffee, art
aperitif, all are available from morn till midnight;
Each week, in addition to the fabulous daily
la carte, an excitingly different international menu
Is presented for your enjoyment . . .
In the evening, Alexander Grant's ensemble
provides pleasant background music and invites
your personal request ...
The inexpensive luxury of the GOLDEN GRILL
is yours all day, every day ...
CHEVRON HOTEL, MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT. PHONE: 35 0433
Another great actress, Angela Lans-
bury, received me at her beach-house in
Malibu, reached by a sombre drive
through winding canyon roads to the
grey Pacific. She herself feels unlike
most other Hollywood people I spoke
to that the star system is better dead
and buried. “With correct promotion you
wouldn’t need star names . . . what kid
has heard of Lana Turner, anyway?”
What she does regret is the passing of
the good, old-fashioned Hollywood
craftsmanship which allowed for months
of rehearsal and takes on a picture like
her own “Gaslight” or “The Picture of
Dorian Gray.”
She mentioned making a film of “Moll
Flanders” in Britain for Terence Young,
and that everything had been under-
rehearsed and done on the first take;
much the same, she seemed to indicate,
occurred with “Harlow”, although she
says the film is visually superb. She ad-
~mires John Frankenheimer more than
any other modern director, because he
takes so much care, works in the great
tradition of Hollywood craftsmanship.
And she herself is obviously someone
who put a tremendous amount of care,
of preparation, into her roles. In “The
Manchurian Candidate” she was shot
dead in the final scene, in an assassina-
tion sequence which uncannily foretold
the murder of President Kennedy. “I
asked the ballistics expert at the studio
what it looked like to be hit by a .30
calibre bullet.
“We rehearsed it fully with a pellet
out of an air gun. A sharpshooter did
it. When I was struck I fell with the
shock. Then I knew how to do it.”
★ ★ ★
Walt Disney turns out to be casually
dressed, and his office the most modest
of those I have visited in Hollywood.
But the easy avuncular manner scarce-
ly conceals the darkly brooding tem-
perament, the angry force and dynamism
that have kept him at the forefront for
more than 30 years. He tells me straight
away that his new full length cartoon
“The Jungle Book” has “nothing to -do
with Kipling”. (“Nobody reads Kipling
anyway,” says the film’s animator down-
stairs.) Disney is in a dark mood be-
cause another cartoon, “Winnie the
Pooh”, has had to be cut in half, and
the box-office reports on the first part, to
be released as a short support to a live-
action feature, will determine whether
the second half is to be made at all.
Obviously, Disney is concerned about
the taste of the audience even he can-
not afford to ignore . . . “I’d have liked
to do many things Hans Andersen’s
fairy tales for instance but they
would only appeal to the intellectual
minority. And I’m certainly no intel-
lectual . . .
“The big double bills killed the shorf
subject cartoons . . .” Now Mickey,
Donald, Goofy and the rest only turned
up very rarely, in TV specials. What, in
the past, has been his biggest headache?
“Alice in Wonderland,” he said without
hesitation. “The problem was to pre-
serve the original in a way that would
please those who had liked it, but it
proved impossible to make the charac-
ters sympathetic.” On the whole the big-
gest headaches were the classics, works
that people knew from illustrated edi-
tions, or visualised in a certain way.
With Winnie the Pooh” he had stuck
close to the delicate Ernest Shepard il-
lustrations. But already the problems in-
volved had proved overpowering even
to Disney, and, anyway, would the public
like it? “I’ve washed my hands of the
whole thing,” he said with a sigh of
despair.
Costs and the time factor obviously
distress this supremely successful man.
A live-action feature might take three
months to make, a full-length cartoon
four or five years. (“Oh shut up!” ‘-‘The
Jungle Book’s” chief animator said when
I asked him how long he had been
working on it.) And, of course, there
was the problem of the new Hollywood
types who wanted to run everything
their own way. “Too many people,”
Disney said, “in this business think
they can run things as they please,
make their own rules . . . we’ve had a
few writers around here who thought
they could do that ... we haven’t got
room for them . . .” And the glint of
steel, never far absent from the gruff,
rich voice, was unmistakably there.
By contrast with Disney, Jack Warner
is beaming, ebullient, an astonishingly
youthful septuagenarian, with no trace of
his near-fatal car accident in France a
few years ago, as he signs his recently
published autobiography for me with a
flourish. At the studio he has run since
the silent period he flings a giant party
for the world’s journalists, a gaudy con-
trast to the burial, the day before, of
another Last Tycoon, David O. Selznick.
As the thousand or more Pressmen arrive,
shunted in on buses from the hotels to
which Warner has flown them from all
over the world, a helicopter hovers over
the crowd queuing up for table tickets,
announcing in streaming golden lights
“Jack Warner greets the world’s Press”.
After a dinner of soup, squab and ice-
cream, served on Sound Stage Eight, the
curtains part for a razzle-dazzle stage-
show compered by Phil Silvers. Jack
Warner sits laughing and clapping as
tumblers and acrobatic dancers perform
in his honor: this is the oriental court,
and he the splendid potentate.


BOOKS
The “Jewish Plot”
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Voices of Hate. K. D. Gott. Dissent Pub-
lishing Association. 4s.
Right-wing extremist organisations are
not strong in Australia, but they are
of social, and of some political, im-
portance. One of the two major diffi-
culties in understanding them is due to
the secrecy of their operations, the other
is caused by the inaccuracy of the abuse
thrown at them by opponents.
The Australian League of Rights, for
example, usually meets the charge of
“Fascist” wherever it raises its public
voice, yet in some ways it is unlike
classic Fascist organisations. Like Italian
Fascism the League of Rights is imper-
ialist, and its imperialism appears to be
grounded in the belief that the in-
equality amongst men in their natural
endowments and characteristics ought
to be recognised and reflected in their
legal rights and powers. There is also
a similarity between the two ideologies
in that they clearly estimate prejudice
and instinct to be superior to reason and
reflection.
However, unlike the Italian Fascists,
the orderlies of the League of Rights
do not believe in the primacy of the
State over the individual, and another
important divergence lies in the quality
of their anti - Semitism. The Italian
Fascist movement began without any
theory of racial purity and it was not
until Hitler applied strong pressures
from 1938 that Mussolini adopted anti-
Semitic policies. A few years earlier he
had actually attacked anti-Semitism.
Not so Eric Butler and his League
of Rights. Anti-Semitism is the staple
stock-in-trade of their political rag-and-
bone shop, as is proven beyond dis-
pute in “Voices of Hate”, a pamphlet
by Melbourne journalist K. D. Gott.
“Voices of Hate a Study of the
Australian League of Rights and its
Director, E. D. Butler”, is the fourth in
a series of pamphlets being published by
the group of Melbourne democratic
socialists gathered around the quarterly
magazine “Dissent”. The others were on
“Soviet Anti-Semitism”, “The Melbourne
Peace Movement”, and by British Labor
leader, Anthony Crosland, “The New
Socialism”.
Mr Gott thoroughly unmasks Butler’s
career: “A man with several faces, in
Victoria he has been known for over
two decades as a lecturer and pamphlet-
eer, and to his neighbors in Eltharn he
is remembered as a former president of
the shire. Fellow Anglicans know him
as a one-time member of the Melbourne
synod of their church. Readers of the
Melbourne daily Press recall over the
years letters from Mr Butler on such a
variety of topics as monetary reform,
banking, credit, fluoridation, the fate of
the British Commonwealth . . .”
Another face of Mr Butler is revealed
in the pages of “The New Times”, the
former “Douglas Credit” weekly, which
is now the mouthpiece for his racial,
social, and political campaigns.
“The New Times” has campaigned
against rural poverty, national health
schemes, higher taxation, artificial fer-
tilisers, Communism, and fluoridation in
recent years but its persistent and strong-
est theme is denigration of Jews.
Mr Butler is a great defender of apar-
theid and in 1963 “The New Times” was
printing allegations that most of the
key figures behind subversion in South
Africa are Jews. In the same year “The
New Times”, combining its two greatest
ERIC BUTLER
hatreds, was asking suspicious questions
about why “so many Jewish millionaires
are attracted to socialism.”
Planting these kinds of innuendoes in
his magazine is a favorite game of Mr
Butler, but of much more importance in
the anti-Semitic crusade was his pub-
lication soon after the war of the
notorious and vicious “Protocols”. An-
notated with his comments and endorse-
ments, “The International Jew the
truth about ‘The Protocols of Zion’,”
by Eric D. Butler, is 168 pages of anti-
Jewish venom: The Jews through Ras-
putin controlled the Russian royal fam-
ily, but they also controlled the Rus-
sian revolution, the Jews directed the
Nazi movement, and Hitler was really
a Jew because he was the bastard son
of Baron Rothschild, the Jews control
the Jesuits, the US Federal Reserve
Bank, Dr Evatt, Dr H. C. Coombs, Mr
McEwen, and the ABC.
The problem is one of the utmost
urgency. “Australians must have the
right to govern themselves. The inter-
national Jew will yet find that the British
peoples, grouped together in their loy-
alty to the crown, are not going to ac-
cept submissively for long the imposition
of a world state in which the crown,
the empire’s armed forces, are made
subservient to alien plotters . . . the
international Jew and his tool must be
challenged everywhere—and quickly ..
Mr Butler’s publication and embel-
lishment of those long-discredited for-
geries, “The Protocols”, sells for 2s. 6d.
Those who, like Mr Gott, are hardy
enough to read it will learn something
about the psychology of the man
who marked the 1958 visit of Herr
Krupp to Australia with this comment:
’’The opposition to Herr Krupp’s visit
is designed primarily to keep the rank
and file of Jews in Australia in con-
tinued fear and to continue propagating
the myth concerning the six million
Jews who were allegedly murdered in
Germany.”
As Mr Gott demonstrates, in the
Butler mind there is a great multiplica-
tion, and yet, at the same time, sim-
plification of conspiracies. Mr Butler
is likely to associate Jews with any-
thing he hates. Notwithstanding the
anti-Semitic policies of both Stalin and
Khrushchev, Mr Butler conducts a line
of propaganda equating Jews with Com-
munism. Both are in turn equated with
“international finance”.
The League of Rights has anti-Semi-
tism in common with other Right-wing
extremist organisations in the country,
particularly the Ustashi, a small but
active group in the Croatian community,
remnant of the Fascist government set
up by the Axis powers in Croatia in
1941. There are similar but weaker
Fascist societies amongst other migrant
groups, especially those from Balkan
and Baltic countries. They trade on
nationalism, anti-Communism, and re-
ligious loyalties, but their influence will
not survive into the second generation
with much endurance.
They are all distinguished from But-
ler-type extremism in that they believe
in a strong centralist government and
their anti-Semitism is less virulent. The
Butler organisation is interested in
Nazism and Fascism not as political
systems or philosophies but as vehicles
for anti-Semitism. “The New Times”
defended Germany in the late 1930 s
and explained away the reports of Nazi
pogroms as lies because “the whole of
the great international news, cable and
propaganda services are either Jewish-
owned or Jewish-controlled.”
The lack of apparent political am-
bition by the League of Rights is, how-
ever, probably a reflection of its in-
ability to gain any sizeable following.
There is no centre of middle-class and
peasant discontent in Australia in which
Butler’s views can fester and spread.
Mr Butler, at the age of 22, when he
was already a force on “The New
Times”, did campaign for an organisa-


tion called “The United Electors”. He
covered about 50,000 miles in New
South Wales and Victoria, speaking and
organising for this uninfluential body
whose main programme was negative,
populist, “agin the government” protest.
Like all such movements in Australia
it was short-lived.
Perhaps it could be objected that
both Mr Gott and I are taking Mr
Butler and his small propaganda appara-
tus too seriously. Mr Gott anticipates
this charge in his last few sentences:
“The tolerance that exists in Australia
today with regard to religious and eth-
nic differences is a major factor in our
progress and development. Mr Butler
aims at destroying this tolerance and
harmony. It is unlikely that he will suc-
ceed. Yet it is important not to under-
estimate the ease with which hatred
and prejudice can be aroused. History
has far too many examples of this al-
ready.”
The Poetry Industry
By R. M. WILDING
The Cave and the Spring. A. D. Hope.
Rigby. 355.
The essays collected in “The Cave and
the Spring” are essays rather on poetry
than on individual poems or poets. Pro-
fessor Hope has dealt with general
topics, reflections on the state of poetry
and the possibilities for poetry. There
are some pieces of conventional aca-
demic criticism notably those on
Coleridge and on Dryden’s “All For
Love” which are helpfully illuminating.
A long poem cannot be maintained at
the highest level; the art of modulating
is the art the poet must learn, of mov-
ing from one level to another; and, as
Hope points out, “Now that long poems
are. rarely attempted it is not only an
art which is in danger of being lost,
but one which readers and critics often
fail to recognise and appreciate”. And
Hope deals with an allied problem in
his essay on “The Discursive Mode”.
The novel rose as the great poem died,
and with the death of the great forms of
poetry epic, verse-tragedy and so on
came also the death of the middle
form of poetry. “It was in this middle
form,” Hope argues, “that Chaucer
wrote his tales, that Jonson could de-
scribe Penshurst, the house of his friend
and patron, Dryden retell a tale from
Boccaccio . . . Smart described the pick-
ing of hops in Kent, or Wordsworth de-
scribed with quiet amusement his stu-
dent life at Cambridge . . .” Hope’s sub-
ject, indeed, throughout these essays, is
The Lions
(A monologue for Marcus Furias Camillus, Governor of Africa)
I
. Dusk. We have set the lion traps. With
luck
We’ll hear them later in the night,
Baffled in pits, roaring with amazement.
Ochre hills across the lake shine in pink
haze,
Grass slopes of lion’s pelt, gentle paws of
rock
And sleepy shoulders, timeless granite
brow.
Glimpsed through ravines
All afternoon the lake has haunted us.
Close up we see its edge is a white rind,
And wade bemused through warm mush
ankle-deep
Barefoot because the mud sucks off our
sandals,
Seeking a deep clear patch to swim in.
This lofty German savage with blond
hair
The natives dream has got a hold upon
me
From month-long orgies in dim chambers,
Ripped bed-clothes, perfume and pro-
digious love-meals.
I never touched her. Once I tried,
But she coolly wriggled from my grip
with intense self-possession.
Sometimes she cowers for days in palace
cupboards,
Then comes out fragrant from darkness
And follows me around like a shy
shadow
With child-like laughter.
Beside me now, still as the lake, she stands
Holding my sandals.
II
Alone I stand in a night of blue charcoal
(Alive or dead?)
In tepid water up to my calves,
Feet sinking into ooze, thinking of nothing.
The blue-black water reaches without end
From rim to rim of the horizon, nothing
But sky and lake, and lake and sky.
Trudging for miles through water never
creeping
Above my knees, my vagueness turns to
terror.
How can I sleep or lie down here?
This harmless water slopping around my
shins
Can kill me if I sleep and fall.
I build mounds of dissolving mud
Which crumble into squid’s ink.
But why fear death, when I am dead
already?
Dying again I shall wake in this lake
Standing where I have fallen,
Endlessly falling to stand where I am
standing.
A rush of flame across my face.
Someone holding a torch in the roaring
night
Is shaking me awake.
We stumble blindly to the pit and watch
Men hauling up a net
Convulsed by a savage ochre shape.
111
My skin has a yellow pallor,
My tanned legs have pink scars from
tropical sores.
The African bearer in the rear is panting,
But gaily she strides ahead to the wharves
Firmly gripping my lurching litter,
And sometimes turns and laughs,
Enjoying a man’s job and the shock she
causes.
The only blue eyes in a swarm of black.
The natives wave their lions goodbye,
Guessing perhaps their shabby deaths in
arenas,
Big charming cats mangled and moaning
weakly
Lying in their own blood.
In wooden cages on the decks the lions
Roar and pace in the sun,
And huge oars hit the sea in unison,
Voices chanting in time,
As the great ships put out from port.
IV
Skinny legs are running, wind-blown robes
flapping
As an escaped lion heads towards the
shore,
Bobbing in the blue broil. .
Panic becomes arrows.
We have cleaned the hills out of lions.
The villagers are happy to be free
From curious sniffing at night around
their doorsteps,
But resent our administration.
Their nightmares are less interesting.
The hills are just sun-beaten rock
And no longer contain the death-bringers
Patrolling like dusty shadows.
Patient we build roads,
Exact taxes, erect bath-houses.
The lions will be back in a few years
And we shall once more prepare our nets.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN


23
E
E
Si
Pa
U
Pa
The
CATHOLIC
ENQUIRY
CENTRE
. . . offers a free correspon-
dence course of 20 weekly
lessons on the Catholic Faith
to any non-Catholic who re-
quests it.
The sole purpose of this
offer is to give interested en-
quirers an easy and anony-
mous way of learning what
Catholics believe, and why.
All correspondence is treat-
ed as strictly confidential.
Lessons are posted weekly in
plain sealed envelopes.
POST COUPON FOR DETAILS
We guarantee .that no repre-
sentative of ours will call.
“■ FREE and IN CONFIDENCE
Please send me your brochure
in a plain sealed envelope.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
(Block letters, please)
Address.
8U259
State
CATHOLIC ENQUIRY CENTRE
P.O. Box 63, Maroubra, N.S.W.
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. When writing olease give
information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.C.3.
the decline of poetry. Poe is his whip-
ping boy. Poe who in 1848 wrote. “I
maintain that the phrase, a long poem,
is simply a flat contradicfon in terms”.
Yet is is very much Poe’s position
that we hold today. We can cope with
the short lyric poem, deal with its imag-
ery, its “tension”, its “toughness”, its
originality; but we are at a loss with
long poems, and with the poetry Hope
deals with in his essay “Poetry and
Platitude” “the poetry of the great
common places, the plain poetry of de-
scription and statement, the great nar-
rative or the great dramatic poem
embodying for its age a restatement of
some acknowledged truth”.
Hope in this collection champions the
unpopular, reminds us in effect how
little poetry we do value. I’m not always
convinced by him; his claim that poetry
has in the past been able to present
argument as well as prose, indeed to
“transform” arid argument, doesn’t seem
substantiated by the passage he quotes
from Sir John Davies in “Poetry, Trade
and Prayer”. And occasionally his
analogies seem strange; in a simple es-
say on 'The Sincerity of Poetry” in
which he reminds those who still need
to be reminded that a poem’s views are
not necessarily the poet’s views, he
writes "The author is no more to be con-
fused with his poem than the actor with
the part he portrays on stage”. This is
carrying the poem’s autonomy to surely
excessive lengths. And though we may
agree that much is lost to poetry by
certain emphases in contemporary verse,
we mightn't want to dismiss the qualities
of contemporary verse in quite the way
Hope does: “Poetry, at the nadir of this
search for its essence, became the form-
less babble and vomit of the poet’s sub-
conscious mind”. And we might not
feel as happy to assert that: “The whole
bias of the modern movement in poetry
has been to make it a form of super-
stition whose nearest neighbors were the
sinister nonsense of the Black Mass and
the insane ravings of the asylum pa-
tient”.
But we consider Hope’s views, and
even if we disagree, he certainly raises
problems. We consider him because,
after all, he is a poet himself and he
always with an awareness of the
creative processes; and it is this aware-
ness that makes him question the posi-
tions taken by his fellow academics.
His essay on “The Practical Critic” is a
valuable commentary on what has be-
come a widespread and much used
critical method though a method
much open to question. As Hope re-
marks, “The poem is always under the
microscope, and he (the critic) seems
never to reflect that while he is testing
the poem, the poem may in fact he
testing him. Sometimes, if he were aware
of it, a very sardonic eye is gazing back
at him through his lens.”
Hope takes his own poem “Imperial
Adam” which has tested three critics
who have dealt with it; he finds them
all guilty of failures in reading, of im-
porting preconceptions or of demanding
from a poem that presents a problem,
an answer. It is an important demonstra-
tion of the danger of the criticism that
values itself too highly; and Hope’s final
essay is a questioning of that other pil-
lar of academia, research. Three thousand
topics of research for graduate workers
in Eng. Lit. will have to be found by the
end of the century, Hope estimates. But
not only is this absurd, it has its effect
on the creation of literature. Hope has
the disturbing feeling “that the universi-
ties are beginning to move in, take over,
train and control writers” —by their
creation of the Eng. Lit. industry, by their
criticism and research on living writers,
by their creative-writing courses, and not
least by the existence of teaching jobs on
which so many writers now exist, living
in a university atmosphere, producing
their academic research and criticism at
the same time as their own writing—writ-
ing which, “more or less unconsciously, is
written in illustration of current critical
theories”. The essay is ominously titled
“Literature versus the Universities’’. It's
a worrying endpiece from the Professor
of English at Canberra to put to a col-
lection of essays that has shown us so
many threats to the writing and read-
ing of poetry.
Blarney in Politics
By M. H. ELLIS
Patrick McMahon Glynn, Gerald O’Col-
lins. Melbourne University Press. 655.
One of the great changes in the Federal
Parliament has been the disappearance
of the characters who used to brighten
its sombre routine with their eccen-
tricities and wit. Paddy McMahon Glynn
was one of the saltiest of these, ranking
with Hughes and his close personal
friend and political opponent, King
O'Malley.
He was a very little Irish barrister who
arrived from Galway in 1880—“ The year
they hanged Ned Kelly, who’d have been
alive today if I’d been here to save him,”
he used to say. He had had a brilliant
career at Trinity College, Dublin, and
had won the gold medal of the Irish
Law Students’ Debating Society for
oratory on admission to the Irish Bar.
He developed a substantial silk’s prac-
tice in Adelaide and became Attorney-
General of South Australia the year be-
fore Federation and was Commonwealth
Attorney-General in the riotous Parlia-
ment of 1909-10. Paddy, in his younger
years, was noted in Adelaide as a boy
for the girls, a smooth-faced lad full
of the blarney and generally decked out
in highly colored clothes. To the Com-
monwealth in later years he was evident
as a tiny figure, his visage half-hidden
in side whiskers and moustachios of the
type worn by W. S. Gilbert’s “Hongree
Sub-lieutenant of Chassoores” and his
form encased in a cutaway, the tails of
which reached to his knees.
The Bulletin first caught sight of
him as a bright spot in the Federal Con-
vention of 1897-98 (of which he was


YOU!
TOO CAN LEARN
SHORTHAND
IN JUST A
FEW HOURS
• earn more money
• achieve a better position
• increase your efficiency
with Speedhand
Speedhand
Speedhand is the easiest shorthand in the
world to learn —AS SIMPLE AS A.B.C.
You gain speed with the first lesson; reach
up to 120 w.p.m. in just 20 hours or less.
Whatever your occupations, Speedhand will
benefit you. Complete Satisfaction Guaran-
teed! Rush this coupon today for a
FREE TRIAL LESSON
and full details of the new Speedhand
course.
To: SCHOOL OF SPEEDHAND
P.O. Box 116, George Street North,
Sydney.
Please send me details of Speedhand and
FREE Trial Lesson.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
afterwards the last survivor in the Fed-
eral Parliament). He was then in his
more resplendent, sartorial phase and
made history by proposing in writing
on Convention notepaper to a girl he
had scarcely spoken to while “Oom
Paul” Bill Lyne was booming through
his beard in full cry. Her recommenda-
tions were that she “had been round
Europe several times and spoke French
to the Pope for half an hour. I believe
she off, but I’m hanged if I
know and don’t care.” He told the lady
herself in his torrential love letter: “You
know little of me ... I am a Bohemian
at heart ... if you consent to marry
me, you will, for the sacrifice, deserve
Heaven . . . My friend O'Malley will
give me away. I hope he has not given
me away already.” Two days later he
triumphantly produced the lady as his
bride at a brilliant Government House
Ball and The Bulletin chronicled his
“meteorlike rush into matrimony . . .
honeymooning in the fierce light that
beats on Federal Convention excursions.”
He celebrated in the Convention by
strongly supporting a motion to expunge
“marriage and divorce” from the list of
the subjects within the authority of the
proposed Commonwealth Parliament.
From right away at the hack benches a
diminutive figure, in a brown suit and a light
blue necktie, sprang up and caught the presi-
dent’s attention. This was Mr Glynn, an Irish
barrister and a swift debater ... a phono-
graph could not have caught all (his torrent
of words) from the mass of matter he hurled
vigorously at the Convention . . . lie had
volumes, documents, papers and reports . . .
he threw masses of statistics ... he went
to the United States, to Germany, to Austria.
Words poured out in a continuous and mag-
nificent stream . . . His was a good, sound
speech.
He was an able constitutional lawyer
and contributed very usefully to the de-
bates on the Judiciary and other legal
bills.
In his later years in politics he began
to lose his charm and his style tended
to become outmoded. His defeat at the
1919 elections, after he had served as
Home and Territories Minister, was a
great blow to him. He died in 1934.
He was one of the few members who
have sat in the Federal Parliament whose
personality, apart from his politics,
made him good biographical material.
His biographer, his grandson, Father
Gerald O’Collins, has made good use
of McMahon’s salty and characteristic
correspondence and this modest little
book adds something useful and interest-
ing to the picture of the first two dec-
ades of Commonwealth political history.
Tragedy of the Eskimos
By DAVID MARTIN
Between Two Worlds. Kaare Rodahl.
Heinemann. 38s. 6d.
IYaare Rodahl is a Norwegian scientist
and physician who for a number of
years worked for the US Air Force to
establish a Department of Physiology at
the Arctic Aeromedical Laboratory in
Fairbanks, Alaska. His work, in which
his English-born wife shared, brought
him into close contact with some of the
geographically most remote of the
15,000 seaboard and inland Eskimos
of the far north.
Rodahl is not an exciting writer but
his material is exciting. His main task
was to discover what gives Eskimos the
power to survive and, if left alone, to
prosper in Arctic and sub-Arctic condi-
tions. Do they possess physiological
qualities characteristic only to them-
selves, or is it merely a matter of adapta-
tion to climate? Not surprisingly, he
found that the latter was the case. The
Eskimo is not constituted differently,
but he has developed exceptional endur-
ance and his natural diet, with its heavy
concentration on meat, gives him a
metabolism which helps to resist great
cold.
Some of the best sections of the book
deal with the deterioration of Eskimo
society under modern pressures. The
story is not unlike that of our own
Aborigines, down to a common defence-
lessness against previously unknown
diseases. Influenza for one, but tuber-
culosis is also rife, furthered by a tra-
ditional absence of hygiene and made
worse by the introduction of unsuitable
dwellings and clothes. Declassed in the
towns and uncertain of the future in his
remaining outposts, the Eskimo the
world’s greatest optimist is up against
it.
Though among many of their con-
verts Christianity is only skin-deep, the
missionaries have brought much dis-
orientation. Even monogamy, it turns
out, is not an institution favoring the
Eskimo cause. Nevertheless, survival is
not now at stake: their numbers are in-
creasing, and Dr Rodahl does not advo-
cate a simple policy of protection. His-
tory cannot be turned back. Integration
is his solution, linked with reasonable
safeguards to preserve as much as pos-
sible of their unique and fascinating
heritage. The government is concerned,
but lacks a comprehensive programme.
Dorothy. Robinson’s line drawings,
supporting good photographs, add to the
book’s merit. The love life of Nanuk’s
brothers and sisters is not overlooked.
It is not as colorful as probably expected,
and, before one considers turning ex-
plorer, the custom of sharing wives
with welcome visitors has practically
died out.
We Were Allowed
We were allowed to wander sometimes,
When the talk departed from
The weather and the costs, across
The small dark room that matched our great
Grandmother. We would pass her chair
Where she held court, her hand curved
Round the silver dragon snarling
From her stick, and leave the stale
And curtain-shrouded room to find
The slippery yard whose cobbles
Struck out cups of sound and stars
From under hooves of stabling mares.
And lightweight in the evening air
We’d watch the horses nuzzle in
The manger and the swallows carry
Food up to the eaves, or wade
Through shadows buoyed against the
walled
Restricted garden where the grass
Swept round the anchored mulberry tree.
Climbing we would reach the light
And wait there on an edge of sky
Until the dark fell round and drove
Us hesitating down into
That other waiting dark, inside.
LOLA JACKSON


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Devaluation Deferred
A FIRM decision taken by Britain’s Labor Government not to devalue sterling had
** a salutary effect in arresting the heavy pressure on the British pound which
developed in July. It was not so much that the Government had announced a re-
sistance to devalue, but rather that Mr Harold Wilson had been so strong in his
use of the word “permanent”.
Most observers gave the Labor Gov-
ernment credit for its efforts to sustain
sterling. Everyone agreed that it would
have been easy for the Government, on
coming into office, to devalue the na-
tion’s currency immediately and blame
the Conservatives for allowing such a
situation to develop in the previous 13
years.
Mr Wilson doubtless gained many
friends when he said that, whatever the
temptations had been from the party
point of view, the national interest was
100 p.c. the other way.
A devaluation would have enabled
the Labor Government to carry through
its plans for social reform, yet it would
not have been right, Mr Wilson said.
It also would have been a very expen-
sive social reform if the nation was not
earning its keep.
While admiring Mr Wilson’s political
fortitude, European observers must
wonder if a “permanent decision” is
enough to bolster sterling.
Finance commentators have not been
concerned so much with whether the
UK Labor Government considers it
right or wrong to devalue sterling, but
whether the nation will be. forced into
such a situation through being unable
to meet its commitments.
The September meeting of the World
Bank must take into consideration the
extensive standby loan of 3000 million
dollars advanced by US and European
Central Banks to tide Britain over her
earlier crisis. If it is shown that Britain
is not making headway in solving her
balance-of-payments difficulties, another
crisis, could be forced on Mr Wilson’s
Government.
Mr Wilson states that a devaluation
of sterling would be a betrayal of trust
to overseas governments, marketing
boards, central bankers and others who
had left their money in sterling bal-
ances on the assumption that the value
of sterling would be maintained.
Australia is one of those overseas
countries, holding at least £ASOO mil-
lion of its overseas reserves in sterling
balances.
The confidence of those people who
keep their funds in sterling balances
naturally is influenced by the extent to
which the US will back the British
pound. So far the US has given strong
and has indicated that it will
provide further backing to help the UK
beat sterling speculators.
Further assistance could be needed,
because the 750 million dollars
(£stg26Bm.) provided by the US under
the dollar-sterling swap arrangement
with the Wilson Government has been
almost used up. During June and July
it was reported that the US had gained
£stg23Bm. in currency holdings, which
evidently involved purchases to resist
attacks on sterling.
Mr Wilson’s forecast of better trade
figures was confirmed early in August
when the July figures were published.
They showed that a four-month string
of declining trade balances had been ar-
rested. July’s preliminary figures of a
£stgsom. adverse trade balance was a
£stg32ni. improvement on the £stgB2m.
xleficit for June.
Even more pleasing to the UK Govern-
ment was the news that the nation spent
only fstgl million more than it earned
in July.
If this sort of progress continues, con-
fidence will be restored. But there are
plenty of important holders of sterling
THE SHEIKH OF KUWAIT
who could add to the problem if they
became nervous. For example, Burma
has been reported as selling sterling and
the Sheikh of Kuwait is reported to be
holding £stg3oom. of his funds in
sterling balances.
It is said in banking circles that most
of the nervous private holders of sterling
should have quit by now. There is some
justification for hoping that official Gov-
ernment holders, marketing boards and
the like would be committed to seeing
it through.
If such holders stand firm and the
US Government is prepared to meet any
further run on sterling, there is a great
deal of weight behind Mr Wilson’s “per-
manent decision”. He will still need to
back this up with positive progress in
British and American Share Markets
STIMULUS from Britain's more hopeful
July trade figures spilled over into
New York as well as the London share
market last week. Naturally London gave
vent to the greater display of relief. But
both centres appear to be searching for
some genuine grounds of stability and,
with a heap of problems still likely to
afflict the international finance community,
1 f SS ° , every , ltt e ® P s '
At the end, each market appeared
rather firmer than for some time past,
though Wall Street seemed to express
the better tone by a studious avoidance
of leader-type stocks. Second-liners carried
most of the advances during the week,
yet good motors, steels and electronics
eventually took part of the shine.
The American analysts' rationalisations
of the advance cover quite a range of
explanation. Certainly there have been
plenty of excellent profit and dividend
reports to provide an adequate foundation.
Yet a few experts are finding it possible
to discern trends towards inflation.
The statistics are helping to retain a
bright mood throughout the US economy,
over-riding the Vietnam influence to a
considerable extent. Retail sales, capital
spending, machine tool orders, steel pro-
duction and car outputs all mirror con-
tinued expansion. Their vigor, it must also
be admitted, provides the base for in-
flationary worries, too.
Qn the other side of the Atlantic, the
London "statist" is still exercised with
"the cooling of the world's economic
, ~ .... , . ,
chma e caused by liquidity tensions and
dlsln{latl ° nar Y programmes This caution-
? ry mood was lar 9 ely P roduced b Y the
failure of an old merchant banker, Sale
and and * be need or British business
generally still to come to terms with the
domestic credit squeeze.
These hard realities did not hinder
London stock markets particularly. Buyers
were more in evidence and once again
the institutions' activity helped to push
equities up on a fairly broad front. The
institutions also showed interest in long-
dated gilts, going so far as to anticipate
a cut in bank rate if the Government's
economic policies prove successful.


his moves to promote exports and to
cut back on imports.
Otherwise a continuing run of adverse
trade balances would force European
bankers to give up hope that Britain
will overcome its chronic deficit.
Trade versus Federation
A stute Chinese businessmen in Singa-
pore undoubtedly will see enhanced
business prospects arising out of Singa-
pore’s separation from Malaysia.
The Singapore Stock Exchange reacted
enthusiastically after the secession on
August 9. Island traders hurried to put
their shipping into working order again
in anticipation of a reopening of trade
with Indonesia.
Looking beyond the political and mili-
tary problems, Singapore has achieved
what some thought was impossible. In
fact, it might be claimed as an economic
victory (at this stage) for the industrious
anu highly powerful Chinese in Singa-
pore.
Of the 1.8 million population of Singa-
pore, more than half are Chinese. They
dominate the business scene and naturally
would provide an important slice of taxa-
tion revenue under the Malaysian Federa-
tion.
Singapore, with its highly concentrated
commerce, could claim that it was sharing
a disproportionate burden of responsi-
bility in financing the development of the
various Malay States.
Singapore's external income suffered a
severe blow when trade with Indonesia
was halted and there were many whose
political considerations were secondary to
business income. Today there are high
hopes that trade with Indonesia will be
resumed rapidly, despite the obvious
political hurdles.
There are other domestic problems, in-
cluding the need for a taxation system
and a tariff system which will not invite
counter-action from neighboring coun-
tries.
Australian companies, about 30 of
them, could be vitally affected because
they went into the area on a pioneering
status which involved a tax holiday from
two to five years and involved joint capital
participation. Loss of markets outside
Singapore could be a severe blow. On the
other hand, renewal of trade with Indo-
nesia may revitalise their export pros-
pects.
It is too early to make predictions,
since political considerations could block
the plans of business-minded traders.
Economically, Malaysia has lost control
of a valuable business centre. Yet, with
British backing, Malaysia could put many
difficulties in the path of the lusty com-
mercial island which apparently prefers
a restoration of trade to the responsi-
bilities of federation.
The Balance of Payments
Sets a Puzzle
Margin above safety level receding
TN this week’s Budget the Federal Treasurer has obviously had to take the balance
A of payments prospect on trust. Referring back to Mr Holt’s second Budget (1960),
this was also the case then. But the ink was hardly dry on that document when
doubts began to crowd in. Within three months the Treasurer struck his hammer-
blows, whose avowed object was to shore up the external accounts.
With overseas reserves still at a very
respectable level, maybe we shouldn’t pre-
sage this sort of tragedy to befall the
economy this year. All the same, it will
be just as well to keep our fingers firmly
crossed, because reserves are still falling,
most influences on the balance of pay-
ments are still working against us and the
margin above the safety level is receding.
On the immediate prospect for re-
serves, it is distinctly possible that, in the
next few weeks, we could see a sharper
dip than of late (in the week to August
4 they fell by £4.8 million after dropping
by £8.6 million in the previous fortnight).
True, lower imports of £120.5 million in
July (after a monthly average of £134
million in the two previous months)
suggests private imports are easing. Also
strikes on the waterfront will obviously
have an effect at least on this month's
figures and for some time ahead, if one
reads the signs aright. However, the
effects on near-term reserves movements
could well be camouflaged by other in-
fluences.
One of these, of course, is that we are
in what used to be called the “lean”
period for exports. August and Septem-
ber usually show a big seasonal decline.
HAROLD HOLT
Last year, for instance, exports were
£J 16.5 million in July and then slumped
to an average of £95 million in the fol-
lowing two months before recovering to
about the July level in October (1964).
So from a slightly lower figure of £112.2
million for exports in July this year, it
is on the cards that exports could drop
possibly more in August and July than
they did last year, say to an average of
£B5 million a month. I don't want to be
pessimistic, but, in the latest month
(June) for which figures are available,
none of the commodities detailed in the
export price index rose on the month.
Some of the important ones fell and the
outlook for export quantities was dimmed
in several directions, notably by the
drought.
Export prices of wool, meat, cereals
and gold were unchanged on the month
and were down on the year by 14.3 p.c.
for wool, by 3.7 p.c. for cereals and 48.6
p.c. for sugar. Also in June there were
small falls in the price indices for meat
(1.8 p.c.), dairy produce (2.2 p.c.),
hides and tallow (1 p.c.) and metals and
coal (4.1 p.c.). Over the year to June
the meat export price was unchanged,
hides and tallow (of relatively small sig-
nificance in the total export sum) rose by
22.2 p.c., metals and coal by 5.4 p.c.,
and gold by 1 p.c. Although the all
groups’ export index was steady in the
month of June, it was 9.1 p.c. down on
a twelve months comparison. This is not
an auspicious background to a picture
already clouded by the reductions in
some export quantities caused by un-
favorable seasonal conditions.
A second influence of some signifi-
cance to the scissors effect on reserves
will be the all-round increases in freight
rates that has occurred this year. These
will now be exerting their full effect and,
though possibly of marginal significance
in the overall balance of payments situa-
tion, they are certainly an unwelcome
additional load for the reserves to bear.
Although the rise in import and export
quantities rather than higher freight rates
in the last two years admittedly accounts
for most of the additional cost of trans-


portation to the balance of payments in
this period, the rise itself is disturbing
even if it is offset to some extent by
higher Australian earnings on transpor-
tation which flow largely from Aus-
tralian currency outgoings of overseas
carriers.
According to the preliminary balance
of payments statement for 1964-65,
debits to the current account attributable
to transportation for the year were £199
million compared with £l7O million and
£155 million in the two preceding years.
The net bill for transportation rose from
£7l million to £B5 million last year. This
year, with the increases in freight rates,
it could well top to £lOO million. How-
ever much his methods in going for it
must be deplored, Mr C. H. Fitzgibbon,
Federal Secretary of the WWF, certainly
has a. point in advocating the establish-
ment of a national overseas shipping line,
inter alia , to help lift some of this cost
off the balance of payments.
Two rather less articulate possibilities
should also be taken into account in
assessing the balance of payments pros-
pects for the rest of this year. One relates
to the suggestion that the recent high
levels of imports contain a big element
financed on deferred payments. The
other, less specific even than that, is the
possibility that sterling may be devalued.
The suggestion that there has been a
big element of deferred payments in the
recent high level of imports has to be
taken seriously because, if this is correct,
success in containing the drop in reserves
to £4B million in the June quarter in face
of a current account deficit could be
somewhat illusory. Equally, the fact that
the £l5B million fall in reserves over the
year to June 30 was not substantially
greater than might have been implicit in
a current account deficit of £375 million
(the second highest on record after the
record deficit of £554 million for 1951-
52 and just above that of £368 million for
1960-61) might well be attributable to
the same influence. It may well be that
genuine capital inflow was not as high
either in the June quarter or for the year
to June. 1965, as might on the face of it
be presumed from the figures of £75 mil-
lion (June quarter) and £228 million
(1964-65) given for net apparent capital
inflow in the preliminary balance of pay-
ments statement for the year.
It would be no mere coincidence if
this suggestion proved correct, because
virtually the same recourse to deferred
payments occurred both in 1951-52 and
1960-61, when fears of import restric-
tions were strong. In the first of these
years strong buying of imports preceded
the introduction of import restrictions in
March, 1952. In 1960-61 part, at least,
the year's record imports total was
attributable to the feeling in trade
channels that import restrictions would
be re-imposed. True, one cannot say
that the probability of import restrictions
being re-imposed has been all that strong
in recent months, though the possibility
has been frequently canvassed. The die
has not been cast one way or the other.
If the Government has been consistent
in denying the likelihood of restrictions,
its Department of Supply appears to
have been thinking of the contingency
in asking tenderers whether, in the event
of restrictions being imposed, they could
establish an import quota.
While the Government may well hope
that most of the deferred payments are
of the short-term variety, it cannot be too
certain that this is so, if only because of
the big component of imports attribut-
able to US and UK subsidiaries and
branches financed by long-term inter-
company arrangements. How'ever, the
Government's primary concern is not per-
haps so much with the deferred payments
for imports at this stage but about
whether last year's trends in the major
items of the balance of payments can be
reversed or at least halted, so that re-
serves are not eroded to a precarious
level and the chances of having to re-
impose import restrictions are lessened.
Last year, on the visible trade side, ex-
ports fell from £1370 million to £1296
million (about £4 million more than esti-
mated by The Bulletin last April),
while imports rose by £l5O million to
£1375 million, rather more than anybody
expected (imports and exports both on an
f.o.b. basis). In due course this imbalance
has to be corrected by some means or
other.
There are only the faintest portents
that private imports will sustain the July
trend and the Government is fully aware
of its own expanded commitments for
defence imports over the next year or
more. As for capital inflow', there is a
strong presumption that, because of
deferred payments for imports, this drop-
ped more last year than might be pre-
sumed from the modest fall from £254
to £228 million in net apparent capital
inflow.
I suggested a few' months ago that real
capital inflow' for 1964-65 would pro-
bably reach about £175 million for that
year, or about £4O million less than in
the previous year. The preliminary
balance of payments figures provide
nothing to cause me to revise this esti-
mate, though it could well prove to be on
the high side. As for this year, estimating
at this stage would be merely guesswork,
though on„all the indications I would ex-
pect a furiher fall on last year's presumed
total of £175 million. This only further
emphasises the urgency of stopping the
rot on current account.
Finally there W'ould be the effect on
the balance of Australia’s external pay-
ments of a devaluation of sterling. Con-
sideration of this would at the moment
merely be projecting a hypothetical situ-
ation and not necessarily an imminent
one. But. even discounting the better per-
formance of UK exports in July, the
reassurances of this for the UK’s current
account balance of payments (though not
necessarily for the capital account) and
the absence of the big UK financial policy-
makers on holidays, I would assume that
the possibilities of a sterling devaluation
are well to the fore in our own Trea-
sury’s thinking on Australia’s balance of
payments prospects for the current year.
CROESUS
Obligations of Underwriters
Generating true markets for issues
1 of the floats launched in the rough market seas this year have made heavy
going of it and some have belied the hopes even of their usually cautious under-
writers. This isn’t so surprising, of course, because market-conditioned shares of old
established public companies have also been battered or at least found it difficult to
make headway in the inclement weather.
Underwriters owe it to investors as
well as their own reputations to temper
the usually high expectations of private
companies going public. No one pre-
tends that this has become any easier
in the highly competitive conditions in
the underwriting field, where the old
monopoly of stockbrokers has been
under fire for some time and has been
to some extent successfully challenged
by merchant bankers over the last year
or so.
It would not be going too far to say
that changes on the underwriting league
table which have made at least one
broker’s position in the big four rather
precarious after a long reign at the head
of it can be attributed to his relatively
more exacting interpretation of his
responsibilities to the public,
One must distinguish clearly two
distinct but related responsibilities. There
is the strictly professional responsibility
involved in the underwriter’s determina-
tion of the terms of the new float. Then
there is the follow-up process to listing,
where the -underwriter has a public re-
sponsibility both through his own opera-


strength
The Bank of Ceylon is the largest bank in the
island, controlling over 50% of the total bank
deposits in Ceylon. Enterprising exporters and
importers depend upon this strength in their
trading relations with Ceylon.
The Bank of Ceylon offers a comprehensive
service from up-to-the-minute Business Intelli-
gence Reports and Credit Information, to the
financing of exports and imports and conducting
every type of foreign exchange transaction.
LONDON OFFICE: 48-54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Phone Monarch 5597-9.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: FORBANK Colombo.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: HEADBANK Colombo.
s2L£§.
°<.o^
BANK OF CEYLON
Th~ largest bank in Ceylon
with the fmest network of local branches.
28 BRANCHES AND 4 PAY OFFICES IN CEYLON.
SIR MAURICE NATHAN
tions in the market (in the event of his
being a broker) and in his “after care”
relations with the floated company to
ensure that a false market price does
not ensue from an over-zealous build-up
of the company’s image.
It is perhaps understandable that some
underwriters, particularly those at the
top of the league, prefer not to disclose
the results of new issues of shares. Their
idea is that disclosure, one way or the
other, would have a bearing on their
reputations. However, I am strongly in
favor of disclosure in the public interest
and to assist the generation of a true
market. The recent (and still unresolved)
controversy, over whether results of issues
should be disclosed or not, revealed sharp
differences of opinion between interstate
stock exchanges as well as individual
underwriters on the question.
The main point for disclosure is that
after the comb-out of some who under-
wrote the more flashy concerns in the
last boom, the remaining select band
of underwriters in Australia are pretty
well on a par and with the game pretty
well sewn up They have no need to
fear adverse publicity if one of their
floats is a flop, though it might be a
different matter it they had a series of
them. Their expertise in accepting
underwriting and fixing terms of new
issues is of a high order. It is usually
the general state of the market, and
therefore the timing of floats, rather than
their quality or the particular under-
writer concerned which determines
success or not. In any case, the bush
telegraph usually works overtime on
such occasions to spread the news,
good or bad
In the case of fixing the terms of a
new float, it is not only a question of the
underwriter gauging what the traffic of
the market will bear in pricing an offer
or placement of shares. This, of course,
from the vendor’s viewpoint as well as
the underwriter’s, is vitally important.
It is where the professional expertise of
the underwriter can have a crucial effect
on the success of the whole operation.
Even so, the margin of difference in
skills among the various underwriters
operating here is probably fairly narrow
in this respect. In the final analysis,
names of and even acknowledged flairs
of underwriters can have a decisive in-
fluence both on the issue price and the
successful marketing of the shares under-
written. This is integral to the business.
The other side to the question of
fixing the terms of a new float is much
deeper than this—that is, the determina-
tion of the capital structure of the com-
pany in public form. It is here that
underwriters can vary greatly in their
interpretations, particularly of the extent
to which, for the purposes of the float,
assets should be revalued and reserves,
including intangibles, should be capital-
ised.
The bad old word for one frequent
facet of the process used to be water-
ing, though in a recent issue The
Bulletin admits to the word “bleed-
ing”. Both will serve. A responsible
underwriter will see that the lamb is
not shorn to the bone but, if the vendors
elect to do this, he will take these cir-
cumstances fully into account in deter-
mining the offer or placement price of
the shares. There is possibly scope for
more official stock exchange policing
of this aspect of underwriters’ activities.
Far too often it is left to the Press to
expose the cuts from the shears.
Jn cases of the closest shearing, the
public is invited to take up shares at
a premium in companies virtually bereft
of reserves, with assets valued up to
the hilt. Not that this is necessarily,
or even usually, inappropriate. But it
puts the main justification for the
premium on to the future earnings
potential of the company concerned.
This is mainly what the underwriters
have gone into bat for. One can usually
take it that they would not do this unless
they had gone into future prospects with
infinite care; one sometimes wonders.
Eventually all comes out in the wash
as, over the years, the company reveals
its earnings performance and capacity
to manage its finances. However, all
too often there is an interim period
following a float, when for reasons some-
times not connected so much with
money-making as with personal pride on
the chairman’s or board’s part, com-
panies can go out of their way to blow
their trumpets.
This can take several forms. In the
case of several companies in the last
few years, we had a succession of Press
advices about glowing earnings prospects
and incidental pieces of company intel-
ligence of little import to the market
but obviously issued to keep the com-
pany in the news. Doubtless PR firms
were behind some of this; in others the
company itself seemed to be the in-
stigator.
Also, as part of the formula, we had
some virtually “instant” results from
newly floated companies relating to
periods as short as a quarter, obviously
timed to create an impression in the
market and among investors. One would
almost prefer to hear a chairman, such
as Sir Maurice Nathan of Patersons
(Australia) at the annual meeting several
years ago, say openly (even if in lighter
vein) that his shares were the best buy
in the market. (Unfortunately, the 10s.
shares have barely reached par since
then, not even since Sir Maurice changed
his underwriter and handed in his
mayoral robes this week after a
slightly lower profit they were still under
Bs.)
Underwriters should surely see to it
that, in order not to fan the market in
its shares, a company restrains its puff-
ing. An underwriter can do a valuable
service in respect of after-care treatment
of his floats. His obligations should not
stop once subscriptions are in and the
commission is in his till.


THE MAN ON THE LAND
More Doubts on Woolmark
Balance in promotion needed
TSACK in January of this year the managing director of the International Wool
Secretariat, Mr W. J. Vines, hotly defended the IWS Woolmark campaign in a
special article in THE BULLETIN. He was moved to do this because an article in
this section of the paper a few weeks before had suggested that the bulk of the £l5
million a year going to Woolmark was, in fact, being “whacked up” by 180 to 200
textile firms.
In other words they were copping about
£75.000 a year each from funds sub-
scribed by the woolgrowers of Australia,
South Africa and New Zealand and the
Australian Government (i.e., the Aus-
tralian taxpayer). The taxpayer contri-
bution, which is mainly what this writer
objects to, comes to about £5 million a
year. What woolgrowers do with their
own money is, of course, their own busi-
ness, except that their contribution is a
personal tax deduction.
Mr Vines, or his staff, wrote some
1500 words refuting this appraisal of the
Woolmark situation, saying that it was a
“wild guess” and that there were no
“handouts” to manufacturers. Nowhere
in his reply did he state how the funds
were allocated, which was what the origi-
nal article was intended to ascertain. He
still has not done so and is unlikely to.
The Australian Wool Board, as every-
one knows, is vigorously championing the
cause of the reserve price plan. Part of
this campaign, in fact, almost the major
part (which is a pity because there are
many more potent arguments), goes this
way—“ Reserve Price would be a good
thing because most of the world's textile
manufacturers want to see less fluctua-
tions in wool prices and the reserve price
plan will iron out the fluctuations.”
Now in order to support its case the
Wool Board has, through the IWS, col-
lected “testimonials” to the reserve price
plan from leading overseas manufac-
turers. How many? Two hundred.
“I can produce 200 letters from leading
manufacturers supporting the reserve
price plan,” says Sir William Gunn. Until
proved otherwise, it seems a reasonable
deduction that the 200 manufacturers
supporting (or claimed to be supporting)
the Wool Board are the very same 200
receiving IWS funds to promote Wool-
mark items.
Make no mistake about the effort the
Wool Board is putting into its campaign.
Any support at all, from any quarter, is
given the full treatment. It is clearly part
of the IWS function to gather all infor-
mation possible which will help the re-
serve price cause. If they could drum up
10,000 “testimonials” then they would
do it. But 200 is the figure.
It makes the original estimate, to which
Mr Vines objected so strongly, not so
W. J. VINES
far off the mark perhaps. Nearly a bull's-
eye, in fact.
Yet another pointer to the Woolmark
breakdown (which the IWS refuses to
divulge) is Sir William Gunn’s statement
that reserve price is needed now because
of the “decline of family-owned textile
firms and the growth of amalgamations
and mergers”. This, in the case of the
reserve price argument, may welt be
true. But it is a giveaway as far as the
Woolmark campaign is concerned. Of
course there have been amalgamations
and mergers; there will be more in the
years to come. Woolmark is hardly a
form of promotion at all. It is an ex-
pensive form of discounting.
This should not be taken to mean that
all promotion is necessarily wasteful. All
we are discussing here is the Woolmark
campaign. Other IWS activities, and many
Wool Board activities, are neither waste-
ful nor extravagant. We have, though,
the clear indication that the great bulk
of IWS funds is going to Woolmark.
With all the hullabaloo about reserve
price, the news about the progress of
Woolmark has been scarce. Desmond
O’Grady not an IWS man had some
rather revealing things to say about the
reactions of Italian manufacturers. They
are just not impressed. Who knows?
Maybe they are not getting their full
share of the cake. After all, we just do
not really know and the IWS seems de-
termined not to tell us.
It cannot be going too well, because
we are told that it is planned to intro-
duce it in Australia. Nowhere is Wool-
mark needed less. We are a very small
market indeed, in the world sense, for
manufactured wool. We use a relatively
high proportion of wool in our clothes
and blankets and so on already.
As it is, the Wool Board bangs the
drum very effectively in this country.
There is little that the extra Woolmark
gimmick will be able to do.
The point that must not be lost sight
of is this: The extra funds for promotion
would never have been granted by wool-
growers if they had not believed that a
system of organised marketing would
follow as a result. The somewhat com-
plicating fact that some of the opponents
of reserve price actually approve of vast
promotion in no way alters this obser-
vation.
Now that opposition to the reserve
price plan is getting stronger, the pos-
sibility arises that the referendum (in
October) may go against reserve price.
It probably will not, but, just the same,
it could happen. The decision will be
made by the largely uncommitted wool-
grower and not by the enthusiast for or
against the plan. As in all referendums
(drinking hours, etc), the fellow who is
not sure what he should vote for often
votes for no change.
In Sydney recently the United Farmers
and Woolgrowers’ Association (the
strongest farmer organisation numeri-
cally and very pro-reserve price) made an
interesting decision regarding promotion.
The decision was that, should reserve
price lose at referendum, then there
should be another referendum to decide
whether the promotion levy should be
continued.
This is sound common sense. Whether
it comes about or not, it still seems
sound common sense to review the pro-
motion levy. Any big business concern
reviews its advertising and promotion
regularly, and rightly so. If it is not pul-
ling, then out it goes.
Funnily enough, the Woolmark idea
was first produced 10 years ago by the
J. Walter Thompson Agency in New
York which, at that time, had the IWS
account for the reputed sum of £700,000
a year. Big money? Peanuts compared
with the £l5 million the IWS is getting
now.
The agency let the idea lapse.
They couldn’t see how it would work.
They ran up the flag and no one saluted.
Of course, compared with the IWS, they
probably don’t know much about adver-
tising and promotion anyway! As a
matter of fact, all advertising agencies
may really be babes in the wood when it
comes to promoting primary produce.


Timken bearings are on each
end of cable engine rollers.
M W
mt
$
a ■
mm
as*
SsjSiSSSS
"'ll®
sg*3*gE±L
<?§ /.w p x^CCC-
-*r:--
9&&Z&
C.S. Long Lines is 511 feet long and displaces 17,000 tons. She will lay cable during the next
several years in the Atlantic, Pacific and Caribbean.
CABLE-LAYER SPECS: “NO BEARING FAILURES TOLERATED”
Not one of 2,816 Timken bearings dares fail on 16,000-mile voyage.
Bell System’s cable-laying ship, C.S.
Long Lines, has completed laying a
transatlantic cable from Tuckerton,
New Jersey, to Cornwall, England.
She lays cable at speeds up to eight
knots, while a 90-ton cable laying en-
gine in her stern pays out cable and
rigid repeaters.
The engine has 1,400 rollers moun-
ted on 2,800 Timken tapered roller
bearings. The other 16 bearings are
in the pulleys.
The failure of one bearing could
influence the engine’s operation, and
possibly require the Long Lines to
stop the cable feed.
This is why the project demanded
bearings that would not fail to rotate.
Timken bearings had toqpass exhaus-
tive tests before the order was placed.
Accelerated tests put thousands of
hours on standard Timken bearings.
They found the case-hardened steel
that’s rich in nickel helps Timken
bearings eliminate catastrophic failures
(failure to rotate).
Are you looking for the ultimate in
bearing reliability? Call your Timken
bearing sales engineer.
Australian Timken Pty. Ltd., Box
240, Ballarat, Victoria. Subsidiary of
The Timken Roller Bearing Company?
Timken bearings sold in 116 countries,
manufactured in Australia, Brazil,
Canada, England, France, South Africa
and U.S.A.
I
*—irp-
-17
S 3
Immnricrt
j>
LJ
1
r_i
□
Z 3
Dynamometer for registering
strain on cable while paying out
Helicopter
Landing Deck
m
Three tanks hold 2,000 nautical miles of armorless cable. Repeaters are stacked in cradles so they can be taken out in proper sequence
for launching. Timken bearing-equipped linear cable laying engine is a 90-ton, self-contained unit provided with a primary hydraulic
power drive.
QUALITY TURNS ON
REGISTERED TRADE-MARK


d
ig
I I
•7 /
i
* '5
I:
a
mm
wmmm
Wt&M
Parker 75
Inspired by the artistry of a London
silversmith, the Parker 75 is solid
sterling silver, deep : engraved, subtly
antiqued. Unlike ordinary gifts, the
Parker 75 can be custom-fitted to
the person who receives it. Through
a series of ingenious adjustments,
this pen becomes attuned to the
precise way he writes—even to the
way he prefers filling his pen!
Parker 75: £l9/19/6.
maker of the world's most wanted pens
PUS. 101
The history of promotion of primary
produce is littered with disasters.
Take dairy produce promotion in Aus-
tralia. Despite a vigorous campaign pro-
moting butter and cheese, all that has
happened has been that butter consump-
tion has dropped and increased cheese
consumption has been largely achieved
for imported cheeses at the expense of
the local product.
The Egg Boards have tried various
promotion stunts with little success.
The trouble with all primary products
is that there seems to be a tremendous
desire to increase spending on promotion,
but little desire to reduce the prices that
consumers have to pay. That is just too
simple. Yet primary producers continu-
ally wail that costs (stemming from urban
population demands) are forcing them out
of business.
Back in 1961, Professor K. O. Camp-
bell, research professor of agricultural
economics at Sydney University, had
something to say about the promotion of
primary products which no one took
much notice of. A pity. Part of his general
warning on this matter has recently been
republished. It seems pertinent today,
even though, as in 1961, no one will take
much notice probably.
Professor Campbell wrote: “It would
seem that not a few agricultural market-
ing authorities have been too easily
charmed by the persuasive ways of the
sirens of the advertising world. One evi-
dence of the lack of critical thinking
about this matter is afforded by Jthe fre-
quency with which one is confidently told
that a particular primary industry can
repeat the success story of Rothmans
cigarettes if only it will spend sufficiently
large sums on advertising.
“False hopes about what can be
achieved as a result of-advertising and
other marketing activities may discourage
an industry, such as the dairy industry,
from tackling the root cause of economic
difficulties, which lies in the production
rather than the market side of the in-
dustry. In their own interests primary
producers should endeavor to achieve
a saner and more balanced perspective
on the promotion of agricultural products,
its possibilities and its limitations.”
Although, in this 1961 article, Profes-
sor Campbell was mainly talking about
the dairy industry, the remarks apply to
all primary industries. Wheat, milk, oats,
barley, and wool, etc., are basic com-
modities like water, gold, grass and iron.
People know what they are.
In the wool industry there is so much
crying out to be done on the production
side that funds should be diverted im-
mediately in this direction. Or, at any
rate, that part of wool industry funds
provided by the general taxpayers should
be going to something less ethereal than
the Woolmark campaign.
Changing a Cinderella Port
Portland plans for more recognition
By MARIEL LEE
YTears before Edward Henty, Victoria’s
A first permanent settler, squatted
there, or farther east and two years later
Batman marked the site of his dream
village, whalers were frequenting Portland
harbor. But those jealous younger step-
sisters, Melbourne, the new State’s
administrative centre, and Geelong, on
the same landlocked Port Phillip and
advantageously situated to rival Portland
for the export trade of Victoria’s rich
Western District, soon outgrew Portland,
natural outlet though it is for both west-
ern Victoria and the south-east of South
Australia.
For decades, then, Portland's develop-
ment has been thwarted. Wheat, wool
and other produce of western Victoria
have flowed, at much enhanced freight
charges for the unnecessarily long rail
transport, to benefit interests in Mel-
bourne and Geelong. Portland, denied
their facilities, stagnated.
In recent years, however, believers in
Portland’s future have fought for its due
recognition as a port, and have achieved
for it, against strong opposition, a
£5l million harbor with all facilities for
overseas shipping. Continued effort has
established there a great meatworks, a
cannery for the local fishing industry, a
grain terminal, wool stores and a wool
auction centre which, though strongly
opposed by firmly entrenched rival inter-
ests, is still functioning.
In January, 1965, in its second wool
sale of the season. Portland Wool Selling
Brokers' Association handled 15.000 of
its season’s booking of 85,000 bales of
wool from western and south-western
Victoria, the Victorian Wimmera and the
south-east of South Australia. Indica-
tions were that, with United Kingdom,
Continental, United States and Japanese
shipping promptly lifting wool bought by
their nationals, Portland would handle
even more next season.
Portland's rejoicings over successful
wool sales were tempered that month by
a meatworks fire which threw four hun-
dred men out of work. The meat com-
pany, though it lost £750,000, is rebuild-
ing, though it cannot hope to resume full
production before August.
Champions of Portland confidently
anticipate that eventually all western
Victorian and south-eastern South Aus-
tralian produce will, as only some does


M
Xppruach to Mvrdektt Bndfje , St ruin [tore
jr
HONGKONG
BANGKOK
JESSELTOA
PENANG
LUMPUR
KUALA
KUCHING
SINGAPORE
HONGKONG
miff JETS
BANGKOK’
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -81
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG-2
| JESSELTON/HONGKONG -2
[PENANG/BANGKOK -3
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK "3
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK -6
MALAYSIAN AIRWAYS
MALAYSIA'S NATIONAL AIRLINE-SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
5}C EXCEPT WEDNESDAY
CONSULT YOUR
TRAVEL AGENT
OR QANTAS.
OUR GENERAL
SALES AGENTS
IN AUSTRALIA
now, flow through this port to fill the
holds of overseas ships thronging its
harbor. In readiness for that day, petro-
leum storages and pipelines and grain
storages are being built for the two-way
future trade envisaged.
Early this year the very modern Port-
land grain terminal, which will eventually
expand to five-million bushel capacity,
when it will load eight hundred tons of
grain hourly, was completed. This ter-
minal's largely automatic plant almost
completely eliminates dust, which for-
merly, when oats were being loaded by
auger drill conveyors, created “pea-soup”
fogs most irritating to the skins and eyes
of wharf-workers.
Wool companies are also showing their
faith in Portland as a selling centre by
building new and modern premises there.
Incidentally, Portland may soon offer,
in addition to commercial opportunities,
the added attraction of a naturally heated
Olympic swimming pool, gravity-fed
from a 5000-foot hot bore recently put
down by the Victorian Mines Depart-
ment. From the same source a hot
therapeutic spa will be maintained.
rpwo years ago, to further Portland’s
"*■ export future, the Portland Hinterland
League was launched. Plans were made
to raise the £5OOO annually needed to
make the League effective by a levy, on
a population basis but graduated in
accordance with proximity, from those
Victorian and South Australian munici-
palities which could benefit from Port-
land’s improved port facilities.
A South Australian bill forbidding that
State’s municipalities to contribute at all
has crippled the League, which can now
survive only if Victorians with interests,
actual or potential, in Portland as their
natural port can be persuaded to give
greater support.
Two services planned for 1965 should
strengthen that persuasion, since they
give assurance of Portland's continued
development. A contract was let for Port-
land's new aerodrome, which will have
night-landing facilities. Equally encoura-
ging is Victorian Premier Mr Bolte’s
election promise for a Mildura-Portland
rail link, for which Minister for Trans-
port Mr Meagher promised definite plans
early in 1965.
Such a rail link through Victoria's
main wheatlands and rich pastoral dis-
tricts would vastly benefit both the sea-
board terminal and the western Victorian
area traversed. But the League, and the
public, are still waiting to learn which
of two possible routes will eventually
be chosen.
A link through Maryborough and
Ararat would require only the reopening
of an existing line which, fairly recently,
was closed as uneconomic. For the other
suggested route, eighteen miles of new
line must be built between Litchfield and
Minyip.
Politicians will naturally press for the
link most acceptable to their particular
constituents; railway executives for the
minimum expense.
The Litchfield-Minyip link would pro-
bably necessitate the rebuilding of the
long Horsham - Natimuk - Cavendish-
Hamilton section, which was not origi-
nally built for the heavy traffic the new
linkage would entail.
Meanwhile, even at the end of June,
those “definite plans” promised by Mr
Meagher had not yet been disclosed. The
Minister, however, then assured Vic-
torian Wimmera and Western District
people that the Government would honor
its promise—when the limited amount of
money available for railways permitted.
A Treasury decision on the Mildura-
Portland rail link was, Mr Meagher de-
clared, imminent but, he warned, it might"
take three years to complete a new sec-
tion of line.
Portland and its many supporters,
eager to develop their natural port, will
not allow Mr Meagher to forget this
reiterated promise.


New-type Service Apprentices
The trade of arms is technological
fftHERE is a calculated and conscious ambivalence in the current drives by the
Navy, Army and RAAF to woo candidates for their respective apprenticeship
training schools. In the Press advertisements, one of the highlights is the certainty
of apprenticeship authorities’, employers’ organisations and trade unions’ warm-
hearted recognition of the Service apprentice-graduate as a first-class tradesman.
At the same time each Service, without
even tacitly identifying “tradesman” as
an ever-so-faintly dirty word, prefers to
label its apprentice-graduates as “techni-
cians". In the undeclared Service per-
spective, even “technician” is a gentle-
manly understatement. The perfectly
correct word would be “technologist”. In
the Services, the grease monkeys, as such,
have gone, even in the motor vehicle and
other technicalities.
At the RAAF School of Technical
Training, apprentice instrument-fitters in
their immaculately white smocks look
like a gaggle of adolescent Ben Caseys,
while being lectured under red-lettered
safety warnings which, in non-RAAF
parlance, could more succinctly say:
“Mix grease and oxygen and become
airborne." Still, the safety message gets
over.
Padres figure in the training schemes at
the schools more prominently than at
most Services’ initial training establish-
ments. In the earlier stages of training,
apprentices’ church attendance on Sun-
days is compulsory in the absence of a
signed, sealed and delivered parental re-
quest that they be excused. There’s a
whiff of the 18th-century articles of
apprentices’ indentures here.
Parents receive regular reports on ap-
prentices’ progress. The dossiers from
which these reports are compiled are
models of completeness, showing, among
other things, the apprentices’ advance-
ment in his technical training and physi-
cal development. Records of increases in
height and chest measurement might seem
incredible but for their photographic
documentation. Navy, Army and RAAF
each plays it hard in the role of proxy
paterfamilias. Not all parental letters are
appreciative in the first instance, particu-
larly those flowing from reports that the
apprentice’s progress has not been all that
it should be. In these instances the Ser-
vices reply politely but ever so firmly,
listing shortcomings by chapter and verse.
Almost invariably, the errant one pulls
up his socks immediately or on return
from his next home leave.
Over their period of technical training,
apprentices learn more than somewhat of
weaponry, drill and muscle-building PT.
It’s all part of the system, the end pro-
duct of which can competently handle
both the technical and lethal tools of his
trade of arms.
The gentlemanly restraint, under which
the Services play down their “technolo-
gists” as “technicians”, extends to their
chivalrous competition to attract suitable
applicants for entrance to their schools,
which are open to selected boys over 15
and under 17 at date of entry and who
have reached approximately Intermediate,
Junior or equivalent standard. Each Ser-
vice gilds its offer of training to fully
accredited tradesman status with pros-
pects of in-Service promotion beyond the
specialist rank and higher-paid trade
grouping to which the apprentice auto-
matically progresses on completion of
training. This prospect of promotion be-
yond the regular other-rank progression
is more than a recruiting lure. Statistics
show that approximately one out of every
ten apprentice-graduates will reach com-
missioned rank.
Superficially, it might seem that there
is some anarchy in the inter-Service bid-
ding for apprenticeship candidates. There
is no anarchy. Intakes and pre-publicity
are synchronised by a central three-
Services Directorate of Recruiting which,
under defence planning, considers several
major operative factors. Among these are
the dynamic technological developments
in the space-age fighting Arms, vital
statistics, the divergent educational
standards and calendars of the six States,
and the requirements of the various ap-
prenticeship authorities.
While the three Services, with the
traditionally silent Navy perhaps most
strikingly out of character, are not shy
in proclaiming the technical excellence of
their apprentice training systems, none
has publicised its significant contribution
towards exorcising the too-widely wor-
shipped demon in the form of “white
collar status”. The Australian. economy
and Australian society are both immedi-
ate and long-term gainers by this partial
bursting of the snob barrier which shuts
out too many youngsters from the skilled
tradesman pursuits for which their in-
herent aptitudes would make them
naturals. Heads of State apprenticeship
authorities and employers’ spokesmen
have loosed sporadic blasts at the white
collar fetish, which curses industry with
a chronic deficiency in skilled tradesmen.
It seems that bidden persuader techniques
of the Services have been more success-
ful since, over the years, each Arm has
made a near-hit on its apprentice intake
target.
Wing Commander H. O. Howard, Staff
Officer Ground Training of HQ RAAF
Support Command, puts it rather pithily.
“We have quietly but persistently ham-
mered the idea that the frustrations of a
technically minded lad forced into a white
collar job are likely to make him remain
a nonentity in that line, whereas, given
the job for which his natural aptitudes
fit him, he can become a leader. I think


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
1
2
FOR 5 YEARS
(SECOND SERIES)
7% 4 YEARS
6£% • 3 YEARS
6i% 2 YEARS
•
51% 12 MONTHS
A.N.Z. or I.A.C.
HOW to 3pply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8880
we have built up a sort of prestige image
in reverse. And it pays dividends.”
While parents of candidates are not
allowed to sit in on the actual interviews,
they are invited to attend the venue of the
selection procedure and invited to ask
questions. Candidates are subjected to
exhaustive aptitude and other tests. Sub-
ject to Service requirements, his aptitudes
as assessed and his subsequently demon-
strated ability, the-accepted apprentice
can normally expect to be trained in the
trade of his first or second choice.
The Services’ apprentices training
establishments are rather widely dis-
persed. Navy trains its artificer appren-
tices at HMAS Nirimba, near Richmond
and about 26 miles from Sydney. The
Army school is at Balcombe, some forty
miles from Melbourne. RAAF techni-
cians are produced at the school of tech-
nical training, seven miles from Wagga,
NSW, and the school of radio engineer-
ing at Laverton, 14 miles from Mel-
bourne. Viewed in broad perspective and
considering the different technicalities in
which the apprentices are instructed, the
training routines of the widely removed
schools are basically similar.
iT its apprentice training establish-
ment at Nirimba, the Navy takes in a
batch of embryo specialists in January
and July each year. Applications for
January, 1966. entry close on Septem-
ber 1. The Nirimba drill is fairly repre-
sentative of that at all the other Service
apprentice schools. From Leeuwin to
Lucinda Point, and many places be-
tween, the selected candidates are de-
canted in Sydney, and thence taken by
bus to Quakers Hill under officer es-
cort. Psychology may not yet have quite
arrived as an exact science. But, as
practised at Nirimba, it seems to make
the grade. The first three days are a
gentle induction period, during which the
apprentice is measured for kitting and
then issued with his naval rigs, given
lectures on RAN traditions and general-
ly made to feel at home. By the end of
his first fortnight in Nirimba, the ap-
prentice is firmly launched on his pro-
gramme of craft, seamanship and aca-
demic training, which later includes
technical drawing. After three months he
sits for an examination and is coinciden-
tally asked to nominate the trade of his
choice. About 85 p.c. get their first
and 12 p.c. their second choice in this
allotment, which depends largely on the
results of this examination.
For apprentices not deemed to be
making sufficiently satisfactory pro-
gress, individual and physically super-
vised tutorials are the order of the day.
As a general rule, H- hours of nightly
studies in the privacy of cabins is the
regular routine.
Basic training in Nirimba extends
over four years, during which apprentices
receive, as well as trade training, spe-
cialist technical training according to the
branches in which they serve—as systems
artificers specialising in power, weap-
ons, communications, air electronics
and aircraft maintenance; engine-room
artificers specialising as fitters and turn-
ers, diesel fitters, boilermaking and
welding, or as naval shipwrights.
While in Nirimba, systems artificers
attend weekly lectures at the North Syd-
ney Technical College at Gore Hill,
while engine-room artificers attend Syd-
ney Technical College for formal train-
ing in the higher levels of their specialty.
The technical colleges set and mark the
examination papers at Nirimba. After
the four years’ basic training at Nirini-
ba, the apprenticeship is completed by
a year at sea or in shore establishments
as an artificer or naval shipwright Class
3.
Of the four training establishments,
the Army’s apprentice school at Bal-
combe on the Mornington Peninsula,
one of Victoria’s premier beach play-
grounds, seems to win hands down as a
site. “Concentrated” is a fair descrip-
tion of the equipment and training aids
on which apprentices in all branches of
the automotive, metals, electric and
building trades are instructed in their
specialties. BHP, BMC and Qantas
might have more models of some of
the most up-to-the-minute gear, but Bal-
combe has enough to train all its ap-


CAMBRIDGE
, CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
DEBENTURE
STOCK
4
, 6 or 10
YEARS
4,6 or 10 years 8%
3 years 7%%
2yrs7Vi%
12 mths.7%
6 mths.6%
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST: Application form and Prospectus
may be obtained from
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
. THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge House, 249
George St., Sydney. 'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney
Please send me, without
copy of your Prospectus.
NAME
obligation,
218436
a
ADDRESS.
1262/FC
prentices. The lathes, massive forges and
other devices in the machine shop are
the cause of much mouth-watering
among representative visitors from many
-large-scale civilian enterprises.
While radio and radar technicians,
under expert Service and civilian in-
structors, probe into the theory and
practice of advanced communications
techniques, the apprentice carpenters,
plumbers and bricklayers, under the
same ace tuition, work on actual build-
ing projects in the school area. All get
a basic grounding in allied trades as a
supplement to their specialist training.
HThe first three of the four years’ ap-
A prenticeship are spent at Balcombe. The
fourth and final year is done at a suit-
able Army unit under an apprentices
master. At Balcombe the apprentice re-
ceives educational training appropriate
to his trade under experienced and de-
greed teachers. A selected number is
trained to Victorian Leaving standard in
subjects qualifying them for appropriate
diploma and associate diploma courses
at the Royal Melbourne Institute of
Technology or equivalent institutes, to
which the bright apprentice is likely to
gain entrance under Army sponsorship
and ultimately reach commissioned rank.
RAAF apprentices start their five-
year course in January, with applica-
tions closing in the preceding July or
August. Engineering apprentices under-
go two and a half years’ formal train-
ing at the RAAF school of technical
training at Wagga. This is followed by
two and a half years field training with
a suitable RAAF unit. After a short
induction period, engineering appren-
tices soon graduate to their general pro-
gramme of service, educational and trade
training in their specialties of engine,
instrument, electrical, armament, air-
frame or mechanical transport fitting.
In the instrument-fitting technicality,
perhaps better than in any other, the
apprentice’s training, in which he learns
to service and maintain equipment like
the MAD radar device, illustrates the
bewildering advances made since the
not-too-distant day when the instruments
on most aircraft could be serviced with
the aid of a screwdriver, chisel and an
oil can. MAD (magnetic anomaly de-
tector) is used in anti-submarine war-
fare.
Apprentices at the RAAF school of
radio at Laverton, which, perhaps,
could be. better described as the school
of radio engineering to distinguish its
technologist products from radio oper-
ators, do two and a half years’ formal
training at the Royal Melbourne Insti-
tute of Technology. This is supplement-
ed by practical work on the RAAF Base
at Laverton, where they are quartered.
Apprentices are taken daily by bus to
RMIT, where the course covers radio-
engineering, industrial electronics, elec-
trical machine shop practice, mathe-
matics and English expression, and
leads to the Institute’s radio technician
certificate. The RMIT course is follow-
ed by two years and four months of
practical training at Laverton. This cov-
ers field work on airborne or ground
radio communications and radar equip-
ment of all types used in the RAAF.
A pointer to the degree of expertise
reached by radio technicians (air) and
radio technicians (ground) by their final
year of training is the aplomb with
which they approach the problem of
fault detection and rectification in the
four-functioned Quadradar navigational
aid, microwave communications systems
and other ultra-complicated mechanisms.
Outstanding apprentices may be selected
for engineering degree or diploma
courses leading to commissioning.
A contributory factor to the overall
success of the three Services’ appren-
ticeship drives could be the fact that their
courses are equivalent to a trade train-
ing scholarship worth about £5OOO at a
conservative estimate. Apprentices are
paid, quartered and wholly maintained
during training. They come from all
States, with disproportionately large
intakes from Queensland and Western
Australia. In RAAF engineering course
No. 17, which passed out from Wagga
on July 2, 43 p.c. came from Queens-
land. On all basis, how-
ever, the disproportion is reducing,
which could be an indicator of the de-
velopment of secondary industry in
Queensland and the West, with the re-
sultant increase of apprenticeship oppor-
tunity there.
Although the outputs of the appren-
tices schools are regular, they are not
sufficient to meet the Services’ need
for technicians. To bridge the gap,
Army and RAAF have recently launch-
ed adult trade training schemes under
which those too old for apprenticeship
can reach recognised tradesman status
by in-Service training during their en-
listment. The training is offered in most
of the metals, engineering, electrical
and radio trades. Adult trade trainees
take longer than apprentices in reach-
ing certificated tradesman status, but
the Army and RAAF are hopeful of
good responses to the schemes and base
their expectations on the payment of full
adult rates of pay to all trainees includ-
ing those joining at the minimum age
of 17.


Mr. big
S sms
&
MZHIKB
SAFETY
A proud grandad made him our
youngest investor. And twice *
year he receives his dividend.
You too, can have a SAFE invest-
ment at 6% p.a. (current rate).
There's NO fixed term and your
money is readily available plus dividends with no
brokerage or any other deductions. You gain a net
6% p.a. Paid twice yearly.
Assets exceed £7 million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S Ward. General Manager V.
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . , .
NAME.
RBA 674 C
ADDRESS
INVESTMENT
Despite the Northern Drought
L. J. Hooker shows its sober skill
TTS pastoral division, on which so
much care and capital had been
lavished, let L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation down in the latest year.
Allow no one, however, to convince
themselves that any of the rural losses
were due to miscalculation and in-
efficiency. The drought alone was the
root cause.
To an extent, perhaps, the northern
properties were being asked to bear too
much of the burden of recovery. So
it is of special interest that manage-
ment now proposes to slim the pastoral
side somewhat. Certainly the group con-
tinues to provide more and more
evidence that moneys released from
these activities can be healthily directed
elsewhere.
Once again attention can be drawn
to the sober skill with which the whole
group is being organised for the future.
Some shareholders may even give wry
commendation to Hooker’s refusal to be
panicked into a dividend!
The pastoral section will show a
further loss in the current 1965-66 year,
yet directors confidently expect the over-
all progress displayed throughout 1964-
65 to exemplify itself in greater profits.
Retail and commercial building projects
will produce a fillip to earnings through
well-considered head-lease and profit-
sharing arrangements.
Of equal importance for the coming
years, the group’s refinancing operations
are proceeding very favorably. Mr J. K.
Campbell, the chief general manager,
sees no insuperable difficulty in holding
a good flow of funds from America
and Europe.
Net trading profit in 1964-65 rose by
8.3 p.c. to £403,000, to give a 7.4 p.c.
earning rate on capital increased by
option conversions. “Small profits con-
tinue to be earned from the realisation
of assets previously written down,” the
preliminary report says. They are not
included in the above trading figure.
A Selling Drought
Come of Ferris Industries’ early
optimism appears to have rubbed off
during the later stages of the 1964-65
year. A maker of television accessories
and car radios, the company’s country
sales have been affected by the drought,
directors specifically mention in their
preliminary report.
However, with only a 3.25 p.c. sales
lift over the whole year, the bouncy
progress forecast as recently as February
may not prove so easy to regain. A
measure of misgiving, it is true, seemed
to have crept into an April report cover-
ing turnover to the end of March.
Anyhow, at least Ferris increased
profit marginally for 1964-65, from
£56,545 to £57,540. Shareholders afs®
get a higher dividend at 9 p.c. (previously
8 p.c.), though earnings for ordinaries
droop a little after the recent preference
issue.
At ss. Bd. the ss. shares have fallen
below their 1965 best of 7s. Id. They
are yielding 7.9 p.c., with an earnings
yield of 17.1 p.c.
Profits in the Air
Tt has been a long wait for shareholders
of Victorian country television
stations, but at least two managed to
move out of the red last year and are
planning maiden distributions to share-
holders. Both Ballarat and Western Dis-


The drought
is
your business
The effects of a serious drought go on long
after the rains fall.
Drought spells disaster to the hopes and
livelihood of people on the land, and also
drastically affects the nation’s trade balances
and overseas reserves. This is a time for
secondary industry to find ways to help.
One important way to help is through
export; the way to export is through more
efficient, lower-cost manufacturing.
In many industries new welding techniques,
available now, can raise productivity and
cut costs.
We at Lincoln Electric are seriously
interested in our customers getting maxi-
mum productivity through better use of
welding equipment and procedures. As a
customer, this is the kind of help you can
expect of the man from Lincoln. His job is
not merely selling, it is to apply his know-
ledge and experience for the customer’s
benefit wherever he can.
As Australia’s largest manufacturer of arc
welding equipment we can offer this help.
It is included in the normal cost of machines
and electrodes. Are you getting this sort of
help? The man from Lincoln is ready,
TOE LiNCOI-N ei-iICTSiIC COMPANY
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • NEW ZEALAND
MENSA
Are you interested in belonging to
a society for people with a higher
intelligence than 98 p.c. of the
population? ,
Do you qualify to join this unique
society?
Write for details, enclosing a sd.
stamp, to:
AUSTRALIAN MENSA
P.O. BOX 134, NORTH SYDNEY
trict Television and Bendigo and Central
Victoria Telecasters (each floated late in
1960) look to have at last wiped off their
establishment expenses and losses as a
result of their best year yet in 1964-65.
Profits of Ballarat came up from
£23,887 to £56,588 (earning rate lifted
from 6.8 to 16 p.c.) and Bendigo and
Central Victorian Telecasters rose by a
roughly similar amount from £20,186 to
£61,231 (earning rate up from 6.7 to
21.2 p.c.).
In Ballarat’s case the profit takes care
of accumulated losses with about £17,300
to spare (a 5 p.c. dividend as envisaged
would take £17,000). Only with a bit of
juggling with over-provision would it
appear that Bendigo, whose shares
looked to be unduly buoyant last week,
has anything to spare at all for dividends
at this stage.
Buoyant Speech
VI/'illiam Adams’ chairman, Mr J. G.
" Hurley, found it quite easy to main-
tain a note of buoyancy throughout
his address to shareholders at last week’s
annual meeting. Indeed he left a reason-
ably cheerful prediction of the current
year’s trading till right at the end
and it was still fully in accord with
the rest of the speech.
“To the end of July our sales were
6.3 p.c. above those of the previous year
and we regard this as a satisfactory
result,” Mr Hurley explained. The
group expects not less than the same
volume of business in 1965-66 as for
the past year. So, “we shall have an-
other satisfactory year of profit”.
Investors should knov pretty well
what that means, since the year ended
April saw profit leap 44.5 p.c. to
£509,761. Turnover went up by
£3,138,237, or 20 p.c., thus holding
fairly well to a remarkable 27 p.c. sales
increase during the first three months of
1964-65.
Even on the capital side growth con-


NEWINGTON COLLEGE
STANMORE (and KILLARA)
The Methodist G.P.S. founded in 1863
for day and boarding students.
1. SCHOLARSHIPS.
There are a number of open scholarships in general for boys entering First
Year Secondary. (Boys who are under 13 on 31st December, 1965, are eligible.)
EXAMINATION (set by the Australian Council for Educational Research) will
be held on SATURDAY, 25th SEPTEMBER, 1965, at 9 a.m.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE on TUESDAY, 31st AUGUST, 1965.
2. 1966 LEAVING CERTIFICATE EXAMINATION for repeat
candidates.
A few places only will be available to suitable candidates (especially boys
aiming at obtaining a Commonwealth Scholarship) in the classes preparing for
this examination;
3. 1966 FORM V (WYNDHAM PLAN).
A few places for boys of merit proceeding to matriculation will be available in
1966 and in future years. But booking well ahead is essential.
4. BLOCK.
A new Science Block, including advanced laboratories for top students, will be
opened in February, 1966.
* LI BRARY.
A new Library provides special facilities for sth and 6th Year studies.
5. PREPARATORY SCHOOLS.
(a) At Stanmore (Wyvern House);
(b) At Killara.
Special Policies in Curriculum development.
' For information on any of the above, write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN,
Headmaster.
MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
7-20
years
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W.
IN
CAPITAL CITIES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701
p
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
MA.2I3.NSW
tinues to be a keynote. After “consider-
able outside expert advice”, share-
holders are getting the benefit of a new
one-for-five issue of the 10s. shares, at
a 10s. premium.
The latest capital move, announced
by Mr Hurley, comprises a 20-year loan
being arranged with an Australian in-
stitution and details will be completed
by the end of August.
All sections of the steel and aluminium
merchant and engineer appear to be
lively. Major developments in Victoria
and Tasmania embrace the tractor com-
pany, which is to have “entirely new
facilities” in the next two years. Dis-
tribution of Alcoa’s mill products began
on August 9, in all Australian States.
The shares now sell close to 325.,
after a 1965 top at 355.
Earning Its Keep
rpHE £130,000 Stokes (Australasia)
A raised in its one-for-four cash issue
of 10s. shares at 13s. last year (bringing
capital up to £500,000) for expansion
and working capital quickly started to
earn its keep. In the year to June 30
this Victorian-based general metalware
manufacturer, the oldest in Australia in
fact, lifted its earning rate from 15.1 to
15.6 per cent on average capital em-
ployed, which, of course, was higher in
the latest year as a result of the issue.
A pleasing aspect of this was the
further penetration of export markets,
which now embrace New Zealand,
Malaysia and the Middle East. The
company is gradually switching its pro-
duction from the old premises in Bruns-
wick to the new factory at Ringwood,
but seems to be taking its time about it.
When its operations are all under the
new roof one would expect them to be
even more profitable.
Slight Sliding
THhe performance of Melbourne-based
A Patersons (Australia) for the year to
June 30 was nothing to write home
about after the previous year’s more
promising showing. Earnings to main-
tain the li p.c. payment slid slightly
from 9.6 to 9.5 p.c., pretty meagre
cover. Perhaps chairman Sir Maurice
Nathan has been rather busier on com-
munity affairs, such as the World Fair
project and publicising Victoria on the
other side of the world, than is altogether
good for the company. The shares re-
main as flat as pancakes, well under
their 10s. par.
The board’s big talking point on the


v ’;
v*">*
iTjarm
I ... .X
n
Kilt *
$
■■■'•'■■■
- ' •:•
Electronic Data Processing Branch of the Queensland Treasury Department
TAKE YOUR CUE FROM QUEENSLAND
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT, FIRST IN AUSTRALIA TO INSTALL AN ICT SERIES 1900 COMPUTER
The ICT SERIES 1900 Computer installed by the Queensland Treasury Department will process:
• Queensland's Public Service payroll (approxi-
mately 30,000 employees paid fortnightly).
• Governmental accounts data, produce 1,000,000
cheques a year, post expenditure and receipts to
vote heads and print budgetary control reports.
• Annual indices for over 70,000 Births, Deaths
and Marriage Registrations each year.
• Electoral roll data for 800,000 electors.
• Technical College and Apprenticeship Examina-
tions and Junior Public Examinations (including
notification to candidates, processing of marks
and analyses of results for about 27,000 candi-
dates a year).
• A variety of technical and scientific work.
The ICT SERIES 1900 range was announced in a simultaneous world-wide release on September 29, 1964.
Only eight months alter this announcement, the equipment was installed and fully operational in the Data
Processing Branch of the Queensland Treasury Department.
This computer was manufactured and assembled by ICT in England. After undergoing extensive quality
control testing and trial operation it was despatched from England by air on Saturday, June 12, and
delivered to the Treasury Building in Brisbane on Monday, June 14. It was fully operational within 72
hours of delivery.
Enquire now—
our telephone numbers are:
Sydney, 92-7191
Canberra, 4-0291
Hobart, 2-4542
Perth, 21-9481
Melbourne, 51-0241
Brisbane, 2-3701
Adelaide, 51-5188
I*OT
SERIES
0
I.C.T. International Computers and Tabulators Australia Pty. Ltd.
Australia's largest supplier of data processing installations.
*483
WHITEFRIARS COLLEGE
DONVALE, VIC.
CHEMISTRY TEACHER, 25-35, graduate,
with professional training, is required for
senior Chemistry and middle school
Science, also some Maths., in 1966.
SALARY: Departmental. Superannuation
scheme.
THE COLLEGE, which is conducted by
priests of the Carmelite Order, was estab-
lished in 1961. It has a one-form entry
and will expand to a three-form entry.
Application should be made in writing
to the Headmaster.
pinched profits this year was that at
least they didn’t camouflage caches of
doubtful debts or overvalued stocks,
such as have been coming to light in a
number of other companies in the
appliances and furniture fields.
Sir Maurice, who, uniquely, signs the
company’s Press handout himself, assures
us that all bad and doubtful debts have
been written off in the annual accounts
each year as a matter of policy, and
says the same conservative line is taken
in assessing the value of stocks in all
of the group’s 75 stores. Like other
appliances and furniture people, Nathan
admits that trading conditions have
been rather rough.
Monetary Brake?
nPHE week looked set for a continuance
of hire-purchase and finance com-
pany cheerfulness when along came
Associated Securities to cast a few
doubts on the prospects of future
advance. Some remarks by the chair-
man, Mr Raymont Moore, followed
right on excellent results from Esanda
and Finance Corporation of Australia.
Not that Associated would want to
feel gloomy immediately on the results
of its latest year. Profits had gone up
21.5 p.c. to a peak £705,361, on net
receivables increased by £3.5 million to
£33.3 million. A 16 p.c. dividend has
been held since 1961.
Mr Moore’s observations should be
seen in the light of ASL’s connections
with the Royal Bank of Scotland and
the bank’s associate, British Wagon Co.
Ltd, which between them hold a 40 p.c.
interest in ASL.
To begin with, Mr Moore considers
that his company “may not be able to
expand at the same rate as achieved in
recent years”. He finds the possible
brake in a contraction of the money
market.
Borrowing for expansion is becoming
more difficult and “the principal con-
tributing factors have been the general
lack of national liquidity and the issues


TEACHER REQUIRED
for Newington College,
Stonmore.
ENGLISH
Qualified to teach throughout the school
including Matriculation standard.
(Qualifications in History and/or Social
Studies an advantage.)
Sound salary scale and superannuation
scheme.
For details write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN,
Headmaster.
TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION ?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication,
see Wardrope and Carroll first!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O’Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
••••
S' I
mm
i
BENEFICIAL
FIRST SERIES
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM FOR
OTHER TERMS & RATES AVAILABLE
.AT 15
Applications must be made
on the printed form attached
to the Prospectus, obtainable
from:
• Your Stockbroker
• National Bank Branches
• Bank of N.S.W. in N.S.W.
• The Underwriting Brokers . .
Gavin F. Gardner & Co., S.A.
Ord. Minnett, T. J. Thompson
& Partners, New South Wales
Corrie & Co., Queensland
Guest & Bell, Victoria
or direct from . . .
BENEFICIAL
FINANCE CORPORATION LTD.
Adelaide 51 6661, Melbourne 621432,
Sydney 29 5244,'Brisbane 31 1861
See The NATIONAL or"
the "Wales" for details
made by industrial borrowers on the
local market”.
Such forebodings, which may also be
conditioned by officially induced tight-
ness on some overseas money markets,
have not disturbed Mr Moore’s projec-
tions for the 1965-66 year. “The future
is faced with confidence,” he states,
“since there is every indication that
profits attainable in the current year
will be satisfactory.”
Leasing and real estate operations are
not to detract from the group’s signifi-
cant hire - purchase activities, even
though the latter field is marked by in-
creasing competition and “reducing
profitability of some classes of business”.
Earning Praise
A ssuredly Lend Lease Corporation de-
serves commendation for its expres-
sed intention of holding the new deben-
ture issue to the nominal amount asked
for. No oversubscription will be taken,
so that the issue remains definitely at
£500,000.
Shareholders and present debenture
holders are invited to apply and the
proceeds will help to re-finance £900,000
of debenture stock maturing on August
31. The new issue’s maturities of four to
10 years all carry the same 8 p.c.
interest.
A little of the old glamor days ap-
peared with Lend Lease’s latest profit for
the year to June 30. It climbed to a re-
cord £681,524, admittedly after lower
provisions for tax and depreciation, and
even after interest charges down from
£768,370 to £610,350.
Earning rate did not come up to the
exciting pre-1962 levels, but, at 18.1
p.c., looked much better than 1963-64’s
13.3 p.c. and left the 10 p.c. dividend
paid since 1960 in no doubt. Present
capital, at £3,757,642, has, of course,
been well augmented by three share-
holders’ issues and many takeovers
since 1960-61.
External revenue went up marginally
from £21.7 million to £22.6 million dur-
ing the latest year. The ss. shares sell
at a moderately cautious 9s. 6d.


m
m
:'
OXFORD
OR CTV3
GTV
?*oyal
M
~ ~,
isss
*2M
p 5?
Glo-Weave have developed a great new shirt—a warp-loomed Terylene-and-cotton blend with
the rich texture of traditional oxford fabrics. (A masterstroke of the clothmakers art which at
once combines the timeless beauty of a traditional cloth with the long life and wash-and-wear
properties of the latest blended fabrics.) Additional features of the shirt—taper-tailored styling,
choice of four fashion-setting collar styles, and a choice of three pale dry colors, as well as a
lasting white.
PROBLEM—How to introduce the shirt to the public?
SOLUTION GTV Channel 9, Melbourne. A combination of the proven selling team of Graham
Kennedy and his top-rating IMT, and an Oxford undergraduate, specially flown to Australia for
the job, form the sparkling catalyst which is going to sell Melbourne on the shirt of the year.
Meet Mr. Oxford—on GTV 9. aw/]99


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964
Net out-
standings 47,639 47,488 52,795 64,209
Leased equipment,
cash and
other debtors 12,987 16,320 20,854 21,576
Investments 1,408 1,352 2,015 2,047
Fixed assets 1,360 1,563 2,217 2,720
1964
Dec.
73,639
28,157
2,152
2,538
Total assets
63,394
66,723
77,881
90,552
106,486
Short term debt
13,287
15,866
19,485 20,656)
Long term debt
28,984
28,458
35,763
43,648{
Bank overdraft
—
352
75
2,945
—
Other liabilities
7,123
7,545
7,462
7,533
9,291
Minority interests 99
110
123
67
78
Pref. capital
650
650
650
650
650
Ord. capital
6,225
8,300
8,300
8,300
8,300
Reserves
7,026
5,442
6,023
6,753
7,198
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
June,
1965
Interest
N.A.
2,836
3,209
3,944
N.A.
Depreciation
(leases)
503
458
462
547
N.A.
Tax provision
914
1,157
1,294
1,289
1,698
Pref. dividends
34
34
34
34
34
Earnings
1,251
1,580
1,826
1,977
2,274
Ord. dividends
934
1,089
1,245
1,245
1,245
Surplus
317
491
581
732
1,029
Earning rate
P.C. (a)
15.1
19.0
22.0
23.8
26.4
Div. rate p.c. (a) 11.2
13.1
15.0
15.0
15.0
Div. yield p.c. (b) 5.0
5.6
4.2
4.8
5.1
High price (c)
14/-
17/6
-19/7
19/-
17/-
Lew price (c)
10/-
11/9
14/7
14/9
13/5
(a) Adjusted for
bonus
issue,
1962.
(b) Based on last sale September
when accounts
presented.
(c) Calendar year. 1965 to
end July.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
New Share Issue on the Way?
Australian Guarantee Corporation nearly ready
fpHE recent preliminary announcement
■*- by Australian Guarantee Corpora-
tion Limited demonstrates the continu-
ance of rising per-share earnings now
evident for the last five years at least.
Nevertheless, the shares have been mark-
ed down, as have other shares in the
finance group. Admittedly, dividend
yield from AC’s shares is low in re-
lation to most of the others, but it
seems likely that, as public borrowings
are now close to 5i times shareholders’
funds, a new issue of equity capital is
not far off. The good dividend cover
given by the 1964/65 earnings suggests
that the next equity issue could well con-
tain a substantial bonus element.
The company was formed almost ex-
actly forty years ago. From the early
days the financing of motor vehicles
was the major activity. In the Depres-
sion, the company had some problems
and the capital was reduced in 1934,
leaving the shares with the ungainly nom-
inal value of 175., which was not cor-
rected until 1953. Just prior to this
1953 capital reconstruction the company
had received an advance of £3 million
from the Commercial Banking Com-
pany of Sydney to repay a debt to a
life assurance company, yet it was the
company’s traditional banker, the Bank
of New South Wales, which took up the
40 p.c. equitv interest in 1957.
Despite this controlling interest of
the Wales, Associated Securities was
bold enough to make a bid for the com-
pany in early 1962; the bid was not
successful after AGC had announced
a bonus issue in the ratio of one-for-
three. Strangely enough, links with dif-
fering interests seem to have occurred
from time to time. The latest acquisi-
tion of Haymarket Finance, originally
the hire-purchase subsidiary of Anthony
Hordern’s, would suggest that AGC
will be in competition with Mutual Ac-
ceptance, in which the Chartered Bank
has taken a 40 p.c. interest. Yet, in
1962/63, AGC formed Credit Cor-
poration (Malaysia) Limited with the
shareholders 60 p.c. AGC and 40 p.c.
the Chartered Bank.
A remarkable feature of the prelim-
inary announcement is the substantial
increase in outstandings which has oc-
curred yet again in this last financial
year. The rates of increase in this figure
have been 10 p.c. in 1962/63, 23 p.c.
in 1963/64 and 28 p.c. in 1964/65.
There is little doubt that this growth
in outstandings has brought about the
growth in earnings. There is some evi-
dence that the rate of growth has been
rather slower in the second half of the
year; this is to be expected and allow-
ance must be made for the seasonal fac-
tor.
This leads to an examination of the
rate of profit that has been made on
outstandings in the last few years. Un-
fortunately, the ratio which I consider
to be the most useful cannot be cal-
culated in respect of the 1964/65 year
because the figure for interest paid on
borrowings was not given in the pre-
liminary announcement. The figures for
the three years to June 30, 1964, do
not disclose any particular trend. They
do indicate a rather high level of profit-
ability in comparison with the other
finance companies. To a certain extent
the percentage is affected by the treat-
ment of the reserve for bad debts
(which I have chosen to treat as a true
reserve rather than a provision, in view
of the chairman’s remarks when this re-
serve was first disclosed in 1962), but
the variation is not material. Net profit
before tax and interest as percentage of
“average” outstandings and liquid assets
excluding investments:
Financial year ending in 1963 1964
Associated securities 8.66 8.62
Australian G'tee Corp. 9.54 9.26
General Credits 7.25 7.66
lAC Holdings 8.37 8.46
Tt is quite apparent that AGC has been
A able to borrow on the most favor-
able terms also. This means that, in
terms of net profit before tax to out-
standings, AGC is the most profitable
of the finance companies which have
been studied to date. The crux of the
matter then becomes the gearing of the
company or, expressed in another way,
the proportion of equity capital per £
of outstandings. The Trust Deed for
the noteholders restricts aggregate lia-
bilities of the company and its guar-
anteeing subsidiaries to six times share-
holders’ funds (which are defined as net
tangible assets to all intents and pur-
poses). This would allow total liabilities
to rise to £lOO million as at June 30,
1965, without infringing the borrowing
limitations. So far as it is possible to
judge from the preliminary announce-
ment and the figures given in the Decem-
ber 31, 1964, balance sheet, the com-
pany still has the ability to raise about
£6 million before it becomes necessary
to increase the shareholders’ funds.
Public borrowings appear to have in-
creased by over £l6 million in the first
half of 1964/65; if a similar increase
is to occur in the first half of 1965/66,
a new issue of capital can be expected
before Christmas.
In the 1963/64 year, an increase in
outstandings of about £ll million seems
to have added about £830,000 to the
net profit before tax and interest. An
increase of £lO million in borrowings
seems to have added about £735,000 to
the interest bill. On the basis of such
figures, which are of necessity very
rough, it would seem that new share-
holders’ capital could hardly be expect-
ed to earn more than 5 p.c., even when
fully geared. If 9 p.c. could be earned,
before tax and interest on outstandings,
and borrowings would not cost more
than 7 p.c. on average, then 12 p.c.
could be earned on new shareholders’
funds.
Even the higher of these figures is
some way below the current dividend
rate of 15 p.c. This could mean that
the company might seek to impose a
premium on any equity issue to share-
holders. However, as pointed out
earlier, the current dividend is very well
covered and the company might well
consider that a cash issue at par would
be a good substitute for a bonus is-
sue. I would consider it unlikely that
the company would follow the example
of two of the other finance companies
and issue preference shares.


%
Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN .SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
co
GO
dr
CC
o
o
o
5-
li
m
m
iNi
s
Pi
23
I©
■*~pt
s:
<=s*
dr:
dr
LU
UJ:
Ofc:
a*
m ANNUM 9 MONTHS
7. 3
4
0,
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
PER ANNUM
YEARS
3
5
1
2
PER ANNUM
YEAR
3
4
TE
Applications for.debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges ■
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. JDN.S
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
It Never Rains But...
Whale Industries fighting back
VjTfHALE Industries Ltd appears to
” have made successfully the change
from a hunter of whales to a pastoralist,
but the real test for the company will
come in the current 1965-66 year when
its properties in north-western New
South Wales will be feeling the full ef-
fect of the drought.
In fact, the area around Moree, where
Whale Industries has its Gurley Sta-
tion, is one of the few areas which has
not received any worthwhile falls of
rain during the past 12 months.
The L. J. Hooker group, which has
several sheep stations in the same gen-
eral area, reports that on these the rain-
fall during the past year has been less
than two inches against an average
annual of about 20 inches. Hooker’s
flocks of sheep are now 60 p.c. smaller
than they were before the drought
began.
Despite the difficulties of the season,
however, Whale Industries has been able
to present a steady profit for the latest
year to June 30 and a continuation of
the previous year’s 5 p.c. distribution on
ordinary shares. Shareholders should
have a report on the full situation in the
area at the time of the annual meeting
next month,
The company was formed originally
in 1951 to operate a whaling station
and associated industries at Tangalooma,
on Moreton Island in southern Queens-
land. For the major part of the decade,
the company was highly successful,
with substantial profits giving a solid
cover to 20 p.c. dividends.
Towards the end of the period, the
company found it more and more diffi-
cult to take its quota of whales, even
when operating three catchers and a
spotter plane. The principal cause was
apparently heavy over-fishing of the
whales in the Antarctic areas before they
began their migration to northern waters
along the Australian coast
In 1961 the company failed to take
its full quota and the following year
suspended operations after only 49 days’
hunting. With the disposal of the whal-
ing assets, the only major operation
left was the 35,000-acre wheat and sheep
property near Moree.
The difficulties of the 1961 season
were reflected in a slump in earnings
from £172,193, equal to 23.0 p.c. on
capital, to £31.799 in 1961. This profit
was equal to only 4.3 p.c. on capital, so
directors drew on reserves to pay the 73
p.c. distribution which required £56,175.
In the 1962 year, operations, or rather
the lack of them, resulted in a deficit
of £220,541 after writing off £30,000
in debtors. The loss was largely offset
in the accounts by waiting back £133,000
from reserves and £50,000 tax surplus.
No ordinary dividend was paid.
All whaling assets were sold in 1963.
The loss incurred was offset against a
revaluation of the Gurley Station, which
was written up by £296,664. Activities
in that year resulted in a minute profit
of £5027, equal to less than 1 p.c. on
capital. For the second successive year
the company did not pay an ordinary
dividend.
The result did not include any earn-
ings of the 1963 wool clip or the wheat
harvest. The wool was sold in late Oc-
tober and the wheat is also harvested in
the latter part of the year. To bring its
figures in line with the new operations,
the company in 1964 changed its bal-


Public Notice
Creditors and next of kin and others having
claims in respect of the Estate of EDWARD
MERRIFIELD late of 14 Adams Road, Bendigo,
in the State of Victoria, Works Ganger for the
Victorian Railways, deceased (who died on the
Bth day of April, 1965) are to send particulars
of their claims to the undermentioned Solici-
tors by the 31st day of October, 1965, after
which date they will distribute the assets of
the said Estate having regard only to the
claims of which they then have notice.
GAIR & BRAHE, Solicitors, 243 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
ill
AUSTRALIAN
BROADCASTING
COMMISSION
SUPERVISOR
(UNIVERSITY PROGRAMMES),
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT —SYDNEY
SALARY: Within the range E2635-E2923 actual (male rate).
Applications for the above position are invited from University graduates.
DUTIES: 1. Supervising the planning, content and presentation of "University of the
Air" and University extension programmes in television. This will involve
organising meetings of various associated committees, helping to interpret
advice in terms of programme series, commissioning speakers and writers and
other related duties.
2. Maintaining liaison with Universities and other bodies concerned with tertiary
education.
3. Supervising the work of the staff of the section and maintaining programme
standards in their productions.
4. Drafting correspondence and attending to other related administrative detail.
QUALIFICATIONS: Not already stated included organising ability and preferably some
knowledge of and experience in broadcasting.
CONDITIONS: Permanent appointment is subject to medical examination and probation;
benefits include cumulative sick leave, three weeks annual leave, long service leave
and superannuation.
APPLICATIONS: To THE DIRECTOR, ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES, A.8.C., BOX 487
G.P.0., SYDNEY, marked "Application-Confidential", stating age, qualifications,
relevant experience and phone number with copies only of references, BY WEDNES-
DAY, 25th AUGUST.
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
4
YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ’WALES 1 FOR DETAILS
NDI3.N.
ance date from September 30 to June
30.
For the latest year, the company had
about 14,700 acres sown to wheat and
the remainder to linseed, oats and sorg-
hum. Profit for the latest year to June
30 came out at £72,463, equal to 9.7
p.c. on capital and dividend once again
was 5 p.c. Once more no tax was re-
quired. The accounts for the latest year
have not yet been released and directors
made no comment on present conditions
in their preliminary report.
Unless the company has been par-
ticularly fortunate, conditions for the
current 1965-66 will not match, up to
last year’s. The company does not nor-
mally sell its clip until October-Novem-
ber, but in common with other growers
in the area, the total weight of the clip
will almost certainly be down, while re-
ports on the wheat harvest in the area
are not encouraging.
Nevertheless the outlook is far from
gloomy for, despite the losses on whal-
ing, Whale Industries is still in quite a
healthy state. Based on 1964 balance
sheet figures, the net assets backing of
each ss. share was still 6s. Id. Present
paid-up capital is £749,000, w'ith the
only major capital change since flotation
a 2-for-5 bonus in 1959.
The shares are currently selling
around 3s. At this price prospective in-
vestors should be in no hurry to rush
in and buy. At the same time, holders
should not be stampeded into selling.
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964(a)
Current assets 596 583 329 56 84
Less current
liabilities 354 455 469 141 131
Working capital 242 128 Drl4o DrBs Dr 47
Fixed assets 722 772 849 930 955
Intangibles 248
964 900 709 845 1156
Represented by: _ „ _
Capital 749 749 749 749 749
Reserves 215 151 Dr2o 96 407
Outside
shareholders Dr2o
964 900 709 845 1156
Depreciation 80 80 76 7 31
Taxation 100 37 7 ”
Net profit 172 32 Dr22l 5 72(b)
From reserves 183 240
Dividends. 150 56 37
Reconstruction losses • ' 210
Surplus 22 35 35
Dividend p.c. 20 7\ s(b)
Earnings p.c. 23.0 4.3 0.7 9.6(b)
Dividend yield (c) 9.5 6.0 5.2(d)
Fligh price (e) 18/1 \ 13/8 7/6 4/6 5/6
Low price (e) 9/9 6/ 2/3 2/1 3/11
(a) To June 30.
(b) For nine months.
(c) End of December month accounts presented.
(d) End of September month accounts presented.


AIRLINES
Lj
61
I
THE ONLY
NON-STOP JETS
VANCOUVER TO
AMSTERDAM!
Only Canadian Pacific Super DC-8 jets fly the
exclusive Polar Route —non-stop from Vancouver to
Amsterdam! It’s 1,000 miles shorter than via
Eastern Canada! Fly direct to Amsterdam —connect-
ing point en route to London. Round-world economy
fare, including connecting carrier, £598/10/-. See
your travel agent for details.
Offices: Sydney, Melbourne and around the world. Contact Ansett-ANA
(General Sales Agents) or your travel agent. Air cargo carried on all flights.
FLY
AIRLINES
(Incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited), Planes/Trains/Trucks/
Shjps/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete transportation
system.
%«*
I
HILLS INDUSTRIES LTD
Thriving on Steadiness
Tt was perhaps far from accidental that
the March interim report from Hills
Industries Ltd read so flatly. With such
a continuously thriving business, direc-
tors merely contented themselves with
observing that group profit and turnover
for the December half-year compared
“favorably" with the previous corres-
ponding period.
The usual 10 p.c. dividend, paid since
public listing, was once more confirmed
by an interim 5 p.c.
All this just goes to suggest a steady,
rock-like consistency. That feature has
also been true of disclosed earnings,
particularly in the last five years, since
these have shown no violent swings and
have gone to support a noticeably firm
and healthy earning rate.
Mr H. E. H. Ling, the chairman and
managing director, was able to sound
suitably cautious, too, when he addressed
last November’s annual meeting. Ad-
mitting a buoyancy in economic con-
ditions, he nevertheless mentioned in-
creasing costs which were going a large
way to offset the “gratifying increase”
posted in the group’s sales for the first
quarter of 1964-65.
But Mr Ling, as much as the internal
position, was concerned over the diffi-
culty of competing on world markets if
costs proved onerous. In 1963-64 Hills
had lifted its export sales by 60 p.c.
to a record, principally by designing new
products for overseas markets.
This South Australian company is a
comparative newcomer to the list of
listed public companies, making its debut
in June, 1957. It was formed to acquire
the issued capital of Hiils Hoists Ltd. the
consideration being £1,000,000, which
was satisfied by the issue of 3,000.000
ss. ordinary shares and 1,000,000 ss.
8 p.c. unsecured notes convertible into
ordinary shares not earlier than July l,
1962. or later than June 30, 1968. A
placement of 600,000 of the 3,000,000
shares issued at ss. 3d. was made to
obtain sufficient share-holding spread.
The original company began in .f 946
as a partnership, then became a limited
company and finally a public company.
Takeovers have played only a small
part in its growth and these have been
confined to the TV field. Only one
takeover has involved the company in
a share exchange, that of the acquisi-
tion of Natel Service Holdings Ltd on
the basis of 1 Hills share for 3 Natel
(or alternatively 3s. cash per share).
The shares issued for this purpose total-
led 83,700. In fact this is the only new
share issue since formation, except for
the conversion of 87,000 8 p.c. notes
in 1962/63.
With the above information in mind,
the annual accounts for the past five
years make interesting reading. As
would be expected, the growth of the
net tangible assets per ss. share con-
firms the success story. The NTA fig-
ures are worthy of detailing:
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
4/10 ' 5/7 6/- 6/9 7/6
It would have been interesting to
know the growth in turnover. From the
graph in the company’s last annual re-
port some idea may be ascertained.
With an index of 100 in the base year
of 1955, here are the approximate fig-
ures since 1958:
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Index 150 160 205 200 235 250 290
These give percentage yearly increases
(decrease) of:
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
6% 28% 19V% 7% 16%
Ail of which augurs well for the
future.
Hills IndustriesNLtd, on present form,


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
Year ending
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
1339
1290
1413
1526
1536
Current liabilities
943
833
1033
1101
1227
Working capital
396
457
380
425
309
Fixed assets
574
631
793
896
1145
Investments
2
2
8
8
8
Intangible assets
250
256
140
70
—
1222
1346
1321
1399
1462
Represented by:
Ord. capital
Unappropriated
- 750
750
771
792
793
profits
222
346
296
350
406
Notes and
deposits
250
250
250
234
246
Mortgaae
—
—
—
23
17
Outside share-
holders
—
—
4
—
—
1222
1346
1321
1399
1462
Depreciation
27
39
47
56
69
Taxation
148
119
83
111
1 19
Net profit
202
201
205
205
218
Dividend
75
75
76
79
79
Surplus
127
126
129
126
139
Dividend p.c.
10
10
10
10
10
Earnings p.c. 26.89
26.77
26.91
26.00
27.2
High price (a)
16/6
. 11/-
12/3
12 6
14/-
Low price (a) I 1/9
(a) Calendar year.
8/6
11/3
10/9
12 3
HELP
w'vt-'.Xfe
all the year round
Legal Noiices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTIi WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: BERYL BROWN. TAKE NOTICE that
VALERIE IRENE WALKER of 182 Shortland
Avenue, Killarney Vale in the State of New
South Wales, has filed a Petition for dissolu-
tion of marriage in Suit No. 1441 of 1960 on
the ground of your adultery with her husband,
ALBERT WILLIAM WALKER and FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that the Petitioner has filed a
discretion statement in this Suit and will be
seeking the exercise of the discretion of the
Court. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building. Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 30th day of August, 1965. A copy
of the Petition may be obtained by you
without charge from MESSRS E. R. ABIGALE
& CO.. Solicitors, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
Number M.C. 133 of 1965
TO: RONALD GEORGE LETTE formerly of 130
Davey Street, Hobart in Tasmania. TAKE
NOTICE that GLORIA KAYE LETTE has filed
a Divorce Petition against you on the ground
of desertion. Included in the Petition is a
claim for maintenance in respect of your
children and costs. AND TAKE NOTICE that
if you wish to defend the Petition you must
file an Answer within 28 days of the publica-
tion of this notice at the' Re°:istrv of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania. Public Buildings,
Franklin Square, Hobart, from which address
further information can be obtained, otherwise
the Court may hear and determine the pro-
ceedings in your absence. DATED this 4th day
of August, 1965. REGISTRAR.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: RONALD RICHARD WALKER. TAKE
NOTICE that ETHEL LERLINE WALKER has
filed Petition No. 3987 of 1964 for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion and separation. If
you wish to defend you should file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before 20th September. 1065. You may obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
McLEOD WHITE, McKEON & CO.. Solicitors,
90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. Harms,
REGISTRAR.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 4570 of 1964
BETWEEN: GWENDOLYN ISABEL GAL-
BRAITH, Petitioner, AND: RONALD KEITH
GALBRAITH, Respondent. TO: RONALD
KEITH GALBRAITH. TAKE NOTICE that
GWENDOLYN ISABEL GALBRAITH has filed
a Petition Number 4570 of 1964 for divorce on
the ground of desertion. If you wish to defend,
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 27th
day of September, 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS
EDWARD FRANCE & CO., Solicitors, 187
Macquarie Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
No. D. 464/65
IN DIVORCE
TO: HAROLD LESLIE VARCOE of parts un-
known, the husband of AGNES GLADYS
VARCOE of Auckland in New Zealand. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife has filed a Petition
for divorce on the grounds of desertion or
alternatively living apart for seven years. A
copy of the Petition with an annexed notice
containing information for you will be for-
warded on application to my office. If you
do not file an Answer to the Petition within
30 days from the date of publication of this
advertisement the Court may hear the Petition
and. grant a decree without your being heard.
A marriage is not dissolved until the decree
nisi made in the first instance is later made
absolute and a decree nisi is not a defence to
a charge of bisamv. DATED at Auckland this
29th day of Julv, 1965. THE SEAL OF THE
SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND. K. D.
COSSGROVE, Deputy Registrar, Supreme
Court, Auckland. Friends of the abovenamed
LESLIE VARCOE are asked to forward this
advertisement to him. MR R. F. CRAIG of
C. S. & R. F. CRAIG, Central Chambers,
Broadway, New Market, Auckland, is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
certainly seems set to go places in the
future and for possible benefits are well
worth a second look.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 861
ACROSS
I—The1 —The German sickness? It occurs where the driver
loses track. (10)
6—Right in the company of the disorderly maid. (4)
9—Sketches unfashionable poetry? (8)
11 —He dropped us by one jalopy. (6)
13—Nine nets matter enough for show business. (14)
15— Give tenderised Richard a seat? (8)
16— Anna falls very short of this up in the riddle. (5)
19— A defensive structure is a Soviet one. (5)
20— Any snore disturbs these pests. (8)
21—Would 28-across be the likely
promotional slogan for it?
(7, 7)
24—Finish with the name in elec-
tric light. (6)
26 Capone getting a gun is
causing consternation. (8)
27 Behaved capitally to swing
about. (4)
28— Why holding is as in the first
word insipid. (5, 5)
DOWN
1 — Perform all right in this hand.
(4)
2 Tree gland becomes freshly
snarled. (9)
3 Pearliness of one journey on
horseback to prospect about
100. (11)
4 German city letters. (3)
5 Bird it upset about you. (3)
7 One of the dopes are in the
moon. (5)
8— Who stops to deprive others of
expert nursing? (8)
Rex, it wrecked daddy, this
snuffer out of lives. (10)
12—One way of reaching the in-
accessible can-can protection
for warriors. (3, 3,4)
14—Carnegie in a lively mood is
quite a joker. (5, 6)
17— Representations of wine rats
seen with one inside. (9)
18— Silly bickies. (8)
22 Yours Truly isn't indifferent in
the presence of the French
Ballet version of 11-across’s
story. (5)
23 Not a pretty component of
Baku glycerine. (4)
25 — Cry like the cattle base. (3)
26 Burro. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 860


BINDERS
for The Bulletin
For 15/- you can keep three months’ copies of The Bulletin
in a cloth-bound, gold-lettered binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is m constant demand, and for business houses where frequent
reference is made to past financial features; ideal, too, as a
gift for a friend. ’ ’
bend 15/- (cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to “Bulletin
Box , 5 2°, 2 > G. p .0., Sydney, together with the coupon
and address label below.
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS , price 75/- a copy (post free), f
enclose til cheque/postal note.
Name of sender ...... «...
Address
State
It more than one binder is ordered, attach list giving full
name, address. State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name ,
Address
iKMllMiMlilillllUlMtllllltMllMlM s{dfe MIMIIKIHIIMIM
Sender
It undelivered, please return to Box 5253, G.P.0., Sydney,
SPECULATORS DIARY
Arguments Fighting with Facts
The fine art of mining investment
T IKE most financial writers I tend to inflate my successes and minimise my failures.
While admitting to this practice, I hope I’m not as blatant as the Doctor in his
writings. In the “Diary” of early June, I chided the Doctor about being a little
premature in his advice that the bull market was just around the corner.
He has now followed this up with
national advertisements stating that the
Stock Exchange index is up 7 p.c. since
his prediction. I’m not quite sure how
he arrives at this conclusion, since the
Sydney Stock Exchange index on June 4
was 323, and over the last few days it
has stood at 318.
On the subject of financial writings, I
could hardly go past a Brisbane broker’s
publication, “Portfolio”. Its striking
feature is not the numerous facts and
figures, but the quotations spread
throughout the 44 glossy pages. If only
Byron. Confucius and Shakespeare could
have been here now to exploit their
wisdom on our stock market! Towards
the end of the book, the authors launch
out with their own quotations. Their
enthusiasm reaches a climax on the last
page, when the whole of that page is
devoted to the statement. “An ounce of
fact is worth a shipload of argument”.
When I’m writing this column, I fear
I often disregard this advice. For
example, I think my arguments out-
weigh my facts with the first purchase
of the week. VAM Ltd (a name that
could pass for a soap powder). In favor
of the company is the great variety of
mining leases it holds; against this is the
apparent lack of funds it has to work
these leases. It thus becomes a case of
finding partners to develop the leases:
that it has done in the past with such
respected mining companies as North
Broken Hill and Placer Development.
With the accent on mining becoming
greater in Australia, it’s the company
holding the leases which is in the box
seat. And when those leases include
copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybarium,
gold and tin, there’s more than a reason-
able likelihood that something will come
off. The 500 shares I bought at 4s. 4d.
cost me £lll.
Although half the portfolio now is
mining stocks, I added yet another to
the list on Wednesday. By buying 200
Aberfoyle shares I’m joining such a dis-
tinguished shareholder company as BHP.
Mind you, BHP’s shareholding of
800,000 is a little larger than mine. Also
they had to pay only 10s. per share,
whereas my cost was 18s. 6d. per share.
Aberfoyle and VAM are not unlike
in so far as they each have widespread
mining interests. Aberfoyle Holdings’
interests are as follows:
Aberfoyle Tin 100 p.c.
NAUC 50 p.c.
Paringa Mining 47 p.c.
Ardlethan 46 p.c.
Western Titanium 30 p.c.
Greenbushes 28 p.c.
By buying Aberfoyle, therefore, I’m
getting into six listed companies whose
interests spread from tin into ilmenite,
gold and wolfrarn.
To add weight to the purchase is the
prospect of the earning rate for the
1964-65 year being close to 50 p.c. on
issued capital. As far as future opera-
tions are concerned, the world tin
market -shows no sign of tarnishing.
Serious as the break in Malaysia is for
Australia as a whole, it could be of
indirect benefit to local tin producers.
After all, Malaysia, with about 1000
tin mines, is one of the major tin pro-
ducers in the world, and any interruption
to its production would only aggravate
the world shortage of tin.
The week’s sales were the 400 Mr
Whippy and half the holding of Steam-
ships Trading. Next time I buy into a
float that comes on at two-thirds the issue
price, I’ll make sure that the under-
writing broker is one of those who’ve
announced a policy of supporting new
floats. Behind the sale of 1000 Steam-
ships Trading was the desire to reduce
the debit balance in the account. I still
have every confidence in this stock.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
400 Mr Whippy, 5/6 £lOB
1000 Steamships, new, 9/3 £453
BOUGHT
500 VAM, 4/4 £lll
200 Aberfoyle, 18/6 £lB9
The week ends with a debit of £4l.
The week's dealings left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 33/7£ 43./-
1000 Steamships
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 9/3
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 7/9
2 Ford Debentures 5'7/65 £2OO £2OO
50 CSR 22/7/65 62/9 62/-
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/4
400 King Island
Scheelite 29/7/65 14/5 13/9
400 Pioneer
Concrete (short) 29/7/65 13/9 13/3
400 A. G. Sims 4 8/65 6/6 6 9
400 Kolotex 4/8/65 11/6 12/6
500 VAM 9/8 /65 4/4 4'6
200 Aberfoyle 11/8/65 18/6 18/6


s>
S>
'T-'.v
•-.f
<0
X''
#
¥*
#
®.':
m
/
«
'- s 7S
RECIPES FOR ALL OCCASIONS
AN INTERESTING LIFT-OUT
BOOK EVERV WEEK
HOME DECORATING IDEAS.
GARDENING ADVICE
THAT’S WHAT
THE AUSTRALIAN
WOMEN’S WEEKLY
IS INTERESTED 1N ...
THAT’S THE NEWS
IT BRINGS YOU
COLLECTORS’ CORNER
READERS’ OWN STORIES ■«
EXPERIENCES FROM REAL LIFE
PLANS FORi
NEW HQMES
MARGARET SYDNEY’S
COLUMN ALL ABOUT
FAMILY LIFE
WOMENSWEEKLY


:
: v :
as
"* - -
:■ V
Now
there’s a Mini
for everyone!
BMC MORRIS MINI
For those who need economy,
and performance, there’s the ori-
ginal BMC Morris Mini.
BMC MORRIS MINI DE LUXE
A shade more luxurious (with wind-
up windows, bigger, 998 c.c. en-
gine, Hydrolastic* float-on-fluid sus-
pension, racing-style gear change
and smooth new interior) is the
new Morris Mini De Luxe.
BMC MORRIS COOPER ‘S’
Now, the most sensational of them
all. Mini touring in the grand man-
ner. BMC’s new Morris Cooper ‘S’,
the car that has won the Monte
Carlo Rally two years in succes-
sion. Fantastic performance that
leaves even the big cars way be-
hind, even in a straight line. With
road holding that compares with
Grand Prix cars!
BMC MINI TRADITION
All of them do better than 45 m.p.g.;
75 m.p.h. and seat four big
people comfortably. All of them are
based on the original Mini concept
of east-west mounted engine unit,
front-wheel-drive, independent rub-
ber cone suspension (fluid assisted
in the De Luxe and Cooper ‘S’) and
maximum passenger space. More
than a million Minis are zipping
around—all over the world. One of
these incredible little cars is sure
to suit you.
BMC Morris Mini
still the best
motoring value.
Seek it out at your
nearby BMC dealer
‘Registered Trademark
