

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
THE
NAVY
Making up
leeway
| e 9istered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/- f New Zealand 2 /-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


m
A quiet mood
of easy talk
and water adding wonder
to the wonder of a fine Scotch
(D'Godlum’s
,y\
(T) c CaUum's
6Tkfik^
Scots (Uhisky
a product of Scotland ... of her soil, her rivers, her very atmosphere.


Chevron Hotel
Cocktail Bar
m
Theatre Restaurant
Oasis Smorgasbord
View from Suite
Avis Rent A Cm
m
For the best
EXPERIENCE
in Australia...
CHEVRON ... in the heart of fascinating King’s Cross —minutes from
sporting facilities and business houses. Where experience and new
concepts of luxury satisfy the world's most discriminating people.
ACCOMMODATION ... all rooms and suites fully air-conditioned—own
bath, toilet, TV, radio and phone—overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT with an excellent cellar. Golden Grill-
breakfast or dining by candlelight with soft music.
Silver Spade—unequalled cuisine, international artists and dancing
nightly.
Oasis Lounge. Smorgasbord. Light entertainment and dancing nightly
for the young in heart.
CONVENTIONS, RECEPTIONS, EXHIBITIONS . . . Ask for Chevron’s
booklets, “Planning Made Easy” and “Entertaining Made Easy.”
When entertaining or staying at Chevron it will be your best experience
ever.
SYDNEY
RESERVATIONS: CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Phone: 35-0433. Cables: “Chevron Sydney”
MELBOURNE: 51-1281 or any Travel Agent
AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED
Send for illustrated brochure
AVIS
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADIS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun when you drive a sparkling
new MIS car. The car of your choice will be waiting for you al
the airport, railway station, shipside, or will be delivered to Chevron Hotel as part of the
Chevron/Avis service. And remember, you and the car are protected by proper insurance.
The Bulletin
Established 1880
NOVEMBER 13, 1965.
VOL. 81, No. 4472
the navy
Will the new policy last? 19
SMUT
The new radicalism? 26
EVATT: CATALYST OR
CATASTROPHE
By Alan Reid 31
SCULPTORS:
GOOD SECOND-RATERS?
Smoothing the path for a new
generation 40
THE DESERTED WIFE
A problem to herself 42
TANNER .... 12 LETTERS .... 44
ON THE MARGIN 29
THIS AUSTRALIA
The by-elections 14
The MLC moral 14
Parish shut-in 15
Solicitors: Morals and propriety .... 17
Teachers: Presidential rights? 18
OVERSEAS
Ramsey on Rhodesia 36
Elections in Israel and New York 39
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Australian music today 48
The curse of amateurism 49
MUSIC: Sydney Symphony
Orchestra 50
RECORDS: Exploding a myth .... 50
FILMS: La Ronde 51
BOOKS: The Puzzle of Architecture 52
The Permit 53
BUSINESS & FINANCE
That capital inflow 56
New rule for Soviet industry 60
Speculator’s Diary 78
man on the land
The China-Canada wheat deal 62
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone; 2 0666,
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088, Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


A MESSAGE TO RETAILERS-AND OTHERS
DESPITE the fact that distribution is through far less
than 100% of outlets;
DESPITE the fact that on-shelf stock volume is con-
siderably smaller than that of competing and cheaper
brands; and
DESPITE the fact that we spend less than one third
as much money advertising in Melbourne as our major
competitor;
Griffiths Bros, teas have continued to increase their
sales healthily in a static market.
THERE ARE THREE REASONS:
A good product (for eighty-six years, Griffiths have put
only the best and freshest tea they can get into their
packets, so you can get the best taste in your cup);
A good personality (a recent survey of Melbourne
housewives showed that 86% trusted John Royle’s
endorsement of a product); and
A good medium (GTV-9’s In Melbourne Tonight reaches
over 60% of Melbourne homes each week).
For all this, Griffiths would like to thank GTV-9. And
suggest to the retailers who only push top selling lines
that, just possibly, some customers are still interested
in quality products.
GRIFFITHS RED SIGNAL TEA/GRIFFJTHS GREEN SIGNAL TEA/GRIFFITHS TEA CHEST TEA
GB/11
9


® ANOTHER REASON WHY INDUSTRY SHIPS VIA EMERY AIR FREIGHT
In the U.S.A.
all jet speeds are
just about the same.
Why then, is Emery service
faster than all others?
Emery picks up or delivers
within 1 to 120 minutes
in all major cities.
It often saves the day.
Melbourne call 379-5449
Sydney call 67-0381
V*
EMERY AIR FREIGHT
TtfE PRESIDENT'S AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN EXPORT


m
e44 (J>£y
1/4AJ&A4 'WWJ2A&'
Y&</~ lr
You save think about education needs consider what
ought to be done about the mortgage what income would
be needed if your income stopped how much you’ll need
when you retire ...
You take out insurance but you take it piece by piece,
from time to time. If it fits your family needs perfectly all
is well; but how can you be certain?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY CHECK-UP removes all
doubts and uncertainties provides a proper basis for
realistic planning.
A
FOUR POINT ; J
FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP ELz.;. J
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
O Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
0 Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
e Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
A If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
v family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P, Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
Trained and reputable
field men working
everywhere with Aus-
tralia's largest Life
Office make top-flight,
all-lines insurance ser-
vice a practical reality
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: Sydney Cove.
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding £700,000,000 which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
P2OOI


SAVING
AS WELL AS SELLING
OVERSEAS is vital to Australia
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills does both, and this
Australian-owned company is a large contributor to the economy and
prosperity of Australia.
In 1938, for the first time in the world, printing and writing
papers were produced at Burnie from short-fibred Eucalypt pulp.
Today, more than 3,000 people are producing some
100,000 tons annually to supply most of Australia’s requirements
in fine papers. There are “Burnie” and “Ballarat” papers
for personal stationery, Government usage, school exercise and
text books, printing, publishing and special wrapping.
This local production effects a very substantial saving in imports
and so conserves Australian overseas funds. To further assist
the nation’s trade balance, large tonnages of “Burnie” and
“Ballarat”’ papers are exported to South East Asia and other
foreign markets.
Constant quality control, intensive product research and the skill
of Australian workers ensure that the “Burnie” and “Ballarat” brands
rank as world-quality papers.
ASSOCIATED PULP AND PAPER MILLS LIMITED
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
o
m


■
.
•: x?:i
: v •
Ills 111111
: ; ■• ’' .
■■ ■ ■■• ■:
*•• ... -V' v*'"'- .. * v >> '' "'■*£'••<>, x-.-. 2;<v #£■
&
..
■
:. . : 1
C\
\^Jm
tefe..
pjip >
IF'
l * ,
a
S •■■■■
»ss«jss
<v..
■ :,
■ :,
:■
.
: J.: ..
'■
I
: \
r €c
Szi- :
f|*
/■.. v; : i
-
•V ; --:;\\ : ;
■■■■■.,■■
HH|
SPM
; ■'■"
W;
■■ '
■
•Piii
:
From now on, you can enjoy Philippine Air Lines service to all points East. To Manila.
To Hong Kong. To Taipei. Even to San Francisco. (East from the East!). Thanks to PAL.the
East starts just eight miies out of Sydney. Where PAL flies from Kingsford Smith Airport with
the finest jets aflight. The only way you get extra services like international cooking, not just
food. First-run, in-flight colour movies, not just magazines. Nine music channels (two stereo),
not only conversation. And to top it all Filipina-style personal attention a rare combinar
tion of Eastern manners, Spanish grace, and American savvy. All on the most modern fan jets
flying, giant DCB's, the smoothest yet. At no extra charge. So jet East best. /3//the way. With
PAL (that’s the one airline that services eight others and serves everyone who flies it!)
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
For details. PAL flight schedules, and complete Philippines tour
information see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES Cl- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place. Sydney. 489 Swanston Street. Melbourne. Cnr.
Ann St. and North Quay. Brisbane. 140 North Terrace. Adelaide.
98 Williams Street, Perth. 62 Northbourne Avenue. Canberra.
178 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Name
Address..,.
Phone.
*9.49


National Notebook
*Checklist
ir'NTERTAiNER Barry Humphries has
provided this checklist for con-
jscientious critics, giving the key words
0 f the moment.
Stylish, panache, handsome (of pic-
tures, dichotomy, adumbration, funny and
[compassionate, pleasant, very pleasant,
■ -ather pleasant, configuration, icono-
graphy, charming (now back in fashion).
! Quasi-honesty
Priceless advertising approach for the
new, fresh-from-America Tempo
filter cigarettes, selling at ss. 3d. The
[charcoal filter lets through all the great
! taste, and, even better, it doesn’t do any-
thing for your health. At least, the
[maker don’t make any claims that it
[does.
i Honesty is not only the best policy.
»It’s the greatest gimmick of them all.
-
I .
!i4s Go Gos Go
f\X7"HERE, we asked ourselves as we
** trotted past the familiar bust of
Napoleon .last Friday for the free opening
might for 450 “In” Sydney people of
Romano's a Go Go, was the Romano’s
once we knew?
1 From inside through a fog of cigarette
smoke, came the insistent thump of Bill
Bailey and Help! shatteringly amplified
from their origin on piano, electric
guitars, drums and Hammond organ.
4 In twin gold birdcages, on either side of
the orchestra, long-legged girls were shak-
ing frenetically in shimmy dresses that
changed color under spotlights. The
alcove where the original owner, Mr
Azzalin Romano, once sat under a por-
trait of his horse Bernborough, had been
.converted into a raised record booth
presided over by a girl in a long, black
dress.
A large number of the 450 “In”
people were on the floor, alternately
dancing, gawping and identifying other
In’’ people, and in some cases managing
1° do all three simultaneously.
As Go Gos go, it went. A check back-
stage with the dancing girls showed them
not at all worried about dropping from
exhaustion in their birdcages. Some, like
Rachel Levin, were classical ballet
teachers. One girl has danced in the
fatherland season’s “Faust”, and another
nad taught physical culture for Bjelke
etersen. Their agents had told them
out the job, and they w'ere happy as
larks working for Mr Roy Lister, who
was promoting the whole affair. Who
was Mr Lister? “I don’t know,” said
one of the girls, “but he seems a very
sincere man.”
Mr Lister, whose brainchild it all was,
turned out to be a 36-year-old theatrical
agent who had once been the manager
of Warner Brothers’ record division in
London. In love with Australia after a
holiday here with his Australian wife, he
settled in Sydney and got a job as a
theatrical agent.
And what of Beppi Pilotto, the maitre
d'hotel of Romano’s and for 32 years
the very embodiment of butlerish im-
peturbability? Everyone seemed to think
Beppi would be scandalised, but later,
trapped in a corner with one hand to his
brow, Beppi admitted he’d love it if he
were 20 years younger. “I was a good
dancer in the old days,” he said. They
had done the tango, he remembered, and
stood up to give an impromptu demon-
stration that looked suspiciously like a
Mod’s Nod or a Watusi.
Later Mr Bob Louis, who now owns
Romano’s joined us in the Gold Room
to explain why he’d gone Go Go. As the
Gold* Room was populated only by a
few awestruck lovers (pondering over
Smoked Salmon and Caviare 405.) and
some solitary, middle-aged gentlemen
puffing cigars, at least one of the reasons
was obvious. The times are changing
towards informality, and there is the
novelty of little restaurants in the suburbs,
where parking is easier, and where the
food, if not better, is less expensive.
But it was Romano’s where Bob Louis
met his wife, and where family celebra-
tions and anniversaries had been cele-
brated for nearly 20 years. He was deter-
mined to stick it out.
Mr Louis, who admits modestly to
owning, besides Romano’s, “properties,
investments and things”, said he’d always
considered himself a real square. “But
there’s a bit of animal in all of us, I
suppose, and Go Go was going so well
overseas that it seemed the answer. We’d
tried entertainers, but they’re inclined to
be patchy in quality. And then every-
one has entertainers, anyway.”
In The Abstract
'T'hings seem to be on the move at
Sydney’s National Art School. The
only thing in doubt is direction. On
September 30 the students issued a
petition, asking for changes in the school’s
facilities and syllabus. The teachers then
"If you can find room - 'McMahon's a mug'."


: .;
,
A'"'.'-
:
A,
TJ?
RATE K PHILIP PE
SlpW^
. „ ~-v <<
©©SHI
• ■> , >.->•✓, **** * *%.
• *• :• *.*: »**> * *: *■*
«w-
-• ■:••• ;•:
• '
;V*
•>'< V -V ••••■.
' -
.
■■ m
m
MW
: i ■ 3§J
A beautiful new Collection from
the Master Watchmakers of Switzerland
Unquestionably, the most illustrious product of the watch industry is the Patek
Philippe watch. Winner of 1,728 certificates of accuracy at Geneva and 20
gold medals in international design exhibitions, Patek Philippe is the proud
possession of Kings, Queens and Presidents ... of world leaders in every field.
To own a Patek Philippe watch is a rare privilege ... to give one is the ultimate
in discernment, a gift supreme.
Prouds now bring you a magnificent new £50,000 Exhibition Collection. 50
unique one-of-a-kind pieces showing the latest achievements by the master watch-
makers of Switzerland, the finest example of the watchmaker’s and jeweller’s art
ever to be shown in Australia.
Going Abroad?
If you are travelling to England or the Continent, Prouds will arrange for you
to take delivery of your Patek Philippe watch at a port to suit your convenience.
This enables you to make substantial savings on the cost of your Patek Philippe.
The Patek Philippe Catalogue will be sent on application.
From the Exhibition Collection:
Man’s Watch Illustrated, £665.
Ladies’ Diamond Watch, £2,065.
Ladies’ Gold Bracelet Watch, £620.
P w j
rrouds
King & Pitt Streets, Sydney, and 16 stores throughout Australia to serve you.


iL U p a committee to look into the syl-
[abus and decide on their stand in the
[natter.
Now it is believed that the time devoted
o abstract art will be extended to three
lours a week next year, but this may not
fool —or satisfy anyone.
Said one teacher: “Everyone here is
talking about changing the syllabus. What
we need is not a new syllabus but a new
way of looking at it: a complete change
of attitude towards art and art teaching.”
He didn’t think a few extra hours a
week devoted to the abstract would
achieve this. In fact, he foresaw the
abstract section becoming isolated from
the rest of the course, pigeon-holed on its
own.
“What the student is told in the ab-
stract class will be contradicted by the
teacher in the next class,” he said. “The
trouble is, the whole course is devoted
to objective study of trees, figures and
still-life pieces and there is no room for
the abstract. The two approaches would
contradict, not complement.”
Dental Troubles
Avrious lesions appear to have stuck
around the NSW Dental Health Re-
search Foundation’s £lOO,OOO Good
Teeth For Life Campaign. The Founda-
tion is having trouble getting the message
through. This isn’t surprising as Australia
boasts the world’s worst teeth and the
least interested owners of same.
The appeal started in September. So
far £28,000 is in hand, but hopes of
reaching the target by Christmas are
fading. Some contributors have weighed-
;in with amounts much greater than ex-
pected. The trouble is that not enough
people have come to the party with the
same spirit as the NSW Government and
Colgate-Palmolive, which each showed
■ a £5OOO concern for our teeth.
| Foundation director, Peter Lazar,
thinks lack of publicity is hampering the
[appeal, the idea behind which is that
'money is being painlessly extracted now
to save you and your children future
painful extractions.
Beating The Odds
Qne might have thought that in New
South Wales, what with proliferating
poker-machines and lotteries, gambling
was one weakness that no one could
be or would feel the need to be
anonymous about. However, Gamblers
Anonymous is now flourishing under the
aegis of Life Line, the telephone counsel-
ling service set up by the Methodist
Church 2\ years ago.
Gamblers Anonymous had its modest
beginning two years ago. For two hours
every Saturday afternoon a former gam-
bler who wants to remain anonymous
too sat at a table in a hall behind
the Surry Hills Congregational Church.
Probably no bookmaker would have
quoted the odds on any compulsive gam-
bler finding his way to the Congreg-
ational Church hall in Surry Hills, but
eventually some did.
The former gambler, who likes to be
called Phil, did go about trying to drum
up some business. He approached
“Hollywood” George Edser, the spec-
tacular punter who has been warned off
Australian courses. Edser retorted: “I’m
not a compulsive gambler. I’m a pro-
fessional.”
Phil, a 37-years-old bachelor, with
little formal education, jumps at the
chance to tell his story. “I was a com-
pulsive gambler,” he said. “I remember
my first bet 6d. on a horse called
Kentucky. I can’t recall whether it won,
but I know I was six at the time.”
Phil regards gambling as a progressive
disease. “At 15 1 was gambling on every-
thing horses, billiards, football and
flies,” he said.
“I was so desperate to get money to
gamble I got arrested for SP betting and
was given £lO by the bookie for taking
the pinch. Lucky my parents weren’t
wealthy, I’d have had them bankrupt. I
changed jobs many times to get more
money for a better bank; if I won I’d
take a holiday running around the tracks.
And many a time I thought of suiciding
after losing heavily.
“At 32 I reached rock bottom. I was
going to throw myself under a car be-
cause life had nothing left. Fear made
me stop gambling for three months, but
I wasn’t happy. Race day became a day
of mental torment. Then this miracle
happened. I met an old racecourse mate.
I told him what was happening. He said
I wasn’t accepting the fact I was still
fighting gambling, instead of admitting
I was powerless. He said I’d have to find
a power greater than myself. He gave
me a book about the American Gam-
blers Anonymous. When I read it, I
realised I was sick.”
Life Line will advise a gambler who
telephones any time of the day or night,
and it offers group therapy for the re-
habilitation of chronic gamblers as well
as discussion groups for their wives and
husbands. Behind Life Line’s move is
Rev. Peter Storey, an energetic, pipe-
smoking South African, in Australia for
two years to study the Central Methodist
Mission’s work in the inner city.
“I’m not a supporter of apartheid,”
Mr Storey said “but if gambling was
regarded by the United Nations as
serious a social problem as apartheid is,
New South Wales would be high on the
Assembly’s agenda.”
On Trial
Tn spite of the recent shocking episode
when a cattle dog tore its owner
to pieces in Sydney, cases of savaging to
death by dogs are rare.
However, criminologist Gordon Haw-
kins has provided an historical footnote.
He points out that in ancient and mediae-
val times, and in some countries, until
this century, domestic animals were re-
garded as members of the household
invested with human rights, endowed
with human responsibilities and subject
to the same penalties.
They could be arrested, tried, convicted
and executed. One author gives a “by no
means complete” list of animals tried and
condemned from the ninth to the 20th
century, comprising some 200 cases. The
most recent case concerned a dog tried
' for murder in Delemont, Switzerland, in
1906. It was convicted and condemned
to death.
Hawkins does not see why our current
practice of summarily executing animal
offenders should be thought obviously
superior. He points out that in the past
convictions were by no means automatic
and speeches for the defence were fre-
quently remarkable exercises of forensic
eloquence, full of classical allusions and
Latin quotations.
THE LOYAL TOAST
J&uLletU 2
80 Years Ago: November 14, 1885
W HY . cannot men meet together to eat
and drink in mutual admiration without
having to swallow this ancient custom of
the Loyal Toast at the same time? By bent,
purpose, profession, and destiny, Australia
is Democratic. Only those among us who
believe that Australians are Royalists can
give a toast with such significance. There
are, no doubt, some with this belief. But
these people are not numerous or influen-
tial enough to compel Australia to open
its mouth and enthusiastically drink their
toast. To toast the People, the Nation, the
Commonwealth, is in accord with current
intelligence. To toast Tie elderly lady who
is personally a medioc-ity and symboli-
cally an antagonist to human welfare, is
the stultification of every Democratic
profession.


Tanner
"Welcome to the Weird Mob, Signore."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Legacy of Dr Evatt
The last provincial
IT is a tribute to the force that was
Dr Herbert Vere Evatt that the
obituaries have disagreed so violently
over his achievements and the con-
troversies will no doubt continue for
years yet. Words ranging from
“greatness” and “courage” through to
“vanity”, and “instability” have been
used. Many have eulogised him;
'Others, as all newspapers know, have
refused to be quoted because they had
so bitterly opposed so many of the
things that he did. Old colleagues
have emphasised his power to arouse
selfless loyalty; others have referred to
his “petulance”, his “temper”, his
“rages” which alienated his support-
ers. Most agree he was obviously a
tman of which greatness is made but
iwhorn greatness tragically passed
by; and finding the key to this tragedy
will be the challenge to his future
biographers.
\
f
Inhere is a paradox at each point in
his career. He built up the Depart-
ment of External Affairs from almost
nothing into a major department, but
few were more relieved than depart-
mental officers when he lost office in
' 1949; he brought Australia’s name
before the world at the United Nations
but lost us the American base at
Manus Island; he gave the ALP
strong and courageous leadership but
tied it into insignificance; he fought with
/tremendous energy for civil liberties
[■— most notably when almost by his
own efforts he defeated the potentially
dangerous 1951 anti-Communist re-
ferendum but he has left behind
some of the land-marks of illiberalism
Jn Australia, most notably in the
1 treatment, while he was Attorney-
General, of the Australia First inter-
nees: Mr. Arthur Calwell, to his cre-
dit, raised this case in his recent
homage to Dr Evatt, the case of the
men described by Mr Calwell as
' essentially loyal in every respect” but
with whose ideas Dr Evatt, like most
Australians and The Bulletin, dis-
I a §reed emphatically who were in-
terned without trial from 1942 until
the end of the war and who to this day
have not received justice. Little wonder
that one of them, in a bitter phrase,
called Dr Evatt “the Tartuffe of the
Four Freedoms”.
But the great issues of his career
and the ones on which his position in
history will finally be judged are the
Labor Party and its relation with
Communism. Here, at first sight, his
influence seemed to have been disas-
trous, although Alan Reid, in his article
on page 31, postpones judgment by
raising the question whether he was
simply a catalyst rather than an out-
right catastrophe, whether he simply
brought to a head a crisis within the
Labor Party which would have come
to a head anyhow, rather than by his
own unnecessary decision cynically
reviving a bitter anti-Catholicism and
unwittingly paving the way for Com-
munist return to power in key sec-
tions of the Labor movement. In these
terms, however, even if the divisions
within the ALP were growing and
some sort of a show-down was inevit-
able, it must be said that a leader of
more wisdom would have handled
them less disastrously.
It is not merely that he destroyed
the Labor Party but, without intend-
ing it, he encouraged the most dan-
gerous forces in Australian life and
gave them a sort of respectability. By
his handling of the Petrov case he
persuaded his party that what was
essentially an exposure of a Com-
munist espionage operation was simply
a political stunt. It is true the Gov-
ernment exploited the Petrov case to
weaken the ALP and certainly Dr
Evatt had a right to complain about
the way the news about Petrov was
broken, but to dismiss the whole
matter as a gimmick was a disservice
to Australia, and even today there
are simple, pseudo-realistic people
who accept his view of it. Later in his
political career he saw plainly where
the forces he had unleashed were
heading when he described unity
tickets as the running sores that would
kill the Labor Party. By then it was
too late.
But another view is possible, apart
from the “catalyst or catastrophe”
alternatives. Perhaps history will show
that what was really inevitable in Aus-
tralian politics was not the revival of
a dated anti-Catholic bigotry and an
equally dated pro-Communism but the
disappearance of these as Australia
moves into a modern era with quite
different problems and in which the
ideologies associated with Dr Evatt’s
political career are completely out of
place. When the Labor Party is finally
reformed and the Communists and
their allies removed from political life,
surely history will see Dr Evatt as a
man who for a time stood in the way
of the inevitable. On this view he
revived and helped maintain for a
short while the last vestiges of Aus-
tralian provincialism; he was perhaps
the last of the great provincials, a man
whose thinking and influence belonged
to a past era in which anti-Catholi-
cism or pro-Communism seemed cen-
trally important. So much brilliance,
so much sound and fury for an
irrelevancy. It is a sad legacy from
an astonishing man who might have
given so much more.


THIS AUSTRALIA
BY-ELECTIONS
In the Bondi Sun
The leaders ’ style
J. RENSHAW
S. EINFELD
J. BARRACLOUGH
R. W. ASKIN
By BRIAN JOHNS
The very narrowness of the Labor victory in the Bondi by-election on the
weekend will spur the New South Wales Government ahead with its plans to re-intro-
duce postal voting and to get electoral redistribution under way as soon as possible.
Both plans are threats to Labor. The
restoration of postal voting would add
an estimated 40,000 votes to the poll
count throughout the State, and Liberals
claim that 30,000 of these would go to
the Government parties. Redistribution,
of course, is a threat to any Parlia-
mentary Opposition anywhere and at
any time. Astonishingly, redistribution in
New South Wales is decided on the say-
so of electoral commissioners appointed
by the Government: the submissions are
not subject to approval by Parliament.
The Bondi poll was a narrow squeak
for Labor with the strong candidate, Mr
Syd Einfeld, being returned with a
majority of only something more than
200 over the Liberals’ Mr John Barra-
clough.
When Mr Einfeld contested his former
seat of Phillip at the last Federal election
there were attempts to make political
capital from his controversial involve-
ment in the Jewish communal cam-
paign on Soviet Jewry, but no such
attempt was made at Bondi.
However, the result was most interest-
ing for what it showed of the style of
the Premier, Mr R. W. Askin, and the
Leader of the Opposition, Mr J. B.
Renshaw.
As a result of his nakedly political
appointment of the former Labor mem-
ber for Bondi, Mr “Abe” Landa, to the
Agent-General’s post in London, Mr
Askin initially had Labor on the defen-
sive. He might well have been satisfied
with this and carried his by-election
campaign at a safe tempo. Instead, he
put his new Government's reputation
fully on the line, going so far as to lead
his full Cabinet into the campaign. There
were Liberal advisers who had grave mis-
givings about the signal importance Mr
Askin was attaching to the by-election.
They would far have preferred a milder,
more relaxed, approach. The Premier
put the objections aside in favor of the
greater gamble. It is now a moot point
whether he was right, but the campaign
did underline again the thrust the sweet
smell of success has brought to the
Liberal Party.
On the other hand, Mr Renshaw went
into the campaign carrying a lot of
doubts about his effectiveness as
Opposition Leader. His performance jj
recent months has not been heartening
In the opinion of some senior Labtj
men he has held back far too much, an|
has failed to inject spirit into the
of Opposition. There should be J
further complaints on this score afte-
Bondi. Mr Renshaw made it the toughen
campaign in memory, forcing the Go]
ernment to fight on the ambiguou
ground of rent control and rising price;
On the Bondi hustings Renshaw showei
a relentless opportunism far from the
ambling, good-natured, country-stock-'
and-station-agent-type figure he presentee
in the fateful May contest.
The DLP was the party which hat
least consolation at Bondi. The vote wai
surprisingly low, under 500, and so morj
than 300 short of the 1959 figure; per
haps because they suffered from the 1
absence of their usually effective T\
publicity.
However, the DLP always has particu-
lar difficulties in holding its vote in by-
elections. They are unable to travel oi
the carriage of the Federal issues o(
defence or foreign affairs, and the NSW
Labor Party is the hardest of all ti
break with allegations of Communis
influence.
The DLP made every effort to offset
their disadvantages by playing up the
State Aid issue. This could have had its
effect, not by attracting Labor votes tc
the DLP, but by sending them direct to
the Liberals. Indeed, this must now be,
the real worry for the DLP: Is it reach-
ing the critical point where its vote-i
catching efforts are swinging to the im-
mediate advantage of the Liberal Party!
This has always happened to a certain
extent, but establishing to what degree it,
occurs could now be important to the,
DLP.
There was nothing unexpected at the
second, less politically significant Oxley
by-election. Predictably, the Country
Party candidate, Mr D. B. Cowan, will
win on the preferences of the Liberal,,
Mr A. H. Dennis.
INVESTMENT
The MLC Moral
Spreading the risk *
As doubtless it does with the MLC, the name H. G. Palmer sticks in mj
throat, While dust settles on the MLC’s write-off of its £8.7 million investment in
Palmer, one recalls the heydays of the 1960 “no deposits” appliance boom of
which this company was the living image.
In those days Palmer breathed on a
brand name without its own manufactur-
ing heart to pump in life-blood. It
stood, hardly four square, on borrowed
feet with its head in the clouds of con-
sumer credit. Not quite the stuff for a
leading insurance company to meddle
with, one would have thought. Ironic-
ally, at H. G. Palmer’s Christmas part} 1 ,
in 1960 the talk around my table on
that glittering occasion was mainly on
the iniquities of Mr Holt’s tax-on-interest
and 30/20 rule proposals a combina-
tion directed to prick the hire-purchase


and company borrowing bubbles, on
whose continued inflation Palmer’s pros-
perity looked uniquely dependent.
Ever forward-looking under the
managerial lead of Mr. A. F. Deer, the
fcILC was the most likely of the big
life assurance companies to press for the
best of both fixed interest and equity
worlds for its funds. Even as far back
as 1960 the men from the MLC present
at Palmer’s party could have been look-
ing at the company as a takeover plum.
When they took the plunge in 1963
presumably they calculated that the
group had weathered the Holt storms of
1960, and the decks were clear for
equity growth. Whereas elsewhere in the
Sydney appliance field retailers had
gone down like ninepins, Palmer seemed
to be going from strength to strength,
even feeding on corpses of fellow
retailers.
What the MLC’s accounting staff
appear to have failed to alert the man-
agement on was that, under the cloak
of progressive sales increases on easy
terms, bad debts were just as likely to
be piling up in Palmer’s books as they
had been elsewhere in the trade, per-
haps even more so in its case because
of its extremely liberal credit terms and
high-volume business. Bad debts proved
to be the canker which gnawed its way
right through the £8.7 million of MLC
money committed to the company.
It is easy to be wise after the event,
but from the beginning it was pretty
obvious that the MLC was sticking its
neck far too far into the equity field in
taking over this appliances group. Con-
servative insurance eyebrows were raised
very high by the move. The fortuitous
circumstances of the appliances trade
should have deterred it in the first place
from taking at any rate the whole of
the equity because this was bound to
involve it on the management side of
a business unfamiliar to it if something
went wrong. If something critical
occurred, as it did earlier this year in
the discovery of severe weaknesses in
the company’s debtors, it could mean, as
it did, throwing good money after bad
to plug the hole.
The moral is not that life companies
should eschew the lure of equity
investment, but they should spread their
risk investments over a wide field and
never get involved in the actual man-
agement of industrial or trading com-
panies. As a safeguard against falling into
the management trap they should limit
their risk investments to a small part,
perhaps as low as 10 per cent, of the
equity of any one company.
Has the MLC’s lesson been bought
too dearly? Hardly so. After all, the write-
off represents less than 3 per cent of
the group’s total assets. The strength of
MLC’s life fund is little impaired by
A. F. DEER
H. G. PALMER
General Manager, MLC.
the hurt. Even if it will probably take
some time for the slight soiling of the
company's reputation to be erased and
for the value of the company’s shares
to be restored to something like the
former high status, shareholders are
in no danger of having to forgo their
persistent growth in income. The recent
maintenance of the dividend was not
merely a gesture to assure shareholders,
but obviously is well justified by fh*»
group’s latest performance, even taking
the Palmer disaster into account. Those
lucky institutions, like the Sydney Uni-
versity, who hold MLC’s shares in their
legacies, will take heart that though the
market value of the shares has been
more than halved, it will gradually edge
back to its former heights and, in the
meantime, income from the shares seems
likely to do better than stand still.
Nor do I think the Palmer affair is
going to arrest the strong trend over the
past few years for the life companies
to get more and more into shares. As a
proportion of total life office assets,
equity investments have moved up from
5.2 to 10.8 per cent in the last five years
since the 30/20 rule was introduced.
The £26.8 million added to their share
portfolios in the year to last March was
the highest on record. As for MLC’s
relative share of equity investments held
by the life offices, it is very small com-
pared, say, with the AMP’s half of the
total, National Mutual's quarter, and high
percentages held by at least two of the
others.
J. C. HORSFALL
EDUCATION
Parish Shut-in
Ignoring the needs of men
Another sign this time in an unexpected quarter of the growing concern
among Catholics about the wisdom of attempting to maintain their own complete
school system was hoisted last week.
Sydney’s usually cautious semi-official
“Catholic Weekly” was the unlikely
forum for the issue which promises to
overshadow the decades-old argument of
“aid to independent schools”. So far
the argument has largely been carried by
a minority of Catholics in the so-called
“secular Press” with only defensive re-
sponses being carried in official Catholic
quarters. But last week the “Weekly”
surprised by publishing a number of
critical letters on the issue. The debate
was sparked by an article published in
the “Catholic Weekly” by the Melbourne
University priest-philosopher Dr Eric
D’Arcy defending the Australian
Church’s traditional position on Catholic
schools.
Two correspondents who took issue
with Father D’Arcy were former
Director of Catholic Education in the
Archdiocese of Canberra - Goulburn,
Father John P. Kelly (who as parish
priest of the small town of Bombala has
long boycotted the sale of the “Weekly”
from his church), an outspoken critic
of the church’s educational policy, and
a layman, Mr Arthur Rolf, another
leader of the dissident Catholic view on
the necessity of a total system of schools
for Catholics.
Both Father Kelly and Mr Rolfe sug-
gested in the “Catholic Weekly” that the
attempt to maintain a school system was
placing an intolerable burden on Catho-
lics a burden which was unnecessarily
limiting the Church in meeting her re-
sponsibilities to the community. “Are we
not ignoring the needs of men, and
shutting ourselves up in the parish class-
room?” Mr Rolfe asked.
For Father Kelly, “The whole question
is precisely this: is a Catholic school
system the best way to provide for the
Catholic education of children at the
present time in Australia? Further dis-
tinctions must be made. The assertion,
and the implication that the demand for
the present Catholic school system comes
from Catholic parents, may be true of
infants’ school, or of primary school, or
of secondary school; but why, then, is it
not true of tertiary schools? It is quite
possible, in fact, that the determination
to have every Catholic child in a Catholic
school, meaning schools of the first two
or three stages, has precluded any real
effort to give any Catholic education to
the increasing numbers in tertiary insti-
tutions and many of those in secondary
schools, not to mention those who have
discontinued their formal schooling but


a
K»CKK
*****
HAVE YOUR VEHICLES RIGHT IN YOUR OFFICE!
Communication is so much more powerful... more reliable with
STC’s new Mobile Radiophone system.
Today you can control your vehicle fleet on as efficient cost-time basis as your office
.. . thanks to the advanced techniques used in STC Radiophones. The STC Radio-
phone is so small it fits snugly under the dash of any vehicle. At the same time it has
that extra performance and reliability to suit your particular needs. There is only one
way to test and compare STC Radiophone superiority on your own premises. Let
us show you!
An experienced Communications Engineer will survey your operational area to
provide a complete system tailored to your needs. A convenient Purchase Plan
permits the system to pay for itself as you use it, and return extra profits through
greater fleet efficiency.
For further information on STC Mobile Radiophones contact Standard Telephones
and Cables Pty. Limited, Moorebank Avenue, Liverpool, N.S.W. Phone: 602 0333.
Melbourne 44 5161. Canberra 9 1043.
Distributors: OLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane, 4 1771. S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone
Pty. Ltd., Adelaide, 51 3731. W.A.: M.J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth, 21 6461. TAS.:
W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston, 2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, DevonporL
ITT
AN
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
T223A
have a dire need for real Catholic edit
cation.”
Mr Rolfe pointed out that, if as Fathei
D’Arcy suggested, “there is no substitute
for the Catholic school”, then some 2!
per cent of young Australian Catholics
attending State schools were condemned
to a status of some kind of second-rate
Christianity. Mr Rolfe said that there
were “many parents, who, on the levei
of the family apostolate, would attribute
a weakening effect to the Church’s pre
occupation with schools, rather than ;
strengthening one”.
However, Father John Burnheim,
Rector of St. John’s College at the Uni
versity of Sydney and a respected philo-
sopher (also a member of the “Catholic
Weekly” board of directors), supported
Father D’Arcy. “There is quite a danger
at the present time that we may lose,
perspective on the situation of ourf
schools in the atmosphere of crisis that
has developed.”
Noting that one of the elements in the
dissident’s view was the attempt to
assimilate the new spirit that has come
into the church through the Vatican
Council (a spirit which had sparked a
vision “profound and important”), Fathei
Burnheim nevertheless declared that the
Catholic schools were “the clearest and’
most effective way” of witnessing the
Catholic belief that God and the super-
natural are realities. “It shows that for us
religion is a central and irreducible ele-
ment in human life. It is not just tradi-
tional ceremony or moral uplift, but a
distinct fact of life. A Catholic school
cannot and ought not ‘produce’ this belief
in children. But I doubt if there is any
other way of bringing home to them
that it’s true.”
Meanwhile, not directly connected but
just as relevant to the fact that the,
Roman breeze stirred by the Vatican
Council is reaching corners of Australian
Catholicism, was a nine-page foolscap
letter circulated to his parishioners in
the Canberra parish of Yarralumla by
Dr George Weissel recently. Headed
“For the Laity—a New Climate in the
Church”, the letter said that “There is a
new need for a critical public opinion in
the Church”. Catholics should under-
stand the healthy state of tension now
existing in the Church.
“It is essential that all shades of
Catholic opinion be heard. Genuine-
loyalty to the Church involves more than
invariable, unthinking docility. It de-
mands, if necessary, the risk of un-
popularity, of going counter to the cur-
rent of the moment. For the layman, it
may mean risking the displeasure of his
pastors and fellow Catholics.” These,
risks are admirably diminished by the
“Catholic Weekly’s” response last week
to the need for controversy over the
schools’ issue.
Bi


SOLICITORS
Morals and Propriety
Meeting the claims
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
By the end of the year a postal ballot among the New South Wales Law Society’s
2800 solicitors will decide the fate of the controversial proposal to guarantee clients
against solicitors who misapply trust funds.
The Society, aware of the recent spate
of heavy defalcations (in the case of one
of the solicitors investigated only a few
weeks ago the defalcation is at least
£100,000) wants to boost the Fidelity
Guarantee Fund to £500,000. Its policy
is to obtain interest from one-third of
the solicitors’ trust accounts to swell the
coffers of the Fund. A dissident group of
lawyers, however, led by six past-presi-
dents, claims that it would be a breach
of principle to use clients’ funds other-
wise than according to their instructions,
and they advocate swelling the fund by
making solicitors rather than clients
pay; that is, by increasing the yearly levy
from £6 6s. to not less than £4O.
The Society’s move follows a similar
course in Victoria last year. The Vic-
torian Parliament, at the instigation of
the Victorian Law Institute, passed a bill
enlarging the Guarantee Fund, giving
more protection to the victims of dis-
honest solicitors. The Fund’s maximum
amount was increased from £lOO,OOO to
£500,000, and the statutory limit payable
on any one claim, of £20,000, removed.
In NSW, the Guarantee Fund has
reached a sad state. In the past four
months approximately £30,000 has been
drawn against the account. The recent
investigations into solicitors indicate that
apart from the £lOO,OOO defalcation, at
least five others will exceed the maximum
£15,000 payable on any one claim. At
the moment the Fund stands at £98,000.
But against this are claims totalling about
£90,000, plus investigation expenses of
at least £BOOO, and another, say, £5OOO
for the recent investigations. Fortunately
for the Society but unhappily for
the claimants such claims are not met
within a few months. In fact, rarely are
the claimants satisfied before five years.
This seems to be the normal period,
although there are claims on the
Society’s books at present which go back
a decade.
The State’s solicitors realise the
Guarantee Fund must have a substantial
boost soon. But this is where the division
is created. Last March the Society put
to a postal ballot a move to have half
of the trust account held by a solicitor
on current account placed in the bank
Qn a fixed deposit in the name of the
Society as trustees. This, the Society
claimed, would avoid the present delay
in paying claimants, and at the same
time go a long way to build up the
Guarantee Fund. By increasing the
Guarantee Fund to £500,000 the Society
plans to increase the present aggregate
limit of £15,000 to £30,000, and also
to obtain a statutory authority to pay
at its discretion claims exceeding the
aggregate.
But the Society had not counted on
the opposition, and the influence, of a
group of six former past presidents, Mr
Norman Cowper, J. J. Watling, T. G. D.
Marshall, W. E. R. Francis, L. W.
Taylor and W. J. Baldock. The group
won sufficient support from the State’s
2800 solicitors to have the proposals
beaten in a ballot by 300 votes. The
Society then revised its views, moving
along the lines of the Victorian Law
Institute that of seeking only one-
third of the trust accounts. The Society
also decided that once the Guarantee
Fund reaches a limit of £500,000,
interest received from the trust accounts
would be paid into a Law Society
Foundation Fund to be used for legal
education, legal research, law reform,
and law libraries.
Norman Cowper, one of NSW’s most
distinguished solicitors, is the leading
figure in opposition to the Society’s pro-
posals. He and his supporters claim two
fundamental principles are involved,
Money held in trust, he says, should
not be diverted from the solicitor’s
control without the client’s instructions,
and that income from a client’s money
should not be used otherwise than for
a client’s benefit. The other breach of
principle, Mr Cowper claims, is the
Society’s suggestion of building up from
the same source a second fund with
objects which will at least be of indirect
benefit to solicitors. The group has sug-
gested as an alternative that every holder
of a practising certificate contribute not
less than £4O a year which would provide
a fund as envisaged by the Society in
five years.
There has been another turn in events.
Last week at the Society’s council elec-
tions Mr W. R. D. Stevenson who
opposes the scheme, was elevated from
his senior vice-presidency to president.
At the same time another dissident, Mr
C. H. Dunlop was elected senior vice-
president. Just what influence these two
men can exert remains to be seen. The
Society’s vote on the proposals is
reported to have been at least 3 to 1,
and with only two new faces on the 18-
strong council, Messrs D. K. Donald
and J. C. Brown, its attitude over the
Guarantee Fund is unlikely to change.
SWAINSVILLE
AT HOME YOU DRESS L/RE A
NON-CONFORMIST BUT AT WORK
YOU WEAR A
WHITE SHIRT
true...
...Bor/ WEAK /T /RONtCAttY.


W:• •::• . ><. v. •• •
v ; m' v :•'.:; •' • X '.'' " ';.
'■•'.•:' •'•'• I ■ : •' ..' .•. >. ' • ••;
mi
gse
111
3X
•s"'o
&Siy 1
C. 1964
b*. 1 /.VtaC.V
ORLANDO
,rt t'ALLV V IV r
»|H
Y vintac.ed aistr' l1 *'
'
W HI
TV.I!
i*T*Grn bv p
C (.DAMP t SONS I,
°" u " n “ > J', , ;i|\i 6 HJli
- B
a* *
i; ' 4 . .;
J TOP PRIZE
f/ WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd., in South Australia’s
famous Barossa Valley.
10983
TEACHERS
Presidential
Rights?
Around the ballot
Allegations that the journal of the
New South Wales Teachers’ Federation,
“Education”, has favored the controver-
sial president, Mr S. P. Lewis, in the
vital elections of the top three officers
were made last week as ballot papers
were posted to 28,000 teachers.
The allegations were made in a letter
signed by Mr Lewis’ opponent, Mr S. T,
Kelly, and two of his supporters. They
claimed that it was an “abuse of privi-
lege” and an “unfair advantage” that
Mr Lewis included comment on the elec-
tions in his regular column, “The
President Writes”, in the October issue
of “Education” the issue in which
details of all election candidates were
published in the journal.
Mr Kelly and his supporters also pro-
tested at the publication in the same issue
of a statement of a specially-appointed
committee, including the editor of
“Education”, Mr D. Broadfoot, rebutting
claims made by some of the candidates.
These complaints have been repeated
in the current issue by another candidate,
Mr A. F. Jeffery, who says: "One must
surely say that the whole matter seems
most unconstitutional, most undemo-
cratic and hardly an action for a pro-
fessional body.”
In defence, Mr Broadfoot said that
some of the statements went far beyond
setting out the qualifications and policies
of candidates, contained mis-statements,
breached the Federation’s code of ethics
and may have been the subject of libel
action.
The heat surrounding the poll for
president, deputy president and senior
vice-president of the Teachers’ Federa-
tion, is partly explained by the Govern-
ment’s proposal to establish an Educa-
tion Commission which will have the
power —at present held by the State
Public Service Board over the ap-
pointment, transfer, promotion and dis-
missal of teachers in NSW State schools.
The Government committed itself to
establishing the Commission in its May
election policy. However, it is now be-
lieved to be having second thoughts
about the composition of the Commis-
sion. The Teachers’ Federation claims
that the Premier, Mr R. W. Askin, has
promised that two of four Commission
representatives would be nominated by
the Federation, and that “there would
have to be agreement between the Federa-
tion and the Government concerning the
chairman if the scheme were to work’.


The Navy After Years of Neglect
Will the new policy last?
By T. B. MILLAR
In the current financial year, nearly £lOO million is being spent on Australia’s senior but as yet insufficient service. This
is an increase of £271 million on last year—or a rise of 40 per cent. The most ardent Navy supporters could hardly ask
for more.
Most of the increased expenditure will
go towards payment for ship construc-
tion, aircraft and other capital equip-
ment, maintenance, stores, and the
of more than a thousand ad-
ditional personnel. The Navy is on the
move. It is becoming bigger, faster,
more sophisticated, more comprehensive
and (in some directions) harder hitting.
At the same time it is getting harder to
man and maintain; the tail is longer. It
is not irrelevant that Professor Parkinson
supported his indisputable “law” by
reference to the administration of the
Royal Navy.
As with any armed service, the Navy
lives for its teeth. The strike capacity,
as distinct from escort and defence, is
contained in one ship, the aircraft-
-carrier Melbourne. This, the Navy’s flag-
ship and only capital ship, was launched
in 1944 and eventually commissioned in
late 1955. The Fleet Air Arm is about
to absorb its third generation of aircraft.
First there were the Sea Furies and Fire-
flies, then the Sea Venoms, Gannets and
'Wessex helicopters. The Gannets are
being replaced next year by the Grum-
man Trackers—slow but effective anti-
submarine aircraft. The Sea Venoms,
which will go out of service in 1967,
are to be replaced by American Sky-
hawk fighter - bombers. Of the ten
ordered, two will be used for training
purposes, and only four or five of the
remaining eight can be expected to be
operational at any one time. Small
though this offensive or protective
capacity will be, it is strongly welcomed
by the Navy.
In fact it makes a partial and perhaps
temporary reversal of long-declared Gov-
ernment policy. Since 1956 the role of
the Navy has been primarily anti-sub-
marine. In 1959 Cabinet decided to kill
off the naval air arm (a bitter blow to
the RAN which had had naval aviation
in some form almost continuously since
1917), and only granted it a reprieve
because the life of the Venoms was ex-
tended and Melbourne could be used in
an anti-submarine capacity, with Gan-
nets, helicopters and later-model aircraft.
In 1963 the Prime Minister announced
a modification of our policy of com-
plete reliance upon, and integration with,
our allies. In a statement to Parliament
on May 22, he asserted that Australia
was having (therefore must have) the
“capacity for independent action to meet
the initial shock of any emergency”.
Such action surely required, from the
naval point of view, to be offensive.
Until the week before last, the questions
were: who would protect the Melbourne
when she could no longer protect her-
self? Who would protect our troop
convoys? Who would provide the en-
vironment of maritime supremacy so
essential to our merchant shipping? Who
would provide a strike capacity before
(or, in some respects, after) the FI 11 As
come into service? Who would provide
the maritime surveillance capacity be-
yond the reach of land-based aircraft?
Grateful though we may be for these
additions, it is a fairly small capacity that
we are buying. This raises the whole
question of a further carrier for the
Navy. There are probably two alter-
natives: a new British carrier like the
CVA-01 for which plans have been
drawn and which the British Govern-
ment seems likely to be building; or, the
“Oriskany” conversion of the Ameri-
can “Essex” class. A British carrier
would take at least five years to build.
It would cost probably £7O-£BO million,
with a further £2O million or more for
aircraft, but it would be an excellent
attack ship with an expected life of 20
or more years.
An “Oriskany” would take about three
years to convert, and would cost us £5O-
- million, plus £2O million for air-
craft. Its sale to Australia would require
an Act of Congress—presumably not a
difficult matter in terms of our current
relationship. It would give us a modern
ship, but on a 20-year-old hull. When
completed there is still the problem of
strike aircraft. The most logical is (at
present) the Phantom, yet there have
been reports that American naval pilots
are not enthusiastic about flying Phan-
toms from an “Oriskany”. In three years
there could, of course, be modifications
COYER PICTURE
The cover shows HMAS Perth, the
Navy’s first guided-missile destroyer,
undergoing trials off the US east
coast.


NtVIS fOR
SNIOK^2
Schimmelpenninck
Con Mil Amores
(Actual size)
in tins of 10, 23/6.
Schimmelp enninck
CIGARS
Holland’s finest
cigars now available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust .)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V. Wageningen
Holland.
RPMIS4
to make it more acceptable, or perhaps
some other plane altogether.
The United States is continuing to
build aircraft-carriers, and now has
models such as the Enterprise which is
a floating air base, fortress and city in
one. Their cost is enormous and quite
beyond Australia’s pocket. It is not im-
possible that they may, before long, like
the battleship before them, cease to be
relevant to modern warfare. Yet this
could not happen overnight. It takes
many years to develop a new kind of
naval vessel, and at present a replace-
ment for the carrier has not even begun
to be developed.
' So far as Australia is concerned, there
is no doubt that a new carrier would be
a welcome addition to the fleet, for the
next fifteen years at least, and probably
longer. It would add immensely to our
capacity for swift and effective action,
either on its own or in support of the
Army.
Supposing the Government were to
provide the funds for a further carrier,
could the Navy man and maintain
it? Unofficial naval opinion is not
unanimous on this. If it is true, as re-
ported, that the Navy put in a reqqest
last year for a carrier, presumably they
did not do so from a basis of not having
the men to run it. Nevertheless, a new
carrier would add to the strain of an
already strained manpower situation. In
fact, such is the size of its complement
(3200 officers and men for a CVA-01,
somewhat fewer for an “Oriskany”) that
a new carrier would take almost half of
the total sea-going strength of the RAN.
Some other navies are seriously in-'
vestigating use of aircraft with short
(STOL) or even vertical (VTOL) take-
off and landing, which could affect the
need for carriers. The VTOL does not
require a floating airfield; it could per-
haps be mounted on escorts or merchant
ships. Present indications are that it
will always be at a disadvantage (in
speed) against a conventional aircraft,
and the RAN, like the RAAF, is taking
no initiative but merely watching ex-
perimental efforts by Allied or Common-
wealth countries. Yet to some observers
the VTOL is one of the most hopeful
developments for naval air operations.
Whatever the size of our offensive
capacity, it needs—as do our merchant,
supply and transport vessels —effective
naval escorts: destroyers and frigates.
This is a traditional and constant naval
requirement. (“Were I to die this
moment,” Nelson wrote to Lord Spencer
after the Battle of the Nile, “ ‘Want of ,
frigates’ would be found stamped on
my heart.”)
A few months ago the first of three
DDG guided missile destroyers, HMAS
Perth, was taken over from its American
builders. American naval opinion holds
the DDG (usually known as “Charles
F. Adams” class) to be the best esc l
ship developed since the war. There °|
some 25 in service with the United Staj
Navy, and West Germany has a buildj
programme to follow on after Ai
tralia’s. Our second, Hobart, is due f
commissioning in December; the thir
Brisbane, in September, 1967. '
The Perth is the most compl,
assembly of electronic equipment to |
used by our seamen. It has an elabor
radar controlling and reporting unit, 1
advanced sonar device for detecting si
marines; and the Tartar anti-aircra*
missile as well as anti-aircraft and surfacT
guns. After it comes to Australia it wj
be fitted with the Ikara anti-submariij
missile. The Tartar, an American missil
was one reason for our purchasing t|
DDG in preference to the Briti*
“Hampshire”-class destroyer. It is s tl
not as complete an answer to hostile ai t
craft as the Navy would like, but it I
the best sea-to-air missile available, ai
its capacity is being “stretched” by in'
provements and modifications.
Waiting for the DDGs \
WT they are all in service, it shoulj
be possible to keep two of the thn
DDGs operating at any one time. 1
the event of hostilities one of these wi
presumably work with the carrier, i
conjunction with one or two smalk
escorts.
There are at present three other
destroyers, of the “Daring” class --
Vendetta, Vampire and (on loan fromf
the Royal Navy as a replacement to the
lost Voyager) Duchess, and four Type
12 frigates, Paramatta, Stuart, Yard
and Derwent. The “Darings” are older,
have anti-aircraft guns but not missiles,
The Type 12s are smaller, cheaper anti
equipped with Seacat short-range anti!
aircraft missiles. They are also being]
or will be, fitted with Ikaras. Thus, by
1967 we will have a total of 10 escorj
vessels, of which not more than sevenj
could be expected to be operational aS
any one time. Only the DDGs have a
good anti-aircraft capability. Two further'
Type 12s, Swan and Torrens, are due fori
completion at Australian shipyards in|
1969. They will allow Duchess tO:
return to Britain.
For peacetime this may seem a reason"
able strength. The Navy feels it is
inadequate for war, in view of Aus-|
tralia’s isolated, island situation. One]
suggestion is that instead of building or|
buying expensive, complex escorts with
several roles (anti-submarine, anti-sur-
face ship and anti-aircraft), smaller,
single-purpose vessels could be obtained'
at much less cost, especially anti-sub"
marine craft, which would also demand
less skilled manpower.
Strangely enough, there has been lM e
attempt by Western powers to develop


EYE
AN
IKE
A
L
HAWK
The Rokkor lens is the hawk-eye in all Minolta cameras-and especially
in the SR-1 and SR-7. Rokkor picks out the tiniest details, the smallest
movement Rokkor gives accurate definition. Top Amateurs and
sionals out for photographic prey, use Minolta SR-1 or SR-7 cameras fof
the sharpest results, and unequalled colour fidelity. More than 100 inter-
changeable lenses and accessory combinations make Minolta SR thft
finest and most versatile camera to own.
res*'*
mm
rl<S>
m
m
rr
m
MINOLTA
SINGLE
LENS
REFLEX
• Single lens reflex interchangeable from 21
to 1000 mm. • Apochromatic Rokkor lens 1.4,
1.8 and 2.0 with fully automatic diaphragm, depth .
of field preview. • Patented mirror action prevents vignetting even with largest tele-
lens. • Brightest viewfinder with disappearing microprism focusing. • Fully syn-
chronised focal plane shutter 2 sec. to 1/500-1/1000 sec. selftimer. • Most sensitive
coupled CdS exposure meter ... MINOLTA SR-1 from £68.0.0 ($136); SR-7 from
£84.19.0 ($169.99).
Minolta
. . . the name qualify made famous.
A little Geisha comes
free with every Minolta.
Ask for Minolta at camera
dealers and chemists.
FREE Brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTY. LTD.,
153 Barkly Street, EAST BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
SRB-0B
sr nall craft carrying surface-to-surface
missiles, such as the Soviet “Komar”
class, of which Indonesia has a few.
Some naval opinion sees a clear role for
such a vessel.
Recently the first of four convention-
ally powered “Oberon”-class submarines
for the RAN was launched at Greenock
in Scotland. It will be delivered next
year, to be followed by the other three
at intervals of about ten months.
There is a school of thought in the
Navy that is strongly pro-submarine, and
would like to see greater use of such
vessels. Submarines are flexible, offensive
weapons. They can co-ordinate easily
with other navies, or operate largely on
their own. They do not need heavy
logistical back-up. The four Australia is
getting will be primarily for training in
anti-submarine and pro-submarine war-
fare, and will thus release (probably to
the breakers’ yard) the three British
submarines we have on loan.
Nuclear - powered submarines have
some disadvantages (e.g., noise) over
conventionally powered ones, but have
more advantages. The nuclear-powered
submarine (which does not necessarily
carry nuclear weapons) has no need of
air to burn fuel, and can thus cruise
underwater almost indefinitely. Its under-
sea speed is also very much faster
(up to 35 knots). The international
trend is against conventionally powered
submarines. In fact, the United States
has stopped building them.
This seems one area where Australia
could—perhaps must —initiate nuclear
propulsion, since submarines should be
an increasing part of our offensive and
anti-submarine capacity, as they are with
the Soviet Union, the United States,
Britain, France and apparently China.
Low on the Navy’s priority list is an
amphibious capability—being able to put
troops ashore over a beach. There are
at present three LCT-Bs, which will have
to be replaced. In its submissions, the
Navy may well argue against the likeli-
hood of such a requirement, so as to
avoid reduction of the Navy’s vote. If
1 this is the case, it is surely one where
1 the Chiefs of Staff Committee could
come to an arrangement on financial
I allocation as well as control of the vessels
| concerned. Both in South-East Asia and
in Papua-New Guinea situations can be
envisaged where amphibious operations
may be necessary. Not to be able to do
them, and not to be able to train for
them, would be inexcusable.
The biggest naval ship to be built in
Australia, the 14,000-ton escort main-
tenance ship Stalwart, is due to be com-
pleted at Cockatoo dockyard in 1967.
With the fleet replenishment tanker
Supply, which carries fuel and stores,
Stalwart will enable fighting ships of the
Heet to stay in operational areas (or at
least in one operational area) for longer
periods, and reduce the calls on dock-
yard maintenance facilities.
Even so, such facilities are going to
be stretched to the limit with the Navy’s
new acquisition. Already ships which do
not require specialised naval attention
are being sent to civilian dockyards for
repairs. Garden Island, the Navy’s own
dockyard, where special backing for the
DDGs is now being installed, operates
at much less than maximum efficiency.
Cockatoo is leased to Vickers Arm-
strong, but the Navy has first priority.
Williamstown has limited capacity.
The fact is that our present shipping
repair and maintenance facilities just
could not handle wartime requirements.
They must be extended physically and
geographically. For so long has Western
Australia demanded a naval base in vain
that it has become something of a
political joke. Strategically, it is not a
joke; it is nearer to being a tragedy.
Perhaps we have been waiting for the
United Kingdom to pay for it, or for
a war to start.
With steel mills, an oil refinery, heavy
workshops, etc., all near Fremantle, the
industrial backing for a base now largely
exists thpre. The need for naval dock-




c
inn
33
n
L
Computers today play a key role in finance, transportation, defence,
science, medicine in practically every industry and profession. They
are understood perhaps due to thejr amazing capabilities.
biggest user/manufacturer of computers General Electric presents'
this series of guides to various aspects of computer operation.
c
o
o
THE
BINARY
CODE
The computer's language is written in binary
code. It is a simple way of communicating,
once you get the hang of it. To understand it,
two new ideas must be grasped:
First whereas decimal numbers the kind of
numbers we ordinarily use are built on a base
of 10, binary numbers are on a base of 2. The
base 10 means that when you move a digit one
space to the left (and add a zero), it's worth
10 times as much. Another way of saying this is
that it increases by the power of 10. With
binary numbers, using a base of two, every
time you move a number to the left, it's worth
2 times as much, or it increases by the power
of 2. Just as in the decimal system, based on
the power of ten, the value increases from right
to left, so do values in the binary system
increase from right to left by the value of the
base. By way of illustration:
Decimal: 1,000 100 10 1
Binary: 32 16 8 4 2 1
The second thing to learn about binary is that
the system uses only two numbers : 1 and 0.
In other words, you must forget about the
numbers 2,3, 4, 5, 6,7, 8 and 9. They are
never used in the binary system.
So the question arises, how do you count to
'T'Mf spWce to me TeW a’n d add zero' ThusTf 0
in binary is the same as 2 in decimal.
To visualise this imagine two cars one has
a mileage indicator in the regular decimal
system, the other has a mileage indicator in the
binary system. At the start of a race, mileage
indicators on each car read : 00000. Now
watch what happens as they go down the road:
[Fill in the blanks in the binary column ).
There is an easy way to convert a binary number
to decimal. Just write down the successive
powers of 2, then underneath match up the
binary number. Take binary number 1100101 :
64 32 16 8 4 2 1
1 1 0 0 10 1
64 + 32 + 4 + 1 = 101
Each digit either a 1 or a 0 in a binary
number is called a bit (short for binary digit).
This is important to remember because, as we
will see, information moves through a com-
puter a bit at a time.
my 3 Hwfkt
M II II
|u% a-Sk |_m
gg®* Mmmmz
.y m m
ii H ii
njPJUUJfc
While the binary code may seem a bit
awkward to those who are used to the decimal
system, it is simplicity itself to the computer.
This is because the basic electronic parts
inside the computer can exist in only two
possible states: current is on or off, a switch
is opened or closed, magnetic materials are
magnetized in one direction or the opposite.
NEXT SERIES 3: SYMBOLIC LANGUAGES
This article has been abstracted from “You and the Computer ", a 24 page book giving a
simplified, yet detailed explanation of electronic computer operation, written in non-technical
style. Please mail this coupon if you wish to receive a copy, free of charge and obligation.
Company .. ~~—- - -
103 York Street, Sydney. Phone 29.7553 ■ 552 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Phone 67.8221


m
A
>
■>
; : v ■■:
r? : :'*•■'»,
If
..,^a
srtiiff
lli
When you get off the beaten track there's a lot of laughs to be had by bargaining for what you purchase
Who discovered SINGAPORE?
We did! The travel agent started it by explaining it wouldn’t cost a penny
more to stop-over in Singapore, on our way to Europe. On those terms who
would miss the chance to go on a voyage of discovery!
So we came to Singapore. The friendly, cosmopolitan people welcomed us
to their fascinating country and we were set fair to uncover an array of
spectacle and excitement that gave real meaning to the saying—‘You see
more of the Orient in Singapore.’ Take a glimpse at this magical island
with us and you too will be taking the first steps towards discovering wonder-
ful Singapore.
SHOPPING —like Aladdin’s Caves! You name it—
they’ve got it here, and at prices that make you feel like a king! Singapore
is a duty-free port and that means you can buy the whole world’s luxuries
at prices that put the fun back into shopping. Cameras, transistor radios,
rare fabrics, jewellery, and works of art from all over the Orient. All this
and you buy in the friendliest surroundings imaginable. When you get off
the beaten track there’s a lot of laughs to be had by bargaining for what
you purchase.
What could we do when we were offered a 2 band, 8 transistor portable for
A£6! We bought it! And lots of similar bargains: now we can't stop con-
gratulating ourselves.
HONG KONG
GKOK'iCu
r>
SfNGAPOftf
YDNEY
PERTH
aHovk* 25
vm
Cl
WEST AUSTRALIANS, do you know that it is
almost as cheap to travel to Singapore as it is to
visit Sydney. In about the same time that it
takes to fly from Perth to Sydney-you could be
setting foot in the heart of the Orient — Singapore.
For lots of exciting information, consult your travel agent about
your stop-over in Singapore or write to Singapore Government
Tourist Information Service, 15 Grosvenor Street, Sydney, 343
Little Collins Street, Melbourne or Industry House, Canberra.
Qiiitjdpoi*t>
■aaaEMsnagiai
yards somewhere in the ten thousand
miles between Melbourne and Brisbane
(the long way around) seems indisput-
able, irrespective of the future of Singa.
pore, and the terminus of the trade
routes across the Indian Ocean seems
a logical location.
Coming into service during 1966 and
1967 are 20 fast patrol craft, presumably
for use either in South-East Asia (to
assist in the defence of Malaysia), Papua-
New Guinea, and our own northern
waters. The construction of a second
fleet replenishment has, unfortunately,
been deferred. The other ships in the
fleet are the Sydney, converted from
being an aircraft-carrier to a transport
for vehicles, supplies and troops, six
minesweepers (four of which will soon
go into reserve), a training destroyer,
Anzac, and various survey and general
purpose vessels. Some observers doubt
whether the Navy is taking its oceano-
graphic survey needs sufficiently serious-
ly. Two destroyers and three frigates
are in “mothballs” and could be activated
in an emergency and manned from the
reserve and elsewhere.
rpwELVE months ago the Navy and the
A nation were still recovering from the
shock of the Voyager disaster, and the
apparent (largely unproven) implica-
tions of inefficiency within the service.
At the time, recruiting figures went up
and then down. Today the Navy’s main
problem, like the nation’s, is skilled man-
power. It takes five to seven years to
train an electronics technician; many
more years still to train the captain of
a ship. The Navy is competing, some-
what unequally, with Government and
industry (and the other services) for the
bright young men. That is why any in-
crease in naval strength must be gradual
and not dramatic. Ships take long enough
to build, but longer to man.
Perhaps the key question is the extent
to which we can or should rely upon our
allies to fill the gaps in our naval defence
and strike capacity. This is not an easy
strategic problem, but political factors
compound the difficulty. There are im-
portant political reasons why we should
have a more independent and more com-
prehensive capability than we have at
present.
In South-East Asia at any one time
there are between 700 and 2700 Aus-
tralian naval personnel, and between six
and ten of Her Majesty’s Australian
ships. They receive little of the publicity
attracted by the Army’s combat units
but they make a steady contribution to
the security of the area and to the
Army’s ability to stay there. They have
helped deter or prevent Indonesian
assaults on Malaya and Singapore. They
show the Australian flag. They are a
reminder of our permanent presence and
interest in the region.


W
m
' f . *
«!
,- ■ •
r-S:
H
m
m it
. tmi
4
lively Las Vegas—less than an hour (by domestic airline) from Los Angeles.
No one can show Australians
more West Coast U.S.A.
than we can.
And Hawaii's part of the bargain
m
mm
Nobody else flies to four U.S.A. West Coast Gateways
—San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland and Seattle.
What’s more, going and coming we fly by way of Hawaii.
This is the trip you’ve been searching for. A ride
on a cable car. A few turns at the green gaming tables
of Las Vegas. A ramble through the Rockies.
A gambol through swinging Hollywood. A sample of
Calfornia surfing. And remember, just an hour or so
away by air lie the mysteries of Mexico and the
wonder of the Grand Canyon.
Cast your hesitation aside. Fly away with us to the
U.S.A. We’ve got bargains waiting for you wherever you
go. A three-day stay in either Los Angeles or
San Francisco, for example, for just £B—including hotel
room and sightseeing. Other cities for as little as £5!
If you’ve got the time we can arrange 21 days of
air travel anywhere in the U.S.A. for just £67. Or 99
days of cross-country bus travel for just £45.
Don’t forget: Coming or going, you can 101 l around as
long as you like in Hawaii’s endless sunshine.
And it won’t add a penny.to your fare.
Call your Pan Am Travel Agent. Or call Pan Am.
Find out why so many Australians are stealing away
with us. You’ll have a good feeling flying with
the very best.
World’s most experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST ‘ROUND THE WORLD
SYDNEY: 82 ELIZABETH STREET. 28-2621
MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET. 63-9077
PA.4888


fa
f t/Mb/Huun/iLLimi>t/,u,,/////, ///////Ss,, lL{ ~mrt(lh\
ILontiottlttttttj
JEWS
Yes, folks, we were first
Come, be in the Race-
plenty of travelling and:
* be 21 when you're
just 13
* be circumsised
* avoid the Christmas ;
rushes.
oz
I'M RANDY/
INhai's your name?
\
Kings Cross Whisper
SIXTY DIFFERENT TITS
Bird watching
boom in U.K.
CD 5E3K§j30!995333
m
Sf>\
oyrtTHflf
2
SaßlalaliElsSlalaEElSE
. Convert today
(CATHOLICISM
Pray now, fly later.'
One of lire oldest and most res-
pectedfirms lias vacancies -mew
staff We promise an eternal
superannuation scheme .and travel
opportunities after retirement.
‘Mass productions (bread &wine
on tlie house)
•Limbo (exclusive)
•Vatican (expensive)
•Inquisitions (seasonal)
•Confessions (optional)
Other historic features include j
Nuns, {tlibate clergy, miracles, j
SMUT
The new radicalism?
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
us~\ z’\ “King’s Cross Whisper”,
fl i “Drongo”, “Graffiti”, “Squire”,
Melbourne’s new “Tom Thumb”,
Perth's “Grot”: the more respectable sold
at newsagents and bookstalls, the less
peddled from street-corners or pubs,
their combined sales must run into
hundreds of thousands. Is there a high
school student or an undergraduate with-
out one in his mariila folder, a literate
lout without a couple stuck in the pocket
of his jeans?
Humor, satire, inside-dope, revelations
of civic scandals, sexual emancipation,
explosion of the great Australian
mythology: these are some of the things
the new magazines claim to offer. Are
we entering a new Augustan age of
urbanity, of wit, of a sophisticated
measuring of all things, great and small,
against the ultimate passions and pur-
poses of human life? Even the under-
graduate magazines are affected. “Far-
rago” and “Honi Soit”, after a few
ventures in the new emancipated satire
mode, appear to have returned to their
traditional forms, but “Tharunka” (Uni-
versity of New South Wales) and, to a
lesser extent, “Lot’s Wife” (Monash) are
both anxious for street sales and for the
“Oz” and “Whisper” markets.
However the effectiveness of their
shafts of irony is judged, there can be
no doubt about two things: amongst our
non-transistorised youth the editors of
new magazines have climbed above folk-
singers on the popularity charts of folk-
heroism and on the way up they have
shocked into retaliation older generations
of police sergeants, magistrates, RSL
presidents, bishops, politicians and book-
sellers.
The editors of “Oz” suffered first from
the backlash of established opinion and
had to appeal to a higher court to be
saved from a savage gaoi sentence, but
mostly the protests have been verbal and
predictably in the who-dares-confound-
the-house-of-my-father style.
The strongest protests have been
evoked by “Grot” and “Tharunka”. The
second issue of “Grot” had an RSL
spokesman saying: “We may have to
restrict membership to those who have
actually killed somebody. To prove
their claim, prospective members would
have to produce some vital part of their
opponent's anatomy.” The spokesman
went on to stress that the League was an
important body in Australian life, since
no other section of the community had
ever even attempted to remind the public
of the need to go on hating Japs, Nazis,
Fascists, Communists and other enemies
of Anzac Day and the Australian way
of life.
The president of the West Australian
RSL said that he regarded the article
with “contempt”; he did not object to
satire but “Grot” had gone “beyond good
taste and good sense”. Other eminent
State identities shared his objection.
Contempt was also an attitude shared
by a large number of Catholic leaders
and correspondents for last July's issue
of the NSW University’s “Tharunka”.
“Tharunka’s” front cover is dominated
by a picture of two students, dressed as
a nun and a priest, exchanging an ardent
kiss. The “priest’s” left hand is placed
a few inches above the “nun’s” rosary
beads, on her lower right breast.
This issue of “Tharunka” bears further
investigation. Alongside the picture
“satirising the clergy, there is a column
of chatty observations, aphorisms, and
what are intended to be witty sayings,
Amongst them are these two: “Organ?
Some people are saying that the Viet-
namese may be better ‘red and fed’ than
‘liberated and dead’”; “Poison: At last
they’ve discovered the mystery of poison
behind the Lane Cove deaths.... a wild
bush root”.
On page two is a picture of a fallen
Oz
Drongo
IT S YOU
REALLY LOVE
AUNTMITZY.
'you're so
Romantic
YOU DIRTY,ROTTEN
LOW-DOWN, TWO-
TIMIN',LOUSY RAT*


EFUNK
OPUS BOOKSHELF
SYSTEM
Brilliant treble and dis-
tortion-free bass reproduction is
assured by the remarkable Opus
radio amplifier, the heart of this
system. Speaker cabinets
each containing three speakers are
for vertical or horizontal setting.
Complete with record changer
TW 504 (not shown).
j ill!
% i iii i i >
srinilKTffl
PRINCESS CONCERT STEREOGRAM
Designed to complement a modern home setting.
A s/w radiogram with a rich, full tone from an
outstanding amplifier section and six carefully
balanced and housed loudspeakers. Has a Scandina-
vian oil finish over selected walnut veneers.
o
TELE
A
FUN
KEN
k\.
means a world of progress
For six decades Telefunken has led the field with
new achievements in the world of sound—2,ooo scientists
working in Telefunken laboratories maintain that lead. This
policy of progress and research gave the world the first
tape recorder and assures you of up-to-the-minute design
and lasting quality in all Telefunken products.
For comprehensive catalogues on radios, radio-
grams, tape recorders or record players, write to
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
W. C. WEDDERSPOON PTY. LTD.
193 Clarence Street. Box 3597. G.P.0.. SYDNEY
W.A.: Musgroves Ltd., Perth.
S.A.: Ernsmiths Ltd., Adelaide.
A.C.T.: David Jones, Canberra.
QLD.: Hendrix Electrix, Brisbane.
Finney Isles, Brisbane.
VIC.: Klapp Electronics, Prahran.
soldier, blood pouring from his wounds;
the caption reads: “Become a regular
blood donor.” On the same page is an
editorial complaining that the USA and
the “puppet” South Vietnam Govern-
ment refused to hold an election because
they knew this “would have resulted in
an overwhelming victory for the present
Communist leader of North Vietnam,
Ho Chi-minh”.
The editorial mounts higher on its
platform of moral responsibility and
castigates “those who have no time for
discussions about morality in war
‘all’s fair in love and war’ ”. With in-
creasing scorn the editor explains that
“for these people the issues are quite
simple —we are right and the Com-
munists are wrong ... the country that
leads the world in selling and marketing
techniques is failing to sell its own social
system to its most likely prospects. It
could be that there is something wrong
with the product”.
Nothing remarkable on pages 4 to 6
except a nude and a reprint of the
“Walter Lehmann” acrostic poem which
a hoaxer got into The Bulletin a
couple of years ago. But on page 7 there
is a picture of a pair of dismembered
hands, caked in blood and the flesh of
the wrists peeling back, a startlingly
horrible picture; just below is a smaller
picture of a backside of indeterminate
sex.
Page 10 is concerned with Vietnam:
“US hypocrisy”, “exposed penes”, the
“immorality” of the Western war ap-
paratus, and the highly unlikely con-
tention that no one has ever “been
injured by a flying penis”, and related
matters.
After some sensible reviews there
follows a fair amount of space devoted
to contraception, abortion, copulation,
and an attempted visual satire of Men-
zies, Santamaria, Ansett, military train-
ing and the like.
“Tharunka”, of course, wants to be
radical, to be uninhibited, to get its fair
share of sex if there’s any around; it
wants to be satirical and witty, too; it
also believes it has a duty to point out
the morals of situations to the nation
and its leaders. The trouble is that it
underestimates the importance of truth:
it is not able to understand or tell the
truth of situations, whether they be
religious, political, military, or sexual.
The picture of the cuddling clergy is hot
funny and it is not satirical, and one of
the major reasons for this is that in our
society Catholic priests and nuns are not
promiscuous; of all the sins they might
commit, sexual ones would probably be
the last.
Satire must have a firm purchase on
personal, social or political truth before
it can be humorous or meaningful. The
clergy picture has no basis in social fact:
no one in his right mind could believe
that promiscuity is creeping into the
behavior of Australian nuns and priests:
the picture is not the product of wit or
of keen social insight but rather of
Tharunka
</, c
1 Wot a ktn
- vW af A.j£
,vx\rvm owt-
PvcY urns too| TWM
Tbs* Ho a
coNur
vx c- -aod x ulc


Why is this the time
to drink Australian Whisky?
Ask your favourite retailer for
the booklet which tells you about
Australian Whisky today
adolescent or post-adolescent exhibition-
ism which resolves itself into an irrational
urge to shock and offend. The same
instincts are at work in the printing of
the picture of the blood-matted, severed
hands. Witnessing the products of such
emotional indiscipline one is not too
favorably disposed to receive “Tbarun-
ka’s” moral proclamations on Vietnam,
McCarthyism or anything else.
“Tharunka” is, or was, the worst of
them, but the trend to combine high
(though factually wrongly based) moral-
ising on political issues with both witless
references to sex and lavatories and
sadistic pictures or sketches of human
horrors is found in a number of other
undergraduate magazines. Just how
emancipated are these young radicals?
At least the “Whisper”, “Drongo” and
their little Melbourne cousin “Tom
Thumb” are mercifully free from moral-
ising, even if this is only due to an
absence of the kind of idealism found
amongst undergraduate publicists. Their
chief topic may be judged from the fol-
lowing selection of headlines: “Sixty
Different Tits Bird Watching Boom in
England”, “Bare Truth”, “Sex Shock
Ban”, “Rape”, etc. Mostly they try to
send up the daily papers, Menzies, Rylah,
the ABC, the police, organised sport,
and the Army.
It is the kind of humor found in high
school magazines reinforced with double
entendre and cheesecake. The “Whisper”
in particular has sold in phenomenal
numbers, not so much, I think, because
of its humor but because carrying it is
for many youths like carrying a badge;
“Whisper” is a kind of in-group paper
talisman, a sign the bearer is “with
it”.
“Whisper” and its imitators exude a
scent of Bohemia and the suggestion that
somewhere around town there are places
where life is fast, sophisticated, sexy and
unselfconscious. They are the stuff that
adolescent fantasies are made of, but the
trouble is that none of these magazines
is very funny. In fact, they are nearly
always tedious and often pathetic.
Take the following sample: “For sale.
Two canaries going cheep;” “South Viet-
nam battalion for Australia”; “This
month your stars are not propitious.
Tomorrow is a particularly bad day
to be run over by a semi-trailer.”
For the carriage trade, and, presum-
ably, the intellectuals, there is “Squire”,
an imitation of the American “Playboy”.
In “Squire” the prose is duller, the wit is
limper, and the girls are very, very much
plainer. A mid-year issue contains a
beat play by Professor Frederic May,
one of the principals in the Knopfel-
macher case. Amidst a jumble of anal
imagery and sub-erotic allusions one can
dimly discern that the attempt is being
made to satirise Dr Knopfelmacher and
his defenders. The play is wrapped
around a centre-page spread featuring a
nude and very freckled girl in boots.
Predictable
VTone of these magazines approaches
“Oz” in standards of wit, sharpness of
attack, or competence of layout. Not
that “Oz” is particularly good, but it is,
on occasions, very funny, and in the
manner of England’s “Private Eye” it
does occasionally run small background
stories which the rest of the Press cannot
or will not print; it has had some amusing
covers (for example, the one of the
Queen, Prince Phillip and Sir Robert in
a “Cleopatra”-like scene); some of its
black-and-white cartoons and sketches
are very well done.
The editors of “Oz” clearly regard
themselves as men who know an absurd-
ity when they see one. They will not
tolerate hypocrisy in any of our institu-
tions, no matter how sacred; they will
expose it and ridicule it. They hate
political cant, religious cant, “ad-mass”,
phoney movies, policemen, censors and
surfies. They are very suspicious of
democratic political processes, religious
attitudes, Sir Robert Menzies, anything
American, folk-singers, Western foreign
policy, God and suburbia. They reserve
derision for the monarchy, Arthur Cal-
well, homosexuals, chastity, Eric Baume,
commerce and the daily papers. In other
words they are very predictable in their
responses to just about everything.
They jest about Dr Knopfelmacher
but fail altogether to see the obvious
comic possibilities of Professor May
(who thinks that “Victoria is potentially
a fascist State. I should not like to be
under Mr Rylah’s rule.”). They have a
vivid imagination for the hypocrisies of
financiers and company lawyers but lack
an eye for the banalities and posturings
of the academics surrounding them.
They can be very sharp with Arthur
and Bob but fail to observe the satirical
possibilities in Dr Jim.
“Oz” can also be brutally insensitive
and offensive. An article on the death
of President Kennedy contained the fol-
lowing: “The late President scorned
security, once remarking that he needed
security like he needed a hole in his
head. The assassination brought reper-
cussions throughout the Republic.
Security men searching for the assassin
shot up a few colored families in mis-
take.”
Such essays in the grotesque are not
rare in “Oz” and their purpose is not
to satirise anything but to sneer at
human tragedies and, perhaps, human
life itself. There is a strain of ugly
nihilism in the magazine which rests
oddly against the comfortable and pre-
dictable responses seen in most of the
satire. It was witnessed in the printing
of the letter from John Jarred who
wanted “more articles on sex and sexual
perversion of every type, articles on
black magic, witchcraft and perversion”.
John Jarred’s letter ends: “Curse them!
Curse them! With my hawk’s head I
peck at the eye of Jesus as He hangs on
the Cross: I flap my wings in the face
of Mohammed and blind him. With my
claws I tear out the flesh of the Indian
and Buddhist mongol and din! Ballash!
Omphelia! I spit on your crapulous
Creeds.”
Why should any bank of emancipated
social radicals want to print this kind
of manic essay in life-hatred? Not,
surely, for its satirical or comic purposes;
presumably, then, just for the sake of
creating some kind of stir: shocks for
some, kicks for others.
This kind of editorial delinquency is
not so far removed from the mentality
of the surfie gangs whom “Oz” so bitterly
and properly lampoons when there are
spaces left between the slaps at Menzies,
anti-Communists, the police and the
Queen.


CN Ui 4^
r- How did ~n
he do it?
I He arrived in Melbourne
at 9.00 a.m.
1 He made six calls in
** dffierent suburbs,
3 He drove across town to
head office.
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends—
Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was
waiting
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon.
Within moments of your arrival* you’re on
your way in a sleek* solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own* for as long as
you like. And you and the car are always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat —•
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket* or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival , . .
For a day, a week, or all the time.
UVO VIN3H
S/AV
The Young Leaves Only
The newsreaders and announcers on
television are growing steadily
younger. Many of them seem uneasy
and embarrassed by their lack of years,
as if afraid the public will not take
them seriously when they recite the dis-
asters of the day. To guard against this
they adopt an air of preternatural
solemnity, and wear owlish spectacles
with, apparently, no glass in them. Youth
may be at the prow, but there is no
sign of pleasure at the helm.
On the other hand, the few middle-
aged persons still appearing on TV are
evidently scared that viewers may despise
them as senile. They seize any oppor-
tunity for little quips, cranks and wanton
wiles. While young newsreaders try to
appear older than they are, older ones
try to appear young.
The situation has come about be-
cause it is considered essential for a TV
station to present a youthful image. The
theory that only young and good-looking
persons are interesting, now widely
accepted, had its origin in the USA.
A popular novelist of that country,
Faith Baldwin, once declared:
“Americans will not read stories
about people over 35.” Faith her-
self, even when long in the tooth,
continued diligently chronicling
the romantic lives of under-355. (The
American prejudice oddly contradicts
the opinion of Ovid, who held that
on their amatory side women do not hit
peak form until after 35.)
US publishers began the practice of
putting large pictures of young, good-
looking authors on the jackets of their
books. This sales weapon backfired,
because the writings of beautiful girls
and handsome men are often disappoint-
ing. The turning point in my experi-
ence of such works came when I was
called on to review Eva Gabor’s auto-
biography. I have never read a worse
book, or one by a more alluring author.
The truth is that most writers of merit
are rather ill-favored. Their faces are
sickbed o’er with the pale cast of
thought. I am suspicious of any book
with a photograph of an attractive
author on the jacket.
One can be led into error Edna
0 Brien, who writes acute and funny
Novels, is a comely Irish wench. But
she is an exception. More representative
Was Emily Bronte, who with all her
talents was no candidate for nomination
as Miss Yorkshire of 1840.
Writers are a special breed, however.
In other occupations the trend is to lay
increasing stress on youth and, if pos-
sible, beauty. There is no demand for
mature, matronly air-hostesses or pop
singers with the ripe wisdom of middle
age.
The medical profession is much
affected patients are noticeably re-
luctant to be operated on by a surgeon
who lacks the virile appeal of Ben Casey.
There is little future for the secret agent
or detective who looks more homely
than James Bond or The Saint. News-
readers, above all, are expected to dis-
play a fresh, smooth-faced charm,
healthied o’er with the tan cast of
unthought.
The accent on youth is to be carried
still further by a new TV station,
Channel 13, which does not exist yet but
probably will soon. The management
kindly allowed me to visit the studio
where it is training its newsreading staff.
The star performer is Graham
Potts, who is in First Class at
Benelong Primary School. He is a
bright little fellow.
His mother told me: “Graham
always wanted to be a newsreader,
even before he knew his alphabet.
As soon as he was able to read some of
the Little Golden Books we took him
along to the ABC and asked if they would
give him a trial.
“They were very nice, and gave him
a chocolate frog, but they said he was
a bit young just yet. Of course the ABC
are like that —too conservative. We tried
Channel 13 and they took Graham on at
once. They say he’s just the personality
they’ve been looking for.”
The studio manager came in to call
the lad for his practice newsreading
session.
“No, you mustn’t take your apple and
your yo-yo on camera, Graham,” he
said. “Leave them with mother. And
remember, when you’re reading the news
don’t giggle or make faces try to act
grown-up.”
The boy began reading the script in
a clear, high-pitched voice: “The Prime
Min-is-ter, Sir Rob-ert Men-zies, said
to-day that there was no truth in the
ru-mor that he was go-ing to re-tire from
pol-i-tics . .
“Graham is a real find,” the manager
said to me. “He’s going to give this
Channel the youngest image in the
business.”
ROSS CAMPBELL


The Mod Among the Mums
Smoothing Melbourne’s ruffled, feathers
By PAMELA MORT
From the lawns of Flemington to
the local butcher-shop, the topic
was the same. It was not the form
of Melbourne Cup winner, Light Fingers,
which was heatedly debated, but the
form of another filly in the same event
who had attracted much more attention.
It was, of course, Miss Jean “The
Shrimp” Shrimpton, heralded in the
advance publicity from London as the
highest-paid model in the world (well
over £lO,OOO a year, according to reports
which she demurely refused to confirm);
the most beautiful girl in the world;
Youth with a capital Y; the “mod look”;
“the face that launched a thousand
fashions”.
Of those thousand, Melbourne will un-
doubtedly remember her for one the
sleeveless white shift hemmed a generous
four inches above the knee, in which she
made her first appearance, sans stock-
ings, sans gloves, sans hat, at Mel-
bourne's highly fashionable Derby Day,
the opening event of Melbourne Cup
week.
The furore which followed resembled
a publicity agent’s dream come true.
That this was behind it all was denied
in hurt tones by the publicity gentlemen
acting for Miss Shrimpton, the Press,
sponsors Dupont International, whose
synthetic fibres she was wearing, and her
hosts, the Victoria Racing Club.
Although one organiser of the £12,000
Fashions in the Field contest, for which
she presented th~ prizes, declared the
publicity was “great” and “had really
put Melbourne cn the map”.
The criticism came mainly from the
mums. The more sophisticated of their
Toorak sisters were aloofly amused rather
than “outraged” and “disgusted”.
By Cup Day the town was agog
and the appearance of a rather down-
cast Shrimp in a locally-bought Breton
hat, impeccable suit, stockings and
gloves (“I suppose they will tell me when
to put them on —Melbourne is too con-
ventional.”) merely added fuel to the
flames. Miss Shrimpton said she had
conformed out of courtesy to her hosts,
but it was darkly hinted she had been
made to do so.
The London Press took up the debate
and unkind jabs flew across the wires
about Melbourne “Christmas trees” and
out-of-date ideas of fashion. These were
immediately confounded by internation-
ally successful Melbourne designer, Miss
Noelene King, who pointed out from
London that she had designed a range
of clothes for Miss Shrimpton to wear
during her photographic assignments in
Melbourne, and that Miss Shrimpton
was “very pleased” with them.
By Thursday’s Oaks meeting, tradition-
ally Ladies Day of the Spring Racing
Carnival, a compromise appeared to have
been reached. Miss Shrimpton aban-
doned hat and gloves, kept her stockings
and lowered her hemline slightly. Several
well-travelled eminent people smoothed
the ruffled feathers of the mums by
reassuring them they were among the
best-dressed in the world, and everyone
agreed even Ascot had its occasional
“Christmas tree”.
What of Miss Shrimpton herself amid
all the hoo-ha? To begin with she was
serene, even shy, certainly “no screaming
extrovert”, as one man put it.
A knack of answering questions
directly, without fuss, in a low, pleasant
voice with an international accent is the
quality which first surprises, then attracts
you to “The Shrimp”. She is a delicately
pretty girl, deliciously leggy for a lot
of her five feet nine inches, 34-22-35 for
the rest, with long, fine, fair hair which
is not even carefully casual, and
enormous bright blue eyes.
The smile is enchanting. Sometimes
it is friendly and straightforward; some-
times a cheeky side-grin at actor and
constant escort Terence Stamp, who
responds with an equally cheeky grin of
his own which has all the women present
falling about; sometimes a private quiver
at the corner of her lips as something
amuses her amid the flim-flam.
She wears no foundation or powder,
a touch of pale pink lipstick, false black
eyelashes, and heavy lines of blue eye-
shadow and black eye-liner. “I don't
usually wear this much make-up this
is work, you see,” she said on arrival.
Had any talent scout discovered her in
Hollywood on her way out, she was
asked. “For what?” “Don’t you want
to go into films?” “No.” Mr Stamp said
she would not be a good actress because
she did not want to be one.
Hobbies? “1 ride, I sleep. No, I can’t
cook or anything like that.” At this point
Mr Stamp saved a nervous young tele-
vision interviewer from going through
the floor with embarrassment after he
blurted out “Who cooks the meals, then?”
“I buy ’em,” said Mr Stamp laconically.


EVATT
Catalyst or
Catastrophe?
By ALAN REID
When gifted, controversial, in-
satiably energetic Dr Herbert
Vere (“Doc”) Evatt quit politics
in 1960, he was a disappointed man.
He was disappointed that he had not
become Prime Minister. He was dis-
appointed with the changed Australian
Labor Party that he—and events —had
fashioned and which was possibly the
most important part of the political
legacy he has bequeathed to the nation
on whose life he had had such a drama-
studded impact.
He had inherited from
the former Federal Labor
Leader, the late J. B.
Chifley, a Labor Party, at
least superficially united, in
which power was still deli-
cately balanced between the
Parliamentary and machine
wings; in which Marxism
was a negligible influence;
and in which a strong
nationalism and non-doc-
trinaire concept of socialism
was supported by a large
majority of the Irish-des-
cended Catholic element in
the Australian community.
He bequeathed to Arthur
Augustus Calwell as his suc-
cessor in the Federal Labor
leadership a Labor Party
in which:
(1) The machine was so
all-powerful that it
could censure publicly
one leader (Evatt him-
self) for letting his
Parliamentary Party
accept a pay rise, and
contemptuously leave
another leader (Calwell) standing
outside an hotel while inside it
decided what should be Calwell’s
and the Parliamentary Party’s ap-
proach to a foreign affairs issue (the
United States radio-communications
base at Exmouth Gulf);
(2) The Marxist pressure (exerted largely
indirectly through the representation
of Communist-influenced unions at
ALP conference and on ALP execu-
tives) was formidable and growing;
and
(3) The Irish-descended Catholic
element, which had for years pro-
vided so many “grass roots” workers,
had been alienated, possibly so irre-
trievably as to change permanently
the Australian voting patterns of the
pre-Evatt era; and the Party was also
clearly divided on both international
issues and the definition of what
socialism meant or should , mean to
an Australian Labor Party.
Historians may ultimately decide to
describe Evatt as the architect of the
1955 split. But in fairness to him it
must be pointed out he may have been
only the catalyst. The foundations for
the troubles that followed his takeover
of the leadership from Chifley were
already present when he moved from the
corner room now occupied by Deputy
Opposition Leader Gough Whitlam (and
once the turbulent headquarters of the
late Jack Beasley when he led the anti-
Communist Labor group in the House
of Representatives) to the larger office
of the Opposition Leader adjoining the
Labor Caucus room. A group of Vic-
torian Labor MHRs headed by the then
Labor Member for Yarra, Stan Keon,
and allegedly under the influence of Mr
B. A. Santamaria (who was not even a
member of the ALP), were moving
restively.
Although Chifley and Evatt had wanted
the Menzies Government’s legislation
outlawing the Communist Party opposed,
neither, in view of their comparatively
recent actions, could be accused of being
pro-Communist. They had done things
that few Government leaders in Aus-
tralia had been prepared to do. When
in Government they had broken the
Communist-inspired coal-strike in 1949
by putting troops into the mines, and had
authorised court actions which led to
the gaolings of Communist officers in
at least one case for subversive utter-
ances.
Evatt had also put through the defence
establishments legislation
which was one of the tough-
est pieces of anti-Com-
munist legislation ever to be
placed on the Common-
wealth statute books. But
the Victorians (who later
were to break away from
their own group of seven
in the House of Representa-
tives; were to lose their seats
at the next elections and
provide at least part of the
leadership of the Demo-
cratic Labor Party) favored
the Government’s legisla-
tions and, as far as Evatt
was concerned, refused to
accept that his opposition
was based on his basic
liberalism rather than his
pro-Communism.
It was in the complicated
manoeuvres over the Gov-
ernment’s anti-Communist
legislation that the factions
sought to use the authority
of the ALP Federal Execu- v
tive to further their own
ends. It was basically the
Parliamentary Party itself at that time
that opened the door to ALP machine
domination of Labor’s Parliamentary
wing. Mr F. E. Chamberlain, then com-
paratively unknown, was then the newly
elected Federal ALP president, elected
more because nobody else wanted the job
than because he was enthusiastically
wanted. He exploited the open door ruth-
lessly to turn the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party into a subservient appendage
of the ALP machine.
It was at this stage that external affairs
(until then the exclusive preserve of a
few interested Labor leaders) got mixed
up inextricably with domestic issues. Like
their opposite number in the Communist
Party, the Victorians had an absorbed
interest in world affairs. Correctly, in


ASAHI
PENTAX
SPOTMATIC
m
Entirely New Concept
in Photographic Design
and Capability
The new Asahi Pentax Spotmatic has
a highly sensitive, completely integral
and invisible meter which reads your
exposure through the taking lens, from
your subject’s image in focus on the
viewing screen (in focus on the film
plane) ... the most ideal method of
exposure determination! Use any one
of the 23 Takumar lenses (from 18mm
to 1000 mm), plus accessories ... the
meter reads exactly what your lens
sees ... the lens sees what your film
records ... without parallax! No more
exposure adjustments ... it automati-
cally compensates for exposure factors
for correct exposures every time.
Price, with case, £lO5/0/0.
Other Asahi Pentax models available:
Asahi Pentax SV with fully-automatic f/1.8
Super-Takumar lens; speeds to 1/1000-sec.;
self-timer. With case, £75/0/0.
Asahi Pentax Sla with fully-automatic f/2 Super
Takumar lens; speeds to 1/500-sec. With
case, £62/10/0.
At your photo dealer now!
KD.2217
the light of subsequent events, they
judged that the days of Australia’s com-
fortable isolation belonged to a fast-
vanishing past. They were impatient of
anyone who did not take a flatly anti-
Communist attitude and Evatt, a former
president of the United Nations and a
fighter for the rights of small nations at
UNO, took lines of which they did not
approve. He supported the United
Nations in Korea. But he wanted recog-
nition of Red China. He acted as though
Australia was a great power, whereas it
was a minor one and could not enforce
its views upon others, as had been shown
when the United States withdrew its
request to maintain a base at Manus in
Australian territory, and retired north-
wards after Evatt had sought reciprocal
rights (some thought more extensive
rights) for Australia in American bases.
Above all, they remembered that Evatt,
as wartime Attorney - General, had
legalised the Communist Party after
Russia’s entry into World War 11, lifting
the ban imposed on the Party by the
earlier non-Labor, Menzies-led Govern-
ment in 1940.
Then Mr Santamaria bobbed up to
complicate things. Santamaria was deter-
minedly anti-Communist. He supported
the Government when it sought at the
1951 Referendum constitutional author-
ity to outlaw the Communist Party.
Evatt, almost single-handed and stump-
ing the country tirelessly, secured a “No"
vote.
Santamaria
Tt has been stated that Dr Evatt did
not take action against Santamaria to
eradicate his influence from the ALP
because for a long time he was unaware
of the role Santamaria was playing in
the Labor Party and of the extent to
which some of the ALP leaders were
guided by Santamaria’s advice. There is
a certain plausibility to this. A lot of
Labor parliamentarians certainly did not
know that Santamaria existed at this
time. After I had published in 1954 one
of the earliest stories about Santamaria’s
activities, I was besieged by Labor
parliamentarians, some most senior in
the Party, trying to find out something
further about the man. But Evatt cer-
tainly knew about him. Evatt never
denied Santamaria’s claim that Evatt, in
a telephone call to Melbourne, invited
him to Canberra to help him draft part
of the rural policy for his 1954 policy
speech.
Evatt was tolerant of the Victorians
for a long ;time, though some of their
attitudes (certain Labor parliamentarians
refused to go on the “No” platform
during the Communist referendum) un-
doubtedly embarrassed him. But Evatt,
at this time happy with the result he had
achieved in the Communist referendum
and with the progress of the Party
generally, seemed to accept criticism
good-naturedly.
But after the 1954 elections (when
Labor made electoral gains in every State
except Victoria) Evatt was embittered.
His leadership was under threat and it
was the distrustful group, allegedly in-
fluenced by Santamaria with his catas-
trophic view of a world teetering on the
edge of Communist domination, that
pressed ruthlessly for Evatt’s replace-
ment. It looked certain that Evatt would
fall. And then he struck.
He turned on what he described as “j
disloyal group” in the Caucus, alleged
that under Santamaria influence they
were having their supporters infiltrate the
ALP to “deflect the Labor movement
from established Labor objectives and
ideals”, and carried the fight to his
opponents.
It was at this period that he made the
historic, jubilant and (as events turned
out) inaccurate claim: “For every
Catholic vote I lose I’ll get two Protes-
tant ones.” Allies flocked to him, par-
ticularly from the Communist Party
alarmed by the inroads the ALP In-
dustrial Groups had made upon their
power in the unions and from the many
within the Labor movement that the
groups (who were dominant in Victoria
and influential in NSW and Queensland)
had arrogantly ignored, intimidated or
challenged.
But he was only half right. As he un-
doubtedly expected, he lost Catholic
votes. But the Protestant votes he antici-
pated did not materialise.
His tactics were seemingly clumsy but
he continued the master of Caucus
manoeuvre. He was naive in some ways.
He would confide different things to dif-
ferent persons and would become hurt
and upset over what he considered a
breach of confidence when his confidants
later compared notes and found that he
was trying to use them to further his
aims. But when the chips were down he
knew what to do and he did it.
The late Mr Percy Clarey, a former
president of the ACTU, then the Labor
MHR for Bendigo, was a formidable
threat. Clarey was Protestant, a “clean-
skin” as far as the Groups were con-
cerned, and trusted by both factions. It
was possible that in a straight-out vote
Clarey could beat Evatt for the leader-
ship. So Evatt persuaded Clarey to move
a vote of confidence in his (Evatt’s)
leadership, thereby neutralising Clarey
as a threat. As soon as Clarey was
neutralised, Evatt declared that a vote
of confidence was not enough. He
resigned the leadership on the spot and
promptly recontested the position. Clarey
could not contest. He had just declared
his confidence in Evatt. Evatt’s only
rivals were Calwell and Tom Burke -
both men he knew he could beat easily-
With Evatt in this position of reliance
upon the ALP machine, the machine
under the guidance of Mr F. E. (“Joe’)
Chamberlain proceeded to strengthen its
powers. The Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party was reduced from the status
of co-equal wing to an ornament that
carried the Party’s banner at elections.
But it was the Communists and the
elements within the Labor Party who


saw the Communist Party as their next-
door neighbors in the political spectrum
that probably did more than anything to
thwart finally Evatt’s ambition to be-
come Prime Minister. He had unleashed
a force which he could not control.
Chamberlain, backed by Victoria
(where unity tickets flourished), was
dominant Federally. Evatt had the
Democratic Labor Party on one flank
and the machine on the other —and he
was not in a position to fight the machine
because he needed it to maintain his
position in the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party. And because he could not
fight the machine, unity tickets con-
tinued to be run, and, as a consequence,
the influence of Communist and Left-
wing unions continued to mount in the
Labor Party machine.
Whatever his faults of judgment Evatt
had immense courage. But fate—and
his lifetime opponent, the present Prime
Minister, Sir Robert Menzies —kept hit-
ting him with distracting and shattering
blows. The defection of Vladimir
Petrov from the Soviet Embassy to seek
political asylum in 1954 and the involve-
ment of members of Evatt’s staff in the
subsequent Royal Commission placed
him under immense nervous strain
strain sufficient to kill a man who did
not possess the iron physique and in-
credible resilience that were buried under
Evatt’s rotundity. For a while he was
a tortured man who suspiciously saw a
conspiracy against himself in the most
innocent acts and words and who would
button-hole anyone, sometimes complete
strangers, to pour out passionately his
version of the events that led up to the
Petrov defection and subsequent happen-
ings.
It is difficult to see Evatt just as it is
difficult to see Chifley standing, as Cal-
well did, outside the Hotel Kingston on
the pavement under a street lamp while
inside the ALP Federal conference
decided the party’s policy on the United
States communications base at Exmouth
Gulf in Western Australia. Chifley
would have either arranged to be present
while the issue was being discussed or
would have seen that the vote would go
the way he thought it should go in the
national interest. Evatt would have
probably kicked the door in before he
would have accepted such treatment.
Yet in a way Evatt was responsible
for Calwell’s humiliation. It was Evatt
who unleashed forces in such a way as
to make the machine all-powerful as
compared with the Parliamentary wing
and to make it possible for the Com-
munist Party to re-assert its power in
the industrial movement and to increase
its influence in the Labor Party through
unity tickets. It was Evatt who has
changed, perhaps permanently, the voting
Patterns of the Irish-descended Catholic
element of the Australian community.
Evatt (and Santamaria) may have only
been the catalyst. Perhaps world events
and the development in Australia of the
affluent society would have forced a
showdown, anyway, between the Catho-
lic-influenced Labor Right wing and the
Marxist-orientated Left wing. Perhaps it
was inevitable. But, catalyst or catas-
trophe, victim of circumstances or
moulder of them, one thing emerges un-
challengeably Evatt turned a slow
evolution into a quick revolution and
bequeathed to Calwell and the Australian
nation a Labor Party different in im-
portant, possibly fundamental, aspects
from the Labor Party he had inherited
from Chifley. That is part, probably the
most important part, of his legacy.
Evatt and the Catholics
By BRIAN JOHNS
How difficult it is now, ten years after and in the atmosphere of rolling
panegyrics to recall the bitterness, confusion and outrage which Dr Evatt flashedi
among Catholics with his public discovery in October, 1954, of a Church plot to
seize control of the Australian Labor Party.
As the newspaper revelations were
made, and the political stances struck,
that is what it became: a Popish plot
in the Labor Party. It did not matter that
in his famous October 5 statement, Dr
Evatt carefully eschewed mention of
Catholics or the Catholic Church by
name, and instead limited his righteous
anger to the “attitude of a small minority
group of Labor members, located par-
ticularly in Victoria, which had since
1949 become increasingly disloyal to
the Labor Movement and to Labor
leadership”. In the mounting sectarian
feeling which followed there were those
who “knew” that Catholics inevitably
would be the ones to adopt “methods
which strikingly resemble both Com-
munist and Fascist infiltration of larger
groups” to divert Labor from “its objec-
tives and ideals”. And there were those
Catholics who “knew” that they and
their Church had to be the victims of
bigoted, reckless charges. This was the
atmosphere of unreality.
But for a small number of Catholics
the Evatt statement was the landmark in
an exciting new period. A period in
which there would be a new beginning of
free debate about the Church and her
policies. A period, which, seeing the end
of the scandalous silence on the Move-
ment, would help to distil the Church’s
attitude on a whole host of ideas on
the Church’s role in modern society. It
was a swinging a Go Go decade for
Catholic Liberals spurring free discussion
from the slide of the Movement.
The breakthrough would have hap-
pened anyway. But that will not stop
the remembering and the thanks due to
Evatt as the catalyst who hurried the
knocking of that scungy, conformist aura
which hung so heavily on the Sydney
Catholic scene, Fake unity.
The dissident Catholics, loosely but
recognisably grouped, particularly in
Sydney and Melbourne, had for some
time been in opposition to the course on
which Mr Santamaria and the Hierarchy
had set, what was to become for the
public, the highly sinister “Catholic
Action”, the seeming creation of the
Movement. In fact, of course, the Move-
ment, and for that matter its dissidents,
could be traced to the Campion societies
of the ’thirties and ’forties, those Catholic
groups which were strongly influenced
by Chester-Belloc thinking.
Although the dissidents were centred
on Sydney and Melbourne universities,
they included the older Melbourne
Catholic Worker group and, among
others, members of the Young Christian
Workers. The objections to the Move-
ment were primarily, though not exclu-
sively, theological. In fact, the points
of the opposition were many and various,
but they believed that the Movement was
arrogating unto itself a role in the Church
that it just could not have. Interestingly,
now that .the dispute is done and the
Movement’s Church ties officially severed,
several of the leading dissidents of the
’fifties and Mr Santamaria’s most damag-
ing opponents are politically close to the
NCC and DLP.
But that is a long way on. For the
great mass of Catholics, as for the rest
of the community, until that October
the Movement had been an organisation
utterly secret from them. In the first heat
of controversy they had the word of
Dr Daniel Mannix that it was a political
stunt. “I note with regret that the name
of the Roman Catholic Church has been
drawn into the controversy . . . Needless
to say, the Roman Catholic Church has
never aimed to control the Labor Party.”
Dr Evatt was quicky to become a
Catholic bogy. There was cloth enough
to clothe the Catholic fears. There is no
way of telling how much more effective
was the slogan “Evatt Must Go”, be-
cause that was the name Catholics came
to associate with their continuing
defensive position in a party which for
decades they had regarded as their own.
Catholics who remained with Labor were
identified with the failing Right and be-
came two-time losers —at the polls and
in the Party.
The Labor leader was completely cynical


in his sudden discovery of the Movement
on October 5. He had been wheeling
and dealing with Mr Santamaria and his
forces for at least the previous two years,
and for nearly 12 months had had grave
fears that Movement forces were plan-
ning a thrust against his leadership There
was evidence enough for this. Only in
August that year at a Victorian con-
ference of the Movement, Santamaria
had spelt out his dissatisfaction with the
way things were going in the Labor
Party. But Evatt could have had no real
idea of the forces he w'as loosing within
the Church and their effect on the Labor
Movement.
The politically-involved were always
able to see the activist element in Santa-
maria’s Movement, the branch and union
manipulation. But there was the sub-
merged part of the iceberg, unknown to
the outsider. A tremendous and selfless
commitment. The hundreds of groups
of half a dozen or more meeting in
presbyteries and parish halls throughout
the country confident, thanks to the
overseeing of chaplains, that they were
about “holy work” in grappling with the
social, economic and interna-
tional problems, sent to them in study
notes from headquarters.
A study of the educative force of the
Movement is yet to be done. But Evatt
and those close to him were right to
be suspicious of Movement enthusiasm
for the Labor policy of the decade. Not
for Movement members a suspicion of
SEATO or other defence pacts, reduced
defence expenditure or a foreign policy
which they believed smacked of neutral-
ism. The study programmes on foreign
and domestic issues and the solutions
arrived at in the Movement cells were
indeed alienating a considerable body of
opinion from the Labor Party, even
today tenacious in its disaffection.
Man Without an Hour
Allan Dalziel
(Former private secretary to Dr Evatt)
T was in his chambers at Darlinghurst
on the day in August, 1940 that he
announced his resignation from the High
Court. From that time on till he resigned
from the House of Representatives in
April, 1960, to become Chief Justice of
NSW I served him as private secretary.
His entry into Federal politics gave the
Labor Party a tremendous electoral fillip.
He used to say over coffee at the end
of campaign meetings: “We are at the
end of a trend.” Great was his disappoint-
ment when the Opposition led by the
late John Curtin just missed out in captur-
ing the Government. He said again and
again that he had returned to active
political life to help the war effort. He
was like a caged lion as he paced the
floor in his old Denman Chambers, in
Phillip Street, Sydney, with their shelves
of musty law tomes.
At one stage he felt his frustrations
so keenly that he secretly canvassed the
possibilities of Labor entering a national
government with R. G. Menzies. This
idea reached the ears of Curtin and was
promptly squashed. So impatient did
Evatt become that even in his short term
on the Opposition benches he talked of
resigning and getting out.
He was to drive his personal staff
and departmental officers to the point of
utter physical exhaustion and mental
distraction by his methods of work. Con-
fusion and chaos more often than not
marked the preparation of speeches and
statements. He never lost sight of things
near and dear to his heart. Irascible, im-
patient, without a capacity to bind loyal
and devoted followers, who wanted
nothing from him, in a warm bond of
fellowship, Dr Evatt seemed to think that
there was a legal formula for all politico-
social problems. I recall on one occasion
entering his large office at the Common-
wealth Bank, Martin Place, where he was
in conversation with a Federal judge. I
wanted to let him know that a case,
which we had been fighting for months,
to get an old Digger in his electorate
a TPI pension, had been won. He smiled
and wryly commented to the Judge: “Dal
thinks it is just as important to win a
case of this kind as it is for me to win
an appeal to the Privy Council or gain
a point at the Security Council of the
United Nations.” To which I replied to
the effect that if he did not win justice
for the little people in his electorate he
would soon find that they had no
interest in him representing them in
Barton and, consequently he would have
no platform from which to enter the
wider world stage.
This was a problem with him —to
bring him to see the relationship of
justice for the individual as against a
more abstract kind which conceived of
saving mankind in the mass. To his credit
was the establishment, while Attorney-
General, of the Legal Service Bureau
which rendered yeoman service to mem-
bers of the fighting forces.
Evatt’s true worth cannot be assessed
against the backdrop of Australian party
politics. In Britain he would have been
evaluated for his qualities of mind and
tenacity of purpose. In the USA “your
Doctor Evatt”, as they called him, was
widely known and there his contribution
to world problems recognised and ap-
preciated. I think of him today in the
lounge-room of his old home today in the
seated at the piano playing and singing
his great favorite, “The Old Hundredth”.
At times he may have been off key, but
he played and sang with gusto.
George McGann
(Journalist)
Last June, when I was in San Fran*
cisco for the 20th anniversary
meeting of the United Nations, the
ghosts of 1945 seemed more vivid than
the men of 1945. Most of all I remem-
bered Doc Evatt. As correspondent for
the Australian Associated Press I spent
most of my days and much of my nights,
since I was writing for both morning and
evening newspapers, in the ample wake
of the delegate from Australia.
That took a bit of doing, since the
Australian was busy on and off and
behind the scenes, day and night, in a
one-man show of activity unparalleled in
the ranks of the 50 founding nations.
Doc Evatt’s brilliant legal mind and his
quick tongue were never still. He was
a member of every important committee
and unofficial adviser to every other
committee. A virtual unknown on the
world scene when he came to San Fran-
cisco, Herbert Vere Evatt soon became
a name as celebrated as that of Molotov
or Stettinius or Halifax. He cultivated
the world Press, and completely won
over the American writers at a huge
Press conference by using baseball lingo
to make his points. Doctor Evatt soon
won the title “champion of the small
nations” for his exploits in standing up
to the major delegations, particularly the
Russians, in defence of democratic pro-
cedures.
The many-sided doctor, whose ap-
preciation of sport was as quick as his
grasp of a legal point, w'as easily the
most popular delegate with the vast
Press corps gathered at San Francisco.
At the end of the conference the doctor’s
Press aide, Charlie Buttrose, and I
headed up a Press committee for a
reception in honor of Evatt.
The highlight of an unforgettable
night was an informal off-the-record talk
by the guest of honor. What made the
talk equally unforgettable was the fact
that it was delivered, at considerable
length, and punctuated by laughter and
great applause, as the good doctor main-
tained a well-filled glass of whisky in
perfect balance atop his head. Yes, I
remember Doc Evatt. There was no one
to match him at San Francisco 20 years
later.
Donald Horne
(Author of “The Lucky Country”)
T'lr Evatt was a Man Without an Hour.
He had some of those characteristics
that are praised when they are associ-
ated with success and damned when they
are associated w'ith failure. To dramatise
the point: he had some of the talents
that were despised in Churchill when
he was out of office and that were


CTB32
is your
uniform
as neat
as your
nylons?
sf^>
»CUSA«
■
When it’s made of Cesarella it is! New
Cesarella is woven from Toray Tetoron
and Viscose to make the softest,
silkiest, neatest, smartest uniforms
you’ve ever worn. Lustrous
Cesarella pleats permanently,
resists creasing, drips-dry to
original stylish beauty. Be
neat and smart all the
time, insist on Cesarella
for all your uniforms —
the fashion’s there
to stay!
the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Toraij TETOEOH 0
POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
idolised when he was Prime Minister.
The same immense appetite for the ex-
citements of power, for coterie govern-
ment, for improvisation, for impetuous
intervention, for transmitting enthusiasm
(and hatred); the same desire to cut a
figure in history.
But these characteristics useful at
the right moment were mostly wasted.
Perhaps they were most usefully brought
into play ir, his earliest period in office
when he really drove the Americans
hard in Australia’s interest. Even all of
the subsequent fuss about Australia’s
voice being heard in the councils of the
world —unfashionable as h has now be-
come —was, despite its eccentricities, an
example of an alternative, gustier and
more “Asian”-type diplomacy that might
still some day be useful to us.
He was, of course, unlucky. To
history this is inexcusable. But it was
more than bad luck that took away his
place in history. Unlike Churchill, he
was a bad loser. He was haunted by
feelings of persecution. Unlike Churchill,
but like so many other Australian
politicians, he could not communicate
simply and imaginatively to the ordinary
people. Unlike Churchill he did not find
one central driving idea that could fix
itselt to some great occasion. The one
idea that did drive him for a while in
the 1950 s drove both him and his party
to ruin. But perhaps at that stage he
was already becoming a victim to the
beginnings of his long, sad physical dis-
solution.
F. E. Chamberlain
(ALP Secretary, WA Branch)
T'he death of Dr Evatt marks the
passing of a great Australian and an
outstanding internationalist. He could
well be described as the great defender.
His appearances in the courts to defend
Communist officials and his part in the
Petrov Commission illustrated in a
dramatic manner his obsession to pro-
tect and preserve basic human rights.
He was not a politician, but he was a
giant in politics. His maxim, that all
were entitled to defence at law, led him
into situations where no politician would
have ventured. This was the measure of
his greatness. His finest hour was un-
doubtedly the crusade he led and won
on the question of granting constitutional
powers to the National Parliament to
enable it to make laws for the suppres-
sion of the Communist Party. He saw
this move as a general threat to civil
liberties,
His work in the early years of the
United Nations has secured for him a
place in history. I had the privilege of
being a member of the Australian delega-
tion led by him to the Commonwealth
Socialist Parties Conference in London
in 1957, and as a consequence witnessed
at first hand his standing in the eyes of
the representatives of the small countries
which were painfully struggling towards
independence. ' The split which took
place in the ALP in 1955 was seen by Dr
Evatt as a division on fundamental.think-
ing, involving questions of civil liberties
and international relationships. His
intense advocacy for summit talks with
Russia in the early ’fifties brought
opprobrium. So did his strong pleadings
for China to be seated in the United
Nations.
J. J. Dedman
(Member of Curtin’s War Cabinet )
T remember Evatt for. his courage an 4
his brilliant mind. When Evatt
stepped down from the High Court to
contest Barton he was taking a huge
risk. His sacrifice if he had lost would
have been great. He believed he could
do a job for Australia in a time of peril
and he took the risk. There would not
have been a Labor Government later
without this.
Evatt’s performances in the Curtin


War Cabinet made even his strongest
critics admit his brilliance, his tremen-
dous mental capacity and the value of
his clear, logical mind. As External
Affairs Minister he reported to us regu-
larly on the political cables pouring in
from our allies and other quarters. I
remember being amazed by his grasp of
every subject. He would read on and
on through a stack of cables and then,
in an almost offhand way, remark, “The
gist of this is so and so . . .” or “The
important point is this.” He could put
his finger on the vital matter with what
seemed the utmost ease.
Dr Evatt was the ideal man for Curtin
to send to the US to win support for
Australia and to the UK to counter any
tendency to regard Australia as expend-
able. Evatt hated flying but made
numerous dangerous journeys because
the job had to be done. One important
weakness of Evatt was in economic
matters. I thought he was very woolly
about economics generally. But even
here his capacity for work was immense.
His performance on the Bank National-
isation legislation was incredible. Chifley
told him what he wanted and Evatt, who
had never tackled this field before,
staggered us all by producing the legisla-
tion in a matter of days.
Cyril Wyndham
(Federal Secretary, ALP)
Dr H. V. Evatt’s accomplishments in
so many varied and diverse fields
will in themselves endure as lasting
monuments to his name. His legal
opinions have stood and will stand the test
of time; his patronage of the arts led him
to nurture and encourage young and
struggling artists; his love of sport pro-
vided him with an occasional rest from
the many arduous duties he performed;
his courage and dedication as a Minister
of the wartime Cabinet is shown in his
determination to get the arms required
to defend an Australia which he loved so
much. As a political leader he fought
tenaciously and untiringly for principles
which he held dear.
At no time did he give thought to
his personal reputation or safety. If the
issue was right, he fought it out to the
bitter end regardless of the personal
consequences. Yet despite his intellectual
brilliance, his tremendous knowledge and
scholastic accomplishment he was never
arrogant, bitter or petty. Through all his
activities flowed a kindness and warmth
for the individual which was never for-
gotten no matter the pressure or tense-
ness of any situation. Faults he had;
but they were the faults of a warm and
sincere personality and they added to his
greatness as a man. He provoked con-
troversy, inspired loyalty, and earned the
respect of even those who opposed him.
Ramsey on Rhodesia
“The Tory Party at prayer ”
By IVAN YATES
Dr Michael Ramsey knows now' that when it comes to controversy, it is almost
impossible for an Archbishop of Canterbury to be right.
If he says nothing, he will be criticised for his silence. But if he speaks, he is
sure to have got his timing wrong. If he takes a strong line, he will be told to stick
to his last and leave party politics to party politicians. If he enunciates broad moral
principles, he is invariably accused of playing safe with windy generalities and pious
platitudes. But if he goes into detail, he will be reminded that only the experts, those
on the spot, actually engaged in the task in hand, are in a position to do that.
Inevitably, whatever he says, he will be told he is interfering, making things difficult.
Whatever the merits of Dr Ramsey’s
reference at Aberdeen last week to the
possible use of “force” in Rhodesia, he
can comfort himself with the thought
that it is not by its occasional in-
discretions that the Church of England
has lost caste but by its settled habit of
discretion.
Michael Ramsey is not a schoolmaster
but a don and a professor by training,
and he still has the ways and the tem-
perament of a don. More reflective,
more careful, less inclined to pontificate,
he is not just interested in religion,
he is religious. Alone among recent
Primates he finds the time to write and
to lecture on purely theological issues.
He likes to consider his position. He
does not rush unawares into situations.
What, then, if anything, went wrong at
Aberdeen?
Normally, when Dr Ramsey goes any-
where, he takes one of his chaplains
with him. If his mission lies abroad
he was in Rumania a month or two ago
—he may be escorted by one of his
three advisers on foreign relations. Cer-
tainly, he will be well briefed before he
goes.
This is part of the apparatus of
Anglicanism. It is the ethos of the Estab-
lished Church that it privately advises
and is privately advised, while the Free
Churches are used to speaking out loud
and waiting in public deputations.
Dr Ramsey went to Aberdeen as Arch-
bishop but when he got there he acted
as President of the British Council
of Churches: the interdenominational,
ecumenical body of Christian Churches
founded by Archbishop Temple and
others in 1942, and ever since, by grace
and favor, presided over by successive
Archbishops of Canterbury. At Aber-
deen, therefore, Anglicans were in a
minority, and the Free Churches in a
majority.
The Archbishop was unattended. Had
he taken his staff with him, it might
have been thought he was seeking to
overawe, to lord it over the rest.
This is not to say that Dr Ramsey
was out of his depth or did not know


Pick, cu pouch, oj
AMPHORA
gentle
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
•'»: m
FULL AROMATIC! SAl7 i
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos —■ all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
I PRODUCT IF OOUWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, OTRECHT, HOLLAR*
what he was talking about. He spoke
with rare feeling, exercising his right—
for the first time that anyone could recall
to intervene from the chair, towards
the end of the three-and-a-half-hour
debate. But he was operating out of his
usual milieu and would have had every
excuse for overlooking the unique atten-
tion which attaches even today to what
is said by the Primate of All England.
It cannot always be easy for him to
remember that even when he is wearing
his ecumenical hat he is reported to be
speaking as Archbishop of Canterbury.
The firm attitude of the British Coun-
cil of Churches to Rhodesia, which the
Archbishop’s speech reflected, goes back
some way. Ever since the birth of the
Central African Federation in 1953 it
has taken a consistently strong line in
Rhodesia. In those days, its resolutions
were strongly influenced by the radical
element in the Church of Scotland, which
had more or less founded Nyasaland.
But for some years they were passed
over the opposition of Archbishop Fisher,
then the Council’s President.
The use of force
17isher himself seemed to change his
tune later, and when Ramsey suc-
ceeded him he, too, accepted the BCC
line, which became tougher as the
African nationalists became more bitter.
But last week, when Ramsey was speak-
ing out so strongly, the Church of Scot-
land was in the minority. The explana-
tion appears to be that, after the Federa-
tion broke up, the Church of Scotland’s
representatives came less from its Over-
seas Missions committee it has no
missions in Rhodesia than from the
more conservative Church and Nation
committee: its delegates last week in-
cluded Lord Balerno, the Earl of
Wemyss and the Duchess of Hamilton.
The Rhodesian resolution passed by
the Council at Aberdeen —by 60 votes
to five—was the child of the Joint Inter-
national Department of the Council and
the Conference of British Missionary
Societies. After a draft had been got
up within the Department, it was debated
at a weekend conference towards the end
of September by about 30 people, lay
and clerical, of all denominations, and
unanimously agreed. It was again con-
sidered twice in October. Like all the
Department’s work, it was the product
both of considerable research and of
direct overseas experience. (The contro-
versial report on “The Future of South
Africa”, published last year, ran to 170
pages.)
The September conference had before
it the report of an equivalent conference
°f Churches in Rhodesia last August,
attended on behalf of the World Coun-
cil of Churches by Dr Martin Niemoeller.
The report had this to say about the use
of violence:—•
“In order to change an unjust situa-
tion, we agree that a non-violent
course of action is always preferable
to a violent one. We also recognise
that historically there has always been
sincere disagreement among Christians
as to whether or not there are human
situations in which Christian people
are left no alternative but to resort to
violence in order to achieve justice.
We note that the Church has respected
both positions, and the right and duty
of every Christian to follow his con-
science.”
It was in this context that the Coun-
cil’s resolution was finally shaped, and,
according to a telegram received in Aber-
deen last week, was approved by the
Rhodesian Council of Churches. As has
been said elsewhere, it did not advocate
the use of force, or even mention the
word. But it did emphasise, twice over,
that in the event of UDI, and also in
the event of a failure to persuade the
Rhodesian Government to implement
Mr Wilson’s five principles or to take
part in a constitutional conference, the
British Government should be ready, if
necessary, to resume responsibility for
government in Rhodesia. The implica-
tion that the use of force might be
necessary is unavoidable —and Dr Ram-
sey did not seek to avoid it.
The resolution, however, was not
weighted one way. It suggested that in
order to protect the white Rhodesians
under majority rule from racialist legisla-
tion, the Commonwealth might be asked
to guarantee the human rights provisions
of the new Rhodesian Constitution.
Moreover, it advocated that Britain
should help with compensation any
Rhodesians who decided to emigrate to
another Commonwealth country.
One of the principal underlying
thoughts behind the resolution was that
it was better to take action at the start
than, by weakness and lack of foresight,
to be faced later with the confusion and
bloodshed which would result from
countering creeping UDI by a policy of
graduated sanctions. That, it was felt,
was the wrong moral choice. At the
back of some minds, too, was the fear
that the Commonwealth Relations Office
wanted to be shot of the whole situation,
to save the Government further embar-
rassment at the United Nations.
It was realised that Christians in
Rhodesia were divided, just as they are
here. The Bishop of Mashonaland, Dr
Cecil Alderson, has dissented firmly and
publicly from his colleagues’ support for
the Aberdeen resolution. He comes from
an older generation and reached Rho-
desia not from England but from South


J
m
i
m
wM
ft
■-•■■■■■ ■•'• ■
,:.• . .
BIG LOADERS! TOUGH
mm
■
m m
m
% i
.
. -
••:;:•• :*: ; , -:-|;.;-;X. : : x.
r>i
SI
■ I
m
m.
xm&ss.
| j
4;.;,.;; : v.,„. v 4
MSI
TOYOTA DYNA 2 TON (top)-TOYOTA 25 1 TON (above)
TWO tough ones. One-ton Toyota 25,
two-ton Toyota Dyna have more practical
reasons why you should buy than any
other light truck on the market today.
Load space for one: More usable carrying
space than trucks anywhere near their
size or price. Toughness, too: Toyota’s
own kind of rugged construction that’s
built to take the year ’round pounding of
hard truck work. Reliability: No fancy
ideas—just sound, proven truck design
to do the job you want and to be rarely
off the road. Plenty of power: Toyota 25
—55 b.h.p. and Toyota Dyna—Bs b.h.p.,
both have enough power to do the job
with ample reserve, but give the kind
of money-saving economy that means
the difference between profit and loss.
And no wasted power either. If you’re
truck buying, give both these Toyotas the
once over at your local Toyota dealer, it’s
money in your pocket all the way.
TOYOTA DYNA is especially suitable for mount-
ing special bodies. Standard model has a long,
wide cargo deck with a loading area of 65
square feet. Vacuum booster brakes for safe,
powerful stopping power with light pedal
pressure, even under full load.
TOYOTA 25. This remarkable forward-control
1-ton truck, with its large body and low
loading, meets every transport need in its
field. Steel or wooden tray body. Economically
priced and cheap to operate. 54 square feet
of long, wide cargo deck.
00 FOMA and gotyoor money's worth!
D25.8.FP


King
GeorgelV
simply
superb
V'±? '
As' - Aj>»'ps
i "... ... !• A;
! “T^l
/V
ii 4 > 1
■!>««#»
that’s the sum
total of it!
Experienced whisky drinkers the world
over rank King George IV Old Scotch as
“simply superb.” Bom in the majestic blend
of finest Highland Malt and other Scotch
Whiskies. Matured to mellow perfection in
seasoned wood. A legendary taste. Discover
for yourself the sum total excellence of . . .
Kituj George IV
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
The Distillers Agency Ltd. (Inc. in Great Britain)
9521
KG29.1Q2
Africa and, no doubt, finds the contrast
markedly more favorable.
Even the grimmest situation produces
its light relief, and that was provided
by last week’s attack on the Archbishop
for his “ham-handedness” by Canon John
Collins, of all people. Like Lord Soper,
Canon Collins is opposed to Dr Ramsey
on pacifist grounds. Christian Action
announced last week that it “desires that
all involved in the crisis in Southern
Rhodesia should follow the way of non-
violence to achieve their objectives”.
There is no doubt that Dr Ramsey—
like the Rhodesian Church leaders
respects that desire.
What is in doubt is how many people
respect the Archbishop’s view. It would
be ironic—and some would think tragic
—if last week’s reactions to his speech
were to deter him from ever again speak-
ing out in clear, unambiguous terms. He
is known to be sensitive to criticism,
especially from within his own flock.
But he is also firm, even obstinate, when
his mind is made up. There was some
indication of this when, within 12 hours
of his return from Aberdeen, he was
jousting with Lord Dilhorne, in the
House of Lords, in support of Lord
Arran’s Bill to implement the Wolfen-
den proposals on homosexuality.
Altogether, recently it has seemed
almost another age since the days when
the Church of England was well described
as “the Tory Party at prayer”, (ofns)
Two Elections
New York
XU ith the din of political oratory only
" a memory, the ballots counted and
the campaign leaflets swept up, these
were the principal conclusions that
emerged from last week’s American
city and State elections:
(1) That Congressman John Lindsay,
as a result of his upset victory in
the New York City Mayoralty race,
greatly enhanced his position as a
national figure and bolstered the
city’s Republican and reform forces
at the expense of the old-time Demo-
cratic machine “bosses”.
(2) That on the State level the 1966
gubernatorial picture was scrambled,
with Lindsay looming as a threat
to Governor Rockefeller’s Republi-
can leadership and Senator Robert
Kennedy apparently the unchallenged
leader, for the moment, at least, of
the Democrats.
(3) That, nationally, the Republicans had
begun to rebound from the Gold-
water debacle of last year, but still
had a long way to go, particularly in
view of the continued warfare be-
tween the moderates and the con-
servatives.
Nevertheless, the defeat breathed new
life into the city’s moderate Republicans
who had not had a major triumph since
the tenure of Mayor Fiorello La Guardia
from 1934 to 1945. At the same time
the result was a direct rebuff to the
Democratic machine which had ruled the
city ever since La Guardia’s departure.
For Lindsay personally his star shines
brightly on the political scene. One mid-
western party member described him as
the hottest property in the Republican
Party”. He is considered a top con-
tender for the Presidential or Vice-Presi-
dential candidacy. But because he
pledged to serve out his four-year term
as mayor there is a widespread view that
he may not make a move for higher
office, at least till the Governorship in
1970, or the Presidency in 1972. On
the latter situation pundits visualise a
great battle between him and Robert
Kennedy.
Israel
jT|AViD Ben-Gurion is 79 and some of
his critics think it is time he retired
from Israeli politics. Most of them, how-
ever, have been loathe to broach the
subject directly with him. Last week Ben-
Gurion received what was interpreted as
a sharp rebuff at the polls. But the tough-
minded former Premier clearly was un-
daunted.
Two days after Ben-Gurion suffered
his electoral defeat he told his cheering
audience of political supporters that he
would continue to fight the “stupid and
corrupt regime” of Prime Minister Levi
Eshkol, the man Ben-Gurion selected
two years ago to succeed him.
Eshkol, meanwhile, was preparing to
welcome the delegations of party leaders
whose smaller Knesset (Parliament)
blocs would fill out the next coalition.
Its makeup was fairly certain—a Left to
centre grouping dominated by socialist
parties and wide enough to dispense with
possible troublemakers. But what was
absolutely certain was that it would be
led by the seventy-year-old Mr Eshkol.
Where did the election leave Ben-
Gurion? “Apparently still worshipped by
one hundred thousand Israelis,” one
observer commented, referring to the
share of the vote won by Ben-Gurion’s
Rafi Party. “In a political wilderness of
his own making,” said another. The
election results told the story. Eshkol’s
coalition won 43 seats and Ben-Gurion’s
group 10 in the 120-seat Parliament. The
remaining seats are fragmented among
a variety of parties
(From the “New York Times”)


CORPORATION LIMITED
interest up to
7k
paid quarterly
DEBENTURE STOCK
2 YEARS 6i%
3 YEARS 7%
5 YEARS 7i%
6-10 YEARS 7i%
UNSECURED NOTES
3 MONTHS 5i%
2 YEARS 7%
3 YEARS 7i%
OTHER RATES ON APPLICATION
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms referred
to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus which
is now available from:
Any branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
or
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Any member of
A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
or the Underwriters
ORD MINNETT, T. J.
THOMPSON & PARTNERS
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE LTD.
CC2.53.105
portfolic
Color pictures on page 3 of
Sculptors: Good Second-raters?
Smoothing the path for a new generation
By BILL HANNAN
Whenever the general state of
Australian sculpture is discussed,
it is usually deplored. Critics and
public complain of its scarcity and lack
of vitality. Sculptors themselves complain
of the same things, and add that there is
insufficient recognition of what is being
done.
By overseas standards, even in terms
of comparative quantity, these complaints
are probably well-founded. By local
standards, too, it is true that sculpture is
not so fertile a field as painting, though
it might stand comparison with some
other of the arts. But it is wrong to call
sculpture here moribund. Over the past
few years contemporary sculpture has
been established by quite a number of
good sculptors and there is some evi-
dence that their work will make things
much easier for younger sculptors.
Some of the reasons for sculpture’s
late growth should be obvious to visitors
to the touring exhibition of Recent Aus-
tralian Sculpture at the State Galleries.
The absence of any continuing local
tradition is striking. The number of Euro-
pean-born sculptors is equally striking.
Most of our important sculptors, in short,
have had all or a major part of their
formation in Europe. They reflect there-
fore a continually dating internationalism,
which, lacking strong local stimulus,
tends to become too withdrawn.
The chief feature of this withdrawal is
the preponderance of formalism and of
concentration on materials; and it is
probably this which will most inhibit
young sculptors, who otherwise enjoy the
best conditions yet available to sculptors:
good teaching, ready opportunities to
travel, a public demanding innovation,
and sound formal values established by a
previous, and still active, generation. If,
as seems likely, young sculptors do reject
much of the current formalism, it is to be
hoped that they remember that the
present senior and most prolific sculptors
are putting down the firmest foundation
yet laid for the flourishing of sculpture
in this country.
Further, it must be remembered that
within any serious art there is always
ferment. It may not be sufficient to pro-
duce great work, but it will always create
variety. Although the major trend in
recent Australian sculpture may be
generally typified as formal or abstract,
there are very significant differences
among the type:. of abstraction. There
is, too, a persistent, and recently strength,
ened, vein of figure sculpture.
Probably the type of abstraction best
known to the public is our slowly multi,
plying architectural sculpture. At its best,
as in Gerald Lewers’ ICI fountain, it
cultivates a taste for clean, Luid geo-
metrical abstraction, expressive of the
solid, civic optimism which must belong
to commercial and public buildings,
Similarly, the simplified lines of menu-
mental figure sculpture, like that of
Lyndon Dadswell, keep alive the decora-
tive and idealistic values which have long
been characteristic of monumental
sculpture. Commissions of this kind do in
fact almost fully occupy some of our best
sculptors’ time Margel Hinder, for
instance. There would be many sculptors,
however, wary of spending too much of
their time on public sculpture, for con-
temporary studio sculpture is commonly
very different in spirit.
One of the dominant preoccupations of
recent Australian sculpture has been with
the enclosure of space and the pene-
tration of space into mass. The principal
exponents of this ascetic kind of abstrac-
tion have beer Clement Meadmore, (now
in America), Vincas Jomantas, Julius
Kane (died 1962 at the age of 41) and
Inge King. The aim will be most readily
grasped in Meadmore’s and King’s work,
mainly because they use sheet steel.
Meadmore’s irregular steel boxes espec-
ially, are, for their size, remarkably
imposing. They should convince anyone
who doubts that he can be drawn into an
enclosed space and feel its expanses and
constrictions. All four of these are erudite
and articulate sculptors who announce
their interests clearly through their work.
The contract with this spatia l manipu-
lation among abstractionists comes from
those who model solid free forms, often
with great attention to surface and
material. I am thinking here particularly
of Lenton Parr, Clifford Last, Max Lyle
and to a lesser degree, Norma Redpatf
and Robert Klippel. In the first three in
particular, the material (wood with Clif-
ford Last, steel with the other two) ' s
especially important. This is not surpns-


mm
UUe have a hunch you’re ready
for a twin tab collar
Take a fresh slant at a twin-tab? We
have. We looked at this cunning
collar and decided to simplify it.
The result? Gone is that bothersome
little stud. In its place? One easy
press clip that’s attached to the
collar. For good. It’s one of the
reasons why we think you're now
ready to try a twin-tab. The other?
Pure intuition. If 25% of American
males have taken to wearing this
kind of collar (and they have) then
sooner or later, Australians too will
get the urge to get with it.
How many times in the past have
you flipped your lid when you lost
your top button? Take heart. With a
twin-tab collar you can't. In fact,
you can adjust it faster than you can
say “Smartstay” (we had to get the
name of our shirt in somehow)
Press the clip and you’ve got it.
Neatly does it. Comfortable, too,
HOLEPROOF
smart-stay
and it stays this way all day. Now
for the hard sell. The cuff has a split
personality: button it up one day
Link it the next. The colour? Taste-
ful shades of blue and fawn, and, of
course, white. At 69/6, how can you
resist this pressing invitation to buy
one. Where? Wherever you shop.
4i
FOR THE MAN
WITH THE CLEAN CUT LOOK


\
Quite
Took 169
years to get here
Made a lot
I of friends on
the way.
■1
New here,
aren’t you?
-A. S
m
mm
-
swtim ' ' 1 ~^HP
*M i*WWt i OB»«. nHHUIU'-Wt 'B»' Ljf j[
IP
at
ays!
SfisSSl
&
r. . -
r . Mite,-
C! HR
London, Paris, New York, Singapore and Hong Kong ... in fact 120 countries
throughout the world know the 169 year old secret. It's Harveys unique art of blend-
ing. Now, you too can discover it in Harveys Aspen Cream, blended especially
for Australia by Harveys of Bristol, England . . . makers of fine sherries since 1796.
V
Mr. John C. T. Harvey, now in Australia on
behalf of a magnificent wine
Harveys Cream is a Sweet. Also ask for Harveys Medium Dry and Harveys Extra Dry . . . whichever suits your taste.


SCULPTURE
IN
AUSTRALIA
Melbourne High School students at Recent Australian
Sculpture Exhibition touring all capital cities.
FALCONER, CERAMIC Height 10"
HERMIA BOYD
SITTER, BRONZE Height 54"
VINCAS JOMANTAS
MEMORIES OF A TASMANIAN
LANDSCAPE, BRONZE
Height 54" STEPHEN WALKER
STEEL JUNK SCULPTURE Height 16" ROBERT KLIPPEL
ALL PICTURES EXCEPT THAT
OF HERMIA BOYD’S FALCONER.
BY BRIAN MCAROLE
WIND ON THE BEACH, BRONZE
Height 23½" STEPHEN WALKER
DANCER, CEMENT Height 68"
GEORGE BALDESSIN
DAWN SENTINEL, BRONZE
Height 80" NORMA REDPATH
FIRE BIRD, WELDED STEEL
Height 114" MAX LYLE


mm&wm
||§jj|
■
•-
■.
.4* ■'' *#" >■■
Mi
~
.
For summer entertaining
play it cool
with mcuuiLLmm’S cocktails
McWiliiam’s Cocktails are the easy way to successful en-
tertaining. With the range of palate-pleasing McWilliam’s
Cocktails available, you mix long drinks as easily as this:
14 oz. Cocktail, fill tall glass with cold lemonade or ginger
ale. If desired, you can embellish with ice and a slice of
lemon or cucumber rind. Serve ice cold.
V
V
"11HA * r
\
.
y
v
%
ft:
SIX PALATE-PLEASING FLAVOURS TO CHOOSE FROM
Cherry, Tropical Fruit, Banana, Apricot, Manhattan,
Martini
mmm
CHERRY
COCKTAIL


perfection
!P= gs "'
•If
Give Your Slides ‘'Paximat Per-
fection” Treatment. For extra col-
our brilliance, superior optical
systems . . . coolness and ease of
operation . . . magazine load . . .
reliability and largest range of
lenses to suit you. See your slides
large as life, twice as colourful.
Regular or quartz iodine projec-
tion lamps. Discriminating people
choose Paximat world’s largest
selling projector.
Paximat Triumph 4 models
Give ample illumination for nor-
mal home use, cool running, pop
free, jam proof operation.
• 300 W model £36.0.0 ($72)
• 12V/IQOW Cold light £42 ($B4)
• 24/150W (same light as from
the DeLuxe N 24) £47.0.0 ($94)
• or popularly priced Pico 12V/
50W cold light
£29.15.0 ($59.50c)
Paximat DeLuxe N 24
World’s most up to date model . . .
fully automatic . . . variable self timing
device ... remote control focus . . .
forward and reverse slide change. “Cold
light” 24V, 150 W lamps yield light
output of I,OOOW . . . interchangeable
lens . . . synchronised for tape re-
corder commentary.
• Paximat DeLuxe N 24, £79.10.0 ($159)
• Paximat super N 24, same as DeLuxe,
but without self-timer £72.10.0
($145)
Paximat Electrorcutic 300 W
The classic automatic model 300 W light
output gives 500 W brilliance. Remote
control focusing and forward and re-
verse slide change . . . interchangeable
2.8 lens attachable to tape recorder.
Only £54.4.0 ($108.40c).
. SEE THEM-AT ALL LEADING CAMERA DEALERS
FREE brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTY. LTD.
153 Barkly Street, EAST BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38 6922.
ing, of course, in a carver, who must
painfully coax from his material the form
he sees within it. With the steel workers,
however, there is an element of imposed
restriction. Parr attempts to get elegance
and lightness from a rigid, heavy material,
and his resulting insect-like shapes do
seem to pick their way purposefully
through space. Max Lyle, at least in
“Firebird”, treats his steel as though he
were crumpling and tearing paper.
Robert Klippel, by using junk steel, has
taken the transformation of material even
farther. It is one of the surprises of sculp-
ture that he has not had more imitators,
although actually the increasing use of
durable plastics probably reflects similar
interests, as does the painters’ use of solid
objects in thei. work. Junk sculpture has
above much other sculpture the advan-
tage of comparative speed of assembly. It
is notably less deliberate in its conception
and more varied in its result In Klippel’s
hands junk metal acquires unadorned
elegance and highly refined complexity.
In my view, it is the most pleasing sculp-
ture yet done in Australia.
Although Norma Redpath’s huge
bronzes might be classed as free-form
abstractions, it is instructive. I think, to
remember that she is also a landscape
sculptor, and shares in quite a strong
movement which could grow in impor-
tance. The landscape has always power-
fully influenced Australian art, with good
reason. In Norma Redpath’s flamboyant,
heroic pieces and Stephen Walker’s
slightly more naturalistic and refined
studies, we do get the beginnings of a
distinctly local adaption of a modern
style. Moreover, unlike most of the studio
sculptors mentioned so far, these two cast
in bronze
The young sculptors who have so far
exhibited follow this shift of emphasis
from material to subject. Of these George
Baldessin has made the biggest impression
and with the most traditional and fecund
of all subjects the human figure.
Though somewhat eclipsed as a subject,
the figure has remained quite strong
through Herbert Flugelman, Herman
Hohaus, George Luke, Anthony Wood-
cock, Teisutis Zikaris and Leonard
Shillam. For the most part their interest
has concentrated on the forma, values of
the figure, but the comparatively younger
George Luke has also attempted the rep-
resentative or symbolic figure, like his
‘Don Quixote” in the touring exhibition.
It is nonetheless the work of the youngest
man, George Baldessin, which reflects
most the growing importance of the
human figure as a subject.
What is important about Baldessin’s
still quite slight output is that it adds a
necessary dimension to the subject mat-
ter of sculpture. It emphasises more
strongly than an> other work the human-
>stic content of art. If, in doing this, it
makes man often seem tortured, maimed
or abject it is not doing anything very
different from other art forms.
It may be over-optimistic to take this
work, and the occasional piece in an
exhibition, as a sign of what the coming
generation will be like. There is undoubt-
edly still a long gap between the impor-
tant sculptors who have established con-
temporary sculpture and the generation
which will succeed them. We could not,
I believe, have asked more from the
present generation of mature sculptors:
they have founded a traaition of stand-
ards, they are deeply involved in teaching,
and they have survived massive indiffer-
ence along with the usual economic
difficulties oi the medium.
Even in that most obvious field of
patronage civic and industrial com-
missioning the best sculptors have
often been overlooked. We do not have
enough good sculptors to afford the
luxury of ignorance. Furthermore, second
rate imports have been commissioned. As
one Melbourne sculptor put it: “By
overseas standards we are second rate,
but we are no worse than second-rate
sculptors overseas.”


In a Category of Their Own
The deserted wife a problem to herself , at least
She’s a perennial problem —to her-
self. I know. I’ve joined the ranks.
Statistics, those inhuman figures
which are able to bestow detachment
on many human activities, show us that
the numbers are on the increase. The
social problem grows alarmingly with
each year, and the deserted wife now
forms a categorised section of our com-
munity.
Women, who have been led to expect
that their joys and sorrows would be
shared until death parted them from the
men they married, are forced to face
miseries which previously they felt could
not be their lot.
They are not all blind romantics who
dreamt that marriage would provide
them with their happy-ever-afters, but
women, varying in type, personality,
social level, ambition, in fact, in every
possible characteristic, who had no in-
sight into their own inadequacies or those
of their chosen partners.
In the majority of cases, the financial
problems of the deserted wife are terrify-
ing. Usually there are children of depen-
dent age pre-school infants, school-
children, teenagers all to be provided
for from a sadly reduced budget. The
subsequent change in living standards is
enormous. She would be a strikingly iso-
lated deserted wife with a strikingly
sainted deserting husband who was able
to maintain the standard enjoyed by a
unified family.
It is never suggested by anyone who
enters this matrimonial arena that the
husband’s way of life should be lowered.
Agreed, he earns the hard cash, but a
woman’s work is never done. Irksome
as this well-worn platitude must sound in
a husband’s ear, like all platitudes, it
contains truth.
The deserted wife could belong to
the elite of married women who enjoy
a private income, but her problems and
insecurities would still be there, the edges
blunted by the knowledge of money in
the bank her bank. From my observa-
tions this has always given her a touch
of confidence not enjoyed by other
women, but let us not underestimate her
difficulties.
Nothing can strip a woman more
cruelly than to be left, shaken off, dis-
carded abandoned. Regardless of
provocation, regardless of the pressures
brought to bear (frequently by another
woman), the husband who deserts his own
leaves a long path of hopelessness and
despair to be trodden by his wife. His
children, who have more resilience, need
it. The adjustment to a manless house for
growing children is more difficult for
them to make than many people would
care to believe.
My youngest child is eight, my eldest
12. Too old to be unaware of the
change in their homes, if that is ever
the case, too young to comprehend the
adult world where their father is able to
justify his actions.
Even though your remoteness may
leave you untouched by the tales of the
little girl who cries nightly for her own
father to kiss her goodnight in her own
bed, or by the boy whose father is never
there to lend first-aid to the woebegone
efforts which are produced in the work-
shop, every deserted wife is forced to
witness these constant sorrows in her
children.
Part of a mother’s role is to prop and
give encouragement under any circum-
stances. When she is continually harassed
by financial pressures, by responsibilities
such as the unaided maintenance of house
and garden, a job to hold down, and the
most uncertain of futures for herself and
children, she needs the physical resources
of a lion, and the mental stability of a
colossus.
Usually her physical health deterior-
ates. A toothache can become a major
catastrophe, no matter which member of
the family springs it, as this means dental
bills for which she has been unable to
make provision. Occasionally, with far-
reaching results, she is reluctant to call
a doctor. If she is forced into medical
consultation for herself, she must hesitate
ill-advisedly over the prescribed
treatments, if they are not covered by
free drugs and medications.
What a cheerless picture! It is a cheer-
less situation, though not entirely black,
Even if she does not relinquish hope of
the wanderer’s return, she may win the
lottery, where the winning ticket claims
a stable and loving man who will opea
wide his arms to her and young. It is a
strictly limited chance as every deserted
wife quickly discovers.
The behavior pattern of the deserting
male seems to run a steady course. Im-
maturity is his trademark. Invariably, the
husband, having spied greener fields, as
mine has done, declares loud and long
that he was never happy with his wife.,
He manages, by his own lights, to!
rephrase the deserting husband theme-
song, “My wife never understood me"
Financially he flourishes. He flirts it
such a way with that part of his incomi
to which I am legally entitled, as to
reduce it beyond recognition. Formerly
he was a generous man, but formerly
also he seemed to be a sensitive, thought-
ful and responsible man. Perhaps he wil
be again.
The difficulties in obtaining work t


How you go
©reo
or
where you go
%l
UK
m
...go through
rfoit
TRAVEL
SERVICES
PTY. LTD.
it costs no more!
Free services include the
arranging of your trans-
portation and hotel reser-
vations, passports, visas
(also U.K. Entry Permits),
health documents, foreign
currency and personal
and baggage insurance.
Travel now—pay later
facilities.
SYDNEY:
116 King St., 28 2681
MELBOURNE:
374 Bourke St., 67 7071
BRISBANE:
119 Queen Street, 2-2328
Official agents for all
air, sea, rail and coach
companies throughout the
world.
supplement any maintenance she receives
can be soul-destroying to the deserted
wife. Even if she is trained to earn, after
years absorbed in domesticity, she is not
the answer to an employer's needs.
If she is untrained her plight is
frightening. Though she is capable and
willing, she must compete against juniors
for jobs. Inexperience is acceptable in
the young, but not in a woman of mature
years. Many an interview I’ve had has
been doomed once the existence of my
family has been revealed. Some prospec-
tive employers regard it as almost un-
natural to have reproduced. In all fair-
ness, no employer wants his staff absent
if little Johnnie runs a temperature.
But where does the answer lie?
Bored women, energetic women,
women who are saving for a specific
luxury, are her rivals in the employ-
ment stakes. Positions of any kind from
9-3 p.m. are at a premium. She faces
the alternatives of employing someone
herself in order to have an adult in her
home to receive schoolchildren, or allow-
ing them to run wild and unsupervised.
Her husband's earning power does not
decrease because he forsakes marriage.
Frequently he is well-established due to
his wife’s help and economy in their
early years together. The deserted wife
can be thrown, shaken and ill-equipped,
into a wage-earning world where she has
no niche. She must return nightly to take
up her role of domestic, mother and
father.
Like a widow, the deserted wife has
often been referred to as a spinster with
children. My full sympathy is extended to
widows as we have much in common,
but there is one great disparity. Hers is
a respectable loss. It makes it no easier
to bear, but the finality of death can
brook no argument.
On the harshly practical front she is
usually the beneficiary of his will, and his
property and insurances become hers.
She is not subjected to her own failure,
and the children of the marriage are not
subjected to the barbaric practice of
access.
Should the father, who has voluntarily
chosen to desert his children, choose to
assuage his guilt, together with his natural
if limited love for them, by bringing
Santa Claus to town once a week, once
a fortnight or whatever, he has the force
of law to do so. Theoretically it is com-
mendable. If you have not seen the misery
it can cause children, do not hasten to
applaud it. Small children find it totally
incomprehensible that Daddy cannot or
will not come home, but are perceptive
enough to realise that a day of fun-loving,
indulgent and all-patient father, is far
removed from most fathers in their
natural state.
One of my children confided to me
that this man seemed like a friend who
called. Towards him she felt the reserve
and awe towards an adult who was not
part of the local scene. If, on their
father's insistence, they are set upon the
sacrificial block, then weekly or monthly
you are forced to stand helplessly by
and watch them torn in two.
Their natural affection for both parents
often fills the child with guilt to find
that he has enjoyed the particular treat
of the day. This manifests a sense of
disloyalty to which he should not be sub-
jected.
When the axe falls, friends and rela-
tives rally, but all grief is lonely. She
is expected to parcel up her life and get
on with it and, in fact, she has no alterna-
tive. Unhappiness so often breeds apathy,
and so often she is accused of wallowing
in self-pity. If she is of a nature capable
of concealing her state of mind, she is
considered “to be better off without
him". If she finds relief in talking her
problems out, she may well be described
as undignified or, worse still, be labelled
a bore.
From the safety and often from the
smugness of their own marriages, her
women friends can be callous, and in-
capable of understanding her loneliness.
Salted and peppered
Oome look at her as a threat —a man-
less woman who may snatch away
their husbands. Only the very stupid fail
to see her as someone they could easily
become. Many men regard her with
terror, mistakenly assuming that she
wishes to gobble them up nicely salted
and peppered.
Socially she becomes an anathema
she would ruffle the numbers about a
dinner table and, if she formerly led a
full and busy life, her own four walls can
become intolerable. Rarely can one afford
to entertain and, if she frankly enjoys the
stimulation of mixed company, hers will
be a difficult adjustment.
Often the deserted wife remains in
the matrimonial home. There she has the
constant reminders of their life together,
while he has freed himself from their
past. For women over 50 it must be a
near impossibility to accept this situation.
Problems, large and small, become magni-
fied when she no longer shares them. The
responsibility of her children, though she
welcomes it, weighs heavily. She can
come to believe that she has entered a
stateless condition: too old or too encum-
bered to remarry, too young to live alone.
The deserted wife does not want pity.
She does not want it any more than any
other man or woman who finds them-
selves in a human situation which is dis-
tasteful to them. She needs sympathy and
understanding to restore her to the stature
of a confident woman.
The law has been described as an ass;
more succinctly as a convenience for the
majority. I would gladly lead a one-
woman crusade for reformation of our
legal system in whose eyes the deserted
wife is still her husband's chattel. He has
full rights to withdraw any sum he
charitably gives her towards her support,
if she is able to earn it regularly. Vindic-
tiveness may prompt him to do just this.
My supporters would rally in their
thousands but, unfortunately, I lack the
necessary legal training. Is there no one
with qualifications to raise his voice
publicly, on behalf of the many who
suffer, to revise this particular anachron-
ism of our age?


LETTERS
RAAF Pace Setters
SIR. —Your article on the Defence Re-
port (8., Oct. 30) states in connection
with the Army’s adult-training scheme
that “this would seem to be a scheme the
other services could usefully copy”. The
statement is wrong because in the RAAF
an adult-training scheme has been opera-
ting for about 18 years and the Army
scheme recently instituted is modelled on
it. Thus an unfortunate impression has
been created in the minds of those readers
of the article who do not know the facts
on the question. In the RAAF we have a
recruiting slogan “the RAAF sets the
pace in worthwhile careers”.
A. B. McFARLANE
Secretary, Department of Air
Canberra (ACT).
The CMF Debate
SlR.—Four brigadiers wrote about the
CMF (8., Oct. 2). I am as anxious for
the future of the CMF as they are, but in
my opinion their picture of the Army at
present is as outdated as their views as
to what should be done. These views
seem to be shared by a number of senior
CMF officers. Because of the seniority
and articulateness of those who pro-
pound them, these views are in danger
of being taken seriously by Parliament
and the public; there is, in fact, some-
thing of a “lobby” involved.
The views of the “lobby” are based on
regular-phobia, or the tendency to see
a regular officer under every bed. It
perceives what is undeniable, namely that
the ARA has greatly increased in num-
bers, in effectiveness, and in importance
in relation to the Army as a whole. It
deduces, falsely, that the CMF has been
correspondingly depressed. My experience
as a CMF commanding officer from
1962 to 1965 is the reverse. The CMF,
though it is far from being all that it
should be, has improved remarkably in
quality and effectiveness in the last few
years. One of the most important reasons
for this is the improvement in quality,
numbers, and effectiveness of the ARA.
Take, first, the central principle upon
which the Australian Army is built — the
“one Army” principle. The brigadiers
assert that this is “steadily dissolving”. I
assert that there is no foundation for this
jealous jibe. The “one Army” principle
is well and truly established where it
matters- —in the minds of the officers
and soldiers. If there is a danger to the
“one Army” principle today, it is the
danger of irrational jealousy of the ARA
on the part of the CMF; but that in
fact hardly exists in the CMF itself. It
would be a tragedy if it were reintro-
duced through the medium of a CMF
lobby.
The next step in the brigadiers’ argu-
ment is an unjustified attack first on the
ARA and then on the CMF. The ARA,
they claim* is not giving value for money.
That is presumably what they mean by
first setting out the cost of the ARA and
then saying “Borneo, Malaya, and Viet-
nam . . . have badly stressed the organisa-
tion and ability of the ARA”. That is an
irresponsible sneer which will be justly
resented. I am not alone in saying that
Borneo, Malaya and Vietnam have been
a credit to the ARA. Turning to the
CMF, they say it is “reduced to im-
potency” and that “effective strength is
little better than 50 per cent on enlisted
strength”. Any serving CMF commander
would tell them that the true figure is far
higher. They complain of “raids” on CMF
officers and NCOs by the ARA. Are they
seriously, in this day and age, saying
that it is wrong to encourage keen young
men who discover, in the CMF, that they
want to make soldiering their profession?
These misrepresentations deserve to be
set right. But they do not affect the
brigadiers’ main point, that there is a
great need for large numbers in the
CMF. I entirely agree. But the problem
is surely one of the proper balance be-
tween quality and quantity, given the
need (which they do not question) for a
regular field force to be continuously in
existence. The brigadiers want “an ex-
tension of the present call-up” and “a
period of continuous training as in the
old National Service” for the CMF. I
was a CMF commanding officer in 1956
(when the effect of National Service was
at its height) and again in 1962-65. I
say without hesitation that the CMF in
1962-65 was vastly more efficient, better
trained, and readier for war, than in
1956. I put this down partly to the
growth and development of the Regular
field force, setting a standard to which
the CMF cannot help aspiring; partly
to the larger numbers of regular officers
directly concerned with CMF training
(both as members of units, cadres and
on headquarters staffs); and partly to the
greatly improved facilities for, and organ-
isation of, training in the Army as a
whole. For all this, the country has to
thank the ARA.
If the country is to compel its young
men to undergo military training, it
should do the job properly by putting
them (after their recruit training) into
field force units. Soldiers are trained by
soldiering. The size of the National
Service call-up is therefore directly rela-
ted to the size of the field force, and
should only increase in step with the
increase in the field force. I am convinced
that swelling the ranks of the CMF by
compulsory call-up is the wrong policy
in an age in which the skills required
of the soldier are rapidly becoming
greater and more numerous. The future
of the CMF lies to my mind in a higher
degree of “professionalisation”.
A most desirable step would be the
strengthening of the ARA cadres in CMF
units. In particular, the rule that the CO
of a CMF unit must be a CMF officer
is an anachronism. I do not believe that
there is any quick solution to the prob-
lem of greater numbers in the CMF,
which everyone wants to see. I believe
that a steady improvement in quality will
bring a steady improvement in quantity.
The CMF is its own best advertisement.
To maintain and improve the CMF, one
major requirement is the maintenance
and improvement of the ARA. Another
vital step forward would be a change
of heart on the part of great numbers
of young men of property and independ-
ence. The CMF at present is largely
officered by salary-earners —more power
to them! The conspicuous shortage of
those with a greater stake in the country
is a national disgrace. Above all, how-
ever, it would be disastrous for the coun-
try— and for the CMF —if the CMF
attempted to adopt the inflated role
which the brigadiers want for it that of
the major element in the Army’s planning
for war.
R. A. BLACKBURN
Adelaide (SA).
Tanner's Effort
SIR. —Just how low can a paper get?
You have sunk as low as any paper I
have come across in 50 years. I refer to
Tanner's effort which is a disgrace to all
connected with your paper. (8., Oct. 23).
It is anti-Menzies, anti-British, anti-Royal-
ty and it is in shocking bad taste to say
the least. It is not funny.
CHAS. W. DOWLING
Ocean Grove (Vic.).
The Fidelity Fund
SlR.—This sophistical debate (8., Oct.
23) on whether solicitors should take the
interest on their trust accounts to increase
the Fidelity Fund has been going for
months now; yet a simple test of its
genuineness is that no one has yet come
up with a proposal for compulsory audit,
which would automatically lower the size
of future claims and do a majority of the
profession a favor. So far as I can
ferret out the real dispute; it appears to
be between the Banks’ Advocates and the
Restrictive Practitioners and Blow you,
Jack! to the small practitioner. Honor
systems are out of date particularly
amongst those who say one thing and
mean another.
SOLICITOR
(Name supplied but withheld by request.)
Sydney (NSW).


Wr
is
mMti
/
SINGAPORE
■ INCLUDE SINGAPORE ■ THE LION CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modem, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side - here you will
find the Orient’s most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and cultures - Stopover
- You'll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
Further north • no more than an hour by air - lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You’ve read about
it in books • now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur - Federal Capital of Malaysia - See beautiful
Penang - the Pearl of Orient - Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
■ SERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia - throughout South East Asia
from Singapore • you'll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways’
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you’ll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
I SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -9|
| KUALA LUMPUR/ HONGKONG ■ 3 j
JESSELTON/ HONGKONG ■ 2
PENANG/BANGKOK -4
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-3
SIMGAPORE/BANGKOK -7
Jest
MALAYSfAM
AIRWAYS
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR
SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
Maoris and Apartheid
SIR. —Your correspondent P. B. Daly
(8., Oct. 23) really cannot have it three
ways at once on the Maori-All Black
issue in New Zealand. First, he insists
that supporters of the NZ Rugby Union
in 1960 (when a racially segregated All
Black team, purporting to represent the
country as a whole, went to South Africa)
were bravely resisting the intrusion of
politics into sport; second, he tells us that
the Government of South Africa is guilty
of injecting politics into sport. What was
New Zealand doing in 1960, then, if not
accepting apartheid politics into sport?
Brazil, to name only one country, re-
sisted the imposition of South African
apartheid on a national sports team prior
to 1960; more recently the US tennis
authorities have made it clear that their
present Davis Cup squad will not visit
South Africa if it means excluding the
negro player Arthur Ashe. The fact that
New Zealand capitulated before racism
in 1960 suggests not so much mistaken
good manners as lack of confidence as a
nation. But Mr Daly, not content with
the double-think characteristic of Rugby
Union partisans, has it still a third away.
He claims the NZ Rugby Union never
wanted to continue the Springbok-All
Black series if it meant Maoris could not
tour South Africa as members of All
Black teams. This was not true in 1949
or 1960. And if it is true now (though
officially it is still in doubt) the NZ
Rugby Union did not reach its present
position without a fairly considerable
nudge from public opinion here in-
cluding Press, churchmen and politicians.
Indeed there is every reason to assume
that without the pressure of public
opinion the Rugby Union would still be
sending racially segregated teams to South
Africa in 1990, when it is estimated New
Zealand's population will be up to 20-
25 per cent of some Polynesian extrac-
tion. So it would be kind to ignore Mr
Daly’s breathtaking fantasy that the
Rugby Union in 1960 “had the backing
of the country, both Maori and white”;
I must assume he was outside the
country at the time.
Mr Daly makes much of my apparent-
ly not taking into account the warm
Maori receptions for the 1965 Spring-
boks. In my original piece for the The
Bulletin, compressed for reasons of
s P a ce, I certainly took note of these
functions. But Mr Daly surely knows (a)
that Maori opinion w ? as divided about
extending hospitality to .the 1965 Spring-
boks and (b) that such hospitality as
w as extended was often in anticipation
pf Maori players visiting South Africa
ln 1967. Mr Daly appears or pretends
no | to know (when he mentions the
strictly Maori teams which visit the
Pacific Islands) that wdthin the country
and outside national teams have been
chosen on grounds of education, religion,
age and occupation as well as race. But
these teams never pretend to represent
more than special groups or interests:
never the country as a whole. Moreover,
Maori teams are obviously not selected
entirely on grounds of suitable complex-
ion— some have been very pale indeed.
Finally, if Mr Daly really believes that
the churches here “have helped exploit
the Maori for a century” that is of course
his personal affair, but it hardly suggests
that he either knows or cares much about
Maori feelings. Or indeed about the feel-
ings of his fellow New Zealanders as a
whole. Personally, I reserve the right to
take offence: this time Rugby fanaticism
goes too far. So I need make no apology
if my article seemed less than impartial
to Mr Daly. It is obvious that no reason-
ably accurate report on the climate of
opinion here would have suited him.
MAURICE SHADBOLT
Auckland (NZ).


mm i*
MAC BAREN’S FINEST
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
'p
o
H 3
f *om
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 8/11
SAIBB
Soviet Capitalism
SIR. —You published a letter from Mr
B. J. McFarlane of the Economics De-
partment, ANU (8., Sept. 11), in which
he makes a series of totally irrelevant
and inaccurate comments on an article
of mine, “Soviet Economy and Profits”
(8., Aug. 28). I wrote, and now repeat,
that it is quite extraordinary that there
should have appeared in the “Soviet
Economic Gazette” an article in which it
was argued that when Marx and Lenin
referred to the priority development of
heavy industry they had in mind capi-
talist and not socialist economies. For this
Mr McFarlane accuses me of “obvious
ignorance”; although I normally ignore
that kind of vulgar abuse, as he wrote
from a university address I have no
alternative but to answer him.
1. He refers me to an alleged article
by Feldman and Kovalevsky in the Soviet
journal “Planned Economy” for Decem-
ber, 1930.1 can find no such article in the
journal concerned. He may have in mind
Kovalevsky’s report in March of that year
of the possibility of a long-term plan. In
a discussion on this Feldman made
various comments about growth in the
various branches of industry. So far as
I can see he did not make the point I
was making.
2. Mr McFarlane is twisting, and what
is more must know that he is twisting,
the views I quoted which in fact reinter-
pret Lenin, into two accusations against
me: first, that I am unaware that econo-
mically growth depends on priority foil
heavy industry, and secondly that I am
ignoring the continuity of the debate on
the proportional heavy and light industry
growth rates which dates back to the
early days of the revolution.
3. The ’twenties witnessed a continu-l
ing debate among Soviet political leaders,
economists and planners as to how to
provide for economic growth and the
re-equipping and development of heavy
industry and at the same time satisfy the
basic needs and so far as possible the
growing demand of the consumer. This!
would have involved careful economic!
planning and analysis. Feldman in some
economic models he devised in 1928
indicated the limits within which this
might be achieved and showed how)
economic development could be assured*
by securing the necessary investments!
even while looking after the consumer,!
All these discussions were swept aside!
around 1930 as Stalin unleashed a reign;
of bloody terror upon the Soviet people,
when the consumer was ignored, millions
were driven into forced labor camps toj
subsist at starvation wages in order to,
reach the industrial targets set by the first;
5-year plan. This was done under the*
banner of Leninism, of the “true Leninist
policy”; those who favored greater atten-
tion to the consumer or the peasant, in
short proper planning as opposed to a
berserk stampede to build industrial plant,
were damned as Right deviationists and
wreckers. Even as late as January 1 955,
Khrushchev was to use this as a weapon
against his rival Malenkov. The latter in|
the hope of relieving the Soviet people
of some of the hardship suffered during
the rule of Stalin and his Police Chief
Beria had given the peasant increased
incentives and had called for a growth!
in consumer goods industries. Khrushchev!
at the Central Committee Meeting of!
January 1955, rounded upon him “This
is a belching of the Rightist deviation, a
regurgitation of views hostile to Lenin-
ism, views which Rykov, Bukharin, and,
their ilk once preached”. Rykov, Buk-
harin, and their ilk were all murdered in
the purges of the late ’thirties and Rykov;
incidentally had occupied the same posi-j
tion, Prime Minister, as Malenkov heldj
at the moment of Khrushchev’s assault-!
The article I quoted and which Mr
McFarlane challenges was in fact deny-'
ing that the policy inaugurated by Stalin
and at first maintained by Khrushchev*
was not necessarily Leninism at all. The
publication of this view is, I repeat, quite
extraordinary and the consequences in
the minds and hearts of the Soviet people
who are in effect being told that the;
went through hell under a false bannet
are potentially enormous. No one denies?
that savings for industrial investment t
achieve economic growth have to be W®
by restraining consumer demand; there!
however, a great difference the diffo


TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION ?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project.
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication,
see Wardrope and Carroll first!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O’Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
1
rwS
m
£2 '
SL!
A
S
ence between freedom and tyranny
between a system which while paying
proper attention to human welfare and
incentives yet builds its heavy industrial
base and another which by the rule of
the secret police, the forced labor camp
and the firing squad turns its population
into serfs to pursue objectives ordained
by a dictatorship over which they have
no control.
4. Neither is it true as Mr McFarlane
asserts that there was no alternative. The
planners and economists including Feld-
man and Kovalevsky had suggested other
ways but after 1930 all were silenced.
It is,also not true that the USSR was
denied international trade and other help
by the international political situation of
the ’thirties. The first machine-tools
turned out by the Krasnyi Proletarii fac-
tory in Moscow were copies of German
models bought in 1929 and this pattern
was applied and still applies in many
branches of Soviet industry. Further,
ever since the revolution there had been
a fund of goodwill in the Western world
toward the new socialist state. Many
engineers and scientists had gone from
the United States and Western Europe to
help build what they imagined to be the
new society. Their reward was to find
themselves in a Stalinist dictatorship
iwhere they could be and frequently were
[ arrested on charges of being wreckers and
[then made to face false trials.
5. According to Mr McFarlane “all
ithat is happening in the Soviet economy
[today is that it has reached the level of
maturity at which Feldman and Kova-
levsky thought a more rapid growth of
consumer goods industry would be feas-
ible". Anyone who cares to read my
article will appreciate from the facts pre-
sented that far more is happening than
that. In any case, it is odd that Mr Mc-
Farlane writing in 1965 should think,
apparently against Feldman, that this
year is the appropriate time. Feldman,
Kovalevsky and many others never for
one moment contemplated the kind of
1 economic policies and the consequent
political dictatorship which under Stalin
in fact ensued. They all thought, against
Mr McFarlane but with me. that schemes
! c °uld be devised which would provide
for the consumer and yet still yield the
investment needed by heavy industry.
GERALD SEGAL
London NW7 (England).
| [Gerald Segal discusses recent Soviet
developments on page 60 .]
Rhythm and the Pill
SIR.— Father Radford’s statement (8.,
Nov. 6) that “it ill became” anyone to
make reference to Dr Frank Ayd’s twelve
children, comes a little forced when one
insiders the implications of the doctor’s
gibe of “properly motivated”. What this
visitor from Rome was doing was sug-
gesting to an audience which contained
n ° married man or woman to answer (if
Father Radford prefers that description
to “closed” then he can have it) that all
those people who have said that rhythm
doesn’t work are in some way insincere.
This strain has run consistently through
Catholic controversy over the Pill. Those
who question the ramshackle framework
of theorising about rhythm are in some
way “not properly motivated”. Those
women who say it didn’t work, they
too are “not properly motivated”. One of
the worst features about this is the pru-
rient overtone to the phrase. The hint
is that if these people get into trouble
they have themselves to blame, not the
system. So then it ill becomes Father
Radford to become concerned about Dr
Ayd being the butt of some mild sarcasm.
From the sound of his talks he's been
getting away with worse for years.
Father Radford’s point that the met-
ing was not “closed” or “secret” can
hardly be taken seriously. He admits that
it was by invitation and that no other
doctors were present. As for the “steril-
ity” question, if the use of the phrase
“irreversible atrophy of the ovaries”, at
whatever pace, was not designed to scare
hell out of people on the grounds that
they might become sterile I’d be very
surprised. I hope all the other priests at
the meeting took the same subtle point
as Father Radford. As for the psychiat-
rist’s view on the biology of rhythm, it
may be viewed favorably by some but
it is disputed by just as many others. I
suggest that Father Radford should
examine Hartmann’s book “Science and
the Safe Period”.
YOUR CORRESPONDENT


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Catching the World’s Ear
By JACK KUNST
AUSTRALIAN MUSIC TODAY
Volumes 1 and 2
Volume 1:
Richard Meale: Las Alboradas.
-Peter Sculthorpe: String Quartet
No. 6.
John Antill: Five Australian Lyrics.
George Dreyfus: From Within
Looking Out.
Volume 2:
Nigel Butterley: Laudes.
Dorian le Gallienne: Four Divine
Poems of John Donne.
Felix Werder: String Quartet No. 6.
(World Record Club, Stereo and
Mono, 355. each.)
One of the most significant events in
Australian music for many years
is undoubtedly the appearance of
a two-volume recording entitled Aus-
tralian Music Today. The issue, a joint
project of the Australian Broadcasting
Commission, the Australian UNESCO
Music Committee and the World Record
Club, shows not only what can be done
but what should be done to help bring
Australia’s crop of talent into the inter-
national arena.
The Commonwealth Office of Educa-
tion has already begun making up a dis-
tribution list to send sets of the records
to the various national branches of the
International Music Council, the Inter-
national Society for Contemporary Music
and many other institutions overseas.
From the moment the plan to produce
a recording of this nature was mooted
to the final top-quality product was only
15 months. Last July, the 'Australian
UNESCO Music Committee decided on
making a disc of some half-dozen
important Australian chamber works.
Actually, this was a plan of some years’
standing but the committee then decided
to push on with it.
Professor Donald Peart, Professor of
Music at the University of Sydney and
Chairman of the Australian UNESCO
Music Committee, last week related the
chain of events. He said Mr John Hop-
kins, the ABC’s Director of Music and
member of the Committee, was one of
the strongest driving forces in the
execution of the plan.
Before very long, a small sub-com-
mittee was listening to tapes of chamber
works by a large number of Australian
composers. Eventually the committee
selected seven composers to be rep-
resented on the recording. They were
Richard Meale, Peter Sculthorpe, John
Antill, George Dreyfus, Nigel Butterley,
Dorian le Gallienne and Felix Werder.
Professor Peart said: “About that time
I received a letter from James Murdoch
of the World Record Club in Melbourne
saying that the WRC wanted to bring
out a prestige issue of Australian serious
music. I realised at once that the two
proposals could be tied together. I
brought the WRC in on the scheme for
the commercial production using the
tapes that had been made in the ABC
studios.
“For years many people have had
the idea that we ought to produce
a good series of Australian music to
match the excellent productions of
Donemus in Holland, Musica Nova in
Germany and similar organisations in
Belgium, Switzerland and other countries.
PROFESSOR PEART
“I was particularly impressed by the
recording of Nigel Butterley’s work,
‘Laudes’. It is the finest recording of
this work I have heard and I have
listened to a good many tapes and
several live performances. This studio
performance gives a kind of luminosity,
lightness and buoyancy which I haven't
always found,” Professor Peart said.
The sub-committee decided in the
early stages to concentrate on com-
posers whose work was likely to create
interest overseas. Professor Peart said:
“We would have liked to put on Antill’j
‘Corroboree’ but for the purpose of this
record we had to find something on a
smaller scale. We chose the ‘Five Aus-
tralian Lyrics’—words by Harvey Allen
set to music by Antill. As for Dorian le
Gallienne, we felt that his settings of
John Donne’s sonnets would be a fitting
memorial to this wonderful man and
composer.
“I would like to stress that Antill’s
‘Corroboree’ and le Gallienne’s ‘Sym-
phony in E’ are real landmarks in the
development of Australian music and
that therefore these composers had to
be represented even though it was not
possible to present these two works.
“Felix Werder’s development in the
1950 s was a very significant thing in
Australia. He is devoted to chamber
music, has written six quartets and an-
other one is on the way. He was most
productive so that in the 1950 s advanced
music really meant Felix Werder. Scul-
thorpe was overseas in that period. For
that reason, apart from its intrinsic
merits, it was really necessary to include
a quartet by Werder.”
Professor Peart said: “Compared with
Sculthorpe’s music, Meale is more cos-
mopolitan and stands close to the
European and American avant-garde.
Sculthorpe’s music is Australian in the
sense that Drysdale’s paintings and
Patrick White’s novels are Australian,
Sculthorpe has an undefinable Australian
strain which doesn’t show in Meale's
work. Sculthorpe is also at the moment
strongly drawn towards Japanese music.
This is only what is happening at the
moment and next year we may be able
to discern new strains and other things.
It would be quite unsafe to generalise but
it is certainly exciting and the possi-
bilities are most encouraging.
“Well on the way up at present are
about a dozen new and young com-
posers, including Larry Sitsky, Helen
Gifford, Ross Edwards, lan Cugley,
Anne Boyd and others. To them, writing
in this advanced idiom appears a com-
pletely natural thing.”
What would be the prospects of issuing
more Australian music recordings? Pro-
fessor Peart said that would depend on
what the World Record Club decided
to do. He said the WRC had established
a foundation which has as its object to
continue the work. In the case of ballet
or orchestral music the WRC would
have to cope with problems raised by I
the Musicians’ Union.
Professor Peart said: “We started witij
chamber music because it could be done
relatively inexpensively. All along the;
been a wonderful patron. I'
offered engagements to all these group*
of players and invited them to record m
the ABC studios. No private organisJ’
tion could have afforded this procedure.!


The Curse of
Amateurism
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
Sydney’s Music Hall at Neutral Bay,
after three solid years of hammy melo-
drama, has slid into something closer to
comedy theatre. This is “The Gallant
Impostor”, freely adapted by producer
John Faassen from an 1840 play by Dion
Boucicault. After some initial difficulties
“The Gallant Impostor” is settling down
nicely, so it looks as if the Music Hall,
instead of always looking to the past, can
look to a long-term future.
This must be gratifying for Mr
Faassen, who presents the encouraging
and too rare combination of exuberant
enthusiasm for the theatre and disci-
plined professional efficiency. He loves
show business, he prefers and intends to
work in Australia, he is stimulated by the
native talent of Australian artists but
applies strict, artistically intolerant
judgment to their work. “Amateurism,”
he says, “is the curse of the Australian
theatre.”
John Faassen, having made his living
in show business'since his discharge from
t the army after the war. can certainly be
ranked as a professional with remarkably
varied experience. After his army ser-
vice, he studied singing at the Con-
servatorium on a grant which he lost
when it was discovered that he was
taking outside singing and acting jobs.
(“I was only permitted to earn an extra
X pounds a week and I exceeded it,” he
said.) After his role in the highly success-
ful “Dark Of The Moon”, an amateur
production which subsequently had a
healthy professional run, he decided to
try his luck in England. Here, he says,
he had just that—luck—something as
important as talent.
“I was at a party when someone told
me they needed baritones at Sadler’s
Wells and I ought to audition,” he says.
“I did, got the job and was there several
years. Then when there was a job going
in the revue ‘Airs On A Shoestring’
another friend suggested that I might be
suitable. Again I got the job, the show
had a long run in London and a tour of
England and Scotland.”
Mr Faassen returned to Australia
partly for family reasons”, but has few
regrets. “Overseas experience is useful,
of course,” he says. “But many actors
would prefer to come back and stay
here; unfortunately, there’s no guarantee
°f continuity of work here, unless you’re
Prepared to live in a suitcase going from
or| e capital to another. That is one big
advantage overseas —if you get estab-
>shed in London or one of the big
£ e ntres, you can be reasonably sure of
ein § able to work there for some years.”
"But I don't wanna be immortalised in a masterpiece of assemblage!"
There is enormous talent in Australia,
in John Faassen’s opinion, and enormous
enthusiasm and enterprise. “English
actors are fine when it comes to follow-
ing direction, but they expect to be told
everything,” he said. “Here there’s more
individual thinking, but there’s also our
national failing: we’re off-hand, slapdash,
too apt to get to a certain point and
think that’s near enough. If you mark
out actors’ movements on stage they feel
they're doing fine if they get within a
yard or so of them.
“I remember when I joined the cast
of ‘Airs On A Shoestring’ I was rehears-
ing a song with the star Max Adrian and
he stopped dead and then told me,
‘You’re two inches too near me’! Two
inches! Mind you, I think he was pulling
rank a bit, letting me know right from
the start who was boss —we became
good friends later but the point is that
everyone accepted what he said. They
may have felt he was coming it a bit
strong but nobody laughed in his face,
which would probably happen here.”
John Faassen met the Music Hall’s
director, George F. Miller, in 1962 at a
meeting (which both found discouraging)
convened to discuss a North Shore arts
festival. “The people there seemed to
have a romantic notion that it could all
be done by enthusiasm and practically
no money. ‘The artists will give their
services,’ they kept saying. But if you
want professional artists you can’t treat
them as amateurs. This is their living
as well as their vocation. I bowed out
of the meeting, but I talked with George
Miller later and we found we had many
ideas in common. I’ve been working
with the Music Hall ever since.”
Some people feel that the Music Hall
is a bit of a comedown for Faassen, an
attitude which bewilders and annoys him.
“They say, ‘Can there be integrity in this
sort of entertainment? After all, isn’t it
just a nightclub?’ Why shouldn’t night-
club performers have integrity? People
seem to feel that if you’re not playing
classical drama or Samuel Beckett you’re
nothing but a moneygrubber. I feel that
the Music Hall has great value, apart
from the fact that it’s good entertain-
ment. It provides continuous employment
and training for a body of actors, both on
stage and behind the scenes and it’s
a training ground for audiences, too.


There are so many people here who
haven’t the habit of theatre-going and
couldn’t be dragged to most theatres, but
they come here regularly, often more
than once to each show, because they
can get dinner and their grog this is
important and then a relaxed, jolly
entertainment.
John Faassen looks forward to the
day when one of Australia’s cities
naturally he’d prefer it to be Sydney
becomes a theatrical capital. “It would
have to be subsidised to begin with, but
there’s no use giving a Government grant
unconditionally to a mob of theatrical
people they’d muddle it away. They
should have the job of choosing and
producing entertainments, but I'd like
to see a committee of worthy citizens
who know about administering funds to
handle the financial side. If this were
sensibly done, the thing would soon pay
for itself in money and results; it’d
attract talent from all over Australia and
overseas, attract audiences, too, and build
up tourism. In fact, you’d find that you
had at last a really professional theatre.”
MUSIC
Transitional
Sydney Symphony Orchestra. Conductor,
Susskind, soloist, Alva. Sydney Town
Hall.
Ochoenberg's “Five Orchestral Pieces,
opus 16” was written in 1909 and
even though the composer revised the
score in 1949, two years before his death,
this music cannot, by any stretch of
imagination (or aversion), be considered
ultra-modern. It is atonal, but does not
yet employ the 12-tone method; in feeling
it is quite romantic, opulently scored for
full orchestra. If it is listened to with any
care, its emotional nature becomes clear.
As the date indicates, the work was com-
posed only a few years after Schoenberg
had become dissatisfied with too obviously
sensuous music and he had, as yet, travel-
led but a short distance from it.
Despite these historic facts, there were
many among Sydney’s concert subscri-
bers who went to some pains- to exhibit
their “musical” disgust and who thought
to punish someone (the hard-working
orchestra and conductor?) by refraining
from applause after a strenuously con-
vincing performance.
As this is atonal music of a transition-
al period, not all the sounds heard are
agreeable ones; yet the pieces, excepting
the rather dull third one, are of Consider-
able interest. The second one is distin-
guished by a hard lucidity which, towards
the end, has an almost hypnotic effect;
the fourth is very colorful indeed and
contains some passages of startling
drama.
Fifty-six years separate us from the
first performance of this work, by* Sir
Henry Wood; Bruckner’s 7th symphony
was written a mere 26 years earlier.
Despite an idiomatic revolution, these
two works are not really poles apart;
anyone listening with an open mind must
appreciate that Schoenberg’s music was
made necessary by the very features that
are so unsatisfactory in Bruckner’s lovely
music. All the same, the audience re-
ceived the Bruckner with great enthu-
siasm and all but hissed the Schoenberg!
The occasion for all this was the 9th
subscription concert in the ABC’s Sydney
orchestral season. The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra returned from its overseas
tour generally improved and with greater
confidence. They were directed by Walter
Susskind, already well known to Austra-
lian audiences. He has worn well; still
looks youthful and remains full of musi-
cal verve. It is more obvious than ever
that Melbourne’s loss of his services in
1955 was a tragedy; our loss was
Canada’s lasting gain!
Throughout the concert, Susskind was
in firm control and the orchestra res-
ponded to his guidance with accuracy and
fine sound. Even a Susskind cannot do
everything right: the opening work,
Mozart’s “Don Giovanni” overture, was
played with precision, but with heavily
and excessive fortissimi. On the other
hand, the far more difficult Schoenberg,
whatever its merits (and it certainly is
not the composer’s best work), was very
competently handled.
The orchestra, agreeably reduced in
numbers, was joined by Peruvian Luigi
Alva in four arias by Haydn and Mozart;
they were exquisitely sung and played.
Alva delighted me with the “Magic Flute”
aria “Dies Bildnis . . .” which I had not
previously heard sung as quite such a
convincing romantic love-song.
My remarks about Bruckner may have
suggested that I don’t care for the 7th
symphony; this is not so, but I recognise
that it is repetitive, too noisy and afflic-
ted with simply endless codas. Wagner’s
influence is very much in evidence, never
more so than in the opening phrases and
it is known that the slow movement
was written in Wagner’s memory. All the
same, there is much here that only
Bruckner could have devised, as for in-
stance the heart-breaking landler that
suddenly emerges from the great elegy
of this adagio, incongruous and yet
wholly right. Susskind’s tempi, if at times
unconventional, proved to be correct;
despite the profuseness of the music, he
managed to hold the work together in a
firmly designed architecture.
In offering congratulations to the orch-
estra, I need not dwell on the strings who
have been fairly reliable for some time
past; the general improvement of stan-
dard was best shown at the end of
Bruckner’s scherzo when the great brass
instruments gather together and shout
their mighty affirmation to life.
PAUL FROLICH
RECORDS
Exploding a Myth
Puccini: Tosca. Callas, Bergonzi, Gobbi;
conductor Pretre. Angel SAN 149/50.
Rossini: Barber of Seville. Berganza,
Ausensi, Benelli, Corena, Ghiaurov;
conductor Varviso. Decca SET 285/7.
Verdi: Trovatore. Corelli, Tucci, Simionato,
Merrill; conductor Schippers. Angel
SAN 151/3.
time has come to '.xplode unequi-
vocally the myth of Maria Callas.
The lady may not be a tramp, but she is
a fraud. No youngster would be allowed
on the stage of a major opera house if
she sang as the world's highest paid
prima donna does today. It is morally
wrong of promoters to present the lady
to an unsuspecting public as a star of
opera. To those who may believe that her
uncontrolled wobbles and screeches are
good singing, I would refer Madame
Callas’ 1953 recording of “Tosca” which
is still the best performance ever on stage
or records. The new version under
review is equally unique in being the
worst. It is a pity that the same set offers
Bergonzi's excellent Cavaradossi and
Gobbi demonstrating conclusively that
age need have no adverse effects even in
a difficult part like Scarpia.
The new “Barber of Seville” and
“Trovatore” have no comparable defects,
The “Barber” is an excellent all-round
performance, the accent being on “per-
formance”. Individual parts may have
been better sung in other sets, yet Silvio
Varviso whips his singers into a most en-
joyable whole. This is a set I could play
many times over. Only one of the singers
is Italian, but do not let that worry you,
The best is Bulgarian Nicolai Ghiaurov
(Basilio) who combines the best features
of Pinza and Chaliapin in one superb
whole. Appropriately, two Spaniards
appear as Figaro and Rosina. Manuel
Ausensi sings well and acts better, but
will never be top star material. Teresa
Berganza, on the other hand, improves
with time. Sh.. has lost the metallic edge
from her voice and if Rosina must be a
mezzo, and Rossini would have her so,
then I never expect to hear a better,
Newcomer Ugo Benelli is a quite excel-
lent Almaviva; I look forward to hear-
ing him in other lyric parts. Last, but
not least, Fernando Corena is still a
superb Bartolo, though the voice now
has rough patches.
“Trovatore” needs great voices and
almost gets them in the new Angel set,
One must credit Franco Corelli with;
improving steadily in spite of indiscrim-f
inate adulation before he deserved if
His Manrico is a supremely masculine
warrior and the sheer splendor of voice
can only arouse admiration. A pity be
chose to be heroic in “Ah, si ben mio!
elsewhere he shows a well controlleif


postal bookings are open for
the fourth adelaide festival
of arts/march 10-261966
Be sure of seats: post your order now
Full programmes and booking forms available
from all Airlines and Travel Agents or from
The South Australian Government Tourist Bureau
390 George Street, Sydney, 8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne,
18 King William Street, Adelaide, or from
the Festival Office, Box 1960, G.P.0., Adelaide
book now!
A
London Symphony Orchestra
Louis Kentner/ The Australian Ballet
Athens Drama Company
Modern Jazz Quartet / Porgy and Bess
Dame Judith Anderson
Berlioz's Requiem Mass
“The Royal Hunt of the Sun"
Die Kammermusiker of Zurich
Kalakshetra of Madras / The Tintookies
and many other exciting attractions
mezza voce which would not have come
amiss here. Robert Merrill is a fine Di
Luna, but Simionato sings too well as
Azucena; bel canto has no place in a
gipsy camp. Gabriella Tucci, the only
member of the 1955 Williamson opera
season to make good, sings well in the
last two scenes, but is only average else-
where. Thomas Schippers keeps the pace
moving, which is as it should be. All in
all, a set well worth having, if only for
Corelli.
All three sets are superbly record-
ed the “Tosca” being particularly
spectacular.
JOHN CARGHER
FILMS
Vadim’s Ronde
La Ronde. Director, Roger Vadim. Vic-
tory Theatre, Sydney.
Rusalka. Director, Vaclav Kaslick. Savoy
Theatre, Sydney.
The Sons of Katie Elder. Director, Henry
Hathaway. Prince Edward Theatre,
Sydney.
The Cincinnati Kid. Director, Norman
Jewison. St. James Theatre, Sydney.
Tdeally, I suppose, any remake should
be considered on its own merits, without
any harking back to the original. But
this is a counsel of perfection, and dur-
ing Roger Vadim’s “La Ronde” I con-
tinually found myself remembering Max
Ophuls’ witty, heartless version of
Schnitzler’s rueful commentary on the
fleeting nature of love and the constant
inconstancy of lovers.
I don’t expect or want Vadim to pro-
duce a carbon copy of the earlier film,
but in pretty well every way—style, wit,
basic filmcraft —this seemed inferior;
the color photography, though pleasing
enough, adds little to the film’s impact.
Instead of the astringent, champagne
brilliance of the earlier film, Vadim has
settled for a marshmallow prettiness; and
though he aims at the cool, unsenti-
mental amusement of the original play,
he has cancelled it out by casting a series
of the soft, tremulous, Laurencin girls
that he always admires and occasionally
marries. Meltingly photographed by
Henri Decae, they are charming to look
at, but not to listen to, for it’s been
dubbed into basic American, with a 1914
Frenchwoman complaining “You’ve
mussed my hairdo”. The credits attri-
bute the screenplay to Anouilh. Cheer
up, monsieur, nobody will ever guess.
The screen version of Dvorak’s
“Rusalka” is charming to listen to —it’s
beautifully sung, and the music is very
ingratiating in its lightweight way.
It’s less satisfactory visually, with its
super-romantic backgrounds of reedy
lakes and palaces festooned with plastic
flowers; but at least it is treated as a
film, though not a very stimulating one,
and the cast (with the exception of
Ivana Mixova, a genuine beauty who
both mimes and sings her role as the
Princess, the actors appear for off-screen
singers) is very profitable.
“The Sons Of Katie Elder” could be
put in a time-capsule as a good, work-
manlike example of the genus Western
active, well photographed, mildly excit-
ing, with right triumphing against fear-
ful odds. Henry Hathaway handles par-
ticularly well the scenes between the
brothers: he has always had a deep
feeling for the comradeship of men, as
was seen in a recent television showing
of his mid-’thirties “Lives Of A Bengal
Lancer”.
Steve McQueen, whose early promise
was marred by a total lack of discipline
in acting, is now much more in control
of his talent, as is shown by his per-
formance as the Cincinnati Kid, a pro-
fessional gambler. To a compulsive non-
gambler, this sounds like a professional
alcoholic, or a professional asthma suf-
ferer; but I must admit that the final
poker game, when the Kid challenges the
ageing champion, generates genuine sus-
pense, despite director Jewison’s efforts
to dissipate it by over-elaboration and
smart-alecky photography. There’s a fine
performance from Edward G. Robinson;
Ann-Margaret, a very pretty, thoroughly
absurd girl, as usual manages to negate
any semblance of realism whenever she
appears.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


BOOKS
The Tragedy of Modern
Architecture
By MORTON HERMAN
The Puzzle of Architecture. Robin Boyd.
Melbourne University Press. 655.
Treading Robin Boyd is always a de-
light: often his work is aimed only
at Australian audiences, but not infre-
quently he commands the attention of
people of England and America as well.
His latest work, “The Puzzle of Architec-
ture”, covers even more territory for this
is a book about what is happening to
world architecture. The word “Puzzle”
is an apt one for modern architecture is
scrambled and its future is murky.
As Boyd says, what we call modern
architecture won a bloodless battle
against the architecture which preceded
it: a battle that went almost unnoticed.
By the 1950 s it seemed that a clear road
lay ahead for the development of a great
modern architecture, but the road has
become so hazardous that sideslips,
twists and turns now replace the solid
progression that led Georgian Architec-
ture to its triumphs of clear planning
and appropriate detail: an architecture
ROBIN BOYD
that belonged to everybody. But in those
same 1950 s emerged the vain architect
who looked upon a building not as some-
thing for people to use, but a monument
to himself. In seeking to find something
worthy of such an unworthy cause
the geometrical and mental writhings of
the architect have mostly brought dis-
grace to one of man’s finest achieve-
ments.
Robin Boyd does not seek to thrust his
opinions upon one, but rather sets out all
the pieces so that one can form an
opinion based on the facts. And sad
some of those facts are! The New
Brutalism is a cult that needs nothing but
its title to show how bad it is. It is
supposed to be a reaction to fundamental
principles and achieves only ugliness. It
is mostly confined to England and one
can only hope that it stays there. But
America in the dreadful ’fifties produced
some of its own odd designs. When I first
saw photographs of the Bavinger house
in Oklahoma I laughed, and was just
as amused upon seeing it in Boyd’s book.
Other laughable oddities are to be found
in Page 86 of “The Puzzle of Architec-
ture”, the choicest example of architec-
tural dementia perhaps being the Johan-
sen “house”, if such a word could be
used for such a thing as this is.
These are deliberately funny and as
destructive as the flail tanks of the last
war. But what is one to make of the
Huntington Hartford Museum, which
has half-a-dozen varieties of ornamental
forms from traditional sources whilst at
the same time striving to be an austere
tower? Or of Frei Otto’s formless, blotchy
pancake? The inclusion of such things is
deliberate, for Boyd wants his readers
to understand the turmoil that exists in
modern architecture.
These examples are not the whole
book for “The Puzzle of Architecture”
contains some remarkably fine buildings.
However, one cannot always agree with
Boyd: more than once he hints that
achitecture cannot be governed by rules,
as was the Georgian style, yet his illustra-
tion of the magnificent Eames House in
California is of a house that was designed
according to rigid rules; although those
rules are widely different from the
Georgian ones.
Again Boyd seems to be trying to tell
us that modern architecture is striving
to escape from the rectangular form.
And yet most of the illustrations in his
book are rectilinear.
The Sydney Opera House, of course,
comes into the picture; far from recti-
linear in form it is true, but not built
according to its promise, and positively
lumbering when compared with Felix
Candela’s shell forms which seem to
dance across the Mexican landscape. But
then Candela is a true modern architect
who has stated that engineering
and structure can lead a designer only
80 per cent of the way to success; the
rest must be inherent ability and, to use
a word so often avoided in architectural
reference, inspiration.
Boyd firmly makes the point that after
using some (most?) modern buildings
“difficulties have been maddening enough
and frequent enough to turn some
(most?) once-sympathetic clients, now
flooded out or smoked out, against the
whole idea of the architectural art and
the architectural profession”. Let me tell
Boyd that it has gone much further than
that. Instead of consultation of an archi-
tect there is emerging the practice of
important clients handing him a detailed
brief so he can do no more than draw up
the clients’ ideas. Architecture as an
art has never been in such danger of dis-
solution as now and is more likely to
become a trade than an art. This risk is
caused by the very men who strive
hardest to “express themselves”, “induct
new forms” and all the other verbal
cliches which have broken the constrict-
ing chains of rules from architecture and
provided nothing in their place.
One thought that should receive archi-
tects’ attention before it is too late is that
buildings are meant for people to live in,
not as a means whereby an architect can
try to show himself smarter than all the
other architects. Most contemporary
buildings are not nearly so much in the
contemporary style as the buildings
Walter Gropius was building in Germany
in 1914, or the navy dockyard buildings
of England a century ago.
We must go on, but let us do it with
sense, and how can we do that when a
church all roof and no walls is never-
theless called a “roofless shrine”?
Shimmering beneath the whole mass
of words in Robin Boyd’s book is an
Egypt
Descending towards Cairo, an arid
plain is like a misted mirror, its haze
the diffused image of the sun. Egypt
is straw to the sun’s flame, its monuments
are slipping into the floodwaters like beasts
come to drink from the dry interior.
Cranes, absurd as science-fiction creatures,
stand
where slaves once tore their muscles so
that kings
might lie entombed in cool, musk-smelling
darkness,
mummified, perfect as butterfly specimens:
the more advanced a civilization,
the subtler the refinement of vanity.
The same old Egypt holds its sun-wearied
earth
together with transfusions from the Nile,
the dammed-up waters a bank of the
country’s blood.
The concrete lifts its pharaoh head above
the people in Cairo, compelling submission
to the hours of work. The sky is a scrap
of iron.
A scholar hurries to a museum,
a tourist points his zoom lens at flies
sticking to a cluster of dates in a bazaar.
Second-hand vision records Egypt, myths
endure. The same old Egypt contracts
like
a dried fig in the heat of the jet’s ascent.
ZULFIKAR GHOSE


unexpressed disappointment that all
thinking people feel about modern archi-
tecture. It promised so much, and yet
has somehow lost the way. Boyd in his
last chapter tries to show that an archi-
tect must have integrity of purpose, for
architecture is like no other art on earth,
If it is to remain an art then a change
of heart must come about,
“The Puzzle of Architecture” is a
book for the world, and I am proud that
an Australian wrote it.
Slapstick in the Lucky- Country
By LEON IE KRAMER
The Permit. Donald Horne. Sun Books.
6s. 6d.
Tn writing “The Permit” Donald Horne
has taken a holiday from the serious
concerns of “The Lucky Country”. He
dumps us unceremoniously in the middle
of bureaucratic petty officialdom and
muddle, and into the jungle of the gutter
Press. He bombards us with scenes of
political gerrymandering of the most
irresponsible kind. He does not employ
these as targets. We are not invited to
deplore the slackness and legalistic stupor
of minor officials, nor to condemn the
cynical pursuit of self-interest by politi-
cians, nor to feel indignation at the un-
principled creation of heroes and villains
by a hungry Press. No shocked reaction
or expression of moral fervor is deman-
ded of us. We are simply invited to laugh
at all these affairs, and to see them in
their wild absurdity.
His publishers have therefore not done
Mr Horne a service by labelling his book
satirical. It is a broad slapstick comedy,
crazy farce played fast and loud. All
sounds are amplified (in fact he often
uses bold type to indicate loudness and
insistence of speech), all characters are
caricatured, and all speeches and con-
versation are twice as silly and twice as
graceless as they would be in real life.
I am not for one moment complaining
about this. “The Permit” is an enter-
taining book, and a funny one, but it is
also (dare one predict?) ephemeral. The
very qualities which lend it life and zest
will, one must suppose, also deny it lasting
interest,
Yet it contains several episodes worth
preserving. The opening scene, set in
the grimy Department of Permits, which
is guarded by obtuse, uncivil yet garru-
lous attendants (“Well, why didn’t you
say so? You can't expect me to know all
their names, can you? They all come in
here. I don't know who they are. Bill, he
usually does enquiries and I just . . .”)
is accurate as well as funny. The scenes
in the offices of “The Daily Trumpet”,
with its editor who can never hear his
caller on the telephone because he is corn-
plaining so loudly about his inaudibility,
are played for loud laughs. But they Con-
vey something of the mad, disconnected,
feverish activity of the newspaper world,
And there is an absurd trial scene, in
which the attitudes of witnesses, counsel
and magistrates are farcically exaggera-
ted. One could go on citing examples
scenes in Parliament, in the Press gallery,
in the pub all of them bursting with
noise and nonsense,
In handling his caricatures (for there
are no characters in the novel in the real
sense of the term) Horne uses a favorite
trick of the thriller writer. At first one
feels that his newspapermen, politicians
and public servants have some contact
with real life. Then one realises that, like
Peter Cheyney’s characters, they exist
only in terms of their habits of speech
DONALD HORNE
and gestures. The lighting of a cigarette,
the pouring of a drink, the way a pipe
is held or a drink tossed off, the lifting
of an eyebrow these mannerisms give
an illusion of individuality to paste-
board figures who are merely mouth-
pieces, speaking the author’s jokes. Some
of the talk is not only funny, but horribly
familiar. Mr Horne has an ear for jargon
and the subliterate ramblings of politic-
ians. Here is the authentic voice of the
Department of Permits, represented by
Mr Kitchener, clerk: “You may rest
assured that your case has received full
consideration, but it is not the policy of
this Department to reveal the reasons as
a result of which decisions have been
reached in regard to such cases”. The
verbal parodies provide some of the best
humor in the novel.
Horne is a ring-master, not an evan-
gelist. “This is the way things are,” he
seems to say, “and since you can’t change
them you might as well get some fun
out of them.” Not for him the reforming
zeal of the serious satirist, nor the fine
blade of the skilled dissector.
The Weasel
Since his death, nothing removes my fear,
Though I have all his power now. I
remind myself
That I am king, and it is true. Here
In my hole, lord of the milk and garter
Snakes, I stand on guard. In the bleached
meadow,
Hawks dip down like sunlight searing
water,
But I see them, and though they circle,
Glutted with instinct, though they have
snatched friends off
With a look blank as his death, I wish
them well.
And beyond, where grass in the wind is
quick
As my own tongue, over the rabbit’s
smoking belly, flics,
Hovering like notes, make usual music.
I had long ago accepted it that song
which quivered
Through my teeth like happiness. But
since his death,
It has gone sour. I taste it from my liver,
Licking the puffed wound where my heart
lies.
I breathe the spoiled milk scent of the
air,
And know, for the first time, I too must
die.
Since his death, voices call I cannot name
After the catbird’s last cry, after the
squirrel’s
Chatter tweaks in my nose its damp
dreams,
After the bullfrog’s rumble fattens his
belly
For round sleep I cannot tell her
As she dreams, clutched to her spent day,
beside me.
Did she twitch like that in sleep before?
I cannot remember. And though it seems
That even now I love her more,
An ease is gone, our nest is rearranged.
The walls of the hole are packed down
tighter.
The entrance to the hole is changed.
The fear grows in me like a child. At odd
Hours, it tells me what I should not do.
If this goes on, I will believe in God.
ROBERT PACK


k*. /
Si
riOUGHlx^
11/uft:
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
Selling to women?
YOUR ADVERTISEMENT IN
Vi dmtndiM
WOMENS WEEKLY
reaches more than
2,500,000
every week !
Priestley in the Music Hall
By R. M. WILDING
Lost Empires. J. B. Priestley. Heinemann.
325. -Sd.
“T’ll come no more behind your scenes,
David,” Dr Johnson told Garrick,
“for the silk stockings and white bosoms
of your actresses excite my amorous
propensities.” Young Dick Herncastle,
the narrator of J. B. Priestley’s latest
novel, got excited in the same way. But
he stayed behind the scenes and per-
formed on stage for two pears. The time
is 1913-14. Dick is rescued from work-
ing in a dull office by his Uncle Nick
who is an illusionist touring the top line
provincial music halls. He pays Dick the
phenomenal wage of five pounds a week
for working as his assistant; and not only
is the money good, Dick—who later be-
comes a famous water-colorist —has time
in the day to paint.
He doesn’t get much painting done,
however. The bosom of Nonie Colmar
and the stockings of Nancy are too
entrancing. But though he has an “instant
infatuation” with Nancy who on stage
has “a saucy look and manner, and legs
that were both ravishing and witty”, it’s
with July Blane he eventually goes to
bed. She was a West End actress who
drank too much and ended up giving
feed lines to a comedian on the music
hall tour. But she does a lot for Dick.
“She brought me by intensely pleasurable
degrees into yet another strange world,
a kind of Oriental garden of deeply
sexual sensuality.”
But Priestley’s re-creation of the 1914
music halls is not an idyllic one. Dick
gets initiated to sex, but he gets initiated
into all sorts of cruelty and violence as
well. He is beaten up by Julie’s lover,
the comedian she works with, and Julie
is beaten up, too. She avoids seeing Dick
again and disappears to South Africa.
Nancy’s act goes to different theatres
and though Dick writes to her she doesn’t
reply; though they fall into each others’
arms at the end. Nonie is murdered after
having provoked someone too much.
Harry G. Burrard, the “eccentric
comedian” whose style of humor is no
longer popular, develops paranoid
delusions that people are following him
around to give him the bird, and he
shoots himself. And then there are the
couple who sing romantic songs; they
invite Dick to their rooms one night to
get him to rape a girl they’ve procured
and made drunk. “There she is, Richard.
You enjoy her. We enjoy your enjoy-
ment. People have different tastes, you
must understand.”
Dick never suspected voyeurism, but
he had sensed something evil about
Mergen, the singer. And he had felt a
sense of evil, too, when he went with
Uncle Nick to select a new dwarf for
the act, and had seen a room full of
dwarfs. Uncle Nick has a vision of com-
ing destruction. The book is laced with
these resonances of evil.
Just as sexual kinks or creepy scenes
we can accept all these. They add to the
strange picture of the world of music
hall. Priestley, however, seems not t 0
want us to rest on this literal level. The
premonitions are meaningful. Mergen, j
the voyeur, comes from Central Europe,
Max Schurer, who has no important part
in the novel (the book’s full of bit play-
ers and walk-on characters), comments!
on the Sarajevo assassination and fore-
casts war.
So that the book’s title is pointedly
ambiguous. The “Empires” are the music ,
halls that are “lost” to us now; but thej
implication is that they were lost then,
the heyday was over and although Little
Tich and so on get a mention, that way
of life is finished. Instead of purveying
delight they exude corruption. But the
“Empires” are also the Edwardian British
ones, the old Raj that is also coming to
an end. A whole age is heading for
crisis, the policeman who investigates
the murder sees violence and evil in
every pleasure garden. Just as the music
halls are crumbling, so the age they
represent is passing. Society is changing,
Uncle Nick goes to America denouncing
the crazy war (in which Dick enlists
Priestley's getting it both ways here) and
makes a fortune.
But all that prescience about the way
the world’s going—from Uncle Nick,
from the man who sees the future in
movies, from the inspector—is so much
the prescience of hindsight. Priestley
doesn’t succeed in suggesting social up-
heaval through the image of the music
halls; instead we’re more conscious of
the contrivance, of trying to make the
music hall and Uncle Nick’s stage
magic—somehow symbolic of the 1914
world. But the symbols are too obvious;
and what they are meant to tell us isn’t
anything we didn’t know before.
The success of “Lost Empires”—and
it is successful —lies instead in its being
so readable a story, in re-creating what
is a lost world, in providing, in short,
the sort of entertainment Dick and his
uncle provided in the halls. It’s not
Prospero’s magic—it’s far less serious
but also far more fun than that. Like
Uncle Nick. Priestley is a superb tech-
nician—he knows just how to keep our
interest, how to keep the act moving,
how to divert our attention to what he
wants us to see. And we enjoy seeing
the same tricks done again, having a
whole cast of characters pulled out of
the bag. Of course, Priestley doesn’t
appeal to everybody. Dr Leavis gave the
awful warning when he said that to
appreciate Jane Austen’s distinction “is
to feel that life isn’t long enough to
permit of one’s giving much time to
Fielding or any to Mr Priestley”. It
all comes back to whether, as Ross
Campbell puts it, you “regard literature
as a pill to do you good, rather than a
lolly to be enjoyed”.


NOW
Si
rr
ALAN STiW»»>
Alan Stewart’s pen jias dug deep
into the story of this jarooding moun-
tain; its mine, men and misfortune.
Through the' darkness of distortion,
propaganda and malice he has
brought to light facts that make
startling reading.
r
6
A HILL OF CONTENT PUBLICATION
FROM ALL
BOOKSELLERS
The Leafy Tree My Family
Daryl Lindsay
The story of the colourful
and influential Lindsay
family, told with wit and
authority by one of the
famous sons. A lively
addition to Australian
social and artistic history.
39/6
F. W. CHESHIRE
Melbourne Canberra Sydney
The Aboriginal Genius
By BILL HANNAN
pawn of Art. Karel Kupka. Angus and
Robertson. 70s.
A ny complete study of a primitive art
form needs to be soundly based in
its anthropology and its aesthetics,
though emphasis of course will vary. The
most illuminating work so far on
Aboriginal visual art has been anthropo-
logical. Karel Kupka’s “Dawn of Art”,
originally “Un Art a l’Etat Brut” (1962),
pursues predominantly aesthetic ques-
tions, and for that reason alone is in-
teresting.
Kupka’s field of study is bark painting
and sculpture in Arnhem Land. He does
not attempt complete classifications. His
basic questions need insight and illustra-
tion rather than exhaustive research. He
concentrates on bark painting because
it is still a living art whose practitioners
can be questioned.
The question he explores in depth is
why art is necessary. He is attracted to
Aboriginal art because it is a rare and
fine example of the thought of a Stone
Age culture. Although he can never
fully prove his point, he believes that
Aboriginal art is a paradigm of all
ancient primitive art, and can therefore
illuminate our own European past. As an
artist, too, he is drawn, like so many
others, by a culture where visual arts
are not only an adornment but a neces-
sity.
He finds that art is necessary because
it is a major form of communication
between people, as well as a medium for
self-satisfying expression. On bark paint-
ings in particular he writes lucidly and
at length. They are not, he points out,
created as permanent works of art. Un-
less they can be sold, as they often can
now, they are commonly discarded. The
important thing is the act of painting,
not the finished work. The purposes of
the action are manifold. In many cases,
Kupka maintains, bark painting is some-
thing like sketching practice for the
more significant sacred or ritual body
painting and rock painting. It is also of
crucial importance in the rigidly con-
trolled education system: along with oral
instruction, dance and song, it is one of
the major media by which the knowledge
and skills of maturity are passed on to
the initiate.
By describing specific paintings (well
reproduced, mostly in color) Kupka
makes their complex functions quite
c iear. They are indeed rich works, both
decoratively and symbolically. An art
which conveys explicit, generally under-
stood information, which adds an extra
effective dimension to an impressive oral
literature and which identifies man with
the more “real” world of the spirit, the
Dream ‘ time > is manifestly a necessary
art ; T .
As Kupka points out, Aboriginal
art is closely integrated with a highly
conservative tradition that the inevitable
changes in their social habits will destroy
their art. It is fortunate that the art of
Arnhem Land has had such a perceptive
observer and analyst as Kupka; there is,
as Professor Elkin puts it, “an aspect
of ur S enc y abou t this work”. Admiring
collectors and tourists will, by their very
encouragement, take the soul out of this
art . Luckily, some of its great artistic
va lue and fascinating historical interest
will be preserved in museum collections
and works such as this book.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
That Capital Inflow
TI7WLE the ANZ Bank sees an easing of pressure of demand for resources in the
** private sector of the economy (as indeed do most people who look at the motor
vehicle industry, housing, and drought effects), the consequences of heavy imports
and reduction in export income have yet to be felt.
Reduced crops and lower incomes
from wheat, wool, meat, etc., will be
projected many months ahead. Mean-
while, the heavy flow of imports is still
being offset in Australia’s balance of
payments by the remarkable inflow of
overseas capital. Professor Wheelwright
warned last week that we should be more
discriminating about overseas capital
because control of Australian resources
and Australian companies is steadily
falling to overseas groups.
Latest figures released by the Com-
monwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics show that the apparent capital
inflow for the September quarter was
running at £104m., which is almost
double the quarterly average of £ssm.
in the past year.
Before we pat ourselves on the back
for this apparently fortuitous inflow, it
is worth reflecting on what would have
happened to Australia’s balance of pay-
ments if this money had not been forth-
coming.
Even so, the balance of payments
figures showed a net fall in Australia’s
international reserves of only £66m.
during the September quarter, which does
not seem in line with the heavy flow of
imports. Part of the explanation, ap-
parently, is that payment for many of
these imports is being extended over a
long period.
If this is so, the outflow of funds
required when payment falls due could
be embarrassing.
On top of this, it is noticeable in the
September quarter that the invisible items
(insurance, freight, tourism, etc.) are
estimated at an uncomfortably high level
of £79m., or at an annual rate of £3l6m.
One of the reasons why Australia’s
international reserves have not dropped
sharply, in line with the heavy buying of
imports, is that overseas companies are
still bringing in development funds
which were arranged immediately before
President Johnson put his clamp on
export funds. As explained in these
columns recently, US companies con-
tinue to regard Australia as a favorable
investment outlet. They are inclined to
encourage the flow of capital funds to
this area, cutting back in other countries
to oblige LBJ on “voluntary” restriction
of capital outflow.
The result is flattering to Australia.
There will be some finger-biting in Can-
berra, though, if the capital inflow drops
sharply and imports continue to enter
the country at the recent high rate. Com-
panies which made their extra capital
arrangements before the US capital re-
straints are not necessarily expecting the
flow to continue. Also, the “voluntary”
restraints were designed to last 12 months
(which would mean relief after Febru-
ary); because the required results are
not showing up, the restraints are to be
kept on for another 12. months.
Electric al-itis
HThe electrical appliance industry is in-
deed licking its wounds after H. G.
Palmer being placed in the hands of the
Receiver. The repercussions have filtered
through to the manufacturers, with Simp-
son Pope cutting its dividend from 6 p.c.
to 2 p.c. because of doubts over large
sums owed to it by the H. G. Palmer
group.
Eric Anderson (Consolidated) plans to
reconstruct, EMI expects a more dif-
ficult year, and A. J. Veall has reshaped
its trading operations to meet changing
conditions.
Electronic Industries, which claims it
E. L. WHEELWRIGHT
has been trading with H. G. Palmer onf
a cash basis, asserts through its chair-
man, Sir Arthur Warner: “It appears that
for the past four or five years
tions of H. G. Palmer have been carried
on at a loss. Consequently their activi-j
ties have helped to disrupt the industry.”'
Sir Arthur seems to think that thef
appointment of a Receiver to H. G.t
Palmer will in due course correct this|
situation. Mr H. G. Palmer, founder of,
the business, seems to think the company;
will trade its way out of difficulties.
The appliance trade undoubtedly will,
adjust itself to present conditions, but
with casualties. The unfortunate aspect,
however, is that the bad debt disease is!
going to create side effects. Manu-
facturers doubtless are looking at their,
debtors rather anxiously and wondering
who next might toss in the towel.
British and American Share Markets
I> OTH London and New York share
markets were showing one thing in
common last week—a few commentators
in each place questioned whether prices
had gone too high. Certainly the economic
stimuli behind the recent respective over-
all rises are of rather different orders.
Yet in times of general advance, however
justified, a mild sounding of over-con-
fidence is probably well worth a hearing.
Not that Wall Street, for one, succeeded
in driving out hopes that the Dow Jones
will jump over the 1000 mark reasonably
soon. But the latest march of peaks was
at least temporarily arrested on Friday,
when the index shed 2.39 points from the
previous day's record 961.85. Some re-
duction in trading volume accompanied
this slight retreat, which could sympa-
thetically be largely ascribed to the usual
profit-taking and "evening-up".
Yet blue chips did display a little less
strength and the index was significantly
affected by General Motors' drop conse-
quent upon the lower dividend. Other-
wise automotive issues stayed firm. Steels
and chemicals were the issues tending to
drift,
A little of the questioning mood ex-
tended to the US economy as a whole,
which some experts believe is operating
at too high a level. Motors will reach a
new production peak for 1965, steel output
has broken an eight-week downward
slide, new factory orders went ahead in
September, together with consumers' hire-
purchase debt. The First National City
Bank of New York is talking about an
emphasis on stability.
London, of course, could expect some
irregularity from the Rhodesian state of
emergency; this duly unsettled the mar-
kets on Friday. Yet, although the index
lost 2.3 points, equities looked mostly
steady at the close.
The better gold reserve figures gave
some help during the week, but the
squeeze and corporation tax are begin-
ning to show up in company reports.
Dullness was particularly evident among
electricals, textiles and engineering
stocks.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Loan Market Prospects
More Hopeful
Will monetary policy be relaxed?
F pushing out its boat to catch £5O million instead of only £35 million asked for,
and £47.6 million caught in the previous loan with the same bait, the Treasury
underlines its confidence in its own observations that demand pressures are moving
into balance with the availability of resources to the economy.
Perhaps it is not so much the bigger
amount sought as the unchanged terms
of the new loan which will be taken
by the business community as a guide
to the possibilities for some relenting in
the restraint in monetary policy still
being exerted by the authorities. True,
as always, the rival claims of loan
revenue have still to be pitched against
the relative need to relax monetary
restraints. Here, too, the outlook looks
decidedly brighter for a more accommo-
dating attitude towards the credit needs
of the private sector.
The steadier pace of economic activity
is breeding more caution. This, coupled
with the feeling that interest rates are
about as high as they’re likely to go, is
rubbing off in a better response to bond
issues, notably for shorter-term securi-
ties. This was seen in the results of the
previous loan. For a welcome change
this showed a reversal of form by short-
term subscribers, whose barely lukewarm
enthusiasm for bonds last year was
mainly responsible for a drop from £213
million to only £ll6 million net (after
redemptions) from public subscriptions
to bonds over the whole year.
In the last loan (August) short-term sub-
scriptions of £19.7 million (out of a total
of £47.6 million) actually exceeded those
invested in the long-term tranche, while
holders converting old bonds put £39.5
million out of £63.4 million into shorts,
as against £12.3 million into medium and
only £11.4 million into long-dated bonds.
In the prevailing conditions the
Treasurer can probably look for another
good harvest of short-term money in the
current £5O million issue which opened
on November 11. Also, despite the
lowering of liquidity still proceeding in
line with the continuing fall in overseas
reserves, this is usually the best season of
the year for loan issues because of high
seasonal returns for exports. Indeed the
Treasurer could again be understating
the possibilities by only going for £5O
million this time because, as things look,
he could probably have sought £6O
million and got it, as he may well do
including oversubscriptions.
Maybe he is erring on the cautious
side, since one of the main sources of
funds for bonds is savings banks deposits
(at June 30 the savings banks held
slightly more than a quarter of all Com-
monwealth bonds redeemable within
Australia, that is £1032 million out of
£3934 million). Readers will be well
aware that the rate of increase in savings
banks deposits has slowed appreciably.
In the three months to the end of Sep-
tember this year the savings banks took
in an additional £73 million net on
deposit, compared with £99 million net
in the same three months the previous
year. On that showing subscriptions from
the savings banks will be rather lower
than the Treasurer might have hoped for.
However, even going on the require-
ment that the savings banks have to in-
vest 65 p.c. of their funds in Government
securities, it is difficult for an outside
observer to be sure what the savings
banks will put into any particular Gov-
ernment loan. As we recently pointed
out, they swing their currently accruing
funds from one type of asset to another,
say bonds and housing loans, in a fashion
difficult to follow in terms of statutory
requirements. For instance, last year
they increased their deposits by £205
million but their holdings of bonds in-
creased by only £37 million. In the
previous year the increase in deposits
was £269 million and their increase in
bonds £79 million.
If we neglect the fluctuations in the
bond holdings of the Reserve Bank
which reflect, inter alia, funding of
Treasury Bills and open market dealings,
the savings banks are the heaviest in-
vestors in bonds from year to year,
though in 1963-64 the cheque-paying
banks with an increase of £66 million net
ran their £79 million rise in bond hold-
ings pretty close. In present tight
liquidity conditions it would be surprising
if the cheque-paying banks were major
subscribers to the current loan. On the
other hand their net holdings over the
full year could well increase more than
the £3 million they rose last year when,
with their massive increase in fixed
deposits (achieved at some cost to the
growth in banks deposits), a much bigger
increase might have been expected.
Although rising only £3 million last year,
bond holdings of the cheque-paying
banks were the second biggest at £461
million, making close on £l5OO million
held by banks as a whole at June 30
last.
Neglecting the holdings of Common-
wealth departments, which among other
things are augmented by special issues
to meet gaps between Loan Council
public works expenditure and loan rais-
ings (their holdings rose £63 million
EXPORT ACTON
"35!" "40" "Impossible."
"I'll go as far as 37" "36"
"I'll meet you half way."
"It's a deal!"
Acton, you're slipping. You
were supposed to sell HIM
trinkets.


strength
v
The Bank of Ceylon is the largest bank in the
island, controlling over 50% of the total bank
deposits in Ceylon. Enterprising exporters and
importers depend upon this strength in their
trading relations with Ceylon.
The Bank of Ceylon offers a comprehensive
service from up-to-the-minute Business Intelli-
gence Reports and Credit information, to the
financing of exports and imports and conducting
every type of foreign exchange transaction.
LONDON OFFICE: 48-54 Mcorgate, London, E.C.2.
Phone Monarch 5597-9.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: FORBANK Colombo.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: HEADBANK Colombo.
.>rof= c
BANK OF CEYLON
The largest bank in Ceylon
with the finest network of local branches.
28 BRANCHES AND 4 PAY OFFICES IN CEYLON.
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of The Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North
M. J. Hobbs, 1. A. North
J. H. Valder
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle
last vcar and this was largely accounted
for by band issues to fill such a gap),
the next biggest grouj. of subscribers is
the life companies. These, like the
superannuation funds, are the Treasury s
captives.
The life companies increased their
bond holdings by £2b million last year,
£3 million less than the year before,
while the pension and provident funds
stepped up theirs by £23 million last
year, about double the increase of the
previous year. As both these groups
increase their holdings up to the statu-
tory percentages, some falling off in their
subscriptions might be expected, but the
tax concessions attached to the 30/20
requirement could well offset this. At
any rate they should continue to be
reliable subscriber* and can be counted
on this time for a good response.
One of the special features of last
year’s movements in bond holdings was
the drop of £lB million in those held by
companies other than banks and life
offices. This can probably be directly
attributed to net selling to realise funds
in the prevailing tight money conditions.
So in the Treasurer’s place one would
not count too much on them in the
current loan.
Though subscriptions to special bonds
are counted separately and stand out-
side the big loans floated by the Treasury,
they all go into the same pot and make
their contribution to the general loan
result. The total special bonds issued
at June 30 last was £267 million, of
which £42 million net was contributed
last year compared with £4B million the
year before. It doesn’t look as if the
Treasurer is going to do as well from
this source as last year because, in the
three months July-September this year,
the net amount raised from special bonds
was less than half that raised in the same
period of the previous year, that is £4.2
million as against £9.5 million.
Probably the Treasurer was wise in
his Budget speech not to put a precise
figure on his loan target this year. For
one thing, he was entitled to be most
pessimistic on the score of redemptions,
at least going on the 1964-65 level of
these. For another, he had no idea
whether he would be able to raise any
money overseas. He can now look more
hopefully, it seems, to overseas markets,
where he is raising $25 million in the
near future. Also, going on the high
level of conversions in the August loan,
it seems he will achieve a much higher
percentage of conversions than last year.
CROESUS
A Riches of Energy Fuels
Keeping the nuclear door open
TN the Government’s first public statement on nuclear power for a long time, the
-*■ Minister for National Development, Mr D. E. Fairbairn, told the Australian School
of Nuclear Technology at Lucas Heights last week that “we are moving into a period
where we will have to look very closely at the production of nuclear power in
Australia”.
Presumably he was thinking more in
terms of energy provision in the Far
North, say for the projected Gove
bauxite development, rather than for the
rest of the country, where an abundance
of conventional fuel supplies threatens
some embarrassment following the dis-
covery of natural gas in so many widely
dispersed areas and the various plans
afoot to exploit it.
It is more than possible, though, that,
in his broad forecast, the Minister was
merely offering a few nods of encourage-
ment to the hard-working nuclear
physicists attending the school and to the
staff at the Atomic Energy Commission’s
Lucas Heights establishment, on which
the Government has spent about £l2
million so far for a small commercial
return from the sale of isotopes-. Because,
elsewhere in his address, he showed him-
self perfectly aware that the ability of
nuclear power to compete w-ith the con-
ventional fuels in Australia at the
moment “was not great”.
The real question posed by the
Minister’s references to this subject is
how far we should back the scientists’
and even the Government's dreams of
having nuclear power stations, with the
allocation of resources to preparations
for their possible fulfilment. Nobody
will gainsay the national advantages in
having an increasing number of highly
trained local experts in nuclear tech-
nology capable of establishing stations
here, which is the avowed object of the
new school at Lucas Heights. Equally,
it is important for them to keep abreast
of world developments in this field. If
they can lead the way in these develop-
ments, as they have done in some in-
stances, so much the better for our
national prestige.
Beyond these activities the case for
putting more money into nuclear de-
velopment has yet to be established. Nor
was Mr Fairbairn prepared to make it.
On the contrary, he went out of his way
to say that the new school (to be run by
the Atomic Energy Commission) was
but a step towards making ready for the
time when Australia would “be in a
position” to use nuclear power. What
precisely did he mean by that? With
the exception of crude oil we have con-
ventional fuels aplenty. Conceivably he
could have meant not that our conven-
tional fuel supplies might run out, but
that the cost of producing nuclear energy
would drop to a level where, for com-
petitive reasons, we would have to use
it. We are a long way from being in that
position yet.
True, as he said, significant break-
throughs in nuclear technology in the
last few years have substantially reduced
the cost of producing energy from this
source. On the other hand, equally im-
portant cost-saving advances have been


©o
o
o
ROUND THE CLOCK
TELEPHONE
ANSWERING SERVICE
AUSTAS
PHONE 61 6281
and see how AUSTAS
can benefit your business
797 N
Invest in
Associated
Securities
Limited
INTEREST
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form
attached to the Prospectus available from
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia,
Any Branch of the Bank of New South Wales,
All Branches of Associated Securities Limited.
Brokers:
Ord, Minnett, T. i. Thompson & Partners
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
D. E. FAIRBAIRN
made in producing energy from con-
ventional fuels. The margin of advan-
tage has not swung as much towards
nuclear power stations as might be sup-
posed. Overseas experience suggests
that, taking the most efficient stations of
each type, the margin either way is very
small.
On that showing it would now be
economically feasible to build a nuclear
power station here, either to serve a
special purpose, say the provision of
energy for a big industrial project in a
remote area, or to take up some of the
projected general increase in energy
demand (the demand for electricity in
Australia is projected to at least double
itself in the next ten years). The main
limiting factor in doing this would, in
present balance-of-payments circum-
stances, seem to be the need to conserve
overseas funds for other purposes.
Against this, the present vigorous expan-
sion of electricity generating capacity to
use conventional fuels also makes sub-
stantial calls on overseas funds to pay
for the heavy equipment, most of which
has to be imported.
As for building special-purpose nuclear
power stations in remote areas, the likely
need seems to have been considerably
reduced by the possibilities that have
been opened up for piping natural gas
to such areas. One of the beauties of
the commercial natural gas fields dis-
covered in recent years is that some of
them, such as Mereenie and Yardarino,
are within reasonable piping distance of
outback regions like the Pilbara and
Gove, now on the threshold of big
minerals development. Naturally, present
plans to lay pipelines are directed to
serving metropolitan markets. The one
most forward in preparation is to pipe
gas from the Associated Oil Group’s
fields around Roma to Brisbane. Others
linking the Bass Strait finds to Mel-
bourne and Sydney; Mereenie and Palm
Valley (NT) and Gidgealpa (SA) to
Adelaide, Sydney and Melbourne; also
Gilmore (Q) to Sydney are under con-
sideration. These developments look
like putting the clock back for the arrival
of nuclear power stations, both in the
remote and developed areas of Aus-
tralia.
One of the questions raised by nuclear
power is whether the relative cost of
producing nuclear energy becomes low
enough to warrant writing off a big seg-
ment of the capital now invested in the
supply of energy from conventional
fuels. Also relative to this matter is the
above-mentioned prospect of large sums
of capital being invested in natural gas
provision, not to speak of the vast con-
tinuing sums going into the building of
conventional thermal and hydro-power
stations (the new Hazlewood thermal
station in Victoria will cost £l5O million
to complete).
In the Tariff Board’s recent report on
crude oil only an oblique reference was
made to the possible intrusion of atomic
power into the Australian fuel picture.
As a guide to what official action might
be taken to promote nuclear energy pro-
vision it is perhaps slight; but, signifi-
cantly, in one passage, the report comes
out strongly on the side of efficiency
rather than (as had been advocated by
the Joint Coal Board) balance of pay-
ments considerations, and this was re-
flected in its decision not to impose
direct penalties on furnace oil.
In that passage the Board stated that
“the incursion of furnace oil into the
market formerly held almost entirely by
coal is a natural consequence of a new,
convenient and efficient form of energy
becoming available and having an ad-
ditional advantage of cheapness in coal-
deficient areas and, in some circum-
stances, in coal-producing areas. Un-
doubtedly the process will be repeated,
with effects on the shares of the energy
market held by both coal and oil, when
natural gas and perhaps atomic energy
are commercially available”.
Talking to a dedicated group of
nuclear physicists at the opening of a
school designed to further their objects,
Mr Fairbairn could be excused for going
out of his way to show that the Govern-
ment has an open mind about the advent
of atomic power. Indeed, in the interests
of reducing power costs to industry, he
had an obvious duty to the whole
country to do this. But his well-chosen
words will not be interpreted as meaning
that a decision to build a nuclear power
station is imminent.


New Rule for Soviet Industry
Factories given “profit” targets
By GERALD SEGAL
Something of a mystery surrounds the recent meeting in Moscow of the
Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party. Politically, it had been expected
that important changes in the leadership of the Soviet Union would take place. It
would be too simple to say that foreign commentators were inaccurate in their forecast
of this or that they had misunderstood the Soviet political situation. The fact is that
the present situation in the Soviet Union is abnormal both in terms of Russian history
and of Soviet Communist practice. The tradition is that one man emerges as the
recognised leader of the Communist Party and of the Soviet State organisations.
At the present time A. N. Kosygin
as Chairman of the Council of Ministers
—the Prime Minister—heads the State
organisations; L. I. Brezhnev as the
Communist Party First Secretary heads
the party organisations. Power is
divided between them and apparently
with the President of the Soviet State,
A. M. Mikoyan.
Economically, it was expected that
the Central Committee meeting, which
was scheduled to take certain decisions
on the management of Soviet industry,
would embark on a liberalisation policy
involving the profit motive, which many
in the West thought would be neo-
capitalist. This, too, has not happened.
lt has been admitted for years now,
and some of the facts were repeated
at the meeting, that Soviet industry has
been suffering from falling growth rates
and declining labor productivity. The
causes were adduced to be various and
to include an unwieldy and bureaucratic
planning system, little scope for initiative,
inadequate incentives and the inability
to exploit industrially the latest tech-
niques.
The old planning system involved the
imposition upon all the production
enterprises of the Soviet Union of a
complicated range of performance
criteria which the enterprise was com-
pelled to meet. Thus the planning
authorities laid down the gross output,
product range, quality, labor produc-
tivity, wages, what new techniques
should be introduced, purchasing and
selling prices, and the expected profit
to be obtained. It was left to the
manager to operate his plant so as to
achieve more than the plant fulfilment
in all its aspects in order to earn extra
profit and therefore extra bonuses. The
system was inefficient and not only be-
cause of the difficulty of handling all
the bureaucratic paper-work and obtain-
ing the necessary information,
The point was that the factory director
had a vested interest in concealing the
resources available to him; if he were
to reveal all his resources to the planners
they would increase the basic planned
performance targets; but if he could
conceal them he would receive from the
planners a relatively low production
target which, by using some of his re-
sources, he could then overfulfil and so
earn higher bonuses. Similarly, it was
not worth it for the factory director to
introduce better production techniques.
If he attempted to do so, the operation
of his plant would be disrupted, pro-
duction would fall and he would not be
able to recoup his losses because the
prices of the goods produced would have
been previously established by the
planners.
The practice, however, grew up of
accepting one criterion that of gross
production —to be the basic measure
of a factory’s performance. The factory
was by and large judged efficient and
granted the appropriate bonuses if it
met its gross output target. But this
could be done at the expense of the
customer, whether this was a shop sell-
ing consumer goods or another factory
which needed the products of the first
factory as part of its own production
process. This was so because the quality
of goods and the reliability of manu-
facture would take second place to the
gross output index. The result was (and
these cases are on the record) that a
tractor plant might receive a mass pro-
duction line of machine-tools which was
virtually unusable and a clothing store
would receive stocks of garments which
were unsellable because of poor quality
and unattractive design. But the original
manufacturing plants would receive their
rewards because they had met their
targets.
It was in these conditions that interest
grew in the proposals first put forward
by Professor Yevsei Liberman in 1956
to use profit as the new general criterion
of factory performance. It is this original
scheme of Liberman’s, now nearly ten
years old, which the Soviet Govern-
ment under Kosygin and Brezhnev seem
to be introducing into the Soviet
economy. At the time it was ignored,
as Khrushchev in his struggle for
supreme power in 1956-57 broke up the
then existing centralised ministerial
system and established more than 100
Regional Economic Councils, which, in
the final analysis, were under the control
of the local Communist Party sec-
retaries who were themselves Khrush-
chev’s men. In the years which followed
Khrushchev’s assumption of supreme
power, symbolised by the fact that he
occupied both the positions now held by
Kosygin and Brezhnev separately, he
was compelled by economic necessity to
reintroduce centralisation in the form
of State committees for the various in-
dustrial branches and the Supreme
Council of the National Economy all
located in Moscow.
However, from September, 1962, on-
wards, the debate on the original Liber-
man proposals was reinitiated by an
article by Liberman himself which ap-


NEW ISSUE
NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March, 1950.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Qz ®
4,6 or 10 YEARS
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in, the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
865
NAME
ADDRESS
19128
peared in “Pravda”. Some of the sug-
gestions put forward went much further
than Liberman’s original ideas and if
accepted would logically have led to
the break-up of the Soviet planning
system as we know it and to the estab-
lishment of an industrial society similar
to that of the Western democracies. Thus
it was argued that interest rates should
be charged on capital and that the direc-
tor of the factory should have the right
to determine the prices of his product
which would be negotiated with his
customers, and that the wages payable to
the factory staff and workers could also
be in part determined by the director.
The result could only have been a
decentralised economy functioning on
the basis of factory initiative whose
efficiency is measured by the profits
obtained from the work done. This kind
of scheme had the added advantage that
a factory director would have an in-
centive to introduce the latest materials
and techniques, perhaps computers or
automated production lines, where he
could see that these would increase his
profits. What the Central Committee
meeting really achieved was with one
stroke to avoid the onward rush to a
free economy and, by implication, to a
free society, which was implicit in the
decentralisation proposals and at the
same time to destroy all Khrushchev’s
schemes and his organisation of the
economy.
ministerial system, which was then
A destroyed on the grounds that it
was too bureaucratic and led to the
creation of self-contained industrial em-
pires, has now been restored and Khrush-
chev’s economic councils and State
committees abolished. The ministries,
which seem to embrace every aspect of
production (ferrous and non-ferrous
metallurgy, coal, chemicals, oil prospect-
ing, oil processing and proto-chemical
light industry, heavy machine building,
construction, machine building, etc.),
have been made responsible for the
operation, technical policy, supplies,
financing, labor and wages of the enter-
prises falling within their industrial
branches.
Kosygin claimed in his report to the
Central Committee that the new system
would encourage enterprise and initiative
precisely because it replaces the previous
gamut of performance indices and in par-
ticular the gross output index by a profit
index and a quality index; in so doing, he
argued, it released the enterprise from
detailed supervision in its affairs by the
higher planning authorities. It is difficult
to accept, from a reading of his speech,
that the new system will in fact have this
result.
Thus the factories will receive from
the planners and ministries the follow-
ing eight target specifications: the volume
of product to be sold, the basic type
range, the wage fund, the sum of the
profit and the profitability, payments to
be made to, and allocations from the
budget, the volume of centralised capital
investments and the production capacity
to be commissioned, the basic tasks on
the introduction of new techniques, and
the material supply quotas.
Everything else, Kosygin remarks in-
geniously, will be settled independently
by the enterprises. One may well ask,
first, what there is left to the enterprise
to settle, and, secondly, where the so-
called new scheme differs from the old
unsatisfactory one. The first question
seems to the writer to be unanswerable;
the truth is that the factory manager will
remain simply the delegatee of the cen-
tral authorities. The second question is
more interesting, for in answering it one
stumbles upon the return to a rough line
in Soviet economic affairs. The main
difference between the new and the old
system seems to be that, whereas previ-
ously the factory was paid for whatever
it produced and was rewarded if it sur-
passed its gross targets the customer
and the prices "being prearranged now
it must actually sell its goods at the pre-
set price to the pre-arranged customer.
This can only mean that the customer
must find the goods acceptable both as
to quality and type range as well as
quantity. Only if this is done will the
factory be entitled to earn its pre-
arranged profits. Although basic salaries
may not depend upon this, bonuses will.
The factory will be allowed to retain
part of its profits to be diverted into
various funds such as a “production de-
velopment fund”, which will allow the
enterprise to accumulate resources for
capital investment on its own account,
and a “bonus fund” to be distributed
amongst the factory personnel, and a
“communal fund” to enable the enter-
prise to build houses, rest centres and
nurseries for the factory staff.
Under Kosygin’s new scheme the State
is also taking steps to avoid allowing an
enterprise to conceal its resources in the
hope of making a profit greater than
that provided for in the plan. This will
be done by introducing a series of what
are called long-term normatives (again
a proposal of Liberman’s dating back to
1956) payment rates is perhaps a fair
translation whereby the enterprise de-
ducts from its profits regular payments
for the resources, capital equipment and
materials at its disposal and at the same
time links the profit going to the bonus
fund to the industrial potential of the
plant. Different normatives will have to
be worked out for different industries.
The meaning of the new system for
the Soviet factory manager seems to be
that he will have to work much harder
with greater discipline and enjoy less
freedom of manoeuvre than before.


TIME
i
0
„ MSMBEB
SAFETY
'Ms 3^
MAKE YOUR money earn 6% p.a.
every second, every hour, every
day (including Sunday). Invest for
one month, for one year or for
any period at all. Remember, your
money is SAFE and readily avail-
able plus dividends with NO
brokerage or any other deductions. You gain a net
6% p.a. (current rate). Paid twice yearly. Assets
exceed £7 million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J S. Ward. General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . « •
NAME
ADDRESS.
RBA67SC
THE MAN ON THE LAND
The China-Canada Wheat Deal
A more flexible contract
TITHE interesting thing about the latest China-Canada wheat deal is its flexibility.
China will take a minimum 112 million bushels costing about £67 million over
three years (on 25 p.c. cash and 18 months the balance). She can increase this under
the terms of the agreement to 466 million bushels worth about £3OO million over
five years.
The exact price has not been dis-
closed. One can assume that it is some-
thing less than the price China paid for
Canadian wheat in 1964 and 1963.
The largest quantity China had bought
previously from Canada was the 220
million bushels in 1964. This latest con-
tract, therefore, may be larger (actual
deliveries can overlap and China could
negotiate another three or five-year con-
tract next year if she wanted to).
The indication that she has no great
urgency, preferring regular shipments
over a fairly long period, does throw
some light on the somewhat confused
China wheat position generally. It is
confused because China tells us only
what she thinks we ought to know and
because any discussion about Chinese
wheat-buying (in Australia, anyway)
rapidly becomes clouded by political
arguments.
Is this latest Canadian sale a good
omen for Australia? One is inclined to
think it may be. It is a more flexible
contract than in the past. It might also
appear that it has been negotiated with
the knowledge that the Australian crop
will be down and that proportionately
less wheat will be available from Aus-
tralia.
Once again we can refer to Hong
Kong and other Asian reports (how well
informed is anyone’s guess) which
suggest that China has good prospects
for her home-grown wheat, vegetables,
rice, fruit and other grains. Some 31
million acres more land is said to be
under crops than in 1964, and fertiliser
consumption has increased by about 3i
million tons. There are also the usual
reports about students and industrial
workers being drafted into the fields to
cope with the mammoth crops.
This latter has always appeared to be
an admission of under-mechanisation
rather than over-production. A country
as well organised as China claims to be
would never draft students and others
into the fields if the heavy harvesting
machinery was available to do the job.
Probably the real position is simply that,
regardless of improving methods and
great zeal, the population growth just
keeps on keeping ahead of food produc-
tion in China.
It is obviously no longer just a matter
of preventing starvation. China believes
in industrialisation with religious fervor
and her agriculture must be geared to
an industrialised complex instead of a
simple peasant life.
Ignoring the political aspects, it would
appear that the Canadian deal fits the
picture and that we might expect to
clinch another sale ourselves this season,
and for many seasons to come.
Who really knows about the political
side? Chou En-lai has said Australia
must weigh her involvement in Vietnam
against wheat sales to China. Surely this
only becomes important if the Vietnam
people, and the Chinese people, are made
aware that wheat comes from Australia.
The job of the Chinese buying com-
mission is to obtain wheat at the best
possible price and terms for China.
Probably no one outside the hierarchy
is ever aware of where it comes from.
For Australian growers the price
angle is likely to be of greater con-
sideration, perhaps, than the political
considerations. Again, how can anyone
really know? Canada plays it safe, has
no troops in Vietnam, and refrains from
criticising China in the UN. We do not.


Jm ?:? ? f «•
Cliffs
mm
*L>#
H
m
r.Js
K*W
* *
»•*
m* i
SH?
Every pipe is a classic to its owner:
now there is one classic tobacco for every pipe
Benson & Hedges Special Smoking
Mixture is truly a classic among pipe
tobaccos. It is cut rather coarsely to
ensure cooler, slower smoking. It is
aromatic, mild, smooth. And it is
carefully blended from Latakia,
Perique and other distinctive leaf.
Modestly priced at 7/9 a tin, Benson
& Hedges Special Smoking Mixture
is the right tobacco when only the best
will do. And isn’t that all the time?
9nm
Bensons Mebges
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
China still needs to buy wheat at the best
price for China and on the best terms.
As we are reasonably sure that Canada
has shaved the price in this latest deal,
we can be absolutely sure that we will
have to match that price, whatever it is,
to do more business.
The yield divisor, which guarantees
the Australian grower cost of production,
comes up for review very soon now. As
critics of wheat stabilisation have pointed
out, quite correctly, this is not a true
cost-of-production figure, but an exercise
in political economics arranged between
the growers and the Australian Govern-
ment. While cynics seize upon the un-
real nature of the divisor, there is a
very sound argument in favor of it.
Judiciously managed, it can be used as
a primer for greater productivity.
To sell more cheaply to China, for
example, the cost of production could
be raised a fraction. Most growers would
want this. On the other hand, the Gov-
ernment may feel that it is time to call
a halt to the subsidies for primary in-
dustry so that revenue derived from the
taxpayer can be diverted to other ends.
It would be hoping too much to expect
that one such avenue might be reduced
taxation for the average city-dwelling
family man with two children to educate.
Whichever way the wheat divisor goes,
we can be pretty sure that it will not be
a drastic alteration. The Government,
and the growers through their Wheat
Board, will reach an agreement and we
might assume that it will try to do two
things:
• Enable us to sell competitively
abroad.
• Encourage wheat farmers to pro-
duce more efficiently and indus-
triously.
All things considered, however, this
observer doubts if these conditions really
can be satisfied, at one and the same
time, and he is inclined to think that the
guaranteed cost of production will be
moved upwards and the taxpayer slugged
just a little bit more.
If one is pessimistic, one might argue
that the very flexibility of the China-
Canada deal is bad from our point of
view. China, by taking the maximum,
might be anticipating no wheat from
Australia at all. This, once again, would
be ignoring the price factor. We can
talk all we like about price agreements,
but China is in a very good position to
Play Australia off against Canada,
France and the Argentine.
By lifting the cost of production sub-
sidy we would be in a good p©sition to
undercut any other wheat producer
except the US, and one can hardly
miagine China making a wheat arrange-
ment with the US. Over and above the
subsidy mechanism we have definite
advantages in transport and shipping
facilities. What we do not have is storage
capacity.
The reason for the new flexibility in
China’s wheat arrangements may be, for
all we know, closely linked with a short-
age of storage capacity on her part. It
may well suit her to leave the wheat in
its country of origin and take delivery
as needed.
For this reason, and for the obvious
reason that a large storage of wheat
would be valuable in dry seasons for
stockfeed, we may sooner or later have
to do something about increasing Aus-
tralia’s storage capacity. Whether this
would take the form of on-farm bins,
large silos inland, or larger still silos
on the seaboard would have to be very
carefully considered. Ideally the cost of
such constructions should be borne by
the wheat industry itself, yet it would be
surprising if there is not a move soon
to have the general taxpayer harnessed
up to wheat storage.


GENERAL CREDITS
* LIMITED
ask any BRANCH
OF THE C.B.A.
0
0
up to
5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK j
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
6840
AGRISEARCH
Improved Wheat Storage
Treating insects and moulds
rpHE CSIRO Division of Entomology
has announced a remarkable dis-
covery: that immature weevils inside
grain are killed by slight, repeated per-
cussion. Thus, if the grain is dropped on
to a hard surface from a height of only
eighteen inches once a day, 60 p.c. of
the weevils are killed. Other combina-
tions of height and frequency of drop
cause a death rate up to 100 p.c.
Apparently the jolts themselves are
less important than the time or times
at which they occur during the weevil’s
development inside the grain. For in-
stance, if all the jolts are given within
a few minutes of each other, the death
rate is very much lower than when the
same number and severity of impacts
are spread over a longer interval
encompassing the developmental stages
of the insect. A single severe bump, by
doing physical damage to the young
weevil, will also kill it, but when death
results from repeated small knocks it
can hardly be due to gross physical
injury. Just what harm befalls the insect
by this treatment is the question now
being closely studied by the entomolo-
gists. If the actual cause of death can
be determined, it may point to a prac-
tical means of using “percussion” to keep
stored wheat free of weevils.
Meanwhile, the Division of Mechani-
cal Engineering has succeeded in apply-
ing another non-chemical means of
checking the growth of insect popula-
tions and moulds in large grain storages.
It is based on the fact that certain com-
binations of temperature and humidity
deep in a wheat stack promote insect
and mould development at the surface.
Special apparatus had first to be con-
structed that was capable of measuring
temperature and moisture changes at
depth. Then, with accurate records of
the changes, a formula was worked out
which would predict when conditions
predisposing to insect attack would
occur. It was then also possible to cal-
culate how much cool air would need
to be drawn through the wheat to
counteract rising temperature and
moisture.
From these figures an aeration system
has been designed. It has been tested ot‘
a 100,000 bushel storage at Melton, (i
Victoria, and found to work well. 4
a result, the Division’s forced draft
system has been scaled up and installed
in really large storages at Murtoa and
Beulah, also in Victoria. It is confidently!
expected that this aeration method will
eliminate the need for using pesticides]
To Kill Mistletoe
T atest trials indicate that 2,4-DB may
be the most suitable herbicide foil
killing mistletoe. It promises to kill a!
higher proportion of mistletoes whilej
causing less harm to the host trees than
any of the other available herbicides. In
short, 2,4-DB is more effective. Par-
ticularly when applied during winter
2,4-DB is very safe and highly effective.
However, if mistletoe control is to be at-
tempted during spring, plain 2,4-D is
probably equally suitable. The final
choice between the two formulations
would depend on cost and availability,
Neither should be used during times of
drought or flood. Abnormal stress
causes both the trees and the mistletoes
to react unpredictably.
The 2,4-DB formulation is very slow-
acting and results should not be expected
until at least three years after applica-
tion. The investigations from which these
conclusions are drawn were carried out
in the Australian Capital Territory on
red box (Eucalyptus polyanthemos) in-
fested with the variety of mistletoe
known as A'myema miquelii. However,
similar results would probably be ob-
tained with other species of eucalypt and
with the other main variety of mistletoe,
Amyema pendula. It may even be pos-
sible to use 2,4-DB to control mistle-
toes on trees other than eucalypts,
though this remains to be proved.
In these trials the herbicide was in-
jected into the tree through holes bored
into the trunk at breast height. This is
an appropriate method for treating rela-
tively small numbers of trees, but would
be far too laborious for any large-scale
practical control programme. One three-
quarter-inch hole must be bored into the
wood for every inch of diameter at breast
height. Accordingly, a so-called axe-cut
method has been/ tried. In this method,
which is fast enough to make the treat-
ment of large areas an economically at-
tractive proposition, a small notch is
simply cut into the wood of the trunk
with a blow from a sharp axe. The herbi-
cide is then simply squirted in from a
sheep drenching gun. Unfortunately, re-
sults have not been quite as good as when
poison was applied through bored holes.
Mr A. G. Brown, Forestry and Timber
Bureau, Canberra, has been concerned
with mistletoe control for many years,
Mr C. G. Greenham, CSIRO, has col-
laborated with him in the research.


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
B
2
FOR 5 YEARS
7% 4 YEARS
6i% 3 YEARS
6J% 2 YEARS
•
51% 12 MONTHS
A.N.Z. or I.A.C
How to apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
8880
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Asia Shares in Import Boom
The changing trade pattern
By E. J. DONATH
Asia is to a large extent the source of
Australia’s current “import boom”.
Some £33 lm. worth of merchandise was
imported into Australia from more than
30 countries in Asia in 1964-65 —an
increase of nearly 30 p.c. over the im-
ports of 1963-64. In contrast, Aus-
tralia’s total imports in 1964-65 (a
record of £1453m.) were only about 20
p.c. higher than in 1963-64. The con-
tinent of Asia has been steadily gaining
in importance as a source of Australia’s
increasing import requirements.
The following 15 countries exported
more than £lm. of merchandise to Aus-
tralia in 1964-65: Japan, £129m.;
Arabian States, £52m.; Indonesia, £32m.;
Malaysia, £27m.; India, £2lm.; Iran,
£l3m.; Hong Kong. £12.2m.; Republic
of China, £11.4m.; Ceylon, £9m.; Paki-
stan, £6.6m.; Iraq, £6.3m.; Brunei, £3m.;
South Arabia, £2.9m.; Formosa, £2.2m.;
and Philippines, £1 6m. Imports came
literally from every corner of the huge
continent of Asia and in great variety.
The bulk of Brunei’s export to Aus-
tralia was crude oil and that of Ceylon
tea; cotton piece-goods, apparel and
attire amounted to more than half of our
imports from Hong Kong. India’s
traditional export items are jute (£4m.)
and tea (£2.5m.). Indian cotton piece-
goods are imported in increasing
quantities, amounted to £2.6m. worth in
1964-65. Malaysia’s outstanding export
commodity is, of course, rubber, of
which Australia purchased £8.8m.; how-
ever, timbei came very close to it with
£6.Bm. and the value of imported
petroleum products amounted to £5.4m.
Pakistan’s main export item was jute,
amounting to nearly £lm. and jute
piece-goods worth £424,000; imports of
cotton piece-goods have been slowly in-
creasing and amounted to £200,000.
Mainland China’s principal export com-
modity was cotton piece-goods worth
£3.1m.. coarse hair and fibre £1.1m.,
and apparel and attire £lm.; other items
Australia bought from the Republic of
China were paper, edible nuts, tung oil,
hides and skins, and tea. Formosa ex-
ported mainly cotton piece-goods. The
bulk of our imports from Indonesia was,
as usual, petroleum products worth
£2B m.; imports of tea increased to over
£2m., and small quantities of timber
w ore also imported.
Japan is Australia’s number one Asian
supplier of import requirements in-
creasing its exports to Australia from
£ Bl m. in 1963-64 to £l29m. in 1964-65.
Every Australian purchased, on an aver-
age, £ll 14s. sd. worth of Japanese
merchandise last year.
There has been a great turnabout in
the composition of Japan’s exports to
Australia. In 1956-57 yarns and textile
manufactures represented 56 p.c. of our
imports from Japan; metals, metals
manufactures and machinery amounted
to only ten p.c. But in 1964-65 the latter
increased to 47 p.c., and yarns and tex-
tiles declined to 28 p.c. Import of china-
ware increased strongly to nearly £sm.,
sporting materials, toys, jewellery, etc.
were imported to the value of over £3m.,
optical, surgical and photographic goods
amounted to £3m., and chemicals an#
medicinal products worth nearly £4m.
were imported from Japan. At the recent
Sydney Trade Fair a great variety of
Japanese export goods was exhibited,
though it appears that the main emphasis
is on the export of capital equipment to
Australia.
Australia had an unfavorable balance
of merchandise trade in 1964-65 with a
number of Asian countries, such as
Brunei, Pakistan, Iran and Iraq. The
highest adverse balances were with the
Arabian States, from which we pur-
chased £4sm. more than they did from
us, and with Indonesia, amounting to
over £2Bm.
Australia has been following a policy
of “Aid and Trade” with the develop-
ing countries of Asia. There is consider-
able scope for both more aid and more
trade.


ELDER SMITH
GOLDSBROUGH MORT LIMITED
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
Tuesday, 2nd November, 1965
ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRMAN
THE RT. HON. SIR PHILIP McBRIDE, K.C.M.G.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is now the annual practice of your
Directors to report to you fully, as to how
the Company has fared during each financial
year, in the comprehensive Directors’ Re-
port. You are thus fully informed before a
Meeting is held, rather than at it.
It is with pleasure that I am able to talk
to you today, after what has been, in all
the circumstances, a really good year for us.
Despite the several adverse factors which
affected all the Pastoral Houses of our kind
.—and, in nearly all cases so far reported,
these had the effect of materially reducing
profits for the year to 30th June—our result
showed a small improvement on the record
result of the previous year.
This, of course, reflects the fact that our
business is more diversified and more widely
spread, geographically, than that of most
others of our kind. However, we must bear
in mind that it also reflects the fact that
the main areas in which we do the greater
part of our pastoral business, are the States
of South Australia, Western Australia and
Victoria.
The severe drought, which has so seriously
affected the incomes of producers and all
who do business with them, has had its
greatest influence in the States of New South
Wales and Queensland, where our interests,
though extensive, are not as big, propor-
tionately.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE ACCOUNTS
Our turnover of £269,019,600 was
£16,615,400 less than the £285,635,000 re-
corded in 1964. However, when we take
into account that lower wool values reduced
turnover in that Division alone by
£23,374,200, the pleasing fact is revealed
that, in the other Divisions, the year’s figures
constituted an improvement of £6,758,800
on our previous record.
Shareholders’ Funds have increased by
some £1,939,200 and, today, stand at
£33,040,800.
Capital Reserves have increased by
£437,900 and Revenue Reserves by
£1,365,900, while Unappropriated Profits
carried forward increased by £135,400 to
£911,000 —a figure in excess of three-
quarters of one year of dividend at the
current rate.
Our clients have required financial assist-
ance from us to an unprecedented extent,
with the result that our Advances and Trade
Debtors increased by £5,741,000 to the large
total of £43,642,000 at 30th June.
Your Company’s financial strength is evi-
denced by the fact that, additional to the
increase in Shareholders’ Funds, moneys
retained in the business by way of Provi-
sions for Depreciation of Premises increased
by some £414,200 to £5,999,300, and for
Doubtful Debts by some £337,800 to some
£2,160,000, after a conservative approach
to the subject and after writing off all
known and assessable bad debts.
Our method of providing depreciation for
plant, furniture, motor vehicles and other
equipment is also conservative, whilst, under
the heading of Investments, it will be
observed that those which have a “market”
value stood in the books at cost —a figure
some £840,300 less than their “market”
value at 30th June.
As it is fashionable nowadays to criticise
large sums of profit for their size, and with-
out any regard for the funds employed to
earn them, it is pertinent to point out that
our after-tax profit of £2,688,600 represents
a net earning of slightly less than one per
cent, on our £269,019,600 turnover.
Further, I would also point out that it
represents only 8.14 per cent, on the
£33,041,000 which you, as Shareholders,
have in your enterprise, even though the
return may be quoted as representing a re-
turn of 22.4 per cent, on your Issued Capital
of £12,000,000 in isolation from your total
funds.
FINANCING RURAL PROGRESS
I have already referred to the heavy
financial calls made on us by our clients. I
would stress, however, that this is an experi-
ence that has been shared by all in our
industry.
I think it important to state that, at 30th
September, 1965, the twenty-three Austra-
lian Pastoral Houses had no less than
£136,800,000 invested in financial assistance
to the man-on-the-land.
In my view, there is not sufficient acknow-
ledgement of the immensely important part
which we (and others like us) play in pro-
viding the vast and complex nation-wide
organisations which enable the great bulk
of primary producers’ wool and livestock to
be marketed in a smooth and efficient man-
ner, in almost any part of Australia, on any
day of the year, and with the immediate
financial decisions that make this possible,
no matter how remote the area of operation
may be.
It does not end there because, throughout
the Commonwealth, the man-on-the-land has
available to him (and uses) the same facili-
ties to assist him in the sale or purchase
of property, the acquisition of essential
Merchandise supplies, the insurance of his
assets and, finally and most importantly, the
provision of carry-on finance during the
periods when he awaits the annual return
from his production.
Nevertheless, it must be realised that our
resources are not without limitation, for the
availability of funds must, of necessity, be
restricted to such moneys as our share-
holders have invested in their business, the
interest-bearing overdraft accommodation
available from banks, and such funds as can
sensibly be borrowed on the market at going
rates—and today these are high.
As the past year has shown, any restric-
tion on trading bank lending is, so far as the
rural primary industries are concerned,
immediately reflected in increased calls on
pastoral houses for assistance. At one stage
of the past year, pastoral house lending was
running at record levels up to £22.2 million
higher than at the same stage in the pre-
vious year.
As one whose roots are deep, and interest
great, in our rural industries, I am glad
that your Company has so managed its
affairs, and your resources, that we have
been able to meet the heavy calls of the past
year in the way we have.
However, I do wish to state plainly that
it is my view that, in official quarters, early
consideration must be given to the consider-
able and complex problem of the provision
of adequate finance for those primary indus-
tries which are still providing the great bulk
of our export income, and will be called
upon to provide a major part of the increase
in that income which every year will de-
mand, as our population grows and our
secondary industries expand.
There is a real and urgent need for long-
term mortgage finance. “Term Lending”,
in the banking context, is not providing it,
nor are the institutions which have access
to the bulk of the nation's savings.
Increased acreage, increased production
per acre, increased costs and worsening
terms in world trade, all create a need for
increased availability of short and long-
term credit, and unless a way is found to
provide it, the nation will come to regret it.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Last year, I made the statement that no
branch of Australian Industry had achieved
increased results comparable with those pro-
duced by the rural community. Production
has expanded tremendously and without in
itself creating labor shortage problems—in
fact, our rural producers have effectively met
the challenge to produce more and export
more, despite the squeeze of increasing pro-
duction costs and the worsening of the terms
of trade on world markets.
This year I repeat the statement. In the
years ahead, we will need even greater
exports as our population grows and our
industries expand. In asking where the in-
creased exports will come from, I am not
unmindful that manufactured goods will
play a part, and that minerals will make a
major contribution in years ahead.
Nevertheless, it will still be the case that
the rural primary industries will be required
to make a heavy and increased contribution.
This can be possible of achievement only if
the necessary finance is available and neces-
sary encouragement given.
In what other industries do owners and
their families work the hours that the rural
community is capable of—hours of the week
and hours of the weekend—so long as they
can feel that they are working for them-
selves and that finance and encouragement
are available to them to make it all possible
and meaningful.
I venture to say that, in no other section
of our endeavor is there the same scope for
increased export potential and at as low a


cost to the community in manpower, wages
and in usage of materials.
We have had a surge of rural develop-
ment new acres and more productive
acres. There is still the will to continue,
whether it be in the vast areas being made
available in Queensland, or the even vaster
areas which open up at the rate of a million
acres a year in Western Australia, but it can
only happen if the credit distribution is such
as to allow it to happen.
There should not exist the present restric-
tion of the availability of rural credit. The
need is urgent to set up an appropriate
organisation designed for, and made capable
of, the provision of long-term mortgage
finance at reasonable rates of interest.
INCREASING COSTS
I mentioned last year that financial results
to 30th June, 1964, had not fully reflected
the then current and substantial cost in-
creases arising from the sharp £1 per week
lift in the Basic Wage, and the wide range
of added charges included in the Budgets of
Federal and State Governments, the effects
of which would make their real impact on
our figures in the year to 30th June, 1965.
In the circumstances, I feel that we have
done well in offsetting them to the extent
that we have. After allowing for the in-
crease in provisions voluntarily made, the
year’s costs, as a percentage of earnings,
stepped up only 0.9 per cent.—from 79.6
per cent, to 80.5 per cent.
Nevertheless, the plain fact is that gradual
cost inflation is surely, but steadily, eroding
the gap between earnings and expenses.
This is not only what is happening to us
but, and very importantly, it also reflects
what is happening to our clients—the rural
primary export producers of Australia.
The important and most necessary change
of attitude, reflected in the Arbitration
Court’s most recent decision, has been the
first sign, for a long while, of official
recognition of the fact that Australia must
learn to live within her means, and, with
increasing need for more exports year by
year, she must be able to produce at costs
which will enable exports to be sold on
world markets to meetAhat challenge.
I am sure that every thinking Australian
will welcome the Federal Government’s
courageous decision to tackle one of the
nation's most urgent problems.
I refer, of course, to the Waterfront,
where industrial disruption has been one of
the most serious cost-increasing factors lead-
ing to the substantial shipping freight in-
creases which, one by one, have been
making more difficult our task of selling
our exports competitively on world markets.
It is popular today to lay all the blame of
increased shipping freights at the door of
what are, allegedly, avaricious high-profit-
making ship-owners.
The fallacy of this attitude is revealed in
the modest profit returns of ship-owners, for
their problem is that of sharply rising costs,
and we in Australia have contributed largely
to those costs, which is why our export
industries are, in turn, burdened with them.
We are making every effort to ensure
that there will be a maximum management
effort to contain our own costs in the
current year. Shortage* of credit, and the
disastrous effects of drought, will make it
v ery difficult for us to increase our earnings
during this year, so that cost control will
ue a matter of first importance.
THE WOOL INDUSTRY
When addressing you last year, I re-
marked that the Wool Industry was at a
critical stage in its history. At that time,
the Australian Wool Board’s marketing pro-
posals were before the Government but no
decision had been reached. The Govern-
ment’s legal right to deduct the Wool Tax
was under challenge in the Courts and, as
I commented, there were signs that there
was not the unanimity of thought among
growers that in the earlier stages there had
appeared to be.
If the industry was thought to be at a
critical stage then, it is certainly at a more
critical stage now.
The Government has agreed to conduct
a referendum of growers. The voting basis
has been determined. The method of
financing a Reserve Price Plan (if the refer-
endum result favors it) has been agreed and
the Government has, subject to that event,
undertaken a major financial responsibility.
On the growers’ side, the early trends, to
which I referred last year, have more than
justified my fear that there was not the
unanimity in the industry that there needs
to be on any matter of major importance
affecting it.
At this stage, I will repeat my observa-
tion at our last Meeting—l do not intend
to express views on what I, or we, think
should be done. Nor do I think that it is
the right, or the role, of the Wool Broker
to do so.
I hold strongly to the view that it is the
right of the growers themselves to deter-
mine how they wish to run their affairs
and their industry, retaining the independ-
ence which they have maintained for so
long.
A year ago, I also expressed the hope
that there would be a maximum of unani-
mity in what is determined as their decision.
Since then, it has become very clear that
the industry is deeply split on the subject
of the Reserve Price Plan, on which all
growers will vote. To me, this is most
regrettable.
I say regrettable, because I consider it
imperative that Wool Growers should be
able to speak—and act—with one strong
voice—a voice which should be heard, and
heeded, in respect of the affairs of Australia’s
most important industry.
Our attitude in not taking sides in this
issue has been criticised. I repeat that I,
and we, do not consider it the right or role
of the Wool Broker to tell growers how to
manage their affairs.
We regard the growers as our friends and
our clients. We consider ourselves as their
servant, and feel that our principal role, and
responsibility, is to handle their production
smoothly and efficiently in the manner in
which they wish, or require, us to do it.
When the referendum has been held and
a decision reached, it will then (as we have
steadily maintained throughout) be our
policy to co-operate to the fullest degree,
and to play our part in implementing what-
ever is decided, in the best possible manner
in the interests of the industry.
MARKETS AND PRICES
The year under review presented a much
less rosy picture in respect of markets and
prices than that which so colored the pre-
vious year.
The counteracting of inflationary trends
by firm control of trading bank lending, had
increasing effect as the year progressed and
credit became increasingly difficult to obtain.
The wool market fell sharply during the
pre-Christmas selling period and, as we now
know, there was a fall of some 17.67 per
cent, in the average price for the year, when
compared with the previous year.
This, with a sharp rise in costs, for rea-
sons to which I have already referred, com-
bined additionally with increased taxation,
resulting from the buoyant returns of the
1964 year, to catch most primary producers
in a cost-price squeeze.
Not unnaturally the speed with which thfi
happened caught most of them unprepared,
and the incidence of tight credit control,
despite the commitments with which so
many were involved in their efforts to in-
crease production, had an inevitable effect
on internal markets and prices.
As the year developed, so did drought
conditions either intensify in some areas or
develop in others, and gradually we moved
to a stage where the spread reached serious
proportions in New South Wales and
Queensland.
Forced selling of livestock resulted in
depressed values for sheep and cattle in
drought areas. Fortunately for all who were
able to sell before their stock lost condition,
extremely buoyant overseas market oppor-
tunity for meat maintained fat stock values
to a substantial degree—especially for beef
—and this provided an off-setting factor.
As credit tightness intensified, property
purchase became more difficult to finance in
the absence of any adequate source of long-
term mortgage funds, and land values
suffered in consequence.
In those areas within transport reach of
drought-affected country, fodder prices sky-
rocketed to the benefit of those who had
prudently conserved surplus supplies, and to
the cost of those who had to buy them.
In Western Australia an excellent season
has prevailed and a seemingly unquench-
able demand for livestock has maintained
livestock and land values at high levels. In
South Australia and Victoria the season
enabled growers to absorb surplus livestock
from drought areas, and to maintain values
at reasonable levels. In recent weeks, prices
in these areas have eased but today’s ruling
rates can still be described as satisfactory.
The new wool-selling season has opened
with a strong demand and a slight improve-
ment in values. However, there is a hesi-
tancy in the market which would appear to
indicate that, despite a substantially smaller
wool clip as the result of the drought, there
are no present signs of competitive pressure
to an extent which could encourage hope for
any marked rise in prices.
Reduced supply would tend to favor price
improvement, but, on' the other hand, trends
in the overseas textile world indicate an off-
setting caution. The indications presently
appear to point to stability, with slight
fluctuation, at around about the present
level.
Much of what affects rural incomes and
internal prices for land and livestock, de-
pends on spring rains. In this very “chancy”
year, it would be unwise not to realise that
our light spring, and early cut-off of the sea-
son, may cause us to enter 1966 with un-
pleasant prospects ahead.
THE SEASON
I have left consideration of this subject
to the latest possible moment, in order to
reflect on the most recent advices from our
different State Offices.
The picture, is not a good one. In fact,
the month has lessened Australia’s produc-
tive potential over-all.
It brought a measure of relief to some
drought areas of N.S.W. On the other
hand, this vital spring month was an unfor-
tunate one for Victoria and S.A., where the
season has cut off sharply.
The bountiful season has continued in
W.A.—with record production in prospect
in the agricultural country, and satisfactory
conditions prevailing over most of the back-
country, the Kimberleys being almost the
sole exception.
Here in S.A., we have had a below-
average rainfall year, but the rains had
fallen at the right time in the “inside”
(i Continued next page)


country, and all that was needed was a
moderate spring to ensure a really good
year. Unfortunately, October brought vir-
tually no rain, but hot weather and strong
winds instead.
Victoria finished October with rain badly
needed everywhere. Conditions are bad in
Gippsland, while hot weather and dry winds
will have cut considerably the potential from
cereal income in the North West. Over-all,
the Victorian pasture and general conditions
are comparable with those in S.A.
N.S.W. and Queensland present a depress-
ing picture and our hearts go out to those
who still struggle on in areas where the
drought continues unrelieved, with tragic
stock losses in its wake.
Speaking generally, it can be said that
the Southern portion of the State (some 40
per cent.) is now reasonably secure. The
Central West (say 20 per cent.) improved
during October, but still badly needs follow-
on rains to secure the position.
On the other hand, the Far West, North
West and many parts of the Northern
Tablelands are still in the grip of severe
and paralysing drought, with water shortage
now adding its weight to the pasture and
fodder shortage.
It will take N.S.W., as a State, some years
to recover from what is happening. For
individuals, it is going to mean massive aid
to enable many of them to carry on.
The Far Northern areas of Queensland
have fared satisfactorily, but in the lower
areas, where the great bulk of the State’s
sheep are depastured, the picture is a sad
one.
In the Northern, Central and Far Western
sheep areas, drought conditions are as bad
as they can be. Extreme heat, complete
absence of agistment and shortage of water
have resulted in heavy losses and, of course,
a complete absence of natural increase.
The surface water position is now
critical for many, and, if this is not soon
replenished by rains, further tragic losses
will be inevitable.
In the South West, conditions are similar,
and becoming worse, as the supply of Mulga
to cut for fodder gradually disappears.
APPRECIATION
Appreciation of the outstanding efforts
of our Management and Staff, during the
past year, was expressed in the Directors’
Report.
Nevertheless, I feel that I would like to
take advantage of this opportunity to speak,
not only for the Board, but also for you
as the Shareholders, in order to pay special
tribute to the support and loyalty of all
members of the Group organisations, and
to the manner in which they have adapted
themselves to conditions which, over the
th ree years, have changed so consider-
ably for them.
I will take this opportunity, also, to thank
Sir Cohn Syme, as Deputy Chairman dur-
ing the year under review, our fellow
Directors, the Directors of State Advisory
Boards and of Subsidiary Companies, for
their assistance, enthusiasm and support
during the year.
CLIENTS
In concluding my Address to you, I feel
that the appropriate note on which to
Qlose, is that I should express the apprecia-
°/ i, e Board > Management and the
Staff, to all our clients who have so loyally
supported us during the year. J
We look forward to being able to render
them even better service and help during
the new year on which we are now so
far embarked.
INVESTMENT
Forward from Apathy
Shareholders show more interest
TTowever ineffectual Mr Shepherd may
have been as far as the immovable
BHP complex is concerned, his cam-
paign has definitely been a big factor in
reducing the apathy of shareholders
generally this year. Finance writers have
noticed a definite jump in the attendance
at annual meetings and an increase in
the number of questions and suggestions.
Many of these are still too easily fobbed
off by directors or put aside for con-
sideration at a future date, and ques-
tioners are usually hesitant to press a
point through lack of knowledge or the
fear of making fools of themselves.
But the signs are encouraging. Three
recent meetings of note in Melbourne
have been La Mode, A. V. Jennings and
Metals Exploration. The La Mode meet-
ing showed signs of being a little em-
barrassing at one stage, thanks mainly
to the efforts of one knowledgeable share-
holder who saw fit to inform the Press of
the proceedings after they had been
asked to leave. A shareholder at the
Jennings’ meeting “did a Shepherd” by
suggesting a one-for-one bonus and a
7i p.c. dividend, equal to 15 p.c. on
pre-bonus capital as against the 12 p.c.
paid in 1964-65.
Directors were told they had not been
very generous. The chairman, Mr A. V.
Jennings, assured the meeting that the
board would have a good look at the
suggestions. These will obviously be
shelved permanently, yet continual
pressure from the shareholders each year
will undoubtedly bring results of some
description in the future.
A Metals Exploration shareholder
questioned the board on the increase in
directors’ fees from £660 to £7250. The
chairman, Mr R. Hare, said the latest
figure included his own salary of £5OOO,
whereupon another shareholder asked if
he was worth this in view of the fact
that all of his time was not devoted to
the company. Mr Hare replied: “I feel
I have been worth more than £5OOO to
this company. I certainly would not do
the job for less.” A reply, but hardly
an answer!
All these small examples add up to
more sophistication on the part of in-
vestors. Even the most glossed-over
answer from a director provides a little
more knowledge and gets across the idea
that directors are not the only owners
of the company involved. The growth
of such practices can go a long way to
warning investors of any Reid Murrays,
Stanhills and the like. This is valuable
in anyone’s book.
ANFs Effort
/Official company predictions for Aus-
tralian National Industries Ltd are
that the 1964-65 record result will not
be equalled in the current year, but the
new dividend rate of 7 p.c. will be at
least maintained.
This engineer has received heavy cuts
in scheduled requirements for forgings
owing to uncertainties in the automotive
industry. Yet it remains confident of the
long-term prospects for the industry
since the five largest Australian vehicle
manufacturers have announced expan-
sion plans costing £Blm. ANI is there-
fore enlarging forging capacity and
modernising plant.
The company has, since the 1959
debacle, been busy changing the character
of its activities. It has in no year run
into the red; dividends were omitted in
1959 and 1962. The low return on
capital invested is a continuing problem.
Directors say in their 1965 report that
increased cash flow, investment in plant
and buildings, staff efficiency and the
severance of unprofitable activities are
all contributing to the improved profit-
ability and greater security of the busi-
ness.
In the latest year to July 31, the profit
lifted 27 p.c. to £350,964 (equal to 13.8
p.c. on capital), after £213,144 tax and
£207,816 depreciation.
The market is taking a stern view of
the effects of motor cuts on ANI, for
the ss. shares at 4s. are now 9d. lower
than at the end of August, when the
record profit was announced. Share-
holders who have stuck to ANI through
thick and thin should not give in now.
Side Effects
TTaving successfully sold out to the
MLC, the problems of H. G.
Palmer are of little worry to the investors
who once held the ordinary shares. It
is the shareholders in the companies
which have had dealings with Palmer
who must be biting fingernails. Although
it is virtually impossible at present to
point out which groups will suffer—and
to what extent they will suffer—there is


NEW ADDITION TO
<
9
RANGE OF TABLE WINES
ST. CORA
WHITE
BURGUNDY
The new addition to Lindeman’s
popular range of Table Wines is
a pleasant dry white wine with a
soft round character and flavour.
It will accompany all sea foods,
salads and light meat dishes, and
is best served chilled.
s:*to&<A \"s~
KlVi;k VINE\M&
UNDEMAN'S 1
S r COR& WHITE
BURGUNDY
WWH*»ANS WftsS ftv. tUE
SYO**Y
few. NIY I H id. ©2S
******
New Issue
OcQ
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
INTEREST
UP TO
%
PER
ANNUM
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
NDIS.N.
one catastrophe already, Simpson Pope
Holdings.
Directors have withdrawn their recom-
mendation of a 6 p.c. dividend for 1964-
65 and propose to pay a 2 p.c. dividend
instead. Their decision was made in
light of the fact that large sums owing
by Palmer in the next two months had
been cast into doubt. The cut from 6
to 2 p.c. will save the group some
£160,000. Preference payments will not
be affected.
Simpson Pope is still a struggling
company, so the directors’ decision is a
prudent one. They may very well still
collect their dues, but they have wisely
allowed for the element of doubt which
undeniably exists. For many stronger
companies in similar doubt, such a bad
debt would not affect dividend-paying
capabilities. However, even the share-
holders of these companies have a right
to know what repercussions would
result in the unlikely event of Palmer
being unable to pay any of its debts. A
statement to this effect may be a little
too much to ask of directors; investors
should remember that the annual meet-
ing season provides them with a chance
to find out for themselves.
Deserving Stock
T\ne of the most remarkable growth
” stocks on the market is Allied Mills
Ltd, which in its latest trading year to
August 31 hoisted profit 28 p.c. from
£635,941 to £814,465.
Capital was increased by a one-for-
four par issue (following four similar
issues since March, 1959) and a premium
placement of 600.000 5s shares, yet
earning rate rose from 30.9 to 31.1 p.c.
From this profit, £lOO,OOO has been
set aside for development and research.
Charges made before arriving at the
profit were greater—tax £680,543 (1964,
£572,707), and depreciation £770,264
(£636,569).
The company has a well-integrated
business of flour milling, baking, cake
mixes, stock feeds and margarine.
The shares more than deserve their
ranking on a 3.4 p.c. yield basis, lower
than most blue chips and market leaders.
At 17s. 10d., and with an earnings yield
of 8.7 p.c., they represent an excellent
investment.
Financing Farmers
the end of September Australia’s
23 pastoral houses were giving
£136.8m. of financial assistance to the
man on the land.
Institutions which have access to the
bulk of national savings were not pro-


TELEGRAPH HOUSE
iiiimitiiiiftiiiimimiiiimmm
CORNER. PARK & ELIZABETH STREETS
Superb prestige office space now available in this fine new
building.
MOVING UP IN THE WORLD?
Extensive views over Hyde Park
I
Close transport and parking
Passenger and goods
lifts to each floor
Areas from 1100 sq. ft. to
complete floor of 8200 sq. ft.
Leases by arrangement
Full air-conditioning
Reasonable rents
Sole Agents:
RICHARD STANTON k SONS PIT. ITD.
131 Pitt Street, Sydney. 28-1256
MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
o
i *
NEW ISSUE
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pring Dean & Co.
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
tt
M A222NSW
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round *s-'
viding term lending and establishment
of a rural mortgage organisation was
an urgent need. So said Sir Philip
Mcßride at the annual meeting of Elder
Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd.
# (Elder’s own advances, trade debtors
and bills receivable net of doubtful debts
rose over the year to June 30, 1965,
from £36m. to £41.5m.)
Increased acreage and production per
acre, higher costs and worsening terms
in world trade all demanded greater
availability of short and long-term credit
to the primary producer, who was still
providing most of our export income,
Sir Philip maintained.
Elder’s pastoral business is mainly in
SA, WA and Victoria, which are not so
seriously affected by drought as the north
and far west of NSW and Queensland,
The company remains neutral 6n the
Wool Reserve Price Plan, believing that
it is the business of woolgrowers them-
selves to make independent decisions.
Single Rein to W.J.
i
Oydney industrial laminates maker,
W.J. Manufacturing Co. Ltd, has
bought out the half-interest of its partner
in Alsynite (Australia) Pty, Australian
Consolidated Industries Ltd.
Alsynite produces translucent fibre-
glass sheeting under licence from the
Alsynite Co. of America. The joint ven-
ture of W.J. and ACI was established
in 1955, W.J. handling the administra-
tion and manufacturing, and ACI the
distribution throughout Australasia, the
South Pacific and the Near East.
Although ACI has pulled out financi-
ally, it will continue the distribution of
alsynite.
W.J. bought out another partner, a
subsidiary of the mighty W. R. Grace
and Co. of New York, in its Waratah
Chemicals joint venture, in September
1963.
With a capital of £348,688 (some
£15,000 preference), W.J. last year to
June made a profit of £59,165. It struct
a rough patch in 1959, 1960 and 1961
when the usual 10 p.c. dividend was cut
to 5 p.c., nil and 7 p.c. respectively.
The 10s. shares at 155., now show an
income yield of 6.6 p.c., and earnings
yield of 11.6 p.c. They bottomed at this
price last year (peak 215.), and have
been up to 17s. this calendar year.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
A Highly Successful Merger
Yet Prestige may face earnings fall
When the present contributing shares
are fully paid, from April, 1966,
the paid capital of Prestige Ltd will be
£1,940,828. When I last wrote about
this company in June, 1963, the paid
ordinary capital was £842,373, although
it had been announced that a one-for-five
bonus issue was to be made in July,
1963. The event which has been respon-
sible for the substantial increase in
capital was the acquisition of Holeproof
Industries Ltd. It must be clear that
the 1965 group is a very different one
from the 1963 group. The share price
seems to have reacted favorably, for in
June, 1963, the shares were selling at
11s. (cum bonus) and today, after a
bonus issue and two cash issues, they
are selling at exactly the same price.
The last chairman’s address, delivered
on July 26, foreshadowed the new
rights issue in a rather indirect fashion;
under the heading of “Future Prospects”
the concluding sentence was, “Mean-
while, shareholders are informed that
the financial measures taken will almost
certainly involve comparatively small
new issues from time to time.” In the
short run, the recent issue of one-for-five
at Bs. per share does not seem to be
“comparatively small”. No doubt, share-
holders are awaiting with interest in-
formation on the “new activities” which
will be financed by this equity raising.
While the acquisition, in New Zealand,
of Victoria Textile Industries Limited
might at first glance seem to have been
such a new venture, the statement that
the New Zealand investment will be
reduced and the return therefrom be
lower than in the past would indicate
that this acquisition has been more than
self-financing. One could be pardoned
for assuming that the New Zealand divi-
dend withholding tax might have had
some bearing on this particular decision
to reduce the total investment in that
country.
The merger of any two groups makes
is very difficult to assess profitability
trends before and after the merger. The
merger of Holeproof and Prestige is no
exception. It is, however, interesting to
see that from the point of view of the
Prestige shareholders the upward trend
in adjusted earnings has continued with-
out interruption:
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
taming rate p.c.
pajuste'd for new
'ssees and over
on d under pro-
visions of tax 15.5 12.1 15.4 27.3 31.0 34.2
These particular figures, with the
adjustments for the “bonus content” of
new issues, have an unrealistic quality
When trying to judge group profitability,
although they do illustrate the way in
which the shareholders’ interest in the
profits have progressed. I have therefore
tried to produce a consolidation of the
two companies’ profits over the same
period, using net profit before tax,
depreciation, outside shareholders’ pro-
portion and interest on long term debt.
Taking the 1960 year as the base year
(= 100), I have produced the following
series:
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
100 105 100 130 136 153
This series confirms that the trend is
upwards and indicates that the merger
has been highly successful.
It is only possible to guess at the
results of the original Prestige group
since the acquisition of Holeproof, but
it seems • likely that there has been
a downwards trend. Prestige (New
Zealand) profits were “considerably
lower than the record level of the past
two years”, and Johnson Bros “made a
considerably lower contribution to con-
solidated profits than during the previous
year”. It seems likely that the “con-
siderable increase in both the sales and
profits” of Holeproof Industries went
a long way to giving the Prestige group
the ability to lift net profit before tax,
depreciation and interest on long-term
debt by just over 8 p.c. even though
earnings fell by 14 p.c.
At this particular moment of time it is
difficult to see anything but the
prospects of a slight fall in earnings in
1965-66. Holeproof Industries have
recently announced that profits in the
first six months of this year were about
line-ball to slightly lower than last year.
Judging by the directors’ report on the
1964-65 year, the new spinning equip-
ment to be installed by Johnson Bros will
not contribute to the 1965-66 result,
because it is not expected to be in opera-
tion until December. Even when this
venture is in full operation, it will find
strong competition from the established
acrylic fibres such as Orion, Acrilan and
Cashmilon, so it may take a little - while
before any impact is made on the local
market.
It is reasonable to expect that the New
Zealand investments will show a lower
return this year unless there is a strong
revival. The new Koratron process (a
permanent pressing which lasts the life
of the garment) is not expected to be
released until February, 1966, and there-
fore will make no contribution to profits
this year.
The consolidated funds statement
shows that, during the year, short-term
loans and bank overdraft (which would
normally carry low interest rates) were
converted to long-term loans and prefer-
ence capital. There would appear to be
a reduction in the overall amount
borrowed and it will be interesting to see
whether there is a reduction in the total
interest charge in 1965-66. There will be
a relatively small increase in the amount
of the dividend payable on the new issue
of redeemable preference shares —-
equivalent to £3950 before tax —and, on
the face of it and after guessing at the
rates of interest being paid on the over*
seas loan of £750,000 and the mortgage
loans, it seems possible that there will
be an increase in the interest charge “on
unsecured notes and fixed-term loans” of
about £32,000. This all suggests that the
interest saved on the short-term loans
and the bank overdraft will need to be
of the order of £36,000.
The 1965-66 dividend commitment
(for equity shareholders) will only in-
crease by just over £10,000 as a result
of the September, 1965, issue but, in
the following year, the 12} p.c. dividend
will require £232,600 approximately. So
far as it is possible to judge, Prestige
will have no difficulty at all in maintain-
ing the 12} p.c. rate, so it is rather
surprising that the shares can still be
acquired at prices to show a dividend
yield not much less than six p.c.
. BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 2757 2522 2952 5776 6078
Current liabilities 1144 860 1157 3637 3625
Working capital 1613 1662 1795 2139 2453
Land and buildings 1158 1159 1191 2718 2747
Plant, etc. 961 919 950 2144 2088
Investments 30 30 30 191 189
Total capital 3762 3770 3966 7192 7477
Represented by;—
Loan capital 1039 1003 978 2853 2317
Net preference capital 455 452 451 451 951
Minority interests 66 69 89 432 434
Long term provisions 97 82 95 — —
Ordinary capital 842 842 842 1617 1617
Reserves 1263 1322 1511 1839 2158
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Interest 74 74 72 108 156
Depreciation 301 284 261 514 603
Tax provided 129 165 247 433 491
Preference dividend 26 26 25 25 56
Earnings 112 146 300 606 521
Ordinory dividend 84 84 105 126 202
Surplus 28 62 195 480 319
Earning rate p.c. 13.3 17.4 35.7 37.5 32.2
Dividend rate p.c. 10.0 10.0 12.5 12.5 12.5
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 8.7 6.7 5.6 4.5 5.0
High price (b) 6/9 8/1 14/3 14/3 13/8
Low price (b) 5/6 6/9 6/6 11/8 11/-
(a) Based on last sale July when accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


BRADFORD
COTTON
HEAD OFFICE: Cnr. Missenden & Parramatta Roads, Camperdow n, N.S.W.
Speech of Sir Robert
Webster (Chairman) to
Stockholders at the Thirty-
eighth Annual Meeting of
Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited held on Friday,
29th October, 1965 at
12 noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
You have received a copy
of the 38th Annual Report of
the Directors and the accounts
for the year ended 30th June,
1965.
Last year I referred to the
progressive improvement in
earnings in the second half of
the financial year, which im-
provement had continued into
the first quarter of the finan-
cial year now under review.
It is pleasing to be able to
say to you that for the full
year to 30th June, 1965, pro-
duction, sales and profits
reached record figures.
The aggregate profit before
tax of £1,109,562 exceeded
the previous year’s profit be-
fore tax by £266,463 an
increase of 32 per cent.
Tax provision requires
£493,763, and depreciation
charged in the year amounted
to £730,192.
The results are noteworthy
as they were achieved in the
face of numerous difficulties
and problems which in the
main were successfully sur-
mounted.
As a result of the Board’s
policy your Company is well
equipped with suitable plant
and machinery which is oper-
ated by a splendid workforce,
directed by a team of experi-
enced executives, supervisors
and technical staff. Thus dur-
ing the year your Company
was able to maintain produc-
tivity at satisfactory levels and
to contain, as far as practic-
able, the effect of rising costs
which have been general
throughout most industries
during the last financial year.
The printed accounts and
financial statements deal quite
fully with the results and I will
not refer to them in detail, but
some of the more important
figures call for comment.
During the year additions to
fixed assets amounted to
£268,600. These and fixed
assets, at cost, now stand in
the books of the Company at
£16,067,900, including plant
and equipment of £11,691,715,
against which plant and equip-
ment is a depreciation pro-
vision of £6,534,378.
Stocks and stores on hand
show an increase of about
£650,000, the greater part of
which reflects increase in turn-
over, which automatically re-
quires us to carry larger
stocks of such things as raw
cotton, mill components and
raw materials generally, with
somewhat higher stocks of
work in progress and finished
materials waiting despatch to
customers.
However, stocks have been
reduced substantially since
30th June. The value is now
approximately £200,000 less
than at that date.
Debtors show an increase
of approximately £409,000
over last year.
Bank overdraft is £2,537,600,
is lower by £238,000, while
creditors and bills payable
have increased by £628,000.
This increase is almost entirely
related to the purchase of raw
cotton.
UNSECURED NOTES
One important announce-
ment which I am pleased to
make is that arrangements
have been made for an issue
of £1,000,000 unsecured notes
carrying an interest rate of 8
per cent per annum to provide
funds for the maturity of a
similar issue of notes which
are due for redemption on
28th February, 1966.
Shareholders and note-
holders of the company will
receive a copy of the pros-
pectus of the issue which it is
anticipated will be open for
subscription in mid-November.
Present holders of the matur-
ing 8 per cent unsecured
notes will be given an oppor-
tunity of converting their exist-
ing holdings into the new issue.
The issue has been under-
written by J. B. Were & Son.
TARIFFS
Last year I referred to the
Tariff Board Inquiry into the
rates of protective duties which
should be applied to cotton
piecegoods and man - made
fibre piecegoods of the kind
we are set up to produce.
Since then we have been
concerned with other Tariff
Board inquiries and it is
worth reporting that in the
post-war period the products
of Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited have been the subject
of no less than 45 Tariff Board
inquiries. Few, if any, in-
dustrial undertakings have had
to contend with the problems
and face the inevitable disloca-
tion which flows from this.
A number of these inquiries
were not of our seeking and
we have, from time to time,
battled to maintain satisfactory
protection on current produc-
tion. Recently our industry at
a Tariff Board inquiry of De-
partmental origin sought a
better share of the market in
order to permit of the whole
industry operating its mills to
full capacity or as near as
possible to that desirable state
of affairs necessary for
economic and efficient produc-
tion.
The well being of textile
companies such as Bradford
Cotton Mills Limited is of
national importance. We have
played a big part in the de-
centralisation of industry, our
mills are spread between each
of the three eastern States of
the Commonwealth Queens-
land, New South Wales and
Victoria.
We provide worthwhile jobs
and opportunities in country
towns where otherwise there
would be still many unem-
ployed.
I feel that it is most sig-
nificant that out of a total
workforce of approximately
3,700 people, more than 1,000


oi them have each worked
with Bradford for more than
ten years and a large number
for more than twenty years.
Jhe Company has a great asset
in the combined skills and ex-
perience of its employees. This
demonstrates, I believe, the
value of the Bradford organ-
isation to the communities in
which our mills are located
and also the national value of
our Company.
Governments recognise the
importance of the industry
from a national point of view.
As well as providing employ-
ment opportunities, the textile
industry contributes substan-
tially to import replacement
and as the only user of cotton
fibre in Australia is essential
to the Australian Cotton
Growing Industry.
EMPLOYMENT OF
WOMEN
Of recent times much has
been said about the woman’s
place in business, commerce
and industry. We, of course,
in the normal and conventional
way employ women in all of
our mills and offices, but in
addition we have found places
for them in a number of
activities where men usually
do the work. For instance,
our personnel department have
at times all been women and
at the present time are all
women with one exception.
We have employed women as
methods engineers, car drivers,
on market research, account-
ancy and in test rooms in
charge of quality control, and
our experiences in this respect
have been most satisfactory.
TEXTILE EXPOSITION
You will doubtless have
seen some of the publicity re-
garding the Exposition in Can-
berra last month.
Arranged by the Textile
Council of Australia of
which body I am the President
—it was a valuable demonstra-
tion of what has been achieved
by Australian fibre producers,
spinners, weavers and dyers
and finishers.
It was a historic occasion,
not only being the first attempt
to stage such a display and
congress, but it was’ historic
because it brought together
and united in their efforts for
the first time the producers of
wool, cotton and man-made
fibres and those engaged in
the processing of fibres.
Included amongst very ex-
perienced guest speakers, we
were proud and pleased to
have Mr. P. van Gehuchten,
Director-General, International
Rayon and Synthetic Fibres
Committee, Paris; Mr. R. C.
Jackson, Executive Vice-Presi-
dent, American Textile Manu-
facturers’ Institute Inc., Wash-
ington, and Dr. G. Laxer, In-
ternational Director, Product
Development and Technical
Services, International Wool
Secretariat.
These guests from overseas
gave us the benefit of their
wide experience and this, with
important contributions from
leading Australian textile men
and women, made the con-
gress an undoubted success.
ORGANISATION
The streamlining of the
basic functions of Marketing,
Manufacturing and Finance
has continued to work satis-
factorily.
During the year Mr. Charles
F. McElvenny was appointed
General Manager. Mr. Mc-
Elvenny has been with the
company since 1939 and at
the time of his appointment
was Financial Manager.
As an addition to the Board
of Directors, Mr. A. N. Arm-
strong was appointed a Direc-
tor of Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited and its subsidiaries in
March, 1965. Mr. Armstrong,
who before his retirement was
Deputy Managing Director of
the Commonwealth Banking
Corporation, is also the Deputy
Chairman of the Wool Board,
Deputy Chairman of the
Decimal Currency Board, as
well as being a Director of
several other well known and
leading companies.
The wide experience of Mr.
Armstrong will, I am sure 1 , be
of great benefit to the Com-
pany.
ACCIDENT PREVENTION
I invite your attention to the
graph showing the continuity
of the improvement in our
safety record over the last
eight years. In one of our mills
the winding and doubling
department has been more
than 2,000,000 man hours
without a lost-time accident.
This means that in this section
of our business more than 200
employees have been working
since 13th February, 1959,
without having an accident
which necessitated an em-
ployee staying away from
work for a day and this is still
continuing.
One of our spinning mills
with more than 200 employees
has worked 2,192,800 man
hours without a lost-time acci-
dent, the period covered being
12/9/61 to 1/3/65 mainly on
a three-shift basis.
A weaving mill employing
about 150 people worked
1,500,000 man hours without
a lost-time accident, the total
period covered (mostly on a
three-shift basis) was six years.
A combined spinning and
weaving mill employing about
650 people between them
worked 1,861,000 man hours
without a lost-time accident
for nearly six years.
These are records which I
am sure would compare favor-
ably with any Australian in-
dustry, where the calculations,
definitions and conditions are
based on international stan-
dards. It is appreciated that
the best of the performances
are not records in themselves,
but looked at as a whole they
have been surpassed in only
isolated cases.
HOPES AND
ASPIRATIONS
It is not my practice to make
forecasts. Nevertheless, I feel
that I can say that .the com-
pany is soundly based and is
■in a good position to benefit
from existing business oppor-
tunities.
Through our own manu-
facturing and research and
development activities we are
constantly seeking out and
applying newer and better
techniques as they become
available. We have, during the
year, seen improvement in the
dyeing and finishing of our
products; we have set up to
produce flame retardant fab-
rics, and more recently we
have prepared to play our part
in the production of blended
fabrics with the latest per-
manent press finish.
Many shareholders and
members of the public who
visit the Head Office or the
Mills of the company are quite
surprised at the range of
fabrics being produced by us.
I would particularly draw at-
tention to the illustrations and
comments relating to our
products which appear on the
middle pages of the financial
statement to which I have just
made reference.
In all areas a high standard
of quality control procedures
is maintained and through
staff training and retraining
programmes we have built up
an organisation capable of
holding its own in the highly
competitive activity conditions
which prevail in Australia.
THE LATE
MR. F. M. KEIGHLEY
It is with much regret that
we record the death in the last
week in August of Mr. F. M.
Keighley.
He came to Australia with
his brother, the late Mr. A. W.
Keighley, many years ago and
founded Bradford Cotton
Mills Limited.
He was a Director of the
Company from January, 1927,
until his retirement in June of
this year due to ill health.
STAFF T '
The Management Staff, Ex-
ecutives, the Sales organisation
and the other divisions of the
Company staff and the general
workforce, have given efficient
and loyal service throughout
the year. They have con-
tributed in their respective
spheres to the successful out-
come of the year’s operations.
The thanks of the Board of
Directors is extended to them
all.
I now wish to formally
move that the Directors’ Re-
port and the Accounts of the
Company for the year ended
30th June, 1965, be adopted,
and I will thank somebody to
second the Resolution so that
the matters may then be
opened for discussion and I
will be pleased to answer any
question related to the matters
herein.
R. J. WEBSTER
Chairman of Directors,
BRADFORD COTTON
MILLS LIMITED.


Invest in
NETWORK
FINANCE LIMITED
(Formerly hooker finance
COMPANY LIMITED)
CASH & CONVERSION ISSUE OF
Debenture Stock
UP TO
PCD
ANNUM
4
YEARS
HOW TO INVEST: Applications will proceed only on the form of appli-
cation attached to and included in the prospectus and available from:
Principal office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
The Underwriting Brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuili
(Members of tha Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
Network Finance Limited
Angel House, 2-18 Ash Street, Sydney
Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
K%5
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Flavorsome Tom Piper
Perhaps a little over-valued?
A t current prices of around 245. the
ss. shares of Tom Piper Ltd seem
to be reflecting the vast margin which
reserves hold over paid capital more
than anything else. However, in spite of
this situation, the shares remain a long-
term investment. Any shareholder look-
ing for early capital benefits at the
moment is sure to be disappointed. The
past history and the present financial
situation of the group almost completely
eliminate any chance of this.
Share issues have been few and far
between, the last one being a one-for-
four at a 100 p.c. premium in 1963-64.
To find another issue to shareholders of
major significance one must go right
back to 1950-51, when a one-for-one
par issue doubled the paid capital.
Directors obviously see their company
primarily as a steady and high dividend
payer. The payout has been 171 p.c. for
the last two years. For eleven years prior
to that it had been 124 p.c. without a
miss and always well covered.
The current rate is covered very com-
fortably by the 29.5 p.c. earning rate.
This is the highest level attained by the
company since 1951-52, when the earn-
ing rate was 40 p.c. It was quickly
decimated by the shares ranking from
the earlier otae-for-one par issue. Possibly
the latest peak has also contributed to
the high market price and hopes for
another issue.
The group’s own financial situation
also makes an issue (or at least one of
any size) extremely unlikely. In the
first place it is extremely well endowed
with working capital. Because of its
stable nature, any need to borrow money
is easily met. The company obviously
prefers borrowed money for its expan-
sion. Who wouldn’t when the penalty on
share capital is 174 p.c.? This preference
for borrowed cash has left the group
very highly geared and, in order to pay
back such debts and maintain high divi-
dends, directors must keep earning rates
high and avoid any watering through
share issues.
The accompanying table illustrates the
relationships between ordinary capital,
reserves and borrowings in figures. At
June 30 last, borrowings of £628,000
were once again catching up to ordinary
capital (in 1962 and 1963 there was
actually more borrowed capital than
share capital on the books) at £706,000,
while reserves at £1,236,000 were as
rapidly moving up to exceed the com-
bined loan and ordinary capital figures.
The borrowings represent mortgages
over freehold property.
From its factories in Melbourne (the
home town), Sydney and Brisbane, the
group produces the well-known range of
Tom Piper brand tomato products, soups,
canned meats, puddings, cordials, peel,
fruit juices and canned fruits. The list
of different items is much too lengthy
to go into here. About 36 different items
are sold in Australia and the Pacific
Islands. Another 24 items are exported
to overseas markets. Exports are playing
an increasingly important part in the
group’s success and look like continuing
to do so.
The stage is well set for a higher earn-
ing rate in the current year. Several
new varieties, already accepted by the
public, will contribute to grbup profits
for a full year. The wide diversification
in the range of products will help offset
any further effects of the recent drought.
Although the company may have suf-
fered some higher costs from this source,
it is worth taking note of the chairman’s
hint at the annual meeting to the effect
that a greater proportion of raw
materials was coming from the expand-
ing irrigation areas.
Two additional cool-store chambers
were finished in 1964-65, giving the
group the awesome ability of being able
to store 100,000 tons of perisha'ble
products. Handling efficiencies have also
been enhanced by the completion of
extensions to the bulk storage facilities.
Following the processing of a record
tomato and citrus tonnage last year,
additional new plant for citrus juices and
tomato products is on order and should
be installed in time for the coming
season. The equipment will increase pro-
ductive capacity and give greater
economy in operations.
The export scene will provide further
benefits, especially to the UK. Last


WALTONS
msmS ’
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Debenture Stock
_ an#
Unsecured Deposit
Holes
1
Interest paid quarterly
Debenture
Stock
Unsecured
Deposit ;
Notes i
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only bo
accepted on the appropriate
form issued with the Prospectus
now available from!
# Any Branch of The National
.Bank of Australasia Limited
* Any Stockbroker
« Any Waltons store Of office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, CLP.Q.j
Sydney.
TO WALTONS CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of
your Prospectus.
NAME —-
ADDRESS
March it was announced that one of the
biggest orders in its history had been
signed with the giant UK Tesco super-
market chain. Tesco has more than 500
stores and its annual turnover is more
than £stgloo million. Tom Piper is
reputed to be Australia’s biggest ex-
porter of canned products and direc-
tors are continuing to progressively
develop export markets.
The table shows a high growth rate
in current assets which, with the slower
rise in current liabilities, has left the
accounts carrying a lot of working
capital. In fact this has doubled since
1961. Fixed assets show comparatively
little growth and, in the light of the
rising profits, reflect admirably on the
group’s performing ability. The jump in
depreciation reflects the expansion. of
buildings in 1964-65. High earnings have
allowed a good surplus each year despite
the generous dividends. Share prices
reflect expectance of the 1963-64 issue
and the subsequent splitting of the 10s.
shares to ss. units.
To sum up: an extremely sound and
expanding company. However, in view
of the directors’ leaning to borrowed
capital and high dividends, the shares
seem a little over-valued at 245. This
gives a yield of only 3i p.c. from the
dividend after brokerage, which is
meagre reward for the investor who may
have to hang on for quite some time
before seeing any substantial capital
gains. Unfortunately one cannot con-
clude from all this that the shares may
come back a little further as there are
some prospects for a dividend increase.
Moreover, being an extremely success-
ful member of the rationalising food in-
dustry, the chances of a takeover cannot
be discarded.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 1874 2222 2315 2473 2836
Less current liabilities 1188 1267 1293 1150 1464
Working capital 686 955 1022 1323 1372
Fixed assets 1163 1178 1163 1230 1276
Intangibles 11111
1850 2134 2186 2554 2649
Ordinary capital 540 565 565 706 706
Preference capital 79 79 79 79 79
Loan capital 462 648 634 619 628
Reserves 769 842 908 1150 1236
1850 2134 2186 2554 2649
Depreciation 81 83 86 85 103
Tax 77 76 85 152 157
Net profit 121 123 140 210 213
Dividends (a) 72 73 75 128 128
Surplus 49 50 65 82 85
Ord. earn, rate 21.5 21.5 23.9 29.1 29.5
Dividend rate 12J 12J 12J 17J 17J
Dividend yield (b) 4.5 4.5 3.4 3.9 3.9
High price (c) 30/3 34/9 39/6 27/3 26/3
Low price (c) 22/- 26/- 28/- 23/6 22/3
(a) Including £4755 for prefs.
(b) End September, month results announced.
(c) Calendar year.
DALTON BROS HOLDING LTD
Leaven from Paper
Tf the exceptional result for 1960-61
(when profit topped £321,000) is ex-
cluded, a gentle but steady upward trend
is exhibited in the trading of Dalton
Bros Holdings Ltd since its public listing
in 1959 on Melbourne and Sydney Stock
Exchanges.
The latest profit, for the year to June,
showed a 5 p.c. increase to £314,359
after increased provisions for tax
(£191,916) and for depreciation
(£124,680). Earning rate of 16.3 p.c.
gives satisfactory margin for the habitual
10 p.c. dividend.
Functioning in several industries in
Australia, Dalton has decided to re-
organise its trading activities into
divisions. Broadly, its interests are in
flour and paper.
The management and investment com-
pany is now Dalton Industries Pty, and
its activities fall into these divisions:
Carmichael and Company, White Rose
Flour Mills, and Gold Star Bakeries.
Carmichael has agencies for a range
of machinery and related equipment for
the graphic arts trade. American prin-
cipals are Mergenthaler Linotype Co.
From February, 1966, Carmichael will
have agencies for a wide range of letter-
press and lithographic printing presses,
and photo-mechanical equipment.
The White Rose Flour Mills division
is consolidating its flour milling opera-
tions at Homebush on a 21-acre site with
excellent railway and silo facilities. The
original company was at Ultimo; Home-
bush Flour Mills Pty was acquired in
1962. A fully remodelled production
plan will be in operation in 1966.
Gold Star Bakeries division originated
with the purchase of bakeries in the
Wollongong area in 1959. This was fol-
lowed by bakeries at Merrylands and
Engadine (1960), and purchases of
majority interests in Hall’s of Asquith
and Hawkesbury Bakeries Pty of Wind-
sor. The Merrylands plant was moved
in 1965 to Guildford.
The consolidation of paper merchan-
dising and paper converting activities
will take some time. Dalton is at present
the largest Australian distributor of
locally made paper, selling over 40,000
tons a year, excluding newsprint and
magazines.
A comprehensive range of all types
of papers is maintained by the sub-
sidiaries Hermann Haege Pty in Sydney
(acquired December, 1959), L. A. Wade
Pty in Melbourne and Adelaide, Queens-
land Paper Co. Pty in Brisbane, and
Claremont Industries Pty in Perth.
Four subsidiaries convert paper. In
Brisbane, Paper Box Manufacturers Pty
produces fruit and grocery bags and


OTOR
i ISK
CAR
1
m * . ■
£
PROTECTION
It pays to put all your
‘insurance eggs’
in one basket
FOR YOUR'PROTECTION and FINANCIAL BENEFIT it could pay you hand-
somely to consult us now on all your insurance requirements. Simply
complete and post the coupon below or call us and we will be pleased
to provide you with full information without obligation.
THE AUTOMOBILE FIRE & GENERAL INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Founded 1822)
Branch Offices: Melbourne 678531; Sydney 211 4039; Brisbane 5 4726; Perth 232148; Hobart 2 6403
Sub-Branches at Geelong, Canberra,. Albury, Wagga, Goulburn, Newcastle, Townsville,
SEE
>7s* PROMPT SETTLEMENT
A'F.G. * COMPETITIVE RATES
* LIBERAL POLICIES.
FIRST
Post today:— A.F.G., P.O. 'Box 1625 M, Melbourne.
Please supply me with further information regarding your special
benefits and services available to me.
I am especially interested
IN INSURANCE
NAME ADDRESS.
PHONE
A.F.G.2786
chipboard boxes. In Sydney, British
Patent Perforated Paper Co. Pty
specialises in cash register rolls and corn-
pliter tapes, and Simpson Hain (1940)
Pty produces printed wrappings, display
items and fancy goods.
In Melbourne, Andrew Jack Dyson
and Co. Pty (taken over in 1959) makes
bags. It also warehouses and distributes
wrapping papers and stationery.
The marketing situation changed in
1960 when import restrictions were
lifted. The group had to meet greater
competition from overseas paper mills
and fancy goods exporters, but does not
seem to have suffered unduly.
The subsidiary, P. C. Locke and Co.
Pty, imports and distributes wine and
spirits. Dalton has substantial minority
interests in two waste material merchants,
Stanlee Pty and Federal Cotton Co. Pty.
The sale of Medesa and Safix lines of
paper products and the business of
Swan Wrappings (1962) Pty in 1964-65
meant a loss of sales. Yet group turn-
over managed to more than recoup this,
being £400,000 higher than in 1963-64.
A capital profit of £138,420 was made
on these sales. After losses on the sale
of fixed and intangible assets, the net
addition to reserves from this source was
£111,968. The company took the oppor-
tunity to appropriate £100,000 for assets
replacement.
For some years the company attracted
deposits from the public by offering 8
p.c. interest; these have been progres*
sively replaced since 1963 with 8 p.c.
registered unsecured notes. The notes
now total £lm., maturing in 1972, 1975
and 1978. The interest bill for un-
secured deposits, notes and fixed term
loans fell this year from £100,823 to
£87,121.
Published accounts display a sound
financial structure. Stocks, debtors and
borrowings do not show any cause for
anxiety.
A share premium reserve of £894,670
has accumulated from placements and
from various takeovers, including Paper-
holdings Ltd in 1960, besides companies
mentioned earlier.
The 30 p.c. holding in the company
by the W. R. Carpenter group gives
strength to the market for Dalton shares.
But in this calendar year the 5s. units
dropped tc an unprecedented low of
7s. 9d. and can now be obtained for
8s. 9d., where the yield is 5.7 p.c. (After
dotation the shares hit 9s. immediately.)
Original applicants to the 1959 place-
ment of shares at 6s. Id. plus charges
received a maiden dividend of 8 p.c. and
then a lift to the present rate of 10 p.c.
Later shareholders have no income or
capital appreciation to show for their
investment, so have reason to feel a
little disappointed.
The flour and bakery industry has
become extremely competitive—Dalton
is one of several publicly listed bakers
to complain about bread price control—
so shareholders must depend on the
paper side of the business to provide the
yeast to leaven their dough.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 3590 3342 4600 4997 4966
Less current liabilities 2022 2370 2693- 2680 2621
Working capital 1563 1 4 72 1 90 7 23 1 7 2345
Investments 160 309 211 148 23
Fixed assets 1423 1773 1930 2178 211
Intangibles 11 9 12 30 5
3167 3563 4060 4673 4692
Minority interests 122 126 115 119 8]
Loan capital 240 149 613 1085 1048
Ordinary capital 1746 1883 1932 1932 1932
Reserves 1059 1400 1400 1537 1631
3167 3563 4060 467 3 4692
Depreciation 82 97 104 118 125
Taxation 222 193 201 182 192
Net profit 322 283 288 300 3M
Dividends 175 182 193 193 193
Surplus 147 101 95 107 12'
Earning rate 18.4 15.5 14.9 15.5 16-3
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 4.3 4.4 4.4 4.8 5°
Price/earnings _
ratio (a) 12.3 14.9 15.2 14.3 1M
High price (b) 13/3 13/6 13/6 15/- 12/ '
Low price (b) 10/6 10/3 10/6 11/- 9 / J
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO' JACK EDWIN WILLIAMS, late Of 88 Raw-
eo n Road, Woy Woy. TAKE NOTICE that
XHEIMA SHAUREY WILLIAMS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1208 of 1965 on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 20th December,
1965, and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS DENIS SOLARI, WHITE
& CO., Solicitors, of 56 Railway Crescent,
Jannali, or from their city agent, HAROLD
RICH Solicitor, 83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WILLIAM WILLIAMS. TAKE NOTICE
that MILLY JOYCE WILLIAMS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3796 of 1965 on the
ground of desertion, separation and failure
to pay maintenance notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in the Dis-
cretion Statement filed. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building. Macquarie Street.
Sydney, on or before the 16th day of Decem-
ber, 1965, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. F. KINLEY, Solicitor,
of 187 Macquarie Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS. Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHN WALTER ADAMS. TAKE NOTICE
that BARBARA ADAMS has filed Petition No.
4283 of 1964 for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion and separation, notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances as set out in a dis-
cretion statement filed by her If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry of the Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 20th December, 1965. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from McLEOD WHITE, McKEON & CO.,
Solicitors, 90 Pitt Street. Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
TEACHER
Primary trained teacher well qualified
required for First Term, 1966, at
NEWINGTON COLLEGE,
STANMORE, N.S.W.
(the Sydney Methodist G.P.S.)
Apply for details re duties, sound salary
scale, superannuation, etc., to the under-
signed.
D. A. TRATHEN, Headmaster.
TOO R A K
Exclusive accommodation for semi-retired
and active retired gentlemen. Large bed-
sitting room with own television. Excellent
cuisine. Close to transport.
PHONE-. 50-6484.
Personal & Missing Friends
Will CHARLES MARKS last heard of as being
in Hurstville, Sydney, New South Wales prior
to 1938, or any person knowing his where-
abouts or able to give any information con-
cerning him please contact the Permanent
Trustee Company of New South Wales, 23
O Connell Street, Sydney, with reference to
the Estate of Mary McNicol.
TOORAK COLLEGE
MT. ELIZA, VICTORIA
Independent Registered Girls'
Secondary School for Boarders
and Day Girls from pre-Grade
1 to Matriculation.
Boarders accepted from Grade IV.
A few vacancies for Boarders in
1966.
For particulars and application forms
write to: —
MISS L. BUSH, M.A., Dip. Ed.,
M.A.C.E.,
Headmistress,
Toorak College Private Bag,
Mail Exchange Branch,
Victoria.
MARKETING ADVISORY SERVICES
for the
CAPITAL GOODS MARKET
6. D. HIGGS
Marketing Direction Pty. Ltd.
100 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPEROOWM, N.S.W.
94-8185
O.K. REPRESENTATION
Australian Proprietary Company, established six
years, has Director currently resident in London,
who can offer representation in the United
Kingdom and Europe.
Please reply to; ADVERTISER, 2 Burton Street,
Randwick, N.S.W Telephone 39-2469.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 873
ACROSS
I—Girl and boy are preserved. (6)
4—Arthurian quantity of cutlery which is for auction.
(8)
9 -Securities of Virginia-Georgia are held by hoboes.
(9)
10— Sheepish hearted, though less unoriginal. (5)
12— Infamous number going on to a Brazilian show-
plaee with you and me. (9)
13— Margot hasn't her empty treasure ship. (4)
15—Edward urged to umpire it? (8)
17—Ringo a confused and uninformed character
according to Spenser? (6)
19— A second person heartens the
arrangement of newspaper
contents. (3-3)
20— I am in an ill-wind where
justice goes astray. (8)
22 Chit of an undersized boy.
(4)
23 Distorted holding of descrip-
tion for a man very ready to
box. (3-6)
26 Statement of believe blushing
in business. (5)
27 Fitting up East with jesting.
(9)
28— Dig around a feature to in-
terpret the symptoms. (8)
29 Castigates roofing aids in
primary education. (6)
DOWN
1— Florentine nourishment from a
frankfurt vendor? (10)
2 What’s the wife to make of
my flaming autobiography?
(5, 2,2, 4)
3 Form of amber block. (5)
5 Burro needs one way to help.
’ (6)
6 Impose on the goodwill and
credulity of none in this part
of Ireland. (9)
7 Sour lady of ill-repute. (4)
8— Enters taxable items. (7)
11—Joker with a rock-splitter is
firm with the rules in a Mur-
rumbidgee neighborhood. (5,
8)
14—Biggies Ode for breakfast
(6. 4)
16—Try to contact feathers. (9)
18—Craft factor in calculating
circles to the miscreant. (7)
21—It's capital molesting poultry.
(6)
24 Drive in electric light with
spirit. (5)
25 How’s 7-down a Spanish hero?
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 872


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
■ana*
Debenture Issue
Applications accepted only on application form attached to and
referred to in a printed copy of the Prospectus obtainable from
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative Office, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
©V any branch of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 Underwood Street, Sydney
1478/S5
SPECULATORS DIARY
Gleanings of Financial News
And thoughts on Palmer debentures
A QUOTE from the financial page of one of the afternoon papers: “A burst of
support for James Hardie has lifted the stock 3s. 6d. to 645. 6d. and at one
stage to 655. This seems to be a forerunner to the interim report which is due out,
and seems a suitable time to disclose the date for the proposed share split to 10s. units.”
This particular piece of reporting
raises two important questions. First,
why did the shares suddenly fall from
115 s. and secondly, how do you split
shares into 10s. units when they are
already 10s. units?
In fact the shares had already been
split. While the reporter was a little
astray in the second half of the state-
ment, he did rightly draw attention to
the sudden rise in price in the first half.
The behavior of James Hardie shares
should prove a useful forerunner to
several other 20s. units ultimately being
split into 10s. units. In particular, I have
in mind G. E. Crane and Tooths.
One other particular piece of financial
news that took my fancy was Mr Wilson
complaining again about the low level
of Amalgamated Chemicals share price.
He’s finally admitted that trading con-
ditions are not quite so promising as one
would like. At least he’s being more
realistic this time. Unfortunately, his
habit in the past of always being unduly
optimistic has made the market suspicious
of any report he now makes.
Apart from the occasional snippets
mentioned above, most of the financial
commentary has been on H. G. Palmer.
One paper is publishing numerous letters
on this subject from its readers. The
letter-writers can be divided up into
the following groups: MLC policy-
holders, MLC shareholders, H. G.
Palmer debenture holders and H. G.
Palmer creditors.
They all write very strong letters
having a decided bias towards their par-
ticular interest. I feel that H. G. Palmer
debenture holders are letting their
emotions distort the picture. The losses
will have to be very substantial-indeed
before they completely eliminate share-
holders’ funds, unearned income and un-
secured creditors. Of course, until that
happens, the capital invested by deben-
ture holders remains intact.
As yet, I haven’t seen any letters from
persons who took up debentures in
H. G. Palmer before the MLC takeover,
Surely such people should be sincerely
grateful to the MLC for putting £4m,
into H. G. Palmer this year. These
funds, naturally, will rank after all
debentures.
From the complaints section I got on to
the congratulations section. I have
always liked and respected Kolotex, but
even so I was a little overawed by the
24-page annual report. It seems that
Kolotex is a serious competitor for the
annual balance-sheet award. If the past
is any guide, I hope they don’t win it.
The share prices of the last two winners,
Marcus Clark and Larke Consolidated,
are well down since they notched up
their respective victories. This is merely
a cynical observation.
I’ve finally reached the stage of dis-
cussing my only purchase, Brambles
rights. With the success of William
Adams rights behind me, Brambles seem
to offer much the same opportunity.
The 1965 result is better than it
initially looks. While the after-tax profit
was up 24 p.c., the pre-tax profits showed
a 56 p.c. increase. And this was after
an increase in the provision for de-
preciation of £414,000 to £1,422,000.
With this good result behind it, and
probably a reasonably tight ' period of
rights trading ahead, I'm happily paying
ss. for 500 rights.
Sales this week were the 400 Wibroc
and 400 Tennyson Textiles. Wibroc
produced a good profit rise and dividend
increase, but the automotive industry is
in the doldrums. Tennyson also has been
struck down by something beyond its
control—the textile tariff decision. Also
leaving the portfolio was Project De-
velopment. Despite my earnest predic-
tions, Project Development hasn’t fallen
back again. Oh, well!
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
400 Wibroc (ex. div.), 12/- £238
400 Tennyson, 8/6 £l^
BOUGHT
500 Project Development, 3/4 .... £B3
500 Brambles rights, 5/- £l2B
A healthy £2BB credit stands in the
account.
The week’s dealings left me holding:
Cost C u,i
No. of Name of Date Per
Shares Company Bought Share P flce |
500 Steamships ...
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 W
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- V'
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 V
200 Mt. Isa 7/9/65 36/6 39/6
500 Concrete Ind. 8/9/65 4/7 j/'
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/- W
200 VAM 28/9/65 5/- %
200 BHP rts 5/10/65 24/9 27/-
200 Hotel Metropole 21/10/65 17/6 W
100 Tableland 27/10/65 38/- 39//
200 Tyree 27/10/65 21/- 22/;
500 Brambles rts 3/11/65 5/-


AV»« jetway to the USA from December 14!
Step aboard Air New Zealand
and fly to L.A. by DCS
(the world’s most preferred jetliner)
on Air New Zealand’s Five Star Jfetline service.
Five Star ? The best of everythiny you’ve ever
enjoyed. To U.A. and Honolulu from
Decetnber 14.
Come on!
r
I
p 5
O
§
70 a
MM
m
5
m
AIR HEW lEAIAMO
In association with QANTAS and BOAC
the Five Star Jetline


*
v 3r
, * * sfc.
N>-«
V
..
?V„ V*
p^P|.;
* .'■' \- > N />
»-: V •" \ f-" v Mfc •'v* ... .
, M~■y' / J r
■ «* *?* •'. W - ** *
:o *
-s •:•£>
* * .? <£
% j
*
*
*■ %
ft
#■*
■yj§lsi»|2iisi^
.-.
Vi
»£
IS.
» .
s:
#'
mM
• .
m
Ki%
ms
■'.'■ V”W;
: 3
•52
a?■._s
BR
Vi
.
HOLDEN
liveliest loot
, of theyeerl
Take a good, long look
Holden’s sleek, flowing
lines and you get the mes-
sage loud and clear. This is
the car for the good times,
Styled to match your zest
for life, with the lively look
that’s as modern as tomorrow,
Curved for beauty and the
kind of spacious comfort nt
'other car near the price can match
Its promise is action. And Holden
fulfils it in rousing fashion! Three
eager engines up to the twin-carbu-
rettor 140 hp X 2 that really turns on
the fireworks. A superbly smooth
Big-car ride. Great new braking
power from power-assisted discs*.
Highway, or byway, you’ll find
Holden’s just the fun-car you want
Best value now. Best value at trade-
in time!
Make the good times come thick'n
fast. Team up with the liveliest look
of the year. Your Holden Dealer is
the man to see.
Join the trend-setters.,
eome an over to
818 SIYU BBIBEN
AUSTRALIA'S OWN CAR FROM £BB5 PLUS TAX
♦Optional at extra cost General Motors Holden's
