

The Bulletin
the massacre of wild life
1 IhIVIWMIA • «
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
u -‘.jMSp"' m jn
AUSTRALIA
and APOLLO


w
IS**,::
*£
8®" £*CC _■* 71
*HIN£ SMESUKC
1963
■ VINTACC
&
-
SB
H
A
vRET
\
siinaiiiig
B<*s
r/\
- «K* *
*
valum
/r :; / .<
#««i
Os/ /// , V.
it I fc » L I N
✓A-JUS* -T«
®P>*
w
mM&k is
Get to know fine table wines Ask tor Yalumba
le reds and whites of Yalumba are highly prized in every
)rthwhile cellar.
lected Barossa Valley grapes are handled with painstaking
re to produce these superb examples of the vignerons" art.
it then, the Smiths of Yalumba have devoted five genera-
ms to making quality wines.
m expect the best from Yalumba—And you get it!
GALWAY VINTAGE CLARET. Delightfully light Claret. Matured
French oak casks and then laid down in the bottle to further matt
MOSELLE. Light and bright, with the delicate sweet finish of a .
Moselle.
FOUR CROWN BURGUNDY. A soft and fuller flavoured red , belt
of gourmets.
CARTE D'OR RIESLING. Pale and crisp, and made from R
Riesling grapes grown in the Eden Valley district.
1 alumh (i table
WINES
S. Smith and Son Pty, Ltd. Yalumba Vineyards. Aneaston. South Australia


-
■ .
M
'
■
Where el
do thrt
real races present the many faces of their culture.
Who discovered SINGAPORE?
We did! The travel agent started it by explaining it wouldn’t cost a penny
more to stop-over in Singapore, on our way to Europe. On those terms who
would miss the chance to go on a voyage of discovery!
So we came to Singapore. The friendly, cosmopolitan people welcomed us
to their fascinating- country and we were set fair to uncover an array of
spectacle and excitement that gave real meaning to the saying—‘You see
more of the Orient in Singapore.’ Take a glimpse at this magical island
with us and you too will be taking the first steps towards discovering wonder-
ful Singapore.
SIGHTSEEING Why see the world when
there’s Singapore? See the rest of the world by all means —
but don’t miss Singapore! Where else do three great races present the
many faces of their culture, their pageantry and their costume and their
customs. Only on this fabulous Island can you see the Festival of lights—
The Mooncake Festival—The Chinese New Year celebrations —The Thaipusam
devotions and the Malay pageant of Hari Raya Puasa. Only in Singapore
can you, in one day, visit the Muslim Mosques—the Indian and the Chinese
temples—the Tiger Balm Gardens and the House of Jade.
Even whilst you are marvelling at this many splendoured spectacle, you
thread your way through a tapestry of costume and colour that excites your
eyes as only Singapore can.
Wi ' ' IirHONG KQNG
W
W 8? 1 *
• :.w*
' OARWiN
i:
YDNt Y
PERTH
n 2SM(Pufe» /
WEST AUSTRALIANS , do you know that it is
almost as cheap to travel to Singapore as it is to
visit Sydney. In about the same time that it
takes to fly from Perth to Sydney-you could be
setting foot in the heart of the Orient — Singapore.
For lots of exciting information, consult your travel agent about
your stop-over in Singapore or write to Singapore Government
Tourist Information Service, 15 Grosvenor Street, Sydney, 343
Little Collins Street, Melbourne or Industry House, Canberra.
silKjdPol^
S-T.P.B /8/M/6/6S
The Bulletin
Established 1889
SEPTEMBER 4, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4462
SACKING SNEDDEN?
Procedures unworthy of a Banana
Republic 25
PROPAGANDA
Government ineptitude over the
Vietnam war 33
A MAN ON THE MOON
The road to Honeysuckle Creek .... 22
THE MASSACRE OF
WILD LIFE
Australians versus the continent .... 38
ROSS CAMPBELL 32
TANNER 12 LETTERS .... 42
IIHIS AUSTRALIA
f/fhe Law Conference 14
jtiCTU: Changing the guard 17
[Vietnam: NZ’s cleavage 18
YTaxi leap-frog 19
Lverseas
%1-0. L.: the military in space 36
the continuing dialogue .... 36
Greece: the on-going crisis 36
f
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Haag on subsidies 46
Middy at the children’s theatre .... 46
REVIEWS
FILMS: Welles’ Trial 48
THEATRE: Milligan in Melbourne 48
lELEVISION: Spectaculars 48
BOOKS: The Cinema of Orson
Welles SO
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Lifting domestic saving 55
AIDA sells Australia overseas 56
Speculator’s Diary 74
HAN ON THE LAND
Research items 61
or them pasture revolution 62
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
.Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
AC,V RaL' S i?nBn ■■£ 8 i c “ stlerea 9h Street, Sydney,
Box 4088, Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504, ’


3
K. .
\
r/
3
A
arrived in Melbourne at 9.00 a
| f
He went out to the new plant.
How did he do it?
iri
He made six calls in different suburbs.
*
■HEV; \ «*
t
£3
-
-
-If
: ■ ■
wggs
He drove across town to head office.
ft
ftp,
He detoured to visit friends —still made it to the hotel by 7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to meet you
on arrival with a new Ford Falcon.
When business takes you interstate, it’s good business
to have an Avis Falcon waiting for you at the airport or
railway station. That way you get more done—with less
strain. Within a few moments of arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. An Avis
Falcon always comes to you in peak condition —
Avis was waiting for him!
dean, shining and with the petrol tank full to the brim.
It’s yours to use as your own, for as long as you like. And
all the while, you and the car are protected by proper
insurance. Repeat—proper insurance. When next you
travel interstate, arrange for an Avis Rent a Car to meet you
on arrival. Book your Avis car with your travel ticket, or ask
your air hostess in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival.
m
1
m*.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
For a day , a week 3 or all the time .
AF3ST


y&X-Xy
ss
5C
• t
*
STEP INTO FRANCE
when you board U.T.A. FRENCH AIRLINES to EUROPE... via Singapore or Tahiti
N\\
a 3
j I
r | . ->*>,
5*3;
wit
/J't
m/ —. Cxi
T ** * »
- •—•••-•• *' i \ V ,
*** * *
\ f"
5.
K
#
f*
»V V
✓
Flying the fastest route to Europe,
see fabulous Singapore.
On your way to Europe via U.S. A.
relax in the gold and blue of Tahiti
Only UTA jets you the FASTEST ROUTE to
EUROPE non-stop from Sydney to Singapore
-—then on to Karachi, Athens, PARIS/LONDON.
Every Wednesday the great UTA turbo fan jet soars
away from Sydney direct to Singapore, by-passing
Darwin. From Singapore you fly fast to Paris via
Karachi and Athens . . . and of course we can bring
you back again just as fast. If you wish to break your
journey in Europe, we have 45 flights weekly from
Athens, linking 80 great European cities.
or fly from Sydney via the U.S.A. every Wednes-
day with colourful stopovers at TAHITI and
LOS ANGELES . . . then on to PARIS and
LONDON, too!
Coming or going you can relax en route at the Pacific
Eden of Tahiti. And at every stopover our Welcome
Service is there to smooth away your problems with
knowledgeable details about the city or region ... or
to help you enjoy your stay by planning tours, arrang-
ing accommodation, working out exchange ... in fact
serving your travel need in every possible way.
FLY FRENCH, AND SAY 'VIVE LA DIFFERENCE'
*
*
He
Hr
Contact your Travel Agent or
AIR (FRANCE
THE WORLD'S LARGEST NETWORK
13 HIGH STREET, SYDNEY. 2« 0471 • 927 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 62 1635 • 49 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE. 2 8358


PR645901
m
a*
m.
SB
■
f
r >
It
«wn
©■
*
n
PAPER FOR
PROGRESS
No. 1 of a series
All over the world the paper industry is a progress industry and in Australia A.P.M.—Australian Paper
Manufacturers Ltd.—is right up with world leaders in introducing new manufacturing techniques. □ The
modern Inverform board-forming equipment and board-coating plant installed at A.P.M’s Petrie Mill
near Brisbane are examples of the company’s progressive policy and continuing vigorous drive to develop
new top-quality grades of papers and paperboards for modern packaging. □ The Inverform technique
Introduced to Australia at Petrie is also being incorporated in the new mill A.P.M. is building at Spearwood,
near Fremantle in Western Australia and on a new high-speed board machine in Victoria. □ Every pound
spent on an A.P.M. product Is an investment in Australia's industrial progress.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTDI
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate,
South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals.


m
m
I
m
s imfim
Paperwork pinning you down?
Call 3IVI Business Communications Centre!
We mean pinning down to petty jobs.
Filing. Copying. Correspondence. Memos.
Reports. Records . . . when you should be
handling more important things.
Why not talk it over with a 3M Business
Communications Consultant?
Talk paperwork traffic jams. Copying
bottlenecks. Correspondence. Financial
records. Internal forms. Reports. Memos.
Unnecessary typing and clerical effort.
Overhead costs.
Then he can assess how and where 3M’s
Systems and Copying Products can save
typing and clerical effort, and speed the
paperwork flow in your organisation.
He’ll invite you to our Centre to see
these 3M ideas in action. Machines and
papers. Instant electric statements. Short
note replies.
Don’t pin yourself down another moment.
Why wait for an invitation when we’re only
a ’phone call away?
BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE
{TIINNESOTA miNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Adelaide
51-5971 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Perth 28-4651 * Hobart
3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109.
COmPANY
aaw/»f6/«Mi


m
j
3'
slUi
1 ) . ,
C > >
■
pf
"H
?"'•>. <J>. "*®
■
/~\ • \
gidf
STC spends £1 million annually to lit pieces together!
It took the correct placement of many pieces to bring the STC
Australian Pentaconta Crossbar PABX to its final stage of
perfection.
In modern laboratories, in experimental workshops, the unremitting
efforts of a highly-skilled technical staff were devoted to this
achievement. Behind them lay a considerable proportion of the
three-quarters of a million pounds that STC devotes each year to a
vast programme of research and development in the fields of
telecommunications and electronics.
Today STC Australian Pentaconta Crossbar PABX represents the
ultimate in telephone systems. It is a system that introduces auto-
mation. Operating from an automated push-button console, the
telephonist can easily handle the busiest telephone traffic.
The incredible speed of call following call puts more time into each
telephone day.
Pentaconta PABX completely outclasses all other PABX installa-
tions in speed, in ease of control and in reliability.
In operation, it is a tribute to the STC policy in continuing
research and development. For further information regarding
STC Australian Pentaconta Crossbar PABX contact Standard
Telephones and Cables Pty. Limited, 252 Botany Rd., Alexandria,
Sydney. Phone: 69 0444. Melbourne 44 5161. Canberra 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD. Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane. 4 1771.
S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide. 51 3731.
W.A.: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth: 21 6461.
TAS: W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston.
2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, Devonport.
ITT
associate
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
MIBIC


National Notebook
Un-A ustralian
The trouble first surfaced at the recent
Overseas Students’ Conference in Ade-
laide. Twenty-four delegates from the
major Asian student organisations among
the 11,000 students in Australia passed
.seven unanimous resolutions condemn-
ing the Immigration Department’s
policies towards Asian students.
The conference condemned Immigra-
tion for restricting period of stay; dis-
couraging post-graduate studies; termi-
nating visas with inadequate notice; res-
tricting student marriages; controlling
courses of study; demanding progress
reports and interfering in private lives.
The eighth resolution passed con-
demning demands for extra fees came
after a complaint that overseas students
at the University of Queensland have
to pay 50 per cent higher fees.
“The trouble is that the Department
officials we deal with assume that all
Asian students want to stay in Aus-
tralia,” Yee Onn Sum, a final-year elec-
trical engineering student at the Univer-
sity of NSW, said.
“Our complaint is with Immigration
officers, their lack of civility and high-
handedness,” Jyothi Menon of Ipoh, a
sixth-year medical student at Sydney
University, said. “They are exercising
>owers we believe they do not have and
ve are getting treatment which we feel,
:'rom our experience of Australians, is
lot in accord with Australian attitudes.”
Most complaints come from private
md not Colombo Plan students, who are
About 10 per cent of the total. External
Affairs maintains contact with Colombo
3 lan students, but private students are
'irtually on their own, with Immigration
dlowing or not allowing extensions of
usas.
Following the Adelaide conference,
he student organisations are preparing
i dossier of fully investigated cases,
letails of which they will make public.
One student gave the example of the
mmigration Department in Sydney cal-
ing a girl in twice for interviews to
idvise her to leave the flat where she
/as living. The girl was sharing the flat
rith a brother and sister. “Surely officials
lust know that students share accom-
modation to save money and for con-
enience,” the student said. “Anyway,
ie girl is over 21, so what business is
°f theirs?”
Most complaints are on Immigration’s
ttitude to changing or extending courses.
A student finishes his course,” said
ivakumar from Singapore. “Sometimes
e ca o begin another, sometimes he can-
not. Last week I had a case of a student
who had finished medicine and wanted
to begin engineering. The Department
refused to extend his visa at first, but
finally approved. You see, the Depart-
ment decides what we should do. They
tell us, ‘You are needed in your own
country’. Surely it is up to us to decide.
If it is anyone else, then let our own
High Commissioner tell us where we are
wanted.”
The students claim that the Depart-
ment is most difficult about students who
want to change their technical courses.
Several singled out for criticism the
Department stopping nurses from doing
more than one post-graduate course.
The Department’s view is that “ex-
tensions are granted as a matter of course
in every genuine case” to enable students
to finish their studies. “When the stu-
dent has completed the tertiary course
of study and necessary practical experi-
ence for which he was admitted, he would
not normally expect to remain for fur-
ther courses,” a spokesman said. “How-
ever, the student is free to present a case
for an extension which will be examin-
ed on its merits.”
One of the cruellest complaints con-
cerns those students who have married
while they are in Australia, but not Aus-
tralian girls, and who want to take their
wives home to meet their families. “The
Immigration Department says we can,
but we cannot bring them back with us.
Surely you can see what is behind this
they are frightened that children will
be born here and become Australian
citizens,” said Sivakumar.
The publicity officer of the Overseas
Students’ Association at the University
of NSW, Bob Wright, gave the example
of a friend of his, a student from Sin-
gapore, who married a Chinese girl born
in Rabaul, but educated in Australia and
granted Australian citizenship. He tried
four times to get permanent residency.
Finally, he was granted permission to
stay “indefinitely”.
“The whole situation is paradoxical,
really,” said Sivakumar. “I have been
treated as an equal by Australians. I have
had no problems. Leaving Australia will
be as painful as when I left home —■
but I will be leaving, you know.”
Business as usual
'T'he Taits Sir Frank was the last of
A them when he died last week had
knockers all their lives. At least, if any-
one hit at J. C. Williamson theatre policy
it would be Frank or one of his brothers
who would wince. The criticism was
probably strongest in the ’4os when all
those Moncrieff and Oldaker revivals
kept being dusted off and shoved out
again.
Then, in the ’sos, when we seemed to
be getting stirrings of interest in Aus-
tralian-written theatre, there were the
accusations that “The Firm” was more
interested in Hammerstein than in Ray
Lawlers. And why did they always have
to import leads for their shows?
The Taits seldom bothered to answer
criticism. Somehow, they knew, it would
be hard to make it sound good, no mat-
ter how right their words might be.
The Coming of Spring -1
"Oh, boy, it looks like a long, hot summer."


fmm early October:
JET EAST BEST
—iwmj
■
m
4
1
?
■
V '■ :
•:’v\ :
: ■
■i
"v-
-mmMM
m
■
■
hhhh
■i
MM
■ .
■
&
' ■ ■■■
■
1
am
V'i-'.'f
■
1.;.:*
llligfilli
■
■
*
*
Hi
Until October, you can enjoy Philippine Air Lines service only from Manila on. On to Hong Kong.
On to Taipei. Even on to San Francisco (East from the East!). But from early October, the
East starts just eight miles out of Sydney. When PAL flies from Kingsford Smith Airport with
the finest jets aflight. The only way you get extra services like .international cooking, not just
food. First-run, in-flight colour movies, not just magazines. Nine music channels (two stereo),
not only conversation. And to top it all Filipina-style personal attention a rare combina-
tion of Eastern manners, Spanish grace,, and American savvy. All on the most modern fan jets
flying, giant DCB's, the smoothest yet. At no extra charge. So jet East best. All the way. With
PAL (that's the one airline that services eight others and serves everyone who flies iti)
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanson Street, Melborne. Cnr.
Ann St. and North Quay Brisbane. 140 North Terrace, Adelaide.
98 Williams Street, Perth. 62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra.
178 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Please send me details of Philippine Air Lines' flight
schedules, and complete tour information.
Name
Address
Phone


For all his power, affluence and ability,
Frank Tait was always a seldom and
gently spoken man. He could be tough
in bargaining. But it was always a quiet,
firm toughness. Let the flamboyant Mer-
ricks get the ulcers. He knew he could
live a longer, ulcer-free life with just as
many hits by doing things the steady way
he and his brothers always had done.
Perhaps the truest critical notice you
could pin on him would be that his policy
was fairly unadventurous. It was stock
knowledge that what went big on Broad-
way or in Shaftesbury Avenue would,
sooner or later, come to Australia, pro-
viding it was not too esoteric. Then there
were the other certainties such as when
the cast-of-two play “Two For The See-
saw” opened in New York an Australian
there predicted, “It’ll go to Australia soon
for sure,” and it did.
When JCW have lost money on
shows in recent years they have often
been shows that their critics would have
been most keen on their doing. Last
year's Shakespearean debacle, “The First
400 Years”, is a case in point. So was the
gripping play “The Miracle Worker” and
the poignant musical “Carnival”. Little
wonder Frank Tait preferred to stick to
the big, bold, brassy musicals like “Hello,
Dolly”, “Call Me Madam”, “Kiss Me
Kate” and “Annie Get Your Gun”
strong on music and glitter, weak on
message.
His biggest recent years slip in judg-
ment was in 1961 when on an overseas
tour he by-passed “Sound of Music”
“without Mary Martin it would be
nothing”—and fell for the London pro-
duction of “Oliver”. His rival Garnet
Carroll grabbed the rights to “Sound of
Music” and brought back June Bronhill.
A few months later “Sound of Music”
was making in profit for Carroll about as
much as “Oliver”, playing simultaneous-
ly, was losing for Williamsons.
Last week, when news of Frank Tait's
death came, superstitious theatre folk
were quick to note several omens. Both
:he firm’s Melbourne theatres were not
slaying that day when their flags were
owered to half-mast. Her Majesty’s
iad just finished with opera and was
waiting for “Hello, Dolly”. Over the
‘oad, the Comedy had just said farewell
° the African Ballet and was waiting for
he opening of “A Severed Head”.
Almost as if it had been pre-arranged,
A Severed Head” opened on schedule
>n Wednesday night, Sir Frank’s funeral
ervice was held on Thursday, and
Hello, Dolly” began its run on Friday,
•y the weekend, everything was running
moothly with good houses following
:ood notices.
The Car for Carnage
r | a hough the new edition of “Fowler’s
A Modern English Usage” is outselling
007 novels in England, the Bond cult
should get a lift here when the Aston
Martin DBS used in the “Goldfinger”
film is shown at the Sydney Motor Show,
opening September 10.
Just how much of the killer’s magic
will be demonstrated is up to the
authorities who control the show, but
the organisers are trying to arrange for
the full works. At a recent New York
show the car was put through its con-
siderable paces.
The car’s cleverness includes twin
Browning machine - guns concealed be-
hind the front parking lights, ejector
seat, radar screen and scanners, radio
telephone, tyre cutters, hydraulic over-
riders for ramming, bullet-proof shield,
smoke screen, hot oil, spike and nail
ejectors, rotating number plates, hidden
weapon compartments for luger, grenade
and handy throwing knife.
Sketches from Boz
Qydney journalist Lucien Boz, recently
returned from Paris, brought news of
his old friend, “absurd” playwright
Eugene lonesco. Boz reports that, being
summer, most of the theatres were
closed. One of those still open was
showing “The Bald Prima Donna”.
Advertisements in the Metro stations
simply said: “lonesco, Theatre de la
Huchette, ninth year, The Bald Prima
Donna”.
Boz visited lonesco in his luxurious
flat in the Boulevard Montparnasse and
found him not changed at all from the
days where he lived in a modest apart-
ment in the Rue Eugene Terrasse, which
you entered, as “Paris Match” recorded,
through the window.
Boz reports that lonesco still has some
small battles with producers to get his
plays put on as he wishes. When the
English producer Peter Hall was first
putting on “The Lesson” at the Arts
Theatre Club, London, he objected to
the fact that the professor in the play
kills 40 pupils every day. After much
argument, lonesco gave in and accepted
Hall’s point that four pupils would be
accepted more readily by English
audiences. England remains the only
country where it is four a day instead
of 40, but, as lonesco remarked to Boz,
it is frequency that counts.
lonesco recalled, too, that when
“Rhinoceros” was put on at the Long-
acre Theatre in London, the English
producer could not believe that a friend
of Beranger, who had not seen him for
30 years, would come into the room
without having made an appointment.
So in England Beranger has to receive
a telegram first.
lonesco also recalled that after Elvire
Popesco, the Rumanian-born actress who
owns three Paris theatres, begged him
for a play, he sent her “Tueur sans
gages”. Shortly after she rang lonesco
to say she could not possibly produce
a play in which one of the cast, an
architect, takes a telephone out of his
pocket to speak into it. So Madame
Popesco did not get “Tueur sans gages”.
Cover Picture
T>eter Hardacre’s cover shows Mr
Don Sinclair of Canberra, the
antenna operator at Tidbinbilla’s deep
space tracking station one of NASA’s
three-station network in the ACT.
JUDGES AND JURIES
80 Years Ago: September 12, 1885
AUSTRALIA is but a larger and, in
many respects, more conservative
England. Among us are laws which
would not be tolerated for a day in the
capital of the Empire. Possessing most
of the outward forms of Democracy, we
have little of its spirit. Cabinet Ministers
among us say and do things that no
English Minister would dare to do or say.
The fixed policy of our ruling classes
seems to be that the people are to be
governed—not trusted. The result is that
juries—-particularly Sydney ones—-having
discovered some extenuating circumstances
in a capital case, and having also dis-
covered that their views on the subject
will probably be ignored, naturally adopt
the only means in their power to baulk
the law's inexorability.
When juries find that their recommenda-
tions to mercy are unheeded, that the
Judge flouts them, or the Executive ignores,
they naturally say "we shall make no
more recommendations which may be laid
contemptuously aside. We shall take the
matter into our own hands, and either
acquit the prisoner if there is the least
loophole, or find him guilty of a less
heinous crime if there is not". When
men find that the felons they recommend
to mercy are hanged, while those they
do not are reprieved, they cease to
recommend, and make sure of their in-
tentions by other means.


Tanner
The Fall of Icarus


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Liberal Drift
IT is time for a brutal reappraisal of
Australian politics. The Canberra
atmosphere is increasingly marked by
sense of slide, behind-the-scenes bick-
ering, the overwhelming arrogance of
undisciplined ministers, and a lack of
direction while politicians and public
wait, in a critical world situation, to
find out what are the Prime Minister’s
plans in particular, whether or not
he intends to retire.
What can be called the Snedden
Debate last week has brought the
issues to a head. Not only did dis-
sident Liberals join Labor and DLP
critics of Attorney-General Snedden’s
bungling of the IPEC case, but Gov-
ernment spokesmen were half-hearted
in his defence and not one member
of the Liberal rank-and-file spoke up
for him. None could. The fact of the
IPEC case is that not only has the
Government appeared to abandon its
basic belief in individual enterprise but
its Attorney-General used a legalistic
device unworthy, in Alan Reid’s
phrase, of a Banana Republic to
undermine it.
But while the IPEC affair brought
matters to a head, it was only one case
in a series. The Government’s hand-
ling of the reserve price scheme was
another crude breach of Liberal prin-
ciples. The Attorney-General also
figured in this. It was he who refused
to permit woolgrowers to test the legal
right of the Wool Boaid to use the
money collected from them to cam-
paign for a scheme which many of
them opposed Regardless of the
merits of the scheme, it is fantastic
that a I iberal minister should refuse
to let the courts decide a question of
individual rights involving a basic
Australian industry. Far worse, of
course, has been the Government’s
decision under pressure from the
Country PaUv—to let a rigged election
decide whether or not the reserve
price scheme be adopted. It seems in-
credible that a Liberal Government
should adopt a method of votins
whereby the enterprising backbone of
the wool industry should be dominated
by the votes of sideline woolgrowers.
An even worse example of slide is
the Government’s performance in ex-
| plaining the Vietnam war. Here is a
war which is officially considered to
involve our survival as a free people
and in which Australian soldiers may
lose their lives. Yet next to nothing
has been done to explain or dramatise
the issues. The Minister for External
Affairs obviously understands them,
but appears to despise the public too
much to be bothered explaining to
them. The officers of his department
have been permitted to produce two
excellent, learned pamphlets on the
war for distribution to other diplo-
mats and, presumably, for study in
scholarly libraries. The Government
even shipped a battalion overseas in
the dead of night, apparently in case
anyone saw them and wanted to cheer
them on their way. It also proceeds
with recruiting for the Army at a pace
that suggests we may need more
soldiers in twenty years’ time. The
plain fact is that it was to the “teach-
ins”, organised by the critics of the
Government, that people turned to get
the facts explained; if its supporters
won most of these encounters it is no
thanks to the Government. An equally
plain fact is that the Leftist critics of
our commitment in Vietnam probably
still have the propaganda initiative.
At every turn IPEC, the wool
referendum. Vietnam one has the
spectacle of ministers who need pull-
ing into line by the Prime Minister,
while the Prime Minister himself is
apparently concerned with other less
public concerns. In the ordinary
course of events one would say that
the time had come for the Opposition
to be given a chance to govern. But
the present drift is only made worse
by the fact that no one in his right
mind could go that far. While the
Labor Party is led by men who see
no harm in being front-men for Com-
munists and followed by Right-wingers
who have not got the guts to purge
their party, there is no point in
looking to them for national leader-
ship, or even for well-directed ex-
posures of the Government’s weak-
nesses. In fact, the telling criticisms
of the Government have come from
within the Liberal Party, not from the
Labor Party. The need then is for
internal reform by the Liberal Party it-
self and the Prime Minister. He has
pulled his party together before; he
could no doubt do it again if he wanted
to. But does he want to?
The Bulletin has had no hesita-
tion in supporting the Prime Minister
since 1949 but the time has come to
recognise the alternatives: if the Prime
Minister is going to resign, he should
do it now so that a new leader can
arrest the drift; if he is not going to
resign, he should urgently get on with
the job of being Prime Minister and
knock his ministers into line. In either
case, it is time for a change.
Partners or Parasites?
T ast week’s announcement that the
United States has embarked on a
military space programme in addition
to its NASA activities adds a special
significance to the tracking station net-
work in Australia. Whatever future
function this network may perform,
the five years since 1960, when Aus-
tralia became a “key partner” in the
NASA programme, has seen great
benefits to Australian science, industry
and national development These
benefits (whLh are discussed in the
cover storv on page 22) raise the
question whether we are contributing
as much as we could or should to this
joint venture.
Although any financial contribution
we might make would only be a
gesture compared with the huge capital
outlay by the US Government, a
generous gesture w'ould not only
demonstrate that we are ready to be
more than parasites in the space pro-
gramme, but would ensure that the
United States would be more willing
to continue and expand its investment
in local space research activities,
especially when the present programme
of the manned moon-shot is com-
pleted. At present our contribution
is an embarrassingly small and indirect
£70,000 annually. If Australia was
prepared, however, to wholly main-
tain one tracking station, say Carnar-
von in Western Australia, the cost
would be about £500,000 annually
or about two per cent of the Ameri-
can investment in Australia, and a
minute part of the US total expenditure
on the space programme But it would
show that when we speak of “two-
way co-operation in the space pro-
gramme” we mean what we say.


THIS AUSTRALIA
LAW I
Lawyers’ Lost Case
There will be no Commonwealth Court of Appeal
Tanner at the opening ceremony
in Sydney Town Hall of the
Third Commonwealth and Em-
pire Law Conference.
It was very much in character that the Chief Justice of India, Mr Justice
Gajendragadkar, was the first to puncture the Vision Splendid of a Commonwealth
Court of Appeal when it came up for discussion at the Commonwealth Law Con-
ference last week.
Amidst all the pomp of robes, wigs
and trumpeted procession at the open-
ing ceremony the day before, he had
been content to sit on the platform in a
lounge suit, alone amongst the reds,
blacks and more exotic colors. When
he rose to speak the Chief Justice of
India chose to deliver not polite phrases
but a sharp lecture on the significance
of law in its “modern context”. It was,
he firmly told the delegates, softened
into a state of good-humored euphoria
by the earlier speeches, “a flexible
instrument of social and economic
change ... Its centre of gravity lies
in the unsatisfied ambitions of man”.
He spoke of the law as “social engineer-
ing”!
A conference without motions is
something of a ship without a rudder.
Only in the committee meeting, with the
title of “Intra-Commonwealth Judicial
Machinery”, were the lawyers really
discussing anything that was likely to
bear fruit in the world of politics.
All began well with three papers in
favor; one, jointly from two British
MPs; another from Sir Samuel Quashie-
Idun, the Ghanian-born President of the
East African Court of Appeal; and a
third from Mr Binasia, the Attorney-
General of Uganda. The printed paper
of the Ugandan was something of a
virtuoso performance in scholarship. In
the first two pages it quoted the Earl
of Rosebery, Sir Winston Churchill,
Oscar Wilde, Lord Tennyson and a legal
text written by a pair called “Ogg and
Zink”.
By the time the Lord High Chancellor
of England, Lord Gardiner, rose, the tide
seemed to be running strong for the
court. On the opening day he had gone
out of his way to give testimony of his
faith in the Commonwealth, having met,
as he said, some Australian lawyers who
had told him that the Commonwealth
had “had it” and that it would break
up in five years. On Thursday morning
he put his faith into deeds. First, how-
ever, he excluded the possibility of any
Court to settle disputes between Com-
monwealth countries; he thought it
would be impossible. Then he neatly
knocked over the idea of regional
courts.
Speaking deliberately and “with
authority”, Lord Gardiner then made
the offer which, if it were to come to
anything, would change the face of the
law in England as much as any other
of his reforms. Britain would “favor-
ably consider” giving up appeals from
the Court of Appeal to the House of
Lords. That could only mean England
and Wales, although Scotland and North-
ern Ireland could well follow. A storm
of prolonged applause greeted the offer.
But the Lord Chancellor was ver
careful to stress that it was for th
Commonwealth to decide. The two com
mentators assigned to the papers wei
cautious to the point of neutrality. Th
President of the New Zealand La\
Society, Mr Blundell, praised the Priv
Council and referred unaffectedly t
“The Crown” and New Zealand loyalt]
Then came the discussion from th
floor. The first call went to Chief Justic
Gajendargadkar. In a few sharp word
he demolished the possibility of India
participation. It was primarily a politica
question “and' no party in India wa
interested in the idea”. He appealed t(
sovereignty as meaning that the highe'
court should be the country with natior
als as judges. The proposed court woul
be “politically inappropriate and unsoun
and legally inexpedient and unreasor
able”.
The Solicitor-General of Tanzania
Mr Bomani, posed the question: “Wha
are these human rights? They vary i
one country from another.” Tanzani
was against the court.
The Chief Justice of Trinidad an
Tobago, Sir Hugh Wooding, who ha
laid the delegates in the aisles witl
jokes about cricket before announcir
his support for the new court ‘TOO pf
cent” the day before, now got the cal
He tactfully suggested that human right
should be avoided but then stalwart!
called for “inter-dependence” as well a
“independence”.
From Australia, Mr Justice Egglestof
of the Commonwealth Industrial Cour
broke with precedent to mention a foi
gotten figure: “The litigant”. Bluntly an
without circumlocution he told the com


mittee that he was against trying to
obtain “uniformity at the expense of
the litigant”. For good measure he added
that there should be one appeal only
and that the present situations were
“nothing short of ridiculous”.
Sir Samuel Quashie-Idun returned
to sum up. He was almost openly angry.
An African lawyer of the old school, a
grizzled man looking a little like Louis
Armstrong, he snapped sharply in a
loaded dig at some of his younger Afri-
can colleagues over human rights—“un-
less we have something to hide . .
But it was all over, even though there
was no motion. What the morning had
revealed was that India, Tanzania and
Pakistan would not join and that Aus-
tralia could not. Only a firm optimist
could have hope. There were omens that
there might be pressures for stream-
lining the Privy Council by those still
using it (excepting faithful New Zealand).
But the message for Lord Gardiner was
that there was no prospect for a Com-
monwealth Court.
By Thursday noon, as far as inter-
national effects went, the conference was
over. The only other potentially dramatic
affair was the Zambian delegates’ boy-
cott, led by its Minister of Justice, Mr
Chimba, of the opening ceremony, in
protests against the presence of Rhode-
sians. But this fizzled out when he
received a telegram from President
Kuanda giving him some lukewarm
praise but directing him to attend. He
turned up on Thursday morning wearing
not an Oxbridge tie, like so many other
Africans whom he had tried to enlist
in the boycott, but one with gold eagles
on it.
LAW II
Racial Isolationism?
The need for a Commonwealth Court
By DAVID MARSHALL
(Fortner Chief Minister of Singapore)
Canada, India, Pakistan, Ghana, Nigeria, Tanganyika, Cyprus (other than base
areas), Tanzania have abolished appeals to the Privy Council. Why? Many reasons
have been given; but there is only one reason it is a foreign court. The Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council is primarily a Court of English judges appointed
without reference to Commonwealth Governments and always sitting in London.
Australian and New Zealand Chief Justices have at times sat on it; once a judge from
Ceylon was a member; but the basic picture is that of a foreign court without
representation from the Commonwealth.
Many other Commonwealth countries
will follow the lead of Canada, India and
Pakistan for the same reason. Even in
the New South Wales Bar there is a
strong movement in the same direction.
Today the Privy Council still hears
appeals from Australia, New Zealand,
Ceylon, Malaysia, Singapore, Jamaica,
Uganda, Gambia, Rhodesia, Malawi,
Sierra Leone, Trinidad and Tobago,
Malta, the Channel Islands and the Isle
ef Man.
Can we do without the Privy Council
in some form? Can we replace the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council
by a Commonwealth Appeals Court with
similar functions but comprising judges
from all participating Commonwealth
countries and sitting in the capital of
the country from which it is currently
hearing appeals, presided over by the
Chief Justice of that country?
At the Commonwealth Prime Minis-
ters’ Conference in 1960, Ceylon first
mooted the idea which was coldly re-
ceived. It was a novel idea which shocked
traditionalists—how could an English-
man accept a court on which foreigners
sat? What made the gathering last Thurs-
day historic was the statement of Lord
Gardiner, Lord Chancellor of England,
on the subject of a Commonwealth Court
of Appeal as a final court of appeal from
Commonwealth countries.
He said: “I am authorised today to
say that, if it would contribute to the
constitution of such a court that we in
the UK should, so far at least as
England and Wales are concerned, give
up appeals to the House of Lords, we
would favorably consider doing so.”
The applause which greeted this
announcement expressed our admiration
for a people prepared to break through
the traditional barrier of racial isolation-
ism. In introducing a joint paper of Mr
Edward Gardner, QC, MP, and Mr
Graham Page, MP, LL.B, of England,
Mr Gardner suggested that the Common-
wealth Court should have original


BOTTLED BY THE WINEGROWERS, COONAWARRA ESTATE LTD.
S4
Ass
m
CO ON AWAR BA ESTATE
CLARET
VINTAGE i960
AUSTRALIAN -HERMITAGE NET I BINT • ft. OUNCES
BOTTLED BY THE WINEGBOWSBS. COONAWABBA ESTATE LTD.
Si
SK
V<€
$
COONAWARRA ESTATE
I
CLARET
VINTAGE I960
AUSTRALIAN HERMITAGE NET 1 PINT A El. OUNCES
Now is the time to lay-down
Coonawarra Estate Claret 1960
Few Australian wines have as much potential for age improve-
ment as those from Coonawarra, where the select wines are labelled
Coonawarra Estate.
Vintage 1960 Coonawarra Estate claret, currently on sale after
more than 5 years in the winegrowers’ cellarage, is one of the finest
in recent years. It becomes all the more valuable because, due to
severe frost, there will be no 1961, as that year’s wine did not reach
the particularly high standards set for the Coonawarra Estate label.
The 1960 Vintage remains unchanged in price despite its additional
value, and you are strongly advised to invest in supplies of this
claret while it is still available.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CLARET
Vintage 1960
&<
OS
AN ESTATE WINE OF S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
jurisdiction to try disputes between
Commonwealth countries (not supported
by Lord Gardiner) and ultimately tc
enforce a Commonwealth Bill of Right
— a courageous vision. Mr Binaisa, tht
Attorney-General of Uganda, urged the
abolition of English appeals to the House
of Lords and the creation of a Com
monwealth Appeal Court with the
United Kingdom as a member. He wa<
also of the view that it should ultimate!;
have original jurisdiction to try dispute
between Commonwealth countries
between a Commonwealth country ant
one of its citizens and between corpora
tions operating in more than one Com
monwealth country.
The Chief Justice of Pakistan, Mj
Justice Cornelius, declared that “Ou
laws must conform to religious beliefs
Such functions could not be entruste
to a composite court which did not sub
scribe to these views.” He did not sa
why.
The Chief Justice of Ceylon, M
Justice Sansoni, pointed out that th
common law of Ceylon is Roman Dutci
law yet the Privy/Council became adep
in interpreting it. “Why can’t the Com
monwealth Appeal Court interpre
different systems of law?” he asked am
argued it would not impugn a sovereign!;
because “it will be our court”. H
strongly supported the proposal.
Canada’s contribution was a massiv
silence.
From Singapore I was the oni;
speaker and my theme was that tht
objections to the proposal were ration
alisations of racial isolationism. I urge
we face this fact of life and with sym
pathetic understanding seek to dissolv
a phenomenon that has been with u
since Adam. The approach should b
limited to avoid arousing fears. Ni
court of human rights, no court fo
Commonwealth disputes, not even ;
court for the whole Commonwealth -
a court for those of us willing to cc
operate, with limited jurisdiction, shouli
be created for a start and with the growtl
of inter-racial respect we could develop
Mr Justice Eggleston of Australia saic
“Fish and birds have homing instinct
and so have Australians.” One gathere
he was against abolishing appeals t
the Privy Council and referred to mult
storied appeals as ridiculous.
Finally, Mr J. D. Holmes, QC, c
Australia, dealt with the technicalitie
of amendment of the Australian Coi
stitution and the improbability of su(
ceeding in a referendum. “I do nc
really think, even if we can convinc
the politicians of the merits of the prt
posal, that we have any hope of col
vincing the populace.”
Will the meeting this week i
Canberra of Commonwealth Minister
and Law Officers produce anything coi
structive?


ACTU
Changing the Guard
Item 203
By JOHN BROCKETT
The decisions of the ACTU Interstate Executive meeting in Melbourne this
week could prove more significant than the coming ACTU Congress itself: what
the Executive decides will set the direction of the voting of the 520 Congress delegates.
The ACTU Congress at Paddington
Town Hall from September 13 to 17
has unprecedented problems. It has to
confront the implications of the national
margins case reversal; the apparent per-
manency of penal clauses and the threat
of stern legislative action by the Com-
monwealth to curb the increasing law-
lessness of the Waterside Workers’
Federation. The Commonwealth and
State Governments, the employers, as
well as the trade union movement itself,
stand to be deeply affected by the Con-
gress decisions.
At the Melbourne meeting the 16-
man Executive will make recommenda-
tions on 285 resolutions to be submitted
to the biennial Congress. On the 1963
Congress figures, supporters of the
Executive will have a floor majority of
about 80-90 votes from the 520 delegates.
If the key resolutions are defeated in
the Executive the chances of Congress
endorsement are remote.
All sides, that is the individualists,
moderates, militants and Communists,
have maintained silence on the Executive
outcome. But Item 203 a mere eight
lines—is recognised by all sections as
vital. It could mean a dramatic change
in the power and political structure of
the Executive.
At present the Executive comprises
four officers, eight group or industry
representatives, plus one from each of
the six State Labor councils. In the past,
group representatives have been elected
from union delegates within an industry
—at the 1963 Congress the 83 delegates
of the metal industries decided the
group representative on the Executive.
However, Item 203, put forward by
the Federated Clerks’ Union, proposes:
“That the ACTU rules be amended to
provide that members of the Executive
elected to represent the various industry
groups shall be elected by a vote of the
whole Congress, provided that only a
delegate from a union within the group
concerned may stand for election to the
Executive representing that group.”
In the event of this resolution being
passed, two of the three Communist
members (Messrs T. Wright, Metal
group, and G. Dawson, Building group)
with Mr M. O’Brien (Transport), an
ALP member whose militancy some-
times is an embarrassment to all sides,
would probably be removed from the
Executive. Only one Communist, Mr
A. McDonald (Queensland Trades and
Labor Council), would be likely to retain
his post, but in such an isolated position
he would present no real threat.
In the short term, acceptance of the
resolution would mean an unequivocal
re-affirmation of trade union adherence
to arbitration without any need to
compromise with a significant dissenting
group. In the long term it would be the
means to a firm but moderate policy for
internal discipline with sanctions for
defaulters an unattractive possibility
for the WWF which at present is urgently
seeking ACTU support in its clash with
the Commonwealth. .
The group system, according to an
influential section of the Executive, has
never functioned as intended because
some delegates do not reflect the policies
of member unions. It would be difficult,
for example, to find Comrade Wright
(secretary of the small Sheet Metal
Workers’ Union) proposing policies of
the Federated Ironworkers’ Union, one
of the major unions in the metal group.
However, while one section is working
within the Executive to change the exist-
ing system, the Communist Party
delegates have made clear their inten-
tions to strengthen it.
In the March issue of the “Communist
Review”, Wright, in an article headed
“Prepare for the Trade Union Congress”,
gave the party view when he stated:
“The group meetings would be more
effective if they had a definite field of
jurisdiction with power to make decisions
for the industry concerned, and with
a measure also of Executive power sub-
ject to general control by the ACTU
Executive.”
Communist Party spokesmen have
shown in recent statements that if they
cannot control or heavily influence the
ACTU they intend to dismantle it. Both
Mr Dawson and Mr Wright recently
have openly attacked the Executive
leadership in intemperate terms. In a
scarcely veiled reference to ACTU
advocate Mr R. Hawke, Dawson said:
“Some trade union leaders think it is
their scholarly approach and friendship
with the judges that gets results.” Citing
the £2 2s. margins increase gained by
Queensland building workers after 1200
stoppages, Dawson said that trade unfo«
leaders should get down among the
workers.
Dawson could well be having his final
fling for there is talk that Pat Clancy
(NSW secretary of the BWIU) will seek
his position as Building representative.
Clancy, a shrewd and able leader,
recently was appointed to the Political
Committee of the Communist Party, a
key job, and in his new role exercises
both organising ability and party
authority.
Although Mr Bill Evans, junior vice-
president of the ACTU, has retired from
his union post as secretary of the
FEDFA, it is understood he will seek
re-election. He was unopposed in 1963,
but there is talk that C. H. Fitzgibbon,
Federal secretary of the WWF, will be
an opponent. It is unlikely, however,
that Fitzgibbon will have much support
from the ACTU officers and Evans is
expected to be returned.
Within both the Executive and the
conference ACTU president Albert
Monk will play a key role. After the
last Executive meeting it was felt that
Monk had engaged in brinkmanship by
calling for a test vote on a national
strike, knowing the numbers were dead-
locked eight-all.
It is understood that ACTU officers
will stand by arbitration, although
demanding a return to the prices and
productivity gauge dropped earlier this
year. What is expected, however, is
deepening support for across-the-board
increases pending the next basic wage
application.
USTASHI
The Broken
Front
At gunpoint?
The dissolution of the Melbourne
Croatian community’s Cardinal Stepinac
Society is the latest move in the running
battle between the Croatian fascists
(Ustashi) and their opponents.
The Cardinal Stepinac Society was set
up some years ago by a group of Croat
fascists who wanted a religious front or-
ganisation through which they could in-
fluence the Australian Croat community
and recruit more members. The society
brought out Father Josip Kasic to be
pastor to the Croat community and to be
the Society’s chaplain. A number of
Croats complained to Father Kasic when
he arrived that he had been brought out
by people who intended to use him for
political ends, but for some time Father
Kasic was suspicious of these anti-fascists


WHY BUILD?
Are You Contemplating . . .
A MOVE?
REBUILDING?
EXPANSION?
We are now in a position to offer prestige office space in
Telegraph House, a superb new building on the corner
of Park and Elizabeth Streets, Sydney. The premises have
all modern facilities, of course, including full air condition-
ing. We can even give you a harbor view.
A total area of 35,000 sq. ft. is available on four complete
floors.
The rent is most reasonable.
We can arrange a long lease if you should want it.
RICHARD STANTON & SONS PTY. LTD.
131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 28-1256
in the Croat community, probably be-
cause he suspected some of them of Com-
munist sympathies.
One of the biggest difficulties the
opponents of the Ustashi face is that
fascism is closely identified with national-
ism in the minds of many Croats, because
the only time in recent history when
Croatia has had at least the appearance
of being independent was during the war
when Hitler set up a fascist regime there.
The Ustashi use this fact as a strong
propaganda weapon.
Father Kasic’s strong nationalism, and
fierce anti-Communism, caused him to
disregard the infiltration of the Cardinal
Stepinac Society at first, but as the de-
mands of the Ustashi have become
stronger and their methods more violent
the priest has grown wary of them.
The open break occurred on July 30
when Father Kasic, as chaplain, announ-
ced that he was dissolving the Society be-
cause “some people were using it for
political, not religious, purposes”. This
announcement met with fierce hostility
and threats were made against Father
Kasic’s life. It is widely believed in the
Croatian community that a member of
the Ustashi pointed a gun at Father Kasic
when demanding his support.
It is also commonly believed that Arch-
bishop Simonds is concerned about the
activities of the Ustashi and that it was
partly his influence which led to the
banning of the Cardinal Stepinac Society.
The banning of the Society is a strong
blow against the Croatian fascists because
their two major organisations, the
Croatian National Council and the
Croatian Movement, are well known ;o
be Ustashi fronts. The Cardinal Stepinac
Society provided excellent cover for their
activities and recruiting.
EDUCATION
Out of Class
A duty to share and influence
Grim facts of the Catholic school
system were revealed at a conference
organised in Melbourne last week by the
recently formed lay academic sub-com-
mittee of the Diocesan Education
Advisory Council.
The percentage of Catholics in the
community is rising (from 20 to 26 in
Victoria between 1947 and 1961). The
capacity to pay never sufficient
for the schools needed is apparently not
rising equally. The teacher shortage is
deepening, partly because religious
vocations are not keeping pace with
other increases, partly because lay
teachers, who now comprise nearly half
the teaching force, are offered poor pay
and conditions. The present teacher
shortage was estimated at about l,O0(
and it was predicted that this woulc
rise to 1,700 by 1970.
These figures were based on a primary
school teacher-pupil ratio of 1:40 ant
a secondary ratio of 1:25. In the State
system a primary ratio of 1:24 produce;
an average class size of 43, and a second
ary ratio of 1:19 an average class ol
44.
The Catholic system is still expand
ing, though obviously not fast enough
A new teachers’ college will be opened
Regional secondary schools are being
planned. The Advisory Council is trying
to put some order into the very com-
plex and inefficient financial ant
administrative pattern which outsider;
mistakenly call a “system”. Class size;
are being limited by edict (to an almos;
unmanageable maximum of 50). But th<
schools are still not coping. Against thf
120,000 in Catholic schools, abou
30,000 Catholics are in State schools.
Should the system be dismantled
Countless eyebrows rose in gothic arche;
when Father B. Crittenden of the Sydne;
University Faculty of Education actuall;
pleaded the case very strongly in a
paper on the “Philosophy of Catholic
Education”. Father Crittenden’s reason;
were less practical than doctrinaire. Hf
believed, as did his companion speaker
Mr Peter Gill of the Melbourne Facult;
of Education, that circumstances nc
longer justify a separate, comprehensive
Catholic system. On the contrary, he
suggested Catholics had a duty to share
in and perhaps influence the common
system.
Mr Gill referred to American and
English sociological studies which sug-
gest that there is not much difference
in matters like regular attendance at
Mass between adults with State or
Catholic school backgrounds. Father
Crittenden argues that a child’s schooling
is only part of his education, and that
a very large part of his schooling, the
standard academic subjects, is taken as
an end in itself. Quite a few at the
Conference clearly agreed with this latter
argument, even though they expressed
it as a criticism that Catholic schools
had failed to provide anything distinctive
educationally apart from religious
instruction periods.
VIETNAM
Six to Four
The deep New Zealand cleavage
Current belief in Wellington is that
the Government is most hesitant to
follow Australia’s example and add to
the New Zealand commitment in Viet
nam.
In the past New Zealand has tended
to keep its defence involvements pro-
portionate to Australia’s on a population


basis. Though there has been no call
on New Zealand to supply more troops,
something of the kind is expected shortly
and there is no doubt the United
States would welcome more than the
present 150-man artillery battery.
New Zealand’s present hesitancy is
said to reflect initial doubts within the
Government about direct commitment to
the war in Vietnam. In both the Ministry
of Defence and the Cabinet there was
opposition to the sending of the artillery
battery. There have also been differences
reported between the Secretary of
Defence, Mr J. K. Hunn, and external
affairs policy advisers.
According to the “Auckland Star” it
is now known that the Americans used
“very direct language” in telling New
Zealand that if it did not fly its flag in
Vietnam alongside the Americans, it
could expect little aid in the future. The
paper’s Wellington correspondent says
that a debating point for the advocates
of integration of the defence forces of
Australia and New Zealand is the situa-
tion that might have arisen if the Aus-
tralian Government had decided on com-
mitment to Vietnam, and New Zealand
had rejected it, as seemed possible at
one stage.
Government equivocation also seemed
reflected in the uneasy performance of
Minister of Labor Tom Shand when he
defended Cabinet policy at Wellington’s
massive 15-hour “teach-in” recently.
Opposing him was former Labor Prime
Minister Sir Walter Nash, elder states-
man of New Zealand politics, and a
number of historians and other
academics.
But some Labor equivation has
also been evident, along with some
curious reversal of roles; and the Party’s
traditional Right-wingers have tended to
be more articulate on the issue than the
Left. Not always, however, to any effect:
the performance on a nationally-televised
debate of the deputy leader of the
Opposition, Hugh Watt, appeared to dis-
may even his sympathisers especially
when he revealed a total lack of know-
ledge about the history of South-east
Asia since World War 11. But he may
have had the consolation that his
National Party opponent was almost as
poorly informed.
Outside Auckland, where the Com-
munist Party has a remnant strength and
influence, opposition to Government
policy has been remarkably free of Com-
munist taint or direction (the Peking-
controlled NZCP has perhaps been too
busy expelling itself out of existence
with the entire Dunedin CP vanishing
overnight). In Auckland there is a clear
difference of direction between the
fiercely anti-American “Peace in Vietnam
Committee” and a liberal academic-
backed “Committee on SE Asia”. The
latter, headed by Professor of Philosophy
R. L. Bradley, plans a “teach-in” on the
Wellington scale during September.
In Christchurch students have voted
about 600 to 400 in favour of Govern-
ment policy, and some observers feel
this may be a fairly accurate reflection
of the division in the population as a
whole. If true and Christchurch
students have usually been conservative
it indicates as deep a cleavage on a
major issue as the country has ever
known.
MAURICE SHADBOLT
TRANSPORT
Taxi Leap-frog
The permanent unemployed?
When the outcome of an appeal to the Priyy Council against moves to bring
NSW taxi drivers within the Transport Workers’ Union is finally known, possibly
next week, it will end one of the more fascinating examples of legal leap-frog in
Australian industrial law.
Whatever the outcome the taxi drivers
will inevitably get a better deal. If the
Australian Taxi Council lose the Privy
Council appeal, the TWU will almost
immediately lodge a weighty log of claims
with the Conciliation Commission. Irre-
spective of the Privy Council's decision
the Australian Taxi Council and the
Metropolitan Taxi Council will estab-
lish conditions covering the industry
which will give drivers the benefits of
holiday and sick pay.
Meanwhile fare increases could be
announced this week 3d. extra a mile
and 3s. more on waiting time.
Defending the proposed increases, the
president of the Metropolitan Taxi Coun-
cil, Mr N. S. Lake, told The Bulletin
that consideration must be given to the
400 per cent increase in workers’ com-
pensation insurance, 3d. a gallon for
petrol, and a proposed 20 per cent in-
crease in comprehensive taxi cab insur-
ance. He said the fares were last in-
creased in 1956. Even with the increases
taxi fares in NSW will still be the cheap-
est in Australia.
The State Liberal Government’s elec-
tion pledge to establish a taxi advisory
council is being held up by the Privy
Council’s decision because it will deter-
mine whether drivers’ organisations or
the TWU will nominate the drivers’ rep-
resentative on the council.
The preoccupation with the legal
status of taxi drivers began 35 years ago
when drivers suddenly found themselves
no longer employees. This emerged from
the case before the Industrial Commis-
sion of Yellow Cabs of Australia Ltd v.
Colgan. Yellow Cabs at that time intro-
duced a system of leasing taxis to drivers,
who in turn paid the company 50 per cent
of their gross takings. The Commission
found that under this system, the drivers
were not employees but “independent
contractors”.
Taxi drivers remained legally unem-
ployed until 1943, when the Full Bench
of the NSW Industrial Tribunal decided
they were employees after all, but only
for the purpose of an award. Then came
an amendment to the Industrial Arbitra-
tion Act in 1957, giving the Commission
power to declare void a contract between
a driver and an owner.
Two years later any “unregistered
person” (a driver of a taxi not registered
in his name) was found to be an em-
ployee for the purposes of both the
Industrial Arbitration Act and the Annual
Holidays Act. Such an employee was
“notional". Then came the case of
Stewart v. Feldman before an Industrial
Magistrate in Sydney in August, 1961.
Stewart, under the Annual Holidays
Act, claimed pro rata holiday pay. In
December that year the Industrial Com-
mission found against Stewart because
there was no award, and no contract be-
tween him and Feldman. The only con-
tract was one of bailment which was
the agreement that the driver pay Bs.
in the £1 of gross takings as payment
for possession of the cab.
Next move came from the TWU. It
applied to have a Conciliation Committee
established to cover notional employees.
Negotiations between the Australian
Taxi Council, representing the owners,
and the TWU to reach an award by
agreement broke down. Mr I. J.
Mahoney, the then NSW Minister
for Labor, duly established the Com-
mittee, and in September, 1962, the TWU
applied for an award for drivers. This
was on the basis of 9s. in the £l, 45 per
cent of the takings, with a guarantee of
£5 a day, and £6 for a night shift, all on
the basis of a 40-hour week.
The taxi employers, however, claimed
the TWU constitution failed to cover taxi
drivers. An application was then made to
the Industrial Registrar for an alteration
of rules. Both the Australian Taxi Coun-
cil, and the Metropolitan Taxi Council
objected and issued a writ of prohibition
in the Supreme Court. Before the writ
could be heard, the Act was amended
(October 1964) to clarify the position.
The TWU could include all taxi drivers.
In November the Supreme Court dis-
missed the owners’ application and up-
held the amendment of the Act. This was
followed by the Privy Council appeal.
GORDON CHESTERMAN


t- ■
V.:/
1
I
■
'*» ..
a
Above: Daydream Party Keg, Lemar Industries Pty. Ltd., N.S.W,
Below: Pedigree TV Set, Pye Industries Ltd., N.S.W.
*
r
jM
■ ...
I"""’" —- ""'V* -
s
V'v
Above: Black Box Stereogram, Pye Industries Ltd., N.S.W.
Below: Berry’s Coldstream Refrigerated Display Unit, W.A.
w# mm


m
i
:
Above: Wonder Heat Heater , Wonder Heat Interstate Pty. Ltd.,
mmm
amp
5=i
mm.
m
mi Pf|f§§
jglnrjiir|L__
- !ss
■m'-r :■* rtf
iU'Aa"
: ' -
Pf
iP*SitSS3>'l
S)f|w
»•; sSg^
...
mm>L mm**
m
i-'s
wm"~
Mp
m
m
K
Above: Central Station Control Board, Metropolitan Signals Pty. Ltd., N.S.W
Below: Plan Cabinet, Metalux Industries , W.A.
o
11
o
Seven more uses
of Marviplate
to add to the
thousand others
Lysaght Marviplate combines the massive
strength of steel with the warm beauty of a
vinyl fabric surface.
Marviplate consists of a decorative vinyl film
bonded permanently to a steel sheet. It
can be sheared, punched and formed just like
ordinary sheet steel. It requires no painting
for finishing, yet it adds new beauty to
luggage, television and radio cabinets, furniture,
in fact anything that needs the strength
of steel and the permanent beauty of vinyl.
Marviplate is permanent, washable, won’t
scratch, won’t scuff, keeps its glamorous good
looks year after year.
It’s available in a wide range of colours and
textures from delicate pastels and warm
feature colours to textile finishes and simulated
woodgrains.
Make it with strength . . . make it with looks
. . . make it with Marviplate!
Write or ’phone for literature, technical advice.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Sydney,
Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart.
LYSAGHT
MAR Vi PLATE
MP6oc|


A MAN ON THE MOON
Along the rood to Honeysuckle Creek
By SAM LIPSKI
It is as if some tourist authority, tongue
in cheek, had planned it all. Out from
Canberra, along Jarrabombarra Road
down the Monaro Highway over the
Murrumbidgee River and past Tharwa
lies Honeysuckle Creek at present
hardly more than a name on the map.
But one day sooner than many Aus-
tralians have realised in 1969 if you
take the official date, 1968 if you accept
the optimistic estimates Honeysuckle
Creek will take its place in world his-
tory, indeed in the first chapter of space
history.
Together with Goldstone, California
and Madrid, Spain, Honeysuckle Creek,
ACT, will be one of the three prime
tracking stations supporting the lunar
phases of man’s great leap into space
•—the mission to the moon. Three astro-
nauts in a capsule consisting of the Apol-
lo Spacecraft, 11.7 feet high and 12.8
feet wide at the base, and the cigar-
shaped 20 - foot - long service module
which will carry water, oxygen, fuel and
electricity for the return journey will
blast off from Cape Kennedy, lifted by
the 36-storey-high Saturn 5 rocket en-
gines delivering 1.5 million pounds of
thrust.
The six million-pound moon vessel will
set sail for what the late President Ken-
nedy described as the “new ocean of
space” at a speed of more than a mile
per second. Shedding stages one and two
of the rocket by the time it has reached
a height of 100 miles the ship will then
be lifted into earth orbit by Stage 3.
For critical periods as long as eight
hours at a time during the planned eight-
day round trip to the moon and back,
the Australian station at Honeysuckle
Creek will be the only means of contact
With the astronauts. It will be part of
the world-wide unified S-Band Apollo
Tracking Network which includes a
series of land stations on every continent
and ships on every ocean equipped with
30ft diameter antennae for the near
phases of the moon shot. But when the
spacecraft moves out of earth orbit some
115 miles up, re-starts, speeds up from
17,500 miles an hour to 24,300 miles
an hour and heads for the moon, the
three prime stations, each equipped with
a “big dish” (an 85ft diameter para-
boloidal reflector antenna) and located
120 degrees apart, will take over con-
tinuous coverage. Some 80 miles from
the moon’s surface the spacecraft will
go into lunar orbit. Then two of ti
three astronauts will crawl through
tunnel into the weird-looking, four-legge
Lunar Excursion Module, or LEM, 1
feet wide and 16 feet tall, weighing aboi
12 tons. After an “excursion” down t
the moon’s surface for 24 hours the
will lift off to rendezvous with the orbi
ing spacecraft, crawl back through tl
tunnel leaving the LEM in lunar orbi
and begin the long journey back I
earth and the hazardous job of re-entj
and splash-down. All this time the earf
men at Honeysuckle Creek, as at tl
other tracking stations, will be listenin
measuring, talking, and sweating as the"
did last week at Carnarvon, West!
Australia, while Gemini s’s tense drafi
played itself out.
The tourist authorities, of course, dr
not choose Honeysuckle Creek. The sii
was chosen last year after a survey t
several areas in and near the ACT 1
a team from the US National Aet
nautics and Space Administratis
(NASA) and Australia’s Department i
Supply, which acts as the managii
agency for the Americans. Situated |
rough terrain the site is in a valli
shielded on all sides by gently slopii
mountains ensuring protection frohi ot
side electrical and radio interference -
essential for reliable radio communic
tions over distances as far as a quarts
of a million miles. At that range a mote
car’s engine left running or a housewil
switching on the vacuum cleaner in tl
vicinity could upset communications.
Honeysuckle Creek, where constru
tion is about to start on facilities plai
ned to be operational in 1966, will i
time probably become the glamor nan
in the space research network in An
tralia. But it is the third of the pit
grammed network of NASA trackif
stations in the ACT alone. The first,
Deep Space Instrumentation Facility ft
tracking space probes (DSIF42), at Tit
binbilla, took part in the Mariner 4 e:
ploration and photography of Mars la
June. The second is the recently con
pleted Data Acquisition Facility for earl
scientific satellites at Orroral Valle
Both, like Honeysuckle Creek, boast tl
“big dish”.
Outside the ACT the Department t
Supply maintains space projects ft
NASA at Woomera in South Australi
at Carnarvon in Western Australia,
Darwin in the Northern Territory, at
soon in Queensland. And outside tl
United States, Australia has more spa


research hardware than any other
country in the Western world. So
integral a part of the world-wide net-
work have Australian stations become
that Gemini 5, for instance, would not
have been launched if, for some reason,
the Carnarvon station had not been in
“go” condition. Nor will the three first
men to try to reach the moon leave Cape
Kennedy if Honeysuckle Creek is not
ready.
A combination of factors, but mainly
the luck of geography, has given Aus-
tralia the chance ta achieve “big power”
status in space research. A stable and
friendly government, experience in some
aspects of rocket research at Woomera,
and a reasonably high level of basic edu-
cational facilities enabling specialised
training for operating personnel, all help-
ed to persuade the Americans to invest
on a large scale—about £3O million by
the time the moon men are ready to
go: but the sheer natural advantage of
where Australia is placed for com-
municating with outer space made it an
almost mandatory choice.
The astronaut people
Australia is helping NASA to put a
man on the moon in three different
but inter-connected projects manned
space flights; scientific and application
satellites; and deep space probes. The
deep space probes include the hard land-
ing on the moon by the Ranger satellite
and the TV pictures of the moon’s sur-
face; the Mariner probes to Mars and
Venus; and the planned soft landing of
an instrumented package to sample and
analyse the Moon’s surface the Sur-
veyor project scheduled for later this
year in which Tidbinbilla will play a
prime role.
The scientific and application satel-
lites programme includes both the smaller
single experiment satellites like Explorer
and the larger satellites carrying out mul-
tiple experiments such as the Orbiting
Geophysical observatories. The applica-
tion satellites include those for com-
munications like the Echo and Syncom
satellites, and the meteorology ones like
Tiros and Nimbus. Some of these, like
the Surveyor project, are directly related
to the Apollo programme, but, others, like
the meteorology satellites, have only an
indirect bearing on the manned space
flights, the most spectacular and the
most breathtaking of the NASA projects.
Australia supported the first stage of
the NASA manned flight programme,
Project Mercury in which names like
John Glenn and Scott Carpenter (remem-
ber?) became known. Tracking stations at
Muchea and Woomera were in voice
communication during those first sub-
orbital and orbital flights. Since then the
station at Muchea has been disbanded
and Carnarvon has taken over the job
of tracking for Project Gemini.
The shape of things to come at Honey-
suckle Creek could be discerned last
week at Carnarvon, a sleepy coastal
town of 2500 people 600 miles north of
Perth, where the coming of the space
age has been greeted by at least one act
of public recognition calling a cafe
in the main street Gemini Coffee
Lounge. The town has, however, felt the
coming of “the astronaut people out at
the station”. It has meant a new lease
of life for the area which suffered a set-
back with the gradual decline of the
local whaling industry.
The road to the station, four miles out,
is lined on both sides by the early blos-
soming wildflower, pink Everlastings,
and leads out to a scattered series of
radar dishes and other antennae which
pop up suddenly, polyp-like, from the
slight rise on which the station is sited.
For Department of Supply men, like
station director Lewis Wainwright and
administrative officer Colin McNish,
the job at Carnarvon has no limits in
time. They, like all the station’s person-
nel, work with a contagious enthusiasm
at odd hours during flights and for long
stretches. Many of the men, as at other
space stations, are recruited by and work
for the private contractors who man the
equipment. This special arrangement be-
tween a government department and
private contractor has brought benefits
to both, with private firms getting ac-
cess to equipment which would other-
wise be beyond their ken or pocket.
When I arrived at Carnarvon at mid-
morning, the first direct contact with
the astronauts was not to be made until
early' evening and the station was large-
ly deserted as the staff slept off the strain
of their previous day’s 14-hour stint.
After lunch breakfast for most of the
station’s 100 staff the routine checks
of equipment began. The control centre
at Houston, Texas, came on the voice
communication system to check a fault
in the reception of computer data. The
operations supervisor at Carnarvon ad-
vised that he was ready for his CADFIST
—Computer and Data Flow Integrated
Subsystem Test. By this time some
three hours before astronauts Gordon
Cooper and Pete Conrad were due to
come over the NASA team which
had flown out for the Gemini 5 shot
was on duty in the main control room.
About the size of a large lounge room,
the main control room houses the two
central consoles which face inwards to-
wards one another and the centre of
the room. In front of one console sit
three Americans the Capcom or Cap-
sule Communicator flanked by two sys-
tems monitors. All three men are elect-
ronic engineers by training, while the
Capcom, blond, crewcut, boyish Charles
Lewis, has been trained in that new kind
of management skill space operations.
On previous Gemini missions the Cap-
com at has been a fellow
astronaut. But Lewis explains that a
tightening up of NASA funds has pre-
vented an astronaut coming this time.
On the console in front of him as he
sits in a high-backed black office chair
he can see two lumps of sugar, a packet
of chocolate, some biscuits, a stop watch,
a box of Kleenex tissues, pieces of tele-
type paper stuck up with reminders, and
an array of gauges and dials, electric
clocks and flickering lights in three or
four different colors. With his two sys-
tems monitors he watches the environ-
mental details of the capsule as they are
fed through from the telemetry room
down the passage.
Telemetry measuring at a distance
picks up its information from space
by radio in complicated transmissions
which cover a non-stop flow of details
such as the pressure and temperature of
the spacecraft cabin, the fuel being used,
the amount of oxygen available for the
astronauts to breathe.
Something to do
TSTirn their backs to the three Ameri-
cans who check the environmental
information sit the two medical monitors,
one an American and the other RAAF
medical officer, Wing Commander W.
Walsh. On their console they check the
astronauts’ temperature, their cardio-
grams, respiration rate, blood pressure,
and other physiological information. At
certain times the doctors check the
astronauts’ capacity to do physical work
during long orbital flights and under
weightless conditions by measuring their
blood pressure and breathing rate as
Cooper and Conrad pull on a “bungee
cord” with a force of 60 pounds , once
a second for a predetermined number of
seconds.
In the middle of the control room, be-
tween the two consoles, stands a pink
laundry basket where the thousands of
teleprinter messages are tossed after
checking. At one end sits the operations
supervisor checking on the technical
systems of the space vehicle itself. Dur-
ing the eight or nine minutes when Car-
narvon is in direct contact with the
astronauts the control room is out of
bounds. During last week’s flight the
whole station was out of bounds to Press
or VIPs at the time of direct contact.
Newsmen were allowed to observe the
direct contact made with Gemini 4, but
this time the voyage was longer, the
problems more complex, and the doubt
much greater. The vast number of tasks
set for the astronauts, coming after the
initial difficulties with the failure of the


BOAC
MAKES IHE
WHOLE WORLD
SMALLER
■
m
~n
MORE FLiGHTS
TO MORE PLACES
m
BY THE FINEST JETS
Get there fast or holiday your way . . .
BOAC’s superb Rolls-Royce jet services
make travel a pleasure wherever you go.
For full details of BOAC’s eleven inter-
national jet flights weekly from Australia,
and the facilities of the BOAC world net-
work, talk to your Travel Agent, BOAC or
Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BOAC
British Overseas Airways Corporation with Airlndia,
Qantas and Air New Zealand
10452
tc.ioi
JET THE DAYTIME WAY TO EUROPE
TAKER
SINGAPORE
AND THE SUPERB NEW VC 10
Experienced travellers are welcoming this
new daytime way to Europe. Jot BOAC 707
by day to Singapore; fly on refreshed next
morning by day to Europe and the UK by
the superb BOAC VC 10. (Ask for a VC 10
flight between London and New York or
San Francisco, too.)
ROUS-MVCIJEIS
British Overseas Airways Corporation with
Air-lndia, Qantas and Air New Zealand
10454
sc.i
fuel cells, the disappointment at aban-
doning the important space rendezvous
with the radar-equipped POD, and the
largely unknown effects of the prolonged
weightlessness led NASA to exclude
newsmen during direct contact at any of
their space stations throughout the world.
Because of the strain and general short-
temperedness of the astronauts, especially
Cooper, some of the tapes of the ex-
changes between Carnarvon and the cap-
sule were not initially released. Some in-
dications that there would be difficulties
came early in the flight when Carnarvon
relayed a message from the Houston sur-
geon who was concerned about the
astronauts’ lack of sleep in the early
stages of the flight. Answered Cooper:
“We've been catnapping 40 minutes on
and 40 minutes off . . .” “Be advised that
Houston surgeon suggests you get more
sleep so as not to get behind on the
fatigue curve . . .” “We're trying to,
but you guys keep giving us something
to do . .
Qne of the things they intended to do
over Western Australia was a test of
visual ability in the detection and recog-
nition of objects on the Earth's surface.
Looking down at Woodleigh Station,
some 100 miles south-east of Carnarvon,
the astronauts should have viewed special
ground patterns laid out in large plots.
The experiment was similar to one
scheduled while they were over Laredo,
Texas, where the markings were made
from white gypsum. But at Woodleigh
16 test areas had been laid out with
white shells shovelled up from the beach
at Shark Bay on the WA coast. This one
expeiiment involved clearing roads,
establishing water supply and spreading
the shells over a giant eye-chart, in
some cases as long as 500 feet.' On the
seventh day the astronauts passed over
Woodleigh but could not sight the sea-
shells. Australia was also one of the
priority photographic objectives of the
astronauts who should have tilted the
nose of their spacecraft straight down as
they snapped away with a specially modi-
fied 70mm camera taking a photograph
every six seconds of a 100 mile wide
area. But a crippled spacecraft tumbling
end-over-end is not an ideal photographic
studio and despite good visibility no'
photos were taken as planned.
About an hour before the Carnarvon
control room prepared to talk once more
to the astronauts last week the tracking
station in the Canary Islands came on the
air to check with Houston, which gave
the familiar “All systems go”. A tech-
nician at Carnarvon said: “That’s the
most oft-repeated phrase, you know.”
When Honeysuckle Creek is ready to use
that phrase, Australia, already well into
the space age, will have joined the voy-


agers on the longest and most remark-
able journey on the new ocean.
For Australian science, and our inter-
national prestige, it will be the cheapest
journey ever. It will cost us almost
nothing. The Americans will be paying
for everything as they have been since
1960 when an inter-governmental agree-
ment established NASA and the Depart-
ment of Supply as co-operating agencies.
Capital expenditure by the United States
so far has totalled £23 million and
NASA pays the full operational costs
which this year are about £4 million.
Australia generally provides the land
and the Department of Supply is re-
sponsible for the maintenance and
efficiency of the stations. Our financial
contribution, however, has been a
nominal £70,000 annually.
fFHE benefits are considerable. Scien-
tifically our scientists, technicians and
administrators get to deal with American
agencies, universities and manufacturing
organisations in the use of advanced
electronic equipment and techniques. We
also benefit from the weather satellites
and other space surveys. Economically
the space programme has led to develop-
ment of new roads, new communications
links and opportunities for Australian
commercial industry to train staff in
advanced areas of modern science. It
need hardly be added that from a
defence point of view setting up of
American tracking networks in Aus-
tralia strengthens US ties.
While it would be unrealistic to expect
us to try to match the United States’
contribution in return for all these gains,
some local scientists outside the space
projects say there is no reason why we
cannot be a little more imaginative in
the way we do participate. For example,
the “contribution” of £70,000 does not
go to the Americans; it is now being
spent to finance Australian research pro-
jects. When the United States asked
us to share the cost of some communica-
tions installations in Western Australia
(£300,000), we reportedly offered to pay
a niggardly £20,000, even though the
lines which were being installed would
. bring revenue to the PMG and help
national development; and when some
of the land at Orroral Valley had to be
bought because it was not Crown land
we asked the Americans to pay.
At the politician-to-politician level
these difficulties do not often intrude
on the amiable exchange of compliments.
But at the working level where the
decisions will be made on whether the
US should undertake the maximum
desirable investment or the minimum
essential investment, local scientists feel
the one-way nature of the co-operation
may deprive us of an even greater share
in the space programme.
Sacking Snedden?
Procedures unworthy of a Banana Republic
From ALAN REID in CANBERRA
If a major function of the Attorney-General’s Department is to ensure that public
justice is dispensed with purity and dignity, then after what emerged unchallenged
—in the Senate last week, the Attorney-General’s Department requires either an
administrative shake-up or a new Ministerial head.
The present Ministerial head is 38-
year-old Billy Mackie Snedden, QC, who
as Attorney-General is deeply involved
in the IPEC issue. Snedden got the wont
beating a Minister has taken for a long
time on this issue in the Senate. On what
came out (and again I repeat that what
came out was basically not challenged
by the Government defenders) the course
of legal action followed against IPEC
would have been more appropriately
worked out in the law offices of a Ban-
ana Republic than a great Department of
Government with a tradition of unswerv-
ing devotion to the rule of law.
My judgment on this is reinforced by
virtually everything that happened last
week in the Senate. There were eight
Opposition speakers—Senators McKen-
na (Lab.), Cohen (Lab.), Kennelly (Lab.),
Turnbull (Ind.), Willesee (Lab.), Gair
(DLP), Murphy (Lab.), and Cant (Lab.).
There were four Government speakers—
Works Minister John Gorton (who rep-
resents the Attorney-General in the Sen-
ate), Civil Aviation Minister Denham
Henty and Senators Wood (Q.) and
Wright (Tas.). Of the four Government
speakers, Wood and Wright were criti-
cal.
Wood said Snedden was “deserving of
castigation” for the way he had gone
about depriving IPEC of what Wood con-
sidered to be its legal rights, in changing
a regulation vital to its case when IPEC
“almost had its hands on the door of the
Privy Council.” Wright, himself a law-
yer, went further. He in effect invited
Snedden to consider resigning as the
Minister responsible for a course of ac-
tion that was designed “to defeat the due
process of law and to undermine the
courts”.
The Ministers, Gorton and Henty, did
their best for both Snedden and the Gov-
ernment’s standing. Gorton hung his hat
on the fact that the new regulation which
shifted control over imports of aircraft
from the Director General of Civil Avia-
tion to the Minister for Civil Aviation
(and which was the regulation which
forced IPEC to withdraw its Privy Coun-
cil appeal) was a good regulation (which
it was). But Gorton wisely let it go at
that. Henty similarly defended the in-
trinsic merit of the new regulation, and


kept as far away as he could from the
issue of the AG’s conduct of the legal
aspects of the Commonwealth’s opposi-
tion to IPEC’s application to establish an
interstate air freight service.
The Senate gave two other indications
of how the A-G’s conduct of the case
was regarded by Government supporters
generally. Gorton, representing Snedden,
and Henty who had to come in as Civil
Aviation Minister were the only Minis-
terial speakers. Defence Minister Shane
Paltridge, Government Senate Leader,
was in the chamber all the time but
stayed silent although he knew through-
out the day that the Government was
liable to be beaten when the vote was
taken. Furthermore, not one rank-and-
filer spoke in the Government’s defence.
To underline the scant respect it had
for its own case the Government tried
to buy its way out of defeat. Although
payment of IPEC’s legal costs in the
Privy Council appeal (rendered abortive
by Governmental action) was obviously
an admission by the Government of
shortcomings in the way in which the
Government representatives had con-
ducted the case against IPEC, Henty
nevertheless indicated officially, on
behalf of the Government, that the Gov-
ernment would give sympathetic con-
sideration to paying IPEC’s costs if
Senator Turnbull would vote with them.
Turnbull, who had already indicated
that he would vote with the Government
if it agreed to pay IPEC’s legal costs
and restore the company to the position
where it was before Government, in his
Words, deprived the company of justice,
honored his undertaking.
When Liberal Clive Hannaford (SA),
who had sat silent throughout the day
(he was unwell and had been warned
because of his health against speaking),
was asked to join the Government voters,
he said firmly: “I will not be coerced.”
Despite his illness ministers had been
putting pressure on him all day to vote
with the Government, but he joined the
27 ALP senators and two DLP senators
—Gair (Q) and McManus (Vic.) —and
Wright to down the Government 31
votes to 29.
Briefly the events that led up to this
point were: IPEC, a transport company
with a South Australian base, had been
running an air-freight service between
Melbourne and Launceston. It found
that the two major airlines, TAA and
Ansett-ANA, had not been expanding
their air-freight services proportionately
with their passenger services. It applied
for a licence to operate an interstate
air-freight service and for permission to
import five planes. The Director-General
of Civil Aviation refused both applica-
tions. IPEC appealed to the High Court.
The High Court upheld IPEC’s right to
a licence but not to the import permit.
IPEC appealed to the Privy Council.
The Commonwealth agreed to expedite
the hearing. While entering into this
commitment it was actually taking steps
to alter the import regulation involved
in IPEC’s appeal to give the minister,
instead of the Director-General, control
over aircraft imports. It did not tell
The Coming of Spring -2
IPEC what it was doing. IPEC was
allowed to go on in the belief that there
would be a hearing. On the day IPEC’s
representatives were actually to appear
before the Privy Council in London,
they were informed of the change in
regulation. Only twelve copies of the
regulation were printed and the entire
twelve were flown to London. The effect
of the changed regulation was to make
it useless for IPEC to proceed before the
Privy Council.
Senator Gair (DLP), a former Queens-
land Premier, was heard with obvious
approval when he summed up the Senate
debate by saying: “As one who has had
a long experience in administration, I
could scarcely believe what I read (about
the IPEC case). I was unprepared to
accept all that I read until I had
an opportunity to confirm it. I was
absolutely amazed to think that any
Government would descend to such a
clumsy, indecent method of winning a
point against a private company and,
what is more serious, of short-circuiting
the process of law. If the Prime Minister,
Sir Robert Menzies, was not aware of
what was going on I have the utmost
sympathy with him.”
While they lost the most, Snedden
and the A-G’s Department were not the
only ones to lose skin in the Senate
debate. Civil Aviation did not come out
of it too well although the complaints
here were on a different level and less
fundamental. But on what Willesee
(Labor) said (again unchallenged), Civil
Aviation has given IPEC the kind of
runaround that no citizen (or company)
should be subjected to from a Govern-
ment department. Willesee recalled that
Civil Aviation went to great pains to
examine IPEC’s financial standing.
Willesee said: “When the Director-
General went to this trouble, that to me
would have been a suggestion that the
Government was making an investiga-
tion to see whether IPEC was the type
of company suitable to move into this
(air-freight) field. But that was a red
herring.”
Willesee also claimed (again unchal-
lenged) that the Director-General refused
to meet company representatives to dis-
cuss their application for a licence, that
the minister was not available on any
occasion when they wanted to see him,
and that their letters were all un-
answered.
Sir Robert Menzies could do worse
than read the Senate Hansard for August
25, 1965, and brood on the question
whether, after 16 years of office, some
of his ministers and some of the depart-
ments do not need a pretty forcible
jerking into line both on their approach
to administration and their actual
administration itself.


The Golden Boy
Victim of caution
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
rpHE temptation to write of Billy
•*- Mackie Snedden as the “Golden
Boy” of Federal politics is hard to resist.
Handsome enough for a lead role in a
western, tanned, well-built, and greying
at the temples, his rise to Commonwealth
Attorney-General at the tender political
age of 38 is one of the national success
stories of recent years. All the ingredi-
ents of the local-boy-makes-good kind
of story are there.
His father, who came over from Scot-
land in 1913, died when Billy was eight
and the youngest of six children. The
family had a tough battle for some years
and Billy sold papers on the streets after
school State school. He left school
at 15 to go into a solicitor’s office and,
as soon as he turned 18, joined the Air
Force. His friends remember him as
an aggressive young man, but although
he was always interested in politics, his
aggression was not directed against the
Australian economic set-up. His family’s
political loyalties were for the Labor
Party, but his own instincts were for a
careful, pragmatic kind of politics.
After the war he studied law at Perth
University under the Commonwealth
Reconstruction Training Scheme. His
major memories of the university are of
the political debates. He became Presi-
dent of the University Liberal Club and
also President of the West Australian
Young Liberals.
In 1951 he was admitted to the Bar
but decided shrewdly that he needed
overseas experience and joined the
Commonwealth Immigration Department
which sent him to Rome, Sicily and
London. He had no ambition to remain
in the Public Service but believed that
experience of it and overseas travel
would be of great assistance in a political
career.
Some of his old friends, who knew
him in the days of State schools, paper-
selling and no money, feel that Snedden
betrayed his class when he joined the
Liberal Party. He is saddened by this
and claims that these people do not
understand politics. “Politics,” he says,
“is not basically about class, ideology or
revolution. It is largely a matter of intelli-
gent and cautious administration.” He
has no ideological instincts at all. He
ts not interested, and never was, in vast
schemes for changing the world or man-
kind.
He joined the Liberal Party mostly
because he supported its rebellion against
the spread of post-war Government
regulations. He admits there is irony in
this, since he is now suffering attack,
political and personal, because of his
own use of Government regulations. His
attitude to restrictive trade practice
legislation is, he says, perfectly consis-
tent with his own belief in private enter-
prise and individual initiative. “I don’t
believe in allowing Governments to
exercise too much restraint and I don’t
believe that any group in the private
sector should be able to deprive others
of economic rights and liberties.”
The attacks made on him over his
attitude to restrictive trade practices
legislation, and more recently on his
handling of the IPEC case, have
tarnished the “golden boy” image. His
reputation and future have been pretty
seriously damaged by Parliamentary and
party room critics.
The restrictive trade practices legisla-
tion has provided Mr Snedden with
great opportunity for displaying legisla-
tive and tactical skill. Despite the
difficulties with some State ■ premiers,
Mr Snedden’s general handling of the
legislation has had only one obvious
weakness: he has been far too long
about it. He is a victim here of his own
caution, which will probably increase in
direct proportion to the political attacks
he suffers. The IPEC case, however,
could be disastrous because it has
provoked so much opposition from inside
the Government parties and has led to
a Government defeat in the Senate. It is
the kind of issue which could lead to
the Government offering a sacrificial
victim to atone for the public mistake.
Snedden would be that victim.
It would be no tragedy, but a great
pity, if the career of Billy Mackie
Snedden were ruined at this point. For
one thing, he obviously enjoys political
office and administration. He loves the
talk, the tests of will, and the whole
ritual of political administration. It was
the certain knowledge that this was
what he would most enjoy that gave him
the incentive to stand as the Liberal
candidate for Boulder back in 1948,
when he was 21.
Boulder had always returned a Labor
member and it was considered an insult
to this mining town when a non-Labor
candidate stood. As a young man Billy
Snedden, at six feet and thirteen stone,
was afraid of nothing and the jeers and
physical threats of his opponents gave
him no fear. By the time he was heavily
defeated in the election he had estab-
lished a solid reputation for both verbal
and physical aggression.
He next stood for the Federal seat
of Fremantle in 1949 and took this
expected defeat without any loss of
enthusiasm for a political career. After
he was defeated for the seat of Perth
in 1951 there was some danger that
he might be considered a political loser;
so he joined the Immigration Depart-
ment and went to Europe. He returned
to Australia in 1955 and settled in Mel-
bourne because he was anxious to work
at the Melbourne Bar. He felt that the
legal profession in Perth had not enough
opportunity for his own industrial
advocacy. He applied for Liberal
nomination for the Federal seat of
Bruce, and was a little surprised when
he won both nomination and elec-
tion. Although he had lived in Victoria
for less than 12 months, he was to
represent a Victorian electorate in
Federal parliament. To the suggestion
that he was pretty lucky to fall into
such a good seat so easily he replies:
“It’s not as surprising as all that. I
had the form back in Perth and I had
strong ambition to go with it. It’s hard
to beat that combination.”
The Prime Minister is said to have
taken a liking to Mr Snedden from
the beginning. Whilst he is no orator,
his ability to argue a case and his easy
confidence in public gradually won him
a group of Cabinet admirers. His work
in the Government members’ Industrial
Relations Committee, the Legal
Development Committee and the Foreign
Affairs Committee established him as an
intelligent, practical politician who was
on the way up.
Even so, his appointment to the posi-
tion of Commonwealth Attorney-General
surprised most people. It was said,
perhaps unkindly, that what was demon-
strated was not so much Mr Snedden’s
great abilities but the lack of quality in
the general run of Liberal Party
members. The restrictive trade practices
legislation has been something of a nettle
in the young Attorney-General’s hands
but if he has been rather too slow about
it to gain prolonged applause, he has
not lost anything much in party and
public favor.
The Coming of Spring -3


CteijiSp
Teijin Tetoron is to take a flyer in* ♦ ♦
to head for the sky in/to travel cool and serene in/to laugh at wrinkles in.
Teijin Tetoron/the original Miracle Fabric/now more versatile than ever.
Accept no substitutes.
Only Teijin Limited makes Teijin Tetoron. Ask your designer.
TEItFIRT Tetcyroii^
POLYESTER
TEIJIN LIMITED SYDNEY OFFICE : Swire House,.? Spring Street, Sydney


AROUND MELBOURNE
Something of Value
Caring for a white elephant
The entrance door of the dark-
re d, oval - shaped Grainger
Museum at Melbourne Univer-
sity, fronting Royal Parade, beside
the white-walled Conservatorium of
Music, is normally shut. The place
is rarely used and has been regarded
as a white elephant, almost since the
time it was opened in 1938 as a gift
to his native city from composer-
pianist Percy Grainger.
But at present, most mornings and
afternoons, it is open, and anyone
who wanders in will find a slightly-
built elderly woman, who, clearly, in
her time has been quite beautiful,
working away at a desk.
This is Ella Grainger, widow of
Percy, who has been in charge of
his memory and his musical collection
since he died in the USA in 1961 at
the age of 78. From her home in
White Plains, about 22 miles from
New York City, she has come to
Melbourne for two months to try to
arrange a permanent curator for the
museum, and to try to ensure that it
is carried on and even extended.
When she arrived early this month
she told interviewers that she hoped
to raise “a million” for the museum,
not specifying dollars or pounds, but
she has since explained that this was
not intended seriously. It was an idea
her secretary in America had put
into her head “as a slogan”. But
money she must get somehow, to
supplement the sum Percy left to
Melbourne University for mainten-
ance.
There is still a trace of her native
Sweden in her voice as she looks at
one with wide, clear blue eyes and
speaks matter-of-factly of her inevit-
able death and of her anxiety to tidy
matters up in Melbourne before the
end.
At one moment she, too, speaks of
the museum as “this white elephant”,
but later she adds how much she
enjoys the responsibility which fell
to her when her husband died. She
was left alone; they had no children.
She was Ella Strom, artist and
poet, when she met Grainger on a
ship between Australia and the USA.
Grainger, who had settled in America
in 1915, was already world-famous as
a madcap genius. They married in
1928.
The curly-haired musician, remem-
bered as a man of great vitality,
simplicity and honesty, set down in
his life well over 400 compositions,
including folk - songs collected in
many countries. People know him
best now for bright, clean tunes that
go with a good tum-tum-tiddl'y-tum,
like “Country Gardens”, “Molly on
the Shore” and “Shepherd’s Hey”.
The museum was intended to throw
light on the music of his times. As well
as Percy Grainger, the museum en-
shrines Vaughan Williams, Delius,
Grieg, William Walton, Cyril Scott
and others.
It must be one of the strangest col-
lections of its kind in the world.
There’s everything from a toy boat
Grainger used to sail on Albert Park
Lake as a boy to clothing, some made
from towelling, which he wore as a
man.
There are hundreds of pieces of
music, programmes, letters, pianos, a
harp, musical instruments from odd
corners of the globe, books, photo-
graphs and gramophone records.
Looking like some great mangle,
there’s a wind - machine Grainger
invented to create “free music”. He
was ahead of his time in accepting
“modern” music, from abstract to
jazz, and in his later years was
interested in mechanical invention.
Back in White Plains there’s
plenty more. Ella Grainger explains
that it costs hundreds of dollars each
to send some of the consignments
that are still despatched at intervals
to Melbourne.
Part-time curators have helped to
keep the collection in order, but until
a permanent one is appointed she will
not feel at ease.
“What would one need?” she
asked me, “five thousand pounds a
year?” I told her that she might even
find a suitable person for a little less.
She showed me to the door with
the grace of an old-world hostess, and
returned to copying out details of
the history of orchestras in Mel-
bourne.
HIGINBOTHAM


ASAHI
PENTAX
SPOTMATIC
Entirely New Concept
in Photographic Design
and Capability
The new Asahi Pentax Spotmatic has
a highly sensitive, completely integral
and invisible meter which reads your
exposure through the taking lens, from
your subject’s image in focus on the
viewing screen (in focus on the film
plane) ... the most ideal method of
exposure determination! Use any one
of the 23 Takumar lenses (from 18mm
to 1000 mm), plus accessories ... the
meter reads exactly what your lens
sees ... the lens sees what your film
records ... without parallax! No more
exposure adjustments ... it automati-
cally compensates for exposure factors
for correct exposures every time.
Price, with case, £lO5/0/0.
Other Asahi Pentax models available:
Asahi Pentax SV with fully-automatic f/1.8
Super-Takumar lens; speeds to 1/1000-sec.;
self-timer. With case, £75/0/0.
Asahi Pentax Sla with fully-automatic f/2 Super
Takumar lens; speeds to 1/500-sec. With
case, £62/10/0.
At tjour photo dealer now!
KD.2217
The Flavor of Life
Writing about the I risk-Australians
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr Thomas Keneally, of Sydney,
has written two novels, “The
Place at Whitton” and “The
Fear”. He has been told by one critic
that he may do for Sydney, in his
fashion, what James Joyce did for
Dublin; by another that “The Place at
Whitton”, partly set in a seminary,
showed he “doesn’t seem to know much
about priests” and “one suspects he has
never met one”. (Mr Keneally was in
a seminary to within months of taking
orders.) He has been classified in Max
Harris’s Handy Hierarchy as “some-
what below Patrick White but consider-
ably above Hal Porter”.
Oh, well, it’s a start.
Mr Keneally wrote “The Place at
Whitton” during the Christmas holidays
away from teaching. He intended it as
a pure thriller but feels now that the
book couldn’t make up its mind what to
be, although some of the message he
wrapped up in thriller form apparently
got across.
Mr Keneally then looked around the
book-shelves to see who might publish
the sort of book he had written and
decided on Cassell’s. He sent the book
to London and it was accepted. He
feels now he might not have been so
precipitate if he had realised that, be-
cause of the economic exigencies of book
publishing, very little large-scale editing
is likely.
Mr Keneally wrote “The Fear” in 4}
months within 12 months of his first
book. It is largely autobiographical.
The Communist father is taken directly
from life. So is his crippled child. The
volleying back and forth of Marxist and
Catholic doctrine is very much as Mr
Keneally remembers it from his child-
hood and the family-next-door. The
incident of the baptism of the Com-
munist boy is from life. Mr Keneally
said that the original of the Comrade
had died in a motor-bike accident. The
boy died from his disease. “In real life
the Comrade brought about his tragedy
bit by bit, not, as in the book, in one
dramatic incident,” Mr Keneally said.
Mr Keneally is now feeling his way
towards his third novel. He was rather
set on a portrayal of a political mystic,
perhaps a Pere Joseph or Joan of Arc
in modern dress, but since “The Fear”
was, he says, “blasted for improbability”
he has shifted ground.
He may now try a Gothic (there is
some hesitation, of course, over that
word) picture of the convict system. The
central figures will be an Irish marine
and a convict woman, who decline to go
through a marriage service because
there is only a Protestant clergyman in
the colony. Mr Keneally may place the
story in 1790 when eight marines were
hanged for robbing the Government
stores and, perhaps, telescope it with
the 1804 attempted rising of Irish
political prisoners.
Mr Keneally backs away before the
difficulties of the historical novel. How-
ever, the theme he has chosen he feels
will convey the flavor of the under-
privileged and radical.
“That is the flavor of the life in
which 1 grew up,” he said. “I had
further conditioning during the six years
I spent studying for the priesthood. 1
feel it is the sort of life I shall always
write about, although 1 don’t always feel
sympathetic towards it. That is the way
it was in The Fear’.
“The old idea of giving them the child
and you can have the man applies to
young Catholics. You always have this
flavor of mysticism and magic as a
background to your life. A child who
has not been subjected to this sort of
education is probably freer to write
about the world at large. The Catholic
child is living continually close to a fairly
organised corpus of supernatural reality.
I don’t think the rest of Australian
society necessarily does.”
Mr Keneally has no burning im-
patience that writing does not yet provide
a living for him, although he would like
to come to grips soon and properly with
his Irish marine. “I don’t know that 1
could write something good enough to
justify working full-time at writing,” he
said. “I must feel rather guilty. Besides,
you must keep contact with day-to-day
life. The lounge-room of a suburban
house at midday isn’t the most inspiring
place in the world.”
He smiles wryly over the Joyce com-
parison, as far as writing is concerned.
However, on subject-matter he said:
“The sort of Catholic education I got in
the ’forties in Australia seems very little
different from the education Joyce got
in Dublin at the turn of the century.
Australia, with Ireland and, perhaps,
South America, must be the most old-
fashioned Catholic country in the
world.”
With marriage and a writing career
ahead of him, Mr Keneally can look
back with detachment on his seminary
days. However, he may yet write the
novel which will take this subject head-
on, instead of just skirting it as he did
in “The Place at Whitton”.
He has no worries about what effect
his writing may have on Irish-Australian
Catholics. “I write about them,” he
said, “not for them.”


COMING TO SYDNEY?
People with an eye for value...
quote Metropole value as Sydney's best.
Superb modern rooms, private bathrooms,
air-conditioning, fine foods and all the service
and convenience that a centrally located big
hotel offers.
Double or twin room with private bathroom, 115/-
and 125/-; single with private bathroom, 77/6.
Other rates begin at 45/-.
Write for coloured brochure.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Bent St., Sydney. 'Ph. 2-0522. Telegrams: “Metropole,"
Sydney
A Most Genial Genius
Following in “Sir Mac’s” footsteps
By J. C. KAYE
This week the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute in Melbourne, one of the
most noted research institutions in
Australia, and esteemed throughout the
world, comes under the control of a man
of 34. He is Dr Gustav Joseph Victor
Nossal, a lively personality, with thick
black hair standing almost straight up
from his forehead, bright, brown eyes,
and a full, wide smile. He’s the most
genial of geniuses.
Dr Nossal suceeds a man whose repu-
tation will be hard to equal, let alone
beat Sir Macfarlane Burnet, 0.M.,
F.R.S. Sir Macfarlane is leaving the
director’s job after 21 years, at the of-
ficial retiring age of 65, but he will con-
tinue active research work at Melbourne
University.
“Sir Mac” does not intend to get in
young Nossal’s way. He does not plan
to use the new Nuffield-Burnet labora-
tory just added to the Hall Institute at a
cost of £200,000, half from the Nuffield
Foundation and half from the Victorian
Government.
“Gus” Nossal, born at Bad Ischl, in
Austria, emigrated to Sydney with his
parents as a boy, and was educated at
St Aloysius’ College, Sydney, and Syd-
ney and Melbourne Universities.
His brother is Frederick Nossal, the
journalist, who worked for some years
in Sydney and Melbourne, and who is
now overseas affairs expert on the
Toronto "Globe and Mail”, which he
represented in Peking for a time.
“Gus” spent two years as a resident at
the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Syd-
ney. He moved to Melbourne to the Hall
Institute in 1956 to study virology under
Sir Macfarlane, who was a world figure
in the field.
To the ambitious young research man’s
dismay, “Sir Mac” was at that point in
his career when he had decided to give
away virus research and turn to immu-
nology.
Burnet set young Nossal to work on
problems concerned with immunological
tolerance. Not long afterwards Burnet
came up with his “clonal selection”
theory of immunity, an esoteric business
involving relations between infecting
antigens and plasma cells. Dr Nossal sug-
gested to “Sir Mac” that he, Nossal,
should try to develop a technique that
would be a critical test of the clonal
selection hypothesis.
A six-week project that “Gus” carried
through with Professor Joshua Lederberg,
an American expert who was visiting
Melbourne, came to fruition. That
achievement set the seal on the Nossal
career.
In 1959 he got his Ph.D. from Mel-
bourne University. He also became assis-
tant professor of genetics at Stanford,
California, for two years. In 1961 he
became the Hall Institute’s deputy
director.
Dr Nossal is the fifth director of the
Institute, which has been celebrating its
50th anniversary at the same time as it
has been honoring Sir Macfarlane on his
retirement.
The Institute was founded by Eliza
Hall (1847-1916) widow of Walter
Russell Hall (1831-1911), an English-
man who made millions from Cobb's
coaches and the Mt Morgan mines.
Mr R. G. Casey, father of the Gov-
ernor-General elect, Lord Casey, was a
trustee of Walter Hall’s estate, and pre-
vailed on Mrs Hall to set aside £1 million
for the advancement of knowledge.
Terms of the trust are that one half
of its revenues must be spent in New
South Wales, a quarter in Queensland,
and a quarter in Victoria. The head office
is in Sydney.
In Melbourne, the trust income was
used to establish the Hall Institute as an
annexe to the Royal Melbourne Hospi-
tal. It is still physically part of the hospi-
tal, but leads its own life.
Revenues from the trust long ceased to
provide more than a fraction of the
money the institute needs, and one of
“Gus” Nossal’s problems, as with pre-
vious directors, will be the continuous
fight to raise enough money from the
Federal and State Governments, Mel-
bourne University, the drug houses, and
Anti-Cancer Council and other providers.
At the institute now, the director has
* a medical and scientific staff of 100 —■
dealing with biophysics, molecular bio-
logy, biochemistry, microbiology, path-
ology, experimental medicine and sur-
gery and clinical medicine.
As Dr Nossal explained it, the organ-
isation is unusual in that all this work
is under a centralised direction, which
channels information to workers in such
fields as cancer, auto-immunity and
allergy, transplantation of organs, hyper-
tension and arterial disease, neuromuscu-
lar diseases, arthritis and ageing.
Two big fields of study that Sir Mac-
farlane initiated the thymus gland,
and the auto-immune (or “self destruc-
tive”) diseases will continue to be “Gus”
Nossal’s main interests.
Dr Nossal and his wife Lyn, live in
a big old house in Fellows Street, Kew.
Mrs Nossal, who was a speech therapist
before her marriage, doesn’t talk science
with “Gus” unless he brings the matter
up. They have four children, Katrina,
8, Michael, 7, Brigid, 4, and Stephen,
nearly one.


vague
ask for
Haig
Over 300 years’ experience has
produced the mellow, golden
perfection of Haig Scotch
Whisky.
If you happen not to be a
regular drinker of Haig, when
next you order Scotch, be sure
to mention our name.
There’s a rare treat in
store for you.
fc ,v t * \
as
Hi l
**<J
1S&
r
m
HAIG SAUCE
tor Shrimps Prawns, Crab. Lob-
ster and Scampi Mix 1/3 cream.
1/3 tomato 'etchup 1/s Haig
with a dash of Worcester sauce.
Good with hard-boiled eggs, too!
The Oldest Name
In
Scotch Whisky
FAMOUS SINCE 1627
B. 1.64
ON THE MARGIN
The Power of Positive Boring
Oo many unkind things are said about
bores that it is a pleasure to see
someone stick up for them. They have
an influential champion in the US Sec-
retary of State, Mr Dean Rusk. He
maintains that in diplomacy boring and
repetitive language has a valuable func-
tion. It promotes smooth, unhurried
negotiation. On the other hand, he
believes, diplomats who make use of
picturesque and original phrases only
cause trouble.
Mr Rusk’s opinions are reported by
Arthur Schlesinger, Jnr, a former mem-
ber of the Kennedy administration, in his
book “A Thousand Days”. Mr Schles-
inger tells how the President’s speeches,
sent to the State Department for Mr
Rusk’s comments, would return with the
striking phrases crossed out and boring
ones suggested instead. “Rusk,” he says,
“actually seemed to prefer stale to fresh
ways of saying things. The cliches
of diplomacy were his native
tongue.”
Dean Rusk’s career is an in-
spiring example of the success a
man can attain by avoiding
brightness. It was not always easy
for him to pursue his chosen
ambition. He is an intelligent man, and
must have been tempted at times to say
something interesting. But he exerted
rigid self-control. By diliaentlv suppres-
sing every unconventional thought and
every novel expression, he eventually
reached the great office he occupies
today.
Diplomacy is not the only field where
a command of dreary and long-winded
utterance pays off. All around us we see
bores in high places in po'itics, busi-
ness, and the learned professions. It is
natural to ask what is the secret of their
ability to get ahead.
Mr Rusk has indicated one of their
virtues: they do not cause embarrass-
ment by saying the unexpected. Also
important, I believe, is the fact that
bores are serious, and can therefore be
taken seriously. They inspire confidence
and trust. Often one sees a lively young
man progress so far and then stop; the
top job goes to someone dull. At
universities, for example, junior staff
members may give entertaining lectures,
but for a professorship the authorities
usually choose a proven, reliable bore.
The growing recognition accorded to
skilled exponents of the cliche opens up
wider opportunities for many Aus-
tralians. For its small population this
country produces a remarkable number
of speakers whose tediousness is in world
class. The favorable climate has some-
thing to do with it. There is nothing
like a healthy outdoor life for develop-
ing potential champions in the boring
field.
So far, little has been done to find
ways and means of exploiting this
national aptitude. To promote the idea
I recently organised a successful seminar
of bores, held in Canberra. Representa-
tives of the governmental, business,
academic, and sporting worlds gave dis-
plays of their various techniques.
The Hon. D. Plodworth, MHR, con-
cluded his impressive opening address
with these words: “I think I may say
without fear of contradiction at
this juncture that we all point
with pride to this country’s un-
limited opportunities, and if we
can pull together in a spirit of
free enterprise and faith in the
future, we shall not only halt the
inflationary spiral but establish a
basis for negotiations which . . .”
The rest of the speech was drowned in
applause. Mr Plodworth was later
awarded The Bulletin Trophy for
Boring the Pants Off.
The seminar again rose to its feet in
enthusiasm at the end of Professor
Wambling’s paper entitled Whither
Literary Values? “The crux of the
present dichotomy, as I see it,” he said,
“is the need to reconcile the search for
identity which lies at the heart of the
contemporary human predicament with
the dissociation of sensibility resulting
from the alienation of moral awareness
in the process of commitment.”
A personal triumph was achieved by
Mr Herb Ellbow, the well-known sport-
ing commentator. He said: “Our team
can be relied on to provide the
champagne of football and put up a
gallant fight even though our best
players are in doubt on this particular
occasion and the game is much closer
than the scores indicate.”
The seminar concluded with a clarion
call to youth, expressed in the slogan:
Make the cliche work for you. If you
can do that, said a leading administrator,
“Yours is the Earth and everything
that’s in it,
And what is more, you’ll be a Bore,
my son!”
ROSS CAMPBELL


■^y
IrI
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Pans end of Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged beef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
The Dirty Word
The Menzies Government's ineptitude over Vietnam
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
On television recently the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, seemed irritated when questioned by
a reporter as to what he meant by his statement that “We are at war in South Vietnam”. He
intimated that ordinary, decent English usage demanded that description of what was happening in that
country. Of course it does. But the Government though infinitely preferable these days to any possible
Labor alternative has done damned little to tell the Australian people just what sort of war was going
on. The war did not start with the despatch of an Australian battalion.
The Prime Minister did not seem to
realise that in the House of Representa-
tives as comparatively recently as April,
1961, he had spoken of revolutionary
guerrilla warfare in Laos and it is this
kind of warfare in which Australian
troops are today involved as “a grim
thought this”, rather as though he were
flicking an insect out of a martini mixed
by an aspiring junior politician.
It may be unfair to make too much
of this apparent insouciance on the part
of the Government. In democracies like
Australia propaganda is regarded as a
dirty word. Precisely why is beyond my
understanding; it is, after all, the warp
and woof of every election campaign.
It is a little odd that the inducing of
people to act as they might not other-
wise act which is democratic propa-
ganda, subject to equally vocal Opposi-
tion propaganda is regarded as per-
missible where the future of political
parties is concerned, but not where the
future of the community is concerned.
Clearly, it is as impossible as it is
hideously undesirable in Australia to
develop the Chinese technical achieve-
ment of persuading men (as has been
done) that “not to understand the party
line is to have lost one’s soul.” But it
would have been desirable and simple
for the Government to have persuaded
as many Australians as would listen and/
or read that that was how Chinese
society was organised; and, by extension,
North Vietnamese Communist society
as well.
As a result of Government ineptitude
in political warfare in the past, quite as
much as a result of crypto-Communist
propaganda amongst part of the intelli-
gentsia, a fairly significant section of
the educated Australian public are today
in two minds as to whether the Hanoi-
directed, Chinese-armed Vietcong regu-
lars are not really part of “a spontaneous
peasant insurrection”, responding to
“economic and political conditions”, as
people like Dr J. F. Cairns would have
them believe. And this public is by no
means confined to fellow-travellers (who
see in Communist victory in S.E. Asia
their only chance of becoming members
of a governing apparatus) or Pavlovian-
responsive, professional small-1 liberals
who live vicariously through the
imagined anarchism of the totalitarian
Vietcong . . . expressed in activities
enchanting to those who secretly admire
naked power. Serious doubts exist even
amongst doctors watching public school
football matches, for example; and con-
servative writers in swish hotels.
The Vietnamese crisis has shown
quite clearly that for a decade or more
the educated Australian public simply
has not been prepared by the Govern-
ment for this kind of situation. The
blame for this must squarely rest on
the shoulders of the Prime Minister; a
number of his Ministers, to the certain
knowledge of the writer, are well aware
of the nature of a situation that has
been developing for years. What is
equally certain is that no blame can
attach itself to the Department of
External Affairs. Sir Arthur Tange was
always a Head who had the courage to
stand up to Ministers; Sir James Plimsoll
is one of the very best-informed and
ablest Australians ever to consider
foreign problems; the Department has
at its disposal a large number of
extremely able, exceedingly hard-work-
ing, and excellently informed officers.
But what has been required and
is required today is, first of all,
understanding by the head of the Aus-
tralian society, the Prime Minister, of
the nature of political warfare -and an
awareness of the importance of ade-
quately, systematically informing the
public on the nature of the great issues;
and, secondly, a far greater co-ordina-
tion between policy and propaganda
within the Public Service. The first is
a policy matter; the second a question
of perfecting an instrumentality.
Sir Robert Menzies made a step,
which may or may not be tentative,
by appointing an able diplomat, instead
of a Press Secretary, to accompany him
on his last Commonwealth Premiers’
junket in London. To have a well-
informed diplomat authorised to speak on
foreign policy matters, rather than a
Press Secretary to retail the latest
witticisms to a small circle of admirers,
was undoubtedly a step forward. As a
result, Australians knew quite a lot about
what their Prime Minister was trying
to say on their behalf. But this step
should be but part of a process of
public enlightenment on foreign policy
issues when the Prime Minister is at
home as well.
The second question, that of greater
co-ordination between propaganda and
policy, is the chief point to be dealt with
in this article. Recently, External Affairs
has put out two extremely valuable
publications: “Vietnam: First Half of
1965” (a collection of documents alto-
gether admirably compiled) and
“Studies on Vietnam” (a lucid, judicious
statement of the reasons for the Aus-
tralian commitment in that country,
based on painstaking research); 2000
copies of the first pamphlet were printed,


Gregarious
Men like to get together for talk. About everything.
Sometimes unimportant; only sometimes. Conver-
sation. Communication. One thing leads to
another. Ideas develop. Big plans emerge. Men
profit by conventions. Action. For conventions
Sydney has obvious advantages. In Sydney,
Chevron Hotel. Of course. Convention experience
and lots of it. If you are to convene a convention,
write to or talk it over with the Chevron Hotel
management; no further worries. Package deal
tailored to your requirements covers every little
detail. And at a very fair price. Get with it . . .
with us.
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
4500 of the second. They are in part,
of course, sent to Australian Embassies
abroad for distribution to relevant
people; in part sent out to MPs and
other “prominent people”; and they are
available (numbers permitting) to any
member of the Australian community
writing in for them.
Now, these two pamphlets are both
quite extremely well done; after all, there
are many officers of the Department of
External Affairs who are quite as able,
and obviously much better informed,
than the vocal academic protestors
nearly all of whom knew damn-all about
the politics, not to speak of the economic
geography and the topography, of Viet-
nam. Nevertheless, this is simply not
enough in terms of propaganda: the
compilation of documents seems to me
to be impeccable (for example, dissenting
reports of the Indian and Polish mem-
bers of the International Control Com-
mission are there); the documentation
and argument in “Studies on Vietnam”
are deployed in such a fashion as to
convince an unbiased man that South
Vietnam was the victim of aggression
through techniques of revolutionary
guerrilla warfare. But (a) it is directed
at a mere fraction of the population
(both in point of style and in point of
numbers printed); (b) it assumes a
knowledge of Vietnam that even most
members of that small fraction of the
population does not have; and (c) it is
not for sale. It is extremely good; but it
is not propaganda. It is not intended
to be.
If these two pamphlets are compared
with the NZ Government’s pamphlet,
entitled “New Zealand Assistance to the
Republic of Vietnam”, certain lessons
may be learned. First, this pamphlet is
priced at 2s. 6d.; it is offered proudly to
the public as something that should be
bought and read. Secondly, it contains
an excellent preface by the Rt. Hon.
K. J. Holyoake, New Zealand’s Prime
Minister, who shows an awareness of
history and the willingness to per-
suade the public of its validity of
a kind apparently considered beneath
the dignity of Australia’s Prime Minister.
Thirdly, just because it is an act of
propaganda, a conscious attempt to
induce people to act other than they
might have acted without reading it
and to read it, they must pay for it
it is a much more effective document.
It is not better written, nor more
logically persuasive, than “Studies on
Vietnam” except in one important
sense: it assumes no knowledge of
Vietnam at all on the part of the reader.
Moreover, it not only includes quite
the best brief description of revolutionary
guerrilla warfare the writer has come
across; it attempts (not wholly satisfac-
torily) to place the South Vietnamese
struggle in the context of the 1948


WOVEN IN
AUSTRALIA
NEW! for all uniforms
Torau
TETOROH
ROLYESTER FIBRE
V and Viscose
651]
we blend beauty and science...
for a miracle fabric that works with you!
Fashion goes to work! The new look in uniforms
is soft, lustrous Cesarella, an exciting new fabric
by the makers of famous Cesarine. We made silky
Cesarella specially for the trend to more style and
fashion in today’s uniforms. Easily laundered,
drip-drys overnight to its original beauty, and per-
manently pleatable, too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance offices, Cesarella
means more beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. Look for the Cesarella tag of quality
at your uniform supplier or just phone Caesar
Fabrics Ltd. in your state. But do it now!
CTS3IOB
CESARELLA—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Toraii TETosoirocy
POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
risings in Telengana (India), Burma,
Malaya, and Indonesia; and it attempts
(too briefly perhaps) to establish revolu-
tionary guerrilla warfare as essential to
Chinese Communist thinking. Instead of
talking archaically about “Chinese
hordes”, as Sir Robert is apt to do,
Mr Holyoake quotes Mao: “War, the
highest form of struggle according to
Mao, ‘will become a bridge over which
mankind will pass into a new era in
history’. The Chinese Communists pro-
fess themselves undeterred by the costs of
a nuclear war and quite prepared to con-
template building a ‘beautiful future’
upon the ‘debris of a dead imperialism’.”
The purpose of the New Zealand
pamphlet and the audience to which it
addresses its arguments are both differ-
ent from the Australian pamphlets; not
better, simply different but, because of
the differences, more politically effective.
It is not, as might be supposed, that the
Australian External Affairs pamphlets
mark an altogether new departure: a
compilation of documents relating to
Malaysia has been issued and one on
Australian treaties is being compiled.
What is at issue is, first, the apparent
reluctance of the Government to enter
the propaganda field; and, secondly, the
relationship between the two instrumen-
talities, the Department of External
Affairs and the Bureau of News and
Information.
Vlews and Information, which has of ic-
ers attached to Embassies abroad,
is seen as an instrumentality for “publi-
cising” Australia, supplying “general
facts” (ranging from kangaroos to school-
children), presenting “the character of
Australia”. Almost incredibly, since its
handouts appear to be chiefly externally
directed, the Bureau belongs to the
Department of the Interior! It has on its
staff some very good journalists, know-
ledgeable about Asia as a result of over-
seas experience, and acutely aware of
the propaganda role that it could play
but is prohibited from playing because
of the existing, politically utterly false,
dichotomy between explanations of policy
matters (reserved to External Affairs)
and picturing the “national character”
(whatever that is), which is reserved to
the Bureau of News and Information.
This is an absurd situation. Co-ordina-
tion of effort here would be quite
feasible, External Affairs necessarily
controlling the substance of explanations,
but News and Information using its
special skills to fashion the form of the
propaganda - ranging from style to
layout. This would not should not
preclude EA from getting out its own
papers specifically directed at diplomatic
opinion abroad. But such papers, how-
ever, intrinsically admirable (as is
“Studies on Vietnam”), are quite inap-
propriate to both the understanding and
the taste of the educated, unofficial
public. Moreover, the Bureau of News
and Information, instead of wasting so
much of its time posting off photographs
of husky League footballers for the
delectation of hungry Asians, could
handle a regularity of publication on
matters of national significance that is
denied to the already over-worked offi-
cers of External Affairs. And regularity
is essential: the opponents of Australian
commitment in Vietnam have derived
a considerable advantage from being able
to abstract the specific Vietnamese strug-
gle from the pattern of revolutionary
guerrilla warfare elsewhere.
“Studies on Vietnam” shows quite
clearly who declared war there; but it
remains to be shown and to be
regularly shown, and in a more “popu-
lar”, more political fashion the scope
of the struggle for the world in which
South Vietnam is the present major
battlefield. A little co-ordination and a
greater appreciation of the significance
of political warfare at home could easily
achieve this objective.


NOW
IS THE TIME
TO DRINK AUSTRALIAN WHISKY
THE WEEK
OVERSEAS
OUTER SPACE
M.O.L.
A cross the scrubby sands and calm
lagoons of Cape Kennedy there
have been taking shape two of the more
astonishing installations of the astonish-
ing US space programme. One is the
vast launch complex from which the
National Aeronautic and Space Admini-
stration hopes to send men to the moon
in the Apollo spacecraft by the end of
the decade. The other, a couple of
miles away, is the smaller, but scarcely
less imposing, complex from which the
Air Force expects in a year or two to
send men aloft to study a grim question:
What military use can be made of space?
Last week both enterprises moved
measurably closer to realisation. The
Gemini V spacecraft, recovering from
early power trouble that threatened to
short-circuit its flight, completed the full
eight-day mission, proving that men can
stand a period of weightlessness con-
sidered necessary for a round trip to
the moon. In the process the astro-
nauts set three world records and pushed
the US ahead of Russia in space endur-
ance.
At his Wednesday news conference
President Johnson gave the green light
for construction of a $l5OO million set of
Manned Orbital Laboratories to explore
space for military purposes. The an-
nouncement raised the spectre of the
battlefield one day being extended into
the infinity of outer space.
The decision to proceed with M.0.L.,
long urged by the Air Force and long
delayed by the Administration, repre-
sented an important modification of
American policy and goals in space. Ever
since the space age dawned eight years
ago it had been the policy, incorporated
in the 1959 Space Law, that US activities
should be devoted to peaceful purposes.
Now the US has made a major and open
commitment to explore and possibly
exploit space for military purposes.
GREECE
The Star
Papandreou remained the key
” figure in Greece’s political crisis
last week. A new Premier, Elias Tsiri-
mokos, struggled to win a Parliamentary
vote of confidence for the new Govern-
ment and the debate continued into the
weekend. Mr Tsirimokos, observers
agreed, was fighting an uphill battle.
On Sunday he lost the battle in a
confidence vote which after a fiery debate
went against him—ls 9 to 135. The
future was once more troubled and un-
certain.
Since July 15, when King Constantine
manoeuvred Papandreou out of the
Premiership, the wily 77-year-old leader
of the Centre Union Party has been
able to turn the tables so far by denying
office to the other leaders of his party.
Greek politicians as a rule feel no greater
allegiance to deposed Premiers than
those of other countries. But Mr
Papandreou, toppled like a hero of Greek
tragedy at the height of his power, is
no has-been. He remains in opposition
the most powerful political force in
Greece.
The key to Mr Papandreou’s popu-
larity lies in his personality. In a country
where politics is not only serious busi-
ness but a spectacle where the public
criticises, Papandreou is a star. His star
quality is the result of charm, wit and
the gift of the gab.
MIDDLE EAST
Yemen Referendum
W/ith an escort of Egyptian Navy
” vessels and President Gamal Abdel
Nasser aboard, a yacht entered the Saudi
Arabian harbor of Jidda last Monday
to be met by Mr Nasser’s arch-rival, King
Feisal. Together the two leaders made
a pre-dawn journey to Mecca, returned
to Jidda for a conference and announced
an agreement to end their war-by-proxy
in Yemen.
Twice before, in the past two years,
Egypt and Saudi Arabia had agreed to
terminate what had become a kind of
Spanish civil war of the Arab world.
Each time considerations of prestige for
the Egyptian backers of the Yemeni
Republicans and the Saudi supporters of
the Yemeni Royalists outweighed the
pressures for peace, and the truce col-
lapsed. This time the immediate truce
and the longer range political settlement
had more likelihood of success.
For, in the past, President Nasser
insisted on guarantees that the Egyptian-
style Republican Government of Yemen
would be preserved. Now he agreed that
the Yemenis themselves should choose
their own form of Government in a nat-
ional referendum in November, 1966. and
that in the meantime an interim regime,
including Royalists as well as Republi-
cans, would be established.
VIETNAM
LBJ's Dialogue
At his news conference President John-
son said: “Peace, peace, that simple
five-letter word, is the most important
word in the English language to us at
this time and it occupies more of our
attention than any other word, or any
other subject.” He also said: “I think
the issues of war and peace in Vietnam
are far greater than any personal dif-
ferences that one might have, for that
matter, far greater than any parties.”
These were the latest statements by
the President in twin dialogues which
he has been carrying on for some time
on the Vietnam issue. One dialogue is


Hi
with a wide
uses
\> s % v <.. •• -X ,5 “ v j
V:' .
!«■
■ /
Tapered smoothly over the entire length for
streamlined beauty, this new type of Tubular
Steel pole has a very wide range of uses that
will appeal specially to architects and engineers.
Here are some of the main advantages:
1. Being of circular cross section and even wall
thickness throughout, they offer superior
resistance to wind forces and ensure maxi-
mum strength for carrying of top fitments.
2- High resistance to corrosion due to absence
of corners and flat surfaces.
3. Painting maintenance reduced.
4. Adaptability - suitable for Lighting, Sign-
posts, Flag Poles, TV Antennae Masts,
Telephone and Telegraph Poles and many
other structural purposes.
5.. Tapered tubes are supplied in straight
lengths ready for fabrication to the required
use.
Your local Stewarts and Lloyds branch invites
enquiries for sizes and further details. Please
send for FREE booklet.
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: Ail Capital Cities, also Cairns,, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin, Alice Springs, Launceston. AGENCIES: Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
with the Communists in the search for
a peace settlement; the other with critics
at home who disapprove the Administra-
tion’s methods of search.
In Washington Secretary of State
Dean Rusk, Presidential Assistant for
National Security George Bundy, and
Ambassador to the United Nations
Arthur Goldberg, conducted a TV panel
discussion which, in effect, was one of
the most direct, most public, overtures
yet made to Hanoi. The essence of the
message, as Rusk put it, was: “We should
like to see full performances on all sides
of the military clauses of the 1954
Agreements” which ended the Indo-
China war. These accords, for the
most part, cover Hanoi’s demands for a
“basis” for settlement negotiations.
In London, the British Government
issued a “White Paper” reviewing its
efforts to mediate the Vietnam conflict
and promised to continue these efforts
despite negative response from the
Communists. At the United Nations
U Thant made new approaches on Viet-
nam to the 14 Governments that have
participated in international conferences
on Indo-China.
KASHMIR
The Mujahids
T>akistanis are hearing about the
current fighting in what they call
“India-occupied Kashmir” with soaring
hopes that at long last the creation of
their country may soon be completed.
At fly-specked eating houses, shabby
teashops and wherever ordinary Paki-
stanis gather, there is exultation over
reports blared out by Government radio
news or laboriously read aloud from
Government - managed newspapers by
men more literate than their fellows. The
news is of a steady string of victories
by Kashmiri “freedom fighters” over
Indian “occupation forces” in the dis-
puted State of Kashmir. With this version
of recent events in Kashmir as daily
fare, plus reports that some revered
Moslem religious leaders have pro-
claimed the struggle in Kashmir to carry
out acts of terror and that each day new
bands of “Mujahids” (crusaders) are
volunteering for service, confident mill-
hands are telling enthusiastic rickshaw
drivers that India won’t be able to hold
Kashmir much longer.
RUSSIA
Crackdown
"IT"ague but unmistakable storm warn-
ings are hovering for Soviet writers
and the younger generation of Soviet
readers. There is no crackdown of the
type that Premier Khrushchev imposed
in 1962. The post-Khrushchev leader-
ship does things differently. There is no
sweeping condemnation of abstract art
or new styles of writing. The problem
these days is not of style but of sub-
stance specifically, the things that
young authors' are writing about, that
liberal-minded editors are printing, and
devotees of current literature are reading.
To the Russian Establishment, too
much of this writing is “negative”,
“nihilistic”, “emphasising unduly the in-
securities and maladjustments of life”.
First signs of official dissatisfaction came
three weeks ago when “Pravda”, the
Communist Party newspaper, then “Is-
vesda”, the Government newspaper,
published in quick succession three
reviews and comments critical of certain
stories and plays which the official
Press said “give a distorted view of life
in the Soviet Union”. The criticism was
gentle and restrained, but, coming three
times in one week, it was enough to put
the intellectual community on the alert.
[From the “New York Times”]


The People versus the Continent
By ROBERT RAYMOND
Behind this country’s immediate concern for survival, its long-term programme for material growth,
and its constant search for cultural maturity, a no less important struggle is developing. This is the conflict
between the influences at work to destroy the natural habitat of the continent, and the painfully slow
campaign to persuade enough people to realise what is happening before it is too late.
At the moment the forces of conservation in Australia, as they are all over the world, are heavily
outweighed by the advocates of progress, profit, development, and all those other insistent demands that
the present makes at the expense of the future.
In many ways, we are still better off
than some countries largely because
here we are so few, in a landscape so
vast. In the United States, the mightiest
industrial civilisation the world has ever
known is paying a bitter price in des-
poliation of the land and its natural life
hardly a major river that is not lethally
polluted with toxic wastes, vast areas
where birds have virtually disappeared,
poisoned by agricultural insecticides. In
Britain and other closely settled coun-
tries of Europe, wildlife is vanishing at
an alarming rate. In Africa, once the
showcase of the rich variety of the Age
of Mammals, the final dispersal of the
majestic herds is in progress.
Are we in Australia doing much
better? The answer is not comforting,
or comfortable. Considering our com-
paratively short occupation of this conti-
nent, we have done a spectacular amount
of damage to the natural order of living
things. Whether this damage will con-
tinue to complete destruction (and that
is not as remote a possibility as most
people might think) depends upon the
interplay of a number of factors.
One is the fact that the majority of
Australians are urban dwellers, and can
have little knowledge, understanding, or
feeling for what is happening to the land
and its life. Another is the ironic fact
that the very people who are doing the
damage are those with the strongest and
(to them) most valid reasons for their
actions. To convince both these power-
ful groups of people of the long-term
effects of what is happening is a seeming-
ly hopeless task for those who want to
conserve what is left.
The conservationists, unfortunately,
are led by scientists and “nature-lovers”
(more popularly thought of as cranks),
people who are renowned for their im-
practical, romantic, idealistic outlook in
a necessarily practical, unromantic, and
materialistic world.
One thing is painfully clear: in a
straight clash, the forces of conservation
will lose outright to the forces of that
economic growth by which our national
outlook judges success.
Too much pressure on our largely
urban population, too, might set up resis-
tance to the whole idea of conservation
that could prove fatal. Before the men-
tion of wildlife conservation becomes a
bore, then, and while the idea of co-
existence is still not ruled out of order
as subversive, it may be possible to put
forward a few thoughts on the subject
The Coming of Spring -4
from someone who has shot his share of
birds and animals, chopped down un-
counted trees, and who even now covets
a kangaroo-suede coat. I have recently
toured the country to prepare a Project
'65 TV programme on the subject. I
went with Alan Moorehead, who is col-
lecting material for a book on the natural
history of Australia.
Few would deny that when, in the
cretaceous period some hundred million
years ago, the land bridge was cut, the
scene was set for one of the most re-
markable chapters in the evolutionary
story: the emergence of a unique array
of flora and fauna. Captain Cook, we
know, found life here in a state of deli-
cate balance within itself and with its
environment: the great plains clothed with
light, native grasses that could survive
on the poor soil; the trees with leaves that
hung down, presenting their edges to the
blistering sun; the grass-eating marsupials,
in the absence of the large flesh-eaters
found on every other continent, develop-
ed to an unparalleled variety; the Abo-
rigines, without any form of agriculture,
living solely by hunting and fishing, and
thereby making no inroads on the fauna
or their habitats.
Well, things didn't stay that way
and who can blame the settlers? Men
from the slums of Britain and Ireland
needed room to breathe. Here there was
surely limitless room. It is only today
that we are beginning to wonder just
how limitless the land really is; to specu-
late whether the clearing of millions of
acres of trees might have begun the
process of desiccating an already dry
continent; to regret the total decimation
of the great cedar forests of the east
coast; to blame our forefathers for the
fact that Sydneysiders will never have a
foreshore drive around the Harbor; to
shudder at the outlook which permitted
nearly a million koalas to be shot and
clubbed to death for their fur in a single
“open season” declared by the Queens-
land Government in 1927.
The present situation is, of course,
more complicated and not so easy to see
Wildlife Pictures on Page 3 of Color
Supplement. $W


■■■Hi
: :
'
Now
there’s a Mini
for everyone!
BMC MORRIS MINI
For those who need economy,
and performance, there’s the ori-
ginal BMC Morris Mini.
BMC MORRIS MINI DE LUXE
A shade more luxurious (with wind-
up windows, bigger, 928 c.c. en-
gine, Hydrolastic* float-on-fluid sus-
pension, racing-style gear change
and smooth new interior) is the
new Morris Mini De Luxe.
BMC MORRIS COOPER ‘S’
Now, the most sensational of them
all. Mini touring in the grand man-
ner. BMC’s new Morris Cooper ‘S’,
the car that has won the Monte
Carlo Rally two years in succes-
sion. Fantastic performance that
leaves even the big cars way be-
hind, even in a straight line. With
road holding that compares with
Grand Prix cars!
BMC MINI TRADITION
All of them do better than 45 m.p.g.;
75 m.p.h. and seat four big
people comfortably. All of them are
based on the original Mini concept
of east-west mounted engine unit,
front-wheel-drive, independent rub-
ber cone suspension (fluid assisted
in the De Luxe and Cooper ‘S’) and
maximum passenger space. More
than a million Minis are zipping
around —all over the world. One of
these incredible little cars is sure
to suit you.
BMC Morris Mini
still the best
motoring value.
Seek it out at your
nearby BMC dealer
‘Registered Trademark


m
-
J
jMfc«
Smartstay launches the Jewpor !
A new change of pace shirt
in the American Tradition
This is the Newport. Notice its
new, longer, button-down collar.
The way it rolls softly with just
the right amount of flair. Wide
edge collar stitching, too. And
the button on the back? To hold
our reputation up and your col-
lar down. Check the roomy box
pleat and the intriguing little loop
for hanging. And the two-way
cuff? It underscores Newport’s
double personality Today a
devil-may-care savoir faire. To-
morrow an up-and-coming mem-
ber of the executive set. And if
you think we have a one-track
mind about white, you’re wrong.
smart-stay
MADE BY HOLEPROOF FOR THE
MAN WITH THE CLEAN CUT LOOK
Newport comes in a dashing
blue, grey and fawn, plus a range
of traditional stripes. White too.
The price? It’s a “cool” 49/11 and
up; but not too far up. Your fav-
ourite store has the Newport
now. It’s fate, man.


A BULLETIN SUPPLEMENT
AUSTRALIAN
WILDLIFE
Large Egret (Egretta alba). Also called the
Great Egret, and the Great White Crane.
False Vampire or Ghost Bat
(Macroderma gigas). An ex-
tremely rare animal.
Queensland Blossom Bat
(Syconycteris australis). Very
rare.
Quokka (Setonix brachyurus).
The second species of kan-
garoo.
Grey-headed Flying Fox (Pteropus polio-
cephalus).
Sminthopsis murina. Tiny mouse-sized insect-
eating marsupial. No vernacular name.
Tasmanian Pademelon (Thylogale billardieri)
and Joey.
Platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus). It is
the sole survivor of the family Ornithorhy-
chidae.
Pygmy Glider or Feathertail (Acrobates
pygmaeus). The smallest of five native
gliders or gliding possums.
Leadbeater's Possum (Gymnobelideus tead-
beateri). Until 1962 it was thought to be
extinct.
Tasmanian Devil (Sarcophilus harrisii). A
carnivorous marsupial with exceptionally
strong, large teeth and jaws.
Large spotted-tailed Native Cat, or Tiger
Cat (Dasyurops maculatus). Photographed in
Tasmania where this species is more plentiful.
Superb Lyrebird chick (Menura novae hol-
landiae). The chick remains in the nest for
six weeks.
Stripe-tailed Gecko (Dilplodactylus taeni-
cauda). A rare species only three inches
long.
Bandy-bandy (Vermicella annulata). A harm-
less snake which spends most of its time
underground.
Corroboree Toadlet (Pseudophryne corrobo-
ree). Found only in the Australian Alps.
PICTURES: Egret, Tasmanian Devil, Tiger Cat, Lyre Bird Chick by H. J. Pollock; Platypus by B. McArdle; Quokka by I. J. Makin; all others by S. and K. Breedon.


S
m
mi
i
K. •;
KB
ii
V * .
39
>
..
»V>.
u;
sn
fßs B s *
%CfAl Vi
S@|
€
-%:><->'
; , I
ORLANDO
miamba hock
*L 5T 8A L !A *1 #s*s
WNHQeo ft SOTTUCO AT TH* CELLAR* <*
e.fiRAMP &SOKS Ptt.UD.
»A»OMA VALUY. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ORLANDO
miamba claret
Australian wire-
vintaced A bottled at the cellars <rf||
E GRAMP C SONS PTY.UO. :
•AROSSA VALLEY. SOUTH AUSTRALW|||
NET I PINT 6
FLUID
«T 1 PINT 6 FLUID OZ
ORLANDO
MIAMBA CLARET
JOINS MIAMBA HOCK
You gave Miamba Special Bin Hock a
wonderful reception - and we are confident
you will be just as enthusiastic about its
new companion, Miamba Claret.
It is vintaged from Hermitage and Cabernet
Sauvignon grapes grown at Orlando’s
famous Miamba Vineyard in South
Australia’s fertile Lyndoch Valley.
Miamba Claret is a medium to full red
wine, with a pleasing bouquet, fruity palate,
and a soft and appealing tannin finish.
Dining out or at home, a meal becomes
memorable when you choose Miamba
Claret or Hock.


in perspective. The golfers of Townsville,
making plans to lay out a new course on
part of the town common, which will
need to be cleared of trees, seem un-
concerned that this may irrevocably
affect one of Townsville’s more interest-
ing claims to distinction more than
half of Australia’s 700-odd species of
birds are to be found in the area.
The residents of Warringah Shire in
Sydney for example, driving past Dee
Why Lagoon to work, can hardly be ex-
pected to know that this undistinguished
stretch of water and scrubby sand har-
bors 27 different species of water birds
and 34 species of land birds. They know
that since 1958 the conservationists have
been trying to preserve it, and the Shire
Council has been trying to put the area
to more “productive” use the latest
suggestion being a garbage tip.
The thousands of skiers who have
turned the Thredbo and Perisher Valleys
of the Snowy Mountains into one of the
pleasantest holiday resorts in the country
can hardly be expected to have much
patience with the Wild Life Preservation
Society of Australia, whose members
claim that this is destroying the balance
of life in Australia's only Alpine region.
The Society itself, which was formed
in 1909, castigates its own members, in
its 1965 annual report, for apathy. The
president points out that not a single
member has been prepared to organise
an education committee which could
spread conservation principles in the
schools, where they would do the most
good.
The newly formed Australian Conser-
vation Foundation is perhaps the most
important advance in co-ordinating the
work of a score of well-meaning wildlife
bodies. Its president is Sir Garfield Bar-
wick, and its committee includes such
diverse but influential people as Sir War-
ren McDonald, Mr Baillieu Myer of Mel-
bourne, Dr H. J. Frith, head of the
CSIRO Division of Wildlife Research,
and a representative of the Prime
Minister’s Department.
But who knows about it? It came into
existence with about as much self-adver-
tisement as a platypus. An enquiry for
information about its aims, by a Sydney
journalist writing a widely syndicated
conservation series, drew a polite but
firm brush-off from the secretary, who
said he was too busy to divulge anything.
God knows, there is enough for a
powerful and prestigious body to look at:
the tangle of differing State conservation
laws; the application of the Common-
wealth laws prohibiting the export of
fauna, which seemingly don’t apply to
Sir Edward Hallstrom; the continued
willingness of State governments to de-
clare “open seasons” on species with
limited numbers for example, the
recent open season in Tasmania on Cape
Barron geese, an attractive Australian
bird of which only a few thousand pairs
are known to exist.
The whole situation is clearly getting
too big for the States themselves to
handle, when the Chief Guardian of
Fauna for the NSW Government is
obliged to admit that the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department could not prosecute
the Taronga Park Zoo Trust (for illegally
accepting three protected animals, i.e.
platypuses) because the Trust was a
“semi-Government body”.
The Foundation might also enquire
how Harrods of London (a store which
“Laughing jackass, £300;
Platypus, £300; Wombat, £45”
From Harrods of London Catalogue
prides itself on being able to supply any-
thing its customers want) came to in-
clude in a recent catalogue the items:
“Laughing jackass, £300; duck-billed
platypus, £300; kangaroo, £150; secre-
tary bird, £45; wombat, £45.”
An early attempt to establish more
facts about certain threatened species
would seem essential. The role of the
kangaroo, for example, is without doubt
the most disputed factor in the whole
conservation argument. The CSIRO has
estimated that something like a million
kangaroos a year are being shot for food,
skins, or as pests a drain that the
species may not be able to stand indefi-
nitely. There are graziers, on the other
hand, with more kangaroos on their pro-
perty than sheep, who face ruin if the
numbers are not drastically kept down.
Property owners claim that a kanga-
roo eats as much grass as a sheep and
show bare runs to prove it. The CSIRO
has proof that, given a choice, the kanga-
roo will not eat the same herbage as
sheep or cattle. There’s a demonstration
property in Victoria where all three
species are living together without com-
peting for the same feed.
The conservationists say that the only
hope of saving the grey and red kanga-
roos of the plains is to set aside 100,000-
acre reserves in western NSW. The Fauna
Protection Panel said as long ago as 1962
that it was already too late, as there is
no land left, except on resumption at 10s.
an acre.
Meanwhile, the fact remains that,
through encroachment on their habitat,
six distinct species of mammals in Aus-
tralia have already disappeared, and 35
others are threatened with reduction to
the “extinction threshold”, below which
an animal population cannot maintain its
numbers.
Does anybody care? And does it really
matter? For a world which has had to
become accustomed to the extinction of
10 million Russian kulaks, or six million
Jews, should the disappearance of the
brush-tailed rat-kangaroo, the pig-footed
bandicoot, or the numbat cause any real
concern?
For the answer it is necessary to look
beyond the horizon of the kangaroo-
shooter, to the encompassing vision of
one of man’s newest but perhaps most
significant philosophies ecology.
Ecology means the interdependence
The Coming of Spring -5
"Aah shut up!"


THE PUBLIC SERVICE Of
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
offers an opportunity to work overseas in challenging and rewarding
fields of activity.
VACANCIES
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE & INDUSTRY
Senior Training Officer
£2,464-£2,597 p.a.
Qualifications: Victorian Leaving Certificate
or equivalent. Extensive experience in cus-
toms procedures and proven ability as train-
ing officer.
Co<operatives Officer Grade II
£2,098-£2,342 p.a.
Qualifications: Victorian Leaving Certificate
or equivalent. Completion Stage I Account-
ancy or equivalent desirable. Sound know-
ledge of accepted co-operative principles and
practices.
Training Officer Grade I
£1,854-£2,098 p.a.
Qualifications: Victorian Leaving Certificate
or equivalent; completion Stage I Account-
ancy or equivalent. Trained Teacher’s Cer-
tificate and knowledge of business methods
desirable.
Master
£1,732-£1,854 p.a.
Qualifications: Certificate of Competency (or
Licence) as Coasting Master not exceeding
50 tons, issued for Papua and New Guinea.
Knowledge of the care, operation and main-
tenance of diesel engines not exceeding 150
B.H.P.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Health Inspector
£1,701-£1,967 p.a.
Qualifications: Certificate of Royal Sanitary
Institute, or Health Inspectors Certificate of
the Royal Sanitary Institute, London -or
equivalent.
Pre-School Teacher
£1,214-£1,634 p.a.
Qualifications: Victorian Leaving Certificate
or equivalent; diploma of an approved
Kindergarten Training College in Australia
or equivalent.
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTS
Senior Drafting Officer Grade I
£2,335-£2,485 p.a.
Qualifications: Diploma or Technical College
Certificate in cartography or equivalent. Wide
experience in operation of photogrammetric
equipment and preparation topographical and
cadastral maps. Experience in air photo
interpretation particularly in Forest typing.
DEPARTMENT OF
INFORMATION & EXTENSION
SERVICES
Chief of Division (Services)
£3,173-£3,317 p.a.
Qualifications: Victorian Leaving Certificate
or equivalent. Good academic record pre-
ferably with a University degree; training and
experience in education; knowledge of mass
communications and extension services in
dependent countries; proven administrative
ability; a knowledge of the Territory problems
in native administration and the work of the
various departments desirable.
Married accommodation available.
Broadcasts Officers
(a) £2,342-£2,464 p.a.
(b) £2,098-£2,342 p.a.
Bask Qualifications: Victorian Leaving Cer-
tificate or equivalent, previous experience in
broadcasting, script writing and/or journalism;
ability to write in simple English.
Applicants for position (a) should have
ability to train indigenous staff in all aspects
of broadcasting required for a local Adminis-
tration Broadcasting station.
Applicants for position (b) should have
knowledge of broadcasting techniques, the
preparation of programmes and recording and
capacity to supervise subordinate staff.
Editor Script Writer
£2,098-£2,342 p.a.
Qualifications: Wide experience in the editing
of motion picture film and in script writing.
Photographer
£1,610-£1,854 p.a.
Qualifications: Wide experience as photo-
grapher and in developing and printing
techniques. Experience in producing prints for
newspapers etc. desirable.
DEPARTMENT OP AGRICULTURE,
STOCK AND FISHERIES
Abattoirs Manager
£2.261 p.a.
Qualifications: Sound knowledge and ex-
perience of modern slaughtering methods.
Knowledge of book-keeping or accounting.
Certificate of Competency as Meat Inspector
or equivalent qualifications, with at least six
years’ experience of meat inspection. Diploma
from a recognised Agricultural College or
equivalent desirable.
Married accommodation available.
VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS
Clerks
Non-Graduates:
£986-£1,610 p.a. (Male)
£1,104-£1,409 p.a. (Female)
Graduates:
£1,488-£1,6)0 p.a. (Male)
£1,287-£1,409 p.a. (Female)
Qualifications: Leaving Certificate or equi-
valent or University degree.
Eligibility: Applicants must be at least 18
years (males) or 21 years and single (females).
CONDITIONS INCLUDE
★ Much lower taxation. ★ Contract engagement.
■k Generous leave. k Opportunities for advancement.
★ Assisted leave fares to Australia. ★ Fares to and from the Territory.
Salaries quoted are gross; marriedmales receive an additional £lBO p.a.
Vacanfy. Information Statement ahd application form available from the Secretary, Department
of Territories, Canberra, A.C.T., with whoni applications close on 18th September, 1965,
Quote position and advertisement No. 232
and interaction of all organisms
plants, animals, and man in the film of
life spread so thinly over the face of this
planet. In this context, man must be
considered simply another animal, a
mammal which has come to dominate
and change its environment as none has
ever done before.
\JLT e have already discovered the dangers
of disturbing the unbelievably
complex balance of power in the insect
world. The insects are mankind’s most
persistent and potentially most danger-
ous rival, because of their competition
with man for food, and their power to
spread disease.
This problem only emerged with the
change from primitive agriculture, a
matter of mixed crops on small plots, to
the modern, high-production cultivation
of vast acreages of single crops. Thus
one of the most vital natural checks was
removed the limited amount of habi-
tat available in a mixed environment for
each species of insect.
Even more significantly, this man-
made modification to the environment
removed many of the natural predators
(not only birds and animals, but other
insects as well) and set the stage for the
explosive increase of specific insects.
To control these groups, we have now
been forced to embark on a sinister spiral
of destruction by/ ever more deadly
chemicals, a non-stop treadmill that we
cannot get off. Then there are the night-
marish implications of growing resistance
among pests, and increasing side-effects
on other living things.
In our attempts to check insect-borne
disease, too, we are obliged to continue
to develop more and more powerful
pesticides. But already some 26 kinds of
malaria-carrying mosquito have develop-
ed immunity to DDT.
If this picture of a world out of
balance Seems too remote, as it will to
most of us living in Australian cities,
there is another, much closer, picture —-
of a country in which Henry Kendall’s
uninformed mention of a “land of song-
less birds” might come to have a new
meaning. Are we preparing our own ver-
sion of the “silent spring” which is follow-
ing the winter of despoliation in the
United States?
Incalculable changes have already
taken place in the ecology of this country
through introduced species which have
gone wild and mutiplied foxes, rab-
bits, hares, cats, dogs, pigs, donkeys, rats,
mice, not to mention birds and plants.
Our own native species find that they
cannot survive against these intruders,
and are steadily giving ground every-
where.
A massive effort of human compre-
hensipn is called for, before it is too late.


FORUM
Clueless in Asia
Australia’s £10 million annual subsidy to Communist China
By K. E. BEAZLEY, M.P.
The Department of External Affairs has recently published an “Information
Handbook” entitled “Studies on Vietnam”. It establishes the fact that the Vietcong
are equipped with Chinese arms and ammunition. It is said that the Vietcong forces
are standardising on Chinese equipment. A continuing supply is therefore anticipated.
A chapter entitled “The Infiltration of Arms and Equipment into South Vietnam”
proves that North Vietnamese battalions are fighting in South Vietnam and that they
are also Chinese armed and supplied.
The Department of External Affairs
explains everything about Chinese
weapons except why the Department of
of Trade enables China to buy from Aus-
tralia the steel, lead and rutile for their
manufacture. There is something gravely
defective about a policy which through
the voice of the Government condemns
Chinese and Communist aggression,
through the armed force of the Govern-
ment resists aggression, and through the
business policy of the Government pro-
vides the aggressors with the means of
killing its own sons, the young men of
the United States armed forces who are
bearing the main burden of fighting, and
the long-suffering South Vietnamese to
whose aid Australian troops have been
sent.
The real significance of all—this is
that it focuses the fact that as a nation
we are without ideological direction.
If it is right to ask Australian youth
to risk everything in Vietnam it is wrong
to supply their enemies. The Communists
in Asia will kill anyone who stands in
their path, but at least they have a path.
We are at present pathless. We are
watching the Asian alternative to Com-
munist China India slowly breaking
down under the weight of problems of
under-development, under-nutrition, in-
ternational pressure and an intensifying,
campaign of defamation designed to rob
the leadership of the country of mind
and will and conviction.
It was a Leninist dictum that trade
could be so arranged that those trading
with his territory financed their own
destruction. Australian trade commis-
sioners do not so readily see that our
Chinese trade in war materials finances
our own destruction. NDr do they see
so clearly that the wheat trade does the
same thing. Australian wheat is con-
sumed in China and releases higher-
priced rice for export. With the gains
in foreign exchange China finances in-
dustrialisation, which is war potential.
But more than this the Australian tax-
payer is called on to finance our aid-to-
China policy.
J. Wilczynski, lecturer in economics
at the Royal Military College, Duntroon,
in an article in “The Australian
Quarterly” of March, 1964, points out
that there is each year a guaranteed price
for wheat. If wheat falls below the price
the Wheat Stabilisation Fund is drawn
upon. If the fund is exhausted the
budget of the Commonwealth meets the
deficiency. In 1960-61 the guaranteed
price was 15s. 2d. a bushel. The domestic
sale price was 15s. 4d. so no funds were
drawn on that account. The average
price paid by Communist China was
12s. 7d. a bushel. As a consequence of
this sale, and perhaps other sales,
£13,000,000 was drawn from revenue.
In 1961-62 the guaranteed price was
15s. 9d., the domestic price 15s. lOd.
and the appropriation from revenue
£7,000,000. The price to China in that
year was 13s. 7d. In 1962-63 the
guaranteed price was 15s. 10d., the
domestic price 15s. lHd., the Chinese
price 13s. 9d., and the appropriation
from revenue £12,000,000. In the most
exquisite understatement of the year
1964, Wilczynski writes, “The Australian
Wheat Board decided recently not to
publish the prices obtained from the
Communist bloc.” After giving the
figures he asks, perhaps innocently,
“Could this be the real reason for secrecy
in the AWB’s dealings with China?”
The Indian Alternative
Tt is not possible to disentangle how
much was the subsidy paid on the
China wheat-trade by the taxpayer, but
it must be the lion’s share of the
£32,000,000 over those three years. No
individual country has received Colombo
Plan aid on that scale in that time, and,
apparently, the Department of External
Affairs does not include it in the
statistics of our aid to the under-
developed world.
If at the present time a subversive
organisation set out to collect £lO million
a year for Peking, plus the means of
making munitions, its activities would be
exposed and prevented. When these are
the results of official Australian policy,
White Papers on Communist activity
seem to become paler than white in
comparison.
The alternatives for Asia are China
and India. In fact the Department of
Trade is hell bent on proving to Asia
that Communism works and that Asian
democracy does not work. We have
the palms of our hands the solution of
a number of Indian problems, and we
do virtually nothing to solve them.
A recent study points out food pro-
duction in British India in 1878-1879
was 51.53 million tons. The population
was 181,000,000. In 1951 -52 food
production was 51.14 million tons and
population was 361,000,000. Availa-
bility of food from home sources was
half per capita what it had been. The
land is deteriorating. The per capita
production of food is still falling.
One answer Australia can bring is
fertiliser for the land. At present India
imports $40,000,000 - worth of fer-
tiliser, but the need is probably for
$120,000,000. Actually a fertiliser-
factory and plant costing $10,000,000
could produce the $40,000,000 - worth
annually. One in process seems to have
been blocked at the negotiation point.
Is a strategic expenditure on fertiliser
plant, with great consequences for
India’s future, beyond Australia’s
capacity? Meanwhile, a gift of fertiliser
to an extent to make a difference could
be vital. Few countries can be more
experienced in the use of fertilisers than
Australia.
If fertiliser is critically necessary for
all agriculture, proteins in a form
acceptable to Hindu religious conviction
are critically necessary in nutrition. It
was an Australian, Sir lan Clunies Ross,
and an Australian organisation, the
CSIRO, which saw that powdered skim
milk, the finest source of protein, met
the case.
It is an Australian, Mr S. F. Barnes
of the Australian Milk Board, who is in
charge of two milk-processing factories
in Bangkok and Singapore, who has
pointed out the proven potential of
India’s buffaloes. Rajmohan Gandhi,
grandson of the Mahatma, runs a
Bombay weekly “Himmat”. Writing in
“Himmat” for July 30. Mr Barnes
quotes an authority that if the starving
in Asia could drink a quart of milk a
day (2 lbs) all the starvation areas would


disappear and the maps of disease would
lose their meaning.
Australians and New Zealanders, Mr
Barnes points out, produce 1600 lbs of
milk per head per year. They consume
1000 lbs per head per year. Eastern
Asia produces only 70 lbs a head a year
and consumes 75 lbs a head. While
generally speaking Asia is unsuitable
for dairying, local milk can be re-
inforced with powdered non-fat milk to
tone it up to high-protein value. Mr
Barnes cites Bombay as an example. The
buffaloes of the city were rounded up,
taken to Aarey Milk Colony, and their
milk- treated by pasteurisation and by
“recombining” with non-fat milk powder
and anhydrous fat. Bombay produces
toned milk at half the cost of buffalo
milk, with all the protein content of
normal milk as we know it.
If someone can do this by getting
hold of the purposeless buffaloes of
Bombay they could extend it by getting
hold of the purposeless buffaloes of
other cities if there is purpose in men.
Australia could, without doubt, help
organise this sort of action on a great
scale. Bombay’s scheme is a prototype.
The late Sir lan Clunies Ross has already
shown the way with a powdered-milk
export. We could organise scientific
dairies. We could finance pasteurisation
plants. We could train dairy tech-
nologists, more vital to India at the
moment than many university men.
Australia could also set up grain silos
in India, and it would be a sound policy
to build up a year’s grain reserve, by
way of gift, to remove the imminent
threat of famine. Tljis would need to
be financed by the Australian taxpayer,
who has already, apparently, been
financing Chinese aggression through the
Wheat Stabilisation Fund, and might
more intelligently be asked to finance
Australian defence in stabilising India.
The Coming of Spring -6
"My God! You're certainly a man
for all seasons
Letters to the Editor
The Charm School
SIR. May I be allowed to comment on
one or two statements in Daniel Thomas'
article on the Charm School? I feel it is only
fair to correct the impression given in Daniel
Thomas' article on the Charm School (B„
August 14) that Sydney Ure Smith was swept
along in the wake of the wealthy picture-
buying McEacharns, who steered him into
the then-exciting waters of the later-named
Charm School. On the contrary, the
McEacharns first met many of these artists
at the small parties Syd used to give at his
Potts Point flat, and from there went on to
see their work and sometimes to acquire it.
In the privately printed illustrated catalogue
of the McEacharn Collection, Neil wrote in
his foreword: "In making this collection we
are greatly indebted to Sydney Ure Smith,
whose chief concern has always been to
promote the cause of Australian art and to
help Australian artists."
Nor would I ever have termed Syd a
fence-sitter, though there was of course a
cartoon of the time so depicting him. He was
certainly a conservative, and as certainly
had a great fund of loyalty which stood
him in very poor stead, as loyalty is liable
to do, his generous helping hand receiving
many a sharp artistic bite. Always anxious
to help young or unknown artists both by
reproducing their work and writing of it,
this very loyalty caused him at the same
time to look back and support older and
more restricted painters.
This explains, I think, the wide range and
very differing styles of painting covered in
his "Present Day Art in Australia" collections.
Finally, may I say how astonished—and
even faintly incredulous—l was to learn at
this stage of the existence of "The Hats"?
One can only suppose that, like the husband,
the Hat is the last to hear. It is even more
surprising to learn that Mrs McEacharn was
one of them, as one remembers Imma's
beautiful dark head shining and bare, and
hatted only on the rarest of occasions. One
would have said in fact that she was one
of the first to introduce the hatless vogue to
Sydney (Town not Smith). However, this is
of no moment. Who is going to quibble at
an inaccurate amusing paragraph in the
middle of an excellent and interesting article?
MRS GREGORY BLAXLAND
Sydney (NSW).
Migrant Politics
SIR. On behalf of the New Citizens' Coun-
cil of Australia I wish to correct your inter-
view with Mr Baltinos (8., August 28). Let
me quote: "Baltinos took control of the New
Settlers' Federation in November, 1960. His
accession to power was the result of a break
between himself and a former AWU
organiser, Mr Bielski, whom Baltinos had
helped to become general secretary of the
then New Citizens' Council."
The facts are well known: The New
Citizens Council exists and flourishes and
has done so since August, 1958, when it was
founded. I was elected for the first time as
its general secretary in September, 1958, and
have been elected in every triennial election
since held by the Council. In September,
1958, Mr Baltinos was running an electrical
shop and a butchery at 767 George Street,
Sydney. He did not participate in any
activities of the Council until February, 1960,
when, on my recommendation, the Central
Executive appointed him as paid organiser
of the Council. Later he tried to use the
Council to further his political ambitions and
was expelled from the Council in September,
1960. Before that he made unauthorised
announcements that he would stand as the
Council's candidate for the Federal Senate.
Two months later Mr Baltinos formed a new
body which he called "The New Settlers'
Federation", consisting of himself, members
of his family and some business associates.
We find that co-operation with the Govern-
ment departments, including Mr Opperman's,
and social agencies generally, is much more
fruitful for the welfare of the 36,000 members
in our care than the boisterous methods
employed by Mr Baltinos.
J. S. BIELSKI
Secretary,
New Citizens' Council of Australia
Sydney (NSW).
"Voices Of Hate"
SIR. —Mr Brian Buckley recommends (8.,
August 21) K. D. Gott's "Voices of Hate"
as a serious study of me and the League of
Rights, believing that certain charges have
been "proven beyond dispute". I find it
hard to believe that Mr Buckley does not
know that "Voices of Hate" is a hatchet
project, not an objective research project.
He in fact attempts a little hatchet work him-
self with his suggestion that the League of
Rights is some type of Fascist organisation,
although he is forced to admit that the
League completely disagrees with Fascism's
central doctrine concerning the primacy of
the State over the individual.
The purpose of Mr Gott's booklet is stated
on page 44. It "is published in the hope that
some of Mr Butler's influence can be weak-
ened by making known some of the facts
about him". But while strong on slick
innuendoes, quotations out of context, half-
truths and errors of fact, the booklet is very
weak on facts. It is a classic example of
smear tactics. A book would be required to
deal adequately with the booklet. But this
is not necessary. An examination of one of
Mr Gott's main charges is all that is neces-
sary to expose his methods.
On page 10 of "Voices of Hate" Mr Gott
writes that "the Australian Government in-
vestigated activities he was conducting which
were detrimental to the war effort". It is
alleged that my "record of disruptive activity
. . . led to a Government inquiry". Then
follows the sneaky statement that "this is a
little-known episode in Butler's career . . ."
On page 18 Mr Gott puts the boots in again
by stating that "these days, Mr Butler does
not refer to this seamy episode in his
career". The clear inference is that some-
thing happened during the war which cast
reflection upon my loyalty, and that I care-
fully hide this skeleton in the closet Mr Gott
knows that his allegations are false because
he has read my booklet replying to the
"Nation" article, "The Secret Life of Eric
Butler", in which these allegations were first
made.
There is not one iota of truth that the
Government set up an inquiry because of
my disruptive activities and for the purpose
of investigating me. This is a complete
fabrication. In 1942 I sailed with my


For the Connoisseur!
llndeman RESERVE BIN VINTAGE WINES
Lindeman’s Wines announce that they have available limited quantities of
Reserve Private Bin Wines selected for Connoisseurs from the very best
Vintages of Australia’s finest vineyards. These wines may be ordered through
your usual supplier.
VINTAGE 1963 LINDEMAN’S RESERVE CHABLIS BIN 2272
This wine was made from Semilion grapes grown at Lindeman’s ‘Ben Fan’
Vineyards and other surrounding Vineyards in the Hunter River Valley.
N.S.W. It is a dry, austere, slightly “flinty” Chablis, ideal for all sea r oods
and light dishes.
GOLD MEDAL 1964 BRISBANE SHOW 1-YEAR-OLD CHABLIS (1963 VINT.)
VINTAGE 1964 LINDEMAN’S RESERVE RIESLING BIN 2464
A crisp, delicate, fruity flavoured wine with a strong Hunter character, this
wine was made from Riesling and Traminer grapes grown at Lindemans
“Ben Ean” and “Sunshine” Vineyards, Hunter River Valley. N.S.W It was
bottled at a very early age to retain the flavour and character of the original
grapes. Awarded a
SILVER MFD AT. 1964 BRISBANE SHOW', IN THE OPEN HOCK CLASS. ANY VINTAGE.
artillery unit for service in the islands and
did not return to Australia until 20 months
later, in the middle of 1944. The board of
inquiry referred tc by Mr Gott was con-
stituted on January 28, 1944. I was asked to
give evidence before this inquiry because
it was claimed that I might be able to give
some assistance. I was not "investigated".
As Mr Gott infers that he studied this
inquiry's report, he knows that in Section
61 it specifically commended my loyalty and
public activities.
I cannot conclude without observing that
Mr Gott and his "Dissent" colleagues make
the novel suggestion that T am a handicap
to genuine anti-Communists —presumably like
themselves. The only comment necessary is
to record that in a six-column spread in the
Communist "Guardian" of August 12, Mr
Gctt's book is extolled as "a handy manual
for those concerned to combat the persistent
efforts of Butler and his friends . . ."
ERIC D. BUTLER
National Director
The Australian League of Rights
Melbourne (Vic.).
Literary Heresy
SIR. If Mr Shadbolt so wishfully imagines
me "on his back" he can as easily imagine
me off again: it must be one cross too many
for so willing a martyr.
There are only a couple of questions of
fact in his letter (B„ August 14) on which
I wish to comment. First, he accuses me of
imputing words to him that he has never
uttered. lam content to rely on my memory
of a News Review broadcast from IYA
which began at 7.10 on the night following
the presentation at which Mr Shadbolt spoke.
(By recent enquir I find the presentation
was on October i 5, 1963.) There was no
question of Mr Sargeson being eligible for
the prize. As I remember, Mr Shadbolt said
something like this: That he felt he did not
really deserve the award, he was sure some
of the other contestants had better claim
to it, but he felt sure he was speaking for
them all when he said its true deservers were
Frank Sargeson and Roderick Finlayson with-
out whom the New Zealand short story
would not have been possible. Short of
reference to NZ3C tapes neither I nor Mr
Shadbolt can take this question further.
The early stories of Mr Shadbolt's that 1
thought imitative appeared in the "NZ
Listener" (November 4, 1955) and "Numbers"
(May, 1956). I can only accept Mr Shadbolt's
word that Sargeson was not his model.
Finally I would repeat that my attack was
directed against a kind of reviewing which
betrays subjective anxieties about who :s
top dog.
W. H. PEARSON
University of Auckland
Auckland (NZ).
MAURICE SHADBOLT comments: I do not
know why Dr Pearson is so determined to
bore readers with his—and my—trivia. He
concedes by default that he has not only
misrepresented my views, but actually in-
vented a few for me. So I cannot imagine
why he is so anxious to make such a
mystery of what I said two years ago (which
doesn't contradict anything said in my review
anyway) unless it is in an attempt to obscure
the fact that he has been inventing quotations
as freely as he contrives Aunt Sally opinions
for other people. I have privately offered
Dr Pearson a copy of the speech in question
—he didn't take up the offer in his personal
reply—and even sent him a relevant extract
from it. His letters make temperate and
reasoned discourse impossible.
Sweet and Sour
Grapes
Behind South Australia's Royal Commission
By CELLARMASTER
Confusion. Apparently conflicting
reports appear in the Press from
time to time regarding the wine
grape situation. At a period when wines
in general, table wines in particular, and,
above all, top quality wines have never
been more in demand, there are reports
ot a grape surplus in South Australia.
Almost daily we read of extensions to
South Australian vineyards and new
areas being developed; but on the next
page there appears an item that a Royal
Commission has been established in
South Australia to look into the grape
surplus, the grower-winemaker relation-
ship, and the allegedly low prices offered
to growers for certain types of wine
grapes. [Winemakers do not grow
nearly enough grapes for their require-
ments and are dependent on the grape
growers, most of whom are sturdy in-
dividual farmers and not combines or
companies.]
It seems fairly obvious that the Royal
Commission will find nothing new. There
is not really a grape surplus but merely
a varietal grape surplus, that is of par-
ticular grape varieties, especially Pali-
minos and Pedros. These grapes were
grown in the past because of their high
yield per<acre and their use for distilla-
tion into spirit and for bulk wines; they
are certainly not yet required in such
tonnages. Winemakers are still buying
a limited quantity of Sultants—a dual-
purpose grape from the soldier settle-
ment areas because they are cheaper
and ready earlier than the other grapes.
This is most important because the
earlier the “throughput” can start in
the wineries, the better the winemaker
likes it vintage becoming more and
more hectic as the different and more
expensive varieties, such as the table
wine grapes, ripen. So, simply, the
winemakers do not want to continue in-
creasing their consumption of the Pedros
and Paliminos at the same rate as before,
and are therefore unwilling to pay
previous prices. It becomes a question
of supply and demand, and one cannot
see what the Royal Commission can do
about it. It’s no good making ice-boxes
when everybody’s buying refrigerators.
Just as there is a surplus of some
grapes, there is also a shortage of others.
The boom in table wine consumption
has resulted in shortages of Black Shiraz
or Hermitage (same thing), Cabernet
Sauvignon and Rhine Riesling. And it is
interesting to note that these varieties,
especially the last two. almost pre-
eminent in the grape hall-of-fame, are
shy bearers and therefore used to be
relatively ignored by the growers. Wine-
makers now, however, buy all they can


STOP WISHING FOR A SKY HOOK
CROWN
ONE MAN ELECTRIC OR MANUAL TRUCKS
A CROWN will double your storage
space, slash costs on ‘in between’
handling and, most important, operate
where other trucks cannot.
Anyone, after one hour’s tuition, can
efficiently operate a CROWN. Up to
130-inch lift and 2,000 lbs. capacity.
Crown has all the features of bigger,
more expensive machines.
• Easy steering and manoeuvring
r » Precision lowering for fragile loads
• 200-inch steering arc
• Big lifting capacity • Smooth
selection of 3 forward and 3 reverse
speeds • Automatic charging with
built-in charger (electric models)
• Feather-touch control
• Four-point suspension
• Dynamic braking
MODELS FROM
£382
Choose from
54 Lift Models
by CROWN
nc-\
\
L
::w
m
m
m m
•VVf
will get you
off the f100r...
up into the
a
r
k
NiVUV
Winner of the U.S. Industrial
Designers Institute Award and
American Iron and Steel Insti-
tute Award Citation for Design
Excellence of an Industrial
Product.
Manoeuvres easily in
4 ft. wide aisles.
New CROWN 2,,000
lb. power Pallet Truck
does a ton of work
quickly and efficiently!
Arrange a free demon-
stration!
DAVIES INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT PTY. LIMITED
A division of R. B. Davies Industries Limited
450 lllawarra Road, Marrlckvllle, N.S.W. Tele.: 55 1225
Send coupon for details
Davies Industrial Equipment Pty. Limited
%50 lllawarra Rd., Marrickville, N.S.W.
ease send free
% CROWN range
ADDRESS
Brochure illustrating
lliT■ H * X'lM &'i
SALES & SERVICE—SYDNEY: 450 lllawarra Road,
Marrickville; 551221. MELBOURNE: 40 Robbs Road,
West Footscray; 314 9711. BRISBANE: 16 Thurlow
Street, Newmarket; 56 3496. ADELAIDE: Plant
Equipment & Co. Pty. Ltd., 71 Port Road,
Thebarton. PERTH: Sandovers Ltd., Belmont
Avenue, Belmont. HOBART: Eric E. Howard &
Sons Pty. Ltd., 166-170 Murray Street. LAUN-
CESTON: Eric E. Howard & Sons Pty. Ltd., 177
Brisbane Street.
of these varieties and are willing to pay
high prices for them.
At the moment, it appears that the
winemakers in South Australia are
developing their own acreages of these
varieties to a certain extent, and in
addition are experimenting with grape
types relatively unknown in Australia,
again with emphasis on table wines.
They are also developing new areas
after extensive research into soils and
climates and the whole picture is one of
progressive change. My examination of
these developments reveals the following:
In Coonawarra development proceeds
apace. More plantings are being made
every year. Mildara have now 100
acres under vine with Cabernet the
dominant grape. Trial areas of other
varieties are being established. The
recent Lindeman acquisition of the
Rouge-Homme winery and vineyards
again highlights this area. In addition to
the bearing vines and new plantings,
they intend to plant the remaining 300
acres “as fast as we can”. The land has
already been cleared and plantings of
the table wine varieties, again with
emphasis on the reds, Shiraz and Caber-
net, will proceed immediately.
David Wynn, of S. Wynn and Co.,
reports that in the last twelve months
another 25 acres of Cabernet were
planted at their Coonawarra Estate Vine-
yards, bringing the total to 95 acres. He
is, incidentally, immensely enthusiastic
about the Lindeman move.
Other developments in South Australia
are the Douglas A. Tolley plantings at
Qualco, which will eventually total 53
acres to be completed by March, 1966.
They include Cabernet, Rhine Riesling,
Shiraz, Gordos and Semilion, and other
experimental patches. Seppelts are also
involved in Qualco, and 10 acres each
of Palimino and White Hermitage were
planted to use in sherry production. It
is interesting to note here that, of course,
the bigger the fight about grape prices
paid to the grower, the more likely the
maker is to produce his own. In addition,
10 acres of Malbec were planted at
Qualco as a base wine for claret (as in
Bordeaux). The total acreage in Qualco
under vine is 80 acres which they hope
to double by 1970.
Stanley Wine Company of Clare, SA,
will have about 100 acres to go in their
350-acre replanting programme at Water-
vale. Fifty acres will be planted this
year and the balance next year. Stanley
are also hoping to purchase a further
50/100 acres in Watervale for the plant-
ing of new varieties which have been
introduced in the last two years, notably
Pinot Noir and Traminer. Emphasis
again on the total acreage is on the fine
table wine varieties Cabernet, Shiraz,
Rhine Riesling and Clare Riesling.
Yalumba are still developing their 646


1
1 pproaeh to Merdeka Bridge , Singapore
¥f*‘.KS>v.
HONGKONG £
a
BANGKOK
JESSELTOA
PENANG
LUMPUR
KUCHiNG
SINGAPORE
HONGKONG S BANGKOK*
HDJEIS
FROM MALAYSIA
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
I SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -81 JESSELTON/HONGKONG -2 1 KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK -3
IKUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG-21 PENANG/BANGKOK -31 SINGAPORE/BANGKOK -6
MALAYSIAN AIRWAYS
MALAYSIA’S NATIONAL AIRLINE-SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
1
if txcte t vnoNisoMt
CONSULT YOUR
TRAVEL AGENT
OR QANTAS.
OUR GENERAL
SALES AGENTS
IN AUSTRALIA
acres at Oxford Landing, near Waikerie.
Special plantings have been made of
Cabernet, the result of which has been
highly encouraging. Mark Hill Smith,
the debonair sales director of Yalumba,
reports that the wines are of tremendous
quality, most useful for blending but
too good not to be bottled as a specific
regional wine. Also Yalumba have
developed a 200-acre vineyard at Pewsey
Vale in the Barossa Valley. This started
in 1961 and will continue until the 200
acres are planted. The chief interest
seems here to be in Rhine Riesling and
the first wines of the vineyard have
extreme elegance and quality.
Also in South Australia, Hamiltons
have equipped their w'inery at Eden
Valley to process the grapes from the
Greenways Irrigation Settlement at Nil-
dottie on the River Murray. Greenways
covers 300 acres, the vines getting firmly
under way in 1961.
Recent wide publicity given to the
Penfold investment in the Wybong area
of the Hunter Valley, NSW, is justified
by the quality of the wines produced.
But more of this in my next article when
I will outline the developments in other
States. In the Penfold story, Wybong
is not everything. Discussion in relation
to their development programme reveals
the great depth and breadth of the Pen-
fold investment in Australian viticulture.
Unfortunately, the picture isn’t entirely
one of expansion, for the famous vine-
yard of Magill, five miles east of
Adelaide, which still has standing on it
the original cottage of Dr Rawson Pen-
fold, must be slowly depleted. Originally,
there were 350 acres here. Now, due to
creeping suburbia, there are only 200
acres. This must further fall, though
Penfolds insist that it will never be
below 150 acres. This area is celebrated
for the famous Grange Hermitage.
Luckily, we shall still continue to see
this wine since other plots now being
developed have been specifically sought
with this type of wine in mind.
The Kalinina vineyard in the heart of
the Barossa was purchased in 1944 with
30 acres of Cabernet standing. By 1959
the area had been completed—99s acres!
One could almost say that this was the
first planned vineyard of such size for
table wine production. At the same time
plantings were progressing at Modbury
up to 250 acres, though here the dark
biscay loam and clay sections of the
soil were found to be particularly suit-
able for quality dessert wines. In 1959
Penfolds moved into the Coonawarra
area and two sections of approximately
120 acres each are now under vine, the
last 40 acres being completed this year.
The main varieties are Shiraz, Malbec
and, again, Cabernet, with 10 acres of
Rhine Riesling planted in the black soil
which is the exception to the more
general red volcanic soil of the area.
From the original 30 acres on the
property, the Bin 28 Coonawarra Claret
has been made, a wine which lacks the
general high acidity of Coonawarra
wines and has a very generous flavor
with this softer style.
All this expansion is terribly impres-
sive, yet there are still many people in
the industry who feel that even this is
not enough that future demands for
good table wines will exceed the supply.
As for the over-production of some
grapes—which has produced the Royal
Commission—the recent Federal Budget
should greatly assist sales of the “social”
wines, the sweet sherries, ports and mus-
cats, and will so help overcome sur-
pluses of the grapes used in making
these. In fact the Federal Government
may have achieved the object of the
Royal Commission by raising the prices
of other drinks.
To me it seems that this is almost a
moment of truth for the wine industry.
It would be a great tragedy if the grower
went the same way as the bull.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Commitment, Not Cash
Sydney as the cultural capital
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Nothing can enliven discussions on
subsidies for the arts more than
the sight or smell of real money.
The talk at once descends from the high
and depressing level of what ought to
be done to a satisfying consideration of
what might be done.
The presence of Mr Keith Doyle,
member for Vaucluse in the NSW
Parliament, at the recent seminar organ-
ised by the Association for Cultural
Freedom in Sydney, was a living re-
minder of the new Liberal Government’s
pledge of an extra £lOO,OOO a year from
Opera House lotteries for cultural
activities. Without Mr Doyle the seminar
would have been just one more trot
around the block.
The remarkable thing, particularly as
amateur groups were disproportionately
represented above professional (the ill-
founded idea that professional theatre
will somehow grow out of amateur dies
hard) was that the discussion did not
just come down to a cosy cutting up
of the £lOO,OOO cake.
There are suggestions that nibbling
at the cake has already begun. It was
reported to the seminar that the Orange
Council was feeling fairly hopeful that
it could get £lO,OOO from the first year’s
£lOO,OOO to add a storey to its library.
The subsidy will come under the Minister
for Education, Mr Cutler, who is the
local member.
It may surprise the NSW Premier, Mr
Askin, to learn that the unanimous
thought of the seminar was that the offer
of £lOO,OOO should be viewed with great
suspicion.
Under the spirited leadership of the
executive director of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, Mr Stefan Haag, the
seminar decided that what is needed
from the State Government is commit-
ment, not cash.
“I could be given £lOO,OOO today, and
tomorrow be no better off,” Mr Haag
said. “We need commitment to a system
of subsidies along certain principles
which will ensure growth. A sum of
£lOO,OOO could be used wisely or un-
wisely. It could help some organisations
a little but it will not solve any artistic
problems. The Government will feel
justified in having made a gesture but
it will not really have done anything.”
The seminar generally did not favor
the proposed committee advising the
Minister for Education. Instead, it would
like a trust to administer Government
grants. This trust could consist of, per-
haps, four people, not directly connected
with the arts. The seminar, although full
of enthusiasm, was not optimistic enough
to think that public life in Australia
could produce anyone who, a leader in
his own field, yet knew something about
the arts. So, at random, an academic,
“one of the less footling” Supreme Court
judges and “someone to represent the
women” were suggested. This trust
would have the advice of committees of
people in the arts. This followed the
amended procedure of the Arts Council
in Britain.
Not only was the seminar disposed to
look at Mr Askin’s £lOO,OOO with
suspicion, but it boldly suggested that
the whole of the Opera House lottery
profits, estimated at something over
£1,200,000 a year, should go to culture.
It was felt that the time to press this
suggestion is now, before the Opera
House is finished and the profits from
the continuing lottery begin to trickle
back into Consolidated Revenue.
In this way, the Opera House might
be filled with something more enlivening
than poultry conferences and New South
Wales could go near to overcoming what
is one of the recurring problems of the
arts in Australia—the lack of an effective
national capital. Sydney would become
the cultural capital and Melbourne and
Adelaide could fall where they may.
This enthusiastic proposal for a NSW
Arts Trust to direct subsidies in this
State was accompanied by an equally
enthusiastic dismemberment of the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust as it now
stands.
The prime mover was probably Mr
Haag, who was at the seminar as a
private citizen. It may surprise one or
two of the perennial and repetitive critics
of the Elizabethan to know that Mr
Haag has his own criticisms. It should
not be surprising. After all, he has very
good opportunities of finding out how
the Trust works or does not work, and
oyer the past few months of slackness
he has had ample time for thought.
Not only has he criticisms; he has
remedies. Mr Haag said it was hard
to envisage the Trust as at present con-
stituted going on for much longer. “The!
Trust is a private body like any other,”;
he said. “It is inconceivable to have a
private body recommending the pay-
ment of Government subsidies.” He
believes the Trust’s position of being
involved in both production and sub-
sidisation is “untenable”. “It is generally
accepted inside the Trust that should the
Trust have a continued life it will move
out of production,” he said.
“By virtue of the specific Australian
circumstances vis a vis State and Federal
Governments, and the fact that the
States and, above all, the cities are
rather autonomous, I am inclined to
the view that the starting-point of the
scale of subsidy should be the State and
not the Federal level,” he said.
“This will also circumvent one of the
bugbears of the Trust—the States’ hold-
ing the Trust to ransom. Discrepancies
exist. Certain States make available
proportionately more than others. On a
population basis, the Tasmanian Govern-
ment subsidises the other States and
Victoria is being subsidised by all the
other States.”
Mr Haag said that any plan of subsidy
should take into account the geographic
facts of Australia’s existence—the small,
scattered population and the fact that
there is no national capital. “Then,” he
added, “there is the Australian charac-
teristic that nobody is inclined at any
level to accept that anyone is his
superior. Any argument in favor of, say,
Sydney over any other capital city
carries no weight in the smaller States,
Middy at the Theatre
for Young People ...


no matter how poor their reputation in
supporting the arts.”
Under the Haag plan, each State will
have subsidised theatre in its area in
accordance with the needs and desires of
the people of that State, irrespective of
what its neighbors are doing.
Mr Haag said that, as well, a proper
principle of the relationship between
Federal and State Governments in the
field of subsidies was very important. In
England, the idea that the Federal, or
central, Government provided the sub-
sidies to performers and the State or
civic authorities provided the buildings
was fairly well adhered to. and England,
he believed, at the moment was one of
the healthiest countries in the develop-
ment of theatre arts The Canada Coun-
cil, he felt, was inhibited by the inflexi-
bility of its financial arrangements, in
that its funds are limited to the income
from a fixed capital sum.
Mr Haag can then visualise a Federal
body, the main function of which would
be to distribute Commonwealth grants
to the performing arts, or, all the arts,
if a more comprehensive cover is decided
on. He can see this Federal body taking
on a variety of jobs which the Trust,
through lack of money and resources,
can now do only sketchily.
These tasks could include training of
theatre administrators and designers, as
well as actors; a ticket agency and an
information agency, available to both
profession and public; public relations;
national surveys on audiences; advising
the States and civic authorities on the
way it should be channelled; advice on
theatre budgeting; seeking funds from
private industry and liaison work with
Trade, External Affairs and Native Wel-
fare.
Mr Doyle said he believed that after
the Opera House the State Government
would be “disinclined to undertake other
structures”; but if shires and municipali-
ties undertook to build theatres, he felt
that companies “could come at the Gov-
ernment for the production costs”.
Other speakers included:
• Miss Diana Sharpe, of the Aus-
tralian Theatre for Young People, who
pointed out that any subsidy to children’s
theatre became a decreasing subsidy. She
gave one experience of seeking private
funds. She went to a large, international
firm which makes business-machines.
These machines will have the effect of
creating much more leisure for the
average worker. How, Miss Sharpe asked
the firm, did they think people should
use their leisure? They gave her a hand-
some £lO to carry on her theatre's good
work.
• Mr Douglas Parnell, of the NSW
Repertory Opera, who reported that
since the introduction of the Wyndham
plan in New South Wales it had become
much harder to induce headmasters to
allow performances. “Our performances
of ‘II Seraglio’ have sometimes been
attended mainly by the P & C,” he said.
“Headmasters use the Wyndham plan
as an excuse, saying the pupils are much
too busy.”
• Journalist Mr Roger Covell, who
felt that as civic authorities tended to
think in terms of civic adornment, why
not take advantage of this. If money
were put into companies, sometimes
when the moving spirit of the company
died, the company died, too, and there
was nothing left except delightful
memories. He felt that civic authorities
might be induced to build attractive
theatres and pay the running costs ?
leaving companies using the theatre only
the problem of paying performers.
• Mr Reid Douglas, of the Arts
Council, who pointed out that a large
number of theatres, most of them un-
suitable, had been built in New South
Wales in the past 10 years. He said it
was hard to convince councillors that
they should subsidise drama over other
activities, and, in a way, it was hard
see why they should be expected to
differentiate between drama and Rotary.
Mr Douglas said that Canada Council
was a particularly representative coun-
cil compared with the Elizabethan,
which, he said, was made up of “well-
meaning businessmen, academics and
ladies whose husbands are employed by
the chairman”. He said that members
of the artistic professions were rep-
resented on the Canada Council. This
gave the council an abrasive quality.
“With the Elizabethan criticism comes
from the outside,” he said. “People risk
their jobs to say what they think.”


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS. All types (including
Poems) for book publication. Reasonable
terms. Stockwell Ltd., Ilfracombe, England.
(Estd. 1898.)
FILMS
Welles’ Trial
The Trial. Director, Orson Welles. Union
Theatre, Sydney.
Welles combines a genuine
love and respect for great writers
with a need to wrench them into his
own pattern of artistic thinking. Both
Shakespeare and Melville have been
forced to fit into the Welles personality
as into the bed of Procrustes; the results
were untidy but sometimes stimulating
and beautiful. And despite his often
scatty experimentalism, Welles did little
real violence to the essential spirit of
Shakespeare and Melville. Basically he
is in tune with them: even when they
mourn the tragedy of man’s self-
destructiveness, they do so from a firm
ground of love and optimism, an in-
eradicable conviction that life is worth-
while just because it isn’t death. So
how did Orson Welles get the idea of
filming Franz Kafka?
“The Trial” would certainly have
attractions for him. Not only is it a
stunningly effective book, with unlimited
opportunities for directorial and photo-
graphic gimmicks, it is also a strange,
dreamlike one which would free its
adaptor from the chore of setting out
a straightforward, coherent narrative.
(Welles is perfectly capable of doing
this, but has never shown any great
enthusiasm for it.) But Kafka’s pro-
found personal despair is completely
alien to Welles, and because of this and
the gross miscasting of the central role,
“The Trial” seems a failure with inter-
mittent flashes of brilliance.
To Kafka, man is constantly threat-
ened by an omnipotent, enigmatic Law
which has nothing to do with justice or
humanity. He is powerless, too, against
the guilt within himself, which finally
makes Joseph K. in “The Trial”
acquiesce in his punishment, though he
never discovers his crime.
Since Welles cannot accept the idea
of a Law as cruel and irresponsible as
a primitive god, he has taken Kafka’s
allegory to be an indictment of totali-
tarianism, which at once reduces the
novel’s stature, even if making it a little
nearer to the modern world. There are
references to police states, concentration
camps and even, in the last frame, a
mushroom-shaped cloud which, since
Kafka died in the 19305, was one worry
that was spared him.
Anthony Perkins’ performance is intel-
ligent, but his personality and appear-
ance unfit him for the role of the
mediocre K. This removes one of the
book’s most frightening aspects that
this enormous, complicated machine goes
into action to destroy one unimportant
man. Both Perkins and Welles approach
the character too romantically. K. is a
persecuted hero instead of a victim
whose struggles become progressively
feebler; his death becomes an act of
defiance instead of resignation.
But Welles himself is fine as the
advocate, as is Akim Tamiroff as his
cringing client; Romy Schneider and
Elsa Martinelli are impressive. The
photography, though often too clever by
half, has breathtaking moments. Per-
haps Welles’ greatest success is not in
the portrait of K. but in his evocation
of the nightmare world around him,
with its inexplicable savagery and its
denial of human warmth so complete
that even the advances of women to K.
are more like brutal assaults than
gestures of love.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
Nothing Very
Special
Dome television critics, having seen a
preview of “The Wonderful World
of Leslie Uggams”, complained on
behalf of viewers because it was to be
shown at the same time as another
Australian production, “My Brother
Jack”. This concern was largely un-
necessary, as it turned out. Those who
admire Miss Uggams probably would
have found the story of Jack very un-
lively, and those who were not admirers,
or were uncertain, had 20 minutes to
view her before “My Brother Jack”
began. Personally, I found those 20
minutes enough. Miss Uggams is a
pleasant singer, but one can take just
so much of the commodity she dished
out in the one hour Dulux “special”,
strawberry sponge cake with oversweet
icing. Nor did she help matters by
delivering the paint commercials in
person. What troubled me even more
was the overall production of Ron Way,
who has done so much better, so many
times.
The “specials” which television delivers
almost every time an overseas entertainer
arrives are of dubious value, especially
over 60 minutes, less commercials.
ATN-7, which made the Leslie Uggams
show, threw in a girls’ choir in an at-
tempt to attract everyone from ten to
30, which may be the age group that
buys paint.
As the number of stations increase,
the value of “specials”, or as they used
to be called, “spectaculars”, must decline
as audience-winning devices.
For my money a singer is there to
sing, and if he or she can do that for
one solid hour of balanced or mounting
repertoire, I will watch and listen, as I
expect to do when Shirley Bassey stands
before the cameras this week, providing
that she does not attempt to enchant me
with personal messages for Berlei
foundation garments. One of the best
“specials” I have seen was made by
Sammy Davis, walking around the bare
GTV sound stage, microphone in hand,
talking and singing. A much more
lavish show he made in England failed
in comparison.
On this subject, the ABC has entered
the “specials” field on Sunday after-
noons, with a series of half-concerts by
visiting celebrities. The day after Miss
Uggams showed us the wonderful world
of Spruce, the new Dulux paint, I spent
50 enchanted minutes with Victoria de
Los Angeles, who managed without
supporting child choirs, on the Town
Hall’s bleak stage.
This show was followed soon after
by one of a Festival of France series
in which an orchestra played a variety
of numbers and the cameras followed a
young woman’s pursuit of the elusive
male. This was so well conceived and
so well photographed that it deserved
whole paeans of praise and publicity.
But that, we know, is not the ABC’s
way with its more remarkable shows.
I recommend Festival.
DALE MILLER
THEATRE
Ambivalent
The Bed-sitting Room. Emerald Hill
Theatre, Melboune.
TTow do you explain a show which
won’t let itself be explained? “The
Bed-sitting Room” is not, strictly speak-
ing, a play, yet more so than “You'll
Come to Love Your Sperm Test”, which
was little more than a slightly organised
piece of Goonish madness.
It is not a blown-up slice of cabaret,
though it has much in common with
political cabaret of the European type.
In fact, it has something in common with
almost anything you can think of: with
the Theatre of the Absurd, existentialist
drama, the art of the beats and even with
Moreno’s psycho-drama. Probably most
of all with the latter, for it is full of
“acting out”.
There are episodes and situations to
make you think of Kafka, Wedekind or
the early Brecht, others which seem to
have been designed by George Grosz in
the mid-’twenties, including a sort of
crucifixion scene. “The Bed-sitting


Room” is very funny if not as riot-
ously as “Sperm Test” but it asks to
be taken more seriously. At any rate, it
is social commentary, and as such ex-
tremely bitter. Sex is still plentiful, but
the authors realise that the cruellest jest
begins where the sex joke ends. As a
work of de-emotionalised romantic re-
bellion it fits perfectly into the modern
canon, substituting good patter for good
dialogue. That this can be done success-
fully is a minor revelation.
The stage looks at first like a surrealist
gallery devastated by a bomb. There is
a mountain of boots, a coffin, a skeletised
harmonium and a bed. Then, if you
please, it becomes Lord Fortnum who
has been turned into a bed-sitting room.
Dehumanised man, man as an object . . .
that’s not new, but the goon approach
pays dividends because it does not con-
stantly remind us of the order and con-
ventions that had to be shattered to
portray dissolution and anarchy. Milligan
and Antrobus do not strain away from
the theatre from within the theatre; they
work towards it from without.
The fragments are held together by
an idea. The fellow who becomes a wall,
a commode, and various other things is
a mutant who has undergone atomic
catharsis. Mankind has had its second
fall the fall of the H-bomb. The
survivors retain the old symbols and
verbs without their old meanings; from
insanely concrete the human race has
turned into the insanely abstract. Henry
and Min have gone round the last bend.
The centrifugal drive is controlled
(only just) by topicality and allusion.
The most charming mutant is a cockatoo,
carried about in a cage, and this absurd
bird is Robert Menzies. In this way,
someone who wants to escape the awful
implications of “The Bed-sitting Room ’
can do so: the audience’s reaction is a
good deal more ambivalent than the play
itself. At the end, however, when one has
laughed enough, the tragic should have
proved as strong as the farcical. The
coffin opens, Christ is pulled up to the
roof, and the death of the ridiculous baby
in the ridiculous crib wrings anything but
a ridiculous cry from its ridiculous
mother.
No other Melbourne group could have
decanted this potent brew as stylishly as
the Emerald Hill cast. Stanley Page, John
Paton and George Whaley represent the
three more or less identifiable characters
in the piece. All are fine comedians,
with, respectively, a touch of the para-
noid, the dissociated and the demoniac.
John Derum, übiquitous in nine disguises,
gets and deserves his laughs. They are
well supported by Graeme Bell and Arne
Neeme and by the very odd girl out,
Gerda Nicholson.
DAVID MARTIN
THEATRE
Newcastle Takes the Stage
'WT’hen the 20th Australian Universities’
" Drama Festival began in New-
castle, the organisers probably were more
tense than the players. They had staked
much on a venture which they hoped
fervently would help to place Newcastle’s
newly autonomous university on a
national footing.
Pre-festival worries centred on the
financial guarantee of £3OOO needed to
stage the festival. The organisers ap-
proached industrial and business leaders
and got firm refusals. There was never
any serious question of cancelling the
festival but fund-raising added greatly
to the burden of the organisers. Almost
£lOOO had been raised by the time the
festival began. Door sales during the
festival raised another £lOOO. Organisers
still have to find £lOOO.
The festival had crowded houses each
night and strong support from the general
public as well as students. The demand
for tickets for “Volpone” (on the read-
ing list for some English students at
Newcastle) necessitated a repeat per-
formance. The programme of seminars,
lectures and films attracted a steady
attendance.
Newcastle’s festival offering of Piran-
dello’s “Six Characters in Search of an
Author” was produced by Dennis Big-
gins who kept the cast in tight rein and
defined the play’s structure with percep-
tion and skill. The play merges a com-
pany of actors with a set of characters
of a play-in-the-making, who abruptly
intrude on a rehearsal. The pro-
ducer, who is the one real figure, was
played with verve by Robert Jones.
Helen Bell as the daughter emerged as
one of the best actresses of the festival.
“The Theatre of Cruelty”, based upon
the ideas of Antonin Artaud, as perform-
ed by Sydney University Dramatic Soc-
iety, contemptuously cut through any
preconceived ideas of what is to be ex-
pected at the theatre.
In what was apparently a much
tightened production from its original
presentation, the well-drilled cast manag-
ed to make the unexpected the accepted.
The audience was made to watch a wink-
ing green light, listen to a narrator read
aloud numbers as they were flashed on
a screen, submit to abuse from the stage,
join in wolf howls and even accept the
prank of kidnapping a character unwary
enough to demand to be carried off. The
audience seemed divided between being
delighted and affronted.
What carried this extraordinary per-
formance was its costuming and the
efficiency of its staging.
The play, produced with wild extrava-
gance by Albie Thoms, was an excellent
choice for a festival in a provincial city.
It certainly blazed a trail for other ex-
perimental plays such as Ann Jellicoe’s
“The Sport of My Mad Mother”, pre-
sented by the University of Queensland
Dramatic Society.
This uniquely mobile play is about a
teddy boy gang led by a woman the
mad mother and their ritualistic be-
havior has to be performed with near-
ballet precision. It created a sharp visual
impression of its jiving characters but
was incomplete as a play because its
characters are inarticulate and their one
interpreter, an American, is too much
of an outsider to understand them him-
self.
Production by Ron Finney was
imaginative and unconventional in
handling the jazz-and-jive action and
sound, and dynamic performances came
from its young cast, in particular Rex
Cramphorne and Doug Barry.
University of NSW’s Dramsoc had in
Victor Emeljanow a youthful Volpone
of magnificent rascalry for their pro-
duction of Ben Johnson’s classic. The
production by Philip Parsons called for
an extension apron stage to allow the
players to be in direct contact with the
audience. They swung through the in-
volvements of a complex plot with pro-
fessional aplomb, bringing out the best
of the comedy from the play’s assort-
ment of colorful characters aided by
elegant costumes and exaggerated make-
up of mask-like grotesqueness.
The Melbourne University Marlowe
Society gave Harold Pinter’s “The Birth-
day Party” a superficially conventional
living-room set which might have lulled
the audience into anticipating Priestley
if it were not for the fact that walls
were a bilious yellow with surrealistically
peeling surface.
The play has a horrific build-up of
menace directed at Stanley, played beat-
nik by Graeme Blundell, the sole boarder
at a run-down seaside guest house. The
banal couple who run it are almost
entirely oblivious of Stanley’s helpless-
ness when his fate, whatever it is,
materialises in the form of two un-
expected guests, Goldberg and Mcßane.
Stanley’s persecutors or inquisitors are
both fiendish and bizarre in this phantas-
magoric production by David Kendall
who has given the play some new trap-
pings, providing a healthy precedent for
student productions which sometimes
tend to be too diffident.
JOY FOSTER


BOOKS
Citizen Welles
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Cinema of Orson Welles. Peter Cowie.
Zwemmer and A. S. Barnes. 18s.
A sign hung over a wire-mesh gate,
“No trespassing”; a hill, with at the
top a vast Gothic pile, a light shining
from a single window; a clutter of gon-
dolas and shapeless, eerie junk; tall,
Disneyish lit panes; a face in stony pro-
file as rubbery lips breathe “Rosebud”;
a crystal paperweight spinning out of a
hand; a nurse slanting through a high,
narrow door: the opening of “Citizen
Kane” —and the brooding, off-key music
of Bernard Herrmann which goes with it
has now become part of the textbook
of cinema history, so over-familiar that
it tends, together with the Odessa Steps
massacre in “Potemkin” and the advance
of the Ku Klux Klan in “Birth of a
Nation” to have become almost disliked
by the blase. Yet the “Kane” prelude
still, each time one sees it, reasserts itself,
and so does the newsreel which follows:
jungle music, the opening lines of Cole-
ridge’s poem, and the waving palms of
the palace of Xanadu; the glimpses of
Kane as lion rampant, errant and finally
couchant; the intricate beauty of the
sequence when from an apple-tree’s
bare branches a hand-held camera
peers coldly at the aged magnate pushed
in his wheelchair through the orchard, a
shapeless mummy wrapped in a winding-
cloth of time.
The tragedy of Welles was that he
needed the kind of craftsmanship only
Hollywood could provide, but that Holly-
wood didn’t sufficiently need him. In
Europe, his total dependence on Ameri-
can artifice cruelly shows through. It has
become fashionable in recent years to pre-
fer the European cinema. But the stan-
dards of physical execution there are
simply not as good as those in America,
whatever the pundits may tell us. And
Welles’s European films—from “Othello”
on —have been depressingly clumsy. Only
“Touch of Evil” the thriller he return-
ed to Hollywood briefly to make in 1958
showed the old flair, and it’s significant
that he worked on the film with one of
the best of Hollywood cameramen (Rus-
sell Metty) and art directors (Alexander
Golitzen). If only he had had that kind
of help on “The Trial”!
The cinema is at base a collaborative
medium, and Welles’s most celebrated
effects owe as much to Gregg Toland,
Stanley Cortez and Charles Lawton Jnr,
the cameramen of “Kane”, “The Magni-
ficent Ambersons” and “The Lady from
Shanghai” respectively, as they do to
him. New to the industry in 1940, he
was at first more of a man of radio and
stage than film, and Toland (and “Kane’s”
scenarist, Herman J. Mankiewicz) did
much to channel his genius. Unfortu-
nately, Peter Cowie in his recent “Orson
Welles” fails to point to this fact. His
book is all too typical of so much film
writing, most of which, in the absence
of an analytical intelligence behind it,
simply reflects and echoes a director’s
viewpoints, taking him at his own valua-
tion and practically providing a refer-
ence for him (or a job application for
the author) into the bargain.
Part of the trouble is that the cinema
is so young, and that Welles’s significant
career was so brief. As a log of Welles’s
events Mr Cowie’s book is certainly
worth having, especially for beginners,
and the script extracts from “Kane”, and
“Ambersons” are invaluable in them-
selves. The writing throughout, though,
is heavily pedestrian, written in a flat,
university extension-course prose sadly
lacking in edge or point. But the facts are
all there, painstakingly researched for
those who want them, with the notable
exception of the truth about “Jane Eyre”,
which a letter to the participants say,
Agnes Moorehead or Joan Fontaine
would have established as being the work
of Welles alone. Every dark, glowering
frame is stamped with his personality:
the scenes at Lowood; the aunt and the
fat boy gobbling sweets; Mr Brocklehurst
grandly looming as Jane is packed off
to boarding-school; the tramping of the
children round the school yard in the
rain; Welles’s first appearance as
Rochester whirling with black bat-
winged cloak out of the fog on the lonely
moor; the cry “Jane! Jane!” echoing
through the house when the governess
goes to revisit her dying aunt; and above
ORSON WELLES
all the scenes involving the mad wife
from Jamaica, the crazed maid Grace
Poole appearing around corners with
guttering candles; the claw hands of the
incarcerated woman shadowed on the
wall when Rochester flings open the door
of the cell and shows the rotted maniac
to his kindred on the wedding day.
Maddeningly, Mr Cowie fails to cap-
ture the tone, the flavor of Welles’s fiims.
He fails to note that they are less success-
ful for what they have to say about
American society the remarks about
politics and about the wasteful lives of
the rich are often atrociously jejune and
pretentious than for their sensuality,
their overpoweringly torrid force of emo-
tion. Of all his films, I find “The Lady
from Shanghai” the most ravishing: a
masterpiece of evocative imagery, con-
juring up as no other film has ever done
the feeling of the tropics, of the lazy
movement of a yacht at sea, of the beauty
of marshes and palms, and the misty
calm of remote ports of call. For all its
sombre, incidental sniping at the rich
at the symbolic little party of faded-
liberal sailor, wicked lawyer, murderous
wife and sweatingly voyeurist partner
sailing from the Caribbean to San Fran-
cisco—the film is essentially a romantic
work, celebrating the physical pleasures.
In the film’s most beautiful sequence
when the wife lies on her back on deck,
singing, and the two businessmen ex-
change brutal wisecracks (“That’s good,
Arthur!” “That’s good, George!”)
Welles’s love of luxury, of relaxation and
pleasure flash through the crude social
comment and show him essentially to be
a poet of the flesh.
And the especial quality of “Amber-
sons” also fails to touch Mr Cowie: its
surface argument is to show the essen-
tial worthlessness of the provincial
bourgeois society Booth Tarkington more
generously depicted in his novel, but be-
fore long we are conscious of Welles’s
enjoyment of the rich textures of the
costumes, flesh, houses he is exploring;
he seems most at ease, in fact, when he
Supplication
I shall ask my Lord to have me here again,
Now that I know how blue the lake is
Under the sky.
And how white the breakers curl
Along a thousand miles of coastline
When the wind is in the west.
I want to pick again the black-ripe cherries
In the mountain country
And gather walnuts under the trees;
Hunting for them among the dying leaves
Heaped up, waiting for winter.
One lifetime is not enough, Lord.
Man can do so little between dawn and dusk.
K. M. KNIGHT


MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Have your favourite magazines
posted to you and enjoy the
convenience of home delivery. We
can arrange a subscription to any
magazine you require. Write or
phone for our big price lists
featuring all the well - known
magazines, classified under such
subject headings as Pictorials,
Hobbies, Business, etc. If possible
advise the name of magazine or
subject you are interested in.
JOHN HINTON PTY. LTD.
118 William Street
NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: 92 5904 (3 lines)
(When you reply please quote "Dept. 22")
can share his characters’ pleasure, and
evoke the simple delights of a winter-
outing ride, with its whirling snow,
laughter tinkling brightly, and hiss of
parted ice. And in “Touch of Evil”
there’s no mistaking the wholehearted-
ness of the scene when the motor-cycle
gang screams in on the lonely girl in the
motel, Henry Mancini’s music brutally
pounding on the soundtrack. A relish in
the details of violence, in all physical
action, runs like a vein through the
Welles corpus and gives it a splendid
vitality.
Dry chroniclers, no matter how
earnest and well-intentioned, aren’t what
Welles needs. Perhaps, if we must have
works about him, we should ask him to
make his “Mr Arkadin” flesh, and write
a book about himself.
The Kafka Nightmare
By JAMES McAULEY
The Diaries of Franz Kafka, 1910-23. Edited
by Max Brod. Penguin. 255.
17'afka is freely spoken of today as one
of the great novelists. He called him-
self an epigone, with a narrow but strong
talent a truer assessment.
The world of his novels and stories is
exceptionally bleak. There
are no real people in it,
only figures whose abstract-
ness shows through the
naturalistic detail applied
to them. Instead of human
flesh, one touches a grey,
cold, crumbling substance,
unresponsive to sensuous
pleasure, beauty, joy,
warmth. Commonplace and
banal situations are meticu-
lously described but with
the logical structure re-
placed by dream-connec-
tions, so that they become
sinister and senseless. The
stories are projections of a
sense of isolation, guilt and
defeat; they read like alleg-
ories, but there is no inter-
pretation other than the
contradictory meanings
critics officiously extract
from their indefinite possi-
bilities. They are ingenious
locks without a key, because
they mean only that there
is no way out. Nightmare
wears the face of matter-of-
fact; the demons have taken
over. Modern readers have
felt that Kafka’s work gives
a general image of the indi-
vidual isolated and trapped at each level:
personal, social and metaphysical.
Kafka was born and brought up in a
German-speaking Jewish household in
Prague. His alienation began with his
family, and deepened with every futile
attempt to escape. He could not bring
himself to marry his fiancee. Judaism,
Christianity, Zionism, cults of various
kinds caught his interest but never drew
him out. He worked in a State insurance
office consumed with a desire to write.
ANTHONY PERKSNS AS "K"
N
Literature held out the possibility of
some kind of salvation, but the liberating
word never came. Tuberculosis super-
vened upon his neurotic withdrawal and
destroyed him in 1924 at the age of 42.
The diaries are only secondarily a
record of daily events. They are note-
books in which drafts of
stories abound, records of
dreams, and minute exam-
inations of his inner frustra-
tions and self-rejection. He
speaks of himself as enact-
ing in reverse the Israelite
exodus: he wanders forth
from Canaan —the world of
common humanity into
the wilderness, seeking some
wholly other place, but not
finding it.
So, at least, I read the
diaries and prose fiction.
Others claim they have
found in his work a final
emancipation, a new insight
won at the end of a meta-
physical or religious quest.
It is not even clear how far
one is justified in regarding
Kafka’s quest as metaphysi-
cal or religious. What the
diaries present is mainly a
psychological problem
though there are overtones,
such as when he imagines
himself developing “a new
secret doctrine, a Cabba-
lah”.
Very painful is his
attempt to understand why
he cannotiace marriage. He
had two fleeting and unsatisfactory ex-
periences with women in young man-
hood, but the sexual act came to have a
negative value for him. He sets down as a
reason against marriage: “The fear of the
connexion, of the passing into the other.”
That physical connexion is part of his
meaning here seems confirmed by the
horrible remark later: “Coitus as punish-
ment for the happiness of being together.”
He sees all relationships as involving
falsehood and impurity: “In me, by ray-
self, without human relationship, there
are no visible lies. The limited circle is
pure.” It is noteworthy that the next
entry in the diary is a note for a possible
allegory: “A herd of horses broke out of
the enclosure.”
By July 28, 1914, he is writing: “I
am turning to stone, this is the truth.”
The withdrawal is continuous: “My
talent for portraying my dreamlike inner
life has thrust all other matters into the
background; my life has dwindled dread-
fully, nor will it cease to dwindle.”
One notation, on October 21, 1921,
shows how his inner experience gives rise
to the sort of images he uses in his
stories: “All is imaginery family,
office, friends, the street, all imaginery,
far away or close at hand, the woman; the
truth that is closest, however, is only
this, that you are beating your head
against the wall of a windowless and
doorless cell.” As in the stories, the pos-
sibility of a solution, of an escape
beyond, is inherent in the symbolism, but
nevertheless denied. The puzzle is con-
structed so as to have no solution, al-
though the existence of puzzles implies
the idea of a solution.
Kafka’s inability to connect with the
world as he wished he longed for
marriage, children, normal life de-
prives his sensibility and imagination of
the normal range. His imaginings have a
characteristic cruelty and aridity. They
are that which fills the mind when organ-
ic growth is frustrated: hurtful and
mechanical conceptions.
For example, he expresses the idea of
artistic mastery over his imaginings in a
typical phrase: “Who has the magic hand


* v ". :>
V"-*
INDUSTRIAL
OUMT ISA DISPUTE g
Gordon Sheldon
Mount Isa
Timely and relevant, ‘lndustrial
Siege’ is the first comprehen-
sive, impartial account of the
recent Mount Isa dispute and
its national significance.
JUST RELEASED 39/6
F.W. CHESHIRE
Melbourne Canberra Sydney
to thrust into the machinery without its
being torn to pieces and scattered by a
thousand knives?”
It is first of all himself he is hurting.
Images of cutting and mutilation are
frequent. Here, for instance, is the germ
of a possible short story: “A segment has
been cut out of the back of his head. The
sun, and the whole world with it, peeps
in. It makes him nervous, it distracts him
from his work, and moreover it irritates
him that just he should be the one de-
barred from the spectacle.” The comic
vision has turned black and desolating.
The diaries are illuminating for those
who are fascinated by Kafka. Personally,
I am returning to my interrupted reading
of another despairing, withdrawn neuro-
tic who tried to find a way back to para-
dise by literature, and became the last
great master, with whom the novel fell
into decline 40-odd years ago. I am re-
treating into the shade of the wistaria-
bower formed by Odette’s parasol as she
walks in the Avenue du Bois, for in
Proust’s world the heartbreak and hope-
lessness are saturated with tenderness and
beauty.
The American Nut
By R. M. WILDING
An American Dream. Norman Mailer.
Andre Deutsch. 31s. 6d.
“ A n American Dream” opens with
Jack Kennedy in the first sentence,
has him phoning Rojack to console him
oyer his wife’s death, and in its epilogue
has Marilyn Monroe sending a message
on the telephone to Jesus “Marilyn
says to say ‘hello’.” It all seems to be
offending a number of decorums, to be
in rather bad taste. But of course the
deaths of Kennedy and Monroe have
their own aura of bad taste, making
them so much part of the American
nightmare that apparently Mailer is
dredging through.
I forget now who it was who com-
mented on_Kennedy’s assassination that
it was difficult for the non-American to
understand it, to see how it could
happen from any causes other than
political ones; but it happened because
of that feature of American life known,
the commentator explained, as the
American Nut.
Stephen Rojack, Mailer’s central figure
here, is one of the earliest appearances
of the American Nut in literature, in
the vanguard of a myth that will replace
the log cabin to White House one.
That’s in the book too Rojack has
been a congressman; but he’s aban-
doned that myth for the new one. “Yes,
I had come to believe in spirits and
fiends, in incubi and succubi; more than
once had I sat up in a strange woman’s
bed feeling claws on my chest, a
familiar bad odor above the liquor on
my tongue and Deborah’s green eyes
staring at me in the dark,, an oppression
close to strangling on my throat.”
And as long as we stop ourselves from
worrying whether Mailer is another
American Nut. the book is wholly
absorbing. Rojack as Professor oj
Existential Psychology, “with the not in;
considerable thesis that magic, dread!
and the perception of death were
roots of motivation”, is unconvincing
except where he begins acting out hit
theses, and here he is superbly the Nutt
And he’s not a totally way-out Nut il
be dismissed. There is something com
pulsive about the way he strangles hi
wife and moves downstairs to make
maid, and then returns upstairs to throw
his wife out of the window, phones th|
police, and then takes Ruta again.
It is as obsessive as Faulkner o*
Lawrence—the perversion with Ruta il
clearer than that with Lady Chatterleyl
though still strangely, coyly paraphrased!
but it has a compulsiveness, too, at
compulsiveness not only in the pace ofi
the story but also in the boldness of the l
imagination. It’s a boldness rather like,
Rojack’s; there’s one powerful scene in!
which Rojack walks along a foot-wide!
parapet “thirty and more stories of,
vertical fall”—a scene that creates a sus-.
pense as involving as the interrogation
in “Crime and Punishment”. Like'
Rojack, Mailer risks a thirty-storey drop!
In what is his first novel for nine yearj
he seems to be enacting Rojack’s des-
perate and boat-burning gesture grab-
bing at the moon and the kitchens of
Hell. But as Rojack found you’ve got to)
make a choice a choice that Ruta,
didn’t like. And Mailer’s gone out foq
profundity and meaning as well ad
action and excitement.
Mailer’s using a genre that is getting
pretty familiar—the big sex novel. Bui!
unlike “Another Country” or “A Grees[
Tree in Gedde”, this book’s sex seemsi
pretty much present for its own sake!
It isn’t, as with Baldwin or Sharp, a wa;
of making and probing relationships. 01
course, there’s no reason why it shoulc
be, and it’s all enjoyable enough. Thong!
Rojack may imagine it’s not just sex buj
a struggle between God and the Devil
They come in quite often. Whei
Rojack’s father-in-law is describing hov‘
he seduced his daughter Rojack’s just,
murdered wife, that is —he says, “Il
was as if the Devil had come into the
room at that instant and was all ovej
me.” And Rojack walking along thaj
parapet has the thought, the insight, j
suppose, “God exists”.
That’s a disturbing moment as there’!
the sudder, fear that Mailer on hi
parapet may think he’s made the same
insight. It’s best to treat the manichaeae
pair, though, in the same category as
Bess Trelawne who “had the reputation
of being the most evil woman ever to live
on the Riviera”, and the vampires
Rojack’s wife told her daughter “out
blood was all filled with”. Rojack is
rooting around in the world of the
romantic agony; in the car, with the cops


King George IV
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
simply superb
There is nothing simple in being
“simply superb.” King George IV Old
Scotch Whisky is hailed by discrim-
inating palates the world over. Bom
in the majestic blend of finest High-
land Malt and other Scotch Whiskies*
Matured to mellow perfection in
seasoned wood. King George IV—the
legendary Old Scotch Whisky that’s
“simply superb.” And, my friend . . »
that caps it!
!N SC
The Distillers Agency Ltd., (Inc. in Great Britain)
9520
KG28102
who suspect he killed his wife, *T knew
at last the sweet panic of an animaf who
is being tracked”. Indeed, sometimes it’s
a very Victorianised version “I could
feel my heart beating now like a canary
held in my hand. It throbbed with a
tender, almost exhilarated fatigue”. Some-
times perhaps it’s a fin de siecle
decadence: “Some great deep sorrow like
roses drowned in the salt of the sea
came flooding from her womb and
washed into me like a sweet honey of
balm for all the bitter sores of my soul
55
But whatever the varieties, there’s
always this pain-pleasure paradox, and
allied to it an obsession, all the book’s
own, with smell —always smells of fear
or smells of hostility, smells of constipa-
tion or smells of vomit assail' Rojack’s
nostrils. Perhaps it indicates his close-
ness to the primitive view of mystery.
There are also the cops, necessary, of
course, for the full American scene,
another of the mythic ingredients up-
dated here to include the CIA. Together
with the various incests, and the colored
jazz-musician, they absorb most of the
strands of the American novel. In their
interrogation of Rojack, and their inquiry
into the murder, they provide the mystery
and suspense. They’re the last ingredient
to the recipe for the best-seller novel
religion, sex and mystery; a recipe
Mailer’s followed with commendable
closeness.
But like so many gloriously conceived
fireworks, “An American Dream” fizzles
out Having had all our shocks, what
|re we left with? I don’t object to sensa-
tion, but having run through his sensa-
tions, Mailer has seemingly nothing else.
The book stops rather than concludes;
having played on all our fears and
fantasies it doesn’t even offer us a
rationale that will give an excuse for it
all. We don’t need one, certainly but
the novel does. Even the fact that every-
one seems to have slept with everyone
else gives no formal pattern, as it does
in “Another Country”, or as in “Emma”
where, if not beds, certainly attachments,
understandings and engagements make
a complex heterosexual patterning of
interrelations. What we have is a straight
linear progression of action, of event, a
wonderfully, powerfully engaging ex-
perience; it’s a sample of Rojack’s
existential psychology, an example of his
psychological existentialism. It’s full of
power and force and mystery at the
time, but after you’ve bumped off your
wife, had the maid, had the night-club
singer and seen her die, all but been
murdered, committed suicide, and
heard about those incests, you’ve still
not got your answer for the twenty-
volume study to oust Freud; nor written
the Great American Novel. But it's been
great fun all the same.
A Folk Tale
Three times the same dream
that there was treasure
under the Great Bridge at Prague
lodged behind a pylon stone.
Find ancient pious Isaac loitering
night and morning at the approaches
eating a crust from his pocket,
beard tugged sideways
by the impatient wind,
his breathing visible, as the sentries’,
who beat their greatcoats with cold hands
and spat into the black water.
“Jew, what do you do here?”
“Captain, I have walked from Cracow
because of a dream three times,
but my dream told nothing of sentries.”
“Have you worn your shoes
all this way for a dream, Jew?”
“I dreamed it three times
that there is treasure hidden
under this Bridge you guard, Captain.”
“Jew, Jew, I do not listen to dreams.
Were I to listen I would walk,
like you, wearing out my shoes,
to the house of Rabbi Isaac in Cracow
who is vivid to me three times
eating stale crusts in a garret,
studying the Law, drinking water
from a stone jug. Three times
I too have dreamed this, that beside the
stove
at which he warms his hands
is buried a treasure, underneath a flag-
stone.
But of what it consists, Jew, my dream
does not inform me.
Isaac his name clearly. Rabbi Isaac.
I do not bite on such a dream.”
“I bow to you, Captain, for your kind-
ness
and give you God’s blessing.”
The black water breathes a white breath.
The sentries beat the shoulders
of their greatcoats with cold hands.
Isaac returning, knelt on his floor,
loosened a hearthstone
and levered it up and behold!
in a box of black iron
with twin straps of green brass
a treasure of coin of gold and silver
there beneath his own three-legged stool.
W. HART-SMITH


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Nudging Cost Inflation
ONE of the problems which must be faced in Australia during the coming months
is how to contain price rises so that they do not spark excessive wage demands
and so create a renewed burst of cost inflation. Already there are pressures for
increased transport charges, air fares, taxi fares, motor vehicle insurance, etc., apart
from rising retail prices.
The effects of tight liquidity, restrained
bank lending, higher interest rates, in-
creased taxes and heavy demands on
the capital markets from the Govern-
ment and private industry have all
placed a brake on private spending,
whereas the Federal Budget will lift
Government expenditure sharply.
Resultant pressures will demand a cut-
back in consumer spending or an in-
crease in wages.
Modern living today assumes that
certain types of private spending are
essential in maintaining a normal stan-
dard of living.
Thus the combined effects of rising
food prices prompted to a major
degree by the drought plus the current
round of price increases for beer,
cigarettes, petrol, etc., will place a strain
on the normal household budget.
The investor’s usual reaction to a
threatened rise in prices is to seek refuge
in equity shares as a hedge against in-
flation. This theory has not worked out
so well in recent years because fear of
inflation has prompted the Government
to wield the interest rate weapon and
to impose credit restraints to damp down
the economy.
The present situation does not en-
courage investors to believe that a hearty
price rise will occur in the investment
share market. Their investment eager-
ness could be soaked up by the excep-
tionally heavy capital demands from
major companies, which are turning to
shareholders for funds after discovering
how difficult and expensive it is to raise
finance in other directions through
debentures, bank loans, and so on.
Already it is calculated that about
£3om. will be sought from the invest-
ment public by Australian companies in
the next six months. On top of this,
the Federal Treasurer must maintain his
steady borrowing programme for Gov-
ernment loans if he is to avoid heavy
tax increases next year.
One thing in the market’s favor, how-
ever, is that institutional investors have
not been over-active during the early
part of the year. It is possible that more
funds will be available from this source
now that the tax season is over and the
threat of higher company tax has
passed.
The volume of new issues confronting
investors suggests that there could be
some attractive offerings in “rights buy-
ing” for those who are lucky enough to
have ready cash available.
Inflation for USA , too
Escalation of the war in Vietnam has
brought about a new psychology in
the US economy. No one now pretends
that Vietnam is just an isolated and
remote area where the US is assisting
some small Government in a political
fight.
The economy has switched over to a
wartime basis. Production has been
boosted in defence industries, with
record employment and increased over-
time in factories.
Employment, in fact, rose a startling
1.1 million from June to July. It is
reported from New York that the num-
ber of factory jobs in July rose to 18.1
million after seasonable adjustment,
PRESIDENT JOHNSON
which sets an all-time record. The
previous record was 22 years ago in
1943 during the boom of World War 11.
Factory hours reached 41.1 hours per
week in July, highest since 1945. Aver-
age overtime also was reported to be
a record at 3.5 hours a week.
Unemployment in the US has dropped
to 4.5 p.c., well below the 5 p.c.
minimum which US economists believe
would be difficult to break except under
exceptional circumstances. All this adds
up to an inflationary trend, with the
Government spending big on its defence
commitments.
It suggests that inflation will become
more of an international problem.
British and American Share Markets
A. CANNY watchfulness appears to
have seized both London and New
York share markets, though there are
markedly different economic motivations
behind each place. The cry of inflation-
ary tendencies is being raised more and
more in America (see the article "Inflation
for USA, too" above). In Britain, on the
other hand, the credit squeeze and the
predominance of moves to save sterling
continue to provide rigid guidelines for
investors.
Thus London, last week, saw the over-
all market touch its low point for 1965
on a mass of mostly small downturns.
The air of unsettlement spread through-
out many industrial sections; here again,
however, fluctuations remained fairly
narrow. Perhaps the prevailing trend does
not look very positive either way. Yet
there's little doubt what the market has
to digest, and that for quite a long period
as well.
Some commentators even point to a
coming reduction in the volume of pleasant
company news. The motor boom shows
all signs of fading; short-time working
at Ford furnished only the first signs.
Similar cutting-back has become visible in
the foundry, pottery and hosiery in-
dustries. Though other than official
sources clearly admit that sterling really
is defensible, the cost may be steep in
terms of stagnated output and lowered
consumer spending—not to speak of in-
creased unemployment.
So the quiet share trading goes on, with
gilt-edged and golds, which until recently
owned to a steady shine, drifting also.
Wall Street assuredly gives every
evidence of being more active than Lon-
don and volumes obviously swelled last
week. Yet there's still a measure of
scepticism in the face of the more broadly
based "war" economy. That is displayed
once more by a somewhat studious avoid-
ance of leader stocks. Secand-liners among
airlines and electronics, for instance, are
drawing a good deal of attention.
Part of the hesitant mood stems from
hints of trouble in the steel industry. But
here most observers believe that, should
affairs reach a management-union show-
down, President Johnson is ready and
able to take tactful steps to avoid any
major industrial disturbance.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Problems of Lifting
Domestic Savings
More reflections on Coombs
on the Reserve Bank’s annual report, the Governor, Dr H. C. Coombs, is
pretty satisfied with his hands-and-heels riding on the credit course last year.
It was remarkable that he didn’t have to use the whip once in a period when, by
common consensus, the whole economic field was going at a fast trot. His directives
to the trading banks were as mild as his interest rate touches.
It was a pity, perhaps, that the banks
had to meet most of the liquidity drain
in the June quarter from resources in
their own hands and that the business
world had to suffer from the credit
stringency. But, for the Reserve Bank’s
part, the whole horrid process was made
so much easier by the diminishment of
the system’s liquidity.
Dr Coombs probably has good reason
to be pleased with the way things worked
out for him on the credit front. He
needn't, I feel, have been so smug about
it and should have spared a thought
in his gloating for the trials and tribula-
tions of those still being affected by his
squeezing machinations. So much was
described in the report as having turned
out “consistent with policy” that it seems
a bit too good to last. I have the feeling
that all that’s required to put Dr Coombs
on the defensive is for the rise in prices
to accelerate. If, on top of that, he has to
counter, as he did in 1963-64, a deluge
of liquidity (unlikely on present signs,
at least from external influences),
bankers would be battling for their
reputations.
Should the dice become less heavily
loaded in these two directions in the
authorities’ favor, at least Dr Coombs
can pride himself on having widened
the area of his authority in the interests
DR H. C. COOMBS
of credit management. After admitting
that some fish got away last year out-
standings of some non-bank groups in-
creased strongly he goes on to claim
that, in at least one field, there may have
been a shift back to the banking system,
that is, in direct borrowing and lending
between companies (the so-called inter-
company market). In his view, an im-
portant influence on this was the re-
duction from April last year of the
minimum terms for which trading banks
could accept large fixed deposits to 30
days. Another influence, of course,
would be the increases in fixed deposit
interest rates themselves. However, sur-
prisingly little seems to have happened
to add to his influence on credit through
the commercial bills market. He has
very little to say about this at all
Nor does he say very much about the
Reserve Bank’s relations with the short-
term money market. These didn’t
altogether meet with the full approval
of at least one big dealer in Melbourne
last year. There was a mild note of
commiseration acknowledging that 'the
dealers had a poor run in the tighter
money conditions-. With rising interest
rates (particularly on bonds) eroding
values of their portfolios, admittedly it
was not a good year for them. It would
have been useful if Dr Coombs had said
something not only on the bank’s
relations with the market and how much,
if any, monetary policy is guided by
fluctuations in the market’s rates, but
also something on the way it has
attempted to influence its rates and the
cross-influences working between the
bond market and the short-term market.
The bank’s remarks are too skinny byj
far on this whole vital area.
Naturally the report eschews giving
any clues on possible interest rate move-
ments, either short or long. But in a
passing reference it does pinpoint the
tasks of capital raising ahead of the
economy and, by implication at least,,
raises the thought that if these are as
big as supposed then it is conceivable
that, to attract the massive amounts of;
capital required, interest rates may well;
have to rise further.
On the short-term prospect for interest
rates, the failure of the post-Budget rise;
in industrial shares to push prices much
beyond the range established over the,
last few months suggests the market is
EXPORT ACTON
"Sometimes the hard-sell pays off,
and sometimes
. . . it doesn't **


basically taking a cautious view about
interest rates. True, the rush of new
issues coming forth after the Budget is
going to absorb a goodly part of the
limited volume of funds available for
equity investment in the next few
months. This will restrict the amount
going into already listed shares and tend
to hold back the potential advance. The
market invariably slows under the weight
of new issues. This could be as telling
an influence as interest rate on the equity
market in current circumstances.
The oversubscription to the August
Loan may not necessarily be deceptive
of what the immediate future holds. But
while the general feeling in markets is
that, even without an increase in interest
rates, the going may be good for loan
raising in the first half of the year, the
authorities could well be scratching to
hit even the low loan targets in the
second half of the year. The key to
this will lie in the rate of redemptions
which appear to have been under-
estimated in the Budget (probably by
design).
As things look at the moment, an
increase in interest rates to assist loan-
raising would seem a stronger possibility
than one to assist in arresting a possible
boom developing as a result of the mild
Budget. Though it is always on the
cards (even if the.ANZ doesn’t appear
to think so) that higher interest rates
may be required to check fixed invest-
ment. At any rate, unlike this time
last year. Dr Coombs isn’t apparently
worried on that score and is thinking
more of how we are going to find enough
capital for all the projects in sight.
Indeed, while Dr Coombs is pretty
satisfied with the effectiveness of credit
control and the manner in which it has
been exercised over the last year, he is
obviously far less satisfied with the
prospects for getting these postulated
piles of capital. He thinks “the basic
problems are how to achieve an adequate
level of domestic savings and how to
mobilise these savings in very large
sums.” suggesting that the former is an
inherent feature of life in an expanding
economy while the latter, he says, “might
require some institutional development
or adaptation.” It is a pity the report
leaves us up in the air about what the
bank’s ideas might be in those directions
and immediately changes the subject.
The task for domestic savings becomes
all the more formidable in the light of
the more sober estimates that must now
be placed on long-term capital inflow.
So far, in 1965, the performance of
savings bank deposits has been so poor
that the authorities, looking not only to
capital raising for the private sector but
also to the loan market, where they have
special responsibilities, are probably
more disturbed than they care to admit.
Adding in interest credited to accounts,
savings banks’ deposits increased by only
£52 million in the June quarter this year
and this was almost wholly accounted
for by interest. This compares with £7B
million rise in the same quarter 1964.
With this at best static appearance in
mind, the July figures published last
week were of special interest, in that
they showed a £17.9 million increase.
Although this was the smallest July
increase since 1961, and was £12.7
million less than that for July last year,
it at least indicates a hopeful break in
the trend. It lends some support to the
view of the National Bank, in its latest
monthly review, that the poor per-
formance in the June quarter reflected,
in general, the large seasonal fall .n
liquid funds available to the banking
system over the quarter.
The question is whether this is a
sufficient explanation. As The Bul-
letin has pointed out at various times
in the last year or so, it might well be
that some weakening in the propensity
to save has been taking place. If that
were so the whole edifice of publicAvorks
and housing finance would be shaken.
On the other hand, I would not have
thought that during the last year, with
incomes at record levels and prices
rising only moderately, there would be
a big swing away from saving. As Dr
Coombs says in his latest report, assets
values did not rise to any great extent
during the year. While this is not to say
that no weakening of the propensity to
save has been taking place, it seems to
me that the squeeze on incomes was in-
sufficient to promote any great weaken-
ing thus far.
CROESUS
Window on the World
AIDA sells Australia overseas
TT is very nice for Australia to be, as the new US Ambassador puts it, mates of the
United States and, as such, likely to hear some pleasant news in the near future
possibly on the score of relaxation of US eapital export curbs we might hope. A lot
of people here would endorse this and, accepting the realities of the South-East Asian
situation, some would perhaps go further and reckon we should be hand-in-glove with
Uncle Sam and he with us.
All the same, we don’t want to have
our national personality swamped and
must at all times see to it that our image
overseas, economically and otherwise, is
painted in the most attractive colors of
our glowing range. This is only common
sense because, after all, we still want to
attract as much overseas capital as
possible despite the choosy attitude of
a lot of people here. And, of course,
there is that big selling job in export
markets new and old which is on all the
time.
Naturally it costs a lot of money to
keep up our economic image in the
world. We get a lot of free general
publicity, naturally, say from our sports
people, when they win a yacht race,
swim the channel or retain the Davis
Cup. This helps, but much more is
needed to whet the appetite of overseas
investors and trade buyers. This is
where the expense can be very high
indeed. We had an example of this in
the Budget, when the tidy sum of
£300,000 was earmarked as an initial
provision for Australian participation in
the Universal and International Exhibi-
tion in Montreal to be held in 1967.
Also another sum of £25,000 has been
provided for our showing at the First
Asian International Trade Fair in Bang-
kok in 1966. These are only samples of
the many overseas display ventures we
will have to finance in the next few
years.
It must be admitted that sometimes,
such as with some of the Department of
Trade’s floating exhibits sent to foreign
parts and the recent international
engineering exhibition in Melbourne
where most of our exhibits looked puny
beside those from Italy and Japan, we
miss rather pathetically in showing our
face. So it is all the more reassuring
that on other occasions we dress our
shop window to the world very well.
This is certainly the case with what
we will be putting on display in the
way of literature on Australia at the
third International Industrial Con-
ference to be held in San Francisco
from September 13-17. Going on
the high level sort of people from busi-
ness and the public service who will be
in the Australian muster at the con-
ference, this will be a golden opportunity
to put our best propaganda foot for-
ward. In a word, the Australian In-
dustries Development Association, which
has prepared the 80-page run-down
on Australian economic achievements,
working and horizons for the occasion,
has produced something which will fit
the bill very well, neither gilding the
lily nor understating its attractions.
Followers of the economic state of
things here will find a lot of the ground


GENERAL CREDITS
ask any branch
OF THE C.B.A .
0
0
up to mammm issi 5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
6840
C. P. PUZEY
Director, Australian Industries Development
Association
very familiar. Being addressed primarily
to foreigners, this is inevitable. Even so,
AIDA has managed to project quite a
number of fresh ideas about the future.
Some of the outside contributors have
also done this, as well as giving us very
useful potted surveys of various aspects
of the economy.
Talking on its pet subject, manu-
facturing, the spearhead of development,
AIDA makes the most of the limited
space in traversing the detailed ground
of past performance and envisaged pro-
jects, and then makes some predictions
on the future direction of manufacturing
development. Earlier, in a special
section, Sir Maurice Mawby had given
an excellent picture of the big minerals
expansion in train. Going on from that,
AIDA suggests that, for the longer-term
future, the most notable growth in manu-
facturing industry is likely to be associ-
ated with the processing of minerals,
including oil and natural gas. It says
this growth will in turn create demand
for appropriate machinery and for end-
products.
As all this snowballs, AIDA sees an
expanding local market extending the
possibilities for economical production
of new products. It postulates that “at
various levels of population and income
a stage is reached which makes possible,
for example, the production of heavy
electrical equipment, ships, aeroplanes,
intricate electronic machinery and so
on which may not be economically
feasible today”.
Add to this the increasing entry of
manufacturers into exporting and the
sights are set for greater economies of
scale in production. From this optimistic
picture AIDA draws the conclusion that,
in the next ten years, employment in
manufacturing could rise from the
present 1.2 to 1.7 or 1.8 million and, “if
output per worker rises at the rate of
the last 15 years”, this, at a conservative
estimate, would result in a doubling of
factory output. That is certainly the
stuff to put in front of foreigners look-
ing for outlets for their capital and
trade in the new world. To my mind,
too, it is far from being a fanciful
picture of the possibilities.
The main starting point of this expan-
sion of manufacturing being given as
minerals, what Sir Maurice Mawby
writes on prospects in that field is par-
ticularly apposite, even if he leaves a
lot of questions unanswered. Referring
to the six big long-term contracts for the
sale of iron ore to Japan (“by 1972 iron
ore from Australia will be providing an
estimated quarter to a third of overall
Japanese requirements”), he points out
that there is already “an emphasis on
prospects for pelletising iron ore and
ultimately producing sponge iron for
export”. Furthermore, he states that the
leases of the companies involved provide
for “taking the ore through increasing
stages of processing in the foreseeable
future” and this “will go hand-in-hand
with prospects of additions to Australia’s
own iron and steel processing industry”.
As The Bulletin stressed recently,
the latter directions of emphasis seem to
demand special attention at this early
stage of development of iron ore deposits
in the north-west of the continent,
Equally, there should be more emphasis
placed on oil search, an aspect which
Sir Maurice seemed rather to underplay
for the apparent reason that he over-
estimates the intensity of our efforts ia
this direction.
It j s no t correct to say that “the most
intensive search for oil fields ever known
i n country is in progress”. In fact
search is now on a very much
reduced scale compared with last year,
Indeed the brochure is not as forceful
in the advertising sense as it might have
been, in some directions like this, and,
perforce, is rather generalised. But at
least in some of the articles, such as on
Australian taxation, overseas people as
we ll as Australians will learn much that
w m be useful. I mention in particular
the article on taxation by Mr M. Mass,
0 f Fitzgerald, Gunn and Partners,
Sydney tax consultants. It is called “Aus-
tralian Income Tax”, though it dismisses
the subject of taxes on individuals very
summarily and proceeds to a fairly full
account of company taxation in all its
aspects. It is first class and, happily, at
least in the case of company taxation,
the text needs no revision as a result of
the 1965-66 Budget.


TIME
m i
10
o
9
AINOW
SAFETY
tyrm
MAKE YOUR money earn 6% p.a.
every second, every hour, every
day (including Sunday). Invest for
one month, for one year or for
any period at all. Remember, your
money is SAFE and readily avail-
able plus dividends with NO
brokerage or any other deductions. You gain a net
6% p.a. (current rate). Paid twice yearly. Assets
exceed £7 million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & GRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward. General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME.
ADDRESS.
RBA67SC
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Beyond the Hill Lies...
China needs Australian wheat
WHENEVER one attempts to discuss Russian or Red Chinese agriculture one
comes up against the wall of non-information. Not that there is any lack
of material which purports to be information. In the Russian publishing world
there has been, in recent years, a new frankness which is encouraging.
Where China is concerned the propa-
ganda is so obvious that it is only likely
to find acceptance amongst children or
fellow-traveller fanatics.
But in trying so hard to convince us
that all is well, the Chinese sometimes
give themselves away. A case in point
is the recent splurge of publicity about
the grain harvest.
A huge army of volunteers was re-
cruited to help out —some 100,000 in
the Peking area alone. They were
drafted into “regular” troops and
“guerrillas”. They descended on the
communes and, infused with the maxims
of Chairman Mao, worked with the
utmost zeal to bring in the harvest.
So we are given a picture of tremen-
dous collective effort young and old
alike prepared to hoe in for Mao. What
it really means, one suspects, is that the
Chinese communes are no more success-
ful than the Russian ones have been. It
suggests that the communes are still
chronically under-mechanised, chronic-
ally afflicted with the handicap of un-
educated and non - technical farm
laborers.
In Russia, China, and anywhere else
for that matter, the manual laborer has
no hope of producing sufficient food for
the rapidly growing industrial cities.
Having millions of farm laborers is just
no help. It is a pity, in Western coun-
tries as well, yet that is the way it is.
At best the individual farm laborer can
produce enough for himself, his own
family, and maybe three or four other
families as well. This is not enough.
The cities grow too quickly.
In the United States we have a classic
example of the perils of urbanisation
and industrialisation. Thousands of
Negro field hands, millions in fact, be-
come redundant and flock to the cities
where there is no work for them either.
Various sociologists have pointed out
that one of the prime reasons for their
despair is that they have nothing ,to
do except take Government relief. This
is good for stomachs, but not good for
souls.
Giving every one of them a pick and
shovel and a mound of earth to move
might well be sound policy in the thera-
peutic sense. Probably it would be an
excellent move in the case of those too
old, or too stubborn, for educational
assistance.
It would not be economic, however.
It would cost money to ,get work per-
formed this way today.
In Communist China, and to be fair
one must admire this part of it, there
is a genuine desire to avoid unemploy-
ment. And this is where they are in
deep trouble and where all their Marxist
theory will not help them.
If they wanted to keep their millions
happily engaged in tending family garden
plots they could probably do that. They
clearly do not want that. They want
urbanisation and industrialisation even
more desperately than do the white
devils.
Industrialisation is the new religion.
So what are they going to do with their
negative labor force—the millions upon
millions who live on the land and who
are only in the way?
Mao has part of the answer. He will
go on blaming the white devils for any-
thing and everything. The reason for
food shortages will always be either the
weather or the imperialists. It is so very
simple. Dr Sukarno finds it a simple


No Scotch
improves
the flavour
of water
like ®
M 7
Teachers
TEACHER’S HIGHLAND CREAM SCOTCH WHISKY
Agents—N.S.W.: Tucker & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. Victoria: C. & E. Baitz Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Queensland: Swift and Moore Pty. Limited, Brisbane. South Australia: Elder Smith Goldsbrough
Mort Limited, Adelaide. West Australia: Benson’s Liquor Sales Co., Perth. Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
9338
TW36.96N


THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
Cash and Conversion
LOAN
51%
FOR 10 OR 15 YEARS
51%
FOR 7 YEARS
Unconditionally Guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania
INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED, if you prefer to invest by instal-
ments, you can pay 10% deposit on application, and the balance
by 30th November, 1965.
CONVERSION OPPORTUNITIES . Holders of securities in Loans
Nos. 136 (4|% maturing Ist September, 1965), 89 and 139 (4|%
maturing Ist October, 1965) are invited to convert to HIGHER
interest.
TAX CONCESSIONS. An approved security for Trustees of
Pension and Superannuation Funds who wish to qualify for
Taxation Concessions.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank
of New South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural
Bank of New South Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the
Board’s offices.
SYDNEY WATER
29 664
answer, too, and he has something of
the same problem.
The pity of it all is that there is so
much goodwill, so much genuine desire
to help (accepting the fact that there was
exploitation in the past) available to
them. They are not likely to seek help,
so we might as well face up to that.
Australian wheat, and other wheat, pur-
chased in the past and likely to be pur-
chased in the future is not help. It is
business. There has never been any
admission in Chinese publications that
such wheat has been bought at all. If
there ever was such an admission, this
writer will be glad to see it. Admitting
that such purchases are necessary would
be, for the regime, an admission of
failure. The masses must never hear
of it.
only real question, therefore, is this:
how long will the necessity con-
tinue? The chances are that it will con-
tinue for a long, long time.
So, unfortunately, will the need for
“confrontation”. Vietnam and Borneo,
and now Kashmir, may be symptomatic
of a tactic which could prevail for 100
years. There are parallels in history.
There was a time when the “champions”,
in shining armor, slogged it out, per-
mitting the populace at large to go about
its business. Later there were “gentle-
men’s wars”, during which both sides
frequently bought supplies from the
same sutlers. Trade and the balance of
power were each maintained.
The Vietcong are, in a very real sense,
the “champions” of the Red Chinese
cause. If, and when, they quit it is
more than likely that others will be
found in other parts of Asia.
The academic will be horrified at this
little piece of theorising and will point
to the new developments in weapons
the tumbling bullets and the napalm, etc.
But, then, everything is relative. It would
be quite terrible to be engulfed in a
napalm bomb in Vietnam. Equally it
would have been no picnic to be bashed
over the head with a mace in 1100 or
dropped in boiling water in 1600.
Getting back to taws in this China
(will-she-or-won’t-she-buy-wheat) argu-
ment, the pessimists invariably ignore the
fact that we have Australian troops “con-
fronted” by Indonesian infiltrators in
Malaysia, yet Indonesia remains the
second major source of our petroleum
supplies. It suits us to buy it, just as
it suits China to buy our wheat provided
we have enough of it at the right price.


TEACHING POSITIONS, 1966
BARKER COLLEGE, Hornsby, N.S.W.
(Established 1890)
With increasing enrolments
Masters required from January, 1966, to
teach the following subjects up to matricula-
tion level:
1. LATIN and/or FRENCH
2. MATHEMATICS
3. ENGLISH
Married and single accommodation avail-
able.
Enquiries and applications in writing to:
The Headtnaster,
T. J. McCASKILL, M.A., B.Ed.
NEWINGTON COLLEGE
STANMORE (and KILLARA)
The Methodist G.P.S. founded in 7863
for day and boarding students
1. SCHOLARSHIPS.
There are a number of open scholarships in general for boys enfering First
Year Secondary. (Boys who are under 13 on 31st December, 1965, are eligible.)
EXAMINATION (set by the Australian Council for Educational Research) will
f be held on SATURDAY, 25th SEPTEMBER, 1965 at 9 a.m.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE on TUESDAY, 31st AUGUST 1965.
2. 1966 LEAVING CERTIFICATE EXAMINATION for repeat
candidates.
A few places only will be available to suitable candidates (especially boys
aiming at obtaining a Commonwealth Scholarship) in the classes preparing for
this examination
3. 1966 FORM V (WYNDHAM PLAN).
A few places for boys of merit proceeding to matriculation will be available in
1966 and in future years. But booking well ahead is essential.
4. BLOCK.
A new Science Block, including advanced laboratories for top students, will be
opened in February, 1966.
*LIBRARY.
A new Library provides special facilities for sth and 6th Year studies.
5. PREPARATORY SCHOOLS.
(a) At Stanmore (Wyvern House);
(b) At Killara
Special Policies in Curriculum development.
*For information on any of the above, write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN,
Headmaster
AGRISEARCH
Some Recent
Advances
Death For Suckers
llToody weeds have soaked up the sweat
" of at least five generations of Aus-
tralian countrymen. And the axe or its
mechanised equivalent is still often the
only way of clearing many of them.
Cutting, smashing, or pulling sometimes
even promotes proliferation and so the
second state becomes worse than the
first. Such a noisome weed is sandal-
wood or budda as it is called in extensive
areas in central-western and south-west-
ern Queensland and central-northern New
South Wales.
Over three-quarters of a million acres
of gidyea-scrub country in central-west-
ern Queensland have been developed in
recent years and clearing is now proceed-
ing at a rate of about 150,000 acres each
year. As a result the carrying capacity of
this country has been raised from about
one wether per 10 acres to one breeding
ewe to two acres. The snag is that the
scrub-tearing operation stimulates the
roots of the occasional sandal-wood tree
that is smashed in the process of clearing
to sucker. This suckering becomes so
dense in places that pasture production is
seriously restricted and stock-mustering
is made difficult or even impossible.
Foliage spraying with 2,4, 5-T is sup-
posed to kill woody plants, but eucalypts
and budda (Eremophila mitchellii ) are
not harmed by this treatment. The
trouble seems to be that the herbicide is
not translocated from the leaves to the
roots. The reason for this peculiarity is
not known. It may be that the essential
oils in the leaves of many of our Austra-
lian woody plants prevent movement of
the herbicide.
However, a way around this difficulty
has now been found. J. A. Robertson of
the CSIRO and D. L. Purcell of the
Queensland Department of Primary In-
dustries have secured high-percentage
kills by spraying the 2,4, 5-T on the
basal bark. Equally good results were
obtained by this means at any time of
the year, though thorough wetting of the
bases of all stems up to 12 inches is
essential. Moreover, if the broken stumps
of the mature sandalwood trees are swab-
bed with the chemical while still fresh
after clearing, regrowth is suppressed.
Cost of the chemical for swabbing
runs out at about Is. 6d. per 100 trees
and for basal spraying at 9s. to 12s. per
100. It may prove possible to use a
weaker spray, when the cost could then
fall to around 6s. per 100. After adding
the price of labor the total cost of
controlling budda in this way will be
fairly high. But the land-developer out
west scarcely has any other choice at the
moment.
Waterproof Soil
Strangely, some sandy soils do not
absorb water. They simply refuse to
get wet. Crumbs of them will actually
float in water for weeks. When first dis-
covered under mallee trees in 1932, they
were regarded as a scientific oddity.
Nowadays, as efforts are made to bring
more and more of the sand country in
west and south-eastern Australia into
production, they have come to be re-
garded as an obdurate agricultural prob-
lem. They can be recognised readily
enough by the very uneven growth made
by the pasture. Well-grassed patches
covering a square foot or two of ground
are interspersed with bare patches of
similar extent. Where the soil is not
completely water-repellent, annual species
may succeed in establishing themselves
during winter, but wilt away early in
spring.
Soil scientist R. D. Bond of the
CSIRO, using specimen soil from the
Coonalpine Downs, has found that grains
of these non-wettable sands are coated
with a water-repellent, organic film.
Microscopic studies have revealed that
fungi of many types grow with unusual
prolificacy in these soils. The water-
proofing substance is probably derived
from these organisms. Now that some
understanding of the extraordinary be-
havior of these soils has been gained, the
next step will be to find a practical
means of overcoming the repellency.
After solving the complex fertiliser
problems of the sand country, for which
Australian science received world-wide
acclaim, it is hoped that this nationally
important achievement wifi not be mar-
red by failure to resolve a difficulty
which many people regard as the most
serious soil problem remaining in this
type of country.


MANUFACTURERS
After some twenty years experience in Sales and Marketing, I am heartily
tired of making enormous profits for big combines. I would now like to devote
the next ten years to using my ability for my own gains.
I am at present State Manager for a major organisation, an associate of
The Australian Institute of Sales and Marketing Executives, associate of The
Australian Institute of Management, holder of several sales records, as yet
not bettered. I have trained a considerable number of sales personnel, and
have also travelled extensively.
I am therefore looking for lucrative agencies, and/or a partnership in an
existing concern. If you have a likely proposition I would like to hear from you.
"The Advertiser"
Box 7, P.O. Taringa East, BRISBANE, Qld.
Northern Pasture Revolution
Helping tropical beef production
By PETER OWEN
/"|UR scientists certainly have the courage of their convictions! With arguments
about the technical and economic soundness of the Ord River scheme in the
Kimberleys still fraying tempers in scientific and political circles, CSIRO’s Dr J.
Griffith Davies has come out with the spectacular claim that research has paved the
way for seven or even ten-fold increases in beef production on 250 million acres of
Australia’s sub-tropical and tropical grasslands.
At present there are only 2.3 million
acres of improved pastures in the whole
of Queensland. Dr Davies wisely qualifies
his forecast with the statement that a
great deal more basic and developmental
research is needed to make the whole of
the increases technically possible. A few
million pounds worth of cotton on the
Ord is chicken-feed compared with the
immense stakes involved in such a bold
projection of research findings, as yet
little beyond the drawing-board.
The opening of a modern research
laboratory at Townsville by Senator
Gorton, Minister-in-Charge of CSIRO, on
July 27, highlights the research effort
behind the latest northern dream. Until
recently, research on tropical pastures has
centred on the Cunningham laboratory in
Brisbane. The new £lBO,OOO air-condi-
tioned building at Townsville provides a
similar headquarters from which to ex-
tend the work 1000 miles northward. The
country north of the Tropic is hotter and
tougher than that further south and pre-
sents its own unique problems. Senator
Gorton named malnutrition due to low-
quality native grasses and phosphorus-
deficient soils as the main factors at
present limiting an increase of beef pro-
duction in the region.
But both the Minister and the CSIRO
shirked the economic issue, as they had
previously on the Ord. They simply say
it is technically possible to do certain
things and leave questions of economics
and marketing to other authorities. Fair
enough, but it might be just as well to
remind the public of possible hurdles
when making such breathtaking claims.
Although the experimental facts on
which the forecasts are based are limited
in number the results are both dramatic
and consistent. For instance, a six-fold
increase in animal production was re-
corded from a sorghum almum-barrel
medic pasture. In good seasons this pas-
ture fattened two beasts per acre be-
tween September and May. Cattle gains
of 300 lb per acre per year have been
obtained on some pastures on heavy-
rainfall coastal lowlands north of Bris-
bane. In 33-in. rainfall country south of
Gladstone, Central Queensland, Towns-
ville lucerne plus fertiliser increased beef
production from 29 lb to 236 lb live-
weight per acre per annum. Similar gains
have been obtained during the early
stages of field trials based on the new
Townsville laboratory.
It was a lucky day for Australia when
young Jack Davies left his home in
Wales to carve a scientific career in this
country. In fact, he has carved two sep-
arate careers, either of which would have
earned him a prominent place among
Australia’s men of science. The young
Welshman brought the new pasture con-
cepts and techniques that Sir George
Stapledon and his group had developed
at Aberystwyth during the 1920 s to the
Waite Agricultural Research Institute in
Adelaide. His adaptability, his fiery per-
sonality, and, above all, his flair for spot-
ting a pasture winner, whether a new
plant or a novel management technique,
soon placed him at the forefront of Aus-
tralian pasture scientists.
Leadership of CSIRO’s national pas-
ture research programme during the post-
war years led Dr Davies to accept the
second major scientific challenge of his
life the development of improved pas-
tures for sub-tropical and tropical Aus-
tralia. This was not simply a case of
modifying principles and methods devel-


%
m
S ■ i:
r:
/st 2
Vlf* 3..* *
Mm
■X.M
■Y/&.
12M
m
W<
m.
m
*Sdm
Mr
■m
m
mm
*s
JS#
*.M
mm
m
m
Every pipe is a classic to its owner:
now there is one classic tobacco for every pipe
Benson & Hedges Special Smoking
Mixture is truly a classic among pipe
tobaccos. It is cut rather coarsely to
ensure cooler, slower smoking. It
aromatic, mild, smooth. And it is
carefully blended from Latakia,
Perique and other distinctive leaf.
Modestly priced at 7/9 a tin, Benson
& Hedges Special Smoking Mixture is
the right tobacco when only the best
will do. And isn’t that all the time?
S' //
BEmoNaUHebges
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
oped in temperate regions to northern
conditions. Sceptics both at home and
abroad doubted whether tropical plants,
particularly legumes, could be as effective
in improving soil fertility as pastures
based on clovers were in temperate lands.
The northern research saga had been
a story of scientists from diverse discip-
lines and with vastly different back-
grounds working together under a leader
who has a clear objective. Plant explor-
ers, soil scientists, plant breeders, ag-
ronomists, animal scientists, plant
physiologists, chemists and mathematici-
ans pursue a common goal—the solution
of problems preventing the establish-
ment of fertility-building pastures over
hundreds of millions of acres of the
North.
It was known that Australian native
plants would not do the job. Furthermore,
few ready-made pasture plants were
available in tropical countries. Dr Davies
was faced with the task not only of
finding potentially useful wild plants in
foreign countries but of taming and
adapting them to our unique northern
environments.
Oeveral thousand such plants were ob-
tained over the years, many of them
through on-the-spot exploration by Aus-
tralian scientists familiar with north-east-
ern Australia. Some were found in South
and Central America, others in Central
Africa. A SEATO plant-collecting mis-
sion to South-East Asia supplied material
from that part of the world. Many came,
but few were chosen. The key need was
for pasture legumes, the plant factories
that build fertiliser from nitrogen of the
air. Some early failures were caused by
lack of suitable nitrogen-fixing bacteria.
The plants had been brought in without
the specialised strains that enabled them
to grow in their home soils. The importa-
tion of these bacteria became an essential
corollary of the legume introduction pro-
gramme. Radically new concepts con-
cerning the origin and evolution of no-
dule bacteria, developed during the course
of this work, has led to an entirely new
approach to the root-nodule problems of
tropical legumes.
Some of the new legumes are already
being used commercially. It is their suc-
cess that has pr ,moted Dr Davies to
forecast a northern pasture revolution!
Prominent among them is Siratro, a
hybrid variety bred at the Cunningham
Laboratory that combines wanted
features from two wild strains of a
Mexican cousin of the common bean.
Further north, researchers have found
that so-called Townsville lucerne, a plant
introduced accidentally from South
America and now growing sporadically
over much of the north, can be moulded
to their purpose; this plant looks like
doing for the far north what subter-
ranean clover had done for the south. But
the plants are only a beginning. They
must be matched to a bewildering variety
of soils. This can only be done when the
soils have been studied and mapped, and
any mineral deficiencies made good by
fertilisers.
Dr Davies and Mr A. G. Eyles dis-
cussed some of the implications of the
predicted pastoral revolution in the June
issue of the Journal of the Australian
Institute of Agricultural Science. The
quickening tempo of pasture improve-
ment in northern and southern Australia
will increase the demand for fertilisers,
particularly superphosphate. Use of the
latter could quadruple by AD 2000 if
Dr Davies’ projection of 370 million
acres of improved pastures by that year
becomes a reality. Increases of pastoral
production on the scale envisaged would
have profound effects on many other sec-
tions of industry and commerce.


a |fn * * x " l4 1 ‘Smuwo-t
OHtilOjS *0 I^ooB4
S J*t OiMsnay ASi
ohvucws «*«< saanusm
tT*wyr
ctmiois mi *
•JOM3IB OHV OSIIUfM
HOXO3S %Ofif
sxiaa
BELLS
the
largest-selling
Scotch in
Scotland
A custom all good
Scotsmen know.
A spot of Bells
Arthur Bell & Son, Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
An Independent Company
8W10.65N
INVESTMENT
Hardware’s Very Pleasing Issue
Prospects of another also discernible
rpHE long-awaited share issue from Hardware Holdings has finally been announced.
It is to be a one-for-four at par, 10s. Seeing the market price has been moving
around the 40s. mark for some time now, there will be handsome capital benefits
for shareholders.
Moreover, it seems unlikely that the
shares will end up very much lower after
the issue. As it is, they climbed well
above 40s. following the issue announce-
ment.
In addition to this, there are two
factors which should combine to keep
prices buoyant. First, the group’s excel-
lent 1964-65 year and, second, the
prospect of another issue in the near
future, possibly on a bonus basis.
The 1964-65 year turned in a record
profit of close to £300,000. Earning
rate rises strongly from 33.1 to 45.7 p.c.
Even on capital after the issue, earning
rate would still show improvement over
1963-64. Prospects for the current year
are excellent and will be enhanced by
the proceeds of the share issue, to be
used in the financing of further ex-
pansion.
Meanwhile, a revaluation of proper-
ties is currently being made. Details
will be released on completion. As the
group’s assets have not been revalued
for 14 years, quite a boost to share-
holders’ funds and reserves (which are
already high) should result. High re-
serves and more profit records on the
way offer great scope for a bonus issue.
Alternatively, the group may make one
of its periodical takeovers. In the past
these have often followed an issue to
shareholders.
Whatever happens, it will be to the
good of shareholders in the long run.
An expansionary takeover would seem
the most likely at this stage, as the
difference between par value and the
market price of the shares makes the
one-for-four issue a virtual bonus any-
way. However, until a further announce-
ment comes from directors, only the
foolish would completely discount the
possibility of an issue from the assets
revaluation reserve.
Good Equipment
A nother excellent result was furnished
again this year to June 30 by
Electrical Equipment of Australia Ltd.
The profit jump of 35 p.c. more than
took care of the capital increase at the
beginning of the financial period (a one-
for-nine at par), so that earning rate
speeded up from 26.7 to 32.4 p.c.
Actual net result of £324,130 is double
the result of five years ago, when divi-
dend distribution was 101 p.c. Each
year since there have been dividend
increases; this year the pay-out was lifted
from 131 p.c. to 15 p.c.
In the first half of the year sales
and profits were reported as up 20 p.c.
on the previous corresponding period,
so apparently the pace accelerated in
the January to June period.
The market recognises the merit of
this virile company in putting the stock
on a 3.4 p.c. income-yield basis (6.0
p.c. . earnings yield) at 225. 3d. The
shares have been a couple of shillings
higher in this calendar year.
Textile Eyebrows
YI/orsted yarn spinner, Cleckheaton,
continues to raise envious eyebrows
in the textile industry. Profit to June
30 rose substantially from £340,000 to
£403,000, a record. Thanks mainly to
the Mutual Stores takeover, it was after
tax down from £32,000 to £11,200. It
can be seen that directors are not exactly
cherishing the day when tax losses start
to peter out.
Still, they are getting a good head
start on that day. Earning rate comes
out at 35.6 p.c. on capital increased by
the takeover, leaving plenty of scope
for any declines in the future. The rate
is slightly down on the 37.3 p.c. of
1963-64. But it must be remembered
that Mutual Stores has not yet started
to contribute anything really positive to
group profits that is, in relation to
what it should be contributing in a few
years.
Shareholders are benefiting from the


SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS
AT
CRANBROOK SCHOOL
An Independent Church of England School
FULL DAY AND BOARDER
SCHOLARSHIPS WILL BE
AWARDED TO SUITABLE
APPLICANTS ON FRIDAY,
OCTOBER 29, 1965
A number of Exhibitions and Bursaries are
also to be awarded.
Details from the Registrar, Cranbrook School,
Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill. 36-1110.
W
mm
WST
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £200,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England) 3
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New .South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia —
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
Invest in
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
a
YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House. Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ‘WALES' FOR DETAILS
NDI3.N.
buoyant state of affairs, too. Dividend
has been raised for the second year in
succession. It will be 15 p.c., compared
with 13| p.c. in 1963-64 and 123 p.c.
in 1962-63.
The current year should see further
steps toward, and possibly the breaking
of, the 40 p.c. earnings barrier. Orders
in several textile divisions are ahead of
those held at the same time last year.
In addition, first dividends are expected
from an associate company, while
Mutual Stores and another recently
established subsidiary are expected to
do further good for the consolidated
result.
Better Bradford
\ s one whose reputation wore a little
threadbare in 1962 and 1963,
Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd now makes
redress with a record profit of £615,799
after £493,763 tax.
Earnings of 14.0 p.c. on capital allow
restoration of some of the pile. In
those two lean years of imports com-
petition and tough economic conditions,
Bradford had to dip into reserves to con-
tinue a 10 p.c. dividend rate, in itself
a come-down from seven years at 123
p.c.
Sales were substantially higher in the
year to June and this trend continued
into July.
Faith in Mutual
Mutual Acceptance Co. Ltd
was able to hold earning rate at a
shade under 22 p.c. on capital increased
half-way through the year to June by an
issue to the Chartered Bank of the UK.
The Chartered Bank is subscribing to
5,125,960 stock units of ss. each at
2s. 6d. premium. It is understood that
these are now paid to £s. 6d. and that
the premium too has been paid. Thus
£1,281,490 has been received to help
Mutual Acceptance with a cash pur-
chase of the hire-purchase subsidiary
of A. G. Healing Ltd, but half only


TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION ?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project.
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication,
see Wardrope and Carroll first!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O'Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
m
w
m
I
BENEFICIAL
FIRST SERIES
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM FOR
OTHER TERMS & RATES AVAILABLE
BENEFICIAL
Applications must be made'
on the printed form attached
to the Prospectus, obtainable
from:
• Your Stockbroker
• National Bank Branches
• Bank of N.S.W. in N.S.W.
• The Underwriting Brokers .
Gavin F. Gardner & Co., S.A.
Ord, Minnett, T. J. Thompson
& Partners, New South Wales
Corrie & Co.. Queensland
Guest & Bell, Victoria
or direct from . . .
BENEFICIAL
FINANCE CORPORATION LTD.
Adelaide 51 6661, Melbourne 621432,
Sydney 29 5244. Brisbane 31 1861
See
the '
The NATIONAL
"Wales” for details
TEACHER REQUIRED
for Newington College,
Stonmore.
ENGLISH
Qualified to teach throughout the school
including Matriculation standard.
(Qualifications in History and/or Social
Studies an advantage.)
Sound salary scale and superannuation
scheme.
For details write to the undersigned.
D. A. TRATHEN,
Headmaster.
ranks for the final dividend of 1\ p.c.
Directors, reporting a profit of
£503,021 after £336,050 tax, said new
business written had been spread evenly
between domestic, motor, property,
leasing and general finance.
Gross outstandings increased over
the year from £25.9m. to £31.1m.
Price of the ss. shares has not moved
much since the December, 1964,
announcement that Chartered would
acquire a 40 p.c. share interest in this
Australian financier. But cheaper sor-
rowing is an inevitable result.
In its field, Mutual Acceptance shares
are not over-valued. Present share price
of 9s. shows an income yield of 8.3 p.c.
and earnings yield of 12.5 p.c., which
is more attractive than most financiers
with big and powerful “friends”.
The next couple of years should see
the end of a digestive process. Existing
shareholders may then enjoy the fact
that the share market finds their invest-
ment more palatable.
Firmer Dividend
A rc Industries’ announcement of a
higher 1964-65 dividend confirms
that profits have shown substantial im-
provement. In announcing the dividend
last week directors said that- the profit
details would be released within 10 days.
Dividend has been raised from 1\ to BJ-
p.c. In 1962-63 it was cut from 15 to
7i p.c. following the doubling of ordin-
ary capital, thanks to a one-for-one
bonus issue.
Actually the higher payout and the
expected profit increase will be of little
surprise to investors. Directors reported
30 p.c. higher sales and maintained profit
margins for the first half of the year.
They also stated in their interim report
that these highly satisfactory conditions
were expected to continue for the rest
of the year.
In 1963-64 the group managed a sub-
stantial lift in profit, from £475,000 to
£667,000. Earning rate moved up from
13.5 to 18.9 p.c. on higher capital.


CREATIVE
RADIO & TV OPPORTUNITIES
IN NEW ZEALAND
The rapid expansion of the New Zealand Broadcasting
Corporation has created new and interesting positions for men of
ability with ambition and drive.
TV PRODUCTION SUPERVISORS
These positions are for applicants with proven
experience as producers in charge of major Television productions. They
must also have the ability to supervise the work of other TV producers
and to train staff. As the work includes both studio and outside
productions the applicants will be expected to display energy and
versatility. Salary up to EA2409 (ENZI93S) according to qualifications.
ANNOUNCERS
Applications are invited from young men, aged 21
and over, who wish to join the announcing staff of the New Zealand
Broadcasting Corporation. Qualifications must include a good, general
education and a lively appreciation of current affairs and controversial
topics of the day. Preference will be given those applicants with some
knowledge of at least one foreign language and who have demonstrated
vocal ability in amateur theatre, public speaking or debating. Overtime,
penal rates and shift allowances are payable in addition to the basic
salary of up to EA1494 (ENZI2OO).
Written applications should give the fullest particulars,
including copies of testimonials, and be addressed:
MR BARNES,
NZBC Recruitment Officer,
P.O. Box 98, Wellington, NEW ZEALAND.
NEW ZEALAND BROADCASTING CORPORATION
A Remarkable Consistency
Although actual profit (in round figures) rose 22 p.c. in
the year to June 30, PGH Industries Ltd shows a remark-
able consistency in its earning rates. In the last five years
these have been between 23.6 p.c. in 1960-61 and
approximately 26.7 p.c. in the year just completed.
This is very creditable for any firm connected with the
notoriously sensitive building industry. PGH makes roofing
materials and tar products for construction purposes; makes
and distributes “Alcor” aluminium products; produces
furniture and bedding; has a plywood factory and timber yard
and a softwood sawmill, all in NSW; manufactures bricks,
tiles, clay pipes and other ceramic products, plastic extrusions
and injection-moulded products.
The company did have a substantial loss from its contracting
subsidiary in Queensland; the loss was wholly absorbed in
1964-65. A lower tax provision (£183,000) was possible due
chiefly to plant-investment allowances.
The announced profit of £450,000 is a good advance from
the £167,584 earned in 1960-61. In the five-year period
since, capital has grown from £713,875 to £1,683,343 through
a conversion of notes to shares, two premium issues and a
bonus issue.
The last premium issue and the bonus issue, both one-for-
ten, were made in January, 1965; the resultant new shares
ranked for both interim and final dividends. The rate of the
final has not yet been announced. There is no reason to
believe it will be anything other than 8 p.c., making 16 p.c.
as forecast at the time of the issue.
Uninspiring Comfort
HHhe 1964-65 result from Johns and Waygood, Melbourne-
based engineer, was uninspiring but something of a
comfort. Profit rose around 6 p.c. to a new record of £609,000.
This contrasts with the performance for the first half qf the
year, when directors reported that profits were slightly lower
in spite of increased turnover.
Shareholders can take heart from the fact that the position
improved somewhat in the latter half, even though part of
the overall profit rise was due to the lower incidence of
taxation. Thanks to the pre-acquisition losses of some sub-
sidiaries the result was after tax down from £463,000 to
£410,000.
The beneficial effect of this state of affairs was offset to
some extent by depreciation, up from £224,000 to £278,000.
Operating profit before these two items gives a more accurate
indication of the small improvement scored over the year
it rose from £1,261,000 to £1,298,000.
The 1-for-10 premium issue during the year reduces earning
rate from 16.4 to 15.9 p.c., still providing adequate cover for
the 10 p.c. dividend paid since the holding company was
formed in 1957. As the new shares rank for only a quarter
of the dividend, a much bigger profit improvement will be
necessary to prevent a further slip in earning rate in the
current year.
Great Expectations
TI/¥etal merchants and refiners, Albert G. Sims Ltd, surprised
with its announcement of a £607,002 profit for the year to
June 30.
Not even the interim report delivered in late May on turn-
over and profit for three-quarters of the year gave any hint
that this year’s profit would be nigh on double last year’s.
To make such a dramatic recovery from the two black years
1962 and 1963, when approximately £450,000 was lost,
shows that Sims was down but definitely not out. The ss.
shares, once cut to half par, now command a 50 p.c. premium.
The difficulties in those bad years were the diversification
into shipping, a Melbourne pig-iron plant and hardware
business, and litigation over the Morts Dock property.
Now most of the Morts Dock property has been sold,
allowing a return of capital of Is. per ss. share. This should
be effected following the 1965 annual meeting in December.
Latest profit was 19.7 p.c. on present capital and, as a
guide to next year’s fortunes, 24.7 p.c. on the proposed
reduced capital of £2,413,178.
Investors should find interesting the explanations of the
improved result and any further details on directors’ prudence
in writing down plant (£48,497 out of the above-mentioned
profit) and goodwill.
Solid for Shareholders
Thra profit rise announced by Australian United Corporation
was something of a surprise. Directors reported a lower
result for the December half. Apparently the final increase
was entirely due to tax savings the profit, up from £507,000
to £531,000, was after tax down from £283,000 to £198,000.
The increase was a much-needed one. The 1963-64 result
had come down from the record £567,000 earned in 1962-63.
Still, one cannot help feeling that the profit trend remains
downward in actuality. The current year will test the truth of
this, providing tax returns to a normal basis.
Even if profits continue to ease, shareholders will have little
to worry about, however. The steady 10 p.c. dividend is
covered by earnings of 32.4 p.c., up from 31.5 p.c. last year
but still well below the 43.7 p.c. earned in 1962-63.
Such earnings put the group among the high-calibre
financiers, underwriters and short-term money-market opera-
tors. Its major shareholders alone are evidence of this. The
group is a virtual offshoot of Sir lan Potter’s broking business.
Around 35 p.c. of the shares are held by a consortium of
some of the world’s largest bankers. The Bank of NSW also
has a large swag of shares. Solid indeed!


SECURITY ANALYSIS
A Moot Question of Gearing
As applied to Finance Corporation
llThen Finance Corporation of Austra-
" lia Limited was capitalised in March
1955, 40 p.c. of the capital was issued
to the Bank of Adelaide, 17 p.c. to John
Martin and Co. Ltd, 2 p.c. to Pope
Industries Ltd and the remaining 41 p.c.
to the public to all intents and purposes
(although 21 p.c. was issued to the mem-
bers of the Automobile Finance Com-
pany Ltd). The original shareholders can
have no complaint about their invest-
ment for, while the dividend rate has
remained steady at 10 p.c., the capital
has been increased by issues at par as
follows:
August, 1958 1-for-1
March, 1960 l-for-2
March, 1961 T-for-3
April, 1963 l-for-4
April, 1964 l-for-5
April, 1965 l-for-6
Despite the problems, which have al-
ready been noted in other articles about
finance companies, of maintaining the
earning rate on equity capital, FCA in-
creased its earning rate, on the basis of
disclosed earnings, from 1955-56 to
1958-59. Although the earning rate then
declined up to 1960-61, partly as a
result of the large issues in 1958-59 and
1958-60, there was a period of increasing
earning rates to 1962-63.
Unfortunately, worthwhile information
in the profit and loss statements has only
been given for the 1962-63 and 1963-64
years. It seems likely that disclosed earn-
ings could have been understated, from
the analyst’s viewpoint, in years prior to
this period. For example, most analysts
would regard amounts carried to a doubt-
ful debts and contingency reserve as an
appropriation of profits and, as the tax
provision seems high in relation to dis-
closed profits anyway, it is likely that the
Tax Commissioner takes a similar view.
The effect of adding this provision back
to earnings in 1962-63 and 1963-64 is to
increase the earning rate in those years to
23.4 (19.4) and 20.0 (18.1) respectively.
Furthermore, the preliminary announce-
ment for the 1964-65 year suggests that
the earning rate for the year would be
only 17.6 p.c.; the tax provision would
indicate that the rate would be well in
excess of this figure. In fact, it seems
likely that the rate could be close to
23 p.c. provided that the discrepancy
can be attributed to items that would
normally be added back.
This must lead to the question: “Why
are the shares now selling at their lowest
point for the last five years in terms of
dividend yield?”
One reason, and perhaps the most im-
portant, is the general loss of interest in
finance company shares because it is felt
that growth prospects are now limited.
On the basis of the last sale'of 17s. 4d.,
FCA shares show an immediate dividend
yield of 5.8 p.c. and a published earnings
yield of 10.2 p.c. which would have the
effect of ranking the company third after
Associated Securities and AGC. How-
ever, if my guess about the earnings rate
should turn out to be anywhere near cor-
rect, FCA would rank last of the institu-
tion-backed finance companies in terms
of earnings yield.
Another factor Could perhaps be the
declining “bonus content” in new issues
to shareholders. Looking at the schedule
produced above, it would be possible to
suggest that new issues will continue to
occur each year but in a declining ratio
l-for-7 in 1966, l-for-8 in 1967, and
so on. This may or may not happen and,
as has been pointed out in other articles,
it is likely to be more a matter of gearing
than anything else.
Yn the last prospectus for debentures
dated June 18, 1965, the last sentence
on the bottom of page 5 is significant
and reads as follows: “Apart from the
foregoing there is no limit existing in
respect of the company’s power to bor-
row.” The “foregoing” relates exclusively
to the company’s power to raise deben-
ture stock. Basically, the debenture stock
on issue must not exceed six times share-
holders’ funds (net of intangibles) or
80 p.c. of current assets, whichever is the
less. It might also be noted that the defi-
nition of “current assets” is such that in
terms of the trust deed the amount was
nearly 30 p.c. greater than the amount
shown in the consolidated balance sheet
as at December 31, 1964. It seems likely
that the effective limitation is six times
shareholders’ funds.
The following table will show that,
while this limit has not been reached
during the last three and a half years,
total borrowings have ranged between
5.9 times shareholders’ funds and 7.5
times, and total liabilities between 6.1
and 7.7 times:
Dee. 31
As at June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1964
No. of times »
shareholders' funds:
Debenture stock 3.6 4.6' 4.2 4,6 4.9
Total borrowings 5.9 7.5 6.6 6.7 7.4
Total liabilities 6.1 7.7 6.8 6.9 7.6
It is fairly clear that FCA is rather
more highly geared than some of the
other companies which we have examin-
ed, as the following comparisons show:
, AGC CAGA A Secs'. FCA
Total liabilities
times share-
holders' funds 6.2 4.7 7.6
This situation will tend to give FCA a
fairly marked advantage over the others
so far as earnings to ordinary capital is
concerned. Yet it is significant that the
1964-65 earning rate (even on an
adjusted basis) is unlikely to be greater
than that of AGC and Associated
Securities.
A comparison of the rate of return on
net outstandings shows FCA to have a
good record (over the short period for
which the rate can be calculated) and it
does not seem that the average interest
rate is much different from the others.
Net profit before Interest %
tax and interest Average
% Outstandings Borrowings
1963 1964 1963 1964
AGC 9.54 9.26 6.4 6.6
FCA 9.35 8.77 6.9 6.6
Assoc. Secs 8.66 8.62 7.0 7.3
CAGA 7.79 8.03 6.4 6.6
The problem of being higher geared
raises its head when a recession occurs.
If the total income tends to level off
because business is hard to come by,
there is every possibility that the result
will be more noticeable to the share-
holders of a highly geared company than
to the shareholders of a lower-geared
company. This is an oft-quoted axiom in
accounting circles.
While FCA seems historically cheap
at the present time,-it may de desirable to
seek a lower-geared company despite the
good past record.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Dec. 31
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1964
Net outstandings 7110 9208 14039 18739 21513
Other debtors,
cash, etc. 8760 11553 11883 T3318 14355
Investments 9 236 536 559 612
Fixed assets 443 785 664 715 713
Intangibles 67 48 49 50 62
Total assets 16389 21830 27171 33381 37255
Short term debt 5483 8926 8730 10690 10607
Long term debt 8409 9898 14533 17996 21400
Other liabilities 465 574 623 664 886-
Minority interests — 6 33 76 79
Ordinary capital 1626 1877 2254 2757 3008
Reserves 406 549 998 1198 1275
PROFIT STATEMENTS SUMMARIES {£'000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Interest n.a. n.a. 1461 1709 n.a.
Depreciation (leases) n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Tax provision 254 229 309 336 468
Earnings 263 321 468 489 514
Ordinary dividends 147 174 200 244 292
Surplus 116 147 268 245 222
Earning rate % 17.9 18.4 23.4 20.0 17.6
Dividend rate % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
Dividend yield % (a) 5.2 4.5 3.6 4.0 5.8
High price (b) 19/6 23/6 28/- 27/10 22/3
Low price (b) 19/- 19/6 21/9 22/3 16/9
(a) Based on last sale September when accounts
presented.
(b) Calendar year.


DEPARTMENT OF
TRADE AND INDUSTRY
CANBERRA
careers for
graduates
The Commonwealth Department of Trade and
Industry is seeking graduates of superior
ability, drive and initiative for appointments
in the Department’s Central Office in Canberra.
TYPE OF WORK
Research into
■ International Trade and commodity
arrangements.
■ Promotion of Australian exports.
■ Tariff and import policy.
■ Fostering of Australian secondary industry.
QUALIFICATIONS
For graduates generally, Degree in Economics,
Commerce, Arts, Law, Science. Generally
speaking, Economics or Commerce graduates
are preferred, but personal qualities are more
important than type of degree.
If you expect to graduate this year you are
eligible to apply for any of these vacancies.
SALARY ON APPOINTMENT
Within the range £1482/£lB4B.
Honours graduates receive a minimum salary
of £1543.
Women graduates receive £2Ol less.
CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT
COMPREHENSIVE TRAINING SCHEME
during first twelve months.
SUBSIDISED RENT for married officers
brought to Canberra.
SUPERANNUATION SCHEME applies.
OPPORTUNITIES
Promotion opportunities are good for imagina-
tive intelligent young graduates with a
capacity for independent work.
APPLICATION
Application forms and information brochures
are available from the Department’s Regional
Offices and Commonwealth Public Service
Inspector’s Offices in each capital city and
from all University Appointments Boards.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE with The Secretary,
Department of Trade and Industry, Canberra,
on 16th September, 1965.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Keen Competition —As Ever
Edwards Dunlop on a steady keel
ThiE chairman, Mr J. W. Dunlop, has
reported no dramatic developments
or progress for paper and printers’
requisites supplier Edward Dunlop and
Co. Ltd. But shareholders can rest easy,
knowing that 1965-66 should, except in
the event of deflationary pressures on
the economy, bring quiet advances as
were made in the year completed on
April 30.
The 1964-65 address presented to
shareholders recorded a normal hard-
working year for wholesale merchanting,
with keen competition.
Group profit therefore, as announced
earlier, edged up slightly from £241,408
to £245,539, before writing off £3095
capital loss on the sale of fixed assets.
Depreciation charge was £34,477
greater at £140,326, owing to the in-
stallation of large production units by
several subsidiaries, named as W. Nevill
and Co. Ltd and Galwey and Co. Pty
Ltd, the Sydney paper processers and
converters.
W. Nevill and subsidiary moved
premises to Alexandria. Although the
chief removal costs were incurred in
the previous year and were at that time
charged against a provision made for
the purpose earlier, profits were affected
by the move for the first half of the
year under review.
The plant additions should improve
output in the current year, so it is reason-
able to expect a corresponding improve-
ment in profit there.
The New Zealand subsidiary, Olympic
Stationery Ltd, had “a very good year”,
and factory extensions and plant
additions should pep up sales in 1965-66.
Apparently it was thought earlier that
the introduction of decimal currency
would give a nice fillip to sales of paper
and stationery, but now the company is
not expecting any substantial increase.
Forward orders are satisfactory, anyway.
An important part of the business is
still the sale of machinery for the
graphic arts. During 1964-65 these rose
both in Australia and New Zealand.
The service companies, Super Trans-
port Service (NSW) Pty and Parsons and
Hayes Pty (printers’ engineers), with the
overseas buying company, Edwards
Dunlop and Co., performed their
functions well. The first-mentioned, pro-
viding delivery and storage services for
Edwards Dunlop and outsiders, has ex-
panded to Victoria and should be out
of the red this year.
There were few outwardly significant
movements in the balance sheet other
than in fixed assets. The gross figure
for freeholds and leaseholds showed
£1,222,439 (at cost) on April 30, 1965,
compared with £990,742 a year earlier
(plus a steady £382,222 representing
land and buildings at valuation).
Similarly, plant, furniture and vehicles
valued at cost moved up from
£1,184,916 to £1,384,517.
Reserves were strengthened over the
year. General reserve went up from*
£950,606 to £975,000.
The company has a sound record for
profit-making and conservatism. The
profits reported are never spectacular,
yet they are reliable in their consistency.
A provision for stock depreciation and
contingencies of £294,443, categorised
as “current liabilities and provisions”,
might one day be considered super-
fluous. In the meantime, it is comfort-
ing insurance against misadventures.
Considerable investments are held in
listed companies (£203,579) and other
companies (£193,817). Investment in-
come improved to £20,690 currently.
Reliance oh bankers was greater at
recent balance date than in 1964
(£938,493 as against £569,911), due to
the fixed asset additions. A greater
quantity of debenture stock (£443,600
compared with £158,000) will be matur-
ing in the current year.
The group has grown over the years


INTEGRATED 'KIX' COMMERCIALS PROVE
I.M.T. really SELLS!
>
I
. ..m
mtMM
mmm
mmm o
SC 1 w
Graham Kennedy, compere of GTV-9's "In Melbourne To-
night", during an on-camera exchange with "Sid the Swag-
man" (Frank Rich), the character who spearheads the
selling drive for Amalgamated Chemicals (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
marketers of the Kix family of products.
I.M.T. KICKS XIX SALES
IN VICTORIA!
A once-a-week commercial every Wednesday night is boosting the sales of Kix Insect
Powder, Kix Aerosol Insect Killer, and Ratsak rat and mice killer for Amalgamated
Chemicals (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.
The company's agency (Advertising Marketing Pty. Ltd.) created the character of "Sid the Swagman" as a complete departure
from the normal clean, highly-polished sales approach, and with the selling message delivered in a straightforward "dinkum
Aussie" manner, the awareness of the company's pro-
ducts has increased tremendously, with a resultant
sales lift.
Both client and agency agree "the image of Kix has
improved more than 100 per cent since the introduc-
tion of the live commercials on 'ln Melbourne Tonight'
—and it is our intention to continue our usage of the
programme and the station as our major promotional
activity in Victoria".
JOIN THE BAND OF BIG SELLERS
WHO USE IN MELBOURNE TONIGHT'
REGULARLY ON
For availabilities, rates:
MELBOURNE
42 0201
SYDNEY
27 2881
9


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/19988
experience
The Bank of Ceylon has grown to be the largest
bank in the island, controlling over 50% of the
total bank deposits in Ceylon. Enterprising
exporters and importers depend upon this
experience in their trade relations with Ceylon.
The Bank of Ceylon offers a comprehensive
service from up-to-the-minute Business Intelli-
gence Reports and Credit Information, to the
financing of exports and imports and conducting
every type of foreign exchange transaction.
LONDON OFFICE: 48-54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Phone Monarch 5597-9.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: FORBANK Colombo.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: HEADBANK Colombo.
°L<¥
BANK OF CEYLOI
The largest bank in Ceylon
with the finest network of local branches.
28 BRANCHES AND 4 PAY OFFICES IN CE
by acquisitions as well as internal effort.
The most recent buy was Olympic
Stationery, in February, 1962.
Shareholders are invited to subscribe
to premium issues, usually at one-for-
five, every few years, the last being in
November, 1960. To maintain this
pattern, a cash issue at premium is due
within the next year or two. If the
bankers get impatient, this could hasten
the day.
The 20s. shares, soon to be con-
verted to dollar units, yield a 5.1 p.c.
income return and 6.4 p.c. on earnings
while around the 395. mark. This time
a year ago the price was about 51s.
In the present stockmarket malaise
there seems no particular reason to
hurry into Edwards Dunlop, though
this is not to say that they are over-
priced compared with other companies
in related fields.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
April 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current ossets 4379 4545 5279 5570 5503
Less current liabilities 1907 2132 3211 2592 2782
Working capital 2472 2413 2068 2978 2721
Investments 739 349 370 371 397
Fixed assets 1094 1643 1987 1936 2260
4305 4405 4425 5285 5378
Loan capital 1130 1028 1034 1803 1848
Minority interests 19 44 35 47 48
Ordinary capital 1870 1949 1949 1965 1965
Reserves 1295 1384 1407 1470 1517
4305 4405 4425 5285 5378
Depreciation 57 82 100 106 140
Taxation 118 100 132 134 139
Net profit 170 198 222 241 246
Dividend 139 190 195 197 197
Surplus 31 8 27 44 49
Earning rate 11.6 10.4 11.4 12.3 12.5
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 4.7 4.5 4.7 3.9 5,1
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 18.2 20.8 18.9 20.8 15.6
High price (b) 58/- 47/6 48/6 46/- 52/6
Low price (b) 36/6 37/- 42/- 40/6 42/6
(a) End of July, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
SA BREWING CO. LTD
An Australian Staple
Tn paying tribute to the retiring chair-
man, Sir Roland Jacobs, the new
chairman of the South Australian Brew-
ing Co. Ltd, Mr N. S. Young, referred
to the major tasks of rehabilitation and
reorganisation which Sir Roland had
directed over the past 17 years.
With the return to a peace-time
economy, the breweries had to be almost
completely rebuilt, old equipment
scrapped and the most modern equip-
ment installed. New and more efficient
brewing techniques were introduced. A
large, expensive programme of modern-
ising old company hotels and erection
of completely new ones was carried out.
The company, dating back to 1888,
has two breweries in South Australia,
West End Brewery which produces
draught beer and Southwark Brewery
specialising in bottled and canned beer.
It is the sole distributor of draught beer
in the southern State and is responsible
for about four-fifths of the bottled beer
sold. The two brands, West End and
Southwark, also find their way to
Broken Hill and the Northern Territory.
A recent addition to the range is
Guinness products, since the 1964
arrangement was made with Arthur
Guinness Son and Co. Ltd to distribute
throughout Australia. This puts South
Australian Brewing on a national basis
for the first time.
The company is believed to own over
100 hotel freeholds. In the last accounts,
for the year to February 28, 1965, all
freeholds (breweries included) were
shown as £6,077,572 at valuation,
£2,525,272 at cost less provision for
depreciation £735,080, giving a net
figure of £7,867,764.
In the last two sets of published
accounts, a separate item showed de-
preciation on freehold properties £93,992
(1964) and £99,520 (1965). Deductions
in previous years were never revealed
separately. Although the Tax Commis-
sioner disregards claims for depreciation
of freehold properties, hoteliers and
moteliers have greater justification for
such a claim than most other businesses.
It is very prudent of South Australian
Brewing to allow for it in their accounts.
The freeholds were revalued by £2.8
million in 1959 and a bonus issue
capitalised £1,764,166 of this.' In 1965
accounts, assets revaluation reserve stood
at £1,115,967 a potential source of
future benefits.
The latest capital move was the one-
for-five par issue of last January, which
raised £948,832 towards the develop-
ment and expansion of breweries and
hotels. Capital expenditure for 1964-65
was over £700,000, spent on progressive
costs for the new Warradale and
Morphett Arms Hotels, new sites for
extra hotels and parking space, enlarg-
ing and modernising old hotels, especially
the Waikerie Hotel extensions, and
additions to the breweries.
Not provided for in the 1965 accounts
were commitments for capital expendi-
ture totalling £438,811.
Prior to the 1959 bonus issue, there
had been a three-for-five bonus and
simultaneous cash issue (one-for-four) in
May, 1955. It was obvious that the
company’s accounting and reporting
were very conservative indeed. In the
eight years up to and including 1961-62,
dividends at very modest rates absorbed
92 p.c. of profits as reported so briefly
by the company.
Only the introduction of the new


&
Finance
CorpomMo^i
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
0
4
0
I
5b
PER ANNUM ! YEAH
1
4
PER ANNUM 9MQNTHS
/|3
tc4/o
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS .
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. jdn. 2
Companies Act in 1963 permitted share-
holders to know, for the first time, the
provisions for depreciation end tax
which their company made before de-
claring a profit. In the last two years
it has “provided” £194,500 (in 1964)
and £150,000 (in 1965) for property and
plant development, before declaring a
profit.
In the accompanying tables these
amounts have been treated as appropria-
tions out of profits after tax, which
results in more realistic earning rates for
the last two years, although, because of
the previous paucity of information,
these are not comparable with earlier
earning rates.
Profit for 1964-65, therefore, is
£768,914 after providing £246,566 de-
preciation on brewery and hotel plant
and furniture and £99,520 depreciation
on freehold properties, with £645,000
for income tax. It includes £29,109
income from investments.
This compares with £763,272 profit
in 1963-64 after £255,173 depreciation
on plant, etc., £93,992 property de-
preciation, and £608,897 tax (adjusted
for the increased rate of company taxa-
tion). Investment income was then
£26,944.
The apparent deficit of working
capital is not uncommon with brewers
and in no way inhibits South Australian
Brewing. Amongst the investments is a
25 p.c. share interest in its SA com-
petitor, Cooper and Sons. A share ex-
change was arranged in January, 1962,
as mutual protection from the UK
Charrington group, which was searching
*for an entry to the Australian brewing
industry.
South Australian Brewing now has
licences to build hotels at Findon,
Marion, Clovelly Park, Burnside and
Paradise, and construction is already
proceeding on some of these.
At 1965 balance date £453,671 had
been received in respect of the cash
issue, which was held in suspense. Paid
ordinary capital is now £5,692,995 plus
£83,132 in employees’ shares since full
receipt of the issue money on March 1.
The new capital ranks, of course, for
the full dividends for this current year.
The absence of fixed or long-term
liabilities means shareholders have a
large equity in this business, producing
and dispensing what might be called a
staple item in the Australian diet.
Unfortunately for brewers, they are
vulnerable to indirect taxation. The
latest Budget, which raised excise duties
on beer and spirits, will, according to
past experience, set back brewers and
hoteliers for a couple of years. Other-
wise we could say as usual that* South
Australian Brewing is a very fine invest-
ment.
The 5s. shares currently sell for
around 15s. 9d., where the dividend
yield (taking for granted the mainten-
ance of a 10 p.c. dividend rate) is 3.2
p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
February 28 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 1104 895 1162 1576 2086
Less current liabilities 1323 1579 1824 1999 2314
Working capital -219 -684 -662 -423 -228
Investments — 135 236 293 434
Fixed assets 7272 7632 7749 8544 8914
7053 -7083 7323 8414 9120
Ord. capital 4621 4621 4744 4744 4744
Employees' capital 83 83 - 83 83 83
Capital in advance — — — — 454-
Reserves 2349 2379 2496 3587 3839
7053 7083 7323 8414 9120
Depreciation Not Disclosed 349 346
Taxation Not Disclosed 609 645
Net profit 409 441 535 763 769
Dividends 388 412 483 483 483
Surplus 21 29 52 280 286
Earning rate p.c. 8.7 9.4 11.2 15.7 15.9
Dividend rate p.c. 81 8J 10 io 10
Dividend yield (a) 3.2 3.2 3.1 2.3 3.3
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 29.4 34.8 28.6 28.7 19.2
High Price (b) 13/- 13/3£ 14/91 18/10 23/9
Low Price (b) 8/6 9/9 12/10 14/9 18/11
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


SCIENCE TEACHER
Full time for beginning of
First Term, 1966.
Apply in first instance to:
BOX 374, P.O. MANUKA,
A.C.T.
CANBERRA GRAMMAR SCHOOL
ASSISTANT MASTER needed to teach
Science at Canberra Grammar School, 1966.
Experience in Biology teaching an asset.
Board and lodging available for single
man and house for married man.
Applications should be sent to the HEAD-
MASTER, with the names and addresses of
two referees and brief curriculum vitae.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: FRANK PARKES late of St Mary’s. TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN LILLIAN PARKES has
filed a Petition for divorce No. 2446 of 1965
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 7th day of October,
1965, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS &
CO., Solicitors. 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY
BETWEEN JOHANN THEISS Petitioner and
HERMINE THEISS Respondent. TO: HER-
MINE THEISS formerly of 152 Invermay Road,
Launceston in Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE that
JOHANN THEISS has filed a divorce Petition
against you on the ground of desertion AND
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to defend
the Petition you must file an Answer within
60 days of the publication of this notice at
the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart, or at the
Launceston District Registry, Cameron Street,
Launceston, from which address further in-
formation can be obtained otherwise the
Court may hear and determine the pro-
ceedings in your absence. DATED this 11th
day of August, 1965. —J. R. EATON, District
Registrar.
TO: WILLIAM BUCHANAN PEARSON for-
merly of Dianella near Perth, Western
Australia. TAKE NOTICE that your wife
BETTY KATHLEEN PEARSON has presented a
Petition to the Supreme Court of Western
Australia for a decree of dissolution of mar-
riage against you on the ground of deser-
tion. If you wish to defend the Petition or
institute proceedings against the Petitioner
you must file an Answer in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth within
35 days from the date of this publication.
In default of your so doing the suit may
proceed and the Court will pronounce judg-
ment and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 12th day of August, 1965.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: CHARLESINA HUTCHISON SLIMMON.
TAKE NOTICE that THOMAS MURRAY
SLIMMON has filed Petition No. 2568 of 1965
for Divorce on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 14th October, 1965. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice
of Petition free of charge from BARKELL &
PEACOCK, 11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NORMAN WIDDERS late of 6 Coulter
Street, Gladesville. TAKE NOTICE that JUNE
MARGARET WIDDERS has filed a Petition
for divorce No. 4265 of 1964 on the ground
of cruelty. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 14th October, 1965,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JACK H. LEVY, Esq., Solicitor,
of 215 Blaxland Road, Ryde, or from his city
Agents, Jones, Jones and Jones, Solicitors,
76 Clarence Street, Sydney. C. A.'H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOYCE EDITH MARY STRAMANDIOLI.
TAKE NOTICE that FRANK STRAMANDIOLI
has filed a Petition No. 418 of 1965 for divorce
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 6tb
October, 1965, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ADDISON &
KNOX, Solicitors, of 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: LESLIE JOHN JENNER, formerly of Fall*
Creek, yia Nowra TAKE NOTICE thal
AMBER SYLVIA JENNER has filed an
amended Petition for Divore No. 2131 of 1962
on the ground of desertion and separation
notwithstanding the facts and circumstances
set out in the Discretion Statements filed
by her. If you wish to defend you should
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mini
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on o:
before the 6th day of October, 1965, anc
obtain a copy of the amended Petition anc
Notice of Petition without charge fron
MAURICE J. McGRATH, Solicitor, of 5<
Hunter Street, Sydney, or J. J. LYONS
BARNETT & WALKER, Solicitors, 201
Conadilly Street, Gunnedah. C. A. H
HARMS, Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 863
ACROSS
I—Similarly have affection for sage. (8)
s—One5 —One spot to twitch with regard to vinegar. (6)
10— sharp or flat? (9)
11— Dorsal aspect of the insect thorax without a
stomach. (5)
12 — A draughts player’s move in dudgeon. (4)
13— A German city let it stand with metal. (7)
15 — One provost shows spirit. (3)
16— Nana party donkey grows old nostrils. (5, 8)
18—They teach strange duties in “Tosca”. (13)
20— A year in a Queensland town.
(3)
21— Small department heiress
without Ireland’s profundities.
(6)
23—Make her fast enough for
Othello. (4)
26 Flora includes such adjusted
rates. (5)
27 Harmony at an agreement. (9)
28— Sweet enough to back us
against Cooper. (6)
29 An angle on majesty? (8)
DOWN
1— Relative of 2-down. (8, 7)
2 Bird which catches 29-across?
(10)
3 The early power of Wat Tyler.
(4)
4 Canvas covering put up for
sixpence. (5)
6 Dependent on a military
force. (10)
7 There’s drama in Sydney’s old
one. (4)
8— Invitation to an itching diver?
(4, 2,2, 7)
9 A change in staple dishes. (6)
14 —Another fish-hunter who flops
about awkwardly. (10)
15—One sister for coppers in a
Victorian country town. (8)
17—-Like this tea drinker. (3)
19—Mountain current on a Perur
vian sheep. (6)
22—Animal having one tongue.
(5)
24 Bachelor animal of the same
species as 22-down. (4)
25 Have some hankering ex-
tended. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 862


BINDERS
for The Bulletin
For 15/- you can keep three months’ copies of The Bulletin
m a cloth-bound, goUMettered binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is m constant demand, and for business houses where freauent
gf f 1 e a J friend 6 t 0 paSt financial features; ideal, too, Q as a
Binder” 7 Rov he w? not cash, please) to “Bulletin
S labll’betowf” 5 ney ' tosether wlth the coupon
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS, price 15 /- a copy (post free). I
enclose £ / / cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address
State
If mare than one binder is ordered, attach list giving full
name, address. State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name ,
Address
•t«I••I••• * • «l «M Ml **M ••« » * 11111 ( till MM (Ml M || ft lit
*««••«♦» •*••«««»<tMiinmmmmmimi*
*'**•* M»M mmHHMinn• State tmtiHMMiniiO
Sender .... 4 «
If undelivered, please return td Bog 5253, G.P.0.,
XHIMMMiio
Sydney.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Tussle with the BHP Giant
Mr Shepherd overplays his hand
rjIHE Rostrum pledge of “I promise not to be silent when I ought to speak” could
well be Mr Shepherd’s. Last year he spoke up against the mighty BHP. Direetors
were suddenly made aware that shareholders might have a voice in the conduct of
the company’s affairs. Furthermore it would appear that directors took notice of
this voice. Thus Mr Shepherd is to be congratulated, especially by his fellow share-
holders, on his actions last year.
Unfortunately he has now undone
much of this valuable groundwork. His
demands for a one-for-eight bonus issue
and an increase in the rate of dividend
to 10 p.c. are quite unreasonable. In
actuality he is demanding a 33 p.c. in-
crease in dividend payout. The effect of
such a request, if granted, would be the
same as if the company made a l-for-3
bonus issue and still maintained the divi-
dend rate. To compare BHP’s present
dividend rate of 81 p.c. with other com-
panies paying as high as 15 p.c. is mis-
leading. After all, BHP did make a very
generous l-for-2 bonus issue in 1961. If,
in fact, the company had not made this
bonus issue but simply maintained its
dividend payout, the current dividend
rate would be 121 p.c.
As directors of BHP say, a bonus issue
does not increase the earning power of
the company. This being so they must
now regret that the 1961 bonus issue has
been so misinterpreted by Mr Shepherd,
and probably by many others. In the long
run, the critical test of an investment is
the growth in income return. Here BHP
outstrips nearly all other leaders in recent
years. Over the last four years, income
per share has grown by 40 p.c. If this
rate is maintained for the next four years,
and there's no reason to expect otherwise,
the dividend yield based on the present
market price of 50s. would rise to 5 p.c.
This speaks well for the shares in the
long term. It probably also means that
they are well worth consideration in the
short term. By the way CSR is behaving,
I’m tempted to switch from one leader
into the other. Instead, I decided to be
a little more positive and not only sell
C’SR but also short another sugar stock,
Miilaquin. Let's hope I do a little better
than my last shorting transaction. Pioneer
Concrete. One thing for certain is that
I’ve got a head start on a certain party
who shorted Miilaquin at 345.
Although the world sugar price has
fallen to a new low of £stg 1 8+ per ton
and a l-for-3 issue at 10s. premium is
pending, Miilaquin shares have risen
from 335. to 375. The story of sugar
millers is well known. With the sky-
rocketing of the world sugar price to
over £stg 100 per ton in 1963, profits
rose to record peaks and in several cases
bonus issues were made.
Until the last chapter, which has not
yet been published, Miilaquin has fitted
into the pattern. Profits rose to a record
level of £435,000 in 1964 and, in antici-
pation of such a result, a l-for-3 bonus
issue had been made in September, 1963.
Now came the profit reversal and its
effect on the market price. I shorted 200
shares at 375.
The only purchase for the week was
200 Merco Holdings. Last year it was
one of those many small companies
whose shares were selling around four
times par. Following the interim an-
nouncement early this year of a 15 p.c.
fall in profits, all interest was lost in the
shares and the price faded away to 13s.
6d. Now profits for the full year of
£42,400 reveal a recovery in the second
half and once again give an earning
rate of over 30 p.c. In this light, a re-
covery in price to 15s. does not seem out
of the question.
Tableland Tin has once again been the
savior of the portfolio. The 50 p.c.
increase in profit pushed the price to 475.
and so gave me a profit of £123. I hope
to be back into this stock very shortly.
If the company can make £200,000 by
producing 750 tons when the average
price of tin is £stgl3oo per ton, how
much will Tableland earn if they pro-
duced 1200 tons at an average price of
£stgl 500?
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
50 CSR, 60/- £147
200 Miilaquin, 37/- £362
200 Tableland, 47/- £460
BOUGHT
200 Merco, 13/6 £l3B
These transactions jump me back into
a credit of £498.
The week’s dealings left me holding:
..... , Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Steamships
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 9/9
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 8/-
2 Ford Debentures 5/7/65 £2OO £2OO
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/6
400 Kolotex 4/8 65 11/6 13/-
200 Aberfoyle 11/8/65 18/6 19/-
400 VVibroc 19/8/65 13/6 13/6
200 Hanimex 19/8/65 17/- 17/-
400 Tennyson 19/8/65 7/9 8/-
200 Miilaquin (short) 25/8/65 37/- 37/-
200 Merco 25/8/65 13/6 13/6


Why Waitangi?
(pronounced Why-tangi)
The other day a Sydney
businessman who had spent 4
weeks seeing all New Zealand
was asked to name the highlight
1 ’Waitangil ” he said. ”I want
to go back to Waitangi - for 6
weeks.”
m
S 3
»- -
J
At Waitangi, sheltered
in the Bay of Islands (149 of
them) north of Auckland, is
the newest of New Zealand's
new-look international resorts.
There are do-nothing things to
do like loafing around the heated
pool over a beer or two, ambling
hmM
*?' ■
«(■
3T*.
%€ '■
V
itf
SB'- „
'C--i
J * , y
.* !-. .! •;« r - '■:
.1 ! ••, \: > •?«:-
by foot, car or boat through a
charming, historic district. Or
get out on the blue waters to haul
in a swordfish, just as Zane Grey
did. Take a look at a superb
collection of Maori carvings;
golf on a course famous for its
hill-striding fairways. And when
you feel like a day out, you can
visit the calm green heart of
a Kauri Forest, or drive along
the Ninety Mile Beach. (In
the season, try digging for
toheroas.)
At the waterside Waitangi
Hotel your suite is luxurious,
the service is smooth and the
cuisine memorable (it even
includes deep-sea marlin steaks).
The cellar contains 40 international
vintages.
St
Escape to Waitangi!
Daily air and railcar services
from Auckland, or drive
yourself on an uncrowded
scenic highway. See your
travel agent or the New Zealand
Government Tourist Bureau,
14 Martin Place Sydney,
Phone 25 6631. 93/95 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, Phone 67 6621
orM.L. C. Building, Adelaide
Street, Brisbane, Phone 26 152
for further details.
WAITANGI
NEW ZEALAND


igsil
t a Jt 'M
>4 if
flW'
n
r
V
■G&m
* *» v*
m J. * .
~ . , iS f **
I
f
T>
if
a •>
W
<*-*.
a
, A i,x'
ksss»
■•■-~xi
=r?r
ari
gamr-rms
ll*
n
Am »«S®
ff ' #
ISISSiWIS
/ •:■ i
Holden joins the trend-setters at the
New York World’s Fair! The most advanced cars in the
world are on display at the World’s Fair —and Holden’s right there with them.
That sleek curved look is by far the biggest trend in really modern styling, giving
Holden more beauty outside, more room inside than any car near its price. And
when it comes to performance, Holden shapes up just as beautifully. Engines
up to the fiery new 140-h.p. X 2. A ride that’s smoother than ever. Big self-
adjusting brakes or optional power-assisted discs. No need to go to New York
to prove this one’s a trend-setter. It’s
at your Holden Dealer’s right now.
HOLDEN Australia s Own Car
PRICES FROM £BB5 PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S. G 256
