

The Bulletin
V SSCTVffi ’VjSSSU” H
RATING THE AjJSTRALMN FINANCIAL TIMES
a s»®&MP*,«j!*oe W JV# Jmh
3TOE
PUBLIC
SERVAMp
TH E NEW
BP SENSE OF
HMk power ■
POSITIONS VACANT
GENERAL MANAGER. Sydney
Opera House,
PSYCHIATRIST, Department of
Public Health (to be seconded
to Department of Child Wel-
fare and Social Welfare)- •
General Column.
ENGINEERS Air Pollution.
LEGAL OFFICER. Department of
Labour and Industry. . ..
SURVEYOR, Department of Public
OPTICAL TEACHER OF OPTICAL
DISPENSING.
TEACHING POSITIONS.
TEACHERS. Part-time, Technical
Colleges—General Column.
NURSES (HOSPITAL ASSIST-
ANTS), State Penitentiary.
CATERING OFFICER Garrawarra
Hospital-—General Column.
PRISON OFFICERS.
TAILOR: SENIOR OVERSEER
(TAILORING. Goulburn
T nlno C* GT\tV€>.
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


Enjoy life with CRAVEN FILTER
n
# •
■ #■;
• "V-,
People who get most enjoyment from life get most
enjoyment in a cigarette from Craven Filter. Buy a
pack today and discover for yourself that Craven
Filter are better than ever.
CRAVEN FILTER
Better than ever!
A
•- k “S < / 4
Ci^AVe n
ci^<
Q 093


■
:
II
**
' -V ■
Who pulled the Reserve Bank job?
The “haul” included 1,000 desks . . .
2,500 chairs . . . 300 filing cabinets
. . . 40 safes . . . 200 storage units
. . . 700 individual ‘‘personnel car-
tons’' . . . etc. . . . etc. . . .
ANSWER: Using as many as 70
skilled men ... 18 pantechnicons
a number of armed guards . . . and
all sorts of technical equipment . . .
IN 48 HOURS GRACE BROS. RE-
MOVALS PERFORMED ONE OF THE
BIGGEST OFFICE MOVES IN AUST-
RALIA. GRACE BROS. MOVED THE
RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA!
$400,000 (the bank thinks decimal)
worth of furniture and equipment
moved about three hundred yards.
That's right. Just across the street.
It wasn’t easy; Grace Bros. Re-
movals will tell you that. But no
moving job is “easy.” Each job
requires careful thought, planning
and special equipment. If it's a
really BIG job—across the street, or
across the world —call Grace Bros.
The Bank job included moving two
plastic coated “ears of wheat” that
had been used as models for bank
notes! >Get the idea? Grace Bros,
don’t specialise in “big” jobs or
“small” jobs. They specialise in
moving! Why did we tell you about
the big job first? Everybody likes
to brag a little.
GRACE BROS REMOVALS
m
GRACE BROS REMOVALS
Sydney 2-0946 • Melbourne 48-7316 • Brisbane 5-4631 • Adelaide
63-1181 • Perth 24-5477 • Canberra 9-0234 • Hobart 34-3988 •
Newcastle 2-4302 • Townsville 94411 o Lismore 2265 • Murwillumbah 133
The Bulletin
Established 1880
OCTOBER 9, 1965.
VOL. 87, No. 4467
THESE PUBLIC SERVANTS
The new sophisticated breed 28
AUSTRALIANS IN
ENGLAND
In the unlucky country 24
McMAHON THE NETTLE
GRASPER
Tackling the WWF 21
ELLIS OF “THE BULLETIN”
“The last of the Mohicans” 43
' TANNER .... 12 LETTERS .... 44
BATMAN 42
THIS AUSTRALIA
! Waterfront: Strategic rivals 14
At the centre table .... 15
Justice: Delivery by Pantechnicon .. 17
Science: Australian fall-out 20
OVERSEAS
United Nations: The toughest job .. 33
India: The credit side 37
Vietnam: The enclave concept 38
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Martin Long on the Commonwealth
Festival 46
REVIEWS
TELEVISION: People watching .. 47
THEATRE: The Subject was Roses 47
RECORDS: Sutherland’s “Norma” 49
BOOKS: The Horse Knows the Way 52
BUSINESS & FINANCE
The IMF discussions on liquidity .. 57
An orthopaedic breakthrough 60
Speculator’s Diary 78
MAN ON THE LAND
Not the same old show 63
I Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504,.


ve got the
in
% :
Hertz Certified Service offers you £A22.4.8 in Car Rental Certificates—if you can get it! All you have to do
is find grounds for dissatisfaction with a Hertz car or Hertz service in Australia or anywhere in the world.
You won't find it easy. We've loaded the dice against you with over 90,000 clean, new cars, impeccably
trained staff working out of 2,500 locations in over 73 countries including Australia.
Mind you, you'll enjoy trying. Driving Hertz is the best way to get more out of your trip whether it's
for business or pleasure. Nobody offers better cars or better service. That's how we became the world's
number one in car rental. That's how we stay there.
To reserve a new Holden, Chevrolet or other fine car in Australia
or anywhere in the world simply 'phone
your local Hertz office.
WORLD WIDE
HERTZ
RENTA CAR
1
Let HERTZ put you t
in the driver's seat'
HN.1658


w
■
:
?
. .
.§
B r. 'y^j
I
.
;
■
k • -
<:' If
gpapps
\ „ ir
1' ■ : 1
V
NCR
gJBMti. TECHSICAL SERVICE
■l okmmui
v '
mm
m
WmMmm
-■■’ :£*••.<; »'VI
■:: •:’
m
It figures!
NCR + CESSNA = BETTER BUSINESS!
Take a firm as efficient and progressive as the
National Cash Register Company. Add a Cessna
aircraft. Total very good business indeed!
NCR wanted to give their clients in South West
Queensland the same prompt, frequent and com-
prehensive service available to their metropolitan
clients. But the vast distances involved made this
impossible. Covering the huge area by cars would
be uneconomic and impracticable.
NCR figured that a Cessna was exactly the answer.
Today one technician, flying a Cessna 172, is giving
prompt on-the-spot service to clients scattered over
a territory of 140,000 square miles.
While NCR’s Cessna is primarily intended to pro-
vide servicing facilities, other benefits accrue.
Travelling expenses are drastically cut. NCR's
reputation for service is even further enhanced. And
because they can offer such service, the entire
range of NCR machines can now be made available
to clients.
Cessna figures prominently in the success of many
Australian companies probably some of your
competitors! Find out exactly what your company
could save with a Cessna. First step is to have an
obligation-free talk with your Cessna dealer.
Cessna Dealers:
Cessna Dealers: AIRLEANDA, Port Moresby, T.N.G. *AIR OASIS PTY. LTD., Darwin, N.T.
AiR TAXIS PTY. LTD., Broken Hill. N.S.W. • CAMPBELL AIRCRAFT SALES PTY. LTD., Maitland &
Mudgee, N.S.W. « GOSS-AIR TAXIS PTY. LTD., Cunnamulla, Qld. • PENTECOST AVIATION,
Noumea, New Caledonia • MASLING AVIATION PTY. LTD., Cootamundra, Bourke, Coonamble &
Wagga, N.S.W. • REX AVIATION (OLD) PTY. LTD., Brisbane & Charieviile, Old. • REX AVIATION
SALES (NSW) PTY. LTD., Sydney • ROSS AVIATION PTY. LTD., Adelaide, S.A. • SCHUTT AIR-
CRAFT PTY. LTD., Melbourne & Geelong, Vic. • SIMPSON AVIATION PTY. LTD., Perth, W.A.
&u


For 12 years, this vital radar reflector has withstood
corrosive saltwater, storms and exposure without damage.
It’s another achievement in Australuco Aluminium
1
■
■
. ; ■ . •
■
:.r>v.
n
.
mam
mm}:s
t ■ ■
V: ;
*
m
m
y
&
H
' ' '■ '
;
v
*; W -4/253
.
. . • - -' • •-1
\ *■“
mm
mb**. »**«&«
■* - CS'
, *wv,: v -"
The lives and safety of men and ships depend on this radar reflector.
With seven others of similar design, it is used as a navigational aid
on the Queensland coast. Erected in 1953 on lonely reef outcrops,
these beacons have had to withstand unceasing corrosive attack from
salt water and the elements. That’s why Australuco aluminium was
chosen for the job.
Aluminium is highly corrosion resistant. It won't rust or rot. It
doesn’t need painting or regular maintenance. And it’s strong (years
of hurricanes and severe storms have left these beacons unscathed).
In fact, it's a versatile metal that can be wholly depended upon for
decades of service and durability.
Of course, there's more to achievement than aluminium alone.
Achievement also means Australuco’s years of experience and re-
search, testing, design, metallurgical improvements . . . years of
practical application which can be summed up in two words: know-
how. So, when you add technical skill and expertise to aluminium’s
inherent qualities (strength, light weight, corrosion resistance),
achievement is the natural result.
Australuco's engineers and technicians, backed by the world-wide
experience and knowledge of the Alcan Group, are able to supply
the latest information about the many applications of aluminium in
all phases of Australian industry.
Australian Aluminium Company Limited.
Sydney 637-0133 • Melbourne 94-0557 • Brisbane 2-7483
• Adelaide 51-1516 . Perth 23-0211 . Hobart 2-2771
A.member of the Alcan Group—A participant in the Queensland Alumina Project.
AUSTRALUCO
/ZX[ _ l _j ivi i rvi j i_j ivi


EMAIL
now serves the automotive industry
&
1
m
mm
/
\>
alte
m
The local manufacture of Email
alternator-regulator systems is now
in full production under licence to
the Prestolite International Com-
pany of America. These units are
the first of a new Email range of
automotive electrical products.
Email alternator-regulator systems
have been chosen by major Aus-
tralian vehicle manufacturers and
are in general supply to the industry.
With its fourteen Divisions, Sub-
sidiaries and Associate Companies,
Email is active in many diverse
industries—electrical, gas, building
and construction and now the
automotive industry, to name a few.
This wide diversification adds
strength to Email and contributes
significantly to growth and pros-
perity in our community.
Many times a day every Australian
uses or enjoys the benefits of an
Email product.
ELECTRICAL AND INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURERS
E.1847A


'
fir
\ >
What makes Matson the
i
First Choice of Discriminating
i Travellers to America?
Te answer: No other ships are exclusively First Class. It Is reflected In our personalized services. The
anticipation of your every wish is a precept and our staff is trained to think in terms of your individual
tastes. elegance has a special. American quality. The S.S. MARIPOSA and MONTEREY
accommodate just enough guests to favour easy companionship, yet retain space for privacy. Shipboard
appointments are unobtrusively luxurious. Public rooms embody the artistry of prominent designers. The
aura of South Seas openness is especially appealing. These liners completely air-conditioned and gyro-
stabilised are especially designecf for this tropic route. each with private facilities are
unusually spacious. Tastefully furnished and decorated, they provide charming, gracious living. Cuisine is
lavish, epicurean. Meals are interspersed with snacks and buffets. Room service is available at any hour.
The liners’ wine cellars are tended as carefully as any on shore. As unique as Matson’s ships are the
enchanting ports of call: Noumea, Suva, Niuafo’ou (Tin Can Island), Pago Pago, Honolulu (almost two full
days here: a paradise for fun-lover, sight-seer or ardent shopper) and San Francisco. Return departure can
be made from either San Francisco or Los Angeles, then via Bora Bora, Tahiti and Rarotonga to Auckland
and Sydney. A Matson voyage, featuring American service, cuisine and exquisite comforts, is designed and
priced to please demanding travellers accustomed to the finest. Isn’t it time for you to enjoy this
incomparable experience? Be sure to book early. See your travel agent soon, or contact us. 50 Young
Street, Sydney, Phone 27 4272; 454 Collins Street, Melbourne, Phone 67 7237.
Ip Australia Matson serves as genera! passenger agent for three ma]or American steamship lines; Moore-McCormack. American Export*
tebrandtsen and United States Lines.
0 SF36B»


National Notebook
Gay Days
\ very rare bird blew into our office
the other day: Mr S. Weintraub,
who led the band which accompanied
Marlene Dietrich in “The Blue Angel”,
37 years ago. Just about the hottest thing
in Berlin band-leaders at the time, Mr
Weintraub has lived here since 1937,
when he came with his group, the Wein-
traub Syncopators, on a tour for Snider
and Dean.
“That period in Berlin from the mid-
-1920s to Hitler had a wonderful sophis-
tication and gaiety,” Mr Weintraub told
us. “We played for years on European
tours . . . perhaps our biggest moment
was appearing in a fantastic benefit night
at which the greatest stars of the period
including Marlene, Conrad Veidt, Hans
Albers, Willi Fritsch, Fritzi Massary
and her husband, Max Pallenberg, ap-
peared.”
The group had the celebrated Friedrich
Hollander as its pianist (perhaps the most
famous composer of German songs after
Kurt Weill, he composed the music for
“The Blue Angel”), and in the same job,
Franz Waxman, who later went to Holly-
wood.
“Marlene was discovered for the
screen only in a sense,” Mr Weintraub
said. “She really was already a star in
Berlin, as a lead in the production ‘Two
Ties’. She was very charming and drove
all the members of the band home after
the day’s shooting so we could do
another performance at the Wintergar-
den.” (The group had already appeared
in the first sound film made in Ger-
many, a “short subject” set in a little
'theatre run by a popular composer cal-
led Rudolph Nelson and featuring his
songs.)
“I remember that when we were mak-
ing the English version of ‘The Blue
Angel’ there was one word Marlene
couldn’t pronounce well enough to
[Satisfy the director, Joseph Von Stern-
l berg. So he said to me, ‘When this word
comes up in the script you make a large
cymbal clash so nobody can hear her
say the word’.”
After Hitler, the Weintraub Syncopa-
tors toured Czechoslovakia, Switzerland,
/Holland, Sweden, Italy, Russia and
(Japan. “We had an act, you know the
‘kind of thing. The saxophone player
[would play a very sad solo and I would
stand behind him taking a handkerchief
out of my pocket to brush away the
tears. The handkerchief would get
[longer and longer and longer and longer
I The Syncopators played Australia in
1937, toured New Zealand for four
months, then, in 1938, opened Princes
Restaurant in Martin Place, Sydney.
“Three of us were interned during the
war. The country we were living in was
bad, dust storms and so on. But con-
ditions weren’t too terrible. One of my
colleagues in the Syncopators would play
piano. I would play clarinet. . . and later
after I was released I joined RCA here
in a technical capacity.” Mr Weintraub’s
face brightened. “And I’ll be meeting
Miss Dietrich not in the theatre . . he
concluded proudly, “but in her hotel.
That will be very nice.” And he was still
smiling as he left our office.
Bringing The House Down
Come months ago the grey tower of
Scots Presbyterian Church at the
corner of Collins and Russell Streets,
Melbourne, began to toss off loose chunks
of stone that scared (but missed) pedes-
trians below. It is now clearer what was
happening. The building, erected in 1874,
probably had an intuition that its native
tradition of staid ultra-respectability was
about to end.
The new age has come with the ap-
pointment of the Rev. Gordon Powell,
of St Stephen’s, Macquarie St, Sydney,
to be Scots minister. He will take over in
February. The church has had only tem-
porary preachers since the Rev. A.
Crichton Barr was appointed in June to
be immigration chaplain for the church
in Australia. Although there is no evi-
dence that it influenced his move, Mr
Barr’s marriage to a Collins St obstet-
rician, Dr Sheila Lusted early last year,
at the age of 49, five years after the death
of his first wife, is known to have dis-
pleased some of Scots’ more straight-
laced adherents.
How Gordon Powell goes over at Scots,
with his flair for publicity, his affection
for pop psychology, and his admiration
for Billy Graham and Norman Vincent
Peale, will be watched with interest. He
is the first Australian to be offered the
pulpit, all his predecessors having been
Scots. A Victorian by birth, and a Mel-
bourne man by education and experience,
he probably knows all the pitfalls. If he
continues in Melbourne the ability he has
shown in Sydney to build congregations
and raise funds much will be forgiven
him.
Quote
"E' very newspaper knows the informed
observer and the source close to the
seat of power. However, the London
“Economist” in a supplement on Latin
America has the following quotation:
' “President Kennedy created for Latin
America a machine and a psychology.
Under President Johnson, the machine
"If you must know, I only married you for your hay."


From now on:
09 09V m
l
" : '" ; ' '
IS
*
*v.
**«
■**
f **<s*
■is. . "" • *<■. '*' K
~. -y
r-
A
til
■■'.;■: if
m
r%
Enter Philippine Air Lines the service that’s 'with it’ all points East. With the world's first
in-flight colour movies. First release movies. With a whole discotheque of music to fly by (Nine
different channels, one for every taste.) With food. Where else, when travelling, will you get a
superb dinner, of international standard. Only on PAL DCB. fan jets. The latest. Best of all,
-your personal service comes first. (The Filipina flight attendant is a rare combination of Spanish
grace, Eastern manners, and American savvy.) All in the greatest smoothness, silence and
comfort aflight. We go Tuesdays. We go Thursdays. Airline a Go Go. What a way to take in a
movie. A dinner. Or a discotheque. To all points East. PAL flies you there A Go Go.
69/40
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
for detail*. PAL ftrffct Jcfiedult*. and complete Philippine* tout
infcrmjticn *ee your Travel Agent of mat* this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C I- 6.5. A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place. Sydney. 489 Swanston Street. Melbourne. Cnf.
Ann St. and North Quay. Brisbane. 140 North Terrace. Adelaide.
98 Williams Street, Earth. 62 Northbourne Avenue. Canberra.
178 Liverpool Street. Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, laur.ceste*.
Name...
Address,
.Phone.


still marches. But the psychology does
not march. And down here it is the
psychology that is important.”
The attribution is: “Quoted from an
off-the-record conversation with your
correspondent by a vary important Latin-
American personage indeed.”
Home JB
An advertisement for what is probably
the world’s first juke-box home-hire
service came inauspiciously between a
shout for “ric-apoodie-rock” and a
“promo.” for the Best of the Beatles on
the New UW recently. Deciding this was
too good to miss we got on the blower
and chased up the innovators of home
JBs.
The service is run by Hannan Pro-
ducts Pty Ltd, of Sydney, a holding
company for seven others manufacturing
and distributing coin-operated machines.
Head of the company, Rae Hannan,
started in the pin-ball machine business
nine years ago at Bondi Junction. He
got the idea for the hiring service while
at a party in America. Someone in the
business had installed a juke-box for
the night and it was a great success.
He started the business here last month
with eight machines which cost about
£lOOO each. They cost £5 10s. a night
to hire, except Friday and Saturday when
costs jump £2. They can be kept on
Sunday for an extra £1 10s. Hiring fee
is paid in advance. When the machine
is installed £2O is collected against
damage and returned when the machine
is picked up. So far no machines have
been damaged. The company carries its
own insurance.
Each machine has 100 discs, mostly
top-pops, but patrons can choose their
own favorites. Most enquiries are from
15 to 20-year-olds, though parents
enquire for younger children. Only three
records can be pre-selected, preventing
one person dominating the show.
Splendor Retained
1 A fter more than a year of public and
1 private heart-wringing, haggling and
negotiation, the good news has gone out
in Melbourne that the historic Burley
Griffin ceiling in the old Capitol movie
theatre will be saved for posterity after
all. The original 1924-built theatre will
( be carved horizontally in two. The stalls
will become a smart shopping arcade.
Above, the artfully contrived ceiling and
dress circle of the old theatre will be-
come a more compact 850-seat movie
house which will open for business on
Boxing Day with the technicolor spec-
tacular “The Great Race”.
I The original Capitol goes back to those
grandiose days of cinema design which
i saw built now-outdated mausoleums such
as Melbourne’s St Kilda Palais and Syd-
ney’s Prince Edward. But the Capitol had
the distinction of being designed by
Burley Griffin, which is why a letters-to-
editors uproar went up last year when
Hoyts announced they would not renew
their lease af the premises and indications
were that the place would be gutted for
shop and office conversion. Architec-
turally and historically, the unusually
designed ceiling of the Capitol is its as-
pect most worthy of survival. It was
designed and built in a most intricate
pyramid-upon-pyramid design into which
were fitted hundreds of variously colored
lights. Those were the days, too, of
mighty Wurlitzers and orchestras in
cinemas and a feature of the theatre was
the way the lights would change colors
and strengths in tune with the music
being blasted up from below “Monas-
tery Garden”, “Desert Song” and such-
like were particularly adaptable to the
technique.
Into the breach left last year by Hoyts
came Prudential Theatres Pty Ltd, led
by former Lord Mayor of Melbourne
Sir Frank Selleck. It is only a little more
than a year ago that Sir Frank’s Savoy
Cinema disappeared to be replaced by
a new nightclub and car park.
Prudential's treatment of the old Capi-
tol follows what was done with Mel-
bourne’s old State Theatre, which was
also carved horizontally in two with the
stalls becoming the Forum Theatre and
the dress circle another picture house,
the Rapallo. These days, film men say,
the trend is definitely to smaller cinemas
for more economic running. Ironically,
it seems that the biggest factor ih this new
movie venture to open in December was
the fact that the much publicised ceiling
was already there. Theatres have been
built for all sorts of reasons and around
all sorts of ideas. Here’s one that owes
its existence, probably uniquely, to its
ceiling.
Fall
A financial writer notes the growing
inclination of company chairmen to
report a result “comparable” with last
year, when what they really mean is
that, compared with last year, the profit
has fallen. Another attempt to get over
admitting a fall in profit was reference
to a “downage”.
Capital Fun
"C'rom the French newspaper, “Le
A Monde”:
“The loves of the young Karl Marx
have inspired the Danish composer, Niels
Viggo Hentzon, and the choreographer,
Else Marianne von Rosen, to mount a
ballet, ‘Jenny of Westphalia’, which has
just been presented in Denmark.
“This work at its world premiere was
danced by the Scandinavian Ballet Com-
pany. Else Marianne von Rosen herself
created the role of the heroine in revolt
against her bourgeois background, and
Milorad Miskovitch supported her in
the role of the author of ‘Das Kapital’.”
IS PAYMENT OF MPs UN-ENGLISH?
ffifeulletia
80 Years Ago: October 17, 1885
UNLESS the Parliament of a country is
fairly representative of the various
classes composing the community, it is idle
to expect just laws. But it is just as idle
to look for a fair representation of the
working classes under a system where
men receive no recompense for the time
they devote to the service of the State.
Here are the two premises of what might
be called a political syllogism. The con-
clusion is accordingly unavoidable —it is
futile to hope for fair legislation in a
country where, no remuneration being
received by representatives, law-making
is the province of those who are pecuni-
arily independent. Indeed, on this subject
of payment of members, we have all the
reason on one side and all the prejudice
on the other. It is said, among other
things, to be un-English. But there are
a great number of things which, at one
time, were violently un-English, but have
since been discovered to be strictly con-
sonant with fair play and common-sense.
Compulsory education, vote by ballot,
removal of the disabilities from Jews,
Catholics, and Dissenters, shortening of
the hours of labor for women and child-
ren, and many other demands which have
since been conceded, were denied for
years on the assumption that by con-
ceding them the British Constitution would
be wrecked. Thus it is possible for a
thing to be very un-English and very just.
Most of the independent nations of the
world, and many of the British colonies,
have adopted payment of members with
the best results. In fact, without it, the
struggles of Democracy to raise the masses
to a higher plane of well-being resemble
those of the donkey to reach the bunch
of carrots dangled invitingly a foot before
his nose.


Tanner
"This is a vicious standover tactic interfering with our democratic right to stand over you."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Plimsoll Line
Tf Australia remains constant in op-
posing the admission of Com-
munist China into the United Nations
it is China herself which seems per-
versely adept at providing new reasons
why a policy of exclusion remains
valid. Yet the supporters of her ad-
mission seem to have either overlook-
ed the reality of international develop-
ments in the past year, or as in the
case of France they have not over-
looked it at all but see only too clearly
its direction. That direction is an en-
couraging on? towards closer co-opera-
tion between the United States and the
Soviet Union but at the same time
towards greater intransigence and ag-
gressiveness by China.
For, since the last time her entry was
debated, China has exploded nuclear
devices, she has shown herself opposed
to peace in Vietnam, she has threatened
India, and has demonstrated a growing
hardness of ideology both in theory,
with bellicose statements like the one
from Defence Minister Lin Piao last
month, and in practice with the con-
tinuation of fomenting revolution in
Asia and Africa. Finally, at the same
time as France’s M. Couve de Murville
was pleading China’s cause, Marshal
Chen Yi showed how cynically China
regarded the whole debate by insisting
on two absurd conditions the drop-
ping of the UN declaration naming
China as an aggressor in Korea, and a
call for all “imperialist puppet states”
to be driven out of the United
Nations.
Clearly, for the UN to admit China
in these present circumstances re-
gardless of whether she dropped her
conditions would be to sign its
own suicide note, as well as making
it more difficult, if not impossible, for
the Soviet Union and the United
States to co-operate as they did in
halting the India-Pakistan war.
Nevertheless, M. Couve de Mur-
ville supported admission on the
grounds of universality—every nation
should be admitted without having
its internal system of government
judged—on the grounds of inevitability,
that China was a great nation with a
large population and on the
grounds of corrigibility that once
a member she could be induced to
be more peaceful. Besides, he said,
the problems of Asia could not be
settled without her participation.
In the first place it is not China’s
internal system of government which
those who oppose admission ques-
tion, but her failure to allow other
countries to practise their own. As
Australia’s Sir James Plimsoll said in
the General Assembly debate, “It is
a regime that advocates the forcible
overthrow by violence and revolution
of most of the governments represent-
ed in this General Assembly.” In the
second place the fashionable idea of
“inevitability” about China her
inevitable sphere of influence, her
inevitable power, her inevitable de-
mands is not that widely shared a
notion outside the theories of some
Western observers, as recent events in
Africa and in Asia, particularly in
India, suggest. And as for the need of
China’s “direct participation” in set-
tling the problems of Asia the record
on Vietnam, not to mention India and
Pakistan, speaks for itself.
China’s “direct participation” has
been sought in Warsaw in talks be-
tween the Americans and the Chinese,
in the repeated public calls by the US
for negotiation on Vietnam, In similar
calls by British and other Common-
wealth governments, in appeals by
the 17 Afro-Asian nations, and in ap-
peals by U Thant, all of which have
been rejected. There is just no other
evidence to believe that this behavior,
presumably the result of the way the
present leadership sees its long-term
goals, would be changed just because
China would be admitted to the UN.
Why, then, the support from France?
It is clear that along with all the other
motives stemming from President de
Gaulle’s aspirations to “Third World”
power status, France is concerned at
the growing co-operation between the
United States and the Soviet Union.
This view may mean that France far
away in Europe can pretend to dis-
regard the reality of China preying on
her neighbors, and advocating the
forcible overthrow of their govern-
ments. But as Sir James Plimsoll made
it clear last week, Australia cannot
afford any such pretence.
Vl?hen a tobacco company like Roth-
mans gets together with its main
competitor W. D. & H. O. Wills to
make a joint statement accusing the
Federal Government of using financial
coercion; when the two companies
agree to buy hundreds of thousands of
pounds worth of tobacco only to use
it for a latter-day “Boston Tea Party”
grievance show; when all this happens
because of a doubtful policy badly
administered for dubious political rea-
sons then no one is served neither
the cigarette industry, the tobacco
grower, nor the consumer.
Since the tobacco industry operates
under extremely competitive condi-
tions against imported cigarettes
which do not have to include poor
Australian leaf, it becomes childish for
the Government to use tactics like
threats not to renew import concession
certificates. This policy is pursued
against one industry to subsidise an-
other in this case marginal tobacco
growing. For it is not the established
Boston Tea Party
grower in established growing areas
who needs this artificial subsidy. But
if the Government wants to do this it
should do so out of Consolidated
Revenue. Of course then it would
have to answer the reasonable criti-
cism that there are far more important
matters on which to spend public
money such as increased research into
the relationship between smoking and
cancer. So instead it is making the
cigarette companies pay to subsidise a
low quality tobacco.
As in the way he handled the disa-
strous wool referendum legislation the
Minister for Primary Industry, Mr
Adermann, has again shown he is often
unable to see beyond rather limited
sectional party interests. Before the
farce goes further he should meet with
the cigarette industry representatives
and ensure that he examines again the
logic behind this way of supporting an
inefficient section of the tobacco grow-
ing industry.


THIS AUSTRALIA
WATERFRONT I
Strategic Rivals
The operational ambit
By BRIAN JOHNS
The Federal Government is preparing a strategy for a programme of modernisa-
tion of the Australian waterfront. Strategy is the word because Australia’s 90 ports
are “managed” by 30 different authorities.
Details of the Government’s plans will
have to wait on the findings of the Wood-
ward inquiry into the stevedoring indus-
try, which are expected to be handed
down by the end of the year. But it is
already certain that the Government’s
decision to take recruitment of water-
front labor away from the Waterside
Workers’ Federation and giving it to the
Australian Stevedoring Industry Author-
ity, headed by Mr N. J. Hood, is only
the first of a series of measures to
revolutionise port handling.
Inter-departmental rivalry will be as
significant in the final shaping of the
Government’s policy as will be the re-
port of the young Victorian Queen’s
Counsel, Mr A. E. Woodward. At the
moment the contending forces within the
Government are Deputy Prime Minister
Mr John McEwen’s Trade Depart-
ment, and senior NSW Cabinet Minister
Mr W. McMahon’s Department of Labor
and National Service. Waiting in the
wings is the Department of Shipping and
Transport, led by Mr McEwen’s junior
Liberal opponent from the West, Mr
Gordon Freeth.
The first overt public sign that the De-
partment of Trade was looking at the
problems of the waterfront was at last
month’s symposium of the Australian
national committee of the International
Cargo Handling Co-ordination Associa-
tion in Sydney. A paper read to the sym-
posium on behalf of Trade Department
Secretary Sir Alan Westerman declared:
“It is just as ludicrous to think that the
complete solution rests with the water-
side workers or the port authorities as
it is to think that the shipowners or the
shippers can go it alone.”
The Trade Department has prepared
a series of proposals for the rationalising
of Australian routes plied by overseas
companies, and for the mechanisation and
automation of port handling facilities,
fncluded in the recommendations, which
Westerman holds could cut stevedoring
costs by at least 12 per cent, or £6 mil-
lion a year, are modern wharf ware-
houses, central cargo loading areas away
from the wharves, and more uniform
packaging.
In his Sydney paper Sir Alan Wester-
man suggested a co-ordinating body to
plan and implement a port improvement
programme. But Mr McMahon has de-
cided views of his own on just how the
Government should embark on its new
role. The formation o a body like the
Joint Coal Board which would co-ordin-
ate Commonwealth and State efforts on
the waterfront has been under considera-
tion. The chief obstacle with the forma-
tion of such a body would be to secure
the co-operation of the States.
However, there is an easier method
believed to be strongly favored by Mr
McMahon: a series of conditional grants
to the State authorities under Section 96
of the Constitution. There are already
precedents for this. The Commonwealth
has made special allocations to New
South Wales and Queensland for coal-
loading equipment at Port Kembla and
Newcastle in the south, and Gladstone
in the north.
Mr McMahon is in full sympathy with
the need for radical reforms on the water-
front (doubtless the sympathy has been
further sharpened by the predatory
manoevrings of Trade and, clearly,
any proposition Mr McMahon submits
to the Government is most unlikely to
leave any operation ambit open to the
Trade Department). His resumption of
the WWF's powers of recruitment he
regards as the essential first step in a
general waterfront clean-up. He has
pointed out that in the past new mech-
anisation measures have been nullified
by a step-up in stoppages and go-slow
tactics by waterside workers.
It is worthwhile noting that the Gov-
ernment specifically included in Mr
Woodward’s terms of reference that he
investigate measures which might be
taken to improve efficiency in the indus-
try.
The Government could yet be jolted
from the comparative comfort of future
planning for the waterfront. Despite the
easy passage Mr McMahon had in push-
ing his bill through Parliament, there
could be startling new difficulties. The
ACTU, only in formal opposition to the
Government’s measure on recruitment,
will be prepared to engage in bitter battle
at the first suggestion the Government
gives of using its new far-reaching power
to deregister the WWF as a bona fide
union. Moderate and Right-wing ele-
ments in the ACTU are completely
united with the Left in seeing the Gov-
ernment’s new measures as dangerous
precedents which could break the inde-
pendence of unions.
Should the Government move against
the WWF under any .of the new
measures provided for in last week’s bill,
the move will be regarded by the unions
as an act of provocation towards the
entire union movement. So it can be
expected that the ACTU will soon begin
agitating at the conference table for the
suppression of the Government’s new
powers.


WATERFRONT II
At the Centre Table
“We shall defeat the challenge”
By ALAN REID
Government and Labor Parliamentarians argued heatedly last week over the
proposed waterfront legislation, designed to discipline the Waterside Workers’
Federation. Government and Labor members disagreed on many aspects of the
legislation. But they agreed on one thing:
“If the voters were called upon to
decide an election fought on the simple
issue ‘Do you want the Government to
deal with the WWF’?” the Government
would “walk it in” and Labor would
suffer casualties —probably heavy casual-
ties.
With this issue floating around and the
question of the future of the Prime
Minister, Sir Robert Menzies (still as
much unresolved as when at a Press
conference after his return from abroad
in July last he announced he was
“giving thought to my future”), parlia-
mentarians, both Government and Labor,
study his speech on the waterfront
legislation for hints.
Menzies put the waterfront issue right
on the line in case he needed it. It was
one of the shortest speeches he has made
for a long time on such an important bill,
but he made no attempt to disguise
publicly the importance he attributed to
the bill.
He seldom turns up nowadays for an
Opposition speech, other than one from
the Opposition Leader, Mr Calwell, on
a major bill. But when Mr Harry Webb,
chairman of the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party Industrial Committee, rose
to his feet to reply to the speech made
a week earlier by Labor Minister Mr
William McMahon introducing the bill,
Menzies was there at the centre table.
Right up until nearly the end of
Webb’s speech — by when it was clear
Webb had deployed his main themes —
Menzies pencilled busily. His own speech
kept to the narrow issue on which the
Government can undoubtedly win elec-
toral support, and, in the view of the
Labor Party, win heavy electoral support
—the necessity for the Government to
deal with the problem of the WWF.
Sir Robert recalled that the WWF’s
industrial advocate, Mr N. Docker,
had said that there was no future in
the Arbitration Court as far as wages
were concerned. Docker had added:
“Anyone who suggests we should arbi-
trate is either a fool or misleading the
workers. We (the WWF) are fighting the
Government in this matter.”
That, said Menzies, constituted an
official challenge on behalf of the WWF
and as it was made in an official state-
ment —Menzies quoting from documents
which included a transcript of proceed-
ings before the Arbitration Commission
— the challenge had an authenticity
which nobody could deny. “As a chal-
lenge,” said Menzies, “we accept it
and shall defeat it.”
Neither Government nor Labor mem-
bers could get much of a clue out of
his speech, as to either his electoral
W. McMAHON
H.J. HOOD
or personal elections, but they had aft
least the dubious pleasure of finding
out the issue on which an election in
the near future (or after or during a
serious waterfront dispute) will be
fought.
Quite obviously from what Menzies
said it will be fought on the narrow
question of whether the voters want the
Government to deal with the WWF,
a question which Labor members for
their own electoral good would prefer
to remain unanswered.
ECONOMY
The GMH
Lay-off
Introducing wage comparisons
By J. C. HORSFALL
With registrations of new/ motor
vehicles in August being the highest
monthly total on record, it came as a
shock to statisticians, but not to the in-
dustry, that GMH was to lay off 1950
workers, or about 16 per cent of its pro-
duction work force on the eve of the
Arbitration Commission hearings of
claims against the company for a £3
a week over-award wage.
The trade is of course well aware that
unprecedented pre-Budget buying of new
motor vehicles in the first half of August
was mainly responsible for the swinging
lift to just short of 40,000. Registrations
for the month, incidentally, shot
the yearly rate up to 480,000, a level
which exceeds by some 50,000 that ex-
pected to be achieved in Australia for
at least two years.
The present lull in sales is probably
affecting GMH more severely than other
manufacturers, none of whom has thus
far laid off workers. GMH production
has been hit the harder because the pres-
sure on dealers to push sales before the
Budget has greatly narrowed the available
field for new sales, and because, as the
biggest volume manufacturer, it has had
to take the main brunt of the anti-
climax of the Budget stand-still in safes
tax.
One would not be surprised to find
GMH's action shortly followed by lay-
offs elsewhere in the industry despite
spokesmen of BMC, Volkswagen,
Chrysler and Ford being confident in
the outlook and professing to building
up, rather than cutting down, labor
forces. Perhaps it is significant in this
direction that REPCO, the leading sup-
plier of components to the motor indus-


.
m
m
rw
□
i
:
HAVE YOUR VEHICLES RIGHT IN YOUR OFFICE!
Communication is so much more powerful... more reliable with
STC’s new Mobile Radiophone system.
Today you can control your vehicle fleet on as efficient cost-time basis as your office
. . . thanks to the advanced techniques used in STC Radiophones. The STC Radio-
phone is so small it fits snugly under the dash of any vehicle. At the same time it has
that extra performance and reliability to suit your particular needs. There is only one
way to test and compare STC Radiophone superiority on your own premises. Let
us show you!
An experienced Communications Engineer will survey your operational area to
provide a complete system tailored to your needs. A convenient Purchase Plan
permits Ihe system to pay for itself as you use it, and return extra profits through
greater fleet efficiency.
For further information on STC Mobile Radiophones contact Standard Telephones
and Cables Pty. Limited, Moorebank Avenue, Liverpool, N.S.W. Phone: 602 0333.
Melbourne 44 5161. Canberra 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons, Brisbane, 41771. S.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone
Pty. Ltd., Adelaide, 51 3731. W.A.: M.J. Bateman Pty. Ltd., Perth, 21 6461. TAS.:
W. & G. Genders Pty. Ltd., Launceston, 2 2231, Hobart, Burnie, DevonporL
ITT
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
——l
T223A
try, stated during the week that its orders
had lightened substantially for the
coming months.
Without doubt the lay-offs come at an
appropriate time for the GMH manage-
ment which has had Mr J. Patterson, the
hot-fire regional director of the power-
ful Detroit-based United Auto Workers’
Union, on its doorstep this last week or
two, preparing to go into double harness
with local unions’ advocate, Bob Hawke,
to press the £3 a week over-award claim
before the Arbitration Commission.
Officials of the Vehicle Builders’ Fed-
eration in Sydney claimed that GMH’s
stockpiling of vehicles and dismissals
were directly linked to the preparation of
the company's case in the wages hearings.
These hearings could well open a new
chapter in the Arbitration Commission
with the introduction of US-Australian
wages comparisons and relative labor
productivity. But, as Mr Hawke has
already based his claim partly on the
assumption that the company’s produc-
tion has increased, he will have to pull
something extra out of the hat to con-
vince the Commission that saturation
point for demand for the company’s pro-
ducts is further away than could be as-
sumed from the current lapse and lay-
offs.
CENSORSHIP
A Garden of
Eden?
“As long as they don’t move ”
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
“As Naked As Nature In ended” is
obviously not as the Commonwealth
Film Censorship Board intended. This
week Sydney film distributor, Natan
Scheinwald, will seek further legal ad-
vice over the Board’s rejection of this
film his second only rejection in 15
years of distributing Continental films in
Australia.
Ten years ago Mr Scheinwald had
“The Miracle” rejected on religious
grounds, but this was later admitted in
a reconstructed version, and titled “The
Wanderer”. Apart from this, the Board
has made cuts to various of his im-
ported Continental films. For example
the Swedish film “Illicit Love”, based on
the book “Man Without Hope”, lost
301 feet to the censor’s scissors, “The
Unknown Soldier” 138 feet, and the
English film “Women by Night” 125
feet.
But his fight for the acceptance of
“Naked As Nature Intended” has proved


three frustrating
years for Mr Schein-
wald. He imported
the film from Lon-
don in late 1962,
but it was rejected
under Section 13A
of the regulations
covering indecency
and blasphemy. An
appeal was lodged,
based largely on the
fact that the film
had been screened
in its entirety in
Great Britain, New
Zealand, Iran,
Japan, Cyprus, Fin-
N. SCHEINWALD
land, Sweden and France.
After lengthy legal moves, Mr Justice
Taylor in the High Court rejected an
appeal and ruled that “although nudity
itself cannot be said to be indecent,
there are some instances in which nudity
itself is indecent”.
Mr Scheinwald returned the film to
London for reconstruction and cutting
of scenes showing “bobbing breasts” (as
the censors put it) and all full length
frontal scenes, and any other material
felt to be offensive to the Australian
censors. Midway through this year the
film re-entered the country, minus 10
minutes’ running time, and heavily edited.
The film was re-viewed by four mem-
bers of the Censorship Board, Mr Schein-
wald, his solicitor and barrister. Three
weeks latei Mr Scheinwald received a
certificate of refusal to register on the
same grounds as before, with an ad-
ditional clause, “contrary to public
interest”.
According to Mr Scheinwald 1 , “The
edited version of ‘Naked As Nature In-
tended' is a colored documentary of
honest attempts to represent nudism in
the northern hemisphere where summer
is short, and the urge to dissolve into
nature sane and strong. It shows five
girls in everyday jobs taking annual holi-
days in Cornwall. Three girls travel by
car taking in historic and picturesque
spots en route. These scenes are covered
(also the girls) who have not yet been
introduced to nudism. Two other lasses
set off for a lengthy hike, along the
same route, for the same destination . , .
a wild, sun - drenched, craggy-cliffed
beach in Cornwall.
“Nakedness is shown for about ten
minutes. There are no full length frontal
shots, no bobbing of breasts, no sugges-
tive movements. There is only one scene
where one or two males appear and this
is head and shoulders in a swimming
pool.”
Mr Scheinwald, after the rejection of
the edited version, told The Bulletin:
“The public may well ask how four pub-
lic servants can decide this matter ‘of
public interest’ when sexual suggestive-
ness, brutality, abnormal relationships
and countless more aggressive stimuli
are shown continually to less than adult
audiences. It may ask, too, the educa-
tional background of these arbiters of
films for Australian consumption, and
whether they are entitled to be entrusted
with so complex a judgment. There is
much obvious example of inconsistency
of what is not an isolated ‘Garden of
Eden’.”
Commented a spokesman for the
Board: “Censorship of films of nudes is
similar to that applied by the stage
authorities in England. They are all right
as long as the nudes do not move.”
JUSTICE
Delivery by Pantechnicon
Accounts of stewardship
The wheels of the Law Society of NSW were grinding last week. It may well
be months before the final results of the investigations of five solicitors are known,
but hearings before the full Supreme Court in Sydney last week confirmed reports
of full-scale investigations.
In addition, last week there were sug-
gestions that the investigations might well
extend the first five solicitors by another
two. Further, it was being said that the
investigators were looking at the fees
charged by barristers, particularly one
man who had worked for some of the
solicitors involved. But apart from the
climate of rumor and counter-rumor
there were facts given to the full Sup-
reme Court last week in hearings in-
volving two of the solicitors.
By direction of the court these two
solicitors have not been named. (It is
argued that this practice is fair because,
unlike in cases involving normal citi-
zens, the statutory powers under the
Legal Practitioners’ Act are much wider
and ruthless than the rights of police).
The first began on Friday week last
with a court order to the solicitor in-
volved to deliver up his papers and to
show cause why he should not be dealt
with for professional misconduct. It came
back before the full Supreme Court last
Wednesday. Mr D. Mahoney, QC, who
appeared for the solicitor, after argument
gave an assurance that the solicitor would
co-operate fully, speaking of a misunder-
standing. This brought a firm rejoinder
from the Chief Justice that it was rather
a matter of “plain English”.
Mr J. W. Smyth, QC, appearing for
the Law Society, succeeded in getting an
order from the court for the production
of all documents involving damages
cases back to 1961 as well as all books
of account, despite comment from Mr
SWAINSVILLE


Chevron Hotel
ww*"
Cocktail Bar
Theatre Restaurant
*s*
Oasis Smorgasbord
View from Suite
Avis Rent A Car
C >■
For the best
EXPERIENCE
in Australia ...
CHEVRON ... in the heart of fascinating King’s Cross—minutes Trom
sporting facilities and business houses. Where experience and new
concepts of luxury satisfy the world's most discriminating people.
ACCOMMODATION ... all rooms and suites fully air-conditioned—own
bath, toilet, TV, radio and phone—overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT with an excellent cellar. Golden Grill-
breakfast or dining by candlelight with soft music.
Silver Spade—unequalled cuisine, international artists and dancing
nightly.
Oasis Lounge. Smorgasbord. Light entertainment and dancing nightly
for the young in heart.
CONVENTIONS, RECEPTIONS, EXHIBITIONS ... Ask for Chevron's
booklets, “Planning Made Easy” and “Entertaining Made Easy.”
When entertaining or staying at Chevron it will be your best experience
ever.
SYDNEY
RESERVATIONS: CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Phone: 35-0433. Cables: “Chevron Sydney"
MELBOURNE: 51-1281 or any Travel Agent
AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED
Send for illustrated brochure
AVIS
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun when you drive a sparkling
new AVIS car. The car of your choice will be waiting for you ai
the airport, railway station, shipside, or will be delivered to Chevron Hotel as part of the
Chevron/Avis service. And remember, you and the car are protected by proper insurance.
Mahoney that it might take a “pantech-
nicon” to deliver them.
By Friday morning when the matter
again came before the court the Protho-
notary reported that 50 files had been
delivered as well as a bundle of records.
After getting further assurances on the
balance of the documents being prepared,
the Court adjourned the matter until
next Monday.
But it was the second solicitor’s case
that stole the headines on Wednesday
when it came before the court for the
first time. Speaking with precision, Mr
Smyth, described the matter as one of
“extreme urgency”, largely because ap-
proaches had been made to some of the
clients involved in the investigation.
Rapidly Mr Smyth ran through the
figures. In one case £6866 had been
received from the Government Insur-
ance Office and £4271 paid to the client.
When on Friday this solicitor came
before the Court again it was these trans-
fers that the Chief Justice commented on
to his counsel, Mr Eric Miller, QC, who
had been arguing against the terms of
the order against his client.
While giving assurances that his client
would fulfil the conditions to deliver up
papers, Mr Miller challenged that sec-
tion of the rule ordered that he show
cause why he not be dealt with for pro-
fessional misconduct as “defective” and
“not valid”.
Mr Justice Herron said that while it
was not a criminal prosecution brought
against the man involved he had to “give
an account of his stewardship”. He re-
jected Mr Miller’s attack on the rule.
In a last skirmish Mr Smyth rejected an
offer from Mr Miller to allow the in-
vestigators to use the solicitor’s own of-
fice copying machine, stating that it
would show what cases were under in-
vestigation. Then the case went over to
next Monday.
RACING
Breeding
Money
... and free service
The money which the off-course tote
is returning to racing in the form of
better racecourse amenities and higher
stake money is already beginning to
affect the Australian thoroughbred breed-
ing industry.
Average prices have risen over the
past few years at most of the yearling
sales, and the increased affluence of the
breeding industry is reflected in the large
number of expensive and well-performed
sires imported in the past twelve months.
The profits which can be earned by
breeders fortunate enough to import
successful sires are high. Top sires com-


WOVEN IN
AUSTRALIA
NEW! for all uniforms
QzmM j
To rail
TETOHON
FIBRE
\ and Viscose
we blend beauty and science...
for a miracle fabric that works with you!
Fashion goes to work! The new look in uniforms
is soft, lustrous Cesarella, an exciting new fabric
by the makers of famous Cesarine. We made silky
Cesarella specially for the trend to more style and
fashion in today’s uniforms. Easily laundered,
drip-drys overnight to its original beauty*and per-
manently pleatable, too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance offices, Cesarella
means more beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. Look for the Cesarella tag of quality
at your uniform supplier or just phone Caesar
Fabrics Ltd. in your state. But do it now!
CTB3fOa
CESARELLA—tIis fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Tin rail tetoioh*cc7
nm utctcd riDOC W W/O
POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
rnand between 500 and 1000 guineas for
each service and may be put to 50 or
more mares each season. Even allowing
for labor, veterinary, feed and other
costs a lot of the 25,000 to 50,000
guineas remains as profit. This may go
on for 10 to 20 years, depending on how
long the sire remains hale and fertile.
One of the difficulties which has faced
Australian breeders is the high prices
of promising European and American
stallions. Breeders have tended to share
and minimise their risks and to increase
their buying power by purchasing sires
in syndicates. Rather than risk tens of
thousands of pounds by investing in one
horse they would rather spread their
money by buying a share of a number
of horses, some of which are almost
certain to be successful.
These syndicates, as in the case of
that which owns the leading Australian
sire, Star Kingdom (sire of such great
horses as Sky High, Todrnan, Time and
Tide), usually are composed of only a
handful of wealthy breeders.
A new type of co-operative syndicate
was organised in Victoria recently to
purchase one of the best gallopers in
England, the English stallion, Showdown.
Mr Bill Stutt, of Wright Stephenson’s,
was impressed with Showdown when he
visited England earlier this year and
describes the chestnut as “a very robust
type and possibly the best miler in
Europe, certainly the best in England”.
He managed to get an option over the
horse for 30,000 guineas sterling, which
meant that the stallion’s landed cost in
Australia after adjustment of currency,
insurance and freight would have been
over £40,000.
Mr Stutt decided to attempt to syndi-
cate Showdown for slightly more than
£lOOO a share: a share to give the right
to free service from the stallion for the
whole of his stud career.
The syndicate was filled shortly be-
fore the option expired after some breed-
ers decided to take a number of shares
each. The purchase was completed a few
weeks ago, too late for the horse to be
brought to Australia for the 1965 stud
season. He may have a couple more
races in England before being shipped
out.
The Showdown syndicate is a particu-
larly good racing investment. Those who
do not wish to use their annual free ser-
vice for their own brood mares may sell
the service. They should be able to
charge 300 to 400 guineas for the first
three seasons. After that the Showdown
progeny will be racing and his value
as a sire will rise or fall in proportion
to their success.
If his progeny inherit his own racing
qualities of speed and strength the ser-
vice fee could rise to somewhere near
the level of 1000 guineas or so com-
manded by Star Kingdom, Wilkes (both
of NSW), and Summertime (New Zea-
land).
Since he is only a four-year-old now
he may be expected to have at least
12 seasons at the stud, in which case,
even if he is only moderately successful,
or even relatively unsuccessful, and his
service fee falls to 200 or 100 guineas,
the syndicate still stands to make a pr<>
fit.
Small syndicates have already proved
successful in NSW: the Victorian experi-
ment with the large co-operative syndi-
cate may be the beginning of a newer
economic trend. If Showdown becomes
a top sire, this method of syndication
will become popular not only with breed-
ers large and small, but with many other
kinds of investors in primary industry.


A MANY PURPOSE PROPERTY
"COODRAVALE"
YASS DISTRICT AUCTION
FAT LAMBS AND VEALERS LUCERNE, MAIZE AND ALL OTHER CROPS
CLEAN WOOLGROWING—IDEAL FOR CATTLE AND HORSES—HEAVY CARRYING
TO BE OFFERED IN TWO SEPARATE PORTIONS
HOMESTEAD BLOCK—AREA: 1694 acres UNRESTRICTED FREEHOLD.
SITUATED: Adjoining the Village of Wee Jasper Store, Post Office and Public School.
33 miles from YASS, 44 miles from CANBERRA and 43 miles from TUMUT. Telephones at Home-
stead and Manager's Cottage connected to Wee Jasper Exchange.
COUNTRY: About 300 acres of rich black alluvial river flats of great fertility equal to
anything in N.S.W., which have produced abundant crops of lucerne, maize, saccaline, oats,
potatoes and other crops. At present 20 acres are established with cutting lucerne and 50
acres established phalaris. Commercial maize and lucerne have been marketed from the flats.
It is proved fat lamb and vealer country and in past years large numbers of fat sheep and
cattle have been turned off annually. About another 500 acres of low foothills of limestone
formation and the balance of the country rises to higher hills interspersed with warm valleys
with timber judiciously killed out. The whole area has been seeded with clover and rye grasses
and supered from the air.
FENCING: Boundary netted and with 5 main divisions of netting. Subdivided into 20 paddocks,
mostly netted.
WATER: "Coodravale" is splendidly watered in all paddocks and has a frontage of about 3
miles to the Goodradigbee or Little River, one of the best minor rivers in N.S.W., and a
renowned trout stream. The River flows into Burrinjuck Dam and affords an abundant and
permanent supply of running water. Rainfall averages about 30 inches per annum.
IMPROVEMENTS: Most attractive and substantial brick homestead, 5 bedrooms, 3 modern tiled
bathrooms, lounge, dining-room, office, modern kitchen with new St. George Electric Stove, spacious
verandas, wall-to-wall carpets throughout. Rural electricity, hot water, sewerage, etc. Staff quarters,
meat house, laundry, etc., all brick. Situated in beautiful surroundings on the banks of the
Goodradigbee River. Abundant supply of clear soft water reticulated to house and gardens.
Double Garage. Brick Cottage for Manager—Septic System, hot water, electricity. Also one other
man's cottage. Corn shed, hay shed and steel grain silo of 1500 bushels capacity. Cattle yards
with crush and loading ramp. Nissen Hut 60ft. x 25ft. used as storeroom and workshop. Machinery
Shed 80ft. x 30ft. Stables, feed room, saddle room, dairy and chaffroom. Woolshed with 6 Copper
Stands driven by electric motor. Modern shearers' quarters.
REMARKS: “Coodravale" is a most attractive property situated in one of the State's most
favored districts and close to the rapidly expanding City of Canberra. It is a property of many
purposes, and, with its wide expanse of rich river flats, is capable of fattening every class of
stock and growing all crops, it has produced heavy crops of maize, lucerne, sorghum, potatoes,
and would grow vegetables in abundance if required. It would be difficult to imagine a better
setting for a stud for horses or cattle, or both. The Auctioneers have confidence in recommending
inspection of this fine property.
WIRE PADDOCKS—AREA: 530 acres UNRESTRICTED FREEHOLD. Heavy carrying country situated
fronting the main road 2 miles towards YASS from "Coodravale" proper. Netted on the boundary
and subdivided into 2 paddocks. Well watered by 3 dams and Cookmundoon Creek. Set Sheep
Yards. This area is a most valuable adjunct to the Homestead Block but will be offered separately
to suit any prospective purchasers of either or both holdings.
ATTRACTIVE TERMS: 10 p.c. deposit, further 40 p.c. on completion of transfer of possession.
The balance by 5 equal annual instalments with interest at 6J p.c. payable annually with the
right to repay the whole or any part of the balance outstanding, in multiples of £5OO, on giving
3 months' notice.
REBATE: 20 p.c. of the Commission is available to any licensed agent introducing, in writing,
the approved purchaser.
Solicitors for Vendors—Messrs. Elrington and Elrington, Yass.
Auction—Yass Soldiers' Memorial HalK
THURSDAY, 28th OCTOBER, 1965, at 2 p.m.
For further details or arrangements to inspect apply—
DALGETY - N.Z.L., YASS - Phone 66
or
M. THYNNE, CANBERRA - Phone 4-3549
Auctioneers in Conjunction
SCIENCE
Australian Fall-out
Monitoring milk, bread and flour
There is little doubt that radioactive debris from the Soviet and United States’
nuclear weapon tests of 1961-62 is still falling across Australia.
Figures released from the Titterton
Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Commit-
tee show that two years ago the “dirty
rain” was falling in all Australian capi-
tals, and scientists are now predicting
that the total ultimate fall-out over the
continent from tests at Novaya Zemlya
in the Arctic, and at Christmas Island
near the Equator, will eventually equal
the total from all previous blasts.
The position is being closely watched
by the Australian National Radiation
Advisory Committee and the fact-finding
Safety Committee, established in 1957
under the chairmanship of Professor E.
W. Titterton. Specialists in radiation
medicine, meteorology, nuclear physics
and agricultural science are all co-
operating in a little-publicised assessment
of the nature, extent and possible effects
on health of the rising level of radio-
activity.
Scientists are monitoring radioactive
contamination along the food chain from
the soil to milk, bread, and flour, and
measuring its final concentration in bones
of the body. The monitoring programme
is centred mainly on Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart and Launceston with special
observations at Darwin, Townsville and
the upper atmosphere research centre
at Mildura.
The extent of contamination during
the last three years was reported in a
recent issue of the Australian Journal
of Science. The general picture continues
to be reassuring, at least in comparison
to hot spots in the northern hemi-
sphere. Although the National Radia-
tion Advisory Committee stated in 1962
that “any biological consequence of those
(to 1960) fall-out levels would be insigni-
ficant in comparison with the hazards
of everyday life”, most people would
prefer to eat food that doesn’t set the
geiger counters chattering.
Milk is by far the most important
source of calcium (and strontium) in the
Australian diet, accounting for nearly
80 per cent of the total intake. Following
earlier testing of powdered milk, a more
elaborate system based on weekly
sampling of capital city liquid milk sup-
plies was instituted in 1962. The proce-
dure planned with the co-operation of
authorities responsible for supervising
the production, distribution and market-
ing of milk ensures that most of the milk
coming into a city on one day each week
is represented in the sample analysed.
It seems that the transfer of radio-
active strontium from fall-out through
the food chain may be twice as efficient
under Australian conditions as in Britain
and the United States, Thus a given fall-
out is likely to be twice as dangerous in
this country. Although the course is not
certain, it seems to be associated mainly
with milk and is probably due to differ-
ent dairying practices.
Some time next year, depending on
how high the winds blow, radioactive fall-
out from the projected French nuclear
weapon test in the South Pacific will pro-
bably reach Australia. The device is to
be exploded on the tiny Polynesian atoll
of Mururoa, 850 miles south-east of
Tahiti. A six-thousand-man task force
has moved to Papeete and a further
thousand Frenchmen are busy preparing
launching and recording ' equipment
on the atoll itself. The experts are silent
on the possible after-effects of the French
bomb, possibly because of limited infor-
mation about its nature. Although the
site is probably too far away for dry
debris to fall over the continent as it did
following the British tests at Maralinga
in the South Australian desert, fission
products could be brought here by the
high-altitude westerly jet-stream that
dominates the upper atmosphere at these
latitudes.


McMahon—The
Nettle Grasper
“An ambitious and dangerous man”
By ALAN REID
For years everyone has been frightened to grasp the ugly nettle of one aspect
of employment on the Australian waterfront. Labor Governments have been aware
of the alliance between some political forces and racketeering elements which pillaged
on a grand scale and with seeming near immunity.
These Labor administrations accepted
as a fact of life that they and the com-
munity would be sabotaged on the water-
front as the Chifley Government was
sabotaged but that they could do
nothing about it. The theory was that
if this particular waterfront nettle was
grasped the resulting sting of prompt,
extensive and unforgiving industrial
opposition and upheaval would be un-
endurable.
It has now been left to a bald, wealthy
57-year-old bachelor, William McMahon,
scion of a Sydney family that has held
extensive wealth across several genera-
tions Redfern and Alexandria once
provided the paddocks for the McMahon
horses to grasp the nettle and test the
theory. It is now almost a fortnight
since he first grasped it by producing
publicly his legislation.
McMahon has made no secret of the
fact that he was out to debar the criminal
element from the waterfront because he
believes that it was in part significant
part through the criminal element that
the Communist Party exercised their
waterfront paramountcy.
McMahon has disposed of one part of
the old theory that discouraged previous
generations of legislators from dealing
with this aspect of waterfront employ-
ment. A fortnight has gone by. The
waterfront is not aflame. Both the ALP
and the Australian Council of Trade
Unions have been appealed to by the
WWF (which does not hesitate to
sabotage Labor, nor to break ACTU
rules when it suits WWF purposes). But
neither the ALP nor the ACTU response
can be very consoling to the WWF.
Labor’s main criticism has been against
the provisions dealing with the possible
deregistration of the WWF and its
replacement with another union, or
unions, that the court would register.
As all unions, operating within the
framework of arbitration, are liable
to deregistration, both Labor and the
ACTU have an interest in seeing that
the process of having unions deregistered
is not made easier, and that unions are
not put in a position in which they ca«
be replaced. To this extent both Labor
and the ACTU could say that it was not
defending the WWF —to which Labor
was careful not to give any commitments
but the trade union movement
generally.
McMahon and the Menzies Govern-
ment are by no means out of the, in-
dustrial woods as far as this particular
piece of legislation is concerned. They
have had an initial success. Only time
will tell whether they have the final
victory over the WWF.
Quite obviously the WWF and its
Communist leaders will try to hold
off action until a genuine industrial issue
turns up, and swing in then with a full-
scale stoppage in the hope that the
ACTU, the trade union movement
generally, and the Labor Party will
muster to their support and they can
have the issue of the present legislation
added on to the genuine industrial
grievance.
McMahon came in for some lurid
adjectives during the House of Represen-
tatives debate on the legislation. He was
described as “arrogant”, a master of the
half truth, and many other things. The
Opposition Leader, Mr Calwell, for
some reason seemed to concentrate blame
for the legislation exclusively upon him,
and to exculpate the Prime Minister, Sir
Robert Menzies, and the Cabinet which
had endorsed the legislation before
McMahon brought it into Parliament.
“The Minister is an ambitious and a
dangerous man,” Calwell said bitterly,
and suggested that the legislation was
a product of McMahon’s ambition rather
than necessity or party backing.
I would agree with Calwell that
McMahon is an ambitious man. I do
not know many parliamentarians who
are not. Calwell himself (presumably) is
ambitious to be Prime Minister. There
are limits to his party’s ambitions. But
that is only because the party is in
opposition and there are not many
prizes to be obtained. But the few that
are available are struggled over with
a voracity that exceeds individual power
struggles within the Government parties.
For example the Labor Party has been
squabbling for months over the voting
system for the proposed Labor “shadow
Cabinet”. There is neither money,
privilege, nor authority attaching to
membership of the “shadow Cabinet”
only prestige. But that does not lessen
the intensity with which individual
Labor members struggle to be included
within its ranks.
It is obvious that McMahon is
ambitious to become Liberal Deputy
Leader and Treasurer, in place of Harold
Holt, if and when Menzies resigns the
Prime Ministership and Holt steps up
to take his place. Although once looked


m
m <
.
i'
1 1
ttfMMyy/y::- §
lllltassssit
§
yLlt.
r
/ :
: -S
a
K
■&;s
■l
m
.I' % -
? I
>■
>
WpMftjfe
■ :.:.v.
m
V
H
•<v
'
k>
§ -
m
H
»
.y
i*
Men who guide the destinies of the world
THE ROLEX"DAY-DATE" ►
Most remarkable achievement in watch-making, the Rolex
Oyster Perpetual “Day-Date.” Available only in 18-ct. gold
or platinum, with matching “President” bracelet.
Like all Rolex Chronometers, every “Day-Date” is now
awarded the highest distinction of the Swiss Institutes
for Official Chronometer Tests, the mention ‘Especially -
good results.’ Its superlative accuracy is protected by the
famous Rolex Oyster case, made in Geneva by Swiss
craftsmen and guaranteed 100% waterproof, and its move-
ment is selfwound by the Perpetual rotor. The date and
the day of the week, written in full, change instantaneously
every midnight.
THE ROLEX WATCEI COMPANY LIMITED ( Founder : H. Wilsdorf), geneva, Switzerland
SYDNEY: ANGUS & COOTE, SOO GEORGE STREET MELBOURNE : DUNKLINGS, 313 BOURKE STREET PERTH : LINDSAYS, 655 HAY STREET
BRISBANE : MACKAYS, 9 ADELAIDE STREET


wear Rolex watches
You know their names as you know
your own. You know their faces
from a thousand newspaper and
magazine articles. You have seen
them and heard their voices on
newsreels and on your television
screen. Their actions and decisions
influence the pattern of our lives.
We cannot mention their names,
or show pictures of them. It would
not be fitting to do so, for they
include royalty, the heads of states,
great service commanders. But we
invite you to look carefully at the
next pictures that you see of them,
at their wrists as well as their faces
and clothes. You will notice that
in almost every case they wear a
wrist-watch. That watch will most
likely have been made bv Rolex
of Geneva.
We are proud of the service given
by Rolex watches to so many
eminent men throughout the world.
It is scarcely necessary to point
out that the performance of these
watches is, in the highest degree,
accurate and dependable.
ROLEX
A landmark in the history of
Time measurement
upon as one of Sydney’s bright (bright
in the social sense) young men,
McMahon, who in private life was a
solicitor (he no longer practises), is
devoting himself almost entirely to
politics. He does not smoke. He is the
most moderate of drinkers, claiming
that if he has more than one it slows
up his thinking. He moves everywhere
at a fast walk. He reads extensively. He
has taken an interest in economic matters
and economic writing for years, and his
speech on the Budget this year
obviously made with the Treasurership
in mind was technically probably the
best Budget speech from the Govern-
ment side in the House of Representa-
tives. He has some nervous mannerisms
which seem to exasperate some of his
colleagues excessively, is well-dressed,
appears to actively enjoy pulling strings,
and does his homework.
Evidence of the care with which he
does his homework and his political
competence under pressure came out
during the last couple of weeks. Labor
at Question Time hit him with every-
thing. He answered virtually every
question as though it has been a serious
search for knowledge on the part of his
inquisitor (most of the time it was no
such thing, of course, but an attempt to
score a political point) and more than
held his own.
No more chances
11/hen Calwell described him as
" dangerous (I presume Calwell meant
dangerous in that he had an authori-
tarian ben.t of mind and an anti-union
bias) the history of what has happened
over recent years, particularly as far
as the WWF is does not
justify the adjective.
So far as Government party feeling
was concerned, McMahon could have
introduced legislation like this long ago
and been hailed as the conquering hero,
who was out to save Australia from the
waterfront stranglehold on exports and
import costs. He could have claimed
long ago that the kind of waterfront
stoppages he listed over Vietnam, over
apartheid in South Africa, over amend-
ments to Queensland and Western Aus-
tralian Arbitration Acts and even over
increases in the salaries of Common-
wealth judges and which had no
industrial content, but purely political,
were adding to the grocery bills of every
Australian family and particularly the
workers.
For a long time now the Government
Industrial Committee, which operates
under the chairmanship of youngish Don
Chipp, a management consultant, earnest
and dedicated, has been investigating
waterfront conditions for its own
satisfaction, talking to all kinds of people
—including WWF officials —who might
add to its knowledge of the waterfront
problems. The committee members have
visited ships, wharves and warehouses
and talked with wharfies, stevedoring
company representatives and shipowners.
For quite some time they have been
positive that Communist waterfront
influence constitutes a constant threat
to the Commonwealth Government’s
capacity to keep supplies up by sea to
the forces it has in Malaysia and South
Vietnam.
The committee was under no illusion
about what would happen in an emer-
gency if Communist control was left
unchallenged on the waterfront. The
fact that it was Australian forces involved
—young Australians sent there by the
Government elected by the majority of
voters—would not matter.
Against this background, and with
the Industrial Committee probably
numerically the strongest on the Gov-
ernment’s side, McMahon could have
been furthering his ambitions for a long
time if he had been dedicated to ambition
alone. It is known that he fell out with
some good friends when in 1963 he
insisted upon giving the WWF “another
chance” despite its bad reputation.
Among other things he removed the
double penalty imposed on WWF mem-
bers for stoppages an action that did
not increase his popularity with the less
tolerant members of his party.
Additionally he agreed to the setting
up in all ports of industrial relations
committees to prevent disputes, and in
the event of a dispute to avoid stoppages
while the matter was being determined.
The WWF was taking him for a ride,
of course, as the Communist controllers
of the WWF have taken so many
Ministers, non-Labor and Labor alike,
who have come into office sympathetic
to the wharfies' cause, and anxious to do
everything they could to improve work-
ing conditions and privileges on the
waterfront. As McMahon sadly told
Parliament when introducing his legis-
lation: “This is how the Federation
works. It makes agreements and dis-
honors them. It defies the arbitration
system except when it suits its purposes.
It breaks the rules of the trade union
movement and then when it is in dif-
ficulties seeks its support.”
McMahon’s performance was in it-
self impressive. He kept himself well
informed and tightly controlled through-
out the entire debate, was tough when it
was the moment to be tough, and
reasonable when it was the moment to
be reasonable. When the debate ended
in the House of Representatives on
Friday night it was clearly Calwell and
Labor rather than McMahon and the
Government, who were glad tf> see the
legislation safely out of the chamber.


Oh, To Be In England!
Unlucky Australians in the unlucky country
By ALEXANDER FRATER
Earl’s Court, the dowdy buckle of
London’s bedsit belt, is currently
known throughout the metropolis
as Kangaroo Valley. Englishmen hesi-
tate to go there. They feel it does not
belong to them any more; they are like
the Romans who must live with a
sovereign state set in the midst of their
city. The atmosphere is that of a giant
refugee transit camp. Men walk the
streets with suitcases and raincoats. The
tarts’ ads in the newsagents’ windows
have been replaced by notices calling for
Australians to share rooms, flats, dreams,
women and minivans across Asia Minor.
They offer positions selling cars, plastics,
insurance, oranges and rahat lakoum at
Turkish boutiques in Chelsea.
Passers-by scribble the details on
crumpled envelopes and wander on.
Some of them wander into pubs and
calculate finances on beer mats over a
draught Fosters. When the pubs close
they wander home or go on to a local
basement party. They are in London.
They have crossed the planet to reach
it and have probably savored the pros-
pect for years. But now London's
curious, pervasive tentacles have reached
out and touched them; reactions to it
are many and varied but none is more
predictable, or sadder, than that of The
Group.
They are obsessed with a dream. I
have no quarrel with that; we all, from
Genghis Khan to Peanuts, have our
roseate visions. The trouble with the
lotus eater’s dream is that the non-
realisation factor is high. He tends to
hug his dream to him, like a starving
man with a basted goose, until night-
fall when he meets the other neophytes
and indulges it over cool beer.
I was told to report around ten, with
a bottle, at a basement flat off the Earl’s
Court Road. Thirty to 40 people, solemn-
faced, sat about under a pink light listen-
ing to Teagarden on hi-fi. My host, a
young commercial artist, introduced me
round in a desultory sort of way and
left me with a middle-aged actor in jeans.
“Where are you appearing now?” I
asked the actor.
“I’m not appearing anywhere,” he
said. “I’m resting. There’s been very little
work since they banned the fag ads
on the telly.” He lit a Woodbine never-
theless and said he was from Brisbane
and would never go home. “Australians,”
he said, streaming smoke through his
nostrils, “are scared of the abstract. Pre-
sent them with an idea and they run
screaming. No bloody doubt about it,
my dear. And a serious actor must dab-
ble in the abstract, you see: I must say
the Poms are very switched-on about
that sort of thing. I have an agent root-
ing for me and some day my star will
come up.” He said Peter Finch had been
lucky.
Across the room a young, unemployed
solicitor from Ballarat confided that he
wanted to be an actor, too. He wasn’t
going home either, because Australia had
not yet got culture in its right perspective;
an actor’s job was to hold a mirror up
to society and the average Aussie gagged
at what he saw. He had not yet re-
ceived any offers of work.
I sought out my host and asked
whether any English people were pres-
ent. “Christ, no,” he said, with some
surprise, passing me on to a Tasmanian
painter who, in four years, had not
managed to sell a single sketch. He re-
mained confident, however, and an-
nounced that he did abstract nudes in
glue. He said, darkly, that Russell Drys-
dale had been lucky. He introduced me
to an ex-Melbourne law student who
worked at the Overseas Visitors’ Club
in Earl’s Court. He lived there as well,
and had done so since his arrival in
Britain two years previously.
I wondered whether he knew many
English. ‘‘Not many,” he said. “Occa-
sionally one comes into the Club as a
guest and 1 say hullo.” He was a silent,
insecure young man who grew caustic
on the subject of happiness. A girl, whose
name I didn’t catch, wanted to be an
operatic soprano but wasn’t having much
success. The solicitor from Ballarat told
her she would need luck and the room
nodded in unison; ah, damn right, they
muttered.
It does not follow, mind you, that all
London Aussies are tarred with this
brush. Far from it. The lotus-eaters keep
themselves secreted away in Earl’s Court,
far from the madding crowd, but the
average expatriate comes loudly and con-
fidently out into the open. He is busy
driving a wedge into this city that is
currently starting to cause some concern
among the locals. It has not yet reached
problem proportions—no burning crosses
have been nailed, at the time of
writing, to Colonial doors but people
are beginning to react to their presence.
“Know the trouble with Australians?”
asked a shikkered, cherry-colored stock-
broker the other day.
“You tell me,” I said.
“I intend to.” He searched the depths
of his Courvoisier Three Star. “Some-
body has to say this, young fellow.”
I nodded and flexed my fingers. “I’m
ready,” I said.


m,
m
m
i
m
w
m
.
wm
sas2
'ain
due M
A Touch of Blue-That’s the fashion tone
this Spring and Summer m
Not brilliant blues. Not extravagant blues. Just a touch of blue.
A touch of blue to browns. A touch to olives. To greys. But only a
touch. Skilfully tailored. Carefully hand detailed. Keith Courtenay
suits feature, not only these latest fashion tonings, but the
“Forward Line" too!
The “Forward Line” up-grades your chest and shoulders, down-
grades your waist. A Keith Courtenay suit is not
mass produced. It is individually tailored. That's
why it is the only suit that's guaranteed. From
£25.19.6 at all stores who know good clothes.
KEITH COURTENAY CLOTHES
125 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
A
TOUGH OF
KCI/102
He eyed me sadly. “They’re here,” he
said, with the tight-lipped air of a man
who has just spotted Chinese paratroop-
ers dropping on Westminster. “They’re
all about us.”
I looked around. “Where?” I asked.
“Everywhere,” he snapped.
I beckoned to the Jamaican barman.
“You Australian?” I asked.
“Hell, no, baby,” he said.
“He’s bluffing,” whispered the stock-
broker. “He’s from Melbourne or some
damn place, you mark my words. He’s a
fast bowler or a hotshot miler lurking
under a darkie’s disguise.” He burped
drunkenly. “It’s a plot, you see. i’ll bet
they’re going to take over the country.
One of these days the PM and the en-
tire Cabinet will be talking Strine.”
“Nonsense,” I said.
“The otner night I had this dream,”
he said wetly ; “in which His Majesty
the King of England was born in Can-
berra. That’s a tact. 1 don’t dislike you
people, you understand,” he said. “It’s
just that I don’t like being pressured.”
“Nobody’s pressuring you,” I said.
“Yes they are. Last week my barber
called me ‘cobber’. Cobber, mind you.
In May fait, for God’s sake.”
Still speechless at the memory, he
stood and staggered away. I sipped on
and reflected that the day of the London
Australian is rapidly dawning. Like
Christine Keeler and the Macmillan
Government, he is in danger of becoming
something of a local institution. And, in
spite of the general acceptance, a small
tide of resentment is beginning to creep
through the indigenous community. It’s
difficult to know why. It’s not just the
fact that many of the plum posts in
architecture, television, law, journalism,
radio, medicine, showbiz, publishing,
science and industry are going to Aus-
tralians. That matters, of course, but it’s
also the fact that they tend to be out-
spoken, critical and pushy qualities
which have not yet been reconciled with
the English tendency to understatement,
but the very qualities, nevertheless, which
Harold Wilson is demanding from his
own people This, naturally, doesn’t
always apply it doesn’t, to take a
random example, apply to me but it
tends to be the general rule and the Eng-
lish feel they’re a trifle too thrusting for
decent society.
The forecast? Unchanged, I think.
Earl’s Court will continue to the end of
time to harbor its small, sad colony of
failed celebrities. The tougher-minded
career men will continue to come but
their numbers will not change very much,
for the turnover is high. Most of them,
after soaking up all the skills, knowledge
and sophistication that England can give
them, will go home with something to
offer. And that’s the best part of the
whole business.


Who is Ray Taylor?
How to be entertaining , informative , topical , penetrating ,
intelligently humorous and profitable
By J. C. KAYE
In Exhibition Street, Melbourne, across
from the Southern Cross Hotel, is
a five-storev concrete building where
the Willard King Organisation has its
offices on the first floor.
It is useless to ask for Mr Willard, or
for Mr King, or even for Mr Willard-
King. None exists. The name was in-
vented for the organisation. The direc-
tors of WKO, as it is known in the
television business, are Mr Lewis Ben-
nett, general manager of radio station
3UZ in Bourke Street; the station’s pro-
gramme manager, Mr John McMahon;
the managing director of Tivoli Theatres,
Mr Gordon Cooper, and Mr C. O.
Fenner.
“Fenner” is said to be the front for
Peter Jones, the English actor, who
played a character of that name in the
TV series “The Rag Trade”, and toured
for Phillip Productions last year.
This belief causes amusement in Airlie.
Street, South Yarra, at the home of Mr
C. O. Fenner, a businessman and in-
vestor, who is the actual Willard King
director.
The Willard King Organisation, with
its attractive offices and girls, so far has
only one product selling on the Aus-
tralian market. This is a lean, 6ft 4in
character named Ray Taylor, who does
exist. WKO created “The Ray Taylor
Show” as a package deal, and sell it to
Reg Ansett's Channel 0 in Melbourne.
The show’s other outlets are Channel 10
in Sydney, Channel 0 in Brisbane and
Channel 9 in Perth. The total viewing
audience is about two million a week.
WKO, with Patrick Tennison as pro-
ducer, took over the “Ray Taylor Show”
six months ago. The show itself began
about a year ago, and had other pro-
ducers as one of the output of Delta Pro-
ductions of Sydney.
Today, despite its success, the show
has problems. And so, by derivation,
has Ray Taylor. Its aim is to be enter-
taining, informative, topical, penetrating,
intelligently humorous and profitable.
Howevei, it has not always risen to
these ideals. Critics have used such
terms as “filth” and “intellectual gar-
bage”. Its demise has been freely pre-
dicted. Mr Reg Ansett, as big boss of
Channel 0, is reliably said to be
£lOO,OOO in the red over the programme.
Although there is no talk of scrapping it
—and, in fact, it might be extended to
twice a week—the aura around the show
at Burwood is understandably a mite
nervous. It is still searching for its
identity.
I was not surprised, when I called on
Ray Taylor at the Burwood studios, to
hear him say that he had resigned several
times, and probably would again.
Mr Taylor, a handsome man of 37,
something between Ray Milland and
Errol Flynn in impact, is a nervous
character himself.
If the show is searching for identity,
so is he.
“I'm a misfit,” he says. “1 don't know
where I’m going.”
The problem for everyone concerned
with the programme. seems to be to
decide Who Ray Taylor Is, and he him-
self can give little help.
Even his salary, said to be £l5O (or
10 per cent of the cost of the show each
week), does not clear his thoughts.
Ray Taylor was born at Harrogate,
England, in 1928, the son of an estate
agent. With the biting bluntness which
is one of his characteristics he speaks
with dislike of both his father and
English life.
At 17 he was in the Royal Navy as a
seaman, and made one or two voyages
without meeting action. After the war
his father had him instructed in hotel
management, and he spent two years in
Paris and Marseilles very happily. He
has a yearning still for that free and gay
life.
He escaped the hotel business by
going in for acting, and was manager
of the Dundee Repertory, at £5 a week,
paying out £4 10s. for board. He later
did parts in London, including work as
a film extra, and wrote for radio and
TV.
He reached Australia in 1952 via an
unsuccessful emigration to Canada. The
Australian girl he married in Canada
has now separated from him.
His early life in Australia included
2} years as announcer, advertisement
salesman and general hand for a radio
station at Goulburn, where the pay was
£l3 a week.
Back in Sydney he wrote a lot, in-
cluding a revue for the Phillip Street
Theatre, and for nearly three months
ran the breakfast session at ATN.
This came to an end with bad feeling,
and he found himself unable to get work.
“I shot off my mouth to the Press,” is
how he explains this.
With life a bit grim in Australia, he
returned to England and had some
success as a writer. He did scripts for
Bernard Braden and for “That Was The
Week That Was”. He admires Braden’s
work greatly. v ,
He goes out little. He has never met
Graham Kennedy.
When I asked him his politics he said
with some amusement: “I’m a Left
Fascist.”
He writes most of his own material,
with the aid of a young researcher
named Paul Lawson. His ad-libbing is
strictly curtailed, as it’s likely to be acid
or blue.
He got into trouble with the studio
once for serving claret to his audience


40 WEEKS
of
BRITAIN'S
LEADING
NEWS-
PAPER
FOR ONLY £2
Take advantage of this special offer
to “get acquainted” with the NEW
STATESMAN, Britain’s leading
organ of radical thought, and save over
33j% of the regular rate. Of the
NEW STATESMAN, Newsweek said
recently: “Week after week it nags,
preaches, and reasons with subscribers
in the White House, the Kremlin, and
the Elysee Palace, as well as in White-
hall and Westminster,” while Time
called it “Britain’s leading organ of
dissent”. In the NEW STATESMAN
comment is free and forthright. Its
distinguished contributors review the
current scene with authority, candour
iftssS
-
■C’&OS
-C '"-ViS-tSH
; - rrSSg
’ - .<^iS
■ ''g.* ‘’ifS**** «*
<*fs.-> **»£**
*
SfeSS
.V •:-**s *2i
-."vr-x
S<g
»
&2&£
i
■ .is**-
&
•\*fS
o^slV\C z£H
$& ®
vfc-
.■'A
“ "J
'■' '- -<-2
■ :;>,s!
and wit. Its political and social com-
ment is pungent. Its literary, arts and
entertainments sections carry some of
the finest critical writing of our time.
Join the half million all over the world
who enjoy this weekly mental tonic!
Send the coupon with £2 today!
NEW STATESMAN
for thinking people everywhere
For an informed view of British
life and politics, for a British
view of Commonwealth politics
and culture, for a window on
the whole world scene, thinking
people take the NEW STATES-
MAN direct from London every
week.
MAIL THIS
COUPON NOW!
To: NEW STATESMAN
Great Turnstile, London WCI, England
I accept your 'get acquainted' 40 weeks offer and enclose £2.
(Cheque, International Money Order, or Cash.)
name *
ADDRESS
* "si
as a warmer-upper. Channel 0 is not a
licensed place.
There was a disastrous night when
he did his show at Melbourne’s new
restaurant Top of the Town. The
amplifiers failed and the customers got
restless and the waiters tripped over the
wires and he made a very unsuccessful
joke about the Top of the Town being a
new place to vomit from.
Some Channel 0 executives find his
humor a little “undergraduate”.
This is possibly correct.
. On the other hand, his remarks are
so gauche at times as to take on a rapier-
like quality, most valuable in staid
society.
With reckless, caustic quips he gets
stuck into corrupt police, politicos, book
banners, conformists allegedly itching to
see Australia a police state, and even his
boss, Reg Ansett.
He gets very quickly below the sur-
face, and with his nervous enthusiasm
can con people into doing almost any-
thing.
This gets some fine results. He had
some people in the street, on a recent
show, acting as if shot by an assailant.
Asked if he could die, one “Oz” character
replied: “I feel like bloody dying now,
mate.”
Perhaps the best things “The Ray
Taylor Show” has brought its audience
are the interviews with personalities in
the news, or otherwise famous.
The range has been wide, from Joan
Sutherland through Mai Verco, the ven-
triloquist with Ginger, his doll, to Pat
Mackie playing the double bass (and
singing “Dolly”), and Richard Nixon,
former Vice-President of the United
States, smiling and playing the “Missouri
Waltz” (“Harry Truman’s favorite tune”)
on the piano.
Another new element the show has
brought to its type of programme is
the cultural bit Taylor talking on
Schweitzer, Le Corbusier, Kafka or
Dante.
Another is the debating of topical
subjects like the Pill; should Jehovah’s
Witnesses be allowed to refuse their
children blood transfusions; Catholicism
versus Communism.
In Melbourne the show has switched
from Saturday night to Fridays, running
from 10.30 p.m. for 70 minutes.
Now that Noel Ferrier has quit
Channel 9 for Channel 0, and “In Mel-
bourne Tonight” is no longer aired on
Fridays, “The Ray Taylor Show” has its
chance to catch on.
The opposition are using mainly films
against him. On one famous night, when
Taylor had both Jane Powell and Joy
Nichols as guests, the others weighed in
with “Carousel”, “Wuthering Heights”
and “The Rake’s Progress”.
You can hardly make it hotter than
that in Melbourne.


THESE PUBLIC SERVANTS
Brian Johns writes about the new , sophisticated breed in Canberra , who have been
shown in a fresh light following the controversy over the Vernon Report
Almost all the circumstances —public
antipathy, Government secrecy
have been against a close rational
look at the Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice. But in the last decade a new-
breed public servant has developed in
Canberra.
The key men are to be found in the
policy departments —Treasury, Trade,
External Affairs, Prime Minister’s, De-
fence, Immigration, Labor and National
Service, which, with the Public Service
Board the controller of the entire
service make up the inner power
sanctum among the 25 Commonwealth
departments. The names of the men who
head these policy departments are known,
thanks to their perambulations to con-
ferences in Washington, London, Rome,
Moscow and other world centres. But
probably the most detailed public proof
of their careers and backgrounds are in
the potted biographies of the New Year
honors’ lists in which they now ritualisti-
cally figure.
Yet of more ultimate importance than
the worthy knights, Sir Roland Wilson,
Sir Alan Westerman, Sir James Plim-
soll, Sir John Bunting, Sir Edward Hicks,
Sir Henry Bland and their fellow depart-
mental heads, are the phalanxes behind
them in the second and third divisions
of the Commonwealth service, who
though they tread the corridors of power
more quietly are still playing exciting,
if undramatised, roles. With the growth
of recent years has come the public
service’s own diaspora of power. The
increasing numbers of lobby groups
establishing headquarters in Canberra
are proof that it can be as important to
know middle-rung public servants as it
is to know the departmental heads.
It is the men on the middle rungs who
do the groundwork on the documents
that emerge as Cabinet submissions and
policy briefs at international conferences.
The insider who wants to know the Gov-
ernment’s twists and turns will glean
more at the crowded bars of the
egalitarian Canberra Club on Friday
nights than he will at quiet lunches in the
exclusive Commonwealth Club, and
certainly more than from the lobbies of
Parliament House.
The new policy-maker is most usually
young in his late thirties, early forties.
He has a well-developed political aware-
ness, and his range is by no means
limited to national affairs. Members of
various branches in Trade, Treasury,
Defence, Prime Minister’s, Immigration,
share with External Affairs the in-game
of reading post reports the news be-
hind the news. Few public servants may
know politicians personally (one reason
perhaps why the gossip rate about poli-
ticians is high), but Canberra is one area
in which the ABC’s Parliamentary broad-
casts have an audience. The interest is
not idle. In their daily work even those
in the lower reaches have to keep a sharp
eye on political realities.
. This is the excitement of the work.
They are close to the important decisions.
There are always political alarums and
excursions in one area or another; the
need to supply the answers reaches far
deeper into a department than the
obvious top levels. Ministers make their
own timetables. Those public servants
on their way up are not in the position
to regard themselves as 8.30 a.m. to 4.51
p.m. employees. Fifty to 60-hour weeks
are not unusual.
The new policy-maker is intensely
competitive. He has to be. Politicking
is as rugged behind department walls
"The eldest is with the CSIRO catching something or other."
as it is in the Cabinet room. The
scramble for power over the direction of
economic policy between the giants of
Trade and Treasury, which has been
continuing for almost a decade, has made
for perilous times. Unfettered by any
traditional view of the public service,
the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr McEwen,
wields his Department of Trade as a
personal task force: Mr McEwen is
unhappy about Tariff policy, so it’s the
Tariff Board’s turn to bear the brunt of
his restless energy; the Department of
National Development is slow about
devising a formula for an election
promise of equal petrol prices; obtuse
about mineral leases —the solution is easy
Northern Development should come
under the McEwen umbrella; the water-
front is troublesome, so the Department
of Shipping and Transport receives
notice of a thrust at its functions by
the Department of Trade.
Meanwhile, other departments are
running their own race. One of the most
interesting performers is Prime Minister’s.
In theory, Prime Minister's should be
no more than its English counterpart, the
Cabinet Secretariat. For years the Prime
Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, held it in
tighter rein, refusing to. increase its
establishment, and indeed keeping the
numbers below those allowed. The De-
partment was his example of the Liberal
view that the public service should be
contained.
Prime Minister's was regarded as a
stepping stone mainly trodden by
Treasury men —on the way up. In the
’sixties it has been growing apace. Now
it exercises the Commonwealth’s increas-
ing responsibilities in education, which
have reached such proportions that a
department could be created for this
purpose alone. But in other areas the
economic branch is the most significant
—it has grown to the point where it
seems more like an operations’ centre
formulating initiatives, than a channel
to Cabinet. For the outsider this raises
the question of duplication of functions;
for the policy man in Trade or Treasury
it means another threat to the success of
submissions in Cabinet, an intensification
of the power game; for the Cabinet
Minister it means that the Prime Mini-
ster, who by personality shows little
regard for the view that he is merely the
first among equals, comes to Cabinet dis-
cussions armed with counter-propositions.
There have always been contending
forces in the public service. Only now
they are greater. The new tempo has
ensured that the rising public servant is


fan extremely mobile fellow. Of the pro-
motions throughout the Commonwealth
public service in the last six months, one
jin eight were to other departments. For
I the good men promotions are not slow
j— a worry to the State public services,
'which, with the exception of New South
AVales, have not been able to keep pace
jwith the Commonwealth. Not untypical
jis an Arts graduate from Sydney Uni-
wersity, now 30, who joined the public
service as a base grade clerk in the
Attorney-General’s Department in 1960.
He transferred to the PMG two years
later, where he worked in organisations
and methods. Last year he was pro-
jmoted to the Public Service Board and
jis now on a salary range of £2162 to
£2306 a year.
A university degree is now a pre-
I requisite for success in the public ser-
vice. However, of last year’s 3070
recruits to the third division there were
jonly 128 graduates. But the Public Ser-
vice Bdard maintains that it is doing at
'least as well as any employer in recruit-
ing graduates. The commencing salaries
Tor graduates of between £1195 and
*£1257 are not as attractive as those
[offered in private enterprise. But in the
;midd!e ranges of the public service, the
pcope is wider and more profitable than
'in private enterprise. After this, the
scope is there, but because there are no
I fringe benefits to speak of expenses,
pars, bonuses, etc. the public servant
flags, and it is a lag that is never taken up.
( If you take in the statutory authorities,
the Australian Broadcasting Commission,
the Commonwealth Banking Corporation,
the Atomic Energy Commission, and the
rest, the ranks of the Commonwealth
,public service are swelled to include one
in every 10 Australian workers. But
j,these are statistics and everyone knows
how misleading they are. The “real”
picture in town and country is still of
jthe public servant as that curious being
“up in Canberra”, tne tea-swiiler, fount
of an inexhaustible supply of regulations
secured in the cosy, privileged atmo-
sphere of a bureaucracy, which politicians
•—occasionally—attempt to contain, and
newspapers—regularly—thunder about.
Before the war there were 13 Federal
Government departments three of
which, Civil Aviation, Supply and De-
velopment, Social Services, were created
in 1938-39- —today there are 25. Before
the war there were 47,000 public servants
against a total at the end of the war of
101,000 employed by the Common-
wealth. But far more important than
the quantitative was the qualitative
growth. Before the war only 25 per
cent of the total riumber of public ser-
vants were employed outside the major
Commonwealth undertaking of the Post-
master-General’s, but by 1947 they had
grown to 47 per cent, and today they
amount to almost 50 per cent of the
entire service.
Growth by stealth
HPhe overall growth of the public service
in the last five years there has
been an average annual increase of 2.3
per cent —has been a ready target for
criticism. But there has been little exam-
ination of the quality of the increase.
Although it would be an exaggeration
to say that the growth of the public ser-
vice under the present Government has
been “growth by stealth”, there is cer-
tainly a widely held attitude in the public
service that there is nothing to be
gained by highlighting developments. For
example, after the drastic Budgetary
measures of ’6O-’6l which thumped the
economy with unprecedented suddenness,
there was obviously a decision to
strengthen Treasury and Trade staffs for
greater central planning (a decision
which was a further stimulus to the re-
markable empire-building in Trade). In
the last five years numbers in the Depart-
ment of Trade and Industry have grown
from 262 to 548 an increase of 109
per cent. The rate has lagged somewhat
in Treasury where the numbers have
grown from 815 to 1422, or an increase
of 74 per cent.
For an increasing number of specialists
the Commonwealth public service is the
major outlet. The Department of Supply,
which is the cockpit of Australia’s de-
fence production and research, boasts
that its major rival in scientific talent and
resources is another Commonwealth
body the CSIRO. The Supply staff
includes some 300 scientific officers with
Ph.Ds or a double honors degree, nearly
450 experimental officers who are
graduates or studying for their degrees,
and over 1100 engineers, chemists and
metallurgists. Apart from its glamor role
at Woomera and its Weapons Research
Establishment at Salisbury, Supply
operates 15 factories which include in
their output goods which commercial
enterprises would not risk producing.
Supply, as could be expected, is one
of the nine or 10 Government depart-
ments utilising computers to reduce
clerical work. The use of computers in
the public service is being coupled with
a fresh management drive and the intro-
duction of new sophisticated business
methods. The Public Service Board has
long conducted its own complex of train-
ing programmes. In recent years it has
been sending the new policy-makers to
rub shoulders with the bold men of
private enterprise at management courses
at the Administrative Staff College at
Mt Eliza. It would be instructive to
compare the assessments of both groups
by the course officials. They might pro-
vide the answer to the difficulties that
pressure groups have at the conference
table with Commonwealth officials.
The public service will always be
bottom-heavy with the bulk of the num-
bers in the fourth division the un-
skilled and tradesmen which because
of its numbers and wide dispersal
throughout the community are most


-
tcf -
V]
*
\
How much can an Australian see
on a trip to London?
This much and more-
witli a Fan Am ticket:
Paris, Rome, Munich,
Vienna, Belgrade, Istanbul -
and the wide,wonderful U.S.A.!
|V',;.. v
mm
When an Australian flies to London, it makes sense for
him to see the U.S.A. and Europe, too. After all, you
don't pop over to Great Britain just any old day.
And you can actually see all of the places mentioned for
less than the round trip fare to London via the U.S.A.
and return. How? It’s simple. Instead of coming
back to Australia the same way—via the U.S.A.—you
just continue on around the world with us.
It costs less that way.
You can see much more than the list of cities above.
We fly to places like Lisbon, Barcelona, Nice,
Copenhagen, Berlin. You name it—we’ll write your
ticket to any place you’d like to go in Europe. And the
fares are remarkably reasonable.
You’ll love the trip. On the way, we’ll stop in sunny
Hawaii. Then on to any one of four West Coast
Gateways—Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland or
Seattle. From the West Coast we can take you nonstop
to London. Of, if you like, we’ll write your ticket to
20 U.S.A. cities from coast to coast.
On your way home you can fly straight through to the
Orient from Europe—then home. Or you can stop
over in nine fascinating cities from Beirut to Hong
Kong—at no extra fare.
Think about it for a moment. Doesn’t it make sense
to turn a London business trip into a U.S.A.-Europe
holiday? Of course it does.
Call your Pan Am Travel Agent. Or give us a ring.
You’ll relish the service. You’ll rave about the cuisine—
by Maxim’s of Paris. And you’ll have that
incomparable feeling, flying with the very best.
World’s most experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST'ROUND THE WORLD
SYDNEY: 82 ELIZABETH STREET. 28-2621 • MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET. 63-9077
PA.4878


TABULA
an essential aid in
Commerce, Industry and
Educational Establishments!
illl
Locally made to suit Australian conditions,
"Tabula" educational boards are featured in
notable installations throughout each State.
"Tabula" is available in an extensive range—
Glass, Hardboard, vertical or horizontal, re-
volving, sliding, magnetic, projection, cork
bulletin boards, flannelgraph, pin-up boards
and many others to suit your exact require-
ments.
We tender realistically and boast a "Unique"
personal service to please you or your client.
For detailed information and/or
demonstration, please write, phone
or call:
UNIQUE HOUSE
SHOWROOMS IN ALL STATES
N.S.W.: 681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt.
Telephone: 56 7313.
A.C.T.: 89 Petrie Street, Canberra.
Telephone: 4 5554.
VIC.: 139 Boundary Road, North Melbourne.
Telephone: 30 1381.
likely to be the image-makers, especially
because of the policy of centralising
departmental head offices in Canberra.
This year there were 135,500 in the
fourth division, but in the last five years
the growth rate in this area has been
much slower than either the third or
second divisions. There are now 46,500
in the third division, an increase of 20
per -cent on the 1960 total of 38,000.
The most marked increase has been in
the second division in which there has
been a 66 per cent rise from 335 to 557.
The growth in the second division
to some extent more apparent than real
because of the promotion of certain third
division positions on to the second
division rung is the important part of
an overall strategy to raise an elite corps
in the public service. The strategy has
been formulated by the smooth but
tough-minded head of the Common-
wealth public service, Mr F. H. Wheeler,
chairman of the Public Service Board.
Wheeler came to the Public Service
Board at the end of 1960 after what
informed observers regarded as a Gov-
ernment-initiated exile of eight years as
treasurer to the International Labor Or-
ganisation at Geneva. He had been a
valued economic adviser to the Chifley
Labor Government until 1949 and it
seemed that he was one of the top
bureaucrats unacceptable to the new
Government. In Canberra again, Wheeler
quickly showed the old energy that had
made him formidable in his Treasury
days. He now insists on characterising
his ideas on the public service as an
“evolutionary concept”. In some ways
it is. His predecessor as chairman of
the Public Service Board, Sir William
Dunk, typified his regime by a con-
centration on improved work techniques,
the establishment of Organisation and
Methods branches throughout the de-
partments. With Wheeler’s arrival, the
public service was ripe for root-and-
branch changes in its structure. There
had been fast - developing anomalies
through overlapping of positions, which
left the second, third and fourth divisions
extremely blurred at the edges.
Smudging the identity
fpHis blurring, as well as providing the
Public Service Board with wage-fix-
ing problems of nightmare complexity,
had the effect of smudging the identity of
the public service by making it look like
a lumpen mass to itself and to outsiders.
Wheeler embarked on a complete over-
haul, now in a critical phase in the third
division. One key to his view of the
entire public service is that, “In very
high degree, people are what they think
they are.” He certainly operated on this
principle in re-shaping the second
division, the 557 below the Govern-
ment-appointed departmental heads.
What he wanted was for these top
public servants, whose salaries range
from £4lBO a year to £6280, to see
themselves as an administrative and
management elite with a strongly de-
veloped sense of leadership, adaptable
but yet maintaining a corporate identity.
In fact, these top men, like those in
the upper reaches of the third division
awaiting entry to the elite group, by no
means suffer by comparison with their
counterparts in private enterprise. Sixty-
seven per cent, or 370, of the 557 mem-
bers of the second division are university
graduates and 17 per cent hold a diploma
or other tertiary qualifications. Of the
370 who hold university degrees, 61
"Further to our communication of yesterday's date . ..
have degrees in two faculties and six in
three faculties.
Despite the popular myth of a cosy
bureaucracy, as Dr G. E. Caiden of the
Australian National University has
pointed out, “Behind the outward appear-
ance of conservative respectability, the
internal situation is complicated by
cliques, schisms and divided loyalties,”
Post-mortems on the Vernon Report
have shown how little soberside, “remote”
Treasury has to learn from the in-fighters
of the City. Some have been dismayed
by allegations that Treasury officials
mounted a campaign months ago among
financial journalists and others to dis-
credit the Vernon recommendations. Cer-
tainly it would be unusual for Treasury
to take its initiative beyond the official
corridors of power (more in line with
Treasury tactics was the establishment
of its own long-range planning division
under the brilliant young economist, Mr
John Stone, even before the Vernon
committee got under way, as a protection
against any possible outside thrust against


m •
His cigarette, too,
has travelled
Benson & Hedges Special Filter was once available only on blue-ribbon jet flights
between London and New York. Today, the cigarette has travelled, and you can
enjoy its distinctive excellence. Benson & Hedges Special Filter, in the elegant
gold packet, is the right cigarette when only the best will do. And isn’t that all
the time?
Bensonmd Hedges
BH7OA-3-65
its policy-making function). But it is
not so easy to see Treasury lobbying
as unhealthy. The principal complaints
about public servants are their traditional
inaccessibility and inscrutability. Both
were apparently broken on the Vernon
findings. Out of the breach came an.easier
passage to the attitudes or prejudices
behind the rejection of the Vernon
findings. Is that bad?
Limits on authority
HPhe rejection to the intense gratifica-
A tion of Treasury —of the Vernon
recommendation for an independent
“Advisory Council on Economic Growth”
sparks the old problem of limiting the
authority of the public service. The
very vehemence of the Treasury response
tc the suggestion of a policy competitor
underlined the need for alternative views
on a far wider range than economic
planning. However, the immediate prac-
tical solution is for private interest groups
to achieve a step-up in the calibre of
their own lobbying. Time and again the
private sector is defeated at the Govern-
ment conference table because they just
do not have the men of quality With the
breadth of vision to argue their interests
against the establishment of policy-
makers.
Take the private trading banks. The
inadequacy of their top-level personnel
and forward-planning has ensured that
they are at a thorough disadvantage in
any policy contests with Dr H. C.
Coombs and the Commonwealth Banking
apparatus. Private enterprise is paying
the price for its narrow commitment to
its own short-term interests.
Ironically, while the public service has
been pushing to new frontiers there has
been a slackening of the accepted checks
and balances. It is a cliche to note
the steady diminution of Parliament's
authority, more practical to recognise
that one of the established overseers,
the Parliamentary Public Accounts Com-
mittee, which scrutinises expenditure, has
sadly declined from its high period under
the Liberal backbencher, Professor
Bland. At the same time the growth in the
public service has placed enormous
strains on the effectiveness of supervision
exercised from within: by Treasury over
expenditure and by the Public Service
Board over staffing and employment
conditions.
Reformers have suggested the overseas
idea of an Ombudsman or Parliamentary
Commissioner, who, assisted by his own
staff, would investigate complaints and
abuses in the public service. However,
the root problem in Australia is not what
the Commonwealth public service does
to individuals or groups but ignorance
about who shapes it and for what ends.


UNITED NATIONS I
The Toughest Job
Black cheroots and iced daiquiris
A DLAI STEVENSON described the United Nations Secretary-General’s job as the
most important in the world; its first holder, Trygve Lie, described it as the most
difficult. It has grown in both importance and difficulty over the last 20 years,
especially since Dag Hammarskjold enlarged its element of personal diplomacy—
an innovation fully accepted by his successor, U Thant.
This 56-year-old Burmese diplomat has now held the post for nearly four years
and has another two years to go. Physically, he has stood up reasonably well to the
strains of his office although he has developed a stomach ulcer. This doesn’t prevent
him interminably smoking little black Burmese cheroots, interspersed with American
cigarillos, or from indulging occasionally in his only drink iced daiquiri; this last
habit could be described as an occupational hazard, as he was introduced to the drink
by Fidel Castro at the height of the 1962 Cuban crisis.
After Hammarskjold’s premature death
in 1961, Thant emerged from the
obscurity of his position as Burmese Am-
bassador at the UN to act as a stopgap
alternative to Khrushchev’s plan to re-
place the Secretary-General’s office by
a troika, or three-man team (one Com-
munist, one Western, one non-aligned).
But when his temporary appointment
ended after a year, he was elected
unanimously and with acclaim for a full
five-year period.
It’s not easy to explain Thant’s per-
sonal achievement in winning the con-
fidence of all the UN’s quarrelsome mem-
bers at a time when the organisation was
passing through its worst internal crisis.
He began life as a schoolmaster (to
his colleagues he remains saya —teacher),
and became a political disciple of U
Nu, the gentle but tough Buddhist and
Democratic Socialist, the former Bur-
mese Premier. At first sight everything
about U Thant, except perhaps his well-
tailored suits, seems to fit the mild image
of the contemplative Buddhist: a smooth,
round, ivory-pale face with wise, Oriental
eyes behind studious glasses and a rose-
bud mouth that is soft and relaxed. But
one soon realises, especially when he be-
gins to speak in his low, husky voice,
that in fact robustness and common sense
are among his chief characteristics. He
can use rough words on occasion.
He and Hammarskjold seemed to re-
verse the stereotypes of Westerner and
Easterner as conceived in the West.
Where Hammarskjold was inscrutable
and mystical, Thant is frank and matter
of fact. Hammarskjold was inward, com-
plicated and remote; Thant is simple,
friendly and unobtrusive. Compared with
Hammarskjold's fine-drawn tension,
Thant has a certain coarseness of grain
which makes him both less sensitive and
more buoyant.
Hammarskjold was a man of cold fire,
Thant is earthy. Hammarskjold went to
painful lengths of sibylline language to
give the appearance of being impartial
in international disputes. Except when
defending what he regarded as the fun-
damental principles of his office and the
UN Charter, he almost never expressed
a controversial opinion in public. Thant
makes his judgments openly and bluntly.
He warned on taking office that he would
be “impartial but not necessarily neut-
ral”. He has lived up to this promise.
In the past few years he has spoken
critically of each of the powerful na-
tions and groups at the UN. But even his
sharpest criticisms have left no perman-
ent wound—except possibly on Tshombe,
whose erstwhile Katanga regime he
once stigmatised as “a bunch of
clowns”. One of his earliest brushes was
with thg Russians; when on a visit to
Moscow he said their Press censorship
was responsible for their people not be-
ing able to learn the truth about the
Congo.
He has upset the Americans on a num-
ber of occasions, notably over their ac-
tions in the Dominican Republic and in
Vietnam. Once he drove General de
Gaulle into a rage by calmly criticising
French policy as not taking sufficient
account of Europe’s nuclear dangers.
China’s bomb test he called “deplorable”.
He asked Ben Bella’s National Assembly
to treat racism as a disease and not as
“a reason for retaliation and violence”.
Hammarskjold had undoubtedly made
his successor’s job much easier by ac-
customing the UN to a diplomatically
venturesome Secretary-General. He had
a decisive effect on world politics and
the development of the UN because he
both saw the dangers and exploited the
opportunities created by the evolving
constellation of world power—the stale-
mate between Russia and America which
paralysed the Security Council and the
growth of new dependent countries in
Africa and Asia who dominated the
Assembly.
Thant’s main tasks have been to con-
solidate as far as possible the new ground
staked out by his predecessor and to
ease some of the new problems created.
In this he has been both helped and
hindered by changes in the world pic-
ture. The detente between Russia and
America and the Soviet-Chinese split
have made it more possible to rely on
the Security Council for peace-keeping
purposes. But while this improvement
has not yet gone far enough to restore
fully to the Security Council its proper
role under the Charter, the effectiveness
of the Assembly has been limited by the
tendency of the Afro-Asian bloc to dis-
integrate under the pressure of local
quarrels.
The present Kashmir crisis is typical
of this new kind of situation with which
Thant has to deal, with Russia and the
United States co-operating, though only
just, in the Security Council and the
two leading Afro-Asian countries at each
other’s throats. This malaise is reflected
in the so-called financial crisis of the
UN, which is really a constitutional crisis,
and in the sharp decline in its prestige
during the past year which all U Thant’s
efforts appeared powerless to stop.
Thant found himself loaded with re-
sponsibilities inherited from the Ham-
marskjold era but without the means to
carry them out. The Americans thrust
on him the role of peacekeeper in the
Yemen. The Security Council members
—unwilling to commit themselves —sent
him to deal as best he could with the
Kashmir problem.
In 1962 he was strongly warned on
all sides not to become involved in the
Cuban crisis, but he nevertheless set off
boldly to try to exercise some of his
personal influence on Castro in Havana
and at the same time to keep communica-
tions open between Kennedy and Khrush-
chev. In retrospect, both the Russians
and the Americans came to yalue the
sureness with which he moved at the
time.XThe crisis, in fact, established his
reputation with both the super powers.
However much he regrets it, he never


Time gained is money saved...
■HR
y
r~f~
■mt
. . . and money saved after C-Day will
mean extra dollars of profit. The
changeover to Decimal Currency—now
only months away—offers a unique
opportunity to introduce new economies
to your accounting system through NCR-
’s wider range of decimal accounting
machines. The many automatic features
of NCR machines enable you to adopt
time-saving modern processing methods
• • . your operator handles increased
posting volumes because her work is
made easier. Now is the time to find
out how you can start saving dollars
right from C-Day. NCR has the biggest
and most complete range of decimal
accounting machines in Australia, and
can guarantee delivery before C-Day.
Your local NCR office will be happy to
provide further details without obliga-
tion. Telephone today or write to NCR,
14-16 York Street, Sydney.
SYDNEY
211-2188
MELBOURNE
63-0271
BRISBANE
2-0631
TOWNSVILLE
3276
NEWCASTLE
2-4837
ADELAIDE
51-5821
PERTH
21-9727
HOBART
3-3887
CANBERRA
4-0327
WAGGA
4345
N
LTB -
TrtS NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY.
HELPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY


makes the mistake of forgetting the fact
that the big powers between them can
rule the UN. And while he always speaks
up for the smaller nations, he is quick
to remind them of how absurdly help-
less they are in certain situations where
they might be inclined to confuse their
numbers with actual power. And because
he personally belongs to the small brown,
yellow and black battalions, he sounds
more convincing to them than Ham-
marskjold ever could.
While he has retained most of his pre-
decessor’s closest advisers (notably Ralph
Bunche, Brian Urquhart and his Indian
Military Adviser, Brigadier Rikhe) he
uses them differently. Hammarskjold
employed them as a kind of inner Cab-
inet of the UN; they were frequently
summoned to crisis meetings which some-
times went on to past midnight in a
frenzy of activity. Thant uses them more
as consultants and seldom stays on in his
office after half past eight at night. When
decisions have to be taken, he takes them
by himself, unhurriedly, calmly and, as
far as one can tell, without excruciating
doubts.
He rises every morning at six, prays
in the private Buddhist shrine in his com-
fortable house in Riverdale, a quiet, up-
per middle-class New York suburb,
spends a further hour in meditation,
swims if the weather is right, sips a cup
of coffee with his family (an almost in-
valid wife, a charming, married daughter,
and son, both graduates of American
universities). Finally he leaves home with
his chauffeur-bodyguard in time to reach
his office by 10.30 a.m. He reads a lot
and rarely misses the English weeklies,
especially the “Economist” and the “Ob-
server”.
Thant has clear ideas about world
priorities and the role of the UN. He
sees the two most urgent needs as halt-
ing the spread of nuclear weapons and
helping the economic and social progress
of the developing countries. He is an
unequivocal advocate of Chinese mem-
bership of the UN and once said that
he foresaw the development of four
world super powers: America, Russia,
China and Europe. He rejects the idea
of a permanent UN peace force, but be-
lieves the future of the UN depends on
agreement being reached on the creation
of effective peace-keeping machinery.
He sees the UN’s main task as elimin-
ating waste from a well-endowed inter-
national society, but he is always con-
scious of the dangers of nuclear war.
He feels himself as part of a “bomb-
disposal team which knows the danger,
hears the ticking and watches with mount-
ing anxiety as others shake and jostle
the dangerous explosive”. Although he
lives with these dangers constantly thrust
in the forefront of his mind, his sense
of idealism and urgency is continuously
mediated by a realistic awareness of the
limitations on his powers and prestige
which he believes “must not be frittered
or thrown away in useless dramatic ges-
tures”.
There is perhaps nothing very dramatic
about U Thant. But there is built into
this quiet, Westernised and socialist Bud-
dhist a rhythmic stabiliser which pro-
vides the turbulent world with a useful
still centre, (ofns.)
UNITED NATIONS II
America’s
Champion
Conciliator
After 100 strikes , Kashmir
From GEORGE McGANN
in New York
Arthur Goldberg had scarcely pre-
sented his credentials as the new
US Ambassador to the United
Nations than he found himself in the
same old spot in the middle of a bitter
dispute between two extremely hostile
parties. Goldberg, veteran of a hundred
strikes and settlements, earned a reputa-
tion as America’s “champion conciliator”
during his years as chief counsel to the
CIO and before that as principal mouth-
piece for the United Steelworkers’
Union. He was in the thick of the
negotiations to keep the India-Pakistan
conflict from spreading into a major
conflict.
Through a trick of fate, Ambassador
Goldberg became President of the
Security Council for the month of Sep-
tember. In that post it became his duty
to preside over the emergency meeting
of the Council when hostilities erupted
in Kashmir and to arrange for Secretary-
General U Thant’s visit to the battle
areas in a pursuit of a cease-fire agree-
ment.
Without attempting comparison with
his predecessor, the late and greatly
respected Adlai Stevenson, it can be
stated that no one surpasses Goldberg
in the equipment needed to settle the
present dispute. “He wrap§ resourceful-
ness, understanding, psychology, patience,
toughness, flexibility, self-confidence, in-
tuition and a perfect sense of timing
into some strangely irresistible package,
and when it’s all over you wonder why
you didn't think of it first yourself,” one
defeated, but admiring, employer re-
marked after a bargaining session with
Labor’s master bargainer.
Those who have dealt with Goldberg
liken him to a human computer, who
absorbs information rapidly, stores it
intact and produces it at the precise
moment it is needed with unerring
accuracy. He is tireless and tough in
all-night negotiations but possesses a
warm, human touch which can dissipate
accumulated tensions when the battle is
over.
Goldberg may never match Stevenson
in wit and grace of public utterance,
but he has his own charm and an un-
matched capacity for precise expression
and cogent presentation. A brilliant
lawyer and Supreme Court Justice, Gold-
berg will bring an absolutely first-class
mind to the role of American spokesman
at the United Nations.
There is no reason why Goldberg
should not prove as outstanding as an
Ambassador as he was as Secretary of
Labor (under John F. Kennedy) and in
his various legal jobs on the side of
organised Labor. However, the signifi-
cance of his appointment by President
Johnson, who had long admired him and
co-operated with him on Labor legisla-
tion in Congress, lies in the criticism the
President has been receiving in his con-
duct of foreign affairs.
One commentator has written of the
“two President Johnsons” —the enor-
mously resourceful and successful direc-
tor of national affairs, who has succeeded
in obtaining passage of legislation in
civil rights, education and housing which
puts him in the same exalted class with
Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the execu-
tive who has failed to inspire world con-
fidence in his actions in Vietnam, the
Dominican Republic or other vital areas
of foreign policy. President Johnson,
one of the most sensitive of men, smarted
when he read: “Johnson racks up legis-
lative triumphs like a pool shark hitting
the pockets in an unbreakable run. But
when the game is world affairs, he
obviously feels himself playing ‘on a
cloth untrue, with a twisted cue and
elliptical billiard balls’.”
President Johnson’s reaction to this


■-.Jill ' o
•T/aYK* •
• ' l ':r < •
1 7
Y«
K- V X.
Vi'
N ■>.
fi '
m
■f’H
&sr
■&fii
.••fj - /"- !'v 4-'.-’,
/f>\
-«?•?
4£i
r
WWW
'■ ■•• '•//
U !
*$
You park yourself!..
(luxuriously,j
jve park your car
lfree)
atMenzies
Free in-hotel car parking, and luxurious
accommodation! They’re yours right
in the heart of Sydney at Menzies.
Spacious bedrooms, all with private
bathrooms, have individually controlled
air-conditioning. (You can open the
windows if you like.) Genuine 24-hour
room service brings you food and drinks
at any time. Restaurants and bars cater
for every taste. Emperor Room Nightclub
features gourmet menu with floor show nightly
at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children.)
iTOOiTiiirw
jii jii uu jj uu: jj 11 j
111! lIU nil LJ J LIU nil 11 u
LI 11 UUUIJ UJUU JJ U LI
ya aa yy a a y u j j ui
J i a'J'3~a~JJ~3-3TJB 113
JJ JJ JJ JJJJ JJ J J
jj jj jj _ j j jj j j a j
jj jj jj jj jj jj JJ
jj jj jj affumnEp
J J JJ uu J J J j J J- -J J
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
emzw
c 2d
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “mENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA— Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND-Lennons. BRISBANE; Lennons. TOOWOOMBA; Lennons, GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— HoteI Australia, NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA— Wrest Point Riviera. HOBART.
kind of criticism has been the appoint-
ment of Arthur Goldberg to the United
Nations. In the opinion of many in the
capital, this is but the first step for Gold-
berg on the world scene; he may well
replace Dean Rusk as Secretary of State
before long. There have been many
intimations that Rusk was vulnerable,
particularly after the revelation by Arthur
Schlesinger that President Kennedy had
considered firing him from the State
Department. At any rate, it is clear that
Goldberg's appointment meant far more
than it seemed to be on the surface
reaffirmation of American support for
a world body in crisis through designa-
tion of one of the most able men in
America to replace Adlai Stevenson.
“Johnson has given Goldberg what
amounts to a carte blanche commission
to set up a centre of US foreign policy
in New York,” one American diplomat
said in explaining the appointment of
the Supreme Court Justice an appoint-
ment which took Washington by com-
plete surprise. Once a man has been
placed on the high bench, with its life
tenure and aura of olympian dignity, he
rarely steps down. But Goldberg relished
the challenge of his new role in foreign
affairs.
Ambassador Goldberg, in effect, will
become Ambassador from the UN to
Washington, as well as Mr Johnson’s
envoy to the United Nations. Goldberg
possesses an inside knowledge of Wash-
ington his predecessor lacked. He is
intimately acquainted with the power
centres in the White House, the State
Department and Congress as well as
among the leaders of the Establishment
in the Press, Big Labor and Big Business.
He can be expected to spend much more
time in Washington, not only in his vital
capacity as a member of the President's
Cabinet but in wooing the nation’s
leaders to the Administration’s line on
foreign policy. He is expected to be a
prime mover in shaping that line, and
to exert far more influence than Steven-
son ever did under either Kennedy or
Johnson, or Henry Cabot Lodge did
under Dulles and Eisenhower. As James
Reston has put it, “Dulles ignored Lodge
when it suited him, and Kennedy treated
Stevenson with polite indifference or
worse”.
Therefore the real significance of the
Goldberg appointment lies not so much
in what he can accomplish at the UN but
in what he can achieve in Washington.
It is well to bear in mind that he is a
“pugnacious dove” in the present con-
flict between the doves and the war
hawks in Washington. He believes much
more can be done in Vietnam, for
example, through relentless diplomatic
exploration and eventual negotiations
than through escalation of military
activity.


oo
WHEEL AWAY YOUR HEAVIEST LOADS WITH MAYNE NICKLESS!
the heaviest, most awkward loads are no
problem at all when you leave them to
fylayne Nickless, the most experienced
operators in the heavy cartage business
in Australia. The Mayne Nickless fleet of
semi-trailers, low loaders, bulk loaders
and mobile cranes makes light work of
the biggest jobs. Loads are carried safely
and efficiently, anywhere to anywhere.
Phone today . . . and get things moving
with Mayne Nickless!
MAYNE
NICKLESS
LIMITED
1886/83/65
The Credit
Side
Laying Nehru’s Ghost
From CYRIL DUNN in New Delhi
I>ritain is deep inside the Indian dog-
house for the stand she took —or
is supposed here to have taken over
the Indo-Pakistan conflict. There has
been much eager talk in favor of striking
a blow at British complacency by with-
drawing from the Commonwealth.
But so far nobody has been hustled
and the British Council library is still
intact. It was only in Pakistan, where
Britain’s stand was reckoned patently
pro-Indian, that resentment took a violent
turn.
Indians on the whole prefer peaceably,
though angrily, to argue the point.
Nehru’s daughter, Mrs Indira Gandhi,
summed up the opinions of many Indians
when she said this weekend that Britain
ought to have supported India because
it is a free democracy, whereas Pakistan
is a dictatorship. Mr Chagla, the dis-
tinguished Muslim who spoke for India
at the United Nations throughout the
crisis, described the fighting as a war
between the concept of a religious theo-
cratic state, upheld in Pakistan, and the
concept of a secular state, as manifest
in India.
- It is true that many sensible Indians
borne up by the belief that Pakistan’s
armed attack on Kashmir had failed and
that the Indian Army was everywhere
victorious on the Punjab Plain have
been saying that by early October the
Ayub Khan regime in Pakistan would
fall. But it was never a declared war
aim of the Shastri Government forcibly
to destroy the theocratic dictatorship of
Pakistan. And who could imagine the
Ayub Khan setting out with Com-
munist Chinese help to destroy secular
democracy in India?
It might be said more rationally that
India has been fighting to save secular
democracy in her part of Kashmir. But
for many outsiders, excluding perhaps
only the Russians and the Indonesians,
the issue is not whether India should
preserve secular democracy in Kashmir
or whether Pakistan should convert the
whole State into an adjunct of her
theocratic dictatorship. It is still—though
one imagines with mounting hopeless-
ness that the Kashmiris should have
a chance to choose an ideology and a
concept of their own.
The poison injected into the sub-con-
tinental system at the time of partition
in 1947 has certainly not been purged
away by the fighting. The basic cause
of the war, which has little to do with
either ideology or religion, though both
have nurtured it, is still there. Yet in
a realistic way one may assess certain
benefits which have accrued, at least on
the Indian side of the frontier. It is too
soon for anyone to crow about the
apparent failure of the Sino-Pakistan
“understanding”.
But on the Indian social front the
results are clear. The Indian Govern-
ment has redeemed itself from those
charges of weakness and indecision so
recently directed against it by, notably,
Nehru’s sister, Mrs Pandit.’ India’s
soldiers have shown themselves to be
brave and resolute, their commanders
often calm and skilful in tactics. For all
Indians the Chinese victory of 1962 has
now been cancelled out.
But above all it has been the making
G f shastri, whose small and homely face
has been smiling down benignly from the
walls of the army’s most advanced head-
quarters, (ofns )


VHOHdWV
V
IV
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue-Pouch
Wt
I ;4-
&
. c
fUlt «
FULL AROMATIC!
SAI7S
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
g'7)
k mmi of douwe ttoms royal tactories, otrecht, iolliii
THE WEEK M
VIETNAH
The Enclave Concept
Vlew enclaves are going to be carved
out of virgin jungle in Vietnam
first as bases for a vast build-up of
American troops, later as civilian popu-
lation centres. The “enclave concept”
has been controversial ever since it was
first proposed months ago, although it
was a similar system evolved by the
British which helped to turn the tide
against the Communist rebellion in
Malaya years ago.
There were those who argued that US
troops should be stationed only near the
coast so that they could never be sur-
rounded by the Vietcong. But the inland
enclave proponents said that erecting
new population centres would help solve
one of the major problems confronting
the Vietnamese Government how to
communicate with the population.
Already, one enclave is in the process
of development. The Ist Air Cavalry
Division has been moved into a valley
at An Khe, 45 miles west of Quinhon,
on the coast. Trees are being chopped
or burned down, roads are being built.
At present there are about 12,000 moun-
tain tribesmen in the area, but they are
scattered over hill and dale.
US officers predict that eventually An
Khe will become a city of as many as
50,000 people who will still work in the
fields, but will be city-dwellers at night.
The arrival of the Ist Air Cavalry
brought US military personnel in Viet-
nam to about 127,000. Up to 15,000
more men are expected by the end of
October. In addition, a 15,000-man
South Korean division is arriving. And
by Christmas US personnel will number
about 200,000, by April, 1966, 250,000.
The enormous problem is where to put
them all. The two major US bases, Bien
Hoa, 16 miles from Saigon, and Da
Nang, 385 miles north-east of the capital,
are overcrowded.
BRITAIN
Transformer Wilson
Tn one of the most deft performances of
A his career Mr Harold Wilson, the
Prime Minister, transformed the mood of
this year’s British Labor Party confer-
ence. When the conference assembled in
Blackpool there was a widespread mood
of bewilderment. The Labor Party is a
party of idealism and of protest. But
idealism has been strictly rationed in
the first year of Labor government, as
Ministers have had to grapple with the
consequences of the economic crisis. And
a shrinking parliamentary majority has
made protest treasonable. The New Jeru-
salem, which the Labor Party is dedicated
to building, has seemed an ever-receding
vision. So the party came to Blackpool
expecting a possible explosion.
Then Mr Wilson got up. By the end
of his 70-minute speech the applause
thundered through the hall. The main
stress of Mr Wilson’s speech was on what
the government had managed to do,
despite its economic inheritance. He
spoke of 65 Acts passed through Parlia-
ment. He emphasised the housing drive
and the national plan. Given another
year, he pointed out, the Government
would have broken the back of its legis-
lative programme as outlined at the 1964
general election.
Throughout, Mr Wilson took care to
avoid any suggestion of doctrinaire social-
ism. He did not even mention the
nationalisation of steel. Instead, he adop-
ted a broad moral appeal presenting
Labor as the party which would take
advantage of technological progress to
give a square deal to everyone.
INDONESIA
The first reports of the Djakarta
upheaval came through as this issue
of The Bulletin went to press. Next
week’s issue will include special cover-
age of the events in Indonesia and
Australia's reaction.
ADEN
Checking Terrorism
rpHE action of the British Government
in suspending the Aden Constitution
had been rumored for some time, but it
was carried out last week with almost
melodramatic suddenness. The Chief
Minister, Abdul Quawee Mackawee, and
his colleagues were abruptly summoned
to Government House, and told they
were dismissed and the Legislative Coun-
cil was dissolved.
The official reason for the action was
a rapid deterioration in security, brought
to a critical point by terrorist attacks
on children and civilians, and by the
public support alleged to have been given
by Aden’s native ministers to a terrorist
campaign directed by the so-called
National Liberation Front.
Captured documents here have shed
light on activities of the front. It is


m
■ ■■■■ •>.••• • >•••
" •> •> % •
* * \
i l
Sill
CvN
*§}
m
&
1964
i’tftTAG*
WMmmm
sum
ORLANDO
,P I^ L1 -Y VINTACED AUSTRALIAN « ,| * E
H
'mm
VIMTnCCD 8V v c PTVS
INTAG ID »» „ .auC FJI *
C CRAMP t SON’. ,„r«
"t"Vi»T£M
ORLANDO
NKT
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling,
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cup 3
- throughout Australia and, in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine Study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green- bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BAROSSA
RIESLING
Prize-winning Orlando Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Ply, Lid., in'
famous' Barossa Valley.
known to be based in Taiz in Yemen
and controlled by Egyptian intelligence
officers. Early outrages had seemed
haphazard, but recently more efficient,
as in the murder in early September of
the British speaker of the Legislative
Council, Sir Arthur Charles, and of a
senior Special Branch police officer.
These operations are believed to have
been carried out by trained assassins
from the neighboring Yemen. Security
measures were stepped up, a curfew was
imposed on the Crater area, and British
troops and police carried out raids on
terrorist lairs. These were surprisingly
successful. By the end of September
British troops had rounded up a number
of terrorist leaders, and captured a mass
of documents, and arms and explosives.
Two days before the suspension of the
Constitution British officials were talk-
ing optimistically, for the first time in
months, about the chances of knocking
out the whole terrorist machine.
SOUTH AFRICA
Apartheid for
Americans
the third time this year Dr Hen-
drik Verwoerd has provoked a
quarrel with the Americans on a diplo-
matic level, and political circles are
speculating on his motives. The first
incident involved the US aircraft carrier
Independence which had planned to re-
fuel at Capetown on its way to the
Far East. Prime Minister Verwoerd in-
formed the US Government that there
was no objection to the carrier’s visit,
provided it did not use Negro aircrews
because there were no facilities at South
African airports for them. The US
Government cancelled the carrier’s visit.
Next, Dr Verwoerd, in a speech at a
political rally, said that the South African
Government, for the same apartheid
reasons, would not tolerate the presence
of Negro scientists at the US Govern-
ment’s missile-tracking stations in South
Africa. There was no evidence that the
US Government intended to send non-
whites to the tracking stations and Wash-
ington has swallowed this gratuitous ban.
Now Dr Verwoerd has lodged an
objection with the US Government that
four Embassy officials are guilty of “not
advancing good relations”. A State
Department statement from Washington
replied sharply that the officials “per-
formed their duties in accordance with
normal and accepted practice”.
Since the South African Government
has not declared them persona non grata
they will continue at their posts “in spite
of differences in policy and outlook
between the US Government and the
South African Government”, said the
statement.


Above: Daydream Party Keg, Lemar Industries Pty. Ltd., N.S.W.
Below: Pedigree TV Set, Pye Industries Ltd., N.S.W.
Above: Black Box Stereogram, Pye Industries Ltd., N.S.W.
Below: Berry’s Coldstream Refrigerated Display Unit, W.A.
«>,% s ; fMX % c.v
'lf ;
■ • ■«
WiW
" $&
■■
>. .. ♦ V '
:


V : '
•■■•••• •
lIS
|: .■ Wm
WS
■
: :
mmmmm
■
II
n
■P"'.'- Si ; M • 1
Above: Wonder Heat Heater, Wonder Heat Interstate Pty. Ltd., N.S.W.
4jot
azs
4*4##^
el*
fapte
i H . ■*
■ •■--
;
WMMMMMMMmM
*******3***^^
*2«w S>»
»**?%»** f- 2
«*<«****§*
22£**£*a^*
*******
m
W*»S
**s»
s^-".^-i
*»*»*»
*■**
■*f*» s*
W3i
m
J
m*zz***
rnma
m
9k,,
Above: Central Station Control Board, Metropolitan Signals Pty. Ltd., N.S.W.
Below: Plan Cabinet, Metalux Industries, W.A.
y
□
m*
o
FI
B
Seven more uses
of Marviplate
to add to the
thousand others
Lysaght Marviplate combines the massive
strength of steel with the warm beauty of a
vinyl fabric surface.
Marviplate consists of a decorative vinyl film
bonded permanently to a steel sheet. It
can be sheared, punched and formed just like
ordinary sheet steel. It requires no painting
for finishing, yet it adds new beauty to
luggage, television and radio cabinets, furniture,
in fact anything that needs the strength
of steel and the permanent beauty of vinyl.
Marviplate is permanent, washable, won’t
scratch, won’t scuff, keeps its glamorous good
looks year after year.
It’s available in a wide range of colours and
textures from delicate pastels and warm
feature colours to textile finishes and simulated
woodgrains.
Make it with strength . . . make it with looks
. . . make it with Marviplate!
Write or ’phone for literature, technical advice.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Sydney,
Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart.
LYSAGHT
MAR VI PLATE
MP6oc|


AROUND MELBOURNE
Captain Lancey Forges Ahead
Who did announce the site for that village?
VTaturally, whenever anyone men-
' tions the word “Batman” your
pioneer is inclined to look up, a little
alarmed, to hear what is coming next.
For nigh on 40 years there has been
a tiresome controversy as to who
really founded Melbourne. Leading
candidates, of course, have been Yours
Truly and John Pascoe Fawkner. In-
deed in July, 1963, the Batman Treaty
Re-enactment Association even sug-
gested a brilliant compromise:
(a) That Batman be considered the
founder of Melbourne because of his
pioneering efforts, particularly concen-
trated in the first three years from
1835 until his death in 1839.
(b) That Fawkner be considered
father of Melbourne because of his
contribution over a period of more
than 30 years in guiding the develop-
ment of the new settlement through
the difficult and turbulent period from
1835 to the 1870 s.
But over the last few years Captain
John Lancey, from Fawkner's
schooner the Enterprise, has gained a
devil of a lot of ground. There are
those who insist that it was Lancey
who put up the first hut on September
1, 1835, and actually chose the site for
Melbourne. Fawkner did not come
until the second voyage of the Enter-
prise.
When a new history was published
last week, “Melbourne: John Batman’s
Village”, by Agnes Paton Bell, Batman
thought at last he was vindicated. The
terrible old problem was solved. Not
so. Alas, Mrs Bell is almost deliber-
ately vague. There are no precise dates.
The story begins in “late August,
1835”, with Captain Lancey on his
way up the river to build that “first
sod hut.” By page five we get the idea
that Batman may already be at In-
dented Head (near Queenscliff) but
we don’t know when he arrived, at
what date, or whether he had been to
the Yarra to announce that this was
the site for a village.
From 1 the production viewpoint the
book is a beautiful example of what
now can be done in Australia. It has
illustrations both in color and black
and white and the jacket is a nice old
print of Melbourne by J. Adamson,
1939. It was produced by Cassell Aus-
tralia, price 475. 6d.
However, if you were looking for
the definitive history of Melbourne
you would be terribly disappointed;
practically everything gutsy, earthy,
money-grubbing and political has
been left out. Mrs Bell does write very
prettily about social matters and she
does have a feeling for the grand
occasion. For example, it is interesting
to know that Richmond, the home of
tomato sauce, matches, wretched
little houses and GTV-9, was once
named thus because it reminded the
homesick of Richmond on the Thames.
In the 1850 s it was known as “the
home of the swells” and Richmond’s
Cremorne Gardens were the play-
ground of Melbourne with balloon
ascents, fireworks and such.
The laying of the foundation stone
of Princes Bridge on March 20, 1846,
was more impressive than anything
Mr Bolte did with Kings Bridge.
Schoolchildren marched six abreast,
there was the Temperance Society
Band “trumpeters full of pride and
vigor”, Masonic Brethren in their
aprons, coins of the realm in a bottle,
and a chaplain who solemnly uttered
the prayer “May the bountiful hand of
Heaven ever supply this Province with
abundance of corn, wine and oil, and
all the necessities of life”.
In the 1860 s and 1870 s Melbourne
did have a reputation for being an
extraordinarily gay young town. Mrs
Bell does tell us a little of this. The
firm of caterers, Messrs Spiers & Pond,
backed the first All-England touring
Eleven to come to Australia in 1861.
Messrs Spiers & Pond opened a re-
freshment bar in the new Apollo
Music Hall, plus the City Buffet op-
posite the Theatre Royal. The famous
meal was “grilled steak or chops of
the best quality, cooked with expert
skill, potatoes in their skins, crusty de-
licious bread and butter, with half a
pint of sparkling English beer, all for
Is. 6d. Their after-dinner suppers,
served on into the small hours of
the morning, were as famous: devilled
kidneys, or oysters served in many
ways, with creamy stout or the
choicest coffee.”
Then, most carefully, she gives an
elaborate picture of how the utterly
rich Victorian Victorians lived. The
mansions had high, straight towers,
colonnades, Grecian pillars, roof
ornaments, heavy ornamental gates.
Garden statues were fashionable,
with Venus, Napoleon or Captain
Cook lurking among the trees. Inside
there were Chinese vases, four feet
high, fashioned for Eastern palaces.
A bronze bust of Shakespeare might
stand on an ornate Indian cherry-
wood table and the shelves were laden
with Dresden vases ornamented with
cupids. Life in the grand manner
demanded a drawing-room, music-
room, sitting, dining, breakfast rooms
and library, a Bechstein grand piano,
a billiard-room, perhaps, and a stair-
case lit with a long, stained-glass
window.
For the present day this same lady
wrote: “. . . as many as 20 power-
points were required to serve the
family needs of radio, television and
every other electric gadget that the
mind of man could devise. A hot-
water service to the kitchen, bath-
room and laundry, where troughs
were of stainless steel or colored
fibreglass, became common, and kit-
chens became fairylands of gleaming
chromium and color with food con-
tainers of bright plastic and gay
crockery.”
Affairs like the maritime strike,
the bank crash, the great 1893 de-
pression, the police strike and such
are dismissed in just a few para-
graphs. One cries out for informa-
tion on why the Melburnians of the
’seventies and ’eighties became so
stinking rich, why this town suddenly
became so sanctimonious and wowser-
ridden, why everything was done in
the ’eighties, then barely a decent
public building erected between 1900
and 1945. Why did Melbourne be-
come the financial capital? Why did
we close down our pubs at six, why
did we go crazy for horse racing in
the ’eighties and stupid for football
in the nineteen-sixties, and why did we
have such a stupid mixed-up Govern-
ment right from 1920 almost to the
present day? Maybe someone some
day will write a book about it.
BATMAN


Ellis of The Bulletin
Mr M. H. Ellis , “the last of the Mohicans ”, as he calls himself , has retired after 33
years on The Bulletin. His association ivith the paper goes back to 1911 when , just
out of school , he had his first contribution accepted. There are many aspects of
Malcolm Ellis. Some of them are discussed here by editors under whom he worked ,
not when he was a vigorous , bearded youth ivho drove from London to Delhi and
across Australia in the days when motoring ivas still a gentle hobby , but when he
ivas a beardless youth in his energetic sixties and seventies.
rpHRouGHOUT his extraordinary life
Malcolm Ellis is and always has
been a journalist and The Bulletin his
true medium. But he brought to journal-
ism a mixture of qualities w ; e may not see
again in Australia. Now 75, he belongs
to a generation that held strong opinions
and believed in coming clean with them.
In contrast to the evasive, amusing idea-
brokers of a later period, he relished
public controversy and has never been
afraid to be odd man out. A classic
Tory, he may not have won every fight,
but in the end he won plenty. He is also
a scholar who brought to his journalism
the same painstaking research that has
made him a great historian — just as he
has taken to his historical work the sense
of urgency of his journalism. Above all
he is an Australian of the legendary
period — literally a pioneer who grew
up on the track and was in a gold rush
when still a boy (although not before
he had learned the classics).
His retirement is a bad blow to The
Bulletin but one consolation is that he
will continue to be a regular contributor.
PETER COLEMAN
Reporter
T always found something a little for-
midable about M. H. Ellis. The fault
was mine, not his. He was always charm-
ing but represented a journalistic tradi-
tion and conditioning as well as interests
and convictions necessarily at odds with
my own. And there was, of course, his
long and fruitful career, the fact that
he was a commanding figure from The
Bulletin’s past; an original and diligent
historian; an assiduous reporter whose
career spanned three generations of
notable Australians.
Equally formidable was his industry.
He took the business of feature writing
very seriously. He enjoyed writing more
than any journalist I have ever known.
His habit of producing a 3000-word
article on practically any subject you
liked to mention within 24 hours
was positively unnerving. He liked
argument, he liked controversy, he
seemed to like taking the opposite
point of view for the sheer hell of
it and if his opponents were weak on
conviction or facts so much the worse for
them. The results were a refreshingly
different point of view. An outstanding
example was his recent Bulletin review
of Lindsay’s “Bohemians of The Bul-
letin”. I haven’t read the book but
greatly enjoyed Malcolm’s keen-minded
dedication to proving that Lindsay’s
Bohemians were no such thing but some-
thing quite different altogether. It was
also very good reporting and very much
M. H. Ellis.
P. D. HASTINGS
Historian
1%/f alcolm Ellis had a special talent.
He became a partisan of the period
in Australian history he made his own.
It is almost as if he became a con-
temporary of Bligh, Macarthur, Mac-
quarie and the others he wrote about.
He absorbed his period so thoroughly
that it comes as a surprise not to find
his name among those who petitioned for
Bligh’s removal.
This seemed to give his books an extra
dimension — a special dimension of
meaning that is also often present in the
books of the great historians: that it
matters what men are and what they do.
It is a paradox of his career that he
shared with Manning Clark the unique
ability to make Australian history in-
teresting; to give it more than specialist
interest, to use it to illustrate important
universal human themes.
With this feeling of participation in
his period he combined an historian’s
honesty that is missing from some other
accounts of the same period. He pro-
vided facts from which conclusions quite
different from his own could also be
drawn.
As befits someone so prominent in the
Sydney Pioneers’ Club, Ellis was a
pioneer—in Australian historical studies.
He began applying professional standards
to this field of enquiry at a time when
most of the professionals considered the
field too “unscholarly” to deserve atten-
tion.
Now that Australian history has be-
come an academically respectable study,
it seems strange that no universities have
honored his services with an honorary
degree.
DONALD HORNE
“Ek Dum”
ITk) many, “Ek Dum” was Malcolm
Ellis, the wizard. It was hard to
convince Australian servicemen who
called in, fresh from campaigns in North
Africa, Syria or New Guinea, that The
Bulletin reports of Tobruk, Alamein,
Milne Bay, Buna or Gona were not first-
hand eye-witness’s accounts with on-the-
spot access to official plans of battle and
topographical maps.
Malcolm, writing at 252 George Street,
beside his short-wave radio at home on
the North Shore, or just anywhere he
happened tc be within a tram-ride of
The Bulletin, produced his stories of
battles and campaigns, perhaps still
being fought out ten thousand miles
away, with authentic, vivid description:
terrain, vegetation and all.
Then “Ek Dum” would change the
paper in his typewriter and dash off a
piece on Canberra politics, Communism
in Australia, the Queensland Channel
Country, or a personal item on a visiting
VIP he’d last met, up-and-coming, in
Sheffield in the 1920s.
Malcolm would have really enjoyed
writing a complete issue of The Bul-
letin — in a week.
DAVID ADAMS


ASAHI
PENTAX
SPOTMATIC
n
Entirely New Concept
in Photographic Design
and Capability
The new Asahi Pentax Spotmatic has
a highly sensitive, completely integral
and invisible meter which reads your
exposure through the taking lens, from
your subject’s image in focus on the
viewing screen (in focus on the film
plane) . .. the most ideal method of
exposure determination! Use any one
of the 23 Takumar lenses (from 18mm
to 1000 mm), plus accessories ... the
meter reads exactly what your lens
sees ... the lens sees what your film
records ... without parallax! No more
exposure adjustments ... it automati-
cally compensates for exposure factors
for correct exposures every time.
Price, with case, £lO5/0/0.
Other Asahi Pentax models available:
Asahi Pentax SV with fully-automatic f/1.8
Super-Takumar lens; speeds to 1/1000-sec.;
self-timer. With case, £75/0/0.
Asahi Pentax Sla with fully-automatic f/2 Super
Takumar lens; speeds to 1/500-sec. With
case, £62/10/0.
At your photo dealer now!
KD.2217
Letters to the Editor
Miracles And The
New Guinea UNP
SIR. As officers elected by the Provisional
Committee of the "United New Guinea
National Party" at Port Moresby, we have
been asked by the Committee to comment
upon articles published in your weekly (8.,
Sept. 18, '65). The writer, Mr Macphee, is a
newcomer to this country of some two years'
residence. We compliment him on an en-
lightened, objective, and constructive ap-
proach. His analysis of the problems facing
any newly emerging party in our emerging
nation is a valuable contribution to our own
party.
But many misconceptions were current at
the time he wrote, and both his articles and
your own, on the "Plain English" page of the
issue of 25/9/65, illustrate this. May we set
the record straight?
First, the Party as such has not yet been
born, nor has any of its sponsors meant to
imply that it has yet been born. Mr Oala
Oala-Rarua may have been misunderstood
by some people, including local journalists,
who as befits journalists, were avid for news.
Consequently more has been said in the
Press and over the air than had in fact
been said by the yet unborn Party itself, or
by its sponsors. It is still very much in the
pre-natal stage. It will remain in gestation
for some 3 to 6 months. But both Mr Oala-
Rarua and our Committee are confident it
will be a lusty infant when birth is complete.
Above all things we want it to be clear
that it will not be merely a Port Moresby,
or merely an intellectual elite. Party. The
function of our Committee is visualised as
follows: First, to be a working Committee
to draft a Party Constitution of a kind suited
to our country and its people, and to our
aims.
Secondly, to express these aims, essen-
tially the welfare of our country and people,
in a draft platform that we hope will be ac-
cepted by the mass of them, of whatever
race, color, creed, sex, economic situation or
personal origin.
Thirdly, to publish these as widely and in
as many languages as possible with the
funds we may be able to get and the help
we may be offered. This throughout the
country, especially in the villages.
Fourthly, to invite those who find them-
selves in broad agreement with us, to form
local and industrial branches as may be fit-
ting; and the branches so formed to send dele-
gates to a National Party Conference to ham-
mer out the final form of the Constitution of
the Party and its platform; for the next elec-
tion in particular, and for the future, in
broad principles.
Fifthly, to pass out of existence, its mem-
bers being absorbed into the various local
or industrial branches for which they have
residential and other qualifications. This is a
mid-wifery function. Our members are drawn
from many parts of the Territory. We are in
no sense a Port Moresby group, except by
accident of present abode.
We none of us share Mr Macphee's pes-
simism as to our inability to find real and
living issues upon which to base a vigorous,
inspiring, and intellectually adventurous plat-
form. Many such issues are, so to say, lying
around waiting to be picked up. There is
a broad general agreement among New
Guineans, native and immigrant alike, on
what these are, and to some extent on what
should be done about them. We intend to
take a positive line concerning them, and to
offer leadership, but not dictation, to our
people in their thinking upon them. Mr Mac-
phee has already mentioned several such is-
sues, for which we thank him. But he is
mistaken in supposing they have not yet
been raised among ourselves.
We are currently discussing and consider-
ing, among others, the following:
1. The future Constitution of our country.
a matter in which our views may differ
from those set out in the Port Moresby Pro-
posals of the recent Law Seminar of the ICJ.
2. Future constitutional relations with Aus-
tralia.
3. Future membership of the Commonwealth
of Nations.
4. Our future relationships with other Pac-
ific islands, including New Zealand, and de-
pendent or former dependent Territories of
France, America, the UK, etc.
5. Reciprocity of travel and similar facili-
ties with all the above countries or groups.
To this the so-called White Australia Policy
is relevant.
6. The possibility of some loose form of
Confederation with such countries, whether
formal or informal, and possibly of the Euro-
pean Common Market type.
7. Special relationships with the countries
of Asia and America, and foreign relations
in general.
8. The need for much vaster and faster
economic development, especially of the basic
kind, including basic research; and how to
raise the money needed for it. (See "12"
below.)
9. The need to dissipate the atmosphere
of insecurity which has bedevilled the country
for several years, by making it evident that
there will be no, repeat no, Congo situation
here; and by establishing a stable political,
economic and social climate, consistent with
transition in an orderly but inspiring way for
many of our people from a stone age to a
modern and largely Western kind of world.
10. The need for basic electoral reform,
including a study by a Committee of com-
petent persons, not necessarily Parliamen-
tarians, of the nature and spirit and circum-
stances of the country, so as to produce an
electoral system of native growth which will
harmonise Western ideals, which we tend to
embrace, with local facts, realities and needs.
Such a Committee should have power to con-
sult our public, and our people should have
the right, inalienable from every adult, to
be heard by it. The present Electoral Ordin-
ance and boundaries satisfy very few of our
people.
11. Special consideration to our complex
land system and property rights in general
12. Peace, good order and social justice i
for all our people. Among these we include I
equality of opportunity for all according to I
their ability. Our explosive population in- I
crease (we expect to number 4 millions by .
1980) is most relevant here.
Clearly we have no authority, and it would'
be premature to discuss in detail which way
our thoughts are tending. Suffice it to say
that we want for our people a peaceable
and auspicious entry into nationhood, free-
dom, happiness, prosperity and, above all, i
wisdom. We are moderately humble, but con-1
fident that this will come to pass. j
We note your apprehension (Plain English,
25/9/65) that we may not be able to find
enough people of training and talent to do
the required work, and that the basic diffi-
culties of communication and, shall we say,
"insularities within insularities" may defeat
us. We recognise the difficulties, but do not
share your pessimism. It will be a hard pull,
but we shall succeed. We mean business. We I
are not children, nor playing. We would!
remind your readers and yourself that the
men and women have been found, to work
miracles in our country, in the past. There
will be no lack of similar people, or of com-
parable miracles, in the future. Our Party's
role, as we see it, will be to set up favorable
conditions for them, by devotion, good judg- 1
ment, which God grant us, and hard work.
GAVERA REA, President
HARRY GAY WOOD, Honorary Secretary.
Provisional Committee.
United New Guinea National Party-


No. 4 in a series of advertisements designed to inform of the enormous scope of grinding
operations using A. A. Wheels.
FEET
ARE
BETTER
SHOD!
Precision cutting of leather to the standards demanded by shoe manu-
facturers is the art of the tanner. And the special skiving knives used for
this work are kept to essential keenness with Australian Abrasives Grinding
Wheels.
The scope of grinding operations is enormous and growing every day.
Soon, perhaps, yet another application will be revealed in your business.
Call A.A. or one of its distributors. A skilled engineer will gladly give free
on-the-spot advice.
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
Australian Abrasives Pty. Ltd., 302 Parramatta Road, Auburn, N.S.W. Tel: 648 2361
AAI74
Irrefutable Poverty
SIR.—Dr R. Taft (B„ Sept. 18) refers to the
paper by Professors Edwards and Gates
which noted that the average family income
is £42 per week. Dr Taft points out "this
quotation, taken out of context, gives a mis-
leading and socially dangerous picture of
prosperity that can allow the smug reader
to forget the economic hardships that beset
many Australians". However, Dr Taft fails
to place this "quotation" in its "context".
Thus the preliminary figures advanced by
Professors Edwards and Gates indicate that
the lowest tenth of families received only
2.4 per cent of income. This meant that 10
per cent of the families in the survey earn
less than £BOO per year. If one wishes to
talk in terms of the "submerged fifth" then
the lowest 20 per cent of families earn less
than £l2OO per year which was only 8.2
per cent of the total income. While the
available figures do not indicate the number
of dependants in each income grade the fact
remains that this survey was concerned with
household units, not individuals. Earlier
eviaence indicates that in the early 'fifties
there were over 160,000 units earning less
than £BOO per year who had either no
dependent spouse and four or more depen-
dent children, or one dependent spouse and
three or 'more dependent children. That
poverty exists is irrefutable.
A substantial proportion of the difference
between the average income of £42 in the
Sydney survey and that of £27 in the Perth
survey can be explained by the different
approaches of the two surveys. Thus Dr Taft
notes that his team of psychologists included
a question on income "incidentally". The
question of income was, however, at the
heart of the Sydney survey and so the
questionnaire requested information on a
range of income which the respondents to
the Perth survey may not have included, e.g.,
Government transfers; private transfers in-
cluding charity; capital gains on home, car,
business, shares; cash gifts; bank interest,
etc., etc.
JIM SPIGELMAN
Maroubra (NSW).
Education And Pluralism
SIR. May I have the opportunity to cor-
rect a false impression given by my letter
as published (B„ Sept. 25). This letter was
edited and in the published form I appeared
to be attacking both Catholic and State
school systems, and for no substantial reason.
Nothing could be further from the meaning
of my original letter. Very briefly, my
argument was this: quite apart from religious
considerations, the independent schools serve
a valuable purpose in our society. They
allow at least one quarter of Australian
children to avoid the State school system
which, I argued, tends to have a stereotyping
effect on its pupils. I gave reasons (mention-
ing the Martin Report) for believing that the
monolithic structure of State education depart-
ments deeply influences the mentality of its
teachers: they are paternalistically nurtured
through primary, secondary and even tertiary
education by administrative officials and this
tends to produce a sort of ideological in-
breeding. I stated that this was surely un-
desirable in a pluralist, democratic country.
R. BROWNING
North Croydon (Vic.).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
A Grand Cultural Jamboree
From MARTIN LONG in London
Reporting on the Commonwealth
Arts Festival in London presents
peculiar difficulties because it is
impossible to tell just how much impact
it is having, and on whom. In a city as
big as London, where at any time there
is more cultural activity going on than
can be found in the average Festival,
an event like this must lack the focus
and concentration that it ideally re-
quires.
The printed Festival programme re-
veals that there is a great deal going on,
much more than one person can hope to
see or hear, but this in itself makes it
difficult for one person to gain an all-
round view of it. And despite the amount
and variety of the Festival events they
still tend to get scattered and lost in the
midst of the regular activity of London’s
music, theatre and art world. In view of
this the Festival organisers did wisely
to tour the main Festival events through
the provincial centres of Glasgow, Liver-
pool and Cardiff, where, by all accounts,
they have been able to stir a more un-
divided interest.
In London, indisputably, many of the
Festival events have been a huge suc-
cess. “The Great Dance Gala”, an ex-
uberant assemblage of exotic song and
dance from Africa, Asia and the West
Indies, packed the enormous Albert Hall
for five performances. A more sober
programme with a similar purpose ar-
ranged by Yehudi Menuhin and called
“Music of the Continents”, filled the
3000-odd seats of the Royal Festival
Hall. The Festival Hall was well filled
for the inaugural Festival concert by the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra and New
Zealand’s Christchurch Harmonic Choir,
and was sold out for the SSO’s second
concert, conducted by Dean Dixon and
attended by the Queen. But the Toronto
Symphony Orchestra, with no well-known
conductors or soloists and no Royalty
drew a much smaller audience, al-
though it basically, I would say, is a
better orchestra than the SSO.
The Festival Hall was filled again for
a concert at which William Walton con-
ducted the BBC Symphony Orchestra
and the Christchurch Choir in an excit-
ing performance of his “Belshazzar’s
Feast” and Sargent conducted Vaughan
Williams’ Sea Symphony, but it was three
parts empty for another concert for
English music played by the English
Chamber Orchestra, and only moderately
well attended for another all-English
concert by the brilliant London Sym-
phony Orchestra (which will be in Aus-
tralia early next year) under its accom-
plished young conductor, Colin Davis.
The somewhat amateurish work of the
Jamaican National Dance Theatre was
cheered to the echo by a large and
largely Jamaican audience at the per-
formance I attended, but the highly pro-
fessional Royal Winnipeg Ballet failed
to fill the relatively small Piccadilly
"It'll be sitting there on Benelong Point—a million-pound white elephant.”
Theatre while the Australian Ballet sold
out its three performances in the vast
and prestigious Royal Opera House be-
fore Londoners had had a first-hand
chance to judge its quality. The simple
fact that it was at Convent Garden, com-
bined with good notices from the pro-
vinces and the publicity attendant on the
Fonteyn-Nureyev appearances with the
ballet in Australia and France, probably
played a part in this.
In general, the pattern of attendance
seems to have been based partly on
national loyalties but mainly on ordinary
box-office appeal. There is the inevitable
chauvinistic interest, there is interest in
the exotic and sensational, if it is well
publicised,' and in big names (Sargent
and Menuhin undoubtedly did much to
help fill the hall for the SSO’s opening
concert), but as far as London is con-
cerned I cannot sense a deep and wide
interest in the idea of a Commonwealth
Festival as such.
In a smaller city—Sydney, say, or
Montreal—it would be much easier to
generate and focus this sort of special
enthusiasm. In a smaller city the visiting
participants would not have to face such
heavy competition from the established
big guns of the host city. If there are to
be more Commonwealth Festivals such
middle-sized cities would surely be the
appropriate venue for them.
In such a setting the unique quality
of the Festival would have a better chance
to come through. And it does have a
unique quality. There can never have
been an occasion that brought together
so many diverse and contrasting strands
of culture.
In the same theatre, companies from
Nigeria and Trinidad, a dance company
from Jamaica and a Nigerian folk opera
—and there would have been a company
of Kathakali dancers from Pakistan if
they had turned up. There have been
players of sitar, tabla and shanhai from
India, players of flute, drum and xylo-
phone from Ghana, a steel band from
Trinidad and a jazz band from Australia.
There have been folk dancers from
French Canada and bare-breasted danc-
ers from Sierra Leone. There have
been films from 20 Commonwealth
countries. There have been 15 poetry
sessions presented by such figures as
Cecil Day Lewis, John Betjeman and
John Wain. There has been an abundance
of art shows ranging from traditional
African carving and Australian Abo-
riginal bark painting to the most recent
work of Russell Drysdale.
It all adds up, as someone has said,
to a grand cultural jamboree. But the
effect is blurred a little when it is in com-
petition not only with itself but with
the regular activities of the world’s
busiest cultural centre.


UNIVERSITY OF NEW ENGLAND
RESI DENTIAL ADULT
SUMMER SCHOOLS AND SEMINARS
JANUARY/FEBRUARY, 1966
SCHOOLS IN:
* DRAMA
January 5-19
* MUSIC
January 5-19
* PAINTING
January 5-24
* BAHASA INDONESIA
January 6-29
and January 30-February 20
* SCULPTURE
January 10-24
* CHILD DRAMA
January 20-28
* ANIMAL REPRODUCTION
February 13-18
SEMINARS ON:
* INDONESIA
January 6-12
* NATURE CONSERVATION IN
EDUCATION
January 7-9
* AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE IN
AUSTRALIAN EDUCATION
January 14-20
* CULTURE OF FRANCE
January 21-27
* TEACHER TRAINING IN
AUSTRALIA
January 24-28
* LOCAL HISTORY
January 28-31
* FUTURE OF AUSTRALIAN
STATEHOOD
February 4-6
Work at the seminars is at an intensive level, including a considerable amount of
discussion group work, and proceedings of each are published in book form.
Distinguished authorities from academic creative arts and governmental circles have
been engaged to lecture at the above schools and seminars. You are warmly invited to
join the hundreds of people from all over Australia who take part each summer in
these stimulating adult schools. Accommodation is in single rooms in modern colleges in
pleasant rural surroundings. Comprehensive details may be obtained from:
THE DIRECTOR OF UNIVERSITY EXTENSION
UNIVERSITY OF NEW ENGLAND
ARMIDALE, N.S.W.
TELEVISION
People Watching
rpELEVisioN began in Australia with a
great hooroo to the effect that it was
a driving and demanding medium in
which only young men with soft arteries
and tough minds could survive. How-
ever, those young men were born in
the ’3os. It is possible that, almost ten
years later, they are old enough to be
sadly out of touch with the needs of
audiences born in the ’4os, and 20 years
behind the ideas of the Pepsi generation?
Television has provided a basis for
sophistication, and cynicism, and finally
boredom with the same old kinds
of programmes. There are occasional
moments of burning interest in television,
but audiences which have stopped view-
ing because “there is nothing to see”
will miss all of them.
The people who select television pro-
grammes may have a journalistic feeling
that all materia] must be slick enough
to give viewers an impression of depth
without breaking the surface, or disturb-
ing the viewers’ nightly decline into
somnolence. If so, there is a delusion
somewhere. Why are radio’s highest
ratings being gained by public affairs
and other ‘talk” programmes with a
mounting “think” quotient, in the day-
time, with mostly women listeners?
Probably the answer is in the increasing
percentage of people wha have spent
three to six years beyond primary school.
Television is underrating them, and may
be insulting their mentality.
The above is a prologue to an appeal
for more experimental programmes on
television, including one form which
exploits the human personality in solo,
and is not costly Possibly not too many
viewers would cheer the prospect of
programmes featuring the wit, wisdom,
outlook, observations, memories and
methods of one man or woman. How
would they know that such programmes
:an be entertaining? Last week - there
were three half hours, all on ABC Tele-
vision, a total of 90 minutes in the
medium’s more than 300 hours.
Of the three, only one was skilfully
handled, “Sum and Substance”, a series
from the public affairs division of
KNTX in California. Its interviewer, Dr
Herman Hervey, bothers to read ajid
research before confronting such diverse
people as Jimmy Durante, Ray Bradbury
and Willie Ley, to quiz them about their
personal experiences and philosophies.
The others were “People”, in which Bob
Sanders meets three or four persons in
half an hour, usually whisking them off
if they dare to utter two consecutive
interesting words, and “Spectrum” in
which two interviewers chat awkwardly
with two workers in the various arts.
People have an innate curiosity about
other people which newspapers, maga-
zines and radio do not satisfy. “Sum
and Substance” exploits the human face
and hands. There is much more to be
seen in a whole man on television than,
say, in snapshot views of people and
places, or in the slightness of TV series
repeats.
DALE MILLER
THEATRE
Love-hate
The Subject Was Roses. Frank D. Gilroy.
Union Theatre, Melbourne.
Tt is an ambitious playwright who limits
a full-length play to three characters;
but if he can get away with it the rewards
are rich. Frank D. Gilroy narrowly got
away with it when his play, “The Subject
was Roses”, was produced on Broadway
in May last year. After surviving a
sickly infancy it is still flourishing.
As Priestley has pointed out, a play
gathers box-office appeal through the
mere fact of survival. It becomes a hit
simply because its continuing existence
earns it the reputation of being a hit.
And its life expectancy is all the
greater, of course, if it has a small
cast and a single undemanding set. Those
factors may account in part for the long
run in New York of Gilroy’s play. It is
still a puzzle, though, why, after a poor
reception when it opened, it should go
on to win the 1965 Pulitzer Prize and
New York Critics’ Award. Perhaps this
indicates a turning away from recent
styles.
Certainly “The Subject was Roses”,
which is neither cynical nor symbolical,
is a world apart from recent fare. It is
really a little old-fashioned, in the good
tradition of domestic drama. Not by any
means a great play (how many great
plays are there?), yet it is honest and
compassionate and good theatre.
Its theme is the love-hate relationships
existing within an Irish-American family
John Cleary, a New York coffee
merchant, his wife Nettie, and their son
Timmy, whose return from the war (it
is 1946) acts as a catalyst. Immature and
emotionally deprived, John and Nettie
compete for their son’s affection and
compulsively lacerate each other and
themselves in the process. The wounds,
however, are inflicted as spontaneous
reflexes to unbearable emotional stress.
The exchanges are not calculatedly cruel.
Despite underlying tension, the family
bickering could easily become weari-


FLY
Ansett-ANA
AVIS
RENTA CAR
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
4*B
i
FLY AND DRIVE IN ’65. It’s time-saving . . . money-saving . . .
worry free! There's no waiting with Avis. Step out of the plane, into
your car and off! Drive one of the great new Falcons or other fine cars
of the Avis fleet. It’s the jet age way to travel. Book your Avis car
when you book your flight. Avis honours Ansett-ANA credit cards.
ANSETTANA
RENT-A-CAR
ia9</«3/«a
some; but attention is held, and sympathy
ultimately enlisted, through skilful revela-
tion of character. The embittered rela-
tionship between John and Nettie
becomes explicable in terms of their
personal inadequacies and different
aspirations. There is more than a hint
of Chekhov in all this, except that the
background here is the Bronx, the war is
just over, it is spring, and all problems
appear capable of solution.
In the Union Theatre production Terri
Aldred is persuasive as Nettie, the sub-
dued wife who cannot forget or forgive.
Sidney Conabere gives a vigorous though
not faultless performance as the volatile,
empty husband. And as Timmy, the
youthful yet mature son who offers the
therapy of love, Robert Cuming is exactly
right.
The production, by Malcolm Robert-
son, was straightforward but suffered at
times from first-night raggedness.
DAVID MARTIN
Author As
Young Man
My Life with an Interval for Asperin.
Bernard Hesling. Robert Levis Pro-
ductions. Independent Theatre, Sydney.
Oeated in the spotlight on one side of
the stage, looking very much the
artist in black velvet jacket and red polka
dot bow tie, Bernard Hesling acts as
the narrator in his staged autobiography.
His narration alternates with scenes from
his life in which Peter Whitford gives a
most engaging performance as the eager
young Bernard, a lad from Yorkshire
who is as unworldly as a new-born babe,
but much more cheerful. Bernard goes
to London where his adventures include
meeting Einstein at Toynbee Hall and
Shaw in his bathroom. He gets a job
back-stage at the Gate Theatre where, as
sound-effects man for a play about a
sinking submarine, he nightly performs
an exhausting routine of noise improvisa-
tion climaxed by the dropping of about
half a ton of clattering ironmongery.
Eventually he takes up residence on the
stage during the run of a play which is
conveniently set in the bedroom of a
high-class brothel.
“This is not a play but a trailer for my
new book,” says Bernard Hesling dis-
armingly during his narration. Although
it is very funny at times and well acted,
by a cast which includes Neva Carr Glyn,
James Condon, Nigel Lovell and Martin
Redpath, it does suffer from weaknesses
characteristic of stage adaptations of
material not originally written for the
theatre. Because the separate scenes are
not driving towards a denouement, they
are inclined to lag and many seem little
Martin Redpath and Peter Whitford in Hesling's
"My Life with an Interval for Asperin" at Sydney”
Independent.


liife
LONDON
T<C\
v
FRANKFURT
ATHENS
\\\
\\\ ROME'ff
\ \ \ zURICH /
\V* /
\/I PARIS /
/I * /
/ MADRID
LISBON
// /
11
a i
a® ///
mu jt /
gggip // /
2^
LUANDA
Hi
HP
SALISBURY
%
if#
JOHANNESBURG
'l,l
MAURITIUS
PERTH
k'f ]
kL-d
•, M
$
40
‘WA
\
Sv
SAA7S/SO
Everything’s
new again
this way
Going overseas? On your way, take an
on-the-spot look at the excellent export
possibilities in prosperous, expanding
South Africa and the even newer
unexplored markets a little further
afield.
Take a look, too, at the new-to-you
natural and scenic wonders only this
route to U.K./Europe offers. The
unique wild life at Kruger National
Park. The exciting cities and fascina-
ting peoples of South Africa. See
Lisbon, Madrid, and other famed
capitals of Europe.
See more for your money, too—
this way costs from a mere £15.10.0 in
extra air fares, depending on your
departure point.
Have a talk to your travel agent.
Two services weekly
to South Africa with
daily connections at
Johannesburg for U.K.
and Europe. Operated
by S.A.A., in asso-
ciation with Qantas,
B.O.A.C.and C.A.A.
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
TO U.K./EUROPE VIA THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
more than revue sketches and rather
faded ones at that.
This is a pity because Hesling’s books
have a perennial freshness. But they are
discursive and anecdotal rather than
dramatic. Their charm is in the author’s
tone of voice. This we hear in the narra-
tion, but lose in the enactment.
One of the nice things about Hesling’s
books to a Sydneysider is his delight in
Sydney and its ways. I was sorry that
some scenes which had been set in Sydney
in his books were transferred to London
in his play. So many people have written
well about London, but few so amusingly
about Sydney.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
RECORDS
Sutherland’s
“Norma”
Bellini: Norma (complete opera): Suther-
land, Alexander, etc. RCA LSC 6166.
Pas de Deux: Paquita (Minkus); Le Corsaire
Esmeralda (Drigo); Flower Festival at
Genzano (Helsted); Pas Classique (Au-
ber); London Symphony Orchestra
Bonynge. Decca SXL 6137.
Luciano Pavarotti, tenor: Arias from Bo-
heme, Tosca, Rigoletto. Decca 45 rpm
CEP 5532.
A NYONE looking for a recording by the
current Sutherland-YVilliamson Opera
Company should investigate the new
RCA release of Bellini’s “Norma”. While
there is, of course, no direct connection,
no less than five of the seven artists
featured are appearing in the local com-
pany right now and the fact that the
set is exceptionally fine must be gratify-
ing to one and all.
It is a pity that “Norma” was not
included in the repertoire for it is pos-
sibly the best of all the so-called “bel
canto” operas. It is certainly Bellini's
best.
The opera hinges around its strenuous
leading role and has been the ruin of
many a fine singer. Fortunately Joan
Sutherland has ample reserves of power
and range e.ven when singing full out, as
she is here.
She has also added tremendously to
her dramatic range and her diction is
at times superb by any standards. The
occasional vocal slur, usually in down-
ward scales, counts for little among these
virtues. John Alexander makes an
impressive record debut in the taxing
tenor lead and sounds even better than
he does on stage. Richard Cross as
Oroveso is equally good. His voice has
a smooth sheen unusual in a bass. In a
small part Joseph Ward is also good.
A big asset to this set of “local” artists
is the only outsider in a leading role.
Marilyn Horne, as Adalgisa, demon-
strates that she is possibly the best mezzo


m
l bJ r
TT
*' ' 'v< X i; : | v —' ' Vl 'Xv
“Vive la France . . *
and Vat 69
fine old Scotch Whisky *
All over the world . . . one Scotch stands out
VAT 69
NZL67/6.20
soprano singing in her prime today.
Need 1 say more?
Richard Bonynge conducts, and con-
ducts well! Whatever has been said about
him in this country, he has shown his
real worth to us on records, conducting
some of the world’s best orchestras. If
he is not in the Beecham-Karajan-
Toscanini class of opera conductors,
he can certainly hold his own against
the best present-day Italians. A surpris-
ing aspect of his talents is heard on
his ballet records. The latest, Decca’s
“Pas de deux”, again has him exhum-
ing some pretty set pieces which have
been ignored on disc to date. The
selection is excellent, only the Auber
falling short. Most of the items are inter-
polations into ballets written by other
composers, yet anything more danceable
could not be imagined. Where Mr
Bonynge gets his accurate ballet tempi
without ever having conducted a com-
pany is a mystery, unless Alicia Mar-
kova is the power behind this throne.
Luciano Pavarotti was the surprise
success of the Sutherland season and
deserved every ounce of it. A seven-
inch disc of arias from Boheme, Tosca
and Rigoletto confirms a fine voice and
excellent musicianship which will
undoubtedly carry him far in the inter-
national operatic scene.
JOHN CARGHER
Goulash
New Beat on Broadway. The Village
Stompers. Epic Stereo ELPS3S27.
Whipped Cream and Other Delights. Herb
Alpert’s Tijuana Brass. Festival Stereo
5FL931680.
Guitar . . . Paris. Tony Mottola. Command.
Stereo SNDL-931637.
HThe Village Stompers combine
A various instrumental aspects of
popular music in a not-always-happy
amalgam they call Folk-Dixie. “New
Beat on Broadway” carries the gimmick
into show-tune territory and they romp
through a dozen tuneful hits from past
and current musicals. It is clear from
the Dixieland spots that the Stompers
are capable jazz musicians (listen, for
example, to the trumpet on “Just >n
Time”, the trombone and clarinet on
“Make Someone Happy”), but their
efforts are interrupted throughout by
plunky banjo, twangy guitar, and corny
patches of arrangement, no doubt
designed to make their products more
saleable.
On “Whipped Cream and Other De-
lights”, Herb Alpert's Tijuana Brass
serves up another stylistic goulash, the
ingredients here being a brass choir of
almost military demeanor and an
occasional lonely saxophone cooked over
a rock beat and garnished with corn.
There is a degree of ingenuity and
seme humor in this evidently successful
attempt to capture a wide audience.
Some of the “other delights” to be given
the brass treatment are “Green Peppers”,
“Peanuts”, “Lollipops and Roses”, “A
Taste of Honey” and “Love Potion No.
9”. Indigestible as a steady diet, but
suitable for party snacks.
According to the sleeve notes, Tony
Mottola was originally influenced by
Eddie Lang and later by Django Rhein-
hardt. Perhaps two decades of accom-
panying Perry Como have counteracted
this early inspiration because, in “Guitar
. . . Paris”, there are only a few tech-
nical tricks to show that Mottola ever
listened to these two pioneers of the
instrument. This does not mean that he
is not an accomplished guitarist, but his
considerable talent is devoted here to
playing pretty versions of a dozen tunes
which have French associations. Flute
and accordion add to the Parisian atmo-
sphere but cheapen the performance
musically.
TOM PICKERING
Seamy
Extravaganza
I Can Get It For You Wholesale. Original
Broadway Cast. CBS Stereo SBP 233210.
The World Of Sarah Vaughan. Roulette.
Stereo RLS-018.
Drums! Drums! Drums! Olatunji. Roulette.
Stereo RLS-020.
ITlhese days anything is likely to provide
A the basis of a Broadway musical.
Surprisingly, Jerome Weidman’s cynical
novel of New York’s garment industry,
written in the 19305, proves to be a
shot in the arm to a form of entertain-
ment which, judging by recordings, is
badly in need of it. “I Can Get It For
You Wholesale”, with the original cast,
is one of the most entertaining recorded
versions of a musical since “My Fair
Lady”. Veteran Flarold Rome’s songs
are not particularly strong melodicalty
but, as in his earlier rag trade revue,
“Pins and Needles”, the lyrics are witty,
original, and carry the story well.


THIS IS WHAT
MAN'S WORLD
WILL DO FOR
YOU . . .
★ DEVELOP your latent abilities,
make you success conscious and
help you acquire a winning person-
ality and good appearance.
★ SHOW you how to effectively
motivate yourself and others towards
a successful career.
★ HELP you secure enthusiastic
co-operation by making your written
or verbal communications more
"action-getting".
★ TEACH you how to confidently
express yourself, and master the
power of persuasion.
★ UNFOLD for you the funda-
mental skills necessary for inspiring
leadership.
if PREPARE you to assume
greater responsibility and equip you
to seize every opportunity by intro-
ducing you to the art and science
of top professional management.
★ GIVE you an understanding of
every major profit-producing activity
of the business world.
★ ACQUAINT you with all the
various facets of the financial world
and enable you to become more
conversant on economic and invest-
ment matters.
if MAKE you equal to every sociai
occasion, enrich your experience and
enlarge your circle of friends.
★ INCREASE your income and by
making you a more promotion-prone
individual, a more successful busi-
nessman, it will help you enjoy "the
sweet smell of success".
OBTAIN YOUR FREE
BROCHURE NOW . . .
Learn "How To
Succeed in a
Man's World."
How to succeed in a
MAN’S WORLD
rsa?.
»
WM[
Develop your executive skills:
No man can succeed
unless he is
well informed
on all the facets
of the complex
business world
we live in.
These 4 volumes
are a must
for every executive
• 4 superbly bound volumes 0 One million words 0 Prepared
by 200 world authorities • 100 explanatory charts • Over 500
illustrations • Send coupon now for FREE comprehensive brochure.
40 COMPLETE COURSES
1. The Psychology of
Success
2. Good Appearance and
Winning Personality
3. A Successful Career
4. How to Increase
Your Income
5. Business Letters
and Reports
6. Communication
7. Salesmanship
8. Public Speaking
9. Leadership
10. Basic Management
11. Advanced Management
12. Creative Thinking and
Problem Solving
13. Meetings
14. Advertising
15. Public Relations and
Phonemanship
16. Modern Marketing
17. Farm Management
18. Sales Management
19. Dynamic Retailing
20. Insurance
21. Financial Statements
22. The Financial World
23. Economics
24. Stock Exchange and
Investments
25. The Law
26. Political Science
27. Business and Holiday
Travels
28. Etiquette
29. Successful Entertaining
30. Stimulating Pastimes
31. Women
32. Sex, Love and Marriage
33. Buying or Selling Your
Home
34. Home Decorator and
Handyman
35. Family Problems and
Solutions
36. Baching Without Tears
37. Physical Fitness
38. Improve Your Game
39. How to Keep Healthy
40. Motor Cars
Study Programmes
400 Questions
Index
- FOR FREE BROCHURE POST COUPON TODAY
MAN’S WORLD South Melbourne
Please send me your FREE brochure “How to succeed in
a Man’s World”.
NAME..........
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION.
AGE.
STATE
This concerns the rise and fall of the
brash, unscrupulous Harry Bogen (a
part made to order for Sinatra, but con-
vincingly played by Elliott Gould) ;n
the hard, get-rich-quick world of high
fashion and low finagling. Involved with
Harry in this seamy extravaganza of dolls
and dollars are his doting Jewish
“momma” (Lillian Roth); his one-time
sweetheart, Ruthie Rivkin (Marilyn
Cooper); his harried secretary, Miss
Marmelstein (Barbra Streisand); his
gullible partners, Meyer Buskin (Ken
Le Roy) and Teddy Ash (Harold Lang);
and his showgirl doxie, Martha Mills
(Sheree North). Outstanding numbers
are “When Gemini Meets Capricorn”,
“Momma, Momma”, “The Sound of
Money”, “Miss Marmelstein” (this one,
sung by Barbra Streisand, sounds as if
it could have been a show-stealer), and
“Eat a Little Something”. This is more
of a team effort than most Broadway
shows and doubtless this is why it makes
such a good recording.
Since Sarah Vaughan left the Earl
Hines band in the ’forties, she has often
been accused of deserting jazz for the
more lucrative pop field. This, of course,
is true; but her intonation, phrasing and
vibrato are still very much those of the
jazz singer and the change was mainly
in her choice of background and, to some
extent, her material.
In “The World of Sarah Vaughan”,
she sings 12 songs of varying quality
with her usual grace, musicianship and
sensuality. She may lack the warmth,
humor and ability to swing of Ella Fitz-
gerald and the uncompromising jazz feel-
ing of Billie Holiday, but for sheer tech-
nique and dramatic sense she is un-
rivalled. The tracks on which she uses
only guitar and bass accompaniment
make one wish she would dispense with
the lush orchestral background more
often. Three of the best numbers are
“Fly Me To The Moon”, “Moonlight
On The Ganges” and “Stella By Star-
light”, each of which is given extra
charm by Sarah’s spine-tingling descents
into a vibrating low register.
“Drums! Drums! Drums!” is part of
Babatundi Olatunji’s programme to pre-
serve and disseminate knowledge of the
traditional music of Africa. On this re-
cording, made during a visit to USA for
the New York World Fair, seven drum-
mers beat a variety of percussion instru-
ments and two other musicians double on
alto sax and flute. In addition there are
two solo singers and a chorus of four.
All seven selections are “arranged” by
Olatunji, who leads the group on African
drums. The pounding drums which
dominate the proceedings may sound
primitive and monotonous to civilised
ears, but many subtleties reveal them-
selves to the careful, open - minded
listener.
TOM PICKERING


BOOKS
Babes in the Labyrinth
By DAVID MARTIN
The Horse Knows The Way. John O’Hara.
Cresset Press. 275. 6d.
rpmRTY years after the publication of his
first novel John O’Hara was given the
Award of Merit of the American
Academy of Arts and Letters, and he
was not given it for his stories. He notes
this in his introduction to this volume
of 28 short stories as if it were a sad
thing. The only other men to have re-
ceived this honor are Theodore Dreiser,
Thomas Mann, Hemingway and Aldous
Huxley.
Outside America comparatively few
critics would rate O’Hara so highly as
a novelist. But “Appointment in Samara”,
“A Rage to Live”, “Butterfield 8”, “Ten
North Frederick” and “From the Ter-,
race” make a corpus that cannot be
ignored. He is rarely mentioned as a
writer with influence on others, but it
exists. As with Maugham, his influence
is not so much literary and certainly
not stylistic, for O’Hara is no stylist
as technical. He does not seem to be
an innovator, but he has taught a genera-
tion of writers how to pile fact upon fact
in an attempt to reproduce the material
density of American life. Locked in the
great tower of Babylon he feels its
weight as few others have felt it. The
size of the edifice baffles his analysis
and makes him content with description.
One senses that he is trying to assemble
the whole of reality in the hope that
this will make its meaning plain, but not
that he is much concerned with meaning.
His followers have improved the data
machine, but with them bigness often be-
comes elephantiasis.
It is easy to like O'Hara because there
is no writer who gives more honest value
and because his people have a vitality
which the more articulate explorers can-
not infuse into theirs. It is a limited
vitality, hemmed in rather than elevated
by hectic activity. Harry Reilly in “Ap-
pointment in Samara”, Alfred Eaton in
“From the Terrace” and Pal Joey are
all like Saul Bellow’s Augie March: they
don’t know what they are doing; they
rarely try to understand who they are.
There are so many guide rails that they
never get a clear run; they are babes
in an enormous labyrinth. It is a laby-
rinth, though, in which the reader comes
to feel uncommonly at home.
O'Hara’s novels sometimes start with
a funeral, and death always hovers near,
but, as with detective fiction, we remain
unmoved by personal disasters. This is
not because we are not interested in the
characters but because of O’Hara's* social
and psychological determinism. Drink,
sex, power-lust and the Zugzwang of
family combinations leaves them no free-
dom. In this chess game the game itself
matters more than the fate of each pawn,
but in return we see how much the king
and the queen are themselves pawns.
When O'Hara’s creatures seek freedom
they are beaten before they start. They
know it, and this knowledge produces a
fatalistic glitter which gives his books
their special flavor. His facility is pheno-
menal but it is the entertainer’s facility.
To emerge from this panopticum of fail-
ures and suicides, this gallery of posses-
sive parents, bored lovers and burnt-out
old actors leaves us as cheerful as we
JOHN O'HARA
are after beholding the turned down
glass in Omar Khayyam. One is sure
that the potter’s wheel will go on re-
volving.
His short stories are small replicas
of the novels and not as distinguished.
They are hardly ever long enough for the
accumulation of detail to make an
emotional impact: the short story demands
that characters should have room to ex-
plain themselves. O’Hara’s anecdotal
pieces are as firmly based in the American
tradition Crane’s and O. Henry’s as
his novels, but the absence of moral per-
spective stands out more negatively. They
are good stories, all the same, with a
broad appeal. Structurally, but only
structurally, they are in a sense more
original than the novels.
O'Hara has perfected the technique of
the L-shape. He takes some individual
—say a bank clerk. The man comes to
work in loafers, and his boss is wondering
how tactfully to drop a hint that this
is not the right kind of footwear. He
discusses the problem with his wife and
through this we are told many things
about the boss and the bank which seem
to be unrelated to the clerk. In the end
someone gets the sack, but it is not the
chap with the loafers it’s a bank
official who complains to the boss that
he has lately treated the clerk in an
irritable manner. Half-way through the
story, pressed by secondary evidence,
the line of narration turns away from
what seemed its main objective. We are
shown, in effect, how chancy relationships
are in their web of extraneously given
factors, which often leads to a strange
blending of misfortune with humor.
A Florida bootlegger has a love affair
with a woman who runs a respectable
hotel. At the critical point a brand-new
story opens up within this frame, con-
cerned with violence among men: the
first part was only a launching pad. A
theatrical entrepreneur is shaken down
by a provincial crook, but the essence of
the yarn is that the entrepreneur, a wise
and forgiving fellow, is shaken down a
second time by people who have been
close to him all his life. It is not a
simple matter of surprise endings. The
tangent is drawn well before the climax
and the bulk of the stories in this col-
lection follow the same design.
Hemingway also liked to make capital
out of the unpredictable and let collective
causality shape individual fate, but he
achieved it by subtracting the inessen-
tial. O'Hara adds and adds again, mes-
merised by the possibilities of his abacus.
The sum comes out right very neatly
at times since he knows his figures so
well; the world of the country club, of
show business, of love-seeking in hotel
rooms and executive-style bungalows.
Complete families are usually missing,
which accentuates the atmosphere of
fragmentation. His people bear loneliness
well because it has become their second
nature; they operate, after all, in a sys-
tem that, according to its own lights,
works adequately. They don’t complain
and they don’t stand round pitying them-
selves at cocktail parties in Madison
Avenue. The one-time star who gets ready
in her suite to receive the daughter of
an old lover is not surprised when the
girl turns out to be more unhappy than
herself. In a typical O'Hara story some-
body without shoes will meet somebody
without feet.
But any review which suggested that
that is all there is to O’Hara would be off
the mark. Success has not spoiled his in-
tegrity, and if there is a formula it is not
imposed. Reading his stories together
makes one dizzy, but if one takes
out the best, one finds them very
good. “The Jet Set” and “Mrs Al-
lanson” are little classics. In “The Jet
Set” Lawrence Graybill, a small-town
playboy, drives a girl to suicide not by
exploiting the knowledge of her secret
but by simply ferreting it out indirect
murder through sex and boredom. “Mrs
Allanson” is the tragedy of a plain girl


Write
your
way to
success
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( ) Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott’s step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
ADDRESS
AGE
I understand that no sales representative will
call on me. 82365
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. When writing please give
information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C.3.
'and her complexly selfish mother In
which death at last ceases to be an equa-
tion and love is more than a reflex. The
more conventional qualities of pace and
revealing dialogue are present throughout
this collection.
As with every writer of any importance
Ahere is something in O’Hara which re-
fuses to be catalogued. Without him it
would be much harder to understand
America, which must mean that he con-
tributes something lacking in the rest.
When I read the Kinsey Report I feel
that I would not meet its subjects in the
pages of Faulkner, Hemingway, Farrell
or Henry Miller, and only a few in the
pages of Mary McCarthy or Nabokov.
But in O’Hara I would probably meet
the lot, and not only because sex is their
spur. Spiritual lives or no spiritual lives,
his unchoosing people are still the chosen
people on the mighty treadmill.
Festive Occasions
By LEONIE KRAMER
The Times Literary Supplement. Sounding
the ’Sixties. Part II: The Commonwealth.
Is. 6d.
>rbe London Magazine. Special September
; Issue. The Commonwealth. 7s. 6d.
rPHE most striking feature of the “Times
Literary Supplement” special number
on Commonwealth literature is the
prominence given to West Indian and
African writing. Writers of the special
articles and reviewers alike deal with
the development of African literature in
English with a verve and excitement
which certainly does not infect their
references (minor by comparison) to
Australian, Canadian and New Zealand
literature. This is understandable enough;
and it is surely true that “the emergence
of an African literature in English is
undoubtedly the most extraordinary and
significant development of the past five
years” and one of which, one might
add in passing, we know all too little in
Australia. No doubt, interest in this
phenomenon has helped to determine the
form of the special articles which from
various angles examine the qualities of
Commonwealth literature, with special
reference to the future of England and
more importantly of the English language,
in relation to the growth of national
literatures in English. From these articles
many provocative speculations emerge,
and much useful information about the
development of Commonwealth literary
studies is to be found under the heading,
“An Interest and its Future”.
So much for the ground covered by
this issue. How does Australian writing
emerge from the survey? The question
must be answered in two ways. Quite
generous review space has been allotted
to Australian books. Cecil Mann’s
edition of the Lawson short stories is
applauded. “Meanjin’s” history, cele-
brated in its hundredth issue, is recalled.
Other reviews treat “The Penguin Aus-
tralian Song Book” and “The Penguin
Book of Australian Ballads”, the Moore-
Stewart anthology and “Australian
Poetry, 1964”, and six books of the
Angus and Robertson paperback selec-
tions, including, for some reason, the
volumes of Harpur and Kendall. Though
the reviewers come to no startling or
Two Poems from the Centre
EVERARD RANGES
Playing at shapes among the red-rock
ranges
We found a leaping seal, the dead land-
lord on his back,
And other shapes, a black slit down the
I curve,
A splendid rounded column standing up.
The presences are there, but it is only
midday,
[And the winter sun is filling all the ranges
With the blue smoke of the flameless fires
| of light.
When evening glows on a nippled breast of
rock
The euros leap up the noiseless boulders,
Halt still as granite, their tails laid down
the slope,
And two dingoes, so wild that they are
tame,
Sniff curiously as puppies, circling closely.
Be slow, let the wild things come to you,
And love will come too, but slowly, even
here
Amongst the rocks that now are scooped
like skulls
From whose sockets dribble owl-white tears.
BRUMBIES, SIMPSON DESERT
All night near the hot springs fanned by
teatree
Hie brumbies were whinnying in the desert
moonlight,
And at dawn when the ducks were lively
I in the shrouds of mist
(The dingoes were circling the date-palms,
I howling.
!% morning the ducks have flown in sinuous
[ clouds
Above the dingo paw-dents in the dust,
[But the gleaming black stallion and his
two lean mares
i
Are pacing this seamed and sad old hide
of land,
Tails streaming, driving their own three
clouds of dust
Until they halt, and arch their necks to
watch.
Below some rainless cloud, in terrible
freedom
Their hooves strike certainties of fire and
air,
As the black stallion drives his two mares
on,
Galloping belly-deep through the waves
of the mirage.
GEOFFREY DUTTON


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St.
John's College and an allowance of up to £25 per annum for text books, payable at. the
discretion of the Trustees, plus reimbursement of approved expenses for compulsory excursions.
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £240 per annum.
In addition the Trustees will consider granting a reasonable living at home allowance
during vacation periods to the parents or guardians of bursars where the financial position
warrants such an allowance being granted.
Applications are invited for the above bursaries, made available under the Will of
the late James Murphy of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to
enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for matricu-
lation at the University of Sydney, or of entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College,
as the case may be. In addition applicants must attain the educational standards determined
by the University and the College.
Forms of application must be returned duly completed not later than the 15th
November, 1965, and further particulars may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
original conclusions, they give a kindly,
if somewhat conventional picture of the
poetic scene. The Heinemann an-
thology, “Young Commonwealth Poets”,
specially collected for the Festival, elicits
careful praise; though disproportionate
space is spent correcting the grammar in
two lines of a poem by Chris Wallace-
Crabbe.
Fiction is less adequately covered.
Only three books are reviewed John
Iggulden’s “The Clouded Sky”, Judah
Waten’s “Distant Land” and Leslie
Haylen’s anthology “The Tracks We
Travel”. Australian fiction for 1965 thus
looks very strange indeed. It is true
that Thomas Keneally’s novel, “The
Fear”, and David Martin’s “The Hero of
Too”, have not yet been published in
London, and that George Turner’s “A
Waste of Shame” is only just out. But
what of G. M. Glaskin’s “O Love, O
Loneliness”, Christopher Koch’s “Across
the Sea Wall”, Patricia Rolfe’s “No Love
Lost” and Kylie Tennant’s anthology
“Summer Tales 1”? A mention of these
would have given some indication of the
variety of Australian fiction.
And this leads to my second answer
to the question: how well is Australian
writing represented? Not very well in
the decade under discussion. The sub-
title of this issue is “Sounding the
’Sixties”, and so far as Australia is con-
cerned, the sounding is neither as
accurate nor as informative as one would
wish. In the general articles I found
references to Judith Wright, Patrick
White, Kenneth Slessor and James
McAuley and to no others. I draw
attention to this fact not from any feel-
ing that our literature has been slighted,
but simply because no picture at all
of Australian literature in the ’sixties
emerges from the scanty and rather
pedestrian comments upon it. Not the
least important development in this dec-
ade has surely been the acceptance of
Australian writing at all levels by an in-
creasing variety of readers, and a cor-
responding exploration by writers of
varied talents and abilities of many
aspects of Australian life. If there is
much to excite our interest in the
emergence of African writers, there is
also much to excite us in the quality of
Australian poetry over the last decade.
While conceding that the poetic estab-
lishment has held its own, we might also
note the growth to prominence of Rose-
mary Dobson, David Campbell, J. R.
Rowland and Gwen Harwood —to name
a few; and the promising work of
younger poets such as Bruce Beaver and
Bruce Dawe. To omit these facts from
a survey is to lose the sense of excite-
ment and activity felt by writers and
critics in Australia today. And there is
another loss There is no reference to
the mood of self-criticism which has
developed in the last decade,, and which
is reflected at an academic and popular
level in such books as Peter Cole-
man’s “Australian Civilization”, Manning
Clark’s “A History of Australia”,
McLeod’s “Patterns of Australian Cul-
ture”, Judith Wright’s “Preoccupations”
and Donald Horne’s “The Lucky Coun-
try”. I realise the limitation of space, but
surely it would have been more stimulat-
ing (and more accurate) to draw attention
to these, rather than to hammer out well-
worn tributes to the well respected.
“The London Magazine” is also cele-'
brating the Festival. Wisely its editor!
decided not to devote a section to each
country, but simply to see that all the!
writers for this issue come from the
Commonwealth. The result is variety
without strict order. Australia is rep-
resented by Hal Porter in an article
called “Melbourne in the ’Thirties” which
is in fact about Porter here and there
and none the worse for that; by some
new Drysdale paintings; and by poems
by Judith Wright, W. Hart-Smith, Charles
Higham and Jill Neville. Miss Neville’s
poetry is new to me and its journalistic,
epigrammatic wit has a refreshing flavor.
Australian music is represented by
C. M. Prerauer on Richard Meale—toi
me the only sour note in the magazine,
since Prerauer’s praise of Meale has a
decidedly parochial tone. Meale’s merits
do not need the artificial support of over-
statement and of inaccuracies concerninj
the musical scene from which he has
emerged. It is nevertheless pleasant t(
be able to cite this as an exception. It
other respects the Commonwealth Festi-I
val is celebrated without self-conscious-!
ness, and, especially in “The London]
Magazine”, with considerable zest and
liveliness.
Habits and Compulsions
By R. M. WILDING
The Convention. Libero Bigiaretti. Trans-
lated by Joseph Green. Macmillan. 325.
Hotel. Arthur Hailey. Michael Joseph-
Souvenir Press. 31s. 6d.
Francesco Berti was something of a
poet, once did some freelance
political journalism, after the war was a
Marxist; ambitious for his own success,
he had ideals about society. When wf
meet him in “The Convention”, though
he is a public relations officer for a large
Italian industrial organisation, which hf
is representing at a conference of P.R.Os
It is a well-paid job, he is comfortable ii
it, he no longer writes. Mainly, it seems]
he gets off with pretty girls, prettj
women. His friend Fiaschi taunts him
with accusations of promiscuity, and
Francesco is rather pleased with that
Yet at the conference Francesco make
a speech that, instead of praising th
worth of the P.R.O. and extolling th
generosity of the capitalist employe)
draws on his earlier political commil
ment. He questions the integrity of hi
colleagues, suggests they are not the linl
between capital and labor, but propa
gandists for the industrialists.
The speech causes some stir anj
Francesco thinks for a while, with bot
fear and exhilaration, that it will bj
picked up by the Communist Pres
Nothing so sensational occurs, and
involves no repercussions. Perhaps th
is as it should be because, for all tfl
enthusiasm that inspires Francesco j
he speaks, his motive is less any repressd


isocial conscience than the desire to win
the approval and interest of Anna Bisi,
la woman delegate at the conference. The
speech has its effect, he sleeps with Anna,
and involves himself in an affair that
she is sure can only hurt her, and about
|which he can decide nothing. He must
S:onie to some decision about Olga, who
has been his mistress for years; he must
decide whether, with the conference
over, he really wants to join Anna, or
whether he is deluding himself that he
feels anything for her, or whether he
merely feels he ought to. But to join her
»would mean surrendering that comfort-
able job, surrendering the security and
status for which he had, by no notice-
able decision, surrendered his writing.
What Libero Bigiaretti has managed so
dwell is the portrayal of Francesco’s
,almost automatic play for Anna, some-
king less a compulsion than a habit
*fa habit that has become less the mark
jof the free-thinking poet than the custom
jof the society he has so easily fitted into;
Jhe remembers seeing his boss with that
blonde at Cannes. Francesco is aware of
the ritual pattern of familiarity to
Intimacy that he follows; and the
intimacy attained we follow the progress
d\f the relationship his fear of showing
it isn’t as meaningful as it should be, his
ealousy of Anna’s past, his desire to
make it all nice, to sidestep guilt Bigia-
tetti has written a poised, controlled,
asssured and very honest novel; it covers
something of the territory of that fine
though amazingly neglected American
novelist Alfred Hayes though present-
ing more of a social dimension. This is
the first of Bigiaretti’s novels to be trans-
lated into English; the others are long
overdue.
“McDermott gave a cheerful grin
which contorted his rugged, almost ugly
features. ‘We’ve a complaint from the
eleventh floor about some sort of sex
orgy; on the ninth the Duchess of Croy-
don claims her Duke has been insulted
by a room-service waiter; there’s a re-
port of somebody moaning horribly in
1439 . . .’” Which is a concise enough
survey of Mr Hailey’s 400-page study of
the workings of an American hotel, in
itself a microcosm no doubt of America.
Some of it is quite exciting the lift
accident with blood and mangled bodies
described fully; and there’s the Duke of
Croydon’s passionate address to the
Duchess. “ ‘Something you should' hear.
Your pride, old girl. Magnificent. Savage.
Always appealed to me. Didn’t want to
break it. Share it. You on your back.
Thighs apart. Passionate. Trembling
. . .’ ” And so life goes on through the
five sections beginning with Monday
evening and concluding with Friday,
when McDermott observes “the cycle of
another innkeeping day had run its
Maybe Arthur Hailey will write
us another book about the weekend.
Civilised New Guinea
By M. H. ELLIS
’tegument New Guinea. Keith Willey.
'* Jacaranda Press. 395. 6d.
Weith Willey, who three times won
y* the Walkley Award for journalism,
brought a rare knowledge of the tropical
Regions of Australia to his task of spend-
-7g a writing year in New Guinea. In
'fensequence, he approached this book
“with a naive lack of reverence for What-
eMust-Not-Be-Said and for the fetish of
hfet’s-Pretend.
have a parliament in New
■Guinea now. The country has roads, poli-
cies, subsidies of increasing tens of mil-
lions from Australian taxpayers; schools,
Housers. It has one member of Parlia-
ment who not only does not understand
vhat is being said in the House but
Speaks only Huri. The legislato wears
collar, tie and coat. He earns £950 a
D plus £5 ss. per day sitting fees, and
' jets £25 p.a. for free fares, telephone and
stages.
..The country has white legislators who
1 &t themselves elected by nice people
1 the Kukukukus, through the simple
expedient of teaching the free-and-unen-
lightened to remember a native simplifi-
cation of their Scottish names, such as
“Gram”, which means “loud mouth”, for
Graham.
The Kukukukus Mr Willey all too
justly rates as “probably the most danger-
ous of all constituents”, since “even to-
day it is unsafe to pass through their
country without a heavily armed police
escort”. Thej are electors, in fact, who
as late as 1961 massacred 37 people in a
village and who “never stir from their
huts without their bows and arrows and
stone axes”. When they get the chance
they are “still enthusiastic cannibals,”
needing no doubt, extra virile sustenance
since their average male height is under
4ft 101 inches. Their local member,
Barry Holloway, achieved a successful
tour de force in campaigning. Realising
that they could not comprehend “the
concept of a democratic election”, he
trained them in groups to shout “Hollo-
wei”, which was all the policy speech he
delivered; and they did it with effect for
him at the polls. He, lucky fellow, did
not have to campaign among the Nembi
from whom the electoral authorities had
to exact a pledge that they would not
collect the heads of candidates. Or, again,
among the Pumberals “who repulsed
a patrol with arrows” only a few weeks
before polling day.
From the general attitude of the New
Guinean, as depicted by Mr Willey, the
New Guinea indigene is still the super-
stitious fellow he always was, with a
contempt for the un-aggressive which
increases as his contact with the white
race intensifies. One has a sneaking feel-
ing that he feels slightly insulted by be-
ing proclaimed the equal of these soft,
white, polite fellows who are not “strong
fella too much” like the doughty German.
And no doubt some of the hill tribes at
least suffer an added touch of irritation
because a race so juicy and tender
eschews its rightful place in the cook-pot.
After reading Mr Willey’s lucubrations,
in which are embedded at least a great
deal that is true even if unpalatable, one
has an uneasy feeling in the pit of the
stomach engendered by a sneaking fear
that at least the rural population of part
of Australia's tropical territories might
welcome with open arms some “strong
fella too much” from the north west
who derives his authority from a stout
length of bamboo rather than from
access to the pockets of Australian tax-
payers.
Song of the 60’s Children
I steal from that wine,
that bottle standing there
like a politician,
steal in a sneaky fashion.
but then that’s my nature
right now.
perhaps,
if I can keep it up,
“Some Weird-Looking Animal”
really will come along.
Let me keep something,
that’s not too much to ask,
a number to call
in bleak seasons
of the heart.
My deserts were rented
ages ago;
the remnants of old storms
stir the sulky sand.
Now, colorless as this poem,
my time is divided unequally,
chasing things long dismissed
as being no good for me,
as doing nothing for the blood.
Help me to keep something,
please.
ALEX ABERNETHY


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Monetary Deferments
THE International Monetary Fund at its September annual meeting io Washington
allayed some fears about international currency reforms.
Finance Ministers bankers and gov-
ernment experts from 103 nations
gathered in Washington last week with
many of the lesser lights tearing that the
big boys would insist on their own species
of currency reform But the Big Ten
indicated they had not been able to reach
a basis for agreement They came out
with one ot those vague communiques
which said they would look into arrange-
ments for the future creation of reserve
assets to permit adequate provision for'
the reserve needs ot the world economy.
Major industrial producers, with sur-
plus goods to sell, are seeking monetary
reforms on the grounds that there is
insufficient liquidity among the world’s
nations to finance an adequate level of
global trade. France, of course, is press-
ing for her own brand of currency re-
form, which involves less domination by
the US dollar.
The small nations, in turn, are willing
to trade if they can obtain satisfactory
credit and are not forced to pay in hard
currency.
Fears about sterling, however, have
caused some nervousness among the
Treasuries of various small nations, which
are not well endowed with overseas
balances. US pressure for increased
world liquidity, and the squeeze which
followed US contraction of spending (to
bring the US balance of payments in
line), have made them cautious about
any proposals for currency reform.
Their immediate fears were dissolved
when IMF managing director, M. Pierre-
Paul Schweitzer, blandly told representa-
tives that the present international
finance system was sound and did not
need urgent reform. He wants any re-
form to be through the IMF, rather than
setting up a separate organisation with
a different system of reserves.
However, be agreed that global trade
needed more finance The US, which is
engrossed in eliminating her own balance
of pavments deficit, emphasises that this
very contraction m US spending creates
the need tor substitute funds in the hands
ot smaller nations so that they can main-
tain world trade.
It gets oack to the old story of the
“haves” and “have-nots” The US has
announced to the world that it hopes to
have its own balance ot payments in
trim by mid-1966, at which time it might
be prepared to spend more freely in
overseas markets. Meanwhile the smaller
nations are being forced to realise how
dependent they are on US spending.
Although the IMF maintains that it
should retain a central role in any future
reform, M. Schweitzer believes it is too
early to start discussing the problem.
This deferment, plus Mr Callaghan’s
forecast of a big improvement in Britain’s
balance of payments, provided a psycho-
logical balm to those small nations which
feared that sterling might need to be
devalued. If sterling is forced to devalue,
other currencies must also be under-
mined.
France Unimpressed
Sterling last week broke through its
official parity rate, of 2.80 dollars,
following the forecast of a big improve-
ment in the balance of payments.
Yet France continues to take a line
of abstinence on sterling and still remains
outside the group which is supporting it.
France from the beginning has ab-
stained from providing any central bank
assistance since the original 3000 million
PIERRE-PAUI SCHWEITZER
dollar emergency central bank support
given to sterling last February.
The French claim that the weakness!
in sterling cannot be cured by the
political measures introduced by the UK|
Government lbey insist that only time
will tell whether Britain’s efforts to save
sterling will be effective and even then
it will require a long period ot deflation.
Gallic logic is thai there is no future
in supporting sterling if the long-term
situation proves that devaluation is
inevitable. The French also claim that
the rescue operation with sterling was
merely to relieve pressure on the US
balance of payments, since the US dollar
would be forced into the front line if
sterling were devalued.
France wants the major industrialised
nations (the Group of Ten) to control
monetary reform, with dollars freelyi
convertible to gold and a
reserve unit established. Britain and thei
US, of course, want things slanted their 1
way. I
The cynical conclusion from all this iSj
that the IMF has recognised that inter-|
national currency reform is still necesv
sary but there are problems over whol
may gain the advantage. i
EXPORT ACTON
"Personally, I like the idea of
cheap, gaudy, plastic offerings
but the question is
will HE like it!"


Invest in
ogß
%
INTEREST
UP TO
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE WALES' FOR DETAILS
NDI4.N.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
The IMF Discussions
On Liquidity
Brighter prospects for sterling
AUSTRALIA appears to have been left rather out in the cold when decisions were
made by world Finance Ministers attending last week’s IMF meetings in Washing-
ton to hold over final consideration of the Ossola Plan for improving world currency
liquidity. However, in so far as the decisions augur well for the continuance of Paris
Club swap arrangements and are coupled with recent further US evidence of determina-
tion to support the present parity of sterling, we should not complain.
This is not to say Mr Holt’s protest
at Australia being left out of the inner
discussions of the IMF on currency re-
form wasn't worth making. Admittedly
the inner group of ten countries is by
no means “small and strictly limited”.
It controls more than three-quarters of
total drawing rights on the IMF. But it
is somewhat exclusive. It is composed
mainly of manufacturing giants and con-
tains only one member country,-Japan,
from Asia, Latin America and Africa.
Even if one imagines that countries from
these areas will be brought into the dis-
cussions as the Ten crystallise their pro-
posals, Mr Holt was quite right in draw-
ing attention to the fact that world
liquidity problems should not be con-
sidered in isolation from the need for get-
ting more satisfactory marketing arrange-
ments for primary commodities.
On the face of it, Australia’s liquidity
position cannot be considered in jeopardy
in the same sense as, say, Britain’s or a
number of primary producing countries
I whose sterling reserves have had to be
[drawn down more precipitously than ours
;this year. Our fundamental weakness lies
fin having the bulk of our overseas re-
| serves, now estimated at between five and
six months’ of imports, locked up in
sterling.
The disadvantages of being tied to
sterling were made all the plainer in
'Washington in that, in its present parlous
[position of having its currency dependent
on short-term borrowing roughly of the
order of three billion dollars from mem-
bers of the Paris Club, Britain itself was
not in a position to have much influence
on negotiations.
Fortunately for Britain, however, the
old rivalry between the pound and the
’dollar has been sunk in recognition that
these two currencies are now heavily de-
pendent on one another. So, in getting
its views across on the future shape of
liquidity improvements, Britain can now
depend on more of a community of
interests with the United States than used
to be the case.
Hitherto, Britain has been more
sympathetic than the US has to European
ideas on the means to improve world
liquidity. But last week's events show
that the latter is coming rather closer to,
say, France’s proposal to supplement
dollars and pounds by some international
reserve currency unit, as provided in the
Ossola Plan, to relieve them of some of
the expanding work to be done by
reserve currencies.
The full details of the Ossola Plan
were not available here last week. It is
thought to be on the lines of the Bern-
stein Plan. Its main purpose would be
the creation of new reserve units, each
equivalent to a gold dollar, consisting
of a stated proportion of each of the
currencies of the eleven leading industrial
nations. It might consist of half in
dollars and the rest made up in pounds,
French francs, Japanese yen, etc. The
proportion would depend on a country’s
role in world trade and so on. To create
the units, each participating country
would deposit its currency with the IMF,
acting as trustee, to an amount equal to
its pro-rata share of the reserve units
to be created. In return, each country
would be given a credit on the books of
the trustee, denominated in reserve units.
Participating countries would be able
to hold their reserves in any form—gold,
foreign exchange and reserve units—but
gold holdings would have to be matched
by a minimum amount of reserve units.
The ultimate objective would be for each
country to hold reserve units amounting
to at least one half of its gold reserve.
Thus total liquidity could grow in line
with gold reserves, and other countries,
besides Britain and America as at present,
would participate in supplying additional
currency.
Britain’s conception for improving
world liquidity is basically the same as
described by Mr Maudling, then Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, to the IMF in
1962, as follows: “We might develop a
system of co-operation between the lead-
ing trading countries in the form of a
mutual currency account in the IMF. By
this I have in mind an arrangement
of multilateral character under which
countries could continue to acquire the
currency of another country which was
temporarily in surplus in the markets and
use it to establish claims on a mutual
currency account which they could them-
selves use when their situations were
reversed. Such claims on the account
would attract the guarantee that attaches
to holdings in the fund. We would hope
that such a system would enable world
liquidity to be expanded without ad-
ditional strains on the reserve currencies


THE
*
?*!
B O| JCH TO N
T*
V
/
&
u/ioa
f
AND
STILL
THE
FINEST
JffUtejSufigimdy
MADE IN
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
BY
m
er avoidable setbacks to their economic
growth, and at the same time without
requiring countries whose currencies were
temporarily strong to accumulate larger
holdings of weaker currencies than they
would find tolerable.”
Quite apart from whether we have
been a party to postponing final con-
sideration of the Ossola Plan or not, it
would seem that the postponement gives
us a measure of assurance that sterling
will not be devalued this year. If the
US had insisted more firmly that the
improvement in liquidity should be
engineered through the facilities of the
IMF, a body in which she has virtually
a controlling voice, it was on the cards
that some of the Paris Club members,
notably France, could have pulled out
of the club and prejudiced the arrange-
ments to some extent.
I am not saying that sterling is let off
the hook by the events in Washington.
Britain itself has still to prove to the out-
side world, and particularly to the Paris
Club, that sterling is worth saving as a
reserve currency (France, for instance,
would be only too eager to grasp the
opportunity of putting the franc in its
place as a reserve currency). Certainly
the fresh protestations that the pound
will get through, as made by Mr Cal-
laghan in Jamaica, will not be enough.
It will require belt-tightening on a much
more painful scale than has yet been
seen in the British economy. For my
part I believe that, having successfully
got through September without devaluing,
the pound will take strength from the
Washington decisions and will enjoy a
respite, at any rate until fresh evidence
that the job of galvanising the British
economy is not being successfully accom-
plished.
There is certainly no reason why Aus-
tralia should get on the bandwaggon of
those countries, like India, for example,
which have been talking the sterling area
out of existence. On the contrary, this
is a time for members to stick together
and try to improve its workings, how-
ever difficult the latter may seem to be
in the context of weakening economic
and political Commonwealth ties.
Maybe the short-term liabilities out-
standing against sterling are something
of the order of four-to-one as against its
liquid assets (this is only a rough
approximation, as given in the recent
book, “The City in the World Economy”,,
by W. M. Clarke, the financial editor of'
the London “Times”). But it has to be
remembered that, in April this year, Mr
Callaghan stated Britain had overseas
assets of about £ll,OOO million. Clarke
thinks more of these should be put :n
Britain’s shop window.
In playing down the pound, many
observers altogether neglect the enormous
role sterling plays not only in financing
international trade but also as a medium
for providing capital for underdeveloped
(and other) countries, a matter to which
the IMF gave a lot of attention last week.
Only this week the British Information
Services sent me further evidence of the
latter in a handout intimating the British
Government was providing interest-free
loans of £stg 14 million for India and of
£stg4 million for Pakistan! Even Com-
monwealth countries warring against ea:h
other still qualify for sterling area
benefits.
CROESUS
Imports on the Scales
An ABC from the IPA
in its latest Review the Institute of Public Affairs rightly pinpoints import
” trends as most critical in the current economic picture and proceeds to give a
reasonable conspectus of the place of imports in the economy, it is a pity room was
not found to highlight the anti-inflationary force of high imports and also to bring
out the special relationship between the levels of imports and overseas investment.
In their public statements the authori-
ties have put much stress on the cushion-
ing effect of high imports on prices in
the last two years. So one would imagine
that this is one of the main reasons why
they are prepared at this juncture (when
overseas reserves are continuing to run
down) to take a calculated risk with the
balance of payments. That was some-
thing they were not prepared to do in
1960, when the inflationary danger was
rather more acute than it looks at present.
Or take the capital inflow aspect. The
proportion of total imports represented
by capital inflow looks to have dropped
substantially in the last two years. But
the actual amount of capital inflow has
not fallen nearly as much, probably by
a quarter on 1963-64 levels. The point
to be stressed is that this capital inflow
continues to supplement our overseas
reserves, despite the fact that these
reserves are falling. It is important to
keep this self-financing element in our
imports bill as high as possible. The
imports represented by it may not have
much of a cushioning effect on internal
prices. But, having such a high capital
goods content, they make a big contribu-
tion to the expansion of key industries,
of which minerals would be probably the
most important beneficiaries at this
stage, without taking any net toll of
reserves.
It would be hoped that, even if a
decline in overseas reserves obliged the
authorities at some stage to restrict
imports, this self-financing element in
imports would be unaffected. The IPA
would have done a service to explain
to its widely-flung readership that, as it
is financed outside the current balance
of payments, capital inflow is a means of
sustaining high imports of capital equip-
ment irrespective of the trend of exports,
which provide the main supplement to
overseas reserves. Those who argue, as
the Vernon Report does, that capital in-
flow should be restricted to some given
level, seem to neglect, this vital point.
It is equally obvious that the more we
can finance our essential needs of over-
seas capital equipment by capital inflow
the easier it will be for reserves and
export income to sustain imports of other
goods useful in cushioning internal prices.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
NEW ISSUE!
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pfing Dean & Co.
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
MA222NSW
G. A. RATTIGAN
Chairman of the Tariff Board
The closer restrictions on capital in-
flow push us towards a position where
the balance of payments is threatened
and import restrictions become neces-
sary, the nearer we get to the area where
Australia becomes less attractive to over-
seas capital, capital inflow slackens on
its own account, and even some dis-
investment takes place. If this can be
the result of arbitrarily restricting capital
inflow on the basis of hypothetical
arguments about what is going to happen
in ten years’ time, surely it is preferable
to take a calculated risk on the latter and
let capital inflow proceed unrestricted.
The IPA examines the pros and cons
of imports replacement, but can’t quite
make up its mind where it stands. It
first makes the general proposition that
the virtues of import replacement depend
largely on whether Australia can produce
the goods imported as efficiently as they
Can be made overseas. This is true. But,
it argues, steps to foster import replace-
ment may cause the proliferation of in-
dustries that may be highly uneconomic
by world standards and it suggests that
this would ultimately probably increase
father than lower the demand for imports
because of the uplift to Australian costs.
Agreed.
However, the IPA envisages cases
where existing local capacity, if fully
utilised, would result in the reduction of
costs to somewhere around overseas
levels, with a resulting reduction of im-
ports. The truth obviously lies some-
where between these extremes. It is up
to the Tariff Board, before encouraging
import replacement industries, to do a
lot more investigating on the possible
scale of production, costs and so forth,
rather than merely reading the crystal
ball on the old “you make it, we'll
protect it” principle.
Still, we shouldn’t be too scathing
about the Tariff Board. The IPA gives
some rounded figures for the level of
protection it affords industry here. These
are quite revealing. In 1963-64, of all
imports, 56 p.c. came in duty-free, 13
p.c. paid duties of 10 p.c. or less, 7 p.c.
paid duties exceeding 30 p.c. ad valorem,
and 14 p.c. were assessed on fixed rates
of duty some of which would be in
excess of the equivalent of 30 p.c. ad
valorem. On the other hand, the Vernon
Report estimates the average protective
rate to be nearly 30 p.c. It calculates
this protective rate on nominal duties
appearing in the schedule to the Customs
tariff, averaging British preferential rates
with MFN rates.
The IPA doesn’t see import replace-
ment as necessarily a desirable end in
itself. There is no particular virtue in
a country having a low ratio of im-
ports to national production. It instances
some of the Common Market countries
as having high growth rates accompanied
by rising imports ratios. In the last ten
years The Netherlands increased the
percentage of its imports to GNP from
37.1 to 41.7, Belgium from 28.2 to 36.9,
and Italy from 12.8 to 16.7. Surprisingly,
Australia’s percentage is only 14.3 p.c.,
compared with 16.1 p.c. in 1953; so on
this comparison our imports certainly
do not look excessive, but then the USA’s
percentage is only 2.9. In any case the
vital question remains whether we can
continue to pay for imports on their
current scale. The IPA doesn’t express
an opinion about that.
As for imports coming down, the In-
stitute says that most experts expect a
further, though much smaller rise in the
current year (so does the Government!).
It thinks that some of the abnormal items
in last year’s bill, such as jet aircraft,
copper, steel and farm machinery, won’t
be there this time. “But the expected
rapid expansion of the economy and
large migrant intake, together with the
rapid build-up of defence spending,
seem certain to maintain imports at a
high level,” it states.
The IPA thinks that any cut in the 20
p.c. (£250 million) of 1964-65 imports
represented by consumer goods would
have to take rather more than strict
economics into account. “Because of its
isolated position it is desirable that Aus-
tralia, more than most countries, should
have access to the merchandise and pro-
ducts of the world. High quality im-
ported goods provide a stimulus and
example to local producers, help to keep
our own merchandise in step with world
fashions and trends, and provide con-
sumers with a range of choice to which
they are entitled in an economy which
professes the principle of free enterprise.
Imagine the outcry there would be among
Australian women if they were unable
to purchase exclusive furs or French
perfumes, or if Australian men were
deprived of their Scotch whisky.”
One can well imagine it. But if the
chips were down on the balance of pay-
ments, a more telling argument might be
that “licensing of imports of consumer
goods would invite retaliation by the
countries from which they are imported
and thus adversely affect our exports”.


DEPARTMENT OF PRIMARY INDUSTRY
COMMONWEALTH EXTENSION
ADVISER
DUTIES: Responsible for the Commonwealth interest in Agricultural Extension
Services and in the relationship between these services and Regional (Agricultural)
Research.
QUALIFICATIONS: High technical competence in Agriculture and Extension work
in Australia. Administrative experience at a senior level. Academic qualifications in
Agricultural Science and membership of professional associations should be stated.
CONDITIONS: Salary £4365. Superannuation scheme. Rental allowance for married
person until a Government unfurnished home available.
Applications should be forwarded to
THE SECRETARY,
DEPARTMENT OF PRIMARY INDUSTRY,
CANBERRA, A.C.T.
by the 14/10/1965.
An Orthopaedic Breakthrough
Launching Vitallium in Australia
By GORDON CHESTERMAN
T AST month a 10-year-old Sydney schoolboy, Patrick Museth, left hospital with a
30-square-inch cobalt chromium alloy plate fixed permanently in the front of his
skull by 17 screws. The plate, made of Vitallium, gives young Museth the chance
for a normal life—after having much of the front of his forehead sheared away by
the under-carriage of a train.
The Sydney-based company of H. R.
Pigott and Co. Pty Ltd, the Australian
representatives of an American company,
first introduced the alloy to this country
in the late ’thirties. Apart from the dental
profession it was a modest beginning,
with screws and plates as used in the
Museth operation.
To the workers at the Austenal Lab-
oratories in New York, the people who
made the Vitallium plate “to measure”,
the result, while gratifying, is not un-
usual. For the past 20 years Austenal,
a division of the large Howe Sound
Company, has been acting as a pre-
scription engineer to the medical pro-
fession, making metallic substitutes for
more than thirty different bones in the
body, as well as many other anatomical
parts.
None of these substitutes, it must be
pointed out, is to be confused with an
artificial limb. The metallic bone replace-
ments, for example, are inserted in the
place of real bones and are surrounded
by the patient’s own muscles, tendons,
nerves, blood vessels, and skin.
Vitallium was first developed by the,
Austenal company in New York in 1929,1
for the dental industry. It received im-
mediate acceptance because of its ap-
parent resistance to corrosion and the
absence of tissue reaction. It was also
found to be tasteless.
Within the field of orthopaedic sur-
gery, Vitallium has completely revolu-
tionised treatment of fractures of the
hip, previously described as the “un-
solved fracture”. In 1946 two French
doctors developed a stem prosthesis with
an acrylic head. This was accepted en-
thusiastically by orthopaedic surgeons
throughout the world. Yet for two rea-
sons this became kr.own as the greatest
single catastrophe in the history of ortho-
paedic surgery.
For what happened was that the, aery
lie in the prosthesis deteriorated rapidly
within the body and the very mechanics
of the prosthesis itself were unsound from,
an engineering viewpoint. Scientists'
proved that the cause of the failure was
due to electrolytic reactions around the
appliance in the presence of blood serum.
Shortly after, Dr Austin Moore, of
South Carolina, developed the Austin-
Moore self-locking hip prosthesis, con-
structed from Vitallium. Scientists found
this alloy resistant to electrolytic activity.
The stem which held the appliance in
place was found completely inert in
body fluids, creating no electrolytic reac-
tion. In 28 years of clinical experience
Vitallium has been found uniquely suit-
able. It is well established as the safest
metal to use in internal fixation.
The late Dr Austin-Moore came to
Australia two years ago and fitted one of
his modified self-locking hip prostheses 1
on a middle-aged Sydney woman at thej
Prince Henry Hospital. The woman had
a fractured hip which refused to unite.)
Now, two years after the operation, she
is walking around with almost complete!
normality. This operation, incidentally,
attracted considerable attention from
Australia’s orthopaedic surgeons and was,
viewed with a special close-circuit tele- 1
vision set-up. i
The use of Vitallium is not limited to
orthopaedic surgery. Last year the Unitedj
States used about 42 million dollars
worth of it in the space research pro-
gramme. Closer to home, the alloy will
be used in the manufacture of TF-30
engines for the controversial F-11l jeti
bombers ordered for Australia’s air force.l
H. R. Pigott and Company’s manag-l
ing director, 30-year-old Peter Pigott, be-’
lieves there is considerable potential in (
the “down under” market. Next year, on (
his way to the SICOT Conference in]
Paris (where 4000 leading orthopaedic
surgeons representing most countries, in-l
eluding the Soviet bloc, will meet), Mfj


Company Advertisement
2404
Highlights of Western Mining Corporation Limited's 32nd Annual Meeting
HELD IN MELBOURNE, SEPTEMBER 29, 1965
The Chairman, Mr. G. Lindesay Clark, C.M.G.,
D.Eng.(Hon.), in his report said that, in addition
to exploration for other metals during the year
ending March 31, 1965, Western Mining Corpora-
tion had maintained its traditional spread of
interests as a producer of gold.
A total of 255,459 ozs. of gold had been won by
the W.M.C. group of companies.
FINANCIAL. Net income arising from tax-free
dividend received during year amounted to
£303,275, to which was added £15,000 from the
Dividend Equalisation Reserve. From these
amounts dividends totalling £317,496 (1/- per
share) were paid. At the end of the Financial
Year tax-free undistributed profits totalled
£1,181,217. Net expenditure of £62,113 on other
activities was charged against the balance of
undistributed taxable profits brought forward.
GOLD MINING. Western Mining Corporation has
a 50.48% interest in Central Norseman Gold Cor-
poration N.L. which produced 102,644 ozs. of
gold. Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (Aust.) Limited,
in which W.M.C. holds a 31.68% interest, pro-
duced 152,487 ozs.
GOLD EXPLORATION. The Company is maintain-
ing its active interest in Western Australia and
Victoria in prospecting for those ore bodies
that will be profitable under existing economic
conditions.
The future of gold in the international monetary
system and the problem of international currency
are unsolved. Hence, it is worthwhile to maintain
an active prospecting programme aimed at find-
ing attractive deposits.
Through its shareholding in G.M.K., W.M.C. is
interested in prospecting at Kalgoorlie in con-
nection with the possible repetition of the West-
ern Lode System. Through Central Norseman,
W.M.C. is interested in exploration at Leonora
(W.A.). W.M.C. is also exploring for gold at Clunes,
Victoria. Through its shareholding in Kalgoorlie
Southern Gold Mines, W.M.C. is interested in
prospecting being carried out at the southern
end of the Kalgoorlie field by Newmont Mining
Corporation and The Consolidated Mines Selec-
tion Company Ltd.
Prospecting over a greater area in the Victorian
gold province is also to be undertaken by W.M.C.
in conjunction with North Broken Hill, Newmont
and C.M.S. Initially, prospecting will bq confined
to a survey of the central part of the province
extending from Ballarat to Bendigo and north of
Bendigo, using newer prospecting methods to
delineate areas warranting closer examination.
EXPLORATION FOR COPPER. Prospecting for
copper continued in the Moonta-Wallaroo area of
South Australia. The best intersection to date
averages 1.8% copper over a width of 26 feet.
North Broken Hill Ltd. and Broken Hill South
Ltd. are partners with W.M.C. in this venture.
In Eulaminna, W.A., W.M.C. is testing a copper
prospect on its own account.
OTHER EXPLORATION. In addition to the in-
vestigations already mentioned, W.M.C. has taken
equal parts with North Broken Hill and Broken
Hill South of a one-third interest in a search for
nickel, copper, cobalt and zinc in the Fraser
Range in W.A., in which Newmont Pty. Limited
and The Consolidated Mines Selection Company
Limited each have a third interest.
IRON ORE. Iron ore sales to Japan are planned
to commence in April, 1966. The initial contract
is for 5,100,000 tons. The Hanna Mining Company
and Homestake Mining Company, both U.S.A.
companies, each hold a 25% interest in this con-
tract and W.M.C. a 50% interest.
The three companies also have an iron ore
exploration and development Joint Venture in
progress covering the whole of Australia, includ-
ing W.M.C.’s reserves in the Yilgarn district of
W.A. Under this agreement W.M.C. has a 37%,
Hanna Mining a 36% and Homestake Mining a
27% interest in the Joint Venture.
ALUMINIUM. Alcoa of Australia, in which West-
ern Mining Corporation has a 20% interest, has
continued construction throughout the years,
both at Kwinana and Pt. Henry. All facilities for
semi-fabricating or fabricating are either in or
approaching commercial production. Early next
year the Kwinana refinery will be brought up to
full capacity of 210,000 tons per annum to fulfil
the second part of the Japanese contract for
which delivery is due to begin in April, 1966.
A long term contract has now been negotiated
for the annual supply of 200,000 metric tons of
alumina, and the size of the Kwinana, W.A.,
refinery is to be increased to an annual capacity
of 410,000 tons to meet this increase.
°Complete speech is available write the Secretary, P.O. Box 860-K, Melbourne.


We
make
half
our sales
the hard
way
Mr. Braning
and his wonderful
copying machine
make an entrance . . •
z
I
I C"
& ■
m
by replacing our
competitor’s copier
Here’s what we’re up against:
Maybe the competitor’s copier has been there for six months or a year.
It’s practically a fixture. And dislodging a fixture is no cinch.
Until we prove that our copier makes copies twice as fast; often at
half the cost.
This is what we do when we demonstrate our Bruning 2000 to business-
men living with our competitor’s copier.
These men know their copying requirements. They know the quantities
and the sizes of copies they need. They have found out all the costs of
copying, including some hidden ones. They’ve learned the economy of speed.
So when they see how the Bruning 2000 delivers perfect copies for as little
as 3.5 pence per copy (including materials and depreciation for volume
purchasers), we’re almost in.
When they see that they can copy documents from cheque size to 11 inches
by any reasonable length, and that they can buy, rent, or lease the Bruning
2000, we are in.
See the Bruning 2000 in action.
Just call the Bruning man. He’s listed in the ’phone book. Or write
Addressograph Multigraph, Dept. A, P.O. Box 4340, Melbourne, C.l, Vic.
©
aruninq
DIVISION OF:
ADDRESSOGRAPH MULTIGRAPH OF AUST. PTY. LTD .
FR’B/65/2
Pigott will promote the sale of Vitallium
in South-East Asia, selling direct from
Australia.
Mr Pigott is experienced in the hard-
sell line. Last year he took time out from
an American study trip to fly to Moscow,
where he discussed the sale of Vitallium
appliances with officials of the Russian
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Affairs.
While not making substantial progress,
he did manage to interest the Russians
in an initial order. They have since
bought small quantities from the Aus-
tenal company’s plants in Germany and
from the New York plant.
Perhaps the greatest problem in sel-
ling the product to the Russians is the
question of balance of payments. In an
attempt partly to overcome this, the
Russians have been offered the appli-
ances direct from New York, Germany,
England, and even Australia.
American experts from the Austenal
company, as well as the Pigott com-
pany, have investigated the possibility of
establishing a Vitallium plant in Aus-
tralia. However, the total sales at present
in Australia and South-East Asia do not
warrant the expenditure. According to
Mr Pigott, the problem of quality con-
trol, important in this exacting work,
will add considerably to the establish-
ment costs. This means that Vitallium ap-
pliances must sell for double their pres-
ent cost, which would then be about four
times the cost of similar stainless steel
appliances.
An example of the cost difficulties is
seen in the attempts of a Swedish com-
pany attempting to manufacture cobalt
chromium alloy. Their product was
called Villium; because of the high estab-
lishment costs, and improper quality con-
trol (with the medical profession refus-
ing to accept an indifferent product), the
company went bankrupt.
Mr Pigott will not disclose his com-
pany's present yearly turnover. He only
says the sales in Australia, while not
sufficient to warrant the establishment
of a plant here, are not altogether in-
significant. Since 1938, the company’s
yearly turnover has increased by 100 per
cent.
Vitallium, Mr Pigott believes, is not
the complete answer. Scientists at the
Austenal plants in Germany, England
and New York are continually trying to
develop a metal with resilience.
While the changing nature of tech-
niques in the orthopaedic field neces-
sitates constant travel throughout Europe
and America for the Pigott company,
the American executives like to keep a
finger on the “down under” pulse. Early
next month Mr A. Lascano, a director
of the dental division of Austenal, will
visit Australia to look over the country’s
various dental laboratories using Vital-
lium.


Invest in
IHDIISmiAI ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
7% 4 YEARS
6J% 3 YEARS
61% 2 YEARS
0
51% 12 MONTHS
FOR 5 YEARS
(SECOND SERIES)
A.N.Z. or I.A.C.
How to apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8880
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Not The Same Old Show
A notable beef and lamb symposium
QUITE often one hears someone say “it’s the same old show”. Chances are it is the
same old person saying it. In the first place there is always a new generation
seeing its first show ever. In the second place there are some definite indications
of important changes taking place at the major agricultural shows.
The Australian Beef and Lamb Sym-
posium held at Royal Melbourne Show
this month refutes the criticism that
shows do not play their part in agricul-
tural extension work. This symposium
was jointly sponsored by the Royal Agri-
cultural Society of Victoria and the Aus-
tralian Meat Board. It was a notable sym-
posium in many ways.
Without pny doubt it was held at the
right place at the right time. The people
attending it were a very good cross-sec-
tion of the beef and lamb industries
stud breeders, commercial breeders, aca-
demics, economists, and people in the
slaughtering and processing sections. This
alone is worthy of comment, because all
too often symposiums tend to be
orientated towards the academic side
only.
The symposium produced the paper
of the year, from Mr J. W. Redden, for-
merly chairman of the SA prime lamb
committee and the studmaster of the
Newbold Dorset Horn and Poll Dorset
Stud in SA.
Mr Redden said: “I do feel that many
of us (i.e. studmasters) are becoming
more and more out of touch, not only
with the meat trade requirements, in
terms of carcase quality, but also with
the lamb growers’ requirements, in terms
of efficiency of the ram with which we
provide him.” He said that the type of
ram to give the studbreeder the best
profit should be the type that returns the
lamb grower the best profit.
But the system was such that the
studbreeder’s market was the stud ram
sale, not the lamb market, and not even
the flock ram sale. Stud ram sales were
usually preceded by a show. It was im-
portant to the studbreeder that he take
some prizes at the show, not only for
the advertisement but also for the rib-
bons which increased the price of rams
in the sale.
“Therefore the rams most sought
after at the top level are the rams which
will produce the best show sheep,” Mr
Redden said. “And this is where the sys-
tem breaks down, in my opinion, be-
cause many of us, as judges and stud-
masters, seem to be doing our level best
to destroy the very characteristics which
brought our breeds to the peak of
popularity.”
One section of breeders was intent on
breeding pretty little sheep, short loined
and dumpy. Another tried to develop a
dual-purpose breed and so placed an
extravagant accent on wool quality in
the meat breeds. Another section selected
and judged for bone and massive bris-
kets and shoulders when, at the other
end, the butcher the world over was
demanding loin and hindquarter meat.
The brisket must be sold at a loss, and
the loss tacked on to the more popular
cuts. The butcher wanted a carcase
where the proportion of lean meat to
bone fat and brisket was of prime im-
portance.
Mr Redden (clearly a courageous man,
considering he was saying all this at a
show) put the blame for the seeming
impasse between breeder and butcher
fairly and squarely on the competitive
show system. The most sought after
sheep, he said, were those to breed
the type of ram that would take a prize
in a show. In a show, fat on the ram
had come to mean more than fertility. In
a show, bone thickness and massive fronts
triumphed over the economic efficiency
of the breed. In short, appearance out-
ranked performance.
It was little use blaming the judges,
he said, because the judges were, al-


' '■•■!
a
’ . (/ ,? •/ ; >.- :
r ?/ ■- f t - 5 /i // ff !f M M *'h f
,
Mm
.. •-.---
■
wi
s®
.
■V'
• ■•':: ■/.
msm
A new angle
—on industrial buildings. The angle we are referring to is the
LOWLINE roof of the Armco Rigid Frame Building, so reveal-
ingly portrayed above by our photographer who got a little out
of control when he saw the beautiful job we’d made of it.
It’s modern. It’s low. You like it? It means that you can plan
a building around the versatile Armco Rigid Frame System and
have it look mighty attractive.
Drop us a line if you've got something in the wind. We’d like
to help you right from the start.
A
OOIAIUV
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Victoria: 32 Levanswell Road, Moorabbin, 5.20. 95-0241.
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane. 4-3214.
South Australia: M.L.C. Building, Victoria Square,
Adelaide. 51-4282.
ARl39A.ea
ways, simply other stud breeders taking
their turn. The answer, eventually, was
with the studbreeder himself.
Mr Redden urged investigation into
the relationship between bone and muscle
development in sheep, and other things
which would determine that the sheep
being bred were the right sheep for the
market. “For all my criticism, we have
the right studmasters,” he said. “Never-
theless the studbreeders, especially the
studmasters of the parent studs and their
offshoots, must be able to see beyond
the immediate rewards of pandering to
transitory show fads. These men have a
responsibility to their breed and to a
national industry that will always govern
their breeding aims and objects.”
Now, at first sight, it might appear that
Mr Redden was knocking the show sys-
tem. He was. But it must be stressed
that it needs men like Mr Redden, a
successful studmaster, to say these things
if any change is to take place. If enough
of them say it, then there will be
change for the very simple reason that
it is their sheep they are talking about,
and their properties.
It is an altogether different thing to
someone like this writer, or someone
in a university, saying these things, be-
cause then there are no sheep, and no
properties, involved.
There’s no law which says a sheep
of a certain type must be produced and
we should be thankful this is the case.
In countries where they have laws to
direct this kind of operation, Russia and
China for instance, the results have been
poor. We are still way ahead.
Whether other studbreeders follow Mr
Redden’s advice, and breed more for the
meat market than the show market, is,
essentially, their business. With this sort
of prodding they just might. In every
way the fact that he said what he did,
where he did, is good from the show
angle. With this sort of thing there’s lit-
tle chance of the show being the same
old show forever.
The other papers at the symposium,
while not so electrifying, were good, too.
Mr D. B. Muirhead, European repre-
sentative of the Australian Meat Board,
gave a comprehensive rundown on the
various markets in Europe for Australian
beef and lamb.
Mr R. S. Wilson, stud and commer-
cial cattle breeder, dealt with breeding
trends-in many countries and made the
interesting point that in France there
is a swing away from “baby” beef and
French tastes now demand mature steers
of 2\ to 3 years and weighing up to
800 lbs. dressed. They sell for about
£A.300. The French want beef that
tastes like beef.
Mr J. S. Balderstone, managing direc-
tor of Thomas Borthwick and Sons (Aus-
tralasia) Ltd, dealt with exporting prob-
lems and mentioned the non-farm prob-
lem of delays on the Australian water-
front. He said: “Overseas buyers are not
interested in the reasons for the late ar-
rivals of our product.” In general he
was full of optimism for Australia’s ex-
port meat trade and, if we could get an
extra 50 million cattle (predicted by
some scientists), he was confident that
there would be markets to absorb them.
Mr C. W. Hodgson, managing direc-
tor of the T. A. Field group of com-
panies, mentioned some of the difficul-
ties facing exporters. Australia had, as
yet, to produce in numbers the type of
young stock that would give large, ten-
der, non-wasteful quarters and cuts of
beef.
Mr J. H: Medway, of the NSW com-
mittee of the Meat and Allied Trades
Federation, spoke on the types of beef
and lamb required by the local trade.
“If the type of beef required by the re-
tailer is not available, or is too high in
price, he will reduce his buying of beef
and sell more lamb and pork rather than
buy a type of beef below his usual stand-
ards,” he said.
Mr I. H. Wade, president of the Vic-
torian division of the Meat and Allied
Trades Federation, recalled, somewhat
nostalgically, the good beef of the past
which had to have age and maturity. In
those days, the public got more for its
money, families were larger and ate more
meat, and there was not the variety of
other foods to compete with meat. To-
day many people demanded yearling beef
and 99 per cent demanded that the ex-
cess fat be removed. Would it be fair
comment, he asked, to say that it is a
national waste to be using pastures to
get surplus and unwanted fat on live-
stock?
Mr G. J. R. Coles, a prime-lamb pro-
ducer and president of the Victorian
branch of the Australian Society of Ani-
mal Production, in milder form ven-
tured into the same area of discussion
as Mr Redden. “I often feel that in dis-
cussing prime-lamb production we tend
to place too much emphasis on the
quality of the carcase and too little on


a la genuine thing —with tamarind and spices.
Malay satay
Who discovered SINGAPORE?
We did! The travel agent started it by explaining it wouldn’t cost a penny
more to stop-over in Singapore, on our way to Europe. On those terms who
would miss the chance to go on a voyage of discovery!
So we came to Singapore. The friendly, cosmopolitan people welcomed us
to their fascinating country and we were set fair to uncover an array of
spectacle and excitement that gave real meaning to the saying—‘You see
more of the Orient in Singapore.’ Take a glimpse at this magical island
with us and you too will be taking the first steps towards discovering wonder-
ful Singapore.
FOOD Singapore is a kitchen to the world!
A person can eat just so much in four days—but with all this pageant of
sumptious dishes, where do you start —or stop!? Malay satay a la genuine
thing—with tamarind and spices beaten and mixed for hours on end, to give
you a relishing feast. Chinese food is a way of life! We sat down to 12
courses last night. Each one a wonder of exotic tastes. Then there are the
stimulating Indian muslim foods, spicy and aromatic. There is an endless
variety of the world's best European food served in the many seaside night
clubs and palm fringed modern hotels.
Ham KONG
CKOK'^
V DAftWIN IJT'’
4H(W3\ ..-
50
YDNEY
PERTH
WEST AUSTRALIANS, do you know that it is
almost as cheap to travel to Singapore as it is to
visit Sydney. In about the same time that it
takes to fly from Perth to Sydney-you could be
setting foot in the heart of the Orient — Singapore.
For lots of exciting information, consult your travel agent about
your stop-over in Singapore or write to Singapore Government
Tourist Information Service, 15 Grosvenor Street, Sydney, 343
Little Collins Street, Melbourne or Industry House, Canberra.
QiutJdpoi*t>
those more important aspects concerning
the quantity of lamb produced and its
ultimate price to the consumer,” he said.
“How do we. in fact, assess quality? Do
our assessment methods give a true re-
flection of what the housewife really
wants?”
Mr F. Thomas, pastoral superintendent
of Queensland Stations Pty Ltd, dealt
with the great potential in the north and
the very real problem of attracting
trained personnel to these regions. “We.
are at the whim of a declining, shifting
work-force of single men, whose stand-
ard of work is also declining. Given
stability in the work-force the industry
could, and would, do much to train its
, workers, but such stability will only flow
from increased rural amenities.”
Mr H. S Fletcher, breeder of stud
and commercial cattle and vice-president
of the Royal Agricultural Society of WA,
said he considered the prospects in the
west to be rosy indeed. About one mil-
lion acres a year were being developed
and the WA Government policy was
to continue this rate for some time to
come. '
Mr K. P. Palmer, noted Hereford
breeder and councillor of the RAS of
Victoria, described the intricacies and
hazards of stud breeding. It is not a
simple business. “Any breeding pro-
gramme designed to select for one fac-
tor alone, in this case meat, with an al-
most total disregard of the delicate bal-
ance of animal components required by
nature to maintain fertility, must end in
disaster,” he said.
These are but fleeting condensations of
the papers. All dealt with many matters
besides those mentioned here. Any com-
mercial cattle or lamb producer, and
stud men too. would be advised to seek
a copy of the symposium report from the
RAS of Victoria or the Australian Meat
Board. It is all good stuff plenty of
meat and very little fat.
AGRISEARCH
Yellow Burr
Vermin and Noxious Weeds
Destruction Board of Victoria has
found chemicals capable of combating
yellow burr weed. One of the chemicals,
prometryne, can be applied as a selective
weedicide when the weed is growing in
a young wheat crop. The other, pic-
loram, is suitable for controlling the
weed on waste lands such as roadsides.
The first experiments were put down
only two years ago, when money from
the Wheat Industry Research Committee
became available. The Committee is also
financing studies at Melbourne Uni-
versity on the use of pasture as a con-
trol technique. However these investiga-
tions, which may turn up a better system


HOOKER FINANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Add ress of the Chairman of Directors,
SIR ARTHUR FADDEN, G.C.M.G.,
at the Annual General Meeting
of Stockholders held on September 28, 1965
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is with pleasure that I welcome
you to your Company’s Annual
General Meeting for 1965.
The Directors’ Report and State-
ments of Account for the year ended
30th June, 1965, which have already
been forwarded to you, set out in
detail the satisfactory results achieved
and highlights the expansion and pro-
gress made during the year.
The Consolidated Net Profit was
£139,754 ($279,508) compared with
£130,535 ($261,070) for the previous
year, an increase of £9,219 ($18,438).
This profit is equivalent to 13% on
Ordinary Capital employed.
It will be noted that, due to the
success of our borrowing programme,
our total assets increased during the
year by £1,894,434 ($3,788,868), the
major expansion being in selective
real property mortgage securities.
Accounts Receivable accordingly
increased by £2,076,737 ($4,153,474).
The Directors’ Report has already
informed Stockholders of the affilia-
tion with the Fidelity-Philadelphia
Trust Company of Philadelphia and
Lockheed Aircraft International, Inc.,
of California, U.S.A. This association
will, in the opinion of your Directors,
be of major importance in the future
development of your Company and
should materially assist in its future
borrowing programme.
During the year successful Under-
written Debenture Issues were made
by the Company which ensured a
high degree of liquidity. Although
competition on the borrowing market
continues to be intense, due to both
Local and Overseas Borrowers, it is
pleasing to report that your Company
receives loyal support from the
Investing Public and Members of the
Stock Exchanges in all States.
You will recall that in November,
1960, your Company made an issue
of 4,000,000 7% Registered Unse-
cured Convertible Notes of 10/- ($1)
each. On the 31st December, 1965,
50% of these Notes (2,000,000)
mature and will be automatically con-
verted to 4,000,000 ordinary shares
of 5/- (50c.) each. On that date the
Ordinary Paid Up Capital of your
Company will thus increase by
£1,000,000 ($2,000,000) to £2,075,000
($4,150,000). The remaining Notes
will also automatically convert to
Ordinary Shares on 31st December,
1968.
Noteholders will be advised, in due
course, of the formal requirements
in respect to the conversion.
I am also pleased to advise that all
our Branches are operating success-
fully and have reported increased
Acceptances. Trading for the two
months to 31st August, 1965,
achieved budget and has been most
satisfactory. Your Directors and Man-
agement look forward to the future
with the utmost confidence.
PROPOSED CHANGE OF NAME
Stockholders will be asked at the
Meeting to consider and, if thought
fit, pass as a Special Resolution a
proposal to change the name of the
Company to Network Finance
Limited.
As indicated in the Directors’
Report, the Directors have been aware
for some considerable time of the
element of confusion that presently
exists because of the similarity of
your Company’s name to L. J.
Hooker Investment Corporation
Limited and other companies within
the Hooker Group.
Your Directors believe that the
best means by which the Company
can retain its own identity is by
changing its name, and after consider-
able thought and many name rejec-
tions by the various Registrar-
Generals, the name “Network Finance
Limited” was decided upon and
recommended.
The lending facilities of your Com-
pany are nationally available and the
change will enhance its ability to
serve the real estate market generally.
In conclusion I have pleasure, on
behalf of the Board of Directors and
Members of the Company, to express
our appreciation for the continued
loyalty, co-operation and enthusiasm
shown by the Management and Staff
during the year.
A. W. FADDEN,
Chairman of Directors.
28th September, 1965.
TEACHER
SCOTCH COLLEGE MELBOURNE
Assistant Master required in 1966 to teach
English throughout the school. A sound degree
and teaching qualifications are required. Entry to
the salary scale is determined by age, quali-
fications and experience. Masters are required
to become members of the combined schools
superannuation fund. Details of these will be
sent on application.
Applications should be made to The Principal,
Scotch College, Hawthorn E. 2. stating qualifica-
tions, etc., and giving references, ability and
willingness to take part in extracurricular
activities should be included in the application.
by which to beat the weed, will need to
be continued for several years.
Yellow burr weed (Amsinckia spp.) is
a native of North and South America.
It seems to have been brought into
Australia late last century. The species
readily adapted itself to our conditions
and is now prevalent in Victoria, where
it is a proclaimed noxious weed through-
out the whole State. South Australia and
Western Australia have also proclaimed
it. As a weed of cereal crops it is re-
garded by some people as being more
serious even than skeleton weed. While
it does not seem to be able to establish
itself in permanent pasture, it can com-
pete very well with first and second-
year pasture unless these are uncom-
monly vigorous stands. In this way it is
able to maintain itself in the typical
three-course rotation practised through-
out the southern wheatbelt. Besides, it
produces seed prolifically. Sheep won’t
eat it.
The hormone - type weedicides like
2, 4-D and MCPA were virtually use-
less against it, so there has been no
effective means of control. Where wheat
crops have been densely infested, yields
have been shown to be depressed by
more than one-third perhaps by as
much as half fairly commonly. The
Victorian Weeds Board has, for example,
recorded a yield of a little over 23
bushels per acre on an unweeded plot,
whereas a plot alongside sprayed with
prometryne has produced 42 bushels per
acre.
“Gesagard"’ is the trade name of the
preparation containing prometryne. This
product needs to be applied at the rate
of 8 oz per acre when both the wheat
and the weed are young, i.e., when the
wheat is in the two to four-leaf stage
and the weed is still in the small rosette
stage. The cost of spraying should usually
be handsomely offset. The chemical costs
about £1 an acre and the cost of applic-
ation could be safely put at 10s. an
acre. “Tordon 50D” is the commercial
product containing picloram. It should
be applied at the rate of two pints per
acre unless the weed is well developed,
when the rate should be doubled.


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
lo/
opip
0
0
110/
si/o
TWO
YEARS
SIX
YEARS
TWELVE
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 5 3 A%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS .... 6 1 / 4 %
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
SIX YEARS ... 7%
LONG TERM
NINE YEARS 7Va%
TWELVE YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Genera! Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospect.is.
INVESTMENT
The Sands of Time
Benefits after long waits
rpHE terms of Western Titanium’s new
A issue leave little room for share-
holders to complain. Directors predicted
the issue at the annual meeting a few
months ago but withheld the terms until
last week. They, had been awaiting the
outcome of certain plans and negotia-
tions for the future. They have decided
to raise more than £500,000 through a
two-for-five issue of ss. shares at a ss.
premium.
Just as important as this news is the
fact that another issue seems likely within
18 months lhe cash from the present
issue will oe used to expand raw mineral
production, further develop the ilmenite
upgrading process, explore new mineral
areas and provide for additional bulk
storage at the Bunbury (WA) port to
cater for bulk zircon shipments. If the
upgrading proves to be a commercial
proposition (which seems very likely),
then a second is«ue will be necessary for
further cash No doubt the ratio will
not be as high as two-for-five, as capital
will be expanded through the present
issue by then. •
Amid the group’s great success over
the past two years and the bright pro-
spects for the future, shareholders have
possibly only one complaint. Directors,
wisely perhaps, have not committed
themselves to any particular dividend
rate on the new capital. They say a
satisfactory rate will be maintained. This
means absolutely nothing, especially in
view of the fact that the group doubled
its dividend last year. Although the
maintenance of this rate would be satis-
factory to shareholders, directors may
have other views
Another West Australian mineral
sands producer, Westralian Oil Ltd,
seems set for a more buoyant year. At
the annual meeting, shareholders were
promised a higher dividend if the present
.ate of trading continued unabated. In
1964-65 a maiden 5 p.c. was distributed.
Monier Relapse
(pHANGE of circumstances in the con-
struction of the £15.5 million stage-
one radio base for the US Navy on the
North West Cape, and delays in the com-
pletion of the Kurstville Shopping Centre,
are the chief factors in the disappointing
results of Concrete Industries (Monier)
Ltd.
The chairman (then Mr N. Mulroney,
but now Mr J. W. Blaiklock) told share-
holders in November, 1964, to expect a
minimum dividend (his italics) of 10
p.c. for 1964-65.
But in fact the dividend was cut from
9 to p.c., conserving funds for the
North West Cape project, when trading
profit slumped 17 p.c. from £947,986
to £785,018, representing 9.0 p.c. on
capital.
At mid-June, 1965, Monier had con-
tributed £155,277 in capital to this ven-
ture, which was embarked on with Paul
Hardeman SA and Hutcherson Bros Pty.
As Hardeman’s American parent was
later unable to contribute further capital,
Monier has had to lend up to £1 million
at 7 p.c. interest to the joint venture and
assume sponsorship and management.
The market is extremely wary of the


CAG A
FINANCE
COMMERCIAL & GENERAL ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
[incorporated in New South Wales]
Registered Office: CAGA House, 453 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Address by the chairman (Mr R. J. Vicars) delivered at THE EIGHTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS OF THE COMPANY,
September 28, 1965.
The accounts disclose a consolidated net
profit of the parent and subsidiary Com-
panies for the year ended June 30, 1965,
of £764,534 after providing £583,350 for
income tax.
The provision for tax was estimated
before the presentation of the latest Federal
Budget and it does in fact represent an over-
provision of approximately £33,850.
The annual dividend distribution is main-
tained at 10%.
In addition to presenting the accounts in
our present currency, you will note a con-
solidated Balance Sheet as at June 30, 1965,
expressed in dollars. I am sure that Mem-
bers of the Company are interested to see
the Company’s position in the new currency.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
To meet the Company’s normal require-
ments Paid up Capital was increased on
July 1, 1965, by £2,000,000 to £7,000,000
by the issue of 8,000,000 shares of 5/- each
at a premium of 1/3 per share.
Following the new issue Reserves at July
1, 1965, were £2,226,862 and total Share-
holders’ Funds £9,226,862. It was decided to
write off Formation Expenses of £45,596
(which were the only intangibles) and these
figures reflect the position after this was
done.
Later in the meeting you will be asked
to consider as an item of special business
the conversion, on the introduction of
decimal currency, of the unissued Capital
and the issued stock into shares of one
dollar each. As a result of this you will
also be asked to consider the appropriate
amendment of the Articles of Association.
DEBENTURE STOCK AND UNSECURED
NOTES
The issues of Debenture Stock and Un-
secured Notes have continued to be very
well supported.
Reflecting the sustained growth of the
Company borrowed funds increased to
£42,717,031 at June 30, 1965, from
£37,189,798 at the close of the previous
year.
A major factor in the management of a
finance company is the organisation of its
portfolio in such a way that a large part
of the outstandings is continually liquidating.
This ties in with the control of funds
borrowed from the public so that, quite
apart from the intake of new money,
liquidations will always be sufficient to
meet maturing holdings of Debenture Stock
and Unsecured Notes.
The strong position of the holders of
Debenture Stock and Unsecured Notes is
underlined by the high degree of liquidity
shown by the accounts.
AUSTRALIAN EQUITY CORPORATION
LTD
On July 1, 1965, CAGA acquired by
take-over the balance of shares in Aus-
tralian Equity Corporation Ltd and that
Company has now become a subsidiary of
CAGA.
The Group Accounts of AEC for the year
ended June 30, 1965, show a net trading
loss of £183,524. In addition intangibles of
£39,423 have been written off, making a
total reduction of that Company’s Share-
holders’ Funds of £222,947.
The purchase price paid by CAGA for
all the shares in AEC is represented by net
tangible assets. In other words the Share-
holders’ Funds of the CAGA Group, in-
cluding AEC, upon consolidation have not
been affected.
Since July 1, 1965, CAGA has purchased
the Brisbane Receivables of AEC, which
means that the AEC Group’s operations are
new confined to Melbourne and Sydney.
Mr. Alan Coffey has agreed to continue as
Chairman of AEC.
AEC is expected to make a satisfactory
profit in the current year which will be
a worthwhile contribution to the CAGA
Group profit.
OPERATIONS
Gross Receivables of £44,318,758 at
June 30, 1964, increased to £49,469,242 at
June 30, 1965. After consolidating the
AEC accounts, Gross Receivables today are
in excess of £67,000,000.
We have recently extended our services
by opening Branch Offices in Tamworth
(N.S.W.) and Shepparton (Vic).
Our South Australian business has ex-
panded considerably. As a result your
Directors decided to erect a building in
King William Street, Adelaide, to house
CAGA’s operations. A new Branch of The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited will occupy the ground floor of the
new building.
Your Company now owns buildings in
Sydney, Orange, Ballarat and Adelaide.
GENERAL
This year we are faced with an outlook
which, in many respects, differs from that
which existed a year ago.
Our economy is extended and perhaps
strained. The demand on resources is heavy
indeed. The Government is calling for much
more in the current year, not only for
Defence, which is proper in every respect,
but a,lso for increases in every section of
Government expenditure. This overall in-
crease in demand from Governments in
times of financial strain, other than for
Defence expenditure, is, to say the least,
questionable. Fortunately, it is to be met
from taxation rather than from borrowing
but it does raise the question as to what
will be the position if requirements for
Defence increase and if the price of our
main export falls. One also wonders
whether the continuing effects of drought
in some areas have been fully assessed. This,
coupled with the demand for new capital
from industry and commerce which is
currently very high, indeed leads to a
cautious attitude for the current year.
We, therefore, feel that the year should be
one of consolidation in the Company’s
business, which has, in fact, expanded
rapidly up to this time. Not that expansion
will stop it is going on and will continue
to do so but possibly at a slower rate than
in the past year. In this respect I would
again refer to the very high quality of the
business done by your Company. Our losses
are very small indeed and we take great
care to ensure that the loans we make are
for legitimate and reasonable requirements
and that the repayment will not prove an
undue burden to the borrower.
In line with general experience, costs of
operation will continue to increase but I am
again glad to report that these have been
fully absorbed by increasing efficiency in
the growing scale of our operations. Due to
this and the conservative approach to lend-
ing, we feel that we can, and do, give a
service to our customers at a reasonable
cost.
Once again I would say definitely that our
Company, and others like it, provide a ser-
vice needed in today’s community. We pro-
vide the normal citizen with money he
requires for legitimate needs. Without the
hire purchase industry the ordinary citizen
would be deprived of many things Which
he has become accustomed to regard as his
right to own, to the great advantage not
only of the individual in our community
but also to the industries which are con-
sequently kept in production.
National development is a great and
necessary thing but our national resources
must be also available, in part, to the well-
being of the average citizen. It is this latter
aspect which is a function of your Com-
pany’s business and we are confident that
our value to the community as a whole is
now recognised.
I have no hesitation in repeating what I
said last year, that if companies such as
our own were to be controlled otherwise
than by careful and proper management
and by competition within and from out-
side the industry, the standards of living
of our people other than those enjoying
very high incomes, could be seriously re-
duced. We feel this community requires
that young families, as well as the wealthy
and the very old who may have saved over
many years, are entitled to be able to pur-
chase such items of rather high capital costs
as, for instance, motor cars. We provide
such requirements in the cheapest and most
economical way.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited has contributed a great
deal to the successful record built up by
your Company. We are particularly appreci-
ative of the continued assistance and co-
operation received from the Officers of the
Bank.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF
The Directors desire to record their
appreciation of the enthusiasm of the Execm
tives and Staff of the Company whose efforts
have made possible the excellent results
achieved.
R. J. VICARS,
Chairman of Directors.


ESANDA
LIMITED
The main business of
Esanda Limited is to
conduct hire purchase
leasing and other
finance operations
Unsecured notes up to
4
Debenture stock
Unsecured notes
issued at par issued at par
6*%
3 years
6%
3 years
interest per annum
payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only
on one of the forms of application
referred to in, and attached to printed
copies of the prospectus which
are available from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited
E*P/«J
m
m
(Incorporated in Victoria)
. Registered Office:
- ,287 Collins Street, Melbourne.
outcome of this project and when the'
preliminary profit announcement was
made last week with dividend cut con-
tradicting earlier encouragements from
the board, the ss. shares fell to 4s. Id.
Directors repeat that the final result
of the contract depends on settlement of
claims for extra costs, time extensions,
change orders, v and possible counter-
claims. The venture is more than half-
finished. Investors would appreciate
regular, full, and frank reporting on its
progress, even when the prospects are
not encouraging.
Dairy Dilemma
T ast year’s merger between Croft Bank
" and Cranbourne, two Victorian
dairying companies, has yet to prove
itself of any great benefit to the respec-
tive shareholders. Croft Bank, the group
which offered shares to Cranbourne in
order to effect the merger, had an earn-
ing rate of 15.7 p.c. in the latest year.
This rate was below that at which both
companies earned in 1963-64. Croft
Bank itself had an earning rate of 17 p.c.
in that year.
During 1964-65 the combined group
earned a £128,000 profit, exactly double
the £64,000 made by Croft Bank pre-
viously. However, the merger, plus the
acquisition of two smaller dairies during
the year, more than doubled the paid
capital. Hence earning rate suffered
overall.
Despite the lowered earning rate, divi-
dend is to be held at 121 p.c. for the
year. This is the same rate as was dis-
tributed by both groups before the
merger. Undoubtedly a cut would have
aroused a few shareholders to a rather
irate state at the annual meeting. It is
to be hoped that the expected economies
of the merger make themselves felt in
the current year. If not, a dividend cut
may be wise. As it is, the cover is not
particularly wide.
A Lower Toppa
£24,000 profit drop announced by
A Toppa Holdings for its latest year
delivered a rather solid blow to the high
regard which many investors have held
for the company over the past two or
three years. Victorian-based, the group
makes and distributes ice cream, dairy
products and the goo.d ol’ pie. Profit
came back from the record £116,000
earned in 1963-64 to £92,000. On
higher ordinary capital, this is equal to
only 12.8 p.c., compared with 18 p.c.
previously. Nevertheless, dividend will
be 10 p.c. for the third successive year.
Certain factors which came into play
during the year affected the result. To
start with, depreciation, at £71,000, took
another £6OOO. The ice cream activities,
the main part of the group’s operations,
were affected by unseasonal conditions,
severe price competition and rising costs.
Operating expenses also saw increases
associated with the transfer of certain
activities to Preston.
Unfortunately, all this cannot be con-
sidered as a good excuse for the lower
result. Higher depreciation, competition
and the higher level of costs are unlikely
to abate this year or in any future year.
The costs of moving to Preston are of
course non-recurring, but unseasonal
conditions are likely to occur at any
time. A company which can be affected
by them must be earning enough in the
favorable years to withstand any bad
season without too much complaint.
It would seem that the group is enter-
ing a difficult period. Export promotion
should keep tax below its full incidence
in the current year, yet there will be
little benefit from investment allowances.


How
would
you
label
a
butterfly
9
■■
;
" :V
Why label a butterfly? To study their migratory habits.
Seems some butterflies travel a thousand miles!
And Avery came up with the answer.
Was fun. Another first for Avery. It comes naturally.
In 30 years in the labelling game, Avery have always been
first.
Tricky labelling problems are fun for Avery. They enjoy
their work. Which is why Avery are the biggest and the
most successful in the world.
Want to label a butterfly? Or anything? Temporary or per-
manent? Large or small? Better ring Avery right now—and
reverse the charges.
Please send me free samples and full information on
Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kum Kleen labels.
COMPANY-
NAME
ADDRESS
W. i. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 Union Street, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 560 7177
W. J. CRYER (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
30 Cotham Road, Kew, Vic. 86 7911
89/10/65
AL J 3
These would have played the greatest
part in lowering tax during 1964-65. For
that year, shareholders can only con-
clude that, without the tax savings, a
lower dividend would have been paid.
With the cover as narrow as it is, any
further falls in profit could be disastrous.
Talcott Troubled
f|%E failure of one business invariably
has repercussions on other firms.
A case in point is the placing of Lithgow
Woollen Mills Ltd and Target Woollen
Mills Pty under receivership.
Their indebtedness to Service Factors
Pty, a subsidiary of Talcott Factors Ltd,
amounted to £268,800 at June 30, 1965.
and Talcott felt obliged to write off
£100,500 of this as a bad debt.
After providing a further £30,000 for
other doubtful debts, £11,745 for
depreciation and £68,810 for tax, the net
result of Talcott’s trading in 1964-65
was a profit of £63,693, a heavy reduc-
tion from 1963-64 profit of £149,991.
Dividend was cut from 10 to 8 p.c.
but still exceeds the earning rate of 6.4
p.c. ,
Directors maintain that the company
has sufficient sound business available
and proven clients to keep funds profit-
ably employed.
The company is 20 p.c. owned by
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, 18.1
p.c. by Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Co. and 4.3 p.c. by the Capel Court
group.
Ansett Record
As expected, the result from Ansett
Transport Industries was an excel-
lent one. Profit for the year to June 30
rose from £1,571,000 to £1,650,000 — a
record. This was despite the writing-off
of the operating losses of Channel
ATV-0 for the eleven months of com-
mercial transmission. These were sub-
stantial and the actual establishment costs
are also reported by directors to be much
higher than envisaged.
The record profit was despite an extra
£320,000-odd for depreciation and a big
jump in tax from £61,000 to £477,000.
This is easily the largest provision ever
made by the company, but it is still far
below the normal 8s. 6d. in the £.
The group’s overall revenue jumped
18 p.c. to a record £46 million during
the year. Offsetting the television lgtsses
was substantial growth in aviation traffic,
road freight and road passenger services.
The group carried 20 p.c. more pas-
sengers and 8 p.c. more freight than in
the previous year. In fact, the growing
demand for air travel could not have


Fix It Yourself
AUTO-MOTO
MAGIC OVRHAUL
WHILE-U-DRIVE
Engine Self Reconditioner While U Drive,
REFLATES WORN upper cyls., main bearings,
cliffs., gears SAVES rebore, ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new
compression, power, top speed, zipp SAVES
Adds £ s.d to resale value. GUAR, up to
25,000 miles. HARMLESS finest engine
SIMPLY add amazing expanding mineral Nu-
Metal (pat.) in oil petrol or plug holes
1, 2, 4, 6, 8 cyls 15/6, 30/-, 60/-. 70/-,
80/-. Testimonials, engineers' reports, free
advice available Open Sat. morn. Dis. req
Sold only by RE-NU CO. (estab. 1932), 58
Swan St. (opp Richmond Stn.), Vic. 42 1755.
I enclose £ tor
or send free particulars describing action of
Nu-Metal.
name
ADDRESS "BUL "
All I said was:
“We’ll save money by hiring
Chep Fork lilts and Pallets
ft
m ■■
%
1
d
_
...and they gave me a riser'
Of course I did some research. I found that Chep have the
largest fleet of materials handling equipment in Australia.
They gave me the benefit of their advisory service. They
quoted me rates and showed me how I could save my
Company money. Now we hire fork lift trucks by the hour
or for long periods, as we need them.
Another thing that helped Chep have a fleet of mobile
radio-controlled workshops . . . Johnny-on-the-spot for
service and repairs. No more costly down-time.
Make your mark, mention Chep, the people who can put
your materials handling on a profitable footing.
CH.B
CHEP Minogue Crescent,
Glebe, N.S.W., 68 4211.
CHEP Sandgate Road, Albion,
Brisbane, Queensland, 6 2181.
CHEP 205 Hanson Road, Athol Park,
Adelaide, 45 7922.
been met without the introduction of the
Boeing 727.
Additionally, the lower operating costs
of pure jet aircraft assisted matters.
Directors claim that air travel demand
will not be met in 1966 unless the Gov-
ernment approves the use of more pure
jet aircraft. The company plans to
eventually run only three types of planes
in its passenger fleet. This is expected
ho improve performance of the group,
through lowering costs, presumably.'
The year’s profit is equal to 19.4 p.c.
on capital. This gives almost double
cover for the 10 p.c. dividend, paid for
the tenth year in succession.
k Textiler Prospers
tTennyson Textile (Holding) Ltd,
,*■ the Sydney textile group with as-
i sociations with Toyo Rayon, the top
synthetic producer in Japan, did sub-
stantially better business in the last year
‘to June.
' Profit moved up from £79,583 to
£105.380, representing 38.9 p.c. on capi-
tal. Tax provision was £82,110. The com-
pany was entitled to tax benefits by
reason of accumulated losses of sub-
sidiaries acquired in the past two years.
lnstead of boosting this year’s profits
fby providing only the tax payable for
the year, it used the sum of £18,014 to
[reduce the cost of shares acquired to their
inet tangible assets value at. acquisition
date, and transferred the £34,710 to the
doubtful debts provision.
From profits, £lO,OOO was appropri-
ated for plant obsolescence,
j The 12 p.c. dividend of 1964 was
The 3s. 6d. shares (there was a Is. 6d.
capital return in 1961) now bring about
Bs. 3d., which is half-way between the
high and low for this calendar year.
They show a promising earnings yield of
16.5 p.c.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Looking at CSR’s Future Growth
Shares now appear very attractive
When I last wrote about the Colonial
Sugar Refining Company Limited
in Lebruary, 1964, the shares were selling
around 80s. The dividend yield was then
2+ p.c. from the 10 p.c. rate but, no
doubt, purchasers at that time were well
aware that the dividend rate would be
raised by 25 p.c. within the next six
months. They were looking at the 80s.
price on the basis that it would show
them a 3.1 p.c. yield. Today, from the
same 121 p.c. dividend rate, the shares
are priced to show a dividend yield of
4.6 p.c.
The immediate picture has changed
because, in Lebruary, 1964, the world
“free” price of raw sugar was about
£stgBs and today it is £stg2l. However,
very few thought that the price would
stay at the high levels which prevailed
from mid-1963 to the end of the first
quarter of the 1964 calendar year. Even
in Lebruary, 1964, the situation was
changing so far as the world supply of
sugar was concerned; the price seemed
to be on the way down at last. Of course,
no one could tell at what level the price
would settle.
Lrom a quick look at the graphs for
“Price Lluctuations of Raw Sugar on
World Tree’ Market” contained in
CSR’s 1963 annual report, it could be
concluded that, over a long period (1864
to 1940), this price had exhibited a
steady downward trend, with only one
major interruption, from 1914 to 1929.
During this period the price rose to a
remarkably high level of about £stg6s
in 1920 and then declined fairly rapidly.
While the price “entered” World War
If around £stgB, it emerged at £stg3o,
It rose to nearly £stgso during the
Korean War and to £stg4s during the
Suez crisis; nevertheless it had declined
to £stg2s by 1962. In 1963, on two
occasions the price reached nearly
£stgloo, but the long decline which
started from November, 1963, carried
the price down below £stg2o.
It would appear from figures given
from time to time in CSR’s annual report
and other publications by the company
that total Australian raw sugar produc-
tion has increased by at least 40 p.c.
from 1960 to 1964, and exports of sugar
have increased by at least 70 p.c. over
the same period. Not all this export
sugar is sold at world “free” prices —•
the quantity that is sold at this price
represented 49 p.c. The major new
market which has opened to Australia
over the last four years is Japan, whose
intake of sugar from Australia has quad-
rupled over the four years, and quite
significant quantities are now being ex-
ported to the USA. While there has
been a significant increase in home con-
sumption and some increase in the quota
under the British Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement, there can be no doubt that
the major increase in “sales” has been
at prices based on the “free” world price
and that this price has far greater
significance so far as CSR’s profit is con-
cerned than it did in 1961.
There are other factors which seem
to have changed over the last few years.
Despite the “glamor” which is today
associated with iron ore and bauxite, I
believe that the emergence of CSR as a
major force in the building materials
industry will have a significant effect on
earnings in the future. Recently,
Masonite Holdings Pty Ltd lifted its
earning rate on capital from 9.7 p.c. to
11.8 p.c. and this company represents
only a part of this large division. In
addition to building boards of many
kinds, floor tiles and acoustic tiles are
manufactured, as well as insulating
materials of various kinds. One can only
hope that in the years to come the com-
pany will give as much information in
its annual report concerning its building
materials division as it does about its
sugar activities. Associated companies
in the same industry group are Ready
Mixed Concrete and Pyneboard Pty Ltd
(and Pyneboard (Gippsland) Pty Ltd).
It is understood that the former com-
pany earned just over £1 million in its
last financial year (to June 30, 1964);
although the results have not been an-
nounced for the year to June 30, 1965,
it is likely that the profit will be at least
as great. This would mean that CSR’s
share would be at least £500,000,
although in the consolidated accounts of
the CSR group to March 31, 1965, only
a dividend of £230,000 was included.
One can only guess at the likely rate of
dividend that will be received in the
future; it is not unreasonable to assume
that it will be about twice the amount
received in the 1964-65 year.
Tn the short term, one must take into ac-
A count the fact that the company itself
expects a decline in profits in the 1965-
66 year and allowance must be made for
the increase in capital which is now
taking place through the current rights
issue. The dividend commitment at the
121 p.c. rate will take just over £3.5
million during 1965-66, rising to about
£3.75 million in 1966-67 even if there
are no further issues of equity. There
can be no doubt that the 121 p.c. rate
can be maintained, for the amount of the
increased dividend was covered even by
the earnings. In this particular
year, earnings were approximately £4.5
million. If some wild guesses are made
about the various proportions of profit
the various divisions contributed to the
total in that year and the proportions
that they now contribute, it is possible
to suggest that, even if the world sugar
price remains at £stg20, CSR’s earnings
for 1965-66 should not fall below £5.5
million. Evidently this will mean a
decline in the earning rate but, at 19.7
p.c., it would still represent earnings
per share 50 p.c. greater than they were
in 1960-61.
However, I consider that it is safer
to think about the future in terms of
dividend increases, because at this stage
it is not really possible to make worth-
while projections of future earnings.
Since 1957, dividends per share have
increased from Is. 5d. to 2s. 6d. (after
making adjustments for the new issue
of August, 1962). The bonus content of
the current issue will mean that divi-
dends per share will rise to 2s. 8d. in
1966-67 if the dividend rate remains
steady at 12i p.c. This will mean that
dividends per share have increased at
a rate in excess of 7 p.c. per annum com-
pound over the last nine years.
I consider that, with the prospects of
long-term future growth, the shares are
very attractive at current prices to show
an immediate dividend yield of more
than 4} p.c.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (E'million)
Year to March 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 29.7 30.8 39.2 47 4 38 6
Current liabilities 25.5 26.5 31.7 39.0 36.9
Net working capital 4.2 4.3 7.5 8 4 17
Fixed assets 61.5 61.7 62.0 65 9 74 8
Investments 3.6 5.0 5.9 7 1 22 3
Intangibles 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1
Total capital 70.5 71.6 73.1 81.5 98.9
Represented by:
Loan capital 7.8 7.8 6.2 3.5 8.3
Minority interests 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.2 3.2
Ordinary capital 21.2 21.2 24.2 24.2 26.5
Reserves 38.4 40.4 44.4 50.6 60.4
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (E'million)
Interest 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3
Depreciation 3.7 3.8 4.1 4.4 4.7
Tax provided 2.1 2.2 3.5 4.8 4.3
Minority interest 0.2 —- 0.1 0.1 0.2
Earnings 2.6 3.0 4.5 7.4 6.5
Ordinary dividends 1.9 2.0 2.2 3.0 3.3
Surplus 0.7 2.0 2.3 4.4 3.2
Earning rate p.c. 12.4 14.3 20.4 30.9 24.6
Ordinary dividend p.c. 9.0 9.5 10.0 12.5 12.5
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 2.3 3.3 3,1 3.1 4.0
High price (b) 92/- 62/8 79/- 89/9 71/-
Low price (b) 54/6 46/3 56/- 65/6 57/9
(a) Based on last sale July when accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.


m
Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
!
2
IEiMiMftRS
7
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
5k
P£R ANNUM 9 MONTHS
3
0
4
0
5
U
pmmmirmi
a
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms cf application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
cf Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. jdn. 2
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
For Unadventurous Loyalists
Newbold sound and steady
Examination of the accounts of New-
bold General Refractories Ltd leaves
the reader with an impression of con-
siderable financial strength.
| Yet in profit-making, Newbold has
made little headway over the past five
years.
The two industries for which Newbold
largely caters home-building and steel
both thrived in 1964-65. A new peak
< was reached in private building approvals
*in 1964-65, so that Newbold had a
healthy market for its building bricks.
BHP, Newbold’s largest customer, has
expansion plans involving capital ex-
penditure of £l5O million within the
next three years. Newbold is in a position
to supply refractories for the new plants
at Port Kembla, Newcastle, Kwinana
and Whyalla.
The company claims to have one of
the widest ranges of refractories (heat-
resistant materials) in the world. It runs
plants at Mayfield, Hexham, Thirroul,
i Port Kembla, Bellambi and Granville in
(NSW, Dandenong in Victoria, and
Beverley in South Australia, with suf-
ficient productive capacity to supply all
Australian customers.
Mines and quarries are owned at
Cooma, Conjola, Puggoon, Home Rule,
Lithgow, Redhead, Barraba, Merrygoen,
Bungonia, Thirroul, Coonabarabran,
Narrangaroo. Neilrex and Ulladulla.
Surprisingly, after a subsidiary made
a technical agreement with Newbold for
the manufacture of tar-bonded magnesite
and dolomite refractories at Hexham for
the NSW steelworks, Harbison-Walker
Refractories Co. of Pittsburg joined with
Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd
to compete in this field with Newbold in
Australia.
Problems arose in the initial running
in of the Newbold tar-bonded refractory
plant, restraining profits for 1963. In
the latest report, directors announced an
extension to the plant of an extra shaft
kiln for calcining dolomite to meet the
requirements of the growing steel in-
dustry in Newcastle and Whyalla. '
The refractories division of Illawarra
Fireclay and Brick Co. Ltd at Bellambi
was bought for an undisclosed price in
March, 1965. Newbold paid cash. Group
’accounts show a reduction in the cash
position over the year from £802,188 to
£267,896, but it is still extraordinarily
liquid. There are no long-term liabilities.
The premium in the market on the ss.
shares was used to good effect in 1962
to buy the fixed assets of the refractories
division of Adelaide Potteries Pty. As
a result, £llO,OOO was credited to share
premium reserve.
Excess provisions for income tax of
previous years, £31,434, was trans-
ferred to general reserve in 1964-65, and
a capital profit of £15,000 transferred
to capital reserve.
Investments held by the company at
1965 balance date totalled £276,805 at
cost (the greater part in listed shares),
with a market and estimated market
value of £699,721 —a nice inner reserve.
Stocks of products and raw materials
and stores have fluctuated from £348,000
in 1960 to £629,000, £793,000,
£577,000, £472,000, and £753,000 in
1965. Each figure is net of a tax-paid
reserve of £lOO,OOO. Debtors increased
over the last year from £519,269 to
£682,828.
The 1965 profit of £352,848, after


i GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
0
up to I >=■ 5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
6840
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
£297,500 tax and £235,483 depreciation,
compared with the 1964 result of
£386,538 profit, £345,300 tax and
£232,258 depreciation. Turnover and
earnings in the refractories division were
lower due to local and imports com-
petition, and directors described con-
ditions as “difficult”. On the other hand,
Goodlet and Smith, and Clyde Brick,
supplying building bricks, contributed
more to the year’s profit.
At the 1964 annual meeting the chair-
man (Mr Raymont Moore) frankly told
shareholders that the financial resources
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 1285 1462 1404 1794 1704
Less current liabilities 999 877 833 979 937
Working capital 286 585 571 815 767
Investments 599 273 274 274 277
Fixed assets 2485 2846 2944 2911 3125
3370 3704 3789 4000 4169
Ordinary capital 1497 1804 1900 1900 1900
Reserves 1873 1900 1889 2100 2269
3370 3704 3739 4000 4169
Plant replacement 50 — — — —
Depreciation 168 182 184 232 235
Taxation 352 263 211 345 298
Profit 359 359 321 387 353
Dividend 234 234 238 238 238
Surplus 125 125 83 149 115
Earning rate 19.2 19.0 17.0 20.3 18.5
Dividend rate 123, 12| ]2\ 123. \2\
Dividend yield (a) 2.3 3.1 3.8 3.8
Price-earnings
ratio (a) 28.6 20.8 19.6 17.5
High price (b) 23/1 21/- 30 6 20/9 18/3
Low price (b) 17/- 19/6 19/6 12/8 15/6
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
available enabled the company to plan
for future developments without share-
holders’ assistance. (The last cash issue
was a one-for-four at par in 1958-59.)
Provided stocks are kept within reason-
able limits by a steady demand for the
company’s product, this enviable position
of liquidity should hold for the next year
or so.
It seems unlikely that the company
will raise dividend beyond the 121 p.c.
rate of eight years’ standing. Although
it has the wherewithal for a bonus, there
is no incentive to make any issue without
a more positive upward trend in profits
and in the absence of takeover threats.
The shares at 12s. Id. (yielding 5.2
p.c.) are way below their customary level
at this time of the year. They remain
sound holding (in a generally lower mar-
ket) for the loyal but unadventurous
investor. Newbold is unlikely to make
any dramatic moves to benefit share-
holders in the next year or two. i
w. E. SMITH LTD
Modest Growth Only
|3kinters, stationers and packagers W.
E. Smith Ltd failed to equal its
record performance of 1963-64 in the
latest year to June 30.
A 19 p.c. profit decline, from £121,835
to £98,234, was attributed to five strikes
in the last three months of the year and
also to reduction of printing orders pend-
iftg the changeover to decimal currency.
W. E. Smith expects to gain from a
reversal of this trend when firms stock
up on new stationery, forms and books.
All manufactured stocks likely to be
made obsolete by the changeover have
been written off.
The net profit was arrived at after pro-
viding £69,643 (1964 £87,414) for tax
and £58,036 (£55,695) for depreciation.
Dividend was 123 p.c. for the .sixth year
in a row. The earning rate, on capital
unchanged since the 1961-62 one-for-two
par issue, was an undistinguished 15.2
p.c. compared with 18.9 p.c. in the pre-
ceding year.
The company reports that the indus-
trial dispute was settled on July 13, 1965.
Increased turnover was achieved in the
highly competitive packaging division
only at the expense of margins.
The business was established in Sydney
in 1911 and has a sound profit record,
with only three lapses in the great de-
pression.
In 1951 there was a premium issue,
but later issues have been at par a
one-for-six in April, 1952, a one-for-five
in December, 1955, followed by a one-
for-three bonus in February, 1956, from
assets revaluation. The November, 1961,
one-for-two par issue brought ordinary
capital to £630,000, plus in
5 p.c. preference shares (issued in 1947).
In 1958-50 the company assumed the
appearance of growth by striking out in
a joint venture with J. Gadsden Austra-
lia Ltd to build a factory near Brisbane
for the complete manufacture of corru-
gated and solid fibre containers. VV. E.
Smith withdrew from the enterprise in
1960-61 and wrote off £25,000 from
that year’s profit in respect of the invest-
ment.
Consolidated accounts were not pre-
sented until 1962. It seems that the sub-
sidiary Wingrove and Co. Pty, special-
ising in calendars and novelties, has been
no great earner. In fact, in 1962-63, a
clean-up loss of £13,481 was dealt with
in the accounts; after administrative
changes, directors expected it to operate
on a favorable basis.
Wingrove, however, did not rate a
specific mention in either of the two sub-
sequent sets of accounts.
In 1961 Smith embarked on a building
programme involving the expenditure of
£270,000. Over £120,000 was spent to


4.
mti:
m
:
jIL
•• • r---
■ ■
Z*.%
Wj§
m
m
a*
■i
ar
skm>m
mmi,
H.
:^.v'
P
m
*i
m
•urrnui mtnmm « fn
Free competition means better television for viewers and advertisers
1964
TWO COMMERCIAL CHANNELS
1,238,000
DIFFERENT SYDNEY PEOPLE WATCH THE NEWS ON 9
1965 THREE COMMERCIAL CHANNELS
1,291,000
DIFFERENT SYDNEY PEOPLE WATCH THE NEWS ON 9
CHANNEL 9 thrives on competition. These audience
figures for Channel 9 News are just one example they
show how more people watch the News on Nine now, with
three commercial channels, than were watching when there
were only two commercial channels. Free competition
means better television for viewers and advertisers.
For a breakdown of the daily viewing patterns and other
pertinent facts, contact your local TCN 9 Representative.
*The above figures were specially prepared for Channel 9 by The
Anderson Analysis Pty. Ltd. by a re-analysis of their Sydney Television
Audience Surveys No. 7 of 1964 and No. 6 of 1965.
Channel
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Rd.. Willoughby. 43-0444
Sales Sydney: Ist Floor. Cricket House, George St., 27-2881
Melbourne: 247 Collins St.. 63-8336.
U2l 6


PART
OF THE SERVICE
<> r ~ : ->
* ~~ '
I
4 i
t-X. .
f:
" •
.
wmmmm
■ rs
'V.
Constant hot water is an essential part of the service a first
class hotel offers its guests. And, thanks to copper, The Southern
Cross Hotel, Melbourne, hardly needs to give hot water service a
second thought. At the hotel’s planning stage, heavily insulated
solid copper hot water tanks were specified. Incidentally, it takes
a bank of four cylinders with a total capacity of 5,400 gallons
to fulfil The Southern Cross Hotel’s needs.
You, too, can be sure of a reliable hot water service in your home
• when you insist on copper. Copper tanks and pipes are easy to
install, cut maintenance costs and most important of all —•
Copper is for Keeps
»
■V;. ■’ ■
. W r.
raa
:v%;
■k-
You can find out more about the unique qualities of copper by writing to the
COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE
Northgate House, 321 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CB94*
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
extend the printing and packaging plants.
The top floor of the No. 2 factory at
Croydon (NSW) is leased. The rent re-
ceived more or less cancels the interest
Smith pays on mortgage loans with the
AMP. These totalled £211,000 at last
balance date.
Thanks to this loan capital, the com-
pany has a comfortable working capital
position, with £25,000 extra in deposits
at short call.
The freehold property and factory at
Croydon is worth £702,150 in the books
mainly at June, 1964, valuation.
The company has disappointed since
its abortive Queensland venture, demon-
strating only modest growth propensity.
The decimal changeover will boost
profits next year, but investors should
not be misled by this into believing that
a new dynamic era has begun — unless
directors produce something else from
the hat.
The stock has been widely quoted of
late between 10s. 6d. and 13s., and since
the publication of 1964-65 results, at
9s. 6d. buyer, 12s. seller with last sale
at 1 Is.
At 10s. the shares would return 6.1
p.c. and give an earnings yield of 7.6 p.c.
In today s market, with many attractive
alternative investments available, they do
not appeal for new investment. Present
holders, however, may care to gamble on
getting out at a higher price next year in
the flush of expected better results.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£ 000)
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 466 652 618 567 591
Less current
liabilities 152 221 230 257 260
Working capital 314 431 388 310 331
Investments 112 — 26 75 25
Fixed assets 506 866 879 989 1023
Intangibles ' — 2 2 2 2
932 1299 1295 1376 138?
Loan capital 128 248 236 211 193
Pcef. capital 50 50 50 50 50
Ord. capital 420 630 630 630 630
Reserves 334 371 379 485 503
932 1299 1295 ?376 ?38?
Depreciation 29 45 46 56 59
Taxation 73 7! 68 87 70
Net profit 104 100 90 122 98
Net profit
for ords. 102 98 88 120 96
Dividends 53 66 79 79 79
Surplus 49 32 9 41 17
Earning rate p.c. 24.8 18.7 13.9 18.9 15.2
Dividend rate p.c. 12£ 12J 12t 12L
Div. yield (a) 5.2 4.8 4.7 4.7
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 9.7 13.9 19.2 14.1
High price (b) 13 6 15/- 14/6 16/3 15/-
Low price (b) 8/6 9/- 11/3 12/9 12/-
(a) End of September, month, accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: CHARLES HENRY SMITH, late of Orange,
in the State of New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that BRIDGET TERESA SMITH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2644 of 1964
on the grounds of desertion and separation.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the Ist
day of November, 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of Petition from
MESSRS HILLIARD & BERRY, Solicitors, 17
Castlereagh Street. Sydney.—C. A. H HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: DONALD HARRY JOHN BETHEL, late
of Rozelle, in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that VIOLET MAY BETHEL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2339 of
1964 on the grounds of habitual drunkenness.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the Ist
day of November, 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of Petition from
MESSRS HILLIARD & BERRY, Solicitors, 17
Castlereagh Street. Sydney.—C A. H. HARMS.
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MAXIMO GERALDO MINGO, formerly
of Muswellbrook. TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE
MAY MINGO has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 220 of 1965 on the ground of separation,
notwithstanding the facts and circumstances
set out in a Discretion Statement filed by her.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court. Mint
Building. Macuarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the Ist day of November. 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS McDONELL & MOFITT. Solici-
tors. of 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS. Registrar.
A Divorce Petition has been filed against
COLIN FRANCIS ANTHONY BULL, late of
75 Saxby Road, London. 5.W.2 and 8 Mackay
Avenue. Glenhuntley. Melbourne, 5.E.9. Vic-
Legal Notices
toria, Australia, who may apply to the Divorce
Registry, Somerset House, London, W.C.2,
England, for a copy of the Petition. If within
78 days he has not communicated with the
Registry the Court may hear the case in his
absence. COMPTON MILLER. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
No. 838 Of 1965
TO: MICHAEL ADRIAN COUNSEL, formerly
of 72 Alexander Street, Sandy Bay, in Tas-
mania. TAKE NOTICE that an action has
been commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Tasmania by RAYMOND GEORGE
TRAPPES of East Risdon Road, Hobart, in
Tasmania, in which the Plaintiff’s claim is
for £983/0/0 together with interest on
£960/0/0 from 24th August, 1965. at the rate
of £6/0/0 per centum per annum until pay-
ment, being payment of the outstanding
balance and interest owed by you the
defendant to the Plaintiff pursuant to an
agreement dated the 17th day of July. 1961.
AND that it has been ordered that service
of the Writ in the said action on you be
effected by this advertisement. AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that if you desire to
defend the said action you must within forty-
five days from the publication of this adver-
tisement, inclusive of the day of such publica-
tion. enter an appearance at the Registry
of the Supreme Court. Franklin Square.
Hobart. AND that in default of such appear-
ance judgment may be entered against you.
DATED this 13th day of September, 1965.
SIMMONS, WOLFHAGEN. SIMMONS &
WALCH, of 86 Collins Street. Hobart. AS
AGENTS: for MESSRS. NETTLEFOLD &
JENNINGS. 152 Macquarie Street. Hobart.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: CHARLES McLEAN WATSON. TAKE
NOTICE that LINDA MAY WATSON has filed
a Petition No. 1413 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of separation. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court. Mint Building. Mac-
quarie Street. Sydney, on or before the 29th
day of November. 1965. and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from JAMES
L. DIAMOND & CO.. Solicitors, of 25 O’Connell
Street. Sydney. C. A. H HARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JAMES WALTER BOWLING. TAKE
NOTICE that LILLIAN GERTRUDE BOWLING
has filed an application lor settlement of
property in Suit No. 4669 of 1953. If you wish
to oppose this application you may file a
Notice of Address for service in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court. Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 20th
day of October, 1965, and obain a copy of the
application and supporting affidavits without
charge from A. G. KNOX.' Solicitor, of 55
Market Street. Sydney. C. A- H. HARMS,
Registrar.
TRINITY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
SUMMER HILL, SYDNEY
Applications are invited for the position of
Second in Charge of the Science Department in
1966. Salary would accord with the importance
of the post and with qualifications and experi-
ence. Applications, with copies only of references,
should be sent to the Headmaster.
FRIENDS IN BRITAIN?
Hampers, turkeys, fruits, cakes, gourmet to-ds
from £1 delivered U.K 12 days.
Send stamp for latest free
FINE FOODS CATALOGUE Wine list.
POSTAL GIFT SERVICE
DEPT. 8.. P.O BOX 32. ELIZABETH, S-A
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Staff Vacancies from January, 1966
1. Music preferably with some Art and Crafts.
2. Science and Maths, some to matric.
Accommodation available single men; possible
Housemastership. For particulars apply:
Headmaster.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 868
ACROSS
I—Bad composition of Gounod. (6)
4—Don't forget about a club subscriber. (8)
9—One of us js on the throne when game. (10, 5)
11—Fuss to be mud for building. (5)
12 and 16 —You would hardly regard this as a liberal
bid from a publisher. (1, 5,3, 4,8)
19— Second courses? (7. 8)
20— —Dope from Gordon. (6)
21— Time of day which is silly enough, lady. (5)
26—Artists in the cabinets? (6, 2,7)
27 Topheavy jockeying sounds
harmonious though. (8)
28— A hero of the Kipling beau
is Americanised with hands
on hips. (6)
DOWN
1— In the air as a poisonous
tree. (4)
2 Tugs out of this sudden
draught. (4)
3 None but a Communist be-
haved like a Volga boatman.
(5)
5 Articles from Spain and
Britain show a lot of dash. (4)
6 Poet and prophet needing
money. (4, 5)
7 Be holding the Ladd feature
for a famous choreographer
greeting north with extreme
poise. (10)
8— Bluey’s alias, according to a
football pen. (5)
10—-Free fifty whom I scold. (8)
13 — If rising in Spanish Africa.
(4)
14 — Points vital to the effective-
ness of such ill-tempered
bowling, (5-5)
15— Shingle apostrophised a
figure. (8)
17 — Algerian city to disembowel
an unappreciated Sydney
journalist, according to
Bonynge. (5-4)
18— Caruso sounds reduced—cer-
tainly isn’t up to much. (2-2)
20—Fd act badly enough, as the
sayings go. (5)
22 A deficiency in lamentation.
(5)
23 Don't stop Spike Milligan or
Peter Sellers, for instance. (4)
24 Wave from the ancient Rus-
sian city. (4)
25 City in Czechoslovakia isn’t
there at all. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 867


BINDERS
for The Bulletin
15 i /_ *.u y u ll ca ? ke ? p three months’ copies of The Bulletin
in a cloth-bound, gold-lettered' binder, ready for easy refer-
ence. The binders are ideal for libraries, where The Bulletin
is in constant demand, and for business houses where frequent
gift r for V' friend 6 t 0 paSt financial futures; ideal, too, as a
Send 15/-■ (cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to “Bulletin
a *“»- tosethe ‘- »*>
ORDER FORM
THE BULLETIN BINDER
Box 5252, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BINDERS, price ?5A a copy (post free). I
enclose £ / / cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address
• State ...........
M moro than one binder is ordered, attach list giving full
name, address. State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
THE BULLETIN BINDER
PRINTED MATTER ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name •
Address
• •••lit) rnoiiimtnmte .....
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box 525?, G.P.0., Sydney.
SPECULATORS DIARY
Not Very Original
Have a look at rights
¥I7iTH the index just over the 300 mark, the market is back to its low point for
"" the year. Contrary to the expectations of some, the sudden rise around Budget
time has just not been sustained. Even the most liberal interpretation would hardly
permit the present market being called a bull market.
Although the market has probably
now reached a base, it is unlikely to
move up suddenly to former levels. The
old cliche of selective buying still applies
if a reasonable profit is to be shown. I
probably sound most unoriginal by con-
cluding that the bargains are amongst
the rights. But an examination of the
price movement of some of the many
rights being traded is very interesting.
Take Woolworths and CSR. In the
week before the respective issues opened,
the shares dropped 10 p.c. The opening
rights markets were also weak, but in
the last few days the rights price of each
issue has suddenly moved up 10 p.c.
Translate all this into action and it would
mean shorting before the issue and then
covering, as well as going long as soon
as the issue opens. Because I was
probably exercising undue caution, I
avoided the first part of the exercise and
simply put myself long in the rights of
an issue which followed on the heels of
CSR and Woolworths.
William Adams is a company with
which most readers are already familiar.
Since 1962 it has made a most spec-
tacular recovery, with the earning rate
rising from 6.9 p.c. to 30.3 p.c. This
rise has been matched by the increase in
dividend rate from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.
Surprisingly, the present share price of
275. 6d. (after making allowance for the
issue) is no higher, than it was two years
ago. As the market price stood at 325. 6d.
when the issue was announced, the
current price can only be explained by
the market's cautiousness over new issues.
It seems just another case of the
market exaggerating the effects of the
issue. As evidence of this opinion, I have
a contract note for 500 William Adams
rights at ss. 7d.
A much more recent guest of the port-
folio than William Adams is VAM. On
this latter share I had struck the jackpot
in August when it rose 50 p.c. to 6s. 6d.
within two weeks of the purchase. Now
the price is back to ss. and the prospects
are still the same. Let me repeat that
this company holds several leases scat-
tered throughout Queensland, NSW and
Victoria a wide geographic spread that
is matched by the spread of minerals
being prospected on these leases. They
include copper, silver, lead, zinc,
molybdenum and tin. A small purchase
of 200 shares at ss. was made.
Still further down the price scale was
the purchase of 400 Talcott Factors
shares at 3s lOd. So far, this has been
the cheapest the share has ever been.
I hope it remains that way. The price
fall follows an announcement of a
sharply reduced profit. The sudden in-
terruption to the earnings record was as
a result of write-offs in particular the
secured loans to Lithgow Woollen Mills
Ltd and Target Woollen Mills Ltd.
Despite the assurance of the managing
director, in the interim report, of a full
recovery of these debts, it was generally
expected that some loss w'ould be in-
curred. So this price fall really relates
to the past. A price reaction should
ultimately occur, and I’ll be out.
With the debit balance getting out of
hand, I decided to sell the Merco and
Tooheys. The loss on Merco just offset
the profit on Tooheys.
The week’s transactions were:
SOLD
500 Tooheys, 10/11 £268
200 Merco, 12/9 £125
BOUGHT
200 YAM, 5/- £si
500 W. Adams rights, 5/7 £l4O
400 Talcott Factors, 3/10 £79
The debit balance is down to £4ll.
The week’s dealings left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Steamships
Trading, new 25/5/65 9/6 9/3
s °o° c NA , UC , u 28/6/65 V- 7/3
, 2 ™I d debentures 5/7/65 £2OO £2OO
1000 NG Gold 27/7/65 4/4 4/3
400 Wibroc 19 8 '65 13/6 13/-
400 Tennyson 19/8/65 7/9 8/6
200 Mt Isa 7/9/65 36/6 36/6
500 Concrete Ind. 8/9/65 4/7 4 7
500 Fire Fighting T3./9/65 6/3 6/-
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/- 11/-
200 Roofes 23'9/65 18/- 19/-
200 VAM 28/9/65 5/- 4/9
500 W. Adams rts 29/9/65 5/7 5/7
400 Talcott 29/9/65 3/10 3/10


iw
*€
m
A
0
~.•*«**** m?- !
%
\\v
V
M
.
-
•SEK
*
OZO
«:
•up
*■'7 .. :
zs *
X
f £:.' t* : '
# m
2S
m
i
* .. • ~- jSrh' ». v SSStei
* -**
*
#
••*«*<#*
• _ * A
■
SK
■I
Hennessy is the Greatest Name in Cognac Because...!
for two centuries the Hennessy family through seven
generations have built up the largest and finest reserves of
Cognac in the world. That’s why the standard of
excellence never changes. The high quality is guaranteed.
HENNESSY
BRAS ARME
COGNAC
In this Distinctive Bottle.
N.S.W. Agents: Gollin & Co. Ltd., Harbottle, Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd. All other States: Gollin & Co. Ltd


-
■
mm
ismsmsF- . tamm
: '
m
mam
■ -
m
mm
mm
:
.. '
MBM
u
■
mm®
M
m
■■■' :
■
s£«n
:
m
m
■»: ;;'
1
■
come on over to
110 LDt 'i 'i!
Got an eye for beauty? A yen for some real driving
excitement? Then join the trend-setters behind the
wheel of Big Style Holden. Drive it on a stop-and-go
shopping trip. Or a jaunt in the country. Go flatten a
few hills with its lively power (three engines to choose
from up to the fiery 140 h.p. X2*). Discover the
superb smoothness of its power disc brakes*.. If
Holden doesn’t set your spirits soaring, it’s hard to
know what would!
Just looking at it makes you feel good. It's sleek.
Curved. Styled to stay modern for years —to keep
Holden’s resale value best of ’em all. And there’s
even more to be happy about when you see what a
difference those curves make inside. They give
Holden more room than any car near its price!
Sounds good? Well come on over. See why
lots more people are getting lots more fun in Big
Style Holden.
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR. PRICES FROM £BB5 PLUS TAX.
OPTIONAL EXTRAS.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S J 153
