

The Bulletin
KHE FEEL OF VIETNAM
APRIL 24, 1965
TIMES
ha*RV J.WuroK
Were YOU there
then?”
tegistered in fc, ttfr**- by P»s, - .
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $?


Country
Life
-the taste that’s right!
m
>C_
5F
v
, ™
~-ritr||
falNTPtf
I Life
a o
£#so
£/fp
85
Fi lter
Ml« 4
Country Life tastes
the way you'd like
a filter cigarette to taste!


Changes
ahead
for business ...
Strong winds of change are blowing at
every management level —in finance, manu-
facturing, marketing.
To executives who are acquiescent with
things the way they are, the winds of
change will be cold indeed.
To those with initiative they will be warm
with opportunities.
At the manufacturing and production level
we, at Lincoln Electric, can help you know
about these changes in our particular
field.
As Australia’s largest manufacturer of arc
welding machines and electrodes, our big
interest is in improving the efficiency and
profitability of welding in your hands as
a customer.
If you are not getting this sort of help, hut
only welding supplies as ordered, call in
the man from Lincoln.
In the ever developing field of welding
you should have his help. It is included
in the price of welding equipment and
supplies. Why not take advantage of it?
THE LINCOLN ELECTRIC COMPANY
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • NEW ZEALAND
The Bulletin
VOLUME 87
NUMBER 4443
Established 1880
APRIL 24
1965
Gallipoli
All-too-violent birth of a nation .... 42
AROUND MELBOURNE 37
ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT 48
BUSINESS AND FINANCE 57
CROSSWORD 82
FORUM 40
LETTERS /. 38
MAN ON THE LAND 78
NATIONAL NOTEBOOK 9
ON THE MARGIN 49
OVERSEAS 26
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
SHORT STORY 46
TANNER 12
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
GENERAL
The State Aid Election 14
Professors v. Academic Freedom .. 15
Go Tell It On The Mountain .... 16
“The Times” for a Change? 32
A Different Prague 35
REVIEWS
THEATRE: Semi-Detached 49
BOOKS
Undertones of War, by Edmund
Blunden 53
The Professionals, by Derwent
May 53
The Man with the Donkey, by Sir
Irving Benson 55
Marooned, by Martin Caidin 55
FINANCE
Harold Holt's Chance 57
Cox on the Brink .... 65
Speculator’s Diary 77
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088.''Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504,


portrait of a pioneer!.
. . the first of 5,000,000!
You are looking at the grizzled, steely
features of a true Australian pioneer—
a pioneer with a long record of service
to the community. It is the original
EMMCO electricity meter made by an
all-Australian venture—the Electricity
Meter Manufacturing Company—better
known today as Email. And here the
meter you see assumes significance of
a special kind.
For today, Emmco has grown and diver-
sified beyond recognition, it became
one of the founding companies of the
vast group of electrical and industrial
manufacturers called Email. The one
meter has become many: in fact, the
meters that measure the water that
comes in your tap, the phone calls you
make, the gas your stove uses—even
the minutes you park your car—are all
relatives of the pioneer meter that is
illustrated here.
They are typical of the way in which
Email and its other activities touch
your way of life every day—quietly,
unobtrusively but with a proud record
of service to Australia.
Email Limited
ELECTRICAL & INDUSTRIAL
MANUFACTURERS


The economy of NCR Quality .
a.
i
■■■■■,
■ w
Selecting an accounting machine is no small
decision, because what you buy will affect your
office costs (and net profits) for years ahead. It’s
less a matter of initial capital outlay and more a
question of how much per year your accounting
machine system will cost over its working life.
That’s why NCR is the logical choice of
thousands of Australian businessmen who recog-
nize the economy of Quality. An NCR Accounting
Machine costs you less in the long run because of
its superior mechanical reliability, resulting in
lower maintenance expense and extra years of
faithful service. Unlike a watch, which may be five
seconds fast or slow, an accounting machine must
always be accurate to the penny. To ensure this
accuracy, every twelfth person at our factories is
an inspector ... a simple but powerful slogan
guides every individual and combined effort that
goes into the manufacture of NCR equipment —■
“An NCR product is 100% WRONG if it is not
100% RIGHT!”
Whatever your accounting requirements, it will
pay you to see what NCR has to offer. Call your
local NCR office today!
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


' l ' - * /
litttlllll
S„1 ■
.
aw
They live in a warmer climate at N? 17
(and spend far less on fuel!)
Walk into No. 17 and you'll find it's ten degrees
warmer than next door. And a family feeling pretty
pleased with itself. Pleased at being warm and
cosy, pleased at saving pounds and pounds on fuel
bills.
When Insulwool goes in you not only get a warmer
home you save as much as 40% on fuel bills,
oil, gas, electricity or solid fuel. Insulwool keeps
the cold out where it belongs, and the heat in
where you want it. There are many other reasons
why you'll be pleased you decided on genuine
Insulwool. It keeps the summer heat out! It is
indestructible; can’t burn and lasts forever. Easy
to install too. And, of course, Insulwool adds
extra value to your home.
Don’t put up with another uncomfortable winter.
Phone the Insulwool people now and get a free
quotation. Do it now before the really cold wea-
ther and the rush start.
Insulwool
INSULWOOL PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
A Division of Australian Gypsum Industries Ltd.
Melbourne 34-3611 Sydney 638-0571 Brisbane 67-4091
Adelaide 46-2334 Canberra 9-2946 Hobart 3-1974
I’m interested in keeping my home
warmer in winter, cooler in summer.
Please send all the facts.
Name -
Address


A
? ..
Hi
:r-
-*
IK
ff
il
m
': x
mm
m
fiiSSit
m
m
m
Gain space with...
Brownbuilt
COMPACTUS
MOBILE STORAGE SYSTEM
AN INVITATION TO
Seeing is
believing!
Just a 10 minute preview of the 30 minute colour
film “That’s Compactus” will convince you that
here’s a mobile storage system built especially
for you! Our representative will take only 10
minutes of your time all he needs is a power-
point; no time wasted' setting up screens, etc.
We believe you’ll count it one of the most
profitable 10 minutes you’ve ever spent! Call
our office today and arrange for this preview or,
if you already know about Compactus, we will
gladly arrange for private or group screening of
the complete film. Find out now how
Compactus can save you space, time and
money. It will take
JUST 10 MINUTES OF YOUR TIME!
rownbuilt
ILIMITED Wm
STEEL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
-r'W®-.
'*s£ &
a®
K
USE OUR
FREE ADVISORY
SERVICE
MELBOURNE, 48 0311; SYDNEY, 27 7821; BRISBANE, 4/ 1747; ADELAIDE 76 5111-
PERTH, 50 1241; HOBART, 2 6571; LAUNCESTON, 2 5584. DISTRIBUTORS IN METROPOLITAN
CANBERRA, 9 4824;
& COUNTRY CENTRES.
5035/S


\ 1
jA
m
F
I \
\
\
a
Hina
v
V “el
W£
ts,
• i. t
ste&taiSjSS.
urn
ar
*
m
&
~*r
V.V I
\\\ i
V
Nt
w
19
VV-*
-
\h
m o
«
/y J
/,
3
BUILD AUSTRALIA
BUY AUSTRALIAN
Ampol is Australian owned. Profits go back to Australians and Into Australian
development. Ampol pioneered major oil exploration and is still helping drill
well after well in the vital search.
Currently, Ampol is building the first Australian-owned petrol refinery.
Ampol is one of our largest companies, and operates the largest Australian
company-owned overseas shipping fleet in this country. It is a ready sponsor
of national interests in sport, education, industry, art and science.
BY MORE THAN
■
UD AUSTRALIANS
fIMPDL


National Notebook
Life’s Work v
Tf the Gallipoli landing were repeated
tomorrow we could be reasonably
certain of seeing it on film in a television
news bulletin within 48 hours. On that
Sunday morning in 1915 there were no
cinematographers present and officially
Australia did not have any photographic
recording of the war, still or film, until
1917. . Yet if there is no film of the
actual landing there is some of the Galli-
poli campaign. The recent BBC series,
“The Great War" used it and CBS who
are now working on a similar series in
the United States will use it too —the
same 1000 feet.
It comes from the four-million feet of
film from both world wars held in the
vaults at the Australian War Memorial
in Canberra. But as the Memorial’s
Chief Historical Records Officer Mr
Bruce Harding explained, "Who shot the
Gallipoli film is a bit of a mystery.” Of
the four-million feet only 100,000 deals
with the First World War. Coverage of
the Second World War was much more
detailed with cinematographers at every
major campaign. Together with 250,000
still photographs, 70,000 books, and a
large collection of war diaries, correspon-
dence files of units, military maps, sound
recordings, and unit magazines, the film
provides the source material for the
books still to be written, the television
series still to be produced, and the army
manuals still to be prepared.
But hadn't the story of “The Anzacs”
been told, especially on film, we asked
Mr Harding a few days ago? Certainly
much of the film and photographic
material on the campaigns had now been
used, he agreed, but there were always
new angles and there was quite a lot of
film of sidelights to the campaigns which
could make whole series in themselves.
One suggestion which arose out of an
inspection of some of the film catalogues
was the wartime entertainment business.
Mr Harding’s main concern is to pre-
serve and catalogue his department’s
mass of film and still photographs in
such a way so that any conceivable need
of the most demanding future researcher
or producer can be met. Doing this
for film is by far the more complex
task. “Someone might want one shot of
Field Marshal Blarney walking down the
steps of a plane, in tropical uniform, in
New Guinea, facing right and saluting.
Well the catalogue is designed to provide
that single shot if it's available.”
Painstaking is hardly the word for it.
Preservation alone requires the constant
re-examination of all film, frame by
frame, to test it for chemical deterio-
ration and the periodic production of
copies of all film to prevent this.
This is the work of the Keeper of
Films —literally a lifetime occupation.
A films officer has the job of cataloguing
and indexing the film in fine detail.
Having viewed the film he cuts out any
duplicate shots but does not edit, leaving
the film as shot in its original sequence.
Then going through it scene by scene
on a viewer he prepares a scene list—the
basic document for the library which
includes every piece of action listed in
minute detail, a resume of the action,
any accompanying history of identifying
details, the exact identification of wea-
pons, machinery, and every person of
major importance in the particular piece
of film. Sometimes the original informa-
tion, the cameraman’s “dope sheet” sup-
plied with the film, is detailed and the
work made easier, but often the starting
point for identification will be only the
color patch on an officer's hat. Having
given as complete and detailed a picture
as possible of every scene all film is then
cross-indexed in terms of place, name
and subject.
The whole job is about half completed.
Mr Harding says that he will be dis-
appointed if when he retires in 20 years’
time most of it will not have been com-
pleted, though he admits that he could
do with more staff than the present two
technical officers and a secretary.
Have there been any major finds?
“No, not really, there’s nothing spec-
tacular about this work. It's plain hard
solid yakka. We’re working for the
time when there’ll be nobody around who
can say that he was there.”
Leading Indignant
A/Trs Elizabeth Wolf, who went to
the Moscow Circus in Melbourne
with Mt Isa strike leader Pat Mackie,
comes from quite a family. Her maiden
name was Elizabeth Sutton of the Sut-
tons of Sutton’s music house. She has
been married three times. Her second
husband was the Russian - Australian
artist Danila Vassilieff and she is an
art teacher with the “Vassilieff-Wolf
school'’. Her third husband, Bill Wolf,
was killed in an accident at Hurstbridge
last year when his crane came into con-
tact with a live electric wire.
Mrs Wolf is a writer as well as an
artist and she is a regular contributor to
magazines. She has been to the Vienna
Peace Congress and several years back
she had a book published, “Peking,
Moscow Letters” ... a four months’
journey to and from Vienna by way of
People’s China and the Soviet Union.
She would be Warrandyte’s leading
character and that is saying something
around Warrandyte. If there is any in-
dignation meeting on, you can bet that
Elizabeth Wolf is the leading indignant.
There's a saying: “If you are in trouble,
go to Betty.” And she is good at fixing
things. Her last indignation meeting
“The One Day” in France
A lan Seymour’s Anzac Day play,
“The One Day of the Year”, is
scheduled for an extensive tour of
France. It will be produced in French,
"A doctor? Lord, no. A
hypochondriac."
at the theatre at Bourges, which is one
of the State-run maisons de culture, and
a leading provincial theatre.
Rehearsal will begin in August and
the play will open in November. It will
later be played in other provincial cities,
including Lyons and Grenoble, and will
open in Paris in February, 1966. The
company has a guarantee of a minimum
of 60 performances.
M. Goldman, who is preparing the
French text of the play, has asked the
Department of External Affairs for
photos or drawings of stage sets used
for the play in Australia, photos of
interiors of Australian working-class
homes and any available photos of Sali
Herman’s paintings of these.
M. Goldman has had help from Alan
Moorehead in translating the play. He
says he chose “The One Day of the
Year” because he considers it a good
play, but also because he is keen to intro-
duce Australia to his audiences. He con-
siders that the play illustrates Australia’s
growing maturity which is generally
unacknowledged in France. He feels,
too, that the theme is relevant because
of the gulf in France between the
anciens combattants and the post-war
generation. It will be the first French
production of an Australian play.


.
I . 1 I
if
mm
MM
m
■kidbiw
TT»
.»<*'*>•*
« >V
-vmt
■'
SS2S2
s£i
; ..-
. . V
.
■.*■• v/i
£v.^
S»g*
& r^sisfe
Kv PSMi
1- *••*•?
/’• ;«%>
II 1
<W
>•-■••"• '/j
v i >P9ft ; A'/ .v'A 'v ;iWi >
■.. , I v ß # l#nvf™M •■•/,• ,w;
i.‘. ;
< “i 'I f'iw 1 /'' 't J
| \mw
- I-., :'\ ****
Recently a mob of cattle a thousand head was sent by rail from
Armidale, in New South Wales, to Shark Lake, Western Australia
a distance of 2,410 miles. Two diesel-hauled trains were required
for this massive livestock lift, believed to be a world record. Off-loaded
for rests along the route, every beast reached its destination safely
and in good condition.
THE
NOWADAY
DROVERS
The old order changes into new . . . the long dusty stock routes have merged into
gleaming railway tracks . . . the hobble chains and campware have yielded to the
more purposeful music of the diesels rushing forward with the power of 1,800 horses.
The Railways of Australia are carrying more live-
stock than ever before—and providing clean and
restful travel for the overlanders.
The nationally important story of our massive
sheep and cattle herds —their movements to sale-
yards and abattoirs, to distant markets, to and
from agistment in times of drought—is one in
which the Railways of Australia play a vital role.
Livestock, coal, wheat, wool and other great prim-
aries have been, and are, the stuff and substance
of our progress—and for over a century the rail-
ways, in meeting their transport needs, have made
substantial contribution to the nation’s continu-
ing development and growth.
0
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia.
ROABIB.F.P.


was over a dam scheme which threat-
ened to flood Warrandyte. The crowd
overflowed out of the Mechanics’ Insti-
tute into the street and the meeting got
what it wanted.
You could safely say she is comfort-
ably well off. She dresses well and
tastefully. She drives a quite new red
station sedan and she lives in a modern,
very comfortable-looking house with a
bushland setting at the Tborak end of
Warrandyte. She's an inveterate letter-
writer to the local newspapers and you
will see.her in the local pub on Saturday
nights, always at the hub of a talkative
group.
Almost Indestructible
"Orisbane’s Roman Catholic Arch-
bishop, Sir James Duhig, died at 93
as he had lived—gallantly. For a month
he lay on the brink of death, but his great
heart refused to stop beating through
crisis after crisis. Shortly before his
death he told a close friend: “I’m in-
destructible, don’t you know . . . There
is so much to be done.”
Ironically, although the Archbishop
handled millions of pounds of church
funds during his long life he is expected
to leave only a small estate. His suc-
cessor, Archbishop P. M. O'Donnell, said
last week: “1 do not think Archbishop
Duhfg owned anything. He gave all he
had to the Church and to the poor and
needy.”
He was a pioneer in many ways. He
was the first Catholic bishop to fly and
he also at one time bought Roma oil
shares, confident that Queensland had a
great future in oil. However, although he
may eventually be proven right, he
bought too early and sold too early.
One of the most significant features of
the impressive funera! was the special
request ty the Anglican Archbishop of
Brisbane, Archbishop Strong, that he
should take part in the procession. The
request came after most of the proces-
sion had moved off but was granted
quickly. Archbishop Duhig was an out-
spoken advocate of the unity of the
world’s Christian churches.
Season Ticket
As we hurried up the steps of Sydney
Town Hall the other night, we re-
called reading that the ABC began giving
concerts in 1936. (That was the year
Edward the Eighth abdicated to marry
Mrs Wallis Simpson; recent photographs
confirm how long ago that was.)
In the intervening 29 years the ABC
has built up a Sydney Symphony
Orchestra subscription list of some
10,000 music-lovers. This year the
presence of Dean Dixon as musical
director and the possibility of an over-
seas tour might give the series a small
fillip, but the orchestra has won an
unvarying loyalty which cannot be
matched by the other cities.
As well as the 10,000 who pay be-
tween £3 6s. and £6 a year for 10 con-
certs, 6000 under 29 pay £1 12s. 6d. for
six Youth Concerts. Seats are renewed
each year, but only a limited number are
available to new subscribers. Good
concert seats are so hard to get that it
is not unusual for a deceased subscriber
to will seats to a favorite relative or
friend.
Many of the subscribers have sat in
the same seat for more than a genera-
tion, and grown old in the shadow of
those long, grey organ pipes. When the
concerts eventually move to the Opera
House, the old place will be missed. No
more rumble of trains underneath, or
high-pitched whine of a fire engine to
spoil the soprano's top note or the
celebrity pianist’s pianissimo*
But at the beginning of the 1965 series
everything is still the same. Show
tickets, please, show tickets, and the
crowd moves slowly in. The uniformed
attendants are the same, too, and receive
nods of recognition from many in the
crowd.
An arthritic dowager is complaining
that the lift is late. “Never had to wait
for this lift in 40 years coming to the
Town Hall,” she berates an attendant.
“The mob’s late tonight,” murmura
one of the elderly attendants as he stands
asking patrons if they know where their
seats are.
What a question!
With a confident smile, music-lovers
brush aside any offers of help and stride
down the aisle to their very own seat.
Some subscribers form firm friendships
with the people sitting next to them,
year in, year out. Romances have been
known to start. On the other hand,
some never do more than nod faintly to
their neighbors.
One luckless fellow, lulled to sleep in
the stuffy atmosphere of the hall after
a long, hard day at the office, began to
snore softly during the Brahms violin
concerto. His neighbor, a none-too-
friendly middle-aged woman, woke him
and reproved him severely.
He apologised and said shyly that he
had seen her take a nap occasionally.
She told him indignantly that she never
slept during a concert. “When I close
my eyes,” she said, “1 am in the deep-
est ecstasy,” and she never spoke to
him again.
Cover Picture
week’s cover, a Commonwealth
Government recruiting poster for
World War I, is from the Australian
War Memorial and is reproduced with
their permission.
ARISTOCRATIC SCANDALS
fyuLLetin
80 Years Ago: April 26, 1885
T’HE Melbourne aristocracy received
A a severe shock by the publication
of the evidence in the Malpas divorce
case. There will be differences of
opimon, but we think that publica-
tion of details (in the “popular" Press)
has one beneficent effect; it terrifies
persons who would do evil but that
they know will be published in the
Press. The reports of the “leading”
papers are so meagre that the culprits
need hardly be ashamed of their mis-
deeds. There is a squeamishness which
• ... „ M e .
is worse than licence. Suppose all the
underground working of our poll-
ticians, the corruption of our public
o icers, could see the light of day
like the Malpas doings: would there
not be a sudden and salutary punti-
cation? What must Melbourne society
have thought ol the revelation that
a leading “squatter,” a person who
no doubt had the entry into the most
“exclusive” circles, one time kept a
black woman as a mistress? Has he
been ostracised? if so, -we know of
many a great swell here and in Mel-
bourne who should go to Coventry
with him. How these men, who know
i n their hearts they have been guilty,
must tremble lest someone who knew
them in their hot youth will blab.
One of those individuals kept seven
or black ladies, and because a
f ockl ™" cho \ c 1° run away with
L°L sfeTeT n T'T , "’“f
—he mustered all hands, went in hot
pursuit, and recaptured his sootv
houris! Yet some of these men be the
persons who now sit on high and
legislate for a benighted country, who
denounce wickedness of all kinds
an d The Bulletin especially, and
who fine an unfortunate toper ss.
or 24 hours, and deliver him a severe
lecture. What a hypocritical world
this is.


Tanner
"So after dispassionate objective analysis we voted against the Right-wing Goldwaterite!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bishop Muldoon’s Sigh of Relief
The May 1 elections in NSW are of
major national importance since
it is now generally agreed that for
the first time in over 20 years the
Liberal and Country Parties have
more than a good chance of toppling
the NSW Labor Government. If this
Government does fall, it will mean
the fall of the last so-called Right-
wing Labor stronghold and final proof
that the ALP can only hope to come
out of the wilderness if it undergoes
a root-and-branch purge and reform.
Hence the significance of the
Liberal Party’s offer of direct State
Aid to Catholic schools on the pattern
introduced in Canberra by Sir Robert
Menzies. This offer may clinch the
Liberals’ victory. The point is that
it places those Catholics who have
traditionally supported the ALP in
an impossible dilemma. All parties
are offering some form of aid, but
the forms differ widely. The ALP
obviously offers the least; under pres-
sure from its Federal Executive it is
offering no direct aid to sc'hools what-
soever, only some allowances to
scholars for such things as text-books.
How can the traditional Catholic
ALP voter support such a policy?
The DLP on the other hand offers
direct aid to schools, but most
Catholics are well aware that the
DLP does not take State Aid very
seriously as an issue. Its main pre-
occupation is with national security,
and it says with perfect consistency
that the "defeat of the ALP which
harbors so many fellow-travellers is
the dominant issue everywhere in
Australia today. Compared with this,
State Aid is a mere triviality. How,
then, can the non-DLP Catholic who
is dedicated to the principle of State
Aid vote with much enthusiasm for
the DLP?
The Liberals, however, are con-
scientiously offering direct aid to
Catholic schools, and already Bishop
Muldoon has welcomed Mr Askin’s
proposals in these words: “They must
bring a sigh of relief and give hope
to hundreds and thousands of parents
who have taken too much punishment
over the question of the education of
their children in the schools of their
choice.” In these circumstances, how
can a large percentage of Catholic
‘ voters not vote for the Liberals?
There is one other aspect: Mr
Askin’s offer is modest £lOO,OOO
direct aid in the first year rising to
£200,000 a year subsidises interest up
.\ A , \
to 5 per cent on buildings—but what
he has put in issue is the very principle
of State Aid. If Catholics do not vote
for the Liberals now, one assumes that
this must strengthen the hand not only
of "these Liberals who oppose State
Aid but also of those ALP officials
who claim that State Aid is not neces-
sary to keep Catholics voting for the
ALP. It would, in other words, set
back the cause of State Aid in NSW
for many years.
For most non-Catholics (and leaving
aside the anti-Aid bigots), Mr Askin’s
move may be a master-stroke, since it
may turn out to be the necessary step
both to get rid of the Renshaw Gov-
ernment and also to clear the decks
for the urgent reform of the ALP.
A New Russel Ward Case?
‘The best one can say of the extra-
ordinary behavior last week by the
Professorial Board of the University
of Sydney in its refusal on political
grounds to appoint Dr Frank Knop-
felmacher to the staff of the Philo-
sophy Department, is that, once the
professors who did not attend the
meeting realise what a blatant act of
political discrimination has been com-
mitted in their name, they will take
steps to reverse the decision. Already
moves are reported to be under way
to this end.
The starkness of the political pre-
judice that moved the Board to reject
Dr Knopfelmacher is shown in the
fact that almost no one challenges his
academic qualifications. In any case
that matter had already been settled
by the fact that the academic sub-com-
mittee which examined the applicants
for the vacant position in the Philo-
sophy Department had unanimously
recommended Dr Knopfelmacher's ap-
pointment. The real objection to his
candidature was that he is a committed
and fervent anti-Communist. At the
Professorial Board meeting the opposi-
tion to him was headed by Professor
W. Christiansen, a noted Leftist, some
of whose supporters not only used
such slogans as “McCarthyite” and
“Goldwaterite” but apparently used
them to good effect.
No doubt, when the matter is finally
cleared up, there are many aspects
of the affair that will be ideal subjects
for irony. What is one to make, for
example, of Professor A. E. Alexander
who has so liberally attacked the
University of NSW for political dis-
crimination in its appointments and
now supports what may be one of the
crudest acts of political discrimination
in the history of Australian univer-
sities? What is one to make of Pro-
fessor F. May, who has often ex-
pressed a boundless free-thinking dis-
dain for the servility and conformity
of Australian academics but who saw
fit last week to vote against the ap-
pointment of one of the most obviously
free-thinking and independent teachers
in Australian universities? (This well-
known “controversialist” is reported
in the Press as doubting Dr Knopfel-
macher’s ability to discuss Marxism
objectively. It would be interesting
to hear May and Knopfelmacher in a
public debate on this subject, and let
the rest of us judge.) What are we to
make, too, of those professors who did
not even turn up to vote?
One may be able at least to answer
the last question. Surely they will take
immediate action to protect their Uni-
versity from becoming a national and
international scandal. If ever a move
seemed calculated to strengthen de-
mands for a non-academic appeals
tribunal to handle appeals from the
Professorial Board, the Board’s be-
havior last week does. Such a develop-
ment would represent a serious blow
to academic autonomy and any move
towards it must be resisted. But the
main responsibility lies with academics
themselves to maintain the ordinary
standards of academic liberalism.
Australian universities cannot afford
another Russel Ward case.


THIS AUSTRALIA
NSW
A State Aid Election
The Catholic perspective
BISHOP MULDOON
J. PAGAN
By BRIAN JOHNS
SYDNEY The promise of capital
aid for independent schools is the land-
mark in the Liberals’ “New Horizon"
plan for New South Wales, outlined by
the Leader of the Opposition, Mr R. W.
Askin, in his policy speech last week.
The direct aid promised by Mr Askin is
modest. A Liberal Government would
allocate £lOO,OOO in the first year rising
to £200,000 a year to subsidise interest
up to 5 per cent for terms of not more
than 20 years to assist existing or new
non-State schools.
It is the principle, however, that will
matter to the Catholic voter whose de-
cision on May 1 could well break the
Labor Party regime in Macquarie Street.
Nothing has earned Mr Askin’s col-
league, the Prime Minister, Sir Robert
Menzies, more goodwill among Catho-
J. CARRICK
lies than his similar interest subsidy of
loans for independent schools in the
Australian Capital Territory and his
direct aid for science blocks throughout
the Commonwealth. Sir Robert’s pro-
mise of science block aid in the 1963
Federal election and its implementation
by last year's Senate election were the
decisive factors in the swing from Labor
in NSW.
Despite the rapidly advancing aid to
the parents with children at independent
schools—under election pressure now
being offered by all parties in scholar-
ships, transport and textbook subsidies—
it is direct aid to schools -that Catholic
authorities regard as crucial. Con-
fronted with the immediate problem of
a massive and seemingly ever-accelera-
ting building programme, the over-riding
issue for Catholic planners is for funds
for capital expansion.
A finance plan for Catholic schools in
the Sydney Archdiocese—-to be an-
nounced with remarkably nice timing by
Cardinal Gilroy about the end of the
month—underlines the benefit to Catho-
lics of Mr Askin's interest subsidy. This
new plan, still under close wraps, pro-
vides for a £3,000,000 loan scheme to be
raised by a central Catholic building
fund. The scheme was evolved several
months ago, but no action has been
taken towards its implementation for a
number of weeks. For the first time
Catholics in the Sydney Archdiocese are
to be paid interest on money provided
for their schools. The interest offered will
be on a sliding scale ranging up to a
maximum of five per cent for money
loaned for a period of three years. Those
loaning the money will be issued with
debentures or inscribed stock. Officials
estimate that the funds’ interest bill will
be between £lOO,OOO and £150,000 a
year when the full £3,000,000 is raised.
The Sydney plan has evolved from a
building fund programme announced by
the Cardinal in the middle of last year.
This scheme provided for a straight-out
levy of £3,000,000 spread over all Catho-
lic parishes in the Sydney Archdiocese.
The response, however, has been extre-
mely disappointing. It is being shown
that Catholics have reached their limit in
providing donations. In this situation, Mr
Askin’s election boon is seen in its Catho-
lic perspective. Needless to say it is a
perspective that not all members of the
State Liberal Party want to share.
Hard on the Leader of th'e Opposition's
policy speech at Dee Why, Liberal voices
were raised in protest. The Association
for the Preservation of Public School
Education, formed some months ago and
including among its better-known mem-
bers Sir William Durant, a treasurer of
the NSW Council of Churches, Mrs P.
Jackson, president of the Women's Group
of the NSW Liberal Party and Mr J. A.
McCallum, a former Liberal Senator,
voiced its protest.
A clear picture of the steps leading to
Mr Askin's attitude on State Aid cannot
be drawn at this stage. Yet it is known
that at least one senior NSW Federal
Liberal Minister gave impetus to the de-
cision. It will also be remembered .that
the Prime Minister’s decision to include
direct aid in his 1963 election policy
came very late in his campaign planning
after initiatives from NSW. These same
forces were working for the State de-
cision.
Perhaps most is owed to the efforts
of the NSW general secretary, Mr John
Carrick, and the president, Mr John
Pagan, both of whom have waged a
vigorous campaign for the Liberal Party's
State Aid policy. Whatever their and
Mr Askin’s difficulties over the issue
during the campaign, they must have
been reassured by the unanimous adop-
tion by the Parliamentary Party of the
policy.
A sidelight of the Liberal Party’s de-
cision on direct aid is the strength it
could give to Bishop Muldoon, one of
the three auxiliary bishops to Cardinal
Gilroy. Bishop Muldoon’s known sym-
pathy to the Liberal Party is in contrast
with the Cardinal's senior auxiliary,
Bishop Carroll, who maintains close links
with the Labor Party and is Cardinal
Gilroy’s adviser on education matters.
Bishop Carroll represents the Church’s


traditional rapport with the ALP which
will almost certainly be broken if the
Liberal Party wins this election. The
end of this social phenomenon in New
South Wales at least could well be the
most important long-term effect of Mr
Askin’s new policy.
Meanwhile, NSW Labor leaders are
suffering over the State Aid issue. Among
the State’s top Labor men there is no
ideological conviction against direct aid.
They would willingly have offered it
themselves but for the ALP's Federal
Executive which, as custodian of ALP
policy between Federal Conferences, has
resisted moves to extend direct aid. And
instead of following the Prime Minister's
well-known tactic of sheeting home
Left-wing domination of the Labor Party
as a threat to the defence and security of
the country, Mr Askin might do better
by emphasising the restrictions placed
on State Labor’s education policy by the
ALP Federal Executive.
From the outset the Labor Premier,
Mr J. Renshaw, has made it plain that
he will challenge Mr Askin’s policy as
extravagant and beyond the State’s
capacity. Mr Renshaw’s argument may
carry weight with an electorate which
has shown itself increasingly suspicious
of political promises, and with the in-
formed voters who are aware that the
Labor Government stands high in the
assessment of the Commonwealth
Government as an efficient manager of
the State’s affajxs, probably the best of
all the State Governments.
Labor, however, runs the real risk
that the capacity-to-pay argument will be
dangerously academic in a situation
where a narrow margin could decide the
fate of 21 seats. Among these seats
are Goulburn and neighboring Monaro
where the education issue will predo-
minate—which brings us back again to
Mr Askin's landmark of capital aid for
independent schools.
UNIVERSITIES
Professors v. Academic Freedom
Political engineering on the Board
By SAM LIPSKI
SYDNEY Perhaps only C. P. Snow
could have done the situation justice. At
a meeting almost without precedent the
Professorial Board at Sydney University
last week rejected a recommendation for
appointment from its own sub-committee
—a rejection which showed every sign
of becoming the academic cause celebre
of this year, and for many years.
By a vote of 24-19 the Board rejected
the appointment as Senior Lecturer in
Philosophy of Dr Frank Knopfelmacher,
at present lecturer in Psychology at the
University of Melbourne.
While it had been clear ever since
December, when Dr Knopfelmacher’s
candidature was first put forward, and
recommended by Professor David Arm-
strong of the Philosophy Department,
that leading Left-wing academics would
try to block the appointment, the final
rejection came as a surprise to those who
supported it.
Many feel that, although the opposi-
tion was organised and led by Left-
wingers for political reasons, many pro-
fessors normally regarded as liberal-
fninded (including some who have been
outspoken on the issue of academic free-
dom) were, in the words of one profes-
sor, “played for suckers by the Left-
wingers”.
Because of the political nature of the
affair and because of the implications for
academic freedom it raises, the Board's
rejection probably marks only a phase
rather than the end of the efforts to
have Dr Knopfelmacher appointed to a
position for which he has been highly
recommended. Already some professors
have moved for a recommittal of the
appointment.
The controversial nature of the can-
didature was clear from the first meeting
of the appointments sub-committee in
December when the matter was deferred
until Professor Armstrong had returned
from a visit to Stanford University,
California. In March, the committee
decided unanimously (with one absten-
tion), to Dr Knopfelmacher
for the vacancy. The committee in-
cluded the professors who would be most
closely associated with him in his acade-
mic work as a teacher of political philo-
sophy—Professor A. K. Stout of Philo-
sophy, Professor R. N. Spann of Govern-
ment, and Professor W. O'Neill of Psy-
chology.
have moved for a recommittal of the
appointment.
The controversial nature of the can-
didature was clear from the first meeting
of the appointments sub-committee in
December when the matter was deferred
until Professor Armstrong had returned
from a visit to Stanford University,
California. In March, the committee
decided unanimously (with one absten-
tion), to recommence Dr Knopfelmacher
for the vacancy. The committee in-
cluded the professors who would be most
closely associated with him in his acade-
mic work as a teacher of political philo-
sophy—Professor A. K. Stout of Philo-
sophy, Professor R. N. Spann of Govern-
ment, and Professor W. O'Neill of Psy-
chology.
Normally a recommendation from a
sub-committee means automatic accept-
ance by the Professorial Board. At the
meeting on March 2, however, when
Professor Armstrong moved that the
Board accept Dr Knopfelmacher's ap-
pointment. an alternative motion moved
by Professor Wilbur Christiansen, of the
Electrical Engineering Department,
(though sometimes ironically described
as the Professor of Pekinese) asked for
the appointment to be deferred to allow
the Board to consider an article written
by Dr Knopfelmacher in the autumn
1964 issue of the quarterly “20th Cen-
tury”. The article was on “The Situation
at the University of Melbourne” and was
PROFESSOR W. CHRISTIANSEN
strongly critical of Communist and Left-
wing influence at the university especially
in the ’forties and ’fifties.
Professor A. E. Alexander, who re-
signed from the University of New South
Wales following alleged political discri-
mination against Dr Russel Ward and is
now professor of Chemistry at Sydney,
supported Professor Christiansen. Their
motion was passed 22-8.
When the Professorial Board met last
week Professor Armstrong again moved
Dr Knopfelmacher's acceptance. In the
heated debate which followed, some op-
ponents of the appointment alleged that
Dr Knopfelmacher lacked the profes-
sional qualifications for the job. But
most used the article for their attacks and
opposition, claiming that it showed he
wouid be unable to teach political philo-
sophy objectively.
Another line of attack took up the
accusation by one professor that he was
“a Goldwaterite” (it had been “McCar-
thyite'’ at the previous meeting). Others
maintained that his criticism of groups
and individuals was such as to preclude
him from being a proper colleague in
Sydney's academic community.
Most of the vocal opposition came
from professors in the science faculties.
Although he did not speak until towards
the end of the debate, Professor Chris-
tiansen is regarded as one of the politi-
cal engineers behind the opposition. He
has' recently returned from Communist
China where he was an official guest of
the Government and is a brother-in-law
of Mr E. F. Hill,, leader of Australia’s
Peking Communists. (He told the
Petrov Royal Commission of 1955
that he had never been a member of the
Communist Party but that “the material-
ist conception of history is the one that
I favor”.)
Speakers in support of Dr Knopfel-
macher included Professor Spann and
Professor Julius Stone, Professor of
Jurisprudence. Professor Armstrong said


his support of Dr Knopfelmacher was
academic in the strictest sense. Having
a gap in the department because there
was no one with a special interest in
political philosophy, he believed that
Dr Knopfelmacher would do' the job
admirably. He regarded him as a bril-
liant lecturer and teacher in the subject
and emphasised that having himself
taught at Melbourne University he knew
first-hand that Dr Knopfelmacher made
a sharp distinction between his public
talks, which were admittedly often con-
troversial, and his academic lectures. In
these he expounded the views of others
in a very objective way and showed his
great skill as a teacher. His wide know-
ledge of psychology and sociology was
especially welcome in his subject be-
cause he would be able “to build intel-
lectual bridges” between related dis-
ciplines—and this was why the Depart-
ment of Government had supported his
candidature. After pointing out that in
addition to his-strong anti-Communism
Dr Knopfelmacher was also a social
democrat who had opposed fascism,
anti-semitism, apartheid and capital
punishment, Professor Armstrong said
the issue was a simple one of academic
freedom—were an academic's political
views, however controversial, outspoken
and hard-hitting he was in expressing
them, to be held against him and disbar
him from an academic appointment for
which his peers had recommended him?
That was still the basic question late
last week as moves continued to bring the
matter up again for professorial dis-
cussion.
MT ISA
Go Tell it on the Mountain
“Rebels without a cause"
BRISBANE Pat Mackie's old
buddies, the Mt Isa miners, last week
must have noticed just-more than Mackie
slip away from the scene of the tragic
and bitter seven and a half months-long
dispute. The miners must have been
shocked somewhat by the speed with
which the local officials of the Com-
mittee for Membership Control stepped
down from office. In fact, the dis-
mantling of the Isa branch of the CMC
took a lot less time than did its con-
struction. Mackie, who had led the
miners during the entire dispute, did
not do any agitating last week. Instead
he was in Melbourne watching the Mos-
cow State Circus (his companion: Mrs
Elizabeth Wolf, author of “Peking-Mos-
cow Letters”, a four months’ journey to
and from Vienna by way of Red China
and the Soviet Union), while at the Isa
the work force climbed well past the
1500 mark. Mackie told Pressmen he
was in Melbourne on “business” for the
CMC. But his mates at Mt Isa must
have thought otherwise. Each was aware
that the miners had voted three to one
to return to work, and had not Mackie
been in Mt Isa when every other mass
meeting had been held.
Though the great strike has ended, an
atmosphere of intense depression lingers
on. There is depression, when most
people thought there would be jubilation,
for the cold, hard fact is that the seven
and a half months-long dispute was a
tragedy and all tragedies leave as their
aftermath—depression, sadness and con-
fusion.
The overall cost of the dispute to Aus-
tralia was almost £4O million. The
miners, who just before they returned to
work, became “rebels without a cause”,
and other employees of Mount Isa Mines
Limited, lost £2 million in wages. Those
who went on strike for so long can
never hope to regain the wages they have
lost. Neither can they really hope to
be as happy working at the mine in
the future—as they might have been at
times in the past. This is because the
PAT MACKIE
dispute left its mark on every miner.
While the present working population
remains in Mount Isa, the town will
never really be the same.
Mount Isa Mines Limited was struck
a tremendous body blow by the strike.
Experts say that it will be six months,
at least, before the rich mine reaches its
former daily production of 10,000 tons
of ore, and it will be 18 months before
the company’s £65 million expansion
project gets back to schedule. Then
there was the cost to Queensland —the
effect on its growth.
Queenslanders last week seemed only
to want to forget the strike. But cooler
minds realised that this attitude was
extremely foolish. Since the end of the
strike there have been quiet, but strong
moves for a searching examination of
Queensland's industrial system. In spite
of courageous efforts by experts, such as
the State Industrial Commissioner, Mr
H. J. Harvey, the strike proved that the
Queensland industrial system is not even
barely adequate to settle a really bitter
dispute. Union leaders such as Jack
Egerton, president of the Left-wing
Queensland Trades and Labor Council—
which played a prominent part in the
dispute—were proved right in statements
that penal clauses “will solve nothing”.
There was a suggestion last week
that a commission should make a
thorough and impartial examination of
the causes and history of the dispute.
While this eventuality seems unlikely, it
would do every Australian good to listen
to some of the tape recordings taken
during the strike, if this was possible.
The most startling of these would be
those taken by Queensland’s special
police hidden in the projection box at the
Mount Isa Star picture theatre during
mass meetings. Only a handful of people
knew the police were there. The tapes
would show how professional agitators
can lead decent people past the point
of commonsense to stupidity.
CENSORSHIP—I
“Whisper”
Purveyors of pornography?
BROKEN HILL The all-powerful
Barrier Industrial Council has given yet
another example of its supreme control
over affairs in Broken Hill. Seven pedlars
of the Sydney publication, the ‘‘Kings
Cross Whisper’’, lobbed into Broken Hill
confident of big sales in this so-called
“city of sin”.
Then the BIC stepped in. labelled the
paper “utter filth” and placed a black
ban on it. The council invoked its
unique boycott measures to immediately
halt the “Whisper’s” distribution. Union-


(Advertisement)"
Me William *s
Wines
Successful
at Show
TOP AWARD FOR TABLE WINES
The Maurice O’Shea Table Wine
Trophy for the exhibitor gaining the
highest number of points for still table
wines has been awarded again to
McWilliam’s Wines.
Amongst McWilliam’s table wines,
which are becoming more and more
popular with Australian diners, are
Moselle and Lovedale Riesling.
The Moselle, an international gold
medal winner, is a delicate light white
table wine with the full aroma and
ilavour of the grapes from which it was
made. It is slightly sweet, well balanced
and crisp.
Lovedale Riesling has been a prize-
winner in many shows. It is a dry white
table wine of pale golden tint with a
delicate flavour and bouquet.
These wines complement all foods and
are particular favourites with sea foods,
white meats, chicken, omelettes and
other light dishes. Of course wine is
becoming more “fact” than “fancy” and
many people drink white wines with
any dish. White wines should always
be served well chilled.
One of the many fine red table wines
from McWilliam’s vineyards is Rosedale
Claret, another international gold medal
winner. It is recommended that red
table wines should be served at room
temperature with steaks, roasts, rich
poultry foods such as duck, and with
cheeses. Red table wines are becoming
very popular at barbecues. McWilliam’s
Rosedale Claret has been judged by
those who know as a choice, delicate
and fragrant wine.
Becoming increasingly popular is
Sparkling Chateau-Gay, a natural spark-
ling wine by McWilliam’s. This is a
gay light sparkling wine for all festive
occasions, and is also an international
gold medal winner.
These are just a few of the tab'e
wines of McWilliam’s, a Company proud
of being the winner of the Most Success-
ful Exhibitor Trophy for the forrrth
successive year at the Sydney Royal
Easter Show.
ists were not permitted to buy the paper,
nor give service of any kind to the ped-
lars. Hotel proprietors and businessmen
were warned that if they allowed the
paper to be sold on their premises they
in turn would be blacklisted. The
pedlars hurriedly bundled up all avail-
able copies of the “Whisper” and left
the next morning on the first available
transport, literally “run out of town”.
On top erf this, the pedlars were as-
sailed by a hostile Press. The Labor
daily, “Barrier Daily Truth”, broke with
tradition and dropped Premier Renshaw’s
policy speech to a secondary position to
spread across its front page an editorial
attacking the Labor Government for not
having banned the “Kings Cross Whis-
per”, as had been done in Queensland.
“Well, if the Government and police of-
ficials haven't any sense of responsibility,
if they won't lift a finger,” said the edi-
torial, “let the Government, the police
and everyone else take note that the
people and organisations of this'city area
are not going to stand idly by when
faced with evil of these proportions . . .
Let us run these monsters out of this
city!”
Meanwhile, the “Whisper” has been
banned in Queensland by the Literature
Review Board under the Objectionable
Literature Act of 1954. Mr J. P. Kelly,
chairman of the Board, said this ban
covered all forms of distribution within
the State. (The Act provided a penalty
of up to £lOO, and £5OO for a second
offence). Mr Kelly said the publishers,
Kings’ Cross Whisper Pty Ltd, had the
right of appeal against the decision,
The “Whisper” has also come under
the scrutiny of police in Victoria and
NSW. In NSW every issue so far has
been sent to the Chief Secretary's De-
partment, but as yet no action has been
taken.
CFNSORSHIP—II
The Lady on Trial?
Evading Customs’ jurisdiction
SYDNEY —It has been 14 years since
an Australian publisher has dared pub-
lish within Australia a book, imported
copies of which have been banned by
Customs (a technique employed to evade
Customs jurisdiction), but last week
copies of C. H. Rolph's “The Trial of
Lady Chatterley” were circulating freely
in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. The
book, published in association with Pen-
guin Books Limited by Minderon Pty
Ltd, in conjunction with the Council for
Civil Liberties and printed in Australia
by Edwards and Shaw, Sussex Street,
Sydney, is an account of the 1961 court
action in which Penguins won the right
to circulate D. H. Lawrence’s novel,
“"Lady Chatterley’s Lover”, in England.
Following this court victory Penguins
asked the Australian Customs’ Depart-
ment not to ban “The Trial of Lady
Chatterley”, but the book has remained
under ban since June, 1961.
The first case of an Australian pub-
lisher evading Customs jurisdiction was
in the early part of the century when
Cole’s Book Arcade printed the banned
“The Awful Disclosures of Maria Monk”.
(Maria Monk was one of the outstanding
hoaxes of the 19th century, a thief and
prostitute. She was gaoled in Montreal
in 1834 and in 1835 entered a Magdalen
Asylum for vagrant women run by
Roman Catholic nuns. After she left the
asylum she posed as an escapee from a
nunnery and published her book describ-
ing the debauchery which she claimed
filled out the daily life of the nunnery.
The book was soon exposed, notably by
the Montreal Protestants, as a mixture
of lies and fantasy.)
This was perhaps the inspiration for
the Australian edition of Pastor C'hini-
quy’s “The Priest, the Woman and the
Confessional” which was printed in 1950
by Protestant Publications, Sydney.
(Chiniquy was a defrocked French-
Canadian priest and an extreme anti-
Catholic demagogue whose lecture tour
of Australia in 1879 marked one of the
high points of Australian sectarianism.)
It was not until April, 1958. that the
unexpurgated edition was finally released.
In both these cases the Customs did
nothin? and the Australian editions were
sold freely.
The managing director o f Minderon,
Mr Leon Fink, said his comn-tnv was not
defying the law and simply believed that
“The Trial of Lady Chatterlev” should
be available to Australians. “It if. freely
sold in Britain, America and New Zea-
land and there appears to be no logical
reason for the Commonwealth ban,” Mr
Fink said. “There is just too much
power vested in the Federal censorship
body.” He considered that in publish-
ing the book his company had made a
move toward promoting discussion of
censorship. “This is in no way a slap
in the face for the Government, nor a
gesture of defiance. And it is purely
coincidental that we should do this just
before the State election.
“This is obviously a va’uable book,
particularly for the legal profession, be-
cause of the highly technical discussions
on censorship and ways of improving it.
Possibly lay-people will be bored with
the book." Mr Fink intimated that this
would not be the last banned book to
be published by his company. “We’ll


get the easier ones on the street first
before tlie more extreme cases,” he said.
Meanwhile, copies of the book have
been sent to the Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ment, and the Minister for Customs,
Senator Anderson, has announced an in-
vestigation into the legal issues involved
in the publication.
GORDON CHESTERMAN
INQUEST
200,000 Words
Longer than the Bogle-Chandler
case
SYDNEY The City Coroner, J. J.
Loonies, must be wondering just how
far an inquest can go. His present in-
quiry, the Wendy Anne Purcell death,
has already lasted 24 days—longer than
did the mammoth Bogle-Chandler in-
quest. Now, although nearing its end,
the inquest still seems likely to require
several more days’ sittings before the
finding is given.
When the inquest began in October
last year, no one expected it would take
so long. A week was the maximum any-
one dared to guess at. In its 24 days,
15 witnesses have been called and sub-
jected to what must be close to the most
exacting and precise examinations in the
State’s legal history.
The figures tell their own story. The
transcript of evidence has already run
to more than 660 pages, which means
that something like 200,000 words of
evidence have been given. Some of the
witnesses were in the box for anything
up to five days. And when the inquest
resumes on April 27 the addresses will
add to the massive volumes housing the
transcript.
Mrs Purcell, a 24-year-old North Ryde
housewife, was being operated on in the
Mater Misericordiae Private Hospital for
a thyroid adenoma when her heart stop-
ped about 8.30 a.m. on September 8.
After attempts to revive her she was
transferred to Royal North Shore Hos-
pital, where her heart was kept beating,
although doctors could find no electrical
activity in her brain. At 7 p.m. that
day she was pronounced dead.
When the inquiry began there was none
of the sensation associated with the
Bogle-Chandler deaths two years earlier.
It appeared a routine inquest into a
death under anaesthetic. But as the in-
quiry lengthened, the mystery deepened.
Why would a seemingly healthy patient
—a good risk, as surgeon Dr Frank
Fisher, Neutral Bay GP, described her —
suffer a cardiac arrest without, according
to evidence, apparent signs?
That question is still unanswered. Dr
Fisher does not know, and neither do any
of the experts called to give evidence.
The answer will not be known before
next week, if then.
The near month-long inquest has taken
its toll. The Mater Private Hospital did
not anticipate the duration of the in-
quiry and since the inquest began at
least six counsel —solicitors and barristers
have worn the Mater’s colors, and the
four doctors involved were forced to
change their counsel after one wanted
separate representation.
There was a sigh of relief when the
Coroner's last witness, a professor of
anaesthetics, left the box. But he was
no sooner out of it than Mr D. H. Hill,
representing Edward Francis Purcell,
the dead woman's husband, called his
own expert witness, Dr Francis Felix
Rundle, an authority on thyroid surgery,
leaving the way open for other barristers
to call their own experts.
So far that has not happened, and the
indications are that nobody will. But
whether thev do. the inquest will not
finish for a while. When it resumes next
week the addresses—not normally siven
in Coroner’s proceedings—will take time.
And then? The finding.
RUSSELL SCHNEIDER
The Fleet
A clumsy arrangement
CANBERRA —The recent changes in
Royal Australian Naval organisation con-
stitute a moderate step in the right direc-
tion. For many years, the command of
almost all ships in the RAN has been
divided between two rear-admirals the
Flag Officer Commanding the Australian
Fleet (FOCAF) and the Flag Officer In
Charge East-Australia Area (FOICEA).
When the latter went to sea, as he liked
to do. he cont nued to exercise his com-
mand. In peacetime, this is a viable pro-
cedure. In w 7 ar or an emergency, it can be
both difficult and dangerous.
As from May, virtually all combat
ships,' other than those with the Com-
monwealth Strategic Reserve, will come
under FOCAF. When he goes to sea. his
functions as overall Commander of the
Fleet will be taken over by FOICEA.
Thus, a shore Fleet headquarters, with
all its advantages, will be constantly
maintained.
Yet there are undesirable aspects to
having a change of commander each
time FOCAF goes to sea or returns to
land. And if a defence emergency is
declared or war breaks out, a third
admiral, from Navy Office, takes the
“helm” of the Fleet. This is a clumsy
arrangement. FOICEA has a large com-
mand without adding the Fleet to it from
time to time. So long as the Fleet has
an operational carrier, with aircraft (as
distinct from helicopters), the carrier
commander will also be in no position
to exercise additional responsibilities, and
the Fleet will need a separate overall
commander at sea, especially with its
impending enlargement. A continuous
shore command and headquarters, able
to co-operate with other services and
to keep abreast of the strategic and
tactical situations, is equally essential.
While one hesitates to recommend
adding to senior appointments, there is
a good case for keeping FOCAF ashore
all the time, and placing a senior cap-
tain (who could be appointed a com-
modore for the period of office) as his
deputy at sea. The British Far East
Fleet has an arrangement of this kind.
A defence emergency could occur at any
time and it should not be left until then
for a naval organisation to be set up.
ADVERTISING
Sharks?
Counsel for buyers
MELBOURNE The used-car dealer
has replaced the much-abused horse-
trader in the modern catalogue of vil-
lains. Sharp *of feature, slim of
moustache, and a flashy dresser he is a
familiar figure of cartoon mythology.
Reconciled to the fact that public popu-
larity would never be his lot he was
none the less surprised last week when
attacked by a leader of the “trade", the
general secretary of the Victorian Auto-
mobile Chamber of Commerce, Mr
L. A. Armstrong.
Mr Armstrong issued the text of re-
presentations he had made to the Statute
Law Revision Committee, which is cur-
rently investigating unethical advertising
in Victoria. He claimed that the VACC
was unable to control the activities of
dishonest dealers who set the pace of
advertising and selling in the industry.
His investigations revealed “the sad fact
is that in Victoria, as in other States
of the Commonwealth, advertisers com-
monly make false claims, outrageous pro-
mises, misleading inducements, and fla-
grantly impossible guarantees without
penalty'’.
Mr Armstrong said that the VACC
code on selling and advertising had been
widely supported in the industry but not
widely observed. The root of the
trouble, he felt, lay in the fact that al-
though most car dealers wanted to obey
the Chamber's code of ethics, they were
often forced to follow the pattern of
competition established by their more
ruthless competitors.
Mr Armstrong did not give any ex-
amples of misleading advertising but he
did claim that despite the thousands of
cases of dishonest advertising, only one
prosecution had been launched over this
offence since amended legislation had
been passed to help maintain basic
honesty in advertising.


No Better Epitaph
Gallipoli fifty years later
By DAVID McNICOLL
JTihe Turks are genuinely fond of Aus-
tralians. You can pad the highways
and by-ways of the world and be greeted
with a puzzled shaking of the head when
you nominate yourself as Australian.
Or you can be asked if there are many
other white people in the country. But
in Turkey, they all know about Aus-
tralians, and they like us. After all,
they beat us.
I’ve just come back from a trip to
Gallipoli, a pilgrimage sparked by read-
ing Alan Moorehead's book. “Diggers”,
“Anzacs” and “The Dardanelles” had
always been to me a confused melange
of the legends of tanned soldiers dash-
ing ashore against the infidel, the
strange sight of my father’s mud-
covered boots in the Australian War
Museum, the often-repeated assertion
that the successful evacuation almost
made up for the fact that we didn’t beat
the Turks.
It is 50 years since Gallipoli, and to-
day the experts —or many of them
recognise that the Australian and New
Zealand forces went within a hair-
breadth of winning a campaign which
would have shortened World War I by
years, and perhaps changed the history
of the world.
The post-mortems, the hind-sight, the
praise and the condemnation about the
Gallipoli campaign do not concern the
men who sleep in the pine-meshed and
poppy-studded cemeteries of the wild
peninsula. The sun beats down, the wind
soughs through the short trees, and time
and erosion wash away the trenches, the
caves, the dug-outs, where the fierce,
mad encounters of Gallipoli were fought.
I defy anyone to walk those hills and
look at those headstones without a
wrench at the heart. It is the youth-
fulness of the dead—l 7, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22 —that shatters you. Would there be
wars if only those over 40 were eligible
for service?
Turkey is interested and excited about
the Australian 50th anniversary pilgrim-
age to Gallipoli. The Istanbul and
Ankara papers are full of it. The
Turkish Army is preparing to welcome
and guide the pilgrimage. When I went
to the beaches, the Turkish 2nd Corps
turned on a car, a driver, a lieut-colonel,
and a satchel-full of maps of the cam-
paign. We toured the beaches, drove
to the cliff-tops. We explored the battle
areas from Gaba Tepe to Suvla Bay
and from Cape Hellas to Krithia. We
went to the site of Ataturk’s head-
quarters, and saw where the River Clyde
was beached. We watched the Turkish
gardeners tending the cemetery lawns,
and the Turkish stonemasons restoring
the weathered marble in some of the
memorials. And on the beaches we
watched—so years after—the Turkish
fishermen digging up the detritus of war
battered shell cases, green-moulded
bullets, shattered ammunition cases to
be sold as scrap to the Istanbul metal
traders.
It is hard to believe the story Moore-
head tells in Gallipoli. Wars should
always be fought in rain and fog and
under leaden skies. The thought of dying
on brilliant beaches, or in Barrier Reef-
style blue waters somehow adds a bizarre
twist to war. Yet in the early days of
Anzac it was just that—war at a seaside
paradise. Then you read of how the
dead lay unburied in the sun, and of
how the stench could be caught miles
at sea. Of the flies and the filth and the
dysentery and the misery . . .
But the more you see of the Turks,
the more you can understand the stories
of camaraderie. It is easy to visualise
the truce for burial of the dead, the
throwing of small gifts from trench to
enemy trench. It is easy to see how
the Australian developed a respect for
the Turks. They were apparently clean
fighters and decent men. Nobody could
have a much better epitaph on his head-
stone.
The Turks will never turn the
peninsula into a resort. Nor will they
develop it. It is to be a huge, wild
national park, the cemeteries of the
allied dead will be tended until time takes
over the cemeteries and the hills in the
march of history.
It is not easy to get to Gallipoli. An
awkward, long drive, indifferent accom-
modation, and—no doubt in some eyes
—nothing much to be seen on arrival.
Better, .perhaps, to sail round Cape
Hellas in a luxury liner, observe the cliffs
of Anzac through binoculars, scan the
golden beaches and note the riot of
poppies and wildflowers; observe the
massive war memorials on Cape Hellas,
the flash of gravestones through the pines
surrounding the cemeteries. Then adjust
your deck chair as you sail into the Sea of
Marmora and through to the Bosphorus
to the Golden Horn, to Constantinople—•
to the treasures which only by the barest
fraction failed to fall to the Anzacs 50
years ago.


This wheat hopper wagon weighs 7 tons less than
conventional models. It carries 14% greater payload
It’s another achievement in Australuco Aluminium
wm
m.
H
P
111
£
1
§
xl,:
m
&
■
1
■0
■••■ ft
Wffi
* ' t
.
irlf
'
■ ■
*»>
as Vs?
-■ ■.'■■■
This wagon is a graphic, practical
example of what aluminium bodies
can do for rolling stock; it can in-
crease the efficiency of any goods or
passenger operation!
In the case of this wagon and others
like it, being built by A. E. Goodwin
Ltd. for the New South Wales Govern-
ment Railways, the use of Australuco
aluminium cut the tare weight by one-
third! Hence, a greater load can be
carried. And, there is ample strength
in aluminium to take that extra load.
Of course, there’s more to achieve-
ment than aluminium alone. Achieve-
ment also means Australuco’s years of
experience in research, testing, design,
metallurgical improvements . . . years
of practical application which can be
summed up in two words: know-how.
So, when you add technical skill and
expertise to aluminium’s inherent
qualities (no rust or rot, no mainten-
ance, no painting, corrosion resist-
ance), achievement, and performance
are the natural results.
Australuco’s engineers and techni-
cians, backed by the world-wide
experience and knowledge of the
Alcan Group, are able to supply the
latest information about the many
applications of aluminium in all phases
of Australian industry.
[\/l I f\J 11 J [\/l
Australian Alum'nium Company Limited
Sydney 637-0133 Melbourne 94-0557 Brisbane 2-7483 - Adelaide 51-1516 Pertb 23-0211 Hobart 2-2711
A member of the Alcan Group—A participant in the Queensland Alumina Project
AA3IIBR


The Satire Boom
No exceptions to Kaufmann’s Lain?
“Did he say satire or satyr?* 1
By ROSS CAMPBELL
WE suffer from a well-known cul-
tural time-lag in Australia. The
Mickey Mouse Club was a good
example. While it was still showing in
the early joyous days of television here,
I visited California. There I found not
only that the Mickey Mouse Club had
been disbanded but the children in it
had turned into adolescents with roman-
tic problems (I interviewed one of them,
Miss Annette Funicello—a well-deve-
loped girl, as they say).
Much the same has happened with
satire. While the satiric industry in
Britain has run its course from boom
to slump, here it is working at full capa-
city, with “Oz” and Mavis Bramston
and so on, right down to the horrid
little “King’s Cross Whisper”.
The accompanying controversy has
been chaotic. We don't mind satire
but; we don’t mind sex jokes but; we
think this v country needs more satire
but; we don’t agree with what Chater
says but we will fight for his right to
say it; etc.
The confusion has been due in part to
the mixture of satire with sex in the pro-
ductions mentioned. Always sex comes
to the fore when original ideas are in
short supply; in the extreme case of “The
King’s Cross Whisper” large areas of
newsprint are devoted to pictures of bare
ladies.
Of course good sex jokes are funny,
and, except for a few letter-writers to
“The Sydney Morning Herald”, we all
enjoy them. But humorists of any stand-
ing have a professional contempt for
such jokes because they are the easiest
and least original way of getting a
laugh. They rank with chucking instead
of bowling in cricket, or using dynamite
instead of lines to catch fish. First-rate
funny men like Michael Frayn in Lon-
don and Art Buchwald in the US hardly
ever write sex jokes, although they pro-
bably make good ones in conversation.
The satire question is more involved.
One fact made obvious in the recent
rows is that some people like satire,
others don’t. It is an accepted belief
in show business that the latter class is
more numerous than the former. The
late George Kaufmann crystallised this
thought in his pronouncement: ‘"Satire is
what closes on Saturday night.”
Experience lately in Britain and here
shows, none the less, that the audience
for satire can be quite large. It is pro-
bably larger than it used to be. There
are two main groups in the audience —
the sophisticates and the young.
Sophisticates are conscious of their
social and intellectual superiority to cer-
tain other groups—for example, those
represented by Mrs Everage and Sandy
Stone, the butts of Barry Humphries.
Young people are by nature disrespectful
and are ready to be amused by a send-
up of almost any established institution
or dignitary, whether HM The Queen
or Mr Bob Dyer.
But it is still doubtful whether even
a sympathetic audience will support
satire for a long time. In Britain, people
seem to have had a surfeit of it. As a
steady diet it becomes unpalatable. It
provides too little nourishment and con-
tains too much salt. Possibly, after a
successful season or so of Bramstonian
entertainment, Kaufmann’s Law will
again assert itself here.
I am not out to cry down satire, which
is part of the fun of city life. I have
tried my hand at it. I have laughed
loudly at some Bramston sketches,
squirmed at others. But, with this dis-
cussion going on, it is worth mentioning
that the send-up is only one kind of
humor. Its devotees tend to assume it
is the only kind worthy of notice.
Actually one encounters comical things
all over the place that do not involve
the sending-up of anybody. To take an
instance: there is a school in North
Sydney with the motto Ad Maiora Natus
which the pupils wear inscribed on their
caps. In the train today were two very
small boys from this school, hardly more
than three feet high. Wearing brand-new
caps that proclaimed they were Born
for Bigger Things, they struck me as
comical.
Would they have amused the staff of
“Oz”, or the wags of the Mavis Bram-
ston Show? Possibly not. It is a general
rule among practitioners of satirical
humor that children cannot be funny
except when they are nasty (as at St
Trinian’s).
lam more disposed to find children
funny now that I have some, than I was
when I didn’t. This illustrates one of
the few points that can be made with
confidence on the slippery subject of
humor: people laugh at jokes on mat-
ters of which they have experience.
Golfers like jokes about golf. Bookish
people enjoy jokes about books. . A liter-


m
IPS’
I*®!
19*!
IMI
7
0
eats
6
10
7
rrvo
YL
eats
tinse c\weW
7
0
eats
6
eats
7
nUis
rn°
nths
rr»°
12
0
ntns
rr\o
.a.
fop
3
years
How
OBTAIN A PROSPECTUS from
• Any Stockbroker.
• Any branch of the National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any store or office of Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corporation Limited. Box
3875, G.P.0., Sydney.
Applications must be lodged on the
appropriate form issued with the Prospectus.
WALTONS
ary critic may not see the point of a
golf joke; a golfer may not be amused
by a parody of Ernest Hemingway.
I admit I was nettled by a remark on
a recent ABC discussion programme
about Australian humor. Mr Richard
Walsh, editor of “Oz”, said that my Sun-
day column on suburban life at Oxalis
Cottage depicted a “dream world”. It
may not be funny, but I assure him
it is no dream. It is a world which Mr
Walsh—a medical student—presumably
has not experienced. He is in the posi-
tion of the literary critic who does not
see the point of the story about golf.
Experience counts in the writing as
well as the appreciation of humor,
especially humor about people. H. G.
Wells could depict Kipps only because
he had seen —and even been—such a
man. Mark Twain would not have been
able to describe Tom Sawyer’s tactics in
whitewashing a fence if he had not seen
boys engaged in that task, or done it
himself.
These two writers might be called
empirical humorists. An Australian of
that school is John O’Grady. Before
writing the famous building-trade chap-
ters in “They’re a Weird Mob”, he work-
ed in the building trade. To get material
for “Gone Fishin’ ” he became a fisher-
man. Mr O’Grady is a very uneven per-
former but, at his best, he is a true
humorist, with a rarer talent than that
of the satirical senders-up.
Satire, I think, is one of the easier
forms of humor because it does not de-
mand experience, but only a point of
view. To do a send-up of, say, the Bob
Dyer Show, you do not need any original
observation of life or people—you only
need a TV set and a scoffing outlook.
This is why satire appeals, as a form of
expression, to undergraduates. They
have the equipment required.
There is a basic difference between the
attitude of the satirical and the non-
satirical humorist, even though the same
person may be both at different times.
The satirist is looking down on someone,
saying: “You’re silly—l’m smart.” The
non-satirist is merely looking at.
I find the moral pretensions of the
full-time satirist—the claim that he is
“holding folly up to well-deserved ridi-
cule”—rather irritating. It can be main-
tained equally that the satirist himself is
self-righteous and smug.
After saying this, I shall still be
quite happy to sit down and try
to write a satirical essay for The
Bulletin. But I have no illusion that
there is anything specially distinguished
about that kind of effort. I think of
John O’Grady working as a deckhand
off the Queensland coast, in hopes of
writing a funny book about deckhands.
There is a man who gets his jokes the
hard way.


Passport to Immortality
Sir Macfarlane Burnett: Behind and Ahead
By PATRICK TENNISON
Frank Macfarlane Burnett’s inter-
national renown as a great research
scientist has made him today one
of a few Australians with a truly inter-
national reputation and esteem. Honors
have been heaped on his high, broad
shoulders —a knighthood in 1951 fol-
lowed by an order of merit in 1958, a
Nobel Prize in 1960 that crowned the
lot. Previous to these had been his
acceptance as a Fellow of the Royal
Society in 1942, followed by his being
awarded the Society’s Gold Medal in
1947. As well, there have been accolades
from the US, Germany, Japan and
several other scientific-minded countries.
They all give him pleasure, of course.
But talking to him you guess that he has
more pride of achievement in the work
he has done rather than the medals and
ribbons of recognition he has reaped by
way of reward. Being awarded the Nobel
Prize he ranks as a career highlight.
“When someone rang up and sail I'd got
the Nobel, it gave me more pleasure
than anything that had happened to me,”
he says with quietly, unashamed pride.
Then he recalls a work highlight in
1937 when he was called in to investigate
an infection among Queensland meat
slaughtermen. He discovered, and
isolated, the organism responsible for
this new disease which was labelled as
fever, and which was later found to be
a world-wide infection. In his honor
the organism was named Rickettsia Bur-
netti. “It was fascinating and one of the
most exciting things in my life,” he re-
members today. “I was the first to see
this organism in some cells of mice I’d
inoculated. Because of my discovery
it was named after me. That’s my pass-
P ort to immortality.”
He gives a quiet chuckle as he says it,
in his quiet-charm Gary Cooperish way.
Behind the quiet-charm is a nimble
enough sense of humor that won’t mind
his distinguished name being linked with
that of a Hollywood hero. Now 65, and
having announced that he will retire this
year on September 1, just two days
before his 66th birthday, it was typical
of him that, in his pre-retirement inter-
view, the question he labelled the most
interesting was what would he set out
to do if he were a research scientist
starting in the today of 1965, rather
than his own starting out time 42 years
ago? “I’m impressed about the eventual
likelihood of applying computer tech-
niques to scientific things that are un-
approachable by ordinary techniques
for instance, the importance of the
relationship of inheritance to disease. A
very large number of things people die
from are inherited. In the old days, if
two parents had TB, and recovered, their
child still got it. Now, if both parents
suffer from rheumatoid arthritis, the
chances that their daughter will get it
are high. We don’t know nearly enough
about that sort of thing.
“The virtue of computers is that you
put in data about millions of people and
get accurate findings it would take armies
of researchers years to find out. We
could find out, too, why some families
live longer than others. This happens
with mice, too. There’s no limit to
what could be discovered. You could
put in 100 facts about a million people
—things like what color their eyes are—
and use v the machines to test the co-
relations between all these facts. You’d
soon have a clear idea what ageing really
was. If somebody in 20 years says a lot
of people are dying of cancer of the
liver, you’d pile into the machine what
happened to them in regard to DDT,
detergents and things like that. From
the machines you’d find out what is
significant.”
This is decidedly the field he would
embark on today. It comes partly from
experience. He remembers a conversa-
tion back in 1930 when someone men-
tioned to him that lung cancer was in-
creasing, and what did he think of the
theory that maybe it was because of all
the roads that were being tarred at the
time. It was not until 20 years later
that the first whisper about cigarettes and
tobacco tar being factors in lung cancer
was heard. “If modern techniques had
been available in the ’3os, theoretically
you could have discovered this by cross-
questioning lung cancer victims on things
like did they smoke many cigarettes?
Did they eat their meat raw;or cooked?
Lots of seemingly unrelated questions
like that would have soon uncovered all
we took years to find out.”
Despite the many years of brilliant
work and leadership, the acknowledg-
ments and international accolades, Sir
Macfarlane Burnett’s debut into the field
of pure research was pretty much an
accident and not tremendously wel-
comed at the time, either. Sir Mac, as
he likes to be called —he has dropped
the Frank was born in the Victorian
Gippsland town of Traralgon, the son
of a bank manager. Like any of the
headstrong viruses he was to chase in
later life, he soared through classes at
Geelong College, passing out as dux of
the school in 1916. Similar brilliance
showed on his way to his MD at Mel-
bourne University. That won, his career
balked momentarily. He was interested,
at first, in pursuing neurology. Some
posts were available at the Melbourne
Hospital.
“I wanted the registrar's job, but they
wouldn’t give it to me,” he recalls bluntly


Picfc&pcnicfooJ
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
Ml
] . •• '
- I :
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
■
:
FOR A
FULL AROIVIATBC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
The re's a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
A PRODUCT OF DOUWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HOLLAND
SAI«
enough today. “They offered me the
job as resident pathologist. I didn’t want
to go into lab. work. I wanted to be an
academic physician— to write papers and
be a professor of medicine. But those
who were allocating jobs thought I’d be
a good lab. man. I was disappointed
at first at not getting the registrar’s job,
but I’ve never been disappointed since.
I soon found lab. work very much to
my taste.”
In view of the career that was to
follow, that must rank as something of
an historic understatement. The Mel-
bourne Hospital job started in 1924. Two
years later he went to do research at
the Lister Institute in London and won
his Ph.D at London University as well.
Returning to Australia in 1928, he was
appointed assistant director at Mel-
bourne’s Walter and Eliza Hall Institute
of Medical Research. He went to
England again in 1931 for the National
Research Institute. While there he was
one of the research team that saw and
heard the ferrets on London’s Hamp-
stead Heath start sneezing and knew
that this spelt success for them as it
indicated that they had isolated the
influenza virus for the first time. He
returned to Australia in 1934 and be-
came the first to achieve this isolation in
this country. In 1944 he was appointed
director at the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute and Professor of Experimental
Medicine at Melbourne University.
In September comes his retirement—
but it will not be complete. He is still
chairman of the Academic Planning
Board of Melbourne’s proposed Latrobe
University. His office on the third floor
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute,
small though it is for an office, is also
part laboratory. Behind his office desk
is a laboratory bench and, under a black
shade, two microscopes and other para-
phernalia he likes working with between
routine office administrative work (and
interviews).
“Didn’t have to retire”
“'VT°, I didn't have to retire because of
age. I wanted to,” he explains direct-
ly. “When you reach my stage you find
you're doing more administrative work
than actual research. I want to write a
book —on cellular immunology—and I
want to be able to do it at my own
tempo.”
This, he explains, is very much the
field that has busied the Walter and
Eliza Hall in recent years. Earlier, the
job was research into viruses and in-
fectious diseases. Currently, and for
the next few years, it has been research
into immunities against infections. The
computer-assisted project he confidently
expects to be the work rn the years
ahead.
In his pre-retirement time, he enjoys
looking back as well as forward. To
1928, for instance, when he was called
into study what had gone wrong at
Bundaberg, in Queensland, when 12
children died after injections of diph-
theria toxin-antitoxin. “That led to find-
ing out about staph infections. We didn’t
know much about it then, but there’s
still a good deal of interest in that field
now.” Three years later, studying polio
viruses, he made the now-historic dis-
covery that there was actually more than
one strain of virus involved in polio.
“We didn't realise at the time it was as
important as it turned out to be. Now
there are three different sorts, but then
we got the first evidence there was more
than one and discovered the difference
between the two sorts.
Not So Sure
“T'm not so sure polio is still completely
licked,” he adds, choosing words
carefully. “I think a new strain could
yet emerge that will take a year or so
to lick. But I wouldn’t worry very
much.” He is able to grin now at recol-
lection of his 1952 prediction that polio
w'ould be beaten “within 10 years”. “It
was licked in three, wasn’t it?”
Things like colds are different. “Colds
don’t baffle us. We know why we can’t
deal with them, which is something.
There are 53 viruses probably more,
really that produce a cold. You can
immunise against one or two, but it
wouldn’t be worthwhile to immunise
against them all. Maybe with a very
lucky break we might one day get an
overall cure.”
Cancer is a different matter. Again
in carefully used words he suggests, “It’s
most unlikely that cancer will ever be
licked. I don’t think any simple approach
to cancer will ever give the answer.”
As he has often proclaimed publicly,
since cure is so chancy, avoidance by
giving up smoking is the better solution.
Once a light—about 10 cigarettes a day
—smoker, he quit 11 years ago. The
shock of five close friends, all heavy
smokers, dying of lung cancer was the
spur. “Far the most serious problem is
cigarette smoking,” he now says firmly.
“There is no other readily preventable
cause of untimely death.”
At a suggestion that maybe science
should evolve some pill or medicine for
painless weaning aw’ay from tobacco,
he grins and suggests his own home-made
remedy: “The best way is for a man to
tell his wife he’s not going to smoke.
That was my procedure. Then he has
to bear her laughing at him if he breaks
his promise.”


Educating the Officers
The Martin Report out of step
From a Defence Correspondent
"Oecause it is so comprehensive the
Martin Report on tertiary educa-
tion, excellent and imaginative as it is,
has some weak spots. One of these is
its discussion of officer education in
the three armed services. Such weak-
nesses may be due in part to the nature
of the joint submission by the services
to the committee. Yet the committee
does not seem to have made its own,
separate inquiries, nor to have taken
adequately into account the fact that,
during the three years of its delibera-
tions, service thinking on education has
been undergoing change.
One looks in vain in the report for a
philosophy with regard to service edu-
cation comparable to that enunciated in
the first chapter with regard to the
aspirations and needs of the individual
and the community at large. In fact,
the committee seems merely to have
taken the joint service submission,
extracted salient points, made some sen-
sible, some non-committal and conserva-
tive comments, and left it at that. As
a small fragment in the whole canvas
of tertiary education, this may be all
we could expect. But as a basis for
critical examination and the determina-
tion of future policy for the services,
it is totally inadequate.
The least happy section deals with
the Royal Military College, Duntroon.
It is well known that RMC has been
determined to raise its academic stand-
ards to the level of those in Australian
universities, with the object of gradua-
ting the majority of its cadets with a
recognised degree in arts, science or
technology. Those who were not quite
at degree level would be awarded a
diploma. To this end, RMC has brought
in to advise it a number of respected
academics from several universities, and
has external marking of examinations.
The first full-degree course is in its
second year. \
In what can only appear to the
college and its academic advisers as
at best patronising and at worst offen-
sive, the Martin Committee declared
(Para. 14.82) that “standards must be
carefully supervised”, and suggested that
RMC might, as a first measure, aim at
the award of its own diploma, and that
it might eventually be able to award
a degree from a sub-University Com-
monwealth Institute of Colleges. It
would be retrograde, indeed disastrous,
if the Government were to accept such
a recommendation.
The idea of Institutes of Colleges in
the States has much to commend it,
and it has been endorsed in principle
by the Federal Government. But the
Government has also, and rightly,
rejected the proposal for a Common-
wealth Institute of Colleges, which was
a tidy but too facile way of disposing
of several “loose ends”, including Dun-
troon and Jervis Bay (the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College). The committee
proposed that RANC should also be a
member of the suggested (and rejected)
Commonwealth Institute of Colleges.
Its only other recommendation, which
was actually an endorsement of current
naval policy, was that an increasing pro-
portion of training should be provided
from Australia’s own sources for the
rest, it “noted” what the navy is attempt-
ing to do in tertiary education.
The RAAF is the only service which
at present conducts a full degree course
for its cadet officers. The course, at
the RAAF Academy, Point Cook, is
supervised and the degree (B.Sc.)
awarded by the University of Melbourne.
(Some cadets do a Bachelor or Aero-
nautical Engineering Degree in Sydney.)
The Martin Committee made no assess-
ment of this system, and drew no direct
comparisons between the needs or acti-
vities of the three services, although it
implicitly did so by its endorsement of
the present differentials.
Clearly, if service education was to
be examined in detail and related to
the needs of the individual members,
of the community as a community, and
the security of. the country, the Martin
Committee was not perhaps could
not be expected to be the body to
do it. There is need of such a body,
with strong university and service
representation on it. But perhaps there
first needs to be a careful determina-
tion by the services, individually, of
what is" required of their officers —-
the skills and abilities, culture and
experience they need in the various
segments and levels of their profession.
It is unlikely that this has ever been
done except in the most broad and
traditional terms.
It is not sufficient to arrange for a
general improvement in the level of
education, although that is desirable.
The range is equally important. It
would be surprising, for example, if
more than a small fraction of service
staff officers have had any sophisticated
training in management techniques.
There is also the question of utilization
of training. (All too often one hears of
an officer who has been given a costly
course of training or intensive experi-
ence with particular equipment, only to
be posted to where the training or
experience is irrelevant and its value
soon dissipated.)
Having made their individual assess-
ments and examined their basic objec-
tives and philosophies, the services could
then come together for a joint analysis
of their several and common problems.
The size of the navy makes separate
tertiary education difficult. Is a joint
service academy an impossibility? It has
always been rejected when investigated,
but times, needs and attitudes change,
even though old traditions, routines and
jealousies die hard.
Higher education is needed for two
other, if lesser, reasons than the efficiency
of the services: (I) their status in
the community, and (2) the resettle-
ment needs of a man who is compul-
sorily retired in early middle age, as
the majority of service officers are. It
is of interest that the chapter in the
Martin Report on “Higher Education
for the Defence Services” is neither pre-
ceded nor followed by one entitled
“Higher Education for the Public Ser-
vices”. Such an investigation is long
overdue.


OVERSEAS
The Flight of the
Pineapple Princess
“We’ve got to start to use the night and the knife ourselves ”
By ANTHONY BROWN
IT was 0600 and the monsoon cumulo-
nimbus was already beginning to
pile over the Mekong Delta. I was
at a forward air base beneath Black
Virgin Mountain, in the Intelligence
Officer's tent as the tall New Yorker in
olive-green jungle fighting kit delineated
the Vietcong positions with a black-
board pointer on a plastic map of this,
the great rice bowl of Asia which is the
cause of the Indo-China War. The
attack helicopter crews lolled in canvas-
backed chairs as the lieutenant briefed
the men on their missions for that morn-
ing—a mission to fly as airborne cavalry
and artillery in support of two South
Vietnamese ranger battalions who were
at that moment moving through the rain
forest and padi to encircle a nest of
Vietcong bunkers. I noticed that the
map he was using was heavily shaded in
red grease pencil, denoting those areas
firmly in the hands of the Vietcong.
The briefing broke up after 45 minutes.
The air crews went out into the half-
sunshine, slipping into their bullet-proof
vests and stomach protectors—protection
from the Vietcong ground fire. The
lieutenant said: “Brown, you will be re-
quired to carry a weapon.” He handed
me a 30.30 jungle carbine and half-dozen
clips of soft-nosed bullets. At first I
refused to accept the weapon on the
grounds that war correspondents are by
convention and usage non-combatants.
The lieuterfant retorted: “Listen, buddy,
there are no non-combatants where you
are flying and unless you take this wea-
pon I will not sanction your flight.”
For the first time in a decade of war
and foreign reporting I was compelled
to carry a weapon. I went off with the
crew of the Pineapple Princess (the name
of my huey turbine-powered ground-
attack helicopter) for a breakfast of
peaches and ham and put on jungle-
fighting denims which, oddly, had holes
in every pocket to let out storm water,
and my armor plating. With a bone-
dome to protect my head, the bullet-
proof waistcoat to protect my chest and
the stomach protector, for the groin,
carrying the stubby carbine, I felt like
an armadillo as, with the crew, the
armor creaked and clunked as we
walked across steel-meshed matting of
the airstrip. The hueys were being
readied for combat—4o two-inch tailless
rockets, four forward-firing heavy
machine-guns and two swivel-mounted
7.62 mm. machine-guns in the waists of
the aircraft. At the end of the runway
was a pile of torn and twisted metal,
engines, wheels, tails, wings, spars, cock-
pits, of other hueys (ground attack
fighters such as the Sky Raiders, which
were arming near us with 10001 b. anti-
personnel bombs and cannisters of
napalm) which had been shot down
or irreparably damaged by Vietcong
ground fire. The pile was a mournful
and sobering testament to the vulnerabil-
ity of the helicopter at low level and the
thought was inescapable: Will someone
get it today? Someone was to —a young
captain of a helicopter. A heavy calibre
bullet was to arc up from the ground,
smash through the thick-armored plexi-
glass of his helicopter's cockpit, and pass
through both the front and back of his
armored vest. He was to die almost
immediately. For the casualties of this
squadron—the Utility Tactical Transport
Squadron—are the heaviest of any single
American unit in the Indo-China War.
Over 30 pilots and aircrew have been
sent home in copper caskets, loaded
at night aboard Boeing jet transports
shrouded in the Old Glory in about a
year , of operations.
The squadron commander told the
pilots of the hueys, which were to fly
in pairs, to fly just beneath the cloud
base of 2000 feet to avoid Vietcong
ground fire on route to the target and,
rather like a swarm of dragonflies, the
hueys took off for the south-west as the
waist-gunners readied their machine-guns
for action. Below was the Indo-China
battlefield. There were clusters of
‘‘Hearts and Minds’" hamlets —re-grouped
villages surrounded by thickets of
needle-sharp staves, barbed wire, deep
ditches, machine-gun nests, mortar sites,
to protect the villages from marauding
Vietcong whose tactics are to attack in
the sleep-heavy hours before first light
and withdraw under cover of the thick
ground haze which covers the Mekong
Delta at sunrise like layers of lint.
There was a padi, brown and green
checks on the rich alluvial delta, worked
by coolies in blue denims and wide-
rimmed straw hats; dainty, small-boned
men and women behind flabbv-hided
water buffalo; strings of coolie girls on
ancient Jap bicycles pedalling in pairs
down the long straight lanes; acres of
aquatic trees and nondescript bush, and,
ANTHONY BROWN recently
'*"*■ returned from o tour of South
Vietnam where the air war has
now reached such an intensity that
last week over 1700 sorties were
flown. But Brown contends—as do
a large number of other correspon-
dents that striking at targets
in North Vietnam will hardly
affect the Vietcong’s will to fight
in the South, where even without
further supplies from the North it
has the material to continue the
war for some years. The war —
Brown believes—has entered a
period of the attrition of wills and
can only be won on the ground,
not in the air.


m*®
*2WiKC(
**«»* m
. %'<
hM*
i
I
*
, **: £><
M*U%&
# »/»**s*
ii
msk
*z
w&&
ASSfif
WHY DID THE
FRENCH AWARD
ORLANDO
BAROSSA RIESLING
A GOLD MEDAL?
&
S *
o
o
VD
O
BECAUSE
IT’S
SUPERB!
If you want to be absolutely sure that the white wine you
order for your own and your guests’ enjoyment is truly
outstanding, insist on 1963 Orlando Barossa Riesling.
This great wine this year has been awarded a Gold
Medal at Montpellier, world famous centre for wine study
and research, at the only wine show in France open to
outside competition.
You will delight in the magnificent Riesling bouquet,
superb freshness and crisp finish of this award winning
Riesling which is now sold on every Continent in the world.
Barossa Riesling is vintaged and bottled by G. GRAMP
AND SONS PTY. LTD., in South Australia’s famous
Barossa Valley.
10805
canvas-belted to the aircraft structure,
the waist gunners watched them at 2000
feet. At zero feet and 180 knots a
coolie girl on a bicycle is indistinguish-
able from a Vietcong. And below us
flew the lumbering, radial engine Sky
Raiders carrying their napalm loads in
wide circles over the area waiting for
attack orders to come by radio from
American or Australian advisers with
the South Vietnam battalions at that
moment moving into the Vietcong area
-—one of those areas which, by the hun-
dred, are administrated by the Commu-
nists to such an extent that they not only
levy taxes but some are said to have
their own registrars of births, marriages
and deaths, to issue their own postage
stamps, and to have established their own
bureaucracy.
We joined the stream of circling air-
craft flying leisurely arcs around Black
Virgin Mountain. It was boring, vaguely
frightening because one never knew
what would happen in the next instant,
and the crew chewed on gum and read
their Chinographed battle maps. Way to
our right I could see the plumes of
phosphorus shells slugging the VC
bunker area which appeared to be in
the tangled, jungle-overgrown remnants
of an abandoned coconut plantation.
Through field glasses I watched the Sky
Raiders peel out of their holding pat-
tern and lumber toward their targets.
Napalm is curious to watch. There is
a pin-point of explosion amongst the
olive green, followed by a blossoming
and orange area of fire as the explosives
spray the jellied napalm over the target
area. Then there grows a mushroom
cloud 300 feet high. By the time
Minerva 48 (our ground control station
from whom we received target attack
orders) called on us to make our rocket
and strafing runs there were sixty of
those mushrooms in a three-square-mile
area and, what with the phosphorus and
the jelly, a good deal of anvthing alive
in area Omega (as the target area was
called on the battle maps) must have been
charred and incinerated.
The Pineapple Princess whined down
to its target, all machine-guns going and
then, in a hideously frightening moment
the co-pilot let off his rockets as the
target came into the prism of his gun-
sight. In that moment the Pineapple
Princess had as much fire-power as a
destroyer of World War 11, and the
rockets smashed into the rain forest to
create a cone of havoc, explosion and
fire. As the rockets loosed off, another
unprepared crewman muttered into the
intercom: “Christ!”, a moment of blas-
phemy not altogether inappropriate for
that 60 seconds of extraordinary violence
which we had created.
But was it worth it all? Was the
tactical application of air power—as it
is known in the jargon—an effective in-


good HtVfS f OR
OIGMSWOKHfc
w3m
wmimnm
m
Schimmelpenninck Separado
(Actual size)
packaged in individual cardboard
containers 2/6 each, in boxes of 10 5 25/-
Schimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Hollands
finest cigars
now. available
in Australia
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are imported for your
pleasure by Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust.)
Limited sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
VJH Geurts & Van Schuppen N. V. Wageningen
Holland.
RJPMII2
strument against the type of enemy that
the Vietcong is—elusive, subtle, lightly
armed marauders? By the end of the day
we had flown nine attack missions and
that nondescript acreage between Black
Virgin Mountain was burned and riddled.
When Minerva 48 radioed instructions to
stop air strikes, that the ground forces
were moving in to clean up, Pineapple
Princess put down in a clearing behind
the forward troops. Within 90 minutes
a South Vietnamese had moved through
the VC bunker area, injecting flame-
throwers into suspect areas for good
measure, and machine-gunning every-
thing. It was then that we learned of
the success of our mission. They found
not a single body and made not a single
captive, they found no weapons and no
documents. In this sector of Omega at
least it was evident that the VC had not
been in the area for at least four days.
This was easily proven.
One of the first things the intelligence
officers looked for was human stool.
When they found it and submitted it to
elementary forensic tests, it could be
fairly accurately calculated that the VC
had been there in company strength
about 80 hours previously. They had
left hurriedly. For they had not buried
their litter as they do when making a
planned move to prevent calculations of
their strength. It was evident, said an
intelligence officer, that the VC had been
forewarned of our attack. And that
failure beneath Black Virgin Mountain
was illustrative of the many failures of
intelligence which Government and
American forces suffered in recent
months.
This is a war in which, like all guer-
rilla wars, intelligence is an important
factor in obtaining victory or diluting
enemy strengths as is application of
brute fire-power. Without good intelli-
gence, weapons system such as the
Pineapple Princess are as imprecise as
was the Gatling gun. And, ironically,
it is this failure (largely by the South
Vietnamese Army Command) to obtain
accurate intelligence assessment of enemy
strengths and intentions that has led to
Washington's decision to employ strategic
air power (the bombing of North Viet-
namese targets). The failure of tactical
air power to resolve the Indo-China in-
surgency in the West’s favor has led
to an extension of the Vietnamese con-
flict into an air war involving Communist
China. The American command, for-
ever engaging in self-examination, con-
stantly analysing the reasons for its
failures, changing its staff with bewilder-
ing frequency in the hope of coming up
with a man who has the answers to this
type of war, resorted to the expedient of
employing a civilian “Think” agency to
make a scientific analysis of the VC
success method in all dimensions —mili-
tary, political, economic, social,- ideolo-
gical, religious, ethnic strata, which con-
stitutes the revolutionary war theories of
Ho Chi-minh, the North Vietnamese
leader, that former apprentice in pastry
making at the Savoy Hotel in London,
who is today directing the Vietcong.
Tnto Ton San Nuht, the extraordinary
A complex of American airpower in the
Saigon suburbs, flew thinkers from the
Rand Corporation at Santa Monica,
California. They were mainly Central
European in origin, American by adop-
tion and their employment was part of
an 18 million dollar programme initiated
during the Kennedy. Administration to
define counter - insurgency, to find
methods of eliminating counter-insur-
gents, and to build an aircraft with the
express purpose of fighting Asian wars
the way the Americans like to fight them
—from the air. As the team drove from
the airbase out into the seething streets,
one of them instructed the driver to stop
at a cemetery at the base gates. There
were 30 graves there and the tombstones
were decayed. Across the top left-hand
corner of each stone, a tricolor which
had been rain-blasted by a decade of
monsoons, each tomb was inscribed with
the words “Mort pour La France”.
Tufted grass sprang between the gravel.
The roll call of honor in the chapel had
been cut in soft stone and had been
eroded by the weather. The catafalque
was grimy and this was the burial place
of the Legion of the Lost. It is a monu-
ment to the failure of French arms in
the first Indo-China War. And the
man from Rand was quick to recognise
that it might be a testament to the failure
of American arms and policies in the
second.
The French failed in the first Indo-
China War for three main reasons —they
failed to - comprehend the ideological
motivation of their enemy; they tended
to fight the war from the road system
and so lost the capability to surprise,
whereas their enemy fought from the
mountains to control the plains and only
took the cities when they controlled the
rural areas; and they tried to resolve the
stickier battles with air power. The
elite of St Cyr contemptuously disre-
garded the Vietminh Communist coolie
armies and the theoreticians evidently
considered that fire power alone was suf-
ficient to neutralise the handfuls of swift,
lithe, jungle-trotting guerrillas with whom
they were confronted—and they listened
too late to those younger officers who
realised that in Marxism was a military
theory which conventional troops, con-
ventionally deployed, could not beat:
could not beat unless the theories of
militant Marxism were understood and
inverted to become part of French mili-
tary textbooks. A group of young offi-
cers did this. They formed themselves
into “the Centurions”, compact units
well-trained in the stealths of guerrilla


£L
w
0■
t*
m
/2
r
\k
H,
J
<*fv
V
7
X
•;:: :
\%\ c »Mv
\A^
lUtil
31S
»3S
A Q31441
X
43 001
X
X/X
X *A' .*// ft
t>o,
* M OUNt
\A V
kv;sV^ n
o' v ,i! iV
,x" s/vJj
\kX«5 0 v 0
w ««?•-•*“* **X<»
>'X
*&\ «\> - '-' nV
rHi*'
M -x* X 1 VY' v •>'/-,
*X> X‘ '•* <0 ‘' . .X'v<- ? **** >'Vx« ?
I x \<* "s *x V* m
. O* c
Xr *'VV*!<i HOY
\' <Av '°
v o^> T
<><*W« will *»<
it's for
YOU...
C.B.A
Yes, it's for You! Whatever your vocation,
a C.B.A. cheque account represents time-
saving convenience, safety and prestige
in your daily domestic and business
transactions. You’ll find your ‘friend at
the C.B.A.’ takes an individual interest
in your personal banking requirements.
Open a cheque account at any branch
of the C.B.A. today
YOU HAVE A FRIEND AT THE C.B.A.
CHEQUE AND SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
• ESTABLISHED 1866 • ASSETS EXCEED £300,000,000 • OVER 860 OFFICES AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, LONDON
BBC '5O J


TWO TICKETS TO NEW ZEALAND-ONE FOR HALF THE NORMAL FARE!
It’s the Qantas ‘Wife Vacation’ Plan. Works two ways. Your
wife gets the holiday she’s been longing for. You get the sav-
ings (and the holiday, too). And, if you’re travelling to New
Zealand on business, what could be better? Still only one
full adult return fare while your wife vacations along with
you for half the return air fare. It’s the kind of surprise she
will hug you for —say ‘No wonder you’ve got tickets on
Qantas!’ Take other members of the family, too! Again, just
the one full return adult fare—your wife and everyone,
under 26 years of age travels for half or less (under 12
only 35% of the normal adult fare; under 2 only 10% of
the normal adult return fare). Fly from Melbourne or
Sydney on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and
up to 6.00 a.m. on Fridays for holidays up to 21 wonderful
days. With Qantas Credit
Travel you can plan your
whole holiday for a mere 10%
deposit. Come, see us (or your
Qantas Travel Agent) for com-
plete information.
Australia's Round-World Airline
QANTAS
44 years of dependable service
*
a**
s
■* m
mm
lit
1 '!
5 /
mm
QANTAS' EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in anodation with AIR NEW ZEALAND and 8.0A.C
T39.FP.45


ADELAIDES
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
ADELAIDE
In a unique setting of trees and parks, and with a
panoramic view from the sea to the ranges, the mag-
nificent Hotel Australia is only three minutes from
the heart of the city. Built in 1960 and extended in
1964, this is, without doubt, Australia's most up-to-
date Hotel. It costs no more to stay in this Hotel and
enjoy luxury, air-conditioned comfort and superb
service equal to the world's best.
CONVENTION AND MEETING FACILITIES
to exactly match your requirements and budget—-
private meeting, function and banqueting rooms of
all sizes are at your disposal. The largest Conference
Room can accommodate 1,000 people.
For enquiries and bookings contact
HOTEL AUSTRALIA, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Telephone 6 8581 Teletype AA82174 or any trave?
agent.
m,
mm
war, themselves imbued with their own
elan: tough, muderous, dedicated,
patriotic fighting men. The officers
formed their own intelligence systems,
got off the roads and into the padi,
fought the Vietminh on their own
ground, but their military philosophy was
accepted too late to be a significant fac-
tor in the outcome Of the first Indo-
China War.
The French army in Asia collapsed at
Dien Bien Phu. It did,' however, put
its merciless counter-insurgency theories
to work in Algeria, and had it not been
for the anxiety of the French Govern-
ment to reach political settlement, the
Centurions might well have brought the
Algerian rebel armies to their knees.
Their ruthlessness, it" is now known,
almost destroyed the Algerian rebel
forces in the cities of Algiers and Oran.
They did this by employing the very
essence of militant Marxism against their
enemies, themselves militant Marxists,
and if these tactics required the use of
indescribable inhumanities, the Centuri-
ons disregarded their thunderous critics
explaining that their tactics of terrorism
were the only forces which their enemies
understood.
Finally, if the Centurions did nothing
else they restored to the French Army
that elite spirit which had decayed with
the collapse of the French armies in
1940.
So it is with the Americans today.
The American nation has an historic fear
of becoming involved in a maior land
war in Asia. Another cemetery, at
Arlington, Virginia, is a monument to
just how costly fighting the Chinese can
be —the graves of the 35,000 men who
were killed in Korea. For too long the
American command tried to keep the
war in the air and off the ground: to
leave the duelling in the padi to the
people who understood it—the Vietna-
mese —with the stiffening of American
military who, in some respects, are like
the Centurions. These men are the
Special Forces, men who are possibly
the finest, unorthodox fighters in the
world. The Rand men spent many hours
with the Special Forces. They also
spent many hours attempting to resolve
this murderous war in endless discussions
of the Communist motivation over bour-
bon in the deep command bunkers.
They have made an extensive analysis
of the British success in putting down
the 5000 Communist terrorists in Malaya
—a task which took an average of
150,000 regular and paramilitary forces
12 years to accomplish. They rapidly
discovered there was no parallel between
the Malayan emergency and the Indo-
China war. They conceded that the use
of air power had obvious merit but that
it was not omnipotent. Often there were
as many dangers in the use of blanket
air-fire power as there were advantages.
For, they were able to prove, the very
use of this type of weapon system shot up
not only the Vietcong but also the
peasantry, leaving behind mounds of
innocent dead. As one Rand man pointed
out, dead men cannot talk and their sur-
vivors were hardly likely to inform on
VC who might well be of their own
blood or from their own localities when
they had just been strafed or burned.
The Rand men also recognised that if
the VC deployed murder, torture and
terror, “night and knife tactics”, they
also conducted a battle with regard to
the precept that a friendly population is
“the sea in which we, the fish, can swim”.
They apply murder, torture and terror
only when other, more gentle, forms of
combat have failed. But —as I found
from the Pineapple Princess—you can-
not tell the difference between a VC and
a coolie girl at 2000 feet. So that,
essentially, the Americans often find
themselves operating in a hostile environ-
ment against an enemy which is fed, pro-
tected, and informed by the local popu-
lation.
Thus has failed—broadly speaking—«
the tactical use of air power in Vietnam,
Again, broadly speaking, the loyal forces
are also losing—because they lumber
clumsily like armadillos through the padi
in their armored fighting vehicles, or
laager for the night in their earthwork
fortresses while the VC stabs when,
where and how it wants.
One Special Forces man summed up
the 1000 million dollar a year American
tragedy in Vietnam to the Rand men.
He might just have read a treatise by
the Centurions. He said: “We have
got to get this goddamned war off the
roads and into the padi. We have got to
get this goddamned war out of its pre-
sent state of overdependence on aircraft
and slug it out on trails at night. We are
going to have to use the night and the
knife ourselves. When we do we’ll really
start winning. We need scouts, we need
a friendlier rural population, we need to
know a lot more about the enemy. And
if we don’t, this will be another one of
those wars which orthodox armies are
so good in taking ten years to lose.”


k
m
U
for sharper
sales appeals
:
digs deep
Advertising is built on bedrock at
Weston. The bedrock of sound planning
after all the facts about your products,
markets, and philosophy of business
are uncovered and placed in proper
perspective. Building advertising
campaigns based on this kind of plan-
ning means digging for facts and it
takes time, energy and experience.
In association with our Chicago affiliate
agency we have developed special
procedures to uncover facts to help
ferret out the unique sales advantage
of your products. We would like to show
you how this technique of gathering
“data-in-depth" can build more pro-
ductive advertising for you.
Our telephone number is 27-1142 . . .
ask for Mr. Still or Mr. Young.
WESTON
ADVERTISING PTY. LIMITED
36 Grosvenor Street, Sydney
Pacific Zone Headquarters of AMIN
Advertising & Marketing International
Network of 66 direct affiliate agencies.
“The Times” for a Change?
Feeling the pinch
From CHRISTOPHER BOOKER in London
A few weeks ago one of my “usually
reliable sources” as to Fleet Street’s
goings-on behind the scenes mur-
mured to me darkly over a sole veronique
“Why don't you have a look at ‘The
Times’? There’s something going on.” Al-
though plied with chablis, he could say
no more. Shortly after this, a curious
paragraph appeared in an article on
“Power” by Lord Lambton in the
“Queen”. Turning to the subject of “The
Times” and of its chairman, Mr Gavin
Astor, he wrote:
It is said that at the moment he is
distressed with the authority with
which Sir William Haley has wielded
power from Printing House Square and
decided that in the future no editors
will be given the same sort of power
which will enable them to impose their
power for good or bad upon the great
newspaper. Therefore Mr Astor is
going to insist when Sir William’s time
runs out upon a shorter term of con-
tract for his successor, so that Mr
Astor's own position will be stronger.
Then, on March 29, the following item
appeared in “The Periscope” column of
“Newsweek”.
Progress may claim yet another Bri-
tish landmark —the front page of “The
Times” of London, traditionally given
over to classified ads ... as part of a
face-lifting now under study in the
Printing House Square offices of the
180-year-old daily, the front page of
“The Thunderer” may switch to news.
Finally, last weekend, it appears that
the “Sunday Times” got word that “The
Times” had been taking soundings of
some of its oldest-established front page
advertisers as to how they would mind
being displaced by news for a position
inside the paper (or on the back?). For
some reason, the “Sunday Times” story
never appeared.
A little time ago, Mr Gavin Astor
who has now been “The Times’s” over-
lord for some five years finally decided
that something must be done to give the
paper a shot in the arm. During Sir Wil-
liam’s twelve years of editorship there
have been many changes, many for the
better. Today the paper offers, on the
whole, as solid an all-round coverage as
anyone (which admittedly, particularly in
the foreign field, is not necessarily saying
a great deal). It has a number of out-
standing correspondents —at random,
Louis Heren in Washington and its excel-
lent film critic John Russell Taylor. Yet in
the past ten years, while quality news-
paper circulations have been shooting up,
“The Times” has moved up a sluggish
30,000. Last year alone, while the “Daily
Telegraph” put on 20,000 and “The
Times’s” closest rival, the “Guardian”
(which until quite recently was behind
it), moved even further ahead with an-
other 1 6,000, “The Times” remained al-
most stationary at 255,000. Such heavily
advertised attempts to raise public inter-
est as “The Dark Million” and other
serialised “saloon-bar sociologising,” as it
has been described to me, have made
little difference. “The Times” has been
feeling the pinch too in the advertising
race particularly in those lush columns
of Appointment ads with which the
“Telegraph” and the Sundays are filled.
One attempt to offset this was made
recently in the hiring of a “dynamic”
new advertising manager from the “Mir-
ror” group. But, all in all, the picture is
that, while income remains stagnant, costs
are all the time shooting up and in
certain respects, such as the expense of
the new building and the installation of
a rotary color system, more than usually
so. The major ingredients in the “face-
lift” that were discussed as possibilities
appear to have been the inclusion of some
sort of “Peterborough”-type gossip
column, to mop up all those bits and
pieces of news and rumor that any news-
paper must have an outlet for, a color
section, and, above all, that oldest
“Times” rumor of all, but this time true,
“news on the front page”. All was set
for the revolution —when last week “The
Times’s” much-respected and powerful
manager, Francis Mathew, who had been
at the centre of the whole discussions,
died. For various reasons, the whole pro-
ject has now been allowed, for the time
being, at least, to drift.
Now the main mystery left in all this
appears to be the role of Sir William
Haley. Is he, as some say, on the side of
progress willing to embrace the
changes much in the same way that Mr
Macmillan embraced the Common Mar-
ket, as a last-ditch bid for glory or is
he fighting in the last ditch itself? What-
ever is certain, it is that one decisive in-
fluence on the paper’s image in recent
years has been Sir William’s all-pervasive
presence and personality, particularly as
expressed in his strange, violent, puritani-
cal editorials. Mr Astor must be thinking
hard of that day, a year hence, when Sir
William will at last be replaced.


WAYS TO E.\ G
We grudgingly admit it, the gentleman has courage!
To flipping well flip it to England or Europe calls
for bravery, or something, of the highest degree.
Allow us then to steer your travel-thoughts toward a
much more comfortable, immensely more rewarding
way of travelling. The Sitmar way. We have four fine liners,
sailing monthly, and manned by the jolliest crews afloat.
Take your choice of Fairsea, Castel Felice, Fairsky or
the new Fairstar. Take it lazy, resting in well-appointed,
comfortable cabins, relaxing in lounges, bars, the sun
decks or around the swimming pool. The whole liner is
yours, because it’s one-class. Air-conditioned, too!
Food? Sitmar chefs are renowned for mouth-watering fare;
meals are exciting events. Entertainment? You'll
dance to the ship’s own orchestra, applaud international
entertainers, enjoy films and special gala nights.
All this for a fare that won’t cripple your budget.
Go see your Travel Agent. He has full details
of all Sitmar voyages. There’s one a month
and you save 10% by booking your return now!
ass


This is Nikon
Nikon is a camera
a cameraman’s camera
More Photo-Journalists use a Nikon
than any other 35 mm single lens
reflex camera. That’s why, when
anything important happens these days,
it is usually photographed with a
Nikon. A Nikon camera enables you
to make great pictures out of ordinary,
everyday events.
Nikon is a
unique photographic
recording system
With Nikon, you have a choice of 29
superb lenses and an almost endless
array of attachments, offering over 800
photographic combinations. From
micro-photography to missiles, no
assignment is too difficult with the
Nikon system of photography.
■ ■
I ■:
■; :o
.
m
j
Nikon is perfection
If the quality of a Nikon lens is only
“very good”, it is immediately
rejected. Nikon lenses in fact, all
Nikon equipment —must be “perfect”
Such things as dependability,
ease and speed of handling, resolution,
sharpness, responsiveness, versatility
are all reflected in your results when
you use Nikon.
Nikon
the world’s greatest
photographic recording system
Distributed by
Maxwell Photo-Optics Pty. Ltd.,
Head Office
49 Market Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
Ni
Please send me full details about Nikon photographic equipment.
NAME ~ —— - ‘
ADDRESS ~~ ‘ "
— STATE
Mail to Nikon, Box No. 4452, G.P.0., Sydney; Box No. 1969 R, G.P.0., Melbourne; Box No.
539 H, G.P.0., Brisbane; Box No. 1488 L, G.P.0., Adelaide; Box No. 1507, G.P.0., Perth.


TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project.
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat. Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication,
see Wardrope and Carroll first!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O’Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
m }
1
■
■^a#*'*
Sk
ftff II
V
'v t m
w
r
A Different Prague
Renovating Socialist realism
By JOHN RUTHERFORD
Not so long ago this was the most
“conformist” of Communist bloc
capitals. De-Stalinisation passed it
by for years. The change now has to
be heard and participated in to be be-
lieved. In this city today one can hear
the arts discussed and the demand for
creative freedom aired as forthrightly
as in Warsaw in 1956. And more out-
spokenly often than in Budapest which
a year ago began to take pride of place
from the Poles. Warsaw today is a
place where writers talk sadly of their
disappointments after the vistas opened
up in the first flush of freedom when —
eight years ago—the present Gomulka
regime rejected Soviet domination and
set a new pattern for independent
“national Communism”.
Yet one must concede that, broadly
speaking, Poland is still the freest of the
Soviet bloc States. One explanation of
the present mood of stagnation—apart
from its general economic causes —is
that 1956 promised too much, too
quickly. The new leader, Wladislaw
Gomulka, was astute enough then —
much more so than Imre Nagy in Hun-
gary—to see that things must'not go so
far as to invite Soviet intervention.
In this he succeeded; and for five or
six years now he has been steadily apply-
ing the brake, because he is essentially
a middle-of-the-road man and a realistic-
ally loyal collaborator with Moscow.
Furthermore, being suspicious of intel-
lectuals, he is determined to prevent them
from rocking the boat. In Hungary—
the country where things got “out of
hand” and the tragic Nagy proved him-
self no Gomulka—things proceeded
slowly. Relaxation was not essayed until
the regime installed by the Russians after
the failure of the uprising began to feel
safe. Since then “liberalisation” has
gone far. It has achieved a wide degree
of reconciliation between a Communist
regime and a non-Communist-minded
nation. It has lead to a stimulating
measure of literary and other artistic
laissez jaire.
Prague is still so run-down and
shabby that anyone who knew this lovelv
city of old. even in the years just after
the war, must weep at its neglect. An
effort at repair and restoration is on hand
now. It will take long to complete.
But intellectual, artistic life—and night
life—have been "renovated”. Conversa-
tion with people in general committed
to the regime—party members, in fact—
is often a revelation of a critical, unpre-
judiced search for true, untrammelled
expression. Pop music, “beat" groups,
savagely satirical revues can be found in
50 or more night-spots around town.
(The recent visit of Louis “Satchmo”
Armstrong—almost a “square” to West-
ern teenagers—-was still a near riot.) The
Czech cinema—with a tradition which
Stalinism did not, mercifully, quite
quench—is assuming a brave new look.
Scripts long banned have emerged in
pictures winning acclaim at Western
festivals. The breakthrough here is ex-
plained by Vojtech Jasny, the dynamic
young maker of “The Cat”, a film in
which dreams and everyday life wer#
interwoven with great artistic talent.
Asked what made his picture possible he
replied tersely: “More creative freedom,
which I won because I fought for it.”
A group of young playwrights is
making a similar new challenge in the
theatre. There are the regime drama-
tists. defensively turning out the old
“socialist realism”. There are the “re-
visionists” who will trim a play to stay
within the limits of approved “liberalisa-
tion”. There are now younger writers
who decline self-censorship and insist on
writing what they please. If it is denied
production, they refuse to rewrite and
have another go with another theme,
equally daring.
The regime seems just as powerless to
muzzle the general awakening of Czech
life. Protests against “certain cultural


epic
clears the way
for exporters
<r
2
Si
POllcy
\
\^° V
OEFAU
m^° £ ,w »
epic
f
epic removes the hazards on the
route to profits via overseas credit sales.
epic advises payment term patterns, provides
risk assessments, credit intelligence,
and low-cost policies which pay you if your
customers can’t. Ask for the booklet
which tells how epic makes exporting safe.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
Commonwealth Government Guaranteed
SYDNEY: 2 Castlereagh Street, 28 2321
MELBOURNE: 224 Queen Street, 67 3914
ADELAIDE: 118 King William Street, 8 7327
PERTH: 212 Adelaide Terrace, 23 348 8
Dept. of Trade, at Brisbane or Hobart.
manifestations” have come in from pro-
vincial party organisations, criticising the
new outspokenness in radio and TV com-
ment as well as the satire on the stage. It
has been suggested that these complaints
“from below” have been engineered by
the regime's top leadership. I don’t
think so. It is much more likely they
represent a cri de coeur from local party
bosses who see their days and ways
numbered, both in the radical changes
now being made in Czech economic
organisation and in the new freedom of
criticism and expression which no one
seems able now to stop, (ofns)
Mr Smith’s
Election
Ahead lies UDI
From LEO BARON
in Bulawayo
Few people in Rhodesia are in any
doubt as to the real reason for the
snap election. Mr Smith's stated
reasons are not taken seriously even by
his own supporters, who appreciate that
even a clean sweep of the “A” roll seats
would not demonstrate “the will of the
country as a whole”, and cannot
strengthen Mr Smith’s hand; they know
also, without necessarily understanding
the legal niceties, that a two-thirds
majority will not enable the Government
to effect constitutional changes of any
real significance in the quest for inde-
pendence. Understandably, it is assumed
that a mandate is being sought for a
unilateral declaration based on an over-
whelming vote of the white electorate.
But there may be deeper implications.
Mr Bottomley has made two things
clear: his assessment of the attitude of
the Europeans was that the majority did
not want independence to be taken ille-
gally; and he was not impressed by the
chiefs, and did not accept that the Afri-
can people wanted independence under
the present constitution. Mr Smith must
meet both these objections, and princi-
pally the second.
All the more significant, therefore, is
the announcement that the Rhodesian
Front does not intend to put up any
party candidates for the “B” roll seats
because, it is said, “these members should
he independent and free from any party
ties to express the wishes of their con-
stituents”. The remarkable comment
probably provides the clue to the real
purpose of the election; it is difficult to
accept that a party claiming the support
of the African people, and with all the
resources of the State behind it, will
nonchalantly abandon the opportunity to
demonstrate that support at the polls—
particularly when, without it, a negoti-
ated independence is impossible.
Mr Smith needs his facade of African
support; he tried very hard with the
chiefs, and has surely not given up. With
half a dozen of his “independents” in
the House to support his demands, he
will claim that his case is unanswerable,
and we can expect nomination day to
bring forth a number of surprise candi-
dates in the rural areas —chief nominees,
no doubt.
But if this does not materialise, then
the Government will indeed openly have
abandoned its pretences, and will—cer-
tainly in the public mind—be campaign-
ing for a mandate for UDI. The issue
cannot, of course, be put baldly in this
form, and this suits Mr Smith very well;
he gets the best of both worlds, since
on the one hand he can privately explain
to his more rabid supporters that he has
said as much as he dare if he is to re-
main within the law, while publicly he
does not commit himself and collects a
lot of votes in the process. Nevertheless,
he is sufficiently vulnerable on this issue
to enable the Rhodesia Party to prevent
the popularity expected landslide in his
recent references to UDI.
Mr David Butler, the new leader of
the Opposition, should be able to exploit
the situation. The majority of Euro-
peans would prefer the status quo, which
appears to them to offer reasonable
security for the time being, to illegal
action, the consequences of which are
unknown but which, it is feared, may
well be immediate and dramatic. And
Mr Butler can validly warn that the
consequences of giving Mr Smith his
mandate will assuredly be equally im-
mediate and dramatic; Mr Smith will
hardly wait for the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ Conference, with the
danger that a public threat of Common-
wealth troops will finally put paid to the
confidence of his supporters in his
ability to continue to thumb his nose at
Britain.


you go
w
orbo
or
where you go
Ja»
tm
m
PTY. LTD.
it cssfs no more!
Free services include the
arranging of your trans-
portation and hotel reser-
vations, passports, visas
(also U.K. Entry Permits),
health documents, foreign
currency and personal
and baggage insurance.
Travel now—pay later
facilities
SYDNEV:
116 King St., 28 2681
MELBOURNE:
374 Sourke St., 67 7071
BRISBANE:
119 Queen Street, 2-2328
Official agents for all
air, sea, rail and coach
companies throughout the
world.
AROUND MELBOURNE
Dawn of a New Golden Age
Light finger steps in
Last week your correspondent went
to “Goldfinger”. He saw a
naked blonde die of skin suffoca-
tion in gold paint. He saw another killed
by a blow on the head, from a steel hat.
He saw two men die hideously of electro-
cution, another crushed in a car banged
to pulp by a hydraulic ram, and, of
course, he saw Bond himself tortured on
a slab by the deadly laser machine. From
the first technicolor reel to the last, your
correspondent was drenched with super
stereophonic sound. He left the theatre
shaking and hunting for aspirins. How
could normal humans endure it?
It all went to prove jus f how naive
innocent junior movie critics can be.
This week the gentlemen at Hoyts head-
quarters in Melbourne were in a state
of euphoria. “Goldfinger” had broken
all records at Hoyts Regent. What’s
more it opened at six suburban theatres
on the same day—as they say in theatre
talk—at four hard-tops and two drive-
ins and established all-time United
Artists records for the lot of them. At
Hoyts Regent, Sydney, the first “Gold-
finger” day established an all-time record
for any day of any motion picture in the
theatre’s history, and the first week’s
gross was 42 per cent above the biggest
week recorded by any UA film in any
theatre in Australasia.
Things were so hectic at Melbourne’s
Regent it was impossible to maintain
even a display. During the first week-
end they lost an Bft by 3ft 007 display
panel on red satin worth £l3. Next
weekend they lost two enormous panels
of nicely near-nude Bond girls. They
lost 11 record covers and a whole series
of pictures of Sean Connery. Further-
more, the telephone rang continuously
with calls from girls who asked for the
life-size Bond figure in the foyer. Re-
grettably their desires could not be
satisfied. This was stolen too. The film
would have been more aptly titled
“Lightfinger”.
After his first naive observations, your
correspondent was eager to discover how
publicity really works. At Hoyts they
have a book heavily covered in thick
gold cloth. It is the story of the local
campaign and it will be sent with pride
straight to UA headquarters.
Early in the piece the 'exhibitors re-
ceived a publication titled the “James
Bond Back-In-Action Exhibitors’ Cam-
paign Book”. It explained how to go
for publicity through all the various
James Bond products.
James Bond fan cards were available
—s3o for 1000. These should be distri-
buted to all fan clubs, music stores, book
shops and from the theatre. There was
James Bond chewing gum to be sold, a
special tie-up with Dandy chewing gum.
The Norvic Shoe Company was produ-
cing “the 007 shoe—styled for James
Bond", good local window displays here.
Furthermore, publicity deals should be
arranged with local David Brown deal-
ers, Ford, Slazenger and Rolex. In the
film Bond drove his absurd Aston-Martin;
Tania Mallet drove a Ford Mustang:
Bond and Goldfinger had their famous
golf match, using, of course, Slazenger
equipment; and Pussy Galore, the avia-
tor, at all times wore a Rolex watch.
Then in neat time with the film, for
display in all records shops, there was the
Goldfinger LP of the sound track of the
film, the 45 RPM of the title song; and
for the book shops, naturally, there was
the lan Fleming book. For the film,
Pan Books made a first edition
run of one million conies.
And there were kits These were dis-
tributed in large numbers around Mel-
bourne to all those who were likely to
help, like newsagents, record shops, book
stores and such. The kit contained a
white rose (early in the film a pretty
secretary silences Bond by putting a
white rose between his teeth), a nugget
of gold, a champagne glass (Bond drinks
champers in bed with gorgeous Shirley
Eaton), a golf ball (Bond beats Goldfinger
at golf), a toy .32 snub-nosed Colt
Special, a copy of the Goldfinger paper-
back and a big display card.
According to the campaign book,
things in Melbourne went very well
indeed. They got big display windows
at all the leading book and record shops.
Ray Taylor painted a eirl gold on his
TV show. Actually Hoyts had a devil
of a time trying to find a gold bikini for
their model to wear at Channel 0 and
in the end they had to make it out of
those priceless gold curtains at the Cleo-
patra Theatre. Though, of course, they
didn't need very much Graham Ken-
nedy ran extracts from the film on In
Melbourne Tonight, a fr°° 8-minute spot
worth at least £2OOO.
The Bond items in the newspapers
came nice and steadily The “Herald”
had a story on Bond clo hes for children.
“003 i” complete with illustrations.
Sample copy: “In briefinq sessions with
M (for Mu mm}'), Jame« Bond Junior
can hold his own in a hinior version of
the suit worn by Bond in the opening
sequences of the film 'Go’dinger’.”
In Sydney, Hoyts and United Artists
turned on a special show for the Press.
The centrepiece was Miss Walker
all painted in gold, stretched out on a
bed. Regrettably this was not done Tor
us here in Melbourne. All we had were
the Miss Goldfinger hostesses at the
Regent, dressed in their gold evening
gowns.
The people at Hoyts believe that the
great golden era of motion pictures is
returning, what with “Tom Jones”,
“Sound of Music”, “Goldfinger”. Then
there is the beautiful thought that another
Bond is in the making: “Thunderball".
With a bit of luck The Bulletin
will even get into the campaign book.
BATMAN


TRADE?
THE BANK OF
NEW ZEALAND
has all the answers
&
Whether you are interested in
Import or Export.. . The Bank of
New Zealand not only has the
answers but all the facilities to
assist you. With nearly 400
branches and agencies the B.N.Z.
offers the most experienced and
widespread advisory service in
the Dominion. Your enquiries
will be more than welcome.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
339 George Street
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street
HEAD OFFICE:
Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Savings Bank facilities in New Zealand,
Fiji, and Western Samoa.
Branches in London and the Fijian Islands.
Agents throughout the world.
130 A
Letters to the Editor
Aborigines
SlR.—The W'riter of “After the ‘Free-
dom Ride’ ” (8., March 27) was appa-
rently a little short of ideas. Under the
guise of warning the public of Com-
munist infiltration, the “Special Corre-
spondent” sets the organisation up for
a “take-over” by the very people he
claims to offset. Interested sections of the
community who would otherwise neutra-
lise any dominance by Communist Party
members are successfully frightened
away from the organisation. It would
have been easy to have provided the
writer with far more apparently dama-
ging information if he had really en-
quired. He doesn't make it clear whether
it is Peking or Moscow centred Com-
munists who “have been most successful
in infiltrating”. Maybe in the Aboriginal
field, Peking and Moscow have a truce
and work together to provide Bulletin
journalists with misinformation to stop
any genuine Aboriginal voice from being
heard. To shore up his arguments,
Mr X introduces the names of 8 alleged
Communists who “are or have been
associated"". Messrs ! E. A. Bacon and
J. Fitzgerald probably attended the Bris-
bane Conference in 1961. At that stage
of our development, the conference was
simply a meeting of organisations inter-
ested in Aboriginal affairs and could not
make FCAA policy.
Messrs Sam Aarons and T. Zeffert, no
doubt honorable people, are neither of
them even known by name to the writer
who has been secretary of FCAA since
its inception in 1958.
Miss Mona Brand is better known to
FCAA as Mrs Mona Fox. Mrs Fox
has never held an executive position but
has given ready assistance in menial and
typing chores during conferences. Mr
A. McDonald is secretary of the
QT & LC which has been affiliated with
FCAA for several years and has made
an invaluable contribution to the Abori-
ginal cause with the production of a fac-
tual document setting out the wages and
employment conditions in Queensland.
No other section of the trade union
movement has (with or without jargon)
so adequately shown up the exploitation
of Aboriginal labor. Mr Len Fox, known
nationally for his sincere and humane
concern for indigenous people, as well as
for the honesty of his political convic-
tions. was convenor for one of FCAA’s
standing committees for 6 months.
Miss Shirley Andrews has been a mem-
ber of FCAA executive since the incep-
tion of the Council. The contributions
made through hours of exacting research
and documentation, into legislation
applying to Aborigines in each State,
into the application (or non-application)
of Social Service Benefits to Aborigines
and into wages and employment condi-
tions throughout the Commonwealth,
have not been surpassed by any other
research worker. It should be pointed
out that FCAA has an executive of 23,
including six persons of Aboriginal des-
cent, two Torres Strait Islanders and
two others who through race or marriage
are identified with Aboriginal communi-
ties. There is no political or religious
yardstick available to prevent infiltrators
of any color or creed joining a public
democratically - operated organisation,
such as FCAA.
Stan Davey
Hon. General Secretary, FCAA.
Bay swat er (Vic.).
SlR.—Your “Special Correspondent"’
evidently is vividly aware of what
happened in the Communist Party
15 years ago, but displays a ter-
rible ignorance of the Aboriginal ad-
vancement movement of 1965. This
Fellowship, founded by Mrs Bandler and
Mrs Pearl Gibbs in 1956, recruits its
members on the principle that any per-
son may join, whatever his background,
provided he leaves his own strong poli-
tical and religious loyalties outside the
door. Personal beliefs naturally act as
motivation for our members’ actions in
the Fellowship, but we are all expected
to place the fate of the Aborigines be-
fore other interests. The organisation
is non-party political and non-sectarian;
and we believe the advancement of the
Aborigines is above party arguments,
because it strikes at the common con-
science of Australians.
As for Communist influence in the
Council: your correspondent has to rely
on the “Communist Review” for his evi-
dence of this. Even here, he gives the
game away in his quotation, which
admits a Rightist tendency among Com-
munists in the Aboriginal movement.
This is a back-handed way of saying
that, so far from Communists succeeding
in influencing us, we are strongly in-
fluencing them. As always, Aborigines
must come first, before any party.
J. HORNER
Secretary, Aboriginal-Australian
Fellowship.
Sydney (NSW).
Ceylon’s Elections
SIR. —Dr Emery Bares (8., April 3)
seems to have misunderstood the current
situation in Ceylon and to have been
totally misinformed on a number of
points which he has clearly not checked.
He describes Dr N. M. Perera, the
Finance Minister in Mrs Bandaranaike's
Cabinet, as a Communist without even
the courtesy of quotation marks. Dr
Perera is leader of the Lanka Sama
Samaja Party and, therefore, technically
a Trotskyist. He is also a distinguished
parliamentarian with thirty years" mem-
bership of the Ceylon legislature, stands
on the moderate wing of his party and
is believed by most observers to subscribe
to radical and social-democratic prin-
ciples. There is a Communist Party in
Ceylon, which has never had more than
four members in Parliament (3 per cent
of the House). Dr Bares has greatly in-
flated its importance and influence. He
is also wrong in attributing a number
of welfare measures to Mrs Bandara-
naike' and blaming the state of Ceylon's
balance of payments on these policies
and her Government. The rice subsidy
was introduced by Mr Senanayake's
father ten years before the Bandaranaike
Government and so were the essentials of
“the social welfare State without the
slightest regard for the country’s econo-
mic capabilities"’. As both measures
have helped the people of Ceylon by
keeping their living costs almost stable
and lowering their death rate to European
standards, it is hard to imagine any


irl
IN MELBOURNE
smart people stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
at the Pans end ol Collins Street.
Right in the heart of busi-
ness, entertainment, theatres
and shopping centre.
100 rooms—newly decor-
ated, 24 hour room service.
New air-conditioned res-
taurants, the Rib Room, for
delicious aged bpef and steaks;
the Harlequin Room for the
young at heart.
Hotel shops include chem-
ist, florist, boutique—and a
step away is the high fashion
world of Collins Street.
Car parking at the hotel.
Ask about our Family
Booking Plan (children free).
For reservations, ring Mel-
bourne 636031; Sydney
298392, your Airline or
Travel Agent.
& RHI43/64
A. L NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE
G. H STEPHENS
(Members cf Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street Brisbane
Telegraphir Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone: 6089
Government dispensing with them, expe-
diency aside.
Dr Bares is also wrong if he imagines
that the late Government initiated the
policy of drawing nearer to China.
Again, it was Dudley Senanayake him-
self who signed the rice-rubber agree-
ment with China in 1952. The open
breach with the USA resulting from
oil nationalisation was not caused by
refusal to compensate, as he argues, but
by a clause in the US foreign aid laws
which makes this kind of action punish-
able. In fact the Ceylon Government
repeatedly stressed its desire to compen-
sate the oil companies. Moreover, Dr
Bares is totally misinformed in holding
that the late Government would not sus-
pend luxury imports and is thus to blame
for the balance of payments crisis. This
crisis began in the early 19505. Ceylon
has reduced its imports to the bare
minimum of food and raw materials, a
fact which anyone looking at the empty
shelves of Colombo’s Fort area could
verify in two minutes. With such an
unsound factual basis it is not surprising
that Dr Bares’ recommendations are also
unsound. A mass exercise in Western
bribery, turned on as soon as the United
National Party was returned, would
simply antagonise the Ceylon voters,
most of whom are literate and politically
aware. The tag of “Westernised” was
the main reason for the UNP defeat in
1956 when they were reduced to a group
of eight MPs. Certainly give Ceylon all
the aid that she needs. But don't ima-
gine that the political results will follow
automatically.
J. JUPP
University of Melbourne.
Whose Front?
SIR. —In an article “At the Front”, a
Fred Wells asserts that the Women’s
International Democratic Federation
“provides the front of women’s organisa-
tions”. The basis of his assertion appears
to be that the Union of Australian Wo-
men is affiliated to WIDF and that I am
a vice-president of WIDF. I have never
hidden my political affiliations; however,
my position in both these non-Party
political women's organisations rests on
my activity as a woman. The Women’s
International Democratic Federation
unites in its ranks 200 million women
from some 80 countries. In these troubled
times an organisation that brings to-
gether women from capitalist, socialist
and neutral countries should be wel-
comed as contributing to better inter-
national understanding and world peace.
Mrs FREDA BROWN
Sydney (NSW). Secretary,
Union of Australian Women
Batman's Ballarat
SlR.—Batman’s article, “Anyone Here
from Ballarat?” (8., April 3) is positively
delightful, and all of us, aliens in Mel-
bourne, have read and re-read it and
are determined to return there, for a
weekend at least, in the the near future,
in order to renew our acquaintanceship
with all that he has mentioned, and
Cedric Flower has so brilliantly sketched!
If only, though, he had found space (or
time) to mention “our” soundshell, on
the site of the old zoological gardens; the
floral clock in Sturt Street, said to rival
the famous clock in Edinburgh; the Old
Curiosity Shop in Ballarat East, where
relics of the gold days are shown, but
where tourists’ feet do not get muddied;
and the piece de resistance, the model
of the Welcome Nugget set in front of
the public conveniences at the bottom
of Sturt Street!
He could also have mentioned the joy
the eleven last prisoners at the Ballarat
Gaol have had in the nast few weeks,
knocking the wall about in preparation
for extensions of the School of Mines
in the gaol. The cittern of Ballarat are
certainly more interested in education
than in penal reform! Batman has cer-
tainly made the sons and daughters of
Ballarat, who live, alas, no longer there,
very nostalgic.
(Mrs) Susan E. A. Patterson
South Yarra (Vic.).
SlR.—Batman writes “unquestionably
Ballarat is the most beautiful provincial
city in Australia”. Any fool knows that
Mildura is the undoubted holder of this
honor. Ballarat indeed!
JOHN E. LEWIS
Mildura (Vic.).
Meta-Censors
SIR.—You report (National Notebook,
8., April 3) that a hoaxer, pretending to
be a Customs officer, told a Melbourne
publisher’s agent that his firm must stop
importing a certain book, and so pro-
voked the meta-censors into, uttering
their usual solemn philippics. From this
you draw some gloomy conclusions con-
cerning the state of freedom in Victoria.
Would it not be more rational to draw
equally gloomy conclusions concerning
the intelligence of publishers’ agents and
the excitability of meta-censors?
If publishers’ agents haven’t the nous
to ring the Customs House for confirma-
tion of such telephone calls, then they
deserve all they get. If meta-censors
will persist in going off half-cocked
without checking their information, then
they are as silly as they have been made
to look in this case.
A. W. SPARKES
University of NSW.
The Martin Report
SIR.—As an Australian citizen studying
in the United States, 1 was delighted to
read that the recommendations contained
in the Martin Report on tertiary educa-
tion are to be implemented. If some
of the details appear to he unsatisfactory,
it is nevertheless clear that the Federal
Government is at least taking positive
action in this sphere. Nobody who has
spent time in the United States can fail
to be impressed with the benefits which
widespread tertiary education can bring
to all elements of society. And few
would fail to be appalled by the degree
to which Australia has fallen
It is thus a little discouraging to read
that Croesus (B„ April 3) is finding that
the needs of the economy demand that
the Government be cautious in outlaying
funds for education. Surely it is by now
obvious that no investment yields more to
an economy in the long run than invest-
ment in education. And even if this
were not the case, the enrichment of the
lb es of the educated should be ample
justification for greater Government out-
lays. The attitude expressed by Croesus
is indicative of widespread lack of re-
cognition of the value of education in
Australia, and if allowed to prevail will
harm us all in the long run. If econo-
mic stability requires a reduction in
Federal Government spending, the re-
duction should come from areas other
than education.
W. C. WENTWORTH, JR
Stanford University, California.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
FORUM
The Gadarene Rush
By ANTHONY HOWARD
Communication, the new Anglican heresy
Not so long ago a colleague of the
author of “Honest to God”, Bishop
of Woolwich Dr John Robinson,
wrote a moving and anguished article in
the London “Observer” entitled “A
Mission’s Failure”. Written by the Rec-
tor of Woolwich, Nicholas Stacey, it
was about the labor and energy that
he and a group of gifted young clergy-
men had put in over the past five years
into trying to bring a Thames-side indus-
trial parish to life; and throughout the
whole sad tale Mr Stacey made abso-
lutely no effort to hide not only his
feeling of disappointment but also his
sense of bewilderment that so much work
should have produced so little effect—
at least in terms of practical results.
Why, he asked himself again and again,
had success so consistently eluded every-
thing they had tried to do? The answer,
it seemed to me, was contained in Mr
Stacey's own very first paragraph. “We
have,” the Rector suddenly blurted out
in as revealing a phrase as has come out
of the Church of England in the past
few years, “played every card in the
pack.”
. To latch on to one cry of despair may
be unfair—but, wittingly or unwittingly,
Mr Stacey surely gave away in that one
sentence the whole ethos that has come
to dominate the Church of England in
the ’sixties. Religion-by-gimmick is not,
of course, peculiar to the much-glamor-
ised “modernising wing” of the Church.
But from the outside it is not very easy
to see much difference in kind between
their current endeavors (whether in
paperbacks or in coffee-bars) and the
efforts some dozen years ago of the well-
intentioned Kingston vicar who would
always begin his sermon at his annual
sportsman's service with three short
blasts on a referee’s whistle. He, after
all, as much as they, was entitled to
claim that all he was trying to do was to
communicate.
Communication—seen not so much as
a method or a means but rather as an
end to be glorified in itself—is, indeed,
threatening to become the new Anglican
heresy. Who, having witnessed it, will
ever forget the vision of the present
Archbishop of York manfully trying to
get-with-it by cheerily telling Adam
Faith on a religious programme that
religion is “so jolly relevant to this life . . .
something that all of us, youngsters and
the older blokes, should begin to think
out”? Or who, again, having once read
about it, can entirely dismiss from his
mind the memory of the present Profes-
sor of Christian Religion at Oxford
announcing that he had discovered “a
cosmic disclosure” in the picture of a
girl screaming at the Beatles?
In a way it is easy to understand why
all this has happened. Until 1961, when
Geoffrey Fisher retired from the see of
Canterbury but the trumpets sounded
in eight other cathedrals to welcome new
prelates to their thrones, the Church of
England had seemed content, as it were,
to live in the Victorian parlor of British
public life. On the BBC the week had
its Good Cause, the morning its Lifting
Up of Hearts and the afternoon its Silver
!TiO conclude the discussion
A begun by Patrick Tenni-
son’s article on the Anglican
Church, Anthony Howard
gives an English layman’s view
of the C of E’s struggle for
survival in Britain.
Lining—while in the religious Press you
could still find such immortal splash
headlines (my own favorite drawn from
the “Church Times”) as “Six Candles at
Walthamstow”. Suddenly, though, in
that year the blinds were thrown up, the
light was let in, and the word went forth
that the Church must cease to be an
enclosed community, or die.
The result was probably inevitable. A
rash of bishops, led by Dr Claxton of
Blackburn, joined trade unions, one at
least (Dr Reindorp of Guildford) was
much photographed doing the twist, a
bevy of clergy and their wives trooped
off to Butlin's holiday camps, whilst even
the new Archbishop of Canterbury was
persuaded to announce that he expected
to meet some atheists in heaven. As a
passing phase, the product of a reaction
from the period of quietism presided over
by that genial housemaster to the nation,
Lord Fisher of Lambeth, it was under-
standable enough. But the consequent
intoxication of publicity seems to have
gone to the Church’s head; and it has
stayed inebriated ever since. No time
for any real debates, like a re-appraisal
of the Church's teaching on divorce, or a
re-adjustment of its relationship to the
state; or even an honest facing of the
moral difficulties irlvolved in its own
awarding of a pension of £1250 a year
to its Bishops whilst ordinary clergy in
retirement were expected to keep body
and soul together on £4OO. Instead a
Gadarene rush towards the headlines—
whether achieved by such curious sacra-
mental instruments as hoola-hoops or
pogo-sticks.
It was almost as if at the very moment
the Church had decided to pull a face,
the wind had changed and that, there-
fore, it still finds itself stuck with it.
Just how firmly that expression is now
fixed was demonstrated earlier this year.
When Sir Winston Churchill died—never
perhaps a statesman notable for his
Christian observances—not only did
cathedrals and parish churches up and
down the land sense that it would be
required of them by the local papers to
lay on some elaborate memorial cere-
monials: even the Archbishop of Canter-
bury himself saw it as his duty (on what
warranty is far from clear) to announce
that “for Winston Churchill there is sure
Christian hope of life after death".
It was a revealing episode if only be-
cause it lay bare the essential vulnerabil-
ity of the popularists’ position within the
Church. The only-too-blatant element
of “cashing in” more and more has come,
to characterise every Anglican interven-
tion in public affairs. There is, of course,
nothing new in this. From the moment
that Arthur Foley Winnington-Ingram,
then Bishop of London, announced in a
recruitment speech in 1916: “This war is
the greatest fight ever made for the
Christian religion—a choice between the
nailed hand and the mailed fist,” the
Church of England has never been above
a journey into the market place to barter
its old birthright for a mess of passing
popularity. The only difference today is
that, with the new “with-it boys” in
charge, what used to be the exception
has become the rule—a rule to which
doctrine itself must now, or so it would
seem from the Bishop of Woolwich's
writings, be made to conform. Is God
Himself, perhaps, an obstacle, a stumbling
block to the belief of teenagers? Then
out of the window with Him—or at least
with the way He has always been re-
garded. In whatever direction the
Church of England has a future it will
not, I fancy, be in this one. Rather is it
likely to be found among those clergy-
men —never glamorised and rarely pub-
licised—who recognise the part that
patience has to play in any historical
religion and who have not yet, like the
Rector of Woolwich, been reduced to
expecting to discover the Last Trump
among a pack of cards.


A N.S.W. Liberal Government will set up
a full time Law Reform Commission.
The Commission will have its own
research staff and draftsmen. Its
task will be to initiate law reform and
report on draft legislation. One of
its most important functions will be
to recommend reforms that will provide
speedier and less costly justice,
particularly in third party insurance
cases. It will also concern itself with
finding ways of allowing rights of
appeal for individuals who have been
harshly treated by administrative
action. It will report on the desirability
of appointing an ombudsman.
A N.S.W. Liberal Government will
amend the Obscene and Indecent
Publications Act.
The N.S.W. Liberal leader, Mr. Askin,
has pledged his party to amend
this Act so that a defendant
will have the choice between trial by
magistrate or jury. A Liberal Govern-
ment would also set up a tribunal
to which a publisher or bookseller
could apply for determination of
whether a publication is obscene or
indecent without having to run the
risk of prosecution.
A N.S.W. Liberal Government will
compensate the victims of crime.
A Liberal Government will set up a
fund for payment of compensation
to innocent victims of crimes. Another
fund will be established out of
penalties collected in criminal
proceedings from which the costs of -
an acquitted person may be paid
at the discretion of the court.
These are only three of the many
reforms a Liberal Government will
introduce in N.S.W.
The Liberal Party is pledged to a
wholesale policy of reform in New
South Wales. These reforms—
combined with splendidly practical
proposals for education, transport,
housing and other bread-and-butter
matters—are the reasons why this
time the swing is to the Liberals ail
over New South Wales.
Vote (1) Liberal on May L
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, Liberal Party of Australia.
B2.FP


Gallipoli: All Too Violently...
The dreadful, unending roll of the dead
By EK DUM
In 1915 the key word in Australian
life was isolation. Communities
were separate, lonely, having little
connection between each other by
modern standards. It took, then, as
long to reach Sydney from Brisbane as
today it does to reach London from
Sydney. To get to places like Darwin
overland called for an expedition. Perth
was accessible to Sydney and other
places east only by a long sea voyage;
the same applied to the big towns of the
Queensland north.
Under those circumstances the
national consciousness was suffering a
difficult birth. True a national con-
sciousness was being born under the
auspices of the Australian Natives’
Association, but thousands of the British-
born yearned towards their “native sur-
roundings” and the consensus of thought
was apt to be centred on the British Isles
rather than on the spread of Australian
States, for which Alfred Deakin had
advocated “one flag, one nation, one
destiny”.
The essence of the situation was that
few people or leaders thought of the
war, when it came, as an Australian war.
Little international news appeared in the
Press. We were so far away from “Euro-
pean civilisation”, so shielded by the
dominance of the Royal Navy with which
our own little RAN was integrated.
It is startling to remember that it was
only during the early part of the Second
World War that purely RAN officers for
the first time reached the rank of captain
in the Australian Naval forces. .(Before
then all our high commands were held by
seconded RN officers, even if some of
them were Australian-born.) The vortex
of World War I was five, six weeks away
from us at closest. It was not our war
unless Britain went down and the Empire
collapsed, which was believed unimagin-
able. Even the Emden affair and the
almost bloodless capture of New Guinea
did not make much difference to the
attitude, common to all political leaders.
Thus Sir John Forrest, Australian-born,
said on the night before war broke out:
“In the past Australians were glad to
think of the glories of England . . . Jus-
tice and reason now demand that we must
now be prepared to share her difficulties
and, if need be, her disasters . . . Our fate
and hers, for good or ill, are as woven
threads.” Senator E. D. Millen, Minister
for Defence, also Australian-born, spoke
of the danger that “Britain would be in-
volved” and declared that we must prove
that we were not a mere fairweather
partner in Empire.” Sir Joseph Cook, im-
migrant Prime Minister, that month
declared: “If the Old Country is at war,
so are we.” And Andrew Fisher, another
immigrant who succeeded him in Septem-
ber, 1914, announced for the Labor
Party that “Should the worst happen . . .
Australians will stand by the mother
country to help and defend her to our
last man and our last shilling.” And with
most of the first recruits who thought of
anything but great adventure, the outlook
was very much that of a young poet
killed later on Gallipoli:
The banners of England, unfurled across
the Sea
Floating out upon the wind, were beckon-
ing to me.
The AIF Australian Imperial Force
so named at the suggestion of its com-
mander, Major-General William Throsby
Bridges, who was trained in the Royal
Canadian Military College, and mortally
wounded on Gallipoli, reflected the
attitude. The original offer from Aus-
tralia was of a division then 18,000
men plus, a brigade of Light Horse,
roughly 2200 men and a few more
horses. But the rush of enlistments was
so great that an extra brigade of infantry
and an extra brigade of Light Horse
were offered within the first month.
Nobody had the faintest idea that before
the war was over the Commonwealth
would have enlisted for overseas service
nearly five times as many men as Wel-
lington commanded at Waterloo.
TTnluckily, no records have been pre-
served of the nature of the first in-
gredients of the AIF. At first, recruiting
offices were open only in capital cities
and at one stage the inflow into uniform
was certainly 60 per cent immigrant,
though later the composition settled down
to three to one Australian-born in the
original First Division. Then the bush-
men began to come in and the men from
the great mining centres who formed
the bulk of the personnel of the compo-
site Third Brigade. Men of the various
States began to be stirred up together
a definite move forward in nationalism.
Up to April, 1915, it is recorded by
C. E. W. Bean, the AIF included 12,000
shearers, members of the AWU, and 1000
bank clerks. A very large proportion of
the senior officers were British Army
men and out of 12,000-odd who had
served in war before, 1308 were old
British Regulars and 1009 old British
Territorials. The core of the NCOs were
experienced British Regulars.
The AIF was literally born on August
17, 1914, its first assembly at Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, with the gathering of
MacLaurin’s 3rd Battalion, First Infantry
Brigade. It was marched in fours to
Randwick Racecourse where it slept its
first night on service in its civvies on the
wooden benches of the grandstand. Its
1000-odd officers and men had their first
outside exercise on September 14, 1914,
on the scrubby heights of Maroubra
not unlike bits of the Turkish coast
round the Sea of Marmora in the nature
of its terrain and foliage.
On November 1, 1914, on a bright,
sunny day, RMS Orvieto led the first
Australian-New Zealand convoy out of
Albany 36 transports and 30,000 men,
plus 7843 horses of which only 3 per cent
were lost in the six weeks during which
the huge, three-line convoy, the New
Zealanders behind in double line, plodded
across the Indian Ocean and up the Red
Sea, its speed limited to that of the old
Southern, a vessel much flattered by the
assertion that she could steam 101 knots.
Lights were out at night save for a single
dim green star. The monotony was
broken only by seeing HMAS Sydney
leave at full speed on the morning of
November 9, while the usual parades and
classes were being held on the decks
throughout the fleet. Her departure was
shortly after eleven o’clock, followed by
the news that the Emden was ashore “and
done for,” the signal for a half holiday.
There was the dramatic interlude at
Colombo when the cheering was muted as
the Sydney steamed between the ranks of
the ships and it was suddenly realised
that her decks were crowded with the
dead and wounded from the Emden.
Then came Aden, where they saw the
first fruits of war, and Egypt which was
now their destination instead of Europe,
since Turkey had declared war during
their voyage. The change of destination
was due to the influence of Sir George
Reid and Colonel Chauvel, who had
urged it on Kitchener personally, after
seeing the effects of the weather and the
bleak surroundings of Salisbury Plain in
the depth of winter even on the cold-
hardened Canadians. The staff ships were
at Suez on November 30, the convoy at
Port Said on December 2, the van of the
convoy at Alexandria next day.
Looking bach through the newspaper
files of the time, it is strange how little


was heard of them at home as the war
went through the disastrous beginnings of
its first winter. Their new Corps Com-
mander, General Birdwood, might adjure
them to “write regularly to their mothers,
wives and sweethearts, because if you
don’t they will write to me”. But a tight-
lipped censorship saw that the wives and
sweethearts heard very little of what was
going on or what was intended. You
could tell them all you cared about the
Pyramids, but nothing about Djemal
Pasha’s ambitious invasion of the Canal
Zone in the repulse of which no Austra-
lians actually took part, though the 7th
and Bth Battalions were in the trenches.
The long voyage which mails had to
travel combined with the very meagre
cable services made it very hard for any-
body living in Australia to appreciate the
realities of war. For if letters were al-
lowed to tell little, the newspapers told
little more. War news in the great metro-
politan papers, even about great contests
like the Battle of the Yser, which was
the centre of the European holocaust in
March and April, 1915, caused only a
slight rise in the temperature of editorial
rooms. Double column headings in the
right-hand corner of the central cable
page of great dailies like the “Daily Tele-
graph” stood out above a series of short
paragraphs into which cable sub-ed'tors
had expanded the terse few words of
to others unintelligible jargon of cable-
ese.
The month of April, 1915, saw some
attention being given to the operations
of the Russian steamroller, but much
more in its first week to the Sydney Show
which marked the last appearance of Sir
Francis Suttor (died April 5) who was
seen in the photograph of the opening
ceremony linking the year of his birth
when the total population of the Austra-
lian mainland had just exceeded 50,000
free people, with the year in which it
already had more than that number under
arms. The great news from the war zones
that week, transcending even activity
north of the Yser, was the fact that the
King had abjured alcohol for the duration
and that “members of the British Cabinet
and Government and also the judges” in-
tended to follow his example.
The fact that British casualties had
already reached 139,317 by April 11 had
little impact, though the blood was stirred
by the news that a “zeppelin looking for
London” had failed to find it, and had
found “Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex”, yet
had done no damage. Of news of the
AIF there was almost none save in
vagrant letters such as one written on
March 7 which earned a place near the
bottom of. the news by announcing:
“Latest is that we are off to Cyprus
Island. Anywhere for a change. We are
all full up of the sands of the desert”.
This sounded no more ominous than the
information received just a week later
from “a Volunteer” that “all have been
supplied with caps like the regular
British troops and we look some class in
them” and containing the first hint of the
direction in which the forces might be
moving: “How proud we will all feel that
we are in the Army that will surely
march victorious into Constantinople.”
Otill there was no excitement in Aus-
tralia. Enlistments were continuing to
the point that the military were less
choosy than they had been and a bad
tooth or two was no longer enough to
disqualify a would-be recruit and earn
him the right to one of those big, silver
cartwheels which would soon be seen in
profusion on lapels marking the wearers
as “rejected volunteers”. Late in the
month there was a big parade of 3000
men in Sydney with Colonel Holmes,
fresh from the capture of German New
Guinea, taking the salute. There were
pictures of rookies “learning the art of
war at Holsworthy”, in GS waggons.
There was some vague talk in three or
four line cables from Athens of British-
French landings at Enos on the Bulga-
rian-Turkish border and rumors about
Bulair. The Command was letting these
out to deceive the enemy.
Brief news arrived that the Allied fleet
was bombarding the Dardanelles where
“the Turks are putting up fortifications”
the place, in fact, was stiff with them
already. But all this raised not much more
than a yawn, even when the fact was
printed (a few days before the sinking of
the Lusitania!) that Grand-Admiral von
Tirpitz, the “father of the pirates”, was
“safely tucked away in the shelter of the
Kiel Canal” on his birthday.
Sunday, April 25, dawned in the cities,
towns, hamlets, mines and shearing sheds
of the Commonwealth with business
going on as usual. On April 26, the Syd-
ney Stock Exchange a sedate, single
column recorded prices of bank, shipping
and a few industrial leader stocks was
delightfully stable. David Jones was ad-
vertising a variety of prime Axminster
carpets at six-and-nine a yard. Joe Gar-
diner was offering “men’s black calf lace
boots with black golosh, leather lined
with pegged soles” for the same price.
Winter suits were coming on the market
from forty-five shillings, bowler hats
from seven and sixpence. The theatres in
Sydney, with a somewhat military air,
were going full blast Julius Knight
playing “The Life Guardsman”, Muriel
Starr’s company in “Bought and Paid
For”, Frank Harvey and Violet Paget in
“The Man who Stayed at Home”. The
main war news in the papers on April 26
was that the Germans were making an
enormous effort to break the Allies’ line
on the Yser in their drive towards Calais.
The Russians had advanced into Hungary
on a forty-mile front. But there was no
more about Gallipoli than that unofficial
reports were telling of a “decisive action
begun at Dardanelles where the Allies had
bombarded various points on the Penin-
sula and landed on two of them as well
as at Enos”. A telegram from Athens
mentioned landings at three points and
at Bulair—where they hadn’t landed.
And next day the main tale was still
of the Yser, plus a statement from Lon-
don that the Navy believed the Dardan-
elles could be forced, provided the Penin-
sula were occupied “by a powerful army”
to blot out the fixed batteries which com-
manded the straits and accentuated the
dangers arising from mines drifting down
on naval ships on a four-mile current in
the Narrows.,
It was not till April 28 that the Admir-
alty and Army let it out that on Sunday,
the 25th, the Army had disembarked
forces before sunrise at various points
on the Peninsula “in spite of the serious
opposition from behind strong entangle-
ments”. The communique said that land-
ing was “completely successful” and that
before nightfall “a large force was estab-
lished ashore”. The landing was “continu-
ing” and “several French aeroplanes were
dropping bombs on Turkish magazines”.
No mention was made of Australians,
though a vague cable from Athens sug-
gested that some were ashore. The whole
thing sounded easy and unimportant, the
tale being outranked still by reports of
the struggle on the Yser.
Next day, Sir lan Hamilton was men-
tioned as commander of the operation.
The landing was described as being made
“under excellent conditions”. Troops
from Egypt were credited with being in it.
The French had taken 500 prisoners. But
for all the War Office admitted, the AIF
might have been a million miles away.
And so it came about that Australians
learnt of one of the greatest events in
their national history under a single col-
umn heading well down in the page under
the rest of the news on April 28: “Dar-
danelles — Australians Landed.”: Mel-
bourne, Wednesday. In the House of
Representatives, the Assistant Minister
for Defence, Mr Jensen, was asked by Mr
Anstey if the Australians formed part of
the force landed with the Allied forces at
the Dardanelles. Mr Jensen replied that
portion of the Australian troops which
had been in Egypt were included in the
force at the Dardanelles.
It was not till the Friday, April 30, that
there was official congratulation on the
“splendid gallantry” of the AIF who had
established themselves on the Peninsula
and beaten off their attackers and were
“steadily advancing”. It was many a day
before the full story was known of the
landing which began at 4.30 a.m. on the


What makes Matson the
First Choice of Discriminating
Travellers to America?
answer: No other ships are exclusively First Class. It is reflected in our personalized services. The
anticipation of your every wish is a precept and our staff is trained to think in terms of your individual
tastes. ./Watson’s elegance has a special, American quality. The S.S. MARIPOSA and MONTEREY
accommodate just enough guests to favour easy companionship, yet retain space for privacy. Shipboard
appointments are unobtrusively luxurious. Public rooms embody the artistry of prominent designers. The
aura of South Seas openness is especially appealing. These liners completely air-conditioned and gvro-
stabilised are especially designed for this tropic route. each with private facilities are
unusually spacious. Tastefully furnished and decorated, they provide charming, gracious living. Cuisine is
lavish, epicurean. Meals are interspersed with snacks and buffets. Room service is available at any hour.
The liners’ wine cellars are tended as carefully as any on shore. As unique as Matson’s ships are the
enchanting ports of call: Noumea, Suva, Niuafo’ou (Tin Can Island), Pago Pago, Honolulu (almost two full
days here: a paradise for fun-lover, sight-seer or ardent shopper) and San Francisco. Return departure can
be made from either San Francisco or Los Angeles, then via Bora Bora, Tahiti and Rarotonga to Auckland
and Sydney, A Matson voyage, featuring American service, cuisine and exquisite comforts, is designed and
priced to please demanding travellers accustomed to the finest. Isn’t it time for you to enjoy this
incomparable experience? Be sure to book early. See your travel agent soon, or contact us. 50 Young
Street, Sydney, Phone 27 4272; 454 Collins Street, Melbourne, Phone 67 7237.
In Australia Matson serves as general passenger agent for three major American steamship lines; Ignore McCormack. American Export-
tsbrandtsen and United States Lines.


' J
Freight goes fastest by
ANSETT-ANA~~r~2\
Anything anywhere 24 hours a day,
7 days a week, every week.
ROUND THE CLOCK ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE
ANSETT-ANA A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
1179
morning of Sunday, April 25, before
Ari Burnu by the boats carrying Dr
Graham Butler of the 9th Battalion
(Moretons) and Talbot Smith of the 10th
S. Australians—poor Talbot was dead of
wounds by the 30th an hour before the
British bombardment down at Helles
began. (The first man ashore was Lt D.
Chapman, 9th Battalion, killed at
Pozieres.) Even when Ashmead Bartlett’s
despatches were leaked for publication,'
through tight censorship, the country did
not seem stirred.
When the bare news of the landing had
been published on April 30, papers wrote
quiet leading articles about it, such as the
short one in which old Tom Courtney,
the associate editor of the “Daily Tele-
graph”, inventor of the slogan “Austra-
lia for the White Man”, declared the men
of Gallipoli were “writing in blood a new
history of our civilisation, in view of the
site on which the walls of Troy stood”. He
opined prophetically that “the name of
the Commonwealth is now destined to
be associated forever with the working
of the changes which must have a further-
reaching effect than any of the history-
making convulsions which in that region
have at different epochs torn the vitals
of the world.”
There were questions in Parliament
about casualties but few seemed to rea-
lise the implications, until one morning
early in May there appeared the first
casualty list divided as to States and
headed by the name of “676 Private R.
Turnbull” of the 9th Battalion, killed in
action, followed by details of three or
four others killed and roughly 20
wounded from the 9th, 10th, 11th and
12th Battalions—representing Queens-
land, South Australia, Western Australia
and Tasmania.
It was the beginning of a flood of
-personal tragedy which brought the facts
home all too violently. Day in and day
out, the lists stood on the main pages of
the daily Press, for long one name
to a line, a dreadful, unending roll on
which were written off, one by one, the
flower of Australian youth. Day after
day, for months, appeared the pages of
pathetic photographs of brilliant leaders,
scions of the oldest Australian families,
some of the best young brains of the
professions, some of the sturdiest physical
specimens of the bush, the mines, the
shearing sheds, the cattle camps all disap-
pearing into the furnace of war.
The war, indeed, as the casualty lists
lengthened with the great battles of
France which made death a common-
place in tens of thousands of Australian
homes, wiped out whole types of out-
back Australians and left its mark on
the generation in a way inconceivable to
those who did not experience the passions
generated in the Commonwealth by its
progress and losses.
There was no more thought, after the
first month’s rolls of honor had brought
home realities of war, about this being
a war to help the Old Country. It was a
grim, personal war to which every home
with related youth in or entering the front
line was committed with fierce, dedicated
determination.
It was easy to understand, in terms of
sacrifice, for the battles of Anzac ranked
in loss of blood with the great battles of
the world. Even the first week cost Aus-
tralia 8000 killed and wounded. The
whole Dardanelles campaign cost 26,004
men a number not far short of the
force carried abroad in the original con-
voy and landed in Egypt at the beginning
of December, 1914. Of these, 7,594 were
killed, including the divisional com-
mander and much of the best of the
senior command.
The whole story of Anzac was not writ-
ten on Gallipoli. But it was there that
the hard core of leadership and of fighting
quality which made the Australian
Imperial Force of France, was developed,
trained to battle and hardened. Even
though again and again before the end of
1918, battalions, though attrition, had
been filled and refilled with new blood,
it was the Gallipoli veterans who moulded
and remoulded them and gave them
their stamina during their apprenticeships.
One battalion, for example, which landed
on the morning of April 25 —the 15th
(Queensland and Tasmania) —had a casu-
alty roll by the end of the war equal to
five times its parade strength. It had
landed at Anzac with 25 officers and 934
men and was reported by its Brigadier
(General Monash) as having a strength
of only eight officers and 350 men on
May 3. It had not been mown down to
the same extent as the 16th in the same
Brigade which went into battle on May
2, 1915, with 17 officers and 620 men
and came out in the morning having lost
8 officers and 330 men in the night. But
it was out of the tradition and veteran
leadership of such fighting units that the
fighting quality that made history at
Pozieres, Bullecourt and St Quentin
grew.
Australia by November 1, 1918, had
sent abroad, or had in training to go
overseas, 331,814 men, equal to 13.43
per cent of the white male population at
the last census (1911). Of these, 59,330
had lost their lives and 152,171 wounds
were recorded. Our losses were larger
than those of Canada which-had 120,000
more men enlisted.
Very many of those who survived were
to carry the memories and traditions of
Anzac into almost every field of Austra-
lian leadership, military and civil: in
politics men like R. G. Casey who began
his active war as the German-speaking
interrogator of the captain of the Emden
and went through the hottest part of the
Gallipoli fight, Iven Mackey in education
and in leadership in both wars; S. M.
Bruce who was wounded though with
the British forces down at Helles. The
juniors of Gallipoli were the seasoned'
high commanders of World War 11.
Anzac Day has as much claim to be-
come the real birthday of Australian
nationality as July 4 has to be regarded as
the natal day of independent American-
ism.


Catalyst
A SHORT STORY BY TOM PICKERING
FtVE almost sleepless nights in a row
had left Sam Jaffney a shaking
mess. There was desperation now in
his efforts to relax. His thumping heart
gave a sickening pulse to the woolly dark-
ness of the room. During brief periods of
shallow stupor, unwelcome thoughts
whirled until he feared his reason was
going. A lurch of his heart-beat, a sound
from the street would shock him back to
consciousness; he would start up in a
panic, staring, listening, then sink back
With a groan and wish for the night to
end.
“Tomorrow,” he thought, “will be
worse than ever . . . Jake, Zulu, even the
kids sneering and mocking. Makes you
weak, no sleep, wide open to it . . . Just
can’t face any more.” His thoughts, when
alone, were always a mixture of self-pity
and anger, confusion and fear. Abject
enough now to crave nothing but pity,
he knew even this was to be denied him,
because nobody cared. Nobody had ever
cared, except his over-protective mother
who had cared too much.
He wiped clammy palms on the sheet.
Deliberately he tried to relax again, forc-
ing his soft, heavy body to sink into the
sagging mattress, tried to ignore the
faint, creeping sounds of the building.
There were times during these sleepless
nights when he longed for his wife’s un-
responsive presence in the bed beside
him. Not that she had ever been a com-
fort, but the. hell she had made his life
was preferable to loneliness. Her acid
words had made him grovel as he felt
her disgust, but at least she had made
him know he existed. Her strength,
though directed against him, had made
his personal struggle less terrifying. He
admitted, that Emily had been cheated by
his failure, yet hated her for the way she
had crushed and finally broken what
spirit he had. Anyway, she was gone and
the two lumpy daughters with her; they
wouldn't even speak to him in the street.
A sound startled him from a troubled
doze, a soft thud from the direction of
the window. Heart leaping, Sam sat up
and stared into the darkness. Trousers
slipping from the chair? Imagination? But
he sensed a presence in the room. Con-
scious of the cold sweat on his face and
the strain on his trembling arms, he sank
back slowly, feeling the sag of his belly,
a sour pain rising in his throat.
There was a rushing movement and a
sudden weight on his legs. Close to
screaming, he scrambled from the bed
to the light-switch, turning as he clicked
it on. A cat! A well-fed, tan and white
cat stood at the foot of the bed, tail
flicking lazily, gazing at him with steady
yellow eyes. The discovery did nothing to
reasurre Jaffney; he had a horror of cats.
Their very self-sufficiency was an affront
to him and their stealth, cruelty and self-
ishness made his flesh creep. These feel-
ings dated from the time the family cat
had fallen in quicklime and, to put it
out of its misery, he had bashed its head
in with an axe.
The cat’s calm stare made him drop his
eyes, his blood turn cold. All he had to
do was grasp the cat and hurl it through
the window. But he couldn’t force him-
self to approach it. Its appearance was
like a judgment, not to be dismissed as
chance. How, for instance, had the ani-
mal reached this second-story room?
Warily, he crossed to the window. Faint
moonlight shone on the tin roof of the
garage below. Pipes leading up from the
ground past the window showed the
means of entry but nothing could explain
to Jaffney the reason for its perilous
climb.
The cat settled down in the warm
hollow left by Sam’s body. It was pur-
ring quietly, coat rippling as it breathed.
Shivering, Sam collapsed into a chair
and fumbled for cigarettes in the coat
behind him. The cat stretched and
yawned, revealing small teeth and a
tongue like a pink leaf, then jumped
lightly to the floor and walked, still
stretching, towards him.
“Go away,” Sam said, stupidly.
“Shoo!”
Undaunted, the animal rubbed against
his legs, backwards and forwards, purring
throatily, tail twitching, lifting yellow
eyes to his face and exposing the sharp
teeth. Sam sat as if petrified when it
leaped to his lap and lay there gently
digging with its claws at the flesh of his
thigh.
Sam was still sitting there when the
electric light began to lose its brilliance
with the dawn. There were sounds; car
tyres on the road; footsteps; a baby cry-
ing in the flat beneath. At last he felt
capable of dealing with the softly-purring
monster relaxed across his legs.
On the way to work,, trembling all
through, Jaffney felt as if the blood were
draining from his entrails. The skin of his
face smarted from a hurried shave. As
he knew it would, his face in the mirror
had looked grey and puffy, with dark
pouches beneath eyes that were/bleak and
afraid. On the best of mornings, the sight
of his face saddened him. Youthful good
looks had crumbled into pathetic ugli-
ness, bereft of the compensatory signs of
character: the lips were slack, the hair
receded, the weak chin with its flabby
duplicate was imprisoned by wobbling
jowls. Only his finely arched eyebrows
had retained their shape.
The tram was full and, needing badly
to sit, he had to stand. The day's embar-
rassments began he had no change for
the conductor. While the gritty-faced
little man stood impatiently flicking his
sheaf of tickets, Sam conducted a frantic,
fumbling search through his pockets,
knowing all the time that he had only a
note. Why, he asked himself, did these
things always happen to him? He was
conscious of the amusement in the watch-
ing eyes of other passengers. The conduc-
tor contemptuously slapped a handful of
silver into Sam's hand and several coins
fell to the floor. Sam would have left
them there to avoid further discomfort
but, when those near him began search-
ing, he was forced to help.
The incident set his heart pumping.
Surreptitiously, he felt beneath his coat
and wondered if it might be warning of
an attack. He remembered the cat, the
bloody insolent cat which, in the morn-
ing, had walked calmly out the door.
A block away from the building where
he worked as a messenger, his dread of
the ordinary working day ahead grew so
that he had to summon all the power of
reason left in him not to turn around
and go to a park or a pub. Only the
thought of what lay beyond this job if he
lost it kept him going; in fact, caused him
to break into a shambling run to avoid
being late.
To many unqualified men the job of
messenger with the Australasian Insu-
rance Company would have been a rea-


sonable position: to Jaffney it was a
humiliation because he had come down
to it, step by step, job by job. It is un-
healthy for a man of forty-eight to be
doing a job he would have despised at
sixteen and which was despised, and him
with it, by those clerks of sixteen and up-
wards who were already at their desks
when he arrived, breathless. Sam resented
their smug acceptance of their superiority
evident in their insolent attitude towards
him. Yet he endeavored to ingratiate
himself with them, succeeding only in
making a fool of himself. The girls acted
as if he were part of the furniture.
The fatal line had not yet been drawn
in the Time book, but the Chief of Staff
was at his back, waiting, as he scrawled
his shaky signature. He felt like a snail.
In the locker-room, where he had to
change into the further humiliation of
a uniform, he did not speak to the other
two messengers. He considered them
rough uncouth fellows, although, as a
rule, he strove to imitate their speech and
share their interests, because this kind
was all he had left. In this, too, he failed;
they sensed his difference without need-
ing to analyse it and had no respect for
him.
“Gord, Zulu,” said. Jake, folding in
one useless sleeve of his uniform coat.
“Will you look at the case of the shakes
our mate Jaffney’s got this morning?”
“If you ask me,” Zulu said, winking, “I
reckon he give the fourpenny dark a
touch along last night.”
“Nah! Out wiv a sort more likely. A
dark ’orse is our Samuel.”
“I didn’t sleep very well,”_Sam said,
trying to hide his irritability. “A cat got
into my room . .
“Did you hear that? A cat! And did it
have the Richmond colors on, mate?
’Cause if it did, mate, it were a tiger, not
no bleeding cat.”
“Tt weren't a elephant, Sam, was it?
Jake an’ me don't care if it were a
pink elephant even, do we Jake? Jake
an’ me ’ave ’ad v the rats before today.
You can tell us.”
“As a matter of fact,” Sam said, too
eagerly, “I did think it was a rat before
I put the light on . . .” He stopped, realis-
ing that it was this inability to answer
a joking remark with another that made
them ridicule him.
Removing his suit trousers, he hoped
that, just for once, they wouldn't come
out with the stale line he had had to suffer
ever since his schooldays: Sam Jaffney
does not haffney. He had heard it so
often that it should no longer have the
power to hurt, but did. Zulu and Jake
wandered off, talking football, a subject
that always excluded Sam. He hurried
after them, remembering with dismay,
that it was his day for floor duty, which
involved answering queries and directing
customers to the various departments. It
was considered the soft cop by the others,
but to Sam it was torture. He worried
too much, became self-conscious and
confused. Something always went wrong.
Jaffney didn't actually see the girl
vomit on the floor, but he noticed the
mess on his way to answer a summons
from the head messenger and then he
knew why he was being sent for and he
knew he wasn’t going to do it. He
wasn’t even going to report. It wasn’t
conscious rebellion, nor altogether dis-
taste for the dirtiness of the job. It was
the exposure. The final blow to his pride.
He fled to the toilets, entered a cubicle
and s3t down, quivering helplessly, his
flesh like jelly as if all restraint of bone
and muscle had been removed, going
over it in his mind, doing the job in
imagination, then shrinking trom the
thought, tney would be looking tor him
now. Fear oi the consequences made him
struggle to rise, but his legs would not
biipport him.
After a while he wasn’t thinking about
it any more, just staring dumbly at the
white tiles and the lewd scribblings on
the door, smelling disinfectant, hearing
the beat of his heart. Even the old legend,
“Sam Jaffney does not haffney" amongst
the graffiti failed to penetrate. Then,
aloud, in dull anger, he said: “That
bloody cat!”
The outer door rattled and he heard
his name called. Not intending to answer,
he was surprised to hear himself saying:
“Here I am. What do you want?”
“Been looking everywhere tor you,
Jaff. You'd better hurry. Garrick wants
you urgently.”
“Tell him I’m not well. What does he
want me for?”
“How would I know? Unless it’s to
clean up what the babe heaved.”
“Wait . . .”
But the boy had gone. There was only
the trickle of water in the cistern and
shouts from the lane below.
“Are you there, Jaffney?” It was Gar-
rick’s voice.
“I won't be a minute, Mr Garrick.”
“Get a move on, man. What's the mat-
ter with you? Are you sick? Are you
coming out of there?”
Sam, confused by the snapped ques-
tions, got to his feet, looked desperately
around as if for another exit, then un-
necessarily pulled the chain.
As soon as he emerged from the
cubicle, Garrick began snapping at him.
“What do you mean by . ducking off
without telling me? There'll be the devil
to pay over this. Are you really sick? Yowi
don't look the best. Sick or not, you'll
clean up this mess; afterwards we’ll talk
about it send you home if necessary.”
He was leading the way from the room
as he spoke.
Sam, sullen, craven, followed Garrick,
whose bald head bobbed like a buoy
in a choppy he limped along the
passage, his right side descending with
a rush at every step with his crippled
leg. “There’s nobody around but you to
do this. Parker and Yule are out on their
rounds. Accountant's going mad.”
Oam felt as if he were dreaming: the
walls seemed to tilt; the linoleum
writhed like a carpet of snakes; Garrick's
antic figure was spiderish, grotesque. He
leaned against the wall. Garrick looked
back.
“Are. you all right, Jaffney?”
“I'll be all right, Mr Garrick. Felt a
bit faint.” It seemed easier now to just
do as he was told.
“Well, you know where everything is
mop, bucket and so on. Table opposite
the Information counter. Be as quick as
you can. Report to me when you've
finished.”
Armed with mop and bucket, Jaffney
walked like a zombie towards the mess.
Now, confronted by the task which had
become a symbol of his degradation, he
came out of his trance and was suddenly
conscious of the cessation of activity his
appearance was causing. Everybody was
watching him.
Faces swam together in a massive grin
and mop and bucket fell from his hands
with a clatter, water spilling and mixing
with the vomit. Turning, he stumbled to
the main entrance, hearing, as he crashed
through the swing doors, a roar of dread-
ful laughter.
In the street the crowd seemed to push
against him: elbows jabbed at his paunch;
a babble of voices engulfed him. Tears
streaked down his smitten face as he
staggere_d like a drunken man, leaving in
his wake the curses and laughs of those
with whom he collided. Two men at-
tempted to help him but he wrenched
himself free, tripping once and landing
on his knees, scrambling up and lurching
on.
For perhaps fifty yards he continued
his crazy flight. Then he saw the cat. No-
body else seemed to notice as it padded
on to the road, where it paused, one paw
held delicately in the air, turned its head
and opened its mouth in a derisive mew,
before crossing to the safety zone, heed-
less of traffic.
“The cat!” he screamed and lunged
into the road after it. A squeal of brakes
and a shout. The bus tossed his body
aside and a swerving car finished the job.


ARTS AND entertainment
Sculthorpe’s
Busy
Schedule
By JACK KUNST
After the highly successful first per-
formance of his new string quartet
at Sydney’s Town Hall this month,
composer Peter Sculthorpe is not resting
on his laurels. Last week he talked about
his immediate activities and what was
lying ahead of him.
At the moment Sculthorpe is writing a
work for children’s voices and percussion
which will be performed in Sydney later
this year for a UNESCO International
Society for Contemporary Music concert.
He is also working on a set of experi-
mental piano pieces which he will call
“Haiku”, inspired by a Japanese poem.
Two more things are on his packed calen-
dar before he leaves for the United States
by the end of the year. One is a song
cycle and the other one is a work for an
American orchestra which he was com-
missioned to write in 1960 but, as Scul-
thorpe says “they didn't give me a dead-
line and I never got around to writing it”.
Sculthorpe has taken up a Harkness
Fellowship, the first Australian composer
to do so, and will leave for Yale Uni-
versity, New England, in December. He
hopes to return to Australia early in
1967.
While in America, Sculthorpe wants
to write an opera based on a Sidney
Nolan theme. He is arranging for the
libretto but its author’s name is secret. He
is also working on a ballet, but wants to
keep it under wraps for the time being.
Sculthorpe said the Fellowship meant
a good deal to him because of the un-
limited facilities and opportunities to
further his work and study. He said
watching the ethnomusicological scene at
Yale would not only be of benefit to his
students at the University of Sydney’s
Music Department, where he teaches the
composition of serial music and ethno-
musicology, but it would help him to
digest the Asian influences which were
beginning to affect his composing with in-
creasing urgency. Professor Donald
Peart, head of the department, under-
stood this and had encouraged him in
all respects when the Fellowship came
up, he said.
At this stage in the career of 35-year-
old bachelor Peter Sculthorpe, very few
knowledgeable observers of the inter-
national music scene have failed to recog-
nise him as one of the most important of
our national composers.
Following the line of his development
gives a few clues as to where he was
going but what began to arrest the atten-
tion was an intangible which Sculthorpe
himself says he cannot quite fathom and
which he makes no effort to understand.
This intangible could perhaps be loosely
referred to as “Australian idiom”.
On this subject Sculthorpe says: “At
one stage, before I went to Oxford in
1958 on a scholarship, I was experiment-
ing on my own with serial composition.
I was serialising notes, then rhythm,
volume, timbre and everything else. I
came to the conclusion that if I drove this
to its logical, end, the result would be
silence.
“Besides, I had the feeling that this
had very little to do with myself and that
I was handling a very interesting but
quite alien subject. After reaching some
sort of climactic stage with atonality and
serialisation. I began to clutch the ‘Aus-
tralian idea’ most aggressively.”
Sculthorpe explained that he loved this
country passionately but he did not feel
this was some sort of adolescent national-
ism. “Beating the kerosene tin was not
the solution to his desire to express him-
self. Neither did he want to borrow Abo-
riginal idioms or anything else as such.
He wanted to use the “sieve” of his
mind to make all impulses entirely his.
Sculthorpe said the first music he
wrote after that turning point which con-
veyed to an audience his state of mind
was the Piano Sonatina played at Baden
Baden at the ISCM Festival in 1955. He
felt then he was on the right track. (In-
cidentally, the Piano Sonatina has just
been published as a Sydney University
Music Publication.)
Despite the fact that Sculthorpe cannot
quite explain to himself the success of his
efforts to communicate with his audience,
he had no notions of mysticism. He is a
handsome and most healthy-looking
athlete with humorous brown eyes. He
drives a sports car like a connoisseur. His
Woollahra terrace house, which he has
nearly finished doing up himself, is an
individualist’s haven and retreat.
Sculthorpe has been writing music
since before he was ten years old, in
Launceston, Tasmania, where he was
born. When he gets depressed he thinks
of his first piano teacher. When he con-
fronted her despondently with a piece he
had written and which he didn’t like,
and remarked, “I don’t think there are
tunes left in the world,” she replied,
‘’Does God ever run out of faces?”
He has written all kinds of music most
prolifically TV, theatre, incidental
music of all kinds. In 1957 he wrote
music for the revue “Cross Section”
which ran for more than a year at the
old Phillip Street Theatre in Sydney.
In England, Sculthorpe did a lot of
theatre. He says modestly: “I don’t know
whether this is luck or anything else, but
anything I have written in the past few
years has been a commission. This, to
say the least, is rather cheering.”
He was referring to the Haydn Trio
with the first performance of his String
Trio in London in 1960 and the London
Czech Trio with the first performance of
his Pianoforte Trio in 1961.
Sculthorpe was also commissioned to
write music for a number of films, inclu-
ding the title music for an American tele-
vision series and various documentaries
for Visatone (Sydney) and the Common-
wealth Film Unit. He mentioned his
work “The. Fifth Continent", written in
1953, which the ABC commissioned him
to write for submission for the Italia
Prize. He wrote and recorded, with Larry
Adler as soloist, a score for the Australian
children’s feature film “They Found a
Cave”.
In 1961 his father died and Sculthorpe
flew back from Oxford to Launceston.
The family had always been a very
happy and integrated one and his father
had been very close. He stayed around,
worked in the family's big sports store,
completing a number of works quietly,
wondering what would happen next.
Not long after, he moved to Sydney to


-SJ
£
Ideal for
Newspapers,
Directories,
Books, Bibles, etc.
HORNSBY TRADING CO.,
P.O. BOX 70, HORNSBY, N.S.W.
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S brings
professional report with documents. When
writing p'ease give information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 fENCHURCH STREET LONDON, EC.3.
Play it to-night for fun!
w o "R. i- u'S
MOST POPULAR
/GAME
STANDARD 34/9 ... FOR JUNIORS 25/6
take up a lecturer's job at the University
of Sydney. Teaching ethnomusicology
has deepened his understanding of his
environment. The music of his immediate
neighbors has become a strong influence
in his thinking.
Where will he go from here? We may
get an idea when we hear Peter Scul-
thorpe's music again in the near future.
ON THE MARGIN
Mao’s Box-
Office Wow
Tn Red China, newspaper correspon-
A dents report, audiences are crowding
to see an opera called “The Bucket of
Manure”. The chief characters in it are
a peasant and his wife who possess the
bucket and its contents. Throughout the
opera they argue whether to put the
manure on a communally-owned vege-
table plot, or on a plot they own them-
selves. The climax of the show comes
when they decide to put it on the com-
munal plot.
Spectators are said to find the show
intensely moving. Many burst into tears
and give loud whistles the Chinese
form of applause when the final dis-
position of the manure is made.
It is small wonder that this work has
stirred the interest of theatrical producers
in many countries. It deals with elemental
things —man, woman, the good earth.
“The Bucket of Manure” is a fertility
play in the finest sense.
Already “Bucket”, as it is termed in
“Variety”, has been adapted in several
forms for the Western stage and screen.
Australian audiences will see them all,
with the possible exception of the Italian
film “La Secchia d’Amore” (“The Bucket
of Love”).
In this version, directed by Lellini, the
central figures are a beautiful fashion
model and her impotent lover, a rnarch-
ese who owns a bucket full of family
jewels. His problem is to decide whether
to give them to his mistress, or sell them
to pay his nymphomaniac sister's gamb-
ling debts.
In a powerful scene the fashion model
is chained nude to a hoopla stall at a
church fete, while the marchese tosses
the jewels on to her body. Though full of
dramatic values the scene may be too
strong for Australian censors. Fellini's
film is a fearless exposure of modern
decadence, and it will be a tragedy if our
archaic censorship prevents us from see-
ing it uncut.
Broadway inevitably has given its own
buoyant interpretation to the Chinese
classic, in the smash-hit musical “Hello,
Dollars!” The scene of this is laid in New
York, period 1910, with the cast wearing
bowler hats, Gibson Girl frocks, etc.
An Irish policeman's daughter wins a
bucket of dollar bills through a tip on
the Kentucky Derby. She has to decide
whether to marry a polished but effete
English fortune-hunter, or invest the
money in her Jewish sweetheart’s gar-
ment business. To the satisfact’on of
all, she chooses the latter course.
Critics have hailed the show as “en-
chanting’’, “heart-warming.” They praise
its pace —it moves so fast that the audi-
ence does not care what is going on. As
well as its message of faith in American
enterprise, “Hello, Dollars!” has the hit
tunes “Let’s Make a Noise” and “I Like
Girls”. “The Firm” will stage it here,
using all the creative resources of the
Australian theatre to a replica of
the Broadway production.
A more thoughtful treatment of the
Chinese theme is the London play “The
Bucket of Blood”, produced by Peregrine
Purve, a leading exponent of the new
Theatre of Cruelty. This frighteningly
brilliant young man made his name, it
will be remembered, by staging “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” in a torture
chamber.
The main characters in h : s version of
“Bucket” are Jack the Ripper and his
landlady. The London “Observer” critic
called the play “a profoundly moving
statement of the contemporary human
predicament”. It will be presented in Syd-
ney by the Old Tote Theatre in associa-
tion with Homebush abattoirs.
Wider audiences will see two adapta-
tions of the subject for TV. The
Northern Division of the BBC has made
it into a robust one-hour comedy. The
story here concerns a Yorkshire mill
worker who brings a bucket of beer from
the local to share with fellow-members of
his union shop-committee. His wife w'ants
the beer for a meeting of her Bingo
group. The denouement comes when she
pours beer over him while he roars:
“Tha’ll kick t’boocket for this, lass!” It is
inimitably down-to-earth British humor.
In the US, the Chinese work is the
basis of an episode in the Donna Reed
Show. Donna’s teenage daughter is given
a bucket of Coca-Cola by a love-sick
date whom she suspects of stealing it
from the high school canteen. She is
frantically worried until she talks her
problem over with Mom and Pop. It
makes a poignant family situation drama.
Together these Western productions
deploy a wealth of talent and ingenu ty.
And yet somehow none of them quite
captures the magic of the Chinese origi-
nal. “The Bucket of Manure”, stands
alone the most fragrant of China’s
thousand flowers.
ROSS CAMPBELL
THEATRE
Satire of the Suburbs
Semi-Detached. David Turner. St Martin’s
Theatre, Melbourne.
This is the best satirical comedy Mel-
bourne has seen for a very long time.
Not only does it scintillate in comparison
with most others that arrive here, but it
is good enough to make a definite con-
tribution to the whole genus. It is witty,
it hits hard through a soft glove, and it
is put together as shrewdly as a play
by Moliere.
Much of its bite derives, I should say,
from a technique pioneered by tele-
vision. “Steptoe And Son” is the first
parallel that comes to mind. “Semi-
Detached” is a middle-class comedy of
manners and morals, not a proletarian
parody, but it is quite as ruthless. The
same hilarious and cruel opportunism
which marks the dealings of the two
Steptoes with each other an'd the world
distinguishes the habits of Fred Midway
and his family in their comfy North
country suburb.
There is no manifest anger at all,
even when we are made to feel that
climbing can be costly. This makes it
all the more telling. What the angries
do from the outside with their flailing
and sometimes disguised attack, David
Turner does openly from within. His
social criticism is devastating while
barely appearing to be criticism. The
Barry Humphries touch also comes into
it. The Midways are English cousins of


JET THE DAYTIME WAY TO EUROPE
TAKE A
SINGAPORE
L_J
JULSJUt
mhm
m
■
a***#?
.
*&.<■.>•;• ', ~ -*>2
v; Wm& M
AND THE WONDERFUL BOAC
wco®
Experienced travellers are welcoming this new
daytime way to Europe. Jet BOAC 707 by day
to Singapore; fly on refreshed next morning by
day to Europe and the UK by the superb BOAC
VC 10. (Ask for a VC 10 flight between London
and New York or San Francisco, too.)
For full details of BOAC’s daily Rolls-Royce jet
services from Australia, and the facilities of the
BOAC world network, talk to your Travel Agent,
BOAC, or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ROLLS-ROYCE JETS
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH
AIR-INDIA, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
98.101 N
BOAC
JETS
SUN
■ To Singapore, Calcutta, Teheran,
Beirut, Rome, London.
1
■ To Singapore, Bombay, Teheran,
Tel Aviv, Zurich, London.
■ To Auckland.
IDE
■ To Hong Kong for Bangkok,
Bombay, Teheran, Tel Aviv, Zurich,
London.
■ To Singapore, Colombo, Bombay,
Abadan, Damascus, Zurich, London.
ID
■ To Singapore, Rangoon, Delhi,
Beirut, Rome, London.
1
■ To Hong Kong for Bangkok,
Delhi, Cairo, Zurich, London.
■ To Auckland.
FBI
■ To Singapore, Calcutta, Karachi,
Beirut, Rome, London.
SAI
■ To Singapore, Bangkok, Calcutta
Teheran, Zurich, London.
■ To Singapore, Colombo, Bombay,
Abadan, Damascus, Frankfurt,
London.
For full details of BOAC’s daily Rolls-
Royce jet services from Australia, and the
facilities of the BOAC world network, talk
to your Travel Agent, BOAC or Qantas
(BOAC's General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS C 0R D ORATION WITH
AIR INDIA, QANTAS AND AIR NEW ZEALAND
9138
78/103N
Mrs Everidge, but they could live happily
in Beaumaris or Punchbowl.
To re-tell the story would make it
sound banal. It concerns an area-super-
visor in an insurance company whose
dearest wish is one day to become “com-
pletely detached”. Struggling up from
the bottom he has so far only reached
semi-detachment, and this dint of guile
and a correspondence course education.
At one point he accuses his children,
one son and two daughters, of being
“crammed full of Left-wing drivel about
honesty and integrity”.
“Crammed full of Left-wing drivel
about honesty and integrity.” Save for
one of the girls that is a slander: neither
the kids nor their admiring mother fall
far short of old dad when it comes to
exploiting one another and the members
of the opposite sex. There is a labyrinth
of jolly blackmail, ostensibly to protect
the family and to keep up its neighbor-
hood prestige. In fact it has become in-
stinctive. If you ignore a few swipes at
the church and a couple of serious lines
at the end, the savagery is so mag-
nificently camouflaged that, at times, you
can delude yourself into believing that
you are watching pure comedy with over-
tones of farce. It may only strike you
later that, on its own level, “Semi-
Detached” is more effectively cynical
and certainly no less good theatre, but
for the unsteady first act —than “Who’s
Afraid of Virginia Woolf?”
In truth, it goes beyond “Virginia
Woolf” as a genuine satire because it
has not even a trace of sentimentality.
In an inverted way this also makes it a
morality, which is probably why it was
first performed at the Coventry festival
to celebrate the re-building of the
cathedral. It can stand as a monument
to the mores of the semi-detached age.
Pull of funny lines which may survive
erosion, it is a play that promises to
enter the permanent repertory. One can
imagine it being given quite different
interpretations in London, Moscow and
New York.
George Fairfax’s production is rum-
bustious, and beautifully timed. The
casting, with only one partial exception,
is strong. Terry Norris gets his own
mannerisms sufficiently under control to
let Fred Midway break through with
startling panache. Julia Blake scores a
minor triumph as Avril, the more typical
of the daughters. Billi Hammerberg, her
ugly-duckling sibling, still frantically
clutching at shreds of inward respect-
ability, holds her own nicely between
kitchen-dinette and red gravel drive-way.
Martin Baughan as Averil’s shy violet
of a husband is deliciously idiotic. Paul
Thompson, in the part of the son who
will one day surpass his father, and
David Mitchell as an unscrupulous lover,
do well, and Kenrick Hudson does him-


fH
u
f A
A new angle
—on industrial buildings. The angle we are referring to is tha
LOWLINE roof of the Armco Rigid Frame Building, so reveal-
ingly portrayed above by our photographer who got a little out
of control when he saw the beautiful job we’d made of it
It’s modern. It’s low. You like it? It means that you can plan
a building around the versatile Armco Rigid Frame System and
have it look mighty attractive
Drop us a line it you’ve got something in tne wma. we d like
to help you right from the start.
ARMCO
V
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Vicloria: 32 Levanswell Road, Moorabbin. 5.20. 95-0241.
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane. 4-3214.
South Australia: P.O. Box 68. Port Adelaide.
*R139.6«
self proud as the rich man in the back-
ground whose cash and special needs
keep unlikely events moving within the
dynamic of ultimate probability.
DAVID MARTIN
FILMS
Execution in Tangier
The Ceremony. Director. Laurence Har-
vey. Palace Theatre, Sydney.
M*ry, Mary. Director. Mervyn Leßoy.
Embassy Theatre, Sydney.
Laurence Harvey stars in “The Cere-
mony”, and also makes his debut as
producer-director. So we may assume
that this* is his picture. It’s interesting
but exasperating, for though Harvev
gives evidence of a genuine but still
directionless feeling for cinema, he’s
done practically everything wrong.
The plot (based on a novel by Frederic
Grendel) has possibilities: in a Tangier
prison, preparations are made for the
execution by firing squad of a bank-
robber: a guard was killed in the course
of the robbery, and although the authori-
ties all know that the condemned man
was not his murderer, political ex-
pediency demands his death. Mean-
while, outside the gaol, the man’s brother
and his girl b a <dn p desoerate attempt
at rescue.
There is inherent interest both in the
obvious suspense and in the subtler
undertones the confusion of motives
among the rescuers, the distaste of most
of the officials for the ritual killing. A
terse, cynical director could have made
a lot of this film.
But Harvey is nothing if not ebullient
and melodramatic. He approaches the
direction of the film with enormous
enthusiasm, but little else. His deter-
mination to be original at jail costs only
involves him in the avant-garde cliches.
The characters, too, are stereotypes:
and since Laurence Harvey tinkered with
the script, he is nrobably responsible for
this as well. There’s the noble con-
demned man who won't betray his
friends; the smiling, sadistic prosecutor
who wears black leather gloves to
executions —he’s seen “Shane” once too
often; the decenL prison warden who
hates his job (John Ireland plays this
better than it deserves): there’s even the
queasy member of the firing squad whose
recurrent nightmare is that he himself
is the man to be executed. And of
course there’s a sincere, muddle-headed
priest who finally wins the condemned
man away from atheism.
“Mary, Mary” is a stodgy screen adap-
tation of Jean Kerr’s play which has been
described as “wickedly witty”; but apart
from a few mildly funny lines and some
not very wicked or witty references to
constipation and sex, it's a tepid affair.
Jean Kerr seems to have tried to give
a little more depth to the plot by making
the husband an intellectual who has mis-
understood his wife and antagonised her
by making her feel inferior. Unfortun-
ately Barry Nelson could convince no-
body that he is an intellectual (nor is
the dialogue of help to him); no more
can Debbie Reynolds make one believe
that she's ever felt inferior in her life.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
RECORDINGS
The Streisand Sound
Funny Girl. Barbra Streisand, Sydney
Chaplin and the original Broadway cast.
Capitol. Stereo SW 2059.
In my experience, recordings of Broad-
way musicals are more often than not
used as background to conversation
during the polite portion of a party.
Rarely do these shows mean much on
record unless one has seen them per-
formed. “Funny Girl” (yet another Cin-
derella story) is further evidence that
this peculiarly American contribution to
theatrical art will eventually join vaude-
ville in the graveyard. It is based on
the early life of Fanny Brice and is
chiefly concerned with her doomed mar-
riage to the elegant opportunist, Nick
Arnstein.
The versatile Barbra Streisand, whose
first starring role in a musical this is,
dominates the album with a performance
which displays considerable range and,
when required, a sense of comedy. By
and large, she is the usual brassy-voiced
personality-projector; but, in two songs
expressing her feelings when the mar-
riage shows signs of disintegrating (“Who
Are You Now?” and “The Music That
Makes Me Dance”), she drops the
strident Merman approach for one
which has touches of Ella Fitzgerald.
She is at her most dynamic in “Don’t
Rain On My Parade” nnd the witty
“Sadie, Sadie”.
Sydney Chaplin, as Nick Arnstein, ; s
artificially hearty in the only two num-
bers he sings (“I Want To Be Seen With
You Tonight” and “You Are Woman”)
and Danny Meehan, Jean Stapleton
Kay Medford and John Lankston give
adequate support. All, however, are
struggling with dull, platitudinous
material. None of the veteran Jules
Styne’s sixteen tunes seems to be destined
to join the evergreens.
TOM PICKERING


■ Winner of three aca-
demy awards: best sup-
porting actress, Lila
Kedrova; best black and
white cinematography,
Walter Lassally; best black
and white art direction,
Vassilis Photopoulos.
■ Time magazine says: “A
grand uproarious bash!”
■ 20th Century-Fox pre-
sents Anthony Quinn • Alan
Bates • Irene Papas in the
Michael Cacoyannis produc-
tion:
\ "ZORBA
THE GREEK"
from the novel by Nikos
Kazantzakis with Lila
Kedrova, George Foundas.
produced and directed from
his screenplay by Michael
Cacoyannis.
■ now —a distinguished
season at the Embassy
theatre, Sydney, and soon
for Hoyts cinemas across the
nation.
s
7
jwt
r
r
\
V
y
*V •
NOT
SUITABLE
FOR
CHILDREN
Ski
X*
«■» • *
» t
. V •
V.


BOOKS
The Last of the Georgians
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
Undertones of War. Edmund Blunden.
Collins. 38s. 6d.
It comes as something of a surprise to
realise that Edmund Blunden is still alive.
A dozen years have passed since he slip-
ped away, unnoticed, from the English
literary scene and retired to the Oriental
seclusion of Hong Kong. There for 12
years he lectured on Eng. Lit. at the
university, maintained close contacts with
Japanese scholars who regard him highly
as an authority on his subject, and pro-
duced an occasional slim volume of verse,
the latest —“A Hong Kong House” —in
1962.
In the English world of letters Blunden
seems to belong irrevocably to the past,
imprisoned in the crystal of his Georgian
reputation until some American scholar
lays him out on the Ph.D. dissecting
table. His most recent poetry might have
been written 50 years ago. It is as fastidi-
ous and consciously wrought as the
pastorals of his salad days. Blunden has
never been a developing poet, or a poet
of involvement. He is a Classicist, and his
poetic vision, for all its occasionally dis-
turbing and even cruel undertones, is
bound within the most precise canons.
Long residence in the East has added a
slightly exotic flavor to his imagery, but
of the tensions and turmoils of the mod-
ern world there is little apparent sign.
Blunden the poet is usually regarded as
a minor figure, floating placidly in his
private backwater in the main stream of
English tradition. Blunden the literary
critic has been reproached for finical
bookishness and lack of appreciation for
the work of his contemporaries. The
depths of denigration were reached in
the 19305, when pylons and politics were
all the go, and Richard Church could
write derisively that Blunden’s interests
“stopped short with the death of Lamb
. . . After that, for him, it is darkness,
except for the illumination of his own
candle, past which he peers with beady
eyes, like a startled mouse looking for
a cat”. This is absolute rubbish, but it is
not untypical of what many critics
thought of Blunden at the time, if they
thought about him at all. Anthologists
bundled him in with the rest of the
Georgian nature poets; the best of a
pretty poor lot, perhaps, but someone to
be dismissed with one short poem and a
note pointing to his outmoded manner-
isms.
The new edition of “Undertones of
War” comes rolling in inevitably on the
still current tide of books about World
War I. But it was worth republication in
its own right. This is Blunden’s one
acknowledged masterpiece and the work
on which his reputation will probably
finally rest. The re-issue of “Undertones”
also provides an occasion to reconsider
Blunden’s place in the literary pantheon,
for the book reveals the characteristics
that distinguish him from both the other
nature poets, such as Monro and Hodg-
son, and the other serious writers about
the War, such as Siegfried Sassoon and
Wilfred Owen.
After re-reading “Undertones” one
goes back to Blunden’s poems with in-
creased respect and sharper critical at-
tention. One becomes aware of subtleties
of thought and expression in what had
appeared to be mere neat craftsmanship;
and of the primitive shapes of pain and
uneasiness moving dimly beneath the
carefully composed surface texture. The
much-anthologised “Midnight Skaters”
and “The Pike” are typical of this eerie
sort of atmosphere that Blunden conjures
up out of language that seems to be
almost naively Arcadian. The influence
of Hardy is evident. Blunden has the
same deep pity for the humblest living
objects and the same unsent : mental recog-
nition of the harshness underlying the
comfortable fatness of the English
countryside. Most of the other Georgians
seem shallow by comparison. Blunden can
never be a great poet. His instincts shrink
from the passion that fuses an experience
into the perfect, unmistakable pure ore
of poetry. But I think it is time we took
the “Georgian” label off his neck and
recognised an individual voice.
When “Undertones of War” first ap-
peared in 1928 Blunden had already pub-
lished five volumes of poetry and critical
commentaries on John Clare, Christopher
Smart and Henry Vaughan. He had con-
tributed to Middleton Murry’s “Athen-
aeum” and H. W. Massingham’s
“Nation” and had lectured for three
years at Tokyo University. He was re-
garded as a donnish young man and his
poetry was deprecated or ignored by his
youthful contemporaries. “Undertones”,
however, was hailed instantly and en-
thusiastically as a classic. (The same
year produced Sassoon’s “Memoirs of a
Fox-hunting Man”, but it was “Memoirs
of an Infantry Officer”, two years later,
that really established Sassoon’s repu-
tation.)
Blunden's book is an account of his life
as a subaltern with the Royal Sussex
Regiment on the Western Front during
1916 and 1917. It is a story recollected
in tranquillity after he had destroyed an
earlier manuscript written nearer to the
white heat of the events. Blunden did not
pretend to set down a literal transcript of
what he saw and heard and felt. “Under-
tones” is a consciously “composed” and
very personal picture of one of the
nastiest sectors in the front line trenches.
The muck and the misery are there, but
they are evoked by the sensitive accumu-
lation of detail rather than by verbal
battering rams against the emotions. In
the imaginative reader the horror works
like a slow ferment, until the whole scene,
even down to its most commonplace de-
tail, becomes bathed in a ghastly, almost
surrealistic, atmosphere of mindless, in-
comprehensible tragedy. Only a master of
the writing craft could have brought it
off, and on this book Blunden deserves
to be judged.
Blunden, Sassoon and Wilfred Owen
are frequently linked together as major
contributors to the literature of World
War I, as though they were more or less
cast in the same mould. But the differ-
ences are striking. Blunden’s war poems,
a selection of which are included ih the
new edition of “Undertones”, are pitched
in a distinctly lower key than the
anguished cries of Owen or the ferocious
irony of Sassoon. Blunden could never
have described the dead as . . naked
sodden buttocks, mats of hair, bulged
clotted heads”. Nor could he have written
the lines about a private writing home:
“Tonight he’s in the pink: but soon he'll
die/And still the war goes on; He don’t
know why.”
Blunden recognised that to give way to
fury or despair was to admit defeat
defeat in the private war that every
Classicist wages against the anarchy of
nature. In the midst of carnage and des-
truction he clung to certain perpetual
things. These had nothing to do with
religious beliefs, any more than Hardy’s
vision had. Blunden was simply certain
that intelligent, disciplined man could
outface the worst of horrors. If nature
was capable of terrible cruelty, and waste
she was also capable of infinite resurrec-
tion. He had only to see a flower bloom-
ing on the bank of a war-fouled Flanders
canal to be convinced of that.
The “Mollycule” Theory
The Dalkey Archive. Flann O’Brien. Mac-
Gibbon and Kee. 265. 3d.
The Professionals. Derwent May. Chatto
and Windus. 265. 3d.
Flann O’Brien is one of the two pseudo-
nyms made famous by Brian Nolan. The
other is “Myles na Gopaleen”, which he
uses for a Dublin newspaper column re-
nowned for its wit. “The Dalkey Archive”
is his third novel and, if not as ambitious
as “At Swim-Two-Birds”, it is equally en-
joyable for the unforced inventiveness of
its humor and the special flavor of its
dialogue.
Dalkey is the seaside town where Mick
Shaughnessy and his drinking com-
panion, Hackett, meet De Selby, a decep-
tively mild physicist-cum-theologian, who


LEARN HOW TO WRITE
ARTICLES,
STORIES,
SCRIPTS
BY STUDY WITH STOTT'S
Many Stott students pay for their Course
before completing it, for they have learnt by
the Stott Home-Study system how to write work
that sells.
If you have a talent for writing, a Stott
Literary Course will develop your ability and
teach you to write for the Australian and over-
seas markets. There is a steady demand for
well-written work, and you can profit by this
satisfying spare-time interest.
Write for full details of Stott's Literary Courses
today.
Ui
W
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide,- 1130 Hay Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full
particulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (8.1265)
No sales representative will call following
your inquiry.
NU-DENTURE
GIVES
ALL DENTURES
NEW FACE-LOOK
& WEAR
from only 40/-
• It’s new! It’s clear, crystal, self-relining,
mculding, setting to shape of mouth
while-u-wear, becomes as hard as same
material as denture acrylic plastic.
• One application on denture lasts up to
2 years.
• Compensates worn and loose - fitting
dentures and gum shrinkage.
• Creates beautiful, light, tight, double-
suction wearing, deodourising new fit.
Avoid embarrassment. Fully guaranteed
harmless. Not a bulky mouthful sub-
stance or daily sticking powder.
ser Sold only by RE-NC CO. (Estab. 1932),
58 Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn., Vic.
42 1155. Free to all purchasers: Denture
smoke stain, odour eliminating outfit.
. I enclose 40/- for Nu-Denture or send free
folder describing action of Nu-Denture and
testimonials.
NAME
ADDRESS Bill.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers, that difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
has invented a chemical compound with
which he intends to save the world by
destroying it. A side-effect of the inven-
tion is that it cancels the serial nature of
time, enabling him to converse with the
dead. As a demonstration for Shaugh-
nessy and Hackett, De Selby “encorpifies”
St Augustine and argues theology with
him. The alarmed Mick conspires with
Sergeant Fottrill a member of the
constabulary with his very own vocabu-
lary to prevent De Selby's visitation of
mankind with havoc. But the policeman
has worries of his own: having heard
about the “Mollycule” Theory, he fears it
must apply to those who spend much of
their time riding bicycles, causing them
to turn gradually into bicycles and vice
versa. He claims that the Mollycule
Theory is “between twice and three times
as dangerous as it might be”.
Of even less relevance is Mick's obses-
sion with a rumor that James Joyce is
still alive. The subsequent discovery of
Joyce working as a barman provides
some intriguing moments. These are just
a few of the odd notions which spring so
naturally from the fertile imagination of
this genuinely comic writer. With all its
leprechaunish eccentricity, “The Dalkey
Archive” is a restful book, leisurely-
written and as Irish as Paddy’s goat.
“The Professionals” is about as event-
ful as a wet Sunday down a coal-mine.
Without plot, message, or any significant
action, it is difficult to see what prompted
Derwent May to write it. What makes
it even more wasteful is that Mr May
writes so well; the precision of his de-
scriptive passages shows good powers of
observation and the style, in spite of the
excessive use of such “pastelising” words
as “slightly” and “rather”, is gracefully
correct.
The story, such as. it is, concerns
Charles Rye, business manager of a
magazine called “Literature and the
Child”. When Rye isn't behind his desk
brooding about his dislike of his job and
his boss, he is drinking in a London
pub, visiting his lethargic landlord and
wife, or rehearsing with an amateur
theatrical group, the members of which
he continually upsets with his perversity,
TOM PICKERING
Tr iff ids and Others
The John Wyndham Omnibus. Michael
Joseph. 31s. 6d.
The Hugo Winners. Ed. Isaac Asimov.
Penguin. 7s.
The “Hugo” is the equivalent in science
fiction of the “Oscar”. At annual SF
conventions, awards are made, among
other things, for the best stories pub-
lished that year. Asimov’s selection is
of stories that appeared between 1955
and 1961—the collection was first pub-
lished in America in 1962. The stories
are varied and good, and show what a
lot of different things can be included
under the label “science .fiction”. Asi-
mov's introduction and notes on the
authors are arch, falsely jocular and
tiresome. Don’t read them, but do read
the stories.
About the only common impression
they give is that of being the work of
highly competent professionals who en-
joy what they are doing, and who retain
some confidence that men can solve their
problems, lpy means of intelligence and
imagination. There is a pioneering self-
reliance, whether in Murray Leinster’s
“Exploration Team”, a story of illegal
colonists succeeding on a planet with a
very hostile native fauna, or Poul Ander-
son's “The Longest Voyage”, a past-in-
the-future tale of swashbuckling sea-dogs
on a distant planet discovering a
marooned earth man in a broken space-
ship. One does not expect psychological
penetration in science fiction; it usually
depends on plot and episode, and the
intellectual ingenuity than can extend an
idea, and see its application in all sorts
of practical detail. “Flowers for Alger-
non”, by Daniel Keyes, manages to com-
bine these qualities with a study of a
mind moving into brilliance and then
fading out again.
John Wyndham can manage an occa-
sional eccentric character, like Coker in
“The Triffids”, but his narrators are
usually plain, decent chaps, without much
imagination, who, while deeply con-
cerned in the extraordinary affairs they
tell us about, are not right at the centre,
are not the main actors. The radio
journalist who tells the story of “The
Kraken” works in co-operation with his
wife; she is the one with personality,
flair, imagination: he collects the facts,
keeps the card-indexes, and refuses to
believe the theories of the great Bocker,
of an invasion of the depths of the sea
by alien intelligences from a high-
gravity planet, until there is no longer
any possibility of doubt. It is the tech-
nique of Defoe: a humdrum but reliable
person relates strange events in a sober
tone with great attention to circumstan-
tial detail. In “A Journal of the Plague
Year”, Defoe showed megalopolis in
disaster: it is a theme that comes up
again and again in science fiction. Wynd-
ham’s careful attention to topography
Abishag
A yellow moon comes up through
cypresses
And Abishag is rapidly away,
Drifting amid the snows
Of royal sheets and lilied counterpane
To which in time the counselling king
will come,
Bringing again through lilyfield and
snowdrift
The yellowed scent of death
And bony twigs fingering at her breast.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE


Better
tape-recording
automatically!
with the new SONY-O-MATIC TC 357-4
With the SONY-O-MATIC (just
released) anyone can make per-
fect recordings. No fiddling with
sound-peaks any more, the auto-
matic recording level control
takes care of that. Not just by
crudely cutting off the excess
sound, but by modifying it, so
that the character of the sound
is kept unchanged • • No fid-
dling with tape either. The fuliy
automatic self - threading reel
does all the work for .you • •
Far more economical use' of
your tape • • 4 tracks and 7"
reels give 13 hours’ playing time
• • Further advantages: 3 Speeds,
P.A. System, Monitor Speaker,
Instant Stop. And such High
Fidelity that it makes other Hi-
Fi sound flat in comparison.
PRICE ONLY 95 GNS.
SONY
RESEARCH MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
AVAILABLE FROM UP-TO-DATE RETAILERS.
DISTRIBUTOR: JACOBY, MITCHELL & CO„
PTY. LTD., SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
and to well-known landmarks is very like
Defoe's, and it helps us to accept
the dying London of blind people at the
beginning of “The Triffids”, or the
drowned London of phase three of “The
Kraken”. The disaster—the flood, the
fall, the fire from heaven—that so com-
monly provides a basis for a science
fiction story is generally followed by a
version of the Robinson Crusoe myth.
The survivors, a small group of the
elect, by thrift and industry and virtue,
climb slowly back to control a new
world, and their last state is more hope-
ful than their first. Bocker is boss at
the end of “The Kraken Wakes”, and
Michael Beadley and his boys are pre-
paring to inaugurate the millennium from
a triffid-free base in the Isle of Wight at
the end of the earlier novel.
But Wyndham’s saints are scientific
humanists, and it is here that the trouble
arises. Their values are those of enlight-
ened materialism, and their doctrine the
relativity of truth and morality; they
distrust superstitions like Christianity, and
will make their judgments only by reason
in the light of the facts. There is an
explicit statement of these beliefs in most
of the novels, and at such moments the
narrative stands still. Even if we accept
the doctrine the novel becomes dull,
since the moral is tacked on to the story
and does not arise directly from it. In-
deed it can't, for ultimately, on this
system, “whatever is, is right”; the fit-
test survive, and survival is the ultimate
test of moral worth. But in Wyndham’s
novels it is the nice people who survive
—or rather, perhaps, those who are
destined to be destroyed are made un-
sympathetic, like the hideously moral
and rigid patriarch Strorm in “The
Chrysalids”, or the ginger-haired fascist
in “The Triffids”. And he, until the
time when he is left to be eaten by the
vegetables, had kept more blind people
alive than the rather ineffectual hero
Masen.
Like Wyndham. 1 admire free intelli-
gence and respect for fact and distrust
organised orthodoxies of all kinds, reli-
gious, political and social, but his fiction
does not really persuade me that people
with these qualities are best fitted to sur-
vive. The lady from paradise in New
Zealand at the end of “The Chrysalids”
is really quite as ruthless in her exter-
mination of the Waknukers as they are
in their attempt to wipe out mutation,
and the weapon she uses, it's worth
noting, is much the same as that deve-
loped by the monsters from the deep in
“The Kraken” —only since she is “good”
it doesn't hurt so much. In the same
way, the telepathic mutants in “The
Chrysalids” are “good”, while the tele-
pathic aliens in “The Midwich Cuckoos”
are “bad” and so their destruction by
an atomic bomb is justified.
Mr Wyndham writes to a formula, but
he does so with such intelligence and
skill that his stories can be read (and,
what is more, re-read) with pleasure, and
they tempt us to ask of them a depth
and seriousness they were never de-
signed to have.
P. H. MARES
Gallipoli Jack
The Man With the Donkey. Sir Irving
Benson. Hodder & Stoughton. 19s. 6d.
Though his brief days of glory were only
twenty-five in number, Private John
Simpson’s name became part of the his-
tory of the Gallipoli campaign. He is, in
fact, perhaps better known than that of
any other private soldier of his time.
His story up to April 26, 1915 was
simple. His father was master of a
coaster his real name was Kirkpatrick.
He learned about donkeys in supervising
the penny rides of children so popular on
English beaches in his era. At 17 he took
to his father's profession and came to
Sydney in 1909 as a deckhand in the
Yedda. Canecutter, station rouseabout,
fireman's assistant, in a mine in the 111a-
warra and in coastal steamers, he left his
ship and enlisted as Private John Simpson
on August 25, 1914, in the Third Field
Ambulance. There is little of-his life
told in the scrappy letters home, like
those of so many simple English privates
with board school educations. . . . “hop-
ing this will find you and Annie well as
it leaves me at present.” He went ashore
at ANZAC from the destrover Ribhle
which they left soon after 1.30 a.m. on
the morning of April 25. The men on
either side of him did not reach the shore
and the next day he was reported
missing.
A very strong man, hardened in many
an engine room, he became separated
from his unit in Shrapnel Gully, where
he found one of Turkey’s innumerable
mokes wandering around among the
shrapnel and commandeered him for ser-
vice. The pair seemed to have charmed
lives. No bullet seemed able to hit them.
They passed through showers of shrapnel
as if through fine rain. How many they
rescued nobody knows, but they became
a symbol of courage, of selflessness and
of sacrifice.
Everybody knew them. As General
Brand said, “Has the man with the
donkey stopped one yet,” became a stock
question throughout the troops. On May
19 he “stopped” one, or several, machine
gun bullets. Sir John Monash tried to get
recognition for him; so did his command-
ing officer, but the latter found it difficult
to get evidence of any one act to justify
the VC; he did so many. Sir lan Hamil-
ton mentioned him in despatches for
“gallant and distinguished service in the
field”. And that was all the official recog-
nition he got till this month when the
GPO proposes to issue three special
stamps of which his,picture will form the
motif, to celebrate the 50th anniversary
of ANZAC.
Sir Frank Benson has been hard put to
it to make a book out of his story; for
there was nothing out of the way about it
before Gallipoli and little record save his
artless letters confined between the words
“Dear Mother . . . Your loving son Jack.”
M. H. ELLIS
Whodunits
The End of Solomon Grundy. Julian
Symons. Crime Club. 19s.
Marooned. Martin Caidin. Hodder and
Stoughton 31s. 6d.
Reading “The End of Solomon Grundy”
will stamp you as an intellectual. Only
Julian Symons writes whodunits which
are recommended by C. P. Snow! Agatha
Christie is once supposed to have said
there are only four basic plots, so this
must be the fifth. The author brings a
really new idea to the deadliest of the
species and adds a knock-out ending that
leaves you gasping for more.
Forget about desert-islands, you can


m
mm
?s..
rm
When you work with
words, work with D.M.C.
Call one of the key personnel at
D.M.C. He will make a comprehensive
survey without cost or obligation and
then give expert advice on the dictat-
ing equipment best suited to your
needs. Contact our Survey Section
. . . phone 26-6951 (ext. 101) NOW!
(jfijbon.. Cfeaetz,
i)
DICTATING MACHINE CENTRE
Ed nrlcs
R. B. WYPER PTY. LTD.
176 Day Street, Sydney
Phone 26-6951
In all States
&\
CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from mom till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/19933
now be “marooned” in space, and aero-
nautics expert Martin Caidin tells how,
in far too convincing a manner. He gets
an astronaut stuck in a capsule with oxy-
gen running out and both the Russians
and his own American pals rocketing up
to a rival rescue. This is no tall-storied
science-fiction but is loaded with authen-
tic facts and figures about these pre-luna-
tic flights.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
The Addams Family
The Groaning Board. Charles Addams.
Hamish Hamilton. 31s. 6d.
Although the entire, authentic Addams
Family is visible on the cover of the “New
Yorker” cartoonist's latest book of draw-
ings, this gruesome lot appear in only six
of the 79 sketches in the portfolio, a fact
which negates the view of one leading
American critic of humor, Russell Lynes,
who wrote: “If you have seen the TV
show that is based on the characters he
invented and have not been so revolted
that you can never look in Addams’
direction again, you will find his ‘Groan-
ing Board’ the standard Addams’ pro-
duct.”
The proportion of Addams Family
drawings to those on other subjects in
the latest book suggests that Charles
Addams may be tiring of the family with
which he is closely identified, and pos-
sibly was glad to give them to Television.
Whether he can dissociate himself from
them and return to an earlier reputation
of “Addams and Evil” is another matter.
Charles Addams’ world is one in
which a simple switch of direction makes
accepted, everyday matters suddenly take
on a gruesome aspect, intended to raise
a smile. For instance, on page 71, he
makes the switch on a well-known, in
America, series of adverts the Chase
Manhattan Bank ran under the general
heading of “There’s a better way to look
after your nest egg,” and showing people
lugging a huge, heavily chained egg with
them in a variety of places and situations.
Addams’ version has the egg esconced in
a hearse being driven through a gloomy
forest by a Wall Street type.
Lynes, the critic, calls this “the
standard Addams product with its re-
liable and perhaps soon to become tire-
some quality of morbidity and expert
drawing.” It is the expert drawing which
creates the peculiar quality of Addams’
world, not by any means an always mor-
bid place. The moon voyager who has
emerged from his ship to find a single
golf ball lying unexpectedly on the
moon’s surface is only funny because of
the way he is drawn. Nor is there any-
thing morbid about the snow rescue scene
on page 55, where the traditional St Ber-
nard has become a penguin with a small
brandy keg around his neck. The small
drawing above that, one of Addams’
scenes in the office of The Friendly
Loan Company, is grisly enough . . . but
Shylock had the same idea.
FRANK ROBERTS
In Memoriam
“To be is often tragic, and to pretend is
always to be comic.”
It was this time last year the first we
met,
I, impassioned, you, so passionate.
I wondered, I remember, were you real,
Were words and gestures, finely
powdered face
A mask, and you, the buskin'd actor in
the play?
—But was it tragedy or comedy?
That time, I questioned, could not say,
But listened, interested, at least
And in some admiration till you ceased
Exploding certainties and toppling down
Some walls of words that I had built,
my citadel.
Till, at the end, I found myself the fool.
And so I found my part. A comedy?
Picasso’s clowns, say rather; they
Were melancholy, and the lonely grey
Horizon made no end to all the empty
plain;
And blue the melody, and cold the
wind.
You died, my friend, and so this act
assumed
Finality, was all that now I had
Within my hand, this mask you wore
and played.
The wind blows now upon the empty
plain,
And I am cold, and take up once again
The part you played, assume
The mask you once endured. But you?
The wind blows still
Upon the empty plain, and I am cold.
You know, I know, the meaning now,
The questions are all answered, yours
and mine
And certainty is smooth again for you
Where now you walk so easily. But
death,
This time, disguises you. As you were
then
You are still now, intangible, to word
Or touch or mood. And still, lam the
fool.
And still, I hold my thin-stringed
mandoline
Upon the darkened plain, and softly
play
Beneath the broken arches of the walls
of time,
Until at last there come the break of
day.
M. VERONICA


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Harold Holt’s Chance
It would be a good thing if Mr Holt,
the Australian Treasurer, placed
before the public on his return
from America a top-level summary of
what is likely to happen when Britain’s
emergency credit runs out.
He will have had the opportunity
of discussing first hand the attitudes of
US Treasury officials (currently raking
back dollars to the US) and Inter-
national Monetary Fund directors. It
would be worthwhile knowing the re-
action in America to the joint British
and French proposal to create a new
international monetary unit as well as
a US assessment of the deflationary
follow - the - leader steps now being
taken by most countries.
Some of this information is highly
confidential. Some is not, including
warnings from IMF managing direc-
tor M. Paul-Pierre Schweitzer that
the world economy was entering a
much more difficult phase.
Mr Holt could add to his stature by
giving a reasoned argument as to the
information on which he based his
apprehensions concerning the prospect
of a world recession and whether his
trip to the US has altered or con-
firmed that impression.
There are strong deflationary forces
at work, certainly, but the history of
managed economies has shown that
the tap can be turned on again. If
the US persists in its current policy
this year it undoubtedly will be in a
stronger position to relax the pressure
when its balance of payments is im-
proved. It is making good progress
in this direction, according to latest
reports, but it will have a big decision
to make when the European Central
bankers meet again in a few months
to decide what they will do about
the already extended loans to bolster
sterling.
If the US decides to back sterling
to the limit, the crisis could blow
over. But there are indeterminate
factors yet to be decided, including
the surreptitious back-door buying of
gold and hard non-sterling currencies
by nations which are anxious to play
safe.
If France and Britain obtain Uncle
Sam’s blessing for a new currency
unit, it may fill the gap which Euro-
pean economists have been demand-
ing for so long ... an increase in
liquidity to finance international trade.
But with most nations intent on curb-
ing the outflow of capital and husband-
ing their reserves, the situation is akin
to an international credit squeeze.
Already the US has been pushed
into abandoning the 25 p.c. gold
reserve as backing for the Federal
Reserve banking system and it re-
mains to be seen just how far the US
is prepared to go to meet all demands
PRESIDENT JOHNSON
for conversion of dollars into gold, if
real pressures build up.
Psychology is a key factor in main-
taining confidence in reserve cur-
rencies such as the dollar and the £
sterling, and the US must decide how
far it will go in backing sterling if
the challenge is issued again.
The way things are shaping at the
moment, Britain seems to be leaning
more towards Europe, prompted by
Mr Wilson’s campaign to straighten
out political and economic differences.
If, in fact, Britain devalues and edges
closer to the Common Market, some
of the strain would be shifted to the
dollar. America’s existing dollar
curbs will help to strengthen its
position to counter a further possible
sterling crisis, but the interim effect
on international trade is causing some
hardship. There is a limit to how
much money can be raised on over-
sens markets by large prospective
borrowers like Ford.
Theoretically, it could be a sound
international policy if the US planned
to remove its curbs and revert to
deficit financing when and if a further
international currency crisis arises.
Some assurance on this might allay
Mr Holt’s fears. It would have more
far-reaching effects than dollar loan
concessions to Australia because, if
world trade continues to contract be-
cause of lack of finance, the repercus-
sions hit everyone.
Alert Watchdogs
'T'he Associated Stock Exchanges are
A to be congratulated on the prompt
action to investigate sharp movements
in Australian equities immediately
before the UK Budget announcements.
Allegations of local price-fixing were
scotched when it was revealed that
genuine orders had been placed by
UK investors who seemingly wanted to
anticipate the new UK capital gains
tax of 30 p.c.
London holders of shares in certain
Australian stocks may have calculated
that if they gave some high buying
orders on the base date of the new tax
(Budget day of April 6), and the shares
fell back again the next day, it would
provide some margin of capital ap-
preciation for the future if the price
rose again. With a high base price
already set at April 6, it would permit
a capital gain which would be free of
tax.
In this way they could provide a
built-in margin of profit. But the im-
mediate impression gained in market
circles was that brokers miqht be
taking for a ride those clients who
were anxious to buy shares promptly
before the Budget. The poor brokers,
in this instance, evidently were only
doing as they were told and it was
gratifying to see that the watchdogs
on the Stock Exchange jumped in to
see what was up.
The average investor does not
know, nor can he appreciate, all the


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the pointed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. AT ANY OF ITS BRANCHES
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. 61-9701
MA2OON.S.W.
COMPANY SECRETARY
A substantial and long established automotive parts wholesaler with
several branches wishes to appoint a Company Secretary at its Head Office
in Sydney.
Applicants must be qualified Accountants.
This responsible position offers an excellent career opportunity to a
man of ability and initiative to join the management team of an expanding,
successful Company.
Liberal salary commensurate with ability and experience.
Applications will be handled in the strictest confidence and should
be addressed to
“COMPANY SECRETARY/'
C/o R. L. Sidey & C. H. Raymond,
Box 4684, G.P.0., Sydney.
work that goes on behind the scenes
to protect him.
Stock Exchange members are on
their toes more than ever to avoid
criticisms, and the recent move to
form a local Exchange in Canberra
illustrates that they are sensitive to
any opposition proposal for an in-
dependent Exchange.
Overseas experience (such as bank-
dominated transactions on the Paris
Bourse) indicates that a thriving, active
market is best conducted by com-
petitive brokerage firms, including
thought - provoking and educational
share analyses and forecasting. The
major complaint from investors is that
they want a reduction in brokerage so
that profit margins can be enhanced.
Apparently their wishes will be
granted before long, as a great deal of
work and discussion has already been
poured into this. Evidently it will
favor the higher priced stocks, while
the small transactions (which require
at least the same amount of work)
will bear a minimum basic fee.
Anvone tor PoloP
TkESPiTE the collapse of the Reid
** Murray “satellite town” venture
in Victoria the real es.tate boys are
hard at it promoting various housing
estates up to 25 miles distant from the
Melbourne GPO.
One current advertising campaign
(on radio) takes the cake.
To the strains of the American hit
tune “Your Country is My Country”
the hard-sell line is that “these modern
ranch style homes of unsurpassed value
are adjacent to unequalled riding and
polo facilities”.
They are too. Not far away is the
Lilydale Polo Club and the Yarra Glen
and Lilydale Hunt Club.
But getting in the gate of either
establishment is another matter. It’s
like saying that the residents of Rose
Bay, Bondi and Vaucluse, etc., are “ad-
jacent to unsurpassed golfing facili-
ties” which, let’s tace it, they are.
Pity the poor home buyer who, after
paying his deposit, bundles mum and
the kids in the Holden and rolls up for
a chukka or two.
More Costs for Shippers
ThiE impact of Britain’s new taxes
could fall heavily on shipping com-
panies which are operating overseas.
Apart from the proposed new cor-
poration tax, estimated at 40 p.c.,
plus a profits tax, the UK Govern-
ment has announced its intention to
re-negotiate double tax agreements
with countries such as Australia.
If this is done, UK shipping com-
panies may lose their current advan-
tage under the existing double tax
agreement which exempts them from
Sections 129-135(a) of the Common-
wealth Income Tax Assessment Act
but assesses them for tax at 5 p.c. of
gross outward freight and passage
money.
Because of claiming tax credits for
tax paid in the country of origin, UK
companies as well as investors enjoyed
some advantage under the old British
tax rates. But the Budget has changed
all that.
Details have yet to be worked out
and it is claimed that the re-negotia-
tion of double tax agreements will
strike problems and delays.
Even before the Budget details were
announced, P & O’s chairman, Sir
Donald Anderson, estimated that be-
cause of the proposed taxes the com-
pany’s dividend costs would rise from
£stg2.7m. to £stg4.sm. if the same rate
of distribution to shareholders were
maintained.
The implication from this is that
dividends could be slashed and/or
freight rates increased.
It is accepted that some time will
elapse before revised double tax agree-
ments can be negotiated. So part of
the problem is deferred temporarily.
Even so, it is another nagging prospect
to consider in a year when Australia’s
overseas reserves are under pressure
and when invisible items continue to
rise.


o
WHO SAID THE SWISS HAVE NO KINGS OR QUEENS?
The King is you, sir. The Queen is you, madame, when you
fly Swissair, that fast-travelling, world-encompassing outpost
of Swiss charm.
Once you’re in the hands of the Swissair people you receive
the royal treatment. The world calls it Swisscare. Their
jet-fleet receives very special Swisscare, too!
Swissair flies to 67 cities in 41 countries. How many coun-
tries will you visit on your next trip? You can be sure the
most convenient and rewarding way to go is by Swissair.
See your Travel Agent—he knows all about Swisscare.
A warm welcome awaits you aboard.
SWISSAIR
SWISSCARE • WORLDWIDE
General Agents: Australia—Ansett-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific Islands —Air New Zealand
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
The Writing on the Wall
“Capital inflow is in the lap of the gods”
Accustomed as we have been these
last few years to rely on heavy capi-
tal inflow and bumper export income to
sustain the balance of payments in the
face of.an increasingly avaricious appe-
tite for imports, it is just as well the
Government and the Reserve Bank are
now both fully alerted to the danger of
these two props being weakened by the
adverse change in the world economic
climate. Mr Holt’s warnings in Parlia-
ment before the recess that there could
be unpalatable repercussions on the Aus-
tralian economy follow Dr Coombs’
earlier cautionary words.
The latter has followed percept by
appropriate action on his front, but it is
becoming increasingly obvious that Mr
Holt’s warning should be matched by
economies in the Government's own
spending. If it is not, the economy
could well be left on a slender balance
of payments limb (as has so often hap-
pened in the past) and be driven to pain-
ful expediences. Unhappily the Govern-
ment shows no signs of doing this.
Instead it is sending Mr Holt overseas to
play the role of Canute in an attempt to
hold back the rougher waves threatening
these serene shores. Mr Holt was pos-
sibly bound to go but he could con-
ceivably be better employed at home in
the next few months working on the
same lines as Dr Coombs to condition
the economy against their impact.
The Government is quite right, of
course, to be taking threats to capital
inflow very seriously. Moreover, un-
like many people who have been very
choosy and others who have been openly
hostile about overseas investment, Cabi-
net has never wavered in its encourage-
ment of it and can send Mr Holt to the
United States with a clear conscience
and excellent record in this matter. It
is entitled to a good hearing.
But with President Johnson now pro-
posing a massive hand-out of capital for
the development of South-East Asia, the
situation could have moved against us.
Mr Holt may find Washington wonder-
ing how it is going to scrape the sum
together and so in a less generous frame
of mind towards countries like ours,
which have been getting their fill of
US capital and thriving on it. Further-
more it is rather illogical for us to be
offering to assist the US in its capital-
finding for South-East Asian develop-
ment and at the same time to be crying
“capital poor” ourselves.
On the same tack, Mr Calwell has
been pressing Mr Holt to include Bri-
H. HOLT
tain in his overseas itinerary. This seems
to be unnecessary because the latter’s
Budget was more than kind to Australia
considering the magnitude of its balance
of payments problem. True, portfolio
investment from Britain will now have
to overcome the removal of some of the
income tax relief enjoyed by British
residents investing in Australian shares
and so make such investments less attrac-
tive. But no move has been made, as
in the United States, to interrupt the
flow of direct investment and this pro-
vides most of the capital flow from
Britain.
The hard fact remains, however, that
the overall inflow of capital has been
substantially reduced already this year.
In balance of payments terms, there
appears to have been a net “apparent”
capital outflow of £l7 million in March.
This does not mean that overseas invest-
ment dried up in March. Only that in
broad terms we spend more overseas
than accrued to us from export earnings
and receipts of a capital nature over the
month. The recent fall in overseas
reserves is a reflection of this and it now
looks as if the drop in these for the full
year 1964-65 could be well up to the
£l5O million suggested as possible by
the Government to the Arbitration Com-
mission last month. (A fall of this
order would take reserves down to about
£7OO million.)
As will be appreciated, the true figures
for actual overseas investment in Aus-
tralia this year are not likely to be avail-
able for some time. (The Statistician
has not published his Bulletin of Over-
seas Investment for 1963-64 yet.) How-
ever, the downward trend in apparent


inflow has a strong presumption in it of
a reduction in actual overseas investment.
In any case actual overseas investment,
while almost certainly continuing to give
very useful support to the balance of
payments and the reserves, has failed to
be of anything like sufficient strength to
offset the full deficit on current account.
This is in marked contrast to the position
in the two previous years. Last year we
had a deficit of £9 million on current
account and, thanks to capital inflow,
managed to increase reserves by £228
million. In 1962-63, with a huge de-
ficit of £226 million on current account,
we achieved, again because of capital
inflow, a rise of £65 million in overseas
reserves. It will be quite a different
story this year.
Even a surplus of £250 million on
visible overseas trade last year was not
big enough to offset the deficit on visible
current account balance of payments.
Hence the £l9 million deficit on current
account. After three-quarters of last year
had gone the surplus on visible trade
was £168.4 million. At the three-
quarter mark this year there was a
visible trade deficit of £82.5 million.
Therefore, on visible trade so far this
year, we are about £250 million worse
off than last year. We could well finish
up with a current account deficit con-
siderably higher than that. It could
possibly be as high as £350 million,
though for obvious reasons it is difficult
to put a figure on it.
Taking together the Government's
overseas representations on capital inflow
from the US, the reluctance of the Wil-
son Government to interfere with the
flow of direct capital investment to Aus-
tralia and the net apparent capital inflow
of £137 million in the half year to
December 31, 1964, one would imagine
that overseas investments will still make a
solid contribution towards covering such
a current account deficit. Here again,
to put a figure on the contribution would
be mostly guess-work. Last year’s actual
sum of overseas capital investment was
£215 million. Of this amount roughly
£196 million was put in by the US and
Britain in almost equal shares. If we
get a total of £175 million this year we
would be doing very well. The net
result in that case would be that about
half the postulated £350 million maxi-
mum deficit on current account would be
covered. This would mean reserves
would fall by from £l5O to £175 million
(or something approaching the Govern-
ment’s estimate).
A fall of this order in reserves would
not be too tragic, but economic policy
has to be directed to the prospect for
next year when capital inflow will be
more in the lap of the gods. In the
interim it is open to us to begin easing
the strain on reserves by trying to nar-
row the deficit on current account. It is
rather late in the. day to expect any
new steps taken now, either to stimulate
exports or to reduce imports, to affect
the current account result for the current
year. Nevertheless, we are a little fur-
ther on in assessing the balance of pay-
ments prospects than we were even a
couple of months ago when this column
suggested that measures to mitigate the
strain on reserves were a little premature.
The threat to overseas investment is the
new element in the situation which de-
mands a reassessment.
On the export side, the real question is
whether we can keep up the truly excel-
lent-performance registered in March.
In that month export receipts of £116.1
million were actually higher than in
March the previous year when for
twelve months the total reached the un-
precedented high of £l3Bl million. Actu-
ally some falling away from now on can
be expected—if only because exports in
the next few months will increasingly re-
flect the drop of 23 p.c. in wool prices
in the 12 months to February this year
(and notwithstanding the slight improve-
ment—l p.c.—in the latest month).
Also exports will suffer from the loss of
copper output at Mt Isa, even if metals
as a group will be excellent contributors.
The metals export price index continued
to rise in February when it was 23.1 p.c.
higher than a year earlier. It rose by
24.5 p.c. in the first eight months of
1964-65.
On this showing we can expect exports
to total about £l3OO million for 1964-
65, or £Bl million less than last year’s
record. The three-quarter year tally was
£46.5 million behind 1963-64 at the
same stage, so an estimate of £l3OO mil-
lion for the year allows for a further
decline of £35 million in the final three
months of the year. It could well be
more.
The die is cast for this year’s exports
and the outlook for next year is for a
less favorable result because a general
shrinkage in world trade could follow
efforts by the US and Britain to reduce
their balance of payments deficits.
This calls for an even greater effort
by our exporters to keep up the good
work of the last two years and for the
Government to canvass new ways of
helping them. It is not by any means
too early for the Government to get on
to this, perhaps by taking a few leaves
from Britain's book (see Croesus).
CROESUS
Britain Means Export Business
Invoking the Anglo-Australian trade agreement
Britain’s Board of Trade is under-
standably digging its toes in about
the increasing preference we are showing
towards American sources of supply.
The Anglo-Australian trade agreement
is quite explicit about our obligation to
impose a duty on foreign equipment
where comparable quality can be sup-
plied in Britain. The real trouble lies in
that word “comparable”. It gives end-
less scope for argument about such
things as aircraft and computers, for
instance, two of the most important
items in which the US has been winning
out against UK suppliers.
It should be good enough for the
Australian public that, despite Federal
u . , • ,
Cabinet s obvious desire to keep on the
■ u. -.u a.u tic * ,
nght side with he US at the moment,
it has elected to charge import duty
equal to the British preferential rate of
~ t, • . . , t
7i p.c. on the Boeing 727 s imported by
A , TAA ( ° . rr,,
Ansett and TAA from the States. The
Government should be well aware of all
the comparative facts concerning alter-
native aircraft available in Britain. Nor
is this the only case to come up on the
question of imposing duty. It is under-
stood that, despite British protests, duty
has been waived on computers supplied
from the US on the grounds that com-
parable computers were not available in
the UK.
Nor is this likely to be the last case
of its kind in which Britain may be
expected to exert its rights under the
trade treaty. It has been seriously
losing ground to the US in the Austra-
l'an imports market. For the first eight
months this year imports from the US
increased from £168.7 to £226.9 million
or by £58.2 million, over the comparable
period last year, while those from Britain
rose on ly from £213.9 to £244.5 million
or 6y £30.7 million. This has meant
Britain’s share of the market dropping
f ™ m 27 t 0 25 P c ' and < he U ,S share
from 22 !° abo r ut 24 P' c - < inc ' de "-
tally, imports from Japan increased :n
. . r , . . r ~ ,
this period almost as much as those from
Britain and its share of , he market rose
from 7to about SJ c}
rt - , .
It is not strictly relevant to public
■ . . , ~ F ,
discussion on the imposition of the duty
to oint> as some Canserra correspond y
ents have done> tQ the heavy ba]ance of
payments surplus Britain has with Aus-
tralia. It is true, of course, that over the
last five years this surplus has averaged
£153.4 million a year on current account,
that is inclusive of undistributed profits
from direct UK investment here. The
real point is that we have to stick by


LUDOWICI
make Australia's largest range of
MOULDED SYNTHETIC RUBBER PACKINGS
BUY
Luuowicrs
‘LURENE’
BRAND
PACKINGS
AND SEALS
AND ASK FOR
THEIR
APPLICATION
‘KNOW-HOW’
CROSS SECTIONS
OF MAIN TYPES
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
29-5841 61-3881 46-4141
BRISBANE
57-4021
D. C. DOUGLAS
the trade agreement. It is a straight
matter of business. If we, or any of our
other suppliers, don’t like the way the
trade treaty works that is a different
matter. In any case it is about time we
had another look at it.
Although on the trade figures so far
this year Britain’s trade drive here can-
not exactly be hailed as having had
raging success, it has certainly shown
that British exporters have at long last
woken up to the fact that trade has not
been following the flag at quite the same
pace as of yore, that a new race of cus-
tomers is at hand to be wooed without
fear of imperial favor and that “Made
in Britain” no longer suffices to guarantee
a trade.
Perhaps this is not an inappropriate
time or place to recommend the Depart-
ment of Trade and also exporters of
manufactured goods to have a good look
at the mechanics of this British trade
drive which reaches its climax after
nearly two years of preliminaries when
“Operation Australex” gets under way
next week.
The first year or so of this drive was
merely a warm-up, a sort of jog-trot to
improve the British image in Australia.
Four interlocked motives followed the
Union Jack into exhibition buildings and
shops in every State. As Mr F. C.
Arnold, the senior British Trade Com-
missioner here, put it, these were to pro-
mote British exports, destroy the idea
that Britain is a back number, scotch
the notion that Britain is not interested in
the Australian market and strengthen
economic connections. “Goodwill,” he
said, “is a declining asset if your custo-
mer gets the idea that you are out of
date or not interested, or that he gains
little benefit from the connection.” In
short, he went on, “the same effort is
needed to retain a traditional market as
to penetrate a new one”.
Then the British took off their track
suits and really stepped up the pace in
Sydney with the monster exhibition and
publicity explosion last September. Since
then they have been checking the results
sheets and armed with these the trade
commissioners in all States, together with
Mr D. C. Douglas, director of the Aus-
tralian British Trade Association, have
flown to Britain. On April 26 this team
will set in motion “Operation Australex”
when they meet the first of 2000 British
manufacturers to be lined up for inter-
view. The back end of the hard sell
will begin. Nothing like it has been
seen since the Board of Trade staged a
similar exercise by bringing back to Bri-
tain its senior commercial officers from
the United States eighteen months ago.
Perhaps it comes a little late in the
day to take much advantage of the cur-
rent cyclical upsurge in Australian im-
ports, a process which has been aptly
described by Mr S. F. Ferguson, pro-
bably the most knowing of all Britain’s
trade representatives here, as follows:
“When domestic resources are fully em-
ployed, as Australia's usually are nowa-
days, there is a tendency to expand
faster than such resources permit. A
big step forward in one direction in
such circumstances often makes such
excessive demands on labor and materials
as to cause shortages elsewhere —short-
ages that can only be made good by
increased imports. Wide-awake over-
seas manufacturers have been quick to
detect the exploit opportunities of this
kind which have occurred time and
again in Australia since 1945, and will
certainly occur again.”
For my part the spice in Britain’s big
Export-to-Australia effort lies in some
of the essays composed to support it.
One of these is from an old colleague of
mine at “The Economist”, Mr Roland
Bird, who admits to seeing industrial and
other miracles taking place here. In
the old days he was rather sceptical of
so much good capital “going down the
drain of a high cost industrial boom”
which was “The Economist’s” line in
the early 19505.
Writing in the Board of Trade Journal,
Roland Bird states some of his clear
convictions which iriclude one that “It
has taken a mere ten years to bring
into this land-based economy a quality
of industrial drive and economic man-
agement that it never knew before.”
Bird thinks our story is one trade scep-
tics will say has been heard before about
other countries. They will ask what
happened to some of them that held out
attractions every bit as rosy as Austra-
lia’s but never somehow fulfilled them.
Further, “Why trouble too much about
trade with Australia, when its metropoli-
tan ways are coming to look more like
those of the United States, and when
its economic links are being bent more
and more towards Japan and Asia, and
away from Britain?”-'
And, in any case, “the place is an
enormous distance away. For that reason
alone Australia is a troublesome market”.
But if, says Bird, they try to find a
better prospect nearer home, they are
not likely to succeed.


.v
••••••••..
-
■ <■* •
.■
;
■
- ••
In
you are always welcome!
Manufacturers eyeing Queensland's obvious op-
portunities are now assured of practical co-
operation at Government level in establishing their
businesses, as well as enjoying the traditionally
warm Queenslanders’ welcome to new people and
new enterprises.
The recently established Department of Industrial
Development gives a comprehensive and detailed
service to prospective investors, as well as assisting
existing industry.
The Department, which is the responsibility of
The Hon. Alex T. Dewar, M.L.A., and has as
its Director Sir David Muir, will advise
freely on all matters of industrial significance,
including: □ Manufacturing opportunities Q
Markets Q Manpower Q Raw materials □ In-
dustrial sites and premises □ Electric power,
water and other services □ Transport and freight
rates □ Port facilities □ Industrial wage rates and
working conditions.
The Queensland Department of Industrial De-
velopment can call on the resources and help of
all other Government Departments and agencies.
It will arrange trade and business contacts also
meetings with other manufacturers,. trading orga-
nisations or local authorities. Where it can serve
a useful purpose it will assist with negotiations.
All transactions with the Department, are of
course, in the strictest confidence.
As a preliminary, why not write for a list of nearly 300 articles not yet manufactured in Queensland
a
THE DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA
In Queensland you are always welcome


After the Drought Is Over
Recovery will take time
By FRANK SMYTH
IThm drought in New South Wales
-*■ financially ruined many small land-
holders but its real effect on primary
industries is not immediately computable.
Even if rain now extended over the
whole of the drought area (which
reached three-quarters of the State) some
hand-feeding of stock would go on
through the winter.
A barrier to any early recovery to
normal conditions rests in:
• The wholesale death and slaughter
of female cattle during the drought—
cattle which would have helped to re-
plenish herds.
• A heavy debt acceptance by farm-
ers and graziers in an effort to save
stock.
• Late preparation of land for crops.
According to the chief of the division
of dairying of the NSW Department of
Agriculture, Mr D. W. Crowfoot, the
long-term effect of the decrease in cow
population will be felt for some years
after the drought has broken.
The dairy area suffered badly. By
early April the whole of the coastal strip
from Queensland to the Victorian border
was a Government “declared” drought
area. The southern portion was the last
to come under the edict. By that time
drought had left a trail of depleted cattle
herds in northern NSW.
Returning from a tour of the milk
zone the chairman of the NSW Milk
Board, Mr J. A. Ferguson, said that
from Christmas to the middle, of March
2500 dairy cattle, in poor condition, had
left the farms in one small area of the
north. Farmers there had bought more
than £150,000 worth of stock fodder
from the local co-operative store.
At the end of last month dairy factory
companies in the “declared” drought
area of NSW had obtained, and loaned
out to farmers, £350,000 in Govern-
ment drought relief. This month New
South Wales was getting butter for local
consumption from Queensland and Vic-
torian factories—three months earlier
than normal. It is officially estimated
that butter production for April in NSW
will be 500 tons below that of April
last year.
Manufacturing departments of dairy
companies, during the past fortnight,
have been working at a very low level
and in cases where milk is being supplied
to metropolitan markets, butter has been
brought in for local consumers. New
South Wales Milk Board has had half
its normal surplus of milk for city sup-
plies in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollon-
gong. No cheese has been made lately
in the milk zone. In the northern dairy
areas some farmers have lost or disposed
of their herds and taken other jobs.
Others have left their wives and families
to care for the animals, which have
ceased to be productive, and have gone
“out” to work.
This has done much more harm to
the industry, and State economy, than a
unit merely going out of production.
Before the farmer eventually gave up
he loaded himself with debt in buying
fodder, at inflated prices, in an effort to
keep his cows alive. And so added to
the loss of breeding stock from which to
replenish herds are the financial dif-
ficulties which farmers face in returning
to the dairy. Some will have left dairy
farming for good they’ll have no
choice.
Of recent years quite an exodus from
dairy farming has occurred in New
South Wales because of economic pres-
sure. This has happened mostly on the
North Coast where droughts are in-
variably followed by floods, and in each
case farmers accumulate loan debts.
A statement by the Deputy Common-
wealth Statistician, Mr K. Davidson, in
January said the number of holdings on
the North Coast producing milk or
cream had fallen from 5911 in 1962-63
to 5661 last year, and the population of
dairy cows and heifers from 446,841 to
435,620.
It is all very well to say that the farm-
ers have had several good seasons and
during this time should have stored
fodder for the dry time. Many did in
fact do this, and some farmers still have
stored fodder.
Dry fodder with supplements and
water will keep stock alive in a drought.
Additives to dry feed—often necessary
to give the animals an appetite for the
roughage—are expensive. Many tons
of urea, as a lick to help sustain dry-
fed animals, were transported to drought
areas of NSW in the last few weeks.
The principal veterinary officer of the
State Agriculture Department, Mr J. S.
Healey, warned recently that stock
eating quantities of this lick would re-
quire larger amounts of drinking w'ater.
According to tests at Glenfield Veterinary
Research Station, near Sydney, 1000
sheep on urea could drink an additional
1000 to 3000 gallons of water a day.
It was a shortage of water, more than
of fodder, that turned the dry weather
into a calamity in NSW. Dams through-
out northern NSW soon dried up, after
becoming bogholes for poor cattle which
floundered into them in search of a
drink. Creeks, too, ceased to hold water,
let alone to flow. Farmers and graziers
throughout the dry, and sometimes heat-
wave conditions, bought and carted
water to their failing stock. In the
Kempsey, Taree, Gloucester and Dungog
areas country water tankers worked on
a 24-hour a day schedule carting water
to farms.
If the drought has given any mind to
a national conservation scheme, it should
be of water conservation. Farmers indi-
vidually can conserve fodder. It is safe
to say that thousands of head of stock
would have been saved in the drought
if water had been readily available.
Drought struck the pastoral areas with
similar force, resulting in thousands of
female cattle of the beef breeds, and
sheep, being slaughtered or dying of
starvation. This state of affairs not only


Automatic
Automatic pilot takes the work out of course-
keeping. You set the course: George keeps to it,
regardless. Gives peace of mind. Frees the skipper
for other duties. Like when a convention is to be
arranged. The team of experts at Chevron Hotel,
backed by the colossal resources of this great
hotel, pilot the planners through all the shoals.
Experience tells. If you are to convene a conven-
tion, write to or talk it over with the Chevron Hotel
management: No further worries.
Package deals tailored to your requirements cover
every little detail. And at a very fair price.
Get with it . . . with us.
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
delays the rehabilitation of herds and
flocks when the drought has passed but
it puts the calendar back on a desirable
expansion in livestock production.
Without any question of drought losses
to the beef cattle industry, the chairman
of the Australian Meat Board, Mr J. L.
Shute, recently made the point that at
the beginning of 1965 the Australian ex-
port meat industry was virtually looking
for meat for markets, rather than mar-
kets for meat. Therefore the great
slaughter of female cattle in our beef
herds, which has occurred, portends a
grave economic loss for the future.
At a western sale last week some ewes
were sold for 2s. Id. a head, but the
only value was in their skins. Thousands
of similar sheep had been killed and
skinned on properties. These sheep are
of no use to the butchering trade.
The worst that has happened with
the grain crop is that sowing will have
started late. Farmers have been unable
to prepare the land, and this, too, could
result in a smaller acreage than was
sown to wheat last season.
Normally the main wheat sowing
would start now. But the only land
preparation for it has been in the form
of dry working.
Cereal specialist of the NSW Agri-
culture Department, Mr C. Walkden
Brown, said that much of the dry worked
area had finished in a cloddy and dusty
condition. He said that only on rare
occasions have conditions through the
NSW wheatbelt, before sowing, been
drier than at this time. Little stubble
burning, too, has been possible because
of fire danger. Consequently growers
will not start off well with wheat.
Mr Walkden Brown is a little con-
cerned about the threat of frost. He
said he felt that farmers might rush in
to plant immediately after the rain with-
out giving proper thought to the
maturity period of the varieties they
plant. If quick maturing varieties are
sown too early they could strike serious
trouble later with frost.
In 1958 frost destroyed about 12 p.c.
of the NSW wheat crop—about 9.3 mil-
lion bushels—then valued at about
£6i million. But for particularly favor-
able weather for regrowth, the grain
harvest that year would have been re-
duced by about 20 p.c.—about 16.2 mil-
lion bushels then valued at about £10.9.
million.
In most districts of NSW the summer
and early autumn has been the driest for
more than 20 years. Even with good
rains now, an increase on last year’s
wheat acreage, which farmers had in-
tended to plant, is unlikely. If rain is
insufficient a marked wheat acreage re-
duction is possible.
In any case ideal conditions throughout
the growing season will be necessary to
produce satisfactory yields.


Finance
Corporal"ion
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Mmam
0
i
'm } :
Applications for
debenture stock, can be
accepted only on
the printed form referred
to in and attached to
the prospectus.
Prospectuses and forms
of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier f n t
INVESTMENT
Cox on the Brink
Depositors’ role in the future
So far, the bold plan of reorganisation
and contraction adopted by Cox
Bros (Aust.) a few months ago has met
with outstanding success. After losses
of £412,000 in 1962-63 and close on
£2 million last year, directors have an-
nounced that a loss of only £28,000 was
incurred in the latest six months. It
compares with a £400,000 loss in the
previous corresponding half; at this rate
the group will easily achieve its goal of
eliminating all OPERATING losses be-
fore the end of the current year to
July 31.
Along with the interim report came
the vital and long-awaited solution (we
hope) to the problem of repaying
£11.7 million worth of unsecured depo-
sits. Around £2.3 million matures be-
tween now and the end of the current
year, £3.9 million in 1965-66, £3.7 mil-
lion in 1966-67 and £1.6 million in the
two years after that. Fortunately, none
of it is held at call. It would be a diffi-
cu’t if not impossible task to meet these
maturities on their due dates and still
keep up with other commitments. For
example, a debenture issue maturing on
balance day this year will require
£5.2 million cash. In addition, £1.3 mil-
lion is repayable in mortgages. So the
dates for deposit repayments are all to
be deferred by a directors’ scheme to
convert them into debentures.
The Supreme Court has ordered a
depositors’ meeting to be held before the
end of June to consider the scheme.
The debenture stock will carry interest of
8 p.c. and be listed on the Stock Ex-
change. It will be repaid in five equal
instalments between 1968 and 1972.
Success will depend on many varied
factors, not the least being the persua-
sive qualities of chairman and managing
director Sir Frank Richardson at the
meeting. Already he has been quoted
as saying “accumulated funds on hand,
proceeds to come from the contraction
programme, finance available from pro-
visional arrangements with financial in-
stitutions and confirmation of the finan-
cial plan will enable the company to meet
other liabilities due on July 31 next”.
And, referring to the long term, “to date,
everybody has been paid in full and when
this plan goes through everybody else
will be paid in full and the shareholders’
funds will still be intact”.
Success must also depend to some
extent on the recommendations of the
depositors’ trustee, T& G Nominees.
This company supported Cox’s applica-
tion to the Supreme Court which resulted
in the meeting order and has agreed to
act as trustee for the new debentures.
Another favorable factor will be the
rate of interest. Company secretary Mr
G. F. Hall told The Bulletin that “not
all the deposits carry 8 p.c. and none of
them carry any more”. So there could
be some attraction here. In addition, the
debentures will be listed so there will be
a chance for depositors to get their hands
on liquid funds, even though the price
is unlikely to be very good.
This last point may have more weight
than meets the eye in view of certain
unanswered questions about the group's
future. The deposit conversion is
obviously vital. Would' holders stand
a chance of getting as much money back
if they turned the scheme down? A
decision such as this would throw a


When the occasion calls ior
your best tea service
A bridge party an important guest
or just old friends dropping in for a chat
there’s always the pleasant ritual of
serving tea from your best tea service.
And if you’re an astute hostess, you
serve Lipton Royal Ceylon Blend.
Like you, your friends will appreciate
this little touch of luxury. The delicate,
pure Ceylon flavour unmistakable ...
wonderfully refreshing . . . lingers on
your palate ... a sheer delight to the last
savoured sip.
Make your next special occasion a real
success, serve
JRoi/o l Ceylon
/jfend
\ and 2 lb. packets
TEA
UPTON’S; TEA MERCHANTS TO THE WORLD FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY
"" 321 B.
spanner in the works and could very
well necessitate liquidation. Then again,
what are the chances of repayment be-
tween 1968 and 1972 compared with the
present 1965 to 1969? Undoubtedly
they’re a little better but can investors
be sure of interest payments in the mean-
time? The bill will be almost £ll mil-
lion annually, on top of numerous other
commitments, which must all be met
from a money flow which will be sub-
stantially reduced by the contraction
programme.
Under normal circumstances, Cox
Bros would have been out of the frying
pan and into the fire long ago (see The
Bulletin, “Croesus”, November 14,
p. 60). It has breached the debenture
trust deed and is badly overborrowed.
It it these remarkable survival qualities,
thanks mainly to continued support from
the Potter-AUC group, which still pre-
vent shareholders, etc., from branding
the company as a complete wipe-off.
These same qualities will go a long way
in commanding a “yes” vote from the
24,000 depositors although their deci-
sion should rest more on which vote will
end up netting the best return on their
deposits. Only the trustee can advise
them in this direction as it is more in-
clined to stick to facts than make pro-r
mises, genuine as they may be.
Stronger Tea
■'T'HE current year could be the second
since 1959-60 in which the earnings
of Griffiths Bros, the tea and coffee
merchant, will cover the ordinary divi-
dend. According to the interim report,
profit improved in the December half
to a level which will cover the 4 p.c.
interim dividend. Directors believe that
earnings in the current six months will
show further improvement and last year’s
8 p.c. r dividend should be maintained.
In the 1961 and 1962 years a 15 p.c.
payout was maintained despite earnings
of 14.6 p.c. and 13.5 p.c. respectively,
after the deduction of £10.500 for pre-
ference dividends. Apparently perturbed,
directors cut the 1962-63 payout to 10
p.c. when earnings slipped again to 12.6
p.c. Last year was the worst when
several problems reduced the figure to
2.5 p.c. However, the payout was only
cut to 8 p.c. as reorganisation plans were
expected to rejuvenate future perform-
ances. They seem to have done just this.
Last year's profit was £16,000 before
deducting the. preference dividend. The
main trouble was a £15,000 loss by the
Sydney finance subsidiary in its mer-
chandise departments which saw low
turnover and extensive bad debts. This
was Griffiths Bros Credits and its activi-
ties have been discontinued. To replace
the investment, Pearce Bros, an Adelaide


Take
it
or
lAIOI JflEi
Hr™ 1 ®" mjf SF®"®
m, M mm
■jg §g
ITI
■ ii« ■
Fortunately in Australia
you do not have to put up
with this attitude
You have the right to take your custom to the
shop, supplier, or, indeed, bank that serves you
best. And a good thing, too, because where
there is competition between shops and manu-
facturers to attract your custom you have the
right to choose the product or service that
satisfies you. This is as it should be. In Aus-
tralia, we have many banks, competing for your
business, and this ensures that you, the cus-
tomer, have the right to choose the bank that
serves you best.
firm operating a specialised carrying
business, has been acquired.
This is only one of several changes in
the group's activities which will all in-
volve a reorganisation that directors ex-
pect to go on for some time. In the end
they expect profits to be substantially
rejuvenated. As well as being a tea and
coffee merchant, retailer and financier,
the company has dealt with furniture,
manchester and home appliances, all,
relatively, fields of cut-throat competition
for such a small company.
Briscoes Better
Melbourne-based hardware and
A steel wholesaler, Briscoes, looks as
if it will be in the position to return to
7 p.c. dividends in the current year.
Shareholders have not seen such a pay-
out since 1960-61. In the following year
it was cut to 2i- p.c. after a collapse in
earnings. In 1962-63 it was lifted to
5 p.c. and again to 6 p.c. last year when
the earning rate managed a feeble 7.6
p.c.
The recent interim report revealed that
sales had been' lifted by more than 9
p.c. for the six months and a steady
interim dividend of 3 p.c. was declared.
The brief report added that gross profit
more than covered the increased working
expenses. Presumably, this means that
net profit rose as well as sales. If such
was the case, it's a pity the directors
could not say so.
Last financial year a 13 p.c. profit
increase was scored from a 14 p.c. sales
increase. If the trend has been the same
in the latest half, then earning rate should
be taken close to 10 p.c. in the current
year. The 1961 payout of 7 p.c. was
covered by earnings of only 9 p.c.
Costly Project
"Droject Development Corporation's
decision to omit the interim dividend
suggests that the group’s WA cattle sta-
tion may chalk-up a rather serious loss in
the current year. The decision has been
made despite the fact that 12i p.c. has
been distributed in the last two years
and that last year's payout was liberally
covered by 20.9 p.c. earnings. In addi-
tion, profit in the latest six months actu-
ally rose from £lOl,OOO to £lOB,OOO.
Directors claim that the move has been
made to conserve funds until the con-
clusion of the -killing seaso.n at the
station.
Even this simple explanation may
worry shareholders. The company’s
balance date is June 30 but the killing
season does not usually finish until


Gin and bitter lemon?
All the better with
m
Today 9 s taste
44U
September. Norwest Development Cor-
poration, the subsidiary which operates
an abattoir as well as the station in the
Kimberleys, has been a rather heavy
drain on the group's liquid funds for
some time now. Around £1,196,000 has
been laid out (an amount which “greatly
exceeds” the estimate made at the time
of acquisition) and no return has been
received yet.
Undoubtedly, the position by the time
balance date arrives will not be bad
enough to eliminate a dividend possibility
altogether. But shareholders would be
unwise to expect another 121 p.c. dis-
tribution. Fortunately, the situation will
be only temporary as profits should start
to benefit from the WA project in 1965-
66.
Steady Email
/Continuing its almost steady pattern
of profits for four of the last five
years, Email Ltd, the electrical equip-
ment manufacturing group, has reported
1964 earnings of £640,716. From 1960
to 1963 profit moved between £645,136
(the 1960 figure) to the latest earnings.
The only real difference was in 1961
when earnings suffered a downturn to
£521,835.
On the latest result earning rate gains
slightly from 11 p.c. to 11.5 p.c. Tax
provision is £lO,OOO higher at £291,000
and depreciation goes from £401,954 to
£421,109. Dividend remains steady at
10 p.c. for the sixth successive year.
Again the group includes high capital
profits in its annual result. Sale of fixed
assets in 1964 realised £297,958. In 1963
capital profits were £101,710. In the last
four years Email has earned more than
£1.2 million from capital profits.
Blue Metal Troubles
TAespite difficulties experienced in the
supply of rock facing material for
the Mascot Airport extension, an interim
dividend from Ready Mixed Concrete has
enabled Blue Metal Industries Ltd to
report higher profit for the December
half-year. BMI and CSR acquired RMC
late last year after a tough takeover
battle.
BMI is maintaining its annual 15 p.c.
dividend with an interim 71 p.c. payout.
Directors say total sales of subsid'aries
for the December half-year were higher
than for the previous corresponding
period. However, “special circumstances”'
caused a lower profit of these subsidi-
aries. Main reason was “unexpected diffi-
culties” in connection with the Mascot
project.
Initial losses on new quarries at Unan-
derra and Canberra had also contributed
to the lower profit.
BMI, a subcontractor to Thiess Bros
(principal contractor to the NSW Works
Department for the extension at Mascot),
is to supply more than 300,000 tons of
rock facing material for the longer run-
way over an 18-month period. It is the
largest contract for this type of material
awarded in the Sydney area in the past
20 years.


BALANCE
SHEET
SUMMARIES
(£'000)
Year to
30th June
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
111
33
34
30
39
Current liabilities
92
145
139
201
91
Net working
capital
19
(112)
(105)
(171)
(52)
Fixed assets
857
1029
1 190
1738
1756
investments.
380
400
250
—
—
Total capital
1256
1429
1440
1738
1756
Represented by:
Negative work-
ing capital
—
112
105
171
52
Loan capita!
—
—
—
200
323
Convertible
notes
432
442
442
442
442
Ord. capital
442
460
460
460
460
Reserves
382
415
433
465
479"
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES
(£'000)
Interest on loans
11
30
32
46
57
Depreciation
15
15
14
8
32
Tax provision
49
42
33
7
10
Earnings
87
66
55
22
32
Ord. dividends
44
37
37
—
—
Surplus
43
29
18
22
32
Earning
rate p.c. (a)
10.9
9.2
8.0
4.3
5.4
Ord. div. p.c.
10.0
8.0
8.0
—
—
Div. yield p.c. (b) 5.6
5.9
7.3
—
—■
High price (c)
41/-
31/6
26/-
25/6 -
20 '-
Low price (c)
36/-
22/9
17/6
19/- •
13/-
(a) Treating convertible
notes as though they
were
already ordinary shares and
adding
back interest
thereon less tax to
earnings.
(b) Based on last sale
in August when accounts
presented.
(c) Calendar year.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
A Dividend from the Windsor?
Speculative nature of the accommodation industry
rFms Melbourne hotel may perhaps be
compared with the Australia Hotel
in Sydney. It is probably fair to say that
each was generally regarded as the
leading hotel in its particular city until
about 1960 and each seems to have en-
countered severe competition in recent
years. Currently, the shares of the Wind-
sor Hotel are selling at 14s. 6d.—nearly
30 p.c. under par—and at this price they
show an earnings yield of 10.5 p.c., if it
is assumed that earnings will be up 58
p.c. on last year. In other words, if it is
assumed that the second half of 1964-65
will show the same improvement over
1963-64 as did the first half.
At the time of writing the earnings
yields for the “accommodation” com-
panies which have been reviewed in
this series of articles are as follows:
Australia Hotel 7.6 p.c.
Hotel Meiropole 8.8 p.c.
Wynyard Holdings .... 11.3 p.c.
Motels of Australia 9.8 p.c.
Windsor Hotel 10.5 p.c.
These'figures have.taken into account,
wherever it is possible, the results for
the first half of the current financial
year and are therefore as up-to-date as
it is possible to get. With the exception
of the Australia Hotel, it would seem
that all the companies are very much in
line since one would not care to put too
fine a point on the earnings yield or
price/earnings ratio as a measure of
the appropriate price. However, it must
be said that a common earnings yield
pre-supposes a common rate of growth in
earnings in the future and, in this par-
ticular group, it also pre-supposes—in
my opinion—that the two companies
who are not paying a dividend at the
present time will return to the dividend
lists this year and pay a dividend that
will put the dividend yields also on a
similar basis. This would suggest a
dividend rate of 7 p.c. from the Australia
and a 5 k p.c. from the Windsor. It will
be interesting to see what happens when
the time for the final dividend announce-
ment arrives.
In the last directors’ report, the follow-
ing sentence appears: “It is now obvious,
however, that accommodation in Mel-
bourne is, at present, greater than the
demand excepting for a few peak periods
during the year, particularly as stays, be-
cause of faster travel, are of shorter
duration.” In his address to the share-
holders in October, 1964, the acting
chairman also pointed out that keen
competition had kept tariffs “more or
less stationary”, while both operating
costs and fixed charges had increased.
The new building of one hundred bed-
rooms with -private bath, suites and
banquet rooms was only in operation
for nine months of 1963-64, and accord-
ing to the directors’ report it cost
£806,639. This sum seems to have been
financed as to £325.000 by a mortgage
loan. This means that the balance of
£480,000, approximately, has been pro-
vided by the shareholders—mainly from
the issue of convertible notes made in
November, 1959.
The effect of this new building can
best be seen from the trend in “Profit
from trading after deducting all general
charges”:
Year to
30th June 1961 1962 1963 1964
£'ooo 130.3 116.6 79.8 132.6
Whether the marked downward trend
would have continued cannot be assessed,
but it is~ perhaps reasonable to assume
they would have been affected by the
building operations and would not have
fallen further once these ceased. This
would suggest that the new building
caused an addition of about £52,800 to
trading profit in nine months or about
£70,400 on an annual basis. Interest on
the mortgage loan would appear to
absorb about £28,000. The return on
the total capital employed in the new
building would therefore be 8.7 p.c.,
approximately, while the return on equity
funds eniployed (after tax and deprecia-
tion) would seem to be about 3.4 p c.
This return is slightly less than would
have been obtained if the funds had been
invested in Commonwealth Stock bear-
ing a coupon rate of 54 p.c. or more.
While on this subject of the return
on capital employed, it may be as well
to compare the Windsor’s figures with
those of the other companies. All of
these companies have had idle funds and
have had their results affected by building
operations to varying degrees.
Year ended in 1962 1963 1964
Australia Hotel 8.5 9.3 3.7
Hotel Metropole 19.3 17.7 16.5
Motels of Australia 12.4 11.7 13.4
Windsor Hotel 9.3 5.7 7.5
It is quite clear that only those com-
panies who are earning more than 10 p.c.
on funds employed are paying dividends
at present but it would be foolish to sug-
gest that this is a reasonable minimum
level. Nevertheless, there has been con-
siderable emphasis placed in many circles
on the capital cost per suite as an indica-
tion of the likelihood that an “accom-
modation” company can be profitable. It
is therefore pertinent to point out that
the Windsor's new wing seems to hav«
worked out at something like £B,OOO per
suite without any cost of land.
Despite the lack of dividends the prices
of the shares seem to have held up quite
well until last year. Today, they are
quoted around 14s. although, in fact,
they have been as high as 14s. 9d. this
year and the last sale took place at 14s.
6d. However, at the time of writing there
is a seller quoted but no buyer. I would
believe that the imminent conversion of
the notes into ordinary shares is probably
a deterrent to purchasers until they see
some concrete evidence that the com-
pany is able to pay a reasonable dividend
on the nearly doubled capital. From
1965-66 onwards, a 10 p.c. dividend will
require nearly £90,200 and even the 5k
p.c. rate will require about £49,600.
Having regard to the improved rate of
profits indicated in the interim report
issued in the middle of last month, and to
the fact that there will be quite a notice-
able saving of interest when the notes are
converted, I would think that the Wind-
sor is capable of earning enough to pay a
dividend of at least 7 p.c. and this could
well mean that a return to the 8 p.c. rate
is not too far off. This would mean that
the shares are very attractive at current
prices, even if one’s concern about the
future of the “accommodation” industry
generally tends to suggest that they have
a somewhat speculative flavor.
There can be little doubt that in the
years to come the providers of accomo-
dation will be judged by the standard of
service they give, rather than by the up-
to-date state of the actual accommoda-
tion, since all accommodation will be
of an equivalent standard. This should
certainly give the Windsor an edge.


SHELL’S WONDERFUL
WORLD OF
CHEMICALS
Nearly every industry—certainly every major one relies in some way
on the vast range of chemicals available from Shell. Here are a few highlights
from Shell’s widespread field of progress with chemicals from petroleum.
A FANTASTIC PLASTIC
Polypropylene was specified
for this one-piece chair by
a famous designer. This new
thermoplastic is the latest
and lightest yet developed.
No other substance known
has so favourable a combi-
nation of strength, weight,
chemical resistance, rigidity
and resilience as Shell
Polypropylene.
r
m
m
TARGET ON TERMITES
Aldrin and Dieldrin, famous
eradicators of a large
variety of insects that rav-
age agriculture and indus-
try, have been developed
for an all-out war against
termites in all building
constructions. Expertly ap-
plied as a “soil barrier" in
existing or new buildings,
they prevent white ants
from getting to their fav-
ourite meal.
* ’
“EPIKOTE” GOES UNDERSEA
Shell Chemical engineers
have developed and proved
a new “Epikote’' resin com-
pound that can be applied
underwater to protect steel
hulls, piers, bridges, etc.,
from sea water corrosion.
The new substance out-
lasts and outprotects even
special corrosion-resistant
metal sheathing. Yet it is
approximately one quarter
of the cost.
IT'S GOT TO BE GOOD TO BE
SHELL
m


HOOKER
FINANCE
COMPANY
LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM
5 ORIOYRS.
LONG TERM
8% sor 10 yrs. 7% 3 yrs.
7V 2 % 4 yrs. 6% 2 yrs.
SHORT TERM
5% 12 mths. 4%% 6 mths.
Interest payable quarterly
HOW TO INVEST
Applications may only be accepted on the
printed forms attached to and included in
the Prospectus and available from:
Principal office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank
of Australia.
Any member of a recognised stock exchange.
The Underwriting brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited),
20 O’Connell Street, Sydney, or their branches.
Hooker Finance Company Limited, Angel House, 2-18
Ash Street, Sydney, and Interstate offices.
Trustees tor the Debenture Holders:
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Buy ’em and Forget ’em
H. B. Selby’s solid merits
are very few companies which
■*- have the distinction of being more
solid and more respectable than Mel-
bourne-based H. B. Selby Australia Ltd.
The company is a leading importer, dis-
tributor and manufacturer of scientific
instruments, laboratory apparatus, che-
micals, and industrial and process control
equipment. Since its conversion to pub-
lic status in 1948, growth has been
steady and successful. It has been and
always will be a stock for regular in-
come and long-term capital growth as
long as the Selby family maintains its
dominant position, as it undoubtedly will
for a long time to come.
At present there are two Selbys on the
four-man board, one of them occupying
the chair-—Mr E. J. Selby. Until 1962
a Mrs A. H. Selby was also on the board
and the vacancy created by her resigna-
tion has never been filled. There is pro-
bably no need for this, since she has
not completely severed her connection
with the group's affairs.
Today, the group comprises the parent
company and its four subsidiaries. Two
are registered in NSW, one carrying the
parent's name, the other being Analite
Pty Ltd, the manufacturing subsidiary
with a factory in Melbourne as well as
Sydney. Another subsidiary carrying
the parent's name is registered in Vic-
toria, while the fourth, Geo. W. Wilton
and Co., is based in Wellington (NZ).
Branches of these companies look after
the business in Brisbane, Perth, Hobart,
Adelaide and Auckland (NZ).
While Analite has been with the group
for some years, Wilton was only acquired
in the 1961-62 financial year. It is an
old-established business of a type very
similar to Selby's. Its value lies mainly in
broadening the basis of the group's
operation. The acquisition has had no
noticeable effect on earning rates, being
financed by a premium share issue.
Moreover, during the year of the acquisi-
tion, Selby shareholders participated in
a one-for-three bonus issue, a move
which took the rate well below the yet-
to-be recovered peak of 23.3 p.c. in
1960-61.
Although it is unlikely to affect pro-
fits to any serious extent, the news that
the NZ Government has decided to im-
pose a super-tax on dividends paid by
NZ subsidiaries of foreign companies,
including those based in Australia, is a
bitter pill to swallow, coming less than
three years after Selby’s acquisition. At
last October's annual meeting, Mr Selby
pointed out to shareholders that the
three main suppliers of scientific instru-
ments and apparatus in NZ were all
Australian-owned. “There is ample evi-
dence that, without the knowledge and
assistance of these companies, the stand-
ard and rapge of goods and services
otfered to iMZ scientists might be very
poor indeed,” he said in criticism of the
move. Although the tax may not be
burdensome now, the scope is there for
increases and it is this which no doubt
worries the directors more than the mere
fact that a tax exists.
The NZ business has grown since the
takeover and is still doing so. The tax
position should not worry shareholders,
for the growing profit figures should
ensure that net returns to the parent are,
at the very worst, maintained at present
levels.
After a couple of not-so-good years,
caused by State Government buying of
lower priced goods from Japan, the two
Analite factories are now proving ex-
tremely valuable to the group. The
future looks good for the growth pro-
spects foreseen, if only for the fact that
here the company is not merely a
middleman or distributing agent for some
overseas principal. Both factories supply
the group with large quantities of general
equipment. In 1963-64, despite a con-
tinued inability to compete with certain
imported goods, production and sales
were way ahead of the previous year.
The NZ company purchased more


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
720
804
964
1016
1324
Less current liabilities
307
395
548
599
746
Working capital
413
409
416
417
578
Fixed assets
375
445
727
793
792
Investments
103
100
100
100
—
891
954
1243
1310
1370
Ordinary capital
345
345
495
507
507
Reserves
246
285
376
424
456
Loan capital
300
324
372
379
407
891
954
1243
1310
1370
Depreciation
14
19
24
24
24
Tax
52
57
67
63
68
Net profit
74
81
83
84
8/
Dividends
41
41
59
60
61
Surplus
33
40
24
24
26
Earning rate p.c.
21.2
23.3
16.7
16.7
17.1
Dividend p.c.
12
12
12
12
12
Dividend yield (a)
3.6
3.5
3.8
3.8
3.9
High price (b)
17/6
20 6
18/-
17/9
17/3
Lew price (b)
11/5
11/-
14/-
14/9
13/9
(a) End September,
(b) Calendar year.
month
results
announced.
«
c
1%
If
NEW ISSUE FROM . . .
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
UNSECURED
NOTES
V-/z% 6-10 YEARS
7 1 /4% ...... 4-5 YEARS
7 % 3 YEARS
6 1 /2% 2 YEARS
5Vz% 12 MONTHS
5 1 /4% 6 MONTHS
5 % 3 MONTHS
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which is
now available from any Member of a recognised
Stock Exchange and all Branches of. . .
THE NATIONAL BANK
and CUSTOM CREDIT
OR THE UNDERWRITERS:
Ord Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners, Members of The
Sydney Stock Exchange Limited: 13-15 O’Connell St.,
Sydney
INTEREST
U P TO
0
1
r°
2
FOR
6YEARS
CCI .53.35
Analite products and considerable inter-
est in some of the newer and more
specialised items has been shown by
dealers from several other countries.
Apart from development from this
source, Analite should also gain from
the wider range of finer equipment and
instruments which are being constantly
introduced every year.
On a more general basis, the extra
£5 million made available by the Com-
monwealth Government for the ad-
vancement of scientific education should
prove a boon to the company. Although
new science buildings and laboratories
will absorb a large proportion of the
grant, there has been recent evidence of
expenditure on actual scientific equip- •
ment. Already, a tender calling for
larger than normal quantities of a wide
range of items has been lodged and the
company expects to obtain its share of
this and subsequent tenders.
Against this good news, the chairman
placed a warning at the annual meeting.
Discussing the nature of the competition
which existed in the industry, he said
“the amount of price cutting which takes
place in this highly specialised and rela-
tively restricted trade is quite ridiculous.”
Although this may not be a particu-
larly realistic attitude to the problem, it
is safe to say that, overall, the ever-
increasing demand for the company's
type of product, combined with the in-
crease in its range of products, its own
efforts to provide improved service and
the maintenance of the respectable image
which is a necessity in this field, will
enable the group to expand as steadily
and conservatively as it has in the past,
Probably a good example of Selby’s
“social consciousness” is the annual
Selby Fellowship.' The 1964 Fellow, Dr
R. R. M. Mau'd, a scientist of the South
African Sugar Association, is working
at the CSIRO division of soils in Ade~
laide. Also, towards the end of 1963,
a staff incentive scheme was introduced
whereby direct sharing in increased pro-
fits can be enjoyed after a brief qualify-
ing period. If nothing else, this scheme
should boost profits over the years and
help to hold and attract valuable staff
members.
In summary, for those looking to
security with capital growth in the long-
term and steady or increasing dividends
in the meantime, the shares should prove
ideal. Buy ’em and forget ’em. This
advice is particularly relevant just now,
as falling markets have taken the ss.
shares to 12s. 9d., yielding 4.7 p.c. from
the 12 p.c. dividend after brokerage. This
is a very low price compared with the
range over the last three years (see table)
and has been brought about, too, by a
general disinterest in the stock, not by
any shortcomings of the company itself,
In fact, possibly the only financial
ground on which it can really be criti-
cised is the fact that loan capital finan-
cing has been heavy in relation to share
capital. This, of course, is mainly a
result of the group's conservatism.
Although it. is not very relevant, it is
interesting to note that interest charges
took £32,000 before the 1963-64 pro-
fit of £87,000 was arrived at. And it
must be remembered that this is not so
much a criticism financially as share-
holderwise. As with a lot of family
companies, it is these people who have
suffered.
Shareholders have only been called on
once since listing. That was for a one-
for-four par issue in 1956-57, when the
shares were split. There was the bonus
in 1961-62, too. There is no immediate
chance of an issue unless the dividend
rate is reduced simultaneously. This is
unlikely, since dividends have never been
cut in the company's entire history. So
there will be a wait for at least two years
before earnings top 20 p.c. again and
another issue will then be possible. The
very high reserves at present indicate
that the next issue could well be a
bonus.
The table illustrates in figures the
group's solid nature. Working capital has
grown steadily, as have fixed assets ex-
cept for the big jump in 1962 following
a revaluation and the NZ acquisition. Re-
serves have grown steadily, too, with a
similar jump in 1962. Profit growth has
been constant and the share prices have
been extremely steady for some time
now.
- Earning rate history could hardly be
better. From below 10 p.c. at flotation
it grew steadily to 17.2. p.c. in 1955-56
and then fell slightly after the cash issue.
It then recommenced growing to the
record 23.3 p.c. of 196N62 before the
bonus knocked it back again. Now the
growth towards the third share issue has
started. Over this entire period, divi-
dends have grown 1 p.c. at a time from
7 p.c. to the present level, so higher
dividends as well as an issue can be
expected in the long-term. '


f /;
*l' -
I
r:
y i O V s-X / /
I Hy?
a*e=>
The only thing missing
is your family
and this includes that clever pooch who
brings the boss his slippers. Yes, the family
is all that is missing from the comfort and
service of any member of the Federal Group,
when you find it necessary to stop overnight
on your business trip.
You’ll be glad to get back to your family, we
know, but you'll be happily amazed at how close
you’ve been to home comfort and attention
while you were in the friendly hands of our
management and staff.
Your secretary, and our fast teleprinter service
take the worry out of interstate hotel bookings.
MEMBERS
OF THE
FEDERAL
GROUP
—)
3211 FH
IN MELBOURNE:
Menzies Hotel, Savoy Plaza Hotel, Hotel Federal
Cockpit Restaurant— Melbourne Airport
National Sales Office 547 Collins St., 62 3012
IN SYDNEY:
Hampton Court Hotel, Menzies Hotel
IN HOBART:
Wrest Point Riviera Hotel
IN QUEENSLAND:
Lennons Brisbane, Lennons Toowoomba,
Lennons on the Gold Coast
Or book through your local Travel Agent
LAMSON INDUSTRIES AUST. LTD
Unexciting But Solid
rpHE 10s. shares of Lamson Industries
-*■ Australia Ltd should only be bought
with the long term in view. Performance
at present can only be described as
mediocre. Although the company oper-
ates in a field where demand is not sub-
ject to violent fluctuations, profit ex-
pansion can only be gradual as the
growth in demand is also a slow (but
sure) process. Even the nation’s deci-
malisation programme is unlikely to affect
profits to any great extent. In the first
place, Lamson’s basic products will not
benefit. In the second, severe competition
and substantially higher operating costs
will offset to a large extent the increase
in turnover expected for the products
which are connected with decimalisation.
In the words of the chairman, Mr
H. F. Walsh, at the recent annual
meeting, the company’s long - term
profit growth will depend on “our drive
for improvement of existing products,
introduction of new acceptable products
combined with greater efficiency arising
from intensified standardisation and
greater mechanisation ... I should add
that the introduction of decimalisation
will not affect the company in its basic
operation but the immediate result of the
introduction may be a considerable flow
of urgent and temporarily excessive
>rders.”
The original business was registered in
Victoria in February, 1897, as Lamson
Paragon Supply Co. of Australasia Ltd.
The rights to use certain patents for the
manufacture of business stationery were
obtained from Lamson Paragon Supply
Co. of England. In 1962, after 65 years
of growth and elevation to the public
lists, the Australian group merged with
the local subsidiaries of the English com-
pany. This merged organisation was
taken over by a new holding company,
the one which is listed on the stock mar-
kets today. The old listed company
(which was also only a holding company)
placed itself into voluntary liquidation.
The English subsidiaries were Lamson
Engineering and Control Systems
(A’asia). The former dealt in air tube
systems, internal phone systems, auto-
matic pallet loaders, ventilation plants,
dust extraction plants, and industrial
vacuum cleaners. The latter marketed
adding and calculating machines, tickets
and ticket issuing machines, totalisators
and taxi-meters.
Apart from these two and the liquida-
ting ex-holding company, the group to-
day consists of 18 other subsidiaries and
sub-subsidiaries. They cover all States
and New Zealand, handling the bulk of
the company’s products—business forms,
systems products and ancillaries, station-
ery, office supplies, packaging, duplica-
ting machines, filing systems, etc., etc.
The trend in the industry today is
toward more severe competition, pro-
ducing an adverse effect on profit mar-
gins and an increasing difficulty in pro-
curing skilled labor. To cope with these
problems, Lamson is striving first to
improve efficiency and second to increase
mechanisation. The latter in itself tends
to cut into profit margins, too, in the
early stages although not usually later on
after costs have been recouped.
As well as introducing new products
and bettering existing ones itself, the
company also has the benefit in this
direction of an affiliation with several
leading overseas companies. Lamson
Industries Ltd, the UK parent, is of
course the obvious one. Apart from any
exchange of information with the British,
the Australian group also benefits from
the parent’s association with the Moore
Corporation, North America’s largest
business forms firm. It has access to vital
information on the more sophisticated
products now being asked for by Austra-
lian industry.
One of these was introduced with con-
siderable success in the 1964 year by the
Control Systems subsidiary. It was the
“Anita” electronic desk-size computer,


--
f
mm
s f
A
/
«|1
:ix:
Tr X&*. w.
Malay satay a la genuine thing with tamarind and spices.
Who discovered SINGAPORE?
We did! The travel agent started it by explaining it wouldn’t cost a penny
more to stop-over-in Singapore, on our way to Europe. On those terms who
would miss the chance to go on a voyage of discovery!
So we came to Singapore. The friendly, cosmopolitan people welcomed us
to their fascinating country and we were set fair to uncover an array of
spectacle and excitement that gave real meaning to the saying—‘You see
more of the Orient in Singapore.’ Take a glimpse at this magical island
with us and you too will be taking the first steps towards discovering wonder-
ful Singapore.
FOOD Singapore is a kitchen to the world!
A person can eat just so much in four days—but with all this pageant of
sumptious dishes, where do you start —or stop!? Malay satay a la genuine
thing—with tamarind and spices beaten and mixed for hours on end, to give
you a relishing feast. Chinese food is a way of life! We sat down to 12
courses last night. Each one a wonder of exotic tastes. Then there are the
stimulating Indian muslim foods, spicy and aromatic. There is an endless
variety of the world's best European food served in the many seaside night
clubs and palm fringed modern hotels.
KONG
GKC
DARWtN
4«W*r>V'
OTMtart*
i Mown 25 W»nuf e»
WEST AUSTRALIANS, do you know that it is
almost as cheap to travel to Singapore as it is to
visit Sydney. In about the same time that it
takes to fly from Perth to Sydney-you could be
setting foot in the heart of the Orient — Singapore.
For tots of exciting information, consult your travel agent about
your stop-over in Singapore or xtrrite to Singapore Government
Tourist Information Service, is Grosvenor Street, Sydney, 343
Little Collins Street, Melbourne or Industry House, Canberra.
the first in the world. Its introduction was
the company’s first but not last step into
the electronics field. The subsidiary’s
main business is in calculating machines.
Management and technical resources are
already under a heavy strain with pre-
liminary work for decimal day. Substan-
tial costs made profits •’disappointing”
but some should be recouped from the
Government after February next year.
Caribonum Australia, the carbon paper
manufacturer, increased profits and is
expected to do so again in the current
year. Lamson Paragon (WA), partly
owned, saw ldwer profits, but a develop-
ment programme should boost them
again. Lamson Engineering Australia is
another subsidiary which looks set for a
good year. Its main business is document
conveying equipment and the internal
telephone system, both of which it manu-
factures basically itself. Until last year it
was basically an importer of these items.
Manufacturing on its own account has
improved profit margins and substantial
orders are on hand for the current year.
The value of the accompanying table
as a record of the group’s performance
in the current decade is impaired to a
large extent by certain changes in finan-
cial structure. The 1960 and 1961
columns are comparable with each other
but not with 1962, 1963 and 1964. In
June, 1962, as mentioned previously, the
Australian subsidiaries of the UK Lam-
son company were merged with the local
group under a new holding company
known as Lamson Industries Australia.
The deal involved shares and cash and
boosted the 2 p.c. interest which the UK
group had in the old company to more
than 54 p.c. in the new. As a result, sub-
stantial changes were made in almost
every 1962 balance sheet and profit-and-
loss item.
The new 7 company adopted December
31 as its balance date. As the old com-
pany ruled off on October 31, its results
covered a longer period than 12 months,
while figures from the newly-acquired
UK Lamson subsidiaries covered a much
shorter period. All this means that the
1962 figures are not comparable with
1963, which was the first year in which
all subsidiaries operated for a normal
12 months under the new regime.
The different balance date also means
that the readings for the dividend yield
line were not all taken in the same month
each year. The 1960 and 1961 calcula-
tions were made at the end of December
in those years, when the accounts to
October 31 w 7 ere released. For the other
three columns the yield is based on prices
at the end of January, when the results
for the foregoing year to December 31
had been released.
All this boils down to the fact that-thc
1963 and 1964 figures are the only ones


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
1960 1961
Lamson
1962 1963
Lamson
1964
Paragon
Industries
Industries
Australia
(October 31)
(December 31)
Current assets
1473
1688
2620
2648
3003
Less current liabilities
747
917
1011
1062
1411
Working capital
726
751
1609
1586
1592
Fixed assets
1454
1561
2035
2103
2182
Intangible assets
726
731
105
134
127
2906
3043
3749
3823
3901
Ordinary capital
1419
1439
2686
2686
2686
Reserves
823
929
628
679
753
Loan capital
454
456
118
138
129
Outside shareholders
210
219
317
320
333
2906
3043
3749
3823
3901
Depreciation
68'
79
119
123
151
Tax
134
128
226
198
271
Outside shareholders
20
22
27
24
29
Net profit
232
191
303
283
322
Dividend
128
130
205
242
242
Surplus
104
61
98
41
80
Earning rate p.c.
16.3
13.3
11.3
10.5
12.0
Dividend rate p.c.
9
9
9
9
9
Dividend yield
5.5
5.6
4.0
3.3
3.9
High price (a)
20/-
18/6
24/6
27/6
27/-
Low price (a)
(a) Calendar year.
15/6
15/9
19/6
20/9
20/6
NEW ISSUE NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies' Act of N.S.W.
on Bth March, 1950)
2
o
FOR 3 YEARS
CURRENCY
UNSECURED
NOTES
DEBENTURE
STOCK
4, 6 or
10 yeors
3 yeors
2 yeors
BVz% p.a.
8% P.A.
8% P.A.
7%% P.A.
7'/2% P.A.
SHORT TERM RATES
12 months
6 months
3 months
1 month
V/2% P.A.
bVi% P.A.
51/2% P.A.
5% P.A.
7% PA.
6% P.A.
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to and referred to in the
prospectus.
lIOW TO INVEST
Application forms and prospectus may
be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cam-
bridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney. 'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy
of your Prospectus.
NAME
b 81
ADDRESS—
-909/FC
of real value. They are comparable with
each other but not with the rest of the
table, and represent the first two full
years of operation since the reconstruc-
tion. '
Such being the case, it seems that the
group is on a slow but sure rising profit
and earning rate trend. However, per-
formance in this direction still needs a
couple of years before it reaches the
levels attained prior to the merger. Share-
holders have managed to benefit from the
merger in other directions, fortunately.
Share prices, as the table shows, have
been slightly better on the whole since
1961. In addition, the fact that share-
holders in the old company received two
shares in the new plus 20s. cash for every
three held should be taken into account.
This provided a small capital profit for
most of them.
The strong backing provided by the
English firm’s interest has helped to keep
the share prices higher, despite the lower
earning rates. It seems that this backing
will always keep prices above the 20s.
mark, an attractive feature for any pros-
pective investor. At current prices of
around 21s. 9d., the shares yield 4 p.c.
after brokerage from the 9 p.c. dividend.
To sum up, the shares offer a safe and
reasonable return oh invested money.
This return should rise in the long term,
as a dividend lift is the logical thing once
earning rates reach respectable levels, in
two years or so. Such a move will also
lift market- prices and provide capital
profit opportunities. Issue hopes seem
almost non-existent for some time. There
is no lack of working capital and any
issue at this stage could seriously affect
an already narrow dividend cover any-
way. All in all, an unexciting but solid
stock which should only be considered
for buying if one can put the scrip away
for at least three years.
J. C. GOODWIN AND CO. LTD
Slow, Competitive Struggle
T. C. Goodwin and Co. Ltd has suffer-
** ed severely from fierce competition
in the glass industry and for the past two
years has had to draw on reserves to meet
substantially reduced dividends.
On present indications it will be some
little while yet before the company's
market standing is restored.
The company has a long history, dating
back to 1875, although it did not achieve
public status until 1949, following a
placement of ss. shares at 6s. 3d. Paid-
up capital on listing was £95,000.
Issues to shareholders have not been
many—with most at a premium. They
included a one-for-five at Bs. in 1950
and a one-for-four at 6s. 3d. in 1955.
Simultaneously with the latter issue, the
company also made a one-for-three
bonus. Three months later, 190,000
shares were issued to acquire Premier
Glass Co. Pty Ltd, lifting paid-up capital
to the present £228,000.
Profit earning history was good until
the 1961-62 year. Despite the effect of
the credit squeeze, profit in 1960-61 was
a record £39,637, equal to 17.4 p.c. on
capital. Dividend was raised to 15 p.c.
However, the following year severe
competition made itself felt. Profit fell
to £29,124, equal to 12.8 p.c. on capital,
and giving only a bare cover to the re-
duced 12i p.c. dividend.
Then, in 1962-63, the company main-
tained its sales figures, but intense com-
petition and severe price cutting by most
companies in the field caused a sharp
decline in profit margins and a slump in
profit. Goodwin passed its interim pay-
ment, paying only a final of 4 p.c. The
year’s profit of £1538 w'as equal to only
0.6 p.c. on capital and failed to cover
the distribution by £7586.
The latest year saw slightly more
orderly marketing arrangements in the
industry. Again, though, price cutting
was rather the order than the exception.
Goodwin’s profit margins, however,
showed a slow but steady improvement
and dividend was raised to 5 p.c. Once
again, the year’s profit of £7661, equal
to 3.4 p.c. on capital, was insufficient to
meet the distribution.
Yet because of the improved outlook,
and a capital profit of about £ll,OOO on
the sale of property in Canberra, direc-


ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES
{£'000)
June 30
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
Current assets
■273
258
236
320
317
Less current liabilities
79
70
104
151
111
Working capital
199
188
182
169
206
Fixed assets
167
164
186
181
184
Intangibles
12
12
12
13
13
Investments
—
20
5
15
17
Represented by:
378
384
335
378
420
Capital
228
228
228
228
228
Reserves
150
156
157
150
146
Mortgage
—
' —
—
—
46
378
384
385
378
420
Depreciation
5
5
4
5
4
Taxation
17
25
19
1
9
Net profit
23
40
29
2
8
Dividends
23
34
29
9
11
Surplus
5
6
—
'
—
Dividend p.c.
10
15
124
4
5
Earning rare p.c.
12.2
17.4
12.8
0:6
3.4
Dividend yield (a)
6.5
8.3
6.2
4.0
6.3
High price (b)
9/9
10/-
12/-
8/-
6/7
Lew price (b)
6/6
6/-
7/3 4/11i
3/9
(a) End of October,
(b) Calendar year.
month
accounts presented.
ANSETT TRANSPORT
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
£4,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
(LISTED ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE)
ixo/
2/0
10, 15, 20 or 25 YEARS
Applications may proceed only on the form attached to the pros-
pectus obtainable from
• Any member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
• Any Branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd. or
Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• Any office of the joint Underwriter, lan Potter & Co.
• Any office of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. or its subsidiaries.
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO.
(Member of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
360 Collins Street, Melbourne
AOSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LIMITED
411 Collins Street, Melbourne
POST THIS COUPON TODAY!
ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LTD.
P.O. Box 1629 M, G.P.0., Melbourne. Please send me a cqpy
of your lVz% Debenture Stock Prospectus.
NAME litC 6 .L
ADDRESS
tors felt justified in drawing on reserves
for the second successive year to meet
the dividend payment.
The company has expanded fairly
carefully, principally by takeovers of
existing businesses. It now operates in
nine country towns, as well as Canberra,
where it recently acquired a half interest
in an established firm. The Canberra
firm and the Newcastle subsidiary
should contribute to earnings in the cur-
rent year, making the future prospect
more encouraging.
The accounts show the company to be
in a slightly better position than a year
earlier, although reliance has had to be
placed on fixed interest borrowings to
improve liquidity.
For the first time the company has
arranged mortgage borrowings (of
£45,525) on the security of freehold.
These funds have been used to reduce
bank overdraft from £96,880 to £26,242.
Stock has been cut slightly from £173,132
to £168,075 while trade debtors, with a
small upward movement from £135,486
to £144,041, reflect the improvement in
trading conditions.
Shares in other companies, up from
£14,688 to £17,500, reflect the capital
contribution to the Newcastle subsidiary.
The company’s reserves position is
strong, with capital reserves of £84,041
making up more than half the disclosed
reserve figure of £145,545. In addition,
freehold property, in the books at
£127,063, is at valuation and at cost to
June 30, 1962, with additions at cost of
£2002. Although there are no notes to
the accounts showing the separate break-
up, the chairman in his address to share-
holders points out that these, as well as
some of the other fixed assets, are worth
more than book value.
Revenue reserves total £61,504 and
include £55,000 in a general reserve.
The company has intangible items in the
books totalling £12,699 principally
goodwill on consolidation. Subject to
these, the net assets backing of each ss.
share is Bs.
The market is at present taking a
very conservative view of the company’s
prospects and is pricing the shares around
4s. This is only a little above the low
point for 1964 of 3s. 9d., and well below
the top price of 6s. 7d.
The company’s future recovery de-
pends on a return to normal trading
conditions in its field of activity, if such
can ever be expected. So far, sales to
October have shown an increase over
those of the corresponding period of the
previous year, although conditions are
still very competitive.
Two things at least indicate the chance
of improved results for the current year
—the prospect of a return on the capi-
tal invested in the Newcastle offshoot and
also income from the joint venture in
Canberra. These would have to be fairly
substantial before there was much like-
lihood of an increase in the dividend
payment. For the short-term view, the
shares look fully priced. They offer
speculative interest in the long term.


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
7
k
1/0
up to ■■■■ i ||| i | "»' |||| »i 5.10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any l branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
6830 Brokers to the issue:
lan Potter & Co.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
A Discreet Middle Course
Some more “shorting”
HUhe last few weeks I have been one of
that vast throng of people who have
been predicting another collapse in the
market. Now that we have had some
good falls of rain, I’ve become bewil-
dered.
If only the market had weakened be-
fore the rains, then I could have entered
it with bravado and used some of those
funds that are sitting uselessly in the
account.
Actually my credit is not as great as I
made out last week when I had simply
allocated 6d. application per share for my
purchase of Loloma rights. As my
broker discreetly pointed out, I should
have included another 9s. 6d. for the first
call which was payable at the same time.
The equivalent price for the contributing
shares was therefore 12s. 6d.
No wonder I was surprised when I
saw a seller at 4s. 6d. in Sydney the day-
after the rights issue closed. As far as I
could make out this was too much like
taking money from a blind man so I
reluctantly stood aside.
But I'm digressing from my theme
about the state of the market. Apart from
the rains, the market can also be thank-
ful that Harold Wilson did not treat us
too harshly in his “austerity Budget”. If
these were bull points, then Mr Holt’s
announcement of a world-wide recession
in the making was an equally forceful
bear point. Some cynics have attributed
Mr Holt's statement to his determination
to fill the current Commonwealth loan.
So although I've completed the circle
of events I still don't know in which
direction to head. Resort to a middle
course was once again the action of the
week.
The first transaction was the shorting
of 200 AWA shares at 265. 3d. In the
heavy market fall, the ss. shares got
down to 245. and that was when they
were still cum the interim dividend. As
c , , ~ , . „ ~
any confirmed chartist will tell you, the
. . . ~ , j J ; ,
shares have been in a distinct down trend
x .
for some months. This current reaction
. . .. - , , x . .
was simply the pull back to the resistance
_, r - 7 r . . .
line. These same chartists are convinced
the shares are poised to fall again.
r 0
Just to show I’m not wholly against
the market, I covered both the W. R.
Carpenter (255. 3d.) and Mt Isa (325.
9d.). Both resulted in neat profits. With
the R. & N. Statham rights that I was
short, I just missed making up the
brokerage.
_ . ,
To keep the ball rolling, I eliminated
another stock from the portfolio Aus-
tralian Chemical shares which had been
purchased in January. With the upset in
the market that followed, the price fell
to 245. 6d„ but has since managed to
edge its way back up to 265. 6d. Loss of
patience and the realisation that I was
not far off my break-even point took hold
of me and in went my selling order.
After this major overhaul of the port-
folio, the one purchase this week was
Transoil. It may appear that I have been
unnecessarily quiet on the oil front but
VOU Can’t beln blit trettrl pttrpfllllv wbFTi
you call I ucip out ireau careiuny wnen
you realise that the Queensland Oil In-
1 • , • , , 1 ... ,
dex is one-third the level it was three
vpnrc aon
ycais ago.
After being in the vicinity of 2s. for
most of this year, Transoil shares weak-
ened to Is. on the announcement of a
6d. call due on May 12.
The market seems to have suddenly
forgotten the prospects of Transoil as
one of the partners in the Mereenie
Structure in the Northern Territory. The
substantial gas flows have received fairly
wide publicity but more important, and
yet not so well known, is a reliable esti-
mate that there is more recoverable liquid
at Mereenie than there is in the Moonie
field.
By getting in under Is. Tm paying only
id. commission. I wonder how this will
compare with the new rates of commis-
sion when they become effective?
Transactions this week were:
SOLD
200 AW A, 26/3 £257
200 Aust. Chemicals, 26/6 £261
BOUGHT
1000 Transoil, Hid £5l
200 Mt Isa, 32/9 £334
300 W. R. Carpenter, 25/3 £387
500 R. & N. Stathani, rts, 5/6 . £144
Let's hope the Easter break straight-
ens the market out. The balance in the
account now stands at £576.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 United Telecasters
(put option) 6/1/65 11/- 8/
400 STP Holdings 9/2/65 8/6 8/6
- 200 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 30/9 34/-
1000 Macquarie Worsted 25/3/65 4/11 5/6
400 Pongrass 30/3/65 9/6 10/3
1000 Loloma, rts, 6/4/65 12/6 12/6
500 Ferris 7/4/65 6/ 6/
200 AWA (short) 12/4/65 26/3 26/3
1000 Transoil 12/4/65 11 id. 11 id.


INVEST IN
1
UP TO
FOR 10 YEARS
Applications will be accepted only on
printed forms attached to the Prospectus
which is now available from your Stock-
broker, and all of the Branches of
3 V I MO Z N V
throughout Australia
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Underwriters lan Potter & Co. 8831
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Is Farm Unity Likely?
The benefits of an APPU and NFU merger
A major breakthrough on the farm
unity front has taken place in New
South Wales.
The NSW division of the Australian
Primary Producers’ Union has become
a member of the NSW chamber of the
National Farmers’ Union.
The importance of this move can
hardly be over-emphasised.
There are plenty of farmers who
would have been prepared to lay long
odds on an APPU and NFU merger. At
the same time it needs to be said that this
merger is on the State level.
Nevertheless it seems reasonable to
assume that if the APPU and the NFU
can achieve harmony in the biggest pri-
mary producing State then a national
merger is not far off.
Only three months ago relations be-
tween the two organisations were
strained. The APPU had applied for, and
had been granted, membership of the
International Federation of Agricultural
Producers (IFAP) at the world conven-
tion of that body in New Zealand.
In some quarters the APPU (the
national APPU that is) application to
join the IFAP was regarded as a stab in
the back. Instead of Australia being rep-
resented by one organisation there would
now be two, and delegates from all the
member nations might reasonably assume
that Australian farmers were incapable of
speaking with one voice. Wisely, how-
ever, the NFU refused to be drawn into
a dogfight with the APPU although some
important people were clearly itching to
“have a go”.
As these same people were from NSW
it illustrates the degree of clear thinking
which did in fact result and which
brought about the NSW merger. Until
the national bodies of the NFU and the
APPU follow the NSW lead Australia
will be represented on IFAP by the two
bodies.
The work that IFAP does is not as
well known as it should be. Vital matters
such as overseas aid programmes, food
for hungry nations, international trade
barriers and tariffs, controls of animal
and plant diseases, farm education pro-
grammes and so on are just a few.
Although not part of the United
Nations, the IFAP organisation, with
headquarters in the US and France,
works closely with the UN Food and
Agriculture Organisation.
More important still is the manner in
which IFAP acts as a voice for world
farmer opinion.
Governments do take notice of IFAP.
President Johnson’s views on food aid
to Asia, contained in his recent bid for
peace in Vietnam, follow very closely
IFAP discussion on the same subject
(food, not peace in Vietnam) at the
world convention in NZ. So Australian
participation in IFAP is important and
Australian unity is important also.
Both the APPU and the NFU are
fairly recent developments in Australia.
Both began in the 19405.
The APPU is an organisation within
itself whereas the NFU is a federation of
component organisations. The situation
is complex because some individual
members of the APPU belong also to
the component organisations of the
NFU. Some farmers are keen joiners.
The APPU has been accused, by its
critics, of being “one out”. Its supporters
claim that it is the only national farmer
organisation with an easily understood
and workable constitution. But then it is
strong in Victoria and NSW, yet rela-
tively weak in the other States.
The NFU brings together component
organisations as widely separated as the
Banana Growers of North Queensland,
the Graziers of NSW, and organisations
representing vegetable growers in
Victoria and hops growers in Tasmania.
Cynics sometimes assert that all these
organisations join the NFU not so much
with a desire to work together but a
desire to see what the other fellow is up
to.
One only has to witness the rapidity
with which agreement is reached on such
matters as death duties, probate, land tax
and so on to give the lie to this. It re-
mains fair, however, to observe that unity
is strongest on non-commodity matters.
Woolgrowers, for instance, when dis-
cussing wool matters only, tend to resent
interference.
Woolgrowers can be divided into two
groups. One group belongs to the
Graziers' Association (State level) which
becomes the Australian Woolgrowers
and Graziers’ Council (Federal level).
The other group belongs (in NSW) to
the United Farmers and Woolgrowers’
Assn. In Victoria the equivalent body is
the Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Assn. There
are equivalents in the other States and
the Federal level is the Australian Wool
and Meat Producers’ Federation. The
Council and the Federation make up
the Australian Wool Industry Conference
with 25 delegates each.
Now the AWIC meeting in Canberra
towards the end of April will discuss, as


ESANDA
LIMITED
The mein business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase, leasing and other finance operations
DEBENTURE STOCK
CURRENCY ISSUED AT PAR INTEREST RATE
lO years 6^2%
8 years 0%%
0 years 0 1 /4%
5 years 0 %
4 years 5 3 /4 %
3 years . . . 5%%
UNSECURED NOTES
interest per annum payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only on one ot the forms
of application attached to a printed copy of the pros-
pectus which are available from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
N D A
ESANDA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office: 365 George Street, Sydney
everyone knows, the Federal Govern-
ment’s version of the Wool Board's re-
serve price plan for the marketing of
wool.
The amount of woolgrower contribu-
tion to the underwriting of this plan, and
the voting rights at the referendum which
must be held before the plan can be
brought in, will be major items for dis-
cussion.
But another item for discussion will be
a further application by the APPU for
membership of the AWIC.
The reason the AWIC has rejected
similar applications in the past should be
fairly obvious. Both the Council and the
Federation do not favor the idea of
a third force (a kind of “DLP” if you
like) which could, conceivably, deter-
mine the balance of power.
Strictly speaking the alliance between
the APPU and the NFU in NSW is not
related to this application by the APPU
(national body) for membership of the
AWIC. The NFU itself is not a member
of the AWIC although two of its most
important component organisations (the
Woolgrowers and Graziers’ Council and
the Wool and Meat Producers’ Federa-
tion) are the AWIC.
But the mere fact that the APPU and
the NFU in NSW have managed, after
years of separateness, to come together
may possibly soften resistance to APPU
membership of the AWIC.
Personally this writer doubts it but it
could happen. More than likely the
AWIC will try to put off APPU member-
ship until after the wool marketing ques-
tion is resolved one way or the other.
The important thing is that the move to-
wards farmer unity is gaining ground. It
is sure to come about eventually.
Probably sooner than later.
The NFU is pressing on with plans to
remove its national headquarters from
Sydney to Canberra and this in itself is
making many farmers keener than ever
on the idea of unity. As Government
inescapably intrudes more and more
upon the farming industry the farmers,
naturally enough, want to be filled in on
what is going on in the ivory towers.
Did someone mention the word lobby?
If so, farmers would be likely to reply
that they are merely catching up on
everyone else in the community at large.
Looking into the. crystal ball it may be
that when the truly representative
National Farmers’ Union comes into
being it will borrow something from all
the bodies which make up the bewilder-
ing complex existing at present.
The big and powerful organisations
(the Graziers’ for instance) will continue
to provide authoritative voices; at the
same time the constitutional workability
of the APPU will help tremendously in
the moulding of the structure.
A Referendum for CEMA
Inquiry into the whole egg business too
was a time when men at office
desks dreamed of retiring to a little
chicken farm in the country.
Anyone who tries it, these days, is as
crazy as the chooks. It is a cut-throat
business in which the profit margin is
narrow. There is over-production esti-
mated at about four million eggs a year.
Not many, considering there are 10
million Australians to eat them up; but
then you cannot force people to eat more
eggs if they feel they are eating plenty
now.
It is an industry currently in turmoil
over the proposed CEMA plan designed,
says CEMA’s supporters, to rectify all


L-, ; *V
s
: :
.::: ■ ’ .■
: :
■ ' v ; v;
- ■*
W3p;
-
at
wourq you
cam a
selfadhesivepressureseptiveselfslickinglabel?
Tt sounds ridiculous, but frankly, we’re looking for a flame to
describe Avery Labels. Some people call them self-adhesive . . .
... others refer to them as pressure-sensitive, or self-sticking.
In point of fact, all are quite correct, but don’t go far enough.
For instance:
Avery labels require no moisture or glue to stick down □ Avery
labels are applied with just the lightest pressure of the finger
□ Avery labels can be stuck on wood, glass, paper, plastics,
metal or any clean smooth surface □ Avery labels are made of
paper, foil, acetate or cloth □ Avery labels are made in two types
PERMAGRIP for permanent adhesion and KUM-KLEEN
for temporary adhesion.
Avery labels are manufactured in Australia under franchise by:
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 Union Street. Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 5607177
W. J. CRYER (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
SO Gotham Road, Kew, Vic. 86 7911
M
ALII
Please send me free samples and full information on Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kum Kleen labels.
COMPANY
NAME..
B. 24.4.65
ADDRESS..
the ills which poultry farmers (and house-
wives) complain about.
CEMA’s opponents claim it will mean
higher costs and lower returns. CEMA
was mooted about two years ago but got
bogged down because the Playford Gov-
ernment in South Australia refused to
endorse it until South Australian farmers
voiced their opinion at a referendum.
Now the new SA Labor Government
has got CEMA going again by deciding
that the poultry farmers need not have
a referendum after all.
There are some things about CEMA
which must raise doubts. It is not the
creation of poultry farmers at all but of
the EGG BOARDS of the various States
and there is a world of difference be-
tween an individual poultry farmer and
an Egg Board which decides what is good
for him. There are claims, never an-
swered, that the Egg Boards themselves
were all created before the last war, and
of the farmers then in the egg business
only two per cent are still functioning.
Some have died, some went broke, some
got rich and moved into other fields.
The CEMA plan promises to safeguard
the small poultry farmers against the in-
roads of the mammoth egg-factory con-
cerns huge farms operated by boards
of directors.
Yet safeguarding the small poultry
farmer was the very reason the Egg
Boards were created in the first place;
and whatever else they have achieved
they have signally failed to achieve this
original aim. The poultry farms get big-
ger, and fewer, all the time.
The CEMA plan promises to eradi-
cate “interstating” and “border-hopping”.
By this device farmers in one State, who
want to deal outside their Egg Board,
send their eggs into another State. They
contribute nothing to Egg Board revenue.
Section 92 makes this quite legal even
though, in each State, a farmer must
legally sell only to his Egg Board.
But Section 92 IS in existence, and
likely to remain so, and the CEMA plan
therefore envisages a tax on hens. From
this tax the “border-hopper” will have
no escape provided, that is, his hens
are counted properly.
As fowls are prone to die like flies,
and multiply almost as rapidly, the mere
mechanics of the counting of the hens
will be no simple task. But this can be
overcome, too, by means of an assess-
ment —a kind of educated guess at the
number of hens the farmer ought to
have.
Any supermarket you walk into con-
tains two kinds of eggs. Stamped Egg
Board eggs and what are called “farm
eggs”.
Housewives apparently like “farm
eggs”. Mostly they are interstate eggs but
they still like them enough to buy them.
Egg Boards make much of these eggs
being possibly weeks old.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: RICHARD WILLIAM KEATING. TAKE
NOTICE that MARIE KEATING has filed a
Petition for Dissolution of Marriage in Suit
No. 4167 of 1964 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 20th day of May, 1965, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
TEAKLE ORMSBY & FRANCIS, Solicitors,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ISABELLA IRENE PHOENIX, late of 338
Parramatta Road, Burwood. TAKE NOTICE
that GORDON JAMES PHOENIX has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 73 of 1965 on the
grounds of adultery and/or desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
at the Divorce Office, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 25th day of May, 1965. and obtain
a copy of the Petition and Notice of Pro-
ceedings without charge from MESSRS.
ADRIAN TWIGG & CO., Solicitors, of 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. If you do not
wish to file an Answer but wish to receive
a copy of each document filed in the pro-
ceedings you should file a Notice of Address
for Service C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Public Notice
RIDER: Will GERTRUDE AGNES RIDER, a
daughter of WILLIAM RYAN and ELIZA-
BETH MARY (nee Evans.), late of Upper Free-
stone. near Warwick, Queensland, or any
person knowing her whereabouts, please write
to LEES, SPANNER & LILLEY, Solicitors,
King Street, Warwick, regarding the deceased
estates of CATHERINE RYAN and MAR-
GARET RYAN.
all the year rouiid
Housewives, in letters to papers, con-
tinue to state that the opposite is in fact
the case. It’s the Egg Board eggs which
are stale and which lack color.
Much store is set by color. Yellow-
yolked eggs are believed to be fresher
than pale eggs. Yellow eggs are supposed
to come from fowls which graze freely
on open country; pale eggs from birds
cruelly confined to cages.
Yet you can feed caged birds certain
mixtures so that they will produce the
yellow eggs. Scientists say there’s no
difference in nutritional value.
What’s needed perhaps more than the
CEMA plan is a commission of inquiry
into the whole egg business.
Whatever the merits, or demerits, of
the CEMA plan a referendum is surely
the only fair way of deciding the issue.
If a referendum on wool marketing is an
essential in a democracy, why is not a
referendum on egg marketing also an
essential?
Wool marketing and egg marketing
have important differences but the prin-
ciple of a referendum applies equally.
Why do the Egg Boards continually
refuse to acknowledge the need for a
referendum?
Why has it got to the stage where the
Federal Government is preparing a Bill
to implement CEMA without first having
a referendum' despite pleas by sections
of poultry farmers for just that? A
stabilisation plan for eggs, or any pri-
mary product, is neither good nor bad
in itself.
As with the eggs at breakfast, it is
the quality that counts.
Tobacco and the Woolgrower
Stabilisation versus the US tariff
Tf you are one of those poor unfor-
-*■ tunates who smoke cigarettes you
may feel that the wretched things don't
taste as good as they used to. As this
writer has long given up the ghastly
habit, he can afford to indulge in some
altogether unbiased and objective com-
ment on cigarettes and tobacco.
You think they taste awful, but it is
probably your consumption of thirty or
forty a day which is influencing your
orinion on the quality of the smokes you
buy. You are smoking more, you know.
Consumption has almost doubled since
1946 and the population has not in-
creased by anything like that. So you
must be smoking more.
What you probably do not realise is
that the cigarettes'you bought in 1946
contained only about 3 p.c. Australian
leaf. The bulk of the tobacco you burn-
ed in 1946 came from the United States
and from Turkey. How many have you
burned in the last 10, 20, 30 years?
Today the cigarette you smoke con-
tains about 41 p.c. Australian leaf.
“That’s it,” you say. “It’s this lousy
Australian weed they use now. Where’s
all that beautiful Virginian stuff? That
was real tobacco.”
Well, once again, you may be wrong.
The tobacco people here will gladly
blindfold you and let you smoke one
cigarette made from mainly Australian
leaf and then one made from mainly
American leaf. Do not be too sure that
you will tell the difference. Try it on
different brands and see how you go
without first seeing the packet or the
identifying marks on the cigarette. You
will not believe it until you try it, so
stop reading and do it now. Convinced?
“Then it's all those chemicals they
spray on tobacco when they grow it,”
you say. This time, perhaps, you may
be right. But no country, anywhere,
can grow tobacco these days in com-
mercial quantities without spraying.
You will just have to put up with that,
no matter where the smokes come from.
Not that you have any choice. Under
the tobacco stabilisation plan, approved
in recent weeks by Federal Cabinet,
41 { p.c. local content must be observed
by Australian manufacturers. Tobacco
growers are pleased.
It will be remembered that at the
sales last year in Melbourne the crowds
of Italian growers were not at all
pleased with the prices the buyers
wanted to pay—or not pay at all—for
their tobacco. Near riots resulted. The
stabilisation plan should lessen the likeli-
hood of similar happenings and that is
a good thing.
It is un-Australian to have riots,
anyway. But you cannot please every-
one all the time. In the United -States,
the biggest producer of tobacco in the
world, there is evidence of disapproval
of the Australian stabilisation plan.
American growers want to export more
tobacco to Australia which, as a
country with a high standard of living,
is by no means a minor market for
tobacco.
They could go jump in the lake, of
course, except for one thing. The US
puts a pretty stiff tariff on Australian
wool and Australia has been trying to
get this tariff eased for many years now.
In the six months to December 4 p.c. of
wool exported went to the United States.
We would all be a lot better off if we
could send more to the US. If the
tariff was lifted there is no doubt at all
that sales would increase.
This is plain economics. It has
nothing to do with wool promotion and
all that stuff. The tariff is 251 cents a
pound (clean) and works out around
20 p.c.
There was talk in the US some
months ago that the tariff might be
dropped by half. Then the tobacco
stabilisation plan was mooted here and,
in turn, the tobacco lobby in Washing-
ton got to work. Result: the US Em-
bassy in Canberra protested to the Aus-
tralian Government about the timing of
the legislation for the tobacco stabilisa-
tion plan.
You cannot please all the people all
the time. Which means most —selling
more wool to the US or allowing more
US tobacco into Australia?
Be a hero give smoking away. Do
it for the principle; strike a blow for
the Australian woolgrower. You can
get cancer from lots of things besides
cigarettes.


§
I •©
SMBTI
personalities
*
Ebooks
politics
finance
arts
world events
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/- Aust.
£2/2/- Stg. and N.Z.
52 weeks £4/4/- Aust.
£3/7/- Stg. and N.Z.
Send dollar equivalents
to New York and Malay-
sian offices.
Air Mail New Guinea
£7/5/- 12 months. £4/2/6
6 months.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick y' whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? or
□
A renewal subscription?
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4083, G.P.0., Syd-
ney; OR Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd., P.O. Box 1595, Wel-
lington, C. 1., N.Z.; OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London,- OR Australian Consolidated Press
Ltd., 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y.; OR Wool-
worths (Malaysia) Ltd., 10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand
for 52 issues.
well informed people
read The Bulletin
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 844
ACROSS
I—With the gift of making lucky finds, take a quick
swim in the calm. (11)
6— Morse unit named by Dorothy. (3)
B_A war hero with a sixpence (5)
9—Holy crag I wrecked for the government by an
exclusive class. (9)
11 — Old neighbors of the Persian clergymen are after
me (7) ”
12— A sweet, affectionate insect. (7)
13— Eve was Adam’s. (3)
15— In some tree with Miss
Collier’s hospitals. (11)
19— Taking the count in straitened
circumstances. (4, 3,3)
20— Nothing backed in by fifty. (3)
22—Throwing into a cat -joint! <9)
25—Queer-hearted dowdy. (5)
27 One iris becomes louder. (7)
28— Dope some Manx novelist
after business. (7)
29 Reversal for the fuel slump.
(3)
30— Cinemas safe from a wrong
done. (11)
DOWN
1— They pretend some mallet is
shipborne. (8)
2 A final letter to some painter
is burnt to the ground. (5)
3 Winking Nicholas, brother of
Richard and John in 6-down
and 22-across. (9)
4 Pagans venerate such solid
change. (5)
5 Long curdle. (5)
6 A secretary may take such
autocratic activity. (9)
7 Assignation in the way of
effort. (5)
10—Get the implied negative
factor preventing coolness
among underworld person-
alities. (7)
14 —Making some approach to a
little brother in some pain. (9)
16— Enthusiast for some activity
misrepresented in farce. (7)
17— Are these what Fadden’s bio-
grapher is after? (9)
18— It’s music for one. (4, 5)
21—They may give magical
service in the taverns of
David Jones. (6)
23 It’s evidently true a cricket
team is given the Order of
Merit. (5)
24 Cra n e redistributed the
mother of pearl. (5)
26—Thantish Idriess strength? (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 843


mmarnm
am
Ml!
-.4
IB
Ah,
&v
3Wfi
u.
: “
*<r
a • i *
s&£fa£3B
uni
%
mm* Mi
M
Jf AW &
mm
v'"'.
f.
mmr^'m M
■ : , mm ;..,i v m ■ ■
/
■
-
;»g
-
■ ■
%
• ■ ■■
m.
tC l«kL APP O(
m
~ i
:
Fi LTER
IS?
ROTHMANS O? PAIL MAct AUSTRALIA CTO.
■ £%• J "Mi
Look around and you’ll see that today’s modern, active people choose Rothmans
King Size Filter. Now, more than ever, Australians enjoy the smoothness, mild-
ness and satisfaction only Rothmans offers you because of its better tobacco, finer
filter and true King Size flavour. These are the- reasons why Rothmans King Size
Filter is Australia s -and the world s—largest-selling King Sizb Virginia cigarette.
Smooth
and mild
ROTHMANS
KING SIZE
REALLY
SATISFIES


Omega Seamaster de Ville: the elegant, slender timepiece that is also a high-precision sports natch. Movement winds itself. Case seals out water
and dust. Calendar changes automatically at midnight. As illustrated: In 18 ct. gold. £145. 14 ct. gold capped, £BO. Stainless Steel, £65.
Other Seamaster de Ville models from £42/10/0.
This Omega Seamaster de Ville is actually four watches in one,
outmoding ordinary, single-function watches
1. A sturdy sports watch, for outdoor and beach wear
2. A dependable calendar watch, for up-to-date accuracy in business
3. A slim, elegant dress watch, for formal occasions
4. A self-winding precision watch . . . you set it and forget it
Omega has designed the Seamaster de
Ville specially for the man who leads
a full, active life. By using new tech-
niques it has been possible to combine
the rugged dependability of a sports
watch with the slim elegance of a watch-
about-town. And this has been done
without sacrificing one precious second of
fabulous Omega accuracy.
So now, with the Seamaster de Ville,
you have a watch that is right for every
occasion.
This great advance is due to a remark-
able new, one-piece watch-case, which
has no detachable back and is therefore
much slimmer. Inside it Omega crafts-
men have been able to place not only
the strong, shock-protected, high-
precision movement, but also a self-
winding mechanism and automatic
calendar.
The elegant Seamaster de Ville is a
triumph of watchmaking ingenuity, a
worthy addition to the renowned range
of accurate Omega timepieces. It will
keep good time in each of your three
busy lives and it may well stay with you
for all of them.
And, wherever you may live, wherever
you may travel, you will find Omega
Service close at hand.
The Omega Service Network, staffed by
factory-trained experts, is spread over
156 countries. The Omega one-year
International Guarantee is honoured in
all of these countries, regardless of where
you bought your watch.
Some day you, too, will own an Omega.
OMEGA
