

The Bulletin
JjfcOßPO RATING THE AUSTRALIAN #tNAN(jIAL TIMES
BRIAN HBNPEIrSON
TV NEWS MAKERS
WAITING FOR THE
GLOBAL HOOK-UP


Geon vinyl resins are used in the manufacture of upholstery and wall coverings, as specified by
Moulded Products (A’asia) Ltd
rides the Southern Aurora
This is first class travel to remain that way for years to come
. . . upholstery and wall covering of Geon vinyl used on the Southern Aurora.
Here are materials as modern as the train itself . . . tough and easy to
clean, water proof and stain proof. Upholstery and wall coverings
such as these are further examples of Geon’s versatility. In every
industry, Geon improves products or evolves new ones.
Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2.
Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road, North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319.
GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A., and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
MS 634


.
■ .
■■■:■■■ ' \ ' ' ' ' ■
.0 ; v\
: m
*>
m
• ri
''
s
■
I
*
■■
■
V
»
k
P.
w§
m
■ ■ • .
m
.
WP
•: ’ •
‘ * Hi ’ ’***''
• : *
HH
|pf||^jf
;
Sfps,z>.
Item 356. Part of a remarkable removals job.
One antique vase. Very precious.
One item on an inventory for an
entire household. A Sydney business-
man’s household we moved 2,350
miles across Australia to Perth. Door
to door in three daysl How? Aire-
movals! A new removals service that
made history for us. It also made a
very happy businessman. All his
family’s belongings, every stick of
furniture and one antique, precious
vase arrived without a scratch. By
air, road, rail or sea, no moving job
is too small, too big or too complex
for Grace Bros, to take anywhere in
Australia, anywhere in the world with
skill and care. A Grace Bros, expert
is only a phone call away in 12 cities
and major towns
if you would like
an accurate quote,
ring him now!
GRACE BROS
REMOVALS
Sydney 2-0946 □ Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-D234 □ Hobart 34-3988 n Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Lismore 2265 □ Murwillumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
GR 48
The Bulletin
Established 1880
JULY 10, 1965
VOL. 87, No. 4454
THE TV NEWS-MAKERS
Brash, young, tentative . . . but the
wave of the future 24
THE DEBUTANTES BOW
OUT
Broken ankles but no broken hearts 29
ROCK-HOUNDS BY THE
CARLOAD
Stubbing your toe on a sapphire .... 31
ON THE MARGIN
Go tell it at the Hilton 35
FORUM
The Love-weed 41
Tanner 12 Letters 42
THIS AUSTRALIA 14
Mr Cahvell's contempt
Victoria’s retreat
OVERSEAS 38
Eyewitness in Algiers
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT .. 44
When will the sleepy giant turn over?
FILMS: The Servant
THEATRE: Oedipus Rex
BOOKS: The Modern blind
BUSINESS & FINANCE 56
Speculator’s Diary
A pretty display of shadow-boxing
Machines for construction
MAN 'ON THE LAND 75
Editorial Office: 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Box 4088. Telephone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Box 4038. Telephone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


Just when you needed your car ...
Did the boss commandeer it?
Did the wife borrow it?
Did the underworld steal it?
Did the starter refuse to start it?
Did you have a mishap and
niishane it?
wJS<
~ ■<*******><##*
- .
hdl^ 1
~—
msm
mm
mm
■pfct*
mmr.
i e&£
Ring Avis
Rent-a-Car.
They will
provide you
with a new
Ford Falcon!
Sooner or later it will happen. You’re all set to go . . . and you’ve nothing to
go in. What to do? Call, write, or visit Avis Rent-a-Car. Before you
can say “quickasaflash”, you’re on your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon.
(Great!) An Avis Falcon always comes in peak condition .. . clean, shining,
and with a full gas tank. It’s yours for as long as you like ... a day?
Two days? A week? And no matter how long —or how short —both
you and the car are protected by proper insurance. Repeat—proper insurance.
Another point: Should you find yourself without a car, far, far from home — .
Avis are in 107 places at once. Stations in all capitals and most
major cities and towns throughout Australia. So next time
you’re caught without a car . . . call on Avis.
For a day , a week, or all the time.
AVIS
RENTA CAR


Paperwork pinning you down?
Call 3IVI Business Communications Centre!
We mean pinning down to petty jobs.
Filing. Copying. Correspondence. Memos.
Reports. Records . . . when you should be
handling more important things.
Why not talk it over with a 3M Business
Communications Consultant?
Talk paperwork traffic jams. Copying
bottlenecks. Correspondence. Financial
records. Internal forms. Reports. Memos.
Unnecessary typing and clerical effort.
Overhead costs.
Then he can assess how and where 3M’s
Systems and Copying Products can save
typing and clerical effort, and speed the
paperwork flow in your organisation.
He’ll invite you to our Centre to see
these 3M ideas in action. Machines and
papers. Instant electric statements. Short
note replies.
Don’t pin yourself down another moment.
Why wait for an invitation when we’re only
a ’phone call away?
BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS CENTRE
MINNESOTA (TUNING AND MANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Adelaide
51-5971 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Perth 28-4651 • Hobart
3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109.
COMPANY
SM2/310/890


; ft. &MUto
!• .
>**
"*-K
NO ONE AROUND TO PUSH!
How many kicks left in that battery? If she doesn’t
fire quickly you’ve had it. So you’re glad you drive
on Butane-boosted Caltex Gasoline. Butane gives
the front-end volatility for instant starts under winter
conditions . . . the faster warm-up that saves undue
engine wear. It's a double gift of life for your engine.
CALTEX GASOLINE
FOR INSTANT WINTER STARTS...
CALTEX TAKES BETTER CARE OF YOUR CAR.
CALTEX
5
CAS*


Sh
*• .
:
V' ;
f.
I
-
%
'
vacation
A catty* of fresh
prawns, prize garoupa or perhaps some green vegetables.
An open air fish market on the water in Hong Kong.
Part of the way of life for some 130,000 ‘Water People*
who live practically all their life on board a junk or a
sampan. This is just one facet of Hong Kong, the
cosmopolitan land of contrast. With a population close
to the four million mark in an area of only 398} sq.
miles, Hong Kong offers you the experience of a lifetime.
From the tax free bargains in the shops to the open
areas of the New Territories, from the panoramic view
of one of the world’s greatest natural harbours—•
seen from the top of the Peak —to the hustle and bustle
of downtown Hong Kong there is a never ending wealth
of new adventures for the visitor and resident alike.
So for the holiday that’s different, that will be rewarding,
visit Hong Kong. Take a Hong Kong Vacation. If
you’re on a business trip, plan your itinerary so that you
can spend some time in Hong Kong. You’ll be glad you
did. For further information contact the Hong Kong
Tourist Association, Anchor House, 234 George Street,
Sydney or P.O. Box 2597, Hong Kong.
# One catty equals approximately twenty-one ounces.


■
5*
Teijin Tetoron is to take a flyer in».,
to head for the sky in/to travel eool and serene in/to laugh at wrinkles in.
Teijin Tetoron/the original Miracle Fabric/now more versatile than ever.
Accept no substitutes.
Only Teijin Limited makes Teijin Tetoron. Ask your designer.
TEIJIN Tetoron
POLYESTER
TEIJIN LIMITED SYDNEY OFFICE ; Swire House,.B Spring Street, Sydney
TEIJIN


National Notebook
BHP and the Hill
'T'he Broken Hill Proprietary cele-
A brated the 50th anniversary of its
Newcastle steel works last week by
turning on what was reported to be “the
biggest catering show in the Southern
Hemisphere”. (Someone really ought to
check what they get up to in Buenos
Aires or elsewhere in the Southern
Hemisphere.)
Two special buses left Sydney at 5.15
a.m. on the opening day of the celebra-
tion carrying the 115 members of the
catering staff. Two “pantechnicons” took
a variety of equipment from £4OOO
worth of special chairs to 4000 glasses,
from cooking utensils to 5000 bags of
sweets for the steelmen’s children. In
the dining hall more than 1500 official
guests sat down to hot four-course
luncheons during the first three days. On
Saturday and Sunday, company em-
ployees and their families flowed in to
the dining hall for a buffet luncheon at
the rate of 850 an hour. The catering
order for-the first three days included
850 lb. of turkey and 275 lb. of ham.
For the last two days it included 1000
dozen pies and the same quantity of
sausage rolls. Scotch, Hunter River still
and sparkling wines, and beer were pro-
vided for guests. The beer came out of
cans the BHP makes tinplate, not
glass. The children could drink as much
cordial as could be served from 140
tanks into 11,200 special containers of
a new type. A nursing sister was on duty
in a temporary first-aid centre; white-
coated attendants were in the stainless-
steel fitted washrooms. This week, the
celebrations over, workmen are dis-
mantling the dining hall. The pre-
fabricated sections will go more than
half a mile across the plant to be re-
erected for brick storage in the new
basic oxygen steel-making concast plant.
But in Broken Hill, according to our
man there, there were only some
rancorous memories. He writes:
The giant Broken Hill Proprietary,
Australia’s biggest single enterprise, can
rightly claim the credit for having been
a driving force in the transformation of
Australia. But the BHP can expect no
congratulations from the place whence
it got its name.
In fact, BHP is something of a “dirty
word" in this isolated silver-, lead- and
zinc-mining city It was here that the
BHP was founded 80 years ago to mine
the fabulous riches of the Hill. With
the wealth wrought from that solitary
hill, the BHP blossomed out into the
fields in which it is prominent today. A
fact generally unrecognised is that the
BHP no longer has any connection what-
ever with the city whose name it carries.
It severed its link with the Hill in 1939,
after extracting more than £l6O million
worth of ore.
The only legacy it left Broken Hill
are dumps and holes. The only real
memorial to the BHP nowadays is a
stark open-cut, 4000 feet long and
plunging to a depth of 300 feet, which
cuts an ugly chasm in the guts of the
Silver City. The contempt Broken Hill
has for the BHP seems to be mutual,
for the Hill’s authorities often complain
that the BHP will never answer their
letters.
Save the Turtles
“T haven’t a clue about hook heels and
boots,” said a nice young man from
a leathergoods journal, “but at least she’s
pretty.”
The leathergoods and ladies’ footwear
business is not renowned for its beauti-
ful women, but with Miss Fiamma
Ferragamo, in Sydney this week to
promote the famous Ferragamo shoes,
the shoe people have no need to feel
envious of the cosmetic houses, with
their never-ending supply of beauty con-
sultants. Consequently, Goldberg Inter-
national's party for Miss Ferragamo went
with rather more zest than the usual
trade party. A tiny brunette with big
brown eyes, Fiamma admits she is rather
a novelty in Italy where few young girls
take over the family business, and fewer
still remain single at 24.
Some lady journalists wondered if
Miss Ferragamo were troubled by fortune
hunters, but it seemed they kept a healthy
distance, being proud about such things.
Besides, said Fiamma in perfect English,
she was kept busy with the long Italian
working day, finishing around 7.30 after
a hard day’s designing, and the usual
two-hour lunch. There was little time for
driving her Morris 1100, or going to
concerts and films, which she loves. Miss
Ferragamo took over the international
promotions and designing on the death
of her famous father, Salvatore, when
she was still a teenager. Although she
admits she is holding the fort until her
brother, Ferrucio, now 18, starts with
the company in October, it is hard to see
her completely handing over the reins.
Her big interest at the moment is
turtles, already dwindling through the
depredations of food processors, nuclear
bombers and cosmeticians. “One turtle,”
said Miss Ferragamo, holding up a pair
of chunky-heeled pistachio sandals,
“gives only enough for these. They are
expensive, of course, but very sportif
for day wear.” Looking sportif at night
is likely to be even more expensive,
although it was rumored that knee-high,
bead-encrusted blue stretch boots had
actually been run up for an Australian
client presumably someone with a
secret passion for James Bond. “The
small boot,” said Miss Ferragamo
guardedly, “is going to be more chic.”
Ferragamos don’t make many shoes
for men, their only customers being
extremely rich Italian counts, or those
who have what Miss Ferragamo delicately
calls “difficult” feet. Danny Kaye, she
said, was their most famous customer, in
company with Gloria Swanson, Alicia
Markova, Susan Hayward and Greta
Garbo.
"If that's Theatre of Cruelty, I think it's Absurd."


m
$
M
■
m
llllilgljf
•> ■'
: V : :
: - \
■'■
;-'
immm
***
9
h:i
Spans Australia
We are one of the biggest freight organisations in Australia, travelling an immense network of roads,
with pick-up and delivery at most points. Ansett Freight Express really spans Australia, nation wide.
We like to be exact about your goods. We take care of them as if they were our own.
Whatever your transport requirement road, rail, sea or air; local, interstate or overseas,
you can’t do better than depend upon Ansett Freight Express.
We are willing and our prices are right. Perhaps that’s why we are one of the largest in the business.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS EJX
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
PERTH 24 4926
MELBOURNE 68 0541
SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337
CANBERRA 9 0193
ALICE SPRINGS 777
BRISBANE 47 1481
DEV ON PORT 2 2659
HOBART 8 4944
DARWIN 2957
NEWCASTLE 2 2155
LAUNCESTON 24791


Big Bill’s “Clancy”
T awn tennis in Queensland was very
primitive 15 years ago when “Big
Bill” Edwards took over the presidency
of the Queensland Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion. Competitors in the State champion-
ships at Milton changed in a tumble-
down shack, and after their matches
usually found that their clothes had been
thrust on the floor by fellow players
who wanted space on the sole bench for
themselves. One year Davis Cup star
Adrian Quist’s finer feelings forced him
to rebel against these conditions. Quist
took his own nail to the courts to hang
his street clothes on.
Today Milton boasts a splendid centre
court, completely enclosed by grand-
stands, excellent clubhouse and dressing-
room facilities, and is the home court of
Australia's best amateur tennis player.
The Queensland championships have be-
come the players’ favorite tournament,
complete with barbecues organised by
the QLTA, trips to the Gold Coast on
rest days, and a committee aware that
tennis players are not automatons but
healthy, likeable kids with everyday prob-
lems.
Everyone in Queensland agrees that
this transformation has been the work
of “Big Bill” Edwards, as colorful a
figure as has ever taken on sports admini-
stration. Edwards is a man of tremendous
energy who runs a group of chemist
shops, serves on the committees of the
Brisbane, South Brisbane and Redcliffe
hospitals and the Queensland Turf Club,
is ringmaster at the Brisbane Show, owns
a string of smart racehorses, and has a
justifiable reputation as a man who can
fix just about anything.
So none of the QLTA Council was sur-
prised when “Big Bill” defeated Harry
Hopman the other day for the presidency
of the Lawn Tennis Association of Aus-
tralia, for they cannot recall “Big Bill”
ever losing anything important. In taking
over the toughest job in sport, Edwards
said he hoped to improve the public
image of the LTAA and to foster good
Press relations. He has far more chance
of achieving these aims than the man he
defeated. Harry Hopman, for all his
success in coaching teams, has remained
scornful of newspapermen and, ap-
parently, unconcerned about Australian
tennis’s image at home and overseas. By
contrast, Edwards is the Pressman’s
friend.
Whether this vast, plain-spoken man
and his floppy, slightly out-of-date clothes
will appeal as much to overseas tennis
organisers as he does to Queenslanders
could have a big influence on the future
of tennis. Australia has been the main
obstacle to the introduction for open tour-
naments. Unless opens are introduced in
Edwards’ three-year term as LTAA
president, most of the good pros like
Rosewall, Hoad, Gonzales, Sedgman,
Laver, Buchholz and Mackay will be too
old for them, anyway. One thing is cer-
tain the international tennis set will
never see anything quite as diverting as
“Big Bill” Edwards reciting his beloved
“Clancy of the Overflow” or “The Man
from Snowy River” poems he loves to
beef his way through, given just a little
persuasion.
Ruark, a Memoir
"jn\AviD McNicoll writes:
Bob Ruark lived life more lustily,
more zestfully, than anyone I have met.
His capacity for work was enormous;
his capacity for play prodigious.
For years he stood in the front rank
of the world’s martini drinkers even
through he stigmatised that deadly brew
as a “drink for professional sword-
swallowers”. His drinking days, strangely
enough, were also his big money-making
days. He had progressed from sports-
writing to column-writing, to the light
piece of fun, “Grenadine Etching”: and
from there he suddenly found Africa,
and safaris and the Mau Mau. The result
was “Something of Value” which put
him on easy street and led to an enormous
villa at Palamos on the Costa Brava,
and a luxury flat in Park Lane.
His wife, Virginia, was an enormous
help to him, although, after his divorce,
he was loath to admit it. Their tempera-
ments grew to be strangers after 20 or
so years of marriage, and they finally
called it a day. But in the early davs
of his rise to affluence, she was his guid-
ing force. When he wrote “Poor No
More” she told him it was no good, so
he rewrote it. Even then, it wasn’t much
good. The critics were merciless, but
the public bought the book because it
was by Ruark.
He was a prodigious worker, even inf
his recent sick years his column,
articles for the “Saturday Evening Post”,
“Esquire”, “Playboy” his new book,
“The Honey Badger”. I went through
the MS of “The Honey Badger” in his
room in New York only a few weeks
ago. He had revised, rewritten and cut
much of it since I first thumbed through
it a year ago. He looked eagerly over
his bourbon for my reactions, pulling
away at the hairs of his moustache
the unconscious nervous habit which
revealed to his friends that there was
little depth to his apparent brashness
and air of mocking assurance.
Ruark was a far better columnist than
an author. In fact, he was one of the
best newspaper commentators in the
world, a fact which Roy Howard recog-
nised by paying him a most delightful
salary. When Bob gave up his column
on May 1, it was quite apparent that
he must be even sicker than he looked.
It is hard to avoid being personal
about Bob. I had some hilarious times
with him in various highways and by-
ways. I liked his idiosyncrasies, his love
of dogs, his devotion to his Spanish
servants, his adoration of London, and
Purdy guns, and Rolls-Royces, and all
the luxury his money brought him. He
was mad about Australia and Australians
and said that if it weren’t so bloody far
from everywhere else in the world he
wouldn’t mind living here.
How trite to say that he was too young
to die. He would have considered it
preferable to living through a sickly old
age. Come to think of it, he never would
have allowed himself to do that.
BACK TO THE EPOCH OF SCUM
feu L Let in
80 Years Ago: July 11, 1885
Oince we last referred to the con-
demned prisoner, Franks Johns,
his case has been carried some steps
nearer the end. The New South Wales
Executive Council has declined to
intervene between him and the doom
prepared for him by law. Next Tues-
day is the day fixed for his execution.
The daily newspapers of Sydney are
now satisfied.
For the crime Johns committed
[knifing a fellow prisoner] a man could
not be hanged in the neighboring
colony of Victoria. In America, in
France, in Germany, in Italy, he could
not be killed. This is no light matter,
involving a mere question of taste.
Our population is less than a million,
We have only got our noses above the
epoch of scum. Scratch us, and our
national ancestry of vice and villainy
stands revealed. Vet, in the lace of
three hundred millions of people, en-
riched with the wisdom of centuries
civilisation and preaching the
necessity of humanising law, we arise
and, with brazen pride, expose the
gory lineaments of our criminal code,
Either we, the people of New South
Wales, are still the worst people on
the civilised globe or our rulers are
the worst rulers. Which? Let Australia
answer.


Tanner
"THIS IS A RECORDED MESSAGE..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Stockmen’s Lament
Thm Aborigines’ case opening in Syd-
ney this week before the Full Bench
of the Commonwealth Arbitration
Commission will inevitably be one of
great national and international impor-
tance. It must, as Brian Johns pointed
out in The Bulletin last week, be
nationally important, both because it
will be the first time that equal pay for
Northern Territory races will have been
litigated on a major scale in Australia
and because whatever decision the
Commissioners come to will have an
immediate impact on both the cattle
industry and northern development.
It will be internationally important be-
cause it deals with racial inequality
and because the Communists, who
have heavily infiltrated Aboriginal
movements, will see to it that it gets
the maximum international publicity
especially if it can be made to seem
damaging to Australia. The fact that
the Commonwealth is intervening in-
dicates that it has no doubts about the
significance of the case.
The parties to the case, apart from
the Commonwealth, are the North
Australian Workers’ Union, represent-
ing Aborigines employed on cattle
stations in the Northern Territory who
are claiming equal pay, and the
Northern Territory Cattle Producers’
Council, which opposes it. The Com-
monwealth is believed to be consider-
ing putting forward one of two propo-
sals one for equal payment for
equal skills (which allows for un-
equal skills) and the other for gradu-
ated increases toward equality.
The merits of the parties’ cases can-
not be canvassed here and must be
left until the Commissioners reach their
decisions on the evidence presented.
But it is obvious that any decision
must have dramatic effects. The main-
tenance of any sort of inequality will
give a propaganda weapon to the Com-
munists; yet the immediate introduc-
tion of equality may force the cattle
stations to dispense with Aboriginal
labor and force Aborigines to become
economic wards of the State even
more dependent and unequal than they
are now. It is this quandary that may
explain the unusual silence of Liberals
on this issue: it is comparatively easy
to agitate for full voting rights and
drinking rights (which are" already
established in the Territory), it is an-
other to deal with the hard facts of a
sensitive industry of basic importance
to northern development.
But whatever decision the Commis-
sioners reach, it is clear that the dust
will not be allowed to settle. The case
will highlight not only inequality of
wages or skills but some extraordinary
statistical facts; we do not yet know
how many men are involved in this
matter. Since full - blood Northern
Territory Aborigines are still not in-
cluded in census statistics, we can only
estimate the numbers. The usual esti-
mate is nearly 1500 stockmen, but
by “averaging” out their work, a figure
of 1100 full-time employees is reached!
The least we may assume is that, after
this case, things will never be the same
again.
More Than Office Furniture
Tt is probably too much to hope that
the Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission’s move to its new glass-house
headquarters in Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, will represent a symbolic
break with the past. For, as Patricia
Rolfe points out in relation to tele-
vision drama, on page 44 of this issue,
“the ABC still lives in a radio world”
a point which applies with varying
degrees of force to at least two of the
Commission’s other main activities,
television news and orchestras.
In news, the ABC boasts, with
justification, that it has seven bureaux
overseas and 250 staff journalists and
1000 part-time correspondents in Aus-
tralia. But only a handful of these are
regarded by the ABC as exclusively
television journalists; none of them
has been trained exclusively in tele-
vision all are trained first in radio
journalism.
That handful is anxious to treat
the TV medium as something quite
distinct from radio, but the acting
controller of news, Mr J. G. Oakley,
was saying as recently as last week
that “television had not superseded
radio for quick reporting but had
added pictorial coverage which lagged
not far behind what went over the
radio”. The point is that TV neither
“supersedes” nor “lags” behind; it is
a distinct medium and not radio with
the picture added.
In music it is a truism that we may
not have any worthwhile orchestras at
all if it had not been for the pioneering
work of the ABC in founding and
developing them. But today the de-
mands of studio recitals and broad-
casts do nothing to help the orchestras.
If anything they lower standards.
Revolutionary though it may sound
to the ABC, the complete separation
of radio and television within the
Commission and the abandonment of
the ABC monopoly control over the
country’s orchestras have now be-
come the two basic conditions for the
progressive development of both ABC
television and the country’s musical
life. The public is entitled to hope
that the enterprising new general
manager of the ABC, Mr T. Duck-
manton, is planning more than a move
of office furniture.
Wages
,r pHE criticism to be made of the
Arbitration Commission for the
procedural changes it introduced last
week is not that they are bad ones:
the case for a merger of basic wage
and margins hearings is a strong one,
and under the new arrangement award
wages will now stand a chance of
being related to true economic criteria
based on an annual assessment of
what wage level the economy can
afford without adverse repercussions.
The criticism that must be made is
that the Commission acted with undue
speed in introducing the new pro-
cedure. In 1961 it laid down firmly
the procedures it was following and
this year the unions approached the
Commission on the assumption that
these procedures would be maintained
and with the appropriate tactics in
mind. It would have better served the
cause of industrial peace and rational
wage determination if the Commission
had simply announced that it would
follow new guide lines in future and
on this occasion kept faith with the
unions.


THIS AUSTRALIA
ALP I
Mr CalwelPs Contempt
The ALP as a Communist appendage?
The Leader of the Opposition, MR ARTHUR CALWELL.
Thoughtful members of the Federal
Parliamentary Labor Party emerged from
last week’s Caucus meeting in a mood
of black despair.
For years, Micawber-like, they have
been waiting for something to turn up
that would improve the party’s fortunes.
But what was now turning up threatened
the Labor Party with further electoral
disaster of a magnitude eclipsing any-
thing yet. It also justified the assessment
of Deputy Opposition Leader Gough
By ALAN REID
Whitlam, and Federal ALP secretary
Cyril Wyndham, that what was at stake
in the months ahead was not rows on
leadership or Unity Tickets but a funda-
mental decision on whether or not the
ALP was to become an appendage of
the Communist Party.
Even without the larger issue of
whether the Labor Party is to degenerate
from its present prominence in Australian
politics into a front for the Communist
Party, the x present Federal Leader, Mr
Arthur Calwell, had poured ccfitempt on
the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party
from a great height. He might not have
appreciated what he was doing, but he
did it as effectively as when he waited
under a street lamp outside the Hotel
Kingston in Canberra, while, inside, the
ALP Federal Conference decided Labor’s
policy on the establishment of the US
radio - communications station at Ex-
mouth Gulf in Western Australia.
Mr Calwell proved brutally and un-
mistakably once again just how un-
important Labor Parliamentarians are in
the Labor scheme of things. Mr Wynd-
ham, in his capacity as Federal secretary,
had submitted a report to members of
the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party,
all elected representatives of the people,
on decisions taken by the ALP Federal
Executive at its meeting commencing
May 24, 1965. It was to discuss this
report and others that the Caucus meet-
ing had been called. But of the 34
decisions taken by Federal Executive,
Mr Calwell ruled that the Labor Parlia-
mentarians might discuss only four:
(1) the method of fixing Parliamentary
salaries, (2) the economic situation,
(3) whether accounts for chiropractor
treatment should be placed on the same
basis as other medical treatment, and
(4) the proposal for the building of a
National Hall of Labor in Canberra.
Subjects that Mr Calwell ruled as
beyond the Parliamentary Party’s com-
petence to discuss included such major
items as: the censuring by the Executive
of Deputy Senate Labor Leader Senator
P. J. Kennelly and the WA Labor
Leader Mr A. R. G. Hawke; the smack
in the teeth given to the AWU, the large
and wealthy Right-wing union which has
given liberally in money and assistance
to the ALP ever since the ALP’s forma-
tion; Unity Ticket procedure; the Com-
mittee for Peace in Vietnam (proscribed
by the Right-wing NSW ALP branch);
South Vietnam; selection of Labor can-
didates; ALP reorganisation; the Mt Isa
dispute; and automation.
Mr Frank Stewart (Labor, NSW)
objected. He wanted to move a motion
recommending that the Federal ALP
Executive reiterate Labor’s existing
policy on Communism and against Unity
Tickets. The depths to which the
Federal Parliamentary Labor Party and
the status of a Federal Labor Parlia-
mentarian have sunk were shown by the
events flowing from Mr Stewart’s move.
On the same morning that Mr Stewart
had moved his motion, the Victorian
ALP Executive had advanced in a
weekly column, given to the Labor
Party by the Melbourne “Sun”, the
arguments against the ban on Unity
Tickets between ALP members and Com-
munists in trade union elections. This
column publicly expressed views against
existing Labor policy. Yet, within a
Labor Party forum, Mr Stewart was not
permitted to put views supporting exist-
ing Labor Party policy on Communism
and Unity Tickets.
Mr Calwell ruled —and was backed by
a majority of the Caucus that Com-
munism, Unity Tickets and the Party’s
attitude towards such things were none
of Mr Stewart’s business. It was ex-
clusively the business of the machine.
It is possible that a majority of
Caucus went along with Mr Calwell on
this ruling (obviously a wrong one, as
Mr Stewart showed by quoting from the
ALP’s Federal rules) in the hope that
something might turn up to prevent Mr
Calwell showing up at the August meet-
ing in Sydney of the ALP Federal Con-
ference to vote as a Victorian delegate
against the continuation of the present
ALP ban on Unity Tickets—a ban which
he, Mr Calwell, in his role as ALP
Federal Leader has said is necessary and
desirable to prevent the Communist
Party getting control of the unions and,
through the unions, control of the ALP.
As it is, the Communist Party’s control
of certain unions, and through them the
control the Communist Party exerts
upon ALP delegates to Executive and
conference meetings, has produced a
situation in which it is by no means


certain that the pro-Unity Ticket move
of the Victorian ALP Executive will be
defeated.
Party strategists estimate that it will
be almost an even split right down the
middle, just as it was on Exmouth Gulf.
One estimate of the state of the vote at
the moment is:
• For maintenance of the ban on
Unity Tickets: NSW six votes,
Queensland one vote, Western Aus-
tralia two votes, South Australia
four votes, Tasmania four votes.
• For lifting of the ban on Unity
Tickets: Victoria six votes, Queens-
land five votes, South Australia two
votes, Western Australia four votes
and Tasmania two votes.
This analysis of the vote gives a 19-17
majority to the Right-wing anti-Unity
Ticket forces, but ‘some of the forces
the Right-wing are depending upon to
produce this result are of very doubtful
reliability. The numbers will change and
be regrouped considerably between now
and August as entire delegations are
bound to vote one way or another,
irrespective of the views of the in-
dividuals who make up the delegations.
But a free vote would give a fairly
accurate picture of the Labor Party to-
day, divided down the middle into two
groups which ideologically are quite
distinct and have in common only the
fact that they operate under the label
of Labor.
Just how far the numbers will vary
could depend on the efforts of Mr Wynd-
ham and Mr Whitlam. Both take the
view that the fight now is on the issue of
whether the Labor Party is to become
an appendage to the Communist Party.
The logic behind this assessment of the
real issue is obvious. If Unity Tickets
are allowed, opportunist ALP members
will combine with Communists to give
the Communist Party effective control
of even more unions than the Communist
Party controls now. Through this con-
trol the Communist Party will see that
ALP members, who are receptive to or
who will accept Communist direction,
will be sent as delegates to ALP con-
ferences and Executives.
Mr Whitlam and Mr Wyndham both
realise the real issue that is involved.
Whitlam has already stated it publicly
by referring to the risk of subversion of
the Labor Party, and Wyndham is known
to be re-echoing his warnings back-stage.
Last week was a black week for the
Federal Labor Caucus. The August
conference meeting could be as black
a day for the Labor Movement if the
ban on Unity Tickets is lifted and the
Communist Party is authorised officially
to intensify its already formidable in-
filtration of the Labor Party.
ALP II
Victoria’s Retreat
Junta re-assesses unity ticket issue
The Victorian ALP is planning to
retreat on its bitterly controversial
decision to seek the removal of the ban
on Unity Tickets at next month’s Federal
Labor conference. The ruling Victorian
junta is preparing the retreat because it
has realised that the Unity Ticket issue
is the one which could bring about the
removal of Mr Calwell as Leader of the
Opposition.
F. DAIY
The Victorians have decided that they
will be satisfied with an affirmation by
the 36-man Federal conference of the
old Labor shibboleth of “non-inter-
ference in trade union affairs”. In other
words the continuance of the status quo.
Victorian delegates will be instructed to
allow their extreme motion calling for
the legalising of Unity Tickets to be
By BRIAN JOHNS
broken down at the conference table
because they have calculated that they
were heading for defeat or, at the very
best, a narrow victory on the issue. Either
result, the Victorians now believe, would
bring a move soon after the conference
to oust Mr Calwell, who as a Victorian
delegate, would be completely identified
with the State stand on Unity Tickets.
This retreat on Victoria’s part could
well mean the avoidance yet again of a
showdown between the conflicting Left
and Right forces within the Labor Partv.
While NSW has been adamant that .t
will fight the Victorian Unity Ticket
motion to the point of another split in
the ALP, it has not felt it will be neces-
sary to press the plan for the certification
of Labor men in union polls. Certifica-
tion is anathema to the Left because
it would mean the re-involvement of the
Labor Party in union affairs, as it was
before the disbanding of the industrial
groups.
The NSW plan for certification has
been bitterly discussed at Federal Execu-
tive meetings in the last year and is on
the Federal conference agenda for a
policy-ruling. As a tactic to defeat Vic-
toria’s extreme stand 6n Unity Tickets,
NSW was prepared to go quietly on
certification and it now remains to be
seen what the NSW reaction will be to
the Victorian retreat. If NSW really
wants a showdown it will only have to
press certification adamantly to turn the
Victorian retreat into an offensive. It is
understood that NSW is currently pre-
paring its opening attack on the Unity
Ticket issue in trenchant terms, which
will recall that Dr H. V. Evatt, when
he was Leader of the Opposition, once
described them as the running sore
which would one day destroy the Labor
Party.
As well as re-assessing its intended
holding-back on certification, NSW might
review a decision made some weeks ago
to pigeon-hole its brief for the time
being for the removal of Federal pro-
hibitions on direct State Aid. However,
it still seems unlikely that NSW will look
for conflict on State Aid if Victoria backs
down on Unity Tickets. Although there
are some in NSW now declaring that
there is nothing to be gained by burying
any issue, the Right wing hardly has an
impeccable record of standing and fight-
ing.
If it eventuates, the Victorian retreat
will almost certainly have the effect its
strategists want: putting a stop to the
quickening rate of progress of Mr
CalwelFs deputy, Mr Gough Whitlam.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition
has concentrated his attention on the
issue of Unity Tickets in recent weeks,
and, as a result, has looked closer to
the leadership than at any other time
to the chagrin of the Left supporters of
Dr J. F. Cairns.
As always, however, the ranks of the
Right are not nearly as closed as those
of the Left. The Right has one for
better or worse—Parliamentary point
around which to rally: Whitlam. Yet last
week several Right-wing members of
Caucus carried awav impression that
front-bencher Mr Fred Daly was criticis-
ing Whitlam as much as he was Calwell
when he described the public scandal of
the two leaders’ conflicting views.
A section of the Right wing is gravely
concerned about Mr Daly’s inten-
tions. It is an open secret in these


x:"-:
WM
ilMl
I®!-
>* w
' / <
i jip»r :
;
m
mm
m
m
1964
* / ATA(.^
ORLANDO
,f II:' LLV VINTACED AUSTRALIAN " |Vt
X**'
%
s*B
V C CRAMP f'SON
"“"7tT«?INT*SIf
TOP PRIZE
WINNER FOR
TWELVE YEARS
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Australian Riesling.
One hundred and thirty-two major
awards, in fact, including Gold and
Silver Medals, Championships and Cups
•—throughout Australia and in Europe.
Last year, its greatest honour was the
Gold Medal awarded at the International
Viticultural and Wine Fair at Mont-
pellier, France, world-famous centre
for wine Study and research.
Every bottle of Barossa Riesling awarded
a prize has been taken at random from
stock - proof positive of the wine’s
unfailing consistency.
Two major reasons why you can rely
on Barossa Riesling are:
* It is bottled in the traditional European
amber Riesling bottle, in preference to
a green bottle, because Riesling needs
bottle age, and amber glass keeps
out the light while the wine is aging.
* It is one of the very few Australian
Rieslings vintaged 100% from Rhine
Riesling grapes.
ORLANDO
BABOSSA
RIESLING
Prize-Winning Orlanclo Barossa Riesling is made by
G. Gramp and Sons Pty, Ltd., in South Australia's
famous Barossa Valley.
10f > 8 S
quarters that a “Whitlam-Daly” line-up
.would be the most preferable ticket in
any leadership stakes. With Mr Daly
.as his deputy, Mr Whitlam would have
the sound party strategist that he badly
.needs. On the other hand, Daly does not
have Whitlam’s potential for winning the
swinging voter. The NSW Labor veteran
has never suggested that he intends k
putting himself forward as leader, nor
for that matter is there a pact between
himself and Whitlam. But after last
week’s Caucus senior Labor men were
saying vehemently what they have been
quietly taking for granted for months:
unless Whitlam and Daly come to art
agreement, the Left’s plan of sustaining
Calwell until the time is right for Dr
Cairns will be successful.
WINE
Grapes of
Wrath
SA's Wine Royal Commission
The South Australian Government has
appointed a Royal Commission into
grape production in an attempt to re-
establish harmony in the State wine in-
dustry, disrupted by a price dispute
between growers and producers.
The decision to appoint a Royal Com-
mission follows the recent reluctant entry
of the State Government into the wine
and brandy business to avert a crisis in
the South Australian industry—producer
of more than half of Australia's wines.
The Government had been forced to
have the State Bank finance an emer-
gency co-operative which entered into a
contract with Penfold Wines Ltd for the
processing of a surplus of 3500 tons of
grapes. The wineries had refused to buy
the surplus, claiming they could not
handle the extra 525,000 tons of grape
juice.
The surplus troubles were tied to a
price dispute. The producers said they
could not accept an average increase of
11s. 3d. a ton set by the SA Prices
Commissioner, Mr Murphy, and pub-
lished their own list of lower prices for
grapes. Mr Murphy said growers were
facing rising costs and failure to accept
his increases would depress the living
standards of about 3000 growers.
The Royal Commission will look into
costs of production of grapes, the effect
of further plantings, factors on which
allocation of grapes for drying and wine
production are based, and negotiations
and agreements between winemakers and
growers. However, there is considerable
agitation for the Commission’s terms' of
reference to be widened to deal with all
phases of the wine industry.


TRADE UNIONS
The Haves and Have-nots
Militancy ahead
After the immediate threats of reprisals
of national stoppages and protests
promised last week by Federal and State
unions against the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Commission’s wage ruling, in-
dustrial unrest in the coming months will
be concentrated in the metal, building,
transport, waterside and maritime trade
unions.
These militantly led groups will not
be satisfied with a single dramatic gesture
of a national general stoppage by 3 mil-
lion members of 96 unions recom-
mended to the ACTU by the New South
Wales Labor Council late last week. The
industrial unrest will be spearheaded by
unions in Victoria and Queensland,
where Communist influence in the State
Trades and Labor Councils is heaviest.
A step-up in industrial unrest is also
expected in NSW where Left-wing unions
have been pressing the Trades .and Labor
Council towards a more militant line.
Monday's 24-hour stoppage of all trains
and Government buses in the State
the result of a strike of 56,000 employees
from 26 transport unions in protest over
a NSW Government wage offer was
only the first of a series of head-on
collisions between the Labor Council
and the new Liberal Government
A contentious issue in New South
Wales will be the abolition of quarterly
adjustments based on the cost-of-living
index which Mr Renshaw was able *o
push through as Labor Premier. The
support for his action has been wiped
out by the Commission's reversal in a
majority decision to emphasise industry's
capacity to pay rather than lifting the
wage in terms of cost-of-living increases.
Union dissatisfaction on this score will
be accentuated by the almost certain in-
crease in the quarterly cost of living
index due to be released later this month.
All unions—moderate and militant —
will increase pressure for over-award
payments following the Arbitration Com-
mission’s decision to freeze the basic
wage and grant an average increase
margin of 6s. 6d. These over-award pay-
ments, negotiated on a plant-by-plant
basis, invite tests of strength between
employers and unions. The Commission’s
decision that basic wage and margins
should be adjusted annually and to-
gether without regard to cost-of-living
not only cancels the unions’ intention of
pressing a margins case later this year
but will force them to a re-appraisal.
In Melbourne in March when the
ACTU was planning its margins case,
which it had hoped would be held after
the basic wage hearing, the ACTU inter-
state Executive decided that the funda-
mental re-appraisal now called for was
too risky. At that time influential mem-
bers of the ACTU, backed by unions
representing skilled workers, such as the
Electrical Trades Union, wanted the
greater weight put on a work-value
argument rather than loss of purchasing
power in margins awards. The Com-
mission’s decision last week against cost-
of-living factors means that the unions
will have little alternative now but to
press on with work-value claims.
In some union circles there has already
been talk of the ACTU leading a
margins’ claim on changed work-value,
but there is only a remote possibility of
this happening. What is most likely to
occur is a step-up by unions of work-
value claims for particular grams within
their membership those where the
component of skill is most marked.
In short, those unions which in the past
tended to rely mostly on the follow-on
effect of margins’ awards will now have
to get busier about individual groups.
This will be all to the good for the
skilled but it could have a difficult effect
in the long term; arousing dissatisfaction
within and without unions, between the
haves and the have-nots, the skilled and
unskilled.
The Commission's judgment presents
a king-size administrative headache to
the nation's largest employer, the Com-
monwealth Public Service. The Public
Service Board's arbitration machinery is
already near breaking point as a result
of a build-up of outstanding claims.
There are grave doubts of its ability to
handle annual margins awards envisaged
by the Arbitration Commission.
A welcome relief for the chairman of
the Public Service Board, Mr F. H.
Wheeler, now in the midst of rational-
ising the Third Division of his four-tier
service which he is attempting to re-
shape, was the tapering-off effect of last
week's margin rise by the Arbitration
Commission. By calculating the increase
as a percentage of the “whole wage"—
basic wage plus margin the Com-
mission avoided a disproportionate
escalation of margins for those in higher
salary groups, which in the past have
hit the Commonwealth heavily. Minimis-
ing these margin flow-ons is one im-
portant rea c on —the increasingly restive
public service unions would sav the only
reason —whv Mr Wheeler embarked on
revolutionising the Commonwealth Pub-
lic Service structure, which, with present
Third Division arbitration claims, is at
its most critical stage.
The Minister for Labor and National
Service, Mr W. McMahon, pointed out
last week that the Commission's decision
was not all beer and skittles for the
Commonwealth, naturally not at the
same time expressing delight at the
moderate nature of the rise, which will
be a boom in Budget-planning in coming
weeks. Mr McMahon expressed dis-
appointment at the decision for joint,
annual hearings of basic wage and
margins, and on an across-the-
board basis over the whole wage
structure, which the Commonwealth has
opposed in favor of individual work-value
cases. But he also said: “Some implica-
tions of the decision are not yet entirely
clear and it could well be that the Com-
monwealth might feel it desirable sub-
sequently to make submissions in relation
to some aspects of the decision."
The major ambiguity which Mr
McMahon most likely had in mind was
the uncertainty left by the Commission’s
judgment over its view of arbitration in
over-award payments. Until the judg-
ment. the Commission had suggested that
it did not have jurisdiction in this field,
but it now seems it could have reversed
this view,, If this is the case, arbitration
in future months will be re-asserting itself
against the growing use of its alternative
collective bargaining through over-
award payments.


w
CUSTOMLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED
now has the backing of one of Europe's largest insurance
groups, SKANDIA INSURANCE, (whose assets are more
than EA4BO million and whose annual premium income
exceeds £AIOO million).
w
CUSTOMLIFE ASSURANCE will continue
as an Australian company under its present Australian
management and will benefit substantially from its close
association with the 110 year-old Skandia organisation.
m.
w
Throughout the insurance world the
Skandia emblem is a sign of strength and security.
m.
w
The protection symbolised by the Skandia
emblem is now extended to all policy holders of Custom-
life Assurance Limited.
CUSTOMLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED
Offices in all States and the A.C.T.
CLB
WOOL
Breaking the
Silence
“We will leave it to the growers ”
The decision of three wool-broking
firms to oppose the reserve price plan
for the marketing of wool is a welcome
move because it allows wool-growers,
and the public, to know at least where
some of the brokers stand.
The three broking firms who have
banded together to attack the reserve
plan, agreed to by both the Federal
Government and the Australian Wool
Industry Conference, are Australian
Mercantile Land and Finance Co. Ltd,
Pitt Son and Badgery Ltd, and Winch-
combe Carson Ltd. Between them they
sell about 37 per cent of the wool in
NSW. Of the total Australian clip, how-
ever, these three firms handle only about
12f per cent (AML and F 7J per cent,
Pitt Son and Badgery 3f per cent,
Winchcombe Carson If per cent).
While the attitude of these brokers
will hearten those opponents of the Wool
Board and its chairman, Sir William
Gunn, who are now confident of victory
when the reserve plan goes tc a referen-
dum of growers, their viewpoint would
be more convincing had the two major
wool-broking firms weighed in with it.
The two biggest firms of course are
Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort and
Dalgety New Zealand Loan Ltd, who be-
tween them last year handled 481- per
cent of the wool sold at auction in Aus-
tralia. Since the merger of the old
Dalgety Co. with New Zealand Loan,
and the merger of Elder Smith with
Goldsbrough Mort, about three years
ago, these two firms have increased their
share and in some quarters it is ex-
pected that they will soon handle 60 per
cent of the total clip.
The chairman of directors of Elder
Smith Goldsbrough Mort, Sir Philip
Mcßride, has said, “My company does
not plan to come in on this issue at
all”. Sir Philip said that the reserve price
question was one for growers to resolve
and that if they agreed to the proposal
then his company would co-operate fully
in its implementation. The general man-
ager of Dalgety New Zealand Loan,
Mr J. S. Gale, has made a similar “We
will leave it to the growers” statement.
“This company will not be making any
statement on the reserve price plan now
or at any later stage,” he said.
The three opposing brokers can hard-
ly look, therefore, to support from the
two biggest. But what of the others?
Companies which might be expected to
voice an opinion, one way or another,
are Australian Estates, Younghusband,


~r.u
-■
m
Approach In Mirdrku Bridge, Singapore
HONGKONG
a
BANGKOK
JESSELTOK
PENANG
KUALA LUMPUR
KUCHING
SINGAPORE
HONGKONG BANGKOK
■MTS
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG «8
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG-2
JESSELTON/HONGKONG-2|
PENANG/BANGKOK »3j
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK "3
SINGAPORE/BANGKQK "6
MALAYSIAN AIRWAYS
MALAYSIA'S NATIONAL AIRLINE-SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
si
EXCEPT WEDNESDAY
CONSULT YOUR
TRAVEL AGENT
OR QANTAS.
OUR GENERAL
SALES AGENTS
IN AUSTRALIA
Dennys Lascelles, Gippsland and North-
ern, A. G. Webster, Strachan and Co.,
and Bennett and Fisher.
With the two leaders handling about
50 per cent, the three opposing firms
about 13 per cent, and with about 10
per cent of the total clip being sold
privately, it follows that all these com-
panies, together, handle about 27 per
cent of the total.
The brokers clearly have been put
on the spot by the way in which the
Wool Board has presented the plan to
growers. If a broker dares come out
in opposition he must do so knowing
full well that he may send at least some
of his clients (who favor reserve price)
into the arms of a rival broker who has
been astute enough to announce that he
has no views at all.
Definite statements from each broking
firm will help clear the air, although it
must not be forgotten that the National
Council of Wool Selling Brokers has, in
a way, already spoken for them. The
council view, decided in June this year,
is that it will not state its opinion.
Obviously the brokers must have
views and it seems a pity that with the
exception of the three operating in NSW,
they have been forced into taking a vow
of silence. In a plan with such far reach-
ing consequences as this the views of all
interested parties should be freely avail-
able without fear of recrimination.
TEACHERS
The abc’s
Stopping the classroom
In a move unprecedented in Victorian
history, secondary school teachers last
week held a two-hour stopwork meeting
in protest against their new pay award
handed down by the Victorian Teachers’
Tribunal. The award, the first since
1958, gave teachers rises ranging from
sd. to £2 a week.
More than 2000 secondary teachers
(from the State’s 7000 secondary
teachers) demanded an immediate re-
hearing of claims for a retrospective
award granting them salaries at least
comparable with those in New South
Wales. The teachers reform of
the tribunal—which comprises a teachers’
representative, a Government representa-
tive and an independent chairman —to
include direct representation of second-
ary teachers and the appointment of a
judge as chairman.
They also wanted an amended
Teachers’ Tribunal Act to give teachers
the right of appeal against the tribunal’s
decisions, and a review of the tribunal’s
procedure. The meeting warned that
unless reasonable steps were taken
promptly the Executive of the Victorian
Secondary Teachers’ Association would
call a further stopwork meeting.
Both major teachers’ associations—the
Victorian Teachers’ Union and the
VSTA have denounced the award in
the strongest terms. And while both
have asked for a new hearing, they are
unlikely to be given one unless the threat
of further stopwork meetings is heeded.
Theoretically independent of Govern-
ment direction the tribunal nonetheless
keeps within Treasurer Henry Bolte’s
tight budget. The Government rep-
resentative, for instance, said he was
amazed that teachers were so well paid,
In the current award he voted against
the rises of about £5 a year because they
exceeded the NSW rates. And obviously
the other two members went along with
this attitude.
According to the VSTA, the only
reasonable reform is to reconstitute the
teachers’ tribunal. They want secondary
teacher representation on it and they
want a more prestigious chairman, prefer-
ably someone with legal standing. The
present chairman, Mr L. Garlick, is a


ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • AD
CAREERS
WITH
COMPUTERS
free training on full salary
in automatic data processing
yj zti
<p
%
4m*
The Commonwealth Service has introduced a new scheme to
prepare young men and women for a rewarding, challenging
future in Automatic Data Processing. The scheme provides
twelve months’ free training on full salary in the principles of
ADP programming and systems analysis as well as practical
experience in computer techniques.
Large computer-based systems have been or are being installed
by a number of departments in Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne
.—some with satellite units in other State capital cities. Fields of
work are diverse personnel, finance, economic and social
statistics, stores supply, telephone billing, benefit payments,
weather forecasting, management planning and control, defence
service logistics.
Training courses will be conducted in Canberra and Melbourne.
Placement after training may be in such departments as Air,
Census and Statistics, Defence, Health, Meteorology, Navy,
Postmaster-General’s, Social Services, Superannuation Board,
Supply, Taxation, Treasury, Repatriation or Civil Aviation.
SALARY: Within the range
£1482-£lB4B for men and £l2Bl-
- for women according to
qualifications and experience.
Minimum commencing salary
for an honours graduate is
£1543 for men and £1342 for
women.
PROMOTION: Advancement as
Assistant Programmer, £lB4B-
- (£1647-£lB9l for women)
is automatic on successful com-
pletion of the year’s training
course. There are excellent
opportunities for subsequent
promotion on merit to higher
positions.
QUALIFICATIONS: University
degree or appropriate technical
college diploma desirable. Apti-
tude for programming and ADP
work which will be measured by
special tests. In some fields
there is scope for direct applica-
tion of disciplines such as
mathematics, statistics or
accountancy.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and application forms may be
obtained from the Secretary, Public Service Board, Canberra or the
Board’s Office at Broughton Street, Barton, Canberra —Telephone
7-0411.
CLOSING DATE FOR APPLICATIONS—JULY 30, 1965
ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • ADP • AD
former ALP candidate. They object,
with good reason, to the tribunal’s pro-
cedures, to its closed hearings, its ex-
clusion of the Press, of legal counsel and
of observers from other organisations
submitting claims, to its failure to keep
records of its proceedings, and to its
refusal to give any but the sketchiest
reasons for decisions.
The VSTA seems prepared now, with
its direct action, to keep agitating for
reform. Teachers will not go on a pro-
tracted strike, but they may decide on
various bans clerical work, examina-
tion correction, supervision and the like.
Meanwhile, the VSTA is seeking dis-
cussions with the VTU to plan joint
action.
ABORIGINES
From the Slums
Perth’s transitional homes
Western Australia’s Native Welfare
Minister, Mr Lewis already embroiled
in controversy over a scheme to place
Aborigines in transitional homes in
country tOMns—last week moved his
crusade forward by announcing that he
will ask local authorities in the outer
metropolitan area of Perth to allow the
transitional homes.
If the authorities agreed, he said, the
transitional homes would be built in
groups of not more than four to avoid
colonies. Tenants would be carefully
selected and supervised after they had
moved in.
About 120 native families between
700 and 800 people—are living in Perth.
Roughly half of them are in what are
almost ghettoes in slums in the suburbs
of East and West Perth. Only 11 years
ago anybody of more than a quarter
Aboriginal blood was restricted in his
movements outside his own district and
could not enter the city block.
POLITICS
Courtship
Wooing the Mayor
The dramatic resignation from the Aus-
tralian Labor Party late last Meek of
Toowoomba’s Mayor, popular Alderman
Jack McCafferty, was completely un-
expected.
But most startling were reports that
Aid. McCafferty had been wooed away
from the ALP by the Country Party and
possibly even directly by its leader, the
Queensland Premier Mr Frank Nicklin.
No one would confirm the reports of
Country Party activity, but Aid. Mc-
Cafferty said last week, “I will be inter-
ested now in any proposition from the
Country Party. I feel that With my ex-
perience and knowledge I could make
a positive contribution to them. At all


t
t
NEW! for all uniforms
CfMd \ %
To rail
TETORON
I POLYESTER fibre
and Viscose
«
m
we blend beauty and science...
lor a miracle fabric that works with you!
Fashion goes to work! The new look in uniforms
is soft, lustrous Cesarella, an exciting new fabric
by the makers of famous Cesarine. We made silky
Cesarella specially for the trend to more style and
fashion in today’s uniforms. Easily laundered,
drip-drys overnight to its original beauty, and per-
manently pleatable, too! Already selected by most
Banks, Schools and Insurance offices, Cesarella
means more beauty and longer wear for your
uniforms. Look for the Cesarella tag of quality
at your uniform supplier or just phone Caesar
Fabrics Ltd. in your state. But do it now!
ereafd
CHOOSE CESAREUA ...THE FASHIOH'S THESE TO STAY
Xoraifl TETORON*
POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
65Z
events, my services to them are now
available.”
The Liberal Party has reason to be
suspicious of Aid. McCafferty’s resig-
nation from the ALP and move towards
the Country Party. This is because sev-
eral Country Party officials, including the
Queensland President, Mr J. Ahern, have
bitterly attacked the Liberal Party de-
PREMIER FRANK NICKLIN
cision to oppose the Country Party in
several seats at next year’s State elections.
However, no one believed that the
Country Party would try to attract dis-
gruntled Right-wing ALP members. The
Country Party last week tried hard to
deny that this was the plan. Its secretary,
Colonel Hutton, admitted that he was
in Toowoomba the night before Aid.
McCafferty announced his resignation
from the ALP. But Colonel Hutton said
that he was in the Darling Downs city
for the funeral of a friend and for
that alone. As The Bulletin went to
press Colonel Hutton was hard pressed
denying that the Country Party had any-
thing to do with Aid. McCafferty’s
switch. There were unconfirmed reports
that Aid. McCafferty had been promised
Federal endorsement by the Country
Party last week if he did not go over to
the Liberal Party.
However, it seems more likely that Aid.
McCafferty will be a Country Party can-
didate for Toowoomba East in next year’s
State elections. This seat is shakily held
by a Liberal, Mr J. R. Anderson, who in
1963 held the seat by only 24 votes after
the distribution of 726 DLP pre-
ferences. He trailed Mr Peter Wood,
ALP, by 428 votes before the distribution.
Mr Anderson is no certainty to stand
again, but Mr Wood, son of a former
ALP Parliamentary leader, will be in
the fray once more. Aid. McCafferty is
a man with keen, but so far unsuccess-
ful, political ambitions. He has twice
opposed the Repatriation Minister Mr
Swartz, a Liberal, for the seat of Darl-
ing Downs. And he also has opposed
the State Lands Minister Mr Fletcher, a
Country Party member, in Cunningham.
Aid. McCafferty has been a member of
the ALP for 14 years.
His letter to the Toowoomba East
Branch of the ALP last week gave some
reasons for his decision, but to the time
The Bulletin went to press these rea-
sons had not been made public. Aid.
McCafferty has been a bus company
proprietor and milkman. Now he seems
certain to be seen in the role of another
“wedge” being driven between the
Country and Liberal Parties.
KNOPFELMACHER
K with J.C.s
Relentless logic
Brian Buckley writes: Believing Juniof
Chambers of Commerce to be full of
latter-day “laissez-faire” men I was sur-
prised to hear the J.C. sitting on my right
call the guest speaker “a Right-wing
extremist”.
The man in question was Dr Frank


m
*
'• v?
:• . i »
■
m
When the occasion calls for
yotfi best tea service
A bridge party an important guest
or just old friends dropping in for a chat
there’s always the pleasant ritual of
serving tea from your best tea service.
And if you’re an astute hostess, you
serve Lipton Royal Ceylon Blend.
Like you, your friends will appreciate
this little touch of luxury. The delicate,
pure Ceylon flavour —• unmistakable ...
wonderfully refreshing . . . lingers on
your palate... a sheer delight to the last
Savoured sip.
Make your next special occasion a real
success, serve
>2fc
Royal (jeyton
Blend
\ and \ lb. packets
TEA
: TEA MERCHANTS TO THE WORLD FOR MORE THAN A CENTURY
LIP. 321 B.
Knopfelmacher, who is rapidly climb-
ing to the top of the charts as Mel-
bourne’s most popular after - dinner
speaker. Forgetting the impersonal role
a man of the Press is supposed to play
on such occasions, I put in a mild protest
and waited to see how the rest of the
Chamber would receive their portion of
relentless Knopfelmacher logic, whilst
the man alongside me muttered some-
thing about not feeling like giving his
own political opinions “because of the
security police”.
The most savage part of the talk was
an attack, not on the ALP or Com-
munists, but on the Liberal Government
which was accused of attempting “to
smuggle the Australian South Vietnam
contingent cut of the country in the
dead of night instead of proclaiming
their departure to the nation”.
Dr Knopfelmacher said it was urgent
that the Australian people be led to un-
derstand how critical our situation was.
The Australian Government, he said,
still lacked a fully realistic sense of crisis
DR FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
and certainly lacked a Churchill figure
who could dramatise our present crisis
to the public. The Australian Govern-
ment had thrown away an outstanding
chance of educating the people for
crisis, because it was afraid of a hand-
ful of demonstrators and quislings. “The
Liberal Party has too many old boys
who are spiritually tied to England and
the Royal Family.”
Dr Knopfelmacher also attacked strong
elements in the Country Party who saw
Chinese expansion only in terms of
commercial propositions and who felt
that the US presence in the Pacific was
a business impediment. He stressed the
importance of keeping the US in the
Pacific and stressed the need for Aus-
tralia to rapidly expand its own military
strength. “When the chips are down only
strong allies are really respected.”
Seventy-odd J.C.s and guests, applaud-
ed with some enthusiasm. The man sit-
ting next to me called Sieg Heil three
times across the table to his friend.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Sunday After Evensong
Stooping to the monetary sop
has reached us that the NSW
Government is looking at the
problem of the Sydney Sunday and
the time may even come when NSW
will get Sunday picture shows. v
Sunday picture shows are legal in
New Zealand and .Tasmania and
Western Australia has had them for
30 years. Queensland treats it as a
dangerous subject like liquor and
has a sort of Sunday pictures local
option. The first Sunday movies came
to us on December 27, 1964. We
rather prided ourselves at the time.
Despite our reputation for respect-
ability, we were showing a satanic
edge on NSW. We were ahead with
the TAB, we were ahead with Sunday
pictures. Why, we even had after-
dark coin-in-the-slot petrol bowsers.
After all, the screening of films
on Sundays was banned in Victoria
by a law based on an English statute
proclaimed in 1780 during the reign
of George 111. It was entitled: “An
Act for preventing certain abuses and
profanations of the Lord’s Day called
Sunday.”
The Chief Secretary, Mr Rylah,
was terribly careful. According to
the Bill, film shows could not start
before 8.30 p.m. This meant that all
Victoria was out of Evensong before
the movies started. Indeed, by leaving
them as late as 8.30 he wasn’t even
interfering with the good TV. And
he was very determined. He. said:
“I say unequivocally that if any of
the exhibitions provoke public unrest
or disturbances the Government will
not hesitate to repeal this legislation.”
Also, he warned against showing un-
suitable films”, meaning no horror
and no “undue emphasis on sex”.
The result was most interesting, no
public unrest, no disturbances. Many
of the churches even felt it was
sensible to give young people some-
thing to do after Evensong.
TThe only real broadside came from
the Reverend Sir Irving Benson ol
the Methodist Church. Said he: “What
is coming next? Could it be that we
will soon be having horse racing, night
trotting after 9 p.m. and the hotels
open for trade? Is this what our
Parliaments and councils want? -It
appals me when I am told that young
people must have more entertainment.
Young people should be taught how
to enjoy their own minds. And apart
from the art galleries, the library, the
variety of things to see like the bush,
and ships in port, they should think
what they can give. Why not try
visiting people in hospitals people
who never get a visitor?”
Sir Irviitg seemed to miss the point.
After 8.30 p.m. Melbourne is not
much good tor looking at the bush
or people in hospital.
Oddly enough, the real opposition
came from the Theatrical Employees’
Association. It demanded that their
employees who worked on Sundays
should receive one third of a week’s
pay plus a day off during the week.
Lovely money if the union could get
it. It meant an extra £8 10s. for
suburban workers, £9 for city workers,
all for about four hours’ work.
Actually, the award provides for
either one-third of a week's pay with
no day off during the week, or one-
sixth of a week’s pay with a day off
during the week. The Rev. J. B.
Longthorn of Ballarat said: “The
Theatrical Employees’ Association is
to be congratulated on its stand
against Sunday films. It is to be hoped
that some monetary sop will not
persuade them to forgo their
privilege.”
The union put its “black ban” on
Sunday and it is still on. Alas, we
still cannot make Sunday visits to
any of the theatres operated by the
big three, Hoyts, Greater Union or
Metro. However, according to Mr
J. E. Graham, chairman of the Cine-
matograph Exhibitors’ Association,
between 40 and 50 theatres in Vic-
toria are showing Sunday films; oil
but about four of them paying no
more than regular union wages. So
if this is true, a goodly number of
union members have stooped to the
monetary sop.
But for you folk in Sydney who are
anxious to have Sunday movies, Mr
Graham has produced some fascina-
ting figures on the success of Sunday
screening. He says that of all the
theatres which open on Sunday, 46
per cent reported profitable opera-
tion, 35 per cent said their results
were “Hneball” and 19 per cent un-
profitable.
Metropolitan Country
Profitable 53 41
Lineball 47 27
Unprofitable Nil 32
Hard-tops Drive-ins
Profitable 47 45
Lineball 12 55
Unprofitable 41 Nil
Mr Graham said it was a mistake
to think that all theatres were good
for Sundays. Obviously, Sunday
movies were better for drive-ins.
They were ideal for places like Shep-
parton and Mildura during the fruit-
picking season, wonderful for resorts
in season. And during the summer,
drive-ins round the bayside picked up
trade with the home-coming traffic
from the peninsula.
HThe deadlock with the union and the
A black ban goes on, but if, say,,
you wished to go to the movies in
Melbourne on Sunday night, June 27,
here was your choice: “My Fair
Lady” was available at the My Fair
Lady Theatre, “A Sordid Affair” at
The Australia; at the Brooklyn,
Dandenong. Croydon and Reservoir
drive-ins there was Alfred Hitch-
cock’s “Psycho” “the greatest
shocker hair-raising suspense drama
ever” plus “supporting shocker
show”, “I Married a Monster from
Outer Space”. One can only be
thankful that Mr Rylah was overseas
on this particular night. Who knows,
he might have found the programme
unsuitable. The Star Theatre was
closed Sunday so you couldn’t see
“Bachelor Tom and his Bikini Play-
mates”, but you could see “Man’s
Favorite Sport” at the Sandringham
drive-in.
Then, of course, around Carlton.
Clifton Hill and elsewhere there was
a fine range of Italian films. At
Clifton Hill one could- see “Secrete
di Generale Della Rovere” . . .
(Parlato in Ttaliano). Italians adore
Sunday films.
BATMAN




The TV News makers
Brash, young , tentative. ..but the fu ture?
By SAM LIPS
Shakespearian producer Sir Tyrone
Guthrie and the secretary of the
Victorian ALP, Biil Hartley, would
appear to have little in common. Yet
both last week gave their assessments of
Australian TV journalism, and both had
a point.
After being asked by a Perth TV inter-
viewer which play he considered Shake-
speare’s greatest, Sir Tyrone huffed:
“Where am I, in the backwoods? People
ask stupid questions.” This was not a
case of small-town lack of sophistication;
big city interviewing on television is
generally as gauche and immature.
In Melbourne, Mr Hartley, identifying
himself as the “lone administrator” in
the incident, had banned first Mr Gough
Whitlam and then Dr J. F. Cairns from
appearing on GTV-9's news programme,
Kevin Sanders Reports. He made i
clear that Sanders was persona non grata.
In doing so he was carrying on a
relatively new tradition which has sprung
up at recent Victorian ALP State con-
ferences —including television news and
especially Sanders in attacks on the
monopolist Press. Unlike Sir Tyrone,
Mr Hartley was not protesting about
the ignorance of the interviewer but
concerned at his likely competence and
knowledge.
Sanders, 29, with a matinee-idol’s
good looks which belie his serious in-
terest in politics and international affairs,
is more than the programme’s front
man. He prepares and writes his own
commentaries and is involved in the
writing and preparation of the news he
reads. At his best, when he stares with
unwavering eye through the lens and
into the living-room, Sanders is an im-
pressive television personality. GTV-9
executives speak confidently of him as
one of the station’s “new breed” of
newsmen.
Whatever the political implications of
the ban it is an interesting comment on
the growing significance attached to tele-
vision news. This is something relatively
new and quite different from the im-
portance which political parties and
advertising agencies have always attached
to television as a publicity medium at
election time.
This attention to TV news—“the other
journalism”—is part of the TV news and
public affairs boom in the last 18 months.
The statistics of expansion and develop-
ment are impressive.
The turning-point in TV news, accord-
ing to GTV’s news editor Peter Maund,
probably came with the death of Presi-
dent Kennedy late in 1963. “Maybe
this news event of the decade compelled
TV newsmen to put their tools of trade
to work properly. Maybe they hadn’t
had the opportunity to flex their muscles
before. Most probably there was the
coincidence of the end of television news
apprenticeship and the event which
demanded a journeyman approach.”
The Kennedy death made television
history also because it was the first
occasion when film was carried by co-
axial cable between Sydney and Mel-
bourne. There was no doubt which
news medium was best able to report
the bizarre events in Dallas. Despite the
delay in receiving film (even though this
was as little as 30 hours in most cases),
television news showed how a great
historic event could be reported in an
almost unbelievably direct, if some-
times frightening, way.
A matter of days after the assassina-
tion came the 1963 Federal elections
which were covered for the first time
direct from Canberra’s tally-room and
seen simultaneously in Sydney and Mel-
bourne through the coaxial cable. Im-
mediately after the elections the Channel
9 Network sent a reporter full-time to
Canberra.
Early in 1964 ATN-7 established
“Seven Days”, first under newspaper
editor J. D. Pringle, and then under
former university lecturer Peter Wester-
way. It also started a monthly interview
programme, “Encounter”. TCN-9 had
already set up a Special Projects Division
under doyen TV documentarist Bob Ray-
mond (who had launched “Four Corners”
for ABC) and started “Project ’64” and
a magazine-interview programme, “In-
sight”.
Since then both the ABC and the
Chamlel 9 Network use the coaxial cable.
In Melbourne HSV-7, once regularly
trailing GTV-9 in news ratings, has
made some solid gains with a revamped
news service, which regularly features
Asian affairs expert Denis Warner and
former newspaper editor Rohan Rivett,
ATV-0, which started transmission lasi
year, is planning a national current affairs
half-hour. In Sydney, ATN-7 is train-
ing a permanent interviewer, Stuart Wag-
staff, to do nothing else but interviewing,
In addition to newsreader John Bailey,
the station uses Harry Robinson as
regular background reporter.
TEN-10, which opened three months
ago, is taking a new approach. It has a
12-14-minute news service followed by a
magazine programme, “Telescope’. ABC
Television, long immune to change (th*
flip cards used for Newsreel were done
in the same style throughout Australia
for seven years), has in the last
months “thrown off the shackles o
radio” and begun to produce news ®
television with some radical 33
eminently successful departures in st)
and presentation, in particular the great
use of news film and on-the-spot repo
ing in the first 15 minutes °f ' ls ne ''
Developments in the smaller 13
are less exciting, but when ne
arrangements now under discuss'on
tween TEN-10 and ATV-0 1° or
Independent Television Networ a ■
tended, Brisbane, Adelaide an
State capitals will be induce ■
nical developments in cable hn' s
other capitals will help other o|]j
To appreciate these statistical ta
has to remember two more. , C3J
I making television news throughout the
I country, as they say, a multi-million
I pound industry; and, probably of more
importance, TV news has \ greater
I al| dience the newspapers have cir-
I dilation.
On a fairly typical night in Sydney last
month, according to one rating system.
4’aooo watched TCN-9 news, 343,000
ARv'a’ l 30 ' 000 TEN-,0 and 100,000
N '- a total audience about three
imes greater Jhan the combined circula-
ot Sydney’s two evening newspapers.
All these facts, combined with the grow-
ing number of instances where the power
of the v e 7 ‘ S rCCOgnised (as in the case
! ° he Victorian ALP), provide faith and
in\vh d n Ce f °nJ V j ° L,rnalists and editors
7 S !: ,! ca l led a “Young, brash
c tentative medium.
Tv rCm eXplana,ions for
th fln 1 , TV news services. More
merUs ° f lhe ser vice
ProbaMv T P ra,mg TCN - 9 news
probably owes much to the sneciat
; e r a m °^ riaa Henderson, the cTeftl!
“d lead-ou, aft ’'- lhc lead -''"
crucial —o n( i pro S ram mes are quite
accepted idea t! l e nebu,oLls but widely
Melbourne GTV 9 Sta , ,lOn ’ S ,“ inia S c ’'-
station’s onenina L 9 Se ° llt * rorn tfl e
It had the ° CaptUre news stings,
iotirnalist Co. n magCS ° f a former
Erector and an • ocnall, as managing
fy in Eric Pearce Z PerSo *r
known in hk badler as he is
although not a . nevvs department who,
to projectls oUrna,ist - been able
vvit h what he ■ eilol J? ness an <J concern
ne is reading.)
“cal!-"" r “'^lopmenViUsTorm
, past - Melbourne’s ATV-0 nviv h»
5
=»rre„, affairs programmes were Sopped
W. hm ,he first sis months of the chan
ut‘SrXt f r
Front a
came down to 30 minutes and now to
;f hrn m ' nutes ’ w,th s °me headline news
! roughouT the evening. The fundi
mental mistake seemed'to be tha, he'
° f f TV '°' S ,e ' evision " e '«
seemed to be good journalists but only
for newspapers. Television was fo them
he ne ;, e b r ience ’ r
re ' UC ' ant *° act -
GTV-9, although still the leading news
servtee Melbourne, has retained fis
late-night news programme on Sunday,
Nightwatch”. Perhaps, like Graham
‘■Nr1 CdVS fn Melbourne Tonight”
Ntghtwatch” could survive only in Mel-
bourne without basically changing in
five years Despite the occasional lapses
mto good and absorbing human interest
TV, the programme has maintained a
banal and predictable level of medio-
cnly As a typical “Nightwatch” script
would have it, it presents a sorry store
of car accidents and crime, sad strippers
and pally policemen; everyone ea»er to
get their heads on TV. / T he irony h °
been that “Nightwatch” has sometime
shown that it has the kind of camera-
men writers, editors and reporters who
Lid transfer their specialised skills to
something more challenging than report-
er?? ' e b^ aUty on the corner of Church
and High Street”. HSV-7 with the back-
ing of the country’s largest newspaper
organisation “The Herald-Sun”, behind
them, has shown that it cannot always
exploit this great potential backing.
The ABC in Sydney is at last treating
,ts .. IV news se rvice as TV instead of
radio with pictures, which it was doin*
m Sir Richard Boyer's time as chairman"
Brit its other TV channels outside NSW,
where head office control is less com-
plete, are still far behind. The difference
is most marked in Melbourne where
ABC news ratings are so low that they
are not regarded as serious competition
by the commercial channels. In Sydney
the ABC is a competitor. (“I’m after
ratings,” its director, Mr Keith Fraser,
explained.) But even in Sydney the ABC
though more flexible, still' sticks basically
to its 15 minutes of news (which it now
oversteps more regularly) and 10-minute
newsreel.
ATN-7 uses a “reporter” as well as a
newsreader, but often, it seems, for no
other reason than to change the picture
if r °m the regular newsreader, John
rcall?\t mUC h 0t the “ back S rou nd” is
v straight reporting. The idea nf
xplS° n ,f iCS in ™“« hafLea
exploited to great advantage by the
Br?„ e t r ,'T. (for eXam P ,e ' Huntley and
Bnnkley), but relationships between the
Th , ‘|'' e to be carefully worked out
icon, the studio, rarely “on they^
rfter E lh' ° S .“ Tclesc °P e ” « improving
' ‘ news 6 “ “f
" eWS "* ®
as'ts'new 6 ' l , ,eCausc in P'acliST'telc-
J? the „ n Tie had finished. Now
t abouTMS 6 ' 3 ,°
eporjs oldies'lafsi^^^
1 in!crvi "w wi'thNew GuTnea politicians
1 14 minmeTof Tv" T h C e ohabil easily
>h Joan Sutherland! SPeC ‘ a ' in ‘ CrView
Jn Bob Raymond, TCN-9 has Aus
J'CS best TV documentary at ft
recent programme on the drought
>wed »&“■ But a locally pS,
agramme is likely to appear only o«e
five or s,x weeks, and only rarely will
fie as topical as the drough, survey
Four Corners , which, having more
J and more money than its com-
"ors, has potentially the Greatest
Pe of any of the public a£
grammes, has been sporadic in
! ly : " n ' ade perhaps the most honest
usston of its shortcomings in show-
? w iifu . l,y handlcd P rofi| c
Sir Robert Menz.es by Robin Day
obvious question is why are we
ABO°Th CC r 't a Pr ° filc made by
ABC? The cliche answer is that the
- is too scared of political inter-
ice I wonder if much of the noise
!! ,be . l? olllical interference in the
s TV journalism is not misplaced
'W there not rather be more ques-
asked about the ABCs competence
ab'lity to do a piece of reporting
Day's? What the question boilf
I to is, would there be any inter-
ce if we had men like Day?
)st of the foregoing criticism is the
of self-questioning which can be
any day of the week in any news
at any TV channel. Perhaps the
’ most encouraging feature about
V news industry is that its editors
ournahsts are generally far more
itica!, more -adaptable to change,
awake to the possibilities of
disni than their newspaper counter-


Discussing the profession's short-
comings, Peter Maund of GTV-9 com- ;
ments: “Although the President Kennedy
story was salutary as an appraisal of
what TV news had to offer, it also under-
scored how far it has to go. There is
still a pre-occupation in our newsrooms
with the lessons learned in newspapers,
radio, or even newsreel theatres. Of
course, TV news is none of these, or even
a composite of them. Yet there is still
a tendency to lean on these schools.
Barely any stations capitalise on their
outside broadcast units for immediate
news. Big and predictable sports events
attract OB [Outside Broadcast] vans. But
it’s not often an OB van will turn out
to the fire that has just broken out.
What the English call the ‘built OB’
the use of remote live pre-produced tele-
vision to document current affairs is
unheard of here. The newsreader is
invariably anchored to his desk. He
never moves around his studio to maps
or rear projection screens to drive home
his story. Television still hasn’t learned
to capitalise on the very expensive elec-
tronic wonderland that will one day
make it the most penetrating and in-
structive method of news dissemination.”
A Luddite ■ refusal
HThis feeling among newsmen that they
■ are the “wave of the future” in jour-
nalism has understandably alarmed some
of their less electronically oriented col-
leagues.
Pressmen take, broadly, three positions.
Mostly they pretend TV does not exist,
if one takes as evidence the complete
failure to adjust morning newspaper
headlines and news to the reality that
every TV channel has often pounded a
story to death twice the night before.
Or they accept it with studied con-
descension. This attitude is found in
the newspaperman-dominated Australian
Journalists’ Association. A book pub-
lished by the AJA on the principles of
journalism devotes only one combined
chapter out of 30 to both radio and TV
news. In trying to establish rules for
the conduct of Press conferences it has
worked on the assumption that Press-
men are somehow the naturally aggrieved
party. Few TV journalists take an
interest in the AJA and some AJA
leaders blame this lack of interest for
the lack of sympathy.
Finally, there is an extreme reaction
found among some older journalists
which occasionally borders on a Luddite
refusal to accept reality. As if in mourn-
ing, one leading head of a newspaper
bureau in Canberra now refuses to ask
any questions at the Prime Minister’s
Press conference in Canberra, held
annually after his return from London.
“A bloody circus,” is his comment. Dis-
cussing this view with another Pressman
after last year's conference (televised live
in Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne for
the first time), three main complaints
emerged against TV news: it is produced
by showmen as entertainment and there-
fore cannot be taken seriously; it is not
original; it is too superficial and provides
little background.
All three criticisms are at least partly
fair if one accepts the unconsidered and
unmentioned bias that most Pressmen
have about what TV news ought to be.
Their relevance would be better under-
stood if the Pressmen who make the
criticisms saw a TV news department at
work. Most services start some time
between 8 and 9 a.m. The first journalist
on duty is called by various names
chief of staff, assignments editor, super-
visor of filming. Having read the morn-
ing newspapers, heard the radio news
services, checked the duty book and run
through the news agency or radio ser-
vice, he decides on what film coverage
to organise. The decisions are deter-
mined first by what will be news that
evening, how good the visual story will
be, and what number of cameramen he
has available.
The aim is to get all or most of the
film back into the station by 3.30 to 4
p.m. daily. Only news events of more
than average interest will be filmed after
4 p.m. and only the exceptional event
after 5 p.m.
Departments vary in their approach to
editorial conferences, but only rarely do
they attain the formal importance of a
daily newspaper’s. Mostly they are in-
formal and involve only two or three
people the news editor, the chief of
staff and the journalist producing the
news bulletin that day.
Usually the news editor and chief of
staff will plan what special coverage they
will give to the more important stories
of the day. Is special filming required?
Are interviews needed? Will maps or
diagrams help? Can there be special
effects using lighting or other facilities?
By 1 p.m. the almost daily service of
overseas film has arrived. The principal
supplier of overseas newsfilm to Aus-
tralia is the British Commonwealth In-
ternational Newsfilm Agency (BCINA),
which has arrangements with the BBC
for European and British coverage, and
with NBC for American coverage as well
as its own cameramen in various coun-
tries. Some channels also take a film
service from Britain’s Independent Tele-
vision News.
By 2.30 or 3 p.m. the bulletin editor
will have seen all the overseas film and
much of the local film. Another in-
formal editorial conference and a tenta-
tive film order is decided. The aim is
for all the main stories in a bulletin to
be illustrated with film, where possible.
Decisions as to the order of news items
and the opening presentation are made
on the basis of the distinctive approach
of television news, summed up in these
words by Robin Day: “A newspaper
applies its priorities in the dimension of
space, television news in the dimension
of time.” He could have added treat-
ment. In any choice between a number
of equally immediate and important
news items there will be different deter-
mining factors perhaps the most im-
portant being how to attract the viewer
from the start and keep him there. Hence
the current vogue for the “teaser” open-
ing in which headlines and the promise
of the bulletin's “goodies” make up the
opening.
Showmen and newsmen
fF : HE “lead” item will usually be chosen
A on the basis of what direct impact
the item will make on the daily lives of
most viewers. A rise in bus fares, the
price of butter, or the weather will take
pride of place over a seemingly
momentous statement by, say, the Prime
Minister of South Vietnam. Most TV
channels resolve the dilemma by refer-
ring to the South Vietnam story in the
teaser opening and then making their
first story the fare rise.
For most half-hour news services
(actually they work out at about 18
minutes with commercials, headlines,
weather reports) there are three or four
writers or, at the ABC, sub-editors. They
view film, discuss its cutting with the
film editors, and write the introductory
news story and film script on the basis
of information supplied by the bulletin
editor. This usually consists of the cable
story, a cameraman’s “dopesheet” giving
basic information, and details from Press
cuttings (all too often from the after-
noon newspapers).
The TV treatment of news is decided
by journalists whether to present a
profile of the newsreader, to use film and
go back to a reader in the middle of
story, when to use still photos, library
film, sound tapes, diagrams and maps.
Some channels have the help of ex-
perienced TV directors, but in most cases
the department will depend on the
visualisation expertise of trained jour-
nalists.
The most striking impression in any
news department anywhere in Australia
is the youth often the extreme youth
—of its senior men. Almost all the
actual editors as distinct from executives
are men in their 20s or 30s; most of
the newswriters are in their 20s and
both editors and writers have often been
in TV news for five years or longer.
This consideration is relevant when dis-
cussing the three criticisms of showiness,
superficiality and lack of originality.


KIENZLE
ACCOUNTING MACHINES
:.:; : .-. x
f 1
fl& ‘ I
& $
.
■
Mir*
::
X
ipPf
m~*rr
s
W 8&&,
Get to know Kienzle now
Kienzle is a complete range of
true decimal accounting machines
designed to cover the different and
specialised accounting needs of
every type of business—
your business.
The versatile range embraces models
with 2 to 25 registers, with or
without typewriter keyboard, includes
machines for production of EDP
input media and fully electronic
billing operations.
Make a date to see Kienzle—product of
Europe’s largest manufacturer of accounting
machines.
STOTT”
& UNDERWOOD LIMITED
254 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. 27 1182
BRISBANE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • GEELONG • CANBERRA
LISMORE • WOLLONGONG • NEWCASTLE • TOWNSVILLE
65-558


0, 0
ARE SWISS WATCHES BETTER THAN SWISS CHEESE?
or the other way round?
If you’re hungry a watch will be of little use. However, if
you want to know the time it’s no good looking at a piece of
cheese.
But the way to settle the discussion is—go to Switzerland.
Switzerland is ready for you with an excellent batch of
package tours costing from only £7 a day. (Including
transportation, first class hotels, all meals, tips, taxes, guides,
entrance fees )
Consult YOUR TRAVEL AGENT for information on 1965
TOUR OFFERS. By the way, if you’re travelling round
Europe or around the world, fly Swissair. You can join a
Swissair flight in the Far East and travel to 67 cities in 41
countries throughout the world.
■V* SWISSAIR
" SWISSCARE—WORLDWIDE
Genera! Agents: Australia—Ansett-A.N.A.
New Zealand and Pacific Islands—Air New Zealand
Critics of “showiness” usually mean
that the newsreaders are chosen for their
looks, for their voice, for their person-
ality and not at all for their under-
standing of news. Critics add it may
be sometimes hard to accept, for ex-
ample, a man reading: “500 Vietnamese
troops have been wiped out in a Viet-
cong assault, two teenage girls have been
brutally assaulted and murdered at
Bondi, and Mr Holt has warned of a
stiff Budget this year. Details of these
reports follow this break”—followed by
a flicker and 90 seconds of acne-re-
mover, toilet-paper and petrol. Yet con-
sidering the high cost of maintaining a
television news department, the growing
cut-throat nature of competition for TV
advertising, and the fact that advertising
in news-time brings anything up to a
20 per cent premium (TCN-9 news, for
instance, rates ahead of Perry Mason
and is one of the State’s top 10 shows),
the dropping of commercials in news
time seems a forlorn hope..
On the question of “showmen” versus
“newsmen”, there are variations from
channel to channel. Both ATN-7’s John
Bailey and TCN-9's Brian Henderson
have that programme manager’s dream
quality “teenage appeal” but they
are also “parent-approved”. Both have
compered variety shows. Henderson con-
tinues with “Bandstand”, but Bailey is
anxious to get away from his “Top Pop”
image and concentrate only on news.
Whether the news has any less authority
because it is read by a man who also
comperes light entertainment is a moot
point and seems largely a matter of
taste.
The second criticism —lack of origin-
ality—is based on TV new’s dependence
on radio news, agency copy and news-
paper cuts. This is partly true, but the
criticism overlooks the fact that there
is a growing number of TV teams travel-
ling within Australia and overseas to get
their own news. While it is still true
that the greater percentage of TV news
is not originated by the channels them-
selves, a growing percentage of it is.
More to the point, TV newsmen do not
necessarily admit this is a relevant
criticism. They agree that they depend
on other media to some extent and report
the same news, but they part company,
they say, in what they do with the same
news item.
The superficiality and lack of depth
attack finds TV newsmen at their most
vulnerable. No channel can yet boast a
political, industrial or international affairs
expert on its own staff. None has even
got a journalist who is allowed to
specialise in one of these fields. No
channel or network in Australia main-
tains any representatives overseas full-
time whose only responsibility is TV
news. No department can claim to have
even the inadequate research facilities of
most newspapers, although many have
film libraries.
In short, despite the encouraging signs
for the future, Australian television news
is still without its Ed Murrow, Walter
Cronkite, Robin Day, John Freeman or,
ironically enough, its Michael Charlton.
Unlike newspapers the local product has
to compete with the best of overseas
television news. Most senior television
newsmen at the ABC and at commercial
channels readily admit that the future
of TV news in Australia depends on
the recruitment and training of the
specialist TV reporter. His skills will
not be shorthand and typing but the
ability to interview with hot lights on
the back of his neck. He will not think
of a new story in terms of “12 pars” but
of 40 seconds of film. He will speak
clearly, look presentable without being
a film star, and he will learn a different
style of journalism. He will probably
help to prepare and read his own
bulletins.
The ABC’s Federal director of tele-
vision news, Mr Keith Fraser, admitting
to the difficulties of getting enough men
who can become TV reporters, explains
it in terms of the long tradition of ex-
pecting journalists to be competent at
a whole range of skills. “Television is
too specialised for that. But we still
expect a man to be able to write, to edit
film, to sub copy, to interview, to appear
on camera and then to come back and
sweep out the place when he’s finished.”
Mr Fraser also believes that TV news
does not pay enough to attract the best
people.
This, it seems, is a matter for the pro-
fession as well as management. If TV
is to attract men with the skills it needs
there must be a complete revision of the
grading system of the AJA which is
based on the needs of newspapers.
The most exciting possibilities for TV
news in Australia are those which await
it everywhere—the technical advances of
satellite systems which will enable direct
and simultaneous global coverage. Be-
cause of time differences the most effec-
tive use of the satellite will be in trans-
mitting film quickly so that evening news
services will show film the same day
it is shot anywhere in the world.
But there are as yet no ground
facilities in Australia for the satellite; it
will be at least two years before any
satellite enables coverage in the Southern
Hemisphere over the Pacific area; and
even then it will cost, on present
estimates, between £3OOO-£5OOO per
hour.
But if one considers the technical
advances in communications it seems
that, despite the problems, satellite TV is
coming within the next five years. The
big challenge for the TV newsmakers of
the future will be how to make use of
the great fund of material which will be
available to them. And beyond that?
The news in color.


The Debutantes Bow Out
Broken ankles but no broken hearts
By R. J. SCHOLFIELD
Seventeen Australian debutantes
who came to Britain in April for
a taste of this country’s social
life will be returning home soon after
being raked with crossfire by nearly every
columnist in London. Yet they will not
be in retreat, for the organisers of the
package-deal that brought them here
intend to repeat the' performance next
year. The head lady at the London end
of things, Mrs Ben Walford, is follow-
ing her girls south to Australia next
month to round up another batch of
fillies for the social stakes of 1966.
Organised in Australia by Travelwise
Pty Ltd, of Sydney, the enterprise was
described by the sponsors as a “nine-
week lecture-tour and finishing-school”.
It began and is ending with travel on
the Continent, but this is just the bread.
The filling is the London social season.
The tour cost each girl, or her parents,
£1495, but this is by the way. Neither
Mrs Walford, the “finishing school direc-
tor”, nor Lady Mackworth, who did
some of the Australian canvassing, nor
Mrs Nicolls, who accommodated some
of the girls at her house in Chelsea, nor
Viscountess Tarbat, professional public
relations consultant who for a while
looked after publicity, nor the Countess
of Basildon, who taught them the nice-
ties of flower arranging, likes to speak
of money.
Mrs Walford, a grandmother who had
her own two daughters presented at
Court some years ago, gives a clue to her
interest in the project: Commonwealth-
mindedness. “I took the work on to pro-
mote meetings between these girls and
English ones of the same age and extend
Commonwealth relations.” From some
angles it look as though Commonwealth
relations have been not so much
extended as strained.
As bait for journalists, of course, there
could be few things more tempting than
a £l5OO whirlwind socio-cultural pack-
age deal for Colonials, and they rose
to it snapping. Mrs Walford admitted
to being “driven hairless, quite hairless”
by the horrid things they were saying
about the girls. Asked which paper was
the worst, Mrs Walford replied: “The
‘Express’. That William Hickey page.”
The William Hickey columnist who
stung Mrs Walford and her brood hap-
pened to be another Australian girl,
Helen Styles, formerly of the Melbourne
“Sun”. Before the girls arrived, she had
heralded their coming with a warning
about the outback accents and expres-
sions that would set the cups clattering
in London drawing-rooms this season,
and added a glossary of Australia slang
so that people would know what the
girls were talking about. Later, the same
column told its readers how the girls had
failed to get escorts for a ball. Mrs
Walford did not agree. “They’re having
a marvellous time and meeting masses
of young men, simply masses,” she said.
One sometimes wondered whether there
were actually two groups of girls.
The girls, aged 16 to 21, started their
London season with the Queen Charlotte
Ball at Grosvenor House. Escorts or
no escorts, it was an eventful night for
Caroline Johnson, 19, of Melbourne.
She was a maid of honor during the
ball itself. Then, when she was leaving,
she got tangled up in the revolving doors,
which were being powered by a muscu-
lar Guards officer, and was shot, like
water off a paddle blade, down the steps
into the street, breaking her ankle. Later,
when poor Caroline went to Windsor,
a young gallant, spotting her crutches,
tried to lift her down some steps but
found he was not strong enough, and
dropped her, with the result that the
ankle had to be reset.
It may have been some consolation
for Caroline that the “Evening News’s”
Friday columnist, Shirley Lord, described
her as the prettiest of the bunch, although
this obviously didn’t take care of the
main problem, because Caroline, alas,
was later quoted as saying that she had
so 'far only been to one cocktail party
her own.
Another 19-year-old, Christina How-
ard-Smith, of Sydney, scored a triumph
from the same event by getting her
picture in the “Tatler” about the
most advanced achievement of its kind
but she didn’t learn about it until
later, when she was browsing through
the magazine in a dentist’s waiting-room.
During the stay, one girl, Susan Hop-
kins, of Melbourne, got herself engaged,
but to another Australian, Mr Bruce
Gabriel, whose father owns Melbourne’s
Hampton Court Hotel.
Much of the girls’ planned activity
took the form of lectures on subjects
ranging from Georgian Theatre to the
Pope. “They are big speakers, in world
class”, said Mrs Walford, alluding to
such as Elizabeth, Countess of Basildon,
whose address was entitled “Dried
Flowers and Christmas Decorations”
(“That will bring some of the racier
girls to earth,” quipped the ‘Express’),
and Countess Jellicoe, wife of a former
Minister of State, who dealt with Bri-
tish History and the Constitution. Unfor-
tunately, many of the girls remained in
bed on lecture days, and several of Mrs
Watford’s personages found themselves
with scarcely any audience. Once, pro-
voked on another matter by a news-
paperman, she rounded on her own
charges: “They lie in bed all morning
simply will not get up and won’t
go to the talks that very prominent
people have agreed to give them. I’ve
had to fire a couple of rockets at them.”
The girls did the round of Britain’s
stately homes, like Woburn Abbey and
Blenheim Palace, although at a some-
what higher level than the masses, get-
ting personal sessions with the noble
owners and drinking from crested cups.
And they went to Ascot and the Derby
and attended a Garter ceremony at
Windsor.
It is doubtful whether the tour has
given them any additional poise, for
it has been rather too short to have had
much effect. Besides, as one of the young
ladies said when consulted on the sub-
ject: “We had it already.”
Whatever form the benefits have
taken, and despite the jolts, the organ-
isers are confident of doing it all again
next year. Mrs Walford is off to Aus-
tralia next month, in an honorary capac-
ity, of course, to start spreading the net.
“I shall be all over Australia, including
even Tasmania, until Christmas,” she
said.


.
m
>■: i
■ *. -.
:y" : —
-cjM
jigsgigtpp
r?v'*?r/- " v r *
- _
kj
; ry
I 6
%
iifjy
m
CII V r,
m f 4
>< r.
•'•T.
-: r
■<v
~«•
'■■-■
C
So'
■o,
$y
■Sy
.X
SO
&
V
<£*
V#
so
$
y;
y
y
y
SS
m
Men who guide the destinies of
the world wear
THE ROLEX "DAY-DATE" >
Most remarkable achievement in watch-making, the
Rolex Oyster Perpetual “Day-Date.” Available only in
18-ct. gold or platinum, with matching “President”
bracelet.
Like all Rolex chronometers, every “Day-Date” is
now awarded the highest distinction of the Swiss Insti-
tutes for Official Chronometer Tests, the mention
“Especially good results.”
Its superlative accuracy is protected by the famous
Rolex Oyster case, made in Geneva by Swiss craftsmen
and guaranteed 100% waterproof, and its movement is
selfwound by the Perpetual rotor. The date and the day
of' the week, written in full, change instantaneously
every midnight.
THE ROLEX WATCH COMPANY LIMITED (Founder: H.Wilsdorf), geneva, Switzerland
SYDNEY: ANGUS & COOTE, 500 GEORGE STREET MELBOURNE: DUNKLINGS, 313 BOURKE STREET PERTH : LINDSAYS, 655 HAY STREET
BRISBANE: MACKAYS, 9 ADELAIDE STREET


Rolex watches
You know their names as you know
your own. You know their faces
from a thousand newspaper and
magazine articles. You have seen
them and heard their voices on
newsreels and on your television
screen. Their actions and decisions
influence the pattern of our lives.
We cannot mention their names,
or show pictures of them. It would
not be fitting to do so, for they
include royalty, the heads of states,
great service commanders. But we
invite you to look carefully at the
next pictures that you see of them,
at their wrists as well as their faces
and clothes. You will notice that
in almost every case they wear a
wrist-watch. That watch will
most likely have been made by
Rolex of Geneva.
We are proud of the service given
by Rolex watches to so many
eminent men throughout the
world. It is scarcely necessary to
point out that the performance of
these watches is, in the highest
degree, accurate and dependable.
• ? •
w
ROLEX
A landmark in the history of
Time measurement
Rock-Hounds by the
Carload
Stubbing your toe on a sapphire
By JACK POLLARD
Mrs Roy McKinney was boiling
her billy on the Anakie gem-
fields, 200 miles west of Rock-
hampton in central Queensland, when
she stubbed her toe on a sapphire. It
was larger than a turkey’s egg, gloriously
blue beneath the waterworn surface, and
weighed 1997 carats (almost one lb.). To-
day that stone, valued at a quarter of a
million dollars, is carved as the head of
George Washington in a collection
called The Presidents.
The Presidents was a gift to the Ameri-
can people from Los Angeles gem mer-
chant Harry Kazanjian and his brother
James. Between 1947 and 1950 Kazan-
jian acquired five great Queensland
sapphires, all of them from the old river-
bed at Anakie. Four of them formed
the Presidents collection of Washington,
Lincoln, Jefferson and Eisenhower, and
the fifth, the Black Star of Queensland,
the world's largest star sapphire, is in
the Smithsonian Institute at Washington.
According to the Queensland Govern-
ment Mining Journal, the Black Star of
Queensland was used for years as a door-
stop at the home of Rubyvale gem dealer
Harry Spencer before Kazanjian got hold
of it.
Inspired perhaps by stories such as
Mrs McKinney’s lucky toe-stubbing,
thousands of new-chum amateur pros-
pectors are now seeking to tap Australia’s
remarkable gemstone resources. Col-
lecting gemstones is probably Australia’s
fastest growing hobby. Every holiday
weekend more than 50,000 Australians
pack their camping gear, get into their
old clothes, and head for the gemfields.
Mines Departments in every State
report record applications for the
miner’s right, the document which allows
the holder to prospect freely on Crown
land. Airlines report flights from capital
cities to gem centres are heavily booked.
A book explaining where to find, polish
and cut gemstones, and brimming with
tales like the discovery in 1948 of Mrs
McKinney’s sapphire.* sold out its first
edition within 10 days of publication
recently in Sydney. Substantial orders
for the book have come from America
and Britain, where hitherto Australia’s
gemstone reputation hung largely on
opals.
Australian Gemstones, by Bill
James, published by K. G. Murray, at
425. 6d.
In NSW there are now 36 lapidary
clubs catering for around 5000 members.
The clubs organise trips for members
to gemfields under experienced leader-
ship, and in their own workrooms teach
members how to turn their finds into
attractive jewellery.
A wide variety of gemstones can be
found in every Australian State, but until
1953 it was mainly the shrewd old pro-
fessional prospector who went looking
for them. Traditionally he was secretive
about his finds and made his profits in
private deals with dealers like Kazanjian.
Mines Department officers long ago gave
up as impossible the chore of keeping
an accurate record of gemstone finds be-
cause there is no way they can know for
sure what the professionals have found,
if anything.
The growing network of clubs is help-
ing to change the gemstones scene, for
the clubs operate in close co-operation
with Mines Departments who freely
advise them, welcome outsiders to their
workrooms, and in the field lapidary
club members frequently outnumber
seasoned pros.
The upsurge of club interest began in
1953 when Sydney gemstones expert
Jack Taylor got a dozen enthusiasts to-
gether and formed the NSW Lapidary
Club. Today the club repeatedly gets 30
to 40 carloads of members turning out
for trips to gemfields. Affiliated clubs
are operating at Parramatta, Sutherland
Bankstown, Wagga, Quirindi, Narrabri,
Inverell, Mudgee, Kyogle, Broken Hill.
Lismore, Thirroul, Bathurst, Katoomba,
in Sydney’s Western Suburbs, St George
district, North Shore, Central Coast and
Nepean districts. The movement has
been slower to work up a head of steam
in other States, but there are expanding
clubs in every major gems centre from
the Grampians to Wangaratta, from
Cairns to Gulgong.
Prospecting for gold and opals has
been popular in Australia for more than
100 years, but it is only since the advent
of the lapidary club movement that the
secrecy of the professionals has been
lifted and the remarkable diversity of
Australia’s gemstones resources become
widely known. Inquisitive lapidarians
have found that most of the great over-
seas gemstone collections boast prize
Australian stones. They have discovered
real treasures in unpubiicised stones like


MOVE UP TD THE CAR
THAT PAYS
TOP DIVIDENHS
mm
■ :
■
mm
'c; @ fl y>vA ' / j£|K§i §lllll
mmm wm mmm fl||jmi
./MBp
y/ff-f. %
%
:
:
■■
:
FZB49
If you are especially particular about the dividends a car
can pay you —consider the rewards of owing a Ford
Zephyr.
Here is truly individual styling, plus superb perfor-
mance, plus luxurious comfort far in advance of normal
standards.
Behind the wheel you will experience the unique
Zephyr performance —sports car acceleration (o to 60 in
15.6 seconds), big car ride, over 90 miles per hour
without strain from the 6-cylinder “oversquare” 98 hp
engine.
Inside the Zephyr is spacious, uncramped comfort for
six—beautifully appointed in every way, with remarkable
all-round vision. Luggage room is spacious, too —21.75
cubic feet under the sleek lines of the rear deck. Zephyr
standard equipment includes disc brakes on front wheels,
walnut-finish on the fascia panel, armrests on all doors,
folding armrest in front seat, fully synchromesh 4-speed
gearbox.
On the economy front, Zephyr pays high dividends, too.
26 mpg when cruising, lubrication and servicing only
every 5000 miles.
If you are especially particular, then it’s likely that the
Ford Zephyr is the car designed with you in mind. Find
out now, at your Ford Dealer’s. £1,394
3-speed automatic drive optional
FORD ZEPHYR
•-‘■SSSs?
DESIGNED FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE


nms,
m.
, , Jc «■-*
M;
j ; , . -
■
- iV, .:*<
if&4&
a®"
mm
■
Just hold
an
Asahi Pentax
. . . and you begin to understand
why this camera is the ultimate
choice of discerning photographers
all over the world.
Asahi Pentax is a beautifully balanced
instrument. It’s smooth. Precise. Fast. And
incredibly accurate. The lenses give superb
performance. It's easy to handle, too.
Meticulously built for constant use. Another
great Asahi Pentax advantage is its clo-
unything versatility. The wide range of
accessories enables you to build up a com-
plete system which prepares you for -any
demand, from microphotography to extra
long range telephotography, high speed
action subjects to portraiture. Just hold an
Asahi Pentax at your dealer’s soon!
KOI I 23
rhodonite, jasper, agate, petrified wood
and the quartz varieties. Although dozens
of minerals have been added to the list
retained by the Crown, Australia re-
mains a rock-hound’s paradise.
The ethics of the rock-hounds are con-
fused, however. Many enthusiasts claim
they retain everything they find whatever
the value and frown on “money-minded-
ness”. Others admit they would waste
no time converting anything valuable
they found into cash. Some preach on
the value of friendship in the open air
and the benefits of a hobby centred
around sparkling streams, mountain air.
Others say this is humbug and that every
rock-hound hopes he will make a strike
like Mrs McKinney.
All the rock-hounds are unanimous,
though, that when they do find some-
thing valuable they rarely trust their own
skill in cutting it. The weight of a
valuable gemstone is one thing, but it
is in the skill of cutting and setting that
its true value is achieved. Frequently
smaller stones of extreme asterism the
showing of reflected light as a star
are more valuable than larger stones.
Bill James tells in his book of the
care with which Kazanjian fashioned the
black sapphire which had been used as
a doorstop by the Spencers. Working
for three months in daily sessions of five
hours, Kazanjian cut and polished this
Anakie star sapphire, shaping it to a
smooth oval slightly larger than a hen’s
egg and weighing almost half a pound.
From its black depths, the star burnt
bright, flashing its rays across the face
of the stone. Today this stone of 733
carats is the world’s largest black
sapphire, valued 12 years ago at
300,000 dollars.
Not all the lapidary club outings are
to fields likely to produce rich finds.
Some trips are short—to Garie Beach,
about 20 miles from Sydney, for agates,
or to Prospect quarry for prehite. The
longer trips to places like Lightning
Ridge are reserved for long weekends
and holiday periods and it is then that
/ the Mines Departments are kept busy
issuing the miner’s right to amateurs.
The Sydney office of the Mines Depart-
ment, which in 1962 issued 1806 miner’s
rights, last year issued 2176. This does
not seem a high figure until it is realised
that there are 150 other Warden’s clerks
issuing miner’s rights in NSW.
The miner’s right costs 10s. for six
months or £1 for a year, and it has to
be nailed on a board or datum post at
the spot where the prospector proposes
to dig. The law in each State demands
that claims should be clearly marked so
that trespassers will know of their in-
fringement. The Commonwealth Bureau
of Mineral Resources maintains a list of
Australia’s principal buyers for those
lucky enough to find something valuable.
Gem-seeking is fun if you are the
type who enjoys camping out. This is
how club member Lloyd Meller de-
scribes a weekend trip to Native Dog
Creek, 20 miles from Bathurst, in the
Lapidary Club of NSW’s magazine:
“In all 81 people, 32 cars and six
dogs were on the campsite, although I
understand not all were from Sydney.
There were some enthusiasts from
Orange as well. Everyone without ex-
ception was able to take away some
zircons and sapphires. A few fortunate
people were even able to get some nice
flakes and slugs of gold. The biggest
winners of stones were among those
panning for the first time. Two of our
youngest members, Karen and Phillip
David, aged seven and 10, found the
largest sapphire. All things considered,
in spite of the appearance of a few
snakes, it was a very happy and success-
ful prospecting weekend.”
The NSW Lapidary Club has premise*
at Chippendale, where the use of a
diamond saw and grinding wheels is
available to members every weekday
evening. Members’ work is exhibited
every year at an annual show. Last
time round there were almost 50 show-
cases of exhibits. Members are glad so
many other clubs are springing up.
They could never cater for all the
people who want to learn about gem-
stones.


jjff
\- -•• :-v\ •••
4'- -i t:' :*>
*
Malay satay dla genuine thing —with tamarind and spices.
Who discovered SINGAPORE?
We did! The travel agent started it by explaining it wouldn’t cost a penny
more to stop-over in Singapore, on our way to Europe. On those terms who
would miss the chance to go on a voyage of discovery!
So we came to Singapore. The friendly, cosmopolitan people welcomed us
to their fascinating country and we were set fair to uncover an array of
spectacle and excitement that gave real meaning to the saying—‘You see
more of the Orient in Singapore.’ Take a glimpse at this magical island
with us and you too will be taking the first steps towards discovering wonder-
ful Singapore.
FOOD Singapore is a kitchen to the world!
A person can eat just so much in fotir days—but with all this pageant of
sumptious dishes, where do you start —or stop!? Malay satay a la genuine
thing—with tamarind and spices beaten and mixed for hours on end, to give
you a relishing feast. Chinese food is a way of life! We sat down to 12
courses last night. Each one a wonder of exotic tastes. Then there are the
stimulating Indian muslim foods, spicy and aromatic. There is an endless
variety of the world's best European food served in the many seaside night
clubs and palm fringed modern hotels.
WEST AUSTRALIANS. do you know that it is
almost as cheap to travel to Singapore as it is to
visit Sydney. In about the same time that it
takes to fly from Perth to Sydney-you could be
setting foot in the heart of the Orient — Singapore.
For lots of exciting information, consult your travel agent about
your stop-over in Singapore or write to Singapore Government
Tourist Information Service, 15 Grosvenor Street, Sydney, 343
Little Collins Street, Melbourne or Industry House, Canberra.
Qint}dpoi*t>
DARWIN
Language Barrier
A sian students’ inadequacy with
“*■ spoken English is the main reason
for their high failure rate at Australian
universities and technical colleges, ac-
cording to West Australian Dr Roy
Adam. Dr Adam has been awarded a
travel and research grant to study some
of the problems of Asian students. The
grant, given by the Social Science Re-
search Council of Australia and the
National Union of Australian University
Students, is the brainchild of the NUAUS
who feel not enough is being done to
help students from neighboring countries.
Dr Adam brings to the assignment
wide experience with language problems
in education. The British Government
sent him to the Fiji Islands and later to
Indonesia, where he was a professor of
education, and in 1963 the Northern
Territory administration invited him to
Darwin to help deal with Aboriginal
children’s language problems. He holds
a Master of Arts and Diploma of Educa-
tion from Sydney, Master of Education
from Melbourne, and Doctorate from
London. For the past four years Dr
Adam has been senior lecturer in educa-
tion at the University of Western Aus-
tralia.
“We accept students purely on the
basis of a written test,” Dr Adam pointed
out, “yet it is possible to get through a
written test without knowing the language
well enough to use it adequately. Of
course, we can never fully predict who
will pass and who will fail, but it is my
personal opinion that we might come a
lot closer if we could find an adequate
way of testing spoken English and the
student’s understanding of it. As things
stand, this is the very thing not tested.”
At present, the WA University gives
Asians, during orientation, a compulsory,
intensive course in English and study
methods; tutorials throughout the year
are freely available. And Dr Adam has
high praise for the Australian senior
students who work on these courses for
a minimal allowance. He says, too, that
the barriers between Asian and Aus-
tralian students are not home-grown, but
are “natural cultural barriers by choice
of the visiting students”.
How do Australians fare abroad? “We
do exactly the same; everyone does. But
it's worth mentioning that it took Aus-
tralian? working overseas to prove to me
that the Colombo Plan really works.
They're particularly suited to advisory
work in South-East Asia. Somehow their
practical, down -to - earth temperament
gets across. They don’t try to remould
the institutions there to resemble what
they knew at home, a tendency many
Americans have.”


don’t be
vague
ask for
Haig
Over 300 years’ experience has
produced the mellow, golden
perfection of Haig Scotch
Whisky.
If you happen not to be a
regular drinker of Haig, when
next you order Scotch, be sure
to mention our name.
There’s a rare treat in
store for you.
nil S IS I
is*. 5 tes
Fi.V
iVtiUtfcg’C*
\ % 5 \wi
HAIG SAUCE
for Shrimps, Prawns, Crab, Lob-
ster and Scampi. Mix 1/3 cream,
1/3 tomato ketchup, 1/s Haig
with a dash of Worcester sauce.
Good with hard-boiled eggs, too!
The Oldest Name
In
Scotch Whisky
FAMOUS SINCE 1627
8.1.64
ON THE MARGIN
Go Tell It At the Hilton
for all their prosperity
and over-full employment, have a
problem. One can see it looming behind
the outburst by Mr. Edgar Waters, a
leading critic in this field, against Peter,
Paul and Mary.
This American beards-and-blonde trio,
known to insiders as PP&M, is the hot-
test team in folk biz. PP&M are smooth
professionals, who take much trouble
over the quality of their voices, their
enunciation, harmony, and guitar accom-
paniments. But does this mean they are
good folk-singers? No, said Mr Waters,
it doesn’t and precisely because they
are smooth and professional. In his scorn-
ful words, “They are well-educated, they
are clever, and unlike a lot of the
people who created folk-song they
never shovelled dung into a hole to make
the spuds grow.”
The dilemma of the folkies, then, is
this: To improve their technique, they
must absent themselves from dung-
shovelling awhile and study
folk-singing. But the more
they practise, the less authen-
tic they get. As they become
singers, they cease to be folk.
Although I enjoy listening
to PP&M, I must allow that
Mr Waters has a point. Like
most folk-singers, PP&M are
always bewailing the woes of
the underdog; yet they them-
selves are overdogs. This is
evident in the pictures on
their record sleeves. P and P
in their natty three-button
suits, M with her shampooed
locks, all smiling happily they look
anything but downtrodden.
The anomaly is illustrated by their
singing of Freight Train. This mournful
ditty purports to come from a man who
is leaving town to escape his pursuers
possibly a lynch mob:
Freight train, freight train, going so
fast,
Freight train, freight train, going so
fast,
Please don’t tell what train Fm on,
So they won’t know where Fve gone.
The thought of PP&M riding on a
freight train is quite implausible.
They would certainly travel first-class,
and probably by air.
What can be done about this contra-
diction that seems built into the folk-
singing art? Possibly professionals like
Peter, Paul and Mary could take re-
fresher courses in dung-shovelling and
other folk pursuits. Mr Waters does not
go this far, but he does hold that folk-
singers should “think themselves into
the minds of the dung-shovelling folk-
song makers'’.
It might help if PP&M went sometimes
to rural pubs frequented by workers in
such occupations. The trouble is that
even the few people who shovel dung to-
day are not real folk. They sing songs
like Love Me Do and Red Roses For
a Blue Lady. This is one of the great
difficulties of folk-song collectors—folk
have almost died out. As soon as one of
them, old and deaf, is located some-
where in the hinterland, hordes of young
men descend on him with beards and
tape-recorders.
The truth is that the modern folk-song
movement is mainly a middle-class thing.
Not to mention upper-class—l once met
an earl who had taken up folk-singing.
Mr Waters is asking too much of
these devotees when he
demands that they should
identify themselves with
illiterate peasants.
Instead, here is a new and
radical suggestion. Since
prosperous folk-singers can-
not be expected to interpret
the songs of lowly folk with
conviction, they might be
given more suitable material.
I have in mind an affluent
type of folk-song, reflecting
the anxieties and yearnings
of people who are comfort-
ably off—on these lines:
Falcon, Falcon, going so fast,
Falcon, Falcon, going so fast,
Say it’s on business I have gone,
So the tax man won’t catch on.
In any case, something should be done
to counter the Leftish political bias of
folk-singers. Listening to the American
ones, especially, you notice that they
are nearly always protesting against some-
thing. If it is not racial inequality, it is
nuclear fall-out ( What Have They Done
to the Rain?) or the organisation man
{They All Get Put In Boxes).
We have had a surfeit of this rebellious
stuff lately. It would be refreshing to hear
some Right-wing American folk-songs,
putting the viewpoint of a corporation
president or a Pentagon leader. Some-
thing that showed a little confidence in
the Government even if it was just
PP&M singing:
Ha ha ha, he he he,
LBJ don’t I love thee!
ROSS CAMPBELL


DATA PROCESSING
-the vital
difference
between
promise and
performance
18M40.107.855c


A computer is just a machine. No matter
how fast, how powerful Or how big it is, it
can only do what you tell it to, the way you
tell it to. It needs direction. At IBM, we call
this E.H.D. Expert Human Direction.
E.H.D. is an integral part of the IBM
concept of Data Processing. E.H.D. gets
the IBM computer into action without
dislocation, delay or doubt.
T HIS IS DIRECTION IN DEPTH .
When you install an IBM system, you don't
waste time with experimental trial-and-error
processes. In your field of activity, other
organizations have accomplished the change-
over to IBM Data Processing. Their experi-
ences have been the special study of one of
IBM's Specialist Groups. The function of these
Groups is to concentrate on the specific needs
and methods to be used in such varied fields
as banking, insurance, scientific manufac-
turing and control systems. These men,
working as a team, are ideally suited to guide
your company's staff through the transition
period and beyond. They assist you to bring
your IBM installation to its fullest capacity in
the shortest time with the least dislocation to
your normal work processes.
Some businessmen have hesitated to change-
over to data processing simply because
trained staff is in short supply. Their fears are
not unfounded. Data processing is still com-
paratively new in Australia and skilled
personnel are hard to find.
In 1964, 3.097 people were trained in IBM
Customer Education Courses. There are 24
full-time educationists in this vitally important
division. They conduct customer executive
courses in the exploration of data processing
potentials. These executive-students examine
in detail the role of the IBM system as an aid
to the executive as a decision-maker. Other
courses train customers' methods engineers,
programmers and'machine operators. There
are seminars oriented to particular industries
with highly specialized education needs. There
are no fees for these courses. They are an
integral part of IBM’s Data Processing serv-
ice. This service never really stops advanced
customers attend courses on new techniques.
A Computer won't think for you. ft's $
machine. Somebody has to tell it exactly hovi
to do the job step by simple step. This
programming is highly skilled work, pains«
taking, time-consuming. That’s why IBM has
a circulating library of over 4,500
on punched cards and reels of magnetic taper*.
%
40,
■
These programs have been created by IBM
and its customers. With a little shipping and
trimming, IBM customers often adapt.these!
programs to their needs. They borrows
hundreds of thousands of these packaged
programs and save uncounted man-months
of programming time, they save money —*
start processing without delay. Every IBM
customer can use these programs to make th{*
most of his investment.
IBM' service and assistance go. far beyond these three examples. They carry over into such areas
as customer engineering, card designing, free modernization of your IBM equipment as.model
improvements are introduced.
After installation, your IBM representative continues to participate in the adaptation of the system
to the ever-changing needs of your company.
IBM
IBM Australia Pty.
Limited,
In all principal cities


OVERSEAS
Eyewitness in Algiers
Winning the coup, losing the battle
By T. B. MILLAR
(7 leader in the Department of International Relations at the Australian National University
who returned from Algiers last week.)
On Friday, 18th June, it was
as certain as most things can
be in international politics that
the following week would see a con-
ference of Afro-Asian foreign ministers
in Algiers, with a meeting of heads of
government a few days later. Early in
the morning of the 19th, a coup d'etat
replaced Algerian President Ben Bella
by a revolutionary council, and, as we
know, the Afro-Asian meeting did not
take place.
Speculation has not ceased as to who
or what was behind the coup, and why it
occurred at that time. The explanation
by the new regime in Algiers was that
the matter was entirely internal. Ben
Bella, they said, had been cutting himself
off from the revolution, from the people,
from socialism, from the historical destiny
of Algeria. He had increasingly and ille-
gally identified himself with the State,
becoming more dictatorial and dema-
gogic. He had intended using the Afro-
Asian conference to increase his personal
status and prestige. In the interests of
Algeria and the Algerian people, he had
to go.
Needless to say, this explanation was
not widely accepted. Students I spoke
to in Algiers were convinced that Nasser
was behind the coup. It was a matter of
jealousy, they asserted. Algeria had been
replacing the United Arab Republic as the
leading Arab power, and Ben Bella had
become more prominent than Nasser him-
self. Ben Bella had also resisted Nasser’s
proposals for a union of Algeria, the
UAR and Irak, and prevented its ac-
complishment.
Such a reaction is understandable, yet
it also does not seem to provide an ade-
quate explanation. Nasser and Ben Bella
were understood to be on good terms.
After the coup, Nasser sent his First Vice-
President, Field-Marshal Amer, to Al-
giers in an attempt to ensure Ben Bella’s
safety and to offer him asylum if the
new regime would agree. It is hard to
see what Nasser would have believed he
would gain from the fall of the Algerian
President, although he has certainly given
plenty of evidence elsewhere of a desire
and capacity to intrigue against his fel-
low Arab governments.
Outside Algeria, the speculation has
turned on whether the new regime would
be more or less Communist-inclined than
its predecessor, or more pro-Russia or
pro-China; whether it had in fact been
inspired or encouraged by China or the
Soviet Union. Some commentators point-
ed to the fact that China had been quick
to recognise the new government, while
the Soviet Union has not done so. Colo-
nel Boumedienne, who deposed Ben Bella,
was known to be a student and admirer
of the tactics of Mao Tse-tung. On the
other hand, he had received arms and
advice from the Soviets when building
his army; while as a staunch tradition-
alist Muslim, he was considered in some
circles ideologically anti-Communist. If
the Algerian newspapers are to be be-
ALGIERS: THE COUP BEFORE BREAKFAST.
lieved (which is not necessarily the case)
he received immediate support after the
coup from Muslim organisations. It is
hard to strike a balance between these
factors.
If we ask who profited or could ex-
pect to profit from the coup, the only
clear and immediate answer is Boume-
dienne and Foreign Minister Abdelaziz
Bouteflika themselves, and their sup-
porters. Bouteflika was known to be out
of favor with Ben Bella, and it was
widely believed that within a few weeks
he would no longer be Foreign Minister.
There were rumors also that Boume-
dienne was to be replaced as Minister
for Defence. Boumedienne was restless
at Ben Bella’s attempts at independence
from him, -replacing his proteges and
even making some military appoint-
ments when he (Boumedienne) was away.
He had been instrumental in having Ben
Bella made President and in maintain-
ing him in office. Perhaps the kingmaker
resented the king’s initiatives; perhaps he
wanted to be king himself. Whatever the
reasons, Boumedienne and Bouteflika
between them stage-managed the coup
and provided the continuity of govern-
ment.
On the plane coming from Algiers to
Cairo after the “conference”, I was talk-
ing to an Egyptian who had been living
in Algiers. He said that there was no
doubt that Boumedienne and Bouteflika
were under notice of dismissal when they
struck. “There is an Arab proverb,” he
said. “Have him for lunch, or he will
have you for dinner.” Incidentally, he
assured me that he had direct evidence
that Ben Bella was alive.
The timing of the coup was obviously
intended, as stated, to prevent Ben Bella
from obtaining publicity, kudos and
stature from the conference and from his
planned subsequent visit to General de
Gaulle. As a corollary, one can assume
that the new regime wished any such
kudos (from the conference) to accrue
to itself. Taking a leading part in a
large international gathering would afford
quick and widespread international re-
cognition, which should reflect bene-
ficially on the regime’s internal status.
There were two miscalculations in this
assessment. The first concerned the
degree of support in Algeria for Presi-
dent Ben Bella, and the time the regime
would require to obtain full control of
the country; the second related to the
reactions of the Afro-Asian countries,
many of whom, for different reasons,
were not especially enthusiastic about
the conference and welcomed an excuse
for deferring it or absenting themselves
from it.
The army, as far as one can see, re-
mained loyal to its leaders who had
engineered the coup. Others, including
some police, reacted strongly against the
new regime. Students and women were


ALL PAST OF THE SERVICE
swigg
||r; ,
W&
mmmmm
W
w
m
m
m
mm
>
t.
Constant hot water is an essential part of the service a first
class hotel offers its guests. And, thanks to copper, The Southern
Cross Hotel, Melbourne, hardly needs to give hot water service a
second thought. At the hotel's planning stage, heavily insulated
solid copper hot water tanks were specified. Incidentally, it takes
a bank of four cylinders with a total capacity of 5,400 gallons
to fulfil The Southern Cross Hotel's needs.
You, too, can be sure of a reliable hot water service in your home
when yon insist on copper. Copper tanks and pipes are easy to
install, cut maintenance costs and most important of all
Copper is for Keeps
r i s mm
V
Sliiii
■% %&?sss&
■
mW f i**’ ' r#
. ~ „ s . ✓✓ .. . * ~4 ... i
mm
Wstmi.
You can find out more about the unique qualities of copper by writing to the
I . V
COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE
Northgate House, 321 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CB9*»
prominent in this resistance. “The
women of Algeria are weeping for Ben
Bella”, our taxi-driver told us. They
could not expect from Boumedienne the
same liberal Muslim attitude that Ben
Bella had had. In Algiers, the demon-
strations were almost wholly conducted
by students, some of them very young.
The demonstrations were clearly em-
barrassing to the revolutionary govern-
ment. To put down the demonstrations
would be to display, to foreign delegates
and journalists, violence against young
people. But if they did not put them
down, the demonstrations would suggest
that the regime was unable to maintain
order.
At first the police and troops acted
with restraint and in good humor. Then
they used water jets; then batons, some-
times as I saw against groups of
two or three students standing in the
street. Finally they resorted to tear-gas,
and the use of large numbers of armed
police and troops. Shots were fired on
several occasions, and there were some
arrests.
The demonstrations, which were re-
ported as being more violent in other
cities than in Algiers, had an under-
standably unsettling effect on the con-
ference preparations.
Algeria, China and Indonesia were the
countries most interested and determined
that the conference should be held
Algeria because the new regime had
committed itself so heavily, for the sake
of its own prestige, China and Indonesia
because they were the main promoters
of the conference in the first place, and
wished to manipulate it for their own
ends. For countries outside the United
Nations, the conference was one place
to cut a dash, to indulge in group diplo-
macy, and if not to win friends at least
to influence people. Interestingly enough,
towards the end Indonesia was not as
diplomatically aggressive as China, per-
haps because it looked as though Malay-
sia had the support of a majority of
delegations.
China’s abrupt and rude rejection of
the Commonwealth peace mission on
Vietnam probably alienated support
beyond the Commonwealth Afro-Asian
members. She also failed to gauge the
extent of the reaction against the con-
ference in Algiers, and the time when
the conference was reduced to a rump
too small for productive diplomacy.
Perhaps one can hope that the defeat
China suffered may lead to a more flex-
ible attitude on other occasions.
On balance, most of the “moderate”
Afro-Asians were probably grateful that
the coup occurred and forced the defer-
ment of the conference. For the new
Algerian government, the failure of the
conference is a disaster, a lost battle
which may turn out to be crucial in the
campaign to maintain itself in office,


VIETNAM
The Zone-D Offensive
Reaching the impasse phase
A merican troops, along with South
** Vietnamese and Australians, last
week took off on their most ambitious
offensive so far a sweep into Zone
D, a jungle fastness about 40 miles
north-east of Saigon. Their mission was
to “search and destroy”, to hit hard into
what for 20 years had been a sanctuary
for Communist guerrillas. In 60 hours
the operation was over. The anti-Com-
munist troops had found some caches
of food, but almost no Vietcong.
According to the “New York Times”,
the outcome underscored a problem that
has persisted during all the years of
struggle in Vietnam how to cope with
the tactics of the Communist guerrillas.
In their campaign against the Saigon
government, the Vietcong have followed
Mao Tse-tung’s three-phase theory of
guerrilla warfare. They were in the first
phase strategic defensive when
the US first intervened in the Vietnam
conflict late in 1961. They operated in
small, partisan units with little overall
organisation and co-ordination. Their
primary aims seemed to be destruction
of security and government control of
the countryside, and seizure of weapons
for their own use. Gradually the guerrillas
became better trained, better organised,
better equipped.
Most military experts in Saigon believe
the Vietcong are now in the second phase
strategic stalemate. Their overall
strength is 65,000 regulars or full-time
professional soldiers and close to
100,000 irregulars or guerrillas who
fight in addition to performing other
tasks.
The Johnson Administration contends
that the Vietcong are directed and sup-
plied by the North Vietnamese regime
in Hanoi. These forces now operate in
regiment strength of up to 1500 men,
and no longer avoid open combat. They
have much sophisticated weaponry made
in Communist countries. Last week the
Vietcong used these weapons and second-
phase tactics in a number of assaults
on government forces and US installa-
tions. Large units of Vietcong raided the
district capitals of Toumorong and
Thuanmon in the Central Highlands,
holding control of the former when gov-
ernment commanders decided they had
insufficient reinforcements to reclaim
the town.
The most daring attack of the week
was at the Da Nang air base, the spring-
board for air strikes at both the Viet-
cong and North Vietnam. Despite
security imposed by 9500 marines at
the base, a band of from six to 10
guerrillas slipped through two barbed
wire fences in a post-midnight raid.
While confederates lobbed mortar shells
from a nearby cemetery, the guerrillas
set off explosives and fired recoilless rifles.
They killed one American and caused an
estimated 5 million dollars damage to
parked planes and other property.
The next and final stage of warfare
for the Vietcong strategic offensive
would involve full-division operations.
This would require artillery, road trans-
port and other heavy equipment of a
modern army. Whether the Vietcong will
soon move into this stage is open to
question. Some observers believe the
Vietcong are hoping to achieve victory
not through the destruction of the gov-
ernment army but through general war
exhaustion in Saigon and in the ranks
of the army. Others believe the Vietcong
will become as aggressive as their
enemies will permit, and probably move
into the third phase immediately if
American help were withdrawn from
South Vietnam. The US Administration’s
aim clearly is to prevent the Vietcong
from entering the third phase. The Zone
D operation was a critical step in the
Administration’s plan.
The prospects for ending the fighting
and negotiating a settlement appeared
as dim as ever. Hanoi dashed any hopes
last week that it might receive the Com-
monwealth peace mission, headed by
British Prime Minister Wilson, in the
near future. The official Hanoi Radio
said the mission is only a repetition of
Lyndon Johnson’s “peace negotiation
swindle”. Communist China and Russia
also have turned down visits by the
mission.
COMMON MARKET
A Long Siege
Playing the General’s game
ri\> varying degrees, all the Common
Market capitals outside France have
chafed at President De Gaulle’s firm op-
position to any form of political inte-
gration of Europe. But there has been
little they could do about it. Last week, as
important agricultural talks approached
a showdown within the Common Mar-
ket’s council of Ministers in Brussels,
they decided there was something they
could do. The talks concerned farm
policy, including subsidy of farm exports
outside the bloc. The principal benefi-
ciary of the subsidy has been Europe’s
biggest agricultural exporter France.
The farm programme has been an interim
arrangement which expired on June 30.
There had been agreement to institute
one further interim plan and then to
proceed to a permanent arrangement
under which the Brussels Commission
would function as a supranational body
and allocate subsidies. France wanted the
interim arrangement to run as long as
possible and to postpone supranational
authority, while everybody else wanted
the interim plan to be of brief duration
and to hasten supranational authority.
The French President dug in for a long
siege.
THE U.S.
Luci BJ
More than the Watusi
T uci Baines Johnson, the US Presi-
dent’s younger daughter, is impulsive,
emotional, demonstrative. She is a fast
girl with the Watusi, a devoted “belle of
the ball”, an enthusiastic gum-chewer, and
the driver, now, of a green convertible
her parents gave her as a combined high
school graduation and birthday present.
She is also a serious and independent girl
with a mind of her own. Last week Luci,
brought up as an Episcopalian, marked
her 18th birthday by becoming a Roman
Catholic. In the presence of the President
and Mrs Johnson, her sister, Lynda, and
a handful of friends, she was baptised at
St Mathew’s Cathedral, seven blocks from
the White House. “I was waiting until I
was 18 so that I could make the decision
as an adult, not as a child,” she explained
to reporters afterward. After the baptis-
mal ceremony, which lasted 20 minutes,
Luci and her friends got together in the
White House. Major props for the party
were a record-player and a supply of
Frug and Watusi records.


BRAMBLES
NEW
Australian Owned — Australia Wide
Jo\. 2, No. 4
July, 1965
BRAMBLES:
AT WORK
ACROSS
AUSTRALIA
FOR
AUSTRALIA
The size of Australia and the need for fast transport between major centres has
placed an ever increasing emphasis on materials handling techniques. To reduce
the price of consumer goods means cutting production and distribution costs, and
in making these economies, sound knowledge and experience in materials handling
is essential.
In the establishment of CHEP Sales and Services, Brambles, as an Australian-owned
and Australia-wide Company, identifies itself with the national challenge to improve
production and cut costs through efficient materials handling.


CHEP ACCEPTS
TOWMOTOR FRANCHISE
CHEP has been appointed a New South Wales
distributor for Towmotor Fork Lift Trucks. The
appointment became effective on 1st July, 1965.
Towmotor have manufactured their fork lift
trucks in Adelaide for some years, in the
4,0001b. to 8,0001b. capacity range. The equip-
ment has 90% content of Australian manu-
facture. Towmotor will extend its Australian
manufacture within three years to include the
full range of equipment, from 2,0001b. to
40,0001b. at a new 6j acre plant now under
construction at Elizabeth, South Australia.
EVERY DAY
THE JOB IS
DIFFERENT
The fork lift truck can do many things in many places
. . . versatility is one of its main features.
1. Surrounded by stacks of tyres, a CHEP fork lift
manoeuvres a post pallet.
2. A rotating squeeze clamp attachment being
used on a CHEP fork lift in a Sydney foundry.
3. Without damage, a CHEP fork lift fitted with
a special rotating paper grab attachment, lifts
heavy rolls of paper at Clelands Bonded and
Free Stores, a member of the Brambles Group.
Our Experience Mounts
Four CHEP employees entered their
21st year of employment during
the past two months. The men and
their anniversary dates are :
GEORGE MEGAHEY, Waterfront
Supervisor (29th May), CECIL LAW,
Equipment Operator (1st June),
ARTHUR GRIFFITHS Equipment
Operator (25th June), and ALBY
McANDREW, Pallet Manager (29th
June).


RAISE
THE
ALARM
AND
RING
FOR
CHEP!
When fire strikes, moving stock is vital to
minimise loss and allow firemen access to the
flames. At a recent warehouse fire in Sydney,
a CHEP forklift was able to reduce losses by
moving stock with sufficient speed to save it
from the fire.
Waterfront .. chep in the foreground
Fast loading and turn-around of overseas ships is the constant concern of
port authorities. CHEP plays an important part in cargo handling and is
making major additions to its fleet of fork lift trucks, which serve the
wharves, to meet increased demands on its services.
Here a CHEP “Towmotor” 8,0001b. capacity fork lift with a jib attachment
aids the loading of a ship.
SOFT GOODS, SMALL GOODS?
... CHEP CARRY ANYTHING
EVEN TIGERS!
CHEP handle all types of goods . . . soft,
hard, large and small; but even a request
to handle a load of very-live tigers was
accomplished without incident during
the recent visit to Australia of the fine
cultural troupe, the Moscow State
Circus. CHEP units in Sydney and
Brisbane handled the tigers and a multi-
tude of other equipment to ensure each
successful performance.
SAME HOUR SERVICE
Even CHEP's own fork lift trucks need service and
as with everything else in this fast, efficient organ-
isation, radio controlled mobile workshops provide
service within the hour in the event of a breakdown.
The workshops carry all parts and machinery to deal
with service jobs likely to be encountered in the field.


EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS
The expansion of activity within the
Materials Handling Division has necessit-
ated a reorganisation of the Divisional
Headquarters and the New South Wales
Branch of CHEP.
The new executive team is :
Materials Handling Division
Mr. K. J. Harvey — General Manager
Mr. E. R. Stewart — Marketing Manager
Mr. N. R. Davison — Controller
New South Wales Branch
Mr. A. D. Elbourne — N.S.W. Manager
Mr. K. S. Rathgen — Fork Lift Truck Manager
Mr. A. W. McAndrew — Pallet Manager
Mr. A. W. Beach — Manager, Sales & Service
Mr. R. T. Green — Workshops Manager
Mr. R. McKechnie — Accountant
The Brambles policy of internal promotion,
resulted in five of the above team gaining
higher appointments. The only new ap-
pointee, Mr. A. W. Beach, was formerly
N.S.W. Sales Manager of Clark Equipment
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
HOW MANY PALLETS TO A TREE?
1. To most people, a tree is a thing of beauty.
To the CHEP pallet maker it is also the raw
material for another of CHEP’s half-million
pallets which are in use throughout Australia.
2. At the CHEP Pallet Workshop, the timber
from the mill is assembled on a jig designed and
patented by Brambles Development Section, and
manufactured by Super Steel.
3. The final stage: a CHEP pallet on a CHEP
“Towmotor” fork lift truck, carries proudly the
products of Australia.


“A hashish addict would not lift a
finger for the most beautiful maiden
in Verona” Theophile Gautier.
CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREFT, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/19988
FORUM
The Love-weed
Myths about marihuana
By GORDON HAWKINS
The NSW Health Minister's recent
announcement of amendments to
the Poisons Act intended to tighten
control over addictive drugs came within
a week of Sydney Customs officers’ big-
gest haul of narcotics for many years.
It also followed a sequence of eight pro-
secutions in the Sydney courts for the
possession of drugs of various kinds. As
it is not long since a senior Melbourne
Customs officer suggested that, owing to
the “saturation” of the American market,
Australia is likely to become the next
major point of disposal for narcotics, it
is understandable that some alarm was
expressed.
Experts were consulted, the authorities
made statements, officials issued warnings
and special reporters uncovered “disturb-
ing evidence” of various
kinds with their custom-
ary alacrity. It appeared,
however, that the autho-
rities’ view was that nar-
cotic addiction is not a
serious problem here.
Thus the Health Depart-
ment “had no knowledge
of any heroin addiction
in New South Wales”.
It was admitted that
drugs of the ampheta-
mine group (dexadrine,
methadrine, drinamyl,
etc.) had given some trouble recently,
but the new regulations were expressly
designed to deal with that.
Nevertheless some use of marihuana
was acknowledged and there was even
mention of a “teenage cult”. One journa-
list spoke to a number of marihuana
users and reported that in an “inner city
hotel” a man had offered to supply him
with enough marihuana to make 2000
“reefers” for £BO. In view of the fact that
the Indian hemp plant, from which the
drug is derived, grows wild in many parts
of Australia, and has even been found
doing so in “inner city” areas, this offer
is not as surprising as it might initially
appear. Yet the relative ease with which
i< can be obtained, as compared with
drugs like cocaine, morphine and heroin,
and the alleged increase in its consump-
tion in recent years, especially in the
teenage and young adult groups, have
so far provoked no serious public dis-
cussion. This is the more surprising in
that unlike many other drugs no special
apparatus is required for its preparation
and the flowering tops of the unculti-
vated female plant can be used either to
make tea or as a smoking mixture with-
out any mediating process.
But apart from periodical scare cam-
paigns no consideration seems to have
been given to the subject at all. In par-
ticular one proposal which has been
widely canvassed in the UK has been
completely ignored. This is the suggestion
that the whole marihuana problem could
be abolished by removing it from the list
of dangerous drugs, legalising its con-
sumption and giving it the same social
status as alcohol and
tobacco. This idea is by
no means frivolous or
irresponsible and even
“The Lancet” went so
far as to say, in a leading
article, that “this sug-
gestion is worth con-
sidering”.
One result of the lack
of informed discussion is
that delusions are wide-
spread, some of which
may actually stimulate
demand and consump-
tion. Not least of these delusions is the
notion that marihuana is a potent “sex
drug”, an idea which is reflected in the
argot name “love-weed”. Certainly in
the USA, where marihuana-consumers
far outnumber the combined total of the
users of all other addicting drugs, with
the exception of alcohol, its popularity
is in part due to its reputation as an
aphrodisiac. Yet this reputation is
totally undeserved.
Although it is often peddled by prosti-
tutes with the promise that it will in-
crease virility, the evidence of those who
have investigated the use of hemp in its
various forms is that, if anything, interest
in sexual activity is somewhat reduced
and sexual function is inhibited rather
than stimuluated. Indeed it was at one
time widely used by mendicant monks in
Asian countries because it was reputed to
dry up the seminal fluid and diminish
sexual desire. Incidentally, Theophile
Gautier, who spoke from experience,
wrote that “A hashish addict would not
lift a finger for the most beautiful maiden
in Verona”. Hashish is a concentrated
extract from the hemp plant requiring
much skill to prepare, and said to differ
from marihuana as whisky differs from
beer.
Another myth relating to marihuana is
that it is a causative factor in many types
of criminality including violent crime.
Yet there is no objective evidence that
marihuana causes crime except in the
sense that alcohol causes infringements of
the liquor laws which begs the question
of criminal conduct. The celebrated La
Guardia report on “The Marihuana Prob-
lem in the City of New York” (1944)
stated plainly that “no direct relation-
ship could be demonstrated between it
and delinquency or crime”. It is true that
like alcohol it is an intoxicating drug
which releases inhibitions but neither
alcohol nor marihuana produce any type
of criminal activity by direct action.
With regard to violence, the truth is
that the “dope fiend” and “the dope-
crazed killer” are mainly figments of
journalistic imagination sustained by pub-
lic credulity. Drug-users of any kind very
rarely commit violent crime and the
public is in virtually no danger from
them. The overwhelming proportion of
offences committed consists of violation
of narcotic regulations and petty offences
against property. The latter are frequently


precipitated by the high prices of drugs
which are also largely due to these same
regulations. “The Lancet” leading article,
incidentally, states that whereas alcohol
releases aggression, marihuana creates
passivity. And Dr J. D. Reichard of the
L f S Public Health Service has described
the difference by saying that while the
alcoholic gets drunk, comes home and
beats his wife, the drug addict gets high,
comes home, and his wife beats him.
Another aspect of this subject on
which the general public is singularly
misinformed concerns the possibility of
addiction to marihuana. In fact it is
rather less compulsively habit-forming
than alcohol. It is not addictive within
any current official definition of that
word. No physical dependence is
developed, long and regular use does not
produce a need for increased dosage, and
deprivation or withdrawal produces no
illness or distress. Cannabinol, which is
the active principle of marihuana, is a
medically unimportant drug which has
been used as a sedative but with which
it would be difficult to kill oneself.
Ironically it was discovered recently that
it has antibiotic properties.
Tt is sometimes argued that marihuana
should not be freed from the restric-
tions on narcotics in general because
those who become habituated to it pass
on readily to other drugs like heroin and
morphine where the predisposition to
addiction and consequent harmful side
effects is almost universal. But although
there is some evidence that this has
occurred, it is highly improbable that this
graduation from marihuana to opiates is
actually encouraged by the misleading
inclusion of marihuana in the list of
addictive and dangerous drugs. Thus
Peter Hays in his recent Pelican Original
“New Horizons in Psychiatry” (1964)
maintains that users, finding that mari-
huana does not have the evil properties
attributed to it, doubt whether what they
have heard about morphine or heroin is
really true or, optimistically, whether,
though generally true, it applies to them
in particular. They are thus encouraged
to take the fatal step of turning experi-
mentally to the really dangerous drugs.
In short, there seem to be considerable
grounds for the view that the real danger
to the community from marihuana lies
not in its effects on those who consume
it, for whom it provides a pleasant,
euphoric experience, but rather in its
being declared illegal. It is certainly much
less potentially harmful to society than
alcohol-drinking with its annual death
toll from alcoholic cirrhosis and road
accidents, not to mention the immeasur-
able cost of alcoholism in terms of human
waste and unhappiness.
Letters to the Editor
Hating Juries
SIR. After reading the article entitled
“Why Do They Hate Juries?” (8., June
26), one is tempted to ask what exactly
is Mr Robinson’s case for retaining
juries? For apart from the somewhat
emotional attempt to refute some (cer-
tainly not all) of the arguments against
civil juries, there is little of a clearly
positive nature in the article. But the
article contains (or implies) some quite
respectable points in favor of juries, and
they raise several interesting issues.
(1) Judges, because they are out of
touch with the prevailing attitudes of
their time, and especially those of the
“reasonable man”, are likely to be
niggardly in awarding damages. This
argument is quite forceful, but I see
in it two difficulties. First, the “reason-
able man” is an ideal employed by
lawyers (not laymen) for the purpose of
objectifying the concept of fault in the
law of torts; he does not and cannot exist
outside the world of ideal types. The
“reasonable man” is a creation of lawyers
for their purposes, and we ought not to
assume that he is merely “the man in
the street”. Secondly, any claim that
damages are too low or too high cannot
be proven, and is merely “based on a
hunch” (in the words of Prof. Derham.
“Aust. Law Journal”, Vol. 38, p. 59 ff.).
(2) It does lawyers good to have to
explain the law in clear language to a
jury. But of course in many cases the
law cannot be explained without the
use of some technical expressions, which
the judge must assume are knowm to the
jury. Where this assumption is un-
workable the task of explaining every
point satisfactorily may well become one
of textbook proportions, quite beyond
the jury’s powers of assimilation.
(3) The right to jury trial is in some
way “basic”. This attitude is part of a
semi-articulated ideology, involving the
notion that juries are democratic safe-
guards, and that the people, if given a
chance, will exercise wisdom most
sublime. In the last resort one cannot
argue rationally for or against an
ideology. But many people nowadays
tend to think in terms of a more modern
value-system (“modern” in a value-
neutral sense), which substitutes expertise
for equality; and specialisation becomes
a self-evident good, even in the admini-
stration of justice. Could it be that the
controversy over juries is one example
of a wider conflict between these two
ideologies?
Robert Austin
President, Sydney University Law-
School Assoc, for Political and
Legal Studies.
Sydney (NSW),
Mistaken Identity
SIR—In your report (8., June 26) o
the “Sydney University Staff Studen
Committee on Vietnam” you refer ti
the “representative from the Libera
Club, Simon West”. Mr West, if h
exists, is not a member of the Libera
Club which has no representative oi
this committee.
B. S. Jardine
President, Sydney University
Liberal Club.
(The Bulletin was misinformed. M
West does exist and he is a membe,
of the committee. But he is a membe ,
of the Vaucluse Young Liberals, not tin
Liberal Club. He does not represent an j
group on the committee. Ed.)
Sound And Substance
SlR.—Miss Marien Dreyer seems to feel
that, in an interview which appeared
under my name (8., July 3), Mr Robin
Bailey “sneered” at her play, “Bandicoot
on a Burnt Ridge”. Mr Bailey’s remarks
about local playwrights were intended
to be helpful, although in a foreshortened
version they may not have appeared to
be. His reference was to the sound and
not the substance of Miss Dreyer’s play,
which he has not read. However, I
apologise for any damage or distress to
both people.
PATRICIA ROLFE
Sydney (NSW).
Bush Priests
SIR. Bishop Shevill’s declaration (8.,
June 26) that “many a bush diocese is
condemned to a condition of strangling
impecunity” should be viewed in the
context of the Church in toto, with par-
ticular reference to the Church’s “extra-
ordinary number of contradictions” of
Patrick Tennison’s article, “Is the C. of
E. in a Mess?” (8., March 27). The
truth of the matter is that the bush
church (like every church) is not “con-
demned to a condition of strangling
impecunity”, but to one of strangling
uncertainty, or, if you like, spiritual
impecunity. The Church can expect to
remain in this deplorable and unpardon-
able condition just so long as it refuses
to face up to, and answer, Dorothy
Sayers’ 64-million-dollar question: “Why
don’t you take the trouble to find out
what is Christianity and what isn’t?”
The answer could be written on a postage
stamp (giant size the Founder of
Christianity said it in 18 simple words)
but the Church has missed the point,
and is stuck with, and is trying to get
by on, a superficial, synthetic substitute.
EWAN TUCKER
Sandringham {Vic.).


THE CAR
THAT SPEAKS
WELL OF YOUR
SUCCESS ...
m
This year, successful, go-ahead people are recognising the new Dodge
Phoenix as the car fashioned most particularly for them. With its com-
pletely new, more spacious and luxuriously furnished body, "Diamonite"
acrylic enamel finish (nothing finer—anywhere), spirited 230 b.h.p. V-8
performance tempered by reassuring obedience, greater safety and
stability, plus the ultimate in handling ease . . co-axial, power steering,
power brakes and Torqueflite 3-speed automatic transmission, Dodge
Phoenix shows the years greatest advances in luxury motoring. Yours is
now at your Chrysler Dealers, ready for your critical inspection.
PRICE CC>77F; including tax
■ ■ ■
mm
fmmmmmsmmiwsm
■M
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
Dodge
Phoenix 9&oU**s>
WITH CO-AXIAL POWER STEERINO AND POWER BRAKES


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
When Will the Sleepy
Giant Turn Over?
Reassurance for an elderly relative
By PATRICIA ROLFE
There seems to be only one thing
wrong, basically, with the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission’s
television drama presentations and this
is that the ABC still lives in a radio
world. It believes in radio and looks
upon it with the kindly reassurance one
might give an elderly relative who is not
long for this w'orld.
It believes in it to the extent of main-
taining six orchestras and a vast concert
organisation, both almost useless for
television. There is no reason why the
ABC should abandon its role of entre-
preneur, undertaken in the much less
complex Australia of the ’thirties, and
little chance, w'ith concerts now installed
in comfort in the new ABC headquarters
in Elizabeth Street, Sydney, that it will.
The ABC has admittedly slowly come to
understand that you can’t fill a screen
for an hour with the flautist's earhole.
The orchestras now mostly only provide
background music for opera presenta-
tions on television.
Radio is still useful for services and
music, but no matter how often the
ABC says so, it has almost nothing to
do with entertainment, such as drama
and variety, these days. How could it?
Yet the ABC still does tw'o full-length
radio plays a w 7 eek and only one tele-
vision play a fortnight. But television,
they say, costs 10 times as much as radio.
One can only assume, then, that they do
so much radio because it is cheap, rather
than so little television because it is
expensive.
As any dust-covered copy of the
Senate Report on Television show's, the
ABC spends six times as much on music
as on drama. Figures are not the w'hole
story, and it is senseless to make direct
comparisons between music and drama.
Heaven forfend that the ABC should
establish six dramatic companies! How-
ever, as an example, the adaptation of
George Johnston’s novel, “My Brother
Jack”, begins on August 1. Ten half-
hour episodes cost, according to the ABC
drama department, about £16,000. This
is the major single expenditure on tele-
vision drama for 1965. It must be some-
thing like the ABC’s weekly salary bill
for orchestra players and others in the
music department.
How long will it take the sleepy giant
to turn over?
The defaults of the commercial stations
in local drama have been well-publicised,
but when—and one can only say when —
the commercial stations produce more
local programmes, they are unlikely to
differ greatly from the “Barley Charlies”
or “Homicides”. The ABC leaving
aside the “taxpayers’ money” jibe —is
intended to, and must, fulfil a different
role.
It might be unrealistic to expect the
ABC to do the “forced feeding” job for
drama which it did a generation ago
for music. But there is little doubt that
it could. Robert Helpmann said that
productions of Ibsen on British television
had created stage audiences for Ibsen
and successful revivals of his plays had
followed. Television is, of course, the
final answer to those who say that drama
has no following in this country. It not
only has a following on television. It
becomes an addiction.
But taking television drama in its own
field, in spite of a starved policy, the
JUNE THODY as Sheila in the ABC's
"My Brother Jack".
ED DEVEREAUX as Jack in the ABC's television
serial, "My Brother Jack".
ABC drama department by trial and
error—some trials, many errors—seems
to have reached a reasonable standard
of individual presentation, at least a
standard at which a benevolent critic
might begin to talk about the play and
not about technical mishaps. It has
found some intelligent producers, some
of whom, with few opportunities, have
begun to develop that elusive thing, a
style of their own.
The ABC,- according to a list supplied,
last year did 12 plays in Sydney and the
disastrous serial, “The Purple Jaca-
randa”. In Melbourne it did 13 plays.
There was also notably the children's
serial “The Stranger”. It is at the
moment looking for half-hour plays.
Otherwise, there seems to be no pro-
gramme of expansion.
Except, of course, in the matter of
staff. The arrival of David Goddard and
Eric Taylor from Britain to join Alan
Burke, Storry Walton, Ken Hannam,
Henri Safran, James Upshaw and chief
producer Colin Dean in Sydney was well
publicised.
I recently talked to the acting director
of drama and features, Mr James Pratt,
to Mr Goddard, who is the assistant
director of drama and features (tele-
vision) and Mr Phillip Mann, the Federal
play editor. All were polite, helpful and,
at times, baffling. Whether they, or any-
one else in the ABC, get up each morn-
ing and campaign for more money for
television drama, no one could tell. ABC
people hide the scars of old battles well.
Mr Pratt explained that many of the
producers were in a pool and could be
assigned to features or education as well
as drama. This, of course, makes the tele-
vision drama operation more economical,
although it may not make it more


effective. Mr Pratt said that it was hoped
Mr Goddard could inject more “pro-
fessionalism” into the ABC’s television
drama. Mr Goddard said that every-
thing he had produced for the BBC in
the past several years had been bought
by the ABC. (It is not true, although
sometimes it may appear so, that every-
thing the BBC produces is automatically
off-loaded on the ABC.)
The ABC would be able to put on
more plays, Mr Pratt said, when “Aus-
tralia needed fewer battleships”. How-
ever, lest this should imply that he
believes the whole burden of Australia’s
defence rests on the shoulders of the
ABC drama department, Mr Pratt said
that production was limited by studio
facilities. Until capital expenditure was
undertaken on studios, rehearsal rooms
and equipment, they would be hard put
to it to manage more than one long play
every four weeks. Actors’ fees, he said,
were “only a small part of it”.
One play a month from Sydney, one
from Melbourne and occasionally some-
thing from Baph (Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart) means that the ABC has
not even remotely begun to differentiate
with its television drama, except now
by looking for half - hour plays —in
length. The ABC still does differentiate
with radio drama, particularly between
the Sunday and Monday night plays.
The first restriction, on the ABC’s
choice of television plays is simply avail-
ability. The drama people do not regard
any current plays as “too expensive”.
They simply cannot be bought at any
price. The first danger is local options.
“In the old days,” Mr Pratt said, “J. C.
Williamson’s took an option on simply
everything. Now it’s not so bad.”
Mr Mann gave two instances of dav-
by-day scrounging for TV rights. The
ABC got the rights to John Osborne’s
“Luther” simply because Mr Mann and
Mr Osborne share a London agent and
Mr Mann had persuaded the agent.
Mr Mann said he had his eye on a
half-hour play by American William
Inge, “Say it with Flowers”, but even
this trifle had not escaped the attention
of Hollywood.
Modern Americans of the stature of
Arthur Miller and Tennessee Williams
are almost entirely ruled out. Mr Mann
said he was still trying for “The
Crucible”, which is 12 years old.
And yet the ABC may sigh in relief
rather than exasperation because some
modern, controversial plays are not avail-
able. In a discussion following mention
of “The Representative”, the words
“snobs” and “academics” were hurled,
though, fortunately, not at me.
The ABC is conscientious, almost,
one might say, dogged in its search for
Australian plays. Sometimes the careful
sieving of possibles may encourage
Francis Lymburner backstage at Les Ballets Africains


f?IJ-ONDON
“W\\ N FRANKFURT
\\\
\ \ /
\\ P /
\ V /
\ A PARIS/
y p /
*■/ fiMADRID
HH LISBON /
• I /
i /
/ 7 /
/ / /
/
•/
ATHENS
§§|§
LUANDA
m
fH
SALISBURY
JOHANNESBURG
i;4
/ 'l, I
%
MAURITIUS
#4^
PERTH
»»«
i f.
.. »
1
"'•A
SV
SAA7S/30
Everything s
new again
this irißtf
Going overseas? On your way, take an
on-the-spot look at the excellent export
possibilities in prosperous, expanding
South Africa and the even newer
unexplored markets a little further
afield.
Take a look, too, at the new-to-you
natural and scenic wonders only this
route to U.K./Europe offers. The
unique wild life at Kruger National
Park. The exciting cities and fascina-
ting peoples of South Africa. See
Lisbon, Madrid, and other famed
capitals of Europe.
See more for your money, too —
this way costs from a mere £15.10.0 in
extra air fares, depending on your
departure point.
Have a talk to your travel agent.
Two services weekly
to South Africa with
daily connections at
Johannesburg for U.K.
and Europe. Operated
by S.A-A., in asso-
ciation with Qantas,
B.O.A.C.and C.A.A.
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
TO U.K./EUROPE VIA THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
people with no hope of reaching pro-
fessional levels. At the other end, the
drama department has not yet evolved
any intensive collaboration between pro-
ducer and writer.
The ABC does not look for local plays
just as a vague good thing. Mr Mann
said that plays written for television
consistently get better audiences than
adaptations and Australian plays do
better than overseas or local productions
of plays written in another country.
What the ABC looks for and what it
finds may be two different things. Local
plays on the ABC are mostly strong on
plot but unsubtle in characterisation.
Ken Hannam at one time said that he
became interested in Noel Robinson’s
“Split Level” because, he thought, the
emotional development of the characters
broke new ground here. Of course, then
the critics complained about the thinness
of the plot.
There seems to be a preference for
plays about people like us, and very dull
we are, too. The realism of, say, the
Niland-Park type of play has been re-
jected for plays which seem to be hewn
out of them thar “Blue Hills”. But what
is fine in Gwen Meredith’s skilfully
judged, mild, repeated doses at midday
is very insipid fare at night.
Searching through manuscripts with
a fine-tooth comb may sometimes make
the ABC forget to do the obvious thing.
Mr Pratt and Mr Mann said no approach
had ever been made to Mr Patrick White,
the most interesting and prolific local
playwright of the past few years. Mr
White may not want his plays on tele-
vision, but he has never been asked.
“I believe he won’t have as much as a
comma altered,” Mr Pratt said. “And,
of course, that would never do for tele-
vision.”
One of the recurring themes of the
Vincent report which seems to awake no
echo in the hearts of the ABC drama
department is co-operation between the
ABC and theatre companies, such as the
Elizabethan. Mr Pratt said it was im-
possible to transfer a stage production
to television. There would be no advan-
tage in having actors who already knew
their parts - “They learn them in their
own time, anyway; besides, the script
would be different and the voices might
be wrong.” The ABC had used the
Elizabethan’s costumes for “A Man For
All Seasons” “And believe me, we
didn’t get them for nothing,” Mr Pratt
added.
The ABC did transfer “Macbeth in
Camera” by Harold Lang and some
English actors to the screen, but they
have not done the same for any local
production.
The ABC does a closed-circuit pro-
duction once a year for students at the
National Institute of Dramatic Art. This


How
would
you
label
a
butterfly
Why label a butterfly? To study their migratory habits.
Seems some butterflies travel a thousand miles!
And Avery came up with the answer.
Was fun. Another first for Avery. It comes naturally.
In 30 years in the labelling game, Avery have always been
first.
Tricky labelling problems are fun for Avery. They enjoy
their work. Which is why Avery are the biggest and the
most successful in the world.
Want to label a butterfly? Or anything? Temporary or per-
manent? Large or small? Better ring Avery right now—and
reverse the charges.
Please send me free samples and full information ori
_ Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kura Kleen labels.
COMPANY
W. J. CRVER & CO. LTD.
75 Union Street, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 560 7177 Bio/7/65
W. J. CRYER (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
30 Cotham Road, Kew, Vic. 86 7911
AL J 3
is the only training it provides for actors.
Mr Pratt seemed indignant that the
ABC should do anything for actors. “We
want-fully trained professional actors,”
he said. “You don’t expect the viewers
to watch amateurs, do you?” (I assumed
at this point he meant fully trained pro-
fessional television actors, because an
actor may be highly skilled in other
fields, yet flounder on television.) Mr
Pratt, even in the face of mention of the
National Youth Orchestra and con-
certo and vocal competitions, maintained
that the ABC gave engagements only to
fully-trained musicians.
Certainly, inexperienced actors should
not be inflicted on viewers, but it seems
pointless to talk of added professionalism
for producers and workshops for writers
when their raw material—the actors —
remains rather raw.
FILMS
Indoor Games
The Servant. Director, Joseph Losey. Gala
Theatre, Sydney.
Topkapi. Director, Jules Dassin. Town
Theatre, Sydney.
Operation Crossbow. Director, Michael
Anderson. St James and Liberty Theatres,
Sydney.
Two disappointments this week but
in compensation there's also a most im-
pressive and original film from the
erratically brilliant Joseph Losey. “The
Servant”, a stylish, idiosyncratic and
disturbing film, has a script by Harold
Pinter based on a Robin Maugham novel.
Tony, a handsome young man-about-
London, seems to have it made he’s
well-off, has the prospect of an import-
ant job, is engaged to an eligible and
desirable girl and has found a man ser-
vant, Barrett, who is a treasure. But
gradually the treasure gains ascendancy
over the weaker Tony, and at last their
positions are reversed, with Barrett the
master of the house and Tony his com-
pliant, drink-sodden slave.
There is in the film a remarkable
fusion of visual and intellectual aspects
of the medium. Pinter’s script, for all
its apparent accuracy and realism, holds
a strange undertone of menace, never
ignoring the decadence and perversity of
the story, which are subtly underlined by
Losey and his fine cameraman Douglas
Slocombe in the artfully angled photo-
graphy of Tony’s sumptuous, decaying
house. The unnatural, claustrophobic
atmosphere is particularly impressive in
the extraordinary indoor-games sequence
between the two men.
Only at the end, in the over-stylised
scene of orgy (in which one of the parti-
cipants bears a distracting resemblance
to Mavis Bramston) does Losey seem to
me to lose control of the film and to
verge on the hysterical. The film is
dominated by Dirk Bogarde’s remarkable
performance as Barrett, a picture of evil


the more terrifying for being understated,
with man's contemptuous insolence
breaking so gradually through the
obsequious mask. James Fox, too, does
brilliantly in the difficult role of the
charming Tony with his fatal streak of
weakness, and Wendy Craig as well-bred
fiancee and Sarah Miles as the men's
sluttish, shared mistress are both im-
pressive.
Jules Dassin apparently decided to re-
peat the success of “Rififi”, playing it
for laughs this time. Unfortunately, “Top-
kapi” has little of the gripping excite-
ment of the first film, and the laughs
come sparsely. The story of the ingeni-
ously planned robbery of a jewelled
dagger from an Istanbul museum, the
film spends far too much time intro-
ducing the plotters, who with the excep-
tion of Peter Ustinov are a dull enough
lot. In any case they get little oppor-
tunity to show their paces, as Dassin’s
camera lingers in a besotted way on
Melina Mercouri.
“Operation Crossbow” tells us once
again how we won the war in this
case by discovering and destroying the
secret launching base of the German V 2
rockets. I can’t say how authentic it is
characters like Winston Churchill and
Duncan Sandys rub shoulders with ob-
vious scriptwriters’ dream-children
but the effect is unreal and unexciting.
Much of the dialogue, especially in the
early sequences, is a deadening collection
of patriotic war-film cliches; things liven
up, thanks in great part to smart perfor-
mances from George Peppard, Jeremy
Kemp and Tom Courtenay, after the
agents get to occupied Europe, but at its
best this is only a competent action
thriller, not an epic of heroism.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
Heroes and Victims
Oedipus Rex. Sophocles. Emerald Hill
Theatre, Melbourne.
An Enemy Of The People. Ibsen. Russell
Street Theatre, Melbourne.
Were it not for the matriculation sylla-
bus, and occasionally for the enterprise
of Miss Lola Russell, Melbourne would
not see a classic staged from one year
to the next. It is lucky that the educa-
tion authorities nowadays insist on
worthwhile plays, for without this we
would not have Sophocles and Ibsen in
the same week.
No more fascinatingly contrasting
dramas could have been chosen. Oedipus
and Dr Stockman represents two op-
posite tragic types, one the great victim,
the other the great hero. “There is no
godliness in men,” Sophocles proclaims,
and Ibsen agrees, but he finds in man,
the lonely individual, the courage and
hope which the mass is denied. To the
great Greek, humans were the playthings
of divine powers they could neither match
nor understand, punishing them for a
guilt they are helpless to evade. To the
Scandinavian they remained weak and
essentially evil, but redeemable, in the
end. through the godlike, exceptional
being which rises above the dung heap.
In Sophocles, the community the
chorus is neutral, in Ibsen it becomes
the destructive force with which the hero
must grapple. Neither were pessimists in
the true, modern sense. Faith and sub-
mission are the message of one, of the
other, lonely defiance.
These productions bring this out very
clearly. Wal Cherry’s “Oedipus Rex”
concentrates, quite successfully, on the
flash of more than life-size men: At Eme-
rald Hill the action turns on the con-
flicting characteristics of Creon and the
unhappy ruler. It is, in a sense, a con-
flict between Romans rather than Hel-
lenes, with the shadows and the primal
rage in Oedipus's soul not so strongly
accentuated. George Whaley has the in-
telligence to speak his lines chiefly
but not entirely taken from Watling's
translation with the eloquent restraint
their magnificence demands. His is un-
doubtedly a.noble performance, yet it
lacks something. The meaning in Jocasta’s
famous line, which Freud might have
taken from her, “nor may this mother-
marrying fright you many men have
dreamt as much,” is not at the core of
Mr Whaley’s tragedy, for it tends to
move above and beyond the realm of
dream or mystery. Though technically
it has few flaws, one of them is in the
decisive scene when the parricide appears
with his eyes gouged out. Here all re-
serve should be shed.
Michael Boddy’s Creon is commanding
as well as humane. John Paton’s Tiresias,
however, has too much warmth and not
sufficient priest-like dignity, for which
the actor is not altogether to blame, hav-
ing to put up with the distracting acro-
batics of his boy-guide. Jocasta, in Gerda
Nicolson’s approach, is almost always
mother and rarely wife, but it is a part
which has troubled many. Norman
Yernnt leads the Theban chorus as a
plain-chant singer. His voice is suitable,
and by and large it is movingly done.
Since, perhaps more than at Russell
Street, teenagers will sustain the audi-
ences, Mr Cherry has to make the even-
ings reasonably spectacular. His direc-
tion cannot be called fussy but I would
question some of the effects he may con-
sider most striking. Kristian Fredrik-
son’s sets are better than his costumes,
and the lighting is not too dark. Overall,
I would have liked still more simplicity,
a little more of the perverse glory of
Zeus, the bleak tribal god. But let us not
carp.
“An Enemy of the People” does great
credit to its producer, Malcolm Robert-
son. Wisely, he has not tried to project
into Ibsen what in this play he lacks
psychological subtlety but has given
full weight to what he so supremely pos-
sesses —sheer dramatic power, based on
ideas monomaniacally held and ruth-
lessly developed. Ibsen was a naturalist
as well as a realist. But he also had his
naturalistic limitations. His heroes are
often all white and his villains all black.
What matters more is that the latter are
not properly differentiated. The two
Janus-faced journalists, the treacherous
publisher every townsman who con-
spires to thwart Stockman’s trade-threat-
ening fight to purify the springs of the
health resort are cut from the same
cloth. It scarcely lessens the impact, be-
cause the battle is waged with such fero-
cious single-mindedness. The play has
been called over-constructed by some, too
loose by others. Both judgments are
beside the point.
David Mitchell's full-blooded Stock-
man is barely shaken even when his
wife’s foster father (of exceptional ar-
tistic solidity, as played by Edward How-
ell) questions his innermost motives.
Motives do not interest him. only duty,
a duty inspired by civic and family love.
Peter, his brother, eternal symbol of the
establishment, could easily become a
stock fiend. Nevertheless, he is a com-
mon type, just as this is still a provok-
ing play for our age. Stewart Weller
handles the role with the right mixture
of smoulder and blandness. Mrs Stock-
man and her daughter, Petra, are capa-
bly acted by Bunney Brooke and Marea
Letho. Richard Prins’ decor well suggests
first the respectable home and. later, the
ruins of this bourgeois Carthage.
The word bourgeois bears two inter-
pretations. “An Enemy of the People” is
concerned with demonstrating each. Be-
cause its hero’s dimensions are classical
and timeless, we can accept his ephe-
meral environment. “Oedipus” is an un-
social play for every society.
Both productions should also please
those who don’t have to pass examina-
tions.
DAVID MARTIN


Why pay sky high
monopoly rates
for rent-a-car at airports?
Take a taxi to Kays
conveniently located
City depots and save 50%
'
■
717
¥9wiWmlmsm
11
m
■ - ,■■.:■■
COMPARE THESE COSTS
Airport Sky-High Monopoly Rates :
Volkswagen 20/- per day
Insurance 13/6 per day
Miles to City ( average ) 8j- per day
TOTAL 41/6
KAYS down-to-earth Rates:
New 1965 Volkswagen 1/- per day
Insurance ~ . . 10 / - per day
Taxi to Kays City Depot ( average ) per day
TOTAL 21 1-
You can see . . . the larger the rental, the more you save.
LET
PUT
RENTACAR
YOU ON WHEELS!
Offices throughout Australia
and New Guinea


What Does It Mean?
The Theatre of Cruelty. Sydney Univer-
sity Dramatic Society. Union Theatre.
Sydney.
The Birthday Party. Harold Pinter. Inde-
pendent Theatre. Sydney.
Afraid to Fight. Georges Courteline.
“Q” Theatre Lunch Hour Plays. Sydney.
The “Theatre of Cruelty” was thus named
by Antonin Artaud, the French prophet
of the anti-realistic theatre, who believed,
like Aristotle, that the enactment of vio-
lence and passion on the stage would
purge the spectators of their own violent
impulses. A production of “Oedipus Rex”
or “King Lear” or “The Birthday Party”
could more appropriately be entitled the
“Theatre of Cruelty” than SUDS’s revue-
like assortment of sketches and oddments
culled from seventy years of anti-realist
writing from Jarry to Dada and from
Dada to Beat.
It is easy to sympathise with the desire
of men like Artaud (and Gordon Craig,
whose ideas were similar) to bring back
imagination and poetry into the theatre
and rescue it from plodding realism.
However, for both prophets this meant
demoting the dramatist and the written
word, and exalting the producer and what
they considered the essentially theatrical
arts of mime, gesture, rhythmic move-
ment, costume, lighting and so on.
This presentation by SUDS illustrates
the dangers involved in carrying out this
MAX MELDRUM AND RONALD MORSE IN "AFRAID TO FIGHT", Q GROUP AT
SYDNEY'S AMP THEATRE.
programme. The chief trouble seems to
be that, in spite of a great many aids to
expression in the shape of colorful cos-
tumes, masks, chants and dances, nothing
very much gets expressed. Ideas are crude
and obvious, or incomprehensible, humor
ranges from the undergraduate to the in-
fantile, and the odd summer lightning
flashes of wit and poetry are merely tanta-
lising in the oppressive dullness.
It is to be noted that very few of these
items were written by dramatists, but
by painters, poets, novelists, producers
and one computer. (The computer and
Gertrude Stein contribute the gentlest and
most soothing items.) Most of them are
not dramatic but static: they picture
rather than dramatise.
Because the theatre of the anti-realists
exalts the specifically theatrical arts,
SUDS is particularly ill-equipped to pre-
sent it. Like most amateurs their speaking
is poor and in this programme, which
depends largely on poetic speech and
chant, the words were often inaudible.
As for shocking the audience out of
their complacency, an avowed aim of the
“Theatre of Cruelty”, the more likely
effect of this sustained onslaught of dull-
ness and triviality is to stun them into a
new and deeper apathy. SUDS appear to
have developed an orthodoxy of the
avant garde. What would shock them out
of their complacency?
Harold Pinter is a master at creating
an atmosphere of mysterious terror laced
with comedy by means of the dispirited
dialogue of the boarding-house. Stanley
Webber is the only lodger in a seaside
boarding-house run by Meg and her hus-
band Petey, a deck-chair attendant. Their
seedy and uneventful life, centering on
stewed tea and fried bread, is suddenly
filled with menace when “they” appear
to torment Stanley at his birthday party
until he becomes a speechless idiot.
Robert Levis’ restrained production
and an excellent cast make this an excit-
ing evening of theatre. John Ewart’s
quiet playing of the cornered Stanley,
with hunched shoulders and nervously
darting tongue, gives a strong centre to
the production. John Unicomb is suave
and dapper as the old-style crook Gold-
berg, with the silver tongue and mastery
of sentimental cliche. Tom Oliver’s
McCann is an efficient new-style crook
who obsessively tears strips off the news-
paper with chilling concentration. Lynn
Rainbow is both funny and pathetic as
the susceptible Lulu whose command of
cliche almost rivals that of Goldberg.
Donald Conlon gives a good performance
as the quiet but perceptive Petey and
Letty Craydon is the flirtatious old land-
lady who is charmed by the crooks and
remains completely unaware of the terror
that has surrounded her.
What does it mean? asks the pro-
gramme, and the audience in the inter-
vals. Artaud calls for the restoration to
the theatre of “a little breath of that
great metaphysical fear which is at the
root of all ancient theatre.” Pinter seem-
ingly obliges. But is it really any more
than Hitchcock adapted for the avant
garde? “They” are as gratuitous and
tricksy as Hitchcock’s slowly opening
doors. Pinter is just as exciting as Hitch-
cock, but he seems to be trying for
“significance” as well, on the cheap.
In Paris at the turn of the century,
Courteline’s sub-Chekhovian comic real-
ism was obviously a little bit daring, but
now it seems familiar and reassuring,
especially in a week of avant garde plays.
Since the realism is the point of these
sketches, it is hard to see why Ken Han-
nam, the producer, has allowed his cast
to play in such an exaggerated style. A
light touch is needed.
It was also a mistake to sandwich to-
gether two sketches which obviously
have no connection with each other and
pretend they were one play.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
MUSIC
No Counterbalance
ABC Recital Series: Gyorgy Pauk with as-
sociate artist Clemens Leske. Sydney
Town Hall.
Gyorgy Pauk’s recital on Saturday night
was thoroughly enjoyable, even if some-
what lopsided. The playing was almost
faultless and often inspired, but it came
as a worrying anticlimax to have a group
of five short virtuoso pieces follow the
weighty opening of Vivaldi and Beet-
hoven. One felt that a pair of form-
ally extended works by composers closer
to our time would have served as a more
effective counterbalance within the pro-
gramme.
Although the presence of a 10-foot
Steinway is always upsetting in perform-
ances of baroque music, the Vivaldi
sonata emerged with refreshing urgency
and precision. By applying contemporary
bowing techniques where most per-


f
vis: :
WmmMm
wmmm§
&
m
K
m
m
t-M
:
m
$w
&JEj)
G&S
His cigarette, too,
has travelled
Benson & Hedges Special Filter was once available only on blue-ribbon jet flights
between London and New York. Today, the cigarette has travelled, and you can
enjoy its distinctive excellence. Benson & Hedges Special Filter, in the'elegant
gold packet, is the right cigarette when only the best will do. And isn’t that all
the time?
Benson ami Hedges
BH7OA-3-65
formers would remain faithful to the
original markings, Pauk was able to pro-
duce an unusually large tone. This
proved an invaluable asset both in the
opening moderato and in the largo.
Beethoven's admitted preference for
the piano is only too well illustrated by
his early and middle period sonatas for
string instruments. This is the case in
Opus 24 (“The Spring”) Sonata, for
while the supposedly accompanying piano
is busily stating and developing the prin-
cipal themes, the unfortunate soloist is
often reduced to simple complementary
figures. Nevertheless, it was in the Beet-
hoven that Pauk was most impressive.
The immediately falling phrase which
begins the sonata was treated with the
lyricism which seemed to dominate the
soloist’s concept of the entire work. This
approach was well sustained, and even
in the merrily jigging scherzo Pauk
managed to retain a certain melodic
flow. Clemens Leske tended to over-
estimate his dynamics in this movement
and as a result the double syncopation
between piano and violin appeared on
occasions to dissolve into a general dis-
agreement as to the exact position of the
beat.
Pauk was obviously at home in the
bracket of short, predominantly eastern
European works which constituted the
concluding half of the programme. Each
piece contained the customary ingredients
of Balkan passion—upper-register pyro-
technics and bottom-string melancholia
—and this consistently sombre quality
diminished the effectiveness of the dram-
atic Bartok Rhapsody No. 1. Although
it represented a summation of the most
characteristic elements of the preceding
works, within that context the Rhapsody
seemed curiously inconclusive.
However, this was in no way a re-
flection on Pauk's playing, which re-
mained true to the traditions of virtu-
osity while incorporating in these both
perceptive interpretation and tasteful
musicianship.
DAVID SALTER


BOOKS
The Moon and Sixpence
By JAMES McAULEY
F. R. Leavis The Modern Mind. Current
Affairs Bulletin, Volume 36, No. 3, 1965.
6d.
For sixpence anyone can now have what
is probably the best short introduction to
F R. Leavis, a critic whose importance
is placed beyond doubt by the way in
which he has compelled so much dis-
cussion to be centred on his judgments.
Leavis's grip, whether we struggle
against it or are pliant within it, is due
partly to the vigor, penetration and in-
tegrity of his critical work, and partly
to the fact that his approach corresponds
to a widely preva ling set of mind among
contemporary literary humanists. A later
age may not find him so interesting, be-
cause the prevailing attitude may have
shifted, and his often rebarbative style
will not keep him alive (his lack of what
Coleridge terms “the sense of musical
delight” is a limitation upon both his
sensibility and his prose); but he is sig-
nificant for us now.
Leavis would, of course, feel that he
has worked against, rather than with, the
contemporary current. This is true in a
minor, though honorable, sense. He has
been the enemy of smooth clubmanship
in the academy, and of vogue-mongering
literary journalism. But in the essential
features he is highly representative.
What the anonymous author, whom
we shall arbitrarily designate as Professor
G, brings out is that the whole weight of
Leavis is thrown against what is general,
conceptual, theoretical, abstract, precon-
ceived in literature or in criticism. Every
phrase G uses or quotes to describe
Leavis's approach tends to discredit this
perennial element and to stress with
biased insistence that other element: “the
vitalising recourse to the concrete”, the
sensitive encounter with the individual
and particular, with “the emotional and
sensory texture of actual living”, with
values only as they are immediately dis-
covered in local manifestations.
G distinguishes Leavis’s “moral” con-
cern from a “moralistic” approach, which
is “just a measuring of literature against
an already accepted code”. But no one
thinks that literary criticism can be just
such a measuring, which would ignore
the specific qualities of the work. The
question is whether “an already accepted
code” is something so incompatible with
concrete discriminations that it has no
proper way of entering in, and must be
regarded as an irrelevance, even a lapse
from intelligence. G points again to
'Leavis’s insistence on the need in critic-
ism for “lack of commitment to any
morality or doctrine or ideology (what-
ever the personal commitment of the
critic).” One recognises the fact that the
value of works cannot be reduced to, or
directly derived from, the diverse doc-
trinal elements that may be used in their
structure. But the radical splitting apart
of the general and the particular, the idea
and the concrete realisation, is a curious
dogmatism proposed as an anti-dogma-
tism.
The continual attempt to make such
rationally opaque, inadequate and ten-
dentious terms as “vitality” or “the
quality of life that is concretely present”
function as a criterion of value betray the
same bent. So, too, does the setting of the
“exploratory-creative use of words upon
experience” (held to be the English use
of the language) against eloquence or
statement. And this is the same as the
dismissal of the use of language to “state
previously definite ideas or emotions”. It
Respecting the traditional anony-
mity of Current Affairs Bulletin
writers, Professor * McAuley refers
to the author of this CAB as “Pro-
fessor G”. He means , of course,
Professor S. Goldberg of the
English Department, University of
Sydney. Professor Goldberg is the
leading Australian supporter of the
ideas of the English literary critic
Dr F. R. L eavis. Professor
McAuley, of the University of Tas-
mania, is a leading opponent of
them.
is the either/or choice thrust upon us
that constitutes the radical distortion: the
refusal to concede that the preconceived
and the immediately discovered, the
general and the particular, normally co-
operate in various ways in the complex
structures of works of art.
Once this general cast of critical mind
has been plausibly established —by its
power of dealing impressively with some
aspects of literature and some critical
problems then the exclusion of many
honored works from the “central” or
“essential” tradition follows ineluctably.
Chaucer can’t be got in unmaimed, Spen-
ser must go, Milton must be dislodged,
much of Dryden, most of Shelley, all of
Campion, won’t really do. If vital aware-
ness excludes the mythopoeic, the cere-
monious, the institutional, the metaphysi-
cally ordered, the preconceived idea, the
appeal to general sanction, or even the
musically refined and abstracted, nothing
can save most of our poets’ whole. G
F. R. LEAVIS
would like to plead for Blake and Yeats,
even on Leavis's own terms, and aspects
of them could be rescued; but Leavis is
right they would be Trojan horses
within his sort of community, concealing
too formidable a content of enemy
agents. Even of writers like Donne, Pope,
Keats, Shakespeare, who are approved, it
must be said that the readings required
are incomplete and even distorted.
When we come to consider G’s other
main point about Leavis’s work, “its
sense of social crisis”, the problem be-
comes sharpened Leavis is again typical
of the contemporary literary-humanist
dislike of modern civilisation, not just for
its vulgarities and falsities but also be-
cause of its commitment to general
rationalised organisation. The formal
concessions he makes in his anti-Snow
polemic to science, technology and
administration ring hollow. His heart is
with the idea of an “organic” community.
G sums up for Leavis this opposition to
the modern world: “Human community
and organised society are now virtually
opposing ideas”.
I’m not saying that Leavis’s concern
doesn't touch real problems, ones which
have pressed close on my own feelings,
a? they do on so many of us. But two
things are wrong. Such a generalisation
as quoted above is crude and undis-
criminating in the extreme. G acknow-
ledges this, surely, when he later asks:
“Is his desperation about our civilisation
in these days not perhaps a little over-
urgent?” And also: that “organic” com-
munity to which Leavis looks back
whether it be among the primitives
(which he sees through Lawrence’s
hysterically unteachable fantasy) or in
earlier less industrial states of English
society was constituted how? Not,
certainly, on Leavisian principles; not
by an avoidance of doctrine and general
notions, not by a reliance on sensitive
one-to-one qualitative discriminations by
individual sensibilities in unorganised en-
counter with one another and the en-
vironment.
The tradition was never what Leavis
now wants it to be; and its expression in


poetry and story was wholly innocent
of Leavis’s radical disjunction of the
concrete and the abstract.
The dissociation Leavis insists on of
the normal elements that cohere in cul-
ture and in art is a real enough modern
problem. Leavis has the kind of rightness
that comes from not pretending that the
problem isn’t there. When he rejects the
sort of moralising and generalising that
occur in various forms in eighteenth and
nineteenth century literature, he is often
right in saying that something has gone
wrong. The split is in our own conscious-
ness, as children of an age which has not
solved its deepest problems; and one
evidence of it is the extreme difficulty
authors now have in writing authentically
in terms which unify political or religious
or philosophical doctrine, for social or
moral generality, with our concrete daily
experience.
The important dispute is between those
who find Leavis’s acceptance of the split
and elevation of it into a methodological
principle, unsatisfactory, and those who
use his work to confirm their own bias.
G, for all his admiration of Leavis,
and wish to defend him against attacks
which have not always been fair and
perceptive, really comes down on the
former side. He is troubled by the limita-
tions of Leavis’s outlook, and feels we
must struggle to deal, in literature and
criticism, more directly and freely with
the problem of the “ultimate sanctions”
of existence, with “metaphysical ambi-
tions”, with that “something other”
which may resist formulation but which
does provoke attempts at formula-
tion. He would hope to preserve the
critical gains from Leavis’s work, but
somehow transcend the either/or which
it implicitly proposes. The first pages
of this essay made me think that I
would be arguing directly against G.
Certainly, there are particular points in
his treatment that I would want to con-
test. But in the end I find myself in
substantial agreement.
The Temple
If you look from the temple
across to the fields where the sun
shatters the sight
and the grain breaks in a white light
you will know
you may not lose yourself.
Lean feel my hand,
its pallor,
its emptiness is the loss of life,
life lost while my eyes have stared into
the darkness.
Come,
touch the softness struck in sheets.
The road has left and falling.
I do mot know why the evening should
ever leave us.
ROSS DONLON
Paranoia in the White House
When the Cheering Stopped. Gene Smith.
Hutchinson. 445. 6d.
The dustjacket of “When the Cheering
Stopped” informs us that this is “the
extraordinary story of Woodrow Wilson's
last years in the White House, when the
American people were without a Presi-
dent able to perform his duties”. Accord-
ingly, as Smith is the first person to have
had access to the papers of Edith Bolling
Wilson, one is entitled to expect that he
provide us with a useful supplement to
A. L. and J. L. George’s “Woodrow
Wilson and Colonel House”, which has
been for some years the last word in
Wilson biography.
But it turns out that Smith is a
thoroughgoing sentimentalist, of the
peculiarly American “Satevepost” variety,
who has time merely to raise such in-
triguing possibilities as the suggestion
that Wilson suffered his first thrombosis
of the brain during the Paris peace
negotiations. For it was at precisely
this point that Wilson broke with his
LOW'S WILSON
intimate friend and adviser, Colonel
House —an event to which the Georges
attach considerable psychological im-
portance. But the Georges did not
mention (because, unlike Smith, they did
not have access to Mrs Wilson's papers)
that, at the time of the break with House,
Wilson also showed symptoms of an
advanced paranoia—he felt himself to be
surrounded by highly trained French
spies disguised as servants (perhaps not
all that unlikely); he felt that all his house
furnishings were being stolen; he became
obsessed with the misuse of embassy
cars, etc. Suspicious of all the other
members of the American delegation,
Wilson was no more pleasant to his fel-
low statesmen. As Clemenceau put it:
“I never knew anyone to talk more like
Jesus Christ and act more like Lloyd
George.”
Wilson had always been incredibly
dependent upon others for continuing
assurances of love and uncritical support,
and it had been upon his ability to mani-
pulate these needs that House's power
had rested. As House's star declined,
that of Wilson's second wife, Edith, in-
evitably rose However, there was an
important difference between the two
cases, for while House had been fully
aware of the manipulative nature of his
activities, Edith Wilson seemed to be
motivated by a simple desire to reassure
her husband that his feelings and suspi-
cions were correct. Thus the elimination
of House’s influence meant that Wilson’s
activities became increasingly out of
touch with reality. House had been
an exceedingly astute politician who had
directed his manipulations towards what
he conceived to be the President’s own
best interests (and, it must be admitted,
he was more often than not a better
judge of this than his master). Edith
Wilson, on the other hand, seems a
thoroughly vindictive woman whose
natural sentiments meshed perfectly with
the emerging paranoia of her husband.
Consider, for example, the causes of the
estrangements of the Wilsons from
Franklin Roosevelt.
In 1918, the secretary to the British
Ambassador to Washington, a man by
the name of Craufurd-Stuart, was indis-
creet enough to make some uncompli-
mentary remarks about Edith Wilson.
This was enough to produce a request
from the American Government that he
be sent home, but, before the matter
reached a head, the Ambassador resigned
and took Craufurd-Stuart back to
England with him. However, when the
new ambassador, Lord Grey, arrived, it
was discovered that he had the hapless
Craufurd-Stuart in train, and this was
sufficient to deny Grey access to the
invalid President in order to present his
credentials. After eight months’ waiting,
Grey decided to give up and return
home. However, whilst en route, he was
entertained in New York by Roosevelt.
Being now tainted by‘association with
the tainted, Roosevelt was never able to
re-establish warm relations with the
Wilsons.
Nor was this an isolated instance, for,
one by one, Wilson’s associates and
friends were alienated.
Now it would be only too easy to
saddle Edith Wilson with the major
responsibility for these breaches (and
the enormous consequences which
flowed from them), because such behavior
does seem characteristic of her. (On the
very day of Wilson's death, she became
permanently estranged from one of his
daughters.) However, to do so would
be to ignore the fact that it was also
characteristic of Wilson himself, as the
By JOHN POWER


LEARN
FREELANCE
WRITING
BY HOME-STUDY
WITH STOTT'S
If you have a flair for writing, then a Stott
Literary Course will develop your talent. There
is a steady demand for well written short
stories, articles and scripts both in Australia
and overseas, and practical Home-Study in-
struction, under the guidance of expert in-
structors, will teach you to write successfully
for these markets. Send for details today.
Stolls Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth.
POST THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any obliga-
tion, full particulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
- AGE (8.1865)
No sales representative will call following your
inquiry.
Current Affairs
Bulletin
From literature to economics; from politics
to art; from industry to radio-astronomy
the University of Sydney's authoritative fort-
nightly lets you know what is happening, and
why.
Subscribe for yourself or a friend!
PRICE: 13/6 a year (post overseas.
Write to: The Editor, Current Affairs Bulletin,
University of Sydney.
REMEMBER CAB IS A PUBLICATION
YOU KEEP!
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. When writing olease give
information already known.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 FENCHURCH STREET, LONDON, E.C.3.
Georges have convincingly shown. Pro-
bably this question of the relative respon-
sibilities oi the two can never be settled
satisfactorily, but if it is even to be
tackled, someone will have to give the
Wilson papers a more imaginative read-
ing than Smith has given them. In the
interim, it is probably wise to follow the
Georges’ argument that the seeds of
Wilson's ultimate failure in his struggle
with the Senate lay in his own personal-
ity. The prism of Edith Wilson which
interposed itself between the President
and the world may have given his neuro-
tic aims a more grotesque dimension
(and thus made their ultimate failure
even more certain). But both the
neuroses and the aims belonged to
Woodrow Wilson.
The Born Soldier?
By LT-GEN. SIR RAGNAR GARRETT
Australia’s Defence. T. B. Millar. MUP.
355.
This excellent analysis of Australia’s
defence problems should be read by all
directly connected with defence —or
interested in it: there are still far too
many who believe that this can be
attended to if and when we come under
the immediate threat of attack on our
own shores. This is based largely on the
myth of the Australian being a “born
soldier” and consequently needing little,
if any, training. Another and perhaps
more dangerous myth is that if we dot
our forces around but within our own
perimeter we have made adequate
preparation to defend ourselves. Dr
Millar deals effectively with both these.
I am sorry if his contention that the
Services are reluctant to discuss defence
policy with civilians is entirely true. It
must not be forgotten, however, that the
Service officer is a servant of the Govern-
ment which has the ultimate responsi-
bility for decisions on defence policy.
Many may, and often do, disagree with
the policy, but they must either carry
it out with complete loyalty, or resign,
or be subject to a severe penalty. I agree
with Dr Millar that service secrecy is
carried to extreme and often absurd
lengths; particularly with the Press. If
the Press were taken into much greater
confidence I, at least, have sufficient
respect for its integrity to believe we
would have a better informed public and
less leakage of information detrimental
to the interests of the overall defence
effort.
Dr Millar refers to the often quoted
statement that one volunteer is worth ten
impressed men, though he does not
obviously support the contention. To
me it is nonsense when I remember the
magnificent fighting qualities of the men
comprising the non-AIF divisions and
brigades in New Guinea and the
Solomons. These men were, when led
by experienced and trained officers and
NCOs, on a par with their counterparts
in the AIF. It is leadership that is the
all-important factor, whether the men
are volunteers or conscripts. If we accept
the fact that the volunteer is ten times
better than the conscript and are to
fight our battles on that basis, then we
can only look forward to the day when
we have no good men left. I believe that
no fit man should claim or retain the
rights of citizenship and be exempted
from the present National Service call-
up. Not even the theological student for
whom a period of service would be of
inestimable benefit in his approach to his
future pastoral duties.
I find nothing to quarrel with in Dr
Millar’s chapter 3, entitled “Threats To
Australian Security”. How much more
secure would we not feel today if the
United States had been granted the right
to establish a base at Manus. A base
there would probably have induced that
country to take a much more serious
view of the acquisition of West Irian by
Indonesia and her inevitable future
infiltration and subversion into Papua
New Guinea.
The chapter on our “Defence Agree-
ments and Arrangements” clarifies just
where, when and how we fit in with
ANZAM, ANZUS and SEATO and the
relative value* of each. For example, the
recent despatch of a battalion to South
Vietnam can be criticised on several
grounds, not the least being its military
value. In fact militarily it may well be
more of a liability than an asset not
because of any inferiority in fighting
quality but because of the requirement
of a separate line of logistic support in
respect of many items of supply. How-
ever, if the United States pressed Aus-
tralia to co-operate more substantially in
that area, which 1 have little doubt it
did for political reasons, then surely it
was politic for us to accede. The day
may come when we need help and our
action now must, at least, be taken
account of as a factor in our favor then.
In effect, if we are to honor our agree-
ments we cannot have it both ways.
I would have liked to see Dr Millar
commend the recommendations of the
Morshead Committee because I believe
that had they been adopted we would
have a much more effective defence
organisation leading to quicker decision,
greater integration and standardisation
within the Services and a greater degree
of co-operation. He says: “Such are the
vested interests that it takes a very strong
man armed with considerable powers to
rationalise the Services and make them
work together.” Agreed, but surely is
it not better to do this in peace than
have to do it in war?
The question of an aircraft-carrier
has long been a contentious one. I
believe that if it is an essential naval
requirement, there should be no less
than two, preferably three. Otherwise
there is the possibility, even probability,
of the Navy’s major equipment being
inactive when most required.
The decision to adopt a pentropic
organisation (perhaps an unfortunate
name) was not taken lightly. I believed
then, and I still believe, that for the
type of operations envisaged in the fore-
seeable future it is much superior to
that with which we fought the last war.
Admittedly there were problems of com-


mand, but these were not insuperable
because today officers and NCOs, both
regular and CMF, are infinitely better
trained than they were in 1939. The
means and reliability of communications,
on which command largely depends,
have also made great advances since
1945.
The “Conclusions and Proposals” in
the final chapter of this book require
no comment from me except to com-
mend them to the reader.
Stemming the Rot
By NANCY KEESING
The Booandik Tribe of South Australian
Aborigines: a sketch of their habits,
customs,’ legends and language. Mrs
James Smith. Australiana Facsimile
Editions. Libraries Board of SA.
The Man Who Sold His Dreaming. Roland
Robinson. Currawong. 255.
I wonder how much of the contemporary
effort to help Aborigines is destined
in the future to seem as misguided, naive
and useless as earlier attempts to achieve
similar goals now appear. The history
of white - black relationships in this
country is not an unalleviated story of
deliberate massacre and heartless neglect.
Missionaries, individual settlers and
Government - appointed “guardians of
Aborigines” early worked, and worked
hard, to stem the rot.
I found, for example, a real fascina-
tion in the mythical stories collected
by Mrs James Smith, a remark-
able missionary lady who gives an
“Account of the efforts made ... to
Christianise and Civilise . . .” the Booan-
dik tribe which inhabited a part of the
south-east coast of South Australia. At
the mission, part school, part hospital,
part orphanage and old people’s home,
Mrs Smith’s own children were brought
up closely with the druals (Aborigines)
and one of her sons became an official
interpreter. She records customs,
marriage laws, superstitious beliefs and
a vocabulary and structural scheme of
the Booandik language.
As a very brief sample of one aspect
of this splendid little book, here is how
sheep, cattle and horses appeared to
Pendowen, Neenimin and Barakbouranu
when, as girls, they first saw such
animals. There had been an earthquake
during the night so the girls were already
frightened then “when daylight came
we heard a ghost calling out, ‘Mae, mae,
mae-a-ae’, and we were afraid. One of
our men went to see where the ghost
was. He came back and told us . . . he
could not compare the great thing to
anything in the country. We had a peep
through the bushes, and saw what we
now know to have been sheep, cattle and
horses, and a dray. The bullocks’ bellow-
ing was a terror to us . . . we took it for
an expression of rage . . .” Soon though,
they plucked up courage and stole a
sheep and tried to spear other animals.
So the whites pursued the blacks and
killed one man. And by 1880, when the
book was first published, hardly any of
these once numerous people were left.
Than Roland Robinson no better col-
lector of what remains of Aboriginal
lore lives today. Most of us who have
valued his earlier collections of tales
from the tribal, or partly tribal, people
of Arnhem Land and the far north will
be astonished to discover that, even
among some of the long-detribalised
inhabitants of the NSW coastal plains,
racial and legendary memories are
strong. These stories are not only
fascinating for their traditional content,
but also for the way the tellers have
woven old and new cultures together in
their yarn spinning. They are presented
verbatim so that one may hear, as Percy
Mumbulla speaks in a whisper, of a
bugeen (a kind of avenging demon)
which visited a group playing cards and
escaped from a brave fellow who went
after him with a bottle. Alexander
Vesper, a devout Christian, nevertheless
respects, and recalls his tribal religion in
great detail.
Myth of the Flying-foxes
Wuka, the red flying-foxes, as men went
once.
Spears of acacia-wood they cut and
shaved down,
a bone-barb cut, a flat place planed on
the blade
against which to lay on the barb, with
fig-tree string
bound on the barb, with red clay and
white clay,
finger put on and painted, their spears
were made.
Angrily the red flying foxes were quar-
relling,
their spears throwing. Mukama, a black
flying-fox,
they speared in the rib. Wuka, the
father, said,
“Pay back the spearing. Here's my leg.
Spear me.”
Mukama paid back the wound. Wuka
he speared.
Those two lay sick from that spearing.
Wuka was dead.
In a hole the red flying-foxes laid their
father,
in a hole they burned him in fire, with
tea-tree bark
they covered him over, with sand they
covered him.
Sticks with emu and jabiru feathers
stuck on - ■
they stood all over him. Emu feathers
they laid around
on the ground. They went away. There
they left him.
The black flying-foxes were carrying their
brother.
To his home they carried him. A red
flying-fox
came up. Tip. He speared Mukama.
Dead
he speared him. They covered Mukama
En ™„ n a * erS ,hc >' )aid a " arollnd on the
feathered sticks stood up at his feet and
, , v
ea
“Now let us give up the fight.” Now as
they were ° °
all going along together, red flying-foxes
and black flying-foxes to their home all
going along, ~
among themselves, the black flying-foxes
sa jj
“Our home is close up. We cannot give
up this grudge.
Let us kill Wuka, the younger, and right
this wrong.”
ca ‘ lie 6 Tiere he
blac ( ~ ~ „
s P eared Wuka. To death they all speared
him speared
hlnl J us ‘ at the auwa there ' The y P ulled
out their spears,
They stared at the ground. It had become
ab soft
from the blood they had spilled. “What
are we to do?”
The ground softer and softer grew,
softer and softer,
There they all sank down in that auwa,
~ . .
the black flying-foxes, and Wuka, the red
flying-foxes,
just here they all sank down, in the
water they went down.
Now men with both hands hit the water >
saying,
“ Red fl y>ng-foxes, be settling every-
where.”
And now men cook for their meat the
flying-foxes,
ROLAND ROBINSON


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Nervous Wall Street
Wall Street dropped 13.77 points
on June 28 to 840.59, reputedly
because of institutional selling, the Dow
Jones Averages recorded the largest
index loss since President Kennedy’s
assassination in Noyember, 1963. It also
was the signal for all. “Mr Hatch"
theorists to get out, because the market
had fallen 10 p.c. from its high point.
The “Hatch” selling point was 845 on
the index.
Of course, Mr Hatch could be old
hatch these days, since the professional
operators are not so much influenced by
market systems as they are by such vital
facts as Government tax cuts, production
figures and general statistical evidence.
It was a little surprising to the Hatch
enthusiasts, however, to see the market
bounce back up again so smartly, again
on institutional buying. It seems obvious
that institutional investors today are
exerting a much greater influence on the
market than those lusty yesteryears of
speculation and professional operators.
It stands to reason that the big institu-
tions, pension funds and the like have
accumulated vast resources which the
average investor cannot match. Capit d
restraints on overseas investment also
must have had a remarkable effect in
channeling surplus funds into the market.
The theorist who goes against the tide
of institutional buying is a man solidly
convinced that the old theories will win
out. He might also be called foolishly
courageous, unless he links the theory
with the broad set of economic
now widely disseminated in the US.
Combined with the latest excise tax
cuts are buoyant figures of capital in-
vestment in industry, a not-too-heavy
ratio of stocks in relation to indicated
sales, continued economic expansion and
a reasonable control of labor costs.
Looking farther ahead, however,
American forecasters 'are suggesting a
tapering-off as the year progresses and
some talk of a recession in 1966. Hence
the move by President Johnson to make
his latest tax cuts in two parts, the second
to occur next January.
Labor costs are on the rise, based on
recent wage deals, and there is a feeling
that the economy will begin to slacken by
the end of this year, at which time it also
will have to cope with higher cost factors.
If inflation forces the US Government
to raise interest rates, the pattern could
be much the same as displayed already
in other countries.
It will not be a popular move to those
who are heavily dependent on the US,
because the tremendous buying power of
the US exerts a remarkable influence on
the commodity markets of the world.
The ideal situation would be for the
US to solve its balance of payments prob-
lem and to start spending freely again.
In the meantime, a reappraisal of stock
prices, bringing them to a safer level, is
not a bad thing. It lessens the margin
for a slump. After all, if the institutions
which support the market start selling—
don’t even think about it!
Commodity Lift Needed
'Treasury White Papers aside, Aus-
tralian investors are obliged to keep
an independent watch on overseas trends
because it appears that the fastest
stimulant to the local market would
come from a reversal of US and UK
capital restrictions, plus a rise in com-
modity values.
As it is, the tighter conditions in world
commodity markets and the generally
deflationary measures from once-buoyant
economies (including those which also
have suffered from drought conditions)
have induced a bad psychological out-
look.
Interpreted directly in specific com-
modity terms, wool and metal prices
have eased and even the übiquitous tin
market has slipped back.
MR HATCH THINKS AGAIN
Much closer to the mark, trading
banks have been asking clients for more
share scrip for security as the share
market moves downward.
Looked at dispassionately, the Aus-
tralian share market certainly hasn’t done
so well in 1964-65, with a drop of 18.3
p.c. But this isn’t so bad if stacked
alongside a rise of 15.9 p.c. in the
previous year.
In fact, the share market has shown a
net increase for the two years prior to
1964-65. There* is little doubt that, if
local economic conditions had set the
pattern, there was justification for a
reasonably stable share market, at least
in the first half of the financial year.
British and American Share Markets
TT'HE exact timing of Wall Street’s
notable upsurge last week may
well have surprised many of the
pundits, especially so far as trading
vigor was concerned. At the week’s
start everything on the market itself
seemed to suggest a fairly desultory
interest and a mere repetition of a
mood to continue the prolonged slide.
Even after the somewhat hectic
return to confident dealings, however,
the Street remains_obviously cautious
about the near future. The Dow Jones
certainly put on a brilliant 20.8 points
over the week, yet there’s a feeling
that a few domestic economic'Tactors
must be properly digested before the
immediate optimism can be fully
confirmed.
Perhaps no real doubt should exist
on the basic strength of the US
economy, though some share market
conclusions may be drawn from lower
steel production and a fall in factory
orders. Unemployment also showed
a marginal dip and the nagging gold
reserves went to their lowest level
since October, 1938.
Whatever the coming reactions to
those factors, last week’s prices and
turnovers moved very positively.
Volumes jumped nearly 10 million
on the week and were strikingly
ahead of the corresponding period in
1964. Individual rises were three
times more than the falls and found
reasonable expression among the blue
chips.
London, in the meantime, did not
manage to take much shine from New
York. Buyers are clearly holding off
while the small-investor selling drift
goes on. The usual economic ghosts
still haunt the markets.
Hardly any encouragement could
have been derived from the British
Chancellor’s consultations with the
Secretary of the US Treasury. Their
communique sounded general in the
extreme.


Falling overseas reserves, restrictions on
overseas money, higher defence commit-
ments, rising interest rates, fears of
higher tax and the harsh facts of a
crippling drought inevitably had to take
their toll.
The important question now is how
far will Australia’s overseas reserves fall
in 1965-66? If overseas capital restraints
are removed by the end of 1965 and
if commodity prices recover, the outlook
will be much brighter, despite the long-
term effects of the drought and the re-
duced prospects for exporting wheat,
wool, beef, etc.
Another factor with which the market
must wrestle is the Treasurer’s struggle
to handle his extra defence burden while
coping with loan conversions of more
than £soom. in 1965-66 To ensure loan
successes, there is a firm feeling in some
quarters that interest rates may need, to
rise again. If so, this will not do the
equity market much good.
So it would be pleasant to hear some
buoyant news from overseas. With the
UK problems unsolved and the US
engrossed in its own balance of payments
problem, a little patience is needed.
Suckers for What?
Otrains reminiscent of squabbles on
the European Common Market are
becoming evident in the attempts to
found a limited free trade area between
Australia and New Zealand. An end-
of-June debate by the NZ Parliament
certainly brought out some of the
obstacles.
“It looks as if the Aussies are playing
us for suckers again”, almost came in
chorus from the Labor Opposition,
echoing the burden of frequent criticism
by 'its Leader, Mr Arnold Nordmeyer.
The Opposition sees a threat to full
employment and considerable damage to
apparently fragile domestic industry.
Mr Nordmeyer can, of course, make
great play with the marked imbalance of
Australia-NZ trade, which rather stub-
bornly remains tour-to-one
favor. Indeed, over the last tw'o years,
NZ increased its earnings from Australia
by just £7.1 million, w'hereas Australia’s
returns w'ere lifted £l7 million.
The Minister for Overseas Trade, Mr
J Marshall, remains a keen defender of
the free trade concept. He again main-
tained during the debate that “the NZ
manufacturer will and must grow he
cannot grow strong in a hot-house”.
The Government claims to have won
more support among highly competitive
industries, though finds some industries
disagreeing within themselves. Talks
with industry are continuing in prepara-
tion for the next bout of Canberra talks.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
A Pretty Display of
Shadow-Boxing
Treasury’s chat on the economy
what Mr Holt said on the way
A to Bingil Bay and come in for the
Treasury's best display of shadow-boxing
for years. It is not that, in his economic
survey, Sir Roland fails to mention the
main real-life pitfalls facing the economy,
only that he fails to get to grips with
them, treating them as phantoms which
could disappear in the night. “It would
be a rare year,” the survey says, “that
began quite free from doubts. It would
be a rare year also that did not as it
went along see some doubts prove
groundless and others arise ” After all,
the economy has been dancing pretty
nicely to the Treasury’s tune these last
few years.
Last year, thank you, we did very
nicely in the hotted-up tug-of-war be-
tween resources and demand. Growth
went on “at much the same rate as the
previous year”. This meant scraping the
manpower barrel, but there was “less
pressure on costs and prices than might
have been expected” Good production
performances combined with a big rise
in imports to take the strain of “a strong
and unflagging pull on resources”.
The pul! on resources, says the sur-
vey, came from a rise in expenditures
at a “growing pace”. In the van were
public authority spending and capital
SIR ROLAND WILSON
investment. Current expenditure in the
economy “probably” rose by 8 p.c. as
against 7 p.c. and 6 p.c. in the two
previous years. Contributing to last
year’s 8 p.c. rise, expenditure by public
authorities has increased about half as
fast again as spending in the private
sector. On the capital side the pull has
been even stronger. The order of in-
crease in capital expenditure over the
last three years has been respectively 8
p.c., 12 p.c and 16 p.c. These, presum-
ably, are national figures, but it is noted
that in public authority spending the pro-
portion of capital expenditure is at most
times comparatively high. The cap suits.
The bones of last year’s economic per-
formance are more evident than the flesh
and blood, at least in the early sections
of the truncated Treasury offering. The
statistical skeleton fills out a little in the
projection of trends into 1965-66. Here
the liquidity squeeze is played down as
of passing moment. The reversal of
liquidity flushness born of rising re-
serves in 1963-64 “has been partly off-
set” by increases in rural credit and bank
advances. If “the increase in the money
supply was somewhat smaller last year
than in 1963-64 it was far from in-
considerable and added to that built up
over the previous years will certainly
not leave the economy short of means of
payment”. Indeed, “with spending high
and rising, monetary policy has aimed at
restraint”, the document says in a cold
unhelpful dismissal of the subject, as if
current business liquidity pains were of
no account or were to be soon relieved.
Going on this survey and also on its
evidence supplied to the Arbitration
Commission in the basic and total wage
cases a few months ago, the Treasury
is more concerned lest demand gets out
of hand than it is about resources
deficiency. No doubt it is well aware
that the two problems run in parallel,
yet one wonders if it is not being too
sanguine on the prospect for resources.
The implication is that, if it is being
too optimistic about the availability of
resources, there is all the more reason
for it to be worried about the prospects
for demand, particularly its own part in
bolstering demand.
On the score of internal resources it
is confident in all respects except on the


availability of labor. Even on the latter,
if additional labor as predicted becomes
scarce and there is a small reduction in
the output per man in secondary in-
dustry, production will rise, says the
survey, though possibly at a lower rate
than in the past couple of years. No
difficulties are seen, immediately anyway,
from any shortages of plant capacity or
imports to serve this rise in industrial
output.
It is assumed that imports will be
allowed to flow unfettered by restrictions,
to provide the necessary raw materials
and equipment for industry. But there
is hardly a word on the possible re-
actions of firms to rising costs and
narrowing profit margins, nor to possibly
the most vital element in industry, con-
fidence. The survey simply says that if
demand broke bounds “the generally
rising trend of costs and prices now
current, including those due* to increasing
over - award payments, would further
strengthen”.
The possibilities for industrial pro-
duction are seen only in their relation-
ship to possible inflationary increases in
demand, not, as they should be, in terms
of current expectations of businessmen,
themselves now faced with stringent
liquidity and rising interest rates. Also,
one might have expected the survey to
have thrown something about unit wage
costs into this side of the discussion of
the outlook for industrial production.
With the wage decision imminent, it
could possibly be excused for the omis-
sion, not knowing that this time the
Arbitration Commission would take a
much more conservative view than it did
last year. The most the Treasury allows
itself to say is that “from past experience
we can expect average wage earnings to 4
go on rising”. It did not have to wait
until the wage case decisions to be con-
fident of saying that.
Predicting as big a rise in industrial
production as is compatible with the
limits of increasing the labor force, the
survey fails to discount any possible
change in business expectations. Yet,
although obsessed with the dangers of
demand becoming excessive, the survey
admits to some faltering in the rise in
domestic demand, at least in one para-
graph, and hastens to add (sic) that if
this goes on the Government will step
in. “Whatever tendency there might be
for some branches of expenditure to stop
rising or rise more slowly from now on,
the big increase in Government spending
could more than counterbalance it.”
Industry may take some assurance
from this that the Government won’t let
demand as a whole for its products
flag (though it is saying nothing of the
pattern of demand, which is also vitally
important to industry). As Mr McMahon
told the Congress on Human Relations,
this is the answer to everything and the
Government has it (sic). Mr McMahon
is probably equally confident that the
authorities can control overspill of
demand. The Treasury, it seems, is not
quite so sure. Talking of overspill brings
one to another vital aspect on the re-
sources front, the availability of primary
commodities for the home market.
The survey skirts over this vital factor
in the demand-resources equation with
one innocuous paragraph. “Just now,”
it states, “in the rural industries the main
question is how long the drought will last
in the eastern States and how much it
may already have done to cut back pro-
duction in 1965-66, especially production
of wool, wheat and meat. Opinion seems
to be that the effects on these industries
could become fairly serious.” The survey
attempts no precise assessment of the
likely impact on reduced home market
supplies or prices, despite the already
pervasive effects, say, on meat prices.
Turning to the availability of overseas
resources, for my liking the Treasury’s
projections are extravagant when looked
at in terms of the likely increment to
overseas reserves stemming from ex-
ports and capital inflow in the coming
year. I would be very surprised if either
of these flows works out as well as the
Treasury seems to think they will after
weighing all the possibilities as it sees
them. For one thing, it seems to have
understated the chances of Australia
being heavily affected by reduced out-
flow of capital from Britain. In my view,
Britain has not yet faced up to its need
t 0 restr * ct capital outflow to Common-
wealth countries and must do so without
more delay unless, in default of
drastic new arrangements being made to
increase international liquidity, it is
prepared to devalue sterling a possi-
hilh} which, naturally perhaps, the Aus-
tralian Treasury does not canvass in its
survey.
ne “ e * s ™P ress * on that basically
Treasury thinks that, with about
£lOOO million first and second line re-
serves up our sleeve, overseas influences
can l ar S e ly be discounted. Even if we
ace . P ros P ect °f a further substantial
fall in reserves, the document states, this
doesn’t make our external situation in
any real sense weak. “That exports in
1964-65 should be around £l3OO million,
despite heavy falls in wool and sugar
prices, hardly—suggests weakness.”
CROESUS
Wage-fixing Without Tears
Big let-down for the unions
Maybe the Arbitration Commission is
A in a cleft stick as an arbiter of the
level of wages in Australia, but in its
majority judgment this year it has made
the boldest attempt yet to exert the
maximum influence open to it within the
limits of its powers to achieve a rational
result. The trouble, of course, is that
the pressures determining actual wages
do not necessarily dance to a rational
tune. If the Arbitration system tightens
up the straitjacket in which award wages
are determined, the pressures will be
exerted elsewhere in the open market —
realms where the only rules are
Rafferty’s.
So two questions arise from the
majority judgment delivered by the
Commission last week. There is the
immediate one of whether the H p.c.
increase in margins is within the capacity
of the economy to sustain without
putting strains on prices in the coming
year. There is the further one whether
the Arbitration system is put under
threat by the decision to merge basic
wage and margins cases.
On the first of these, one has to abide
by the view taken by the full bench,
and supported by the disinterested
evidence of the Government in its wages
hearings interventions, that the economy
will not be able to stand the full main-
tenance of the real level of award wages
decided on by the majority judgment
in 1964, which increased the basic wage
by £l. I felt that the judgments of all
the members of the Commission skated
rather too briskly over the ground in
this respect. On the other hand, we all
have a feeling, inarticulate perhaps, of
what an increase in wages in a particular
year should be. The members of the
Arbitration Commission are subject to
the same sort of influences and impres-
sions about this as most of us and, as
I see it, they may well have come to
the right answer, even if nobody quite
expected they would express it in the
way they did.
Of course, the majority took strong
views about the need to rationalise the
Commission’s approach to wage-fixing,
Given the loophole of the employers’
application to have the basic wage and
margins cases together, it was perhaps
reasonable that once they had accepted
the logic of this arrangement they should
take the first opportunity to use it.
Whether they should have been in such
a hurry to do so is an open question,
At least the unions are entitled to say


Have you tried
AUSTRALIAN
WHISKY
lately?
that, given the procedures laid down in
1961 and their faithful adherence to
them, it was a most unwelcome bolt from
the blue that the Commission should
have departed in a new direction so
peremptorily. As a matter of fact I am
wholly on the unions’ side in this matter.
Maybe we shouldn’t expect anybody, or
any quasi-Government authority, always
to follow the course they lay down. At
least, though, they should give adequate
notice before departing from them.
The absence of an incomes policy and
the improbability of getting one left the
Arbitration Commission with no alter-
native but to reject the first part of the
employers’ total wage claim to merge
the basic wage and margins in a single
“total” wage. For while the three-two
majority decision conceded Part B of
the claim, and indeed made several other
concessions on procedure, all five mem-
bers on the bench argued strongly against
implementing the total wage itself. Some
of them stuck to reasons they advanced
last year and some found new ones.
With the acceptance of Part B and
having won so much on other counts
this time, surely the employers will now
let the matter drop.
The observations in the three separate
judgments are all interesting on Part A,
especially on the inconclusive evidence
of world experience. But the real meat
in the findings lies in the striking
changes to be made in the Commission’s
own procedures and their • effects on
future wage determination. Some of the
changes, such as the intention now to
have annual full-scale reviews of the
economy and the submission of written
cases and other evidence by the parties
to claims, have been canvassed for a
long time. Others, such as giving In-
dustrial Commissioners a place in full
bench hearings, stem largely from the
acceptance of Part B of the total wage
claim, which provides for concurrent
hearings of basic wage and margins
cases, the biggest change of all.
Before this momentous judgment the
unions obviously thought the game was
on again, because in March this year,
during the total and basic wage hearings,
they announced they would seek an in-
crease in margins later in the year after
the total and basic wage cases were
decided. With the total wage application,
whose Part B sought a merging of basic
wage and margins cases, before it, the
Commission had the opportunity to make
a judgment, inter alia, on margins in this
case. Perhaps stung by the union’s
bravado in announcing they would seek
SIR RICHARD KIRBY
a margins hearing later in the year, the
Commission opted to anticipate that
event by accepting Part B of the total
wage application and awarding the year’s
wage increases to margins.
“We are satisfied,” the Commission
said, “that the simultaneous considera-
tion by the Commission of the basic
wage and margins on general economic
grounds would remove a source of
friction represented by legal claims for
marginal increases and campaigns based
upon them.” In a word, it opined that
“the capacity of the economy to sustain
additions to award wages is not increased
by bringing claims under different head-
ings. The time for contending that
margins should be increased on general
economic grounds relating to a par-
ticular period in the future is during the
hearing at which the Commission to
reviewing the economy in relation iO
that period and not after it”. This spells
out the new order in unequivocal terms.
To rub salt into the unions’ wounds,
the Commission also took a more
positive line than ever before on the
question of tapering of margins. It
stated there would be no point in ex-
pressing its finding as a percentage of
margins. Rather, “since the general
economic factors which are the basis
of the decision apply equally to the basic
wage and marginal elements, if the
decisions were expressed in the form of
a percentage, that percentage should
fairly be one of the sum of those two
elements and not of one element alone”.
Further, it said, “if this produces a
change in the relationship which for-
merly existed between one man’s margin
and that of another, it does not appear
to us to involve any injustice”. By
making the percentage increase on the
sum of basic wage and margins, the
Commission believed “this would remove
a difficulty which has aroused great ex-
pectations and given rise to such contro-
versy”. For the unions the good old
days were obviously over.
Apart from the procedural changes
involving simultaneous hearings of basic
wage and margins claims, the latter re-
jection was probably of most funda-
mental importance, since the main
economic effects in the mind of the
majority judgment were those on prices.
“We have decided to grant wages in-
creases which we consider will not be
incompatible with price stability because,
in our view, any wage increase granted
at the present time without regard to this
question would not confer a real or
lasting benefit upon wage- and salary-
earners. The Commission cannot, of
course, guarantee price stability, but it
should in present economic circumstances
take care not to make decisions which
it recognises are a threat to it.” This,
of course, is a major concession to the
Commonwealth Government’s submis-
sions at the hearings. It certainly makes
good sense in economics, if not neces-
sarily in social terms.


experience
f: m?
The Bank of Ceylon has grown to be the largest
bank in the island, controlling over 50% of the
total bank deposits in Ceylon. Enterprising
exporters and importers depend upon this
experience in their trade relations with Ceylon.
The Bank of Ceylon offers a comprehensive
service from up-to-the-minute Business Intelli-
gence Reports and Credit Information, to the
financing of exports and imports and conducting
every type of foreign exchange transaction.
LONDON OFFICE: 48-54 Moorgate, London, E.C.2.
Phone Monarch 5597-9.
FOREIGN DEPT.:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: FORBANK Colombo.
CENTRAL OFFICE:
Bank of Ceylon Building,
York Street, Colombo 1.
Cables: HEADBANK Colombo.
OF
<9£ov&
BANK OF CEYLON
The largest bank in Ceylon
with the finest network of local branches.
28 BRANCHES AND 4 PAY OFFICES IN CEYLON.
Machines for Construction
Australia lags in making and using
A ustralia’s high level of construction
** and mineral-winning activity is pro-
viding excellent business for the con-
struction equipment suppliers and manu-
facturers. Were it not for the availability
of machines capable of removing over-
burden, machines for road-building, coal-
mining and dam - building there is no
doubt the nation’s growing pains would
be more severe than they are. We would
be economically behind the eight-ball.
To include a list in this article of the
projects using such heavy machinery
would be almost impossible. The Snowy
Mountains scheme, mineral and dam-
building works in Western Australia,
coal-mining in Queensland and New
South Wales all are requiring vast
amounts of heavy construction equip-
ment, most of which is imported.
The influx of foreign firms such as
Utah of America, Pechiney of France,
Mitsui and Mitsubishi of Japan has
meant increasing use of construction
equipment. Together with the demands
Australian firms are placing on the sup-
pliers and manufacturers there is a
partial shortage at present.
There are, however, indications that
this shortage could be alleviated in the
near future. Several companies The
Bulletin spoke to felt there could be
a general down-turn in construction
works at Government and semi-Govern-
ment levels this year. They point to heavy
defence commitments, the high cost of
the drought in Australia’s eastern States,
and a belt-tightening Budget due next
month.
“There is so much construction work
going on at the moment,” said one equip-
ment importer and manufacturer, “that
if there is a clamp-down on spending it
could well occur in the works the various
Governments are carrying out. For in-
stance, in NSW, where the drought wilt
cost a lot, I don’t think the Government
can afford to go ahead at full steam
with road projects such as the Warringah
Expressway and the new highway to
Newcastle. I don’t think these projects
will be discontinued or shelved indefin-
itely, but we can expect a general slow-
ing-down.”
Another supplier said his business had
already decreased. “This is due, in part,
to a hesitation or reluctance on the part
of sub-contractors to commit themselves
for heavy capital expenditure when the
future is clouded. In the bigger-class
machines there is a high price tag
some machines cost up to £40,000 and
some contractors feel they would rather
continue with what they have than have
expensive machinery lying idle if there
is a clamp-down. This applies mainly
to Government works. Private enterprise
doesn't seem to be worrying at the
moment.”
At present, one equipment supplier
considered, about 90 p.c. of our heavy
construction equipment is imported.
There seems no reason for this figure to
lessen for years to come* The supplier
said: “Our high wages costs, the shortage
of skilled labor for both service and con-
struction, and the size of our local heavy
equipment industry mean that for the
time being we must rely on overseas’
sources.
“Time, too, is an all-important factor.
To organisations using this heavy equip-
ment time is money. More often than
not it is more economical for them to
import urgently needed machinery than
wait for us to build it here. The day will
come, of course, when the local manu-
facturers will be able to compete on a
feasible basis with the large foreign com-
panies, though I think it’s a fair way off
yet.”
While total local manufacture may be
a long way off, local suppliers are getting
themselves a head start by importing
machinery in completely knocked down
or semi-knocked down condition. Natur-
ally, there is some minor local con-
tent, such as batteries, fan belts and
tyres, yet local content is far from be-
coming a significant proportion of the
total cost of the machines.
“For the time being,” said another
manufacturer, “the industry is concen-
trating on making the smaller equip-
ment. We are able to keep up with de-
mand pretty well in this field.”
World-wide, the construction equip-


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
30318
0
1
0
up to
5-10 years
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
Applications can only proceed on the form
enclosed with the Prospectus which may be
obtained from any recognized stockbroker,
or any branch of the Commercial Bank of
Aust. Ltd., and all branches of
ilillmmiiM
277 William St. Melbourne. Phu 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
6838
Underwriters:
lan Potter & Co.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
EDUCATION
OFFICERS
The Commonwealth Office of Education invites applica-
tions for a number of positions of Education Officer.
The fields of employment include International Rela-
tions in Education, Special Investigations in Education,
Educational Research, Administration of Scholarships
for Australian students and the Administration of
Training Schemes for overseas students.
Positions available are:
★ EDUCATION OFFICER CLASS 3
—Salary up to £3,240 per annum (International Rela-
tions in Education; Special Investigations in Education;
Educational Research).
* EDUCATION OFFICER CLASS 2
—Salary up to £2,800 per annum (Administration cf
Scholarship Schemes for Australian students).
★ EDUCATION OFFICER CLASS 1
—Salary up to £2,440 per annum (Administration cf
Training Schemes for overseas students).
Qualifications necessary are a university degree and
professional training and experience in Education.
For some positions appropriate specialisation in
Psychology or Mathematics will be an advantage.
The successful applicants will be located in Sydney.
Applications indicating the field of interest and the
level of appointment sought should be forwarded to
reach the- Director, Commonwealth Office of Education,
Box 189, P. 0., North Sydney, by 29th July, 1965.
Further information may be obtained by writing to the
above address or by telephoning 92-0201 extension 90.
ment industry has made its major pro-
gress since the war, when the need for
reconstruction of roads, buildings, dams,
etc., placed big demands on labor and
necessitated the development of machin-
ery to share some of the workload. Al-
though very little money is spent in
Australia on research and development,
three major international American com-
panies, Caterpillar, Allis - Chalmers and
International Harvester, are believed to
have spent between them, last year, more
than 60 million dollars on improvements,
modifications and research. This research
has aided the development of rubber-
tyred equipment instead of crawler-track
machinery. Today rubber-tyred equip-
ment is rapidly gaining in popularity
because of its easier manoeuvrability and
because it can travel on paved roads,
unlike the crawler machines.
Two other notable developments in
construction equipment have been an
increase in power and in capacity. The
economics of earth-moving are quite
simple: move as much as possible in the
shortest space of time with the minimum
of equipment. That has meant the
capacity of such equipment has doubled
during the last eight years, according to
an American manufacturer. There has
been similar progress in power.
Continuing improvements in machin-
ery mean that in the near future we’ll
see 100-ton coal vehicles, like those now
being used in America.
Research, too, has led to the develop-
ment of railroad machines which do in
hours what took railway gangs days to
do. A supplier of these machines said
they were now being widely used in Aus-
tralia by Government and private rail-
ways. “The increasing use of these
machines,” he said, “will eventually mean
that Australian railways will be as
mechanised as any in the world.”
At the moment, though, overall
mechanisation of construction in Aus-
tralia is a long way behind overseas. A
manufacturer said: “As far as I’m con-
cerned we’ve just opened the door to
mechanisation of construction in Aus-
tralia. The unions aren’t helpful, yet
more to the point is the high cost of
machinery. Until the country grows a
lot more we will still be heavily depen-
dent on manual labor.”
If current construction works are
slowed up this financial year, the effect
will be only temporary. While some of
the equipment suppliers expect a sig-
nificant drop in orders in forthcoming
months, they all see no reason why the
future should not continue to treat them
well.


CO
CD
CD
CD
CO
CO
CO
■■■■■ I
CD
GO
GO
. • •
.. *
' '
mm
m.
m
zmmmmm
• m I
Wim
it doesn’t cost a penny
No matter how good your present metal products are, they could be better. They
could cost less to produce, have a longer life, greater strength, faster production rates.
To help Australian manufacturers Zinc Alloy Die Casters Association has established
Product Audit.
PRODUCT
AUDIT
What is Product Audit? Exactly what it
sounds like. You send your product, protoype,
design plans or enquiry to the Association.
A panel of expert die casters set up by the
Association will, at no cost to you, examine
the merits of using zinc alloy die casting in
the manufacture of your product. If a zinc
die casting can offer worthwhile advantages
the panel will submit detailed recommenda-
tions. If not they will tell you.
Product Audit is Confidential. Product Audit
is completely confidential only relevant
information is submitted to the panel, and
your name is not known to the members.
Use Product Audit. Send your product or
enquiry to The Secretary, Zinc Alloy Die
Casters Association of Australia. 346 Little
Collins Street; Melbourne, Phone 60 1971.
This Is the symbol of the Zinc Alloy
Die Casters Association of Australia and
your guarantee that you receive the
highest quality zinc alloy die castings.
Australian Zinc Development Association, 95 Collins St.,
Melbourne, is co-operating with Zinc Alloy Die Casters
Association of Australia in providing the Product Audit.
6837


Invest in
INTEREST
UP TO
FOR
4
YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
A.G.C. House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
NDI3.N.
Woolmark Faces Italian Criticism
Textilers do not see increased consumption
From DESMOND O’GRADY in ROME
'Dight from her election as Miss World
** there were unwelcome comments
about Ann Sidney. It was said she would
be appreciated in Turkey and Spain but
hardly in France or the USA. Her
beauty was described as out-of-date. A
comparison was made with last year’s
suit, which one can still carry and claim
as the best available though it is
definitely dated.
Some would have hesitated to have
such a beauty display the latest fashions
in wool. Not the International Wool
Secretariat. Rather than engage a top
professional model, the Secretariat
signed on Ann Sidney for a year at a
fee of £11,250.
Ann Sidney could afford to ignore
her captious critics as fabulous vistas
opened before her: Barcelona and the
restaurants along the waterfront with
their music and plates of paella; Paris
with restaurants which are the mecca of
tourists because of their piquant sauces
and exquisite cheeses; London with its
beery pubs and battleship-heavy break-
fasts . . .
Between courses there were fashion
shows they led to invitations to
banquets. A professional model would
have counted her calories, but Miss
Sidney was solely a beauty. Beauty is a
matter of proportions. Those of Ann
began to change, so that zip-fasteners
had to be left slightly unzipped and her
corset became a torture.
So Miss World arrived in Zurich.
The cream of Zurich society was to
attend the wool fashion show in the
chic Rosenmuseum. In the afternoon
Ann strolled through the city. She
stopped to watch the swans in the lake,
she lingered under the plane trees and
met temptation at a street corner: in a
large pot sausages were boiled, then
spread with sauce and fitted snugly into
a roll. It was easy to eat four or five;
the only difficulty was to stop.
That evening she felt heavy and
drowsy. She wanted solely to sleep, yet
had to present the collection of an Aus-
tralian designer. At the Rosenmuseum
the cream of Zurich society saw a florid
beauty with tears in her eyes and a red
face. They saw only the red face because
she did not parade. She appeared before
them and then retreated backwards like
a lobster beating a wary retreat.
A Press agent explained to those pre-
sent that, as Miss Sidney was extremely
tired, she could not parade that evening.
They believed him. The next day word
spread that she could not fit into her
dresses, that the ones she had worn had
to be split down the back. Because of
this she had backed away from the
spectators.
Ann had a crying crisis. In prepara-
tion for her Italian tour, where tempta-
tion lurks on every corner, she was
placed on a strict fruit juice diet.
This report on Ann Sidney’s tour
appeared in the influential Rome politico-
cultural weekly “II Mondo”.
Wool promotion runs into some
tricky hazards: in one case it is cream
cakes and sausages; in another it is too
easy a success. The success has been in
imposing Woolmark on Italian textilers.
Despite six months’ promotion, however,
many Italian textilers are no more
favorably impressed by Woolmark
than was Zurich society by Ann Sidney’s
display. The Italian textilers suspect that
Woolmark’s success will not lead to
greater sales of wool.
The questions they raise deserve
attention, even allowing for the fact that
the small textilers who concentrate on
pure wool products welcome Woolmark
wholeheartedly and that the hostility of
the others can be partly explained by
their having stocks on hand which are
difficult to dispose of as they do not
qualify for the Woolmark.
The International Wool Secretariat has
spared no money in selling the Wool-
mark idea in Italy. Its most ambitious
project was to invite 500 retailers for
a wool week, which began with discus-
sions in Milan, included visits to the
major Italian wool centres such as Bieila
and Vicenza, and concluded with a visit
to the Pope.
Italian textilers do not doubt that the
IWS will succeed in establishing the
Woolmark. They doubt whether it is
worth the trouble and expense.
The Woolmark is granted only to
articles with not more than 0.3 per cent
of impurities. Many yarns which con-
tain up to 10 per cent of synthetic fibres
allow more than 10 per cent economy
in spinning but do not, according to
textilers, change the characteristics of the
product. They allow the production of
relatively cheap, predominantly wool
suits. Once Woolmark is imposed, no one
will want such suits. They will choose
either the all-wool suit or one of the
cheaper dacron suits in which there is
only 45 per cent of wool. There will be
a polarisation of the market between
upper and lower price levels, with a
greater increase in sales of dacron than
of pure wool suits. Woolmark will be
identified with a quality product, cer-
tainly. This will not lead to greater wool
sales, which must be the ultimate object
of wool promotion.


How to make your
money-make money
Without any risk whatsoever
your money can earn 6% per
annum (current rate) dividend
for one month, for one year , or
for any period at all Your
investment plus dividend is
readily available for withdrawal
with NO brokerage or other
deductions you gain a net 6%
p.a. paid twice yearly.
Your security is backed by £7 mill,
assets with strong liquidity reserves.
nr v /
ETY
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE
BUILDING SOCIETY LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House. 36 Ormonde Parade.
Hurstville. Phone 57 0201.
SYDNEY: 82 Elizabeth Street. Phone 28 2801
MIRANDA: 551 The Kingsway Phone 52 6466
Agencies
CHATSWOOD: Ist Floor, 389 Victoria Ave. Ph 41 3570
PARRAMATTA: 21a Smith Street. Phone 635 7401
WOLLONGONG: The National Insurance Co. of N.Z. Ltd
Suite 101 A.M.P. Building. 166 Keira St. Ph. 2 6285!
Mail to our nearest office,
ensive literature to .
NAME
ADDRESS 2596
Please send free compre
CAULFIELD GRAMMAR SCHOOL
(With which is affiliated Malvern
Memorial Grammar School)
SCHOLARSHIPS 1966
Entrance scholarships covering tuition fees
are available to boys at present in grade 6
and grade 8 (Form 11) for Forms 1 and
111 1966.
A scholarship examination will be held
at Caulfield Grammar School on Saturday,
25th September, 1965. Scholarship entry forms
may be obtained from the Headmaster and
must be lodged before Saturday, 21st Aug-ust
1965.
Caulfield Grammar School,
217 Glen Eira Road,
East St. Kilda, 5.16.
Malvern Memorial
Grammar School,
Willoby Avenue,
Glen Iris, 5.E.6.
THE SCOTS COLLEGE,
WARWICK, Q.
Applications are invited for the
position of
PRINCIPAL
Those interested are asked to write
for a statement of particulars to:
The Secretary,
The Warwick Presbyterian
Schools, Warwick, Q.
Applications will close on
July 31, 1965.
In fact, with the introduction of Wool-
mark, textilers who formerly used, say,
5 per cent of synthetics in their wool
suits have had to increase their prices,
which dissatisfies retailers when the price
of wool is dropping.
Even in the quality sphere Woolmark
will not reign supreme. Italian textilers
have remarked the anomaly that the
finest woollen fabric improved by the
addition of one per cent of synthetic
fibre is not eligible for the Woolmark,
which can be granted to second-rate
fabrics manufactured with skin-wools.
Skin-wools are obtained from sheep
grown both for meat and wool. After
the sheep has been killed for its meat,
the skin is exported to countries such
as France and the wool is removed by a
chemical process that damages the fibre.
Skin-wool products can carry the Wool-
mark, denied to the finest wool mohair
clothes, to cashmere and alpaca pull-
overs.
A n elastic wool yarn has recently been
perfected in the USA, France and
Italy. As it contains 5 per cent of syn-
thetic fibre it is ineligible for the Wool-
mark, although it is unquestionably bet-
ter than pure wool for the manufacture
of garments such as ski pants. Brioni,
the Roman designer who sets the pace
for men's fashion throughout the world,
has adopted this new elasticised material
for sports jackets since it has the great
advantage that designs can be printed
on it. His 95 per cent wool jackets will
not qualify for the Woolmark; never-
theless they will be recognised as fash-
ion leaders.
The Italian textilers who raise these
questions regarding Woolmark recog-
nise the need for correct labelling to
stop abuses such as the use of regene-
rated wool. They suggest this could be
achieved, while avoiding the limitations
of Woolmark, if the percentage of syn-
thetic fibre allowed under the mark was
increased to 10 per cent. Up to this
point it is possible to conserve all the
qualities of wool. Alternatively, they
suggest a Woolmark similar to the
United States Wool Products Labelling
Act, which obliges the declaration of the
exact percentage of all fibres constitut-
ing more than 5 per cent of the total.
Assurances could be given at the same
time regarding tensile strength, color
fastness, resistance to light and factors
which the textilers see as essential in the
labelling of a quality product.
Everyone acknowledges that wool is
a quality fibre. There is a danger in
isolating, as a high-quality, high-price
product, a nation’s staple which must
be sold in bulk. Woolmark cannot mono-
polise the quality fabric field and looks
likely to reduce the total sales of wool
by eliminating wool-synthetic mixtures
having a greater proportion of wool than
dacron does.
Many Italian textilers fear this result
as the long-term effect of Woolmark.
They point out that the strenuous IWS
campaign has neither offset negative
elements nor increased wool sales. The
reason, they claim, is that there is no
confidence that Woolmark will result in
greater total wool consumption.


m
Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE STOCK
7
1
2
m
PERANNUM6YEARS
3
7
0
4
0
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
7
i
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
0/
0
5Ji
per annum 9 months!;
5
4ii
PERANUM 3 MONM
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms- of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
M embers of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier. jdn. *
INVESTMENT
Flickering Neon Lights
Receiver versus the board
HThe differences of opinion existing
between the receiver and the direc-
tors of Neon Signs (A’asia) will be
brought right out into the open by the
board’s attempt at a scheme of recon-
struction. They first saw the light of
day last October, when a statement of
affairs from directors estimated that
£290,000-odd would be left for share-
holders after the payment of all debts.
In an attached statement the receiver
stated that in his opinion the end result
would be a substantial deficiency.
The scheme of arrangement is to be
submitted to Court-authorised meetings
in a few weeks. Full details are not vat
known. One part of the plan is to defer
the current maturing of options for three
years. If the trustees or the option
holders don’t agree to this, then the
scheme will be scotched before it even
reaches the meetings.
Directors believe that there are suf-
ficient funds to satisfy the parent com-
pany’s debts in due course. The main
neon companies are still unsold and
directors claim that these can be re-
tained and redeveloped to the point
where dividends will one day be resumed.
One respects their optimism.
However, it is a safe bet that f he
receiver and the trustees will do their
best to squash the plans and get on with
liquidation. It is possible that this has
already involved certain chats with other
companies in the field. If Neon did
manage to continue, it may find itseif
under severe handicaps because of this.
But the option question will be by
far the crux of the whole business. True,
there seems little point in allowing con-
version to ordinary shares at par on the
maturity date June 30 last. But will
optioTi holders be any better off in three
years? This may be doubted. There are
almost 1.700.000 options due for con-
version. The colossal boost to paid
capital which these will provide would
decimate whatever earning rate was pre-
vailing at the time. There is little chance
of it being high enough to withstand
such an impact and still cover even the
smallest dividend.
Reluctant Float?
T- B. Were and Son, Melbourne stock-
** brokers, may have to do a bit of
fast talking to fill their underwriting
obligations to Bairds Ltd, Perth depart-
ment store operator. Well-known as the
company is, especially in WA, figures
available so far do not shed attractive
light on the shares as a healthy proposi-
tion. With a par of 10s. they are to be
floated off at 12s. 6d. each. Dividends
are predicted at a meagre 7i p.c. The
asset backing for each unit will 'em
14s. 2d.
Presuming shares are taken up at the
float price, the dividend yield would
be 6 p.c. As the future earning capacity
of the group is unknown, because of the
extensive modernisation and expansion
going on just now, the yield can hardly
be considered satisfactory.
Plenty of shares on the currently
depressed share market offer similar
yields and better future prospects. And
disregarding equity stocks, the fixed


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
A
DEBENTURE STOCK
(sceoHß semes)
2
FOR 5 YEARS
7% 4 YEARS
6£% 3 YEARS
6|% 2 YEARS
•
51% 12 MONTHS
A.N.Z. or
HOW tO apply Applications will be
accepted only on the printed forms attached to the Prospectus.
Your copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, all
Branches of the A.N.Z. Bank and I.A.C.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
8880
interest market is currently offering in-
vestors far more than 6 p.c. In addition,
the capital growth which many stocks
promise just now seems far distant
where Bairds is concerned.
On post-issue capital, the 1963-64
result would have represented an earn-
ing rate of 13.6 p.c. good cover for
the small dividend. However, earning
rate was only 8.9 p.c. in the latest six
months to January 31, calculated on an
annual basis—a much too narrow cover
for the predicted dividend.
Directors attribute the result to
abnormal expenses involved in establish-
ing a store at Fremantle. The Perth
store is also in the throes of a rebuild-
ing programme. Disruptions and further
abnormal expenses have occurred here as
well. Nevertheless, one finds it hard to
believe that these factors were entirely
responsible for the substantially lower
result. Even if they were, the problems
appear likely to continue for some time.
The Fremantle store will not be operative
until later this year and the Perth re-
building programme is not due for com-
pletion until 1967 (directors do not
nominate which month, though).
Undoubtedly the most disturbing
feature of the issue is the intimation that
the group must turn public to find the
finance for these new projects. Present
shareholders are not selling any of their
interests for the float, but 480,000 new
shares have been created, lifting paid
capital from £443,000 to £683,000.
Directors state quite plainly that the
issue will finance the expansion pro-
gramme as well as qualify the company
as a public group for tax purposes.
Could it be that they are unable to raise
the necessary cash by loan? One would
hardly think so, but it is hard to deny
the fact that the float seems a very
reluctant one.
Retail Woes
is no consolation for share-
holders in Bebarfalds Ltd’s pre-
liminary report on trading for the second
half of its trading year. Directors do
not disclose figures but say the company
incurred heavy overall losses in the final
June half-year. It would be interesting
to know whether they are greater or
smaller than the £lOO,OOO loss the com-
pany reported for the December period.
Directors say the latest loss is due to
a combination of factors: increased bad
debts, losses from the disposal of fashion
goods, stock and associated assets, and
the city store’s operation at a loss
despite a “significant” reduction in ex-
penses. This means that for the first
time in the company’s history no prefer-
ence or ordinary dividends will be paid
for the year.
Negotiations to sell or lease the city
building in George Street, Sydney, have
not yet brought any tangible results.
Trading in the city store has been carried
on at a reduced scale.
Bebarfalds ss. shares, now selling at
10d., are at their lowest point this year.
Solid Liquids
March Melbourne-based Fowlers
Vacola sold its Hawthorn property
for £212,000 cash following reorganisa-
tion and the contraction of some manu-
facturing activity. One financial column
reported that the sale enhanced an
already “solid liquid position”. This un-
fortunate wording provided some humor
for a columnist in a competing paper
the next day. However, he has not had
the last laugh as the solidity of the liquid
position is now enabling directors to dis-
tribute 7s. 6d. in hard cash to share-
holders for every 10s. share they hold.
The 7s. 6d. is to go out as a return
of capital. In addition, shareholders will
receive a 6d. or 5 p.c. dividend for the
latest year to April 30, despite a loss
of £41,000. This follows on from last
year’s loss of £63.000, when a 5 p.c.
dividend was also distributed. The com-
pany has never missed a dividend in its
45-year history and the last two losses
have been the first ever incurred.
The capital repayment will require
£304,000 and reduce capital to £lOl,OOO.


Closes Saturday!
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
5!%
FOR 7 YEARS
51%
FOR 10 OR 15 YEARS
Unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government
An authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania
ABSOLUTE SECURITY. Interest payments and repayment of prin-
cipal at maturity are Government-Guaranteed.
TAX CONCESSIONS. An approved security for Trustees of Pension
and Superannuation Funds who wish to qualify for Taxation Conces-
sions.
INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If you do not wish to invest the full
amount now, you can pay 10% deposit on application, and the balance
by 31st August, 1965.
YOU CAN INVEST at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales;
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English, Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of New South Wales; through
a Stockbroker; or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
mmm
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
M W 644
Shareholders will meet on August 12 to
consider the directors’ proposals and,
considering the difficult period which
the company is going through, there
seems little doubt that they will whole-
heartedly vote in favor of the idea.
Fizzy Interests
T?ollowing its fifth acquisition in the
soft drink industry the British
Tobacco group now has fizzing interests
in all States except SA and Tasmania.
It may be assumed that moves to these
areas are not very far distant. The
latest move is to Perth, where the control
of a proprietary company has put the
group into WA Coca-Cola bottling and
the manufacture of Guests and Golden
West brands.
The Perth acquisition may well be a
pointer to future diversification. Included
in the deal was a wholesale liquor busi-
ness with franchises embracing Haig's
and Canadian Club whiskies, Drambuie,
Benedictine and Tia Maria liqueurs, Mil-
dara and Lindeman wines and Cooper’s
stout from SA. The proprietary firm
had many non-soft drink interests which
were not included in the deal. The in-
clusion of the liquor business perhaps
indicates further moves into this field.
Only time will reveal the validity of
such an assumption.
Far East Troubles
T\espite lower sales and profits', Hume
Industries (Far East) Ltd is paying
a 6 p.c. interim dividend on the ordin-
ary and participating preference shares.
Directors say that sales for the six
months to June 30 were below forecast
and lower than for the previous
corresponding period.
They said the economy of Malaysia
was affected to some extent by external
forces and this introduced a measure of
uncertainty. However, there were now
indications of an improved demand for
the company’s products.
Unless this changed, results for the
full year should be satisfactory and
directors expect to pay a steady divi-
dend.
Another in Tin
17'athleen Investments (Australia)
Ltd expects to earn sufficient in-
come from its diversifications to main-
tain 25 p.c. ordinary dividends for the
foreseeable future. Now that the group


0
7
S
yea* 5
7
e3 rS
6
s\o
7
ntW
m°
12
years
UnsecW®4^
os\\.M eS
7
7
8
2 V eats
7
ycats
6
7
onth®
month*
12
7
8
month;
WIB
p.a
I
How
to
Invest
OBTAIN A PROSPECTUS from
• Any Stockbroker,
• Any branch of the National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any store or office of Waltons Limited.
• Credit Corporation Limited, Box
3875, G.P.0., Sydney.
Applications must be lodged on the
appropriate form issued with the Prospectus,
V V l
WALTONS
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
(Inc. in the A.C.T.)
is no longer dependent on uranium divi-
dends it is investigating the tin business,
Kathleen chairman Sir John Northcott
said at the annual meeting.
He said Kathleen’s move away from
uranium is the development of the
Moolyella tin deposits in Western Aus-
tralia. “At present we are investigating
other mineral projects including two tin
areas, one in Tasmania and one in WA,
as well as other WA mineral areas,” Sir
John said.
He said the company looked forward
to the time when benefits would again be
received from uranium interests. The
year 1970 was generally accepted as the
time when a uranium revival was likely.
“I would remind shareholders that this
is only four and a half years ahead,” Sir
John added.
Crack Hardie
TJuilding materials maker James
Hardie Asbestos Ltd earned well
during its 1964-65 year to record its
eighth successive profit increase and lift
earning rate from 26.4 p.c. to 29.6 p.c.
despite a one-for-four issue late last
year.
Profit for the year to March 31 rose
from £880,414 to £1,242,520 after tax
of £1,499,966 (previously £1,350,401)
and depreciation £1,793,375 (£1,724,409).
Dividend is 10 p.c. paid in two equal
amounts. Last year the dividend of 13i
p.c. included a bonus of 2+ p.c. and a
special one p.c. from special reserves.
In his annual report the chairman, Mr
J. T. Reid, says 1964-65 was a very
successful year for the company. Trading
in the current year to date has been main-
tained at the same level and, “subject to
changes in the economic climate, this
should continue,” Mr Reid adds.
Small Rewards
'TMe chances of a share issue from
Brooklands (Holdings), Melbourne-
based distributor of automotive spare
parts, appear to have been considerably
reduced by the one p.c. lift in dividend
to 15 p.c. for the year to April 30. Share-
holders were hoping for an issue after
the buoyant 1964-65 year. Results have
yet to be announced, but the interim
report said that profits were up on the
previous year when earning rate for the
full 12 months came out at 26.9 p.c.
The company has done nothing for
shareholders capital-wise since the one-
for-two par issue of 1954-55. It was
fair to assume that the time had come for
greater rewards and the group’s accounts,
earning rate in particular, show that an
issue could easily be made. Over the
last 15 years profits have risen con-
sistently, with the exception of a small
and entirely excusable setback in 1960-
61.
Brighter Bryce
I ooking deeper into the extremely poor
1964-65 result from Robert Bryce,
merchant, importer and indentor, one
can see a very bright future for the
group. Directors have announced that
profit fell from £75,000 to £57,000 in
the year to March 31. The result equals
13 p.c. on capital, compared with 16.9
p.c. previously. Nevertheless, dividend
will be held at 12+ p.c., reflecting the
fact that directors have confidence in
the future, too.
The result was after costs of £55,000
incurred in establishing a new subsidiary
company. If these had not taken their
toll, profit would have actually been
about £112,000.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
The Soundest of Industry Groups
Listed insurance companies considered together
r|vER the last few weeks several of
” the better-known insurance stocks
have been analysed here. As there are
about sixteen listed companies, it would
take nearly four months to complete the
series if all these companies were to be
considered separately week by week.
Now that seven of the better-known
companies have been reviewed, it will
probably be of more interest if the
remainder are considered together and
with those seven which have already
been the subject of separate articles.
The complete list is as follows:
1965 Price Range Div'nd Div'nd
Last Rate Yield
Company High Low Sale % %
APA Holdings 87/6 75/- 79/- 16} 4.1
Australian and
International 13/9 13/6 13/6 7} 5.6
Australian General
Insurance 34/- 31/- 31/6 12} 4.0
Bankers and
Traders' 93/- 67/ 68/- 12} 3.7
Commercial Union 17/- 13/9 13/9 8 2.9
MLC 120/- 68/- 72/- 151 4.4
Mercantile
Mutual 85/3 69/6 f6/6 12} 3.3
New Zealand
Insce. 32/6 30/3 30/3 10.8 4.4
Queensland
Insce. 96/- 69/- 74/6 12} 3.4
Security and
General 40/- 35/- 35,9 .12} 1.7
South British
Insce. . 39/- 35/- 36/9 12.2 4.1
Southern Pacific 26/- 22/- 22/- 12} 2.8
Sydney Mutual 34/3 26/6 26/6 10 4.7
United Holdings 37/- 30/- 32/ 10 3.1
Vanguard Insce. 6 5 5} —•—
Victoria Insce. 36/6 28/- 28/6 12} 4.4
It is rather remarkable to find such a
variation in dividend yields amongst
companies whose records are probably
not very dissimilar and whose future
prospects would seem, most likely, to be
quite similar for each company within
the two broad groups—the group whose
main activity is life assurance and the
group whose main activity is general
insurance. The first group consists of
APA Holdings, the MLC and United
Holdings. The remainder fall into the
second group, although several have life
assurance interests and in some instances
this interest is significant.
The most surprising fact that emerges
from this grouping is that the life as-
surance companies show an immediate
dividend yield that is, on average, nearly
30 p.c. higher than the average of the
general insurance companies. Perhaps,
to some extent, the recently disclosed
misfortunes of the MLC Ltd have an
important bearing on this matter. In
fact, if the MLC shares were only selling
at, say, 955., the average yield for the
group would become 3.7 p.c. Yet this
is still 15 p.c. greater than the present
yield from the general insurance group
on average. One must then come to the
conclusion that, despite the unhappy
underwriting experience of recent years,
the investing public considers that the
general companies have much better
prospects than the life companies.
It is fairly clear that the listed life
assurance companies have other interests
apart from the life fund. In one case
this outside investment has proved to be
an “unfortunate” one. However, despite
these hindrances, the future growth of
the life funds surplus should be more
than enough to justify the buying of the
shares at yields in excess of 4 p.c. The
life funds of the three offices have been
growing at rates in excess of 10 p.c.
per annum and, so far as it is possible to
foresee, there is every possibility that the
demand for life assurance will continue
for a few more years yet. However, there
are a number of factors which can affect
the rate of growth in the surplus of the
life funds. Perhaps the most important
factor is the rate of growth in the invest-
ment income. The actual rate of
mortality experienced as compared with
the assumed rate will also have a bearing.
Strangely enough, the rate of growth in
the amount of new business written will
have an inverse effect on the growth in
the surplus.
Of course, the actuary will endeavor,
by the creation of reserves, to make the
surplus which emerges from year to year
fairly regular. Even if a regular pro-
portion of this surplus is allocated to
the shareholders, the dividends paid
therefrom will probably also tend to be
“smoothed out”. So far as I know, only
the MLC Ltd has placed a lower limit
on the percentage of the surplus from
the life fund that will be distributed to
the shareholders. The Commonwealth
Insurance Act places an upper limit on
this figure. With all these variables
affecting the amount of profit, it is rather
difficult to make any very confident pre-
diction of future growth rates. But it
can be said that there are at least the
prospects of shareholders’ profits in-
creasing at the same annual compound
rate as the increase in the life fund —
about 10 p.c. per annum. However, as
I have pointed out in the individual
articles, the drag of the other invest-
ments, which cannot be expected to in-
crease at such a rate, will tend to slow
down the rate of growth in total share-
holders’ profit.
Turning now to the general insurance
companies, it is perhaps appropriate to
draw attention again to the almost
universal practice of limiting dividend
payments to the amount of investment
income. Unfortunately, investment in*
come is now shown gross in the accounts
of these companies and it is therefore
necessary to make some rather arbitrary
adjustments to arrive at a figure for the
investment income net of income tax.
The following table shows the investment
income as a percentage of ordinary
capital after making these adjustments
and after adjusting for bonus issues
made during the period but not for any
other issues:
%
increase
1961-
1961 1962 1963 1964 1964
Australian General
Insurance 18.0 23.1 20.5 22.8 26.8
Bankers and
Traders' 23.7 29.0 24.3 26.3 11.0
Commercial Union 10.2 10.9 13.0 13.3 30.3
Mercantile
Mutual 13.9 16.4 18.9 18.2 31.0
New Zealand
Insce. 8.7 9.9 11.8 12.0 37.9
Queensland Insce. 17.5 19.3 20.0 21.7 24.1
South British
Insce. 16.5 . 17.5 18.7 19.4 17.5
Southern Pacific 13.6 15.3 16.0 15.3 12.6
Victoria Insce. 9.4 10.9 11.4 14.9 58.5
In an attempt to remove any anomalies
caused by the estimation of the tax on
the investment income, the following
table shows gross investment income
(before tax) per share, the yield from
this figure at current market prices of
the shares and the present dividend
yield:
Investment Yield on
Income per Current Dividend
share £A Market % Yield %
Australian General 0.133 8.5 4.0
Bankers & Traders' 0.145 4.3 3.7
Commercial Union 0.050 7.4 2.9
Mercantile Mutual 0.261 6.8 3.3
New Zealand 0.074 5.0 4.4
Queensland 0.292 7.9 3.4
South British 0.081 4.4 .4.1
Souihern Pacific 0.049 4.5 2.8
Victoria 0.119 8.3 4.4
There is a notable omission from these
lists, the Security and General Insurance.
Last December this company acquired
the remaining shares in the Security Life
Assurance, thus making that company
a wholly-owned subsidiary. Until such
time as it is possible to assess the likely
effects of this acquisition, an investment
appraisal can only be hazardous. It is
noteworthy that the shares of the Security
and General are the highest priced of
all the insurance companies on a divi-
dend yield basis and the future prospects
need to be examined with great care.
Despite the problems of underwriting,
the insurance companies generally re-
present the soundest of the industry
groups for investment purposes. Today,
it seems that the market has more than
fully discounted the underwriting prob-
lems and has completely overlooked the
in-built stability and continually increas-
ing profits that the investment portfolios
provide.


9
m
lUi
MO £
i ■ J
mown#
%MCOT
.
'
n
9 !3 S
MONBULK
the fruit-
toot-tootiest!
A SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIP
CHOOSE a good family show for
a good family product.
This was the reasoning behind the
recent Monbulk campaign on GTV9’s “In
Melbourne Tonight”. Bright, lively com-
mercials by Graham Kennedy and Geoff
Corke, communicated the sales message
“fresh fruit flavour” to many thousands
of homes throughout the Melbourne met-
ropolitan area.
The result was an outstanding success.
The public are sold on Monbulk Cherries,
Berries and Jams. Monbulk are sold on
GTV9’s “In Melbourne Tonight.”


M
I
Invest in
HOOKER FINANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
CASH & CONVERSION ISSUE OF
Debenture Stock
UP TO
I
PER
mm
HOW TO INVEST: Applications will proceed only on the form of appli-
cation attached to and included in the prospectus and available from:
Any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
The Underwriting Brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
Any office pt Hooker Finance Company Limited
Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
m
F 1465
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Moore Steady Consolidation
A 10 p.c. dividend for years to come
/Charles Moore (Aust.) Ltd operates
ten retail stores throughout Vic-
toria, SA and WA. The business began
before 1908 and today’s listed holding
company was formed in 1951. Through
a share placement in 1957 the group
floated to the public lists. Nevertheless,
it is still essentially a family type of
company, with Mr F. Moore currently
filling the position of chairman and
managing director.
Through its four subsidiaries the
parent runs stores at Prahran, Forest Hill,
Dandenong and Frankston, in suburban
Melbourne. Younger Pty Ltd operates
in Warrnambool. In SA there are stores
at Adelaide, Kilkenny and Kadina, while
in WA there is one at Perth and another
at East Victoria Park. All carry the
Moore name with the exception of
Youngers.
Ever since listing the group has been
best known for its steady if not boring
nature, as far as the stock market is
concerned. There have been no issues
to shareholders and dividend has been
an unfailing 10 p.c. every year since
1957-58. Profits have fluctuated in a
very narrow range possibly narrower
than any other companv except, perhaps,
the small investment firms. The peak
was £196.000 in 1959-60 and the low
£156,000 in the following year, after
the credit restrictions.
Even in that low year the 10 p.c.
dividend was adequately covered by
earnings of 12.4 p.c. The peak profit
of the previous vear equalled 15.7 p.c.
on capital. In 1963-64 profit had re-
covered to £180:000 to equal 14.4 p.c.
on capital. Of course, it would be wrong
to assume that such a static state of
affairs is a bad thing. Tn fact, the situa-
tion creates many virtues. The 10s.
shares can be regarded as a solid income-
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
August 31 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 991 938 1101 1142 1328
less current
liabilities 789 434 633 836 664
202 504 468 306 664
Fixed assets 1903 1929 1986 2194 2281
Intangibles 42 42 42 42 42
2147 2475 2496 2542 2987
Ord. capital 1250 1250 1250 1250 1250
Reserves 897 925 956 1007 1062
Loan- capital 300 290 285 675
2147 2475 2496 2542 2987
Depreciation 37 53 51 50 50
Tax 128 99 107 116 139
Net profit 196 156 162 173 180
Dividend 125 125 125 125 125
Surplus 71 31 37 48 55
Earning- rate p.c. 15.7 12.4 13.0 13.8 14.4
Div. rate p.c. 10 10 10 10 10
Div. yield (a) 5.6 5.8 6.0 5.9 6.1
High price (b) 22/6 18/3 17/- 17/- 18/6
Low price (b) 15/- 14/- 11/- 15/8 16/-
((a) End October, month results announced.
(b) Calendar year.
earning proposition and have always
provided attractive dividend yields.
Profit for the current year looks like
being steady or slightly down. In the
half-year to February 27 last, the result
eased from £102,000 to £96,000. This
was despite a 10 p.c. lift in turnover.
New outlets at Kilkenny (SA) and Forest
Hill helped to boost the turnover. How-
ever, profits had to bear the brunt of
their establishment costs. The final
result should be steady if the new stores
gain customer acceptance. In addition,
establishment costs will not have such
an effect on profits.
In 1963-64 all subsidiaries had record
sales. Group turnover was £4.4 million
9 p.c. above the previous year. How-
ever, Kilkenny was only open for 42
weeks of the year and Forest Hill for
nine. Profits are still being affected by
a rebuilding programme in WA. This
started in July last year and should be
finished by September. The new bulk
store has already helped the handling
of stock-in-trade considerably.
At Kilkenny, the redevelopment of the
Adelaide central market is expected to
provide additional parking space and
thus assist trading. The growth of the
central Prahran store is also limited at
present, but the extensive building of
Housing Commission flats in the area
should have an advantageous effect.
The current year has already b.een
described by the directors as one of
consolidation. The next expansion move
planned by the company is the Floreat
Park development in Perth next Septem-
ber.
In order to finance this and the group
generally, £475,000 was raised last year
in seven p.c. debentures, placed with
institutional lenders. The issue will also
go towards paying off the £200,000 in
maturing unsecured notes next Decem-
ber. It has already been used to pay
off an £85,000 mortgage loan. One of
the main pses of the cash, however,
was to finance the rebuilding of the
Hay Street frontage of the Perth store.
Being a retailer, it would be topical
to note that the group suffers less than
most others from bad-debt problems.
Terms competitive with other retailers
are available, but there is a predominance
of cash and short-term account business.
The table shows an overall upward


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
r
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
ANY BRANCH OF
THE BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pill St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
trend in current assets, consistent with
the annually increasing turnover. Cur-
rent liabilities have proved variable, but
the net effect has been to boost working
capital, which can be considered adequate
at present. Fixed assets show steady
growth and intangibles remain steady.
Ordinary capital, ot course, has been
unchanged, but reserves have managed
to show growth. They are quite high in
relation to capital and. if earnings should
ever gain permanently higher levels,
offer hope of a small bonus issue. Loan
capital appears rather high, though it
should be reduced by £200.000 this
December. Eventually the extra profits
from modernisation and expansion
should far outweigh the interest payable
on the new debentures.
Profits, earning rates, surplus and the
share price history all reflect the steady
nature of the group, its role as an
income stock and the lack of capital
benefits for shareholders.
To sum up: Current prices are around
14s. 6d. and yield seven p.c. from the
dividend. For the investor to whom this
yield looks attractive, its steady nature
alone would be good reason for buying.
Fixed interest securities offer similar
returns, but there is always the possi-
bility of that little bit extra from an
equity stock. Apart from this, the shares
offer practically nothing else.
TARAX DRINKS HOLDINGS LTD
Not in the Top Ten
At June 30 last year, Tarax Drinks
Holdings Ltd was operating through
22 subsidiaries—l 6 in Victoria and six
in NSW. Four of these were the group’s
major factories and distribution outlets
at Huntingdale, Brunswick and Geelong
in Melbourne, and Chullora in Sydney.
Apart from the well-known “Tarax”
brand soft drinks in bottles and cans,
other familiar brand names being pro-
duced by the group were “Tee Vee”,
“Loy Bros”, “Dixie Cola”, “Ecks”, and
“Frosty”.
In the current year, expansion, a fea-
ture since 1958, has continued. Hellier's
Cordials of Queanbeyan (NSW) was
acquired for cash. It is one of the oldest
soft drink businesses in the Canberra
area and has given Tarax ready access to
the rapidly expanding ACT and sur-
rounding market. At Wollongong (NSW)
a new distribution depot has been estab-
lished. The decentralisation represented
by these two moves was furthered by the
cash acquisition of Hamilton Aerated
Water, a Victorian company. A new
factory was built there and started pro-
duction last February.
These expansionary moves are on a
smaller scale than those undertaken in
earlier years, but they are better planned,
and are already adding to group profits.
The most startling years were undoubt-
edly 1960-61 and 1961-62. In the first
year, a one-for-four par issue was made
and in the second a one-for-four ss. pre-
mium issue. Apart from the substantial
capital boosts which these provided, fur-
ther lifts were created by acquisitions, the
most notable being Ecks and Consoli-
dated Beverages. Over the two - year
period, capital jumped from £410,000
to £911,000 where it still stands today.
Needless to say, the rapid growth took
its toll. In 1962-63, earning-rate tumbled
from 24.7 p.c. to 13 p.c. and the dividend
was halved from 20 p.c. to 10 p.c. It is
still at this- level and, even allowing for
the share issues, shareholders have lost
money on the market. The ss. units are
currently around Bs. to Bs. 6d. This com-
pares with peaks of 225. 6d. and 275. sd,
in 1961 and 1962 respectively. In those
two years thp lowest prices were 15s. and
17s. 6d. respectively. Present prices are
back to the levels which prevailed in
1959 when the company was first listed.
The current 1964-65 year and the
next two years should see the benefits of
consolidation. In fact, these were already
apparent in the half-year to December
31 last. Sales rose by 14 p.c. and profits
showed a “comparable” increase. This
trend was maintained until the end of
March, according to directors. No doubt
it continued until June 30, because of
seasonal factors, if nothing else.
The moves to Canberra and Hamilton
have already proved successful. As they
entailed no capital increase, their contri-
butions are doubly welcome. The canning
line in Sydney has completed its first
year of operation and is making satis-
factory profits. So, too, is the new plant
at Homebush, which was established to
consolidate the activities of Sharpe Bros
and Summons and Graham. It seems that
NSW operations, which were the main
source of trouble after the move there in
1961- are at last coming good. Better
things can be expected the company
has stated that the NSW business would
take some time to become highly profit-
able. This stage should be reached in
1965-66, or 1966-67 at the latest.
Several other factors have contributed
to Tarax's recovery in the current year.
Wholesale (and retail) prices were lifted
last year. An intensive all-media advertis-
ing campaign appears to have been highly
successful. It is aimed at the teenage
market, which carries the population
bulge for the next ten years, and raves on
about how “the top men drink the top
ten”, referring to the ten Tarax flavors.
Seasonal conditions have also been
favorable. Melbourne alone has seen
some of its driest weather on record in
the current half. The severe profit fall in
1962- was attributed partly to unfavor-
able weather, especially in NSW.
As can be seen, weather is the Big


ESANDA
LIMITED
The main business of
Esanda Limited is to
conduct hire purchase
leasing and other
finance operations
Unsecured notes up to
o
Unsecured note:
interest per annum
payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only
on one of the forms of application
referred to in, and attached to printed
copies of the prospectus which
are available from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited
E4p/ €5
mmsm
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
287 Collins Street, Melbourne.
problem over which directors have no
control, though profits depend heavily on
it. Looking to the future, American
trends reflect favorably on the local
scene, however. Over there, air-condition-
ing has altered sales percentages to 11.4
p.c. in July (mid-summer) and 7.5 p.c. in
December (mid-winter). These figures
are the monthly percentage of a full
year’s sales. In Australia, summer-month
sales are three times higher than in the
winter months. The growth of air-condi-
tioning should level this difference some-
what, as it tends to dry one out, even in
winter.
Another favorable pointer to the
future would be US consumption. This is
currently running at about 230 eight-oz.
bottles a head annually. In Australia,
the figure is only 170, so there may be
room for growth. A large part of the
difference would be accounted for by
the greater variety available in the US
(especially in the low-calorie lines) and
the wider use of one-way containers.
Although Tarax seems set for a
brighter and more stable future, profit
growth may be severely hampered by tax
commitments. Last year, the result rose
from £119,000 to £156,000 to equal 17.1
p.*c. on capital. However, the pre-acquisi-
tion losses of subsidiaries allowed this
after tax of only £14,000. The benefits
also applied in the previous year, when
tax was only £lO,OOO. As it had come
down from £109,000 previously, the pro-
fit fall from £176,000 to £119,000 was a
serious one indeed. Having regard to
the importance of tax, it is high time
directors told shareholders how much
longer the benefits are likely to accrue.
The accompanying table shows steady
current assets, following the boosts pro-
vided by share issues in 1960-61 and
1961 - 62 and overdrafts in 1962- 63. A
heavy reduction in both these items last
year left working capital at a satisfactory
level. The uneven trend in fixed assets
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1960 1961 . 1962 1963 1964
Current assets 278 337 970 1153 1028
Less current liabilities 260 378 729 971 682
Working capital 18 -41 241 182 346
Fixed assets 598 962 1300 1958 1802
Intangibles 63 63 63 63 63
679 984 2104 2203 2211
Ordinary capital 410 555 911 911 911
Reserves 258 429 735 739 808
Loan capital 11 358 453 392
O'side s'holders 100 100 100
679 984 2104 2203 2211
Depreciation 54 59 131 171 182
Tax 81 124 109 10 14
Net profit 119 183 T 76 119. 156
Dividend 62 115 143 91 91
Surplus 57 68 33 28 65
Earning rate 32.1 33.0 24.7 13.0 17.1
Dividend rate 16§ 20 20 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 4.1 5.0 4.7 4.8 4.5
High price (b) 21/- 22/6 27/5 14/9 12/6
Lew price (b) 13/9 15/- 17/6 10/6 9/6
(a) End August, month results announced.
(b) Calendar year.
growth reflects the too-rapid expansion
previously mentioned. Intangibles rep-
resent goodwill. Reserves are high in re-
lation to capital, while the group’s loan
capital is at an equitable level.
To sum up: because of the tax
question, it would seem unwise to hope
for any more than steady 10 p.c. divi-
dends over the next few years. To main-
tain last year’s adequate earning rate
of 17.1 p.c. once normal taxes apply,
pre-tax profits must score a rise from
£170,000 to more than £250,000. This
will be a difficult task. As the group is
still consolidating, it could be achieved
in 1966-67, however.
The question is whether further con-
solidation will continue to add to profits
at the same rate as it has so far. These
doubts and questions account for the
current, historically low market price.
Dividend yields are about 6 p.c., which
is attractive enough if one is prepared
to wait a few years for further capital
benefits. They should come once tax
problems are overcome, as the group’s
long-term outlook does appear encoura-
ging.


CAMBRIDGE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
DEBENTURE
STOCK
4,6 or 10
YEARS
4,6 or 10 years 8%
3 years 7 3 / 4 %
2yrs7'/2%
12 tilths. 7%
6 mths.6%
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST: Application form and Prospectus
may be obtained from
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
. THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge House, 249
George St., Sydney. ’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS ?.? 9 .
1262/FC
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Reflections on the Dow Jones
Quite interesting markets on the way
ly/lucH of the talk this week on the
Exchange has been about the num-
ber of points the Dow Jones Index has
fallen or risen. The newspaper headline
on Wednesday about a 14-point fall on
Wall Street must have been utterly
bewildering to the average person. Surely
it would be so much clearer if any falls
were simply given as a percentage. Only
the professionals were aware that the
Dow Jones stood at 854 before this par-
ticular fall. So please, gentlemen of the
Press, try to put things into perspective
before you go rushing around making
dramatic announcements which are be-
yond comprehension to the uninitiated.
The behavior of the Dow Jones in the
last month has been relished by the tech-
nical analyst or chartist. The pause in
the index around the 920 mark in May
was followed by an almost uninterrupted
9 p.c. fall (alternatively described as 80
points) to 840. Here the index met a
strong support level. In contrast to the
low volume experienced in the fall, the-
market recovered 4 p.c. (or 30 points) cm
heavy turnover in two days. Such a
pronounced reaction should mean that
the index will hold about the present
level rather than sink down below the
800 level.
Whether we admit it or not, the
American market has a direct influence
on the tone of our market. Provided it
doesn’t go berserk, I think our market
could be quite interesting over the next
few months.
With this thought in mind, I started
the week off with a purchase of 500
NAUC at 7s. The sudden fall in metal
prices had sent all metal shares, in-
cluding my beloved Tableland Tin,
tumbling to new lows. One day NAUC
was Bs. 3d., the next day it was 6s. lOd.
To penalise a company that is only
partly a tin stock by almost 20 p.c. must
have been largely a case of panic. In
terms of tonnage produced, NAUC
actually leans more heavily on wolfram
than it does on tin. The effect of higher
prices for both wolfram and tin this year
is reflected by the profit for the first
nine months rising fourfold to £123,000.
Although the tin price is a bit wonky,
the wolfram price moves steadily higher.
With China, which is one of the major
wolfram producers, out of the market
and likely to stay so until the Vietnamese
situation changes, wolfram producers in
other countries are having it all their
own way.
In watching the NAUC share price
movement I could hardly avoid noticing
the sudden fall in the next listed stock,
North Broken Hill. But that stock was
on its way up before I had a chance to
move.
There were also some sharp falls in
the industrial market. Hanimex fitted
into this category when it fell to 14s. 9d.
As a company that could earn close to
50 p.c., it should be well up in any
market recovery, E bought.
Whereas the natural forces of supply
and demand should determine the future
rise of Hanimex, I suspect there has been
an additional force guiding the price of
CAGA rights. On several days the price
would drop to 3id., only to recover to
sd. or 6d. by the end of the day. A
scavenger by nature, I took advantage of
this price pattern to buy 1000 shares at
3]d. The following day I sold them at
s+d., giving me a quick £4 profit.
Not to be too deep in the red, I
decided to sell the 400 Kathleen Invest-
ments at 15s. 9d. Now that the annual
meeting is over, there is little more news
to expect. As for Project Development,
the chairman, Mr Gray, thwarted my
plans by his announcement on June 30.
I suffered a total loss of £26 for the
week.
I see where my friend out at Amal-
gamated Chemicals is now complaining
about the constant knocking of his shares
and the untrue stories about the com-
pany. It's different from the time he tried
to ride roughshod over one of his share-
holders at the annual meeting in 1963.
Transactions for the week were:
BOUGHT
500 NAUC, 7/- £lBO
500 Hanimex, 14/9 £378
1000 CAGA rts, 3id £l7
SOLD
1000 CAGA rts, 51d £2l
400 Kathleen Invest., 15/9 £3O&
200 Project Development, 2/10 . £29
There goes the debit up to £350!
This left me holding:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 Tableland Tin 18/3/65 3B-
/ Macquarie Worsted 25/3/65 4/11 5/
500 Ferris 7/4/65 6/- 5/8
1000 Hanimex 3/5/65 15/2 15/
3000 Steamship
Trading (rights) 25/5/65 2/ 1/6
1000 Eglo 4/6/65 5/7 . 6/-
500 Nuttall 8/6/65 10/9 11/6
400 R. & N. Statham
(short) 16/6/65 8/9 9/9
100 MLC 22/6/65 70/- 73/-
500 NAUC 28/6/65 7/- 8/-


43%
NEW ISSUE FROM . . .
CUSTOM CREDIT
UNSECURED
NOTES
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which is
now available from any Member of a recognised
Stock Exchange and all Branches of . . .
THE NATIONAL BANK
and
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.
OR THE UNDERWRITERS:
Ord Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
INTEREST
UP TO
*
i
0
2
FOR
6YEARS
CC3.53.45
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Some Lessons from the Drought
Plenty of fields for action
"VTothing really good can ever come
out of a drought. One thing, though,
which may encourage farmers a little
is that this drought should silence forever
those critics who have been wailing about
over-production of wheat and other
grains. Over-production indeed!
Less than six months ago we had the
biggest wheat harvest in history. Now,
with the drought, the immediate pros-
pects are for one of the worst harvests
in history.
The slump in wheat production may
be a good way to measure and compare
this drought with previous ones. Not
that the accurate measuring of the
drought w'ill help farmers much. Yet
from the point of view of stock losses
there is a difference this time. Road
transport was in its infancy in the last
really big drought—l94l and 1942.
Since then the big semi-trailers have
become a common sight on the roads.
Whether hauling stock to fresh pastures
or market or backloading hay and fod-
der they will help minimise stock losses.
Road transport would be even better than
it is were it not for the restrictions im-
posed on it, as an industry, by State
Governments anxious to make the rail-
ways pay.
The railways cannot ever really pay
in Australia, so is it wise to attempt to
give the impression that they do? State
Governments naturally w'ant to make the
railways’ finances look as good as
possible. The voters must be pacified.
But there is surely a good case for level-
ling with the public on the matter of
railway finances and a better case for
giving road transport a fair and even
break.
Understandably, a number of observers,
city-based, are bewailing lack of prepara-
tion on the part of farmers and Govern-
ments who should, so the observers
believe, have anticipated this drought.
There is a point here, though it is easy
to make too much of it.
We all like to believe that man has
reached a stage w'here he can control
nature and fashion it to his benefit. Well,
it is not a bad idea to concede some-
times that nature is a mighty adversary.
Irrigation can be a good thing, but
irrigation alone is not the answer to
drought. Irrigation is justified economic-
ally when markets can be assured, or
developed even, for those products which
are suited to irrigation.
We mean suited in the economic
sense —not necessarily in the sense that
a particular product can be assisted by
irrigation. It is possible to raise merino
wool from sheep running on irrigated
pastures and it is possible to grow wheat
on irrigation country. Economically,
however, both the wool and wheat in-
dustries are based on the utilisation of
large areas of comparatively dry country
(the whole of Australia is comparatively
dry in the world assessment).
We should have more irrigation in
Australia and this drought may well
have silenced the critics of irrigation also
but let us beware of irrigation as the
panacea. It is not.
Nor, entirely, is fodder conservation.
How long must you conserve it? No one
knows the answer to that. Therefore the
fodder conservation theory has short-
comings.
If a certain amount of fodder had
been set aside in every reasonably good
year since 1942, there would have still
been grave losses in this current drought.
A good proportion of that fodder would
have simply rotted away. There'is a
limit to the length of time you can con-
serve fodder and there is a Unfit to the
effectiveness of conserved fodder as far
as the stock eating it are concerned. The
digestive systems of sheep and cattle are
designed for grass. Grass is the begin-
ning and end of all grazing.
Grassland research may therefore be
the answer we are all looking for. It is
not as good as it should be. Only a few
weeks ago the retiring president of the
Victorian Grassland Society, Mr G. J. R.
Coles, severely criticised the standard of
grassland research. And Victoria is the
State which is supposed to be the leader
in improved pastures and improved grass-
land techniques in Australia.
Let us not get carried away here,
either. Any grass, even those grasses
especially developed to resist drought,
must have water to survive. What is
suggested, however, is that grassland re-


search should be an integral part of any
drought programme. Such a programme
must have a very wide range. It is just
too simple to talk in terms of conserving
fodder and water.
Finance and transport remain the
tw'O areas where definite steps could be
taken which would alleviate drought.
These are steps which could be taken
now. They do not require a scientific
breakthrough.
Already the NSW Government has
introduced a bounty on road transport
to assist farmers in the drought areas.
This is a commendable step. There are
encouraging indications, also, that the
railways themselves are thinking in terms
of real modernisation and cost-cutting.
But it will need the efforts of more than
one Government to alter the attitude of
mind, common to most, that road trans-
port is some evil growth attempting to
run railways out of business. A change
in attitude is needed. It need not go so
far as some road hauliers would like.
They have suggested that the railway
lines should be covered in gravel and
asphalt and turned into super highways.
Yet another development, in the field
of finance, seems overdue. This is a
national drought fund, or insurance
policy.
Jt would work simply. Every year all
farmers would contribute a certain sum,
it may be only a few pounds, into a
drought fund. With 20 good years this
fund could grow enormously. (With a
run of bad years, of course, it may be
wiped out.)
As far as this writer knows, no insur-
ance expert has been asked to investigate
the possibilities of such a scheme. Until
we know that it is not possible we might
therefore expect to see some expert
investigation into the idea. It looks an
ideal exercise for a computer.
Such qn insurance scheme would not
save stock or grass, though it would
alleviate financial setbacks. The investi-
gators would naturally want to know the
views of the weather forecasters, official
and unofficial in general terms, all you
can say about droughts in Australia is
that they do happen every so often. It
is difficult to pinpoint the cycle.
There is a whisper going around that
the CSIRO is having another look at the
sunspot theory. This, it may be remem-
bered, was Inigo Jones’ pet theory and
officially it was always supposed to be
hair-brained guesswork. But the whisper
has it that there may be a direct relation-
ship between high sunspot activity in
one year and drought conditions soon
afterwards. With a warning, say 12 to
18 months ahead, farmers might be
able to give old man drought a hiding.
Building up fodder reserves year after
year, however, is just too much to expect.
The same can be said for ever-increasing
and ever-more costly water storages on
the farm, which may never be properly
utilised economically. The farmer must
build and conserve what he can justifi-
ably use.
If something really dramatic on a
national front is called for, then why not
a real effort in desalination of salt water?
Other countries can do it.
Whatever is to be done should be
started now. On past experience the big
drought runs for more than one season.
We think it is bad now. Next year, and
the year after for all we know, could
be worse.
The city man has a stake in all this.
The time will come when our big cities
will be short of water. Industry
steel, petroleum and plastics in particu-
lar —is a heavy consumer of water. It
is pointless to hope for populations of
20 million and 30 million in Australia
if we haven’t the water.
Yet in the world statistics we are
the dry continent. It is by no means
definite, simply because the river flows
of the Australian continent have never
been measured accurately, yet it is
generally conceded by the experts that
the total flow of all Australian rivers is
less than the flow of the Mississippi
alone.
Beef Cattle and the Charolais
Australian trials seem warranted
Tn the cattle-breeding game it is a brave
man who ventures into a new breed.
According to many of the Hereford,
Angus and Shorthorn men the French
Charolais is nothing but a big, white
Shorthorn with a French name. Never-
theless the Charolais is, or would be, a
welcome addition to the Australian beef
industry.
As things stand they cannot be im-
ported because of the quarantine regula-
tions. Those regulations are likely to
stand for some time yet. However, the
South Australian Department of Agri-
culture is endeavoring to obtain supplies
of Charolais semen for crossing trials.
The semen, which would have to be
certified, may come from British Semen
Exports, a firm which specialises in this
sort of thing.
There will be objections to the whole
idea you can bet your, life on that.
The first Charolais were imported to
Britain from France in 1961, not with-
out wails of protest from the breeders
of other beef cattle. What these breeders
feared was not any inherent superiority
of the Charolais as a beef breed, but its
remarkable ability to produce good beef
type animals when crossed with dairy
breeds. About 80 p.c. of Britain’s home-
grown beef comes from the beef-dairy
breed cross.
Nevertheless the British Ministry of
Agriculture went ahead with trials, using
26 Charolais bulls. Comparisons were
made with stock resulting from crossing
dairy breeds with Hereford, Shorthorn,
Devon and Lincoln Red bulls.
At first the Charolais-cross animals
were described as backward, lethargic
and poor rearers. As time went on, they
began to score heavily in conformation,
food conversion and liveweight gain. It
was found that the Charolais-cross steers
and heifers averaged a five p.c. greater
daily liveweight gain than the crosses
from British breeds.
This is rather remarkable and it is
not the whole story. Killing-out per-
centages were slightly higher for Here-
ford - Friesian crosses than for the
Charolais - Friesian crosses. But the
Charolais crosses had the heaviest hind-
quarters percentage of total carcass
weight. Food conversion trials showed
that the Charolais put on more meat,
for less food consumed, than the other
breeds.
This is where comparison trials can
be difficult to assess. There are so many
factors involved that it is always difficult
to come to a clear-cut decision in favor
of one breed against another. It would
seem, though, that the Charolais has
something and that trials with them here
would be worthwhile.
Despite the US setback, the world
offers many markets for Australian beef.
Any attempt to introduce new ideas
should be encouraged. At the same
time one should not get carried away
with a new breed just because it is new.
Australian conditions may not suit the
Charolais —its all-white color may be
a disadvantage in the hotter parts, for
instance. The British trials also made
much use of barley as a fodder, and in
Australia we do not go in for barley
beef.
The mechanics of artificial insemina-
tion, the only way the breed can be
introduced here, are vastly different on
an English dairy farm and an Australian
beef cattle station.
Yet none of this alters the basic point
that a trial with them here would be
warranted. It may be w'ondered some-
times if the fervor with which the
quarantine regulations are enforced here
is due principally to reasons of animal
health, or the desire of some established
breeders to keep the shop door closed.


GEELONG CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL, CORIO, VICTORIA
A Scholarship Examination will be held on Sep-
tember 25. 1965, for entry to the School at
Corio. Candidates must be between 12.8 and
13.8 years on that day Seven boarding scholar-
ships will be awarded. Two will be worth half,
one two-thirds and the others worth one-third
of the full school fees. Application forms may
be obtained from the Headmaster and must
be returned before the closing date August
15th, 1965.
MASTER REQUIRED
in 1966 to take the place of the Senior
Master in Classics, who is retiring.
Young men seeking a first appointment, as
well as those with experience, may apply.
Ability and willingness to teach English, as
well as Latin and Greek, are desirable. Terms
of appointment, salary, superannuation, etc.,
will be given to applicants, who should write
to the Principal, Scotch College, Hawthorn,
E. 2., giving full details of education, exper-
ience and qualifications.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION -
TO: ADELAIDE JANET HYSLOP. TAKE
NOTICE that DAVID DUNLOP HYSLOP has
filed a Petition No. 2111 of 1965 for Divorce
from you on the ground of desertion. In-
cluded in this Petition is a request that the
Decree be made absolute notwithstanding
that no arrangements have been made for
the welfare of the child of the marriage and
also that you pay his costs. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 16th
day of August, 1965, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS
HOWARD A. MARKS & GRIFFITHS, Solici-
tors, of 8 Belgrave Street, Manly, or their
City Agents, MESSRS H. O. MARSHALL,
LUPTON AND SCOTT, Solicitors, of 28 Bond
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 1925 Of 1964
BETWEEN
BETTY MERLE PEISLEY, Petitioner
AND
ALLAN ERNEST ARTHUR PEISLEY,
Respondent.
TO: ALLAN ERNEST ARTHUR PEISLEY.
TAKE NOTICE that BETTY MERLE PEISLEY
has filed a Petition No. 1925 of 1964 for a
divorce on the grounds of desertion and
drunkenness. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, within 28 days of publication
hereof and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS LACEY & CO.,
Solicitors, 9 Ware Street. Fairfield, or their
agents, MESSRS HIGGINS de GREENLAW &
SISLEY, Solicitors. 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHN WILLIAM DAY. TAKE NOTICE
that MOLLY FRANCES DAY has filed a
Petition No. 3775 of 1964 for divorce on the
ground of separation notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in a Dis-
cretion Statement filed by her. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the Tenth day of August, 1965, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS lAN DUNCAN. KNUDSEN & CO.,
Solicitors, 403-411 George Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: FRANCIS GEOFFREY TIERNEY. TAKE
NOTICE that EVE-ANN TIERNEY has filed
a Petition No. 265 of 1965 for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of (1) desertion,
(2) cruelty and (3) drunkenness. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 13th day of August, 1965, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from HUNT AND HUNT, Solicitors, 48 Mac-
quarie Street, Parramatta. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: LEONARD BELLOTTI, of Flat 20, 20
Fletchers Avenue, Bondi. TAKE NOTICE that
ROY KENNETH CALLAGHAN has filed
Petition No 3693 of 1964 on the ground of
SANDRA ELEANOR CALLAGHAN’S adultery
with you and in this Petition seeks the
exercise of the Court’s discretion. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 17th day of
August, 1965, and obtain a copy of the said
Petition free of charge from FRANCIS MARKS
AND GRIMES, Solicitors, 324 Pitt Street.
Sydney. Phone: 61 7607. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Something About a Sheep
Promotion from unexpected places
By RONALD ANDERSON
17or all the millions Sir William Gunn
and Mr William Vines have
succeeded in wringing out of the wool-
growers of Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa, wool’s international pro-
motion body, the International Wool
Secretariat, mounts pretty light guns
financially in comparison with the giant
man-made fibre companies. In most paits
of the world the big chemical combines
backing the man-made fibres swamp
wool by spending from five to ten times
as much on advertising and promotion.
Between them the synthetics can claim
virtually all the qualities possessed by
wool . . . and then some. It is probably
only a matter of time before the back-
room boys of du Pont or ICI come out
with a single fibre possessing every one
of wool’s attributes. Already they can
undersell wool on most markets, while
man-made fibre prices slump lower each
year.
There is nothing o'd-hat about the
new fibres. Their advertising men can
fling them at the wealthy young of the
world with all the slick imagery of the
21st century. Fortunately, though, for
the Australian economy, there is more
to it than just money. And more than
the new qualities scientists are rapidly
building into an ever-widening range
of wool products.
Apparently there is something about
a sheep or about wool.
This something gives people in all
sorts of jobs and all over the world
a sympathy for wool. Even people who
can’t tell a wool jumper from its cheaper
orlon cousin have a friendly feeling for
the natural fibre and no feeling at all for
its rival. It is impossible to analyse
this reaction completely, but at least two
factors play an important part. One ’s
the old stand-by of the wool promoter—
that wool is a natural fibre. Probably
people associate it with spring and
gambolling lambs; with the “rightness”
of nature. The other, perhaps more im-
portant, is both an advantage and a dis-
advantage simply that no one owns
wool. It is not a private asset, the
property of this or that company. It is
not patented or pipelined from producer
to consumer.
This is undoubtedly the reason why
people who would not dream of associ-
ating themselves with a “free plug” for
one of the man-made fibres go out of
their way to help the promoters of wool.
I have seen two excellent examples
of this in the last few weeks. One was
in Italy, where there is one man who
traditionally stands apart from any-
thing smacking of commercialism. He
is, of course, Pope Paul VI. Yet, in a
ceremony at the Vatican, the Pope
received and blessed 500 Italian wool
retailers taking part in a six-day con-
ference organised by the International
Wool Secretariat During the audience
Pope Paul described wool as “a fibre
of great benefit to mankind” and praised
the IWS, a non-profit body, for its pro-
motional work carried out on behalf of
wool.
The second example occurred in
London, when the Queen Mother said
equally nice things about wool and the
IWS at the opening of this year’s annual
conference of the International Wool
Textile Organisation. It is hard to
imagine the Pope or the Queen Mother
praising dacron or terylene in similar
terms.
Similarly, in many countries, the
International Wool Secretariat has long
been given a special dispensation to
send its lecturers into thousands of
government schools and has received
permission to distribute its educational
material on wool among schoolchildren.
If this world-wide sympathy and good-
will for wool is a tangible asset, it is,
however, also one which has been
squandered for years. In past years
wool could get by because it had few
rivals. Today wool garments must match
and surpass in quality and value-for-
money those of rival fibres.


SMSIX
personalities
politics
[books
finance
arts
world events
§
y
§ «§
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/- Ausf
£2/2/- Sfg and N.Z.
52 weeks £4/4/- Aust
£3/7/- Sfg. and N.Z.
Send dollar equivalenf
to New York office.
Air Mail ' New Guinea
£7/5/- 12 months. £4/2/6
6 months.
Malaysian air - freighted
edition: 26 dollars 26
issues, 52 dollars, 52
issues.
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
NAME
ADDRESS
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription?
□
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.O Syd
ney ; OR Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.), Ltd. P.O. Box 1595 Wel-
linton C. 1., N.Z., OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press
Ltd., 229 West 43rd Street, New York N.Y., OR Wool-
worths (Malaysia) Ltd., 10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues, £4/4/- New Zealand
tor Ft 1 ? issirae
well informed people
rea d The Bulletin
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 855
, rnn „„
ALiKUSi*
I—Gives a wide berth because 22-across masticates.
(7)
s—l do just enough for an exponent of unarmed
combat. (7)
8— Bovine protest in a flower vessel to beat it with the
small Virginia member of the deer family. (7)
9 Berlin’s hostess has this trial of Roy Rene. (7)
11—Witty remarks from the followers of Genera! Booth.
Cl).
12 Poison to be found in the bacon items. (7)
13— Change in Niger rule. (5)
14— Plastics in beast-like formation. (9)
16—Took court action about some
stigma and kept going. (9)
18— Everything of mine for an
Aboriginal warrior. (5)
19— Transformation in the richest
old bird. (7)
21— A taunt to the cow'ardly boy
who is dainty and stylish. (7)
22 15-down’s hero found among
the demons. (6)
23 Einstein gets a region in
Canada. (7)
24 Poet confused about the ode
being excessively profound.
(3, 4)
25 Gallicised the Great Britain
affirmative among the extras.
(3-4)
DOWN
1— Entertainer in silvery sleep.
(5, 7)
2 Flora has the shin of the
desert to sail up. (9)
3 It is the wearing away of
Cupid and Idriess. (7)
4 Studies intensively in these
courses. (5)
5 Spread ready for the grocer
is uncomfortably over-
crowded. (3-6)
6 Behave like a vandal noised
awkwardly over 50. (7)
7 Hard water turned in
Boadicea’s folk. (5)
10—Salon of the Scottish Johnny’s
Greeks who received epistles
from Paul. (13)
14—Not spread out. (7, 2)
15—A rack they reconstructed
for a novelist. (9)
17— Fat one of the attitudes struck
by Diana. (7)
18— It is filled by the correspond-
ing old slattern putting on
old-time battle protection.
(4-3)
20— Van Diemen’s Land to like
this Italian poet. (5)
21— If it’s a question of sink or
swim, this helps to curry
ignoble favor with the boss.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 854


Nation - Wide Tour of
America's Top Dressmaking Teacher
sponsored by The Australian Women's Weekly
HER NAME’S BRIDGET
MAGINN, AND HER TOUR
BEGINS JULY 5: Her demon-
strations sparkle from begin-
ning to end. She turns learning
info fun. Follow her TV and
store demonstrations and you
can be an expert dressmaker,
too. If you’re already expert
you’ll thoroughly enjoy watch-
ing her —and pick up some use-
ful new sewing tricks as well.
-•
ADELAIDE:
JULY 26-30:
I
BALLARAT:.
AUGUST 18, 19.
GEELONG:
AUGUST 16, 17.
,u e YieeWy
And ftft . pa ge liftouf
for the s^ c ' a '
“ Dres smaki„ g
Hr/ft Bridget tAag' n<v ’
HOBART:
AUGUST 9-13.
TE CUtnMtan
WOMEN S WEEKLY


fJm , eg j S ea ™f s f er de Ville: the elegant, slender timepiece that is also a high-precision sports watch. Movement winds itself. Case seals out water
and dust. Calendar changes automatically at midnight. As illustrated: In 18 ct. gold. £145. 14 ct. gold capped. £BO. Stainless Steel. £65
Other Seamaster de Ville models from £42/10/0.
This Omega Seamaster de Ville is actually four watches in one,
outmoding ordinary, single-function watches
1. A sturdy sports watch, for outdoor and beach wear
2. A dependable calendar watch, for up-to-date accuracy in business
3. A slim, elegant dress watch, for formal occasions
4. A self-winding precision watch . . . you set it and forget it
Omega has designed the Seamaster de
Ville specially for the man who leads
a full, active life. By using new tech-
niques it has been possible to combine
the rugged dependability of a sports
watch with the slim elegance of a watch-
about-town. And this has been done
without sacrificing one precious second of
fabulous Omega accuracy.
So now, with the Seamaster de Ville,
you have a watch that is right for every
occasion.
This great advance is due to a remark-
able new, one-piece watch-case, which
has no detachable back and is therefore
much slimmer. Inside it Omega crafts-
men have been able to place not only
the strong, shock-protected, high-
precision movement, but also a self-
winding mechanism and automatic
calendar.
The elegant Seamaster de Ville is a
triumph of watchmaking ingenuity, a
worthy addition to the renowned range
of accurate Omega timepieces. It will
keep good time in each of your three
busy lives and it may well stay with you
for all of them.
And, wherever you may live, wherever
you may travel, you will find Omega
Service close at hand.
The Omega Service Network, staffed by
factory-trained experts, is spread over
156 countries. The Omega one-year
International Guarantee is honoured in
all of these countries, regardless of where
you bought your watch.
Some day you, too, will own an Omega.
n
OMEGA
