

The
Bulletin
IbSI
ROLS CAMPBELL S ON THE MARGIN
MARCH 5, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
TEENAGERS
The Wild Ones 1966
A.I!~ Tnrml > <)/


V
X.
\
I
p
* S H*,
5^
f
. ... ;;•*.*
■
■~*mmg£?
-
K
«
One look will carry you away
• # •
One look at the FAIRMONT and you start
searching for superlatives to do it justice.
For instance, the front seats simply
demand to be described as magnificent,
luxurious, sumptuous!
Then take the FAIRMONT’S upholstery.
Just the world’s softest and most supple
vinyl, that’s all. And the carpeting? The
most expensive that Ford could find.
And the silence of the ride? Almost
uncanny that’s the only phrase to use.
Suddenly you realise this car has every
luxury, as standard equipment: power
disc brakes, heater/demister, individual
floor lights, wide beam reversing lights,
fully padded dashboard and sun visors,
windshield washers, and low profile tyres.
And to top it all, you get the Super
Pursuit 200 engine, teamed with Fordo-
ma>ic 3-speed automatic transmission,
for truly brilliant performance.
Call your Ford Dealer now, and ask
for a test-drive. He’ll have a FAIRMONT
ready at a time to suit you.
fairmont Sedan, $3050;
Station Wagon, $3250.
Prices include tax.
BY FORD
FORD OF AUSTRALIA


§pSI
m
m
r j
f
m:
m\t
mm
muimjimjiKiiiwuowf
I
Item 356. Part of a remarkable removals job.
One antique vase. Very precious.
One item on an inventory for an
entire household. A Sydney business-
man’s household we moved 2,350
miles across Australia to Perth. Door
to door in three days! How? Aire-
movals! A new removals service that
made history for us. It also made a
very happy businessman. All his
family’s belongings, every stick of
furniture and one antique, precious
vase arrived without a scratch. By
air, road, rail or sea, no moving job
is too small, too big or too complex
for Grace Bros, to take anywhere in
Australia, anywhere in the world with
skill and care. A Grace Bros, expert
is only a phone call away in 12 cities
and major towns
if you would like
an accurate quote,
ring him now!
GRACE BROS
GRACE BROS REMOVALS
2-0946 n Melbourne 48-7316 □ Brisbane 5-4631 □ Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 □ Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Usmore 2265 □ Murwillumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
GR 48
The Bulletin
Established 1880
MARCH 5, 1966
VOL. 88, No. 4487
getting wilder every
HOUR
From O’Keefe to Normie Rowe .... 24
the west
Implacable Chamberlain’s Home-
ground - 20
CANTON JOURNEY
All Problems are Historical 32
THE DEFENCE
STREAMLINER
Healey’s Tidy Mind 36
TANNER .... 15 LETTERS .... 38
BATMAN 29
CELLARMASTER 30
ROSS CAMPBELL 31
THIS AUSTRALIA
President Sukarno’s Comeback 12
The Defence Time-scale 12
Thailand’s Critical Friends 13
Jolt from Dawson 14
Liberal Party’s Young Turks 16
Slap in face for Japan 16
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
The Other Sir Robert 40
THEATRE: The Representative
Again 41
Five Finger Exercise .. 42
TELEVISION: Sexual Exhaustion .. 42
FILMS: King Rat; Bande A Part .... 42
MUSIC: Sydney Symphony
Orchestra the Proms .. 43
BOOKS: The Invisible Government 44
La Batarde, Violette Leduc 45
The Webbs’ Australian
Diary 46
West Indian Literature
a survey 49
BUSINESS & FINANCE
The Economic Critic’s Art 53
Boom in Mining Shares 56
How to look at AC I 62
man on the land
d Barrier to Free Trade 58
-Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
i Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


I■■■
Sii
A.DeB
TOIIiT&VE
*5
A.OeBIASIO.
mmr AmvsssmMm
u :
mmmm
mm
life Stout
Is tough alright!'
Andrew De Blasio needed a good, tough truck that could carry a big load back from the markets, yet was economical enough
to do his home deliveries. He found it in the Toyota Lite Stout. His mate, up the street, also a greengrocer, had owned a Lite Stout
for a year and said, “Lite Stout is tough alright." That was good enough for Andrew. Toyota Lite Stout has what you want
in a truck-the things you just don't get in a passenger car-type utility: Genuine one-ton load carrying ability. Big flat load space and
a choice of body styles. 74 usable horsepower, a truck-type 4-speed gearbox and a real truck chassis. Most important -
toughness—the kind of toughness that takes lots of hard work and abuse year in, year out Toyota Lite Stout—best buy in
the one-ton and utility field. See why at your Toyota Truck dealer.
r
LSF.FP.B.
TOYOTA
IB
SALES &
TOYOTA TRUCKS are sold and serviced
by an efficient network of dealers through-
out Australia; look for the TOYOTA Sales
and Service Sign. It’s your guarantee of
the service and spare parts availability
that have helped make Toyota famous.


this was written by
“A satisfied client”
QUOTE: “When the harvest commences, time is
the most precious commodity" says L. J. Shea,
Sales Director of Connor Shea & Co. Pty. Limited,
pictured below 2,000 miles from base, launching
their newest project a 15' 6" self propelled header.
“With the drought in the Eastern States marketing
had to begin in the West, so we land right in the
harvest field to meet Doug Brenkley of Mullewa near
Geraldton W.A., a proud owner of one of these
machines. With many of these machines scattered
over such a vast state it would be a difficult task
attending to them in any other way than by Cessna.
One arrives bright and fresh by this mode of travel
and farmers have a high appreciation of rapid
service.
Thanks to Cessna for its ability to land in small
paddocks and save the most valuable commodity of
all time.
Time is the reason for Connor Shea having two 172
Cessnas.” END QUOTE.
X
A
m
x
■
ill
%M
M
' >;= %v ,s ;
iiil«lilil
**v* '
■■■■'
What more can WE say?
Ask your nearest Cessna Dealer to show you how Cessna can help you ...as it has helped Connor Shea .
AIR OASIS, Darwin • AIRLEANDA, Port Moresby • BARRIER AIR TAXIS PTY. LTD., Broken Hill • CAMPBELL
AIRCRAFT SALES PTY. LTD., Maitland and Mudgee • GOSS-AIR TAXIS PTY. LTD., Cunnamulla • PENTECOST
AVIATION, Noumea • MASLING AVIATION PTY. LTD., Cootamundra, Bourke, Coonamble and Wagga • REX
AVIATION (OLD.) PTY. LTD., Brisbane and Charleville • REX AVIATION SALES (NSW) PTY. LTD., Sydney • ROSS
AVIATION PTY. LTD., Adelaide • SCHUTT AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD., Melbourne and Geelong • SIMPSON AVIA-
TION PTY. LTD., Perth.
RBB


■
*£& ■’j/Za'a 4&
m
■ • <
Wi
r
&mmmsm
■ :•:
-.
mmrr*
- ■ ■
mm
••,.. ■•••••"
••-
.
m,
&m-
->**; ■■
• mm
ses
1 S Sb
HOW GOODYEAR HOSE
USES WATER TO PULL WEALTH
OUT OF THE SEA
When Associated Minerals set up their mining operation
at Cudgen, N.S.W., they planned to extract the valuable
rutile that lies deep in the nearby mineral-rich shoreline.
They needed a really tough hose to do this job. Goodyear
Material Conducting Hose was the natural choice.
This is just one example of the many ways industry is
using Goodyear Hose. You name your job—Goodyear
have the right hose to fit it! Whether it’s unloading oil
or petrol, siphoning up slurry, feeding air to a jack-
hammer, or delivering steam under pressure, Goodyear
have the right hose for the right job.
That’s because each Goodyear Hose is specially built for
a particular job—to withstand corrosion, abrasion and
Associated Minerals used 16" diameter Material Con-
ducting Hose with %" tube gauge. It sends rutile-rich
slurry to the separation plant at Cudgen. This Goodyear
Hose is reinforced with high tensile heavy gauge round
steel wire with a weather-proof and abrasion-resistant
outer cover. Added strength is supplied by built-in
integra/flange^
heavy-duty wear. Time and again, it’s been shown where
inferior hoses have worn out, Goodyear Hose has stayed
on for more ... and more again!
It pays to pick your hose from the biggest line of quality
hose in the industry—Goodyear.
In every phase of mining every type of mine
Goodyear rubber engineering has the answer. Goodyear
makes over 1,000 types of hose —each one designed for
outstanding service on the job it’s made for. Call your
Goodyear Technical man at the Goodyear Branch in
your State.
good/year
5232


A Cantonese Opera. As unique as Hong Kong itself. A
symbol of the Orient as much as Hong Kong is “hub
of the Orient.” A complete contrast of sound, colour
the surrounding hundreds of tiny islands has a total
area of only 398} square miles. Yet in this area abounds
some of the most breathtaking panoramic views in the
and movement from the serenity of a
sampan riding on quiet waters. But this
is Hong Kong. This is the gateway to
the East, the only city in the world where
East truly meets West, where there is
complete co-existence of the old and the
new. Where the mysticism of the Orient
HONG
KONG
vacation
world. In complete contrast are the busi-
ness areas of Victoria and Kowloon, where
many goods may be purchased at prices
less than in their country of origin. So
for a holiday that’s different, take a
trip to Hong Kong. Take a Hong Kong
vacation. If you’re on business plan your
comes face to face with the reality of the West. Hong
Kong, including Kowloon, the New Territories, and
itinerary so that you can spend some time in Hong Kong,
the place that has everything. You’ll be glad you did.
■
%
mm
Send this coupon for free literature.
HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION
Anchor House, Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
Please print clearly in block letters
ADDRESS -
Do you require this for a school project? □ >


i* THE SYMBOL OF LEADERSHIP IN THE
FIELD OF CLAY AND CARBON PRODUCTS
morganid
AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD-
-65-67 Bourke Rd., Alexandria, N.S.W. 67-1371. 117 Thistleth waite St., Sth. Melbourne, 5.C.5. 69-6106.
33 James St., Valley, Brisbane. 51-5041.
CARBON PRODUCTS DIVISION: Carbon brushes and contacts; welding
and spectrographic carbons; carbon parts for mechanical, chemical and
metallurgical uses.
REFRACTORIES DIVISION: Structural and monolithic refractories;
crucibles; crucible furnaces; pure oxide tubes and pyrometric ware;
graphite dispersions; ceramic fibre blanket.
RESISTOR AND CERAMIC COMPONENTS DIVISION: Resistors; potentio-
meters; silicon carbon heating elements and industrial ceramic
components.
See the Morgan display,
Stand No. 1 British Sec-
tion at the International
Trade Fair, Melbourne,
March 5-19, 1966.
MA1.fP8.26


ONE MORE
WEEK
Move to the suburbs
THE MOVE to the suburbs is not con-
fined to shopping. The Public Library
of NSW is losing readers to the growing
number of suburban libraries, the Deputy
Principal Librarian, Mr R. M. McGreal,
told The Bulletin. Also, students are
making more use of improved library
facilities within universities and colleges.
The latest report of the Public Library
trustees does not mention the drop in
attendances. It does give some figures for
comparison, but these are only with the
previous year, and show a slight decline.
If you take it back to 1961-62 there has
been a 22 per cent decline in readers
using the library on weekdays and Sun-
days, and an even greater drop in the
evenings. Even the lack of rain to come
in out of would hardly account for the
decline.
Day of rest
YOU HAVE TO ADMIT that the
churches in England are trying to keep
up with the times. The latest ecumenical
gesture is a color weekly newspaper, to
be called “Sunday”, aimed at members
of all churches or members of none.
It sounds enterprising, but won’t it only
make things worse for all those people
who now doze quietly through the ser-
mon, safe in church, when all the time
their conscience tells them they should
be at home trying to come to grips with
the Sunday papers?
Rich and clever
TWO FRENCH EXPERTS, Robert
Salmon, publisher of “France-Soir”, and
Michel Drancourt, an economist, have
set out to show that advertising is a help
rather than a hindrance to mass com-
munication something on which the
editorial staff of newspapers would take
some convincing. M. Salmon and M.
Drancourt insist that the French Press
is in decline because it carries too little
advertising.
Their thesis, published in the current
issue of “Realites”, concludes: “It is not
accidental that countries enjoying the
greatest development in advertising also
have the most developed, the most inde-
pendent and the most civic-minded Press
. . . today only wealthy peoples are in-
formed peoples.”
Emotional color
KNOCKING the boss —the time-honored
sport of the outer office —has become
a classroom exercise for a group of
Sydney executives. These have paid $2OO
each for a course in sensitivity training,
which appears to be a sort of group
therapy for company men. Not sur-
prisingly, it is an importation from the
United States.
“Sensitivity training is designed to in-
crease an executive’s awareness of him-
self and, how people react to him,”
Sydney management consultant John
Wyndham told us. Mr Wyndham is pass-
ing on the fruits of the month’s training
in the US to the Australian Institute of
Management’s residential school at New-
port beach. “The social sciences have
for some time been trying to make a
contribution to industrial management
with human relations training. The social
scientist maintains that if you are going to
increase your interpersonal skills, there
ought to be some feedback through mem-
bers within the T-group—that is, train-
ing group. You are taken out of your
supportive environment of home and
work and put in a ‘laboratory’ with
strangers.
“Very few people are aware of what
part emotions play in business discus-
sions. People who say: ‘I like to keep
emotion out of business’ have lost a
part of their personality. Sensitivity train-
ing brings back emotional color into your
life. You are encouraged to say: ‘That
made me feel real warm, Jack,’ or ‘I
resented that.’ It unlocks a lot of creative
potential.”
Even with this eloquent explanation
from Mr Wyndham we couldn’t quite
get the picture of grown men paying to
have emotional color brought back into
their lives. But Mr Wyndham assured us
"By the time I get out of here I'll be
ready to croak."
sensitivity training was extremely popular
in the United States. “Big companies
like Esso put 1000 managers through
in one hit,” he said.
“What makes a good manager depends
on how much he is people-oriented and
how much he is production-oriented,” Mr
Wyndham, back into the thick of it
again, went on. “The training changed
me. It’s an unforgettable experience. I
became more understanding and sym-
pathetic. You finish up with a greater
feeling of self-confidence. You feel that
life has more to offer than you ever
dreamed possible. It makes better hus-
bands out of executives.”
We walked out of the offices of Wynd-
ham and Associates, wondering where
it will all end.
Homeless
SO DRASTIC is Melbourne’s theatrical
drought that the Union Repertory’s
season of “The Representative” was
booked out in two days. The Union
Repertory, which for the past few years
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
There is not, and there will not be, a
mindless escalation.
—President Johnson
I shall lead the Labor Party at the
next Federal election.
—A. A. Calwell
It is no longer possible for politically
inept and self-seeking men to blame the
Press for all their follies.
—Victorian journalist Graham Walsh
The Djakarta situation is very normal.
—lndonesian Second Deputy Foreign
Minister, Mr Harsono
In South Asia we are not dealing with
Europeans and we should not deal in the
same way as Europeans have dealt there
for the past 100 years.
—Sir Garfield Barwick
Outside the Senate only gooks in uni-
versities are bawling about peace.
—US Congressman George Miller
No Government of which I am the head
in my country will ever agree to a Ger-
man finger on the nuclear trigger.
—Harold Wilson
There is something totally incongruous
about a nation performing a proud world
role of peace-keeping on borrowed money
with the sound of gunfire drowned by
the rattle of collecting boxes.
—Christopher Mayhew, British MP
It is tempting to deny, but if you deny
you confirm what you won't deny, and
by confirming and denying you have an-
nounced before you have decided.
—Wedgwood Benn


3NI. *• \ i
■
:
■H
: -v*. >-Vi
I "otKMHgS«&£! SwSeSI
/«■
;, .*•
*«*>
...
: ' . . ■:■■■■■:.
s
S§Pm
■
:- -. :
. ' V:- " S¥ V
.
I :'rgf * i l
v. v • ' . -
V\ # - r
. ::'■-'■■■• ? ' -
2m.a
■■HI
jj
.: ; : :;;f
■HHDmBS
<:.
■■';
■i
■■■
v?':.
Vn idea for Australian business
Emery Air Freight
can put the speed of hght
on your international orders
Emery watches over your, shipment by means of
30,000 miles of private cable, teletype, and telex.
This electronic service is maintained exclusively for
Emery customers. People such as you.
Specify Emery Air Freight when ordering from:
United Kingdom • Continental Europe • U.S.A. • Canada
Sydney, Kingsford Smith Airport Phone 67-0381
Melbourne, Essendon Airport Phone 379-5449
EMERY' AIR FREIGHT
B 1


has shuttled between the Union Theatre
at Melbourne University and the Russell
Street Theatre, is now operating solely
from Russell Street while a two-year re-
modelling of the Union Theatre takes
place.
This at least gives the company one
home instead of two, although Russell
Street, a remodelled church, has an old-
fashioned, hall-like atmosphere, with
poor acoustics, a small stage and inade-
quate dressing-rooms. The company’s
director, John Sumner, has done what
he can. But this is not enough.
By an irony the Union Rep’s troubles
come at a time when the so-called
National Theatre Foundation, a Vic-
torian not a national body, is pressing
the Bolte Government for money to
start work on its projected National
Memorial Theatre in Toorak. The
National already enjoys $40,000 a year
from the Bolte Government but, unlike
the Rep, the National is not con-
spicuously active. A few years ago it
was sponsoring opera seasons of a fair-
to-good standard, ballet and regular play
productions. Not excluding workshop
drama and opera in its tiny Toorak
theatrette, to which critics are not invited,
its last public production was a revival
of the- 1926 musical “New Moon” in
February, 1964.
It is not a very sound basis on which
to argue a case for a grant of perhaps
$300,000 for a theatre. Then again, work-
shop productions "with amateur casts,
plus “New Moon” two years ago, are
hardly an argument for $40,000 a year.
But the cheques keep coming.
Teddy Bears' drinknik
AT ONE END of the smoky room the
grog is gathered on an inadequate table.
This is where the Teddy Bears sit.
Between them and the door, spread
along either side of the table, sit or stand
a fair sampling of the Sydney Push. The
further from the grog you are, the less
you are “in”. Private jokes are shared
out among the Teds like expensive cigars,
but are not offered to the people around
the door. -
One of the Bears takes a swig from a
bottle and clears his throat. Instantly
there is silence. He begins to explain to
those around him that something called
the “Libertarian Broadsheet” is in danger
of ceasing to exist for lack of an editor.
From the expressions on the faces of the
people, they did not before this moment
know of its existence.
Now the Bears warm up to their task,
which is the same task as ever: making
points and raising objections. Someone
who is sitting near the Bears rises to his
feet, wiping his lips after a drink, and
restates the entire problem, but in his
own words. He sits, adjusting his glasses.
Teddy Bear George breaks his silence,
and tells those at his end of the table
that they have missed the most vital
point of all. He restates the problem
in his own words, then sits down and
has a drink.
A brief time out for drinks is followed
by a grunt from Daddy Bear, the biggest
Bear of them all, after which, silence.
Daddy Bear wonders if the whole damn
business shouldn’t just be chucked up,
“rather than let the standard fall”. This
is probably a slug at the people down the
table. “Lowering the standard” is a euph-
emism for “changing the line”.
The Editor Bears pop up, one, two,
three* to explain quietly and manfully
to the other Bears why the burdens of
editing a four-page monthly between the
three of them are getting too heavy. One
hears words like “apathy”, and phrases
like “higher studies”. One feels that they
are pretty bored with this broadsheet
thing, but are too polite to say so.
As time slips by the levels in the
bottles and the levels of the Bears’ voices
get lower and lower. One dozes, head on
hands. Some time later, one is awakened
by everyone filing out. The bottles are
empty.
On the way out, one asks a young man
what happened.
“I think they elected a new editor for
the ‘Broadsheet’,” he replies.
“Who is it?”
“Search me.”
RUSHTON’S AUSTRALIANS...3
Oh yes, I've been Ah! Ooh!
Ow! scripting the Wrestling
now Aaaaaaah! for nearly
ten years, creating such fantastic
figures Neeeaaaahg! as
Adolf (the Knee-breaker) Hitler,
Big Jim Satire, Albie 'lronguts'
Schweitzer Grunt! but now
I've just created my No! No!
No! No! masterpiece he's
fighting King Viet Kong on Friday
Snort! I've called him Lord
Gawd and he descends into the
ring from the roof of the Stadium
Ouch! it's Aaaaaaaaaart!


THIS AUSTRALIA
INDONESIA
President Sukarno’s Comeback
As recently as four or five weeks ago the view in Canberra was that Indonesia
was moving slowly towards some reasonably moderate political position which would
allow the provision of disinterested economic aid. External Affairs Minister, Mr P.
Hasluck, had indicated Australia’s willingness to go ahead with such aid shortly after
the abortive coup last year.
But in one decisive move last week
President Sukarno forced Canberra, as
well as a great many other Western capi-
tals, to revise their assessments of what
has been happening in Indonesia. By
sacking Defence Minister General
Nasution Sukarno reasserted his own
dominance as leader and reversed, at least
in part, the trends set in motion by the
coup the trends against the local
Communists, against Peking, and towards
a quietening down on confrontation of
Malaysia. From Singapore Arthur Cook
reports:
President Sukarno of Indonesia appears
to have won the first round of his fight
against his generals. After sacking their
leader, General Nasution, from his post
of Defence Minister no other general has
risen to challenge the action, and General
Nasution himself is showing no strength
in rallying his comrades together for what
could only be now a coup against
Sukarno.
For Sukarno and his principal hench-
man, Foreign Minister Subandrio, the
road is becoming clear again, unless the
unpredictable Indonesian scene changes,
to lead Communism, under yet another
guise, and Peking influence back into the
country. For Malaysia and Singapore
the end of confrontation is fast disap-
pearing and possibilities of Britain being
able to relax her defence of them are
becoming bleak.
With typical Sukarno cockiness the
President said the Communist Party of
Indonesia which failed in an attempted
coup last September has contributed the
most to the Indonesian republic. At least
300,000 have been massacred in the
anti-Communist purge since then and
Sukarno said he would build a monument
to them in West Irian, the colony he
grabbed from Holland in 1962.
Behind Sukarno’s astonishing fight
back for power, when it seemed the
generals were keeping him merely as a
figurehead, has been the battle of the
West and Western-orientated countries to
force Indonesia into dropping confron-
tation of Malaysia before they gave her
aid in her dire economic straits.
Indonesia’s total indebtedness abroad
is $2OOO million and this year she was
due to make repayments of $l4O million.
She has to default for the first time. In
the Bank of Indonesia there is no more
than 10 to 14 million dollars and cheques
are beginning to bounce. Indonesia’s ex-
port earning capacity maximum at the
moment is $340 million for this year,
and her current and pressing debts
amount to $325-million. Everything is
pledged. Indonesia is flat broke.
In the past few months the Japanese,
the French, Germans and Dutch have
been itching to get in with aid with the
view to future trade. Little has been
actually forthcoming, though, due to
British pressure on these countries to
make a provision on the cessation of
confrontation. Now Japan has cut off
all export credits to Indonesia, Russia is
an unknown but dubious quantity be-
cause of Indonesia’s leaning towards
Peking, and Communist China has been
left as practically the only place to go
for succor.
The wily Britain-and-Western-loathing
Subandrio, who for years has seen him-
self as Sukarno’s successor, and linked
firmly to Peking, has been working on
the generals with stark financial statistics.
Eventually Indonesia would have no
army because it had not the money
to buy arms, has been Subandrio’s line,
strongly backed by Sukarno.
For years the Indonesian forces have
been mostly equipped from Russia. Indo-
nesia is defaulting over $BO million in
repayments this year to Russia alone, it
has been pointed out. The twisted Indo-
nesian logic of Subandrio has been sink-
ing in. What the Communists started
out to achieve several years ago with his
help and Sukarno’s blessing has been ac-
complished and the generals were caught
up in it perhaps more dangerously than
anyone else.
Gaining confidence, Subandrio has now
said that although the Communist Party
has been dissolved it is not banned. He
looks forward, he says, to China being
included in the next conference of the
Sukarno invention, the Miewly emerging
forces.
GREEK ORTHODOX
COMMUNITY
APOLOGY
In its issue dated 23rd October,
1965, “The Bulletin” published an
article under the heading “Breaking
from Constantinople” relating to the
Greek Orthodox Community of New
South Wales.
Mr Kyriakos Christodoulou of
Sydney (a member of the Council of
the Greek Orthodox Community of
New South Wales) has complained
that this article meant that he is a
Communist and a criminal.
“The Bulletin” never intended that
any such inference be drawn or to
reflect in any way upon Mr Christo-
doulou’s integrity. If any persons
have read the article in this sense,
“The Bulletin” much regrets that this
should have happened, and states that
any such suggestion concerning Mr
Christodoulou is entirely incorrect and
without foundation.
“The Bulletin” also states that Mr
Christodoulou is neither a Communist
nor a criminal but stands as a person
of high repute in the community.
We apologise to Mr Christodoulou
for any hurt he has suffered as the
result of the publication of the story.
DEFENCE
White Paper Time-scale
In all the official Australian reaction which followed the British White Paper
on Defence last week one inescapable conclusion stood out. And that was the need
for a revision of the South-East Asian time-scale in Canberra, where Australian
defence planners may be less than realistic if they assume a comforting British presence
in the area for the next 15 years.
For one thing, although Singapore’s
Mr Lee Kuan Yew has said he would be
prepared to have Britain stay until 1980,
it may not always be up to him to decide.
And although Britain herself indicated in
the White Paper that she intends to
stay in the South-East Asian region
there are always political pressures within
the Labor Party, as well as the Enoch
Powell view of dropping commitments
East of Suez in the Conservative Party,
which could reduce the time-scale from
15 to 10 years or less.
The background to Britain’s thinking in
the White Paper is explained by Andrew
Wilson of the London “Observer”:
The purpose of defence policy is to
serve foreign policy aims. But in military
terms, last week’s White Paper must


'-S'
W
sm,
r*
f-
Bulletin
BUST OF
MENZIES
In response to numerous inquiries about Tan*
ner's bust of Sir Robert Menzies on the cover
of the January 29 issue of "The Bulletin", we
have arranged for the casting of a limited
number of life-size plaster copies of the bust.
These are available to readers for $lO (£5)
each, post-free.
Send $lO (a cheque or postal note, not cash,
please) to "Bulletin Sculpture", Box 7052, G.P.0.,
Sydney, together with the coupon and address
label below. (Busts may also be purchased over
the counter from the Paper Sales Department,
sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
SCULPTURE
BUST ONLY
Name
Address
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
order BULLETIN SCULPTURE
FORM Box 7052, G.P.O. Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BUST(S), price $lO a bust
(post free). I enclose $lO cheque/postal
note.
Name of sender
Address
. State A
If more than one bust is ordered
attach list giving full name, address.
State and, if overseas, country.
he judged on its ability to serve the
British Government’s present objective.
This is to maintain stability in areas
East of Suez where Britain still has
moral commitments, for example to
Malaysia, and where she may be called
on in a variety of unforeseen circum-
stances to help keep peace.
The crux of the problem is that the
situation for which Britain must plan is
uncertainty. The forecasts on which the
plans are based must change from year
to year. But since modern weapons sys-
tems, such as the F-11l bomber, being
bought from America, take anything
from five to ten years to get into oper-
ation, there comes a time' when decisions
can no longer be postponed.
In these circumstances the principle
to be followed is that of flexibility: and
other things being equal, a weapons
system with a variety of functions in a
variety of areas, is preferable to one
whose usefulness is limited. The F-11l
is a flexible weapon system because it
can be used in both NATO and the East.
First, at a very modest cost and, under
present arrangements, no loss of foreign
exchange, it provides cover for the move-
ment of British forces wherever they
may be called to keep peace. Second, it
represents the most useful kind of back-
ing for friends or fellow members of the
United Nations, if they are attacked in
circumstances which morally oblige
Britain to help them. Alhough it has a
nuclear capacity, it is not being bought
as a nuclear bomber but as a “conven-
tional” bomber and long-range recon-
naissance aircraft, for which purpose it
is ideally suited with an operating radius
of 2000 miles. The F-111, however, is
only the tangible symbol of a revolution
in British defence planning which reaches
almost every corner of the defence
machine.
The core of this revolution is contained
in the word “interdependence”, which
means that Britain will never again
undertake a military operation on her
own. If she engages in an obviously
large operation, it will be a joint one
with America, and probably Australia
and New Zealand. Even if it is a smaller
operation, she will make sure that, in
the event of its later proving beyond her
resources, the other nations will be will-
ing to share the load.
Interdependence has been attacked
from two sides —from the Right, which
fears that America would “let us down”
over any operation which does not
directly serve American interests: and
from the Left, which fears that the price
of American support will be the involve-
ment of Britain in Vietnam,
But both views overlook the enormous
importance which American military
planning attaches to Britain continuing
her East of Suez responsibilities. In
Singapore, for example, American de-
fence studies have shown that an Ameri-
can presence would cost five times as
much to maintain as the British presence
—even if it were politically acceptable,
which it is not. This is a card which
Britain can play with great effect, if
indeed it has not been used already.
How would the new British strategy
work out in practice? The first point is
that the Indian Ocean islands will not be
“bases”. They will be simply equipped
with aircraft runways, wireless com-
munications stations and oil reserves
the last-named stored in old tanker hulks,
replenished by the British and American
Navies.
Second, the expansion of RAF trans-
port command with VC-lOs and Ameri-
can Hercules long-range transports means
that if more-direct air routes are closed,
our forces can be flown out by the “west-
about” route across Canada and the
Pacific. The new, enlarged transport
command will also be available —though
the White Paper did not go so far as
to spell this out —to fly out British
troops for training and acclimatising
exercises in the jungle and desert train-
ing areas of Australia.
Third, there is no question of operating
without the invitation of a government
seeking our help: and there is no question
of maintaining defence facilities in areas
where they arouse locai hostility.
If overseas military responsibilities are
accepted, interdependence is the only
way in which this can be done.
THE REGION
Thailand’s Critical Friends
If the SEATO treaty is one of the reasons why American troops (and presumably
Australian ones) are in Vietnam, as Secretary of State Dean Rusk has claimed
recently, why, for instance, do countries like Thailand not fulfil their military
obligations and send troops as well?
In Canberra last week, the Thai Prime
Minister, Field Marshal,Thanom Kitti-
kachorn, said Thailand was giving South
Vietnam assistance in non-military form
and explained that because of the threats
and pressures being faced by his country
the United States understood the position
and was not pressing. The Thai Prime
Minister was in fact reluctant to talk “of
what we have done or plan to do”.
Although it was one of the rare times in
recent years that a Prime Minister of a
friendly Asian country has visited Can-


Cooma’s most
modern Motel
n 1310IAI (=)■
y^|
°o°
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia’s leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals. r
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or ANSETT-PIONEER, 74 Sharp St., Cooma.
A MCMBER COMPANY OF ANSEIT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ATI.7OB
berra, the tour was not an unqualified
success. John Webb writes:
Thailand s Foreign Affairs Minister
Thanet Khoman and Minister for
National Development Pote Sarasin stood
beside their Prime Minister in the main
dining-room of the Hotel Canberra.
In turn they listened to the questions
from the reporters crowding round, re-
layed them to Prime Minister Kittikac-
horn (whose English is halting) and
carefully vetted his answers before trans-
lating. The result was a useless mish-
mash which most newspaper editors rele-
gated to a few paragraphs under a state-
ment by Mr Harold Holt or ignored
altogether.
Australian officials had organised a
Press “reception”, as distinct from a
conference, so that Mr Kittikachorn,
with his permanent smile, could chat with
the newsmen before answering questions
“on the record”. There was no shortage
of leading questions but the predictable
diplomatic answers of the guest of the
Australian Government bogged down the
whole affair.
The pressure of their Australian visit
had been such that Mr Khoman and
former SEATO Secretary-General Pote
Sarasin declined to give private interviews.
But in a few brief minutes after the Prime
Minister’s interviews ended, both Minis-
ters lashed out at Thailand’s in
the West.
Mr Sarasin, described by Australian
officials as “incorruptible”, is one of the
richest men in Thailand and a former
stopgap Prime Minister. He admitted
that corruption was still a major problem
in his country and made no bones about
the increase in Communist aggression.
The Communists, he said, had moved into
villages in remote areas, murdering 40
people, mainly head villagers and in-
formers, in seven months. The Thai
Government had moved against the
Communists by setting up a special
mobile fighting force and training troops
in guerrilla warfare.
“But we are not only suppressing the
Communists,” Mr Sarasin said. “We are
pressing forward with rural and other
developments to convince the people we
have more to offer than the Communists.
As Minister for National Development
I have the biggest budget of all, 18 per
cent of the National Budget. Education
comes second and defence fourth with
about 12 per cent. Things are so central-
ised that to construct a road anywhere
in the kingdom has to come through
the budget.” Mr Sarasin spoke ruefully
of the Communists’ effective propaganda.
In one case they convinced villagers that
bulldozers operated on a major road
development project were instruments of
US colonial policy, used to deprive decent
Thai laborers of their jobs.
“We have our shortcomings,” Mr Sara-
sin said. “We should build more schools,
combat inefficiencies in administration
and wipe out corruption. We could have
better priorities because some of the pro-
jects undertaken have not been care-
fully worked out. But Thailand today is
the most stable country in the area. This
is one of our problems we are criti-
cised more by our friends than by our
enemies. Magazines like ‘Time’ and
‘Newsweek’ damn us all the time.”
Both Ministers thought it unlikely that
Thailand would become another South
Vietnam. “In Vietnam the Vietcong
comprised a nucleus of well-trained
guerrillas with all the experience of the
war against the French,” Mr Sarasin said.
“The Communist threat in Thailand is
serious, of course. But if we stick together
and act together it is unlikely we will
have to fight. Thailand has treaty oblig-
ations with the US and Australia which
we expect would be honored.”
Mr Khoman was equally confident
that another South Vietnam could be
avoided. But he, too, was angry about
Thailand’s critics: “Far too many people
write about us without knowing their
business. They should come to Thailand
for a few years and stop writing in
abstractions and talking from ivory
towers.”
Mr Khoman dislikes interference in
the affairs of Asia. “Outside people try to
decide what form of Government we
should have. Well, the people of Asia
have not given them a mandate to decide
their fate.”
THE LABOR PARTY
The Dawson Jolt
The ALP Left wing got a jolt out of Dawson. The bulk of them would have
preferred to see Dr Rex Patterson lose rather than have the dramatic victory he had
in Dawson, until now a Country Party stronghold. But it was a jolt the Left wing
received, not a king hit.
The Dawson win will almost inevitably
cause them to revise their short-term
tactics. But it will not change their long-
term aims. These aims remain unchanged.
They are to enforce rigid ALP machine
control over the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party and to achieve the situation
in which the ALP machine has the final
say on all foreign affairs matters.
The Left wing kept away from the
Dawson by-election. The Federal Labor
Leader, Mr Calwell (who, while not him-
self a Left-winger must be regraded as
an instrument of the Left wing) made
a brief visit to Dawson and disappeared.
The Federal At.P President Senator J.
Keefe sat benignly on Dawson platforms
listening to the Deputy Opposition
Leader Mr Whitlam, Mr Allan Fraser
and Dr Patterson himself espouse what
they considered should be ALP policy
while he knew all the time that his ALP
machine allies had prepared a situation
in which the ALP was able to tell Whit-
lam, Fraser, Patterson and anyone else
who defied what had to be ALP policy,
Senator Sam Cohen from Victoria
turned up to assure Dawson electors
that while Labor was against sending
Australian troops to fight in Vietnam,
Labor would give every support to them
while they were fighting there. This,
even though he had just been appointed
in place of (among others) Allan Fraser
to the ALP’s Defence and Foreign
Affairs Committee by an ALP Federal
Executive which had decided to protest
to South Korea against the sending of
South Korean troops to Vietnam to
fight alongside Australians,
Otherwise the fight was left exclusively
to Whitlam, who is currently defying
the ALP Federal Executive, Patterson,
who has already put himself into opposi-
tion to the Executive with his declara-
tion of support for State Aid, Allan


Fraser, also outspoken against the
Executive. Also taking part were Tony
Luchetti, from NSW, Chairman of the
Federal Parliamentary Labor Party’s
Northern Development committee, who
has been ousted from a place on the
Federal Executive’s Northern Develop-
ment committee to make room for Mr
W. Hartley, Victorian ALP Secretary,
(of whom Whitlam said during the Daw-
son campaign that it was to be hoped
that he did not crown his “decade of
ALP wrecking of the Labor Party by
coming north.”) and Noel Beaton, a tall,
country Victorian MHR, who, moderate
and modest, seems out of place with the
extreme Left wingers in Victoria who
control his political destiny.
In a way, these men Patterson,
Whitlam, Fraser, Luchetti and Beaton—
were not entirely frank in their approach
to the electors of Dawson. They stated —
quite honestly their personal attitudes
on sucß things as State Aid and Foreign
Affairs and die other issues that were
raised duri the by . e | ection . But si , tin g
the "platform from them was
® „ r , , lL .
ena or ee e, w o new, as ey nius
d ° ne ’ that on the basis of Federal
ALP Executive decisions announced
recently their personal attitudes on these
things did not matter if the ALP Federal
executive won the current fight for un-
challengeable control of the Federal
Parliamentarians’ thoughts and actions.
Labor’s policy would be what the ALP
machine decided it was.
For the Left wing the Dawson result,
which has put Dr Patterson, a potential
rebel against ALP Federal executive
into the national parliament, is more of
a temporary irritant than a major upset,
§* ves Whitlam and Fraser, whom the
Left wing intended to expel from the
Party, a boost tn prestige because
both Whitlam even more than Fraser,
identified themselves with the campaign
and with Patterson . But at the outside
this will influence the Left wing’s time-
table rather than their intentions,
The Dawson result will have a psycho-
logical effect upon the Labor Party
rather than change the basic plans of
those struggling for its control. The
election took place in a vacuum. Due
to the attitudes of both the Prime Minis-
Tames
"Increased prosperity is the best defence that way we can afford to DRIVE to the nearest American
Embassy for help."


So who needs
another new airliner?
Big airlines do!
To feed their main routes. To
operate auxiliary services where it
would be uneconomical to fly larger
aircraft. To rely on in emergencies.
Small airlines do!
To serve country routes with a
twin-engined, all-weather airplane
carrying 6-11 passengers in all the
comfort of a big, international airliner.
Big companies do!
To give their executives flexibility,
so they can go and see for themselves,
independent of airline routes and
timetables in their own, flying
conference room.
Charter companies do!
An aircraft that has all-weather
capability, that is so robustly built
and cunningly designed that
maintenance time is minimal and
flying time is maximum.
They all need the
!i)eechcraft
Queen Air
6-11 seats. 252 m.p.h. Range of 1 300
miles. Twin 340 or 380 h.p. fuel
injection engines. Retractable
undercarriage. Thickly upholstered
reclining seats. Deep carpeting.
Luxurious furnishing. Complete all-
weather navigational and radio
equipment.
HAWKER 0E HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Sole Beechcraft Distributors for Australia and
New Guinea.
General Aviation Departments at:
Bankstown Aerodrome, N.S.W. Parafield
Aerodrome, S.A. Archerfield Aerodrome, Qld.
Jandakot Aerodrome, W.A. and
Civil Flying Services Pty. Ltd.. Moorabbin, Vic.
Territory Airlines Ltd., Goroka, N.G.
1896/65
ter Mr Holt, and the Country Party
Leader Mr McF.wen, it was fought on a
battleground of Labor's choosing
northern development. Due to this lack
of an ideological content which Holt
and McEwen would undoubtedly and
properly play up in a national election
campaign the Dawson result cannot
be viewed except as an isolated pheno-
menon. It does not mean that Labor
would win seats in a full scale Federal
election.
On the contrary, as can be seen by
the care with which even the few Left
wingers who participated in the cam-
paign avoided the national issues, the
Left wing still holds the view that elec-
torally the ALP Federal Executive’s
policies would result in heavy Labor
losses in a national election.
The Dawson by-election result may
make it more difficult for the ALP
machine controllers to get rid of Whit-
lam and Fraser as swiftly as and in
the manner they planned. There could
be a reaction from the rank-and-file ALP
membership. The result which was a
Right-wing victory in every way could
stiffen up the NSW ALP in its resistance
to the Left-wing Federal ALP machine.
But while Dawson may have tht effect
of deferring a showdown, it has not
averted one.
ALAN REID
THE LIBERAL PARTY
The Young Turks
Looking down from the gallery one’s first impression is of a hothouse garden
of floral hats and middle-aged ladies. Then one detects that the darker background
shrubbery is really a solid proportion of expensively-suited, suave, old men and well-
briefed, earnest young men.
The ladies at a Liberal Party State
Council meeting are only about 60 per
cent of the total. The Liberal Party, up
to branch and council level, is much
more heavily female than the ALP and
they are not all “front-row knitters”.
They speak up and command the floor,
mainly on social and cultural issues.
At last week’s Victorian Liberal Party
Council they defended the family and
the Queen and were concerned with
such motions as:
That, where maintenance for the sup-
port of a deserted spouse and/or child-
ren is not paid by a deserting
spouse, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment should immediately pay full
social service to the deserted spouse
for his/her maintenance and that of
the children . . .
The old Tory males were there, too,
their patrician voices declaiming against
taxation, “the continued misuse of State
Government vehicles”, and as Mr Mena-
due of the Australian Natives’ Associ-
ation put it “the bureaucratic attempt to
keep Government bodies like the Snowy
Mountains authority in business, after
their job was done”.
The significant feature was the
presence of a substantial number of
articulate and well-informed young men
in their twenties. These Young Turks of
the Liberal Party made the occasional
blunder, of course: one, in attempting
to praise the judges of the High Court,
said they “knew the law back to front”;
and they tended to present their well-
founded arguments in a negative tone,
not sensing too much the minor under-
current of hosiility from the old ladies.
But they know their politics well and
they have little in common with the
Tories. They are concerned with social
reform, rational economic planning, de-
fence, destroying the “White Australia”
policy as it stands, and with the latest
techniques for winning elections.
Their influence is already strong:
chairman of the council meeting was
26-year-old Andrew Peacock, who
handled the various age and sex groups
with quiet competence; a number of
significant motions they proposed,
through their branches, commanded
majorities o / the floor of the council;
some of them can expect pre-selection
for seats in which they will have winning
chances at the next Federal election.
One of their successful motions reads:
That the Federal Government be re-
quested to . . . allow those persons of
non-European race (excluding stu-
dents and visitors) who have been
admitted to Australia to become
eligible to qualify for permanent resi-
dence and naturalisation ...
BRIAN BUCKLEY
INDUSTRY
Japan’s Slap
The Government’s action following the
Tariff Board’s report on the motor
industry leaves the big five overseas-
owned manufacturers sitting prettier than
ever, especially the two biggest, General
Motors-Holden and Ford.
It also reduces the prospect of a bigger
Australian participation in the ownership
of the industry and gives Japan, our most
hopeful export market, an unwarranted
slap in the face. This is certainly not
what the Tariff Board intended when it


# * » v _ t
-,,
>:• •, • :
: Sa |PF ■' |;S| llligiiiigl
»< < w, ~ „
,< , ; , s ’ :^ v
#f, :
Si
m
**ohrt
son
U3SB2
Outboard Marine choose DRI-MARK to identify and decorate many
outboard motors in their wide range.
DRI-MARKS are self-adhesive nameplates with the beauty of highly
polished, mirrorized Mylar* plus these other advantages Selex
DRI-MARKS are applied in seconds . . . they're inexpensive . . . and
resistant to salt water corrosion and the solvent action of petrol.
Available only from Selex Decal Pty. Ltd., or their overseas associates.
SELEX DECAL *
do amazing things with TRANSFERS
MELBOURNE: 61 3211 SYDNEY: 43 0221
PROBLEM
How to brand
an outboard motor
ANSWER
A DRI-MARK MIRRO-CAL
Nameplate
OVERSEAS ASSOCIATES:
Canada Decalcomania Co. Ltd., Toronto
The Meyercord Co., Chicago
Decal Transfers (N.Z.) Ltd. Auckland
*
The words Decal, Drl-Mark, and Mirro-Cal, are registered. Mylar is a registered trademark of the duPont Co.
recommended that the Government
establish seven stages of progression for
firms to achieve a 95 per cent Aus-
tralian content in their,, vehicles over
a period of 12 to 18 months. Those
firms who reached this percentage would
enjoy exemption for components geared
to the volume of output. It also recom-
mended that a 95 per cent Australian
content not be required until output
reached 40,000 vehicles.
Such an arrangement, the Board stat-
ed, might increase the present market ad-
vantages of the dominant companies but
ultimately it would give a better chance
for market development to others, in-
cluding those with Australian participa-
tion.
Presumably more with the idea of
placating established local assemblers
than anything else, the Government has,
in effect, said that while" manufacturers
have only to lift the Australian content
of their vehicles from 45 to 60 per cent
by stages when raising their output from
1000 to 7500 vehicles, when they reach
7500 they cannot expand further except
on the basis of immediately increasing
the Australian content of their cars to
95 per cent. Nothing could be more
calculated to favor the present giants in
the industry, to open up the prospect of
wider fragmentation or to deter a greater
infusion of Australian capital.
As from July Ist an additional
and permanent 10 per cent duty (rais-
ing the general tariff to 45 per
cent) is to be imposed on fully made-up
car imports in the event of such imports
exceeding seven and a half per cent of
new motof vehicle registrations over a
24-month moving average period. Of
course, though imports are currently high
and registrations ' depressed, importers
can be expected to make strong efforts
in the period of grace until July to avert
the additional duty being imposed. But
obviously whether these are successful or
not, the threat is now permanent and
effective, even if a movable ceiling has
been placed on imports.
One can understand the reluctance
with which the Trade Minister/, Mr Mc-
Ewen, must have come to the point of a
decision which hits straight and fore-
most at Japan to which he has been
looking increasingly as a market for Aus-
talian exports. Japan has developed its
motor vehicle exports to Australia in
striking fashion in recent years until
we are now (after the United States)
its second biggest market for these pro-
ducts.
Reactions in Japan have been cool,
naturally, to the new limits set on pos-
sible expansion of their market in fully
made-up cars here and the scope for
“wooden horse” activities, such as in the
assembly field, is being canvassed urgently.
J. C. HORSFALL


Reforming
White Australia
“There seems to be prejudice around ”
By GAVIN JONES
(Research Scholar, Department of Demography,
Australian National University)
With the recent elevation of Mr
Holt to the Prime Ministership,
it did not take peoplb long to
begin speculating on the possibility of
significant changes in our policies to-
wards Asian immigration.
After all, it was Mr Holt who, as
Minister for Immigration in the early
19505, introduced a semblance of liberal-
ism into our policies by altering some of
the disastrously narrow-minded and in-
flexible rulings of his predecessor in the
position, Mr Calwell.
That Mr Holt was willing to engage in
a frank discussion of immigration re-
form on Brisbane television so soon
after taking office suggests that he may
have been “chafing at the bit” in recent
years on the question of immigration
policy. The slow “liberalisation by
stealth” pursued by the Menzies Govern-
ment over the last 15 years has been
lagging behind the liberalisation of public
opinion; Mr Holt was far more likely to
recognise this than Sir Robert Menzies,
who was not noted for his affinity with
the thinking of the important under-40-
year-old section of the community.
Mr Holt, in his interview, did not
promise any drastic changes. He claimed
that “the current policy is supported by
the great majority of the Australian
people” (true if he is talking of the broad
objectives of the policy; certainly not
true if he is talking of its frequently un-
imaginative administration) and that
there would be no fundamental change in
this policy. On the other hand, he said
that “there have been some changes in
the scene around us which . . . might
indicate to us that we should be review-
ing the conditions which operate in
respect of certain classes of migrant or
settler”. As an example, he quoted the
difference between the period required
for naturalisation for the European
settler and the non-European.
The provision whereby non-Europeans
must wait 15 years to qualify for natural-
isation —three times the period required
for Europeans —has rightly come in for
a great deal of criticism, and has been
under discussion by Cabinet for some
time. It is blatantly discriminatory, and
a denial of our assertion that we do
not base the suitability of a person for
permanent residence solely on grounds
of race. A change in this provision
would therefore meet with widespread
approval.
If the waiting time for non-Europeans
were reduced to five years, the effect in
terms of the number of non-Europeans
gaining Australian citizenship would
depend on the way the new policy was
administered. The relatively small group
of non-Europeans admitted under the
“highly qualified and distinguished”
category would certainly find it easier
to become citizens; so too, probably,
would non-European traders and busi-
nessmen, and possibly the executive
assistants brought in on a short-term
basis by foreign firms, if any of them
wanted to remain. On the other hand,
it is fairly certain that the Government
would remain firm in refusing citizenship
to the larger group of students, market
garden assistants and cafe assistants who
are permitted entry on a temporary basis,
with no right to permanent settlement.
Therefore the reforms under con-
sideration by the Holt Government, if
implemented, would not necessarily lead
to a rise in the number of non-Europeans
gaining Australian citizenship. However,
they would be a move in the right direc-
tion, and the general tone of Mr Holt’s
interview could be interpreted (hope-
fully) to mean that our immigration
policy will be administered more flexibly
in future, and that there will be no more
“Gamboa” or “Locsin” cases to maintain
a principle the existence of which is
officially denied.
The publicity accorded the Locsin case
has done immeasurable harm to Aus-
tralia’s image in Asian countries but it
has at least forced Australians to come
to terms with the fact that our policies
are noted with disapproval in these
countries. This was never really any
secret, although the Minister for Im-
migration, Mr H. Opperman, has been
doing his best to persuade us that he
finds “no resentment towards our policies
in Asian countries”. It is remarkable that,
until recently, Mr Opperman’s claims
and similar ones by his predecessor, Mr
(now Sir) Alex Downer, could go un-
challenged because Asian opinion had
never been tested in any systematic
fashion. Just what do Asians think?
It was with this need for investigation
in mind that the writer and his wife
conducted a survey in Malaysia in Febru-
ary and March, 1964, the findings of
which were reported in an article in the
December, 1965, issue of the “Australian
Outlook”.
A questionnaire form was filled in by
683 Malaysian sixth-form students, com-
prising almost all the sixth-formers
attending schools in Kuala Lumpur and
Seremban. The same form was mailed
to 244 graduates, a third of them
graduates of Australian universities. As
93 per cent of the sixth-formers were
aged 17-19, they can be considered a
group of young men and women rather
than schoolchildren. Approximately 70
per cent of them can be expected to
continue on to university.
Ninety-five per cent of the sixth-
formers stated that the number of Asians
admitted into Australia each year for
permanent residence was a few thousand
or less. When asked if they knew of
a name commonly applied to Australia’s
immigration policy, 63 per cent gave
the name “White Australia Policy” or
another name meaning the same thing
(“Australian White Policy” and “All-
White Policy” being the most popular of
these).
Despite their knowledge about these
aspects of Australia’s immigration policy,
most of the sixth-formers did not know
of Australia’s massive postwar drive for
European migrants. Had they done so,
their opinions about Australia’s migration
policy would almost certainly have been
less favorable than they were. Even so,
66 per cent of those who knew that Aus-
tralia admitted less than a few thousand
Asians annually thought the policy was
unfair, compared with 25 per cent who
thought it fair (many of whom added
“from Australia’s point of view”). Of
the same group of respondents, 75 per
cent thought the policy should be
changed, compared with 18 per cent who
thought it should be left as it is.
In two questions, respondents had an
opportunity to express opinions about
Australia’s immigration policy. More
than half the sixth-formers appeared to
believe that the policy is based at least
partly on economic grounds (primarily
“a fear of competition from low-wage
Asians”). Only 20 per cent strongly
expressed the view that the policy was
based on racial or color prejudice, but


Look at the difference...
TRAINING PROGRAM
SUPERANNUATION
GROUP INSURANCE
HOME ADDRESSES
HOLIDAYS
JOB ASSIGNMENTS
BENEFICIARY FORMS
PERSONNEL
DATA
Dymo makes
With a DYMO Tapewriter anyone can make legible, permanent raised-
letter, self-sticking plastic labels in any one of 10 distinctive colours.
Your DYMO becomes an integral part of the identification and
organisation of files, equipment, shelves and containers; has
1001 uses for identifying property, office doors, cupboards.
Just dial the letters and squeeze the handle. It’s as
simple as that. There's a complete range of DYMO
Tapewriters for commercial, professional and
industrial use. DYMO Tapewriters make low
cost labels that permanently adhere to any
smooth surface.
DYM
THE COMPLETE
LABELLING AND
IDENTIFICATION
SYSTEM
SHRi
P* 3
Hi::: *W-.4
There's a Dymo
Tapewriter for every
application including
embossing on metal tapes.
JA 3754
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR USUAL STATIONERY SUPPLIER OR OFFICE SUPPLY COMPANY
this low figure is somewhat misleading,
as only those who specifically cited racial
or color prejudice as the basis for Aus-
tralia’s policy were included. Many more
appeared to imply this. For example, a
quarter of all respondents stated that the
motives for the present policy were “to
keep Australia ‘white’ ” and many more
mentioned that Australia was attempting
to avoid the racial and social trouble
which might arise if the country were
to become multi-racial. One sixth-former,
in reply to the question “Why do you
think Australia adopts this policy?”
answered, “Primarily for economic
reasons, but there seems to be prejudice
around”.
Only 31 per cent of the graduates
responded to the mailed questionnaire,
and it is likely that those who opposed
the policy were somewhat over-repre-
sented. Even so, it is interesting that
of the 76 respondents, 73 thought the
policy should be changed, compared with
only 2 who thought it should be left as
it is. Few of the 73 gave economic
reasons: 26 criticised the present policy
as one of racial discrimination, and a
further 12 said that it was unjust because
Europeans were encouraged whereas
Asians were not. Twelve others claimed
that present Australian policies isolate
Australia from Asia.
A far higher proportion of the
graduates than of the sixth-formers were
conscious of Australia’s policy of wooing
European migrants. Largely as a result
of this, their replies tended to be more
strongly worded. For example, one
stated, “The idea that the White Policy
is to maintain the standard of living is
eye-wash. It is to discriminate against
Asians, because people of European stock
are freely admitted to Australia irrespec-
tive of their standard of living, intel-
lectual level, or financial position”.
The dissatisfaction with the policy
shown by many graduates from Aus-
tralian tertiary institutions suggests that
we tend to take too naive a view of the
role Asian students will play as “ambas-
sadors of goodwill” when they return to
their home countries.
What are the policy implications of all ■
this'? “Public opinion” is a notoriously
difficult phenomenon to measure, and its
importance is probably even harder to
define. The fact that our present policies
are reaping us a considerable harvest of
ill-will in Asia provides no valid argu-
ment for a rash about-face in policy; a
Notting Hill incident in Sydney or Mel-
bourne would no doubt bring even more
ire upon our heads than a Locsin case.
The point is that both are avoidable,
and it is a tragedy that while we have
avoided the one by the simplest method
open to us, we have not avoided the other
because we have been too slow to move
with the times and liberalise the im-
plementation of our policies.


T HE WEST
The home ground of the implacable
Chamberlain and the indomitable
C oart
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
66T N industf y y° u can sdcdc to y° ur
l] beliefs and stay clean, in politics
you get dirty,” was Mr F. E.
(“Joe”) Chamberlain’s remark when I
asked him if he had any Parliamentary
ambitions. Were West Australian politics
particularly dirty? Chamberlain stared
hard at the ceiling of his office in the
Trades and Labor Council building be-
fore replying; “Probably no more than
anywhere else. This Liberal Govern-
ment over here is a typical bosses’ gov-
ernment. You know, low wages, high
profits, and let the Yanks have what they
like.”
The warfare between Chamberlain,
WA State Secretary and Federal Presi-
dent of the ALP, and the leader of the
West Australian Parliamentary Labor
Party, Mr Bert Hawke, is so much open
knowledge that Chamberlain was not at
all disturbed when I asked him what was
wrong with local Labor politicians. “The
trouble is simply that they won’t stick
to party nolicy. The Labor Party is a
democratic party but it must have tight
discipline if it is to survive against the
forces of capitalism. Once policy has
been decided by the ruling councils of
the party, the politicians must stick to it.”
Perhaps the politicians thought that
part of their job was to win elections,
and they could hardly be expected to
enthuse over policies which were likely
to lose seats, especially if those policies
were decided by officials who had no
electoral responsibilities? “The Labor
movement does not exist primarily to
win elections It exists to advance the
cause of democratic socialism. We can’t
afford to have men running the Labor
movement who will sell out on the prin-
ciples of the party just for the sake of
a few extra votes.”
The word “policy” recurs throughout
Chamberlain’s conversation. He believes
that it is the job of the party to formulate
policies which would transform Aus-
tralia from a capitalist to a socialist
society. This may sometimes result in
temporary electoral defeat but there are
inexorable “internal and external forces
which are developing in such a way that
the people will turn to the Labor Party
for government in the foreseeable future”.
History, he feels, is on his side: the
Menzies and the Santamarias and the
Whitlams are only minor obstructions in
the path of man’s inevitable material and
moral progress. The progressive man,
the man of real destiny, is he who,
scorning elections, sits armed with his
ideological sieve continually refining and
straining the pure juices of party policy:
waiting for history to catch up?
Mr Chamberlain seemed a strange
figure in present-day Perth: anachronistic
or prophetic . . . history will tell; but
socialist operators/romantics are odd
men out in sun-worshipping, lucky and
booming Western Australia.
If Chamberlain is the paradigm of the
well-trained political operator, the Pre-
mier of Western Australia, David Brand,
is very much a practical, populist poli-
tician. He seems more chairman of the
State than Premier.
“My earliest memories are of my
father’s small farm, and of the tiny bush
school, seven classes and 25 children.
The school has since completely disap-
peared.” Like Chamberlain he well
remembers the Depression, but with nos-
talgia despite the hardship.
His adult career? “In 1935, when I
was 23, I went to the Boulder Goldfields
and rose to become a leading shift boss
in the mines. I joined up when war
broke out and was wounded i,n Greece.
I was taken to Crete and was the last
patient to be taken on the last hospital
ship that got away from the island.”
Af*er he was discharged Brand opened
a shop in the country and joined a branch
of the newly formed Liberal Party. He
became the first candidate endorsed by
the new Liberal Party to win a seat from
the Opposition anywhere in the nation:
an achievement which earned him the
permanent affection of Sir Robert
Menzies.
Farm boy, miner, small shopkeeper:
what in the Premier’s background fitted
him for the responsibilities of office?
“The greatest contribution made to any-
thing that I have been able to do was
my early experience in church work
not the exact work of the church, but
youth organisation. I do not go to
church regularly—l never seem to get
the opportunity but Tam interested in
the work of the churches. I believe that
this side is necessary, teaching the basic
spiritual values in a world so full of
materialistic attitudes. These affect us
all, of course.”
Indeed, they do. The optimistic
materialism which has gushed up in
Western Australia in the last five years
is a phenonemon demanding description.
There has been nothing like it since the
high fever of the gold rushes back in
the 1890 s, but this time there are no rain-
bows riding the gold and the ores are of
a deeper hue: iron, copper, bauxite, lead,
manganese and tin are sbme of them with
the rich, dark hint of oil overshadowing
them all. From Wyndham to Esperance
new investment is pouring into the
Western Third at the rate of more than
$2 million per week, a rate which makes
the State the fastest developing in the
Commonwealth. The investment is in
mineral extraction, in refining, in manu-
facture, in agriculture, and in roads,
ports and railways.
The key words in the west, as exem-
plified in the almost Benthamite vocabu-
lary of the Minister for Industrial
Development, Charles Court, are “pro-
gress”, “initiative”, “enterprise”, “re-
sources”, matched by phrases like “the
pace of mineral progress” as used by
Mr Court in a speech in which he
paused, near the end, to warn that “it
will be very much to our disadvantage
if these leaders in our community fail to
match the pace of material progress and
allow the finer things of life to lag
behind.”
The gradual thinning of gold veins,
the secession movement, the fears of
abandonment in the face of Japanese
invasion, the omission of Barry Shep-
herd from Test teams: all are ndw almost
forgiven and forgotten. The dangerous
dependence on primary industry, rain,
wind and sun has been heavily reduced.
The major pre-war problems of the
development of the wheat industry be-
tween Perth and Kalgoorlie, the estab-
lishing of dairying in the south-west
pocket, and the slow, unexciting expan-
sion of public works and utilities seem
to belong to another age.
Under the benign presidency of Brand,
it is Charles Court, who, to the irritation
of a few of his Cabinet colleagues, is
very much the tiger in the tank of the
Liberal-Country Party coalition Govern-
ment. Minister for Industrial Develop-
ment, Railways, and the North-West,
Court, like Don Dunstan the pacemaker
in the South Australian Ministry, was
elected to Parliament in 1953.
Sir Robert Menzies is reported to have
called him a “go-getter”, a term that is
pejorative in the Menzies vocabulary
but not in Court’s. He shrugs off alle-
gations that his high-pressure salesman-
ship has alienated the sympathies of some
members of Federal Cabinet, and re-
mains firm in his belief that Canberra
lacks the imagination and drive to under-
stand properly the prospects am 1 prob-
lems of Western Australia. He las ex-
changed hard words with Federal


n
V
f
5
f:
v/ •:
V
$
i
X
Magic card
THE ultimate in travel speed and
convenience used to be a Magic
Carpet.
Modern businessmen use this magic card
... and no businessman need be without one.
Just have your Company open a TAA credit
account and nominate you as a TAA Credit
Card holder.
All services throughout the TAA network
are chargeable. And are rendered simply for
you on one detailed monthly statement. All
air travel. All Air Cargo. All Air Express.
Plus: ‘friendly way holidays’ including bus or
rail tickets; hotel deposits; excess baggage;
overnight bags ... and travel in Australia and
Papua/New Guinea on any other airline.
Just ring TAA, quote your Card number
and we’ll post your ticket to you. Or you
can collect it.
Your TAA Credit Card will save you and
your company time and trouble. Use it to
establish your credit rating with other services
anywhere in Australia and Papua/New
Guinea (including leading hotels, Avis Rent-
a-Car and many more).
And the simplicity of its operation will
make your Accountant very happy.
If you haven’t a Credit Card yet, a phone
call to TAA will tell you how.
the Friendly Way
TAA is in business for your business.
TAA999B/JJ


*
mm
\
MEET Ml AT MEMES
Melbourne’s most gracious hotel
A Member of The Federal Group—6o 1581
Reservations through Menzies, Savoy Plaza,
Federal (Melbourne); Hampton Court, Menzies
(Sydney); Wrest Point (Hobart); Lennons (Bris-
bane). Lennons(Toowoomba), any airline or travel
agent. A
UM
officials over their reluctance to invest
Treasury money in the Ord River and
other development schemes.
Both Court and his Premier, David
Brand, display with pride the figures of
the State’s expansion: before the war
the manufacturing component was less
than 20 per cent of the total production
of the State; today the figure is nearing
50 per cent and mining is expanding at
an awesome rate.
Both the dispirited Opposition and
the ambitious Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Trade have asked suspicious
questions of some of Court’s deals with
overseas companies over the granting of
rights to extract some of the State’s
enormous mineral resources. The Com-
monwealth Government has now refused
to agree to the contract between Hamer-
sley Iron Ltd and Japanese steel manu-
facturers for the supply of 8,600,000
tons of iron pellets at a price of 18 cents
a unit f.o.b.
Certainly, at first glance some of the
prices demanded by the WA Govern-
ment appear small and the quantities of
mineral resources given over to foreign
ownership disturbingly large, but Court,
who is also in partnership in a prosperous
accountancy firm, makes out a strong
case in terms of prevailing world prices
in his Government’s negotiations. Lead-
ing his favorite cause he says: “When
you look at the development taking place
in this State from Wyndham and the Ord
in the north to the lush plains of Esper-
ance on the south coast you realise that
without foreign capital none of this
development would have been past first
base.
“There is too much blind, unthinking
prejudice against overseas companies.
Certainly we would have preferred Aus-
tralian companies to have developed the
State, but let’s face it, if we had gone to
the Melbourne Stock Exchange and
asked them to raise $80,000,000 to get
the first ton of ore into a ship in the
Pilbara for one of these projects not
all of them but only one of these pro-
jects we would have had tc explain:
‘This is subject to exploration; this is
subject to getting contracts with over-
seas firms such as the Japanese; it is
subject to a dozen and one things; you
will probably not get a dividend for
seven, eight, or even ten years!’ ... I
leave it for you to judge. You just would
not have got two bob.”
Court believes that his Government’s
image is too positive and lively for it to
be worried about electoral defeat. “The
first thing the average worker is con-
cerned about is the security of his job.
He knows that under the present Govern-
ment the economy is really taking off
and there will be no possibility of un-
employment in the conceivable future.
He knows that the Labor Party means
control and restrictions and a slackening
demand for labor; he may not particu-
larly like some aspects of the present
Government, but he knows that Liberal
policy leads to jobs.”
npHERE is something in this proposition.
A The Liberal-Country Party coalition
has closely identified itself *vith State
development, State’s rights, State chau-
vinism. The negative attacks of the
Opposition are often deflected by the
Government and made to appear as if
they are attacks on State development.
Unemployment has always been a greater
fear in Western Australia than in most
other States, and so long as the Govern-
ment appears to be the party of jobs and
expansion it will win a fair amount of
support from those whose traditions lie
closer to Labor.
Yet compared with the South Aus-
tralian Government there are obvious
weaknesses in the Brand administration
upon which a united and active Opposi-
tion might seize. The latter has more
fire, energy and economic enterprise than
its South Australian rival but its social
and legal interests are shallow.
The Government was gently reminded
of this in a WA “Daily News” editorial
last October: ‘The proper way to
measure the benefit to WA of its vast
northern projects is to measure the bene-
fit to West Australians. A State is not
just a lump of land; it is a community of
people ...”
But the Labor Opposition, which con-
sists mostly of old men dispirited by
their solid defeat in the last election and
distracted by the continuous sniping of
Chamberlain from his basement head-
quarters at the Trades and Labor Council,
has not been able to make any serious
inroads into the popularity of the Gov-
ernment. As in the east the Labor Party
has had a petulant, negative and self-
divided appearance and is beginning to
exude the odor of a permanent Oppo-
sition.


I One of the five SO-tan Heutpaks with special side dump bodies used for iron ore haulage at Cockatoo Island, W A
■ae&mm s
, > 1
,~ : ■
±a, ~v ■ : sM :: .
is mxm h g ah- w UhWGMQu $ g
f ■
1
nmliM
1
W
r
MINE
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: n HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS a IRON MINING, W.A. a CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
H COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, QLD. a BAUXITE MINING, QLD.
B RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. a DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
B PYRITE MINING, S.A.
First earthmovinj equipment manufacturer to receive the Awar*
♦or Outstanding fcxport Achievement.
E for EXPORT
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINGHOUSEPTYLTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Safes, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW249.106


Getting Wilder
Every Hour
The light years from O’Keefe to Normie Rowe
By CHARLES HIGHAM
44TT was very bad in Brisbane. Police
i threw girls down on the floor.
One girl flung her arms around me
and a policeman grabbed her by the hair.
He told her to stop. I didn’t like that. It
was rude. He dragged her along the
corridor outside the hall. Her head was
bleeding. I’ve never seen anything like
the way the police behaved.
“That’s the way teenagers so often are
treated by adults. Some parents are gas,
they like teenage music and come with
their kids. But others are shocking. They
don’t understand them at all. They
attack us for our interests. I hate adults.”
As he talked on, Normie Rowe, who
on February 9 won his second gold
record, signifying a 100,000 sale for his
“Que Sera Sera”, one of the top fistful
of best-sellers in the history of Austra-
lian show business, was frowning heavily
under a tousled dishmop of hair. Glum
and intense, fiercely protective towards
his uncountable teenage following, he’s
the most extraordinary figure to have
emerged in the teenage music field here
since the heyday of Col Joye and Johnny
O'Keefe. His delivery of “Que Sera
Sera”, ferociously belted out against a
deafening band, is worlds removed from
the genteel moaning of Doris Day, who
originally recorded the song. And his
most memorable rendition of it was on a
session of Channel 10’s “Ten on the
Town”: clad in sweater and tight pants,
gale-tossed, he stood in the surf near
Narrabeen Lakes and bawled the number
at the top of his voice through the wind.
Even in a programme that featured an
orgiastic near-nude dance sequence which
made the African Ballet look like a Jane
Austen tea-party, Rowe was outstand-
ingly strange.
He is thoroughly symbolic of the new,
“wild” teenage idiom, as wholeheartedly
erotic in its appeal as the Johnny O’Keefe
mode of the first, frenzied days of
O’Keefe’s rises to fame. Last year, the
London “Daily Mirror’s” Marjorie
Pro Ops reported that our teenagers
seemed not even holding
hands: she evidently hadn’t worn glasses
to the beach, to the dances, or to the
Town Hall or Stadium at a teenage con-
cert. The new “beats”—the “frug” and
“watusi” have largely been abandoned
for a kind of free-for-all range of dances
without specific names where teenagers
simply let themselves go in ferociously
sexual movements and gestures re-
veal that if any of Professor Frederick
May’s “vestigial Victorianism” is left
here it must be in a vicarage somewhere.
Since the advent of the Pill, Normie
Rowe whose record sales significantly
soared after he was recently acquitted on
a carnal knowledge charge and the
New Music, the last teenage inhibitions
have evidently broken down: when, at a
recent Sydney Stadium concert, Dita
Cobb vulgarly told several thousand teen-
agers that her advice to a 20-year-boy
would be “do, practice makes perfect,”
the screams of delight were deafening.
Tony Worsley—a smoky-eyed former
Britisher with a Bondi tan whose clothes
were practically stripped from him at a
recent country concert Peter Doyle,
a pale, anaemic looking youth, lan
Turpie, “swinging leader of the Mel-
bourne teen scene” (according to a Mel-
burnian I spoke-to), Billy Thorpe, now
torn, according to the fan magazines,
between an American or an Australian
career, Digger Revell, Ray Brown, whose
The Whispers are probably the best of
the local groups: these are the new
figures at the centre of the stage. It all
makes the people we thought abandoned,
“wild”, five years ago, look very tame.
In fact it seems light years back when,
in 1958, Australians began for the first
time to build and admire their own teen-
age stars. Behind this movement was Ken
Taylor, then of Festival Records, who
discovered the young Col Joye at a
Town Hall rock 'n’ roll session, suggested
he should record for Festival, and, after
two misses, finally scored a success with
him: the record “Sixteen Candles” sold
14,000 copies, considered a good figure
at the time. Nex:, “Bye Bye Baby” rose
rapidly up the-charts: from there, man-
aged by his shrewd brother, Kevin Jacob-
sen, Joye, helped by Taylor’s image-
building techniques, skilfully planned
record covers and promotion campaigns,
became clearly established as a wholly
indigenous product. “Simple-hearted”,
the packaging suggested, cheerful, gentle


but not “soft”, slightly raw and gawky,
with a half-hillbilly, half “city-slicker”
presentation (and, in the Joy Boys, a
really excellent band). The formula im-
mediately registered, especially on Joye’s
now famous country tours.
Simultaneously, Johnny O’Keefe’s
stock rose rapidly, partly through Ken
Taylor, partly through Lee Gordon
(whose Leedon label recorded him after
he left Festival), but chiefly through his
own remarkable drive and temperament.
His small, shrewd eyes, round face, short-
ish plump figure, were triumphed over by
sheer nerve and energy, and a whole-
hearted, somehow splendid vulgarity that
went straight to the heart of his
thoroughly unsophisticated audiences. In
November, 1959, he had a short-lived,
determined swing at the Big Time: flying
to America, he signed with Liberty
Records, temporarily brought back the
barbaric, wild sound of early rock ’n’
roll (Jerry Lee Lewis, Little Richard)
there, then was launched as the “Boomer-
ang Boy”, with a much-publicised coast-
to-coast hunt for a boomerang he would
carry for the sleeve picture: returning
after a brief spell at home, he played
many American States, including Florida,
where he was a hit at a Miami hotel.
But the “Boomerang Boy” boomer-
anged: he was already “dead” in America
where he returned for a third visit. Find-
ing firmly closed doors, he flew desper-
ately to London, failed again, and wound
up in hospital surrounded by, in his own
words, “every top doctor in Harley
Street.” One senses that he has never
fully recovered through a switchback
career of comebacks and breakdowns
since then.
On stage, O’Keefe had, at his peak
(say, early 1959), an hysterical abandon,
a rough way of flogging a number over
his audience’s heads, that he has never
matched since, and that no-one else has
matched on the local scene. The other
stars of the late ’fifties have vanished into
oblivion: Johnny Devlin, leather-clad
animated suitcase of the stadium circuit,
has arrived without a satisfactory label
in Britain, and appears to have sunk
without a trace, despite a CBS recording
contract. Dig Richards, whom some skil-
ful promoter could have turned into a
James Dean of Australia, has recently
(and with startling tameness) turned up
in pantomime (and the sight of Johnny
O’Keefe meekly reading “The Ugly
Duckling” from a lectern is certainly
one of the last Christmas season’s more
bizarre memories). Lonnie Lee, most
sensitive of the stars of the time, is in an
obscure job in the recording business,
and has recently attempted a comeback
via a new record. Johnny Rebb, “gentle-
man of rock ’n’ roll”, who used to wear
dark blue glasses to interviews, once
apparently played Las Vegas, was said
to be getting a film contract with Pat
Boone (but was reported by some show
business people to have returned here
tourist class on a ship), has totally
vanished. Rhett Walker, brightest of the
teenage disc jockeys, is in Seattle radio
and, of the rest, only the Allen Brothers
one of whom was, at any rate until
recently, engaged to Judy Garland’s
daughter and Lucky Starr, whose
visit to Vietnam secured a mountain of
free publicity, seem still to be heard of.
The wave of local teenage music
reached its peak in 1959-60, then sud-
denly toppled. For two years at least
there was a complete hiatus in the scene.
Then in 1963, John Harriggn took over
the ill-fated Birdcage, in Sydney’s Kings
Cross, and turned it into Surf City, decor-
ated with surfboards and encouraging
the surfie element when the surf music
craze was in full swing. Billy Thorpe
was Surf City’s chief attraction: a
“blond-haired, reai-gone-surfie-wurfie-
stomper-boy”, to quote the title of
Little Pattie’s unforgettable hit record.
“He was very clean,” Harrigan said,
“when I saw him the first time. What-
ever it is, he had it.” (Harrigan now
manages Billy Thorpe and another teen-
age star, Ray Brown.)
Now you see the faces
At once, with The Beatles’ influence
here, clothing styles switched from
American to British, boys grew un-
washed, unbarbered, and as skinny and
pale as any young Australian can get,
stayed up very late at night, and lost the
last of that clean-living, all-Australian,
outdoor image. Bands got thinner and
hairier. “As usual, the recording com-
panies were slow to catch on,” Harrigan
said. “I went from door to door trying
to persuade them to take Billy Thorpe
on.
“None would. At that time no Aus-
tralian artist was selling. Finally, a free-
lance man, Brian Vogue, of Linda Lee
records —a tiny outfit—took a gamble.
Billy’s record ‘Poison Ivy’ hit the charts;
on the strength of it Linda Lee Records
was sold to Festival. It was the first
time for years an Australian artist had
made it.”
Later, Harrigan hired Ray Brown and
The Whispers. And Paul Wayne, also
under his aegis, was coming up. How
long could they last? “In this business,
if you’re over 20, you’re old. Past 19,
you’re no longer one of them, you’re
one of us.”
For a moment, Harrigan looked at me
gloomily. We were sitting in his latest
venture, a self-service Hawaiian restau-
rant in Sydney with disconsolate teen-
age couples at tables, an imitation water-
fall, weird lighting effects, bamboo and
leaves everywhere, and a pale hostess,
looking decidedly uncomfortable in
sarong, lei and hibiscus in-the-ear.
Suddenly he perked up. “Now the 40-
year-olds are doing the frug and watusi.
I guess Billy Thorpe could go on
well until he’s 35 ..
The biggest noise in the teenage music
business at present is Ivan Dayman, a
middle-aged man with sharply acute eyes
and a no-nonsense manner, whose Sun-
shine Label outfit uses Festival Records
facilities, releases through Festival, and
thus carries few overheads as well as
operating some of the top-selling artists,
most notably Normie Rowe and Tony
Worsley, whom Dayman discovered.
“I began in the early 19605” Dayman
told me. “I was a metal contractor at
the time. I went to a dance in Adelaide
and decided that a much better standard
of dance could be put on. As a bet I
took over a place to show what I could
do. The Ballroom.”
The Ballroom, featuring unknown
artists, became a rapid success under
Dayman’s management. He discovered
he had a flair for selecting performers
who could appeal to teenage girls.
He helped organise a television show,
then founded Dance Promotions, an
organisation which combined the run-
ning of dances in his own hall and others,
hiring artists and bands for single spots,
and various minor show business ven-
tures. Two of his artists won Logies;
Dayman, rapidly making financial head-
way, extended his operations along the
coast to Melbourne, where he hired
several more halls, then, in Brisbane,
took over the Cloudland Ballroom, re-
decorated it, and finally broke into the
big-time in Sydney, where his The Bowl
is now a major teenage nightspot.
Today, his empire stretches all over
the country. “I’ve got 40 on my perm-
anent staff including advance men,
managers of my halls, lighting experts
and so on. At any time I’m likely to have
400 casuals working for me. I’ve got a
private bus of my own which transports
my artists on country tours and I
frequently hire another bus for tours
running concurrently.
“As well as the 400 casuals, I’ve got
400 artists under my banner at any
given time you care to mention. My
Cloudland set-up in Brisbane can take up
to three or four thousand teenagers at a
go. I’m going to bring out fan magazines
featuring Sunshine Recording artists.
I’m going to think about possibly setting
up a TV production company selling
package programmes to television. I’m
going to consider possible films starring
Normie.”
What were Mr Dayman’s financial
arrangements with performers? “I don’t
have any percentage of them when they
play for other managements, and I don’t
have any of them under contract, except


f;
1
LEARN FRENCH* AS NATURALLY AS HE DID
BY LISTENING
He learnt French as a child by listening to other people. You can do exactly the same
through Linguaphone. The only difference is that you listen to the voices of distinguished
speakers and professors on Linguaphone recordings (45 r.p.m. or tape). What they say
is specially designed to help you learn the language in a short time —an incredibly short
time.
Learning by Linguaphone is wonderfully easy. The process of learning almost takes you
by surprise You find yourself speaking the language, capturing the right accent and
intonation without any particular effort. To make sure you lecrn the written language at
the same time, you follow each lesson in an illustrated textbook. Linguaphone is the finest
audio-visual way of learning a language.
Over a million people have learned a language in this way choosing from thirty-
seven separate languages.
Post the coupon below for the FREE 20-page book and details of the Week's Free
Trial Offer.
LINGUAPHONE FOR LANGUAGES
Post this Today ~ " -
Linguaphone Institute, Pty. Ltd., Allans Music, 276 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney; Dymock's Book Arcade, 424 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation your free illustrated booklet of the Linguaphone method
of learning languages.
I am interested in FRENCH |—j GERMAN |—| ITALIAN j—j SPANISH
or
*(37 languages available)
NAME
ADDRESS
8.5/3/66
to my Sunshine label. They appear on
my tour engagements on weekly salaries
and I travel them for free.” But wasn’t
he afraid that, without contracts, he
would lose obviously money-spinning
properties like Rowe or Worsley to other
managements? “No, the boys wouldn’t
leave me. You see, if I started putting
them under contract or taking percen-
tages of them when they played for
other people I’d lose this very fine rela-
tionship I have with them. We’re friends.
Part of a great, big, happy family.”
He collected the takings from his
dances, deducted the overheads and the
artist’s fee (whereas they are paid wages
on country tours, they get fees in cities)
and ploughed the rest back into his
empire. And what did he look for in a
new artist? “Youth of course, person-
ality, the ability to make a contact with
an audience.
“We have hundreds of auditions, out
of which only one artist might make that
contact. You- can see at once when the
audience is with them. They mustn’t
seem to put too much space between
themselves and an audience of girls.
There has to be a complete mental tran-
sition between themselves and the kids.
If they get too big-headed, the kids will
reject them, quick] They should be
modest, down to earth. And they have
to be guarded in their public statements.
If they criticise too many people it can
be bad for their image. A great deal of
work” the voice took on an added,
steely touch of firmness “takes place
before you see them on the stage. We
analyse their act, analyse, and then ana-
lyse again.”
Sunshine boys
jpAT Alton, who handles the produc-
tion of Sunshine Records, has had
almost as much to do with the creation
of Tony Worsley and Normie Rowe as
Dayman, skilfully controlling the
arrangements and presentation of the
records, as Ken Taylor used to do for
his artists at Festival. How did Alton
explain Normie Rowe’s success? Largely,
he concurred with Dayman. “He’s got an
effusive and engaging personality and he
never big-times himself. He’s one of the
boys always. He epitomises the average
teenager. If he were aloof ever, stand-
offish, he d fail. Boys like him too; to
them he’s a brother.”
This quality of self-effacement, this
negative charm, is what is demanded
by teenage girls in their Australian idols.
Meeting the stars in person and they
don’t like the term “stars”: they’d be
big-noting themselves if they called them-
selves that, they keep saying one is
struck by the contrast between them
and the kind of American teenage idols
one meets in the States. Handsome, tall,
strong and immensely rich, the Ameri-
cans are stars to their fingertips, read
books, affect to like good music, run
mansions with flocks of servants, drive
around in Rolls-Royces. In Australia,
they like to disappear into a totally
anonymous mass. Few are handsome,
none physically remarkable, some even
startlingly undersized. None fits in with
the Bronzed Anzac image. They look as
though they are afraid to throw back
their heads and call themselves successes.
Normie Rowe, subdued at interview,
only once broke out into eloquence:
when talking of police behavior in
Brisbane. Shortish and unhandsome, he
could be any one of a hundred thousand
Australian boys from the lower-class
suburbs. But his television appearances
are very striking: he is an extremely
practised entertainer, and Pat Alton’s
clever arrangements bring out the best
in his raw voice. He wasn’t too happy
with his recording sound, though. “My
‘Que Sera Sera’ didn’t have a particu-


V'l'f /*V.
'T4?' H ir ?
i fd-'V.
:Ls:.c-;.' /^y;>-sf3B
V ■.-. j ;5i- if ,fcS?
S-j?.AV.
as&i
”r
Did you realise
that Chrysler Corpora-
tion has been a prime
contractor in the U.S.
space programme since its
early days?
Chrysler was deeply involved
with Redstone, Jupiter and
the big Saturn booster to
name only a few.
So when you specify Chrysler
Airtemp Air Conditioning you
too are getting the full
benefit of the same top
flight engineering skills in
design and manufacture.
It is this skill that gives
Chrysler Airtemp equip-
ment the manjf built-in
exclusives that ensure
long life and trouble-free
performance for you
9NINOIIIQNO3 EES
CHRYSLER
CONTACT YOUR
STATE AIRTEMP
DISTRIBUTOR
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 349 Montagu#
Road, West End. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W.: Stratafio Pty. Ltd., 100 Parramatta Road, Camper*
down. Phone 51 6645.
A.C.T.: Stratafio (A.C.) Pty. Ltd., 4 Ipswich Street,
Fyshwick Phone 9 0705.
VIC.; Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray Street.
South Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A.: Airtemp Operations, Chrysler Australia Ltd.,
Ninth Avenue, Finsbury. Phone 45 3661.
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray Street, Perth.
Phone 23 2214.
AIHTEMP OPERATIONS
o
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
CM7S
larly good sound. Most of my career
has just been good luck. It can’t go on
forever. Maybe two years. That’s all.”
Peter Doyle, by contrast with Rowe,
is tall, pale and painfully thin, and only
16 years old. He began in TV at the age
of 12, had made several hit records with
Sunshine, and toured with Rowe. “I
never order girls back or push them when
they mob me,” he said. “I let the body-
guards do that. I am afraid it might do
things to my image if I hurt them. I’m
very nervous of over-exposure. Too
many appearances can damage my
career.”
Ray Brown has had hit records, with
figures in the region of 35,000 copies
sold, but just collects a weekly wage
from John Harrigan (said to be about
$BO a week) and his record royalties.
Tony Worsley, good-looking and dark,
is English-born: he wore atypically
raffish gear including purple T-shirt
and candy-striped pants like animated
barber’s poles to the interview. Son
of a boiler-maker, he was seen by Ivan
Dayman at the Top Cat’s Sound Lounge
in Brisbane, appeared at Dayman’s Pres-
ton Circle in Melbourne, and featured in
the famous stripping incident on a
country tour. “When the girls meet you
in person they kind of try and get at you.
It was like the end of the world on that
tour. They all swamped me and pulled
almost all my clothes off me.
“Ivan Dayman is like a father to me.
He advises me on clothes, hairstyles and
interviews.” Back on the subject of girls,
Worsley said: “I try not to tease them.
If I did that they would go completely
off. Some would faint. I never know
what I’m doing on a stage. I let myself
go completely.”
What about the future? ‘“Veil, Ivan
has 60-40 dances as well. This means you
can mature and still stay with it.” Was
he able to risk dating? “No. It would
affect my image. A girl might boast to
her friends I had been out with her. But
I’ve got my work,” he concluded re-
signedly.
(It was over Tony Worsley that a 15-
year-old girl almost died: leaning from
a second-floor window of Greyeagles
Hofei in Sydney’s Kings Cross, to catch
a glimpse of her idol, Shirley Gleeson
crashed 50 feet to the pavement.)
Rowe, Worsley and the other Sun-
shine artists go through a complex pre-
cess before they are sold to the public.
First, Dayman carefully controls and
presents them, deciding on their mode of
dress, their stage appearance, their hair
and so on. Then Alton carefully frames
arrangements to suit their voices and
their deliberately sexual, provocative yet
“modest” image. From there, the radio
stations specialising in teenage music
“vet” the records, and pass selected
items to their top disc jockeys. A suc-
cessful plugging results in hit sales: from
there come the country tours which
can net as much as £2500 profit for a
promoter and finally TV appearances.
Brian Henderson has kept his long-run-
ning “Bandstand” going, he says, by
using “a constant flow of new talent,
with frequent discoveries” and pursuing,
one might add, a clever, durable, middle-
of-the-road approach that has survived
successive waves of fashion: its current
appeal is decidedly more adult than it
used to be. In Melbourne, lan Turpie is,
at 22, already a veteran, with his
nationally successful “Go!!” show and a
background in radio and stage acting,
and regular appearances on “Bandstand”.
“Ten on the Town” has far-out quality,
set in various Sydney locations —Manly,
the Narrabeen Lakes, various other
beach areas and seems frequently to
feature dance scenes of an astonishingly
direct eroticism, staged by a Canadian
choreographer.
Sequins and black velvet
TJut the final apotheosis of the new
teenage music was undoubtedly
reached at the Stadium, Sydney, on
February 2. Ray Brown, the only really
top local teenage “name” on the show,
was called for constantly until, close to
midnight, he came on: I haven’t seen
such a display of passion for a local
artist in six years at the Stadium. And
Brown and the other groups, Johnny
Veen and the Shindigs, in purple sequins;
Tony Barber, like an 18th-century music
student in black fringe and black velvet;
The Purple Hearts (interrupted by clouds
of smoke in mid-flight); the tiny insect-
like Laurie Wade and the Cavaliers;
Bobby Thomas and the Beaumen, in sky-
blue, sparkling silk: all, with their fierce,
driving beat and immediate ability to
make contact with the audience, were
streets ahead cf the tired-and-true re-
mainder, even if they were imitations of
British groups to their bootheels.
But what about the future? Ken Tay-
lor, who started the ball rolling here in
the first place, believes that there may be
a swing towards Australian “quality”
teenage singers. He is putting his money
on Christine Roberts, an unknown 16-
year-old “straight” singer. For the rest,
Normie Rowe expects to be working on
the management side of recordings by
1968, and in that year most of the stars
now current will be “one of us”: i.e.,
past the dreaded bourne of 20. One hopes
they fare better than the majority of their
predecessors, who rose in the ’fifties, had
their brief hour of glory on Stadium
stage, radio and TV, and fizzled out for
good.


Free time off in
duty-free Hong Kong!
Ml
■
ii
1
m
:
w
m
mm
h
t
. .
■
S
£ : ...
wm
t
.ay Tg
:
Stop to shop
as you jet
BOAC
Who can resist the appeal of
a free port? Especially if it’s
as exotically colourful as
Hong Kong. So many un-
believable bargains! Fly there
by BOAC and stop-off for
the time of your life.
After your shopping spree,
you can choose any one of
BO AC’s daily jet flights to
Europe or Japan. Spacious
Rolls-Royce 707’s whisk you
there in total comfort. What
a wonderful way to do it!
And your Hong Kong stop-
over adds not a penny (or a
cent!) to your air fare.
Talk it over with your Travel
Agent, BOAC Sales Office
or Qantas (BOAC’s General
Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD
BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BOAC
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
with Air India, Qantas and Air New Zealand
11814
A63.AU. 107.855 c


Barry Humphries’
45 R.P.M.
BULLETIN RECORD
Chtmder Down Under
is still available for only $1 post-free. It has
two of the hits from the show "Excuse I"
the surfie's 'The Old Pacific Sea" and the
skier's "Snow Complications".
Send $1 (a cheque or postal note, not cash,
please) to "Bulletin Records", Box 7052, G.P.0.,
Sydney, together with the coupon and address
label below. (Records may also be purchased over
the counter from the Paper Sales Department, sth
floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
RECORD
RECORD ONLY
Name
Address
State .........
Sender
If andelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
ORDER BULLETIN record
FORM Box 7052, G.P.O. Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price $1 a copy
(post free). I enclose $1 cheque/postal
note.
Name of sender
Address.
State B
If more than one record is ordered,
attach list giving full name, address,
State and, if overseas, country.
AROUND MELBOURNE
Keeping up with Carnaby Street
Long hair and Englishmen are terribly IN
One of the failings of The Bul-
letin is that it gives few direc-
tions to the young man on style
and dress. Today this column will try
to rectify that grave fault.
On Friday there was a gathering
out at Essendon airport “for the two
most creative designers in Europe”,
the couple that “wowed all USA”, the
“Whiz Kids” of British fashion.
They were Roger Nelson, 28, and
Jean Muir, 22, and they came to Aus-
tralia for Georges in Melbourne and
David Jones in Sydney. As they
stepped off the aircraft, well, one
couldn’t help but notice them. Jean
Muir had very short hair. Roger
Nelson had very long hair. Jean Muir
was about sft 2in. and her outfit
looked very Shrimpish, which was
natural, seeing that she was said to
have invented the line which caused
some interest at Flemington last
Derby day. She wore a quilted cotton
with an animal print that came two
inches above the knee, white stockings
and black patent-leather shoes with
Tudor buckles.
Roger Nelson’s fair hair was almost
as long as that of Barry Humphries
and he had a tight-fitting blue suit in
the very latest mod. Regency style.
It was double-breasted with six but-
tons and the V at the neck so high
one could see only 2} inches of the
tie. Mr Nelson said it was true there
were “Roger Nelson Fan Clubs” all
over the US. “But,” one said, “surely
this is extraordinary, just American
PR.”
“Oh, no,” he said. “Long hair and
Englishmen are terribly In over there
at the moment. You can’t miss, and
I’ve been over five times in the past
six months. Our fashions are going
terribly well.”
Mr Nelson, of course, is famous for
his beautifully tailored female fashions,
but your correspondent on behalf of
Bulletin readers everywhere wanted
to know what the young male Lon-
doner was wearing.
And Mr Nelson was only too
pleased to talk. “I hope to start
designing for men next year. The
cycle for male fashions at the moment
is about six months. Of course I
think this is marvellous, it’s wonderful
for the designer. What are they wear-
ing? Well, suits are all double breasted,
Regency look, like this.
“And shirts are floral. You know
this very tight floral pattern with high,
button-down white collar and big
white cuffs. Ugh, I don’t like them
much. I don’t think they’ll last.”
At this point Jean Muir spun
around and said: “My husband has
two and he looks absolutely marvel-
lous in them.”
“With these floral shirts,” Roger
Nelson continued bravely, “you need
to wear a plain dark tie. On the other
hand you can wear a plain shirt and
a floral tie. Both are in.
“Trousers? They’re still wearing
bell bottoms but the trend is towards
straight up and down. Yair, and
there’s a big trend towards checks
and big stripes.”
Slowly we were building a very
complete fashion picture. “Shoes?
Boots are still popular, but this is
pretty much the thing, what I’ve got
on.” Whereupon Mr Nelson indicated
a pair of high cut, plain black elastic-
sided semi-boots, with the semi-square
toe. Points were utterly out in Lon-
don, we gathered.
Both agreed that we were getting
much greater affinity between male
and female fashions. “The long hair,”
said Roger Nelson, “the floral shirts
and ties, that’s the female influence.
Whereas at the same time the women
are wearing boots and male-style
slacks. Do you know, they sell more
slacks to females in Carnaby Street
than to men? And it’s the same in
the US. We sell more slacks to women
over there than to men.”
So Mr Nelson and Jean Muir went
off to the Motor Inn where a party
was promised with the Rolling Stones
for that night. Your correspondent
went back to the city and on his way
along Russell Street he passed Mel-
bourne’s newest men’s store titled
“Lord Henry’s Gear”, catering
strictly for the mod market. In the
window was a black and white Op
Art shirt with white collar and cuffs,
there were vivid floral shirts with
black collars and cuffs or white collars
and cuffs. One could purchase match-
ing floral cuff links, ties and braces.
Floral braces were all the rage at
discotheques, one of Lord Henry’s
minions reported. Furthermore,
double-breasted jackets were utterly
essential, stripes were coming in, in
a very big way, bell bottoms were still
with us, but wouldn’t last much longer
and soon we would be back to the
flapping 1945-suit style.
I found it very comforting to know
that here in Melbourne we were right
up with the latest in Carnaby Street.
But as for Georges’ very smooth
Collins Street store, I gathered that
Mr Nelson will have more influence
on the female fashions than the male.
BATMAN


SHOW WINES
YOU CAN BUY FROM YOUR
HOTEL, CLUB,
RESTAURANT OR
LICENSED RETAILER.
For the last three years in succession,
Lindeman’s have been The Most
Successful Exhibitor at the Champion-
ship Shows Adelaide, 1964; Mel-
bourne, 1965 and now Sydney, 1966.
■■
mmmm
PRIVATE BIN WINES
PRIVATE BIN BURGUNDY BIN 50,
VINTAGE 1963
A soft, round, generous Burgundy with an
attractive flavour and palate. It is a product
of Lindeman's "Ben Ean" Cellars, where it
was matured in small oak casks, and was
made from Red Hermitage grapes grown at
Lindeman's and other vineyards in the Hunter
River, Clare and Barossa Valleys, and at
Coonawarra. An ideal accompaniment to all
meat dishes and cheese.
PRIVATE BIN WHITE BURGUNDY BIN 77,
VINTAGE 1965
A crisp, generous medium bodied White
Burgundy which can be served with all sea
foods, salads, cheese and white meats. This
wine was made from White Hermitage and
Semilion grapes grown in the Hunter River,
Barossa and Clare Valleys and was bottled
at Lindeman's Cawarra Cellars, Sydney.
/mdi
eman's
WINES TO BUY
You Have Been Warned
By CELLARMASTER
Ihave often been accused of mention-
ing wines that are no longer avail-
able. People get slightly annoyed
when, acting on my recommendation
they go looking for the wines and find
they can’t buy them. Of course, I can’t
help this. All I can say is that I have
never recommended a wine that was not
available at one time or another some-
where or other.
But just to make sure, this week I
propose to thwart the thwarted. And as
my Wine of the Month, recommend a
wine that is not yet generally available,
but soon will be! The wine in question
is a ’62 Thomas Hardy Cabernet Sauvig-
non Bin C 407. The basis of this wine
is cabernet made at the McLaren Vale
Winery of the company of Bob Hagley.
They are producing more and more of
this kind of wine down in the Southern
Vales and for some years past now have
had an extensive development programme
which has been strongly biased to-
wards the cabernet variety. To
this is added an infusion of cab-
ernets from other areas. From Tail-
bilk in the Goulburn Valley of
Victoria and from Coonawarra at
the southern tip of SA.
This is not the first time this
style has been made. In fact, the series
goes back as far as 1954 when the C 766
was made from the same areas. This, and
the subsequent C 9 of ’55, and C 24 of
’57 were all straight cabernet.
C 24 for a long time was a magnificent
wine, very much Bordeaux style, heavily
crusted and with a wonderful flavor.
Then it got old and supposedly cracked
up, though I have still some in my cellar
and it drinks very well. In ’5B the Cl 10
was made and this was the turning point
from the previous full-flavored but rather
hard style. It still had fair tannin but
was lighter and more delicate. The fol-
lowing year Cl 11 arrived. This was
lighter jti 11 and this wine is improving
further all the time. I have a couple of
dozen in my cellar and occasionally go
down and gloat over them. Both of these
wines are still to be found in various
wine merchants, and, as the phrase goes,
at all leading hotels. I have recom-
mended them both in previous years.
1960 was a dud. It rained or hailed
or withered or got frost bite or something
and there was no Cabernet Sauvignon.
Dick Heath, who is in charge of the
wine-making of all Thomas Hardy wines,
then brought out the C 340 from the ’6l
vintage and this was lighter still. Also
much softer and fruitier than before. I
thought this wine was very good though
it was not quite as well-balanced as some
of the others. But still a very good wine.
And now we have the best yet, the
C 407 which I understand has al-
ready won gold medals in the
young classes and it is very full-
flavored, has a wonderful balance
and will improve for years in the
bottle. And as it improves the nose
will develop even further. Defini-
tely a good buy.
Though McLaren Vale cabernet is now
the basis of this wine, Dick Heath is
quite unashamed about the blending.
From the different wines he can extract
qualities which harmonise completely
with each other. After all, as I once said
in a Vintage ’62 article, “It’s what is in
the glass that counts”.
Hardys won’t be particularly pleased
by this article since they could sell 20
times more than they are at present pro-
ducing. However, this doesn’t mean
that what they are producing should not
be bought by Bulletin readers.
You have been warned.
"He's worked out the sound of one hand clapping and wants to go on
to the next question.”


MattOOUiLB^S
1
m
Ml
X % ?pF
ORLANDO
mwta
MIAMBA CLARET
AISTRKIIXII Kill
. C CRAMP £ SORSPJtH*.
ORLANDO
Miamba hock
*»IT« All A I will
N£l I PINT B FLUID OZ
C-GRAMP E SOUS PTY.IIB
N£T I PINT 6 FIUIO 0£
ORLANDO
MAMBA HOCK &
MAMBA CLARET
People who prefer their wine
white choose Miamba Hock
for its fruity bouquet and crisp
finish. Those who like a red
wine that is medium to full,
with a pleasing bouquet, in-
triguing palate and soft tannin
finish, choose Miamba Claret.
But there are many who like
both white and red, with a
meal. And, this is where
Miamba Hock and Claret be-
come truly memorable be-
cause one balances perfectly
with the other.
loss
ON THE MARGIN
How to Stop Reading
Tn reading book reviews k am often
struck by the difficulty the reviewers
have in putting books down. They are
unable to put them down for a variety
of reasons —they are gripped, fascinated,
captivated, or enthralled. Yet, in my
experience as a part-time reviewer, I
have found it possible to put down many
books with the greatest ease.
In some cases it would be an under-
statement to say I have put them down
I have tossed, thrown, or hurled them
down. I have even chucked a few into
the waste-paper basket. As a rule I do
this to optimistic books of American
origin with titles beginning How To or
How I. It is not a satisfactory way to
dispose of books, because office cleaners
have an uncritical respect for literature.
They persisted in removing How To Stop
Worrying And Start Living from the
basket and putting it back on my desk,
until I was forced to drop it into a bin
at a railway station.
I do not want to discuss here those
books, such as the
autobiography of
Eva Gabor, which
provoke a violent
desire to throw them
away. What interests
me more is the subtle
quality of putdown-
ability. It is not nec-
essarily a fault when reading yourself
to sleep, for example, the last thing you
want is to be gripped, fascinated, or
enthralled.
In the past year I encountered four
books that were outstanding for the ease
and speed with which I was able to put
them down. Second to none in this
respect was Single Line Railways, edited
by O. S. Nock. It is a collection of
essays by noted English authorities on
the subject. The editor, O. S. Nock, has
after his name the unusually impressive
letters A.C.G.1., B.Sc., D.1.C., M.1.C.E.,
M.l.Mech.E., M.1.L0c0.E., M.1.R.5.E.,
F.P.W.lnst. The reason I put his book
down was purely my lack of personal
concern with single-line railways.
Anyone who was thinking of building
such a railway might well find the book
enthralling. There is admirable advice
on deciding where to put your railway
(avoiding swamps, etc.), how to build
stations, and the design of passenger
seats (which “should suit the average
body size and shape of the population
concerned”). Yet I felt none of that
desire, common among reviewers, to
finish the book at one sitting. There
are too many other things I need
such as a new motor-mower —before I
get round to building a railway.
For a different reason I was able to
put down 77 Dream Songs, by John
Berryman. This is a book of poems. The
trouble here was that I could not form
any idea of what they were about. These
are some typical lines from a poem
called Big Buttons, Cornets: the advance.
Sir Bones, or Galahad: astonishin
yo legal & yo good. Is you feel well?
Honey dusk do sprawl.
Hit's hard. Kinked or thinged,
though, fling & wing.
Poll-cats are coming, hurrah, hurray.
1 votes in my hole.
A humiliating aspect of my defeat by
77 Dream Songs is that it means another
one-up to A. Alvarez. A. Alvarez is a
critic in England. If I cannot understand
a book, it is pretty sure to be praised
highly by A. Alvarez. The jacket of 77
Dream Songs says that A. Alvarez con-
siders the author “one of the finest poets
of his generation”.
I wonder what the
“A.” stands for. Per-
haps this critic is
Asuncion Alvarez, a
dark young woman
of Spanish blood, en-
dowed with strange
intuitions. All that is
known is that A. Alvarez has the knack
of picking up books I put down.
Third on my list is a novel called
Nefertiti, by Nicole Vidal. The author
has tried to give this tale an Ancient
Egyptian flavor by the use of sonorous
phrases: “My husband much admires
the perfumed incense of your armpits.”
“Nefertiti’s heart leapt in her breast like
a puppy at the sound of its master.”
“The flies ran over the girl’s golden skin
with tiny padded steps.” But somehow
the magic was missing from this prose.
With a touch as gentle as a fly's tiny
padded step, I put Nefertiti down.
Occult books are reliably putdownable,
and a recent one I recommend is The
Book of Change, by John Blofeld. It is
a translation of an ancient Chinese
treatise on fortune telling. The trick is
to manipulate fifty divining sticks into
patterns called hexagrams, burning
incense at the same time.
The book is pleasantly nutty, but
failed to grip me. I put it down at
Hexagram 30, which is entitled Flaming
Beauty, and means “Success! Rearing
cows good fortune!” Over to you,
A. Alvarez.
ROSS CAMPBELL


Canton Journey
“All problems are historical ”
By SUZANNE BAKER
At Kowloon station, at 8.20 a.m., a
few weeks ago, 1 met my 15
travelling companions. We were
all about to leave for Red China.
For the previous week Kowloon had
been handling peak-hour traffic, as Hong
Kong Chinese were leaving for the main-
land in unprecedented thousands for a
holiday reunion with their families. It
was Chinese New Year, by tradition a
family occasion. The fact that we felt
out of the ordinary in being Europeans
about to break through the bamboo cur-
tain apparently had not occurred to any-
one else. Neck and neck with hundreds
of Chinese we surged on to an antiquated
British Railways train to make our way
to the Red border through the New
Territories.
This was the first phase of a tour to
Canton which I had booked two days
previously, after learning that the main-
land had been encouraging tourism since
September. It would have been possible
to go for a nine-day trip to Peking
for $350, but I chose Canton as $54
covered all expenses for a four-day tour.
When we arrived at Lo Wu, after an
hours’ journey from Kowloon, we were
met by a China Travel Service representa-
tive who anxiously assured us that we
would not have long to wait. After about
20 minutes of standing in a huddle for
warmth outside the passport office, we
checked our impatience as we observed
the snail’s pace of the long queues of
Chinese, waiting for their documents to
be completed. Amahs, scarcely 4ft 6in.
tall, stood, like the rest, bent over under
the weight of bamboo poles which held
bundles at either end containing articles
like aluminium saucepans and other
household utensils difficult to buy in
China. Finally, our passports were ready.
A walk across a bridge and we had
arrived on the “other side”, in Saum-
chun. Men and women in khaki
uniforms, red stars on their caps, ranged
the platform and good-humoredly super-
vised the incoming Chinese. Conducted
to an expansive and cheerful room on
the second floor of the station building,
we were invited to rest until lunch was
ready. Hot green tea in ceramic cups
was served and propaganda magazines
were set in racks within easy reach.
This time our host was a young man
who had just graduated from university.
He frankly admitted that he was delighted
to have a group on which to practise his
English, and his smile never wavered,
even as half a dozen of us snapped his
photograph. We had already been told
that we may be asked to develop our
films before leaving China. It was un-
likely, we were informed, but we must
not be upset if the request was made.
By 1.30 p.m., after Customs formali-
ties had been completed (we had been
required to fill in forms five pages long)
and the consumption of a solid Cantonese
lunch, we boarded the train. Seats with
headrests draped with white anti-
macassars had been reserved for us this
time.
As the train gathered speed through
gently undulating countryside, golden
brown in the winter sun, loudspeakers
welcomed “friends to the People’s Re-
public of China”, followed by a choral
version of the resounding revolutionary
song, “Motherland”. It was rather like
taking part in the main titles of a Cecil
B. de Mille spectacular and it was very
exciting. As hot tea was served in the
familiar ceramic mug, a girl in the stand-
ard blue working outfit of trousers and
shirt swept the passageway. We were
to see many more like her with hair cut
short back and sides and one piece
gathered into a rubber band. Not
entirely unattractive and extremely
functional.
Two and a half hours later we reached
Canton, and our guide for the rest of
the trip graciously welcomed our motley
group which consisted of a New Zealand
farmer, an English dentist, English
students, two Swiss, a Canadian couple
and two Australians. Mr Li was about
30, tall and aesthetic, extremely dedi-
cated, tense and pleasant.
When we were all gathered in a special
reception room at the station Mr Li
begged a moment to tell us something
of the Cantonese, whc are well known
for their dislike of authority and are
famed for revolutionary sons like Dr
Sun Yat-sen. Mr Li’s English was ex-
cellent, though occasionally prone to
malapropisms. “We Cantonese,” he an-
nounced, “are often revolting.”
Cantonese rebelliousness, we soon dis-
covered, is frankly on public display. A
policeman at a pedestrian crossing is
ignored by pedestrians and road traffic
alike. But he doesn’t bother either, so
it’s still equal, anyway. However, the
dangers of road traffic are minimal as
there are few cars and only an occasional
bus. Most transport is by bicycle and
pedicab. After ten minutes’ bus ride from
the station, past our first propaganda
posters and the strangeness of no adver-
tisements, we arrived a f our hotel.
Our first night consisted of a brief bus
tour around Canton a city of two
million a New Year’s dinner and our
first experience of being stared at. I
never quite decided whether it was be-
cause Europeans are an unfamiliar
sight, or because the people found it
puzzling to see those, depicted in posters
as their enemies, walking about with the
apparent freedom of the city. It was
probably both, though I leant to the
second explanation after a small boy in
a commune burst into hysterical crying


§
I
i
S
o
Amoco Furnace Oils cut costs
in a big Australian aluminium mill!
Joe Bosworth is Lubrication and Furnace Engineer at Comalco's big
aluminium rolling mill at Yennora, N.S.W. It’s part of his job to keep
Comalco’s eighteen furnaces running efficiently and economically. Joe, an
American, knows Amoco Furnace Oils from his experience in the States.
Says Joe: “Amoco Furnace Oils give us the kind of performance we want.
We're using a number of different grades to meet the varying process
requirements. We’ve made big savings in fuel and maintenance costs
using Amoco fuels. The Amoco Marketing Technical Service has been a
big help in determining the right fuel for each job.”
The quality and price of furnace oils can vary greatly according to your
needs. The right advice from your furnace oil supplier can mean a big
difference in the overall price you pay. If you use furnace oils in any
quantity, it will pay you to give the Amoco man a hearing when he calls—
it could mean a big saving on your furnace oil budget. Phone Amoco now
at any of the addresses below:
Ask for the Industrial Sales Manager in your State
BRISBANE: Administration Building, Bnlwer Island Phone 60-4151
SYDNEY: 102/106 Arthur Street, North Sydney Phene 92-0842
MELBOURNE: 34 Queen’s Road Phene 26-4043
ADELAIDE: 38/40 Currie Street Phone 51-2692
Keith Cooke, Amoco Sales Engineer, and Joe Bos-
worth, Comalco Furnace and Lubrication Engineer,
discuss a lubrication problem on a new re-melt
furnace recently installed in the Comalco plant,
Amoco supplies Comalco with many kinds of oils
and greases for their manufacturing operations.
AMOCO
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
AFC.FP.I


New doors
open every day
this tveifg
Business trip? The “Southern
Hemisphere” route to U.K./Europe
opens up boundless export possibili-
ties in prosperous, expanding South
Africa, and further afield into new,
unexplored markets.
Pleasure, too? You’ll find South
Africa is unique—the wild life in
Kruger National Park, the great
cities, the people, the scenery. Other
wonderful ports of call, too —manna
to jaded travel appetites.
Enjoy exciting new stop-overs —
tour South Africa, take time off in
Lisbon, Rome, Frankfurt, Paris,
Athens, Zurich. Little or no extra
air fare!
The cost? Flying this way,
from as little as £l5/10/- extra
air fare, depending on your
departure point. It’s a travel
bonanza.
Moral? Well worth investigating.
See your travel agent.
Two services weekly to
South Africa, with daily
connections at Johannes-
burg for U.K. and Europe.
Operated by S.A.A., in
association with Qantas,
8.0.A.C. and C.A^A.
• AAT7/R/30
LONDON
ATHENS
■r
9
\\> V FRANKFURT'
\ \ \ /
fz m '\ /
V iIROME
/ii PARIS
J /^BMADRID
■ LISBON
/ / /
i i t
i i /
I '/
i '/
7 7 /
7 7 /
1 •/
"f
it
i
LUANDA
I SALISBURY
JOHANNESBURG
♦
MAURITIUS
■ v
P
X
ffi
ri
&
f, /,
<x i
m
>V>v
IT
4#
\\VS
® SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
TO U.K./EUROPE VIA THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
when one of our group tried to photo-
graph him with a telescopic lens. It was
clear that the boy thought he was about
to be shot dead.
Dinner was the highlight of the even-
ing. Wine, beer (we always had as much
as we could drink), and politics. As the
exchange grew more heated, the New
Zealand farmer leaped into the fray, cry-
ing: “But do you believe in God!”
Finally, feeling that moods were getting
dangerously explosive, the English dentist
interrupted: “We should be speaking not
of war but of friendship and peace,
don’t you think?” i
“But it’s your fault you were the
ones who started the discussion,” the
travel bureau chief answered back
sharply. “Ah so, all problems are his-
torical ones, as the Chinese say.”
We were to have many more of these
political monologues, although our guide,
Mr Li, who was tremendously pleased at
our interest, insisted that they were
valuable debates. However, he rarely
waited for the end of a question before
he gave us the answers he had learned
too well to be able to concede to an-
other point of view. When Mr Li told
us he had applied for membership to the
Communist Party and had been refused,
we wondered what measure of person
was admitted. The party is made up
of 2.8 per cent of the population, or 17
million out of 600 million.
Thirty kilometres out of Canton,
through rich and productive countryside
where two crops of rice grow per year,
was the commune that had been chosen
for our visit. Assembled into the chair-
man’s conference room we were given
a long list of the commune’s productivity
and general achievements. We could see
no reason why the figures should have
been “cooked”, and even giving a
measure of ordinary cynical doubt, there
was no questioning the well-fed look of
everyone we saw. One of the few abrupt
answers we ever had to a question was
when we asked if the Russians had
helped in this particular commune. “Cer-
tainly not,” said the guide, adding that
the Russians were despicable revisionists
and had abandoned China in her hour
of need.
Homely shabbiness
the night before we left, we were
taken to an extraordinary theatrical
performance—all propaganda, but dished
up in the most exciting and sustained
production any of us had ever seen. One
thousand three hundred took part —300
in the choir, 130 in the orchestra, up
to 670 on stage and 200 behind the
scenes. A back-projection screen, 50 ft x
25 ft, was used consistently. Sometimes it
would show thunder clouds and light-
ning, with suitable sound effects from the
orchestra; sometimes it would be a war-


BUSINESS
SUCCESS
a
IS WON BY NIGHT
To deal efficiently with all the problems which
come his way, a successful businessman has to be
a practical psychologist, an expert at selecting,
placing and motivating staff, a past master at
writing action-getting letters and reports, a
skilled negotiator able to communicate effectively
with others. He must possess the ability to sell his
ideas and himself to others, be a capable public
speaker, an inspiring leader, a top class manager
and administrator.
He must have a sound understanding of all the
major profit-producing factors in business, be a
creative thinker, a problem solver, able to conduct
fruitful meetings. He must understand the prin-
ciples related to advertising and public relations
to promote and protect his company’s image. He
must be acquainted with modern marketing
methods, motivational sales management and
dynamic retailing.
He must be equipped to draw a correct diagnosis
from financial statements and when credit is
called for he must know his way around the
financial world. He needs to have an understand-
ing of economics, the stock exchange and invest-
ment matters, and be able to play “the host with
the most” when entertaining VIPs. A tall order if
ever there was one, but nevertheless imperative.
This is why success favours the man who can cope
with all situations the generalist. Obviously
such a man has no tithe to waste. He needs to keep
up with this ever-changing world of business.
Since his days are devoted to “action”, no wonder
he appreciates a few quiet moments at night,
browsing through a new publication designed to
give him in a time-saving form thousands of profit-
producing ideas and all he needs to know about
business success and how to achieve it.
Informative booklet entitled
“How to Succeed in a Man’s
World” outlines a practical
plan to help you achieve
greater business success.
W 54816
FREE!
■MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY*
To: MAN’S WORLD, 109 Sturt St., South Melbourne, Vic.
Please post me a copy of your FREE booklet.
(Please print)
ADDRESS -
State -
BU. 5.3.66
Occupation
lord’s castle bombarded by a cannon and,
incredibly, bursting into flames which
seemed to envelop the stage. At other
times it would be used as a tonal back-
drop to a silhouette arrangement of
sorrowing peasants or soldiers poised for
action.
I managed to add to my stay in Can-
ton a unique experience by getting “flu”
and having to be taken to the hospital
where Sun Yat-sen trained as a doctor.
Looking like a cross between the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital and Long Bay
Gaol, the building was just as shabby as
anything we had seen. Following my
guide through a maze of empty corridors,
through a courtyard where convalescing
patients played badminton, we finally
arrived in the out-patients’ area. The
scene could have been transposed from
any other hospital—women and children,
bandaged heads and the glazed eyes of
the chronically sick. In China, one soon
gets accustomed to the homely shabbi-
ness everywhere so that the makeshift
appearance of hospital facilities did not
greatly worry me. Doctors and nurses
were dressed in white with masks to
cover mouth and nose. Thermometers
were kept in a sterilizing liquid and the
staff had an air of efficiency and con-
fidence in their approach.
Birth control
T also saw evidence of China’s new
A birth-control programme. Posters on
the wall appeal to good citizens to limit
their families to two children. Apparent-
ly, if a couple is unfortunate enough to
produce two daughters, another try is
overlooked. Three is the limit, however.
Young marriages are also discouraged,
the ideal age being 27 for men and 25
for women. China is also the first
country in the world to develop an
abortion machine which is claimed to
make the termination of births almost
100 per cent safe.
The only favored treatment I received
was to be attended to almost immediately.
While my temperature was being taken,
I filled in a form stating my name and
age. I was then taken to a doctor in
another section of the hospital. A poker-
faced young man, he showed no par-
ticular interest in his first European
patient one who, in fact, towered at
least a foot above him. He proceeded to
question me with the assistance of Mr Li,
whose meticulous translation did not
waver, even on the most intimate detail.
Pronounced destined for long life, I was
given a bottle of red (yes red) capsules
and linctus.
The whole procedure, which included
my permanent registration at the hos-
pital, took an hour and cost Bs. 6d. I
have, of course, my receipts which I
must now send in for my refund from
Medical Benefits.


LOOM FOR SALE
Good opportunity to commence
new business v ■
This semi-automatic, electronically controlled equi-
tension loom is ideal for the manufacture of
woven wood, metal or plastic fabrics. It is only
offered for sale because of non-availability of
raw materials in N.Z. (due to import licence
controls) and the fact that the N.Z. market is
too small to absorb its high production potential.
It is in near new condition, fully operational and
has always been carefully maintained.
POWER: Electric (230/240 volt A.C. 50 cycle
single phase) and Pneumatic (line pressure 100
lbs required).
DIMENSIONS: Loom, take-off, thread rack:
21' x 12'. Feed tray: 9' x 4'.' Wall-mounted
control panel: 5'6" (high) x 12" x 30".
WARP: Yarn Synthetic or natural.
WEFT: 9' maximum. Wood, metal or plastic.
Trimmed automatically both ends on maximum
width. Trimmed one end only on widths of
under 9'.
FEED: Manual with provision for change to auto-
matic.
RATE OF PRODUCTION: Dependent on width of
slat being used (and operator efficiency if
manual). As indication, reasonably proficient
operator using 5/16" slat hand fed produces
9 sq. ft. per minute.
The purchaser of this loom will be given the
sole licence franchise for Australasia.
For further detailed information, please write:
"INDUSTRIAL OPPORTUNITY"
Stuart Wearn Advertising Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1138, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
The Defence Streamliner
Healey’s tidy mind
T ast week’s British defence review is the
climax to 14 months’ unremitting
work by the Minister of Defence, Mr
Denis Healey. His task was to reduce
the projected bill for defence in 1970 by
£4OO million, or one-sixth of the total.
The tool he has used is that employed by
his friend and opposite number in the
United States and his hero, Robert Mc-
Namara: cost-effectiveness.
For years Britain’s defence bill has
been growing inexorably. To halt the
rise and turn it back has involved, first,
dropping cherished aircraft projects,
notably the TSR-2 nuclear bomber. In
return, Healey promised the air marshals
an “equivalent aircraft” interpreted by
them to mean the American swing-wing
F-111. When it became clear that Britain
could not afford the F-ll 1 and the con-
tinuation of the aircraft carrier, Healey
gave the F-11l priority. Plans for a
new aircraft carrier were scrapped.
As the resignation of Mr Mayhew, the
Navy Minister, shows, these decisions
were not reached without great crises of
conscience. But despite the Navy’s bitter-
ness at the scrapping of the carrier pro-
gramme, Healey probably retains the
confidence of a majority of senior Ser-
vice officers.
Denis Healey came to this field with
the advantage of some prior knowledge.
For years in Opposition, he had spent
much of his spare time reading and writ-
ing learned articles on foreign policy and
defence, mostly in transatlantic journals.
He knew well the American defence
theorists, Kissinger and Kahn. Unlike
any of his predecessors, he was in a posi-
tion to talk to the British service chiefs
the new language of these studies.
But he has always had an unquestion-
ing faith in the rightness of his judg-
ment. He had it as a card-carrying
Marxist at Balliol before the war: “The
Communists seemed the only ones doing
anything effective about Franco”. He had
it in the first years after the war when,
as International Secretary of the Labor
Party, he travelled in Eastern Europe
urging the local Socialist parties to throw
in their lot with the Communists.
But he was equally sure when, from
1948 onwards, he fell under Ernest
Bevin’s spell and started working in a
sternly anti-Communist sense for the
setting-up of the Atlantic Alliance and
the West European Union. (Though too
independent to consider himself anyone’s
disciple, the influence of Bevin has cer-
tainly been the strongest influence in
Healey's political fife. For a long time
after his election to Parliament in 1952
he could scarcely speak without referring
to him.) He was sure- when, in earlier
days, he supported Britain’s indepen-
dent nuclear deterrent. He appeared
equally sure before the last election when
he called for its abolition in the interests
of non-proliferation. And he seems per-
fectly sure now when he is quietly sup-
porting its retention, though “assigned”
to NATO and without the meaningless
epithet “independent”.
Although he stood on Labor’s Right
wing and supported the late Hugh Gaits-
kell they sat for neighboring seats in
Leeds he never aligned himself with
Gaitskell’s inner circle of friends. After
Gaitskell’s death, in 1963, he supported
James Callaghan for the leadership.
The obvious candidate for the Defence
Ministry would have been John Strachey,
but he, too, had died prematurely only
six months after Gaitskell. As it was,
when Labor came to power Wilson gave
Healey this key post.
In personality the two men are worlds
apart. But they have certain things in
common. Both are opposed to the ama-
teur traditions of British life and are pro-
ficient in their special fields; each tends to
walk alone and to keep his own
counsel; both came from northern gram-
mar, schools and did well at Oxford.
With his beetling brows, ruddy, open-
air face, and campfire laugh, Healey
looks more like a hearty schoolmaster or
yeoman farmer than a politician. Even
his walk has a shambling country lope
to it. There is nothing pompous about
him: but his boisterous, almost awkward
manner suggests that he is less confident
socially than intellectually.
This awkwardness or is it arrog-
ance? has always seemed to inhibit
Healey’s parliamentary performances. He
has never mastered the arts and artifices
of a Westminster style of speech. He is.
too much the lecturer and gets bogged
down in detail. But all this vanishes on
the public platform, where he is a master
of powerful, economical argument.
Already Healey has made his mark as
one of the successes of the Wilson Ad-
ministration. If Wilson’s first aim wa&
to prove, after 13 years in Opposition,,
that Labor could run a Government
quite as effectively as the Conservatives,
then Healey, like Roy Jenkins and Mich-
ael Stewart, is one of those who have
shown that they are at least a match
for their predecessors.
Healey has achieved this stature
through sheer hard work and a formid-
able intellectual energy. He has carried
out a sustained and intelligent onslaught
on one of the greatest citadels of waste
and muddle in the British Government.
Whether the strategic and political as-
sumptions behind his streamlined de-
fence planning are as well judged as the
methods he has employed remains to
be seen.
It is not yet clear, for example, how
far he is responsible for the so-called
“East of Suez” policy and how far he has
now developed it. Certainly, he had
the courage to declare flatly that there
was no longer any serious threat of Rus-
sian military attack in Europe. In Oppo-
sition, he favored the transformation of
British bases, such as Aden, into bases
for the use of United Nations peace-
keeping forces. The ghost of this idea
survives in the Wilsonian talk of Bri-
tain’s world role as a keeper of the peace
in the Indian Ocean, but now transfor-
med by being set firmly in the context of
an Anglo-American alliance.
Healey is keenly aware of the need to
make defence the handmaiden of
foreign policy. This he showed in his.
most famous and original contribution
to post-war diplomatic history, the plan
for East-West “disengagement” in Europe
which he worked out with Hugh Gaits-
kell in the late 19505.
Faced with a chaotic world, Healey
shows the virtues and some of the short-
comings of a tidy mind. He has the
generous impulse to put things straight.
Has he also the wisdom to go on pursuing
his own vision of shaping a more stable
world society? (ofns)


4
m
....
••m2
SsSS
mSMmmi
v. ■’■■•
L
®f^l
a
Maybe you can't take the day off—but...
IvX-XxWy
v.v.X , X^"X^X '.'.Wt^xW^Xk<X^; yXv>HMMMMC4(
>. ; iBiWiWWftJSS< >..x.:.>v:o:*»;;vw.> -:.>-.:.:.:.:Xv.>v.>xv4 :■:• •-•>:•.> .. . •
?}X*X , ;;w>>xocccc«>c«x>c-^>x*xc&&&o>MCa>
: :<-:xwX-»»j : :: •;wxoc»xocoo«
You can work in cool comfort every day!
Having a Kelvinator Air Conditioner in your office
or rooms enables you to work efficiently no matter
how high the mercury rises. Because it is a refrig-
erated unit, a Kelvinator Air Conditioner not only
cools, but banishes humidity the greatest cause
of summer discomfort.
Completely automatic, it ventilates, exhausts stale
air and smoke, circulates and filters fresh air and
provides the most economical method of wintef
heating, too.
Smart, new style Kelvinator units are available
from only £199.10.0 each. Choose from 5 models—
one just right for your needs.
If you can’t take the day off take a moment to
contact the Kelvinator Branch in your capital city
for complete details.
M£jCt£\M/M MW. €E #o#* REFRIGERATED AIR CONDITIOHERS
KL72BR


4
3?
a
a
. .* \
1 \ J
*
got teen age
PROBLEMS?
!®r*- I,M
,7
-^rr- :;
V A'i
a it
A
~k -
■y\
* ■; \
£
•■-.W
W
A
’em behind you
with an Evfnmdel
Best way yet to tame a "teen" and
enjoy yourself at the same time is with
an "Evinrude"! If they crave speed,
your "Evinrude" will give them plenty
. . . safe, quiet, relaxing speed. If
they're straying from the family fold,
try this "togetherness" tonic. Your
wife will love it, You'll relax and enjoy
it, too. Best way to start is to se«
your "Evinrude" Dealer now.
SEND FOR FREE
ILLUSTRATED
BROCHURE AND
LIST OF
AUTHORISED
“EVINRUDE”
DEALERS IN YOUR
STATE.
FIRST IN OUTBOARD MOTORS
EVINRUDE MOTORS Division of Outboard Marine
Austratia Pty. Limited, 84 Canterbury Road, Banks-
town, N.S.W. Please send me free brothure.
NAME
ADDRESS
EMSBA.IOI
LETTERS
Developing the North
SIR.—Now then, fair go, Michael
Baurne (8., Feb. 26). You imply that
we didn’t give devil's advocate Dr
Davidson a fair go at our symposium
that we allowed him to blaspheme for a
strict 20 minutes while giving the North’s
-advocate, Dr Patterson, twice that time.
AN speakers were limited to 20 minutes.
Dr Patterson was allowed to run over
Ume because he had made a special effort
to attend, had taken valuable time out
from his by-election campaign, had to
return to Queensland the same day, and
thus would lose the opportunities which
Dr David'son enjoyed, throughout both
days, to have an extra say in the discus-
sion periods. Our written instructions to
session chairmen read “. . . anti-North
views must be given ecual time and im-
portance to pro-North”. I am sure Dr
Davidson (for whom tame is hardly the
word) does not feel his freedom to speak
against the tide of opinion at the
symposium was in any way infringed or
limited at any time over the two days.
He was given the floor, for up to several
minutes at a time, during discussions of
others’ papers, and got a bonus in the
form of a three-quarter-hour televised
ABC Forum programme, built around
the symposium, during which he had five
minutes to state his case and for the
remaining 40 minutes fielded questions
from members of the audience, who each
had 90 seconds.
LARRY FOLRY
News Officer,
People the North Committee.
Tbwnsville ( Qld) .
Weipa's Aborigines
SIR. Brian Buckley’- very readable
coverage of Labor’s first year in South
Australia (8., Feb. 19) was marred by
some inexact reference to Aborigines in
the Weipa bauxite area It is quite in-
correct to say that Aborigines were
“promptly removed to a smaller reserve
down the coast” when bauxite was dis-
covered. The Weipa Mission continues
to flourish, ten years after the event, on
its original site. His reference to “new
quarters” sadly underplays the recent
opening of a new village costing
$300,000. Instead of the corrugated iron
shanties formerly occupied, the new
houses of this village comprise the first
really notable advance in tackling
Aboriginal housing in northern Australia.
For the record, Aborigines comprise 20
per cent of the operational work-force on
the Weipa bauxite field. As dues-paying
unionists, getting the basic wage plus
margins for skill, they have to date
received more than $500,000 in wages.
D. R. BUNNEY
Comalco Industries Pty Limited
Melbourne ( Vic. ).
Pornopolitics
SIR. Dr Knopfelmacher, in his article
on the Berkeley Students’ Revolt (8.,
Feb. 5), suggested “providing the students
with a significant moral and political
guidance, which may consist solely in
teaching them how to make rational and
responsive choices with the respect for
the ‘logic of ideas and events’ ”.
There are at least two things he may
mean by “the logic of ideas and events”.
Viewed ethically, he may mean, first,
the general functioning of normative
terms, such as “ought”, “evil” and the
like, separating this from the functioning
of descriptive terms such as “red”, “hard”,
elusive ’ and “skilful”. Commonly, this
distinction has been m:de to emphasise
that ethical statements are categorically
different from factual statements.
He may, however, mean teaching the
correct moral principles and rules, and
what conclusions should be derived from
them. If this is his object the choice of
the word “logic” is unfortunate. For, of
course, to teach someone “the logic of”
something is not to teach him principles
at all, but how to derive something from
(any) principles. Similarly it may illustrate
rules of procedure, but. necessarily, will
not show that these are right; and will
PARKES AND THE ASSASSIN
ffifeuUetin
80 Years Ago: March 6, 1886
indignant correspondent, writing to
the Sydney "Telegraph". urges
against Sir Henry Parkes the fact of his
having passed the Treason Felony Act,
[in 1886] in consequence of which Irishmen
could not obtain employment in the colony.
This correspondent has mistaken the
cause and effect. Irishmen were hated and
feared exceedingly by the bigots of those
days, and this distrust and hatred pro-
duced the Act. We have frequently, and
do now, count this as deep stain upon Sir
Henry Parkes' record, but at the same
time would point out the probability that
a similar measure would have been passed
had a Dibbs, a Stuart, or a Robertson
been at the head of affairs. In those days
there was no such thing as a Liberal
paper in Sydney. THE BULLETIN had
not arisen, and the whole power of the
Press was devoted to the worship of Im-
perialism. The O'Farrell incident [his at-
tempt to assassinate the Duke of Edin-
burgh in Sydney] made the fires of bigotry
and loyalty burn with tenfold vigor, and
the "Herald", more effusive in its lick-
spittling then than now, fed the flame. A
"Loyalty" Act was demanded, and this
Sir Henry Parkes supplied: he was base
enough to bend the knee to the people.


•ai*
Tev eowfiOefesgumss!
PLAN YOUR SALES CONFERENCES,
CONVENTIONS & RECEPTIONS AT A
HOTEL
IN CANBERRA. Canberra-Rex Hotel: Australia's
finest convention centre. Spacious areas to accom-
modate up to 600 guests. Accommodation, service
and cuisine to international standards. All areas
and rooms fully air-conditioned.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Affording convention and reception
areas for up to 400 people. Centrally situated.
Rooms, service, cuisine to exacting standards.
IN SYDNEY. Carlton-Rex Hotel: Situated in the
heart of Sydney and offering international standards
of service. Four magnificent reception areas cater
for every type of function: weddings, cocktail parties,
banquets, private dinners. Fully air-conditioned.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Air-conditioned reception areas for
conventions, sales conferences, trade showings and
weddings. Beautiful appointments and facilities.
Full particulars from Functions Manager
Carlton-Rex Hotel: 56 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. Phone
28-5541.
Canberra-Rex Hotel: North-
bourne Avenue, Canberra City.
Phone 4-5311.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Canberra:
Cnr. Limestone and Ainslie
Avenues, Canberra. Phone
4-3351.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Cnr. Beach
Road and Glenayr Ave., Bondi,
Sydney. Phone 30-7247.
or any Rex Hotel
L 264
demonstrate no other sort of rules, e.g.,
rules of morals.
Some modern moral philosophers have
attempted to join these two purposes in
what is often called a “naturalistic”
ethics. Dressed in some jargon the view
would run that people normally use, say,
“ought” only in contexts where “I ought
not to kill you without reason” is self-
evident, and where the contradictory of
this view would be “logically odd”. Put
brutally, such an approach is the writing
of one’s own morals into the meaning
of the words. But the arguments against
it might be cited:
(1) It is no part of the meaning of
“ought”, even in context, that this
specific action be excluded.
(2) It is only within the moral customs,
not the rules of meaning of our society,
that such actions, in general, would be
excluded. And even in our society the
contravening of this for a moral reason
could be understood. We can understand
another person’s morals even when we
don’t agree with them; so that our morals
are merely our morals, perhaps even the
right morals, but they are hardly the only
morals. To suggest they are is to commit
the naturalistic fallacy.
If Dr Knopfelmacher is maintaining
the first view his suggestion is fatuous,
since we all know, and don’t need to
be taught, how to proceed from ethical
reasoning to ethical conclusion. If he is
maintaining the second he is misusing the
word “logic” If he is suggesting the
amalgam he is publicising a platform for
totalitarian propaganda, a regulation
that not only is what we are saying right,
it must be right. Let us hope that
educators at Berkeley and elsewhere will
teach free of such assumptions. Dr
Knopfelmacher may have some other
view in mind; but if he has it is unknown
to me, and deserves, * feel, something
fuller than the scurrying treatment it
receives in his article.
CLIVE FAUST
St Peters (SA ).
Monash’s Teach-In
SIR. Many words have been expended
concerning the National Forum on Viet-
nam, held during 1965 at the Monash
University. Indeed they should have
been, for the Forum has provided one
of the most objective, searching, and in-
formative sources of inquiry into the
Vietnam situation to date in Australia.
Yet, despite such an outstanding achieve-
ment by a relatively new university,
much of the publicity given it —particu-
larly in letters to The Bulletin has
centred around the personality clashes
involved in the staging of the Forum,
rather than round the Forum itself.
Whilst such reports may be accurate,
and indeed important in their own right,
it is, nevertheless, regrettable that they
should have been used to detract from
the end product, which was, undoubtedly,
an outstanding example of a university
exercising its true role in the community;
that is, as a leading centre of thought.
A. J. HUGHES
North Balwyn (Vic.)
The Book Trade
SIR. Mr Michael Baume (8., Feb. 19)
chides the book trade for high prices,
and suggests that excessive mark-ups,
restrictive trade practices and inefficiency
are to blame.
I doubt whether there is anybody in
the trade who would deny that there are
shocking anomalies and inefficiencies
within it. The problem is to isolate cures
which are not worse than the disease.
One big anomaly in my firm is this: that
we make more money out of a few top
sellers and a few major customers than
we do overall, i.e., all the rest of our
business is done at a loss. If, therefore,
we handled only the best sellers, cutting
out all the limited-sale academic books,
and if we cut out all our small customers
up the bush, we could reduce costs in
our warehouse, invoicing, accounts and
direct-mail departments, and eliminate
depreciation.
We could save a lot more if we stopped
supplying single copy special orders,
which do not pay for the cost of invoic-
ing; if we assessed manuscripts by in-
stinct, thereby saving readers’ fees; if we
cut out the editorial checking of manu-
scripts which so often leads to the dis-
covery that the manuscript was OK all
the time. This sort of rationalisation is,
I am sure, not what Mr Baume means.
NICHOLAD HUDSON
Chairman, Educational Group,
Australian Book Publishers’ Assn
(Heinemann Educational Books Ltd).
Melbourne {Vic.).
Academic Freedom
In a letter to The Bulletin, February
19, 1966, from Mr Ray Evans, the last
paragraph was printed incorrectly. It
should have read as follows: “The con-
clusion that can be drawn from the
Knopfelmacher affair is that the aca-
demics of Sydney University have shown
that they are the very last people to be
entrusted with running a university.”


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
The Other Sir Robert
From JAMES MURRAY in London
Fraser, Sir Robert Brown, Kt, cr
1949; OBE 1944, Director-General,
Independent Television Authority,
1954; b 26 Sept 1904; s of Reginald and
Thusnelda Fraser, Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia, m 1931, Betty Harris, one d.
Educ St. Peter’s School, Adelaide, Trinity
College, University of Melbourne (BA),
University of London, BSc (Econ.).
Leader writer Daily Herald 1930-39;
Empire Division, Ministry of Informa-
tion, 1939-41; Director Publications
Division, Ministry of Information, 1944-
45, Controller of Production, Ministry
of Information, 1945-46; Director-Gen-
eral, Central Office of Information,
1946-54. Address Flat SM, Portman
.Mansions, Chiltern Street, W.I. Club
Savile.
This is the “Who’s Who” skeleton of
the Australian with more influence on
the British way of life than any other,
including Sir Robert Menzies, Scobie
Breasley and Barry Humphries.
Public relations writ has it that Sir
Robert Fraser simply applied for the
post of director-general of the ITA after
reading an advertisement in “The Times”
while holidaying on the Costa Brava like
any Earl’s Court expatriate. Seated in
his office at ITA headquarters in Knights-
bridge, opposite that temple of consumer-
durables, Harrods, Sir Robert himself
admits that his appointment was the
result of somewhat more sophisticated
information. "I heard in a roundabout
way that they might be interested in
me.” he says.
Accepted for the post, he played a
key part in launching British commercial
television, then a unique organisation
consisting of public corporation, the
ITA, awarding contracts to private
enterprise programme companies. The
country’s nonconformist conscience saw
in the venture Mammon disguised as a
detergent packet. But so decisive has
been Sir Robert’s advocacy that today
even “The Guardian”, keeper of that
conscience, has a stake in commercial
TV.
As early as 1958, “The Observer”
profile was able to say: “It is interesting
that the successful grafting of com-
mercial television into the British way of
life has been accomplished by an Aus-
tralian who had never lived in England
till he was 23. Most interesting of all,
commercial television which as lately as
five years ago had the Labor Party
apparently almost solidly against it, owes
its success to a life-long Socialist whom,
in early ’thirties, Professor Harold
Laski regarded along with people like
Hugh Gaitskell and Douglas Jay as
likely one day to be in the top flight of
Socialist Cabinet Ministers.”
Speaking of Sir Robert at ITV’s tenth
anniversary banquet, the new chairman
of the Authority, Lord Hill, said: “If
anyone can be described as the architect
of independent television, it is he.”
On the same occasion at the Guildhall
in September. 1965, the British Prime
Minister. Mr Wilson, was as fair, if not
as precise, when he said: “It would be
right to ask tonight what independent
television has achieved in ten years.
First, and this is a cliche, it has together
with BBC Television been responsible
for the greatest social revolution, cer-
tainly within the field of communications,
since the invention of printing.”
The fact is that ITV and the BBC
were together in the social revolution of
which Mr Wilson spoke only as pace-
maker and also-ran. Whatever may have
been the merits of BBC Television, and
they included a controller of TV without
a television set, it was not revolutionary.
When its monopoly was breached just
over ten years ago, one home in four
had television. Today the figure is nine
in ten. Sixty per cent of viewers tune to
one of the 14 commercial stations form-
ing a national network, centred on the
founder companies Associated Television
(“Danger Man”), Associated British Cor-
poration (“The Avengers”), Rediffusion
(“No Hiding Place”) and Granada
(“Coronation Street”).
Waiting for catastrophe
“tjVm the first few years we were in a
paradoxical position,” Sir Robert re-
calls. “We had no public relations prob-
lem, if by that you mean relations with
the public. We were the public’s darlings.
When we were one year old, the pro-
gramme companies were losing millions.
Rediffusion alone lost £3,500.000.”
Critics were holding their breaths while
they waited for catastrophe to overtake
the whole venture. But the companies
began to recover and, when they did,
they “whizzed round the corner”. The
scale of their financial success itself
became a ground for attack.
In 1959, for the first time, perhaps the
only time in history, the profits of a com-
mercial venture were described as
“alarming”. A detailed balance sheet for
this period is as likely ever to be pub-
lished as one for the Australian gold
rush. Total profits before tax reached
£2O million a year, in one case being as
high as 138 per cent. It was this level
of profit which inspired Lord Thomsoa
of Fleet’s classic throwaway line whea
he was still Roy Thomson, Canadian,
awarded the Scottish TV franchise and
yet to be enshrined by Russell Braddon
as the 20th century’s Samuel Smiles.
Thomson called television “a licence
to print money”. The gold rush con-
tinued till 1963 when the contracts were
re-negotiated, no doubt to the echo of
Lord Thomson’s immortal words. This
time contracts were renewed on a three-
year basis instead of the original seven,
with the ITA’s basic transmitter rental
increased from £5,500,000 to £8 million
a year, with further charges totalling over
£2O million a year going to the Treasury.
Since it came to power the Labor
Government has banned cigarette adver-
tising, ostensibly for therapeutic reasons
but it is questionable if this would have
happened had the ITV companies been
as short of money as the BBC is. In
addition, the Labor Government was
responsible for introducing the levy of
between 25 and 45 per cent on adver-
tising revenue for all but the smallest
companies, which means that the
Treasury’s “take” from all ITV sources is
currently £4O million a year.
But since total advertising revenue is
currently running at a level of £BO
million a year, substantial, rising profits
continue to be made. These range from
Associated Television’s £2,769,709 net
in the financial year 1964-65 to Ulster
TV’s £202,163 for the same period.
Although he could do nothing about
minimising the embarrassment of riches
between 1958 and 1963, Fraser could do
something about the criticisms which
rose in proportion. These included
allegations that TV quiz shows were
rigged, that circuses were cruel, that
plays were full of violence, that current
events programmes were libellous and
late-night programmes too bawdy.
In May, 1959, he said: “ITV could
ruin the BBC whenever it wanted to. It
could leave it with a mere 10 per cent
of viewers by supplying a mass audience
with all the trash it wanted. But this
would be a ferocious thing to do.”
In May, 1960, he said: “There is more
terror in the Theban plays and in ‘Mac-
beth’, ‘Lear’ and ‘Othello’ than you will
find in a month of Sundays on television,
the sleepless fountain of social values
and moral sentiments, endlessly playing
in our midst and flowing into every
domestic nook and cranny.”
From these quotations, Sir Robert
emerges as a cross between a cow cocky
and a mandarin. The description fits his
appearance as well as his cast of mind
for he is lean, tanned, shrewd and im-
peccably tailored. He is perhaps a touch


more mandarin than cow cocky when
he outlines the considerations which
guided his pronouncements.
“It was educated, middle-class opinion,
irrespective of party, which was against
the introduction of independent tele-
vision. It was this opinion which was
only very slowly disarmed. So long as
you have lack of understanding in this
group, you are jolly wise to go to bed
with a worry. It does not do to have
this particular wind blowing against
you,” he says.
Recently, a kite was flown in “The
Sunday Telegraph” suggesting that Sir
Robert was considering retirement. Since
the man tipped to succeed him is Sir
Harold Evans, who was in charge of
public relations at No. 10 Downing
Street during the Macmillan era, it
seemed not too high flown.
Sir Robert states with emphatic lack
of insistence, however, that he intends
to remain as director-general till he
retires at 65. Clearly, he wishes to
remain until a fully competitive, two-
channel commercial service is in opera-
tion since he has always maintained that
only such a service, with stations oppos-
ing each other, Australian-style, on a
daily basis, will break the profit patterns
set by the present system which divides
programme companies into non-com-
petitive week-day and weekend organisa-
tions. The present television revolution
he sees as the equivalent of the news-
paper revolution of the 1880 s and 19205.
To see in Sir Robert Fraser’s life,
might-have-beens for Australia is fascin-
ating. His basic political creed, his
talent for persuasion, his personality
might have cast him as healer of the
Australian Labor Party’s self-inflicted
wounds, the man able to exhaust even
Mr B. A. Santamaria’s appetite for
manoeuvre. Sir Robert, whose career
demonstrates grasp of the possible, is not
willing to speculate in such detail.
But, knowing that the kind of relation-
ship which begot his kind of expatriotism
no longer exists between Britain and
Australia, he admits regret that his life
has been spent outside his native country
and will end thus.
“It was very difficult when you were
younger,” he says. “For one thing, you
did not draw any distinction between
Australia and the UK. I don’t think the
phrase about going home is an empty
one. Here were two countries whose
futures and destinies were linked. When
you are older, it dawns upon you. It
never occurred to me I would stay away.
You don’t do it deliberately nor are you
aware it is happening. But you begin
to wonder. You wonder what would have
happened to you if you had stayed in the
country where you were born.” And he
reveals that he has retained his Australian
passport. x
THEATRE
The Representative— Again
The Representative by Rolf Hochhuth.
Producer, John Sumner. Russell St.
Theatre, Melbourne.
f|\) attempt to review this play in a
few hundred words is like undertak-
ing to engrave “The Lord’s Prayer” on
the head of a pin—except that the latter
is less preposterous. Seven hours long in
its original version, and half that length in
this third Australian production, “The
Representative” is primarily concerned
with the extermination of the Jews and
the failure of the Pope to publicly inter-
cede on their behalf. With dramatic
themes of this magnitude the young play-
wright any playwright could only
fail, for all the world’s poets in chorus
would be inadequate to the task. Yet
what Hochhuth has achieved makes this
play crucially important. In a way its
weaknesses are merciful. By focusing
one’s attention on flaws in the writing,
acting and sets, we can protect ourselves
from the impossible truth of six million
dead Jews. A better play would be in-
tolerable.
Hochhuth insists that his play is not
anti-Catholic and that Pius is “a sym-
bol not only for all leaders but all men
. . . who are passive when their brother is
deported to death”. Certainly, the play’s
hero is a young priest who martyrs him-
self at Auschwitz, but the play’s unique
contribution to the literature of the “final
solution” is the scene in which we see
Pius not as a symbol but as a specific
personality. A cold, distant man who
talks of the death camps as “distressing”
and “unfortunate” while showing great
anxiety for the profitability of Jesuit
shareholdings in Spanish mines and Hun-
garian railways.
The play is very largely a trial of Pius
and his advisers, and Hochhuth finds
them guilty of hiding behind the platitudes
of real-politic, when a public declaration
might have saved countless lives. The
witnesses for Hochhuth’s prosecution are
the little people of the play. A renegade
SS officer, a Jew fleeing Berlin, a Jewish
family seized beneath the shadow of St.
Peter’s. Interspersed among the “political”
scenes, these “dramatic” scenes are less
successful, and serve only to remind us
what it is alleged Pius forgot, that the
few being taken by cattle truck to Poland
were not a political abstraction, but living,
breathing, dying people.
John Sumner had chosen to present a
somewhat different selection of scenes to
Members of the Athens Drama Company in Aristophanes' "Lysistrata". The company,
which is making its first visit to Australia, is presenting Euripides' "Iphigenia in Aulis",
preceded by the ballets "Electro" and "Lysistrata," preceded by the modern ballet,
"Monastiraki". The company, led by Costis Michaelides will perform in modern Greek.
It opens in Perth as part of the Festival on March 2, and will later appear in Adelaide
for its festival, Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney and Newcastle.


, Going to
Melbourne?
If you don’t care for air-
conditioned comfort, 24 hour
personalised service, unobtru-
sive privacy, glorious views,
beautifully furnished rooms,
free undercover parking, and
international standards of
hotel accommodation there
is no point in staying at the
Sheraton, Melbourne’s new-
est place to stay. The Sheraton
has them all.
108 airconditioned rooms and
suites with restaurant and
conference rooms.
Book now with your local travel agent,
bank, airline or stock and station agent. Or
phone direct for immediate confirmed
reservations for either hotel. (Write, for
fully illustrated colour brochure).
Rates: from $8.50 single, $11.50 double
SHERATON
MOTOR HOTELS
40 Macleay Street, Potts Point
Sydney, 'phone 35.1955
13-19 Spring Street,
Melbourne.
'phone 63.9961
SHS7/6.58
those chosen for the London and Ameri-
can productions. I would have preferred
that he delete the long scene at Ausch-
witz in which the Nazi doctor indulges in
sadistic sex-play with a member of his
staff (the point it makes is all too obvious),
replacing it with the more valuable beer-
hall scene. A cast of approximately 16
tack’e about 40 parts with frequent signs
of strain. George Whaley played Pius with
authority and subtlety. As the priest whose
conscience gives the political and dramatic
scenes their continuity. Michael Lawrence
had the heaviest responsibility and strove
mightily to communicate his anguish.
Frank Thring's cardinal was heavily
mannered, but this was not inappropriate.
Surprisingly, Brian James, Dennis Miller
and David Mitchell failed to make their
important roles convincing. Richard
Prin's designs fell uneasily between the
suggestive and the explicit, and it did
seem that this was one play that would
work far better with a minimum or total
absence of sets or props.
PHILLIP ADAMS
THEATRE
Family Life
Five Finger Exercise. Peter Shaffer. Pocket
Theatre, Sydney.
A dmittedly, family life can be grim.
One has only to think of the
domestic difficulties of Hamlet or
Oedipus or, in modern times, O’Neill’s
Tyrones. But Peter Shaffer’s very
ordinary English middle-class family can-
not really sustain the weighty issues with
which their creator burdens them. Stanley
Harrington is a rich, self-made furniture
manufacturer, aggressively philistine. His
wife Louise is aggressively “sensitive”
and considers herself an authority on
the finer things of life because she has
French blood in her veins. Their son
Clive, an undergraduate at Cambridge,
has to put up w'ith his mother calling
him “Jou-Jou” and his father asking
“What use is poetry?” But then we all
have our troubles.
Clive suffers from the disillusionment
and embittered cynicism of the adolescent
who can see nothing about adults but
their dishonesty and self-deception. It
is not surprising that the only person
who is honest enough for him is his
14-year-old sister Pamela. Unfortunately,
the dramatist seems to share the melo-
dramatic, adolescent viewpoint of his
young character. He joins the throng
of 20th-century authors for whom only
idiots and children have a true vision
of reality.
The catalyst in the Harrington’s house-
hold is the highly improbable Walter, a
handsome young German tutor whose
father was a Nazi. Through him racial-
ism is added to the themes of philistinism,
Oedipal conflict, marital war, and middle-
aged lust, with a hint of homosexuality
thrown in for good measure.
In the introduction to the Penguin
edition of the play J. W. Lambert praises
Shaffer for a “welcome refusal to shrink
from the theatrical moment”. This
production by Norman McVicker cer-
tainly does not shrink from the theatrical
moment, but is inclined to be carried
away by it.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
TELEVISION
Sexual Exhaustion
"CVm six weeks ABC Television offered
A its viewers a BBC programme called
“The Second Sex”, in which more than
30 women, mostly public figures, mostly
British, and mostly shrill, debated what
might be classed as “the problems of co-
existing with males”. The idea was to
have a chairwoman and about five others
seated around a free form table, prepared
to discuss their subject with liveliness and
wit. The actual procedure was rather dif-
ferent. The girls set upon the matter in
hand with all the zeal and noise of packs
of foxhounds going through thickets and
hedges.
At the end of the sixth week, if not
sooner, they should have been retired
gracefully. Unfortunately, someone at the
ABC had the bright idea of having a
programme called “The First Sex” with
Australian men discussing women. The
first group in view last week were very
gentlemanly, seldom interrupted, did not
roar, and were utterly charitable to the
opposite sex. “Are women inferior?”
asked chairman Bob Sanders, and four
voices answered “No.” Their half-hour
rolled on. They told us much about them-
selves, directly or indirectly, occasionally
mentioning women. And it was so dull.
So far, all these programmes have
proved to me is that religion is not the
only subject which can be discussed inter-
minably and fruitlessly. We can now add
“men talking about women, and women
talking about men”.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
Brief Hour
King Rat. Director, Bryan Forbes. State
Theatre, Sydney.
Bande A Part. Director, Jean-Luc Godard.
Union Theatre, Sydney.
HThe understated, stiff-upper-lip courage,
the ingenious plans for escape, the
intrepid defiance of the brutal guards,
the wry, unquenchable humor: these are
the stock ingredients of the prisoner-of-
war film. But not of “King Rat”, where
the prison-camp conditions are used by
novelist James Clavell and scriptwriter-
director Bryan Forbes for their almost
clinical examination of the behavior of
men under stress. The prisoners of
Changi are studied as a scientist observes
real rats in a laboratory experiment.
A deprecating foreword praises the
film as a work of fiction, while insisting
on the high morale of the inmates in
actual fact. But the film makes the point
that suffering does not as a rule ennoble;
instead people are debased by it, reduced
to the final, necessary, uninspiring deter-
mination merely to survive. The men in
“King Rat” adopt various defences
against intolerable reality. Some live
from moment to moment, never allow-
ing themselves to look forward or back;
a few seek refuge in obsessive delusions.
For the US Corporal King himself, the
unnatural atmosphere of the camp pro-
vides the climate in which his contempt-
ible talents can blossom.
One of the most impressive construc-
tion experts in today’s cinema, Bryan
Forbes has made a laconic, beautifully


Invest in
IHDOSTHUI ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION UMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
2
(SECOND SERIES)
7% 4YEARS
6£% 3 YEARS
6J% 2 YEARS
•
51% 12 MONTHS
FOR 5 YEARS
Prospectus and application form available fromt
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
9001
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
edited film, its camerawork imaginative
but unobtrusive, with faultless per-
formances from a fine cast headed by
George Segal, James Fox and Tom
Courtenay. But perhaps the film’s most
memorable aspect is its evocation of the
atmosphere of a prison camp, its total
divorce from the realities of everyday
living.
Where Jean-Luc Godard is concerned
the cinema-going world (apart from the
countless thousands who have never heard
of him) is divided into two groups: those
who passionately believe him to be a
witty and original genius, and those who
equally passionately believe that he’s
pretentious, shallow and probably a con-
man. Despite a grudging admiration for
parts of “Vivre Sa Vie”, I must admit to
being a charter member of the latter
mob, and a second look at “Bande A
Part”, first seen at the Sydney Film
Festival, confirms me in my opinion.
Affected and silly, the movie does at
least offer some charming photography
of the Paris banlieu, with bare trees
etched against a winter sky, and of Anna
Karina’s blank-eyed prettiness; and I am
grateful to the Sydney University Film
Group for giving us the chance to see
this widely discussed though unsatis-
factory film. In the next few weeks the
Group will show Franju’s “Therese” and
Rossen’s “Lilith”.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
MUSIC
Adventures
Sydney Symphony Orchestra. Conductor,
John Hopkins. Sydney Town Hall.
1966 series of Promenade Concerts
in Sydney is now over and one can
draw a few definite conclusions. It is
clearly proven that the conservative pro-
gramme policy pursued by the ABC for
so many years need no longer be adhered
to.
The six programmes provided un-
commonly varied fare, so interesting that
any music-lover would be tempted to
hear all of it. This, for listeners and
orchestra alike, proved a formidable
task. Four of the six concerts were on
consecutive nights and although the per-
formances were, on the whole, pretty
good, their standard might well have
been even higher had the players been
allowed a proper rest between concerts.
In programming, the 4th concert was
the most adventurous one of the series.
After a rather unsatisfying performance
of Mozart’s Symphony No. 32 slug-
gishly directed and unstylishly played
came Witold Lutoslawski’s “Three Poems
of Henri Michaux”. This contemporary
Polish work, based on surrealistic and
highly emotional French poems, was
scored for two pianos, harp, percussion,
winds and voices. The voices, conducted
by Richard Meale, belonged to members
of the Leonine Consort; the assorted
instrumentalists—according to some, ill-
assorted—were controlled by John Hop-
kins. The music was about the most
controversial yet heard in Sydney and
it was greeted by a welcome mixture of
cheers and boos.
The sth concert was perhaps least
successful. It included a Sinfonietta by
Malcolm \yilliamson, commissioned by
the BBC in 1965. It was too insubstantial
in content; harmless and jolly enough, it
lacks the wit that a composer such as
Malcolm Arnold might have brought to
it. Some of it film-music, the work
proved a rather tedious affair. Carmel
Kaine, soloist in Sibelius’ violin con-
certo, is a young Australian artist of
considerable calibre. Her style and sweet
tone were much to my liking, but she
did not yet seem quite ready for the
rigors of Sibelius.
An agreeable, but rather weighty,
performance of Schubert’s “Tragic”
symphony led to the evening’s best-
enjoyed music: Bartok’s “Miraculous
Mandarin” Suite.
The final concert in the series was, I
think, both the best in standard of per-
formance and the most suitable in pro-
gramming. The only musically solid item
was Bach’s D Minor Concerto, with
Robert Miller and Donald Hazelwood as
duo soloists. The work came off beauti-
fully and I was pleasantly surprised by
the fine blending of tone and style
achieved by the joint concert masters
who are, as violinists, basically dis-
similar. Both stood confirmed as fine
fiddlers and Mr Hopkins’ direction of
the small orchestra was admirable.
PAUL FROLICH


BOOKS
The Visible Saboteurs
By OWEN HARRIES
The Invisible Government. David Wise and
Thomas B. Ross. Cape. $5.15.
Tn 1929 the American Secretary of
State, Henry L. Stimson, closed the
rather primitive code-breaking section
which the State Department had set up
during the 1914-18 war, with the explan-
ation: “Gentlemen do not read each
other’s mail”.
The formulation was aristocratic but
the impulse was liberal and democratic,
reflecting faith in the innate goodness of
human nature and optimism concerning
the evolution of international politics.
1929 was about the last year when such
faith and optimism could claim some
justification. Gentlemen have been rather
thin on the ground ever since. But for
those who support the democratic and
open society the question still remains:
to what extent are espionage aud “secret
operations” in conflict with the values of
such a society? Answers will tend to
; vary according to the version of demo-
cratic theory subscribed to, but most
people will probably agree that there is
at least a measure of conflict.
Apart from the naive and the ideo-
logical purists, however (and I do not
want to suggest that these are negligible
categories), most people realise that
realistic discussions about democratic
societies are concerned with degree
rather than with absolutes. All societies
have undemocratic characteristics of
various kinds. Some of them are
ineradicable, at least in the short run. The
cost of eradicating others is unacceptable
to most people. Others thrive because
of ignorance and confusion and can
fairly easily be got rid of or mitigated
once they are clearly recognised.
In a world in which totalitarian
regimes have elevated espionage from
the cottage-industry level to a major
enterprise, its use by democratic govern-
ments can be defended both as a pro-
tective device and as a means of lessen-
ing the possibility of conflict through
ignorance and error. Such a defence can
go along with a recognition of the
dangers of a large espionage establish-
ment and a determination to keep a close
and sceptical watch over its activities.
As an aid in this last activity “The
Invisible Government” is very inade-'
quate. Its main thesis is grossly over-
stated and under-substantiated. The first
chapter begins:
“There are two governments in the
United States today. One is visible. The
other is invisible.
“The first is the Government that citi-
zens read about in their newspapers and
children study about in their civics books.
The second is the interlocking, hidden
machinery that carries out the policies
of the United States in the Cold War.”
Almost all of this, on the evidence
provided by the authors themselves, is
wrong. It is absurd to say that the Gov-
ernment of the United States is the one
children read about in their civics books.
Only incredible naivete or the wish to
paint a grossly idealistic picture of that
Government in order to make it easier to
condemn by contrast the espionage acti-
vities can explain such a characterisation.
The intelligence and espionage agen-
cies of the United States do not constitute
a separate government. They form part
of the Government and are controlled in
important matters by elected officials
in practice as well as in theory. Like' all
departments of Government they have
particular interests and a certain amount
of autonomy in furthering them; in this
they are in no way peculiar, this is the
way governments function.
It is probably true that the nature of
spy organisations give them more than
ordinary freedom in this respect. But in
none of the most controversial and im-
portant cases instanced in this book
Guatemala, the Bay of Pigs, Vietnam—
did the President surrender his decision-
making powers. In the case of the
Bay of Pigs, for example, the landing
site was changed by the President for
what the CIA believed were political and
foreign-policy reasons. Later, when the
invasion was floundering, Kennedy re-
fused to authorise the use of the United
States armed forces, despite the fact that
the top CIA man connected with the
operation “argued desperately” for their
use. That is, political considerations, as
formulated by the President and his
advisers, took precedence over the opera-
tional requirements of the CIA. The
accounts given of events in Laos and
Vietnam invite the same conclusions.
As objection must be taken against
the word “government” so must it be
taken against the word “invisible”. The
American intelligence network is probab-
ly the most visible one that has ever
existed. If it really was invisible, this
book which names names in abun-
dance and describes organisational set-
ups in considerable detail could never
have been written by two journalists.
What intelligence organisation, other
than the American, has ever had to send
its director to testify before Senate com-
mittees? What director of intelligence,
apart from Allan Dulles, has published
a book about his experiences as a master
spy less than two years after retiring?
To sustain their thesis about the
“invisibility” of the American espionage
system, the authors would have to admit
that most of the inforniation contained
in this book was false, or at least con-
jectural. Such an admission is unlikely to
be forthcoming but, in fact, anyone who
is in the least concerned about the nature
of evidence must have substantial reser-
vations about much of its contents. Con-
sidering the controversial and esoteric
nature of its subject it is incredibly badly
documented.
It has whole chapters on the role
of the CIA in Burma, Indonesia, Laos;
on the National Security Agency
which give no sources whatsoever. Other
chapters limp along with only one or
two references to sources to sustain them.
This does not prevent the authors from
telling their story with an air of complete
certainty and without any consideration
of alternative interpretations. Often they
quote remarks made in private or semi-
private without any indication as to how
they came to hear of them. People are
forever reported as “confiding to an aide”
who, apparently, immediately ran to
tell the authors or perhaps they
Looking at Pigeons
Pigeons slide into the lighted city
where it is leaved and dark—
they darken, breathe and darken
and now we see the lilac depth of air
is deep water
running deeper on their open wings.
They cross and circle
down into the nightjar silence
and succulence of the invisible park
that opens between the thunder
of young technicians beating through
the boned lights of the city.
Their wings are held out—then flicker
shut. Pigeons, set in the wind
and the moving night, suddenly
shine with danger on an embroidered city—
then dive out of the sky
lulling the sorrowful walls with wings.
NORMAN TALBOT


relied on some of those “electronic
spies” they write about in Chapter 22.
All this would be bad enough in a
book dealing with a subject in which
verification was reasonably easy. But in
a book about spying and secret operations
it is inexcusable and makes it impossible
to consider it as anything but rather low-
grade journalism. That so many of the
scholars of the Left who, on other
occasions, are such demons for “evi-
dence” have swallowed the book whole,
tells us more about the Loft than about
the CIA.
Confessions of a Solitary
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
La Batarde. Violette Leduc. Peter Owen.
$3.85.
VTiolette Leduc’s sensational auto-
* biography was the rage in France in
1964. 140,000 Frenchmen bought this
hitherto obscure 58-year-old author’s
book; critics have been labelling it a
masterpiece of contemporary literature.
Mile Leduc sketches her own hell for
us as clearly as Botticelli sketches Dante’s.
Encased in her own hard shell, walled
up in a tomb of self-made loneliness, she
is incapable of love. But she can never
satisfy her own need to be loved. Other
people have no reality except in so far
as they relate to herself; nothing exists
unless she is there to see it.
Since childhood, she has been obsessed
by sex in all its variations. She has had
affairs with women, with men and strange
relationships with homosexuals.
The illegitimate child of a romantic,
consumptive young nobleman and his
mother’s servant who discreetly vanished
from the great house rather than in-
volve the father in embarrassment, she
was brought up with genuine affection by
her maternal grandmother, and remains
for her mother a living reminder of
her own guilt.
When Violette’s mother married, the
girl refused to live with the newlyweds,
and chose a boarding-school, entering into
a passionate relationship with her fellow
pu :il, Isobel. Later she seduced Her-
mine, a young teacher, and following
discovery and expulsion the two went
off to Paris to live together. Hermine’s
promising career was ruined, but she
found enough work to keep them both.
Concurrently, Violette began an affair
with Gabriel, a colorless little man whom
she finally married, simply, one feels, to
prove that she could. She refused to take
his name and against his wishes had a
dangerous abortion only when in an
advanced stage of pregnancy. One is not
surprised that both Hermine and Gab-
riel left her eventually, only that they
were able to stick it out so long. She
devoured them both, deprived them of
identity, and subjected them to every
form of humiliation and degradation she
could find.
Eventually she met her match in the
writer Maurice Sachs. He helped her in
every way, from obtaining her first in-
teresting job to a first discovery of the
release to be found in writing, encour-
aged her to begin her first novel, and
evacuated her to the country during the
war.
Violette Leduc never forgave him for
this, but it is probably the reason why
Sachs is the only character, apart from
the author’s own, to emerge fully life-
sized from her pen. He is the one that got
away. He glides elegantly through the
pages in his oriental silk dressing-gowns,
a Wildean figure of ironic wit and cul-
ture. Later, however, when he writes to
her for help, asking her to post a docu-
ment which could have saved him from
a Hamburg prison, Mile Leduc tosses
the certificate into the flames and leaves
him to his fate.
By this time she has accumulated a
fortune by black marketeering. Every
addition to the roll of notes that she
hoards beneath her skirt is an act of
fulfilment. The war, the Occupation, con-
cern her not at all. “The Enemy” is a
blond officer walking down a street; the
screams of the Jewish family living above
her as they are taken away, one by one,
in the night, persuade her to sleep in
order to escape the noise. The author
tells us that she is physically ugly, that
plastic surgery has given her a new nose
not much better than her old model. But
this has not prevented French dress-
designers like Fath from making her
presents of their gowns, strange men
from picking her up, a policeman from
yielding to her pleas to withdraw a
charge of quite unnecessary shoplifting,
or from inspiring genuine if short-lived
affection in others.
The writing itself is utterly persuasive.
In fact, if there is such a thing as a
fusion of the several styles of modern
French prose, this is it. At best it has a
splendid vitality, at worst it is rather
precious. But her landscapes writhe in
the grip of a Van Gogh-like passion, her
trees stand under a burning sun, attack-
ing the sky. Above all, she has a seeing
eye for inanimate objects. They seem
more alive in her world than people.
She can invest with life the old hairs
in her hair-brush or the sparkling dia-
mante flecks in the Metro steps or the
glow of a pattern on a painted dish.
Simone de Beauvoir’s preface is the
case for the defence, a plea for our
understanding and our pity in another’s
loneliness. But no matter how sorry one
may feel for “La Batarde”, one can’t
be as sorry for her as she is for herself.
SWAINSVILLE
OFCWASe I’M AQURESStve Mo
RARANO/fi. OR£ MAS 7DS£. life's
A BATTie. A JVNCHe. ONi HAS 7b
HAVE we MTEUtGEHCE To
see THE RISKS....
And 77fF CouftASS
75 F/GHT SACK,
COMS OFF/T, DAD..
THS ONIYDFWSK
Yot/VS MS FKFt-
... H VNF/U£T£i>
F/SH.


i
IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including...
The Persian Room —Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque, too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392.
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
RHIB7
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Have your favorite magazines
posted to you and enjoy the
convenience of home delivery. We
can arrange a subscription to any
magazine you require. Write or
phone for our big price lists
featuring all the well - known
magazines, classified under such
subject headings as Pictorials,
Hobbies, Business, etc. If possible,
advise the name of magazine or
subject you are interested in.
JOHN HINTON PTY. LTD.
118 William Street
NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: 92 5904 (3 lines)
(When you reply please quote "Dept. 22")
HELP
LEGACY
Beastly Colonials
By M. H. ELLIS
The Webbs’ Australian Diary, 1898. Edited
by A. G. Austin. Pitman. $3.75.
Toothing could be more revealing than
this diary of a journey through the
Australian colonies in 1898, on the eve
of Federation, compiled jointly by the
two most famous of the Fabian Society
leaders, Beatrice and Sidney Webb.
Beatrice was obviously the dominating
factor in forming their opinions at that
stage. A strong-minded product of early
Newnham, she had inherited her money
from a rich industrialist father and her
basic ideas from her grandfather,
“Radical Dick” Potter, another rich
wholesaler who flourished after the years
of the Reform Bill, was MP for Wigan
and co-founder with his brother Sir
Thomas of the “Manchester Guardian”.
She had picked up with Sidney, a vocal
little propagandist with no money and
plenty of academic zeal for her ideal of
a world controlled on welfare state lines
by an elite class of socialist.
They had no children save “The New
Statesman” and their career in retrospect
looks like one long, sometimes hurried,
retreat from one vantage point of aggres-
sion and defence to another, until they
landed with a bang right in the middle
of the House of Lords, with great repu-
tations, but little solid to their credit.
They, however, earned resting places in
Westminster Abbey to which they re-
tired in the late 19405.
When they came to Australia in 1898,
they had been married six years*. And let
it be said at once that if Sidney showed
some signs of tolerating the beastly
colonials, everything about them was
almost uniformly unpleasant to his ideal-
ist lady-partner who apparently had for-
gotten to divest herself of her middle-
class imperialist snobbery when she
garbed herself in Fabian idealism.
The Australian “colonial women” (she
noticed) were in “an unpleasant state of
development” and the “low tone of all
classes of colonial society in all that con-
cerns private life ... to my mind mainly
is the result of lack of education, strenu-
ousness and refinement in the women”,
But there were some good ones: for
instance, the wife of a substantial farmer
with a son at Sydney Grammar School
and another at Hawkesbury College, who
was “a little servant but unlike a good
many Australian women, a well-conduc-
ted little servant”, though the next
generation obviously was degenerating,
since her daughter was a “pasty little
person who despised farm work”.
Municipal government was just hor-
rible, the civil services no good. The
politicians a miserable lot except Sir
Samuel Griffith, “a lonely thinker” who
had been driven in politics “into a low
kind of opportunism which forced him
to act in conjunction with queer
characters, and to go back on all the
legislation he initiated”, and finally to
“take refuge in the Chief Justiceship”.
He was a “man with a hesitating manner
and cold, uncertain look as if he were
wondering whether you respected him or
whether he respected himself ... he had
reasoned himself into a sort of Fabian
Collectivism, but the rise of the Labor
Party and, it is said, financial pressure had
forced him to join with the capitalist
gang . . .”
However, the actual drafter of the
Commonwealth Constitution Bill was con-
ceded to possess a “subtle intellect which
would have made him distinguished in
the old country”, too fine an instrument
for colonial life which had become
soured by having to conform to colonial
standards.
I should have liked to have heard
“Slippery Sam” himself on the Webbs.
Barton had “the face of an or
preacher” with few political ideas out-
side Federation: but he looked incapable
of a day’s hard work and was inferior
as a political quantity to Reid who was
always eating sweets and dropping off
to sleep, though if you accepted his
“absence of intellectual or moral distinc-
tion”, he was “good company with his
humor, shrewdness and kindhearted-
ness”.
Deakin had been described to them
in other colonies “as attractively
refined and intellectual the most
notable of politicians”. But they were
disappointed to meet “a tall, slight man
with a long, black beard and a plentiful
crop of hair growing low, on a some-
what narrow forehead more like an
American professor than a lawyer or a
statesman . . . fluent in speech but lack-
ing in force”, and politically a “thought-
ful pessimist” who “would be a collec-
tivist if he did not dread the inefficiency
and jobbery of democracy”.
They obviously influenced Deakin and
their summation of him was a bit un-
grateful, because he himself, like all
Wish
The star in my
Hand is falling
All the uniforms know what’s no use
May I bow to Necessity not
To her hirelings
W. L. MERWIN


STOP!
■N
K
V
jsssill
His
... —'-i
\
SINGAPORE
■INCLUDE SINGAPORE - THE LION CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modern, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here If million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side - here you will
find the Orient’s most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and.cultures-Stopover
• You’ll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
Further north - no more than an hour by air ■ lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You’ve read about
it in books - now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur - Federal Capital of Malaysia • See beautiful
Penang - the Pearl of Orient ■ Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
■SERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia - throughout South East Asia
from Singapore - you’ll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways’
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you’ll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -9
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG-3
| JESSELTON/ HONGKONG - 2 i
| PENANG/BANGKOK -4|
I KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-3
I SINGAPORE / BANGKOK -7
Jet
in A LAYS!AN A «““™
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
other men with an eye for feminine
beauty, found Beatrice “brilliant and
delightful” and Sidney’s exposition of
educational theory irresistible.
The universities seem to have shocked
them as much as the politicians. In
Sydney some of the professors “looked
like men of capacity”, but were depressed
at the utter indifference of well-to-do
Australians to culture of any kind. Sir
T. P. Anderson Stuart, head of the
Medical Department, was “bitter about
the whole tone of society; its aspiration
to go home and belong to the Prince of
Wales’ racing set”. Melbourne was even
worse. None of its academics was “very
brilliant. No economics were taught:
The gentleman who is supposed to pro-
fess this subject being under a financial
cloud .. . never .. . put any spirit into
his teaching”.
However, in Adelaide, the one city
the visitors genuinely admired—“wisely
planned and full of amenity, unostenta-
tious, refined, courteous and homely
resembling a German Residenzstadt ” —
“the little university might develop some
scholarship”.
Brisbane could not muster a univer-
sity at all but an old boy of Brisbane
Grammar School, J. T. Bell, introduced
them to its headmaster, an obviously
impractical Arnoldite who actually was
hoping to establish a university on Oxford
and Cambridge lines.
Mr Bell, it seemed, was distinguished
by a “marked Oxford accent and man-
nerisms”. Which, undoubtedly, he must
have acquired while President of the
Cambridge Union Debating Society!
As with universities, so. naturally, with
culture. The proprietor of Sydney’s
“largest book store” was discovered
“considerably in liquor” in his doorway
at 5 p.m., while his “intelligent principal
shopman ... a refined and rather de-
pressed man of literary tastes”, inveighed
against the tendency of Australians to
read only cheap trash, despite the fact
that Lawson, Paterson and Daley were
selling well. He imparted the information
that the man who had really “made”
The Bulletin was a “dissolute, but
very clever Frenchman named Argles”
who worked through Archibald. The
latter, however, had now “gathered
round him a brilliant staff of young
bohemians”. In fact The Bulletin was
“made”, apart from Archibald (on whom
they had no comment when he lunched
with them), by Traill who politicalised it,
“Hop” and “Phil May” who set its car-
tooning standards and James Edmond
who formulated its extraordinary idiom.
For a fair sampling of rural life the
Webbs produce (with some laudable
exceptions) such specimens as the young
squire of Yabtree, whose “occupation was
nil and only recreations whisky, tobacco
and a mild attempt to keep racehorses”,
while supporting with the produce of
23,000 sheep, cared for by others, his
“good-natured vulgar little Melbourne
girl” wife and their four “common-
looking children”.
All in all, Australia seems to have
been a place full of dreadful people in
the days when our wild men were ceas-
ing to be wild. All the good in it.
centred in Adelaide’s neat primness, the
Victorian Wages Boards and the “fjords
of this exquisite harbor” of Sydney.
These they saw from a steamer in
the company with a George Reid, who
lied to them like a drain about the rela-
tions of his government with Labor while
he ate sweets; with his wife
“a somewhat uninteresting, flashy middle-
aged woman”—and with that “common,
witty Israelite”, Sir Julian Salomons.
But apart from beauty, they relished
other features of the Australian scene,
such as the “laugh of appalling noisi-
ness”, which distinguished Norman
Lindsay’s co-citizen, the Victorian Chief
Secretary, Sir Alec Peacock. It appears
to be the thing that almost more than
any other social manifestation astonished
them in Australia.
And no wonder.


Today
ASTERS
the new weekly colour
magazine that rivals the
finest art books
This is your opportunity of building up, week by week,
the works of the major painters of the Western World.
Each issue contains SEVENTEEN PAGES of magnificent
colour reproductions in the most generous size. Again,
each issue presents the work of one artist, with a bio-
graphy, notes on the plates, and a critical appreciation by
the highest relevant authority. (See the message from
the Editor, Sir John Rothenstein, below). The Masters
is an important event in publishing. Only by offering
such a series in magazine form with large-scale circulation,
is such value possible.
THE
MASTERS
Great Painters of the
world in full colour
1
Goya
mm
mm
amm
. & >
PUBLI
THE SUPERB COLOUR REPRODUCTIONS ARE ON ART PAPER, SIZE 14" x 10J", BRINGING OUT EVERY DETAIL.
j*Vf-
0^
■
• 'V*
, t*v "a-,
!2i* v <ai •G'‘V’ r >3i
A
1
A message from
Professor J. Burke
Professor of Fine Arts, University of Melbourne.
In The Masters series fine colour reproduc*
tions are published with texts by the most
famous art historians and scholars of our
time. This is a unique opportunity for a
wider public to be guided to an understand'
ing and appreciation of the great master*
pieces of artists both past and present.
A message from
Sir John Rothenstein, c.b.e., ph.d.. ll.d.
Rector of the University of St. Andrew’s; and until 1964
Director of the Tate Gallery for 26 years.
I regard this venture as a logical continuation of one of
my main aims as a director of art galleries, namely to
make serious art enjoyed and understood by an ever
wider public.
Each issue is an independent work but as a whole The
Masters constitutes a series that will cover the work of
a large number of the major painters of the world.
Each week a different painter
The first volume of ten issues includes Goya, Vermeer,
Canaletto, Botticelli, Hals, Blake, Poussin, Toulouse'Lautrec,
El Greco, Tiepolo . . . The sequence is designed to avoid any
academic groupings into “schools” or
periods.
Handsome Gold - embossed
Box - binder HALF PRICE
Details of this special offer are inside
Number One issue of THE MASTERS
P5B/50
Judge the Masters by the first issue
Francisco Goya is the subject of the first issue. The author of the text
is Lawrence Gowing, Keeper of the British School Collection, the Tate
Gallery, whose study reveals the man as well as the artist.
This issue, in common with future issues of The Masters, contains two
pages of factual notes on the illustrations giving the size, medium,
whereabouts and other information about the originals.
Every week from your newsagent
THE MASTERS 95c
Wholesale Distributors: Gordon and Gotch (A/sia) Limited


WRITING IN
THE SIXTIES
Conflicts in the Caribbean
By DEREK WALCOTT
pHANGE in West Indian literature is
as imperceptible as the alteration
of our two seasons. Only those who live
here can read the signs. The ’sixties, for
example, appear to be a period of
drought for a few of our more prolific
novelists, from whom we were used to
expect a novel a year. John Hearne, a
Jamaican, who published four books in
the ’fifties: “Voices Under The Win-
dow”, “Stranger At The Gate”, “The
Faces Of Love” and “The Autumn Equi-
nox”, has produced only one other novel,
“Land Of The Living” (1961). There
has been nothing since “The Leopard”,
a violent fable about the Mau-Mau re-
volt, from another important Jamaican
writer, V. S. Reid, although an extract
from a novel in progress, ’’Requiem For
Dan’l Moore”, was printed in a Canadian
magazine some years ago.
George Lamming, the Barbadian
novelist whose first book, “In The Castle
Of My Skin”, was quickly followed by
three more novels and a book-length
essay, “The Pleasures Of Exile”, has pub-
lished nothing for the last four years.
Samuel Selvon’s productivity also appears
to have diminished. But to claim that
these novelists,, all j>f whom are now
entering middle age, a period of con-
servation and change for every artist,
represent a drying-up of the springs of
the West Indian creative will would be
as premature as it is to divide a twenty-
year-old literature into decades.
A writer’s yield cannot be measured
in agricultural terms, but the seasonal
rhythm to which these writers themselves
conditioned us is proof of the whole
archipelago’s creative energy. Measured
strictly in output the record is pheno-
menal. In an area of three million
there must now be nearly two hundred
novels by twenty different novelists,
their average age about thirty, with a
score more waiting to be published, and
only three poets published so far over
two decades. This evidence annihilates
the benign and condescending opinion of
one English critic that the West Indies
is an area of “quickly flowering, quickly
dying” talent. Lushness, even over-pro-
ductivity, are more appropriate meta-
phors. Edgar Mittelholzer produced
nearly twenty books. V. S. Naipaul,
now in his early thirties, has already
published four novels and two travel
books. The most important writer to
emerge in the ’sixties, Wilson Harris, has
recently completed his “Guyana Quar-
Mr Walcott, the celebrated West Indian
Poet and critic, is the author of “In a Green
Night’’ and “The Castaway” (Cape).
tet”, one volume of which appeared
annually. His fifth novel, “The Eye Of
The Scarecrow”, appeared last autumn.
In the ’fifties the great catch-phrase
was “the search for identity”, national
or personal. On the public level the
search has become widely, if not too
carefully, organised by the new indepen-
dent governments, who so far have
turned up nothing newer than the folk-
song, the calypso, the folk-tale, the folk-
dance, the proverb and the steel band.
What was once considered exploration
is now laurelled as tradition. What was
charming, tentative and fading has been
given political authority. All of this
endeavor is easily satirised, but in art
it has produced honest and painful works
like V. S. Naipaul’s two travel books,
“The Middle Passage”, a lacerating
analysis of the West Indies, and “An
Area Of Darkness”, an anguished auto-
biographical report of his “return home”
to India.
The search has been mythologised by
“The Guyana Quartet”, a tortured prose-
poem riddled with literary and philo-
This is the second of a series of articles on
contemporary literature, to be 'contributed by
various critics.
sophical symbols whose uniting motif is
The Quest. Harris’s is a private land-
scape, a veiled apotheosised Guyana
peered at through surrealistic hallucina-
tions in which river, savannah and forest
become epic metaphors. The worst
passages in the “Quartet” are irritatingly
tangled and inchoate, but every volume
has a disturbing power. * Its ambition,
like Guyana’s “destiny”, is continental in
scope, and it suggests that Harris
identifies his work with mainland writers,
with a hermetic writer like Borges, and
with the Latin imagination of a writer
like Alejo Carpentier. It is a significant
change from that conservation of the
realist, nineteenth-century tradition which
the average West Indian novel represents.
The West Indian writer has always
identified his work as being contributory
to the mainstream of English literature
and, not only because of the language-
barrier, he has paid little attention to
writers who share or have shared his
history, landscape and experience in
Haiti, Cuba, Martinique and South
America. Poets like St John-Perse (born
in Guadeloupe) and Aime Cesaire (born
in Martinique) are not read widely and,
if they are, are considered different. The
West Indian novel is not preoccupied
with structural experiment or, except in
passages of dialogue or comic first-person
narration, with organic exploration of
language. There is perhaps only one
worthwhile short story in the dialect
whose content is tragic, John Hearne’s
“At The Stelling”, although playwrights
have been producing dialect tragedies
since the mid-’fifties. In an interesting
essay entitled “Tradition And The West
Indian Novel”, Harris has expressed his
dissatisfaction with the Realists of the
’fifties, with Hearne, Naipaul and even
Lamming.
Conservatism, or the perpetuating of
an inherited tradition, is at the heart of
West Indian literature, and this con-
servatism, because its historical and
traditional background is different, has
survived brief, malarial flushes of
enthusiasm for such literary ideas as
“negritude”. Even a relentless “experi-
menter” like Mittelholzer, who tried to
relate modes of music to his fiction by
use of the lietmotif, and who used objects
as narrative links long before Butor or
Robbe-Grillet, was basically a tradition-
alist. The finest West Indian novel so
far, V. S. Naipaul’s “A House For Mr
Biswas”, is Victorian in weight, range
and structure. Lesser writers, and those
news novelists of the ’sixties like Michael
Anthony, Earl Lovelace, Ismith Khan
and Orlando Patterson, who have fol-
lowed the direction made by the novelists
of the ’fifties, tend to learn from romantic
naturalists like Hemingway, Steinbeck
and Saroyan. The West Indian short
story, to judge from the two anthologies
published in the ’sixties under the editor-
ship of Andrew Salkey, remains “classic”
in outline and straight-forward in address.
In an area where the folk-element is
still strong, pervading daily life in
language and celebration and not yet
formulated in art, it may be futile to
want an avant-garde. The West Indian
is still trying to make something shapely
from his cultural schizophrenia.
If the ’sixties can be described as a
period, as poet John Figueroa describes
it, it is of consolidation, as the academic
and also a period of profound transition,
one that may account for the seasonal
silence of the writers cited above. It has
already produced books whose reality is
more necessary now than our traditional
fiction: C. L. R. James’s “Beyond A Boun-
dary”, “The Middle Passage”, “An Area
Of Darkness”, works which are part of
the West Indian’s tormented, tortuous
process of self-definition, whether they
assume the detached surgical manner of
Hearne and Naipaul or the prophetic,
mystical style of Lamming and Wilson
Harris. The season of adventure is still
here.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Who Owns a Company?
¥>EOPLE’S capitalism hit Australia in a big way six years ago. Corporate socialism
arrived here last week.
The implications of its arrival are
far-reaching even more so than those
of the popular spread of company owner-
ship that came when everyone discovered
the stockmarket in 1959-60 and became
a little capitalist. For corporate socialism
has wiped them all aside once again.
According to the new dogma you have
to be more than a shareholder to be a
part-owner of a company, as companies
these days have more responsibilities to
society, to the State, than to their share-
holders.
The new dogma was introduced by two
notable Liberals, Sir lan Potter and Sir
Garfield Barwick, beforj one of the most
impressive gatherings of Australian
businessmen assembled under the one
roof at the Institute of Directors Con-
ference in Sydney. There were no objec-
tions.
The significant thing about the new
dogma is not simply that it is right (that
is self-evident despite the complaints of
the Shareholders’ Associations) but that
it should have been stated the way it was
by the people who asserted it last week.
Sir lan Potter accepts, apparently with-
out any real worry about the fact, that
the company is not merely the form
taken by a collection of shareholders (or
owners) and that it is, in reality, a
separate entity from its shareholders.
This is a concept that has been getting
some solid backing even in the courts
overseas.
Sir lan made the point apparently to
establish quite clearly that his friends
on the BHP board were doing the right
thing when they considered the public
interest ahead of shareholders’ desires in
rejecting Mr Albert Shepherd’s Oliver
Twist-ish demands last year for more of
everything. To Sir lan, the implications
were that, given the separation of com-
panies from shareholders, then we must
accept that profits earned by companies
belong in the first place to the company
itself.
Sir lan’s line of argument stopped
short of its conclusion. For he did not
go on to the question of who owns com-
panies if their shareholders don’t. Sir
lan switched off to a discussion of what
sort of people should be directors, pro-
fessionals or executives, that took all the
newspaper headlines. But with Sir lan
stressing the company has a duty to the
community and itself (note the order) as
well as to shareholders, and with Sir
Garfield Barwick reminding directors of
their social and ethical obligations, the
message came through that, apart from
the mechanics of it all, there may not
be all that much difference between the
way socialists would run companies and
the way responsible managerial-class,
non-owning directors would run them.
Where this leaves the shareholder is an
important question to those who are
providing the funds company manage-
ments need for development. As these
come more and more from institutional
shareholders anyway, perhaps the ques-
tion is becoming less important as time
goes by. In any event, shareholders buy
shares to “make a quid”, not to become
part-owners of an Australian enterprise
no matter what the unit trust or stock
exchange advertisements say.
No matter how shocking the comments
from Sir lan about the position of share-
holders in a company may sound, it is
about time more directors admitted that
they did not regard shareholders as
owners of their companies and about
time shareholders faced up to the fact.
Yet if shareholders are not the real
owners of a company, who is? Not the
managements, surely. They are only in
charge of its operations and have to dis-
charge their responsibilities not only to
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: Adherents of monetary
stimulus, especially to re-invigorate lagging areas of
consumer spending, were citing some of the latest
statistics last week. These, and perhaps Labor’s very
positive win in the Dawson by-election, may tend to
lessen the Federal Government’s seemingly bland
cheerfulness . . . Most -notice could be taken of a
slow-down in the Gross National Product during the
December quarter. It moved ahead (in money terms)
only 4 p.c. on the corresponding 1964 quarter, after
an 8 p.c. advance for the September quarter and 11
p.c. for the full 1964-65 year. Indeed, in real terms,
December’s GNP was at a standstill; significantly,
both imports and personal consumption spending
slackened . . . Building approvals for houses and flats
dropped by 20 p.c. in January (against January,
1965), slipping most in NSW . . . January’s production
figures showed patchy variations pig iron and steel
output went up; bricks fell back while Portland cement
increased; refrigerators, washing machines, radio and
television sets carried on their familiar tumble; motor
bodies, down heavily, reflected unsettlement.
For the markets: Australian stock exchanges
gave a rather haphazard performance last week. A
few days of widely spread retreat, involving leaders
as well as the previously favored metals, were followed
by a drab firming towards the end. More notice is
obviously being taken of an inevitable drought hang-
over. There must also be a careful selection from
among the interim reports; many of them are very
far from negative in tone, yet there’s clearly a tinge
of caution and much worrying about costs ... At
somewhat long last London has decided to pay real
attention to a few adverse factors. After riding out
poor trade figures, the uneasy sterling position did
manage to seep into the markets. This, together with
general election uncertainties (Mr Wilson is now
expected to plump for March 31), produced obvious
selling of equities and gilt-edged. Individual falls are
not particularly large, but carefulness, for the first time
in weeks, outweighs keenness . . . Wall Street repeated
its concern, with a fine pile of problems nagging at
investors inflation still, Vietnam more prominently,
interest rates and credit conditions. Friday at least saw
some upturn.
For companies : The King Charles’ head of a
local Securities and Exchange Commission has raised
itself again, but the chairman of Sydney Stock Ex-
change, Mr A. H. Urquhart, assured security analysts
“we already have a reasonable solution in the status
quo ” . . . Debenture holders of Reid Murray may
receive a first distribution soon; receivers are talking
about a 10-year wait before final resolution . . . Con-
sumer withdrawal or no, two leading retailers, Grace


cep
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March, 1950.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7
/0
4,6 or 10 YEARS
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in, the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
• mmmm mmmm mmmm mmmm mmmm mmmmm m
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
B 815
NAME
ADDRESS -
21828
shareholders but also to the public, or,
as the socialists might say, to the State.
The big question is where does it leave
capitalism? Perhaps the two Liberal
Socialist knights do have an answer some-
where. It would be worth knowing.
The Gympie Line
Tf develop the north was last week’s
cry, develop the south looks like a
good one for this week.
Water shortages are imperilling the
output of copper from Broken Hill
South’s Cobar mine; the drought over
large areas of western NSW shows little
sign of lifting; tighter official control of
river waters is on the way.
Residents of Nyngan, Cobar and
Bourke will thus be pleased to note that
Professor C. H. Munro, honorary re-
search director of the Water Research
Foundation of Australia, chose this time
to advocate a “Gympie Line” (on the
analogy of the war-time Brisbane Line
of ill-repute), dividing “neglected” Aus-
tralia from “developed” Australia.
The drought should have made it a
truism that all Australia’s water resource
difficulties be considered as one national
problem.. Nevertheless, some of Professor
Munro’s general points, favoring “the
North”, must be given attention.
He does not find it hard to demon-
strate, for instance, that the limit of
river regulation is being approached in
“the South”. Analysing uncommitted
water resources, it then follows that
“Northern Australia is richly endowed
with water resources and is the only part
of Australia where major further devel-
opment is possible”.
The cost-effectiveness argument is
well used by Professor Munro: “In the
early stages of regulation of a river
system the cost per acre feet of yield
per annum is relatively low, but when
a high degree of regulation has already
been reached, as is now the case
in most of southern Australia, each
additional reliable annual yield from
additional storage becomes relatively ex-
pensive.”
No Mushroom Cloud
/Competition from imports is mush-
rooming—in the mushroom business.
So large have imports become that the
Australian Mushroom Growers’ Associa-
tion (and some of the local canning
companies) recently asked Mr McEwen
for protection, particularly against dried
mushrooms from Taiwan.
But the seasoned Minister for Trade
and Industry was not satisfied the local
mushroom industry (canning 7m. lb a
year valued at $2.5m. and selling 3m. lb
of fresh mushrooms worth $1.2m.) was
in imminent danger. He reassured the
growers that if there was such evidence
he would refer the case to the Tariff
Board, or, if urgent, to a Special Ad-
visory Authority. The growers went
away reassured.
Growers sell more than twice as many
Bros and Waltons, had no trouble in more than holding
their own; Grace Bros speaks of “a pleasing pattern
of group development”, which includes Roselands;
Waltons is happy about its Melbourne expansion . . .
Building company results looked very mixed. John
Mcllwraith, on marginally lower sales, suffered a 17 p.c.
profit decline, although directors don’t expect dividends
to be affected. Some hundreds of thousands of shares
were placed off the market recently. Contractor
Paynter and 'Dixon blithely raised interim dividend
after a buoyant half-year and plenty of work in hand.
Materials supplier PGH Industries sold less plywood
everywhere and fewer bricks in South Australia . . .
A. H. URQUHART
Chairman, Sydney Stock
Exchange
R. G. C. PARRY-OKEDEN
Chairman, John Lysoght
John Lysaght caught it from both drought and imports,
so sales dropped 4.6 p.c. to drag profit back a heavy
16 p.c.; the year’s 11 p.c. dividend remains well
covered . . . Financier lAC (Holdings) followed the
pattern by lifting profit distinctly on small outstandings
growth. Mercantile Credits, in contrast, bettered
volumes and profit . . . Wide diversification could not
help Larke Consolidated, motor distributor and
engineer; directors look hopefully towards local
assembly of overseas vehicles . . . Veteran W. R.
Carpenter held group sales “at much the same level”
. . . Old-timer Henry Jones “needs to be well in funds
to be sure of its ability to be reasonably self-support-
ing”.


J*
V-
£
is::::
m
\ '
a
.
111
gun
t.
■■ ;■':
> i , ' -o< >
:■
:
at
wo
you
ca
self ad h esivepressu rose
It sounds ridiculous, but frankly, we’re looking for a name to
describe Avery Labels. Some people call them self-adhesive . . .
... others refer to them as pressure-sensitive, or self-sticking.
In point of fact, all are quite correct, but don’t-go far enough.
For instance: <
Avery labels require no moisture or glue to stick down □ Avery
labels are applied with just the lightest pressure of the finger
□ Avery labels can be stuck on wood, glass, paper, plastics,
metal or any clean smooth surface □ Avery labels are made of
paper, foil, acetate or cloth □ Avery labels are made in two types
PERMAGRIP for permanent adhesion and KUM-KLEEN
for temporary adhesion.
Avery labels are manufactured in Australia under franchise by:
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 Union Street. Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 5607177
W. J. CRYER (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
30 Cotham Road, Kew, Vic. 86 7911
HJ
|©|
alh
Please send me free samples and full information on Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kum Kleen labels.
COMPANY
NAME
B 5/3/'66
ADDRESS
mushrooms to food processors as to
the public. Mushroom canning is quite
a big business as growers supply mush-
rooms, usually under contract, to Edgell
(a subsidiary of Petersville Aust.), which
also grows mushrooms on its own farms,
to Big Sister, IXL (Henry Jones), and
Pick-Me-Up Food Products (Mauri Bros,
and Thomson) which can them as sliced
or whole mushrooms. Mushroom soup
is canned by Heinz, Rosella (Unilever),
and Campbells, and packeted under the
Continental label by Unilever and Maggi
by Nestles. The latest market for mush-
rooms is in gravy: Klembro Pty Ltd of
Melbourne sells it under the Gravox label
in a packet, and Campbells cans gravy
under the Bounty brand. Heinz also puts
out a canned mushroom sauce.
The mushroom processors have really
faced little serious competition from im-
ports, which include canned mushrooms
au naturel from Tngland and cham-
pignons from France, packet mushroom-
soup from Switzerland and packet mush-
room-gravy from California all ex-
pensive compared with local brands. But
the growers who complain about dried
mushrooms from Taiwan do not produce
a similar item. Mushrooms are 90 p.c.
water; so, too, is the case for local
growers.
Mixture As Before
T ike his namesake’s dictionary, Sir
Robert Webster’s John Storey
Memorial Lecture, “Management’s
creative task the problems of growth
and technological change”, traversed a
tremendous area and said nothing new.
When will our business leaders,
academics and other pundits discover
that the mere re-telling, time and time
again, of the “revolutionary” problems
facing Australia gets nowhere without
an attempt at locally applicable sol-
utions? The solutions may be tentative
and debatable, yet they would at least
avoid the divine commonplace of state-
ments such as “We must watch for the
type of evolutionary changes which have
always been with us but which are now
coming at an accelerated pace and
watch for the ‘break-through’ which
often develops from new discoveries”.
The problems of planning, auto-
mation and mechanisation, the com-
puter, fibres and wool, trade and inter-
national competition, transport and
distribution, decentralisation, the role of
government all these passed under Sir
Robert’s survey. Most received the kind
of comment which has been uttered
dozens of times before.
And the conclusion of it all? “Many
of the current ideas on management and
the principles of management may no
longer apply.” (Our italics.)


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
30/
/o
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures accepted only on the form
referred to in and attached to the printed prospectus
which is available from:
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
BRANCHES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
m
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
MA.226.NSW
The Economic Critic’s Art
Bagehot and Syme set scorching pace
By CROESUS
rTHAMK goodness the arts of economic interpretation, advocacy and prophecy have
never been anybody’s close monopoly in this country. Jack’s stabs at them have
always been treated as seriously as his master’s; the Treasury’s as good as Trade’s,
and “The Bulletin’s” . . .?
Undoubtedly these arts have bloomed
in recent years. With the appearance of
new biographies of David Syme and
Walter Bagehot, who were in their pro-
fessional prime as economic journalists
a century ago, it is interesting to reflect
that even in those days there was very
lively competition in the field and journ-
alists, far from holding their punches,
were in the thick of the fray of public
life.
Although, in his “David Syme A
Life”, C. E. Sayers reveals his man as
we have always thought of him, a tre-
mendous campaigner for certain eco-
nomic and political causes, it is some-
thing of a let-down to learn from him
that the public fire Syme breathed on his
three main themes—land for the people,
protection for native industries and full
rights of self-government was not
born from inner conviction. He tells us
bluntly that “David Syme’s sponsoring
of public policies was primarily oppor-
tunist. Convictions he had, but these were
induced as part of his profession and
were not the guiding lights of a burning
faith”.
In other words, what Sayers is say-
ing is that for a good forty years or
more in the latter half of last century
the Melbourne “Age” (on economic
subjects, at any rate) was running a
series of campaigns aimed primarily to
speed the flow of copy and stimulate
circulation. Although I find this hard to
believe, and can only take his word for
it, I doubt very much whether any eco-
nomic critic would survive very long in
a national newspaper in Australia today
if it got around that he was cooking up
his themes and views simply to further
these objects of his proprietors.
We know of one case in recent years
where an editor attempted to project his
own political views too strongly in the
pages of an avowedly financial journal
and managed to get away with it for a
long time. Quite a feat these days,
although only small cheese compared
with Syme’s. If any reputable economic
journalists run campaigns for their pro-
prietors these days they are the excep-
tion not the rule; frankly, one doesn’t
know of any. On the other hand, this
new book on Syme’s activities might
easily rekindle the suspicion that some
might still do this, which is, of course,
quite different from them taking their
own line on questions from an objective
viewpoint.
In Norman St. lohn-Stevas’ short
biography of Bagehot in the first volume
of the latter’s collected works recently
published by the “Economist”, it is not
openly suggested that Bagehot used the
pages of the “Economist” to run political
campaigns when he took over the paper’s
editorship just over a hundred years ago.
In this biography, St lohn-Stevas tells
us Bagehot wrote two, at least, articles
for the “Economist” every week for
about sixteen years when he was editor.
It seems he stuck pretty closely to finance
and economic subjects. He always wrote
the article on the money market which,
in those days, but not these, was regarded
with hallowed reverence in the City, as
it touched the mainspring of the eco-
nomic timepiece.
Even so, Bagehot was as much a tour
de force in political circles as he was in
the literary and business worlds of the
day, and this in an era when the question
of free trade was as much in the lime-
light as it was Melbourne, with the
“Economist” writing articles as strongly
dedicated to it as those of Syme were in
attack. In its strong defence of free
trade the “Economist” was in fact prob-
ably just as guilty of political campaign-
ing as Syme was in his strong attacks on
it. Indeed, practically everything an eco-
nomic critic touches on, particularly
these days, has a political bearing. The
dividing line between partial and dis-
interested approaches to economic
questions gets thinner every day. We
can’t help being partly politically tainted.
It does seem from both these biogra-
phies, however, that economic journal-
ists, both here and in Britain, had a
greater capacity for personal involve-
ment in the affairs of the day than they
have now. Bagehot’s successors at the
“Economist”, like Francis Hirst and
Hartley Withers, were not quite as lively
in political society as he was, yet they
certainly got about, as did Lord Layton
(more famous, perhaps, as Sir Walter,
editor from 1922 to 1936), who died
recently, and Sir Geoffrey Crowther (on
whose staff I was for five years or so).
All these people tended to live more
closely with the situations they were
writing about than writers in recent years,
though admittedly the London tradition
of financial journalists centring on a
tight clique in the Reform Club still
persists. The political atmosphere is still
pretty thick around there and the “Eco-
nomist” lives just around the corner.
Syme, of course, was in the full stream
of political society and so were some of
his staff. Unlike Bagehot (who failed in


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Ik
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
Ik
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
PER AWMUM 2 YEARS
6*
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
7!z
PER ANNUM 9 AND 10 YEARS
51%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
4h
PER ANNUM 3 MONfHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form referred
to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter &■ Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambler.
NIN.2
HELP
ail the year round
several elections), he never essayed to a
seat in Parliament, but some of the
“Age's” staff did successfully. Five of
them contested the elections for Vic-
toria’s first Legislative Assembly in 1856.
All were elected, including David Syme’s
brother, Ebenezer, who preceded him as
editor but died at the early age of 34
in 1859. Sayers says this “was a joyous
time for newspaper editors and
reporters”. We can well believe him.
One cannot imagine a working eco-
nomic journalist holding down both a
seat in Parliament and his job these days.
Perhaps this is a great pity. On the
other hand, eschewing the hustings,
economic writers now have the better
chance of achieving objectivity, which
they did not have to pretend to in Vic-
toria a century ago.
For all that we probably lose much in
not being more in the thick of politics,
as political correspondents try to be but
with mixed success in this country. It
would not be all that easy. For one thing,
like most other people we have to stick
pretty close to our telephones, which, of
course, didn’t bother Bagehot or Syme
in the 1860 s. Also the business and com-
mercial worlds which are our main con-
cern have grown infinitely bigger and
more complex than in Syme’s day. We
have public relations people to parry,
and so on.
This does not stop one marvelling at
what the likes -of Syme and Bagehot
managed to achieve. Their capacities
were prodigious in all the diverse direc-
tions in which their talents were employed.
Neither came into journalism with strict
professional training. The most Syme had
was a short spell as a poorly paid proof-
reader on a Glasgow paper, which he
left for the lure of the goldfields of
California and Australia. He found
subsequent employment as a road and
bridge contractor, from which he joined
his brother Ebenezer as partner in the
“Age” in 1856. In his turn Bagehot
twisted and turned in the law, banking
and freelance writing before stepping
into the shoes of the founder of the
“Economist”, James Wilson (his father-
in-law), in 1860.
THhe eight volumes (being published by
A the “Economist”) comprising the col-
lected works of Walter Bagehot, two of
which have reached me, are adequate
testimony in themselves to the literary
achievements of this man who, above
all things, in his span of only 51 years
was a working economic journalist whose
writings in the “Economist” and counsels
to Cabinet Ministers and the City had a
crucial influence on the contemporary
scene in his time. His range was tremen-
dous. In the sixteen years when he was
doing those two (at least) articles every
week for the “Economist” he somehow
managed to write classics like “The
English Constitution”, “Lombard Street”
and “Physics and Politics”, not to speak
of managing the “Economist” practically
on his own, directing the London branch
of a country bank, and, for good
measure, inventing Treasury bills and
standing (unsuccessfully) several times
for the House of Commons.
Admittedly David Syme couldn’t
match this impressive catalogue of extra-
mural activities. But considering he was
editor of a daily, whereas Bagehot’s
medium was a more leisurely weekly, he
did pretty well to write four big volumes
on a variety of deep subjects and make
large slices of the Yarra Valley and the
Mornington Peninsula his own.


SELLING GOODS
BY THE TRUCKLOAD
IS NO HEADACHE
WHEN YOU
SELL THROUGH
GTV-9
--
IUAi-
N OUS 2
m
■
W&
II
OL
PTr
:
I d
w
-tflfij*** E*
■
■****':
/
isir
-**
smmm
-, ss« v«
■ ■
; I
The photograph above shows the biggest ever single order of
ALKA-SELTZER being delivered to the SSW grocery chain ware-
house. □ Miles Laboratories, makers of ALKA-SELTZER, are staunch
believers in the selling power of GTV-9, particularly its famous
“live” feature IMT, and have been using this channel fora longtime
to build their product's share of a very competitive market. The
results have been very pleasing indeed (refer again to “very pleas-
ing” photograph above). □ If you want to sell BIG, buy time with
Channel 9.
9
Alka-Seltzer


“In this period of great optimism about Australian minerals, the
The Boom in Mining Shares
Is the end in sight?
market for Australian mining
shares may have become a bit too
smug. Buoyed up by high world prices,
mining stocks in general, except gold,
have bounded along at the top of a boom
for a couple of years. But the end of
the boom is nigh, at least for some of
the major metals, according to a detailed
study, “Investment in Australian Mineral
Resources”, by the leading Sydney
broking house of Ord, Minnett, T. J.
Thompson and Partners.
In the world metals trade, copper faces
overcapacity by next year, lead by the
year after, zinc is already in excess
supply and prices are expected to fall,
gold production in Australia is expected
to continue falling, there are no price
rises likely for silver and, although coal
exports are expected to rise, local usage
could fall. Only for tin, iron ore and
beach sands does the broking house
present a completely bright picture.
It is not just as a Jeremiah that the
broking house wags its finger at the
market and says, “In this period of great
optimism about the investment potential
of Australian minerals, it is opportune
to call attention to the fact that the risk
factor remains.” In its study, issued this
week, the broking house warns investors
that “the greatest risk in mineral invest-
ment today involves the possibility of
surplus mine capacity recurring from
time to time, either from the need to
maintain world production slightly ahead
of demand or from too optimistic an
estimate of the near-term market
potential”.
The broker clearly infers that prices
for some of the traditional leading stocks
in the copper and lead-zinc-silver in-
dustries may have been over-bulled
and possibly the same could go for a
few coal stocks as so many Australian
stockbrokers have got their clients onto
the metals bandwagon too late.
The study also shows, however, that
the better copper miners here face a
good future, as production rises will
more than offset price falls. In any
event, for the time being, prices seem
likely to remain at high levels until there
is an easing of the political crisis in
Rhodesia, or a reduction in the level of
US industrial output which has un-
doubtedly been expanded by the record
level of defence spending. During 1966
output could be materially reduced by
strikes and political instability in the
Congo, Chile and Peru; production
estimates for this year are therefore very
vague.
If prices should stay high in the short
term, they could still fall eventually as
long-term plans greatly to increase copper
production (particularly in the USA,
Canada, Zambia and Australia) may-be
expected to provide excess production
capacity early in 1967 and continuing
through to 1970.
During the next five years Australian
copper output will rise by more than
100 per cent above the 100,000 tons a
year level which has prevailed for the
last five years or so. This will be due
mainly to an increase in production at
Mt Isa from 75,000 tons a year to
170,000 tons; at Mt Lyell from 13,000
tons to 15,000 tons and v at Cobar from
nothing to a rate of 20,000 tons during
this year (provided, of course, production
is not affected by the drought).
According to the broker, the outlook
for lead prices over the three years to
1968 cannot be viewed optimistically
when seen against the projected increases
in world production and compared with
anticipated consumption. The US defence
contribution in South-East Asia has been
a major factor in maintaining a relatively
firm lead market over the past six
months. Recent high prices have stimu-
lated the opening of significant new mine
capacity, particularly in the USA, Aus-
tralia, Canada and Ireland. Production
capacity may be expected to be in excess
of consumption by 1968.
00, even though US quotas for lead and
zinc imports have been lifted, there
appears little ground for enthusiasm from
Australian producers as the US will go
a long way towards meeting her own
requirements of these metals by 1968.
The growth rate for world zinc con-
sumption also seems likely to ease during
the next three years, falling from 7.7
p.c. in 1963 and 1964 to only about
4 p.c. It has been estimated that world
production last year of 300,000 tons
provided a surplus of 130,000 tons. So,
despite the expected consumption in-
crease, the market for zinc must become
more competitive, with the corresponding
effect of lower metal prices unless the
war in South-East Asia escalates con-
siderably.
Further rises in the price of silver seem
unlikely (unless caused by hedging opera-
tions against a sterling devaluation),
largely due to the reduction in silver
content of US coins and Australian
ones, too, for that matter.
Lead, zinc and silver appear in
some ore bodies and Australia is the
world’s largest lead producer and third
largest' producer of zinc. Although no
new producing fields have been de-
veloped in Australia over the last decade,
there are expansion plans by Australian
producers which will depend on trends
in world free market prices. New Broken
Hill is proceeding with a major expan-
sion programme to increase annual ore
throughput from 762,000 tons to 1
million tons by 1967 (and its associate
Zinc Corporation is also expanding pro-
duction well ahead of 1964’s 807,000
tons). Mt Isa is also raising its lead-zinc
output substantially above the record
943,000 tons processed two years ago.
For coal, the study expects usage by
the local steel industry to rise by 70 p.c.
to 10 million tons a year by 1974-75,
and by electricity stations by 10 p.c. a
year to reach 11 million tons annually
by 1974-75. But it warns about the
prospect of competition from natural
gas in both these areas and in the supply
of town gas, and points to the general
inroads by oil. On exports, which will
total 60 million tons over the next 13
years from existing contracts alone, the
study warns that these are conditional
on the Japanese steel industry continuing
its buoyant development and that, should
there be a downturn, Australia’s exports
would be seriously affected. It suggests
there should be a continued search for
export markets in other areas.
Australian entry into the world iron
ore trade is of major economic signifi-
cance. It has provided an export market
worth $l4O million a year in five or six
years, with long-term contracts ensuring
a continuing income at least at this level.
All producers are confident of further
increasing their sales to Japan as well
as finding markets in Europe, particularly
through pelletised and pre-reduced ores.
In terms of available iron ore reserves,
Australia has emerged as a major force
and ranks among the five leading pro-
ducers in the world. Yet Australian
equity interests in iron ore are neither
large nor direct as far as the ordinary
investor is concerned. You cannot buy
an iron ore stock as such.
“Free World” tin consumption has
been greater than production for the past
eight years and is expected to keep rising
at an average annual rate of about 4000


TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION ?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project.
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication,
see Wardrope and Carroll first!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O’Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
i
*
x «
¥1
" O Whisky, soul o' play and pranks,
Accept a bardie's gratefu' thanks."
Robert Bums (1759-1796)
°)
And more thanks, still, for the distinctive smooth-
ness and flavour of -
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
risk factor remains”
tons. This shortfall has been met by
sales from the US stockpile, while there
have been increases in production in
some countries but not enough to match
the demand rise. The most outstanding
rate of increase in the last few years has
been in Australia; elsewhere there appears
no indication that production will satisfy
free world consumption. At present rates
of disposal, all US stockpiles currently
declared surplus will be disposed of by
1970.
TTin production in Australia will rise by
A more than 100 p.c. during the five
years to 1970, given reasonable price
stability, due principally to increased
output from present mines and the open-
ing of six major new mines Until an
economic substitute for tin is produced,
tin prices will remain very firm, being
unlikely to fall below $3250 a ton (with
periodic rises above this level should
political crises emerge in major pro-
ducing countries).
Things look good in beach sands, with
the broker saying Australian rutile
miners “should enjoy significantly in-
creased profitability during the next few
years”, while local zircon producers
’’should benefit appreciably from ready
markets at much improved prices”. Spot
prices of rutile should stabilise at around
present levels when production from the
big new deposits in Sierra Leone begins
late this year. The outlook through to
1970 suggests a firm market, which
should certainly be attractive to Aus-
tralian rutile producers.
Substantial expansion of world out-
put of zircon, a by-product of rutile and
ilmenite mining, is expected this year
and next (almost all of which will come
from Australia). Unless demand expands
as fast as it did two years ago, the present
tight supply-demand situation of zircon
could ease. Over the medium and longer
terms a firm demand situation seems
likely to prevail, although zircon prices
may ease slightly from present high
levels. Australia is the world’s largest
producer of rutile and zircon and the
third largest ilmenite producer, provid-
ing about 95 p.c. of the world’s rutile,
75 p.c. of its zircon and 13 p.c. of its
ilmenite on 1964 figures.
Overall, the broker emphasises the
long-term implications of the huge rise
in minerals exports, which he expects by
the end of the decade to go far to a
more or less permanent solution to the
balance-of-payments problem that has
so bedevilled Australia’s rate of growth
since the war. His book ends with de-
tailed statistical analyses and brief back-
ground descriptions of 19 leading listed
Australian mineral companies.


i
v*' -
1C
m
SAFETY
NO NEED to be concerned
over what 'the market' will be
or whether you should have
to dispose of part or all of your investment for
other purposes.
Join the growing number of folk who find that
the St. George & Cronulla Permanent offers
6% p.a. net (current rate) paid twice yearly,
with your Investment plus dividend readily avail-
able for withdrawal. There are NO brokerage
or other deductions.
Assets exceed $l4 million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.
Hurstville, N.S.W Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office. 5
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME
ADDRESS
RBA 786 C
MAN ON THE LAND
A Barrier to Free Trade
Victorian Egg Board attacked
Brothers, of Werribee, Vic-
toria, are said to be the biggest egg
producers in Australia. So when Mr
James Carter, a founder of the firm,
makes one of his rare public utterances,
it seems logical to give his words some
thought.
In his time he has been a member,
chairman and manager of the Victorian
Egg Board. Recently he became a mem-
ber of the Free Traders and Egg Pro-
ducers’ Council.
Even if one is totally uninterested in
poultry farming as such, the principles
involved in the current dispute between
the Egg Board and the Free Traders
should engage the interest of us all.
We have said before, and say it again,
that the way in which the CEMA egg
plan was pushed through Federal Parlia-
ment was disgraceful. Half the House
was absent, and about half those present
amused themselves by making remarks
about “foul” taxes and “eggstraordinary”
measures. Less than half a dozen mem-
bers appeared to be seriously interested.
It was just one of those things to get
done with as quickly as possible.
Mr Carter says that the Victorian Egg
Board has excessively wide powers and
is using them in a manner detrimental
to both the industry and the general
public. The Marketing Act vests the
ownership of all eggs laid in Victoria
with the board. A producer who sells
outside board channels can be sued by
the board for the full value of all his
produce because he is guilty of “fraudu-
lent conversion of the board’s property”.
The Free Traders and Egg Producers’
Council asserts that this amounts to an
infringement of human rights and a
serious barrier to free, competitive trade.
The council seeks establishment of an
appeals board, independent of the VEB,
to hear appeals from producers adversely
affected by VEB policies or actions. (The
fact that there is no such appeals board
is, in itself, alarming.)
According to the council the present
high cost of eggs is partly due to the
high administrative costs of the board.
The council maintains that the packing
and grading charges of the board are
excessive and that the board is becoming
a “competitor of egg producers rather
than a co-ordinator”.
Much of the current unrest is similar
to the recent wool promotion contro-
versy, in that the Free Traders and Egg
Producers’ Council feels that any major
change in the industry including the
CEMA plan should be subject to a
poll of all producers. (CEMA went
through without any poll of producers.)
Mr Carter says that a serious cause
of disagreement between the board and
the council is the issue of producer-agent
licences whereby certain producers are
permitted to sell direct to retail outlets.
The board decides which producers get
licences. The council maintains that any
producer, provided he complies with the
law, is entitled to a licence.
Mr Carter’s views are not going to
change things overnight. The Egg Board
is solidly entrenched behind masses of
legislation. Also working on its behalf
is public indifference. But his strong
support for the Free Traders and Egg
Producers’ Council dispels entirely the
Egg Board attitude that this Free Traders
group is made up of small-time trouble-
makers.
For those not directly concerned with
poultry farming, but concerned with the
farm picture generally, the interesting
thing will be to see how far the Egg
Board can go without causing open revolt
by producers. Wool producers and meat
producers, who market freely but who
are under pressure to create marketing
boards, should take particular note of the
troubles in the egg industry.


tEcucunxxt
perfection
SSv^rrvv'
• \.
'•••;.
Give Your Slides "Paximat Per-
fection” Treatment. For extra col-
our brilliance, superior optical
systems ... coolness and ease of
operation . . . magazine load . . .
reliability and largest range of
lenses to suit you. See your slides
large as life, twice as colourful.
Regular or quartz iodine, projec-
tion lamps. Discriminating people
choose Paximat world’s largest
selling projector.
Paximat Triumph 4 models
Give ample illumination for nor-
mal home use, cool running, pop
free, jam proof operation.
• 300 W model £36.0.0 ($72)
• 12V/100W Cold light £42 ($B4)
• 24/l / 50W (same light as from
the DeLuxe N 24) £47.0.0 ($94)
• or popularly priced Pico 12V/
50W cold light
£29.15.0 ($59.50c)
Paximat DeLuxe N 24
World’s most up to date model . . .
fully automatic . .. variable self timing
device . . . remote control focus . . .
forward and reverse slide change. "Cold
light” 24V, 150 W lamps yield light
output of I,OOOW . . . interchangeable
lens . . . synchronised for tape re-
corder commentary.
• Paximat DeLuxe N 24, £79.10.0 ($159)
• Paximat super N 24, same as DeLuxe,
but without self-timer £73.10.0
($147)
Paximat Electromatic 300 W
The classic automatic model 300 W light
output gives 500 W brilliance. Remote
control focusing and forward and re-
verse slide change .. . interchangeable
2.8 lens attachable to tape recorder.
Only £54.4.0 ($108.40c).
SEE THEM AT ALL LEADING CAMERA DEALERS
FREE Brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTV. LTD.
153 Barkly Street, BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
Tractor Testing to Stop
Primary producers dislike decision
T ike a tractor with a faulty fuel line,
the tractor-testing station at Werri-
bee, in Victoria, seems finally to have
spluttered to a stop. The Australian
Agricultural Council has, with good
reason, decided that the station must
close down. Primary producer organisa-
tions are united, and vociferous, in
demanding that the decision be reversed.
Well, they have the power to remedy
the situation and get the station going
again, simply by agreeing to pay for it.
In all the crocodile tears shed over the
Agricultural Council’s decision, not one
farmer spokesman has mentioned the
feasibility of a small levy on every tractor
sold in Australia.
By our reckoning about one dollar per
tractor would raise enough money to see
the testing station on its way again.
(About 10,000 new tractors a year are
sold in Australia.)
To date the tractor-testing station has
been a spectacular example of misuse of
public moneys. The only people who can
possibly benefit from its operations are
the users of tractors themselves. No one
is likely to disagree with the contention
that the station is worthwhile. The argu-
ment is over who should pay for it.
Originally the manufacturers, with
pretty good reason also, were strongly
opposed to the type of tests conducted
at Werribee. Lately the manufacturers
(and/or assemblers) have looked more
kindly on the idea and appear willing to
provide tractors for testing under con-
ditions acceptable to both manufacturers
and the testing authority.
The Werribee station has been in
operation for 12 years and has tested, in
all that time, about 10 tractors. It has
$50,000 worth of plant and equipment
provided by the Australian taxpayer. It
has a $20,000 test track. It has cost
about $12,000 a year to maintain. This
comes to a grand total of around
$214,000 dollars.
The Australian Agricultural Council
is made up of the Department of Primary
Industry and the Agriculture Depart-
ments of the States. Using funds pro-
vided by the Council the station has been
administered by Melbourne University.
Has it done any good work? Of course
it has. The tests it has completed have
been comprehensive (so much so, accord-
ing to critics, that only a qualified
engineer can understand them). It has, in
addition, performed useful work in
relation to fire hazards and safety.
But its performance, considering the
expenditure involved, has been dismal;
sales figures indicate that the purchasers
of tractors are singularly unimpressed
with test data.
The farmer organisations, exhibiting
marked unity in this issue, are striving
to find a way to salvage the station—
any way, unfortunately other than
accepting the simple rule* that resoonsi-
bility lies wfth the purchaser!
Qne has tn on nln o 'tv. tv. tot •
ior I?* ' TJ 7* m th . e H Mimster
° T Pnmary InduStry ’ Mr Adermann ’
who announced the closure as follows:
The councii cammed pas t an d
probable future costs of the scheme in
the light of available evidence regarding
to the primary producing
, In this exam mation the coun-
Cll hadbefore d a report prepared by
&n - commit .j es previously ap-
Panted by the council The council con-
tduded “a convincing case for con-
i!!U^!on tbe scheme had not been
established and decided to terminate the
agreement as from June 30, 1966 ”


HOW DO YOU MEASURE IT?
In 20th century Australia, oil is a good indicator of
progress. In 1901 when Shell opened its first small
bulk installations at Gore Bay, New South Wales,
Birkenhead, South Australia, and Williamstown, Vic-
toria, there were barely 100 motor vehicles in Aus-
tralia. Annual usage of petroleum products (mainly
lighting kerosene) was a few thousand tons.
Today there are more than 3,500,000 motor vehicles
in Australia and yearly fuel consumption has rocketed
to 15,000,000 tons.
Shell now represents a £150,000,000 capital invest-
ment employing 6,000 people through-
/out Australia engaged in exploration,
manufacturing, distribution and market-
ing and supplying the energy needs of
transport, industry, aviation, agriculture.
Shell in Australia —an organization on the move in a nation taking great strides towards a bigger, better destiny.
PR66/2
AGRISEARCH
Rabbits Are the Worst
Animal pests and sheep
IT ast week in Melbourne, at the sixth
biennial conference of the Austra-
lian Society of Animal Production, Mr
B. V. Fennessy of the CSIRO's Wildlife
Research Section reviewed the impact
of animal pests on the sheep industry.
He said that the rabbit still is the most
serious grazing competitor of livestock
in this country. He recalled that the
reduction of its numbers during 1952-53
by the first onslaught of myxomatosis
resulted in wool production rising by
70 million pounds the following year—
in nice time to catch one of the best
wool markets ever.
Some rare figures indicating the cost
of the rabbit on individual holdings were
then mentioned. For instance, a South
Australian landholder in the 10-inch rain-
fall belt achieved almost complete eradi-
cation of the rabbit from his 20,000
acres in 1956. During the seven-year
period preceding this date the station
had carried an average of 3800 sheep,
but during the following seven years it
carried 4800 and the wool cut per head
rose from 14.4 lb. to 14.7 lb. Yet
seasonal conditions during the second
period had been generally less favorable.
Apart from the destruction of the rabbits
no other change in management or con-
ditions occurred on this property during
the fourteen years of record-keeping.
Another case: on a New South Wales
property myxomatosis annihilated the
rabbits and the wool clip rose to 250
bales. Gradually, however, the rabbits
came back and over a period of six years
the clip fell to 70 bales. By means of a
major poisoning campaign the rabbits
were again removed from this property.
Its wool production has quickly climbed
back, now being up to 208 bales and
still rising.
Unfortunately, in Mr Fennessy’s opin-
ion, myxomatosis cannot be relied upon
to keep the rabbit in check, though the
disease may still kill appreciable numbers
in some districts in some years. Poisoning
with “1080” will have to be widely used
in the future and, in fact, is now being
used on some 23,000 properties through-
out Australia. In this connection, Mr
Fennessy quoted another set of interest-
ing figures to emphasise the importance
of correctly timing a poisoning. A non-
breeding rabbit population was poisoned
in March and a 99 p.c. kill was obtained.
On a nearby area poisoning in Septem-
ber produced a kill of only 84 p.c. By
the following January the rabbits on the
first area had regained 9 p.c. of their
former population strength, but on the
second area in less than half the time
the population had already increased to
28 p.c. of its original size.
Kangaroos probably do not compete
with sheep to the extent that many people
believe. In the first place they don’t eat
as much: the grey kangaroo is now
known to consume slightly less than
half as much as a sheep of average size.
In the second place there is some evi-
dence that kangaroos select different
herbage to eat than do sheep.
Silage Losses
That plastic-covered silage has less
surface waste than soil-covered silage,
which in turn results in less waste than
corrugated iron-covered silage, is, well
known by silage-makers. However, a
quantitative statement of the differences
would help a farmer estimate the econo-
mics of the various choices available in
his particular circumstances. The Ruakura
Agricultural Research Centre in New
Zealand has made some measurements
that may serve as a guide for Australian
farmers.
There, six concrete bunkers were filled


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
m
vssjst
Debenture Stoc/c m
(Second Series)
UP TO
5-10 YEARS
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog*
tiized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial BanK
Of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
L. Underwriters; lan Potter & Co. mm
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
LOOK
A HANDS FREE TELEPHONE
L M ERICSSON’S
&iiccvcx^
LOUDSPEAKING TELEPHONE IS PMG APPROVED
FOR A DEMONSTRATION CONTACT:
WM
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 921147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
QLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
with flail-harvested rye-grass pasture. One
was covered with plastic sheet weighed
down at the edges with soil, another was
provided with a corrugated iron roof,
the next two were covered with five
inches or soil and five inches of sawdust
respectively, the fifth had three inches of
ground limestone over it, and the sixth
was left uncovered. Total loss two years
later from the plastic-covered bunker
was 12 p.c. compared with: no cover
34 p.c., roof 33 p.c., sawdust 30 p.c.,
soil 25 p.c. and limestone 24 p.c.
Two thicknesses of polythene sheet
were tried—five- and two-thousandths of
an inch. Both proved to be equally
effective provided that some extra care
was taken in weighing down the thinner
material, which is much cheaper, costing
only about a penny a square foot. The
fact that losses were about the same
whether the silage was covered with a
waterproof iron roof or left completely
uncovered means that air penetration is
more damaging than water penetration.
The exclusion of air ought, therefore, be
a primary consideration in silage making.
Neither air nor water gets by the plastic
sheet, of course. But even under plastic
losses could be higher than the figure
obtained at Ruakura unless the ensiled
grass is well consolidated before covering.
In the experiment the silage was rolled
for five minutes after each load was
dumped and for a further fifteen minutes
immediately before the covers were put
on. In addition, the quality of the un-
damaged silage from the plastic-covered
bunker was much higher than from any
of the others.
Plastic Twine
"Oritish Ropes Ltd has developed a
new baling twine from polypropy-
lene. It was tested last summer in Eng-
land, where more than a hundred thous-
and bales of hay were tied with it. No
troubles were encountered. In addition,
to prove that the man-made twine was
harmless to livestock, polypropylene in
various physical forms was fed to farm
animals. Non' reacted unfavorably.
This plastic twine, it is claimed, is
rot-proof, resistant to fertilisers and
withstands extreme climatic conditions.
Moreover, it is only half the weight of
the sisal twine now generally used
throughout the world for tying hay and
straw bales. Perhaps its greatest advan-
tages are that its knot strength is un-
varyingly high and that it is free running.
Consequently, it does not choke the
knotter mechanisms of modern baling
machines and breakages are rare. Its
use should allow harvesting to proceed
with fewer costly stops during an oper-
ation when time is often especially
valuable. x


TABULA
an essential aid in
Commerce, Industry and
Educational Establishments!
; w>
Locally made to suit Australian conditions,
"Tabula" educational boards are featured in
•notable installations throughout each State.
"Tabula" is available in an extensive range—
Glass, Hardboard, vertical or horizontal, re-
volving, sliding, magnetic, projection, cork
bulletin boards, flannelgraph, pin-up boards
and many others to suit your exact require-
ments.
We tender realistically and boast a "Unique"
personal service to please you or your client.
For detailed information and/or
demonstration, please write, phone
or call:
UNIQUE HOUSE
SHOWROOMS IN ALL STATES
N.S.W.: 681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt.
Telephone: 56 7313.
A.C.T.: 89 Petrie Street, Canberra.
Telephone: 4 5554.
VIC.: 139 Boundary Road, North Melbourne.
Telephone: 30 1381.
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North
M. J. Hobbs, 1. A. North
J. H. Valder
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle
CASH
for
DEBENTURES
BONDS
HARD TO SELL
or other
SECURITIES.
Write
FINANCIER
P.O. Box 56
Albert Park.
MARKET POINTERS
How to Look at ACI
Importance of the St Regis link
By JASON
HPELLING the market that it is wrong about a company can be one of the most
expensive occupations known to man.
Even if an investor knows he is right,
there is no point in swimming against
the tide; what he has to decide is when
to jump in.
This is exactly the situation in one of
the most perplexing of Australian lead-
ing stocks at the moment the much-
maligned (as an investment) Australian
Consolidated Industries Ltd. There
seems little doubt that right now is the
wrong time to buy these shares; but
there is also little doubt that sooner or
later they should be bought and bought
and bought..
For the stock market does not seem
to have worked out what the significant
new link with the mighty St Regis Paper
Company means to ACI. The facts are
that it means a great deal.
It is not just the very large packaging
sections of ACI that stand to benefit
substantially from the new link with St
Regis, which took place when ACI
bought out the F. W. Williams interest
in St Regis-Williams last year for $lO
million. For, apart from paper, St Regis
has a big stake in plastics and building
materials (particularly Sisalkraft, which
is quite small as a proportion of its US
business but accounts for about three-
quarters of its local operations).
It seems very likely that sooner or
later there could be some closer links
between ACI and St Regis in these two
fields. ACI is strong indeed in both of
them and there could clearly be some
savings in marketing and some benefits
from use of technical skills in closer
co-operation. Yet the main impact of
the closer ties is clearly in paper pack-
aging. This is not simply on the level of
St Regis bringing benefits to ACI, but
of these two companies getting closer
together for their mutual benefit.
When the big kraft paper require-
ments of Sisalkraft (made here by the
jointly-owned St Regis-Williams com-
pany which is soon to change its name
to St Regis-ACI) are added to the very
large kraft and board usage of ACl’s
packaging division, the group emerges as
by far the biggest single customer of
the near-monopolist supplier, Australian
Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
It is no coincidence that St Regis just
happens to be moving into a position
in North America where it will have
large amounts of pulp available for ex-
port, that APM is a large importer of
pulp and is likely to import more and
more. The implications of a big custom-
er of APM’s finished products also
wanting to become a supplier of its raw
materials opens all sorts of interesting
questions about pricing and special
deals. And there is the clear implication
that, with St Regis interests at both ends
of the spectrum, the man in the middle
had better toe the line. After all, St
Regis does have some idea of how to
run paper mills it has 13 of them.
To bring the message home more
clearly to APM, the St Regis-ACI oper-
ation has been appointed the local agent
for St Regis’ pulp. It seems likely that
the links between St Regis and ACI
through the whole gamut of paper pack-
aging may well deepen into direct in-
terest by St Regis in the appropriate
ACI subsidiaries in order to allow for
even greater co-operation than already
appears on the surface.
It is becoming more clear as time
goes by that the ACI purchase of the
F. W. Williams interest in St Regis-
Williams was not simply because ACI
wanted to get into that line of business,
with its sisalkraft, multi-wall sacks
and so on. It was more a means of
getting close to one of the world’s big-
gest paper companies. Judging by the
interest aroused in St Regis by this
move (three senior vice-presidents have
been fluttering around out here for the
past fortnight or so), St Regis Jikes the
idea.
Tt is also evident from the absence of
changes in the top at the joint deals
that St Regis likes the ACI management
in the appropriate sections and
probably likes ACl’s management alto-
gether.
So, despite what the investment
analysts say after looking at the dull
earnings record of recent years, and
despite what the charts say about the
likely downward trend in the company’s
share price, it seems that ACI has an
excellent future, at least in the fast-
growing packaging field. With its new
strength, the prospects of the group
aiming at an even stronger buying
position by takeover cannot be dis-
counted.
According to the chartists ACl’s
shares look due for another slide down


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed $4500,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New Sooth Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
towards the $5 level now that they have
fallen once again below their fateful $6
ceiling. If they do what the chartists ex-
pect, the shares would be excellent value
indeed. It would be worthwhile waiting
to find out.
The current share price weakness is
despite the fact that business is going
well. Directors said in their interim re-
port last month that results to date for
the year to March 31 were ahead of
those for the same period of last year.
The chartists also suggest that there
are so many dissatisfied holders of ACI
who bought them over the last few
years at prices up to about $6.50 that it
would take a major upheaval to get the
shares to break out of this range. St
Regis may well provide that upheaval
later on this year.
Potter on the
Professionals
Ts there anything wrong \Vith the way
British Tobacco, Myers or David
Jones is run? Should the board of the
Bank of NSW or the AMP Society be
changed?
Sir lan Potter thinks so. At last
week’s first annual conference of the
Institute of Directors in Sydney, Sir lan
came out clearly against boards made up
entirely of professional “outsider” direc-
tors or entirely of internal managerial
directors.
Sir lan still wants some outsider direc-
tors on boards in fact he advocates a
major element of the board should come
from people not involved in the day-to-
day operation of the company. But he is
opposed to the trend towards pro-
fessional directors and asserts that
“boards created from purely professional
material must inevitably become uncom-
promising and defensive”.
How “uncompromising and defensive”
is the board of the Bank of NSW? Like
most other banks it has a tradition of
keeping its management off the board.
Who are these professional directors any-
way? What is their record like? Has
their “outside” experience and knowledge
of the outside world been great enough
to protect companies from disaster in
recent years? And what was the com-
position of the boards of the big failure
companies, anyway?
Most professional directors are ac-
countants who add their board-room
activities to the operation of their ac-
countancy practices. There are some ac-
countants whose board memberships
have become so many that they appear to
have preferred to concentrate on them
rather than their profession. But lawyers
are also getting in on the professional
director act, too. Mr Bryan Page was,
until recently, a director of 12 companies;
Mr Fred Millar had seven; Mr Frank
Walsh has nine; and of course the Mel-
bourne “establishment” legal firm of
Hedderwick Fookes and Alston has some
partners as directors in very high places
indeed.
It is the accountants who chalk up the
biggest numbers of directorships. For
example, Mr Raymont Moore has 15
public company directorships and many
private ones; Mr Norman Routley has
10; Sir Alexander Fitzgerald 10; Mr
R. N. Cadwallader 9; Mr A. S. Hawley
8, and so on.
Others in the “professional” class are
Mr C. H. Locke in Sydney, who has 12
major public company boards as well as
being chairman of such a large private
company as ICT Australia; Mr W. Kirk-
hope is on 15 public company boards;
Mr R. C. Wilson on nine; Mr John Darl-
ing on'nine also (evidence of the develop-
ment of the merchant-banking operations
of his group).
There are many directors whose large
list of companies is simply due to the
fact that these belong to a group like
the Capel Court group of investment
companies, or the Development Finance
Corporation group of companies. The
DFC stocks are not owned or managed
by the company, but there is an evident
“stable” of stocks in which the names
of Mr J. H. D. Marks (a director of
14 public companies) and Mr J. W.
Blaiklock (11 directorships) keep appear-
ing on the boards, for example.
There are other directors who have a
remarkable ability to attract disaster. The
appearance of some of their names on a
balance sheet is enough to prompt share-
holders to sell, and one such director,
a Sydney man, is on 11 boards, of which
six are either in real trouble or their
shares are selling under par.
The other end of the Potter spectrum
includes such companies as British
Tobacco, Myers and DJ’s, which have
traditionally been run from inside. They
seem to be doing quite well despite Sir
lan’s inference that their boards could
be dominated by a strong chairman.


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES ($'
million)
Year to June 30
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
3.7
3.4
3.7
3.9
3.3
Current liabilities
3.8
3.7
4.0
4.7
4.2
Negative working
capital
(0.1)
10.3)
(0.3)
(0.8)
(0.9)
Fixed assets
12.7
12.8
12.1
11.5
11.3
Investments (liquid) 3.0
3.6
4.8
5.9
6.4
Other investments
—
—
6,7
6.7
6.7
Intangibles
3.7
3.7
3.7
3.7
3.7
Total capital
Represented by:
19.4
20.1
27.3
27.8
28.1
Negative working
capital
0.1
0.3
.0.3
0.8
0.9
Long term
provisions
0.1
0.1
Preference capita
1 2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
2.0
Ordinary capital
14.8
14.8
20.2
20.2
20.2
Reserves
2.4
2.9
4.8
4.8
5.0
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES
($'000)
Investment income
125
165
196
231
694
Depreciation
946
890
1050
936
966
Tax provided
1720
1540
1642
1750
1687
Pref. dividends
140
140
140
140
140
Earnings
2254
2114
2094
2064
2216
Ordinary dividends
1476
1476
1550
2025
2025
Surplus
778
638
544
39
191
Earning rate p.c.
15.3
14.3
13.5
12.7
10.9
Div. rate p.c.
10.0
10.0
10.0
10.0
10.0
Div. yield p.c. (a)
5.3
4.6
4.5
5.1
6.0-
High price (b)
4.10
4.70
4.80
4.30
3.80
Low price (b)
3.38
4.00
4.10
3.60
2.88
(a) Based on the average of the year's
high and low
prices.
(b) Calendar year.
TEACHER
MASTER IN CHARGE OF CHEMISTRY
A vacancy exists which may be filled at
any time during 1966 for a suitable
qualified and experienced teacher to be-
come the master in charge of chemistry.
Applications describing qualifications, ex-
perience and other interests should be
made in writing to:
The Headmaster, Cranbrook School,
Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Growth Prospects Rather Limited
Australian Newsprint needs price rises
HThe third “paper” company, Australian
Newsprint Mills Holdings Limited,
does not compete in any way with the
other two companies which have been
the subject of the last two articles.
Nevertheless, it is most likely that it is
considered in the same category. One
factor that might justify this approach
is the cost of new plant, for it seems
that per ton of paper produced the cost
is about the same as it is to Associated
Pulp and to APM. The difference lies
in the nature of the markets and the
possible future trends in demand
measured in money terms.
Because of reduced prices for locally
produced newsprint, the interim report
for the first half of the 1965-66 year dis-
closed lower profit than in the previous
corresponding period. An event which
seems to have passed virtually unnoticed
by the market is the recent issue of
1,250,000 ordinary $2 shares to News
Ltd for a consideration of $3.25 million.
At this stage, it is difficult to see how the
company can do more than invest this
sum of money in the same type' of
securities as it has invested the sums
which it has accumulated over the years,
namely Government or semi-government
loans. In this event, these funds will
only add about $115,000 to earnings but
will increase the dividend payout by
$250,000. However, in the next three
years ANM proposes to spend $2B
million to increase its present paper-
making capacity by nearly 80 p.c. No
doubt these funds will then come in
handy.
Currently, ANM’s ordinary $2 shares
are selling at $3.35, at which price the
dividend yield is 6.0 p.c. and the earnings
yield a mere 6.6 p.c. As this earnings
yield is lower than that of BHP, one
must assume that the market has studied
the prospects of future per-share earnings
growth and has decided that it is likely
to be greater than that of BHP. It will
be interesting to see what these future
prospects look like.
Fortunately, considerable information
is given in the annual reports and chair-
man’s addresses and 1 believe that the
following derived ratios are significant:
Year to June 30 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Net profit
before tax
and
depreciation:
(a) As p.c.
sales 33.2 33.2 30.7 32.1 31.5 29.0
(b) As p.c.
"capital" 23.7 22.5 19.8 20.0 20.7 19.6
Sales per
s'ooo of
"capital" $715 675 648 622 658 674
Average selling
price per
ton $l7O 169 164 164 161 160
At the present time, it seems that the
plant is operating at capacity, which
seems to be about 90,000 tons a year,
give or take a few thousand tons. In
other words, ANM cannot increase its
volume very much until its new plant
is installed towards the end of 1968. At
the moment, the company is supplying
about 27 p.c. of local demand and, with
the assumed growth at the low rate of
3 p.c: per annum, the total ANM
capacity in 1969 will be equal to about
40 p.c. of the market. This discussion
of market shares seems rather academic,
because ANM’s customers also own the
company so there should be no difficulty
in selling all the output. The price that
will be obtained is, however, another
matter.
The price at which ANM sells its
produce is the landed cost of Canadian
newsprint. It can be seen that this price
has been falling since 1960 and the slide
has continued in 1965-66, for it appears
that by August, 1965, the price was down
to $l5O per ton. For the purpose of the
exercise, I have taken this latter price
as a basis for calculating the possible
earnings in 1969-70. Sales revenue would
then be $24 million and it would seem
not unreasonable to assume that costs
other than tax and depreciation will rise
in proportion to the new capacity in-
stalled any savings in overheads being
absorbed by rising wage and other costs.
This would mean that net profit before
tax and depreciation would be about
$7.2 million.
The ratio of profit to sales will remain
the same but, because the new plant will
cost so much more than the existing
plant, the return on capital will fall to
about 14.4 p.c. from the current level
of 19.6 p.c.
It seems that ANM will need to raise
about another $l5 million to cover the
cost of the new plant and this can be
done in a number of ways. An equity
issue even at a $3 premium seems un-
likely, because the earning rate would
only be about 9 p.c. after such an issue.
The most likely arrangement is probably
a combination of both equity and fixed
interest, but I propose to assume that
the whole of the $l5 million will be
raised by a fixed interest issue at an
interest cost of, say, $1.2 million (about
7i p.c.). This is probably the least ex-
pensive method of financing, yet the
profit available to the equity capital of
about $22.75 million would only be
$2.15 million afterwards, which is less
than 1964-65 earnings. If the price of
newsprint should rise by 10 p.c. (back to
the 1961-63 level) without any increase
in cost, then earnings could rise to about
$3.5 million or 15.4 p.c. on ordinary
capital.
The growth prospects certainly seem
to be rather limited at this point of time
and the only factor which could really
change the picture would be a change
in the present world trends in the
demand and supply of newsprint.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NEVILLE JACK COX, late of Clontarf
Beach. TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS MYRA
COX has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1572
of 1965 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 6th day of
April, 1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition
and Notice of Petition without charge from
T. G. D. MARSHALL LANDERS & CO.,
Solicitors, of 251 George Street, Sydney, or
HARRIS WHEELER WILLIAMS & McKENZIE,
Solicitors, of 43 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: CLARENCE ROBERT GREEN, late of
Hawthorne and Albert Park, Melbourne, Vic-
toria. TAKE NOTICE that EDITH ISABEL
GREEN has filed a Petition No. 545 of 1966
for dissolution of marriage on the ground of
separation notwithstanding the facts as set
out in a Discretion Statement filed by her.
If you wish to defend or be served with
further process you may file an Answer or
Notice of Address in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 4th day of April, 1966, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
ROBERT LLOYD & SONS, Solicitors, 8a
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
Launceston District Registry.
No. M.C. 64 of 1965.
BETWEEN
EDITH MAY BUTTERWORTH
otherwise known as
DORIS MAY BUTTERWORTH, Petitioner
and
BERTRAM CYRIL BUTTERWORTH,
_ Respondent.
TO: BERTRAM CYRIL BUTTERWORTH
whose last known address was The Glebe,
Hobart, in the State of Tasmania, but whose
present address is unknown. TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been presented to the
abovenamed Supreme Court by EDITH MAY
BUTTER WORTH, otherwise known as DORIS
MAY BUTTERWORTH, of No. 19 Fenton
Street, Devonport, in the State of Tasmania,
instituting proceedings for a decree of dis-
solution of marriage with you on the grounds
of separation, and. also a Notice that you may
file an Answer to the charges in the said
Petition. In default of your so filing an
Answer, you will not be allowed to address
the Court, and the Court will proceed to hear
the said charges proved and pronounce
judgment, your absence notwithstanding AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid, within Twenty-Eight days
after the date of this publication, an Answer
must be filed at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania, Public Buildings,
Franklin Square, Hobart, in the State of Tas-
mania, or at the Launceston District Registry,
Cameron Street, Launceston, in the State of
Tasmania, or a Notice of Address for Service
may be given in accordance with the Matri-
monial Causes Act, 1959. Dated this 11th day
of February, 1966. J. R. EATON, District
itcgistr&r.
Public Notices
Would C. LACHLAN, a swagman, who was in
the vicinity of Warwick, Queensland, in March
or. April, 1949, and the witness to an alleged
Will of JOSEPH ASPINALL of “Dereen”
Warwick, or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate urgently
With QUEENSLAND TRUSTEE LIMITED 395
Queen Street, Brisbane.
TO. DAVID SMITH. TAKE NOTICE that a
Writ of Ejectment No. 12229 of 1965 has been
filed in the Supreme Court of New South
Wales in respect of the property situated at
75 Lurline Street, Katoomba and vou are
commanded to enter in an appearance in
respect thereof otherwise service of the said
Writ of Ejectment shall be deemed to have
tnfV e £ eCt f d „ fro “ fourteen (14) days after
the date of advertisement hereof.
To Office Desks
and Equipment
...$56 Million
A tidy sum for office furniture? We
agree. However, America’s famous
Chase Manhattan Bank, which footed
that bill, was paying for much more
than office desks. It was buying, along
with the filing cabinets and water coolers,
the enormous membership of the Diners’
Club of America. Banks are never reck-
less spenders. They invest only in sound,
solid concerns. In buying The Diners’
Club of America, Chase Manhattan
highlighted the fact that credit buying
is now an accepted part of every day
life.
So far, Chase Manhattan has made no
bid for the Diners’ Club of Australia. If
they did, we wouldn’t sell. Our member-
ship is 20,000 and growing fast as more
and more progressive people realise the
tremendous convenience of Credit Card
buying. Should you be one of them?
Write for details to the Diners’ Club in
any capital city.
“The Bulletin“ Crossword No. 888
ACROSS
I—Poultry for $2.10. (6, 4)
6—Sour on sampling a Spanish hero. (4)
10— Puritan is hiding but not in one of 9-down. (7)
11— A bit of a bounder and Menzies living in a
residential. (7)
12— Macadam utilised this sailor. (3)
13— Skirt offering v cheap beer. (11)
14— Where fliers rest or a wise Greek at Troy. (6)
15— Bird to box and squabble. (7)
19— European train is wrecked. (7)
20— A midget mother? They’re as small as you’ll get. (6)
23 Checks potatoes who help us
to get old jobs back. (11)
25 Frigid. (3)
26 Flora includes this wrecked
beer van. (7)
27 Voices something for Cer-
berus, the rajah’s wife. (7)
29 Inclination to one side or the
other register. (4)
30— Discordant hubbub I men-
tioned before a vessel for a
plant. (10)
DOWN
1— It’s a deadly sin for Anthony
to go after over-supply. (8)
2 Collections of those who lend
matters absorbing to our
minds. (9)
3 Are up for a long time. (3)
A —Glad rags in a magistrate's
court? (6)
s—Mayors and magistrates row
up the non-canoes. (8)
7 Feature on a large country.
(5)
8— Do the Feds name fellows
whose job is to hang around
the works. (6)
9 Feathery material exercises
transport from town where
town drains are out of order.
(4, 6)
13—Farina I cast off has pros-
pered. (10)
16—Start the alternative one some
lubra swallowed. (9)
17— Loin cloth cry of fleeing Pom-
peiians! (4-4)
18— Genteel philogyny. (8)
21— Control the car to the corner?
What nonsense! (6)
22 Thoroughly skilled in the
fourth stanza. (6)
24—One medico is a Welsh hero.
(5)
28—Flautist getting a trenchant
notice from the music critic.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 887


No. of
Name of
Date
Cost
Per
Cur-
Shares
i Company
Bought
Share
Price
400
Pongrass
15/9/65
SI. 10
$1.15
200
VAM
28/9/65
0.50
0.55
1000
L. J. Hooker
24/11/65
0.31
0.35
400
Peko Wallsend
6/12/65
- 1.75
1.90
400
Associated Pulp
5/1/66
1.50
1.55
500
Petersville
13/1/66
0.55
0.60
200
Mt Morgan
13/1/66
2.08
2.30
400
B. J. Ball
2/2/66
0.88
0 95
400
Com. Engineering
3/2/66
1.05
1.20
600
Amah Chemicals
9/2/66
1.21
1.20
200
Western Mining
9/2/66
2.60
2.60
400
Riverina TV
13/2/66
0.74
0.75
400
West. Titanium ctg
13/2/66
1.15
1.15
500
Fire Fighting
24/2/66
0.73
0.73
400
Coal and Allied
24/2/66
1.36
1.37
now..
FOR 4YEARS
OR 6 YEARS
V
V 3
tQr
w
er~
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from—-
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank,
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in N.S.W.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd,
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest & Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
Phones
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 311861
Perth 21 6273
BENEFICIAL
*
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Shares within Buying Range
Plums from the market fall
A PICTURE appeared in a certain paper last week featuring a small man with three
imposing Mercedes in the background. A competition on the Exchange that day
was to find the most appropriate caption to the photograph. One caption that received
a merit award was: “Who said you couldn’t make money working for a company
these days?”
Judging by the performance of the
portfolio in the last week, the best I
could now sport would be a second-
hand bicycle. Down had come Peko Wall-
send with a 15c drop. Associated Pulp
also had 10c knocked off its price. With
due respect to “Mr Security Analyst” I
think he overlooked a vital point about
the price behavior of this latter stock
in his recent review of the company. And
that point is the close correlation that
has always existed between the share
price and the then current profit. So
when profits staged a strong recovery in
1963, the share price responded with a
rise from $3.05 to $4.42. Timing is
probably a more important factor with
this stock than most others.
The one benefit from this recent market
fall is that the shares of several good
companies have come back into buying
range. In particular, my attention was
directed to Fire Fighting, a share that
has not long been out of the portfolio.
It had originally been bought on the
very good recovery in profits in 1965.
From a pre-tax level of £72,000 in
1964, pre-tax profits had swept up to
£213,000 in 1965. As a result earning rate
rose from 7.7 p.c. to 19.5 p.c.
Now directors tell us of a further
“substantial” increase in consolidated
net profit for the first six months of the
year. With this announcement in the
background the share price rose from
70c to 78c, only then to ease back to
70c. At this price, 500 shares were added
to the portfolio.
The other purchase of consequence
this week was 400 Coa> and Allied at
$1.36. Judging from the turnover in
recent weeks, I’m one of the few in-
vestors not to have bought any. Coming
in at this stage does not mean I’m pay-
ing the top price. Last week the shares
had risen from $1.33 to $1.45 then to
react to $1.36.
Coal and Allied is the largest coal-
mining company in Australia, produc-
ing about 10 p.c. of the total Australian
output. As such, its performance reflects
the state of the coal industry.
From a rather dismal situation in the
’fifties, a completely different picture
has developed in the ’sixties. Japan has
emerged as a major buyer for its ever-
expanding steel mills. With this assured
market, most collieries look confidently
ahead at the prospect of increased pro-
duction and consequently increased
profits.
The figures of Coal and Allied below
illustrate the relationship between size of
exports and group profits:
PROFITS BEFORE
EXPORTS TAX
('OOO tons) .($'000)
1961 435 1914
1962 813 2372
1963 324 1804
1964 395 1982
1965 1013 3620
In 1965 directors announced that a
contract to deliver 5 million tons of coal
to Japan over the next six years had
been signed. Thus exports should be at
least maintained at the 1965 level for
several years.
The only sale this week was Kolotex
at $1.25. An excellent interim report,
but the share price has been a little un-
certain in recent weeks. Now seemed a
good selling opportunity.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
400 Kolotex, $1.25 $5BB
BOUGHT
500 Fire Fighting, 70c $359
400 Coal and Allied, $1.36 $557
A debit of $275 stands in the account.
The portfolio now comprises:


for the drape of it
the enduring good looks of it
for the way it tailors
and stays in shapl
a man has a right
to insist on
pure new wool
PURE NEW WOOL
%
naturally
THIS IS THE INTERNATIONAL SYMBOL OF THE WORLD'S BEST
PURE NEW
'COL
.
ilB
5116/B


• • •
ij
■
Bm
H
I
HH
m
vPii
2 MAR 1966
o
\
< ..
■ . Issr
% !»
If
mm
t**.i
§ -
*!:*<
.
only in I ndia can you live in a Maharajah’s palace-
as a treasured guest
Every evening at dusk, thousands of green parrots
skim across the still blue waters of the lake, over this
white marble palace, with its elegant courtyards, cool
colonnades, fountains, gardens. Your apartment, fur-
nished for a potentate, glows with colour as its mosaics
catch the water's reflections. Some say the Lake Palace
at Udaipur is the most opulent of the world’s fine
hotels.
Udaipur is but one of the myriad delights awaiting you
in friendly hospitable India, now. Where to go? What
to see? You'll find Air-lndia so helpful. They work
hand in glove with your travel agent in careful trip-
planning. And they don't lose interest in you after
you've arrived. There are Air-lndia offices throughout
India—and in any of them you'll get a helpful V.I.P.
reception.
AfR-INDfA
The airline that treats you like a Maharajah
With BOAC and Qantas
