

The Bulletin
DEATH of a university
SEPTEMBER 24, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL-TIMES
The
Dark World
of Charles
Perkins
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


Planning a pleasure trip?
Plan to fly a quick & quiet jet:
Douglas DC-8 or DC-9
If you’re taking a trip just for the fun
of it—fly away with a Douglas jet.
Take advantage of the extra comfort
and smooth, silent dependability
that’s designed into every Douglas
DC-8 or DC-9.
1966 has become the year of the
DC-9 in a big way. More and more
travelers are discovering this magnif-
icent new entry in the world of jet
travel. More and more airlines are
offering DC-9 service on short flights
and to smaller cities—flights that were
DA 107
once served only by propeller air-
planes. Everybody likes the Douglas
DC-9; people like its comfort, pilots
like the way it handles, airlines like
its efficiency and dependability.
You’ll like it, too.
In the world of giant jets, we pre-
sent the great Douglas DC-Bs. The
DC-8 is smoother and faster-more
comfortable and quiet because it’s
designed and built that way. Specify a
DC-8 next time you fly and discover
the Douglas difference, in design.
Look for quick, quiet Douglas jets on the
following 50 airlines:
Aeronaves de Mexico • Air Afrique • Air
Canada • Airlift International • Air New
Zealand • Alitalia • Allegheny • Ansett-
ANA • Bonanza * Canadian Pacific
• Capitol • Caribair • Continental • Delta '
Eastern • Garuda Indonesian • Hawaiian
• Iberia • /a/?an • • Korean • Middle
East * National • Norf/i Central • Northeast
• Northwest Orient • Overseas National '
Osar/r • Pacific Southwest • Pan American
• Panagra • Philippine • SAS • Saturn •
Saudi Arabian • Seabdard World • S/icfc
• Southern • Siidfiug • Swissair • TW'Vi'
Trans-A ustraha • Trans Caribbean •
Trans International • Trans-Texas • VTA
• United • Far<g • Wasa • Coast
The Douglas Royal Family of Jets


®sIlS
tUlHElfl
v • v
......w
dr
XiT-
Mi
V R
.
t~:
I ,
mm
Not just ‘Coonawarra’ but
COONAWARRA ESTATE
Coonawarra Estate is the original “Coonawarra”. This famous vineyard
was founded in 1890 (an illustration of the original cellars appears on
every label of genuine Coonawarra Estate wine). Years of careful culti-
vation have consistently produced vintage wines of exceptional quality.
If you prefer originals, collect and enjoy Coonawarra Estate.
Coonawarra Estate HERMITAGE 1962 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate CABERNET 1959 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate RIESLING 1965 Vintage
An Estate of S. Wynn & Co.
CS4R
LETTERS
Telegram
editor the bulletin
emphatically deny state-
ment BY BRIAN BUCKLEY THAT
l ADVISED BENSON JOIN
DEFEND AUSTRALIA LEAGUE
STOP LEAGUE FORMED 1965 I
UNAWARE OF ITS EXISTENCE
UNTIL APRIL 1966 STOP IN
FACT ADVISED BENSON TO GET
OUT OF IT AND BELIEVED
HE WOULD STOP BUCKLEY’S
STATEMENT COMPLETELY
FALSE
ARTHUR CALWELL
Visiting Vietnam
Sir,
Peter Samuel’s valuable article “A
New-Old Cairns” (8., Sept. 10) seemed
to imply that a change of heart was
possible for those men of the ALP
who visited Vietnam recently. One of
the gentlemen he mentioned, Mr. Man-
fred Cross, ALP, Brisbane, came back
from Vietnam directed more than ever
to the line that we should get out
without even going through the face-
saving formula of withdrawing National
Servicemen first.
In a public debate with me in Bris-
bane on Friday, July 22, he stated,
when pressed, relevant to the presence
of our soldiers in Vietnam, that “I
would advocate bringing them all out.”
Further, on July 24, in the Queensland
“Sunday Truth” he referred to the
Federal ALP resolution concerning our
troops in Vietnam—“An ALP Govern-
ment will direct the Army, to bring
home without delay the conscripted
men who are already there, acting with
full regard to the safety and security
of the Australian forces.” Mr. Cross
then went on to say—“ This could be
interpreted to mean we would remove
the entire task force, and that is
exactly what I think should be done.”
Obviously, Dr. Cairns, Mr. Whitlam,
and Mr. Cross haven’t changed their
policies relative to the Australian com-
mitment in Vietnam.
KEVIN CAIRNS, MP
Federal Member for Lilley.
Brisbane (Qld.)
CONTENTS
Charles Perkins 24
Death of a University 35
One More Week 36
Batman 42
Short Story . . * . . . . . ’ " 52
Arts and Entertainment .... 54
Books 58
Business & Finance , 64
Speculator’s Diary 86


x/v ; v;;
mi
mm.
m
u
4
Wm.
€ **
i
m
S 3
m
m
m
im-
m
■
hi
MBI
section of Humes Plastili.ne pipes for the main Adelaide Outfall Sewer at Bolivar
HUMES “Plastiline”
the latest in sewer pipe protection
Hi>S gas concentration in sewer pipes may lead to the
gradual corrosion of the concrete ... but it cannot
harm PVC. That’s why we have developed a method
to give our concrete sewer pipes a corrosion-proof
skin of PVC “Plastiline”.
MECHANICALLY INTERLOCKED
The idea is not new of course. There are other
plastic-lined pipes on the market.
But ours are the only concrete sewer pipes with the
keys of the Plastiline sheets mechanically interlocked
with the spun concrete itself. No adhesive, no
mortar. The process is patented.
We claim that our method gives the best results.
Concrete and Plastiline sheet are so rigidly inter-
locked that a test pull of more than 100 lbs. per
lin. inch of keys (that is 40 lbs. per square inch of
sheet), cannot tear them apart.
CIRCUMFERENTIAL KEYS—LIGHTER PIPES
What is more, we run our keys around the circum-
ference of the pipe, NOT along its length.
This means that a HUMES PLASTILINE SEWER
PIPE has thinner walls than a pipe with longitudinal
keys, because its effective wall thickness is practically
unaffected by our method of arranging the Plastiline
keys circumferentially. Result: Our pipes are lighter.
Besides, HUMES PLASTILINE SEWER PIPES
have the shortest escape routes for any moisture
build-up . . . along the multitude of keys to the
bottom of the pipe. No blockage, no strain on the
Plastiline sheeting. It’s the ideal solution.
FOR FURTHER DETAILS please contact the
Humes office in your capital city.
3MU
AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST PIPE-MAKERS
HUMES LIMITED HEAD OFFICE: 185 William Street, Melbourne. 600221. STATE OFFICES: N.S.W.: Park Road, Regents Park. 6442351.
VIC : 12th Floor, 205 William St., Melb. 600221. QLD.: 189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. 45881. S.A.: 78 West Beach Road, Keswick. 971011.
W.A.: Salvado Road, Subiaco. 872311. TAS. : 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 32741.
HCI232X


Associated
Securities
Limited
11
Debenture Stock, 8-year term
Unsecured Notes, 5-year term
71
% pa
Debenture Stock, 5-year term
Unsecured Notes, 4-year term
7
% pa
Debenture Stock, 3-year term
Unsecured Notes, 2-year term
6 i
% pa
Debenture Stock, 2-year term
Unsecured Notes, 1-year term
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form attached
to the Prospectus available from the Brokers:
Ord, Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
or
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
AH Branches of Associated Securities Limited
Any Branch of the Bank of New South Wales.
497 N
Dollars and Sterling
Sir,
In your leader (8., August 13)
y OU pointed out the weakness of
holding large sterling balances in
London without illustrating whether
this occurred through choice or by
necessity. International finance is a
closed book to me, but it does seem
you should go a little further in your
desire to see sterling go to the wall
and come straight out with it, for
by inference you are not suggesting
bigger holdings of 'Swiss francs or
Indonesian rupiahs; nothing short of
hard American dollars is the goal.
America would say ’“sure” and the
rest of the financial world drop dead!
B. HOMER.
Pakenham East (Vic.)
[THE BULLETIN has never made
any suggestion that our sterling reserves
should be changed into dollars (it
opposes the idea) and has no desire to
see sterling or any other international
trading currency “go to the wall.” Our
positive views of how Australia’s inter-
national reserves should be spread
around the countries with whom we do
business, rather than overwhelmingly
held in the wobbly currency of a
country whose ability to trade with us is
continually declining, were clearly
stated in our leader of July 30, to
which that of August 13 referred. Ed.]
Period Piece
Sir,
The Short Story “Period Piece in a
Teacup” (8., Aug. 20) contains a glar-
ing anomaly. The setting—horse cabs,
etc.—is obviously 1920 or earlier.
Colonel Fanning, aged 99, would have
retired in the ’eighties. The Military
Cross was instituted- about the com-
mencement of the 1914 war. The old
chap at that age could have had the
V.C. or D. 5.0., but definitely not the
M.C.
OLD DIGGER.
Kingscote (S.A.).
Soldier’s Pay
Sir,
It would appear that Peter Samuel
( ‘After the Battle,” 8., Sept. 3) has
given one partially incorrect statement
a nd made one very serious omission.
The statement, “The most the widow
°f an Australian soldier can expect is
about $2O a week in pension from the
Repatriation Department ...” is appli-
cable only to those members of the
Permanent Military Forces who do not
contribute under the Defence Forces
Retirement Benefits (DFRB) Act.
Included in this category are the
National Servicemen. The widows of
contributors to the DFRB Fund receive
jths of the “Age 60 Retirement Pen-
sion’ corresponding to the rate of pay,
tor DFRB Act purposes, received by the
berviceman at the date of his death.
The omission relates not to those who
are killed but to those who acquire a
disability. A Permanent Serviceman
who contributes under the DFRB Act
who acquires a disability before he has
completed 20 years’ service, may not
receive a pension and be paid off \yith
a lump sum only. If he does initially
receive a pension, and the DFRB Board
assesses his earnings as too great, his
pension may be terminated. Prior to
the introduction of the DFRB Act by
the Labor Government of 1948,
members of the Permanent Army and
Permanent Air Force paid contribu-
tions under the Superannuation Act,
and a member acquiring a disability
received the Age 60 Retirement Pension
irrespective of the length of his service
or the degree of disability, provided it
was such as to require his retirement.
Permanent Members of the Common-
wealth Public Service still serve under
these conditions, though disabilities
which enforce retirement may be more
severe. However, under the condi-
tions of the complicated DFRB Act,
known colloquially in all three Services
as the Defence Forces Retirement
B ed-up Act, there are three classes
of disability pension, depending upon
the retirees’ capacity to undertake
civilian employment. Class “A” dis-
ability (60 percent or over) qualifies
for the Age 60 Retirement Pension;
Class “B” (30 percent-59 percent)
qualifies for a lesser pension; and Class
“C” ((less than 30 percent) with over
20 years’ qualifying service, the least
pension: Class “C” with less than 20
years’ qualifying service, no pension,
but a gratuity depending upon the
period of service and a refund of con-
tributions.
However, the worst feature of the
Act is that, for anyone with less than
20 years’ service, if he overcomes his
disability sufficiently to earn an income,
then irrespective of his medical condi-
tion he can be down-graded to Class
C and paid off with a lump sum.
The value of this terminal payment is
based on the payment he would have
received if he had been graded Class
“C” on discharge, reduced by the total
already received as pension. Hence
his terminal payment may be, simply,
nothing.
Where a man has been paid off with
a lump sum, should his disability be-
come worse or at a future date prevent
his gaining employment, there is no
specific provision in the Act to permit
his being reinstated to a pension. The
types of invalidity initially placed in
Category “C” and paid off with a lump
sum have been: the loss of an eye
(sometimes with less than normal vision
in the remaining eye), the loss of a
leg (with no provision for the exchange
of an old-type artificial leg for a more
efficient modern type), or a medical
disability like asthma (from which a
person may die during an attack).
These are, it is contended by the DFRB
Board, minor disabilities.
Every individual theoretically knows
the whole content of the law and the
regulations governing the law. How-
ever, most recruits to the Permanent
Services quite naturally assume that
they will be adequately provided for if
they acquire a disability; indeed, part
of their contribution to the DFRB Fund
is to cover just this possibility. The
Regular Defence Forces Welfare As-
sociation has assisted in overcoming
some of the difficulties of really heart-
breaking cases experienced by some of


this new tape is
tough...
r
so tough we'll
give you a oew blade
to cot it
Our new tough tape is called Scotch Brand Paklon transparent
tape. And it’s stronger, clearer and ... it’s waterproof!
It’s a completely new plastic tape with completely new benefits • Stays clear
and transparent, doesn’t yellow with age • Easy to cut and dispense (we’ll
keep it that way with the right blade) won’t split or tear on the roll • Easy to
use, doesn’t ooze messy adhesive on the edges • Won’t telescope in humid
conditions • Lets you take advantage of maximum discounts because bulk
supplies keep much longer without any deterioration.
Ring your 3M tape distributor now for Scotch
PakloTi Tape Free Dispenser Service.
You get more than tape from your 3M distributor.
uiE
(TIINNESOTA (TUNING AND IttANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD Sydney 43.0455; Melbourne 61.3841; Adelaide 51.5971; Brisbane 5.4131; Perth 28.4651; Hobart 3.3104; Canberra 4.0791; Auckland 295.109; Newcastle 2.3238
3M3/3116/66


the four things
to look for in
storage
racking
v L
STRENGTH. When you're buying racking, plan for future require-
ments. You’ll need good, strong racking that can carry anything,
whose stability increases with load.
FLEXIBILITY. Good racking has to be adaptable and preferably
self-locking. It is also important that it can be readily re-arranged
by your own staff to accommodate any sized products. There
should be no nuts or bolts to meddle with—they are time wasters.
PRICE. Truly efficient design produces the least expensive rack-
ing. Make sure that the price you pay will buy racking that will
do your job today . . . and tomorrow!
ADVICE. The more your rack supplier knows about your storage
problem the more chance he has of solving it. Acrow have the
best space consultants in the business. Phone them now,
without obligation.
nCROWUHdK
A DIVISION Of
THE ACROW GROUP
OF COMPANIES
Sydney 648-2163, Melbourne 44-5768, Canberra -9-3723, Newcastle 61-1396,
Perth 6-6916, Adelaide 76-7611, Brisbane 57-4178, Hobart 7-6775.
t he former contributors under the De-
fence Forces Retirement Benefits Act.
The Association holds that every con-
tributor who is discharged due to a
disability acquired while he was a
Permanent Serviceman, should receive
some form of pension. Also, a portion
of this pension, which should relate to
, man's loss of fitness while in the
Service, should be permanent and in-
v j o j ate
H. N. BOYLE
Chairman, Regular Defence Forces
Welfare Association
Melbourne.
Hugh McCrae
Sir,
An ambiguity in my review (8., Aug.
6) of Douglas Stewart’s fine selection
of Hugh McCrae’s poetry has been
brought to my attention and I should
like to correct it even at this date.
I had no intention of commenting on
McCrae’s abilities as a graphic artist.
When I referred to his sketching skills
I was thinking‘entirely of a particular
quality of his poetic texture—exactly
in the way one might refer to Shaw
Neilson’s sense of song.
VIVIAN SMITH
Hobart (Tas.).
A Priest’s Complaint
Sir,
Congratulations to Patrick Tennison
(8., Sept. 10) on another of those
articles which help to sound the alarm
on the dangers of “untried” Chris-
tianity. His article raises a number of
points in my mind:
1. The statistical approach to the
successfulness or otherwise of Chris-
tianity may blind people to a considera-
tion of more essential criteria. Numbers
of communicants and attenders of
Sunday services may help to gauge the
commitment of people to the externals
of religion, but there is no real way
to measure the amount of basic faith.
2. The Roman Catholic Church, to
which I belong, is somewhat obsessed
by this quantitative approach, not only
as to the number of people who turn
u p for Mass and Communion, but also
to the necessity for “attending” every
Sunday. Insufficient regard is paid to
the quality of the service (in this case,
ylass). The “Practising Catholic” is
wevitably interpreted as one who
attends Mass every Sunday and “goes
t° the sacraments,” not as one who is a
“practising” spreader of love and truth,
not one who is deeply concerned with
the problems of humanity, such as war,
hunger, despair, apathy, urban decay,
and the rest.
3- Nevertheless the churches cannot
aff( T d to ditch their regular meetings,
seivices, and sacraments, but these must
»? “experience.” This means
a radlcal reonentation of Sunday
service so that people can really
meet one another, discuss their common
P robl ems in a . spirit of neighborly
concern, engage in dialogue with their
ministers, and celebrate a real eucha-
ristic meal (in the case of those churches
which celebrate this sacrament). Every
form of medieval artificiality, and un-
necessary formality, everything that
separates and estranges people from the
real content of Christianity will have to
t , renlaced bv what is real
Ilf Jd Imrt, bb in ’
a ™‘ c ’ and blndln S'
4. Above all, the message of the
churches must become relevant. Those
ministers who feel they have something
to say to the modern world should be
THE PROBE PEOPLE
In the last week’s issue of THE
BULLETIN the picture on the cover
°f Richard Kroll, of “Seven Days,”
wrongly identified as being of
Hank Bennett, of “Four Corners.”
W e apologise to Mr. Kroll and Mr.
Bennett for this error.


mm
- rt &'
-r -
if
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY
, .V
■
1
mr-'h
mm?
0
SUPERMARKETS
SW>KTS ¥¥*.'
m ' g*
W
9
m i
DEPARTMENT STORES
*>»
: *
*
OFFICES
Increase working efficiency 9.5%
decrease absenteeism 2.5%
with POPE Air Conditioning
POPE Air Conditioning creates the weather you want—
cools in summer, warms in winter, stimulates concentra-
tion, increases work capacity, reduces physical fatigue.
COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY: POPE Air Conditioning
raises office efficiency 9.5% by creating ideal working
conditions. Better staff are attracted to your employment
and you hold them longer. With dust and dirt removed
from the air, cleaning and redecorating bills are cut to a
minimum.
DEPARTMENT STORES: Staff are more courteous and
able to cope easily with rushes when they enjoy the
benefits of POPE Air Conditioning. Merchandise stays
clean and fresh, and everyone prefers to shop in air
conditioned premises.
OFFICES: Your staff’s energy isn’t being constantly
sapped by excessive humidity or bitter cold when your
premises are air conditioned by POPE. Automatically,
moisture is balanced. Automatically, dust and pollen are
removed from the air—employees are less prone to hay
fever, colds and flu; absenteeism reduced 2.5%.
SUPERMARKETS: POPE Air Conditioning makes business
far more enjoyable right throughout the year. Perishable
goods stay fresh and, for those working or shopping in
your store, the atmosphere is as pleasant as a spring day.
POPE Air Conditioning is a sound financial investment
for summer and provides warmth in winter without any
additional capital expenditure. You’ll find it soon pays
for itself.
Let a POPE engineer, free and without obligation, report
and quote on your air conditioning requirements. We
offer the finest Australia-wide service with authorised
agents operating from all capital cities and major
country areas. Please write, call or phone your nearest
SIMPSON POPE office soon.
SIMPSON POPE LTD. BRANCHES AT:
VIC.: 128-144 Wellington St., Collingwood. 41 0291. N.S.W.:
68-72 Kingsgrove Rd., Belmore. 78 0111. QLD.: 31 College
St., Whinstanes, Brisbane. 68 2021. S.A.: Pope St.,
Beverley. 4 5027. W.A.: Walter Rd., Morley. 76 1411.
POPE
AIR CONDITIONING
Manufacturers of
Australia’s largest
range of packaged
commercial, industrial
and residential
air conditioners—
air-cooled, water-cooled
and reverse cycle.


Dinner for two.
f 4 4
fl
1 J
\jr
or a sumptuous banquet
Whatever your taste in food from the
simple to the sumptuous Menzies can
cater for it. Right in the centre of
Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
controlled air-conditioning, genuine 24-
hour room service, and free in-hotel
parking for your car. Menzies wide
range of restaurants brings you food
from the four corners of the world!
Menzies Theatre Restaurant features gourmet
menu with famous musicals 9.30.
Single rooms from 510.50. Double from
513.50. (Special rates for children.)
T?
Ste-
inr nri
TTTTTr
pmra
jj i.i
lij
a a
aaaa
_ jj Era 31 B
j'u — aflnrunrj lij~jitu
a a jj jj jj am
m uu jj a j j j j
jj mi aaruu'aj—a
M S-ffZ|jT7 :
m=
H rra
jg-g
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
14 CARRINGTON ST. TEL. 2-0232.
CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: Victoria - Menzies, MELBOURNE;
Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE; "Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. Queensland - Lennons,
BRISBANE; Lennons, TOOWOOMBA. South Australia - Hotel Australia, NORTH
ADELAIDE. Tasmania - Wrest Point Riviera, HOBART.
MZI/47
allowed to say it. The “authori-
tarianism” described by John Ryan is
one of the great problems in the
Catholic Church today. Those who have
something to say are not allowed to
say it or, perforce, have to say it in
muted or disguised tones. Then, again,
some ministers and priests have nothing
to say. They badly need a reconver-
sion. It is apparent that the message
of Vatican Council II simply has not
penetrated to many parts of the
Catholic Church in Australia.
5. The references in the article to
the instances of co-operation between
the churches is to some extent gratifying,
but I still think that the approach of
my own church to the ecumenical
problem is overly cautious. The
Church and Life movement, for
instance, is flourishing in some dioceses,
but unknown or suspect in others. Here,
Catholics are very much at the mercy
of their bishops, who can make or mar
any movement.
6. Finally, the Church’s attitude to
the modern world is still largely one of
suspicion and bewilderment rather than
optimism and commitment.
The real problems of the world are
being faced up to by only a small
minority of Christians. The Catholic
Church is still very much concerned
about keeping Catholics together in
various sodalities, clubs, and sundry
organisations rather than with giving
them a sense of mission to the world.
There is still talk of Catholic univer-
sities, Catholic clubs, and, of course,
Catholic schools. Indeed, for many,
the problem of getting Catholic children
into Catholic schools is the problem.
It is assumed that the fulfilment of this
condition is the answer to every
problem. The results, however, are
far from gratifying; and while so much
effort is put into building and main-
taining such a system of schools, there
can be very little preoccupation with
problems like war and hunger, poverty
and injustice, and the spreading of the
Christian message to the world at large.
CLERIC
(Name withheld by request)
Sydney (N.S.W.)
Porter’s Protest
Sir,
Referring to “Porter’s Protest” (8.,
Sept. 10), I have never read any of
Hal Porter’s plays, novels, poems, auto-
biographies or short stories, justly famed
though they are. From this position of
invincible ignorance, however, I offer
the following review of Mr. Porter’s
next work: “This (Mr. Porter’s pro-
duct) is one of the great literary works
our time, or of any other. Mr.
Porter is without doubt the supreme
creative genius of the world of letters.”
Such a review should be acceptable
to Mr. Porter.
OLIVER MAYO
Burnside (S.A.)


at ten-shun!!
cpa is
fastest
togurope
ir
\
A,
Save hours flying time—with Canadian
Pacific! Jet direct from Sydney to Van-
couver, Canada! Then the fastest way to the
heart of Europe—over the shorter, non-stop
Polar Route. See your travel agent for details.
VANCOUVER GATEWAY TO ALL
CANADIAN AND U.S. CITIES! THEN
OVER THE POUR ROUTE TO THE
HEART OF EUROPE LONDON IS
ONLY MINUTES AWAY!
FLY Ca/iouUcuiGitdfic AIRLINES
&
Incorporated in Canada, timited Co. Canadian Pacific/Trains/Planes/Trucks/Ships/Hotels/Telecommuni-
cations. World’s most complete transportation system. Sydney office: 247 George Street, Sydney. 27-3411.
Melbourne office: 59 William Street, Melbourne. 61-3371. General sales agents—Ansett-A.N.A.
Literary Competition
Sir,
A literary competition with awards
totalling $4OOO will be conducted by
“The Advertiser,” Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia, as one of the early features of
the fifth Adelaide Festival of Arts in
1968. It will be the fourth such com-
petition sponsored by the newspaper.
For a book (non-fiction) one
prize only—s2ooo.
For a novel—one prize, $2OOO.
All must be original unpublished
works, and to permit a wade field of
entry the competition is open to resi-
dents of Australia, those of Australian
birth wherever resident, and residents of
any other country provided that, in the
latter case, the entry is on an Australian
subject or has an Australian back-
ground. Entries will close with “The
Advertiser” on November 30, 1967, and
results wall be announced just before
the opening of the Festival in March,
1968.
A. M. LYON
Promotions Manager,
“The Advertiser.”
Adelaide (S.A.)
With Jellicoe at Cockburn
Sir,
Apropos your editorial (8., Sept
3), in March, 1827, Captain James
Sterling, RN, “spoke of Cockburn
Sound as a good anchorage.” In March
or April, 1919, HMAS Australia
(Captain C. L. Cumberlege, RN)
wearing the Broad Pennant of Com-
modore J. S. Dumaresq, C. 8., C.V.O.
arrived at Fremantle. The Commodore
told a junior lieutenant to go and have
a look at Cockburn Sound. Not far in
the wake of HMAS Australia came
HMS New Zealand with Admiral of
the Fleet Lord Jellicoe. I was the
junior lieutenant and no doubt my
report was very superficial. However
later as a member of Dumaresq’s staff
it was my privilege to read the Jellicoe
Report and I well remember that Lord
Jellicoe recommended Cockburn Sound,
Port Stephens, and Manus as very
suitable sites for naval bases.
CRASTER C. M. USHER
Hornsby (N.S.W.)
Bourke’s History
Sir,
This Society is at present actively
engaged in collecting local history with
the intention of preserving and pub-
lishing it. Can any of your readers
assist us? Letters from old residents
will be welcome; and also the gift
or loan of documents, photographs,
and other relics. Anything borrowed by
us will be returned in good order, and
acknowledged in the event of publi-
cation. A first volume of papers is
about to be published, and we hope
to establish soon a museum of local
history.
W. J. CAMERON
Sec., Bourke and District
Historical Society.
Bourke (N.S.W.)
REVISING THE BIBLE
ssJiuLletCn $ JiuLletCn
86 Years Ago: September 25, 1880.
ir pHE first edition of the revised
translation of the New Testament
may be expected in the autumn. The
ATHENEUM says: “It is with
regret that we hear it said that the
form in which all Englishmen know,
and most of them use, the Lord’s
Prayer, is no longer to be the form
which is to pass current.”
Melbourne ARGUS calls Mr.
Williams, the new Minister for
Mines, “a double-distilled traitor” and
an “infamous renegade.” In New
South Wales were a paper to say
such things about a Minister, the
latter would make his fortune out of
the libel action and be able to buy
a new mule.
than one doctor in Brisbane
receives commission from
chemists on their prescriptions.


9%&t
‘
e
ant
S
£
FI LT E R
..M.J
r
% i
''
*
isnHlwi
A
RICH CHOICE TOBACCOS
KING SIZE
V
%S*"
ALL OVER
THE WORLD
...SO MUCH MORE
TO ENJOY
Wherever you go, whatever you do,
wherever life is fresh, vital, elegant,
you meet Peter Stuyvesant, the
international king-size cigarette.
Rich choice tobaccos, miracle filter.
Light up a Stuyvesant, you’ll be so
glad you did.


Discover: The silent, luxurious
world of
the new Galaxie 500
No matter what kind of luxury cars you may have owned or admired the elegant new Ford
Galaxie 500 is a revelation to drive. It is unbelievably quiet in operation so quiet, in fact, that
even a whisper may be heard at highway limits. The luxury of its interior and the abundance of
its standard convenience items establish it instantly as a pace-setter among fine cars. You’ll find
nothing has been overlooked that could increase your comfort and enjoyment. As for perform-
ance, Galaxie’s unsurpassed power and dual-range Cruise-O-Matic transmission, plus exclusive
“Torque-box” frame, provide you with smooth, eagerly responsive motoring, unique among
cars. Discover the new standard among luxury cars ... at your Ford Dealer’s.
Ford Galaxie 500
Solid, silent luxury-powered by Ford
iggl


Face of the Week
The Commonwealth Prime Min-
isters’ Conference ended with the
Commonwealth intact despite earlier
contrary predictions; Prime Min-
ister Holt was flying home to
allow Federal Treasurer McMahon
to attend a Commonwealth Finance
Ministers’ Conference in Montreal.
A new mineral field probably as ex-
tensive as Broken Hill had been
located at Rum Jungle near Darwin.
The Commonwealth agreed to lend
Queensland’s sugar producers $l9
million to offset low world prices,
and sB| million to develop Queens-
land’s brigalow country. South Aus-
tralia introduced a Bill designed to
attract more foreign doctors to meet
the State’s “serious shortage.” Four
young CMF soldiers were drowned
while crossing a weir on the flooded
Forth River in Tasmania. Private
Richard Kelliher’s V.C. was pre-
sented to the National War Memor-
ial in Canberra. The N.S.W. Board
cf Health approved a plan to fluori-
date Sydney’s water supply.
★
The president of the British Board
of Trade, Mr. Douglas Jay, arrived
for talks with Commonwealth and
State Ministers. The Queensland
TAB declared over $1 million profit
for the year, and the N.S.W.
TAB made its first distribution of
more than $1 million to racing
clubs. The Australian Milk Board
held its annual conference in
Perth. Trading banks increased their
charges by about 15 percent. Pro-
duction of Salk anti-polio vaccine
ceased at the CSL, with Sabin
vaccine to be imported. By agree-
ment more than 1000 Aboriginal
stockmen in the N.T. gained rises
pending the 1968 basic wage. In
New Guinea, plantation workers
were given a $1 a month rise to
about $4 a month, all found.
★
Labor and National Service Min-
ister Bury said that 39 percent of
youths balloted for National Ser-
vice were rejected on medical
grounds and five percent for educa-
tional or psychological reasons. The
Minister for Customs, Senator
Anderson, said Australian exports to
Communist China last year totalled
$ 105 million, with $1 million for steel.
Melbourne Cup sweeps were legal-
ised in Queensland, and in Brisbane
a pole sitter, “Mr. Mystery,” was
trying to raise $35,000 for the
Queensland Ambulance. South Aus-
tralia decided to stop cleaning school
windows three times a year, saving
$230,000. N.S.W. teachers pledged
not to hold stopwork meetings to
discuss staff shortages.
★
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney— Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88. No. 4516
SEPTEMBER 24, 1966
Lost Illusions
THE communique issued by the
Commonwealth leaders in
London containing Britain’s ulti-
matum to the Smith Regime to
surrender before the end of the
year or face selective mandatory
UN-imposed sanctions was a
triumph of bluff over humiliation.
It makes neither a scrap of dif-
ference to the state of mind of the
Smith Regime nor has any signifi-
cant impact on its economy. Mr.
lan Smith’s initial response was to
declare November 11, the first
anniversary of the unilateral dec-
laration of independence, to be a
public holiday, and to urge Rhode-
sians to “rededicate themselves to
those Christian ideals” which
prompted the rebellion. He claimed
divine guidance had enabled his
regime to overcome sanctions and
he is confident he can go on doing
so.
The reason is not far to seek.
Although Jameson Avenue, the
heart of Rhodesia’s financial world,
is almost 100 percent against the
Smith Government, it has devoted
its energies 100 percent to defeat-
ing the sanctions. Britain had
threatened long before indepen-
dence was seized that if Rhodesia
took that step her assets in London
would be frozen, but when she
came to implement that threat she
found that all but £8 million of
the £22 million assets had quietly
been transferred elsewhere. All that
the Commonwealth meeting has
done is to give -Mr. Smith three-
and-a-half months in which to pre-
pare further counter-measures.
Thanks to South African and
Portuguese aid, the oil embargo has
been an almost complete failure.
No reliable figures about sales of
the current crop of tobacco
Rhodesia’s most vital export are
available, but it is generally be-
lieved that between 40 and 50
percent of the next crop will find
an outside market. It will be easier
for exports such as chrome, gold,
asbestos, and pig iron to slip
through a boycott net. Rhodesian
minerals have openly been bought
by countries such as France and
West Germany since sanctions
were imposed, and the prospect of
taking over traditional British
markets for manufactured goods
may tempt others, despite a United
Nations embargo. South Africa has
a long-standing arrangement for
the re-export of the important
Rhodesian citrus fruit crop, the
source of which is unidentifiable on
delivery.
The accession of Mr. Vorster to
power in South Africa is likely to
lead to assistance to Rhodesia being
intensified rather than diminished.
Indeed, Mr. Smith may now de-
cide to take the final plunge, declare
Rhodesia a republic, and form
some kind of confederation with
South Africa.
This will reduce Rhodesia to a
South African colony and to many
this may be a satisfactory outcome.
But no amount of face-saving can
conceal the failure of the Common-
wealth to solve this problem of
rebellion or the humiliation of
Britain in having to agree ulti-
mately to hand the problem to a
non-Commonwealth, international
body the UN. In both ways this
spells the end of the Common-
wealth’s political pretensions a
sad'fact for all of us, but one better
faced than evasively glossed over
by the sort of mumbo-jumbo Mr.
Holt felt obliged to utter on leaving
London.


THIS AUSTRALIA
From Salisbury to Suicide
If there was one thing that the British Government wanted to do during the
London Commonwealth Prime Ministers’ Conference it was to keep control of the
Rhodesia dispute in its own hands.
However, a measure of the out-
come of the Commonwealth Prime
Ministers’ Conference is that control
over the Rhodesian dispute is gradually
passing from British hands and it has
been pulled some way along the way to
confrontation of South Africa by the
exertions of its African colleagues at
the conference table.
From the outset, Australian Prime
Minister Harold Holt was aware of
Britain’s incapacity to take an attitude
that might lead it toward economic
confrontation with South Africa. South
Africa’s contribution toward Britain’s
economic stability—and the stability of
sterling—is immense. Britain’s exports
to South Africa are more than
£300,000,000 sterling a year. Its in-
vestments in South Africa are estimated
at £1,000,000,000 sterling, from which
it draws an annual return of about
£200,000,000 sterling a year. South
Africa markets annually through
Britain gold worth £400,000,000 sterl-
ing. Britain has the option of purchase
and this gold is an important buttress
to sterling. Britain cannot confront
South Africa except on a suicidal basis.
Superimpose on that the fact that
even in Britain there exist doubts
about whether Britain could mount
effective military intervention against
Rhodesia and the picture starts to
round out. What Holt in effect
wanted Prime Minister Harold Wilson
to tell African Commonwealth members
pressing for use of force, and man-
datory U.N, imposed comprehensive
sanction (including sanctions on oil),
was not so much that Britain would
not take these steps but that it could
not.
But Wilson, like so many other
Britishers, is still susceptible to the
memory of past imperial grandeur.
This type of Britisher in private will
concede that Britain is no longer in a
position to enforce its will even upon
relatively minor opponents such as the
rebel lan Smith regime in Rhodesia,
but he boggles at a public confession of
impotency. And Wilson boggled.
Originally Wilson agreed with the
Holt analysis that Britain could not
agree from the viewpoint of its own
basic self-interest to either force or
further sanctions. But due to quite an
extent to Britain’s unwillingness to con-
cede its own impotency, Wilson had to
tell Holt about halfway through the
conference that he would have to make
some concessions to African feelings on
this issue.
He would not refuse to end negotia-
tions with the rebel lan Smith regime
to see whether a settlement could be
secured, but he would fix a time limit
after which the Africans would get
what they most desired—a pledge that
independence would not be granted
until majority or African rule had been
established in Rhodesia.
Wilson would not endorse compre-
hensive U.N.-imposed mandatory sanc-
tions, but he would have to agree
to selective sanctions, again subject to
the proviso of action to secure them
being withheld in the unlikely event of
the Smith regime agreeing to the estab-
lishment of a multi-racial government in
Rhodesia. All Wilson got out of it was
breathing space and the odium of
appearing to have had forced upon him
by African determination a half-hearted
compromise.
For the gloomy fact for the British
Smith and Wilson-ultimatum.
is that once the issue goes to U.N. the
outcome will largely be out of British
hands. If the selective sanctions fail
and the Africans are contemptuous of
the prospects for their success—it is
then only a step toward oil sanctions,
In the international arena forces
larger than Britain will have no reluct-
ance in bringing about a situation in
which Britain is forced into economic
confrontation with South Africa.
ALAN REID
The “Stop St. John” Movement
Street, Brisbane, may seem a long way from the suburbs of Manly,
Kirrtbilh, Beauty Point and others which together make up the blue-ribbon Liberal
seat of Warringah in New South Wales. But last week they came a little closer
than before when a letter from Sir Raphael Cilento appeared in The Australian,
Writing from Queensland, Sir
Raphael criticised the views of Mr.
Edward St. John, Q.C., president of
the South Africa Defence and Aid Fund,
and a front-running candidate for
Liberal pre-selection in Warringah, to
be decided on Saturday, September 24,
In a long letter defending South African
apartheid Sir Raphael claimed that the
“so-called Defence and Aid Fund which
began with the best of intentions is, by
increasing infiltration, now regarded as
dangerously close to a Communist
front.”
The next day, in a prominent posi-
tion on page 1, The Australian pub-
lished an unreserved withdrawal and
apology. It withdrew any imputation
that the South Africa Defence and Aid
Fund was in any way under Communist
influence and it withdrew any sugges-
tion that a “citizen of the qualifications
and experience of Mr. St. John with a
wide reputation as a dedicated anti-
Communist could or would be a party
to serving the interests of Communism
or Communists however innocently or
indirectly.”
The letter from Sir -Raphael was not
the first time that he has shown an
interest in apartheid or for that matter
in the electorate of Warringah. A few
weeks ago Sir Raphael addressed a
committee meeting of the Beauty Point
branch of the Liberal Party, one of the
15 branches in the Warringah elec-
torate. Members of the executive of
the Mosman Young Liberals were
invited to the meeting, which was held
at the home of newly elected Beauty
Point branch president, Henry Fischer,
editor of the “Australian International
News Review.” In the presence of four
members of the 50-man Warringah
selection committee, Sir Raphael, with-
out mentioning names, criticised
opponents of apartheid in a similar
style to the criticisms which appeared
in his letter.
For Sir Raphael and other members
of “the radical right” such as Mr,
Fischer, a pre-selection victory by Mr,
St, John would hardly be welcome. He
is as outspoken against extremism of
the Right as he is against Communism,
Since his respectability index is very
high by the bluest of blue-ribbon seat
standards he would be a formidable
challenge to the radical Right’s nib-
bling on the fringes of the Liberal
Party. Hence its “Stop St. John” move-
ment.
At 50, Edward St. John has been a
prominent Sydney Q.C. for ten years,
As well as his presidency of the South
Africa Defence and Aid Fund he has
since 1961 been president of the Aus-
tralian sector of the International Com-
mission of Jurists. He has travelled
widely in Asia and was an observer at
the 1959 treason trials in South Africa'
Earlier this year he was an acting Judge
of the Supreme Court of N.S.W. and
both political and legal circles agree
that if he wins Warringah he is giving
up, at least temporarily, a certain seat


on the Supreme Court Bench. He be-
longs to Rotary and is a former captain
in the A.I.F. He is a strong supporter
of conscription and of the Govern-
ment’s position on Vietnam. He opposes
the Smith regime in Rhodesia.
Just how much influence the
ideological opponents of Mr. St. John
can bring to bear within the Liberal
Party and how much of a real difference
this will make in the pre-selection is
another matter. It seems that the influ-
ence might be minimal but in the com-
plicated voting system it would be
impossible to be sure. There are 15
branches in Warringah sending 30 dele-
gates (two from each branch) to the
selection commitee, another 20 being
chosen at random by the State Executive
from the party’s State governing body,
the Council; there are 19 candidates.
Voting is by secret, exhaustive ballot.
There are some other strong contenders.
Another barrister, Mr. J. A. Cameron,
is young (35) and has a much longer
record of party service and political
experience than Mr. St. John. A former
research officer at the Ash St. head-
quarters of the party and an assistant
to a former leader of the State Liberal
Opposition, Mr. Morton, he is a definite
possibility.
So, too, is Alderman Parkinson, head
of the School of Pacific Administration
and the present Mayor of Mosman, and
Alderman B. D. Higgs, a former Mayor
of North Sydney, who has stood un-
successfully for the State seat of Manly.
Among the other 16 candidates are two
more barristers, as well as accountants,
teachers, and scientists.
In Warringah the party is free to
choose a “prestige” candidate without
any fear of a serious challenge from the
ALP. The late Mr. J. S. Cockle won
by nearly 20,000 votes over his two
opponents in the 1963 Federal elections.
Before him Sir Percy Spender won the
seat as an Independent but quickly
joined the Liberal Party. Professor A.
Bland, who followed as a Liberal, was a
very successful chairman of the Public
Accounts Committee. So there is inten-
sive lobbying going on in Warringah.
By the time the selection committee
makes its choice this Saturday it may
have been a far more interesting con-
test than the one to come on November
26.
Edward St. John-no extremism.
The Lord’s Prayer Affaire
I HAVE just been translating some
sample prayers for the Interna-
tional Committee on English in the
Liturgy, a body set up by the English-
speaking Catholic Bishops to provide a
new translation of the Catholic forms,
of worship into a contemporary style of
English. I must say that this experi-
ence has given me a great deal of
sympathy for any translator of Biblical
or Liturgical texts, and I feel for the
members of the Church of England
Commission who have just produced
their new version of the Lord’s Prayer,
and who are now receiving the usual
criticisms and ex post facto advice that
translators of the Bible always receive.
Translation is a tricky business at the
best of times, because you have to make
up your mind once and for all whether
you are going to translate the words
of the original and leave the sense to
look after itself, or whether you are
going to translate the sense or gist of the
original and take liberties with the
English expressions you use. But the
difficulties of translating Biblical and
Liturgical texts are even more formid-
able, for here you are dealing—so the
Christian believes, at any rate—with the
word of God and the word of the
Church, and you cannot take too many
liberties. On the other hand, you have
to remember that you are not translat-
ing for Biblical and Liturgical scholars,
but for the ordinary Christian who will
be using your translation in his Church
services. For the same reason your
translations must be able to be spoken
aloud. They must be couched not just
in readable English but in speakable
English.
Again, while the translation must be
instantly intelligible it must also have
a distinctively elevated style of its own.
As Dr. Percy Jones, of Melbourne, says:
“The text of a Liturgy cannot be made
on the basis of the lowest common
denomination of intelligence. The
Liturgy must draw us up, not drag us
down.”
Any translation then of a text such
as the Lord’s Prayer has to compromise
between all these various requirements
faithfulness, instant intelligibility,
speakability, elevation of style—and the
translator must inevitably choose which
element he intends to emphasise at the
expense of the others. This is, in my
view, the basic fault of the new Church
of England translation of the Lord’s
Prayer: The translators don’t seem to
have made up their minds as to whether
they were aiming at literal fidelity and
accuracy on the one hand, or intelli-
gibility and modernity on the other.
They have, for example, retained the
archaic word “hallowed” in “Your
name be hallowed,” but when they try
to modernise “Give us this day our
daily bread,” they come up with the
very awkward and un-speakable “Our
bread of the morrow give us today.”
Again “debts” is too specific a term
in “Forgive us our debts.” The new
English Bible translates this as “Forgive
us the wrong we have done,” and this
is surely more faithful to the sense of
the passage, given the context of the
Lord’s Prayer in Matthew.
“ordeal” in “Do not bring us to the
ordeal” may be literally accurate, but
I fear that it will be unintelligible to the
ordinary unscholarly Christian praying
in the pews. Why not translate this as
“Do not bring us to judgment” or “Do
not bring us to trial,” or “Do not try
us.” Finally, the new translation gives
“Save us from evil” in place of “Save
us from the evil one” that the new
English Bible and the Jerusalem Bible
both favor. This strikes me as being
a gratuitous piece of demythologising.
If any of the Church of England
Commission happen to be reading this-
I can well imagine their saying (quite
justifiably): “Well, if he’s so smart, why
doesn’t he try translating the Lord’s
Prayer himself?”
So I have had a go myself.
MAX CHARLESWORTH
[This article is printed by courtesy
of the ABC Talks Department. Ross
Campbell also discusses the problems
of translation on page 40.]
THE CHARLESWORTH VERSION
Our Father in Heaven,
Blessed he Your name.
Set up Your Kingdom.
Work Your will in the world
As You do in Heaven.
Give us enough for our daily needs.
Forgive us our wrongdoings
As we forgive those who have wronged us,
And do not try us,
But do save us from the evil one.
Amen.


Inru
CAN MOVE
30.000 TONS OF
COAL A DAY!
A5BO/7
At Morwell Victoria, the longest single-flight,
high-speed conveyor system in Australia is
carrying brown coal from the open cut to Hazel-
wood Power Station, 1J miles away. Plans for the
conveyor system were adopted by the State
Electricity Commission Victoria after a thorough
investigation of all means of transporting coal
over such a distance.
Built to exacting specifications by Goodyear
Tyre and Rubber Co. (Australia) Ltd., the two
steel cable conveyors operate at a speed of 1050
feet a minute carrying 2000 tons of coal an hour.
The belts are 7244 feet and 8560 feet long, 48
inches wide, approximately J inch thick and con-
sist entirely of rubber and 500 miles of steel
cables. Minimum breaking strength is 423,000
pounds. The structure of the belt allows the cable
maximum lateral movement. There is no tearing
under impact!
The seven miles of Goodyear belting used on
the two mainlines for Hazelwood is another
example of the numerous advantages of steel
cable belting. It has an extremely high tensile
strength. Its design makes it trough perfectly and
have the best impact resistance of any belt con-
struction. Stretching and elongation is negligible
so short take up lengths are possible.
If you have a project where you need conveyor
belting remember Goodyear conveyor belting. It s
the best. Contact the Goodyear technical man at
the Goodyear branch in y° ur state-
GOOD/YEAR


SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change
their addresses are asked to notify
THE BULLETIN Subscription De-
partment well in advance in order to
avoid a break in the continuity of
service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.
Cultured Pearls
Mikimoto are the world’s finest Cultured Pearls and Prouds have
the world’s finest collection outside Japan. Brooches, earrings, rings and
bracelets are set in 9 carat gold and sterling silver, some with diamonds.
Graduated necklets and uniform chokers in lengths for all occasions.
The unique quality of Prouds Mikimoto Cultured Pearls make them the
perfect gift for all occasions.
Riouds
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. 25 4021
To the Mitcham P.O.
Politics in Victoria and New South Wales teaching unions has been enlivened by
a quick change of pace and temperature. Bearing the unlikely banner of “Progressive
Teacher’,” a new pamphlet was launched last week in Melbourne, declaring war
on Communist control of the New South Wales Teachers’ Federation and the
high schools and technical schools branches of the Victorian Teachers’ Union.
Published by the Progressive
Teachers’ Association, the pamphlet
crives a well documented and incisive
account of Communist strategy in Aus-
tralian teaching unions. The first issue
was distributed to about 1500 schools.
The response has varied from one of
wild acclamation to' threats of libel
action. The pamphlet gives its postal
headquarters as Mitcham Post Office,
Victoria, and the pro-Communist forces
in the VTU are reported to have
manned a watch on the post office and
also to have asked the police to trace
the publishers.
The four quarto pages of the pam-
phlet begin: “Will present moves with
VTU lead to the capture of the union?
For a number of years the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation has been domi-
nated by Communists. Those in control
of the Federation have used teachers’
union subscriptions, union administra-
tive machinery, and prestige to:
• Sponsor the phony peace con-
ferences.
• Oppose U.S. policy in Vietnam.
• Oppose the sending of Australian
troops to Vietnam.
• Agitate against conscription.
• Attempt to link up with overseas
Communist-front teachers’ organi-
sations.
The pamphlet continues: “All these
moves are documented in the Victorian
Teachers’ Journal of the past few years.
The Teachers’ Journal has recorded
motions of the N.S.W. Federation which
have been recommended for the VTU
to follow. In most cases these motions
have been supported by the execu-
tives of the high and technical schools’
branches of the VTU, but thrown out
by the VTU council on the grounds
that these recommended motions were
political; that teachers’ opinions on the
matters varied, and that they were not
within the area of legitimate union
action.
“The 1967 conference of the VTU
may see that union become Communist
controlled and subsequently much more
strongly linked with the N.S.W.
Federation and its policies. The N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation is doing its best
to have the Australian Teachers’ Fed-
eration affiliate with the World Federa-
tion of Teachers’ Unions, which is a
Communist-front organisation. At the
moment the N.S.W. Communist faction
does not have the numbers to force
this decision on the Australian
Teachers’ Federation. It is most
anxious then that at this year’s con-
ference of the Victorian Teachers’
Union, the Communist faction within
the VTU should predominate in the
election of new office-bearers. A Corn-
munist-dominated VTU could help
N.S.W. force affiliation with the World
Federation of Teachers’ Unions on the
Australian Federation.
“If this happens, the Australian
teachers’ unions will be the only Aus-
tralian wage- and salary-earning unions
to officially affiliate with a world-wide
Communist-front organisation. All
Australian unions working through the
ACTU are, in fact, affiliated with the
International Confederation of Free
Trade Unions —a non-Communist body.
“SUCCESS of the Communist faction
in the 1967 conference of the VTU
will be a monumental setback to the
present campaign for progressive educa-
tion reform in Australia. As with all
Communist-dominated unions, genuine
efforts for reform and progress will be
subordinated to political objectives.
Moreover, once it is successful, a Com-
munist take-over is always difficult to
reverse.”
“The Progressive Teacher” also
claims that some teachers have been
encouraging students in starting anti-
conscription and anti-Vietnam cam-
paigns, sing-ins, all-night vigils, etc.
The emergence of this new publica-
tion and the group of teachers behind it
is the first strong challenge thrown out
to the pro-Communist forces for some
time. For years the conservative primary
school section of the VTU has been
losing ground to the pro-Communist
forces of the high schools and tech-
nical schools branches and the inability
of the larger primary section to com-
pete in strategy and tactics had left
it in a vulnerable position.
The Progressive Teachers’ Association
is demonstrating to teachers the danger
facing the union, and the measure of
its immediate success is the furious
reaction of its opponents. There will
be a long, cold watch out Mitcham
Post Office way.
BRIAN BUCKLEY


New wine variety
from Australia
wins Gold Medal
at International
Wine Fair
Me William's
Private Bin 56
Lexia has been
awarded a Gold
Medal at the
1966 International
Wine Fair held at
Ljubljana,
Yugoslavia.
\m
m
s m
m
f ri
* »
McWilliam’s Lexia, recently
introduced to the Australian
market, is a distinctive, dry
white table wine which
could not be exhibited in
any Australian Wine show,
because there was no classi-
fication for this new variety.
McWilliam’s, therefore,
entered it overseas, and are
justifiably proud of receiv-
ing a top Gold Medal
award.
In the short time it has been available, this wine
has received considerable acclaim. McWilliam’s
Lexia is made from the grape variety known as
Lexia, and was produced at McWilliam’s Robin-
vale Winery in Victoria. During fermentation
the temperature was maintained below 55° F.,.
and this has helped to retain in the wine a very
powerful aroma of the grape, as well as a
tremendous volume of flavour. This light, dry
white table wine is an ideal accompaniment to
most foods, particularly seasoned fish dishes,
white meats and poultry.
Other successes at Ljubljana for McWilliam's
included Gold Medals for Sparkling Chateau
Gay; Private Bin 530 Claret 1963; Mount Pleas-
ant Sauterne; Dry Friar Sherry; Sherry (fruity
type); Muscat; Mount Pleasant Hermitage;
Champagne and Brandy.
This continued success overseas follows immedi-
ately on the award for the third successive year
of the trophy for the Most Successful Exhibitor
at the Queensland Royal National Show, 1966.
For a number of years McWilliam’s Wines have
enjoyed unparalleled successes at wine shows
and exhibitions throughout Australia and over-
seas. Due to public demand larger stocks of
show wines have been laid down in recent years
and are now available from your Hotel,
Licensed Grocer, Club or Restaurant.
mpujiLunm’s wines
Exams, for the Elite
This year, for the first time, every State is using the same external examination
to determine the allotment of its share of the secondary scholarships the Common-
wealth has been providing since the election promise of Sir Robert Menzies in 1963.
Ironically, this means that the Com-
monwealth Office of Education has
imposed a measure of that uniformity
which Sir Robert feared would follow
from any more direct Federal involve-
ment in education.
The secondary school scholarship
takes the form of a test of “developed
ability” in expression, mathematics,
science, and the humanities. This test
was originally designed for Victoria,
where a number of schools had
achieved independence of a rigid
examination system. The Common-
wealth was not prepared to accept the
results of tests conducted by the schools
themselves, and so the Australian
Council of Educational Research was
commissioned to draw up an appropri-
ate test tp measure the comparative
standard of students engaged on a
great variety of courses at a greater
variety of standards. The test had to
be equally fair to mathematicians and
to humanists, to students being drilled
for the external examination, and to
those being taught imaginatively
according to a syllabus drawn up for
the needs of a particular school, as
well, of course, as to those being taught
lazily by a teacher glad to be free of
the demands of an external examina-
tion. Despite criticisms, the tests which
have resulted probably met these
requirements as well as any test could.
The very notion of discrimination
must, however, involve a degree of
injustice when it is applied as broadly
as in this case. The scholarship test
is intended as a test of excellence, and
is interpreted as such, but it does not
function as such. Probably half of
the successful candidates are clearly
superior to the unsuccessful, but at the
lower end of the scale the pattern
becomes much less clear. The distinction
between the least able of the scholar-
ship winners and the most able of the
losers depends purely on luck, for no
test can discriminate as finely as this.
Yet the financial and prestigious dis-
tinction is absolute, and numbers of
unsuccessful candidates have interpreted
the result as proof of their inability to
pursue further studies. The research
which would show whether the scheme
has encouraged any additional number
of able students to remain at school
has yet to be done.
The ability of the test to discrimin-
ate below the highest levels of abilities
is further affected by the inaccuracy of
the papers. On the mathematics paper
this year a printer’s error made one
question meaningless. On last year’s
humanities paper a quick check showed
at least six questions for which either
two or none of the suggested answers
was correct.
In a paper with one hundred ques-
tions such a trifling proportion of errors
may appear insignificant, but once the
error in questioning is perpetrated, it
is impossible for the examiner to correct
it. He may not count the marks for
this particular question, but there is no
way to compensate for the time an able
and persevering candidate may have
spent searching for an answer which
does not exist. The tendency of the
test is to favor the hare above the tor-
toise, but the tortoise may be the one
best equipped for the long grind of
senior studies which awaits the success-
ful candidate.
A further weakness of the tests is
that they make no provision for
students with special ability in a par-
ticular sphere, for example, music. It
is understood that the ACER has
suggested that a few scholarships each
year be set aside for such pupils, but
the Commonwealth denies knowledge
of such a proposal. Some critics have
also claimed that the tests are biased
toward mathematics and science
students, as all pupils take sufficient
humanities to cope with the papers in
that sphere, but only the mathematics
specialist is adept in the paper in his
subjects. However, it is unlikely that
very many able candidates will have
dropped mathematics by this stage of
their careers.
!r fHE major criticism of the scheme is
that tests of this kind have not the
same predictive value for future per-
formance as teachers’ estimates of the
individual pupils. This criticism implies
a greater faith in a teacher’s judg-
ment than is supported either by
research or by many honest feachers.
The Commonwealth has taken suf-
ficient note of it, however, to require
a certificate of progress from the school
principal in Western Australia before
the award is made, and in Victoria to
add to the marks for the four test sub-
jects a fifth assessment based on the
staff’s ranking of candidates in each
particular school.
This latter provision could have
most peculiar results, for the number
of scholarships awarded to each school
is first determined by the test marks
alone. The pupils are then re-assessed,
this time with the school ranking
included, so that a student who has
won a scholarship for his school may
have the award reallocated to another
who has been placed higher by the
staff.
The effect these standard exami-
nations will have on school courses is
not yet known, although to the extent,
that they emphasise understanding
rather than rote learning, their influ-
ence must be healthy. Some schools
certainly have taken to coaching their
students for the examination, but one
examiner has welcomed this develop-
ment on the grounds that the only


possible form of successful coaching
is good teaching. There are, however,
certain assumptions behind the exami-
nations which may stultify experimen-
tal teaching.
One of these is the emphasis placed
on logical and practical ability rather
than creative intelligence. Apart from
the essay test, whose marking is
inevitably subjective, there is little
opportunity for the display of what is
technically known as “divergent think-
ing,” and the whole tendency of the
examination is to suggest that there is
one correct answer to any given
problem.
Such points, however, are of
less importance than the major ques-
tion behind the whole secondary
scholarship scheme. Even if it is
possible to accurately determine the
members of an educable elite, are we
best serving our educational needs by
subsidising their schooling? One alter-
native is to spread the same amount
°f money over a much larger number
°f students, so that, while no one
receives a handsome amount, everyone
S ets . enough to tide him over the
annual crisis of buying books and uni-
form for another year.
Another is to make need rather
than ability the principle criterion of
me award. If we accept the principle
0 a complete secondary education for
everyone, we will have to decide
between these schemes, for the present
system will seem no more relevant to
our needs than would a system of sub-
sidy for the top stream of students in
our primary schools today.
JOHN MCLAREN
Tanner
"If you think people are going to pray in outmoded poetic language you must believe in miracles/'
The Coil
Has the world’s population explosion
fizzled out? The Professor* of Demo-
graphy at the Australian National Uni-
versity, Professor W. D. Borrie, believes
the worst of the crisis is over.
Professor Borrie told a recent Can-
berra seminar on the Freedom from
Hunger Campaign that the break-
through was due to a new birth-control
device known as the intra-uterine coil,
which was far more important than the
pill. Although he supported the
Freedom from Hunger Campaign, Pro-
fessor Borrie said there was a need for
a new campaign—“the freedom from
unwanted pregnancies campaign.”
The introduction of the intra-uterine
coil in Asia and India to control births
was one of the biggest missionary cam-
paigns now happening to mankind. The
coil, developed in the United States,
was the cheapest birth-control method
yet devised (they cost between one and
two cents each). Although there was
some “hedging” at first (scientists still
were not sure how they worked), the
campaign was now backed by American
capital and supported by the Popula-
tion Council of America.
The Indian Government planned to
issue 40 million intra-uterine coils
within the next 10 years. This could
reduce the population growth-rate
from 2.5 percent to 1 percent by
1985. Other Asian countries were
instituting birth-control programs, and
all available evidence pointed to the
fact that Communist China favored
family planning.
Professor Borrie said there were very
few cases in demographic history where
the lowering of fertility, once started,
stopped at an intermediate point. “It
may be thought that this campaign will
not succeed without the development
of literacy in these areas. But with
modern communication methods the
campaign will succeed without it.”
Professor Borrie claimed the two most
effective instruments in the campaign
would be the intra-uterine coil and the
transistor radio. Although he believed
the worst of the crisis was over, some
populations would continue to grow at
higher rates, perhaps even up to four
percent. But “I am hopeful that in ten
years population growth-rates will be
falling instead of rising.”
FRED BRENCHLEY


What makes the IBM 6400
accounting machine
a better buy?
Completeness!
The IBM 6400 is one of the most advanced
ledger-card accounting machines made. But
it's the depth and intensity of IBM service that
makes it a better buy. Service determines the
true completeness of an- accounting system.
Here’s why: The backbone of service is your
representative. At IBM he’s a thoroughly
schooled specialist which makes him better
equipped to understand your real needs. He
ensures that you get the right system operating
right on time because he has more applications
knowledge and systems design experience
(who else has installed more accounting
systems). Finally, he's on call day or night to
keep your system running smoothly.
Take a look at the hardware
* Largest alpha numeric storage on ledger
card * Less manual operation—less risk of
12053
operator error * Accuracy checks on both
reading and recording * Unique single element
printing head eliminates moving carriage-
provides better forms handling * Fully tran-
sistorised small scale computer—one of the
most reliable computing mechanisms yet
devised by IBM.
The IBM 6400 not only offers you increased
efficiency in accounting operation, it also offers
greater control over operations through
numerous by-product reports and analyses.
IBM 6400
the complete accounting system
18M.60.108


Twenty-Four of the Best
A real Air Force but hardly Fortress Australia
Air Minister Peter Howson
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
IN terms of modern weaponry, the
patent fact is that Australia scarcely
has an Air Force at all. What we
do have is about 20,000 well-trained
men in blue uniforms, about 40 Mirage
fighters, some squadrons of old aero-
planes, some strips on which other
nations’ modern aircraft can land, and
a slow but sure air transport system
for the Army.
However, back in 1963, the Federal
Government, which had only been in
office for 14 years, a point that
some critics overlook, decided that we
needed a real Air Force and in another
couple of years we should have one.
It will arrive in the form of 24
F -111 A fighter-bombers from the
United States. Twenty-four planes do
not seem like a very big bomber force
to me, but when I mentioned this to Mr.
Peter Howson, ex-fleet Air Arm pilot
and Minister for Air, he explained that
the planes were very expensive and, in
any case, 24 of the best aircraft available
are better than 48 of the second-rate.
I could hardly deny the truth of
that, and another 60 or so Mirages
are being constructed here, so I con-
tinued the interview with Mr. Howson
by asking him if the Air Force was
in the middle of a Five Year Plan. Mr.
Howson, who looks a decade younger
than his 47 years, despite facial scar*
remaining from his war wounds, said
that in 1963 a comprehensive new plan
for the whole Air Force was drawn up
and it would be completed in time for
the arrival of the first of the F-llls.
The,F-11l is what everyone in the
Air Force wants to talk about. The
m akers call it a two-man, all-weather,
multi-purpose, supersonic, “aerial
weapons system.” It is also the world’s
first production aircraft to feature
variable-sweep wings. In flight, it will
be able to change the angle of its wings
from almost straight (16 degrees) to
sharply swept back (70 degrees). The
former position is best for taking off
and landing, the latter is best for speed.
Its top speed will not be much under
2000 miles per hour and it will fly at
less than 500 feet or more than 60,000
feet. The F-111A and the F-1118 will
be able to carry both conventional and
nuclear weapons, including air-to-sur-
face and air-to-air missiles and rockets.
Both can land on short, unimproved
land runways and the F-1118 will be
able to land on aircraft carrier decks.
The F-11l will carry a radar system
which will automatically guide the
plane along at very low altitudes. This
terrain-following radar will allow the
plane to fly at twice the speed of sound
only a few hundred feet up, a height
which will enable it to penetrate de-
fensive enemy radar systems undetected.
The radar continuously checks its own
operation and automatically directs the
aircraft to a safe altitude in case of
marginal operation, and mechanical or
electrical failure. The United States
Air Force and General Dynamics Cor-
poration claim that their new machine
will do anything that any other'aircraft
can do and some things that no others
can do. “Popular Mechanics” magazine
described it as “all airplanes in one.”
The F-11l has its engineering origins
in the need for a fast fighter-bomber
which could land on small, rough strips.
Large runways are too easily detected
and destroyed by an enemy. If they
are built out of enemy range the planes
using them are also out of range of
their own targets. The use of variable
sweep-wings has met the formerly im-
possible demand for an all-purpose
military plane. The first design was
called the TFX (tactical fighter, experi-
mental) and so delighted the Pentagon
that the three American services were
ordered to build it. The cost alarmed
the Army and the project is now being
completed by the U.S. Air Force and
Navy and General Dynamics.
Each F-11l is likely to cost Aus-
tralia a little under $6 million. Under
a financial agreement worked out with
the United States Government the
total cost of planes, spare parts, and
training pilots will exceed $2OO million.
The Federal Government justifies this
expenditure by arguing that the plane
will provide the best possible deterrent
threat to a potential aggressor, because
its great speed and contour-following
radar will make it almost undetectable.
The argument raised against this is
that the aircraft is too advanced and
costly for Australia’s likely needs: that
helicopters and transports are of more
importance in the wars of insurgency
which are likely to continue in Asia.
Objections have also been raised about
the reliability of the complex F-111,
but the Federal Government claims that
its Air Force advisers now in America
are completely satisfied with progress
and performance so far.
An Australian group-captain has
been stationed for some time at Fort
Worth where the plane is being made
and the Minister is given daily bulletins
on the state of production. Mr. Howson
claims that most of the criticism of the
F-11l has come from lobbyists acting
for rival companies. He is completely
confident that there are no serious
engineering and design problems


It’s a pleasure to
do business when you
fly Ansett-ANA
drive Avis Rent A Car
m
«K3S
;
m&m
M
1 “
IK
ANSETT-ANA \
RENTA CAR
The combination
that’s miles ahead for value.
You have more time for business and it’s a pleasure to do it when you jet there in
Ansett-ANA 727 Fan Jet luxury and drive a sparkling new AVIS Falcon or other
fine car. AVIS operates Australia’s finest fleet of drive-yourself cars and they are
PROPERLY insured too. Book your AVIS Rent A Car when you book your
flight —it will be waiting at the airport. Decide now to fly there Ansett-ANA
and drive an Avis Rent A Car. It’s the refreshing, economical way to do business.
2299/83/66
remaining, and unperturbed by Mr.
Whitlam’s gibe that the F-11l is “a
flying Opera House.”
The word “deterrent” has been
appearing more and more in Govern-
ment speeches lately and suggests that
Cabinet has been contemplating the
possibility of equipping the F-llls with
nuclear weapons. For the present the
Royal Australian Air Force depends on
its new supersonic Mirages, compara-
tively slow Sabres, practically obsolete
Canberra bombers, various training and
transport planes, and a few helicopters
to defend its thousands of miles of
coastline and the territories within, and
to support the Australian Army in Viet-
nam, Thailand, Malaya, and New
Guinea.
The Army gets what cheer it can
from a squadron of Canberras and a
wing of Sabre fighters at Butterworth
in Malaya, a squadron of Sabres in
Thailand, and eight helicopters and six
Caribou transports in Vietnam. A wing
of MIGs could shoot them all out of
the sky in a few hours, no matter how
great the skill of our pilots. The fact
that the RAAF has any morale left to
be warmed by the thought of the arrival
of the first F-11l in late ’6B is a great
compliment to the competence of its
leading officers.
The RAAF does, however, claim to
be very pleased with the Mirage as a
fighter as good or better than the best
possessed by any likely enemy, but has
only one squadron of Mirages opera-
tional to date. There will eventually
be more than 100 Mirages taking over
the fighter role of the Sabres, but the
argument still rages in aviation circles
about the value of this investment in
terms of Australia’s strategic needs.
One school of military thought
claims that fighter planes will be of
less value than transports and heli-
copters for some decades, and that if
we cannot have what we need of both
the latter should have priority. At
present Australia lacks the capacity to
shift a lot of men quickly and has in-
sufficient helicopters to be of much
assistance to troops in the field. By
January there should be a dozen new
Hercules C-130 E transports in opera-
tion and this will allow the shifting of
more than 500 men a day over distances
of four to five thousand miles. How-
ever, the build-up of helicopter strength
is proceeding too slowly for the con-
cern of many Army leaders.
B Y 1969 the RAAF also hopes to
take delivery of ten Orion anti-
submarine aircraft which will replace
the Neptune. The Orion carries highly
sensitive electronic equipment for the
location of submarines and is armed
with a variety of depth charges, bombs,
rockets, and mines. It can operate for
17 hours on a single flight and its fuel
costs are astonishingly low, about 20
cents a nautical mile at cruising speed.
By March, 1968, the RAAF will be
using the Macchi jet training plane.
The first 12 of a scheduled order of
more than one hundred will be made
in Italy. The rest, at a rate of five a
month, will be constructed by the Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corporation. With
the introduction of the Macchi, Pearce,
Western Australia, will take over from
Point Cook, Victoria, as the basic fly-
ing training school.
By the end of ’6B or early ’69, Aus-
tralia should have an Air Force which
is capable of reasonable aerial fighter
defence, of looming as a strong deter-
rent threat to a potential enemy, of
detecting and destroying not too many
submarines at a time, of fast and
accurate bombing of distance targets,
and of quickly carrying not too many
troops to battle areas.
The F-11l will be our most power-
ful military weapon and the thoroughly
efficient training of all Air Force per-
sonnel will continue to be the admira-
tion of our allies. The picture is far
from one of a Fortress Australia, but
for the first time in our history we will-
have an air force capable of match-
ing some of our defence needs. After
the days of the Wirraway, the Can-
berra, and the Sabre, we are about to
get an air force.


(MAS OFFERS
MORE JET CARGO FUGHIS
TO MORE PEACES THAN
ANY OTHER AIRUNE!
f ''
d . '■ 0“"“
LONDON RANKFURT X
r-
\
&
A
CALCUTTA , , WLZ HONG KONG
>
r M
KUALA LUMPUR I
€.
SffiSl
\ /
\7
JOHANNESBURG
immmm
Qantas V-Jet Routes
Other Qantas and
Wellington Associated Carriers’ Routes
Connecting Carriers’ Routes
ißwiwoioowinoioii rnimmiimimi i mm mss* tmm
Direct Qantas V-Jet flights every week to and from Australia:
London 13
Europe 9
Asia & The Far East 13
The U.S.A 10
New Zealand 8
And it doesn’t stop there. Regular flights also go to Noumea, Tahiti, Mexico,
the Caribbean and Africa. Which means that most world markets are less than
36 hours away by Qantas V-Jet. And only Qantas provides the greater carrying
capacity from more frequent flights. Bigger consignments, bulkier consign-
ments get there just as fast. Now you can market your products world-wide
just as easily as you can in Australia because of Qantas’ speed, frequency and
capacity. In addition, Qantas’ care and up-to-date handling facilities ensure
safe arrival of all your consignments.
air CARGO
isT^SsOFDEPESWSERV'CE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.
A 77.97.106


Alien Son
The Dark World of Charles Perkins
By SAM LIPSKI
DINNER at the weekly meeting of
Baulkham Hills Rotary is over;
a theatre night for “My Fair
Lady” has been announced, and in the
“New Products” segment one of the
Rotarians has demonstrated his firm’s
new plastic spray-gun for sheep. The
guest, Charles Perkins, gets up to speak.
His suit is modish, two buttons; the
trousers are tapered, the tab-collar shirt;
with wavy black hair and olive skin . . .
is he Greek perhaps, or Turkish?
Then he begins to speak and his
expressive hands, loose-wristed and long
fingered, sweep the air and add point to
his standard shock treatment: “I am a
half-caste Aborigine born near Alice
Springs on a mission station. My
grandmother was a full-blood of the
Arunta people. Many of my uncles
and aunties live on missions in the
Northern Territory in the semi-nomadic
state.” He goes on with a speech
which he has now given at least 50
times this year to meetings just like
this one pleasant, well-meaning white
Australians in Rotary clubs; in party
branches, Liberal and Labor; at
Mothers’ Clubs, at church halls, and in
private homes. It is a good speech and
he is a good speaker, repetitious some-
times but always forceful and direct.
Charles Perkins clearly enjoys public
speaking. Whether it is on the TV
program “Fighting Words” arguing
(convincingly) that “The treatment of
Aborigines is a National Scandal” or
talking to a small group of businessmen,
the words come rushing and tumbling
out as if he is making up for lost time t
He relishes the impact he is making on
his audience and he is aware of the
power of his words and his presence.
His regular speech opens with a
historical introduction, a brief anthro-
pological survey of Aborigines today,
and a refresher course in racial discri-
mination in Australia. “Australians are
funny, you know. They go on about
discrimination in South Africa, or the
United States. Well, what about the
pockets of discrimination right here?”
He cites an example, which angers him
particularly, of a leading margarine
manufacturer. They “will not employ
any Aborigines on any of their products
because they say they are dirty and
can’t be allowed to go near the food.
I rang up the personnel officer and
asked him if he would employ me.
I’m an Aborigine, I said. You’ll have
to work out in the yard, I was told.”
Or a leading sweets manufacturer which
refuses “to employ Aborigines because
they had some bad experiences with
some in the past.” And at the Royal
Easter Show this year an Aboriginal girl
was told she couldn’t work there because
she was the “wrong color.” Perkins has
learnt the art of hitting home and he
follows up with—“ Now how would you
like it if your daughter was told she
couldn’t get a job because she was the
wrong color. What would that do to
you as a father?”
Charles Perkins is sincere. But it is
not only sincerity which moves his audi-
ences. It is his anger, gently expressed
for the most part, but implacable. He
is angry at the still festering injustices to
his people, and an angry Aborigine who
■ will speak of his anger to the white man
is rare. He gets results. Sometimes they
are practical and immediate because
the very information he provides is new.
At the Baulkham Hills meeting he told
them about a panel of businessmen set
up by the Parramatta Rotarians to help
Aborigines find employment. Baulkham
Hills will discuss setting up a similar
panel.
There is another kind of impact
which Perkins seems to make. It can
only be guessed at but it is probably
the more important. It is more than
polite questions which he arouses in his
listeners. It is, however fleeting, a feel-
ing of unease, a sense of guilt at seeing
injustice close-up, a pang of sympathy
at staring unnecessary human hardship
in the face. It is even more than that
for there is an elusive quality about
Charles Perkins when he talks of the
Aborigines. After a fortnight of listen-
ing to him and watching him at work
the nearest I can come to explaining
this quality is to call it simple moral
fervor. Perkins is a moralist, a secular
preacher whose demands for justice and
fair treatment for his people are rein-
forced by his understanding of sociology
and anthropology, by his university edu-
cation (8.A., Sydney), and his wealth of
information. But his demands do not
depend for their force on such under-
standing. They depend instead on their
natural justice and common decency.
And Perkins, drawing on his own life,
drawing on his own empathy can make
those claims take on emotional mean-
ing in a way unmatched by perhaps
any other living Aborigine. Paradoxi-
cally, what helps him get through emot-
ionally where others have had less suc-
cess is that he has succeeded in white
society intellectually. The story of how
he has done this, of how he became the
first Aborigine to graduate from a uni-
versity, of how he has helped to shape
Sydney’s Foundation of Aboriginal
Affairs into a revolutionary force among
urban Aborigines is a success story, and
so it would be unfair to call it an Aus-
tralian Tragedy. An Australian Irony is
perhaps more appropriate.
Charles Perkins was born 30 years
ago two miles out of Alice Springs.
Until the age of six he lived on a
Government mission, learning to swim
in a perpetual spring, riding donkeys,
and practising air-raid drill. “It was
amongst the happiest years of my life,
living in ignorant bliss,” he recalls.
Perkins was the "third youngest in a
family of 15 children. He had little to
do with his father and he prefers not
to talk about him. But he speaks with
deep affection of his mother.
“She is a wonderful person. She’s
worked in the copper mines gathering
dirt for 1/6 a week, she’s washed
clothes, she’s cooked and scrubbed
floors, and she’s rounded up cattle. My
mother’s still living in Alice Springs
... a humble woman . . . and she sticks
to her principles. She’s a good little
gambler, you know plays cards for
a few pennies. That’s her big pleasure.”
When he was six his mother and his
brothers moved into a mud hut in Alice
Springs. The roof was grass, the floor
was dirt. Next came a tin shed and then
the Church of England Boys’ Home
St. Francis. Here at St. Francis he met
Father Smith, who, without realising it,
was to be the one man who literally
changed Perkins’ life.
“Before that, in the tin shed, life was
pretty tough. We used to have supper


I
iStKk O v
m..
Is
/■
4H»
'* ■
: _ f # & ttyt tty up
: V: #|§
'
If a celebration
is worth celebrating
it deserves the best
Minchinbury makes it memorable!
When we say "deserves the best",
you must naturally assume that there
are Not-Quite-Best and Not-Best -
At-AII Champagnes. And this is
true. Champagne made the tradi-
tional way (as Minchinbury is), is
the only wine worthy of your cele-
bration. So if it's worth celebrating
it does deserve the best. And that
means Minchinbury. Marvellous
party wine specially a party just
for two. Minchinbury White Seal
Champagne the most famous of
Australian Champagnes. Minchin-
bury Brut Champagne very dry.
superb quality. Minchinbury Spark-
ling Burgundy light in character
and ruby red in colour. Minchinbury
Sparkling Moselle a light, sweet
sparkling wine. Find a reason to
enjoy a Minchinbury sparkling wine
tonight. You may simply want to
celebrate the fact that you like
champagne!
Be wine-wise, choose Minchinbury.
After all, 122 years experience
makes a difference you can taste.
PENFOLDS
PW1246


Melbourne
goes to
Sydney
B
GTV
“In Melbourne Tonight” now telecast
live on TGN9 via co-axial cable
from GTV9 every Wednesday night!
Now you can hit Australia’s two biggest
markets at the same instant with
Melbourne’s liveliest live programme.
Sydney is seeing the real Graham Kennedy at last. The relaxed, quipping,
comical, topical Kennedy that has made his own “In Melbourne Tonight” the
longest running television programme in the world.
To sell Melbourne and Sydney on “In Melbourne Tonight” contact your
Channel 9 Account Executive, or your advertising agency.
9
9
GT90


after Mum came back from working in
the cafe. We would have the scraps
from the kitchen which weren’t good
enough to serve to anybody else. It
wasn’t that bad because Mum used to
pick out the best pieces. But she was
struggling. And us kids weren’t much
help. We wanted to throw rocks and
chase dogs, you know. Mum didn’t
know how to handle money. She would
give me ten shillings to put in the
bank. So I used to go and buy cake
~. ten shillings worth of cake, rainbow
cake it was. I can’t bear to look at it
now. Sometimes I was very hungry and
cold. Mum tried her best—but in the
end we were better off in the Boys’
Home.”
When Perkins was nine, Father Smith
asked his mother to allow him to go to
Adelaide. “My mother didn’t want me
to go but she agreed because she
thought it might be a better chance for
me. I wanted to go to Adelaide to see
a boat. I didn’t want to go to see any-
thing else . . . just a boat, a boat and
the sea. What I wanted was to see more
water than was in the swimming-hole.
I couldn’t imagine there being more
water anywhere.” With Father Smith
and eight Aboriginal boys Perkins left
Alice Springs for another boys’ home.
The city was a place to wonder at;
the buildings and trams were a marvel.
But Adelaide was also the first place
where color began to make a difference.
“Here come the dark kids, they’d say
when we used to walk down the street
to school. Or here come the dark clouds.
I began to realise who I was.”
Yet it is not the prejudice of color
which burned into the ten-year-old
Perkins—but the deprivation and in-
justice which went with it the sort
of injustice which for many Aborigines
persists today and which he remembers
vividly. By the age of ten it had become
natural to think of “we” and “they.”
“I hated everything about school. Sit-
ting in class wasn’t such an ordeal for
me but I hated being without things
that other kids had. And I felt it very
strongly. My clothes were different.
They had pushbikes—;we didn’t. If one
of us had a pushbike, they had two
pumps and we had one, or they had a
better bike than we had. When we
went to the shop for recess, they had
to shout us all the time. We couldn’t
shout them. Most of the time I had to
sit in the classroom and just wait for
them all to come back because I had no
money. They would all have a coke and
biscuits . . .”
There are also memories of
growing up in an institution. They,
‘oo, are not so much the memories of
color but the memories of deprivation,
fa such memories even the taste of
sandwiches matters. “Our lunches were
home-cut lunches, institutional lunches.
Fifty pieces of bread—so pieces of beet-
root slapped on with another 50 pieces
°f bread cut up in a crude way and all
mmped together. It was terrible. I
could never swop my lunch with any
other lad. Our lunches were square
and hard and wrapped in newspaper,
things like that are what I remember.”
His boys’ home in Adelaide was
Anglican and Perkins went to church
15 times a week. He was an altar boy
and enjoyed the ceremony, the incense-
carrying, the singing. He used to lead
the choir as a soprano. But religion
was “something to be tolerated.” He is
still nominally a Christian but he feels
the churches have let his people down.
And yet it is another churchman,
Aboriginal Pastor Doug Nicholls, who
has been a major influence on him in
adult life.
Father Smith tried hard to encourage
Perkins and his friends in their educa-
tion, but Perkins recalls that he was
unable to see in any of them university
students or professionals. His sights
were set no higher than producing “good
boys” and tradesmen. But Father
Smith was “a good man” and, although
some regarded him as eccentric about
Aborigines, Perkins sees him as one of
the few adults who took a genuine
interest in his childhood. He was cer-
tainly more understanding than the
priests with whom he had to deal later
in his childhood. “They were bashers,
homosexuals, and trash that wouldn’t be
tolerated anywhere else. A couple of
them were pretty good. The rest
were just hopeless. They had no
knowledge of child psychology and no
wish to learn any. One priest used to
bash me every day. He used to bash
most of us at least once a week, but
me he disliked, and my cousin —he
used to wallop us. He was malicious.
He’d beat me all over except on the
face. Broke a .number of broomsticks
on me . . . but they were thick broom-
sticks. I hated him. I still hate him.
I’ll never forget him. I think he was
just an evil man in the wrong sort of
job working out his frustrations on us.
It wasn’t because we were Aborigines,
I don’t think.”
gOMETHING about Perkins’ stiff.
necked rebelliousness even then
must have enraged the priest as it has
since enraged others, Perkins himself
finds it hard to explain where in his
childhood he found the stubbornness,
the will to resist, the refusal to
acquiesce which sadly have been charac-
teristic of the long-suffering Aborigine.
If they were not actually created out of
that early brutality and misery, they
were probably strengthened by them.
“I was a bit of a smart character. I
was the one who had an answer for
most things and I was the one who led
the group and I was the one who
copped it most of the time. That priest
. . . that Anglican priest used to belt
me with a rubber hose so as not to leave
marks on me. He walloped me that
hard once that I couldn’t get off the
floor. I was that beaten up. I just lay
there and cried my heart out. He
belted me and belted me. I had to go
to bed after I passed out. The next
day when I was getting out of bed he
walloped me again.”
By the time Perkins was 15 and in his
fourth year of technical school he could
not take the boys’ home any longer.
He left and found a room in a board-
ing house and a
job as an appren-
tice fitter and
turner. The first
year was hard.
With the ten shil-
lings he had left
over after paying
his board each
week he had to
buy clothes, pay
for his books and
tuition at the
apprenticeship evening classes, and buy
lunches.
By the time he was 16 the real
world of Charles Perkins was the
Soccer world. The special irony in the
choice of Soccer has persisted into his
adult life in other areas. Choosing
Soccer as a sport in his early teens
may have been a coincidence, but his
persistence at it, his success at it, and
his absorption in it for the next 15
years were far from accidental. Per-
kins gave himself to Soccer completely.
“Soccer opened me out to the world.
It was so good for me. I was able to
lose myself in it completely as part of
a group where I felt equal and yet to
find myself as an individual.” The irony
is that Soccer is an “un-Australian”
game. The Soccer world for Perkins was
a world of Italians, Greeks, Scots,
Irish, Englishmen, Hungarians, Poles.
They appreciated his talents on the
Soccer field, but more important to
him they treated him humanly away
from‘it. Even today there is still the
surprise when he talks about it.
“These Soccer people made me feel
that my color didn’t matter. There
was nothing strained about them. They
would let me sit down together with
them at the same table and we’d eat and
drink together. They weren’t scared
that they might say something which
would offend me because they didn’t
treat me like I was someone different.
And the girls. I hardly ever had any-
thing to do with Australian girls. There
was always an uncomfortable feeling. I
still have very little to do with Aus-
tralian women. I don’t admire them
for anything. But Ukrainians, Greeks,
Dutch, Bulgarians, Germans, they were
different—they’d walk down the street
with me. They’d take me into their
homes and their parents would say
have a glass of sherry or have a cup
of tea. This didn’t happen with an
Australian girl. It was always a front-
door job with them. You know, good
night, see you again, and that’s all.”
Perkins believes that if he had chosen
to make his name in the football world
by playing Australian Rules the same
“opening up” would not have occurred.
“I would have spent my time drinking
beer and feeling out of things.” At 19
Perkins was good enough at Soccer to
impress the scouts for the top English
team Everton, who offered to pay half
his fare to England.
“At that time I felt that there was
something pretty wrong with Aus-
tralia. It wasn’t only that the Abor-
igines were getting a raw deal. I felt
it personally. I’d sit in a barber’s chair


and the barber
wouldn’t shave
me, or a child
walking down' the
street would say
to his mother
‘Look at the nig-
ger boy.’ I just
wanted to get out.
I wanted to go to
England.” Hi s
Cousin paid the
other half of the
fare and Perkins left Australia.
Officials from Everton met him as
he came off the ship with his boots in
one hand and a battered case in the
other. “I had fourpence in my pocket
and one of the sleeves of my shirt was
missing.” He lasted only a few months
with Everton, where he felt he was
being victimised, not because he was
an Aborigine but because he was a
stranger, and that rare case in the Eng-
lish Soccer world, an Australian who
knew how to play Soccer. There were
some near fights with other players. He
left Everton to live in Wigan and
worked in the mines as a fitter and
turner. He hated being a fitter, but he
loved the companionship of the mines
and he loved the people of Wigan. He
felt completely at home for the first
time since he had left Alice Springs.
And there was more Soccer - now
with the leading amateur team, Bishop
Auckland. He would have stayed in
England longer, but Croatia-Adelaide
asked him to come back as captain-
coach and help lift the team from
second to first division. So Perkins re-
turned to Australia clearer in his own
mind after more than a year away
what “life was all about.”
Again the “un-Australian” world of
Soccer surrounded him. He also began
taking a special interest in Aboriginal
organisations and speaking up for
Aborigines. He was in his mid-twenties
when he decided that if anyone was
ever going to listen to him he would
have to get a university education. At
the same time he met 21-year-old Eileen
Munchenberg. Eileen was born at Lox-
ton, South Australia, and came from
a family of 19-century German
farmers. After a year’s courtship they
were engaged. There were doubts in
both families about the marriage, but
these were never serious. The Perkins
have an 18-month-old daughter and
they do not regard their mixed mar-
riage as having brought them any
special problems.
Soon after his marriage Perkins
came to Sydney determined to get to
the university, but uncertain as to how
he was going to do it. A chance meet-
ing with a club official at Kings Cross
led, almost inexorably, again to Soccer.
With his wife working and the money
he made from Soccer, Perkins began to
study for matriculation at a business
college. “God it was hard. I was a
grown man of 25 sitting in a classroom
with everybody ten years younger than
me. If they failed a subject or if they
didn’t study hard, it didn’t make any
difference to them. They couldn’t care
less, most of them. But for me it was
life and death. Everything depended on
it. I used to take my notebook to the
teacher and stand there while she
spoke to me like a kid. Now, Mr.
Perkins you really must improve on
that, and all that sort of stuff. Honestly,
I really felt like chucking it in some-
times.”
Perkins passed his matriculation in
all subjects after not opening a book
for ten years. He was awarded an
Abscol scholarship and after passing his
first year of studies in Arts at the Uni-
versity of Sydney a Commonwealth
Scholarship. Sociology, Anthropology,
Psychology, Political Science, all had
a special relevance for him. “I saw
everything in my studies from the point
of view of the Aboriginal people. When
I learnt about prejudice in psychology
or pressure groups in politics I could
relate it all. It all made sense. It was
like pouring water on a dry sponge. I
soaked it all up.”
The university was the beginning to
the answers he had been seeking about
himself and Aborigines, but it was also
hard work. Perkins set about his studies
with fierce resolve and found some
emotional release in the process. “I
think that my studies helped me in
strange ways. For one thing I feel it
neutralised my hate for 'the white
society. I began to see things in some
sort of pattern. I think it’s made me
more tolerant.” But the same irony
which began with his devotion to Soccer
continued at the university. “Most
people I mixed with at the university
weren’t really the average Australian
student. They were English, Greeks,
Russians, Jews. Or they were a bit Left
Wing. They were different or minority
groups.” And then with a grin at the
cliche, he adds, “I’m a stranger in my
own country, I suppose.”
pERKINS was not a brilliant student,
but he passed all his subjects regu-
larly and picked up some credits on the
way. The timetable was rigid. He and
his wife went out socially five times in
his first year and ten times in his
second. He played Soccer, he studied,
and he spoke about Aborigines. News-
paper articles began to appear about
him. As he studied more, he spoke
more and became more deeply involv-
ed. So did some of the white students
at the University of Sydney. For if the
university was a revelation for Perkins,
he was something of a novelty for the
university students. There had been
thousands of Asian students at Aus-
tralian universities for more than a
decade. Student passions had been
aroused about White Australia, and the
first really significant political stirrings
among students since the immediate
post-war years began over the question
of colored immigration from Asia. But
with rare exception university students
had never seen an Aborigine until
Charles Perkins. So it was no accident
that the first stirrings among students
on Aborigines should come at the Uni-
versity of Sydney.
Perkins did not originate the idea
of a “Freedom Ride” through the
country towns of New South Wales
where segregation and Aboriginal de-
privation were worst. The idea itself
came from some young lecturers and
students. But Perkins soon became a
key figure in the planning and organisa-
tion. He was the focus for much of
the publicity. Some of the parallels
which the mass-media attempted to
draw between Perkins and Martin
Luther King or other American negro
leaders were exaggerated and out of
context. But the demonstrations at
Bowraville, Walgett, Moree, and other
towns in early 1965 did bring the
name Perkins before Australians. Nearly
two years later Perkins is more than
ever convinced that the Freedom Rides
were worth while. What about the
criticisms that they upset formerly
peaceful relationships between whites
and Aborigines in country towns and,
in fact, made life harder for the Abori-
gines?
“We wanted to upset the relation-
ships. We wanted to upset them drama-
tically. We wanted Aborigines and
white people to think again—the white
people to understand the Aborigine and
the Aborigines to realise that they didn’t
have to go on accepting that sort of
treatment. I think there has been a
greater awareness all over Australia
as a' result of the Freedom Ride. We
weren’t concerned to change social con-
ditions overnight but to sow the seeds,
of doubt. What’s happened in Moree?
The whole attitude is different among
the Aborigines, there’s more unity, they
feel pride and dignity. In Walgett the
Aborigines held their first big dance a
few weeks ago. They ran the show.
They provided the supper for the white
people. The white people came and
enjoyed it. Now that’s never happened
before. It’s given the Aborigines more
dignity and that’s what they need. I
think it may have made it harder in
some cases but that might have been a.
good thing. I don’t think we upset any
relationships between white man and
Aborigine that didn’t need upsetting.
If it’s harder for some Aborigines it’s
because before it was like master and
slave. I think that the Freedom Ride
has been the most dramatic thing that’s
happened to Aborigines in my lifetime.”’
Perkins does not plan to take part in
any more Freedom Rides in New South
Wales, but he thinks that there is an
urgent need for such demonstrations in
Queensland.
Although actively associated witlvthe
Foundation for Aboriginal Affairs in
1965, his last year of studies, it was not
until this year that he became full-time
manager of the Foundation. There Per-
kins is very much the secular preacher.
He is social worker, employment officer,
activities director, spiritual adviser, and
more to his parish, the 12,000 Aborigines
of Sydney and the growing number who
drift into Sydney from the country
towns.
I sat in his office with three
Aborigines seeking work. All were


m
i 1
SPACE SAVER
DATA PROTECTOR
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier)
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 2 Wentworth Ave., Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
Please have one of your representatives contact
me to further explain how 3M microfilm could
help solve my company’s filing problems.
NAME :
COMPANY.
ADDRESS.
.
State.
j
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS
Thafe a 3M Microfilm System
SPACE SAVER: By reducing your records into microfilm
cartridges you actually save 96% of present filing space.
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier): Any one document
stored in 3M cartridges can be retrieved and viewed
within 20 seconds. Another 4 seconds and you can have
a full size dry copy ready for use.
DATA PROTECTOR: Store a duplicate microfilm file off
the premises for protection against fire, damage, theft.
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS: Discover how
easily and economically you can win the paper work
battle by using the 3M microfilm cartridge system. Send
the coupon today and 3M will contact you.
“PROFIT-AS-YOU-LEASE PLAN”: Operated through Mer-
cantile Credits Ltd. Under this plan your company can be
equipped with 3M Microfilm without investing a penny.
am
COmPANY
MICROFILM WORKSHOP:
Sydney 43-0455, Melbourne 61-3841,
Brisbane 5-4131, Adelaide 51-5971, Perth 28-4651,
Hobart 3-3104, Canberra 4-0791, Auckland 295-109
3M9/3195/66


*i- if.
* *; “, % •; >\
f.' >■
- -
••'?./*£•• > .
~ v,:
m;, >- <
a <
now!!!!!!
maximum
security
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
t&c/zw&od
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
HK-A
Ah
A 3.
As
A 3.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to the Master-Key.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
GMK
MK-8
MK-A
MK-C
A 3. 81. 82. 83. CI. C 3. C 3
... c,O
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries— enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code'Vand allowing absolute
control of additions, or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master**
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
LOCK UP
WITH
N.Z. agents: G. D, LITTLE LTD.
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F.
RADKE AGENCIES, Port Moresby,
MANUFACTURED .In AUSTRALIA B¥
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 508-0611 • Sydney:
56-8181, 56-3114, 56-3166, 56-3186
• Brisbane: 7-3047 • Canberra;
4-4008 • Adelaide: 8-3158 • Perth:
33-3314 • Hobart: 3-8141 • Laun-
ceston: 3-1441
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.


unskilled laborers. They were hop-
ing for casual employment. Perkins
phoned an office. “There’s a day’s work
f or you if you can be at the office in
town by eight o’clock sharp tomorrow.
Can you do that?” The oldest one of
the three, a man in his forties, spoke
foy them —“Sure we’ll be there.” He
looked relieved. Almost casually he adds
“Ay Charlie, did I tell you that my
youngest kid’s got leukemia. They
reckon she’s only got a few months to
live.” Perkins was sympathetic. “How
old is she, bud?” The child is 13
months and will probably die before she
is two years old.
The same morning we drove out to
Long Bay Jail. Perkins asked to see
four Aboriginal prisoners. Some were
on remand awaiting trial. From the
outer yard we passed through the giant
cage which separates the prison proper
from the outer offices and waiting-
rooms. It is like walking through an
aviary, high-roofed and barred on all
sides. In the meeting-rooms the smell of
carbolic and soap was strong the
prisoners were scrubbing floors. The
Aborigines had an air of resignation and
defeat, an acceptance of fate. Perkins
talked over their cases with them—
minor assault, petty theft. He explained
the law to them, told them they could
use the public defender, and arranged
to get witnesses to speak on their be-
half. It was a depressing morning. As
we drove back Perkins explained that
a disproportionate number of prisoners
were Aborigines. “The law seems to
work against them and make it worse.
Aborigines don’t know how the
law works. They’re frightened of it.”
In theory Aborigines have access to
the public defender and the Foundation
has also arranged for a panel of legal
men who offer their services free. But
there are still many Aborigines who go
into court unrepresented and un-
defended.
A T the Foundation, Perkins has a
staff of an Aboriginal field-worker
and an Aboriginal social worker. Be-
tween them they have made contact with
thousands of Aborigines in Sydney. This
year the Foundation has organised three
Aboriginal Rugby League teams, a girls’
basketball team, a regular Sunday
night concert, a youth club, and is
shortly opening a centre for Aboriginal
arts and handicrafts. It runs dances
and fetes. It is involving, for the first
time on such a scale, the Aborigines
themselves in the leadership and ad-
ministration of the Foundation. On its
own and with its limited resources it
cannot bring an end to the misery and
degradation of hundreds of families in
Redfern or other suburbs who live peri-
lously close to the breadline. But it
can and does undertake a great many
tasks which are really the State’s respon-
sibility but which no State Govern-
ment has ever been able to adequately
tackle. It is winning the confidence of
the Aborigine, something which the
State agencies have never been able to
do.
In his work at the Foundation and
his advocacy for the Aborigines, Per-
kins finds satisfaction, but the satisfac-
tion is mixed with doubts. He must
watch everything he does and says. On
the one hand he senses a largely gradu-
alist white community quick to pin
the label “militant” or “trouble-maker”
or “extremist” to him. Then there are
the Aborigines themselves, suspicious of
any of their own who look as if they
are pushing themselves too hard in the
white community, or who try to tell
them what is good for them. Perkins
feels the tension. “The Aborigines are
tired of the sort of leadership some of
their people have given them in the
past. Some of their so-called leaders
have exploited them for publicity or
personal gain. The Aborigines are very
sensitive to that sort of thing and they
have long memories.” Considering the
tightrope he walks, it is surprising that
Perkins is as outspoken as he often is.
From his studies Perkins has come to
a view of the Aborigines in society
which sees them as a special group with
special handicaps, analogous, for ex-
ample, to pensioners but with dif-
ferent sorts of handicaps which have
to be considered in discussing their
problems. Color is only one of their
handicaps. It is added to a whole list of
others which Perkins feels have to be
faced urgently. First he wants the
Commonwealth to take over all respon-
sibility for Aborigines because “the
States have made a hash of it, and it
is a national problem.” A national edu-
cational foundation for Aborigines
should be one of the first tasks. Second,
he wants a full-scale sociological survey
to find out exactly how many Aborig-
ines there are in Australia, what their
conditions really are, and what their
needs are. No intelligent policies can
be based on the present “colossal ignor-
ance.” Third, he wants laws against
discrimination on the statute book be-
cause the Aborigine must feel “the law
is on his side” and because this is a
way to deal with some of the discri-
mination which exists. Fourth, he wants
personnel working in Government
agencies who deal with Aborigines to
be trained personnel. For example, some-
of the Government welfare officers in
New South Wales have no other quali-
fications than the doubtful one of hav-
ing been a manager on an Aboriginal
reserve. In other States and in the Nor-
thern Territory some personnel are even
less qualified than that. Finally, Per-
kins wants governments, both State and
Federal, to realise the importance of
bodies like the Foundation, to realise
it in terms of hard cash. He thinks the
Foundation needs a grant of $4 million
to do its work properly.
“This is where I get so depressed
sometimes. People don’t realise the
value of a body like the Foundation.
They don’t appreciate it. What they
really need to make them appreciate
it is someone like Malcolm X here in
Australia. Look at this ratbag Malcolm
X, they’ll say. It’s a terrible thing, we
don’t want physical violence. Sure,
nobody wants that. But this is the way
it could possibly
go if bodies like
the Foundation
are not encour-
aged, and this is
why I get so de-
pressed. We need
the money des-
perately. People
have the oppor-
tunity to manifest
all the goodwill
they’ve been
screaming about for so long. There’s
only one way putting the hand in
the pocket. Good thoughts are mean-
ingless. We’ve lived on promises for
long enough. You know, I think time
is running out for Australia when it
comes to the Aborigines. Externally
and internally. We won’t tolerate a sub-
ject position any longer there must
be advances in the next six or seven
or eight years. Otherwise anything can
happen.” Perkins does not think there
would be violence on the scale of a
Watts. But he is sure there could be
greater individual lawlessness and
violence among Aborigines as more
begin to realise what society is deny-
ing them. ♦
Today Perkins lives in a two-storey
house near the University of Sydney.
(“We had to clean it up after the mess
the white people left behind them.” He
smiles.) His spare time is not his own
and he gets little chance to read books
other than “professionally” about Abori-
gines or racial problems. At weekends
there are concerts or the Foundation’s
football teams or more speaking engage-
ments. He relaxes in front of the tele-
vision set or listening to country-and-
western-style music. For the first time
since his youth he is not playing Soccer
this year, but he may go back to it
next year.
Unfortunately Perkins is not the fore-
runner of a new elite of young educated
Aborigines articulate and equipped to
work for their people; he is still very
much an exception and there are only a
few—less than half a dozen —following
him at the universities. And even
Perkins has doubts about his own future.
It is unlikely that he will completely
abandon working with the Aborigines.
But he may not remain manager of the
Foundation for very long. He would
like to go overseas and see how countries
like Canada and Mexico treat their
indigenous peoples. He toys with the
idea of going into Federal politics. (The
newly formed Australian Party has
already offered him pre-selection for
Canberra but he decided against it.)
There are times when he feels he would
like to study for the bar.
Perkins is dedicated to working for
his people. But he has battled to get
an education, he has a family to care
for, and after the years of hardship he
would like to make some life for him-
self independently of the cause. Perkins
has much to offer. It would be the
final irony if, in his disappointment at
our slowness to acknowledge it, he was
lost to a cause which needs him so
much.


Verwoerd in Private
BY JACK FINGLETON
Dr. Verwoerd rarely gave private interviews to journalists, but he
agreed to see former Test cricketer Jack Fingleton on the reaommem
dation of Sir Robert Menzies. Since Dr. Verwoerd insisted the story
not appear while he was alive , it is now published for the first time.
SIR ROBERT MENZIES gained me
entree into Dr. Verwoerd’s rooms
at Pretoria. I had known Sir
Robert first through cricket, and then
during my 20 years as a correspondent
in Canberra. When he knew' I was
revisiting South Africa he said I must
certainly meet Dr. Verwoerd. “You
will be charmed by him,” Sir Robert
said. “He is an extremely courteous
man. It will do you a lot of good to
mpet him and discuss things. I will
drop him a line.”
And so the interview was arranged
for the afternoon of September 9, the
day after Dr. Verwoerd’s 62nd birth-
day. Verwoerd would have known that
I was associated with an English group
of South African newspapers, a group
against which he, as editor of “Die
Transvaler,” had unsuccessfully fought
a bitter libel action after World War 11.
My newspaper friends in the Republic
told me I was extremely fortunate that
Verwoerd had agreed to see me. He
had become pretty disillusioned with
visiting newspapermen and refused to
see them any more. Undoubtedly, it
was Sir Robert’s good offices that
opened the door to me.
I arrived by car from Johannesburg
just before the appointed time of 3.30.
Mr. Barnard, the private secretary, was
very friendly. He asked how long did
I think I would be wdth the Prime
Minister. I said: “Well, that’s up to
him. He might want to shunt me off
quickly, but I would like to last half
an hour.” “I think he wants to speak
to you longer than that,” said Barnard.
“But we have a very busy afternoon.
If you are still there, would you mind
making a move about 4.25?”
I went in immediately. The Prime
Minister arose from his desk and gave
me a friendly welcome. He sat down,
but I continued standing and said:
“Just a minute, Mr. Prime Minister.
There is something I want to say to
you.” He looked intense and some-
what surprised. I had been rehearsing
some Afrikaans on the way up from
Johannesburg, but I was afraid that
at the critical moment the strange words
would elude me. But they came and I
said, haltingly: “Veels geluk met u
Verjaarsdag.”
His face broke into an expansive
grin and he arose again and shook
hands, repeating the words in Afri-
kaans. It was a birthday greeting for
the day before. I had been coached in
it the night before by an Afrikaans
friend and it certainly set the seal for
our friendly talk.
Dr. Verwoerd was thickset and big,
his flesh firm, his handshake like a vice,
his eyes bright light blue. I noticed
immediately the punctured flesh on his
right cheekbone, the legacy of the
assassination attempt by the farmer
Platt in Johannesburg. Platt, deemed
to be insane, afterwards hanged him-
self in custody.
We chatted about families. “You
have a big one —> five sons and two
daughters?” I asked. He agreed it was
a big one and he told me what they
were all doing all with University
degrees. I spoke with him about Stellen-
bosch, where he had lectured, and of
his book, “The Taming of the
Emotions.” I showed him a snap of my
family of five children and he said
the appropriate things.
I said Sir Robert had told me of
how I would find him a most courteous
and friendly man. (All who knew I was
TURTON
VEWOERD
to meet him, even those who dis-
agreed politically with him, told me
this. Most said, too, that he would
blind me with words.) I said Sir Robert
had told me of how he, Verwoerd,
emerged from his final Prime Minister’s
conference in London with great
dignity, admired by even his enemies.
And I repeated his final words to the
other Prime Ministers on that occasion:
“Goodbye to you all. All I can say to
the opponents of South Africa is that
you have won your wish but lost your
cause.” Verwoerd nodded.
“Sir Robert is very kind,” he said.
“He has been a very good friend to
me.” He told me of how the two of
them had stayed at Chequers that final
weekend, the guests of Mr. Macmillan
and how the three of them had tried
to find some formula which would
enable South Africa to stay in the
Commonwealth. He spoke with no feel-
ing of Macmillan. (Neither did another
African Prime Minister I was to meet
later. “I hate Macmillan’s guts. He is
old and has been there too long. We
can expect nothing from him. He is
under American domination.”)
Dr. Verwoerd told me a long story
of Sir Robert as they all sat around
the London Conference table for the
last time: “Diefenbaker, the Canadian,
who was anti-African, was holding
forth. I passed up a cutting to Sir
Robert about two blacks being refused
permission to enter a Toronto hotel.
Sir Robert liftted his huge eyebrows, you
know, as he does, and sat back again,
looking with dumb amazement at Dief-
enbaker. He read the cutting out and
sat back again, looking agape at Diefen-
baker. He had the whole table in
convulsions. Later I passed Sir Robert
up a book called, I think, ‘North of
Alaska.’ It spoke of indifferent
Canadian treatment of the Eskimos.
Sir Robert passed the book up to Dief-
enbaker and said: ‘Uncle Joe, have a
look at this.’ ”
This was the end of anything frivo-
lous in our talk. Dr. Verwoerd—and I
had been warned of his propensity for
this then went into a long harangue
about the Transkei, its system of tribal
government, his experiences with
natives, when their Minister, and how
their Constitution had originated.
With time running on, I found this
heavy going. I wanted to get him
on to other matters, but I had been
told this was difficult to do when he
was in full flow. I had, too, to appear
interested in all he was saying, but I
got an opening at last. What were his
own feelings toward the natives? He
gave me a run-down through the early
history of the world the Slavs, the
Roman Empire, w'hite people in
general, France after the Revolution,
and then, ultimately, to the arrival
of the whites at the bottom of Africa
several centuries ago. The white people,
he said, had made South Africa what
it was and, in the process, they had
developed the natives. The natives in
South Africa were best off of all the
natives in Africa.
“Do you know that our natives in
South Africa have more cars betweea


THE LAND BOOMERS
❖ Michael Cannon *
A vivid analysis of the extraordinary
Victorian land boom of the 1880 s, and
the ensuing depression of the 1890 s.
Mr Cannon’s research identifies
famous families and institutions
among the promoters, politicians and
paupers of the period. He uses much
material previously unavailable.
255 pp. 35 illustrations $7.50
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
them than there is in the whole of
Soviet Russia? I told Nehru once at
a Prime Minister’s conference: ‘I will
bet you we will educate more natives in
ten years than you will in India in a
hundred
I wondered, quickly, how such a bet
could be decided, but he was on his
way again. “For several centuries,” he
said, “we have nurtured a serpent in
our bosom” —then, realising obviously
his choice of words was not a happy
one —“not that I regard the native as
a serpent. I don’t hate the natives. I
have many good friends among them.
When I was shot (motioning to his
face) and on my birthday, I had hun-
dreds of cables and letters from my
friends among the natives. I worked
with them and for them for years. I
want to give them the right to run their
own affairs in their own country. But
South Africa is a white man’s country.
We made it, and we will not be pushed
out. We know the native mind. We
understand it. We are giving the native
in South Africa more than he is get-
ting in any other part of the continent.
But we just refuse to ignore the fact
that South Africa is a white man’s
country and will remain so.
“Give us time and we will prove
that our policy toward the native is
the correct one if we are to survive.
We are building native schools. We
are abolishing slums. They say, yes,
but you are putting the natives outside
the city areas. Where else can we put
them if we abolish slums? You can’t
build native quarters again in the heart
of Johannesburg, for instance. We are
giving them good living standards and
we are trying to keep down the cost to
them. We are building railways and
roads out to their new homes.
“They say I hate the natives. I
don’t. My father, as a missionary,
worked for them. My son-in-law, also
a missionary, works for them. One of
my sons is training to be a missionary
and will work for them. All I say is
that South Africa was made by the
white man and belongs to him. We
will not be pushed out, but, at the
same time, we are doing what we can
for the natives. They will have their
own country ultimately, and there will
be no position in it that they can’t
attain to.”
D R VERWOERD sat near an open
window, through which the late sun-
light was slanting. Every now and then
he put his feet up on an open drawer.
I thought then, remembering the Platt
incident, that he would have presented
an easy target through that window.
Was there nothing, I asked Dr. Ver-
woerd, he could do to present a better
world picture of South Africa; had he
thought of giving an address to the
United Nations himself? (I had heard
in Pretoria that he was contemplating
this.) He shrugged his shoulders. “Yes,
I have,” he said, “but what would be
the use? They wouldn’t listen to me.
They would shout me down. They
would walk out.”
When I saw the United Nations at
work later, I realised how impossible
such a move would have been. In
alphabetical order, South Africa is sur-
rounded by men from colored countries.
Dr. Verwoerd would barely have been
allowed to get to his feet.
He criticised the United States and
Britain. “They don’t help us with their
frequent criticism,” he said. “You
know, there has always been a pattern
of Communist propaganda. It is always
the same.”
What was behind his recent state-
ment, which had caused an excited
stir, that the British protectorates
Swaziland, Bechuanaland, and Basuto-
land - should come within the
sphere of South African influence? “I
am afraid of Communist infiltration
there,” he said. “If they belonged to
us (he presumed even then that South-
West Africa would remain under his
control), it would give us 47 percent
of the whole of the country down here
that could be taken over by the
natives. That would be a very fair
proportion for them.”
I T had goife past 4.30. Earlier, I had
attempted to make a move, but he
had motioned me down and continued
talking. “They say we treat the natives
badly,” he said, “yet just on a million
have come across our borders to live
under us. We treat the natives well,
that’s why - better than the native
treats the native up north.”
This very day, two alleged Israeli
gunmen and Communists, Wolpe and
Goldreich, who had escaped from
Johannesburg, were on the run and
were to get through to Dar Es Salaam.
He spoke of them and said: “It is un-
fortunate that so many Jews should
be in the publicity. True, some Jews
are Communists but so are some of
every creed but the publicity given
them might make the world believe
I am anti-Semitic. This is just not so.”
What of his detention powers and
the bleak picture these gave the world
of South Africa? “This is not easy to
explain to those countries which don’t
know or understand the problems we
have. I give my solemn assurance that
we have solid grounds for detaining the
people we do. A Government threat-
ened as we are by outsiders, by sabo-
teurs, by infiltrators, by people who
blow up railways and who throw bombs
can’t afford to take risks. Harsh be-
haviour needs harsh remedies. Our
case in South Africa is survival.”
He gave me to understand that South
Africa had two strong cards to play in
the Western world. “They cannot do
without our gold—it would attach too
much importance to Russia’s gold—and
we are too valuable to the Western
world from a strategic viewpoint. These
are important factors.”
I rose, at last. It was a quarter to
five. “You will understand,” he said,
with a smile, because he would have
been aware as a newspaperman of the
value of the interview that he gave me,
“that I cannot let you use any of this—-
not while I am alive. It is too difficult.
I refuse interviews. If I give one to a
Dutchman and not to a German, the
German would plague me. So, I don’t
give any at all nowadays. Too many
go away and write cruel things.”
We had a few words on cricket and
Rugby. As I went out, Mr. Ben Schoe-
man, Minister for Transport and men-
tioned as a possible successor to Dr.
Verwoerd, came in. He gave me a


Aiding our southern neighbor with
hydro-electric power...
0
0
Fuji Electric
Electrical Power for Progress
Electricity plays an important part in
the modernization and the development of
man’s ability to conquer science for indus-
trial growth. Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. is famous
for design and manufacture of modern
equipment to generate and harness electric-
ity, Nature’s greatest gift to mankind!
Australia’s Industrial Potential
The potential growth and development
of Australia’s industry, and the use of her
natural resources are dependent upon the
ability to place unlimited electrical power
at the disposal of industry. Fuji Electric
is aware of the advances Australia has
made in becoming an industrial leader.
Australia has begun an electrical power
modernization program from which she
will emerge as one of the world’s most
progressive and industrialized nations.
Fuji Electric’s Past Contributions to this
Program
We at Fuji Electric have seen the impact
modern electrical power generating equip-
ment has on Australia’s industrial advances.
An example of our contributions to Aus-
tralia’s modern power for progress program
is the huge 950 KW Pelton type water
turbine generator built by Fuji Electric and
installed at the Murray Power Station as a
part of the Snowy Mountains electrical
power modernization program which is
changing the entire future of industry in
Australia.
Fuji Electric’s Place in Australia’s Indus-
trial Future
We have the most advanced research
laboratories and the highest trained crafts-
men anywhere in the electrical equipment
industry. These assets, coupled with mod-
ern facilities and quality controlled pro-
duction techniques, bring an outstanding
quality to every Fuji Electric product
an excellence which will help increase the
industrial growth and economic structure
of Australia. We offer a variety of electrical
power generating equipment to provide
electricity for an entire city or for the
largest industrial facility ever constructed.
No matter what the requirement, our abun-
dant technological knowledge and ability
can design, develop and construct that
equipment.
Fuji Electric, A World Leader In Its Field
For more than 40 years, Fuji Electric’s
products have established the standard of
excellent electrical equipment in Japan and
the world. The quality performance and
high reliability of Fuji Electric products
is backed by the integrity, experience and
skill of more than 18,000 craftsmen who
make up our working force. In addition
to electrical power generating equipment
we hold a leadership position in the fields
of electronics, nuclear research equipment,
and electrical household appliances de-
signed for modern living. We manufacture
everything electrical from mammoth water
turbine power generator to the tiniest
transistor.
3*
u
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL. OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CD, LTD. (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


baleful look. I could understand how
he felt about his long delay.
I had many thoughts to carry back to
Johannesburg that day. Dr. Verwoerd
was obviously a very determined, self-
righteous, and dedicated man. They
told me he possessed a messianical zeal
and belief that he had been sent to
solve South Africa’s troubles, as evid-
enced by his escape from Platt’s
bullet. His job was clearly seen and
there would be no flinching. “I am in
my Maker’s hands,” he said philoso-
phically, once, when I referred to Platt.
“Give us time, all will come right, we
will be proved right in the end. Alles
sal reg kom —* everything will be all
right.”
Death of a University
The New Left in Berkeley
By ARNOLD BEICHMAN
TWENTY months ago the University
of California at Berkeley was the
arena of battle between a “New
Left” student-faculty coalition and
everything- and everybody else in the
name of free speech.' The battle be-
came a war which has now destroyed
the university, until recently one of
the most promising institutions in the
country. Such is the report of Professor
Lewis S. Feuer who, after nine years
at Berkeley as a teacher of philosophy
and social science, has joined the Uni-
versity of Toronto as professor of
sociology. His ave atque vale in the
current Atlantic Monthly is a heavily
documented and fascinatingly narrated
story of the “new Leftism” in action
on the American campus.
It may be easy to disprove Feuer’s
implied thesis that Berkeley is finished.
In fact, he could argue that he doesn’t
quite say it’s finished. Yet the facts
and incidents he lists in his 6000-word
article lead to but one conclusion: a
relative handful of politicalised students
and non-students, some Communists,
and a small number of faculty members
have seized de facto control of Berkeley.
This loose but effective student-faculty
dictatorship, now in its second year,
goes on unchecked because of the in-
action of a timorous university admini-
stration. It is unchallenged by anybody
on the “outside” because the idea of
a university corporate autonomy is to-
day widely accepted in America.
'fHE immediate effects of this oli-
garchic tyranny over Berkeley have
been:
1. Leading faculty moderates and
liberals have resigned from the faculty,
notably Seymour Martin Lipset, Dwight
Waldo, and Paul Seabury, a one-time
chairman of Americans for Democratic
Action. More than thirty tenured
professors resigned this year alone.
2. Applications for undergraduate
admission for this fall had dropped by
more than 20 percent over last year,
it was announced last spring. The
‘better” graduate students decline to
come to Berkeley.
3. University officials are hesitant
about ever again inviting national ad-
ministration spokesmen to Berkeley
after the disruptive demonstration in
March when Ambassador Arthur J.
Goldberg was granted an honorary
degree.
4. Today at Berkeley freedom of
speech and debate have never been “at
a lower estate in any major American
university in the last generation.” Such
is the triumph of the “Free Speech
Movement” uprising of fall 1964.
5. “The aftermath of the student
uprising brought to the city of Ber-
keley a period of unprecedented crime,”
writes Feuer. And in a passage which
recalled the history of Josef Vissariono-
vich Djugashvili, the seminarian who
became the highwayman of Tiflis, he
continues: “Apart from all statistics
and their possible inaccuracies and
misreadings, what was most disquiet-
ing was that some segments of the
New Left proclaimed their readiness
to prey on the System. A cult of
thievery was flourishing. The Maoist
group was most vociferous of all in
boasting about its achievements in shop-
lifting, but others shared its dishonor.
This cult of dishonesty has been de-
veloping gradually in Berkeley. Three
years ago the head of the New Left
student party, “Slate,” was found guilty
of stealing from a bookstore; his de-
fence was to blame it on the System.
The non-student founder of the ob-
scenitarian movement was also arrested
for shoplifting. Guerilla warfare was
waged against small storekeepers, aged
landladies, the university’s grading
system and selective service.”
The New Left victory at Berkeley,
which is close to San Francisco, came
when the university faculty (December
8, 1964) passed, by an overwhelming
majority, a resolution “that the content
of speech or advocacy should not
be restricted by the university.” How-
ever high-minded the intent, the state-
ment could be, and indeed was, used to
safeguard “unrestrained advocacy” of
acts of violence, illegal demonstrations,
terrorist operations, interferences with
troop trains, obscene speech and action
and, says Feuer, “University facilities
became available for the organisation
of all such actions.” The grand j,ury
of Alameda county in which Berkeley
is located found last January that
Chancellor Roger Heyns, university
head, had condoned “the deliberate
violation of criminal laws on the cam-
pus (which) had become a staging area
for unlawful off-campus activities.” The
grand jury cited thirty-four specific in-
stances of such use of the university’s
facilities.
The aftermath of this Great Student
Uprising was the influx of an estimated
2500 “non-students” to Berkeley. They
took over the Vietnam Day Committee,
one of whose non-student functionaries
had murdered a seven-year-old child in
New York a few years earlier and was
out on parole; the “Peace Rights Or-
ganising Committee,” whose officials
invaded the chancellor’s office where
they called the vice-chancellor to his
face and before television cameras a
“son of a bitch.” These “non-students,”
representing a variety of causes and
movements including “undiluted orgy-
ism,” “ideological sexuality” and “orgi-
astic rebellion,” were able to address
the students and anybody else on the
campus. “One could scarcely believe
that the faculty majority on December
8 had intended what was taking place
in its name,” says Feuer.
J>ERKELEY .symbolises, says Feuer,
“the problem of the American intel-
lectual class itself, its sudden power,
affluence, influence, and immaturity.”
The American intellectual class, how-
ever, can also boast of its maturity
judging from those, like Feuer, who
have taken other university appoint-
ments or else are still at Berkeley
resisting the “guerillas.” The more
important question is, why the
New Left was so spectacularly
■successful at Berkeley but not, say,
at Columbia University in New York
or Harvard or the University of
Chicago or universities just as young as
Berkeley. Columbia was saved from
New Leftist attentats in the past two
years because its vigorous and highly
intelligent dean, David B. Truman,
and the faculty believe that a univer-
sity is a community, not a field for
political conflict nor a bastion for
“guerilla warfare” against society and
that this belief is not negotiable no
matter what one thinks of Vietnam or
Lyndon Johnson.
When Berkeley appointed the author
of “The Psychology of Personal Ad-
justment” as its new chancellor, it was
inevitable that he in turn should
appoint as his special assistant ori
student affairs a young faculty activist
who, at the height of the 1964 Berkeley
riots, declaimed at a student meeting:
“The University is out to destroy the
civil rights movement.” It was, perhaps,
equally inevitable that the student
activists whom the special assistant was
to help “adjust” should steal a private
file, photograph its contents and then
claim that he was plotting against the
students.
The death of Berkeley its resur-
rection will demand a miracle is
part of the growing crisis in American
university education. Feuer’s highly
moving exposition may compel Wash-
ington, which appropriates billions of
dollars annually to subvention colleges
and universities, to ask the kind of
questions which educators, today one
of the most powerful of the vested
interests, are reluctant to ask.


ONE MORE
WEEK
More Australians
ALTHOUGH the book “The Aus-
tralians,” with pictures by Robert
Goodman and text by George Johnston,
and the film “The Australians—-the
Second Assault,” made by Dahl and
Geoff Codings with commentary written
by George Johnston, have been released
almost simultaneously, the film is not
“the film of the book” and, in fact,
was put in train before the book.
“The Second Assault” has segments
on the Old (but carefully skirts poli-
tical aspects), the Esperance in the
south-west of the continent and the
brigalow country of Queensland. It
was made for Qantas and the Com-
monwealth Development Bank. The
film is having commercial release in
this country but limited release overseas.
Some Japanese film people who have
seen it are enthusiastic. “They seemed
to sense imminent tragedy,” a Qantas
representative said. “That there are
people who may succeed, but who
equally may fail. We think it might
serve a useful purpose in Asia. People
there who think about Australia at all
think of it as a rich country where you
just have to sit under a tree and wealth
will drop into your lap. It is hard
country, as this film shows.”
Exploration
THE MAN FROM SOTHEBY’S, Mr.
Anthony Opie, was not a fruity gentle-
man in pin-striped trousers looking as
if he had had a lifetime of breakfast
kippers off Georgian silver but a lively
young New Zealander in a junior execu-
tive suit and hand-knitted .tie.
But Sotheby’s is Sotheby’s, a British
institution, and from the eagerness with
which the British Travel Association
was looking after Mr. Opie, a British
tourist attraction. Mr. Opie had as
much to say to us about tradition (his
firm still pays him danger money when
he goes to Scotland because of the risk
of highwaymen) and reliability
(Sotheby’s has more than 30 experts,
some with fields narrower even than
a museum specialist’s) as about the
fact that the firm is now the largest
auctioneer of art objects in the world.
It has a turnover for the past nine
months of nearly $7O million, received
goods for sale from 70 countries, and
sent pieces to 63 countries.
Mr. Opie, who is manager of the
valuation department, is visiting Aus-
tralia as part of a world-wide explora-
tory trip. His firm put one small adver-
tisement in the Australian Press and
as a result he has had more than 400
inquiries, with further letters coming
at the rate of about 20 a week. He
visits houses and offers valuations for a
small fee, but with no obligation on the
owner to sell or even to effect any
future sale through Sotheby’s.
Mr. Opie has no specialised field and
handles furniture, porcelain, silver, and
paintings. He has been with Sotheby’s
only since 1959 and joined them with
only the limited experience of working
in an antique shop in New Zealand.
However, he believes his work requires
mainly aptitude and the opportunity of
handling quantifies of objects. “I might
average 3000 pieces a week,” he said.
“Handling them is what counts. * You
can’t learn much looking at things in
glass cases or from books. Not all
books are accurate. People should re-
member that. And there are fakes in
every field. The directors of our firm
have a black museum and you have
only to go through it to see how easy
it is to make mistakes. My mistakes?
Everyone makes mistakes. The firm
bears the responsibility, but, of course,
you couldn’t go on making mistakes.
We get a lot of people with specialised
knowledge, but they don’t always work
out in a large auctioneering firm.”
He has covered Sydney, where he
found the art and object market “quite
sophisticated,” which is another way of
saying that people know fairly well the
value of what they own or what they
propose to buy. He is in Brisbane this
week and goes to Canberra, Melbourne
and Adelaide. He quickly rid us of the
romantic idea that he would be visiting
older houses, where precious family
heirlooms might be about to be sacri-
ficed. “We’ll find most of the sort of
stuff we are interested in among the
nouveau riche,” he said. “Most antiques
are just high finance. We think there
is great potential in Australia. There’s
an awful lot of money here and a
growing population.”
He has noted our prolonged fondness
for Victorian pieces. He puts this down
to the fact that the first spread of
wealth and elegant life came at the
height of the Victorian age. Now, a
century later, Australians (with New
Zealanders and Canadians) still tend to
see yalue for money in the elaborations
of Victorian style rather than in the
simplicities of Georgian.
Once Mr. Opie had assured us that
in spite of the fact that antique dealing
was in the realm of high finance, one
quarter of his firm’s transactions were
below $7O, we asked him what were
the current best buys. “Anything sen-
sible as long as it is slightly out of
fashion,” he said. “There is a definite
trade cycle. Everything must come
back into fashion some time.”
Down on The Farm
ABOUT the most dangerous place to
work these days is down on the farm.
Life may be healthy in the great out-
doors, but it is liable to be shorter and
more accident prone than most others.
Tractor deaths on Australian farms,
now about 100 a year, represent a
higher death-rate than in factories. In
fact, the motorist in his car is far safer
than the farmer driving his tractor.
Over the years, safety legislation has
drastically cut industrial accidents. Laws
covering factory machinery are com-
prehensive and well policed but similar
Safeguards extend to farm machinery
only when it is stationary. Anything
that moves is exempt. Farmers usually
resist what they call “meddling” in the
way they work their places, and in any
case regulations would be hard to
police in country areas. Besides, most
safety measures in industry are for the
protection of employees. Many farmers
are self-employed and probably regard
risk as, you might say, their own
funeral.
Lack of protective cabins on tractors
may be the greatest cause of farm
deaths and injuries in Australia. Norway
and Sweden now make these cabins
compulsory. These countries, with
Britain and New Zealand, exclude
children below the legal working-age
limit from operating tractors.
Last week the Victorian Department
of Labor and Industry opened a farm
and tractor safety display at the Royal
Melbourne Show. To mark the event,
the Labor and Industry Minister, Mr.'
Vern Wilcox, said he was becoming
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
We are told that all the basic and
worthwhile taxing powers must be
held by the Central Government, that
they are the weapons to control the
economy. Weapons indeed! One is
entitled to ask, weapons to be used
against whom?
Sir Henry Bolte.
It is strange that a woman should
be so placed that her husband cannot
look after children while she goes to
court to answer a criminal charge.
Mr, Locke, SM, in Paddington, Sydney,
Court, dealing with alleged shoplifting
offences.
Leave the Lord’s Prayer alone; Man
in the street doesn’t want change.
—Headline in Sydney “Sun.”
I stand here as a man who is small
because I believe in God.
South Africa’s new Prime Minister
Vorster.
To ask for tomorrow’s bread today,
though no doubt closer to the Greek
original, seems a trifle greedy.
— “Sydney Morning Herald’’ editorial on
the revised Lord’s Prayer.
Saigon is closer to Darwin, Aus-
tralia, than Sierra Leone is to Salis-
bury, Rhodesia — nearly 1000 miles
closer.
—Harold Holt, in London.
You have to look hard at Wilson
and Heath to see which twin is the
Tory.
— Patrick Furnell, official of the British
Liberal Party.
We hope that in future times few
men, if any, may have the authority
which we creators of this revolution
have had, because it is dangerous for
nten to have so much authority.
Fidel Castro


increasingly alarmed at the needless
loss of life and the number of serious
accidents on farms.
Mr. Wilcox’s department recently
prepared a detailed analysis of some of
the bizarre ways in which tractor deaths
occurred. Thirty-one out of 40 people
involved had had “substantial” experi-
ence with tractors —but tricky things
happen.
One man was killed because his
tractor reared when he was pulling a
log with the wire cable attached higher
than the draw-bar. Two were killed
when trees, pushed aside by the bull-
dozer blade, sprang back on them. Two
died when they were run over trying to
stop unmanned machines. Two others
were killed when their clothing became
caught in the power take-off drive link-
ing their tractors to other machinery.
A distressing number of accidents
involved children. A four-year-old was
killed when his father left him to steer
the tractor while he unloaded cattle-
feed from a towed trailer. The tractor
started down a steep grade, threw the
boy out and ran over him. A three-
year-old sitting on a tractor tool-box
fell off and was crushed by a trailer
wheel. A two-year-old fell from another
while his 11-year-old brother drove the
machine through a gate opened by their
father. The small child was crushed
by a back wheel and died.
Misgivings
PERTH’S Anglican Archbishop, the
Most Rev. George Appleton, has, since
he arrived in Australia, shown himself a
most liberal man. Last week he opened
up one of the West’s ugliest wounds
the treatment of Aborigines in the
Great Southern—by giving an account
of his visit to Gnowangerup, an area
which has become Western Australia’s
symbol of a Deep-South attitude toward
natives.
“I tried to put myself in the place
of people living on the reserve with
some disquieting misgivings,” Arch-
bishop Appleton wrote. An accompany-
ing article pointed out that Gnowang-
erup’s 400 Aborigines were excluded
from either of the town’s cares, drink-
ing in hotel bars, going to the drive-in,
swimming in the town pool, or even
getting a haircut.
Taking advantage of their recently
won drinking rights, they buy 12 to 15
cases of bottled beer a w'eek at 45
cents a bottle, but cannot legally take
it home to the reserve, cannot normally
drink it in a hotel, in the streets, or
on private property without the owner’s
permission. The only concession is the
notorious “Sunday session”—a anach-
ronistic privilege designed for travellers
~ in a room euphemistically called the
side lounge” of the hotel, which
has no furniture. So they sit on the
floor and drink.
Police Sergeant Des Jones was, by
Great Southern standards, being liberal
when he said: “We can only wait for
the day when natives learn to handle
alcohol like whites, or until they breed
the dark blood out, whichever comes
first.”
The tetters of Trevor Gooseboot
(Intercepted by Will Rushton)
Dear Mother,
I was extremely upset by your last letter, which I received the day before
yesterday. It was an almost exact replica of the epistle you sent me in 1938
when I was elected Hon. Secretary of the North Hampstead Labor Club, while
you were flirting with Oswald Mosley. How ill the color black became you.
I well remember in the war your dismissal of Winston Churchill as a wishy-
washy Red and your sitting up late to hear the Lord Haw-Haw Show. Admittedly,
Mother, my views tend to the Liberal, but like most Englishmen I would never
be an extremist. It is not in the blood. Fascism only lasts as long as the jack-
boot is highly polished, and the Englishman is no lover of either spit or the afore-
mentioned polish. I have written to Doctor Pearson about your letter and
suggested you are put under heavy sedation until the “Wilson Crisis” is over and
the Pound can take its place proudly once more alongside the Dollar, the Yen,
and the IOU among the great currencies of the world.
Of my own affairs. The job with J. C. Williamson’s, the impresarios, fell
through. Their affairs are in some chaos at the moment. I suggested that, as
Mr. Harry Miller, the dashing young entrepreneur, had allegedly refused their
alleged offer of an alleged directorship, I might be able to fill the alleged gap.
But I was told that they had communicated with the wrong Mr. Harry Miller
and had intended the appointment for the Owner of the Stadium, another H.
Miller. (This apparently happens quite often, on occasion one imagines with
embarrassing consequences.) The idea had been to have the Roller Game nightly
at the Tivoli starring Miss Googie Withers. Anyway, I received short shrift from
the New Zealand grocers who run the Australian Theatre.
I was contemplating an approach to the Commercial Television people. New
legislation is obliging them to have an hour of Australian Drama a month, and
I think this could be an opportunity for my pen. (You will remember the
satirical verse-story I wrote for the Basingstoke Amateur Operatic Society in
1949.) I gather, however, that they w r ill be filling the slot with some old plays
purchased from the ABC. Albeit, there is a shortage of policemen and I may
seek employment in the Force.
Yours,
Trevor.


A Hundred Speeches a Year
A Busy Life is a Happy One for Sir Rohan Delacomhe
By J. C. KAYE
VICTORIA has had 20 representa-
tives of the sovereign since
Charles Joseph Latrobe became
Superintendent of Port Phillip and
Lieutenant-Governor of the State of
Victoria in 1839, with a wattle-and-
daub hut on Batman’s Hill, beside the
Yarra.
Some have had grand titles. Sir
Charles Hotham, the Queen’s represen-
tative when Victoria gained responsible
Government in 1855, was “Captain-
General and Governor-in-Chief of the
Colony of Victoria, also Vice-Admiral,
Commisary, and Deputy in the Office
of Vice-Admiralty in the said Colony.”
Sir George Ferguson Bowen, who
came out in 1873, and was the first to
occupy the present white-towered Gov-
ernment House off St. Kilda Road, was
“Administrator of the Government,
Governor, and Commander-in-Chief of
the Colony of Victoria and its Depen-
dencies, and Vice-Admiral of the
Same.”
The house of 160 rooms, which had
cost £150,000 when it was opened in
1876, was designed by Wardell, who
did the Town Hall and St. Patrick's
Cathedral, among other buildings. Sir
George wrote delightedly to London
about its spaciousness, and described ii
as the finest Governor’s residence in
Australia.
Titles have become simpler since
then. “Governor of the State of Vic-
toria” has sufficed. The present holder,
Major-General Sir Rohan Delacombe,
KCMG, KBE, CB, DSO KStJ, who
will be 60 on October 25, arrived in
May, 1963, the eleventh Governor since
Federation.
He followed the late Sir Dallas
Brooks (retired general of the Royal
Marines) who held office for a record
14 years from 1949. Sir Dallas was a
genial extrovert who easily won popu-
larity. It cannot have been easy for
Sir Rohan, a lover of formality, and a
man of sincere personal modesty, to
take over Sir Dallas’ public role.
In Victoria, the office of Governor
has carried little national fame. It
has no names in the history books of
the stamp of Phillip, King, or Bligh, of
early N.S.W. At the same time, it has
rarely come under criticism.
This may be because Victorian poli-
tics have been so much more tranquil
than in the older State. Even in the
Depression years of the 19305, while
Jack Lang and Governor Sir Philip
Game were involved in high drama in
Sydney, Victorians kept relations be-
tween Governments and Governors on
a friendly plane, and the two Governors
of the time, Baron Somers and Hunt-
ingfield, are still remembered kindly.
When Sir Rohan was named for the
post at the end of 1962, both Country
Party and Labor Party leaders in the
State House protested that an Aus-
tralian should be chosen. Apart from
this party political attack there has
been no enthusiasm in Victoria for an
end to the traditional “English” policy.
The success of Sir Dallas put English
stocks high; and on his showing so far,
Sir Rohan has in no way let Old
England down.
His looks are on his side. Sir Rohan
is tall, just over 6ft., with erect stance,
fine wide shoulders, and a handsome
head topped with thick grey hair. He
has the sort of accent that even Oz
Australians accept without ridicule—
English but not Blimpish. His manner
is composed, and he avoids “I” as much
as possible to use the impersonal “one.”
In ceremonial uniform, with white
plumes, scarlet jacket, medals, and
sword he looks the part (unlike the
Governor-General, whose top hat and
formal civilian dress hardly equip him
correctly for a colorful public role).
The name' is French, he told me,
when, in morning suit and with a small
flower in his buttonhole, he talked for
an hour in the large study at Govern-
ment House. (A “combe” is a small
valley.) The Delacombes were among
the Huguenots who fled to England
after Louis XIV of France revoked in
1685 the Edict of religious toleration
that Henry IV had signed at Nantes
in 1598.
The Delacombes settled at Plymouth,
where their old house can still be seen,
and the men continued their former
lives as soldiers of fortune. Sir Rohan’s
father, grandfather, great-grandfather,
and great - great - grandfather were
soldiers. One forebear served with Clive
(Sir Rohan correctly calls it “Cleeve”)
in India.
Sir Rohan’s father, the late Lt.-Col.
Addis Delacombe, was born in Canada.
Sir Rohan was born in Malta on
October 25, 1906, but moved in 1909
to England when his father was posted
to Southern Command.
Young Rohan went to Harrow, and,
rather to his surprise, was happy. His
nickname was “Jumbo.”
“It was not so physically hard as I
expected,” he told me. “I feel that the
education I received there has stood
me in good stead.”
He need not have become a soldier
in the family tradition. His father
could have placed him with a merchant
house, but he preferred Sandhurst.
In 1926 although the Delacombes
are both English and Church of Eng-
land he began his military career
as a second lieutenant in the Royal
Scots. He has never regretted being
thrown among the Presbyterians. His
love for Scotland and the Scots is
deep.
Pre-war service took him to Egypt,
China, India (including the North-west
Frontier), and Palestine. The war car-
ried him into France for the phony war,
to Norway, to France again for the
invasion, and to Italy.
China was delightful for a young
British bachelor officer. The British
force’s task of providing security for
British communities involved no
violence, although China itself was torn
by war-lord strife. The young Dela-
combe walked alone and unmolested
to the Great Wall. In Peking he found
9/4 a day no great hardship with the
Chinese dollar down to 1/-.
Palestine was different. The British
were at war with rebellious Arabs, and
casualties were as high as 10 percent.
Sir Rohan was “blown up once.”
Quetta and the north-west frontier
meant cautious patrols into the moun-
tains, with 10 miles a day considered
good progress.
The phony war saw him on the
Maginot Line, slogging at last-minute
construction of the emplacements and
entanglements, which, in time, were to
prove useless.
Norway was real fighting again. He
was with the forces landed at Namsos
in the ice and snow. As disaster ap-
proached, the British prepared for
evacuation, but the ships could not
get close in.
The troops had to return to their
positions, hoping that the Germans had
not noticed the withdrawal. They
hadn’t, and everyone got off two nights
later. German submarines got in among
the warships, but Rohan Delacombe
was lucky.
Later he was posted to the War


iamb
• ill
■i
m
, • ■
.
'
lifl
.<■
a
Your cargo’s a big responsibility.
That’s why we handle it ourselves
’round the world.
Hip!
When you ship on some airlines, you can’t be
sure who’s really handling your cargo once it’s
out of your sight. It just disappears into a
pool . . . where another airline one you didn’t
ask for becomes involved.
Pan Am takes care of its own. In virtually all
the major markets we serve, 91 of them to be
specific, we won’t let anyone else touch your
cargo. We’re particular that way. We’re respon-
sible that way. We prefer it. We know shippers
do, too.
Our cargo personnel are the best in the business.
And their business is to move your shipments
quickly, safely. Recently reduced Pan Am
insurance rates, world-wide, prove they do.
Better than ever. Get all the benefits of the
world’s most experienced airline. World-wide. Call
your Pan Am Cargo Agent. Or call us.
World’s largest air cargo carrier World’s most experienced airline.
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST ’ROUND THE WORLD
SYDNEY: KINGSFORD-SMITH AIRPORT. 67 1384 • MELBOURNE: SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL. 63 9077
PASII


Office and Staff College, but in the
Normandy landings was in action
again.
His career reached its peak in 1959-
62, when he was Officer Commanding
the British sector in Berlin, and, at
times of great peril to the West, won
a reputation for his “icy calm.”
After Berlin, Sir Rohan Delacombe
had to face retirement. He was offered
a rehabilitation course and warned how
hard it would be to leave the Army
for competitive private life.
He spent a year lecturing in Canada,
on Germany and Berlin, to institutions
like the National Defence College and
the External Affairs Departmet.
He was uncertain what his future
would be, when the Victorian Govern-
orship was offered to him. He accepted
at once.
At Government House with him are
Lady Delacombe, a Yorkshire girl he
met before the war and married in
1941, and their daughter Frances, 21,
who is a student at the National Gallery
Art School. A son, Christopher, an
officer in the Royal Scots, is overseas.
POLITICALLY, life has been quiet
for Sir Rohan in Victoria. There
has been only one Premier, Sir Henry
Bolte, since 1955. Sir Rohan has had
no troublesome constitutional decisions.
He has summoned and prorogued
parliaments, made the Queen’s speech
outlining government legislative pro-
grams, and carried out all social func-
tions with unruffled distinction.
Physically he is robust, despite a
recent hernia operation. He works
tirelessly, and with all details arranged
with military efficiency.
Using mainly the vice-regal carriage
of the Victorian Railways, and the
Rolls, he has visited hundreds of Vic-
torian centres - and seen the State
from the far Mallee to the south-west
and to the east.
He flies rarely, but took to a heli-
copter to land on the deck of the oil-
drilling Glomar 111 off the coast of
Gippsland. Last year he flew to the U.S.
base at McMurdo Sound in Antarctica.
(The American doctor who examined
him before the flight told him he had
the “blood pressure of a boy of 18.”)
He has not been home to England,
but will go there for a holiday in 1968.
The family house is Shrewton Manor,
near Salisbury, Wilts.
Meanwhile he makes 100 or more
speeches a year, and attends as many
as five or six functions a day and night.
Overeating is the occupational hazard.
Government House has a 40ft. swim-
ming pool, as well as its two tennis
courts. He makes good use of them.
Although his personal taste is for for-
mality, he’ll be in anything if some
kind of public service is involved. He’ll
help crew a yacht, take a high ride to
the top of a fire ladder, or ride on the
toy train at a children’s party in Gov-
ernment House grounds. He’s even
put on a false beard.
What else does a Victorian Governor
do in earning his $lB,OOO salary?
He launches appeals; lays foundation
stones, opens all kinds of new buildings
—hospitals, schools, kindergartens,
offices; attends centenaries and show's
and other ceremonies; attends church
and patriotic and military occasions;
takes his place as No. 1 Greeter to dis-
tinguished visitors; goes to State and
mayoral dinners; presents decorations,
awards, scholarships, and prizes; mixes
with old folk and children; warns
against the road toll; encourages the
development of parks and trees; calls
on universities, colleges, schools, and
other institutions; lends his name to
youth movements . . . and whatever else
worthwhile comes to his attention.
Is he happy?
Yes, he says, and seems to mean it.
He has enormous pride, as an English-
man and soldier, simply in being the
representative of the Queen.
In 1968, should he be well and will-
ing, there is little doubt that, short of
an anti-Royalist Labor Government in
office, he will be urged to stay.
What Sort of Bread?
THE most startling and unpopular
of the proposed Church of
England alterations to the
Lord’s Prayer is the reading: “Our
bread of the morrow give us today.”
This interpretation, however, is by
no means new. It has been sug-
gested from time to time for the
past 1500 years or so.
The trouble is that the original
Greek in the New Testament for
the phrase commonly translated
“daily bread” is obscure and ambi-
guous. In both places where the
Prayer is given (Matthew 6 and
Luke 11) the noun for “bread” has
attached to it a mysterious adjec-
tive, “epiousios,” which does not
occur anywhere else in ancient litera-
ture. As long ago as the third cen-
tury the learned theologian Origen
was puzzled by it.
The first part of the word, the
prefix “epi,” means “on.” But it
is not certain whether the rest of
the word is derived from the verb
meaning “to be” or the verb mean-
ing “to come.” Lidell and Scott’s
lexicon leaves the question open. It
is generally thought by philologists
that the word “day” is also to be
understood as part of the meaning
of the word—though this again is
not certain. So “epiousios” might
mean either “for the day that is on
us” or “for the oncoming day.” The
experts generally favor the latter.
But what does “for the oncoming
day” mean? If you say it in the
evening it would presumably mean
“for tomorrow.” But if you say
it in the morning it could mean “for
the day ahead” —that is, “for today.”
St. Jerome addressed himself to
the problem in the fourth century,
when making the Latin translation,
known as the Vulgate, which is still
used in the Roman Catholic Church.
He had two shots at the meaning of
“epiousios.” His first attempt, in
the Matthew passage, was not at all
happy, and shows how baffled he
was. He left out the “day” notion
altogether and made up a Latin
word, “supersubstantialis,” which is
almost as obscure as the Greek one.
He explained elsewhere that this
polysyllabic invention meant “excel-
lent, special,” or “surpassing all other
creations.” In fact, it was equivalent
roughly to the modern slang “super.”
But in his second attempt, in trans-
lating the Luke passage, Jerome did
very much better. He translated the
knotty Greek word by “quotidianum”
—that is, “daily.” Whether it was
his own idea or not, it was a splen-
didly simple and satisfying render-
ing.
Father Ronald Knox, in his
English translation of Jerome’s Latin
translation, wrote “daily bread” in
both passages. He ignored “super-
substantialis” as a lapse on the part
of the sainted and erudite Jerome.
Etymology aside, the translation
“Give us this day our daily bread”
can be (and has been) defended as
being more in conformity with
Christ’s thinking than “Give us today
our bread for tomorrow.” Christ
emphasised several times that in
material needs one should take
thought only for the present and
leave the future to God. The idea
of saving and investment—however
conducive to economic progress—was
alien to him.
J)ESPITE all this, Church thinkers
have still sometimes had a bad
conscience about the translation of
“epiousios” as “daily.” Canon Robin-
son, who drafted the proposed re-
vision of the Lord’s Prayer in Sydney,
favors “tomorrow.” But he could not,
and does not, claim for the transla-
tion absolute etymological certainty.
It is, at the best, a doubtful interpre-
tation. “Daily bread,” meaning
bread for each current day, is etymo-
logically defensible as well as emo-
tionally and doctrinally satisfying.
Most people probably feel there is
insufficient justification for meddling
with the old and beautiful words.
One mundane consideration is that
if one is given tomorrow’s bread
today it will be stale when one eats
it tomorrow. Oddities of translation
have a way of becoming notorious —
as with the “breeches” Bible which
said that Adam and Eve made
breeches of fig-leaves. It is not im-
possible that if the revised Lord’s
Prayer gets into print it may be
known to irreverent persons as the
“stale bread Prayer.”
ROSS CAMPBELL


You’ll be amazed with the
results you can get with the new
NCR “395” family of electronic
systems. Your processing will
be handled at electronic speeds.
The totals are not mechanical
but fully electronic.
You get the advantages of a
fully electronic machine in a
price range that is compar-
able with electro-mechanical
accounting equipment.
The NCR 395 can meet grow-
ing demands. Its magnetic
memory disc capacity ranges
from 20 to 120 electronic totals.
Requires no special pro-
gram training. It is pro-
grammed by NCR Specialists at
no additional expense.
Information is introduced
through console entry. Or
punched cards can serve as
input data. Output is in the
form of complete documents
and, if desired, punched cards
or punched paper tape . . .
numeric or alphanumeric. Elec-
tronic commands . . . addition,
subtraction, multiplication, divi-
sion, automatic source and dis-
tribution, compare for magni-
tude and equality, plus many
others.
No other electronic account-
ing system can compare with
the NCR 395 in price and per-
formance. Once you see this
system in action you’ll never be
satisfied with your present one.
Whether you have 20 or 20,000
employees doesn’t matter. The
NCR 395 can serve you as your
primary data processing system,
or as a satellite to a large
computer system.
Learn more about this great
development. Call or visit your
nearby NCR office, or write
NCR, Box 2626, G.P.0., Sydney,
for booklet, “THE NCR 395.”
NCR 395... The World’s Lowest Priced
Solid-State Electronic Accounting System
mSSSSS^A
if
:
J
l
I


AROUND MELBOURNE
A Really Fantastic Queue
FOR three issues BULLETIN
readers have had a well-earned
respite from this page. How-
ever, when interrupted back last
August your correspondent was talk-
ing about football queues. He is still
talking about football queues, parti-
cularly to Dr. Leon Mann, of the
Psychology Department at Mel-
bourne University. Dr. Mann, a
Melbourne graduate, gained his PhD
at Yale, and he is fascinated by
queues. He feels they can tell one a
great deal about human behaviour,
and seeing that Melbourne is such a
good queue town, there have been
great opportunities in recent weeks.
He put eight of his students to the
task of studying the queues of Col-
lingwood Club members that waited
outside Victoria Park for four days,
and the queues that spent the night
outside the Melbourne -Cricket
Ground.
At Collingwood he was startled by
the squalor and misery of the queue.
The weather was wet and cold the
whole time. He had expected to find
merely a long line of teenagers, but
the greater majority were middle-
aged women.
“I thought it surprising,” he said,
“that at 6 p.m. they were not at
home cooking for their husbands."
Staunch Collingwood husbands, of
course, are proud to starve, if they
know their wives are out in the rain
ail night waiting for their football
tickets.
He remembers vividly one woman
who stood there abjectly wretched
and miserable. She had stood there
for ten hours straight and her relief
had failed to turn up. Yet she would
carry on regardless, because of her
important goal.
Dr. Mann’s team spoke to every
tenth person in every queue and they
gathered, what they felt, were some
interesting “norms” about queueing.
It is rare indeed for anyone to join
a queue on their own. The practice
is to go with two or three others.
One can mark one’s place in a queue
by a haversack, sleeping bag, or rug
for quite long periods. The norm
is that one must make an appear-
ance for at least two or three hours
a day.
Most queuers work on a shift
system; that is, a team of four hold-
ing the position in the queue, one
hour on with three hours off. One
person doing this can hold up to
three places. This is the norm. After
that the queue rebels.
Dr. Mann says powerful queue
cliques are set up, but their capacity
for police action is weak. When
others break into the queue during
the night only occasionally does an
Australian queue have the guts to
forcibly throw out the ring-ins.
Meekly they will stand by and lose
their places. He says this would not
happen in Britain, France, Russia, or
Israel. There queuers had vastly
more experience and the norms were
much tougher.
All this is intriguing, but we still
have not reached the main purpose
of the survey. Dr. Mann wanted to
find out at what point in a queue
people ultimately came to a decision
whether to stay or whether to go.
For example, at Collingwood this
decision should not have been diffi-
cult. There were 600 tickets avail-
able, and it was possible to get two
adult tickets and two for children.
Therefore, the critical point where
Queue behaviour graphed from
the Mann survey of hopeful
queuers for grand final tickets.
the supply expired had to come
somewhere between 150 and 200 in
the queue.
Yet the queue went away beyond
200, and there were people who were
prepared to stand all night in misery
conditions knowing well they hadn’t
a hope of getting a ticket. Why?
“Prestige,” said your correspondent.
“Like being at Agincourt. One
could boast one fought that day.”
“Possibly,” said Dr. Mann. “But
I rather think many of them had
come a long way and now they
didn’t want to give up. They didn’t
want to have to admit that their
judgment had been wrong.
“Then they invented all sorts of
fantasy reasons why they should
stay. Perhaps a lot of people weren't
buying the full quota. Perhaps, when
they saw the size of the queue, the
club would make more tickets avail-
able.”
At the MCG it was not so easy
to estimate a critical point. The
MCG said there we*re 12,500 seats
available, 22 windows, 11 parallel
queues, but the clubs did not explain
precisely how many seating and
standing tickets there were.
Dr. Mann’s team went to every
tenth person and asked: “How many
people do you think are in front of
you in the queue?” From all the
information received he drew a fas-
cinating graph. The first 50 in the
queue estimate the number fairly
accurately. From then on they over-
estimate more and more, producing
a- downward bulge in the graph,
reaching its maximum point around
120 or 130 in the queue.
Dr. Mann said: “The critical point
in the queue where they might not
get seats is 150. So between 100 and
150 they know really that they will
get tickets but they protect them-
selves against the possibility of dis-
appointment by over-estimating the
numbers in front of them.”
After 150 the curve swung sharply
upward and right the other way. Up
toward 200 the queuers were greatly
under-estimating the numbers in
front of them. “Now they are in the
fantasy department, you see,” he
said. “They know they have no hope,
but they are trying to convince them-
selves that the queue is much shorter
than it really is. They are trying
to justify why they are in the queue
and this is wish fulfilment.”
Dr. Mann is very careful to ex-
plain that all this was just a pilot
experiment and much has to be done
before anything is proved. He wants
to test it out on theatre queues,
Davis Cup queues, Union queues, all
queues.
“It would be interesting,” he said,
“to try it out on a queue outside the
Union cafe. The bulge would depend
on the need or the anxiety. If the
students were dreadfully hungry then
you would get a big curve. But if
they weren’t hungry, if they didn t
care, then it would be closer to the
diagonal line of reality.”
Naturally, one had to ask the im-
portant question: “Dr. Mann, you
have any tickets for the grand final?”
“No, I wouldn’t stand in a queue all
night for tickets.” “You mean, you
don’t care about Melbourne foot-
ball?” “Of course I care,” he said
with dignity. “I’m a Carlton sup-
porter.”
BATMAN


AWA capability
1L
*
n .v "
i $
J
&
mm
r“t*r
.S*
U
"SCV
L' U-
-0 9
SEai
*
0
The potential-of AWA capability may be measured by its 50 years long
experience in radio, its broad resources through world-wide affiliations
and its depth of technical and engineering ability. Australian owned,
Australian managed and Australian staffed, AWA serves everyone
every day.
ranges
far and wide
And so, too, with Export—in open competition with
the world’s greatest radio communication equipment
makers—AWA has met the standards demanded—
television transmitters in Singapore, tele-
communication installations in India, police patrol
radio-telephones in Hong Kong, broadcasting stations
in Pakistan—lndia —Thailand —Ceylon, tele-
communication stations in Egypt—Pakistan—
Singapore—South Africa, test equipment in India—
Libya—two-way radio telephones in South Africa—
Philippines—Hong Kong—East Africa—Mauritius—
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Head Office: 47 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne, Wellington (N.Z.), London, New York,
Kuala Lumpur.
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio
amplifying systems: electronic components:
testing instruments: telephones: programme
recording: television and broadcast receivers:
data transmission systems and training in radio
technology.


Ip <
f
s- How did
he do it?
1
2
3
4
5
6
He arrived in Melbourne
at 9.00 a.m.
He made six calls in
different suburbs.
He drove across town to
head office.
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends—
Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was
V_ waiting )
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon.
Within moments of your arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own, for as long as
you like. And you and the car are always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket, or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival...
For a day, a week, or all the time.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
NEW YORK LETTER
“A Pack of Spoiled Brats”
WHY can’t our players act like
Australians?” That question is
nagging American tennis
officials almost as much as the plain-
tive old query: “Why can’t our players
play like Australians?”
Both questions came to the fore
during the debacle of the national
championships at Forest Hills, when
five Australians but only one American
got to the quarter-final round and
that lone American, Clark Graebner,
was sacked from the Davis Cup team
for offensive behaviour on the court.
As the result of a piece of official
idiocy even more incomprehensible
than usual, Graebner was informed that
he had been kicked off the Cup team
just prior to his quarter-final match
against Fred Stolle. Not surprisingly,
Graebner lost rapidly and igno-
miniously.
Stolle then went on to win the
tournament from John Newcombe, his
fellow-Australian, in a final notable
for the fact that it was contested for
the first time in history by two un-
seeded players. The championships
committe had deemed Stolle unworthy
of notice despite the fact that he had
been seeded second in the Australian
titles earlier in the year, first in the
French titles, and third at Wimbledon,
and had just won the German hard-
court title. Actually, the committee
inadvertently did lanky Fred a favor
by snubbing him; they made him so
fighting mad that he blitzed his way
through the tournament in most un-
Stolle-like fashion.
Graebner’s principal offence, accord-
ing to the Davis Cup officials who sus-
pended him indefinitely, was the un-
seemly way he had conducted himself
during the recent doubles champion-
ships at the Longwood Cricket Club in
Boston. I witnessed most of Graebner’s
matches with his Cup partner, Dennis
Ralston, at Longwood. They were
marred by boorish behaviour on the part
of both players.' The climax came
during their match against Australians
Tony Roche and Owen Davidson when
the American pair loudly protested
doubtful line calls and halted play for
about five minutes with a demand that
the referee be summoned to the court
to overrule the umpire’s decision
against them on a disputed point.
Graebner capped that display by hit-
ting a ball at a linesman who had just
called a point against the Americans.
Then, for the first time in a quarter-
century of watching international tennis
matches, I heard an American crowd
boo and jeer an American team playing
against foreigners.
So the Cup officials decided to make
an example of Graebner, although to
my mind he is no worse nor better
than Ralston, Cliff Richey, Marty
Riessen, and the rest of the petulant
crew who, in the words of New York
sports columnist Gene Ward, have
been “spoiled rotten,” and in the lan-
guage of Sports Illustrated magazine
are a pack of “spoiled brats.” As the
latter organ, usually defensive where
American athletes are involved, pointed
out, “Ralston is peevish and sulky when
he begins to lose, Richey stomps and
rages around the court, and Riessen
hurls his racket in disgust.”
As noted, the Davis Cup committee
waited almost two weeks to visit punish-
ment upon the bespectacled Graebner,
picking the very eve of his biggest
match, as sole surviving American at
Forest Hills, to give him the bad news.
But worse was to come. Graebner had
hardly made his straight-sets exit from
the tournament when the USLTA
nabobs summoned his doubles partner,
Ralston, to the stadium court to pre-
sent him with the William J. Johnston
Award, given annually to the player
displaying the finest sportsmanship —•
on and off the court.
“'J'HEY ’VE got to be kidding,” some-
one exclaimed in the nearby
marquee as a titter of disbelief swept
through the players’ boxes. Ralston
himself grinned self-consciously. His
past court conduct had been such that
he had been reprimanded frequently
and once was also kicked off the Cup
team.
This year Ralston played extremely
well at Forest Hills before bowing out,
after an initial lead, to Stolle, his old
Nemesis. One of these days perhaps
in the challenge round Ralston
might rise to a big victory over Stolle.
They really are very close competitors.
Graebner, as we have seen, got
farther along in the tournament than
the other Cup players and was un-
necessarily handicapped against Stolle
by bumbling officials. He can be ex-
pected to return to the team in time
for a trip to Australia and to recapture
the form which earned him several
major victories earlier this year.
American hopes for victory in Cup
play, however, lie mainly in Arthur
Ashe, who was easily beaten at Forest
Hills by John Newcombe after an ab-
sence of several months from tourna-
ment play necessitated by University
studies and army training. The young
negro has been granted a six-months’
leave by the Army and will devote all
his time to tennis. His talents, which
earned him a series of spectacular wins
in Australia last year, can be expected
to come to full flourish in Australia
again in the next few months of tourna-
ment competition. Forest Hills was a
dreadful blow to American pride, but
actually no real disaster. Australia
would be wise to ignore it, so far as the
Cup is concerned, and not take the
Yanks lightly.
GEORGE McGANN


N\
'V\
getting the
soft shoe
shuffle on
software?
Many people are, we hear. And we can’t understand why. General Electric
has long recognised the necessity of having available sophisticated software
in advance of a computer installation. As the world’s biggest user/
manufacturer of computers, the General Electric company itself operates
nearly 200 computers and employs 3,000 people, purely on its own internal
computer programming, system design and data processing supervision
functions.
With this sort of user experience to draw from, and approximately 25,000
employees in General Electric’s world-wide computer operation, it is little
wonder that our software is outstanding. Products, know-how, experience.
You get much more than hardware with General Electric.
m
Progress Is Our Most Important Product
GENERAL
ELECTRIC
AUSTRALIA
SYDNEY: 103 York Street ■ MELBOURNE: 552 Lonsdale Street
GE-94


Job-changing: Enterprise or Instability?
The high cost of keeping on the move
By PATRICK TENNISON
JOB-CHANGING has now reached
record high and perhaps economic-
ally ominous proportions in Aus-
tralia. We are now at a stage where
more than 60 percent of our manual
jobs and more than 25 percent of non-
manual jobs change hands every year.
These figures have been growing
steadily over the past 10 years with just
one slight dip in the less-affluent 1961 -
62 period.
It all indicates an extraordinary and
possibly disturbing restlessness among
the nation’s work force. It is something
new to Australia and an utter reversal
of the state of things a generation ago.
Then, security and pride were associ-
ated with long service in one job. But
then, often, a job any sort of job
was something to hold as long as it
was in any way livable with. Today’s
outlook, fashioned by high employment
levels and a feeling of adventurousness,
is completely different. But while it can
be argued that a certain mobility
within the work force is a desirable
thing in an expanding economy, there
is always the ominous other view that
a too-high level of fluidity can indicate
instability.
All this movement means that Gov-
ernments and private business have
to bear an increasingly high cost just
in maintaining replacements for the
movers. Even for a simple job opera-
tion, the cost of one man going and
having to be replaced by another can
be assessed at $4O at the very least. In
more complex manual operations, this
replacement cost can run to $3OO. These
sums rise sharply in the white-collar
field, often going as high as $lOOO for
competent non-executives, double that
figure for up to middle-range execu-
tives, and anything at all beyond for
jobs at high level. Overall, conservative
estimates put the annual bill to the
nation for these entirely non-productive
manoeuvres at $2OO million and
rising yearly.
About a third of the job-changers
each year are what might be called
consistent switchers. To them, job-
changing in itself is something of an
industry, and each year they change
among two, three, or even four different
jobs. They may distort the overall
figures of job-changes, but they do not
lessen the final cost.
QTHER changers are migrants. Many
arrive and take almost any job
offering and then look around for some-
thing more permanent. School-leavers,
too, comprise a considerable proportion
of switchers. Many going into employ-
ment for the first time are not certain
of their aims. After a while they change
to something they feel is better or more
suitable. But once settled into a job,
anyone can be a possible changer.
The pattern runs through all industries
and all age groups. The only discern-
ible falling off occurs with married men
with two children. Men with this num-
ber or more of dependents are slightly
less inclined' to change, as are men
within a few years of retiring from
firms and with superannuation benefits
coming up. But otherwise the field is
tremendously clear and increasingly
active.
All this is not unique to Australia.
It is prevalent, but to a lesser degree,
throughout the Western wbrld. Nor can
all the blame always be laid squarely
at the door of the employee. “Overall,
a lot of Australia’s personnel depart-
ment arrangements leave much to be
“And could you put e a friendly disposition ' in my character reference,
Sir Robert?”
desired,” a Labor and National Service
Department official told me.
Management consultant John P.
Young said: “Often managements are
interested only in making profits and
forget to provide essential challenges
about jobs that employees look for.”
Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics figures show an insistent annual
increase of about three percent in job
switching since 1956, when, for manual
workers, it was only 35 percent as
against today’s 60-plus. Some special
sectors, such as local council laboring
jobs and unskilled work for semi-
Government authorities, can have an
annual turnover of 200 percent in staff.
Overall, the building and construction
industries have the highest turnover,
touching 100 percent annually. The
paper and printing industries have the
lowest, around 30 percent. Male turn-
over figures are higher than female. It
is accepted that although the majority
of single women leave work for mar-
riage, until then they are more con-
tented employees generally than men.
Writing in “The Australian Account-
ant” of July, 1964, M. C. Knowles, of
the Industrial Services Branch of the
Department of Labor and National
Service, drew on the known figures for
one sector of industry manufactur-
ing to show what turnover means in
cost to an individual firm and then the
nation. He cited a company employing
1000 men and attached to it the annual
turnover rate in the manufacturing in-
dustry for the nation. Putting it that
each leaver was an actual cost to the
company of $BO, the annual cost to
the company of men quitting was
$60,000. And since more than one mil-
lion people are employed in Australian
manufacturing establishments, the in-
dustry’s annual bill be rated at $6O
million. Those calculations were done
more than two years ago, since when
both leavers and costs have risen.
Turnover, costings, naturally, vary
according to different jobs. But usually
there are similar factors involved.
There are normally new recruitment
costs, such as advertising for replace-
ments. There is the time taken for
interviews, formal signing on and
initiation procedures and a training
period for the new staff. In this train-
ing time, which also naturally varies,
unit production from the new man
can show a decline below normal of
up to 60 percent. If there is much
loss of production, overtime for others
may be necessary at higher rates of
pay. There is always office paperwork
involved with a new man in arranging
his pay, tax, and insurance deductions
and other items, depending on the work
and firm. In addition to all these, labor
experts say some cost reckoning should


Ancient Egyptian SCARAB seal. World's
earliest known inscribed monuments. Their
hieroglyphic or ornamental design gives an
almost unbroken illustrated history of the Nile
Valley from the dawn of history itself.
The excellence of an age
Tiny Scarab seals, worn on the
finger, or on a string. Fashioned
to the shape -of the Scarab
beetle. Scarabs —tiny works
of art that tell the story
of their age.
Today, the same craftsmanship
and care are echoed in the
blending of smooth, mellow
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
SUCARYL NEEDED HERE
When waistlines expand,
chances are Sucaryl no-calorie
sweeteners can help. In tea
or coffee alone, Sucaryl saves
at least 30 calories per cup
(add up how many you could save!).
And there's no saccharin taste.
To cut down calories,
sweeten with . . .
No-Calorie
BRAND
NZL97/6.2
vji
Natural-Tasting No-Calorie Sweeteners, from your chemist.
be made on less-tangible factors at
places where turnover reaches any sort
of proportion: low morale, poor com-
pany reputation, and loss of customer
goodwill or even of some business if
production is shaken by the turnovers.
These things, although hard to assess,
have been shown under test to account
for production slips of 10 percent, all
because of turnover troubles. Some
firms, anticipating production holdups
through turnovers, carry always higher
than necessary staffs as an insurance
against staff shortage. This is clearly
an added cost.
Labor and National Service investi-
gators and researchers are now in-
creasingly busy studying what is
involved in a facet of industry about
which little is known anywhere in the
world. One such study involved a
plant that began operations with 238
men. Within three months, 165 re-
signed. In succeeding three-month
periods, the resignations tumbled in at
the rate of 140, 123, 100, and 81. This
sort of pattern in resignations—high at
first and then a steady consistent decline
—is common and even predictable. But
the numbers were still too large. Why?
Special interviews were conducted
with the men. Their complaints were
typical. Briefly, the reasons for resign-
ing were complaints about conditions,
too much pressure for production, lack
of human interest by the management
and inadequate communication between
management and staff.
about physical con-
ditions in a plant are not the out-
standing reason for resignations that
might be supposed except in cases
of new plants or new employees. M. C.
Knowles found on investigation that
employees can adapt favorably in time
and worry less than is supposed about
heat, cold, noise, smell, dust, and light.
Pay rates are naturally important,
but research shows a surprise in the
fact that special additions bonuses,
profit sharing, incentives can vary
widely in their success. Knowles points
out that these frequently induce men
to believe they will earn more than
they actually do, bringing on disen-
chantment that often leads to resigna-
tion.
Knowles also believes that intelligence
has a relationship with turnover rates.
Average intelligence employees are the
longest stayers. Both high- and low-
intelligence-holders are the leavers.
The highs tend to seek advancement
and promotion for their capabilities
elsewhere. The lows suffer from in-
stability, inability to keep up with
schedules and procedures—in itself a
common leaving factor or seize more
readily on other dissatisfaction points
that cause less concern to the others.
Turnover figures for non-manual,
skilled, and professional job-switchers
run at less than half those for manual
workers. Little is known of the mind
and job habits of the non-manual man
U P to a salary range of about $5OOO a
year. There is more interest in learn-


mm
111
m
If 2,250,000 Mrs. Jones’s
want freedom of choice...
can they
be ignored?
Mrs. Jones is in powerful company when she asks of
State Governments the right to make the innocent
choice between table margarine and butter (or different
brands of margarine) when doing her shopping. Three
out of every four Australians agree with her whole-
heartedly. This is the proven result of a nation-wide
survey by the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty. Ltd.,
who conduct the world's leading opinion sampler, The
Gallup Poll. Those interviewed were a cross section of
the Australian people, from the city and the country
districts of every State in the Commonwealth.
How they voted
The people interviewed were reminded that the pro-
duction of table margarine has been restricted by
quotas brought in over 25 years ago as a World War II
measure to protect the dairy industry. They were also
reminded that these quotas have not been strictly en-
forced; and that if they were enforced, there would be
a shortage of table margarine. They were then asked:
“In your opirtion, should table margarine be restricted
by quotas, or should you be able to buy as much
margarine of any type and brand as you like?”
THE RESULT OF THE POLL
I should be able to buy as much margarine as
I like 76.6%
Table margarine should be restricted by quotas 14.3%
No opinion 9-1%
In Sydney and Brisbane, people are more than 12-to-l
against restrictions. In Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart, they are about 4-to-l against restrictions. And
in the country districts of each State the vote was some
3-to-l against restriction. The survey states “that an
Australia-wide referendum of all electors would show
a majority of about 75% against restriction.”
Why they voted as they did
These figures show that there is a clear and unanswer-
able case for abolishing the quotas on the production of
table margarine. Such an abolition is obviously the
definitely expressed wish of an overwhelming majority
of Australians, men and women, in both city and
country districts. Such an abolition would restore to
Australian housewives a freedom of choice which is the
democratic heritage of every Australian citizen. Such
an abolition would give an important group of primary
producers—the growers of edible oilseeds —freedom
to plan their own future without Government-enforced
restrictions confining their development.
Such an abolition would give Mrs. Jones and the whole
Australian community the right, at last, to buy freely,
table margarine made in Australia by Australians for
Australians and from Australian raw materials.
How deep is democracy?
Mrs. Jones and millions of other Australian consumers
could be forgiven for wondering whether democracy is
only skin deep. It is a bitter irony that the Liberal/
Country Party coalition Governments now in power in
this country won their elections largely on a platform
of free enterprise. Now faced with a challenge to this
very principle, sectional interests within the coalition
Governments have strongly indicated that party politics
take precedence. How else can one translate the seem-
ing reluctance to allow Australian oilseed growers to
expand their production without having to face Govern-
ment-imposed barriers on their market outlets? It must
be a denial of freedom, therefore, to favour one primary
producer over another and to deny the housewife her
freedom of choice. Every Australian over the age of 21
is granted just one vote, be they dairy farmer, oilseed
farmer, housewife or Party Leader. It is the total tally
of all these votes that puts a Government in power, and
when it comes to voting Mrs. Jones is not alone; there
are over 3,000,000 women voters in this country. To
discriminate against the housewife is to fly in the face
of the largest single block of voters in Australia.
MARRICKVILLE HOLDINGS LTD. An all-Australian Company
For further information regarding margarine and oilseeds, write to Marrickville Holdings Ltd., Box 4, Marrickville, N.S.W.


GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
6i%
TWO
YEARS
7%
FIVE
YEARS
1 o
7
2 0
(0
K
Z<
111 111
H>-
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 /a%
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 53^%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6 1 / 4 %
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 /a%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7Vi%
TEN YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
j n g about the $5OOO-plus man, probably
because he is more sought after than
the $3OOO clerk or shop assistant. Also,
because the $5OOO-plus man frequently
engages a management consultant to
assist in his job - changing, we
can learn something of him from the
people he consults. Today between
6000 and 8000 men in the $5OOO and
over salary bracket change employment
through management consultants. About
an equal number probably do it with-
out such aid.
Management consultant John P.
Young believes these figures will go on
increasing and says the major reason
for changes by high-salary men is dis-
satisfaction with their present employers
for not providing what he calls a
“permissive atmosphere” for their
development: “They change because
they feel capable of wider horizons.
They want greater challenges.”
Indicative of the extent of this high-
salary unrest is the fact that the Young
organisation, operating in Australia and
New Zealand, each year receives 50,000
inquiries from men seeking job changes.
Not long back from a three-month
study tour of the U.S., John Young was
surprised at the mobility of business
executives there and predicts the same
thing will happen here. “A lot of the
job-changers are young, aggressive non-
conformists who try to get into two
or three jobs before they’re 30, when
family responsibilities will hit them
hardest. They realise the best way to
get broad experience quickly is to work
their way up through different organis-
ations.”
AUSTRALIA’S current “seduction
rate” is about 12J percent above
what the man was earning previously,
Young said. Here most executive
mobility is in the 30-45 age group. Men
most sought by companies are those
around 34 with maximum practical ex-
perience. Barriers against the over-40s
were now slowly coming down as more
emphasis was being put on maturity in
outlook and attitude.
Today’s conditions strongly favor the
keen, intelligent switcher. John Young
says: “We have an explosive growth
of industries with a dearth of executive
material and overfull employment in
the executive line. The world is be-
coming increasingly interested in the
natural executive talent of Australians.
International companies are increas-
ingly asking us to recruit material.
That’s why Qantas is losing its pilots.
It’s like mineral wealth; they’re mining
for Australian talent. Hundreds of
Australians now occupy senior positions
in international companies. You bump
into them everywhere overseas. Just
recently, in New York, I came into
contact with an Australian who is now
getting $31,000 a year there. He started
here in marketing research and would
like to come back. But, as he says,
where can he get a job like that here?
His age, by the way, is 34.”
Probing reasons for the big executive
movements, Young can become critical
of Australian business operations. Sue-
cesses and expansions have, been won
comparatively easily here in past years
because we have been living in a
naturally expanding economy.
“Now, directors and top manage-
ment aren’t giving enough attention to
executive development. There’ll be
a panic in the next 10 years as they
see the big drain on Australian talent.
They should be fixing the roof now
while the sun’s still shining, otherwise
they’ll find it is too late.”
In the 1960s —and it would have been
extremely rare in the security-minded
1930 s—the personification of a new type
of job-switcher is a 39-year-old father
of three who, with his wife, runs a
busy suburban milk bar and mixed
business. Two years ago he 'was the
manager of a suburban bank. His story
is typical of dozens who do the same
thing now every month around Aus-
tralia:
“When I finished up, my manager’s
salary was £lB5O a year. This year my


v j
11 $ i-L
■ ■
. -J
■HI
■i
litS
■
Jilßk 4PPP--,. “
wmm
K
HI
sS ■
.
yrn
■
J? ~fef/jgfr
J
••• j
HaiH
~ V
> 4
K
H
HI
4
m
//
/
v~
■
!■■■
■
■
i
Trains take the tension
out of travel
Even before the journey starts the tensions have gone, dissolved in the
salve of familiars long since associated with rail travel the certainty of
relaxation and comfort, of safety, of a passing parade of scenic interest,
of reaching a destination at a known time. And always, of course, the
freedom from financial strain. Mile for mile, train travel remains the most
economical of them all.
In place of travel tensions there are the travel pleasures the cosiness
of comfy seats from which to view the scenery . . . the ability to catch up
with your reading, sleep . . . the simple pleasure of being able to stretch
your legs while travelling . . . the meals and refreshments served in buffet
diners, or at your seat. And, on nearly all Australia’s mainline trains, the
superb air-conditioning.
So next time you travel, just don’t go to get there. Live a little as you
travel and enjoy yourself a lot. Next time go by train.
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by Authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia


Turnover
a new leaf
Turn over a new leaf - Benson and Hedges Special
Smoking Mixture. Blended from Latakia, Perique
& other distinctive leaf, it's mild, smooth, aromatic.
For just 79c a tin, this is the right tobacco when
only the best will do. And isn't that all the time?
Benson ami Hedges n Qn
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE iuL
■ A
■
.. ::V
mM.
a
a.
'
income is $6OOO. I hadn’t been able to
save a penny in the last two years I
worked in the bank. In 1958, when I
went on to £l6OO, I thought I was
getting ahead a little, but it didn’t last
long.
“Running a suburban branch I had
to work at least six and often seven
days a week. I was under tremendous
pressure all the time to build new
business. They make comparisons with
other branches of the same size and
everyone is supposed to keep up with
the best, no matter what the locality
is like.”
He explained it: “Sure it’s con-
stant work, but my wife and I enjoy
working together and I can spend more
time with my family as we’re all on
the one premises. There’s no mental
strain. If something goes wrong or I
want anything, I don’t have to write
out four copies about it.”
Maurice Whitta is a consulting
psychologist whose practice takes in
considerable vocational guidance work:
“I come into contact with two kinds
of job-changers—those who come to
me saying they want a change of job
and those who come for all sorts of
other reasons and discover a change of
job will be beneficial to them. Some
people are inefficient in their jobs be-
cause they have a lot of tension. It’s
often hard getting them to see that
changing jobs won’t solve it. They’re
just job prone, in the same way some
people are accident prone or can’t
keep out of .crime. They all just
happen easily.
<ir pHEN there are highly intelligent
people who are under-educated.
They have to be detected for what they
are and then qualify for something
better than what they’re doing. There
are a lot of very intelligent men just
driving trucks, for instance. They’re
capable of doing something much more
involved and more satisfying. Often
people like these don’t use their intelli-
gence because of emotional inhibitions.
They’re afraid, feel they’re not good
enough, scared of study frightened
they’ll make fools of themselves.
Where is all this job-changing lead-
ing us? All the forecasts say that unless
we run into a bad economic patch it
will keep growing at an ever-increasing
cost to the community purse.
“But I don’t think you can say it’s
disastrous,” says John Young, “It shows
people have the drive to improve and,
in the long run, this should be nation-
ally worthwhile.”
A Labor and National Service re-
searcher: “It’s a new thing and it’s
costly, but no one can say for sure
it’s necessarily bad.”
Maurice Whitta: “I’m a democrat.
Sometimes people could have made
better choices, but I’m happy as long
as they have the right to work wherever
they like.”
What does look like emerging in-
creasingly as it has already in some
overseas countries is a perpetually
floating body of purely temporary em-
ployees. These are men and women who
put themselves on the labor market
exclusively for short-term jobs. Often
employers find they can benefit' from
making short term arrangements only
with such people.
Recently a Melbourne • businessman
advertised for a permanent private sec-
retary at a good salary. He got no
replies. On advice, he then advertised
the job as a temporary one. He got 21
replies and a splendid secretary.
Companies who experiment with this
sort of labor find that with large seg-
ments of temporary employees they can
have better control over their overhead.
Overseas, and now here also, employ-
ment agencies concentrating on tempor-
ary work even have pre-laid handing-
over procedures, so that staff switches
are done with minimum loss of produc-
tion and efficiency. There are also
fewer worries about possible retrench-
ments, about superannuation and long-
service details, what to do with aging
or inefficient staff. What are emerging
are not only new concepts of employee-
thinking, but a quite drastic revolution
in overall employment procedures.


Beyond His Means
SHORT STORY
By LINDSAY DYSON
IT was after that I left my job
because a man can only do so
much for his boss and keep his
self-respect. A lot of people deserved
what they got, but Bill Johnson was
such a decent old chap; just down on
his luck.
Maybe I’d have acted differently if
it had been my first assignment. But
I was getting fed up. Being snarled at,
men swinging punches, women crying,
kids calling me names and chucking
rocks.
I’ll never forget that first time. I
drove down this street. There were rows
and rows of terraced houses, some
nearly falling down and others painted
every color imaginable. Reds and pinks,
blues and purples side by side. I drove
slowly, peering at the places and trying
to work out the numbers until I found
the one I was looking for. It was a
dingy, faded place a semi-detached
cottage. The strip of ground in the front
was a tangled mass of waving paspalum
and weeds.
A whole bunch of ragged kids were
playing cricket in the middle of the
road. It took a blast of the horn to
make them move the box they were
using for a wicket, and when I stopped
the car they clustered around like a
bunch of chattering monkeys. “Mind
your car, Mister?” they chorused. I
shook my head. Their eyes followed me
as I got out of the car and pushed
the rusty, creaking gate open. The
bottom of the white lace curtains at
the front window of the semi next door
were raised slightly as if moved by an
unseen hand.
I stepped lightly on to the veranda.
The door was open and I could see
inside. There were cobwebs hanging
from the ceiling and in the corners.
Strips of torn wallpaper fluttered in a
chill breeze that blew down the long
hall. A whiff of cabbage and cats and
unmade beds made me catch my breath.
As I raised my hand to knock on the
door a man’s voice bellowed out. “Shut
the door, can’t ya! I might jist as well
have gone to work today as stay here
and freeze!”
“ A LL right! All right!” a woman
answered in irritable tones. She
shuffled into view and the sun shone
on her face for a moment. It threw a
halo around her lank, black hair and
glinted on her rollers. It gave a trans-
parency to her soiled pink kimono. She
started violently when she saw me, and
an unkempt black cat suddenly leapt
out of her arms and shot out the door.
“What do you want?” she asked
sharply, her sffifty gaze darting behind
me with suspicion.
“Mrs. Bliss?” I asked, trying not to
look at her.
“Who wants to know?”
“It’s Mr. Bliss I really want.”
“Well, he ain’t home! He’s at work!”
“I’m from the finance company,” I
said, handing her a card. Before I
could say another thing she shut the
door in my face. Too late I remem-
bered the first rule: always put your
foot in the door.
Chagrined, I walked out the gate
knowing that it was no use hanging
around knocking. The watching child-
ren seemed to melt into the shadows. I
sat in the car for a while watching the
house. Then I drove around the block
trying to decide what to do next. I’d
certainly tangled the job. I hadn’t
gone far before I felt something wrding
—a flat tyre! Just my rotten luck I
thought. By the time I’d changed it
and cruised around the block again
there wasn’t a soul in sight.
I spent a week trying to catch t!he
woman at home again. Either they’d
cleared out or they just weren’t
answering the door. At the end of the
week I had to report defeat. The boss
said, “Never mind. I’ll show you hbw
it’s done.” He left his late model con-
vertible at the office and drove a bat-
tered old utility. It was nearly falling
apart with rust. Instead of his usual
well-cut grey suit he wore a canary-
yellow open-necked sports shirt with
a wide-brimmed felt hat on his head.
I hardly knew him.
He left me in the truck and wXjnt
into the house next door to Bliss’s. He
knocked and the front curtains quiv-
ered slightly. After a while the door
opened a crack. He smiled affably.
“Good day,” he said, raising his hat.
“Jones is my name —Ted Jones. I’ve
jist cbme down from the bush. Want
to find an old mate of mine—George
Bliss. Heard he lived around here.
We were in the army togther.” He
took out some tobacco and rolled a
cigarette while he talked, leaning
against the door. The woman lost her
look of suspicion and smiled a twisted,
toothless smile. She leant closer and
said confidentially. “He’ll either be at
home or at The Royal George. He’s
lyin’ low. Someone’s been around all
week trying to collect a payment on
the telly. They won’t answer the door.
They’ve been cornin’ and goin’ over
the back fence. If you go round the
side and give two soft raps they’ll open
the door.”
“Thank you that’s very kind of
you,” he said, tipping his hat again. As
soon as she had shut the door he gave
me a sign. Before she could take up
her stand at the window I was out of
the truck and we were creeping around
the side. He gave two soft raps on the
door and it opened slightly. He put
his shoulder to it and the next thing
we were inside.
“I’m from the finance company.
We’ve come to collect the TV set,”
he said.
A big chap was sitting in the
kitchen, drinking beer and studying
the racing guide. He looked up and
swore.
“DON ’T try anything, mate,” said the
boss. He walked straight through
into the lounge-room as if he knew the
way, and I followed. Before anyone
could stop us we had the TV set in
hand and were out the front door and
back in the utility.
“You’re an expert, Boss,” I said.
He laughed: “It’s easy when you
know how, Sid. They can’t do any-
thing. It’s pay up or else.”
I became something of an expert
at it after that myself. The hardest
thing was to get into the house. After
that it was easy. Mostly the men took
it quietly, though sometimes % they
would swing a punch. But the women
were tough. I heard language I never
expected to hear from a lady. I learnt
a whole new vocabulary. Sometimes
they’d throw things at me slops
from upstairs windows, turn the hose
on me, chase me with brooms. And
I couldn’t hit back.
By the end of six months there was
hardly a thing I hadn’t repossessed
grand pianos, radiograms, washing
machines, the list was endless, because
you could get anything on the “never
never.” It was a game almost an
exciting game, like a cat chasing a
mouse. We even ran a book at the pub
on who’d have the best score by the
end of the month.
But this day was different. The house
was in a back street. A little place
tucked away between a row of tall
terraces. The garden was small but
neatly kept. The lawn trimmed, with
a straggly lean palm tree, fighting for
a bit of sunlight, in the centre. The
path was swept and on the veranda
stood a row of brightly painted pojs
with flowering geraniums in them. I


knocked and as I stood waiting I
could hear the radio inside and then
slow, groping steps coming down the
hall. The door opened and an old man
stood there blinking. He was pink
cheeked with a fluff of soft white hair
and a look of surprise on his face.
“I thought it was the district nurse
for Elsie,” he said at last.
“Are you Mr. Johnson?” I asked.
He nodded.
“Excuse the intrusion but I’m from
the finance company. You know you’ve
got behind with your payment on the
radio.”
His bright expression faded. “Oh
dear . . . yes I’m afraid so. Come in.
Come in. I was just getting lunch
ready.”
I followed his stooped figure as he
walked slowly down the dim hall. As
we got near the end I tripped on the
worn lino and nearly fell. He put out
his hand to steady me and led me into
the kitchen.
“Sit down, please, while I finish
getting lunch.” He waved to a worn
cane chair in the corner and I
lowered myself into it. A pot was sim-
mering on the stove. It smelt like hot
soup and I suddenly realised I was
hungry. The old man lifted the lid and
stirred it, then he tasted it on the end
of the spoon, blowing on it to cool it.
“That’s good,” he said.
The radio was playing in the room
off the kitchen and he w r ent in there.
The music stopped and I could hear
the murmur of voices. Mr. Johnson
came back again and took a bowl out
of the cupboard, then cut a slice of
bread off a loaf. He poured the hot soup
into the bowl. Steam rose from it as he
carried it through to the next room.
He came back saying, “That w r as Elsie’s
dinner. She’s sick, you know.” He rinsed
out the teapot with hot water. “Would
you like a cup of tea?” he asked.
“Thank you,” I said.
'J’HE kettle was whistling on the stove
and he made the tea. Then he
reached into the cupboard and got out
two cups. One had a handle missing.
“I hope you don’t mind.” He passed
me the good cup. “We’re out of milk.”
He picked up the sugar basin and took
off the lid, then turned to me and said
apologetically, “I’m afraid there’s no
sugar, either.”
“This is fine,” I said.
Mr. Johnson drew up his chair to
the table and sat down dunking a piece
of bread in his tea and sucking it
noisily.
“Now,” I said, “about the radio . . .”
“The wireless, yes—well, I’m sorry,
but I can’t pay anything todav. You see,
Elsie broke her hip . . . she needs things.
She was in hospital for a while, but they
couldn’t spare the bed any longer—it’s
the food and the nursing.” Mr. Johnson
gave me a troubled look and spread
out his hands in a hopeless gesture.
‘You’ll have to take it. I’m sorry to
cause yqu bother. I’ll go and get it.”
He rose and shuffled into the bed-
room. The radio went off abruptly. I
could hear a woman’s plaintive voice
saying, “It’s not broken, William! It’s
going perfectly. I was just going to
listen to the serials!”
“It won’t be long, dear,” he replied
in soothing tones. The old man came
out, looking upset and put the radio
on the table. “Don’t worry,” he said.
“She’ll get over it . . . I’ll sit and talk
to her.”
“I’m sorry,” I said and I really meant
it.
He patted my shoulder. “It’s not your
fault. I shouldn’t have bought it. But
Elsie’s got to have something—she gets
so down.”
“If I gave you a few more days. I
could fix it up with the Boss,” I said,
feeling guilty.
“No, son, take it. Where would I
find twenty dollars?” He sat down
suddenly and, taking his pipe, started
to suck hard. It was empty. I felt in
my pockets for my cigarettes. I had a
lump in my throat the size of an apple.
I pulled out a full packet and offered
him one. The old man took it with
trembling hand and laid his pipe on
the table. I stood up then and slipped
the packet of cigarettes on the chair
without him seeing.
At the gate I passed the district
nurse coming in. She filled the grey
uniform nicely and I whistled under
my breath. She must have been a
mind reader. She gave me a look of
scorn that seemed to shrivel me up.
“That’s all they’ve got,” she indicated
the radio. “And you come and take
it. What sort of a man are you?” Her
eyes flashed.
“I’m only doing my job,” I said.
Her words rankled with me. Instead
of going on to the next job I started
down to the pub. Some of the boys
were there, standing around the bat-
swopping yarns, with the schooners
lined up. Rosie, the barmaid, was lean-
ing over, laughing at the stories. She
pulled me a beer.
“What you get today, Sid?” they
asked. I was running neck and neck
with another bloke for top score of the
month.
“Nothing much,” I said, feeling
quiet.
“What’s up, Sid? You sick or some-
thing?” Rosie asked.
“I’m all right,” I said. “I think I’ll
cut along now.”
“But you didn’t drink your beer!”
“I don’t feel like it.”
I didn’t hand the radio over straight
away. I put it on the mantelpiece and
plugged it in. It was going good. Then
I thought of the old lady lying in bed
with nothing to do, and I felt like
dirt. I was feeling hungry after missing
lunch.. I went down to the corner cafe
and ordered a steak. When it came it
filled the plate and there was a pile
of chips and a grilled tomato with some
green peas to go with it. I took a bite
This story was the prize-winner in the
competition held in conjunction with
the Henry Lawson Festival, Grenfell,
N.S.W., this year.
and it stuck in my throat. I had a
sudden vision of a little white-haired
man cheerfully dunking a piece of dry
bread in a cup of black tea. I pushed
the plate away.
Lily, the waitress, sidled over. She
looked at the food.
“What’s up, Sid? Steak all right,
ain’t it?”
“Sure,”’ I said. “I just don’t feel
hungry.”
“Perhaps you’re getting something,”
she said, feeling my forehead.
I didn’t tell her I had it already
a bad, case of guilty conscience. I
couldn t sleep at night either. As soon
as I dozed off I could see the old man
sitting there sucking at his empty pipe
and hear his old lady calling out,
“Don’t take it—don’t take it!” And
I d wake up in a cold sweat.
J HAD a job down that way a couple
of days later. It was across the street
from Mr. Johnson’s. He was sitting on
the veranda when I drove up and I
tooted the horn. He jumped up and
smiled, dropping the pipe out of his
mputh. He bent and picked it up and
was waiting for me at the gate when
I came out.
“I found these in the kitchen. You
forgot them.” He held a packet of
cigarettes out to me.
“Keep them,” I said. “I’ve got a
full packet.”
It was then I made up my mind.
“How’s Mrs. Johnson?” I asked.
“Well enough,” he replied.
“How often does the nurse come?”
I was hoping to get another look at
her. I was going to surprise her.
“Every day. They’re good to us.
We’re lucky we’ve got a lot of friends.”
When I got back to work I saw the
Boss. “I want to borrow ten dollars
till payday.”
“Been playing the machines?” he
asked.
“Not this time. I want to buy a
present for a lady.”
“Blonde or brunette?” he asked.
“I wouldn’t know,” I said. “I’ve
never seen her.”
“That’s a lot to spend on a doll
for a blind date.” He winked.
I took the money and signed an
lOU. I had another ten dollars put
by. I paid it in and the radio was mine.
I could hardly wait to get back to
see Mr. Johnson. I knocked at the
door and he opened it. He was in his
pyjamas ready for bed and he seemed
pleased to see me, I couldn’t imagine
why.
“Come in,” he said.
“I can’t stay. I’ve brought you a
birthday present.” I handed him the
radio and the receipt.
He stared at it, puzzled. “It’s not my
birthday. I don’t understand.”
“Well it must be somebody’s birth-
day. Take it, it’s yours.” And I turned
and hurried up the path.
It was after that I gave my job
away. A man can only do so much.
Not only that, I couldn’t afford it. The
price was too high!


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
A Slap in the Face
By. BRIAN BUCKLEY
“ A MERICA really hits you like a
slap in the face. You think you
know big cities, but there is
nothing anywhere like New York.
Everybody knows it is big and noisy,
but you have to go there to feel that
this is something different from any-
thing you’ve known before. I thought
I would have the feeling that I was
watching the beginning of something,
but before long I felt I was watching
the end of something . . .”
I talked to painter Len French in
Melbourne on his return from the
United. States, where he spent 12
months, mostly at Yale on a Harkness
Fellowship.
He clearly does not know what to
make of his experience. He found most
Leonard French
Americans courteous and friendly; the
young intellectuals were “very bright
and well informed”; the painters were
inclined to be more tempted into
“gimmickry” than they are here, prob-
ably because of the ceaseless demand
for the new, the latest; the younger
painters were often sadly deficient in
the mechanics of the art and were
naively impressed by French’s crafts-
manship; the strong undercurrent of
racial tension was present nearly every-
where and French feels that large-
scale negro violence is inevitable, and
“though I hate to say it, probably
necessary”; the country physically was
varied and beautiful.
French feels that it may take him
three years or more to produce paint-
ings out of his American experience.
“I usually paint things some time after
my first experiences of them,” he said.
“I like to think them over, to imagine
them in various relationships, to let
them settle in the mind.” He might
have added that he likes to talk them
over. If there is something he likes
better than art, it is talking.
His loquaciousness is a well-known
item of joke-gossip in the world of
painters, dealers, and buyers. But
there is a quality in it that conveys its
own excitement. French functions very
much at first-hand and his nervous
system is both tough and sensitive. A
former signwriter, he reads widely
though not systematically, and does not
regard himself as an intellectual. His
vision seems to come mainly from re-
flecting on and talking out his strong
personal experiences. He has in mind
“Death in the City” as a theme for
his future American paintings, and L
currently working on a Upanishads
theme.
His major projects at the moment are
the glass roof of the new Cultural
Centre in Melbourne and 16 windows
for the-Canberra National Library.
Before he left for America he bought
an old mill at Heathcote, about 60
miles north of Melbourne, and is set-
ting it up as a large studio. For the
Canberra Library and the Cultural
Centre he imports inch-thick, colored
glass from France and Belgium and
chisels into it to obtain a brilliant
stained-glass effect. The Cultural
Centre roof will be 168 ft. by 48ft. of
colored glass, chipped into patterns.
French has been working on it for four
years and says the roof will look some-
thing like “a huge Persian carpet
but with brilliant light effects.” He
expects to have it completed by the
end of next year. The Canberra Lib-
rary windows should be done by then,
too.
Apart from the glasswork and the
mill, French’s major present enthusiasm
is for a Government-backed Australian
art exhibition in the big American
centres. “It would be a great success,”
he said. “This is the time to do it.”
Music in Munificent Munich
By PAUL FROLICH
I AM not quite certain what I ex-
pected Munich to be like, my
only specific clues being extrava-
gant Wittelsbacher Kings, the gigantic
beer-hall jamborees of the Hitler gang
and, of course, good beer. The
Munich I knew absolutely nothing of
was a city which is almost as important
to European music as are London and
Berlin, certainly more important than
Vienna or any centre in France or
Italy.
Munich has six full-sized symphony
orchestras, a fine chamber orchestra,
numerous smaller chamber ensembles,
an Academy, ballet schools, composers,
conductors, and musicians galore and
two opera houses, often used simul-
taneously. It also is the nerve-centre
of a large and ambitious broadcasting
system which encourages living artists,
undertakes major recording projects,
and devotes considerable time and
resources to the presentation of serious
music, including a great deal of little-
known material. Public funds are used
to an,, for Australians, unimaginable
extent for the furtherance of the arts:
in Munich’s major opera house, which
is invariably booked out weeks in ad-
vance, performances are subsidised
to the tune of $9 per seat every night!
This, of course, takes no account of
the amounts that must go toward main-
taining the various orchestras, the
legitimate theatre, and the well-staffed,
comfortably housed, and well-equipped
broadcasting service, which, just as the
ABC, could not possibly manage on
listeners’ licence fees alone.
It is a sad fact, of course, that the
mere existence of facilities for culture
does not necessarily result in great
achievements. As far as I could tell
from my brief stay in rain-soaked
Munich, a rich city with fine shops
and restaurants, the subsidies are pay-
ing off handsomely. I heard three
operas Mozart’s “Cosi fan Tutte,”
Verdi’s “Simone Boccanegra,” and
Strauss’ “Arabella.” The Mozart, very
properly, was staged at the lovely
Cuvillies Theatre, within the former
royal Residence. It is a charming little
baroque theatre, seating some 600
listeners in agreeable comfort, with a
clear view of the well-sized stage and
large orchestra pit, and admirable
acoustics. A typical 18th-century opera
house, with boxes rising all around
to the fine ceiling, its corridors are
lavishly decorated with 17th- and 18th-
century portraits of Wittelsbacher
ladies, surely the most improbably ugly
bunch of women ever to rule over a
pleasure-loving, elegant society. The
theatre has been modernised and
equipped with novel devices the
whole orchestra pit rises and falls as
required by the conductor, the lovely
chandeliers are lifted to the ceiling so
as not to obstruct the view from upper
boxes.
A section of the Bavarian State Or-
chestra (the others were playing i n
the adjoining National Theatre at the
time), conducted by Meinhard von
Zallinger, played Mozart’s charming
music accurately and well, if unspec-
tacularly; the conductor maintained a
good pace throughout and is clearly
one on whom singers may safely rely


WRITER
Crawford Productions
have a vacancy for an experienced and versatile
writer whose assignments could include:
TELEVISION DRAMA: Taut, sophisticated
adult scripts foi* shows like HOMICIDE.
TELEVISION SERIALS: Warm, human-interest,
addictive-type scripts.
DOCUMENTARY FILMS: Penetrating studies of
industrial, commercial and developmental
projects.
Apply by letter only, please, to
CRAWFORD PRODUCTIONS
475 Collins Street, Melbourne
Lisa Della Casa and Dietrich Fischer-
Dieskau in Strauss’ “Arabella” at
Munich’s National Theatre.
to cue and support them as needed. The
production was one to delight the eye,
sets in a sobered rococo style, colorfully
charming costumes, and the opera, as a
whole, treated as farce rather than
comedy, with style and feeling. Rita
Streich, though aging into stoutness,
was a wonderfully entertaining Des-
pina; she sang beautifully and acted
with such verve that the hamming of
“the doctor” and “the notary” became
highlights of the evening. The best of
the men was Kieth Engen, as a con-
vincing, wittily stylish, and vocally
satisfying Don Alfonso. The two pairs
of lovers Leonore Kirchstein as
Fiodiligi; Lilian Benningsen as Dora-
bella; Raimund Grumbach as Gug-
lielmo, and Donald Grobe as Ferrando
were, for most of the way, sung ad-
mirably rather than convincingly.
My other two evenings were spent
at the National Theatre, a very much
larger house, also with excellent acous-
tics, a spacious pit, and a stage which,
both in size and technical resources,
out-distances even that of the Vienna
Opera. Wing-space and height of the
stage are awesome in their dimensions
and, although there is here no revolv-
ing stage, there is just about every-
thing else any director, stage manager,
or actor could wish for. Unlike the
Viennese, Munich’s directors manage to
restrain themselves and do not neces-
sarily use every available trick and
gadget in every show.
“Cosi,” somewhat to its detriment,
was sung in German; “Simone Boc-
canegra” was sung by a wholly Italian
company, with the chorus of La Scala,
Milan, and the Munich Philharmonic
Orchestra under the direction of
Giuseppe Patane, an Italian conductor
well known in the U.S.A. also. The
principals were Giuseppe Taddei,
Georgio Tozzi, Antonietta Stella, Gian-
franco Cecchele, Renato Cesari, and
Iwan Sardi. Until after the second
scene, Tozzi was the only thoroughly
satisfactory singer—the others appar-
ently had not bothered to warm up
their voices for a performance moved
indoors because of unexpected bad
weather and they sang frequently off-
pitch—but all of them performed quite
brilliantly in the later parts of the
opera and the climax was immensely
moving. Patane managed his resources
with great skill. The basic set, closely-
related to the facade of the Residence
where the opera is usually staged in
the open air, was of breathtaking
grandeur and height, dwarfing the
human actors, and the production,
taken as a whole, was entirely convinc-
ing. Tozzi, Haddei, Stella, and the new-
comer Cecchele,' as Gabriele, sang quite
splendidly and made this yet another
memorable night.
My last night in Munich was a truly
great occasion for me, not least because
I heard the legendary Fischer-Dieskau
in the flesh at last and found him as
perfect as he appears on his best record-
ings. Masterfully conducted by Joseph
Keilberth, another fine conductor who
has never been heard in Australia,
“Arabella” proved to be almost as witty
and musically great a work as “Rosen-
kavalier.” Rudolf Hartmann’s produc-
tion, the sets, costumes, lighting and all
the rest were of greater splendor even
than the uncommonly elegant audience.
As regards the principals, I’ll only add
that Miss Della Casa, whose concert
appearance in Australia I disliked,
proved admirable vocally. Arabella is
clearly her best role and Arabella is
the part she still plays, whatever else
she may be actually engaged upon. At
least some of the admirable minor
singers deserve some mention; Kurt
Bohme as Count Waldemar, Ira Mala-
niuk as Adelaide, Georg Paskuda and
Fritz Uhl as Arabella’s principal wooers,
and Erika Koth’s brilliantly sung
Fiakermilli contributed much to the
grandeur and joy of the brilliantly
staged ball scene.
One of the most pleasant places I
have visited was Strasbourg, where I
attended the Festival. The Festival,
however imporant artistically, makes
little impact on the city’s daily life. It
is liberally supported by the people of
Strasbourg and surrounding districts,
on both sides of the Rhine, but there
was nothing that could be described
as festival atmosphere, no gathering
place where musicians and visitors
might have been found in earnest dis-
cussion.
My first concert, within an hour of
arrival, was an afternoon of sacred
music in the medieval cathedral of
Ebersmunster Abbey, some 25 miles
from Strasbourg. Situated in a picture-
postcard Alsatian village, this is a large
and very beautiful church, filled with
bright frescoes and statues and contain-
ing the finest organ I have ever heard
other than on’ record, built by Andre
Silbermann early in the 18th century.
Masterfully played by Maurice Durufle,
it made wholly enchanting music. The
works for solo organ were a three-
movement “Veni Creator” by Nicholas
de Grigny, written at about the time
this organ was built, and including a
magnificent five-part fugue; the “Messe
a l’usage des Couvents” by Couperin,
and a Bach Fantasy in F minor. Not
normally an organ fancier, I found this
music to be quite exhilarating and am
indeed grateful to have heard so great
a master on so fine an instrument.
'J'HE rest of the program was for choir
and orchestra the cathedral’s
own choir and the orchestra of Radio
Strasbourg, conducted by Alphonse
Hoch, with a number of soloists. There
were three fine, very stylishly presented
Mozart Motets, K. Nos. 117, 198, and
277; outstanding in these were solos by
soprano Gisele Prevet, a brilliant young
singer. The major work of the after-
noon was a Requiem by Francis Xavier
Richter, a Czech-born composer who
died in Strasbourg in 1789, aged 80,
having played an important part in the
city’s life for over 20 years. He was a
pupil of Vienna’s Fux and is known
to have befriended the young Mozart.
The Requiem we heard was written in


1783; it is scored for solo voices, choir
and an orchestra of strings, winds, and
percussion and was recently reconstruc-
ted for modern performance from
manuscripts in Paris and Strasbourg.
That evening, I attended a recital
given by Nathan Milstein. This famous
violinist, who looks far younger than
his 62 years, is often regarded as on a
par with Oistrakh and Stern. Record-
ings I’d heard made me doubt that
claim, and indeed his performance,
though enthustically received, left me
far from satisfied.
The last concert I heard in Stras-
bourg was particularly pleasing. It was
a recital by John Williams, a pupil of
Segovia’s already known to me from
fine recordings. Williams comes
originally from Melbourne, has studied
abroad for many years, and now, in
his early twenties, has become recog-
nised as one of the world’s great
guitarists. He is planning to tour Aus-
tralia within two years and I shall
certainly look forward to hearing him
again. His program was fairly con-
servative: an overture by S. L. Weiss,
transcriptions of lute pieces by Batche-
lor and Dowland, 3 Scarlatti sonatas,
a Paganini Caprice and Bach’s D minor
Chaconne.
Williams’ artistry and musicianship
are such that the Bach and the Paga-
nini, although transcribed from the
violin, were wholly convincing; in the
Chaconne, I rather preferred his play-
ing to Milstein’s performance of the
original. The second part of the recital
was devoted to music written for the
guitar, by Villa-Lobos, Ponce and de
Falla.
THEATRE
Shining Bright
The Schoolmistress. Pinero. NIDA. Old
Tote, Sydney.
Romeo and Juliet. Shakespeare. Com-
munity Theatre. Killara Memorial
Hall.
The Firstborn. Christopher Fry. Gradu-
ate Theatre Company. Union Theatre,
Sydney University.
LIKE the brass fittings in restored
Victorian houses, when cleaned
and polished after half a century
of neglect, Pinero’s farce “The School-
mistress” shines with a delightful and
unexpected brightness in this high-
spirited presentation by the NIDA
students under the direction of Alan
Edwards.
This production is an excellent ad-
vertisement for NIDA, which offers the
only full-time training course for actors
and producers in Australia. As well as
bright-eyed, youthful enthusiasm, which
one might find in a group of young
amateurs, the students display a basic
professional skill and an ability to co-
operate as a team, which gives their
work a supple grace and discipline, at
its lowest a bread-and-butter compet-
ence, such as one finds in repertory
companies in England. The faults of
such actors are different from the typical
faults in amateur productions. One is
not troubled by awkwardness or in-
articulacy, but rather by over-
theatricality or simple misconception.
In this production the character of
the choleric Admiral Rankling was
over-exaggerated, while the pampered
Hon. Vere Queckett was fussily old-
maidish instead of languidly gilded. But
these are faults of youth and inexperi-
ence. The quartet of girls led by Judy
L’Armand, as the resourceful Miss Hess-
lerigge, was a delightful group, and
Kirrily Nolan displayed a commanding-
voice and presence as the stately school-
mistress who turns comic-opera star in
order to support her pure-bred, but
penniless, husband in the style to which
he is accustomed.
“Romeo and Juliet” is the first pro-
duction by the Community Theatre
group in the local hall which they hope
to convert into a theatre. It is a gallant
enterprise in the circumstance of not
having a proper theatre, but the odds
against success proved too great.
Due, at least in part, to the in-
adequacies of the hall, Alexander Arch-
dale’s production is a set of compromises
and an uneasy mixture of styles. The
basic set is an arrangement of steel
scaffolding which is, unfortunately, eked
out by a few realistic properties. To
introduce real bedclothes into this set-
ting is to make the worst of all possible
worlds. Leave everything to the imagina-
tion and we can call it Elizabethan
simplicity, provide steel scaffolding and
we can see it as austerely modern, but
once bring on the bed and the imagina-
tion craves Verona streets, orchard
walls, a banqueting hall, a friar’s cell.
The same confusion is evident in the
costumes, which I can only describe
as mixed informal. Juliet looks like an
overgrown Alice in Wonderland in a
teenage party dress, Romeo wears a
kind of modified sailor suit, and Capulet
looks as though he is dressed for light
gardening in his suburban plot.
Why not go the whole way and dress
the young men in jeans and their
fathers in business suits? Obvious dif-
ficulties spring to mind: the boys cannot
carry swords and modern girls do not
have nurses, modern families do not
have blood feuds and modern parents
do not have the kind of authority over
their children exercised by the Capulets.
Darlene Johnson’s Juliet lacks fire
and she tries to make Juliet seem young
by making her childish. Juliet was never
childish. Mark McManus is a handsome
and charming Romeo, and Max Mel-
drum a spirited Mercutio. Diana Brad-
bury gives the most traditional per-
formance in the play as the Nurse, and
Alexander Archdale the least traditional
as the “method” Capulet. On the whole
I found this production committed the
unpardonable crime of making Shake-
speare seem an ordeal.
Christopher Fry’s “The Firstborn” I
found an ordeal, too, but not for the
same reason. Even a beautifully de-
signed setting by Bernard Hides and
two strong central performances by
Ruth Goldberg, as Pharaoh's sister, and
Arthur Dignam, as Moses, could do
nothing to enliven this play because it
was stillborn. I am one of those who
think that Fry’s attempt to revive poetic
drama in the twentieth century bv
writing plays in verse was a mistaken
enterprise. Those who '•'sagree may
enjoy this production.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
FILMS
Dedicated Amateur
Viva Maria! Director, Louis Malle.
The Naked Prey. Director, Cornel Wilde.
LOUIS MALLE is one of the
original “Cahiers du Cinema'’
mob—those highbrow enthusiasts
who began by writing about films and
then turned to making them with dedi-
cated amateurism. Most of his films,
with the exception of the stunning “Le
Leu Lollet,” are the usual patchwork
of derivation and private references to
favorite directors with occasional bursts
of brilliance. But in “Viva Maria!'’
Malle seems to have tried to come down
to the professional level. He has aban-
doned much of his deliberate artiness.
Unfortunately, the brilliance seems to
have gone as well.
He has, however, had the sense to
employ Henri Decae as photographer,
and the movie is always enchanting to
look at. Its sheer visual beauty may
help you through the very pedestrian
first section of this story of two girls
improbably employed in a travelling
circus in revolution-torn South
America. Lrankly, there is little else to
engage your attention. The sad thing
is that the last third of the picture,
when the two Marias become revolu-
tionary leaders, is very good fun.
Perhaps Malle would be better
advised in future to settle for pure
entertainment and leave exposition out
of his movies. If you can sit through
the earlier scene-setting sequences, the
zany revolution is extremely diverting.
Since its humor is mainly visual, one
isn’t so badly distracted by the horrid
dubbing wdiich makes no attempt to fit
the characters’ lip movement and by
which Jeanne Moreau and Brigitte
Bardot are reduced to basic American,
whereas George Hamilton mysteriously
adopts an unidentifiable foreign accent.
Cornel Wilde, w 7 ho is both director
and star of “The Naked Prey,” has
none of Malle’s intellectual pretensions,
but he is a trained professional film-
maker. His picture is a neatly con-
structed, brisk piece of entertainment,
which (unlike “Viva Maria!”) pitches
its audience straight into the action. An
ivory-hunting safari around the turn
of the century runs foul of an African
tribe; two of its members are
slaughtered, the third is stripped of his
clothing and driven forth naked and
unarmed, to do battle not only against
his pursuers but against the African
continent.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


MUSIC
Working Together
Sydney String Quartet. Conservatorium
of N.S.W.
Music of Eric Gross. Sydney University
Music Society, Great Hall.
THE most attractive feature which
emerged from this recital was the
plentiful evidence that the quar-
tet has developed from a group of
individual string players into an
efficient chamber music unit. In their
concert for Musica Viva earlier this
year, the more experienced lower half
of the Quartet, (’cellist John Painter
and Robert Pikler, viola) seemed to
overshadow the violin team of Harry
Curby and Robert Ingram. Although
there still remains an occasional rough
passage in his playing, Curby is now
leading the group and is to some degree
providing a foil to Robert Pikler’s ten-
dency to dominate its performances.
For the first time in their short history
it was possible to say of the quartet
that their playing was of international
standard.
In Haydn’s “The Frog” Quartet,
where the pressure is continually on the
first violinist, the texture produced was
delightfully light and clear. The sub-
sidiary parts were treated with care-
ful reserve, adding to the overall im-
pression of the performance a sense
of thoroughly Haydnesque neatness.
'J'HE Britten String Quartet No. 2 is
not one of this distinguished com-
poser’s most satisfying work. John
Painter gave a characteristically rich
and flowing account of the lengthy ’cello
cadenza in the final section, and his
sensitive approach throughout helped to
lift the playing to a level above that of
a conscientious realisation of the score.
An energetic spirit, well captured and
sustained, enhanced the quartet’s per-
formance of the Beethoven second
Rasoumovsky (E minor) quartet.
Everyone played with vigorous assur-
ance and the resultant sound was won-
derfully dark and mellow.
In a University concert devoted to
his music, an oratorio “Pacem in Ter-
ris” by the Sydney composer Eric
Gross received its first performance.
Scored for choir, soloists, chamber
group, and brass, the work is a setting
of extracts from the address Pope John
gave at the opening of the Ecumenical
Council. Far from the avant-garde
mainstream, “Pacem in Terris” employs
its spartan instrumentation with strik-
ing originality. A recurring motive in
the brass and the periodic use of a
chanted chorus served to bind the
seemingly improbable elements into
a convincing whole. The final chorus
—sometimes reminiscent of the “Sanc-
tus” in Britten’s War Requiem —is,
however, a grand and moving piece.
The performance was excellent and
special credit must be given to Cliff
Goodchild’s remarkable artistry on the
tuba.
DAVID SALTER
ROMEO AND JULIET
at the Community Theatre, Killara, Sydney
Alexander Archdale,
who produced the play
and played Capulet
Mark McManus, Romeo
Darlene Johnson, Juliet
Max Meldrum,
Mercutio
Ted Hodgman, Tybalt
Donald Crosby, Friar Lawrence
Bill Pearson, Apothecary


whW AVMLftBIE
The
Schimmelpenninck
Half
Corona
Traditional Corona
quality in a shorter
length for more frequent
smoking pleasure.
Singles, packs of 10
and boxes of 25.
(Actual
size)
Hollands
finest cigars -
fast becoming
Australia’s
favourites
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars
are imported for your pleasure by
Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust .) Ltd.
- sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck - Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V.
Wageningen, Holland.
RPM23I
BOOKS
The Emperor’s Clothes
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
The Three Lives of Charles de Gaulle.
David Schoenbrun. Hamish Hamilton.
$3.85.
De Gaulle* Francois Mauriac. Bodley
Head. $4.45.
ONLY three lives? Isn’t there the
ham actor? The mummer who
stood in the shadow of the
Cathedral of Chartres and looking out
over the people declaimed: “Very often
I seem to hear a murmur—even if the
voices are not raised loudly—but I sense
that it is a murmur which corresponds
to a world sentiment, a general call:
‘Go France. Go France. Go.’ ”
And Charles de Gaulle the man of
letters? The writer of a confessional
three-volume memoirs and of essays
such as “The Edge of the Sword” (on
leadership) which quotes “Hamlet” in
the foreword:
Rightly to be great
Is not to stir without great argument.
And de Gaulle the indomitable
patriot? The deep and powerful voice
chanting to his countrymen through a
BBC microphone in those evil days of
June, 1940: “France is not alone. She
is not alone. She is not alone. She can
form a solid bloc with the British Em-
pire which commands the seas and con-
tinues to fight. This war has not ended
with the battle of France. This war is
world war.”
de Gaulle the dry and condes-
cending wit? David Schoenbrun
relates how a newly elected member of
Parliament (on an anti-Gaullist ticket)
grew increasingly nervous as he got
nearer and nearer to the President on
his first official reception line. When
his moment arrived the Deputy, red-
faced and shaking, stammered out:
“Uh, General, you know that my wife
is a Gaullist.” De Gaulle shook his
hand without smiling, nodded slowly,
and said, “What a coincidence, my
wife is, too.”
Those who were disappointed with
“The Wit of Sir Robert Menzies,” as
Compiled by Robinson, may recover
their spirits among the anecdotes
Schoenbrun relates from pages 88-94.
They may also recall Churchill’s re-
mark when told by an aide that Roose-
velt had said de Gaulle thought him-
self Joan of Arc: “Yes, I know. But
the trouble is my bloody bishops won’t
let me burn him.”
Then surely there is de Gaulle the
Anglophobe, the patrician non-demo-
crat, the meticulous political schemer,
the imperialist decoloniser? The list
may be as long as the man himself
two metres but Schoenbrun, who
for the past 20 years has covered
French affairs for the American broad-
casting network CBS in Paris and
Washington, chose to describe de Gaulle
as a soldier, as a saviour, and as a
statesman.
Signs of the kind of soldier and
statesman he was to become were mani-
fest in his pre-school days. He was
born into a world of military strategy
and engrossed in the stories his parents
told of the French defeat of 1870. He
questioned his father closely about the
inept handling of the French army at
the battles of Vionville and Mars-la-
tour, the capitulation of Sedan, and
the surrender of Paris after a seige in
which his father was wounded.
Young Charles learnt every detail
of the battles and was always sure
that: “We should have won, we could
have won.” His brothers recalled that
later he went to pains to rewrite history
to suit his own notions of what should
have happened. In his version of Agin-
court, the Constable d’Albret took the
advice of a Sir Jean de Gaulle and
redeployed his troops to outflank the
English. In the re-creaticn of young
Charles the battle of Agincourt was a
resounding victory for the French.
The tall, skinny boy’s frame was out-
grown by a powerful will which or-
ganised his older brothers and bigger
boys in the district into war games of
Charles’s design. At military academy
he was nicknamed “big asparagus,” and
then, as respect for his force of charac-
ter grew, “the fighting cock” and “the
constable” (an ancient rank of the high-
est officer in the army).
The early days in the ranks were
difficult. The young soldier (graduate
officers had to spend a year as common
soldiers'), who was a scholar of French
military history and had enacted the
greatest battles maay times, had little
time for the petty regulations or the
mindless routine of the barracks. But
he was soon to meet and be encouraged
by Colonel Petain, to grow in friendship
with him, and then, under the Nazi
conquest, break for ever. Both were
keen students of strategy, scornful of
the military ignorance of many of the
high command, and hopeful that the
results of the Franco-Prussian war
might be reversed in another conflict.
When World War I broke out Lieu-
tenant de Gaulle revealed great quali-
ties of leadership, initiative, and per-
sonal courage, and his patrol was soon
regarded as the most fearless of the
division. It was said of him that he
acted without fear, like a man pos-
sessed.
Schoenbrun comments that he was


possessed: “By the spirits of the French
heroes of history. He fought as though
he were immortal, as though nothing
could kill him. The young officer
already felt the emotions that the old
man he was to become expressed so
many battles later in his memoirs:
death was preferable to mediocrity.”
Wounded numerous times, he returned
to battle, until he was finally captured
after suffering almost fatal injuries.
Capture meant study of German mili-
tary strategy and language, and many
attempts to escape (understandably for
a man of 6ft. 6in., all failed). The
peace settlement brought experience as
an instructor in the Polish army,
marriage to a girl over whom he had
spilt hot tea in a buffet, staff college
lecturing, and endless clashes with what
was left of the leadership of the French
army. His ideas on the strategy of
warfare were largely ignored by his
superior officers but they were closely
studied in Germany and to a degree
adopted by the German panzers in the
World War 11. From the early
’thirties, de Gaulle warned his own
leaders about how the next war would
be fought but their ignorant hopes in
the Maginot Line led to the second
French humiliation in a generation and
the last-minute escape of de Gaulle to
England.
QNLY a man of heroic will or a
paranoic and de Gaulle may be
something of both could have
gathered his crushed pride, his national
ambitions, his moral authority, and his
few supporters together and made of
them the leadership of the resistance
and the future civil authority of liber-
ated France. De Gaulle did both and
also substantially bluffed the Allied
leaders into considering his interests
and counsel. He returned to France
as a saviour, and also with a bitterness
toward the United States—partly
caused by his exclusion from Potsdam
and Yalta—which he has never lost.
He was determined to have France
recognised as one of the five great
Powers of the world and one of the
three great Western Powers, and of
those three the most independent and
non-predictable. More recently the
grand design of President Kennedy for
an Atlantic alliance of the United
States of America with a form of
United States of Europe has been de-
flated in collision with the de Gaulle
invented “vastuplan” to make a new
grouping of the States bordering on
the Rhine, Alps, and Pyrenees.
Vast design or vast delusion? Schoen-
brun gives part of the explanation for
de Gaulle’s policies:
“The origin dates from the American
rejection of his proposal to set up a
three-Power organisation of the West to
determine global strategy. When the
Americans refused to allow post-war
France an immediate role as one of
the big five Powers, de Gaulle chose
that his country become the biggest
°f the smaller nations that is to
become champion of all the nations
besides the big four. This was the
motive behind his trips to Africa and
South America, his establishment of
relations with China, his denunciation
of U.S. policy in Vietnam, Santo
Domingo, and the Congo, and his
attacks on the American dollar.”
Those whose responsibility it is or
has been to fight in Korea, South Viet-
nam, the Congo, and Malaysia, protect
Thailand and Taiwan, and to guaran-
tee the security of India can hardly be
expected to show much sympathy with
such policies. The U.S.A., which has.
incurred the largely French-created
disaster in Vietnam, might be allowed
some righteous indignation. Most of the
justification for it is supplied in this
book, whose major faults are to under-
play the effects of de Gaulle’s dislike
of Anglo-Saxons and the influence of
Maurras on his political philosophy.
Otherwise Schoenbrun is fair.
The most practical suggestion that
emerges from reading him is that the
proper therapy for this “man of
destiny” cum “spirit of France” may
be a nightly recitation of the old fable
of “The Emperor’s Clothes.”
Francois Mauriac, Nobel prize-
winning French novelist, has in his old
age written a prose hymn of praise for
de Gaulle and France: for Mauriac
these are one rather than two identities,
and he loves it both. De Gaulle had
and has the right to assert the
superiority, the autonomy, and the
authority, not of a man but that of
the State, and of the nation. “What
obsessed him that day, what alone
counted, and what still obsesses him
today—to convince our allies of what
is always due to the France that is
eternal.”
This due must be granted to old
France despite her inexpiable shame,
and only de Gaulle can restore her to
her place, “the place history assigns
her but that the Anglo-Americans have
never granted her.” If Mauriac’s book
has villains they are not Germans or
Communist Slavs, they are bungling
parliamentarians and, especially, Eng-
land and America. Having recovered
from two brutal defeats by Germany,
France must once again face her more
subtle enemy, her gentle humiliator, the
Anglo-Saxon.
The word “rape” was used by some
commentators to describe Kennedy’s
appeal to and co,mmand of a large
body of American intellectuals.
Mauriac and others, such as Malraux,
have been no less firmly seduced.
Patriotism, it appears, can also be a
last and crazy refuge for noble men.
An Attitude to Pine-cones
When the pine-cones become red-
hot in the grate, that is a
part of freedom, freedom to
burn: we got them behind a
barbed-wire gate with a sign to
say: ‘Trespassers . . We carted
the heavy sacks out along
a frost-white track from the grove
of Delphic pines, picking the small
and large cones out of the graves
of loose wet needles. They fall
year by year. The freedom-song
of the creek below the pines
could not animate my dull
mind or guts, but the sense of
danger could, sharpening all
the nerves to action. A thief
sees greener leaves, blacker stones,
and a sky awake as if
regarding him. Tonight as
the cones expand, go red and
white, I maunder ‘Ripeness is
all’ but never understand
what game God plays with a thief.
JAMES K. BAXTER


In CANBERRA
take your choice of
MOTEL or HOTEL accommodation at
fyOa
MOTH FEDERATION OF AUSTRALIA
V
LOCATION: Corner of Canberra Av. (by Hwy. 23)
& National Circuit. Stay on Hwy. 23
until you reach this corner.
• Fully licensed.
• Comfortable accommodation.
• Motel fully air-conditioned with T.V.,
telephone and radio in all rooms.
• Superb dining room cuisine choice of
quick-service Cofiee Shop for budget-priced
meals or Grill Room for more formal service.
• Comfortable rooms and lodges, reasonable
tariff and the finest Hotel-Motel service
in Australia.
Reservations, further details from any
ANSETT-ANA travel service
or THE WELLINGTON, Canberra Avenue, Canberra. 71313
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
THE ADVERTISER
$4,000
LITERARY COMPETITION
1968 .
$2,000
FOR ORIGINAL UNPUB-
LISHED NON-FICTION BOOK
$2,000
FOR ORIGINAL
UNPUBLISHED NOVEL
Particulars and entry forms from
Promotions Department, "The
Advertiser", Box 392 A, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Entries close November 30th, 1967
(Please enclose a self-addressed
envelope)
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful. \
GIFTS TO BRITAIN
Fine Foods, Wines, Hampers, Fresh Fruit,
Hams, Turkeys, Chocolates, Biscuits,
Cheese. From $2. To U.K. in 12 days.
Save money, time and postage. Send
stamp for catalogue. Postal Gift Service.
BOX 32, ELIZABETH, S.A.
The Black Legions
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
The Washing of the Spears. Donald R.
Morris. J. Cape. $8.60.
ON the ugly stone archway that
now stands on the site of Cet-
shwayo’s royal kraal in Zulu-
land is a metal plaque bearing the
inscription: “To the memory of the
Brave Warriors who fell here in 1879
in defence of the old Zulu order.”
Britain was not in the habit of erect-
ing monuments to the native peoples
whom she conquered or chastised dur-
ing the 19th century. But there was
something special about the Zulus, the
obscure Bantu tribe that, under Shaka
and Dingane, grew into the most for-
midable power in black Africa and,
under Cetshwayo, inflicted on the Brit-
ish the most severe defeat ever suffered
by a modern army at the hands of men
without guns. The massacre at Isand-
hlwana and the defence of Rorke’s
Drift invested the Zulu War with a
lurid drama unparalleled in colonial
warfare. The naked regiments of
Zululand brought British arms to the
brink of total disaster before artillery,
Gatling guns, and Martini-Henry rifles
inevitably blasted the assegai-wielding
impis to destruction.
No native African people fought so
valiantly to stem the tide of white
conquest. The Zulu empire lasted
barely 60 years but it had an epic
quality that still haunts the imagina-
tion of African historians, and recent
years have seen a steady flow of
literature devoted vo the culture and
origins of the Zulus and their succes-
sion of extraordinary rulers.
However, “The Washing Of The
Spears” is the first modern attempt at
a general history of the Zulu nation
from its dramatic emergence under
Shaka to its downfall in the deliber-
ately provoked British war of conquest
against Cetshwayo. The author, Donald
Morris, is a former American naval
officer. He began his research simply
with the purpose of writing an account
of the war of 1879. For six years he
went on digging deeper into the back-
ground of his subject, making long
tours of the battlefields of Zululand
and collecting material, published and
unpublished, about the early records
of the Zulu people. (A feature of this
book is the rich haul of apparently
previously little-known photographic
illustrations from the Campbell Lib-
rary in Durban.) The result is a mas-
sive 600-page volume of which any
professional historian would be proud.
The canvas is immense, the writing a
model of balance and lucidity, and it
will probably be a long time before
the book is supplanted as a definitive
account of the rise and fall of the
Zulu empire.
The origins of the Bantus are lost
in the mists of antiquity. They came
from North Africa, a magnificent,
virile, and warlike people, sweeping
down over the continent with their
enormous herds of cattle and driving
the primitive Bushmen and Hottentots
out of the best pasture and hunting
lands. By the end of the 17th century
they were scattered all over the high
veldt and had pushed through the
passes of the Drakensberg Mountains
into the fertile grasslands of modern
Natal. There, on the banks of the Great
Fish River, they confronted another race
of newcomers to. South Africa—the Boer
and British colonists spreading out
from the settlements of the Cape.
Whites and Bantus were both invaders
who had won their land by obliterating
or enslaving the original native inhabi-
tants. For several generations there was
enough country for both of them and
they accepted the roughly drawn fron-
tier that marked the limit of their
expansion on each side.
Among the Bantu coastal clans were
the Zulus. Their herds and kraals
covered barely 100 square miles and
they were hemmed in by enemies on
every side. Then, early in the 19th
century, they acquired a chieftain
named Shaka, and within 20 astonish-
ing years the warring Bantu tribes of
South-east Africa were forged into a
single nation that bore the name of
Zulu.
Shaka’s reign was an unending
chronicle df blood and terror. Clans
that resisted incorporation in the Zulu
empire were swept off the face of the
earth. Huge areas of country were
reduced to a desert of whitening bones
and burned-out villages. Yet, from the
holocaust arose the most powerful
savage kingdom Africa had ever seen.
When Shaka was murdered in 1828 he
left a standing army of 30,000 warriors
organised in rigid regimental discipline
and had established the personal autoc-
racy of the Zulu monarch over the
whole country between the Drakens-
berg and the Indian Ocean.
It was under his successor, Dingane,
an equally terrifying compound of bru-
tality and efficiency, that the first real
conflict developed between the Zulus
and the land-hungry white men reach-
ing out-from their frontier settlements.
British ivory traders found a toehold
at Port Natal (now Durban) and
meddled in Dingane’s wars. Boer farm-
ers trekked down from the high veldt
into Zululand in search of grassland,
avenging Dingane’s massacre of Pi et
Retief’s party by a crushing victory
over the Zulu impis on the Blood River
in 1838. The Zulu frontier retreated
to the Tugela River, Natal became a
British colony, and for 30 years uneasy
peace returned to the border between
British authority and the rule of the
Zulu kings.
When Cetshwayo was crowned at the
royal kraal of Ulundi in 1873 the Zulu


The Australian Federation
of
SUN CLUBS
Invites
Your Enquiries
•
AFFILIATED CLUBS IN
ALL STATES
•
For particulars write to:
ALAN BURNS
Assistant Secretary (Publicity)
Box 26, P.O.
TUSMORE, STH. AUST.
SEETHE BIG NEW
mshp
Rambler
American
AND THE MAGNIFICENT
RAMBLER V 8
TODAY'S BIGGEST VALUE
IN COMFORT MOTORING
NOW AVAILABLE FROM
MARCO MOTORS
PTY. LTD.
Authorised Rambler Sales and Service
PARRAMATTA ROAD
Cnr. HilJcrest Street
HOMEBUSK 76-8329
e mpi re was st iH outwardly as strong
as ever. Fifty thousand warriors in 35
regiments paraded past the king as he
sa t draped in a damask tablecloth and
wearing the absurd tinsel crown pro-
vided for the occasion by Sir Theo-
philus Shepstone, Commissioner for
Native Affairs in Natal. More than a
quarter of a million Zulus owed blind
obedience to a despot whose frown
could mean instant death. The frontiers
of Zululand were peaceful, the ancient
economy based on cattle breeding and
com growing had scarcely been dis-
turbed by the handful of white traders
who penetrated the hinterland, and the
Zulu people were probably more pros-
perous than at any other time in their
history.
Within six years the last stronghold
of Bantu independence had fallen for
ever. As Donald Morris points out, not
even the grim tragedy of Isandhlwana
and the heroism of Rorke’s Drift en-
tirely allayed the feeling of guilt with
which many Britons later regarded the
Zulu War of 1879. The war was a de-
liberate, calculated act of aggression
fomented by Bartle Frere, the Governor
of Cape Colony, Shepstone, Lord
Chelmsford, the commander of the
British forces in South Africa, and other
officials who saw the absorption of
Zululand as a necessary prelude to, the
federation of all the South African
colonies. A few voices were raised
against the war, notably that of John
Colenso, the heretical Bishop of Natal,
but once the British Government ac-
cepted Frere’s view that Cetshwayo
was simply “an ignorant, blo'odthirsty
savage” whose realm was a perpetual
threat to the security of Natal the
invasion of 1879 became inevitable.
The Zulus died hard. It was a bitter
and bloody trail that Chelmsford’s bat-
talions had to follow through Isandhl-
wana, Rorke’s Drift, Hlobane, and
Gingindhlovu before the last impis
were cut to pieces at Cetshwayo’s capi-
tal of Ulundi.
A Vanished Australia
By NANCY KEESING
Father Clears Out. James Hackston.
Illustrated by Hal Gye. Angus &
Robertson. $2.75.
Reviewing this book for the
BULLETIN is a pleasantly nos-
talgic task. Its author himself
links several stages of BULLETIN his-
tory while his collected short-stories (all
first published in this journal) redis-
cover for us a vanished Australia which
most of us hope, in our hearts, might
still exist “somewhere.”
“James Hackston” is the name used
for prose-writing by Hal Gye (C. J.
Denis’ illustrator). As Gye a black-
and-white artist THE BULLETIN first
knew him some half a century ago;
then he appeared as James Hackston
during the ’3os and ’4os; and as
“Hacko,” a felicitous versifier, a little
later again. An account of this three-
fold career is set forth in Douglas
Stewart’s introductory essay which
merits a compliment in itself for grace,
stylishness, and perception. Stewart
nowhere now publishes regular literary
criticism but his prefaces to books dur-
ing the past ten years go some way to
stopping this untimely gap in Australian
critical writing.
In “Father Clears Out” the equa-
tion Gye-Hackston is, so far as I know,
resolved for the first time —delightful
line-drawings match perfectly, and
scarcely surprisingly, the stories. The
tales are deceptively simple they
mostly tell of Father’s inept efforts to
win gold from unpromising ground or
a living from a poor farm. Mother is
there, too, and understands her mis-
understood husband only too well. One
must, as Stewart has, at least mention
Hackston in the same breath as Steele
Rudd, although Hackston is a far better
writer. His vocabulary is rich —his great
skill is to use it in a very apt but very
disingenuous manner:
... it seemed to me like a place
where a fence did not belong; the
kind of place that didn’t go with
man’s handiwork. It suited it more to
go tumbling dmcn its rough sides in
abandoned, fenceless freedom, its
own aloofness was its enclosing
panel, and a ring of prim, straight
posts enclosing it would not be in
keeping with its wildness. But Father
soon set about imprisoning the
bristling little mountain . . . When
we started to dig the postholes you’d
have sworn the hill had sent detach-
ments of rock underground to thwart
us .. .
Plainly, Hackston’s country is near
Steele Rudd’s selection because of its
subject matter, but by a queer accident
of geography it is also close to
Lindsay’s “Redheap,” Graham Mc-
Innes’ Melbourne, or any other terrain
of boyhood well recollected. Boyhood is
an immense region to which many
writers return by many roads. Its con-
stant features owe very little to types,
classes, or localities, so basic are the
needs, loves, hates, fears, and hopes
of children. The question to be asked
of its eventual books, whether they are
straight autobiography or, as here,
autobiographical fiction, is what sort of
writer has the child fathered? In this
instance a skilful raconteur whose
stories are best relished one or two at
a sitting.
Children, will like “Father Clears
Out” immensely and find the tales
funny. Older people will appreciate
that most telling of all humor where
pathos, even tragedy, is very subtly
mingled within and behind laughter
one thinks of “The Secret,” “The
Prince of Miners and —,” “By the
Compass,” and “Mother and Son.”
Epitaph for Pierre Malm-Lot
These may have been my years of clear distraction
but there’s such mercy in intrinsic need.
What finer tribute can we offer fruit
than the sweet homage of excess and greed?
VIVIAN SMITH


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
The U.K.'s Mr. Jay
THE most striking thing about Mr. Douglas Jay’s visit
to Australia is not that the President of the Board of
Trade thinks it worthwhile to visit the second biggest
customer for Britain’s exports, but that never before has
a British Trade Minister come here. If that failure has
marked the depths of British indifference to its major market,
then the current visit may well mark the heights of panic
that have at last prompted the British to do their damnedest
to increase their exports —even to the extent of sending a
Minister.
But while Mr. Jay will no doubt be trying to see how
Britain can improve her export performance to Australia
while on his 12-day visit to all. States, this does not seem to
be the reason he was invited here. The invitation came last
June after the Commonwealth Trade Ministers’ Conference
in London, when Mr. Jay (an avowed anti-Common Market
man) had assured Mr. McEwen that Britain would safe-
guard the Commonwealth’s “essential interests” in any
future Common Market negotiations. It seems likely that
Mr. McEwen considered it wise to make sure that he and
Mr. Jay agreed on the vital question of what exactly are
Australia’s “essential interests.” There appeared to be
considerable disagreement between the Australian and British
Governments on this topic when Mr. Heath was leading the
abortive 1962 mission to Europe.
But the Common Market is not the only problem that
Mr. McEwen is likely to raise with Mr. Jay. The depressing
impact of Britain’s economic measures on her ability to
import could have some impact on Australian sales to Britain.
’Presumably Mr. Jay will be able to provide the sort of
assurances on this score that would be needed for him to
stand much of a chance of getting, as a quid pro quo , what
he is really seeking out here —more British exports. These
assurances may be easy to give, for more than 80 percent
of Australian exports to Britain are basic materials that
should be little affected by the tougher times, unless there
is a major economic downturn in Britain.
Nevertheless, the chances of Mr. Jay doing much to
improve Britain’s level of exports here look slim; com-
mercial consideration have dominated Australia’s importing
pattern in recent times, and until Britain can establish any
evident superiority in strictly commercial terms the marked
trend away from buying British seems likely to continue,
particularly following the U.K. capital outflow restraints. In
any event, the Australian Government may feel there is
little scope for helping Mr. Jay in any “buy more” cam-
paign in the circumstances of recent trade relations with
Britain. Sixteen years ago, Australia sold slightly more to
Britain than we imported from her; now Australia spends
$250 million a year more in Britain than Britain does here,
as Australia’s British imports have almost doubled and
Britain’s Australian imports have risen by about only 12
percent. As a result of all this Britain now provides only
about one-fifth of Australia’s export earnings instead, of about
half in the post-war years, while her share of Australia’s
import bill has fallen from about half to one quarter.
And a fair proportion of Australia’s British imports might
not exist without the help of the British preferential tariff
arrangements. If Britain’s move into Europe succeeds, this
structure must disappear. The only thing that could make
Australia a more dynamic trading partner with Britain is if
MEN AND MATTERS
IT is some comment on the remark-
able urge to diversify that Aus-
tralia’s biggest maker of car radia-
tors has been having trouble in its
greeting card subsidiary. But a couple
of weeks ago National Consolidated Ltd.
solved the problem of leadership of its
Murfett Publishers subsidiary, set by the
departure of its managing director Mr.
Ron Curnow, by appointing Mr. Arthur
Payne as general manager.
Earlier this year, when Mr. Curnow
was in the chair, Murfetts aroused the
ire of the Australian Newsagents Co-
operative (whose members are the
major outlet for greeting cards) by
supplying Woolworths in a cut-price
deal. Many newsagents appear to have
responded by waging a “non-selling”
campaign of poor display and reduced
ordering of Murfett cards—but not tak-
ing the sort of direct action that could
prompt a counter-attack. Recently Mr.
Curnow left Murfetts to operate his own
company, Australian Greetings, which
deals with the chainstores.
The Curnow family had been one of
the founders of Murfetts (which had a
short listed life before the 1962 s3m.
takeover) and Ron’s father, Charles, is
still a director. It has never been an
outstanding success for National, with
profits averaging little better than
$lOO,OOO to $150,000 and being equal
to only about 5 per-
cent on the invest-
ment.
Now National
Consolidated is pin-
ning its faith on the
former Australian
sales manager of
one of its major
rivals, John Sands
Ltd., to provide a
“vigorous and new
approach.” Arthur
Payne had recently
resigned from Sands after 20 years’
service to start up his own importing
agency when Murfetts made him an
offer.
FINANCE journalists are always
telling the Government how to
run the economy. Mr. Douglas
Jay is one of the few who has had the
opportunity of actually doing so. And
there seems little doubt from the rela-
tively quiet role he has played in his
two years as president of the U.K. Board
of Trade that it is easier to give advice
about the economy than play a leading
part in controlling it.
Fifty-nine-year-old Douglas Jay has
been one of Labor’s; specialists on
economic affairs during his 20 years as
Douglas Jay
C. R. Curnow
Arthur Payne
MP for Battersea North, and despite
his public school background (Win-
chester) seemed headed for great
things when he became a junior
Minister at the Treasury shortly after
entering Parliament. He was well pre-
pared for the task, reading economics
at New College, Oxford, after taking
a first in “Greats” and spending eight
years at All Souls as a fellow while
working as a journalist, first as a sub-
editor on “The Times” for four years,
then on “The Economist,” neither of
which publications gave much scope for
expressing his Labor views.
But in 1937 he became City Editor
of the “Daily Herald,” gave up his
fellowship and wrote the first of two-
books on Socialism before spending the
war years as a public servant.


Britain herself became more and the prospects of
that seem at best to be many years away.
That is not to say that there is nothing for Mr. Jay to
do here. There is probably scope for greater U.K. Govern-
mental assistance for British exporters here and for some
examination of the adequacy of British industrial repre-
sentation. But above all, it may be useful for the Minister to
establish at first hand why Britain’s export effort has failed
so badly in what used to be her major market.
Victoria's "New" Tax
NO matter what else it may be called, Victoria’s new
“education” tax on the gross revenues of the two State
instrumentalities, the SEC and the Gas and Fuel
Corporation, is a flat-rate tax on gas, electricity, and briquette
users. It is inconceivable that either of the two instrumen-
talities will be able to absorb the tax, whose incidence there-
fore must fall on their customers. Sir Henry Bolte’s state-
ment that the tax is unlikely to mean an increase in the
prices of the products sold by the instrumentalities must be
taken with a pinch of salt. Even on last year’s net profit
figures for these bodies the tax would mean that their whole
allocations for depreciation and reserves for that year would
have been swallowed had the tax been operative.
From the State Government’s viewpoint the tax gets
round the major difficulty of imposing State taxes either on
individuals in the form of income tax or sales tax, or on
companies in the form of direct tax and payroll tax. Sir
Henry’s claim that the tax w'ould be new cannot be sub-
stantiated because, although admittedly these two bodies
have never been taxed before, at least the third-party motor
insurance fund has long been milked for State revenue —as
was pointed out from the Opposition benches immediately
the Premier ended his speech
In the likely event of the SEC and the Gas and Fuel
Corporation passing the “tax” on to consumers, this should
give a fillip to the consumption of oil fuels, especially those
directly competitive such as furnace oil and the various
proprietary brands of LPG marketed by the oil companies.
Industrially it will also put companies with their own
electricity-generating plants in a relatively more favorable
position.
Trying to Tax Oil
IF it often seems almost impossible to get at the true profits,
and the basis of inter-group charges, of the great interna-
tional oil companies, the U.S. taxation authorities are at
present having a good try to find out. The results of this
difference of opinion between the Internal Revenue Service
and the companies could have some bearing on the latters’
Australian operations.
The crux of the dispute is the price the Middle Eastern
and other producing subsidiaries are charging their fellow'
distributing subsidiaries in America for crude.
The governments in producing countries tax the companies
on the basis of official “posted” prices. It is, of course,
well known that actual open-market prices have been falling
for some years, so the posted prices don’t bear much relation
to these.
The Inland Revenue Service claims that some of the
leeway is being made up by charging distributors in America
above the free-market levels. Such a device cuts the profits
of the U.S. group member, thus reducing its domestic tax
liability.
Judging from their published accounts, it is extremely diffi-
cult to discover the real trading performance of most over-
seas-owned Australian oil companies. A few give the
impression of operating at an astonishing degree of unprofi-
tability year after year.
The Australian taxation authorities find equal trouble in
reaching the proper tax charge. Perhaps they are having
the same bother as their American counterparts in deter-
mining what international oil prices really are.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy t The Australian mineral in-
dustry lifted the value of its output by nine percent, to
$538 million in 1965; aided by high base metals prices,
exports advanced by $57 million to $238 million . . .
New motor vehicles registered in August dropped by
7218 to 32,663 when compared with August 1965, yet
showed a small gain on July’s (1966) 31,250.
The Federal Government is to help Queensland’s
sugar industry by lending it $l9 million, through the
Reserve Bank; repayments won’t start until 1970 . . .
Most N.S.W. wheat areas are benefiting from favorable
rains and are cheerful about the 1966 crop . . . Wool
prices edged down just a fraction during last week’s
sales,
Charges by trading banks for keeping current accounts
and for some other services are to be increased on
October 1 ... In its first year of activity the Housing
Loans Insurance Corporation insured 809 loans with a
value of $6.3 million; at September 30 it had covered
1413 loans valued at $ll million.
For the markets: Some extremely careful buying
has lent more strength to the Australian share markets.
The end-of-week firming was accomplished on quite
small individual rises and with rather variable assistance
from the leading industrials. Base metals are still pro-
viding the bulk of the push, so any sense of general
improvement needs further confirmation.
A few experts are talking of London having found a
temporary support level. Certainly last week illustrated
a capacity to take very uneven company news, especially
BMC’s short-time working . . . Such advances as Wall
Street made were largely arrested by Friday’s profit-
taking. The list appears mixed, the so-called glamor
sections most of all.
For companies: Two hundred and fourteen
shareholders, including Mr. Albert Shepherd, attended
BHP’s annual meeting to hear the chairman, Sir Colin
Syme, hope for an increase in domestic steel demand
to obviate the need for low-price exports. They learnt
about, and raised questions on, future capital plans, oil
and natural gas, iron ore, and a possible joint shipping
line with Japanese interests (see article on page 74).
ICIANZ will go to the public for $lO million of
debentures, thus breaking the recent pattern of com-
pany fixed-interest issues confined to existing share,
note, and debenture holders . . . Talks with unnamed
interests are being held by H. C. Sleigh, believed to
concern the Hardie tyre and rubber subsidiary . . . No
improvement in the local motor industry is yet seen by
Repco, but the company itself expects “continued pro-
gress” in 1966-67 . . . John Lysaght’s sales in the first
six months of 1966 totalled $60.2 million and not the
previously announced $55.2 million . . . Structural
engineer Johns and Waygood will merge in a new com-
pany with Adelaide heavy mechanical engineer Perry
Engineering . . . Copying machine supplier Rank Xerox
(Aust.) doubled profits in the year to June.
A brilliant performance came from Mount Isa Mines,
where industrial harmony and favorable metal prices
allowed earnings to leap from $6,235,454 to $16,827,250.
Naturally, dividend benefited, going from ten to 16
percent and with hints of future 20 percents. The com-
pany’s euphoria has led it to suggest the unions confer
on any claims they may have . . . Barrier miner New
Broken Hill forecasts lower 1966 pre-tax profit, at
$16,827,000, against the previous $22,900,000, but in-
tends to pay a full 3/- stg. dividend (previously 3/1
stg.) . . . Western Mining Corporation’s profits, up from
$647,788 to $693,000, did not cover a steady ten percent
dividend ... Oil Drilling and Exploration (ODE) went
up by $28,273 to $532,355, easily meeting its unchanged
ten percent . . . One-for-two is the basis of Oil Search's
issue, first proposed in December last year; the ten-cent


m
m
M
m
Bristol Siddeley set the pace
b
...even when they stand still
ONE of the most exciting projects of the Bristol Siddeley
Aero Division is the Olympus 593, which is being built
in collaboration with SNECMA of France for the super-
sonic airliner Concorde. The 593 project embodies two
Bristol Siddeley policies—close international liaison and a
determination to maintain a leading position in aviation
technology. Even now, Bristol Siddeley’s Advanced Pro-
pulsion Research Group is concerned with ramjet and
turbo-ramjet projects to power Concorde’s hypersonic
successors.
Triggered off by the increasing use of gas turbine engines,
the helicopter market is experiencing enormous growth.
Bristol Siddeley’s Small Engine Division has already
achieved an international reputation in this field. Seven
different types of helicopter, operating in 23 countries, are
powered by engines made by the Small Engine Division.
Bristol Siddeley Engines Limited, Executive Headquarters,
Mercury House , 195 Knightsbridge, London SW7, England.
Bristol Siddeley supply the power


B.H.P. as an Investment
WITH even such a critical share-
holder as Mr. Albert Shepherd
expressing his confidence in the
future of the company by spending
$90,000 in taking up all his rights to last
year’s l-for-7 share issue and lifting
his shareholding to 366,000 (worth
about $2.2 million, or $600,000 more
than this time last year), and with oil
prospects keeping the shares up around
the $6 mark despite lower steel profits,
BHP share prices seem to have
emerged from the four years in the
wilderness that followed its move back
into fixed interest to finance expansion
combined with the U.S. share disposals.
And at last week’s annual meeting
(for J. C. Horsfall’s report see pages
74-75), BHP’s chairman, Sir Colin
Syme, cheered the stockmarket by
saying that directors hoped local
demand for steel would continue to re-
cover to the point where BHP no longer
needed to accept export sales at unduly
low prices.
But has BHP been a good investment?
A research program undertaken by the
graduate school of business administra-
tion in the University of N.S.W. and
reported in last week’s issue of the Aus-
tralian Security Analysts’ Journal by a
lecturer, Mr. D. W. Chapman, and a
graduate assistant, Mr. M. Ainsworth,
gives a detailed answer to the question
that exercised the minds of so many in-
vestors at last year’s annual meeting,
when Mr. Shepherd asked for more of
everything.
The survey showed that from 1910,
a holding of 1000 shares would have
grown to between 15,000 and 16,000
without further cash outlay by 1966
and that when the total of annual
dividends is added (these would have
risen on this basis from $2OO to about
$2400), BHP would have provided an
annual yield (on redemption of the
holding) of about nine percent, which
is described as “quite satisfactory.”
It is interesting to note that “since
1962 the gap between the BHP dividend
yield and the average ordinary share
yield has been narrowing, although
BHP dividend rates have, in these years,
risen from 6J percent (financial year
ended May, 1962) to the present level
of 9 1 -6th percent. This is in marked
contrast with the period of peak U.S.
buying, which was spread over late 1960
and early 1961, when the BHP dividend
yield and the ordinary share yield were
moving apart in opposite directions at
a rapid rate.”
The actual growth has not been
steady, by any means. The researchers
conclude: “In the longer term, the
shares appear to have been an invest-
ment of only mediocre quality until the
mid-19505, although one decade prior
to this period (the 19305) saw much
capital appreciation. It was not until
the mid-1950s that the rate of increase
of dividend income began to outpace
the rate of inflation of retail prices, and
the shares became an attractive growth
investment. In the 30 years prior to the
1950 s the level of dividend income rose
by only approximately 50 percent, most
of this occurring in the late 19305.
“It is not until the mid ’sos that a
definite growth trend emerges. Since
this date a shareholder’s dividend income
has been growing at the nearly constant
rate of approximately 12 percent per
annum, and with the recent develop-
ments in iron ore, natural gas, and pos-
sibly oil there would seem little likeli-
hood of a significant fall in either the
dividend income of a shareholder or
in the value of the shares in the near
future.”
Some Wins for Sterling
ALTHOUGH sterling is going to
remain under pressure for some
time (see page 66), last week
Britain won two battles in the long war
against devaluation.
The August trade figures showed a
one-third cut in the trade deficit, as
record exports and slightly lower im-
ports prompted Mr. Douglas Jay to as-
sert that Britain was rapidly making
good the losses caused by the shipping
strike and that “the deductions drawn
from the figures for recent months were
too gloomy.” Softening this enthusiasm,
however, remains the point that many
of the ships tied up during the strike
in British ports would have only had
time since it ended in mid-June__to
carry an export load but not an import
load by the end of August.
But there can be no doubt about the
impressive impact of the new inter-
national credit swap facilities announced
during the week aimed at providing
immense support, if needed, for sterling
in any future run on the currency, and
introduced not during a time of crisis
as in the past, but when the market
was moderately calm.
The effect of these arrangements,
between the U.S. Federal Reserve
Board, the Bank of England, and the
central banks of Europe, is to lift the
lines of international credit from
$U.5.2800 million to SU.S. 4000 million
(in addition to June’s special arrange-
ments). This came in the same week
that the U.K. Treasury, in “one of the
biggest clamp-downs yet on overseas
investment,” announced it would not
allow British companies or individuals
to participate in cash-raising plans of
overseas companies, whether they are in
the Commonwealth or not.
And to please the sterling market
even more (it had one of its best weeks
for some time) was the Bank of Eng-
land’s forecast in a quarterly review
that U.K. trade balances would continue
to improve during the next year. But
while the sterling battles are at present
going Britain’s way, the war is still
far from won.
shares will have a bonus of 40 cents
to consolidate into 50-cent shares.
Commercial Union Assurance
boosted earnings by 31 percent to
$1,497,360 and brought dividend
from 8| to nine percent . . . The
wholly owned hire purchase sub-
sidiary Esanda assisted the E. S. and
\ Bank to a sixth successive record
$3,507,745 (1964-65, $3,034,850),
twice covering the ten percent pay-
out . . . Earnings of Australian In-
vestment and Development declined
by $19,603 to $112,471; its money
market subsidiary, Short Term Ac-
ceptances, went 13.5 percent higher
to $147,336 and pleaded for more
refinements in the market.
Retailer Myer Emporium fore-
shadows slightly lower profits on
slightly higher sales; this has not
affected the percent dividend . . .
In Sydney, Buckinghams could only
earn $68,081 (up $5441), without
any dividend; directors hope to
develop the Oxford Street property.
Transporter May n e Nickless
looked a little less buoyant when
profit fell back $10,179 to $878,733,
although provisions were higher; 12j
percent was healthily covered . . .
On the other hand, F. H. Stephens
advanced by $39,864 to $495,034,
after higher tax and depreciation, to
permit a dividend rise from ten to 12
percent.
Food and similar interests are
doubtless headed by Petersville’s one-
for-five issue of 20-cent shares at a
100 percent premium; the 12J per-
cent payout should stay: .
Schweppes did not raise the dividend
(11 percent) this time; earnings
gained 13.5 percent to a record
$681,463 on 10.4 percent better sales
... A slip was in store for Queens-
land United Foods, down from
$722,844 to $694,371, but the 11 per-
cent remains . . . Victoria’s Golden
Poultry Farming edged up $13,494
to $290,744, while food canner Tom
Piper was going from $426,808 to
$501,996, doubly protecting its 17|
percent . . . Brewers Tooheys and
Castlemaine Perkins went ahead
despite the drought; Tooheys, as
well, sent dividend from 8J to 8|
percent.
Heavy engineer Comeng produced
a good advance from $826,782 to
$1,242,856, so dividend rose, too,
from 12J to 15 percent . . . Queens-
lander Evans Deakin moved earn-
ings nicely from $602,266 to $667,105
• • . Lead smelter and processor Con-
solidated Metal fell by $101,447 to
$291,779, mostly due to farm equip-
ment activities . . . The diverse
Overseas Corporation pushed earn-
ings up from $737,642 to $956,154
and pays a steady 11 percent . . .
Metal window maker Appleton In-
dustries jumped well ahead . . . Blind
maker Hunter Douglas managed a
reasonable profit gain ... A group of
cement suppliers, including Southern
Portland, yielded uneven results.


THE main reason for the present
weakness in Australian share
prices is uncertainty about
world economic prospects and fears
that Australia stands to suffer.
How reasonable are these fears?
Last week in an important leading
article, The Economist came
to far more cheerful conclusions
about the world economic situation
than stock exchanges around the
world have been reaching, but was
very cautious about sterling’s future.
■
‘I don't
mind paying
a littleless I’
“So when I rent a car I always rent from Kays.
It’s good business because I save money. Save time,
too, because I travel interstate at least once a month.
So when I am making my travel arrangements I call
Kays and reserve a 1966 model car of my choice at
my destination. I don’t need cash either; I just say
charge it’!”
You, too, can do the same whenever you travel
throughout Australia. Inquire about Kays Credit Card.
So next time you rent, rent from Kays. It’s good
business and whc minds paying a little less.
KAYS
RENTACAR
Throughout Australia.
let Kays put you on wheels!
No Worse Than Usual
SEPTEMBER, season of so many
ripe economic crises, has come.
Mr. Harold Wilson has indoctri-
nated the Trades Union Congress with
the rather odd thesis that the main rea-
son why Britain has had to deflate its
economy is to prevent a world slump.
In the bourses of the world, nervous-
ness is the order of the day. In Britain,
the whole weight of the Selective Em-
ployment Tax is now being borne in
the land. Economists everywhere are
being asked to justify their existence
by answering the question: what, how-
ever much you hedge your bets, do
you really think will happen now?
Here then, duly hedged, are The
Economist’s judgments.
First, about the danger of a major
world recession. There have been half-
a-dozen occasions since the war when
such a recession has seemed possible.
This autumn of 1966 is another of those
occasions, but in most respects the por-
tents do not look bleaker than they did
during several previous false alarms.
At present, the only major industrial
country where production seems likely
actually to fall in 1967 is Britain
itself, and not every forecaster agrees
even about that. True, in quite a num-
ber of other major industrial areas
most people are expecting a slow-down,
though- not a stop, in economic growth
in the next twelve months (including
North America, Scandinavia, less cer-
tainly Germany); and this will probably
more than counteract the continuing
acceleration which a bare majority (but
only a bare majority) of forecasters
profess to expect in the only three big
countries which have been raising their
growth rates even this year (France,
Italy, Japan).
This trend toward slower growth in
the industrial countries may well
cause a fall in prices of primary pro-
ducts; this would be bound eventually
to lead to an actual drop in the imports
of primary producing countries, al-
though probably only after a time lag,
because the currency reserves of some
of them are at present (by their stan-
dards) historically high.
All of this suggests a slower rate of
growth in world trade in 1967, hut not
an actual recession in it unless some
other factors intervene. The two main
points that are causing pessimists to
fear that other factors could intervene
are, first, that interest rates have risen,
rather alarmingly, to near-record levels
in many capital markets across the
world; secondly, the possibility of in-
ternational liquidity jitters.
The reasons for the high level of
world interest rates lie partly in the
mishandling of the international liquid-
ity situation, and partly in the fact
that the big industrial countries have
sought to control their tired boom? too
little by tax restraints, too much by
monetary restraints. These high interest
rates have provided a temptation to
institutions to overlend, and some may
have succumbed to it; there could be
some shocks and even crashes to come
In addition, the high interest rates ,may
mean that any world slow-down in
industrial growth will be directed too
much toward a curb on new invest-
ment, too little toward a curb on
consumption; and when investment
turns down, say the pessimists, it i s
liable to roll down like a snowball
faster than governments expect or can
control.
In our view, this forecast is too
gloomy. Even although governments
have proved inept at understanding the
detailed nature of the investment ap-
parently thrust forward by the present
technological Zeitgeist, nearly all gov-
ernments are united in the belief that
investment as a whole is something
which should be maintained; if there
were a world-wide fall in manufacturing
investment, the Keynesian weapons to
resuscitate it in total are available
and would almost certainly be used in
every major industrial State. So the
scare of a general, worldwide and pro-
longed investment recession is probably
being overcalled.
£JOME of the same judgments seem to
be true of the international liquidity
scare. Economists have a natural pre-
dilection to be Cassandras about this.
But disappointment with recent oppor-
tunities missed should not blind one
to the change in attitudes accomplished.
Although progress to international
monetary reform has been sadly slowed
since the death of its ablest advocate,
President Kennedy, there is at least a
greater awareness of the problem now
than there was five or ten years ago;
if a worldwide recession ever did ser-
iously threaten, there would now be
likely to be swifter action toward re-
form than there would have been if a
threatened world recession had devel-
oped in, say, 1958.
If Britain pulls itself out of external
deficit next year, but wholly because
of a lower import bill, with exports
perhaps actually faltering, will confi-
dence in sterling revive? The difficulty
is that in this situation more and more
people might come to say that a de-
valuation of sterling, making exports
more profitable, might be a sensible
course for Britain to adopt; and, so
long as people are saying that, it may
be very hard to whip up any foreign
enthusiasm to buy and hold sterling.
Add to this the fact that even though
a fall in raw material prices would aid
Britain’s balance, it would harm the
overseas sterling area; add other shocks
from southern Africa or elsewhere,
which are always liable to hit a cur-
rency as stretched as the pound, even
perhaps in these next few weeks. It
is an unpleasant thought that sterling
may have a rough .ride on the ex-
changes even if Britain bridges its im-
port gap; but it is also a realistic one.


INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
CREDIT
CORPORATION
OT AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF
$4,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT
TERM
STOCK
5%p%
Ufa. Ufa.
3 MONTHS 6 MONTHS
51%
Ufa.
9 MONTHS 12 MONTHS
MEDIUM & LONG
TERM STOCK
ALSO AVAILABLE
Applications may proceed
only on the form attached
to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is
obtainable from:
any member of a recognized
stock exchange,
any office of IHCC of
Australia Ltd.,
any branch of
lan Potter & Co.
HIBI7D/8
Potter on Interest Rates
By CROESUS
WHEN everybody is looking for
relief from high interest charges
but few have seen the prospect
opening up, it was encouraging to hear
Sir lan Potter at the Australian United
Corporation meeting say he saw a pos-
sibility of relief on the distant horizon.
Swinging his broad expert eye over
the capital market, Sir lan sees things
that few can see for themselves. His
unique observations at the present time
unfold a trend of consolidation in the
field of finance involving a broad move-
ment of funds from short-term to long-
term areas. He thus explains the ap-
parent conflict between a short-term
area, where funds are plentiful, and the
area of long-term capital raising, in
which the availability of supplies is
relatively less. Even so, like many others
considering the slackening of private
fixed capital expenditure in recent
months, he has found it rather sur-
prising that the demand for long-term
funds has risen rather than fallen in
recent months and thinks the answer
lies in this process of consolidation.
He says that when this process is
completed the overall demand for long-
term funds will probably diminsh, with
beneficial effects on rates of interest
and the terms of capital raising gene-
rally. However —and this is the kick—
he adds that this situation is not likely
to develop for some time yet.
Sir lan then puts in another rider,
that these observations take no account
of developments in the public sector.
He goes on to interpret the recent
Federal Budget as containing no sur-
prises. It seems probable, he says, that
“the needs of Government Xvill be met
by taxation or loan raising with a
minimum of disturbance,” with the
heavy increase in Government expen-
diture involving a moderate degree of
deficit financing which ought to stimu-
late the volume of funds available to
the private sector.
Are we supposed to read between his
lines and take comfort that an in-
crease in fixed capital expenditure by
the Government is going to pull the
•overall fixed capital expenditure pros-
pect out of the fire? Obviously, from
what he said, Potter is as aware as any-
body that private fixed capital spend-
ing has been falling and that this has,
as he says, wide implications, not only
for the overall investment sufficiency
but as providing the main stimulus to
economic growth and as influencing
critically the volume of consumer spend-
ing.
It is to be noted, however, that in its
excellent August release the ANZ
Bank makes a big point of the fact that
fast year the Government’s gross fixed
capital expenditure rose by only half as
much as the year before, whereas last
year its current expenditure on goods
and services rose by slightly more than
it did in 1964-65. The ANZ observes
that of the rise in Government expen-
diture the major item was defence
spending. As it points out, not all of
this by any means was spent within
Australia. So that, taking the impact
of defence spending on the domestic
economy as being comparatively small,
it can be argued that the expansion of
Government expenditure either on fixed
capital account or overall did not com-
pensate for the dampened private sector
last year. Nor, it may again be argued,
is there any guarantee that it will fill the
investment and spending gaps in the
current year.
If not, then if the aim is to maxi-
mise overall investment consonant with
available resources, we should be look-
ing much more closely at the problem
of reviving private capital investment
expectations (in which the rate of in-
terest is itself a key factor). This
would be the only alternative course to
make weight from governments to get
the volume of fixed capital investment
up to the necessary level. The Budget
did nothing to bolster these expecta-
tions.
J CAN’T help feeling that in following
through the implication of Sir lan’s
remarks along this route I could be
falling into the same trap, talking as
if interest rates in Australia were deter-
mined in isolation to the outside world.
On this, Potter’s references to deteri-
orating international liquidity vistas give
no hint, say, of possible effects on
capital inflow into Australia, a reduc-
tion of which definitely affects the
trend of interest rates here. It cannot
be necessarily taken from his optimistic
view on balance of payments prospects
this year that he envisages the posi-
tion will be influenced by fluctuations
in the supply of overseas capital com-
ing into the demand-supply capital
equation. Capital inflow is only one
of many factors influencing the balance
of payments.
Also very relevant to the future
course of interest rates here' is the con-
tinued high levels of rates in overseas
countries (Bank Rate is 7 percent in
Britain). President Johnson has been
getting some good advice from former
President Harry Truman to reduce
interest rates in the United States, but
the present overstretched position of that
country and its continuing battle to
bolster its balance of payments don’t
augur promisingly for this. Nor does
the situation in Britain suggest any
action is pending there to get interest
rates down.
One of the repercussions for us from
the high level of interest rates in Britain
is that it has driven the Federal Gov-
ernment to repatriate maturing sterling
loans. This has the effect of reducing
the resources available to the Australian
economy and thus places further upward
pressure on interest rates here.
Sir lan puts most of the emphasis on
internal flows of capital and the rela-
tive demand-supply positions of short-
and long-term capital among them. But,
as capital inflow would also seem to
have a key, even if marginal, overall
effect on supplies and because high
interest rates overseas don’t look like
easing, it would certainly have been
appropriate for him to have carried his
prognosis further into the international
area as well.


HOW DO YOU MEASURE IT?
In 20th century Australia, oil is a good indicator of
progress. In 1901 when Shell opened its first small
bulk installations at Gore Bay, New South Wales,
Birkenhead, South Australia, and Williamstown, Vic-
toria, there were barely 100 motor vehicles in Aus-
tralia. Annual usage of petroleum products (mainly
lighting kerosene) was a few thousand tons.
Today there are more than 3,500,000 motor vehicles
in Australia and yearly fuel consumption has rocketed
to 15,000,000 tons.
Shell now represents a £150,000,000 capital invest-
ment employing 6,000 people through-
out Australia engaged in exploration,
manufacturing, distribution and market-
ing and supplying the energy needs of
transport, industry, aviation, agriculture.
Shell in Australia —an organization on the move in a nation taking great strides towards a bigger, better destiny.
When Yields Are High
WILD CAT
PAGES
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHAJIE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
ONE good thing about a sick stock-
market is that investors can get
some astounding dividend yields
in some quite good quality stocks if they
look hard enough. Plenty of com-
panies that once had yields around 5
percent have now blown to better than
6 percent (and could just as easily go
back to five in a market recovery), pro-
viding an adequate income return even
if the expected capital gain is still some
time away.
Mostly these yields are to be found
in smaller stocks the market does not
know much about, like Sydney’s Eglo
Engineering, which last week put in an
excellent result and is yielding 6.4 per-
cent, or Abel Lemon, the merchant
with a 6.7 percent yield, or AID, the
investment company whose short-term
money market subsidiary Short Term
Acceptances makes most of its profit,
and there is Carpet Manufacturers,
which is still yielding 7.5 percent as
the swing to tufted carpets brings it
better times.
But investors can also get better than
6 percent for such big-time companies
as APM, Samuel Allen (drought
affected this year but bound to recover),
General Credits (the improving CBA
offshoot), and other financiers, CAGA,
lAC, and Custom Credit, Motels of
Australia (with its impressive overseas
links), T. Mcllwraith, and Permewan
Wright.
E. A. WATTS HOLDINGS appears
worth considering following the
recent results from A. V. Jennings,
Leighton, T. C. Whittle, and John
Holland. Its small size has not pre-
vented it from winning some of the
biggest plums in the contracting field —
in Melbourne, ICI House, the
Southern Cross Hotel, and regional
shopping centres for Myers, and in
Sydney the $8 million County Council
building. The 50 cent shares can cur-
rently be bought for 75 cents and are
yielding 6.7- percent from the annual
10 percent dividend.
The 1965-66 cover for this dividend
should be about times as against only
1£ times in 1964-65, the first year oh
the public lists. This makes the group
appear a little like a flash in the pan,
but the impression is wrong. The
group was originally established in 1920
and one of the main aims of the public
float was to finance an expansion from
the smaller contracting jobs to greater
emphasis on the big ones. Contracts
already on its books (providing they
prove profitable) guarantee the earn-
ings outlook for at least a few years yet
despite current indications of slowing
demand. The rise in the volume of
business since before 1965 is now being
reflected in profits, which are no longer
bearing the same overhead, develop-
ment, and establishment costs of earlier
years.
ANOTHER high yielder with some
prospect of capital growth is
Industrial Engineering, whose
shares at current prices of $1.55 yield
more than 7 percent from the 11 per-
cent dividend. Profit has more than
trebled since the depressed 1962 year
and current earnings equal 20 percent


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under The Companies’
Act of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
0
%
DEBENTURE STOCK
4 6 or 10 YEARS
4,6 or 10 YEARS M%
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in, the
Prospectus, which may be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge
House, 249 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
27-8621
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without any obligation,
a copy of your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
on capital. There are benefits still to
come from the moves which have helped
bring about this threefold improve-
ment. They were extensions to the
franchise range, several new joint ven-
tures and better manufacturing tech-
niques. One of the reasons for its
success is that the company handles its
own merchandising.
THERE is another good reason to
have a close look at shares in the
packaging industry on top of
those mentioned in these pages last
week. One of the implications of the
industry’s agreement on prices men-
tioned here is that, from the beginning
L. J. HOOKER Investment Corpora-
tion’s 50 cent ordinaries have this
week been bought by Speculator
and recommended for short to medium
term appreciation by The Chartist. And
in the last two weeks the market has
added 3 cents to the 30 cent price
ruling when the company announced a
sfm. profit despite losing $686,000 in
the drought-affected pastoral division.
Directors sound quite firm, and just-
ified, in their forecast of resuming divi-
dends for 1967-68. Apart from the
drought’s effect on the pastoral division,
the group has more than achieved its
budgeted improvement in each of the
past three years and should completely
eliminate the profit-and-loss deficit dur-
ing the current year.
A dividend resumption at, say, 5 or
6 percent, which seems possible, should
quickly bring the shares back to par.
And at that rate investors are forgoing
only 5 or 6 cents of income over the
next two years. All this would suggest
a level of around 40 cents for the shares
fairly soon.
of last month, prices of cartons and
corrugated containers will rise by four
percent following a two percent lift in
APM’s paper and board prices. The
reason given by the packagers in
doubling the increase in raw material
cost is that the industry has had to
absorb cost prices over recent years be-
cause of the hectic price-paring com-
petition. Now that it has ended and
prices are up, the industry should show
considerable benefits from the new situ-
ation and so should APM, as a two
percent price rise should mean a $1.7
million lift in revenue during the yar.
THE “most difficult” trading con-
ditions that have knocked all the
gilt off Victorian-based broiler-
chicken producer Golden Poultry Farm-
ing Industries are cutting a swathe
through the whole industry. Last week
Golden Poultry announced only mar-
ginally higher profit for 1965-66 after
a 30 percent rise in sales—and after
the market had chopped their share
price in half—in a result that does not
appear to have shown the full impact
of the current problems now facing
the industry.
Golden Poultry’s own figures indi-
cate a sharp contraction in the rate
of sales increase during 1966, with the
first half of the latest year showing
a 43 percent sales rise but the full
year’s increase being only 30 percent —
suggesting that the latest six months
brought something less than a ten per-
cent lift in business, in money terms.
According to a new private news-
letter “Inside the Food Industry,” a
serious glut in frozen chickens, steeper
competition and the lowest-ever prices
“have sent several small processors
broke and spelt hard times for the
whole chicken industry. Millions of
LONG-TERM holders of L. J. HOOKER INVESTMENT CORPORATION
shares must indeed be heartened to learn that a major reversal of trend
appears likely in the short to medium term. The growth key shows that a
downtrend at an approximate rate of 40 percent depreciation per annum w was
followed from the beginning of 1960 until late 1962, when a reversal took prices
to a high point of 67c in August, 1963. However, this uptrend failed to hold, and
the decline continued once again, but at a lower rate of 20 percent depreciation
per annum. A low point of 24c was achieved in April of this year, and there are
technical indications that the stock could be about to emerge from the long-term
downtrend. Prices could rise close to the 50c level in the short to medium term,
and it would be quite likely that a reaction could then be expected and further
consolidation would follow before confirmation of a new uptrend, which could
continue for some years. Last sale price on 14/9/’66 —33c.


GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
FOR HIGHEST INTEREST
WITH ABSOLUTE SECURITY!
SYDNEY WATER
HOARD LOAN
NOW OPEN
o
years
years
Highest Interest now available
from any Government-Guaranteed
security in Australia.
Unconditionally Guaranteed
by the New South Wales Govern-
ment. Half-yearly interest pay-
ments and full repayment of prin-
cipal at maturity.
Cash Applications accepted in
full or by instalments; pay 10%
deposit on application, and the bal-
ance by 20th December, 1966.
Three Conversions. Holders in
Loans Nos. 120 (4%%), 156 and
275 (both 5*4%), all maturing on
Ist October, are invited to convert
to this new Loan.
An Authorised Trustee In-
vestment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
Tax Concessions. An approved
security for Trustees of Pension and
Superannuation Funds who wish
to qualify for Taxation Conces-
sions.
Invest or Convert at any office of
the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited; Bank of New South
Wales; The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited; Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; English, Scottish and Aus-
tralian Bank Limited; Rural Bank
of New South Wales; through your
Stockbroker; or at the Board’s
office.
For Prospectus and further details, ’phone 2-0648 in Sydney.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by A. C. GOODE & CO.. Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
29.829
chickens are piling up in cold storage
as contract growers, whose prices are
guaranteed by processors, continue to
produce. Some processors say half the
chickens on the market are now being
sold under production cost. The only
State unaffected is W.A.”
The boom in broilers that took
N.S.W. production alone up 30 percent
last year has levelled off, as consumers
have not made as great a switch from
red meat as expected under drought-
induced higher meat prices.
Shares in Steggles, the Newcastle
producer, and Queensland’s Provincial
Traders with its Dixie brand, are both
well down.
Until production stabilises or red
meat prices show further solid rises
as farmers hold stock back for fattening
following the recent rains, investors
may be wise to chicken out of this in-
dustry.
MINING investors can get a fair
idea of what one group of pro-
'fessionals think of the mining
market from the significant changes in
the portfolio of Commonwealth Mining
Investments (the Consolidated Gold-
fields company) during the year to
June .as revealed in the latest balance
sheet. Apart from the major fact that
the company decided to increase its
portfolio (on book values) by 20 per-
cent or $Q million (partly by spending
$4 million of its liquid funds and bor-
rowing $120,000 to help it “go long’’
in mining shares), the most significant
change in the portfolio is the trebling
of the company’s holding in titanium,
as shares in Consolidated Rutile have
been added to the Associated Minerals,
Western Titanium and Wyong Hold-
ings.
Other important additions are the
appearance of Western Mining, CRA,
Ampol Exploration, AOG, ODE, and
Woodside in the portfolio.
BHP has found favor as a mining
stock as CMl’s iron and steel industry
holdings have jumped from 0.8 percent
of the portfolio to 5.6 percent; coal
(Bellambi and Coal and Allied) has
risen from 2.9 percent to 4 percent,
and copper, lead, and zinc has gone
up from 34.7 percent to 38.2 percent.
This heavy buying program in
mining stocks was assisted by a deci-
mation of the company’s industrial
portfolio, which had previously made
up 22 percent of the total and now
comprises only 9.6 percent.
It is also significant that all the
Malayan tin shares have been disposed
of, that the already extensive holdings
of South African gold stocks have been
widened, and that a holding in three
major aluminium companies (Alcan,
Alcoa and Reynolds) has been pur-
chased, so that two thirds of the port-
folio is now in local companies and one
third is overseas.


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPQfIATION LTD.
Paid up capita)
$23,350,000
DEBENTURE
FOR
NEW ISSUE
7 YEARS
SHINOW ZL ~
Other rates and terms available see prospectus for full
details. Prospectus and application f<KOt available from:
• All MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. SANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF KA.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms
of application attacked fo a pfwted copy of PfQspectUs<
UNDERWRITERS - lAN POTTER & CO.
1005 Members of the S*otk Exchange, Melbourne.
MINING
Speculation in Silver
SPECULATION on a rise in the
price of silver has increased tre-
mendously over the past four
months, both in London and New
York. Most authorities, including world
silver producers and major consumers,
consider that a silver price rise is in-
evitable, although there is little pos-
sibility that it will come before the
end.of 1968. On current estimates, 1969
seems the likely time for a rise to
occur. However, the extent of the in-
crease is not so easy to predict.
At least it can be said that a fall
in the price of silver is most unlikely.
The world price (excluding Commu-
nist bloc countries) has been effectively
pegged at 129.3 cents U.S. an ounce
by the U.S. Treasury since 1963, al-
though spot prices in New York and
London have been quoted at sub-
stantial premiums. The U.S. Treasury
has been able to maintain this price by
sales from its reserves which have
plugged the gap between supply and
demand.
But the Treasury stockpile has
diminished rapidly from 1700 million
ounces in early 1963 to the present
level of some 500 million ounces,
allowing for the 165 million ounces the
U.S. Government is considering setting
aside as a strategic reserve. It is cur-
rently estimated that the stockpile can
only last for three years at the most,
particularly in view of the likelihood
that, as the reserve nears bottom, there
will be a ( further rush to buy. As it is
also anticipated that, at this stage,
there will still be a shortfall between
supply and demand (in the order of
some 100 million ounces in 1968 com-
pared with 490 million ounces in 1965),
a price rise seems inevitable when the
U.S. Treasury stops selling.
estimates of the extent
of the rise have been made by
various authorities and it is significant
that distant futures contracts on the
New York Commodity Exchange have
been selling at over $U.5.1.35 an ounce.
Some forecasts have been made of a
rise to as high as $2.50 or $3.00 an
ounce. Handy and Harman, leading
North American refiners and fabri-
cators, consider a more realistic pre-
diction to be a rise to between $1.50
and $1.75 an ounce.
A recent article in “The' Economist”
is more conservative in predicting that
the price is not likely to rise by more
than 11 cents an ounce because, once
it reaches $1.40, it becomes profitable
to melt down the silver coinage in cir-
culation in America, totalling nearly
2000 million ounces. This would de-
pend on how quickly the old silver
coins are replaced by non-silver coins
and reduced silver-content half-dollars
under the U.S. Coinage Act of 1965.
The speculative situation for silver
has arisen because of the tremendous
growth in consumption and the failure
of new mine production to come any-
where close to meeting this demand.
Although industrial demand is fore-
cast to at least maintain its presept
level, demand for silver for coinage
purposes will fall markedly. As a result
of the 1965 Coinage Act, U.S. consump-
tion for coinage should fall sharply to
about 15 million ounces per annum
within three years. It is likely that
more and more countries like the U.S.,
and, indeed, Australia, will take steps
to reduce or eliminate the silver content
in their coinage.
JN Australia, mine output of silver is
wholly as a by-product of mining
base metals (lead, zinc, and copper)
and gold. Australian mine production
of silver has declined from 19.6 million
ounces in 1963 to 17 million ounces in
1965, mainly as a result of the decline
in lead production in this period. The
principal domestic sources of silver are
lead concentrates from Broken Hill and
Mount Isa; significant amounts are also
contained in Mount Isa’s copper com
centrates and lead-copper concentrates
from Read-Rosebery in Tasmania.
Smaller amounts are produced in
Western Australia, mostly as a by-
product of gold mining, and in the
Northern Territory from the copper
concentrates produced at the Peko and
Orlando mines.
A significant increase in Australian
silver production is expected in the
latter part of the 1960 s mainly because
of the commencement of production of
copper concentrates containing silver at
Cobar and the major expansion program
at Mount Isa. When full operating
capacity is reached by Cobar Mines
Pty. Ltd. (owned 76 2-3 percent by
Broken Hill South Ltd.), silver pro-
duction is estimated to be between
300,000 and 400,000 ounces per annum.
Expansion at Mount Isa is anticipated
to increase silver output by between
5 and 6 million ounces to over 10 mil-
lion ounces per annum.
At Broken Hill, the largest silver pro-
ducer is North Broken Hill, producing
a little under 4 million ounces annually,
followed by Zinc Corporation (a sub-
sidiary of CRA) and New Broken Hill
Consolidated, which in 1965 both pro-
duced 2.35 million ounces of silver.
Although New Broken Hill is engaged
on an expansion program which will
lift ore production 30 percent over 1964
levels to 1 million tons per annum by
1967, it is not expected to significantly
increase silver production, since about
half of the increase will come from the
mining of zinc-rich, low silver lodes.
At its Read-Rosebery mines on the
west coast of Tasmania E.Z. Industries
Ltd. produces about 1.7 million ounces
of silver annually. Additional future
recovery of silver is expected from the
treatment of zinc ferrite dumps at
Risdon.
The bulk of Australian silver exports
is contained in lead bullion and con-
centrates shipped overseas for further
treatment; such exports have beeir
around 8 million ounces in recent years.
Exports of refined silver dropped from
4.5 million ounces in 1964 to 388,000
ounces in 1965 because of Treasury
requirements for the new decimal
currency.


Share
Par
| Div.
•1 Year
IWeek
| Fri.
1 1966
Turnover
1 Yield %
Valuel cents
1 ago'
1 ago
| close
(High | Low
[ Syd.
| Melb.
| Div..|Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
| 1 801 2 3C
2 5E
1 90| 3,OOC
5,10C
| 0
Ampol Exp.
.50
90 1
l i<
1 4C
89' 9,10C
6,40C
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
4 30 J
5 4C
5 4C
4 8C
80C
2
A.O.G.
.50
2 281 2 3£
2 3C
2 8!
2 2£
13.50C
2,40C
B.H. South
.50
12
1 2 29, 2.56 2 62
2 9C
2 2‘
11.90C
9.00C
4
7.3
C.R.A.
.50
1 8
3.681 5 22 1 5 4(
5 82
3 92
4,725
2-.95C
1 5
1 8
C’wlth. Min.
1.00
1 7
1 1 701 2 511 2 5(
2 85
1 9(
4,10C
2,70(
3 6
5 8
K. 1. Scheel
.50
1 10
i 5:
2 34 2 49
3 25
1 8'
7,10C
4,20(
3 :
Mount Isa
.50
j 10
3 39
4 361 4 42
4 71
3 92
47,750
45.20C
2 :
3 9
Mt. Morgan
1 00
15
1 65
2 50| 2 47
2 9(
1 9C
6,60C
4,20C
6 ]
14 3
Mt. Lyell
.25
4.5
.9;
1 40] 1 47
1 5f
1 25
17,8C(
26.40C
3 ]
9 7
New B.H.
.62
38
4 5
4.25, 4 3*
4 34 4 25 4,000 20C
8 £
[ 12 4
Oil Search
.50
16
.18 171 .2C
12| 2,5501 4.60C
1
Renison
.50
15
5 8C
7 34 7 76
7 8C
1 5 0C
2.45C
i i/or
1 1 9,
Santos
.25
1.8(
2 4?
2 3£
3 0'
| 1 4C
3,6001 2.20C
•
West. Min.
.50
10
2 151 5 801 5 56
6 0C
1 2 45
12.35C
i 38,475
1 £
1 1 t
Woodside
.50
1
.281 .87| ,88
1 00
! .20
8,500
1 7,600
1
1
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4.16
1 00
| 1 O’l 1 00| 1 12
| 1 00
2,500
13,200
4 4
11 2
Adams, W.
1.00
12 5
2 65
1 2 101 2 051 2 9C
2 05
3,55C
10C
6 1
9 8
Adel. Steam.
.50
4 25
.711 .701 66
8C
69
2,40C
4.50C
5 S
6 9
Advertiser
.50
5
1 9C
1 63
, 1 72
2 5C
1 61
2 9 * *
Allen, S.
1 00
10
| 1.9'
1 80
, 1 69
2 1C
1 56
70C
6 3
8.9
Allied Mills
.50
6
1 8C
1.7C
1 69
1 92
1 67
509,60C
3 6
8 5
Amalg. Chem.
.50
5 65
8C
77
73 1.5C
6E
3,40C
1,80C
6 £
11 2
A.W.A.
.50
8
2 35
1.9C
1 9E
2.42
1 87
5.00C
2,20C
4. C
7 2
Ampol
.50
7
.9]
.65
.67
1 1.02
. W
29.90C
37.30C
10.4
12 5
Ansett
.50
5
,6'
6E
.681 83
.62
17,90C
5,60C
7 4
14.0
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
.1.45
1 5C
1 5C
1 7C
1 43
2.30C
500
3 3
6.4
Assoc. Pulp
1 00
9
1 37
1 36
1. 4C
; i 79
1 37
4,05C
5,80C
6 8i 10.4
A.N.Z. Bank
2 50
17 62
5 25
5.4.'
5.5C
6.30
5 4C
800
400
3.2
6 1
A.K. Cement
.50
5
1.36
1 19
1 19
1.62
1 19
7.50C
4,900
4 2
7 4
Aust. Chem.
1 00
10
2 6C
1 76
1 70
2.25
1 50
2,200
5,300
5 9
8 2
A.C.I.
2 00
20
5 32
5 42
5 70] 6 12
5.36
15,475
6,300
3 5
6.8
Aust. Fert.
2 00
20
5.75
3 95
1 3.951 5.2C
3 9C
30C
4.1
7 2
A.G.C.
50
7 5
1 33
1.45
: i 46
1 52
1.22
27.05C
2,400
5 1
10.0
A.P.M.
1 00
8 75
1 54
| 1 46
1 47
1 87
1 47
17.85C
31,000
6 1
8.6
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3.05
*3.56
3 6C
3.6C
3 15
400
300
5.6
6 1
A.U.C.
1 00
10
4 0C
3 45
3 90
4 00
3.74
200
2 6
6.9
Bank Adel.
1 00
10
2 4C
2 15
2.20
2.46
2 15
600
800
4 5
7 6
Bank N.S.W.
2 00
20
5.75
4 90
5 02
5.68
4 82
13,600
6,350
4 0
7 6
Bellambi
.50
5
2 5C
1 67
1 70
2 441 1.67
1,700
2 9
5.4
Berlei
1 00
15
2 95
2 55
2.50
3 30
2 45
300
6 0
12.9
B. M. 1.
.50
7 5
1.50
1.41
1 48
1.871 1 39
30,300
10,600
5.1
7 5
Bonds Ind.
.50
5
94
1 10
1 12
1 16
.96
1,900
5 4
11.9
Boral
.50
10
2 14
1 81
1 83
2.40
1 72
37,750
17,600
5 5
6 1
Borg Warner
1 00
6
2.10
1 80
1 70
2 05
1.50*
2,000
8 7
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
60
.62
.63
69
.561 8.200
4,600
7 9
11 2
Brambles
.50
7.5
1 60
1.61
1 60
1 92
1 60
1,800
250
4 7
7 6
Brit. Tobacco
1 00
12
1 64
2 25
2 30
2.46
1 77
14,800
6,400
5 2
7 8
B. H.P.
2 00
18 4
4 86
5 94
5 98
6 54
4 54
74,543
55,275
3 1
5 2
Bruck Mills
.50
5
.60
.74
.77
.77
55
4,200
4,900
8 1
17 1
Burns Philp
1 00
10
3 63
3.62
3 60
4 14
3 55
27,200
. 6,400
2 8
7 3
C.UVB. "Z”
1 00
13
3 75
3 60
3 35
3 90
3 32
1,650
8,000
3 9
6.4
Carp., W. R.
.50
7 5
2.18,
2 48
2 46
2.75
2 40
20,800
3,900
3 0
6 3
Carrier Air
.50
4
.65
.51
53
.80
51
5,300
700
7 5
15 0
C’maine Perk
1 00
17
6 03
6 00
5 98
6 50
5 93
150
1,550
2 8
5 3
Chamberlain
.50
6 25
1 29
1 37
1 34
1.53
1 23
3,900
4 7
22 1
Clyde Ind.
.50
7.5
1 08
.91
90
1 10
90
5,550
3,100
8 3
13 1
Coal Allied
.50
5
1 00
1.67
1 65
1 73
1 26
10,800
4,400
3 0
8 4
Coles, G. J.
.50
5 5
1 38
1.28
1 26
1 41
1 20
30,650
42,100
4 4
6 6
C.S.R.
1 00
12 5
2 69
2.72
2 801 3 26
2 641 17,800
19,100
4 5
8 2
C.A.G.A.
1 00
10
.72
1 44
1.45
1 65
1 30
5,450
2,600
6.9
9 8
C.B.C.
1 00
10
2.43
1 96
2 12
2 65
1 93
15,700
2,000
4 7
8 4
C.B.A.
1.00
10
2.20
1 89
1 95
2 27
1 85
1,250
3,900
5 1
7 6
Com. Union
50
4 25
1 40
1 10
1 10
1.44
1 02
1,100
600
4 1
7 6
C.I.G.
1.00
11
3.35
2 62
2 55
3 32
2 55
3,650
700
4 3
10 6
Concrete Ind.
.50
46
33
33
48
.25
25,000
9,300
13 6
Consol. Press
.50
10
3.10
2 45
2 50
3 40
2 35
600
4 0
9 9
Containers
2 00
16
2.70
2 73
2 75,
2 82
2 58
4,400
7,200
5 8
10.6
Courtaulds
1 00
5
.75
.48
48
.75
48
6,000
1,900
8 3
14 2
Crane, G. E.
1 00
12 5
3 98
4 85
4 85
5 20
4 10
2 9
7 4
Cresco
2 00
20
5 10
4.60
4 60
6 25
4.60
3 5
6 1
Cust. Cred.
.50
5
66
76
76
.86
.63
9,900
7,000!
6 6
13 2
Cyclone
1 00
10
1 75
1.15
1 12
1 48
1.04
1,400
19,400,
8 9
21 3
Dalgety
2 50
25.5
4 81
4.50
4 50
5 10
4 50
500
5 7
10 7
D.F.C.
2.00
23
6 45
6 30
6.30
6 55
6 20
3 7
7 5
Drug Houses
1 00
10
1.56
1 71
1.72
1 93
1 58
6,500
3,900
5 8
8.8
Dunlop
1 00
8
1 80
1 22
1 24
1 65!
1 18
13,600
11,200
6.5
7 2
E.M.I.
.50
7.5
2.30
1.95
1 95
2.15
1 75
2,300
2,000
4 1
10.5
E.Z. Ind.
1 00
18
2.23
2 51
2 57
2 74
2 12
11,600
7,900|
7 0
8 5
Elders, G. M.
1 00
10
2 03
2.35
2.38
2.53
2 01
2,300
3,500|
4 2
9 2
Elec. “B”
1.00
10
1.10
Si
.60
1 00
.50
3,300
16,900
11 71
14 5
Email
.50
3
. 56
.39
.40
51
.36
19,900
9,800
7 5
7 8
E.S.A.
2 50
14.69
4.68
5.30
5 30
6 00
5 20
2 8
9 5
Evans Deakin
.50
6 25
1 20
1 35
1 36
1 40
1 05
4,600
4.6 j
8.0
Fairfax, J.
.50
8.5
2.25
2 26
2 25
2 80
2.10
8,300
1,500
3 8
5.1
Fairymead
1.00
' 6
2.02
1.40
1 39
2 10
1.36
2,800
4 3
Felt. Text.
.50
5
.69
.50
.50
.61
.48
44,450
28,600
10 0
11 1
Fibre Cont.
.50
6
1 73
1 35
1 35
1.40
1.23
2,200
5,300
4 4
8 5
Fielding, J.
1 00
17.5
3 80
3 50
3 50
3.72|
2 43
400
5.0
7 2
Gen.. Credits
.50
4
.57
.57
.54
.60
•5(1
1,000
3,100
7 4
11 1
Gen. Ind.
2.00
12
.98
1.26,
1 26
1 38
.95
8,450
100
9 5
19 2
Gollin
.50
4 5
70
.75
.75
88
.70
2,000
6.0
11 9
Gordon Gotch
.50
10
2.50
2 00
2 05
2 70
2 00
1,000
6,000
4.9
6 7
Grace Bros.
.50
6 25
1 60
1 45
1 43i
1 91
1 43
9,050
100
4 4
8 3
Hardie, J.
1 00
10
5 75
4.90
4 86
5.06
4 40
200
2,100
2.1
7 8
Healing, A. G
.50
.57
.21
21
58
.19
8,550
14,400
40 5
Herald, W. T.
.50
12.5
4 33
4 25
4 30
5 23
4 21
1,700
9,600]
2 9|
4 0
Hooker, L. J.
.50
.34
.30
.33
.36
24
39,180
6,400
10 6
Humes
1.00
12.5
2 55
2.37
2 38
2.90
2 10
1,000
9.600
5.3!
9 2
Huttons
.50
5
1.00
1.11
1.14
1.15
.88
1,300
2,000
4 4
10.9
I.A.C.
.50
5.9
.87
.79
.79
.94
75
5,000
10,800
7 6’
12 3
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
2 00
15
4 18
3 60]
3 62
4.32
3 60
4,450
3,800
4 1
5 7
Inter. Resist.
.50
6.25
1.20
.90
.86
1.45
.83
1,200
300
7 3.
8 9
Jones, David
.50
6.75
1 48
1.32
1 34
1 63
1 24
46,200
7,800
5.0*
8 7
Jones, Henry
1.00
10
3.83
3.55
3 50
4 10
3.40
1,950
900
2.9
8.2
Kauri
.50
.42
.25
.25
.27
.18
10,500
12,300
1
Kelvinator
.50
7 5
2 28
1 88
1 87
2.08
1 85
1,200
1,300]
4 01
9 1
Koitaki
.50
12 5
1 25
1 45
1 45
1 45
1 15
500
8 '6
11.1
Lend Lease
.50
5
.94
90
.90
1.25
84
4,450
200;
5 6
10.2
Life Savers
.50
8
2 40
2.38
2 50
2 50
2 24
5,100
600
3 2
4 6
Lysaght, J.
1 00
11
2 85
2 37
2.35
2 63
2.14
3,200
1,700]
4.7|
7.8
M.L.C.
2 00
31.68
6 30
8 20
8 20
8 40
7 66
72,275
50
3.9
3 9
MacRobertson
1 00
8
1 65
1 -20
1.25
1 60
1 10
400
1,300
6 4
7 O
Marrickville
.50
7 5
1 15
1.03
1.02
1 55
1.02
4,950
200!
7 4|
8 4
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
1.79
2.02
2 05
2 09
1.82
13,250
2,200
2 41
5 3
M. Nickless
1 00
12.5
3 00
2 58
2.60
3 20]
2 55
1,200[
7,600|
4 81
7.0
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7 5
1 49
1 00
99
1 50
99
500
3,200!
7. 6|
10 3
McPherson
2 00
16.6
4.05
3.52
3 53
4 08
3 40
100
2,4001
4 7
8 2
Millaquin
1 00
20
3 35
2.71
2 65
3 18
2 60
1,500
1,9001
5.3'i
6 7
Miller, R. W.
1 00
10
1.83
1 64
1.66
2 07
1.63
8,350
1,500
6 0
15.1
Minster
1 00
20
2 93
2 95
2 98
5 68
2 88
1,600
4,200
6 7
11 5
Morris. Philip
2 00
24
5 83
7 00
7 00
7 60
6.20
1,500
3 4
16.9
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.75
68
65
.80
.59
5,800
17,700
7.7
9.6
Myer
.50
8 75
3 10
2.87
2 92
3 56
2.80
16,400
45,600
3 0
7.0
Myttons
.50
6
1.73
1 50
1.50
1 64
1 40
1,300
4 0
8.7
N.Z. Forest
1 25
9.56
2 80
2 90
2 80
3 03
2 60
3,950
900
3.4
9.2
Nat. Bank
1 00
10
2.08
1 84
1 84
2 10|
1 81
8,150
6,700
5.4
5 8
Share Par
Value
Div.
ce nts
| Year
1 ago
1
Week
ago
Fri.
close
1966
High |Low
Turnover
Syd. | Melb.
TviSdir
Div ic*
Nat. Consol. 50
10
i 2 401
2 25
2
.24
2 45
2
20
2,650
14,200
Nat. Dairy 2 25
26 7
| 41 00|
38 00|38
OC
42 0C
38 00
1 36
§.6
News 50
5
| 1 38,
1 43
1
4C
1 82
900
800
56
N.Z. Ins. 1.25
11.5
2 95
2 75
2
75
2.82
2
60
10
8
3
U
Olympic .50
5
9]
66
.62
80
.61
4,750
155
Optical 1 OO
15
4 8C
1
4 30
4
24
4 70
4
11
2,300
12.3
Overseas .50
5 5
1 it-
1
1.00
1
00
1 16
,98
' 1,500
4,100
J°
P.G.H. .50
8
1 60|
1 12
1
10
1 60
1
06
4,000
7.3
3
11 7
Peko .50
8
1.6£
2 35
2 23
2 60; 1
85
.50
5,500
2,400
18
73
Pcnfolds 50
6.25
1 52
1 65
1
68
2.03
1
2,000
Perp. Trustee 2 00
17
3.5C
3 53
3
60
3.90
3
53
600
5 7
5 7
Petersville .20
2 5
49
58
57
66
55
14,600| 63,100
5 8
Peters, W. A. .50
6 251 1 75|
1 71
1
66
1 93! 1
50
1001
6 7
P.oneer Cone. .50
6 25
1.29
1.34
1
29
1 62
1
28
11,850
5,700
m ' ' 1
S-S!
Prest.ge .50
5
1 13
.78
75
1.05
75
2,200
1,600
Provincial Td. 50
5 5
1.151
1 14
1
14
1 14 1
00
2,450
4 8
lb 3
Pye .50
5
1 70]
1 05
1
08
1 55! 1
04
800
10 6
Q’land Can .50
5
1 06j
97
92
1.13|
9?
1,000
5 4| 9 0
Q’land Cemer.it 2 00
20
7 10
7.80
7
80
7.95 7
00
Q'land Ins. 1.00
12 5
3 70
4.12
4
10
4 50
4
00
3,800
3 0
3 2
4.6
3 9
Q’land Press 1 00
16
4 95
5 00
4
95
5 45! 4
75
300
7 2
Reeds .50
7
1 90
1 55
1
52
1 74
1
45
7,500
5 8
Repco .50
7 5
1 90
2 00
2
01
2.24| 1
95
5,750
19,100
8 2
60
Rocla 50
7
2 13
1.75
1
71
2 14
1
71
100
3^500
Rothmans 1 00
20
2 9n 1
2.6's
2
67
3 15
2
58
4,100
200
7 5
6.2
12 5
81
15 5
S.A. Rubber .50
5 62
1.32|
.91
90
1.25
89
84
1,100
1,700
S.T.P. Hold. .50
6 25
1 00
92
84
1 00
1,900
2,200
Schweppes .60
5 75
1 50
1 80
1
80
1 85
1
45
Shelleys .50
7.5
2 20
2 53
2
53
2 55
2
30
3.0
5 4
82
U
10 5
6 9
12!
72
10 1
7.1
3 6
1 1
112
6 9
7.3
63
4 4
76
11 1
Simpson Pope .50
1
.43
.28
27
.46
27
1,000
1,800
sieiah, H. C. 50
5
.68
65
66
72
55
17,850
26,500
Smith, How. 2 00
10
2 40
2 50
2
50
2 75
2
39
3,300
2,300
Softwood 1 00
10
3 05
2 25
2
55
3 25
2
07
Sth. Brit. Ins. 1 25
14 16
3.65!
3 60
3
65
3 .'85
2
06
9,250
Steamships .50
6.66
.93
1 03
1
06
1 10
88
10,800
3,500
Stedmans, J. .50
7.5
2 03
2.13
2
03
2 20
1
60
1,300
Swan Brew. .50
3.12
2.28,
2 42
2
43
2.75
2
21
6,100
400
8,100
Tarax .50
6
98
1 20
1
20
1.35
1
00
2,400
Taubmans 50
8
1.23
88
83
1 18
83
2,500
500
TV Corp. 1 00
20
2 75
2 85
2
90
2 90
2
08
900
1,000
6.9
Thiess .50
46
.85
88
.89
63
34,200
Tooheys 50
4 25
1.09
1 00
1
05
1 21
99
14,600
Tooth 1 00
15 75
4 77
5 10
5
16
5 70
4
90
7,425
900
Union Carb. 1 00
12
3 24
3 78
3
78
4 00
3
38
2,350
U. E. Box .63
5 84
1 53
1 25!
1
25
1.48
1
05
3,300
100
Walker, F. J. 1 00
12 5
1 58
1 44!
1
46
1 73
1
20
3,400
Waltons .50
6 5
.92
1 11|
1
04
1 23
85
48,400
|
9,300
87
12 3
0 9
6 7
Webster, A. G. 50
8 .
1 30
1 25|
1
25
1.50
1.20
6 0
Williams, F.W. 1 00
10
3 60
3 as!
4
00
4.10
2
95
15,756]
Woolworths .50
6
1 27
1 24|
1
221
1 44
1
18|
82,850]
24,500
4 9
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
Jast
All ords
314.24
316.89
101.33
101.78
50 Leaders
105.63
107.04
Banks
153.77
157.35 .
101.37
101.93
Other Fin. .
492.04
490.32
68.90
67.60
Pastoral ....
225.05
224.45
120.93
122.25
Transport ....
461.38
460.31
91.34
91.24
Retail (M'chants)
327.48
325.50
90.91
90.45
Services ....
45.86
46.28
Foods ....
163.94
166.80
99.97
100.63
TextUes ....
169.26
167.56
72.13
71.17
Chemicals
311.03
313.51
79.30
78.82
Electrical
390.96
399.15
58.82
58.60
Paper ....
99.90
98.79
Building ....
633.08
635.40
88.70
89.67
Fuel Power . . .
167.19
168.18
Automotive
708.42
706.11
72.81
73.18
Steel Eng.
464.53
467.14
114.14
115.53
Non-ferrous . . . ,1220.18
1246.15
206.78
210.18
OIL |
SUGAR
•
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
1
a^o
last |
ago
last
Brisbane
146.00
147.51
110.63
109.05
Melbourne
123.62
125.74
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
! SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
(INDUSTRIAL! MINING
11 N DUSTRIALI MINING
I Sales | Value
1 Vol. | $
1 1000 1 1000
Sales | Value
Vol. | $
1 1000 | 1000
1 Sales I Val,ue
I Vol. $ •
1000 1000
Sales 1 Value
Vol. | 5
1000 I 1000
Week before
Week to Friday
|2299.3|2937.0
12965.914621 l|
750.8| 809.2| 2671 3708 |
798 9| 845 8 2057 2757
683 1 848
789 1 1144
OVERSEAS INDEXES
1 London
| “Financial Times
1 New York 1 Tokyo
” ). Dow Jones ] D. Jones
I Inds. 1 Secs. 1 Gold I Inds. 1 Rails 1 Avge.
Jan. 3, 1966
1966 High ....
1966 Low
Month ago . . . .
7 | 78 74| 61
8 I 79 431 65
10 73.32| 57
3 | 965.54| 247.38| 1430.13
2 995.15; 271 72|1588.73
4 | 775 55| 195.0311412.93
8 I 804.641 202.55 1466 43
.0 [ 775 55[ 196-46|1436.15
.5 | 814 301 201.58| 1422.17
Week ago
Latest . .
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year ago
Month ago
Week ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton . . .
Copper, wire bars, ton
Gold; oz
Lead, cash, ton ....
S Iver, troy, oz
Tin, cash, ton
Wolfram unit, c.i.f. . .
Tine, cash, ton ....
Wheat, Australia, ton .
Linseed oil, ton /
Cocoa, 50 kilos ....
Coffee
Cotton, American, middling
lb
Desiccated Coconut, ton
Rubber, lb
Sugar, ton
Tea, quality, lb
Wool Tops, 64s. lb. . . .
£ 196
£476
£ 12/10/3
£ 107
llOVsd.
£ 15011/4
£ 111/4-£ lli/ 2
£ IO91/2
£ 253/ 4
£ 88V2
128/9
Withdrawn
23.2d.
£ 160
19 13-16th d.
£21i/ 2 .
5/3-6/3
112d.
(All figures
£ 196
£ 3841/2
£ 12/12/51/4
£ 93 ll-16th
112V 8 d.
£ 12251/2
£ 131/2- £ 14
£ 95%
£ 28
£ 851/2
146/-
245/-
22.2d.
£ 1271/2
19d.
£153/4
4/5-6/-
123d.
in sterling.)
£ 196
£ 393
£ 12/12/51/2
£ 92 9-16th
1121/sd.
£ 1227
£ 13%- £ 14
£ 925/s
£ 28
£ 87
177/6
238/-
22.2d.
£ 130
18i/ 4 d.
£ 141/2
4/6-6/3
123d.
£196
■ £413 ,
£ 12/12/314
£ 92 7-16
112d.
£ 1221 V5,
£ 141/8- £ 14%
£ 96 s /s
£28
c R7
179/9
22.2d.
£126
17%d.
£15
4/7-6/S
120d.
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES ~
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend .. 6.47
MELBOURNE
dividend 5 46
earnings 8.66
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend 6 16
earnings 8.20
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3 66
earnings .. 7.49
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short 4.90 4 89
Medium 5.13 5 11
Long 5 25 5 25


FCa
Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
3
0
4
PER ANNUM 9 YEARS
0
2
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6%
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
51%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
41%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form
referred to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of
application should be obtainecHrom:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
FCN.2
COMMODITIES
Copper's Better Undertone
THE Prime Ministers’ Conference on
Rhodesia and U.S. buying gave
the London Metal Exchange
copper market a firmer undertone last
week. The reminder of the delicate
situation in central Africa and the
assassination of Dr. Verwoerd in South
Africa added to buying strength.
But the tight U.S. supply position
was the main factor. The sharp cut in
LME prices has encouraged American
consumers to seek supplies in London.
U.S. copper consumption for the
first seven months of 1966 was 4 percent
lower than in the same period of 1965,
at 451,441 tons.
In America there are two factors:
the Vietnam war and lower prices.
Copper has been far cheaper in the
U.S. than in the rest of the world for a
year. So consumers there have not
been under the same pressure to seek
substitutes as their overseas counter-
parts. And military demand has con-
tinued to rise steadily, taking the
equivalent of 21.6 percent of the 1965
overall consumption rate in the third
quarter of 1966.
Prices over the coming months will
depend, barring a major output break,
on how the U.S. consumption-supply
balance ends up. There have been
signs of an easing, but talk of a lift in
military use persists.
Hides Move Lower
THE local hide market has resumed
a slightly easier trend over the
past month or so. Prospects are
for further falls, but it is probable that
no large cuts will be made.
Rapidly rising footwear demand
(partly for military purposes) and the
Argentine’s cattle production cut-backs
saw prices leap in the last half of 1965
and early this year. In the first three
months of this year, U.S. hide prices
rose by 50 to 60 percent. Since May the
upturn in world markets has levelled.
Supplies are on the verge of in-
creasing, with the Argentine cattle in-
dustry coming to the end of the period
of controls. Stocks have built up not
only in that country but in the U.S.
—despite the Vietnam war. In con-
sequence, buyers in Britain, Japan, and
elsewhere are holding off, letting their
stocks run down.
Consuiners may have been too op-
timistic about the supply position, but,
on the whole, prices seem likely to move
lower in coming months.
Whaling Agreement
THE three main whaling nations
have at last agreed on a global
limit to their catches of the fast-
disappearing mammals in the coming
season. A total quota at 3500 “blue'
whale units” a year has been set,
Wlt h Japan receiving 46.7 percent,
Russia 30.5 percent, and Norway 22.8
percent.
The overall quota considerably ex-
ceeds the 2000 unit level advised by
scientists last June as being the highest
to ensure preservation of the whale.
But for some time there was danger
that the quota scheme would break
down —the whaling industry has tradi-
tionally been a scene of international
disagreement.
Japan and Norway have agreed to
cuts in their quotas —from 52 to 46.7
percent and from 28 to 22.8 percent
respectively—to allow Russia to in-
crease hers from 20 to 30.5 percent.
Already there are so few blue whales
around that hunting of this species is
forbidden for the next five years. The
“blue whale unit” of the quota is
applied proportionately to the other
species still available in reasonable
numbers.


B H P
H
NORMAN JONES
SIR COLIN SYDNEY
WITH its profits down for the first
time in 20 years after higher
sales, with its cash flow hit by lower
local demand, with a $4O million de-
benture issue on the way to finance
continued rapid expansion, and with
confirmation still awaited of rumors
that its Bass Strait wells have proved
a major oilfield, last week's annual
meeting of BHP came at a crucial
time.
But the serried ranks of BHP share-
holders at the company’s annual meet-
ing, held at the blowsy South Mel-
bourne Town Hall last Friday, hardly
got as good value for their taxi rides
to Emerald Hill as the overflowing
hordes did for their tram fares up
Bourke Street last year.
Sir Colin Syme, a past master at
chairing a meeting, was obviously de-
termined not to be bitten by Mr.
Albert Shepherd two years running,
not that he bled all that much last
year. As it turned out, Mr. Shepherd,
who led off the questions after an
address in which Sir Colin hardly gave
an opening for a debate on previous
contentious issues, seemed a bit ill at
ease. He was left out on a limb when
Sir Colin calmly intimated he would
answer all questions, from Shepherd
and everybody else, when all of them
had been put. By the time he got
round to Shepherd’s lot, any fight there
had been in the atmosphere had been
dissipated.
Probably Sir Colin’s unkindest cut
was to debunk one of the assumptions
underlying Shepherd’s main thesis that
paying seven percent interest on deben-
ture money was little short of criminal
when the shareholders’ return on their
funds was less than four percent (in
fact an average of 3| percent over the
past ten years). Mr. Shepherd made
the mistake of basing part of his argu-
ment on a special case and then mov-
ing on to generalise.
JJE said, in effect, that taking a
figure of $367 a ton a year cost of
erecting steel plant from the grassroots
in India, and charging seven percent on
the outlay, the capital charges would
be $25 a ton. He compared this with
BHP’s profit on all its operations of
$6.6 a ton last year, which, less profit
on non-steel operations such as ship-
building and so on, reduces to $4 a
ton. This would show shareholders
were losing about 5 percent on all
money raised by debentures in front
of them. BHP would, he claimed,
have to increase its price of steel very
substantially to give shareholders an
adequate return on the replacement
value of the company’s assets.
In his answer to this curly one, Sir
Colin simply said that the Indian figure
wasn’t representative. A Japanese firm
has built a plant (a five-million-ton-a-
year one on a grassroots site) for as
iow as $7l (Australian) a ton, while at
Whyalla the cost, he said, was $l7l a
ton.
Where, however, Mr. Shepherd’s
questions simply asked for facts and
were uncontroversial, Sir Colin gave the
answers straight, even when it came
to one seeking an explanation of why
the debenture issue was carrying 7 per-
cent when shareholders were getting
only a fraction of this on their share-
holders’ funds. Sir Colin simply said
that it came about through forces in
the market and that was that—really
a little curt when Shepherd’s argu-
ments were so long and complicated.
The chairman elaborated on the dir-
ectors’ explanation of the seven percent
fall in profit last year. Their report
had attributed it mainly to the low'er
level of domestic demand, and the fail-
ure adequately to compensate for this
by a vigorous export drive because of
the highly competitive prices in over-
seas markets. (The low level of export
prices is causing concern in all steel
exporting countries, Sir Colin said, and
is due to the fact that installed world
capacity is in excess of demand.) Sir
Colin gave no more than the broadest
indication of whether a sufficient revival
of home demand was in train to obviate
the company accepting cut-throat prices
in overseas markets to keep its plants
fully occupied. He said simply “it is to
be hoped” the revival of demand wall
continue up to that point.
Cost increases obviously have the
board very worried. Judging from Sir
Colin’s references to this, it would have
liked to have increased steel prices more
than the recent 3| percent a move
which raised eyebrows on national
economic grounds. It would seem that
the main deterrent restraining the size
of the increase was not so much the
cumulative effect the rise would have
on costs generally in the economy.
“Your directors,” he said, “have con-
sidered that higher prices at this time
would tend to reduce our local steel
sales, with resultant adverse effects on
the level of our profits.” Here self
interest just merely happens to coincide
with the national interest.
One should also mention that BHP,
like most of us, has been at loggerheads
with the Taxation Commissioner, who
has narrowed the range of BHP activi-
ties which qualify for special conces-
sions available in respect of mining
operations. He has ruled that whereas,
say, mining equipment is eligible, money
spent on roads, railways, housing
developments, and welfare facilities,
and so on, is not. Even BHP’s pellet
plant at Whyalla is excluded. Appar-
ently there’s going to be quite a battle
over this; in the meantime, BHP is up
for more tax than it claims is justified.
The impression persists it was
forcibly gained by the Company’s re-
sorting to a $4O million debenture issue
following so closely on last year’s share
issue that BHP’s internal resources
for meeting envisaged capital commit-
ments are stretched to the limit. Sir
Colin was not giving any reassurances
that relief is in sight. As he explained,
over last year the group’s liquid
balances fell by $25.1 million and this
was despite the accretion of $32 million
from the share issue. Such a drop wasn't
all that surprising, of course, consider-
ing there was a slight drop to around
$BO million in the cash flow and a
massive and record amount of $126.7
million ($17.9 million more than in the
previous year) capital expenditure.
pERHAPS it could be inferred from
the chairman’s remarks that some
abatement is contemplated, at least in
respect of steel and related development,
because he said that some of the devel-
opments in that area may not be ade-
quately loaded as quickly, as had been
anticipated. (Is there a suggestion here
that the group is not all that confident
of a rapid revival in domestic demand?)
In consequence the timetable for their
installation has been somewhat leng-
thened. One would presume that here
he could have been referring mainly
to the big plans announced earlier in
the year for Port Kembla, where work
is now proceeding on a new hot coil
processing line, a two-stand cold reduc-
tion and temper mill, a second slitting
line for narrow cold rolled products,
and a single-stand reversing cold mill.
It could be that planning has been
slowed up for the fifth blast furnace
and a second strip mill at Port Kembla
also, though maybe the target dates for
the completion of these big additions
at Kembla have simply been retarded.
Other possibilities lie at Newcastle,
where the erection of a new merchant
mill has commenced and various other
additional facilities are being con-
structed, although these are not on
the same scale as developments at Port
Kembla. It is unlikely, one should
think, that the current erection of the
power plant, blast furnace, and ore-
handling plant at Kwinana would be
slowed in view of the commitment to
the W.A. Government. However, with
home demand prospects uncertain, some
of the target dates for completing the
900,000-ton steel capacity complex at
Whyalla could have been revised.
Sir Colin wasn’t saying, though


SEND A DONATION TO
AUSTRALIAN FORCES
OVERSEAS FUND
BOX 175, P. 0., DARUNGHURST, N.S.W.
0
4
i *
S A l
TRANSFER FORMS
JING PROGRAM
SUPE R A N I
GROUP INSURANCE
ADDRESSES
HOI
H JOB ASSIGNMI NIS
I ARY FOR
PERSONNEL
DATA
Look at the difference... Dymo makes
With a DYMOTapewriteranyonecan make legible, permanent
raised-letter, self-sticking plastic labels in any one of 10
distinctive colours. Your DYMO becomes an integral part
of the identification and organisation of files, equipment,
shelves and containers; has 1001 uses for identifying
property, office doors, cupboards. Just dial the letters
and squeeze the handle. It’s as simple as that.
There’s a complete range of DYMO Tapewriters
for commercial, professional and industrial use.
DYMO Tapewriters make low cost labels that
permanently adhere to any smooth surface.
DYMO
THE COMPLETE
LABELLING AND
IDENTIFICATION
SYSTEM
«•
*
**»4**\ *
There’s a Dymo
Tapewriter for every
application including
embossing on metal tapes.
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR USUAL STATIONERY SUPPLIER OR OFFICE SUPPLY COMPANY
P
SIR IAN McLENNAN
several questioners wanted him to say,
what sort of capital commitments and
corresponding financial requirements
would have to be met in the next five
years. A figure of upwards of $5OO
million was not unlikely but he simply
wouldn’t say. There were so many
possibilities in the pot, what with steel,
and the as yet largely prospective oil
and gas developments, and the uncer-
tainties surrounding the group’s iron
ore interests in W.A. The nearest of
these commitments would, he inferred,
be for natural gas, which might occur
quite shortly.
He was prepared to say more about
natural gas than any other probable
commitment. But this didn’t take us
very far, because everything with the
Barracouta (Bass Strait) gas field,
owned jointly with Esso, awaits the
result of price negotiations with the
Gas and Fuel Corporation, which he
said were proceeding in an atmosphere
of mutual understanding (sic) and “we
are hopeful finality will soon be
reached.” BHP-Esso are asking a price
which, after tranmission charges, would
make the gas in mains on the outskirts
of Melbourne only a quarter of the
present cost of gas placed into the
city’s terminals. Allowing for inevitable
further costs of reticulation, Sir Colin
said the BHP-Esso price would allow
an initial reduction of 25 percent and
within five years a halving of the
present price of gas in Melbourne,
Shareholders also wanted to know
whether the group would hive off its
new interests, say in oil and natural gas,
in new companies to which they would
get rights to subscribe the capital. Sir
Colin wasn’t biting on that one either,
saying merely that, in the event of the
Bass Strait fields being proved com-
mercial, BHP would have to decide
whether it would confine its interest to
a percent royalty arrangement or
go into operations on a ffifty-fifty basis
with Esso. As for iron ore, now that
Cleveland has departed, future arrange-
ments to exploit Mt. Newman deposits
are in the melting pot and he wouldn’t
elaborate at this stage.
J. C. HORSFALL


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guineo Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25‘,
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
300 Orchard Road, Singapore, 9.
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London,
surface mail:
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) LtA,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name ..
Address
O Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
The Pall over Rothmans
THERE are three good reasons why
the stockmarket is wary of
mans: the latest result was clearly
far worse than the reported 3 percent
fall in net profit; tkere seems no evi-
dence yet that the downturn in the
company’s share of the cigarette mar-
ket has ended, and there is still the
overriding fear that something could
happen to the whole tobacco industry.
Whether those reasons justify a 7.6
percent dividend yield and a 12.6 per-
cent earnings yield is a matter of per-
sonal judgment. But Rothmans is now
an income stock; on the facts so far
available, it looks as if Rothmans has
well and truly lost its growth-stock
image. It is going to have to battle
harder , for sales than it did in the
halcyon days of sharply rising profits
when the only brands it had to compete
against seriously were those of its falter-
ing rival, British Tobacco. Now, Roth-
mans is spending large sums to enter
the cheaper cigarette market after what
appears to have been a major merchan-
dising blunder which allowed the re-
activated British Tobacco group to get
a long start in this field with its Escort
brand. And, at the same time, British
Tobacco has been fighting a very strong
campaign on Rothmans’ own ground of
the “quality” cigarette, with its Ben-
son and Hedges, and now Players
brands.
If Rothmans massive campaign for
the cheaper Grenadiers pays off, it will
take quite some time to be reflected in
the accounts (Rothmans themselves say
it takes about a year for a new brand
to pull its weight) and, in any event,
even a great success in the cheaper end
would not be as significant as a failure
in the dearer end; to keep up its profit
figures, the main task facing Rothmans
is keeping up its sales of its most vul-
nerable brand, Rothmans King Size
Filters, whose sales are 50 percent
higher than those of its nearest rival.
Despite its strong diversification moves
into other brands, Rothmans profits
are still tied to the proposition that
Rothmans King Size really satisfies. It
does not satisfy the stockmarket.
IT is true that there were some special
features in the 1965-6 profit fall
that should not recur, and there is the
prospect that the heavy expenditure on
the Grenadiers promotion that took
place during the year and contributed
no profits should begin to pay off
as should the improved price structure
in the industry which brought rises for
most brands of about one cent.
This price change from July 1 is
important, since the industry as a whole
was losing revenue at the rate of s2m.
a year directly because of decimal cur-
rency. And the end of volume dis-
counts to retailers (which was prompt-
ing many sellers to band together to
get better terms from makers) has also
meant the virtual end of the more
severe price cutting at the retail end.
But these factors are only peripheral
to the basic point that Rothmans has
lost its market share in the last two
years, going down from 50 to 40 per-
cent, and there is no solid evidence
that the slide has ended.
Although the excise clearance figures
make it look as if the total market
shrank, there was really a 5 percent
increase in consumer demand in the last
financial year (to June), but Rothmans
failed to gain its share of that growth
because it failed to move with the
swing. Surveys showed that medium-
priced cigarettes have gone from 8.8 to
13.6 percent of the total market since
1961 (although the really cheap end of
the trade of 33c for 20 had no future),
largely due to higher excise charges
hitting heavier cigarettes.
On July 1, 1966, after spending over
$lOO,OOO on distribution and s2m.
on the launch itself, Rothmans put
Grenadiers on the market, retailing at
35c. Its sales are “double expectations,”
according to Rothmans.
But Rothmans main task is looking
after its 39-cent market. Rothmans
King Size Filter was lengthened, given
more weight and tobacco content in the
last three months of the year. So for
several weeks large amounts of
machinery were out of action because
of the change; management says this
non-recurring cost adversely affected the
latest profits. The company has also
introduced a packet of 12 cigarettes
instead of 10. There are new brands
in prospect at both ends of the market.
The accounts show that net profit
declined from s3.lm. to $3.0m., on
unchanged capital, bringing earning
rate down from 38.9 to 33.2 percent,
about the same as in 1962. But both
tax and depreciation were down, tax
falling significantly from $2,725,000 to
$2,387,000. The 1965 tax provision
(up $660,000 on 1963-64) was excep-
tionally high, because depreciation on
buildings of 5 percent is not allowed
as a tax deduction, but the same
applies to 1966, too. Management ex-
plains also that other expanses and
provisions were not then allowable for
income tax, although they are now. A
$lOO,OOO investment allowance was.
available in 1966.
Trade debtors were up $2.2m.,
mostly due to sales now being on a
duty-paid basis, whereas in the past
sales did not include duty. They were
also increased with additional turn-
over.
Since January 1, 1966, every brand
produced by Australian manufacturers
must contain 50 percent locally grown
tobacco. Although in the past there
have been difficulties with local
quality, there is now greater recogni-
tion of improved standards and no
trouble was encountered at the 1966
auctions.
June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Working profit $OOO 5245 5698 6352 7337 6900
Depreciation $OOO 908 1044 1238 1493 1486
Taxation $OOO 1823 1708 2066 2725 2387
Net profit $OOO 2514 2946 3048 3119 3027
Earning rate percent 33 1 38 6 40 7 38 9 33.2
Dividend rate percent 17V2 20 20 20 20
Earning rate on total
funds 9.5 18 2 19.7 16 9 15 X
Current ratio 2.1 12 11 1.2 l- 3
Fixed assets sm. 10 4 11.6 11.7 11.2 11.9
Dividend yield (a) 3.6 5.4 5.6 6.5 7.5
Price/earnings ratio
(a) 10 3 96 9.0 79 80
High price (b) 4.72 4.10 4.00 4.05 3.15
Low price (b) 3.12 3.25 3.60 285 2.58
(a) End of September month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1966 to date.


ZENITH
sets new records
In Switzerland Country of accur-
acy is the Neuchatel Observatory,
which officially gives the nation
accurate time.
This Observatory is
also famous for its chronometer
contests held each year. In the 1966
results, just declared, ZENITH
achieves unique distinction. In com-
petition with other leading Swiss
watch manufacturers in these
exacting tests ZENITH leads
the field with 4 victories
(out of 6 possibilities) and 4
new precision records. ZENITH
broke its own record of 1965 for
the best wrist watch ever tested at
Neuchatel.
G 761
Automatic Waterproof
2/766 Steel —sl4o
4/766 Rolled Gold —sl4B
8/763 Solid 18 ct. Gold —s3oo
- - to \kl
:>• %
4s ■
-Si
%sk "■
wm .
ir
.“r‘"-
n
Mu--- ' -
»usS>*S?\,
Mr#?®
'."•Vt.iX,
;
gss,.
JSgIS&kBSiS *$
JB wi
■SS
■■
9®F
W:
ZENITH
... a treasured possession:
ZENITH
A 269
Automatic Waterproof
2/2650 Steel —sBB
4/2650 Rolled Gold $92
8/6615 Solid 18 ct. Gold-$260
fs t
✓
*• i
ft* s
✓ / v
'■ i
Waterproof
2/2350 Steel —s6o
4/2350 Rolled Gold—s 64
8/231 Solid 18 ct. Gold -
$2OO
ZENITH Watch Manufacturing Ltd. Le Locle/Switzerland
ZENITH Watches - available from Australia’s leading Jewellers only.


m
Nationally vital
Northern development
depends on
Power!
An economically secure Queens-
land, with its virtually unlimited
natural resources fully developed,
can contribute enormously to the
well-being of every Australian
State. This huge task has already
begun, with significant results for
Australia’s local and export pro-
duction. But there is still a mas-
sive expansion programme ahead!
And Electric Power is a vital re-
quirement for this expansion . . .
supplies must grow to serve the
ever-increasing demand of indus-
tries new and old all of which
directly contribute to the Nation’s
welfare. Take this opportunity
both to assist in a nationally
important task, and to profit
directly by investing in the
Queensland State Electricity Com-
mission Loan offering Austra-
lia’s highest Government Guaran-
teed interest rates.
QUEENSLAND
STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
LOAN
Jol/% per annum
f ° r
w/2 10 or 15 years
5Z
per annum
for
7 years
GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED
Apply through your Bank or
Stockbroker, or direct to the State
Electricity Commission of Queens-
land, 447 Gregory Terrace, Bris-
bane. Deposit 10% now and pay
the balance by 31/1/67. Interest
is paid half-yearly and securities
are readily negotiable. This Loan
is an authorised Trustee invest-
ment in Qld., W. Aust., and Tas.
Underwritten by A. C. Goode & Co.
SEC—4O—3


SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS
AT
CRANBROOK SCHOOL
An Independent
Church of England School
PULL DAY AND BOARDER SCHOLAR-
SHIP WILL BE AWARDED TO SUITABLE
APPLICANTS ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28,
196-8.
A Number of Exhibitions and Bursaries
are also to be awarded.
An Old Cranbrookians Association Scholar-
ship for sons of Old Cranbrookians
is also to be awarded
to boys entering
the sth Year of Secondary Schooling.
It is valued at $2OO per annum for 2 years.
Details from the Registrar. Cranbrook
School, Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill,
N.S.W. (Tel. 36-1110)
SECURITY analysis
Dwelling Completions the Key
How to value Hunter Douglas
OVER the years the price of Hunter
Douglas Ltd. shares has varied
between $1.50 and $2.80. The
high price was reached during the
current year, when share prices in
general have been at low levels. Hunter
Douglas’ dependence on the level of
building activity is perhaps a little in-
direct, but one would imagine that at
least part of the company’s total sales
are made to the new home owner as
his new home is completed.
Hunter Douglas is an international
company which first sold its products
in Australia in 1948 and started to
manufacture here from 1954 onwards.
Today the following home-improve-
ment lines are manufactured: awnings,
insect screens, roller shades, Venetian
blinds, plastic screens, aluminium sun-
drapes, drapery track and fittings. The
group also makes aluminium siding for
outer walls, both for dwellings and
commercial buildings, and eighty-five
different types of cordage in nylon,
polypropylene, and other materials.
Manufacturing activities have been
mainly confined to New South Wales.
Until recently the only activity in other
States seems to have been the market-
ing of Hunter Douglas’ products and
the supply of components to the
assemblers of Venetian blinds. Last
May, however, it was announced that
all the issued capital of Customcraft
Blind Co. Pty. Ltd., of Moorabbin, Vic-
toria, had been purchased for .cash.
This company was engaged in the
manufacture and marketing of Venetian
blinds and awnings, and this acquisi-
tion seems like an attempt to enlarge
the sphere of activities in Victoria.
There would seem to be little doubt
that the company benefited to a marked
degree from the upsurge in home-
building which occurred in 1964/5;
it would seem that the benefits con-
tinued into the first half of 1965/6,
for the interim report for the half-
year to December, 31, 1965, said that
sales and profits showed an increase
over the previous corresponding period.
Profit after tax increased from $383,804
to $403,272, which indicates an increase
°f $19,468 or about five percent. Un-
fortunately, we do not know whether
the direct comparison is entirely valid,
because last year the figure for “net
profit for the year” was arrived at
after deducting $31,640 loss on the
sale of plant and apparently $28,000
to increase the untouched provision
for doubtful debts. If both these de-
ductions are added back to the year’s
Profit, “net profit for the year” becomes
$631,824 instead of $572,184 (an in-
crease of more than 10 percent) and
the half-yearly figure could well be
$443,444 if both the amounts that have
been added back were deducted from
the first half’s profit.
The preliminary announcement for
the whole of 1965/6 discloses a rise in
profit of $29,035 to $632,859. The
above argument may later be seen to
have become academic, but the full
picture will not emerge until the annual
report is published sometime during
October.
Earnings will certainly have bene-
fited to the extent of about $6OOO as
a result of not having to pay interest
on the convertible notes in the second
half of 1965/6 and, of course, next
year (1966/7) the benefit will be about
$12,200.
On the face of it, I believed there
was every reason to expect an improve-
ment in earnings in 1965/6. The most
reasonable indicator of Hunter Douglas’
profitability would seem to be dwelling
completions, as it is most likely that
the group’s products are acquired aftei
completion of the building or at least
close to the completion date. During
1964/5, completions in value terms in-
creased by about 20 percent on the
1963/4 figures and Hunter Douglas’
net profit before tax, depreciation, and
interest on long-term debt increased by
over 40 percent. In the first nine months
of 1965/6, completions were 7J percent
higher than in the first nine months of
1964/5 and I would therefore consider
that an increase of 10 percent in net
profit before tax, depreciation, and in-
terest on long-term debt was quite pos-
sible, even if completions in the last
quarter fall below those of the last
quarter of 1964/5.
JN the closing paragraph of the 1965
directors’ report, it is stated “. . .
profitability has progressed to an earn-
ing rate of 20 percent on capital.
Although the current year has begun
quietly, this rate of earnings should
be at least maintained in the current
year.” It must be assumed that this
statement was made with the knowledge
that capital would be increased during
the year by 10 percent as a result of
the conversion of the percent notes
on December 31, 1965. To what extent
the directors’ views have been modi-
fied is difficult to tell from their half-
yearly report, for while referring to
more difficult trading they “expect to
finish with a satisfactory profit for the
year.”
It will be interesting to see the re-
sults of the expansion into Victoria,
where competition could well be ex-
pected from Dural Leeds. Apart from
the acquisition of Customcraft Blind
Co. mentioned earlier, Hunter Douglas
is also expanding its warehouse
facilities at Notting Hill and' proposes
in due time to install specialised
machinery which will permit the fabri-
cation of a number of the group’s
products.
The company clearly has no financial
problems at the moment ‘ and there
seems no reason to believe that such
expansion as is contemplated cannot
be financed from internal resources.
Retained income in 1964/5 was
$546,000 approximately and at June
30, 1965, cash at bank and on hand
stood at $646,110. After the close of
the 1964/5 year, $200,000 was used to
purchase further land at Rydalmere
'and as at June 30 the company had
commitments for capital expenditure
of $82,140. Of course, we do not know
how much Customcraft Blind Co. cost,
but it would be difficult to believe
that the cost was high enough to strain
the cash situation of Hunter Douglas.
How much then are the shares
worth? The several management
executives who acquired options to take
up 70,000 shares at $1.76 each during
1964/5 must feel that they are going
to be worth much more than this
amount before the options expire on
December 31, 1969.
Currently the shares are selling at
around $1.75 to show a dividend yield
of 5.7 percent and an earnings yield
of 11.4 percent. Since the preliminary
statement has indicated earnings of
around 21.6 cents a share this year and
also having regard to the past pattern
of performance, I would think that the
shares are worth at least $2.50.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES ($’000)
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 3264 3800 2974 3798
Current liabilities 1332 2048 1138 1358
Net working capital 1932 1752 1836 2440
Land & buildings 1338 1628 1608 1382
Plant & equipment 824 874 848 804
•Intangibles 360 -384 360 360
Total capital 4454 4638 4652 4986
represented by:
Long-term provisions — 20 50 72
Loan capital '1112 1168 1058 1042
Minority interests — 24 28 36
Convertible notes 280 280 280 280
Ordinary capital 2742 2788 2788 2788
Reserves 320 358 448 768
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES ($’000)
Interest on loan
capital 23 93 93 85
Interest on convertible
notes 21 21 21 21
Provision for doubtful
debts — — — 28
Depreciation 152 168 186 192
Tax provided 234 222 256 430
Earnings 462 334 410 604
Ordinary dividends' 276 278 278 278
Surplus 186 56 132 326
Adjusted earning
rate % 14.2 11.3 12.8 20.5
Dividend rate % 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
Dividend yield % 5.0 5.3 5.2 5.1
High price $2.46 2.30 2.05 2.21
Low- price $1.58 1.50 1.80 1.75


AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LIMITED
Chairman's Address
Before dealing with the formal matters relating to the Annual Accounts I should like to
refer to the loss we have suffered by the sudden and untimely death of our colleague Sir
Alfred Armstrong, C.B.E. shortly after the close of the year under review. Sir Alfred’s death
came as a great shock to all of us and we shall sadly miss his wise and friendly counsel
It is with pleasure now that I submit to you a motion for the adoption of the Ninth Annual
Balance Sheet and Supporting Accounts of Australian United Corporation Limited together
with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors.
The Consolidated Net Profit of Australian United Cor-
poration Limited and its subsidiaries for the year ended 30th
June, 1966, is $900,125 compared with $ 1,J40,l 36 for the
previous year. Of this profit $873,907 remains to Australian
United Corporation Limited after deducting the interest of
minority shareholders in the profits of subsidiary companies.
Last year the comparable amount was $1,062,118.
The Consolidated Net Profit has been struck after
providing for taxation on a basis which reflects allowance
for accumulated losses arising from the liquidation of the
trading assets of our wholly owned subsidiary Australian
United Finance Limited (formerly Sargood Gardiner Limited)
and for a recent taxation decision relating to the method
of levying taxation on companies the income of which is
principally derived from dividends and interest.
An interim dividend of 5% on the Ordinary and Prefer-
ence capital was paid on 18th March, 1966, and the fixed
dividend of 5% on the Preference capital was paid on 14th
June, 1966. A final dividend of 5% on the Ordinary and
Preference capital was declared payable on 9th September,
1966. This total dividend requirement absorbed $345,352
of the year’s profit leaving an amount of $528,555 to be
added to the Unappropriated Profits of the Group from
the year’s operations. From the Unappropriated Profits of
the Group $16,689 has been transferred to General Reserves
and $750,000 to Reserve for Contingencies leaving a balance
of Unappropriated Profits at 30th June, 1966, of $2,319,869.
I shall now refer to the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
There was no change in the Paid-up Capital of Aus-
tralian United Corporation Limited during the year. I
have already referred to the increase in Unappropriated Profits,
after allowance for dividends, arising from the year’s oper-
ations and to the transfers made from Unappropriated Profits
to General Reserves and Reserve for Contingencies. The
transfer of $750,000 to Reserve for Contingencies brought
that Reserve to a total of $1,750,000 of which $700,000 is
now shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a reserve
against fluctuations in the market values of listed securities
and $lOO,OOO as a reserve against advances. The net result
of these movements is a slight decrease in Total Shareholders’
Funds from $11,531,370 to $11,356,114.
Current Liabilities have risen by. $5,858,230 which re-
flects an increase in Deposits of approximately $4,250,000
and an increase in Sundry Creditors and Clients Balances
of approximately $1,750,000 offset by sundry movements
in other Current Liabilities. Long Term Liabilities have
decreased by $22,000.
Investments in quoted securities decreased by $2,097,305
and in unquoted securities by $82,068. Shareholders will
note that after deducting Reserve for Investment Fluctuation
($700,000) from the book value of quoted securities the market
value of those securities was approximately $170,000 above
the value at which they are carried in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.
Advances rose by $5,605,560 which largely reflects the
increase in Deposits referred to above. Current Assets rose
by $1,491,968 as a result, in the main, of an increase in
the securities carried by our official money market subsidiary
Only minor movements have occurred in other assets of the
Group and these do not call for particular comment.
I shall now review briefly the operations of our main
subsidiary and associated companies.
Australian United Enterprises Pty. Limited
The portfolio of quoted investments carried by this
subsidiary decreased during the year from $9,530,496 to
$7,483,948 and the portfolio of investments which are not
quoted increased from $730,248 to $905,250. The market
value of quoted investments as at 30th June, 1966, was
$7,345,172.
Dividend income was lower than that of last year but
this reduction was offset by an increase in the surplus arising
from adjustments to the portfolios. Overall, the result of
the year’s operations was satisfactory.
Australian United Underwriting Company Pty,
Limited
This subsidiary was again actively engaged throughout
the year as an underwriter of industrial, commercial, and
semi-governmental issues. Although the volume of business
handled was maintained at a high level it is disappointing
to report a fall in profits compared with the previous year,
Australian United Finance Limited
As stated in my last address, this subsidiary is now
actively engaged in underwriting capital issues. Its experience
was similar to that of Australian United Underwriting Com-
pany Pty. Limited and although its activities contributed
substantially to Group profits the year’s result was lower than
that of the previous year.
United Discount Company of Australia Limited
With a levelling out in short-term bond rates and in-
creased availability of commercial bills conditions were a
little easier in the official short term money market but
the upward pressure of rates sought by lenders to the market
continued to have its effect on operating margins. As a
result the profitability of this subsidiary, though higher than
last year, has not yet returned to the levels of earlier years,
Australian United Acceptance Limited
The level of this company’s operations increased sub-
stantially over the year, reflecting the increased
for short term finance by industrial and commercial borrowers,
and its profit increased significantly.
Australian United Development Pty. Limited
There was virtually no alteration in the investments
of this subsidiary during the year. Its results were satis-
factory and it made a significant contribution to Group
profits.


Ring-Grip Limited
As referred to in the Report of Directors which accom-
panied the Accounts the minority interests in Ring-Grip
Limited were acquired for cash during the year and this
company is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of AUC. Profits
for the year were on a level comparable with those of the
previous year.
Investors Services Limited
During the latter part of the year Investors Services
Limited, in which the Group is associated with The Com-
mercial Bank of Australia Limited and Messrs. lan Potter
& Co., launched a new Fund, Investors Maximum Income
Fund, and support has been reasonably satisfactory. The
other Funds managed by Investors Services Limited are Aus-
tralian Capital Fund, Australian Income Fund, and Collins
Street Fund. All of these showed satisfactory results for
the year.
Glanvill Enthoven & Co. (Australasia) Pty. Limited
This insurance broking company, in which we have
a 50% interest, continues to expand its operations and
profits increased substantially during the year.
GENERAL
1966 was an active year for the Australian United Corpor-
ation Group. The pattern of previous years has been re-
peated and while in some directions profitability was lower
than last year the diversity of our activities has again enabled
us to earn profits of a satisfactory order.
When I addressed you at this time last year I said
that the outlook for the 1965/1966 year was a mixed one
and it would be unwise for me to attempt to forecast too
precisely how it would unfold for us. I went on to, say
however that I saw another active and profitable year ahead
of the Group. The outlook for 1966/1967, viewed from
today, is broadly similar to that existing at this time last
year and I expect broadly similar results for the AUG
Group during the coming year a continuing high level
of activity at a satisfactory level of profitability.
Economic Conditions
When I addressed you last year, I expressed the view
that some difficulty may be experienced in Australia in
maintaining a growth rate of 9% in Gross National Product.
Events of 1965/66 bore out this forecast. Indeed, in the
private sector of the economy, there was a gradual falling
away in gross fixed capital expenditure to the extent that
as the year progressed, there was no growth as compared
with the previous year.
This fluctuation in private investment has been a feature
of the Australian economy for many years and must not
be regarded as other than a passing phase. In fact, a
growth rate of 9% or so in the years immediately past was
probably excessive, and the current phase of retarded growth
was therefore to be expected.
Nevertheless, the slackening in private fixed capital
expenditure experienced in the last few months has very
wide implications. The capital goods industries, in them-
selves, have great significance for the whole economy, in
that they provide one of the main stimulants to economic
growth overall and have a great influence upon the volume
of consumer spending.
In a financial sense, also, the reduction in the rate
°f growth in the private sector is of importance, in that it
determines the pressure upon the supply of funds for private
long-term capital purposes. It is perhaps surprising therefore
that the demand for long-term funds has risen rather than
fallen in the last few months. This mainly can be ascribed,
| think, to a process of consolidation in the field of private
finance, moving the burden from the area of short-term,
where funds have been plentiful, to the area of long-term capital
Rising, where available resources have been relatively less.
When this process of consolidation is completed, it is
likely that the overall demand for long-term funds will
diminish with beneficial effects upon rates of interest and
the terms of capital raising generally. This situation, how-
ever, is not likely to develop for some time yet.
These observations take no account of developments
in the public sector The 1966/67 Federal Budget contained
no surprises and it seems probable that the needs of Govern-
ment will be met by taxation or loan raising with a mini-
mum of disturbance. Indeed, the heavy increase in Govern-
ment expenditure, mainly on defence, is expected to be made
with a moderate degree of deficit financing, which should
stimulate rather than reduce the volume of funds available
to the private sector, especially for personal consumption
expenditure. Having regard to the dullness of retail trading
and the falling demand for durable consumer goods, the
provision of this stimulus is not unexpected and is to be
applauded.
On almost every occasion that I have addressed you
in recent years, it has been necessary for me to qualify my
conclusions by mentioning the prospective difficulties in the
Australian balance of payments. On each occasion, however,
this qualification has not proved justifiable, as the balance
of payments has withstood most of the pressures to which
it has been subjected to in the last year or so. There has
been some element of the fortuitous in the resilience of
Australia’s external position, and although there is once again
reason to be cautious about the immediate future, .1 would
be surprised if we ended the current financial year in any
materially worse position than we now enjoy.
This does not mean to say that external factors are un-
important. Indeed, the world economic position is, if any-
thing, worse than it was a year ago. The situation in the
United Kingdom is full of difficulties, and there is some
apprehension that the American economy may be entering a
period of greater stringency. Since the currencies of these
two countries provide the main media for international settle-
ments, the disturbance in their economies must have far-
reaching effects upon the whole world. Negotiations aimed
at spreading the burde'n for international finance over a
wider area have made slow progress. Until an acceptable
scheme is devised, we must expect recurrent phases of inter-
national uncertainty which must inhibit the development
of conditions most conducive to world prosperity.
Nevertheless, the year 1966/67 should be an active one
for Australia in the economic sense. On the domestic front,
the diminution in some areas of private investment, e.g. in
manufacturing, is likely to be replaced by expansion in others,
e.g. in housing. Increased Government expenditure will also
have this effect. In the words of the Federal Treasury,
“There seems little doubt that the resulting increase in
demand for goods and services (by government) within Aus-
tralia should be greater in 1966/67 than it was in 1965/66.”
One of the most significant developments in Australia
in the last few years has been the great improvement in
knowledge and techniques in the operation of the financial
system, largely through the Reserve Bank. The Aus-
tralian financial system, and indeed the whole process of
Government finance, has become an important economic
instrument aimed largely at achieving the needs of Govern-
ment policy with a minimum of economic disturbance. The
various sections of the financial sphere have fitted into
a pattern and have each played a part in achieving the
overall objective. Organisations such as the Australian United
Corporation Limited, through its various facets, have made
some contribution and will, I am sure, continue to do so
without official positive direction, but with an awareness
of their responsibilities and a recognition of the part they
are playing in the functioning of the economy as a whole.
Therefore, we can look forward to another bifsy year, which
I am sure will be as interesting, even if no easier than the
year through which we have passed.
Staff and Management
Your Directors wish to place ©n record once more their
appreciation of the work done by the staff and manage-
ment. I am sure shareholders will wish me to express for
them our thanks to our personnel for the maintained loyalty
and efficiency throughout the year.
SIR IAN POTTER,
Chairman


*» EUROPE'*/
WHITE EMPRESS
1,000 MILES LESS OCEAN
ON THE SHELTERED, SCENIC
ST. LAWRENCE ROUTE.
n
fife'
M i
C
m
'ZL
Aboard a sleek “White Empress” you’ll find enjoyment and
comfort to highlight your journey to Europe. Staterooms,
crystal-clear pools, club room, shops, starlit terrace, dancing and
the world-famous Canadian Pacific service and superb cuisine.
Ask your Travel Agent for illustrated literature and details.
Canadum (fbcifiic
(incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited) Ships/Trains/Planes/Trucks
Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete transportation system.
MAN ON THE LAND
The Realities of Breeding
TO understand the stud business it
seems more relevant to know
your breeders than the breeds.
At the present time the Royal Mel-
bourne Show is once again drawing
thousands of onlookers and, at the same
time, the usual swag of criticisms from
anti-show people. The thing to do, we
have decided, is to divorce the two.
If people enjoy themselves, and they
do, surely this show, or any show,
is justified. Perhaps this does not apply
so much to a sheep show, where
country people would be in the
majority, but the royals, in all capitals,
depend for their financial success on
the city man and his family. Without
livestock, a royal show would be just
another Luna Park. It has to have live-
stock to have its special quality, but
to the average showgoer all that mat-
ters is that there are plenty of animals.
The realities of breeding are better
aired in some other forum. One thing
we can be quite sure about is that any
changes in livestock classes at the royal
will not worry the majority of people
attending. If changes are to be held
up, then fear of a falling off in public
interest is not a valid reason for caution.
The extent to which changes are
made in shows is very much a matter
for breeders themselves. In all breed
societies there are big wheels and little
wheels. Quite often there is one great
big wheel and what he does, and says,
sets the pattern of behaviour. All the
others talk the same way, dress the
same way, and have the same attitudes.
Nearly always such a king has a
great deal of money, quite apart from
any that he might make from stud
breeding. Money is always a great ad-
vantage in breeding sheep or cattle,
and these are the animals that count.
Generally speaking, you can only hope
to become a show president if you are
a breeder of cattle or sheep.
Whether this is a good thing f or
breeding, or even for shows, is de-
batable, but it’s how things are. There
seems little likelihood of change in the
make-up of show hierarchies. Sheep
breeders and cattle breeders seem
destined to retain their status for a long
time to come. Whether it is because
they breed sheep or cattle, or because
they have the money to indulge in
sheep or cattle breeding, is a good
question.
Among breeders there is talk of
change, but not a great deal to show
for it. Judging standards remain largely
unaltered, for the very good reason
that sheep and cattle judges are in-
variably other breeders. Because it is
a tight circle, criticism of judging by
a breeder is rare.
Just before the Melbourne Show a
breeder criticised judging, and there-
fore his fellow breeders, at a sym-
posium on fat-lamb production in Mel-
bourne. The breeder, Mr. I. Mclntosh,
of Cobram, said that many rams at
show sales were infertile because of
gross over-conditioning for the ring.
He said some judges would not give
a sheep a chance in the show-ring
unless it was in an over-fat condition.
Sheep should be shown in good work-
ing condition, and judges were paying
too much attention to show-ring fads
rather than judging sheep on their
obvious productive qualities. 1
Mr. Mclntosh said too much atten-
tion was given to faults like black
spots. This was ridiculous. “Shows
must move with the times, and classes
should be provided to demonstrate a:
ewe’s mothering ability with twins or
triplets,” he said. “Breeders should also
be allowed to experiment with cross-
breeding, because it is a method of
finding out which strains of the pure
breed produce the most productive
crosses.”
QLOSER liaison between breeders,
societies, and geneticists was needed
before improvement in lamb produc-
tion would take place. Twinning was
often overlooked on many stud proper-
ties. Most stud breeders rarely kept
records of twins. Yet twinning ability
in a fat-lamb sire deserved great em-
phasis. There should be equal concen-
tration on quality and quantity of
lambs. Priority for the selection of
stud rams should be number of lambs,
lamb growth rate, and fleece quality.
More candor like this would not do
breeding any harm. A statement
credited to Mr. Jock Taylor, of
Dalgety & NZL, was, we thought, quite
candid. He was reported to have said
that the Corriedale was 60 percent
merino and was grown principally f° r
wool, although it produced good mut-
ton. The N.S.W. president of the Aus-
tralian Corriedale Association, Mr.
E. K. Vickery, said the association had
received numerous telephone calls from
students and others about Mr. Taylors
reported statement. Mr. Vickery


Ytilumba #
4 *lc WHC v*
Oak from the forests of Nevers in France has for centuries
played a major part in establishing the reputation of
famous French dry reds. This same oak is imported by
Yalumba to make 100 gallon puncheons to mature the
prize-winning Galway Vintage Claret and Yalumba
Burgundy. After two years quiet maturity in these oak
casks the wine is bottled and laid down in huge bins in deep,
cool cellars to reach their peak of bouquet and flavour.
YALUMBA CELLARMASTER SUGGESTS
YALUMBA GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
This renowned red table wine is
blended from two varieties of grapes
Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz
(hermitage). Cabernet Sauvignon, a
light cropping variety, gives a wine a
full bouquet and a soft tannin, while
the wine from Shiraz grapes imparts a
soft, round, full flavour. All grapes
used are grown in the Barossa and
McLaren Vale districts, where climate,
rainfall and soil quality are ideal.
Labelled with the vintage year.
YALUMBA CARTE d’OR
RIESLING
A vintage wine made solely from
Rhine Riesling Grapes grown in
Angaston, Eden Valley and Springton
areas, picked and fermented in the
year shown on the label. Yalumba
Carte d’Or is bottled while young,
mainly in August/September of the
vintage year, and then carefully aged
in the bottle.
Ealumba
TABLE WINES
Famous since 1849
Vintaged by S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, S.A.
said the Corriedale was a “dis-
tinct P ure breed with over 90
years of history to its credit. It
w as an ideal dual-purpose sheep that
not only produced prime fat lambs but
a l s o carried a big bulky fleece of a
medium to strong spinning count.”
Our comment is that Mr. Vickery,
along with too many breeders of sheep,
cattle, horses, goats, pigs, and poultry,
is just a bit touchy. With all breeds
there seems a tendency to confuse breed
with what, in reality, may well be one
remarkable and outstanding individual.
Such individuals occur from time to
time in sheep, cattle, horses, pigs, goats,
dogs, and even people. This individual
(if it is a bull or ram) can exert an
influence far beyond that of any re-
markable human individual (even
Solomon, who had 1000 wives).
All Santa Gertrudis, for example,
trace to Monkey, bred by the King
Ranch, and most Herefords to Vern
Robert, bred by Captain de Quincey.
The cost of producing Monkey, or
Vern Robert, is simply incalculable.
JN all breeds there is usually a similar
story, and quite often the individual
is the breed. One way to settle a lot of
arguments about breeding would be,
we have often thought, to institute a
deliberate breeding-back program. It
would cost a lot of money, with no
possible return save knowledge, and
no private breeder would ever contem-
plate it. Private individuals, the very
backbone of breeding, have enough
failures without deliberately looking
for them.
We would suggest something like the
experiment begun in Germany, before
the war with horses, and only recently
completed. Starting with good stock,
ranging from ponies to draughts, re-
gression was deliberately encouraged
and . observed. Now, some 40 years
later, animals approximating the wild
European steppe horses of pre-
Christian times have been artificially re-
created.
By starting with a mixed herd of
present-day beef and dairy cattle it
would be possible, we think, to re-
create, artificially, a common ancestor
from which have sprung all our recog-
nised breeds. It would be of academic
interest only, but it could explode some
cherished myths.
Perhaps it would do nothing of the
sort. Perhaps those claims we read in
nearly every breed society “history”
concerning existence of this or that
breed in Roman times or Cromwellian
times, etc., are true after all. Until such
evidence, scientifically recorded, is pro-
duced, however, we sceptically hold to
the view that all cattle are one and
the same, except that someone decided
that the Hereford color should be red
and white, the Angus, black, the Devon,
re d, and so on.
This does not mean that cattle and
buffalo are one and the same. Rather,
|t means that cattle are a breed and
buffalo are a breed and variations with-
ln each are types.


INVEST NOW IN THIS NEW ISSUE
FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Providing finance facilities for short term
mortgages together with Consumer,
Industrial and Commercial Credit.
DEBENTURE
STOCK AT 7%%
PER ANNUM FOR
5 RIO YEANS
7b
BENEFICIAL
Applications will proceed only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus obtainable from
STOCK EXCHANGE MEMBERS
throughout Australia
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia, all branches
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
in New South Wales and A C T.
S.A. FARMERS' CO-OP. UNION LTD.
in South Australia,
or the Underwriters
lAN POTTER fr CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
GAVIN F. GARDNER ft CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd
BENEFICIAL BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Sydney 29 5244 Melbourne 62 1432
Brlsbene 31 1861 Adelaide 51 6661 Perth 21 6273
AGRISEARCH
CSIRO and its Budget
THIS year the CSIRO will have
$41,740,531 to spend a rise of
6| percent on last year’s budget.
The general taxpayer has contributed
$32,628,500 to the sum, while the re-
mainder of $9,112,031 is made up
mainly from industry levies. Of these
the wool levy is by far the largest. It
will provide $5,672,906, the same
amount as last year, because the Wool
Research Trust Fund is rapidly reach-
ing exhaustion. Woolgrowers will prob-
ably soon be asked to dip deeper into
their pockets so that the current type of
research can be maintained. Other in-
dustries affording considerable support
are: meat ($1,260,600), wheat ($244,-
007), dairy ($248,536), and tobacco
($199,705).
Salary rises, general maintenance
costs, and travel expenses will soak up
about $3 million more than these items
required last year. Overseas travel is
an especially burdensome cost and the
salaries of the Organisation’s research
scientists now range substantially
higher than those of university profes-
sors. One hundred and fifty new ap-
pointments to staff will be made during
the year, but few of these will be
research personnel.
Only $320,000 of the new budget
will remain for launching new research
projects or quickening existing ones.
The new activities proposed for the cur-
rent year concern studies on water loss
by plants ($18,000), air-conditioning
for the tropics ($60,000), and develop-
mental projects ($60,000). Existing
fields of study into which more money
will be channelled this year are: bio-
logical control of insect pests, pasture
and animal research in Queensland, the
problem of woody weeds, mainly in
respect of the new lands being cleared
in Queensland, mineral extraction,
meteorology, and micro-analytical
techniques.
The Organisation’s annual report for
1965-66 has now been distributed. A
quick flip through its 232 pages sug.
gests that the Organisation is continuing
to make, interesting discoveries and i s
developing many promising ideas. For
example, 32 patents were granted to
CSIRO people in Australia and over-
seas during 1965. Well over a thousand
original papers were published in local
and overseas journals. To quote from
page 24 of the report, “the standing
of Australian research in world science
is high and . . . increasing numbers of
overseas scientists . . . spend periods of
study leave in Australian laboratories.”
However, the report does not seem
to contain much of immediate practical
value to the man on the land. A vac-
cine against vibriosis in cattle is about
to be field tested, the advantages of
weaning lambs early have been indi-
cated, the most suitable ages for select-
ing sheep have been calculated, some
new pasture species and strains have
been recommended for certain problem
areas, and proper pruning and watering
techniques for sultanas have been de-
vised. The CSIRO apparently recognises
its limitations in this respect, because
on the very first page of the report
special mention is made of the import-
ance of the State Departments of Agri-
culture and the new money now being
provided for regional research and
extension. Also commended is the pre-
sent policy of strengthening the uni-
versities, since the CSIRO “is not
equipped to undertake research train-
ing to any great extent.”
,r pHE Organisation has long followed a
policy of recruiting the greater part
of its research staff from the pools of
fully trained scientists overseas. Usually
well over 70 percent of the appointees
are foreigners or foreign-trained Aus-
tralians. According to £he report, over-
seas recruitment is based on short-term
fellowships, usually of three years’
duration, and these appointments are
mostly accepted by young career-build-
ing scientists. It is difficult to see how
these people could be expected to con-
tribute to our agricultural economy.
Agriculture has been aptly defined as
a “local science and art.” Long and
close association with a region’s agri-
culture is generally regarded as essential
for a scientist if he is to make useful
suggestions or applicable findings.
Under the vagaries of the Australian
climate a field trial of less than four
years’ duration is counted invalid!
Presumably, these people’s prime
motivations are energised by considera-
tions other than the Australian national
interest. It may be that their main in-
terest is to produce a quick paper or
two that will read well in an overseas
scientific journal. There, it impresses
senior members of the scientific brother-
hood back home. Internationalism ha*
always been the Achilles heel of applied
research. If this attitude is operating
here it is no wonder that the report
laments that the urgings of the industry
fund committees are “beginning to have
an adverse effect on the morale” of the
research scientists.


" IN the supreme court
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
matrimonial causes
JURISDICTION
To- CHARLES MICHAEL GRIMES
late of 4 Hendrick Street, Narrabri.
TAKE NOTICE that Beryl Grimes has
filed a petition for divorce number 4211
of 1955 on the ground of separation
and seeks an order for costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an answer
at the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the fourth day of November,
1968 You may obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from Lightoller,
laity and Brooke, Solicitors, 221 Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney. (SGD.) C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar,
CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To - ALFRED KURAGO, late of Pad-
dington. TAKE NOTICE that WIL-
HEMINE IRMGARD KURAGO has
filed Fetition No. 1841 A of 1965 for
divorce on the ground of desertion and
seeks orders for maintenance and
costs. If you wish to defend or to be
served with further process you may
file an Answer or a Notice of Address
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Old Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 4th
day of November 1966. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Lane & Lane, Solicitors,
Commerce House, 161 Clarence Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SEND A DONATION TO
AUSTRALIAN FORGES
OVERSEAS FUND
BOX 175, P. 0., DARLINGHURST, N.S.W.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: KEITH THOMAS ANDERSON.
Take notice that MARLENE SHIRLEY
ANDERSON has filed Petition No. 2253
of 1963 for divorce on the ground of
Desertion, notwithstanding the facts
and circumstances set out in the Dis-
cretion Statement filed herein, and
seeks Orders for Maintenance and
Costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
19th day of October, 1966. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. S. T. Hodge &
Co., 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE.
To: WILLIAM DAVID ROBERTS.
TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA
CLARE ROBERTS has filed Petition
No. 755 of ISS6 for divorce on the
ground of Separation notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in
a discretion statement filed herein and
seeks an order for costs. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 9th day of November, 1963. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from G. Kenyon & Co.,
Solicitors of 15 Park Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
The Bulletin Index for 1965 is now
being printed. Copies may be
ordered for $2.10, including postage,
from the Australian Consolidated
Press Library, 54 Park Street, Sydney,
or Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To: JOHN MALCOLM SHEA late of
321 Chapel Road Bankstown. TAKE!
NOTICE that GLORIA AGNES SHEA
has filed a Petition for divorce in
Suit 4342 of 1965 on the ground of
desertion and seeks orders for main-
tenance and costs. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the Ist November, l&'oS, and
obtain a copy of the Petition filed
herein without charge on application
to Messrs. Hancock, Alldis & Co.,
Solicitors, 225 Forest Road, Hurstville,
or from their City Agents—Messrs.
Aitken & Pluck, 234/242 George Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
LORETO CONVENT
NORMANHURST, N.S.W.
Teachers required 1967
1. Science to Matriculation
Standard
2. English and French
3. Junior Secondary
Please apply in writing.
"The Bulletin" Crossword
NUMBER 917
ACROSS
1. Vain girl I reformed in an old Roman style.
(?)
6. Ring with a relative relief for the parched
traveller. (5)
8. With apprehension in Canberra? (6, 2,3, 3)
10. Bird, for example, about to take tea. (5)
11 • It goes around nonsense on a rocky moun-
tain. (7)
12. Was in Parliament and yet didn’t stand. (3)
13. A Russian tract suggesting a
rumba. (5, 7)
17. He’s off his feet too much, but
gets the drift. (12)
18. Name for a Moslem as taken
from an alternative name. (3)
19. Before the little creature is a
hermit. (7)
21. Rice tree beside which the
Queen is seen. (5)
23. A lawyer quartered here per-
haps, but it makes for con-
fusion. (7, 7)
24. An influence up Armenia way
has 1000 very much churned
up. (5)
25. Southern burro with a monk’s
plant. (9)
DOWN
1. Old theatre is right and wrong
with duets composed for such
ups and downs. (12)
2. Get our confused De Lisle. (6)
3. Choir stirs the blood of the
gods. (5)
4. Port aid it arranged in the
simpleton role. (5, 4)
5. Anybody but the Queen is a
Hansard man, for instance. (5)
6. Unsecretive fellow about to
name a popular U.S. song of
World War I which isn’t here.
(4, 5 )
7. Blow the spinners! This is
where you fasten the suspend-
ers. (4, 4)
9. Rings mustn’t be barely enough
for theatre accommodation.
(5,7)
14. Hoisting you before delivering
the panegyric article in revolt.
(9)
15. They put us away for periods
of expression. (9)
16. He is after publicity by tele-
phone, and sticking at it. (8)
18. Is rare enough for one who gets
out of bed. (6)
20. One for one wager made
according to such levels. (5)
22. Mother interrupted by our
pianist named Lympany. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 916


You may have the sweetest
secretary in the world...
but there’s only 8 hours
in a working day.
*
©
Even the sweetest secretary in the world can’t keep skip-
ping lunch. Or go everywhere with you. Or work back three
times in a row. Or remember everything. Or never get sick.
Or stay single. The Grundig Stenorette takes over where
your secretary has to leave off. Grundig Dictating Machines
are used by millions of busy executives all over the world
—because they are the best on the market. Anywhere.
Write for details to:
oiaunuo
SALES & SERVICE
443 Kent St. s Sydney.
Tel.: 29-1528
VIC.: 368 Little Bourke St., Melbourne. 67-1197. W.A.: 144 A William Street,
S.A.: 52-54 King William Street, Adelaide. 51-6351. QLD.: 235 Edward Street,
, Perth. 21-6500.
Brisbane. 2-3247.
Please send me, without obligation, literature on Grundig Dictating Machines.
NAME
ADDRESS
SPECULATORS DIARY
No Response on Good Results
THERE used to be a time when shares rose on good results. Not so in these
days. A whole host of companies, including A. G. Sims, AMI, Wattyl,
O’Donnell Griffin, and Eglo, have announced excellent yearly figures. There
has been absolutely no response in their respective share prices.
Why is the market so apathetic?
Unfortunately, there does not seem to
be any simple answer. If there is a
basic reason, it is that interest rates
have got out of control. Rocketing
interest rates in recent years have
forced up dividend yields and so have
held back share prices. The collapse
of the New York and .London stock
markets since June also has not done
much to encourage our market. And
with these two factors in the back-
ground, the market has made so many
false starts that only the fittest in-
vestor (or is it the most desperate?)
has survived.
Note the v6lume now being done
on the market, and also the brokers’
long faces. With the market so dull,
most of the circulars being sent out
by brokers centre on the theme of long-
term investment. Provided you’re not
too anxious for an immediate rise, I
go along with the idea of selective
investment now.
Nevertheless, it will be a struggle
for the rest of the current year. There
are always exceptions to the general
rule, however. One should be Eglo
Engineering at 87c. Not much affected
by the mood of the economy, this
little engineering company should con-
tinue to increase profits in the current
year. A 15 percent increase in profits
has recently been announced for the
1965/66 year and the annual dividend
rate was raised to 11 percent.
This trend in profits is in contrast
to the level of earnings in the chemical
and petroleum industries which Egl 0
services. In fact, the chemical industry
in Australia is notorious for the low
return on invested funds. But as plant
investment continues to accelerate it
is of little direct concern to Eglo what
sort of profits the chemical and petro-
leum companies show.
. If Eglo is one of the companies that
should behave independently of the rest
of the market, then so also should L.
J. Hooker. The pastoral industry was
about the only bright spot in the
market, according to Mr. Phillip
Shrapnel at his biannual conference.
However, being “only” an economist
he did not feel qualified to give a
specific recommendation in that in-
dustry.
Under the able direction of Mr. J.
K. Campbell, the company has not
only survived the hectic days of 1962
but now seems to be firmly on the road
to recovery. Mind you, the road over
the last year has been a bit dusty. Still,
this dust has now been settled by the
recent rains and perhaps by next year
the company should be in sight of that
long-awaited dividend declaration.
JMPORTANT as the hotels and rpal
estate divisions are, it is the pastoral
division with its cattle and sheep pro-
perties that govern the future of L. J.
Hooker. If L. J. Hooker can show a
profit of $765,000 in a year in which
virtually no income was received from
the pastoral division in the past six
months, how much 'more would the
profit be in a normal year? With the
drought-breaking rains in August cov-
ering most of Australia, it’s not unreas-
onable to assume that 1967 will be
approaching a normal year. At 32 cents,
I can’t go far wrong with 1000 shares.
The only sale this week was the 500
Woodside at 89 cents, resulting in a
small profit of $2O. Through Planet,
I still have an interest in the offshore
area adjoining the 8.H.P.-Esso hold-
ing. The best news of the week for the
portfolio was the threefold profit in-
crease of Mt. Isa. Showing a paper loss
of over $lOO a few weeks ago, I might
even be able to clear this stock with a
profit.
Transactions for the week were:
BOUGHT
500 Eglo 87c $445
1000 L. J. Hooker 32c $328
SOLD
500 Woodside 89c $436
The account is still in credit to the
tune of $343.
Cost
No. of Name of Date per
Shares Company Bought Share
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 295
1000 AMI 14/6/66 0 46 •«
1000 Emperor Gold 12/7/66 0 55
600 Peko Wallsend 19/7/66 2.40 2.34
400 West. Titanium ctg. 2/8/66 1.50 14°
500 Steel Mills 9/8/66 0.72 g
200 Mt. Isa 9/8/66 4.70 440
400 GMK 10/8/66 1.20 l-»
200 Borg Warner 15/8/66 1.70 !•'“
200 MKU 17/8/66 3.00 2-75
1000 Planet 24/8/66 .40
500 Petersville 30/8/66 .59
- 1000 L. J. Hooker 12/9/66 .32
500 Eglo 13/9/66 .87 • 8 '


• ... •
a
* \ &
%,#
'**• "'J
a. i 4
V
K m
■
W*'
m nm
%
-
’ !
MS
.M 6 JIP
” 4
.*-« . ■
*•
\,K
Km
SjCfWW fri i 'mi,J.
,” w ''*y "*•«•*. -.
(om '• in / (#„■-
f.
WUttftt HIM H H*j ';
tlMinil*
/
m
* *
r •*»
H
To stimulate the appetite, enhance the flavour of good food and aid digestion, is the function of a white table wine. Mildara
white table wines capture the subtle flavour and characteristic bouquet of Semilion and Riesling grapes. After controlled
fermentation, they are bottled when only a few months old, then mature to perfection in the bottle. MILDARA WHITE OPAL
is a new favourite—a dry white wine of Hock style, blended from the Semilion and Rhine Riesling grapes vintaged by
Mildara. GOLDEN BOWER, the name chosen for a wine made from the Riesling grape grown in the Hunter River Valley of
New South Wales. Each vintage is given a Bin Number so you can select your favourite year. Legend has it that a
Crusader brought with him from Persia the vines that eventually became known as Hermitage, growing
°n the slopes of the Rhone River. Cabernet Sauvignon grapes originally came from Medoc in France and give
to claret a distinctive flavour and rare quality. Mildara makes three types of red table wine. HERMITAGE CLARET —
a special table wine blended by Mildara for everyday use, a wine of quality and good value available in bottles and flagons.
WBERNET SHIRAZ, a dry red wine made from the grapes it is named after. Grown in South Australia, at Coonawarra and
toe Southern Vales, south of Adelaide—blended at Mildara and bottled as a vintage wine under distinctive Bin Numbers,
tor instance 1963 is Bin No. 32. Mildara now has one of the largest Cabernet Sauvignon vineyards m Australia at
w>onawarra and new Cellars featuring modern techniques for the production of fine table wines. CABERNET SAUVIGNON,
963, AND CABERNET SHIRAZ, 1963, vintaged at our Coonawarra Cellars from our Coonawarra vineyards, matured
111 oak casks, bottled at two years, these fine red wines are Champions ahd will improve in bottle for many years.
MILDARA -it makes a host of difference
MW.6«,FPC


-
* ■ V
■
mt
4
X
, 4,4
»
8
New power so smooth and quiet you’ll
wonder where the miles went!
You don’t need long behind the wheel to
know there’s never been a Holden like this
one. The sparkling way it flattens hills with
its new power up to 145-hp (delivered by
engines with the superb smoothness of a
Holden has a wider track, lower centre of
gravity, and new medium low profile tyres.
And as for comfort, plush is the only word.
(Seats are much, much softer and there’s a
supple new upholstery called Sadlon.) So
seven-bearing crankshaft,
the quietness of hydraulic
valve lifters). The silky
new ride. The wonderful
new ease of handling on
even the kinkiest of curves.
new
Turbo^mooth
HOLDEN
General Motors-Holden’s
hop in. Take the wheel.
See how much better the
going is now Turbo-smooth
Holden’s here.
A ustr alias Own Car. From
$1770 (£885) plus tax.
