

The Bulletin
AUGUST 27, 1966
1?
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
egisfered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l. Malaysia $1


Inimitable
(defies imitation)
mi
I
m
A !
★ *
Mill Rk
Jiii inn
m
y.
kt
’■
■ :
ILDARA
r. iD) A
l \ \ ■
V3;V. V> V UVN
special
hi;si:h v* *
S,
LBmAWtSUD W!
> AUSTRALIA
f . iuldara
RA slum:
MiiMA Wms US m
AUSTRALIA
«»ECIALAPPm T FORVs T U Y GARmE^
jjgrsi pggsgy. - | 1, ~~
fiM ‘ SPECtALIY SHECTED AUSTRALIAN B«-
»»»» w«* “
nn^ltr,
itl-1 PINT BFt 07
All Mildara Brandy is made by the traditional pot-still method. This means that selected white wine is
heated in a copper pot-still, and the vapours are condensed. This liquor (called “brandy feints”) is
distilled a second time and only the “heart of the run” is considered good enough for Mildara Brandy—
other fractions are discarded. The new brandy matures in casks of imported oak for several years to give a
smooth finish and delightful flavour. MILDARA SPECIAL THREE STAR BRANDY is a light style brandy,
excellent in a long drink with water, soda or dry ginger ale—especially with a tinkle of ice. MILDARA SUPREME
BRANDY. Each year the new brandy destined to become Supreme is selected for its richer flavour, then
matured for up to ten years in oak casks, in the cellars beside the Murray, to develop its inimitable style.
MILDARA EXTRA POT-STILL BRANDY is the pride of Mildara’s skilled distillers and blenders, who select the
best original brandies which have won prizes over the years, and mature them for many more years to develop
the magnificent style and bouquet presented in the distinctive label for Pot-Still Brandy. MILDARA TOPAZ
BRANDY is the lightest style of quality Australian brandy with no sugar, and of special interest to those on
a sugar-free diet —a wonderful mixer. mb.s7.fpc
MILDARA The Best Australian Brandy —it makes a host of difference


■»
V
M
m
“Brambles hire cranes
❖
“So what! Lots
of companies do.
True. But Brambles
hire only the most
modern and the best
cranes available.
So?
So, don’t accept
second best... go to
the experts—Brambles.”
You’ve certainly
made your point.
99
"Cranes available from 5 tons to 30 tons lifting capacity.
BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CNR. TODMAN AVENUE AND DOWLING STREET, WATERLOO
TELEPHONE: 663 0465
LETTERS
Sanctity of the Dollar?
Sir,
Thrice congratulations to THE
BULLETIN on its leading articles:
The Big Guess (July 30) and No News
Lrom Townsville (August 13). In the
July article you explained the risk Aus-
tralia is running by holding far more
of its reserves in sterling than can be
justified and mentioned the (all too)
apparent determination of the Lederal
authorities concerned to conceal such
risks.
This ungolden secrecy of the Trea-
sury upon matters of major public
interest is indeed fantastic! It is no less
so that except for THE BULLETIN
there has been such a singular silence
from the Press and from financial
leaders in the community with regard
to: an unqualified commitment of $B5O
million.
Lollowing upon the Lederal
Treasurer’s utterance in Townsville on
August 2 to the effect that Australia
would maintain the above amount,
being two-thirds of Australia’s currency
reserves, in the form of sterling bal-
ances, one would not have expected
the Australia-wide (with a couple of
minor exceptions) docile apathetic
acceptance of such a pledge. For it
must be an absolutely unprecedented
step for the Treasurer of an independ-
ent nation to commit the majority of
its currency reserves to the defence of
another currency.
The Federal Treasurer’s primary duty
to the people of Australia is to safe-
guard in every way the sanctity of the
Australian dollar. It is certainly not
to indulge in the speculation of inter-
national commitments. It is to keep
Australia’s overseas balances at a level
adequate to meet payments due to
Foreigners (that is, to provide for the
differential between payments to and
receipts from Foreigners). It is not, I
venture to assert, to invest such bal-
ances for the purpose of income gain.
Incidentally, the Treasurer would
have been more informative if, instead
of stating that our funds in London
were earning up to a maximum of 6
percent (London Bank rate is currently
7 percent!), he had stated that the
average percentage our funds are earn-
ing is about 4J percent (which I under-
stand is close to the truth). I cannot
refrain from comparing what I believe
CONTENTS
The Budget 14
Judging the Police 20
Conscription Debate 23
Batman 29
Brabham .30
Arts and Entertainment 40
Myra Roper’s China 44
Business and Finance 48
Repco 60
More on Margarine 65
Speculator’s Diary 70


If your copying bill is over $lOO per month...
find out about 3M Company’s new “Selective Installation Plan.”
FILL IN THIS COUPON NOW
Name 1:
Company...
Address
State
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 2 Wentworth Avenue, Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
Sydney 43.0455. Melbourne 61.3841. Brisbane 5.4131. Adelaide 51.5971. Canberra 4.0791. Perth 28.4651. Hobart 3.3104.
You can replace your present copier with the new
3M BRAND AUTOMATIC DRY PHOID COPIER
for no capital outlay.
/
If you’d like to make us an offer for the machine any time after it's installed
we’re always ready to listen!
Why should you go to the trouble of replacing your present copier?
Because the new 3M automatic copier will give you photo-sharp copies
at the same copy cost as you are now paying. With 3M Company’s
“Selective Installation Plan,” you’ll see how you can reduce your copy
cost . . . quickly. Something that you can never hope for with your
present machine.
Are you tolerating fuzzy electrostatic copies? Now you can have photo-
sharp copies from a 3M Brand Automatic Dry Photo Copier. Let 3M
explain the “Selective Installation Plan” as it applies to you. See how
you can install a 3M Brand Automatic Copier now for no capital outlay
. . . and look forward to reducing your copy costs as well.
CT7
are nme Co Py in g machines on the Australian market using no
additives, chemicals or toners. Six of these are made by 3M. Unless you see
the 3M range, you aren’t being fair to yourself.
* Source—“ Mode" Magazine —March 1966
The dry photographic copying method gives
you these benefits:
• Clear photo-sharp prints
• Full tonal and colour values
• No messy chemicals, toners or powders
• Copies all colours
• Copies from books
• Quality low-cost copies at the touch
of a button
• Reliable trouble-free operation
• Multiple copies from all kinds of originals
am
LOOK TO 3M FOR IMAGINATION IN IMAGE MAKING
3M2/3040/66.


%
■i
a ms
Meet my brother...
This is Captain Avis. He’s a fully-qualified, instrument-rated
charter pilot. He and his colleagues form the division of AVIS
that uses wings as well as wheels —AVIS Air Charter; Aus-
tralia's national all-weather charter operation.
AVIS Air Charter is more than just a rent-a-plane service —
it operates to airline standard. It uses navigational aids and
weather radar like those in the big jets; its aircraft are serviced
and maintained just like a regular airline. But here’s the dif-
ference; when you fly AVIS Air Charter, it’s like having your
own airline. Captain Avis is under your command — you plot
the itinerary, you set the timetable. AVIS charters a fleet of 20
of the latest twin-engine AVIS airliners and you can charter
for an hour, a day —or as long as you like. Your Avis Captain
will take you anywhere aircraft can fly —all the out-of-the-way
towns and places the scheduled airlines don't serve.
Planning a business itinerary? Avis Air Charter starts where
the airlines leave off. Avis wings and wheels give you more
time here before you have to bethere. Call AVIS now.
AVIS
AIR CHARTER
AVIS AIR CHARTER: SYDNEY 67-0667, 67-3090 • NEWCASTLE
61-5954 • MELBOURNE 34-8181, 34-2464 • ADELAIDE 51-4592
BRISBANE 68-2468 • CANBERRA 49-6088 * PERTH 23-4466
DARWIN 2947 • HOBART 2-1593 • TOWNSVILLE 5461, and at
one hundred and fifty AVIS rental stations throughout Australia
AC1336.102
to be the two most important inter-
national statements recently given out
by our Cabinet Ministers.
The Prime Minister’s slogan: “All
the way with L.B.J. . . was obviously
an expression of friendship toward and
our moral support for the U.S.A.,
as well as a reaffirmation of our com-
mon democratic aims. This led to
favorable and unfavorable criticisms in
the Australian Press.
By contrast Mr. McMahon’s Towns-
ville statement is very concrete, pledg-
ing as it does two-thirds of Australia’s
hard-earned currency reserves to a
speculative course of action. To be
the greatest holders of sterling, as Mr.
McMahon states we are, is not a com-
forting thought. The question must
eventually arise: Did the Federal
Treasurer make his Townsville speech
with or without the approval of Cab-
inet?' This is part of “the Big Guess.”
PAUL HAEGE
Darling Point (N.S.W.)
The Orr Case
Sir,
Tim Bowden’s letter, apparently aris-
ing out of my obituary article on Orr
(8., July 23), is based on a number
of serious misconceptions. He writes
that “critics of Orr have always been
labelled as vicious perverters of the
truth.” This itself is not true. I wrote
in a recent article that “many who later
opposed Orr’s struggle did so quite
sincerely and for reasons which they
believed to be good ones,” and this has
always been my attitude and that of
many supporters of Orr. The trouble
with such opponents is that they lack
a sufficiently intimate acquaintance
with the evidence of the case.
Mr. Bowden writes that Orr’s
“struggle for justice” should read
“aggressive evasion of the point.” It is
not clear what point Mr. Bowden has
in mind, but assuming that he takes the
main point to be the sexual allegations
which ruined Orr, then the latter never
at any stage evaded this point from his
first reaction, “I categorically deny each
and every one of these allegations,” to
a similar statement as he was dying. In
between he brought a massive weight of
argument on the evidence given to show
that the allegations were false.
Mr. Bowden is also wrong in his sup-
position that nobody “ever spares a
thought for the Kemp family, or
wonders what became of them.” I know
quite well what became of, the Kemp
family and I tried to make clear in my
book on the case that I regarded them
also as victims in the grip of more
powerful and ruthless forces determined
to destroy Orr.
Nobody is maintaining the “Divine
Right of the Academic,” but simply the
ordinary right of the citizen not to be
punished for charges of which he is
innocent. If innocent men meekly
accept framing without fighting back,
then the outlook for all is appalling.
W. H. C. EDDY
University of Sydney
Sydney ( N.S.W.)


SAVING
AS WELL AS SELLING
OVERSEAS is vital to Australia
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills does both, and this
Australian-owned company is a large contributor to the economy and
prosperity of Australia.
In 1938, for the first time in the world, printing and writing
papers were produced at Burnie from short-fibred Eucalypt pulp.
Today, more than 3,000 people are producing some
100,000 tons annually to supply most of Australia’s requirements
in fine papers. There are "Burnie” and “Ballarat” papers
for personal stationery, Government usage, school exercise and
text books, printing, publishing and special wrapping.
This local production effects a very substantial saving in imports
and so conserves Australian overseas funds. To further assist
the nation’s trade balance, large tonnages of “Burnie” and
“Ballarat” papers are exported to South East Asia and other
foreign markets.
Constant quality control, intensive product research and the skill
of Australian workers ensure that the “Burnie” and “Ballarat” brands
rank as world-quality papers.
ASSOCIATED PULP AND PAPER MILLS LIMITED
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
o
3K
o
"“v
M : 1111 l
'* f 4
WSmSMSm
:. >, ■ >• ... -•■ i
, : y .
jSKm
M%M Y ,-


a great moment
for all
whisky
drinkers
Connoisseurs are aware of the vital part grain plays in pro-
ducing a fine, smooth whisky. Australian barley, grown
under ideal climatic conditions, has reached such high
quality that it is now recognised internationally for its
superb whisky-producing qualities. This is important for
Australia; it is important for the entire Australian Whisky
industry. For the first time our modern distilleries, with
their highly skilled blenders and strict quality controls, are
now able to create smooth, matured whiskies of truly
unique character.
This is the era when Australian Whisky has achieved full
international recognition—so much so that it is being
sought in increasing quantities by overseas countries.
Connoisseurs are already celebrating this new era. Why
not join in and enjoy a nip or two tonight? You’ll be
pleasantly surprised.
w
\N
\
m
""V v,
\U\
Vl,
Memory of Thea Proctor
Sir,
I should very much like to support
Barry Humphries’ call for a memorial
exhibition of Thea Proctor’s work. The
impression which first jolted me into
extreme admiration of her as a vital
force was at the opening of a Society
of Artists’ exhibition about 1958, when
this charming elderly lady whom I did
not know struck up a conversation with
me about the type of work dominating
that exhibition; to my surprise she
seemed elated that the younger less
“established” men had triumphed.
In 1962 the Arts Council put on
an exhibition of her work up to
that time; the most interesting feature
about it was that the late work she had
been doing was so full of fluency and
strength. The series of nude drawings
must surely have been some of her best
work; all done after a heart attack
earlier that year! Last Christmas I had
the chance to tell her this, and her
reaction will always be a salutory
recollection; she could have dismissed
such a remark as idle flattery, but no,
she reacted the way many a young
and struggling artist does when given
encouragement. Her humility momen-
tarily revealed to me will always be an
inspiration. I think she was always a
“young” artist in the best sense. And
now the mystery as to how Barry
Humphries ever heard of my etchings
has been solved, too. God bless Thea
Proctor. Because of her true spirit and
generous nature she made the world
just that much better.
ELIZABETH ROONEY
Lane Cove (N.S.W.)
Sir,
Two friends of mine were very im-
pressed to read that Mr. Barry Hum-
phries has one of the works of Thea
Proctor hanging “in his study in Lon-
don.” They note that Mr. Humphries
was introduced to the painter by “a
mutual friend, Mr. Patrick White.”
They have asked me to inquire if Mr.
Humphries means Patrick White the
novelist. Their name is Mr. and Mrs.
Norm Everage, and they live at 22
Humoresque St., Moonee Ponds.
ROBERT BURNS
Paddington (N.S.W.)
Australian Dissenters
Sir,
Readers and supporters of the maga-
zines Brian Buckley castigates (8.,
August 13) presumably the people
who compose his “Australian dissenters”
—will be grateful to him for informing
other members of the public that their
journals at least provide a forum for
reasoned argument. Unfortunately they
will be unable to reciprocate the com-
ment, for Mr. Buckley seems to have
no device, except innuendo, with which
to vilify his opponents. They would,
of course, recognise him as a brave, if
arrogant man, for who else would
have the courage to survey the range
of “little” journals available in this
country in one and a half pages? They
might also wonder at his capacity to
denigrate the social problems which he
credits them with raising and the
astonishment is barely concealed
“even discovering.”
Then, his splendid insight: their dis-
cussion of, and frequent opposition to,
orthodoxy in foreign affairs (presum-
ably “All the way with L.8.J.”) is
founded on a simple failure to recognise
the character and significance of
modern totalitarianism. This, from a
man whose first six paragraphs pur-
port to describe the nature of dissenters
in general and whose next sixteen
examine the significance of their various
movements: anyone capable of such
absurd simplification is, in my view, in
no position to discuss the nature and
significance of anything.
Please, Mr. Editor, stick to your
usual reasoned orthodoxy and avoid
platitudes and slogans. And, Mr. Buck-
ley, have the courtesy to approach the
views and attitudes of others with the
same spirit.
IAN MARSH
Newcastle (N.S.W.)


-'’assays?;
z>-.
v&m
■'&l
¥/
m
w
PS
•-V
• <?v
, *
/' vy. / ... mm
, 11 /// . Mmm
■. /il4 f
a
m
m
A 1
i
p i
V A
1
1
m
\
W/WdZM. r ZZ /;■'•■. /
t, /dm ,?/ /■' / /
%W' '/' • //
*V/ / ' •"'
/! section of Humes Plastiline pipes for the main Adelaide Outfall Sewer at Bolivar
HUMES “Plastiline”
the latest in sewer pipe protection
H2S gas concentration in sewer pipes may lead to the
gradual corrosion of the concrete . . . but it cannot
harm PVC. That’s why we have developed a method
to give our concrete sewer pipes a corrosion-proof
skin of PVC “Plastiline”.
MECHANICALLY INTERLOCKED
The idea is not new of course. There are other
plastic-lined pipes on the market.
But ours are the only concrete sewer pipes with the
keys of the Plastiline sheets mechanically interlocked
with the spun concrete itself. No adhesive, no
mortar. The process is patented.
We claim that our method gives the best results.
Concrete and Plastiline sheet are so rigidly inter-
locked that a test pull of more than 100 lbs. per
lin. inch of keys (that is 40 lbs. per square inch of
sheet), cannot tear them apart.
CIRCUMFERENTIAL KEYS—LIGHTER PIPES
What is more, we run our keys around the circum-
ference of the pipe, NOT along its length.
This means that a HUMES PLASTILINE SEWER
PIPE has thinner walls than a pipe with longitudinal
keys, because its effective wall thickness is practically
unaffected by our method of arranging the Plastiline
keys circumferentially. Result: Our pipes are lighter.
Besides, HUMES PLASTILINE SEWER PIPES
have the shortest escape routes for any moisture
build-up . . . along the multitude of keys to the
bottom of the pipe. No blockage, no strain on the
Plastiline sheeting. It’s the ideal solution.
FOR FURTHER DETAILS please contact the
Humes office in your capital city.
HOM]L
saiAiriH
AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST PIPE-MAKERS
HUMES LIMITED HEAD OFFICE: 185 William Street, Melbourne. 600221. STATE OFFICES: N.S.W.: Park Road, Regents Park. 6442351.
VIC.: 12th Floor, 205 William St., Melb. 600221. QLD.: 189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. 45881. S.A.: 78 West Beach Road, Keswick. 971011.
W.A.: Salvado Road, Subiaco. 872311, TAS.: 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 32741.
HCI232X


ESIR&EIk
Israel provides an outstanding example of the way a deter-
mined people can overcome obstacles to carve for themselves
a new way of life.
Fifty years ago, there were only 100,000 Jews in Palestine
out of a total population of 750,000. Now there are over 2\
million Israelis, almost all Jewish migrants and their children.
Here is how 1965 compares with 1948 the year Israel
became independent:—
1948
# Population
AMR 800,000
Factories
300
'<K /A A a\
AzZfczkA A A A.
a< 'A; 'a
Cultivated Area
300,000 acres
Irrigated Area
c 74,000 acres
Afforested Area
13,000 acres
Reclaimed Land
5,000 acres
Dwellings Added
j«jjj|(since 1948)
Educational Institutions
1,350
TASMANIA
17,000,000 acres
370,000 population
ISRAEL 5,000,000 acres
2,500,000 population
Australian exports to Israel during 1964/65 mounted to
$A2,294,000 and from July 1965 to May 1966 were
$A 1,244,000. Imports from Israel for the year 1964/65
amounted to $A 1,441,000 as compared with $A1,562,000
for the period from July, 1965, to May, 1966. Israel's total
imports during 1965 amounted to $A812,000,000 with an
almost complete absence of import restrictions.
The Israel Australian Division of the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce is organising an Australian Businessman's Visit
to Israel early in October of this year to examine further
possibilities to develop imports and exports between the two
countries.
All information supplied by the Institute of Public Affairs.
A Little English History
Sir,
I once had the occasion, here in
Kuala Lumpur, to judge a school essay
competition. One boy wrote: “Unlike
the history of England, the history of
Malaya has very little glory in it.” One
allows for the fact that he had been
taught, if not by Englishmen, then
from books written by Englishmen.
What extenuation can we find for Mr.
Robert S. Elegant (8., August 6), who
thinks of the Malays as “a people with
little history after all”? Much besides
beauty lies in the eye of the beholder.
WILLIAM R. ROFF
Department of History,
University of Malaya
Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia)
Salter’s " Slush Pump”
Sir,
Your Mr. Salter (8., August 6) did
not review the Suk “duo” performance
of July 27. Apart from a passing refer-
ence to some minor aspects of string
technique, inserted more to impress than
to edify the reader, what he “reviewed”
was his own preconceived idea of the
relative worth of the works presented.
In order of performance and not famili-
arity, the Dvorak Sonatina in G was not
“simple and too easily effective,” as
concentrated listening to this work
would show. It is also not true that
“every visiting chamber group” opens
their recital with a “traditional nation-
alistic gesture,” as examination of the
programs for recent years will reveal.
We have the Franck Violin Sonata
in A, christened by him “The Slush
Pump.” The Sonata does not, nor does
“most of Franck’s music,” have “but
one theme.” The Sonata contains a
number of themes, the whole permeated
by an idee fixe. This Sonata is great in
ways that Mr. Salter has yet to realise.
Finally, Mr. Salter does not seem to
realise that Musica Viva’s so called
“Classical, Romantic, and ‘inoffensive’
Contemporary programming” is
essential if they are to keep their 1300-
odd subscribers. Presumably, if he wants
to hear “offensive” contemporary pro-
gramming, then there is plenty of this,
good and bad, provided by 1.5.C.M.,
with which Musica Viva does not, and
rightly so, wish to compete.
TIMOTHY ASLANIDES
Enmore (N.S.W.)
Tuesday’s Child
Sir,
Even though Peter Samuel regards
himself as “a confessed economic
radical” (8., August 13), I was rather
depressed by his statement that “below
2.5 percent (unemployment) there is
an undue degree of labor shortage and
consequent pressures on the cost and
price levels and on the balance of pay-
ments.” Should one infer that a pre-
requisite to a high standard of living
is unemployment?
L. B. BOORMAN
Eastwood (N.S.W.)


If you re an expanding company
FILE
file this ad under’B’for Brownbuilt
because sometime this year you may need:
Hi
E0 3
. . . and while you're at it, tear a leaf from the Boy Scout's Manual and also
file it under ‘B’ — for ‘Be Prepared’. Be prepared to efficiently deal with in-
creases in your business by installing Brownbuilt all-steel office equipment.
Businesslike Brownbuilt make the most effective use of valuable floor space
vyhile streamlining clerical staff operations . . . without sacrificing style and
appearance. Their well disciplined lines are highlighted in baked enamel finish
of attractive Harmony Grey. Desks come in combinations of restful hues
specially designed to aid concentration and blend with every office colour
scheme.
With Brownbuilt steel equipment, no effort has been spared to combine fashion
with efficiency. Its strength, and capacity for hard work, has made its name re-
nowned. Brownbuilt manufacture Australia’s largest range of steel office equip-
ment; and they're willing to back it with a 5-year guarantee. Scout’s honour.
On second thoughts, don’t file this ad. Act now, phone Brownbuilt, it can save
you space, time and money.
Brownbuilt
mm LIMITED iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiii
STEEL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
Melbourne 48 0311 • Sydney 27 7821 • Brisbane 47 4077 • Adelaide 76 5111
• Canberra 9 4824 • Perth 21 5967 • Hobart 2 6571 • Launceston 2 5584
Use our Free Advisory Service. Distributors in metropolitan and country centres.
7174/3/R
Criticising the Critics
Sir,
I feel I must take issue with several
of your contributors.
James Kirkup seems to think that
he (and possibly a very select few
others) knows all about poetry and
that nobody else knows anything about
it. Such insularity is annoying, to say
the least.
R. M. Wilding claims flatly that TV
and cinema can replace the novel an
assertion so amazing that one wonders
just how little Mr. Wilding knows of
TV-cinema on one hand or novels
on the other. This unfortunate final
paragraph seems to invalidate an other-
wise well-written critique.
Finally, those critics who have
“panned” the series “Australian Play-
house” must surely allow' that to write
something really significant w'hich runs
for only 30 minutes is an extremely
difficult task or haven’t they tried?
T. P. O'DONNELL
Winterfold (W.A.).
ELECTION MANIFESTO
ffiJiulLetin
86 Years Ago: August 27, 1880.
and gentlemen, In con-
sequence of the momentous and
burning questions which are rife, and
will have to decide the great political
struggle on the threshold of which
we are now entering, and before the
throes of its titanic upheaval will
have convulsed society and clouded
our mental vision, I wish to tender
my services to be used in your inter-
ests. I address myself to the ladies
of this city, advisedly, for no time
will elapse before they must be
allowed to exercise the franchise, as
well as the sterner sex.
When the history of our times be
written by some Australian Macaulay
or Gibbon, he will, with eloquent
indignation and scathing invective,
hand over to universal opprobrium the
framers of such iniquitous laws as
the fiscal program of the present Min-
istry disclosed for example, the
Stamp Duty, that imposes the tax of
2d on the receipt of £2, and the
individual who gives a receipt for
£lOOO or £50,000 is bound only to
put the same paltry 2d stamp on his
large transaction to make it legal.
Then the Wool, Coal, and Cattle Tax.
If you think favorably of my can-
didature, I am resolved to do my
utmost as an Independent Member
to bring all the blessings of Free-trade
and Protection to your doors, and as
an earnest of this, I respectfully solicit
your presence and patronage at my
Great Drapery Fair. There you will
see goods that are brought to this
port free of all import duties offered
at prices that will protect your
pockets. I trust you will endorse the
opinions I advocate, the sentiments
which prompt to mainly and honor-
able action in seeking your suffrages
at the General Election.
I am your most obedient servant,
W. G. CAMERON.


Boys of Granville Boys' High School, Sydney, at the exhibition of their art held at the Clune Galleries.
"Enthroned," a moulded figure by five 13- and 14-year-olds, stands in front of a painting, "The Idols."


More about Air Marketing:
When you import,
you pay for the shipping.
You have the right to
demand the best kind.
Don’t depend on your supplier to pick the type of
shipping that will do you the most good. Specify
Pan Am, find out how profitable Air Marketing is.
Get delivery—in a matter of hours, not weeks —
from all 6 continents by Pan Am Jet. We’re
responsible all the way. Cut your inventories
drastically. Save big money on warehousing. Place
your orders only when you know there’s a demand,
and don’t get stuck if an item turns sluggish.
Buy where the bargains are—anywhere in the
world. Re-order right up to the last minute to
make short selling seasons longer. Set fashion
trends or introduce other new items . . . something
you can do with almost no risk only with
Air Marketing.
Air Marketing slashes these costs, too: packing,
crating, insurance, paperwork, inland transporta-
tion, damage and pilferage.
We can even help you find new Air Marketing
minded suppliers the world over through our
World-Wide Marketing Service. Find out how.
Call your Pan Am Cargo Agent or call us.
World’s largest air cargo carrier*World’s most experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC
SYDNEY: KINGSFORD-SMITH AIRPORT. 67 1384 •
FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST ’ROUND THE WORLD
MELBOURNE: SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL. 63 9077
PASI4


Face of the Week
Federal Treasurer McMahon’s first
Budget, for a deficit of $270 million,
aroused criticism from Victoria and
N.S.W. for its States’ grants. Exter-
nal Affairs Minister Hasluck told
Parliament that Australia wanted to
live with Communist China but was
not prepared to fall flat on its face
to do so. In a week of tragedies, 30
men died in a Melbourne hostel fire,
a family of six in a farmhouse fire
near Sydney, and in aircraft crashes
four people were killed in Victoria,
two died and three were injured in
Queensland, and an RAAF pilot was
killed in N.S.W. In South Vietnam
17 Australians were killed, 48
wounded. Three were rescued after
being missing for 23 days in the
Snowy Mountains. Four Japanese
destroyers visited Sydney, and their
commander placed a wreath on the
Cenotaph. In Melbourne a 25-year-
old man sat for two hours on the
nearly completed Princes Gate
building, threatening to jump until
talked out of it by a clergyman.
★
During a seminar on Northern
Development in Brisbane, Professor
C. H. Munro, of N.S.W., told Young
Liberals that Cape York should be
sold to overseas interests capable of
developing it, and Senator Scott, of
W.A. said the Cape’s 60 million
acres could carry 5 million cattle
instead of the present 100,000. Pre-
mier Walsh, of S.A., announced a
new State Lottery with 60 percent
of receipts becoming prizes. An
anonymous Sydney man and his wife
gave $250,000 to establish Australia’s
first Chair of Cardiology at Sydney
University. Brisbane artist Charles
Blackman’s fourth exhibition was
sold out for $34,000. The Perini Cor-
poration sued N.S.W. Premier Askin
for $6 million. Singer Billy Thorpe,
mobbed in Hobart, was told to rest
a bruised throat for 10 days.
★
Jack Brabham flew to Australia
for an exhibition race at the Gold
Coast, but his car “ran out of go”
after 1J laps. Sweden placed an
embargo on arms to Australia, and
Malaysia pegged its currency to gold
instead of sterling. Senator Willesee,
of W.A., was elected ALP leader in
the Senate. R. M. Bannerman was
appointed Commissioner of Trade
Practices and C. G. McGrath chair-
man of the Export Development
Council. The Queensland Cabinet
decided to build a $2O million, six-
lane toll bridge over the lower Bris-
bane River .
★
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88. No. 4512
AUGUST 27, 1966
A Code for the Cockatoo
T AST week THE BULLETIN
and other newspapers received
a message from Cockatoo Docks
which in part read: “We regret to
inform you that owing to industrial
troubles at Cockatoo Island Dock-
yard, it has been necessary to post-
pone the launching of HMAS
Stalwart by Her Excellency, The
Lady Casey, on Saturday, 20th
August, 1966. You will be advised
as soon as another date has been
selected.” These bald statements
referred to one of the more dis-
heartening of recent industrial
disputes and one that is all the
more serious because it involves
Australia’s defence yet in no crucial
way can be attributed to deliberate
Communist disruption, as in the
1964 troubles on Garden Island.
The HMAS Stalwart is to
be the “mother ship” to the three
guided-missile-launching Adams
class destroyers which we are pur-
chasing from America. Without
her the three destroyers would be
virtually useless. In essence what
happened was this: A key union,
the shipwrights, were awarded a
new margin increase by Commis-
sioner Horan. The employers de-
cided that the new margin was not
to be added to existing over-award
wages but would replace them
since, in their opinion, these really
represented advance payments of
the new margin. The union claimed
that in other unions and in other
cities, new margins are always
added to existing over-award pay-
ments; the employers countered
by reference to cases and places
where they are not. In the end
most of the shipwrights left Cocka-
too Docks; without them about
50 painters and dockers became
superfluous and were dismissed
and to round it off the remaining
140 painters and dockers went on
strike. ♦
One clue to the mess was given
by Sir Richard Kirby, President
of the Arbitration Commission, in
his last Annual Report to the
Federal Parliament. He referred
to the unjust distribution of over-
award payments. A few strong
key unions—such as the shipwrights
—which control labor in short
supply have been able to com-
mand high over-award payments
from employers, regardless of mar-
gins, while othe r s such as
the Public Servants or unskilled
workers have not. Predicting in-
dustrial troubles like the current
dispute, he called for an inves-
tigation of the over-award system,
a legislative code to guide Com-
missioners as to what extent they
should take actual wages into
account when making decisions
and the incorporation of grievance
procedures along the lines of Part
X of the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Act in any industrial agree-
ment.
But one thing is clear: When
Communists disrupted Garden
Island in 1964 most people readily
demanded that all necessary steps
be taken to ensure that in future
Communists work anywhere else
except in defence establishments.
Now in 1966 it seems equally
clear that all necessary steps should
be taken to see that non-Com-
munists unions and employers
alike conduct their affairs in
such a way that ships which are
to play a key role in Australia’s
defence be launched and com-
pleted on schedule.


THE BUDGET
Defence Shrouded in Obscurity
Treasurer McMahon How do you win friends and influence the GNP?
THE Treasurer, Mr. McMahon, put
defence first on the agenda in the
Cabinet discussions a month ago
which thrashed out the shape of the
JBudg e t.
v . 'i , ~ . .i .
Not that the military got their money
easi y y eing is in. a me spen
a day and a half of the fu ay
pre-Budget discussions on defence sub-
™ IS “ S beforehand, Mr.
McMahon had supervised a more-
thorough-than-usual Treasury check on
service requests. But the implications
of the great leap in commitments this
financial year are not explained in the
Budget. Ministers refuse to say whether
provision has been made for hardware
purchases beyond those previously an-
nounced. Officials close to Defence
Minister Fairhall say the Estimates
debate will reveal details of any new
purchases provided for, and hint that
they will consist of ancillary equip-
ment, electronics, and the like. And
it is hard to believe the Govern-
ment has not at least found some
money to breed up the tiny sparrow-
like helicopter flock. At the moment
its capacity is estimated at 100 men!
The financial side of the defence
vote is also shrouded in unnecessary
obscurity. The Budget papers do not
explain the reasons for the $250 mil-
lion jump, and Government officials
were unable to give a coherent explan-
ation last week. At time of writing the
best construction I could put on it
is as follows.
On behalf of defence Australia is up
for payments of $lOOO million this
financial year. Of these, $113.8 mil-
lion go towards payment of American
contractors working on a U. 5.5450 mil-
lion package deal arranged with the
U.S. Government last year. The money
will pay contractors for their work so
far for FIIIA fighters, Hercules trans-
ports, Navy anti-submarine planes, and
Army amphibious vehicles being built.
The money will be found by the
American Government for the time
being. Details of terms for reimburse-
ment have not yet been officially
announced, but officials say that repay-
ments start this year, and a rough esti-
mate is that $67 million will be re-
quired this year and each year for
another seven years to pay off the
U. 5.5450.5450 million bill which is being
incurred. But there is no provision for
this in the Budget.
According to the Budget, the Aus-
tralian Treasury has $886.2 million to
disburse on behalf of the armed ser-
vices, an increase of $138.8 million or
19 percent over last year. The largest
dollop of this, some $48.6 million, goes
to pay the larger wage and salary bill.
Personnel are expected to increase by
about 10 percent in number, absorbing
$2O million more. Higher rates of pay
will cost the other $2B million. Arma-
ments costs go up $37 million equally
split between extra spending on patrol
boats and frigates being built for the
Navy and Mirage fighters and Machi
trainer planes for the Air Force. Army
purchases of hardware creep up a mere
$3 million. Beyond this there is an
extra $20.7 million for the building
of barracks, an increase of almost a
half on current spending. The specific
cost of having forces overseas —in Viet-
nam and Malaysia—increases $11.9
million on the $16.8 million of the last
financial year.
But these are the cash payments, very
relevant to the Treasurer’s budgetary
problems but not an indication of the
actual military muscle being developed,
or the rate at which it is being strength-
ened. An obscure, misleadingly titled
table in a supplementary paper pro-
vides our only clue. And it turns up the
surprising fact that the amount spent
locally plus deliveries of hardware from
overseas —our measure of strengthened
muscle —increased by a relatively small
amount this year, $ll2 million. In fact,
this turns out to be less than the cor-
responding addition of $l7B million last
year. It is also less than the $138.2
million increase in domestic disburse-
ments and far below the $250 million
increase in financial commitments.
None of this is nearly as clear in the
Budget papers as it should be in the
interests of public understanding of the
economics of defence. Concealed behind
apparently spectacular figures is a con-
tinuation of an unspectacular build-up
of our military strength. This is to high-
light a weakness. In the broad it looks
like a well-designed Budget which will
give the economy a moderate boost.
PETER SAMUEL


Business No tax carrots
MR. McMAHON could not get his
1966-67 Budget revenue estimate
anywhere near the top of his
projected expenditure mountain. So he
excused himself from making tax con-
cessions to stimulate consumer demand
and private investment expectations-
both in sore need of a positive lift from
the Budget.
To call the broad Budget strategy
out and out expansionist is to neglect
the absence of tax concessions. How-
ever hard the exercise, with such big
bills to meet, it is just conceivable that
Mr. McMahon could have got revenue
much nearer the expenditure summit
by making a more positive attempt to
boost GNP and with it taxable incomes
by administering strong psychological
stimulants to spenders and investment.
If he is serious in his avowed inten-
tion to help the private sector and not
put the brakes on development, he
must clearly be relying on the. injec-
tion of Treasury bill money via his
cash deficit, which is one of the biggest
budgeted for in Australia.
Interpretation of the Budget would
be much easier if we could take Mr.
McMahon’s estimated deficit of $270
million at its face value. Unfortunately
we cannot do this, because the deficit is
an artificial construction. In the build-
ing of it we find a number of counter-
feit assumptions.
This is not meant to challenge the
estimate of $5930 million for total ex-
penditure from Federal sources from
consolidated revenue and loan account,
although the ultimate result may well
differ substantially up or down.
The weaknesses in the make-up of
the estimated deficit are to be found
more in the forecasts for loan sub-
scriptions and redemptions. There is a
strong possibility that in the future
financial and economic scene the per-
formances of these items could shoot
the deficit to pieces. So we should be
very wary of regarding it as a medium
by which the Treasurer could expect
to lift the private sector, flooding it
with new layers of effective demand.
Yet while admitting the dilemma
facing Mr. McMahon, stuck as he is
with such a huge increase (from $748
to $lOOO million) in defence expendi-
ture, still anxious to keep the develop-
ment ball rolling, and determined to
keep up social investment, it looks as
though he is relying very strongly on
his long held belief that the private
sector will respond to a welter of
Government expenditure. This is the
only basis on which he can regard the
Budget as expansionary.
While I would have preferred to see
Mr. McMahon dangle some lighter tax
carrots to get the currently reluctant
private sector to break out of its slow
trot, obviously the Treasurer wants the
economic animal to feel it has been
let off lightly by not being more heavily
tax weighted to pay for the $6OO mil-
lion rise in expenditure (of which it
should be noted $348 million is for
non-defence items). He could have
made a lot more of this in his Budget
speech, which might have also
given some time to explaining the
stimulant potential of his proposed
deficit. Also, it would have been helpful
to hear rather more on the subject of
whether the prospective shortfall in
private investment can be made good
by Government investment, a theory
once popular with Mr. McMahon. In
the period ahead, when all the signs
point to a further slowdown in private
investment, we will have plenty of
opportunity to test this out. (Federal
Government works and services this
year will take $37.4 million more or
$471.4 million while State public and
housing works go up by $4O million
to $6OO million.)
The investment gap aside, hit as it
is on every side by rising costs (the
recent wage rise, the prospective in-
creases in margins, and the current
record heights of raw materials prices,
including copper, steel, and petrol),
private industry is not going to be a
walkover for Mr. McMahon’s strategies.
Maybe he is happy not to have in-
creased taxes and thinks business and
people generally should be grateful.
Maybe he is also pleased to be pouring
more Government money into the over-
all investment gap. But in the ultimate
analysis the viability of private enter-
prise will count most. This is soon
going to be under another Government
assault—from the various State budgets.
Two premiers at least, those of N.S.W.
and Victoria, have indicated they are
scraping the barrel for funds and that
the inadequacy of Federal handouts
in its Budget leaves them no alternative
but to increase their own taxes.
J. C. HORSFALL
Education Only a bone
the dog that did not bark, the
interesting thing about the Budget,
from the schools’ point of view, is what
it does not do.
In the first place, the Federal
Government has accepted no new re-
sponsibilities for education. Although
Mr. McMahon made a genuflection to-
ward the recommendations which still
have to be received from the advisory
bodies for tertiary education, the sums
of money set aside will do no more
than allow what is already being done
to continue. There has been no
liberalisation or extension of the
scholarship scheme, no recognition for
teachers’ colleges, no extension for re-
search. The Holt Government will
continue with the bowdlerised version
of the Martin scheme which was
adopted by the former Prime Minister,
and it still has plenty of rags to pluck
out of the basket to decorate its elec-
tion policy later in the year.
Not so the States, whose educational
problems are unaffected by the Budget.
The $B4 million made directly avail-
able to the States is exclusively for
capital and recurring expenditure on
universities, science, and technical
facilities. A few more schools will
receive magnificent science blocks,
others will be grateful for smaller
mercies, but the standard of science
teaching will remain as it is, and as
it will be until far more science teachers
are trained. Similarly, the slight in-
crease in technical facilities will ease
present strains rather than lead to tiew
advances.
The essence of the educational prob-
lem is that the responsibility rests with
the States while the finance remains
in the hands of Canberra. The only
elastic sources of State revenue are
direct, obvious, and unpopular taxes,
and consequently no State government
is eager to incur any expenditure of
such magnitude as would be needed
to make a significant difference to the
State schools.
For the uninterested governments,
this offers a wonderful opportunity to
dodge responsibility. * The Victorian
Education Minister, Mr. J. Bloomfield,
has for many years been vocal on the
way his hands are tied by the uniform
taxation system. At the same time, the
poor state of the schools offers a per-
fect excuse for raising the taxes a
little whenever this course becomes un-
avoidable, and both Sir Henry Bolte
and Mr. Askin have already given an
indication that the federal Scrooge
is forcing them up this unhappy path.
But while the politicians squabble the
schools fall further behind the times.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, has
pointed out that education costs are
capable of wrecking the budget. There
is, however, no suggestion in Mr. Mc-
Mahon’s figures that this danger was
unrecognised this year. It seems likely
that the danger will continue to re-
ceive more attention than the need,
at least until a Commonwealth
Minister of Education is appointed with
full responsibility to push the case for
our schools into the Cabinet room,
instead of having it pre-determined as
part of the annual bone Treasury sees
fit to throw to the States.
JOHN MCLAREN


Ws all in the mind
•••
rlaa
O
3 s
and
Hus accounting machine
(Burroughs Series EtOOO)
has a mind of its own!
It makes decisions for you. Automatically. Simplifying the operator’s job on even the most complex
accounting routines. It can be programmed, just like a computer. At the touch of a key you can
introduce electronically stored data such as hourly rates, discounts, prices, etc. ■
The Burroughs Series E 1000 has many other ways of saving you time, increasing productivity, and
streamlining your accounting procedures. For instance. Electronic split-second multiplication. 10
digits in little more than 1/100 of a second! And because the E 1000 is so simple to operate (it has
standard alpha and numeric keyboards), top productivity can be achieved in a matter of days.
Besides handling your accounting work, it can provide complete management reports and, at
the same time, produce tape or cards for subsequent computer processing. In short, it has every-
thing you could ask for in an accounting machine plus a mind of its own. Like to hear its brain
tick? Simply call your Burroughs man for an on-the-spot demonstration.
Burroughs


atten-shun!
cpa is
fastest
to Europe
If
‘VV-
Save hours flying time—with Canadian
Pacific! Jet direct from Sydney to Van-
couver, Canada! Then the fastest way to the
heart of Europe—over the shorter, non-stop
Polar Route. See your travel agent for details.
VANCOUVER GATEWAY TO ALL
CANADIAN AND U.S. CITIES! THEN
OVER THE POLAR ROUTE TO THE
HEART OF EUROPE LONDON IS
ONLY MINUTES AWAY!
fly Ca/iadia/i (fhctfic a/rl/a/es -^T
Incorporated in Canada. Limited Co. Canadian Pacific/Trains/Planes/Trucks/Ships/Hotels/Telecommuni-
cations. World’s most complete transportation system. Sydney office: 247 George Street, Sydney. 27-3411
Melbourne office: 59 William Street, Melbourne. 61-3371. General sales agents—Ansett-A.N.A.
Not a Comma?
THE opening of last week’s foreign
affairs debate was a Parliamentary
and public indication of the div-
ergence within the Labor Party on the
Vietnam issue. It will be interesting
to see whether the party stragetists can
paper them over until after the elec-
tion.
Mr. Allan Fraser told Parliament
last week that a Labor government
would get its national servicemen out
of South Vietnam as soon as practical
and its remaining forces as soon as
possible. On the same night Mr. Kim
Beazley, a member of the Federal
Parliamentary Labor Party Executive
and almost as prominent a Labor
spokesman on foreign affairs as Mr.
Fraser, voiced no opposition to the
presence of Australian troops. This
opposition appeared to be directed
solely against the ineffectiveness of the
Vietnam operation in its present form.
With cold logic Beazley though
quick to say that he was not advocating
the invasion of North Vietnam said
that if the guarantee against the in-
vasion of the North issued by the
leaders of the West was serious the
war could go on indefinitely. If a
similar guarantee had been given to
Germany, World War II would still
be going on.
W ITH . that guarantee of immunity
against attack it was more than
ever difficult to get North Vietnam to
the negotiating table. Put those two
statements together and contrast the
approach and you can begin to under-
stand the difficulties that Labor is go-
ing to face during the November
general elections campaigns if, as Mr.
Calwell insists, Vietnam and its associ-
ated problems are to collectively com-
prise the major election issue.
Fraser deliberately threw down the
gauntlet on this issue and created an
atmosphere in which it will be almost
impossible for those Labor Parliamen-
tarians advocating some modification
of Labor’s Vietnam policy to secure
their way. Fraser underwrote the de-
fiant declaration by Calwell that Labor
would fight the elections without chang-
ing a comma in its Vietnam policy.
The Holt Government was, in the
shape of the Ky Government, support-
ing a reactionary regime, said Fraser.
The Holt Government, by tying its
policy on to the coat tails of the United
States, was committing itself to back
those advocating a preventive war
against China. Fraser obviously wel-
comed the interjection from Govern-
ment members “What is Labor policy?”
“I’ll tell you,” said Fraser and pro-
ceeded to lay it right on the line.
Labor would pull out national service-
men as soon as possible and its remain-
ing forces after consultation with the
Americans. But he made it clear that
consultations would be conducted in
the clear knowledge that the Australians
would be pulled out whatever the view-
point of the Americans and irrespective
of anything but security factors. Aus-
tralia would consider the security aspect
of their allies, South Vietnam and
America alike, but its forces would
come out.
Even on minor detail there was an
obvious difference of approach between
Fraser and other Labor speakers as
well as Beazley. Where Fraser had des-
cribed the Ky administration as re-
actionary, Manfred Cross, Lab., Qld.,
recently returned from Vietnam, des-
cribed the Ky Government as “honest.”
On his return from a trip by an all-
party delegation to Vietnam during the
Parliamentary recess, Cross had ques-
tioned the practicality of pulling out
Australian National Servicemen while
leaving permanent forces there. He
had found a note of hope where Fraser
could see only despair and possibly the
nuclear elimination of the human race
as a result of escalation in war activi-
ties in the area. Cross reported that the
delegation had been informed that the


forces fighting alongside the Aus-
tralians in South Vietnam the South
Vietnamese themselves and the Ameri-
cans —believed that the aggression from
North Vietnam could be successfully
overcome within two years. Thereafter,
what would haver to be confronted was
what he described as an “insurgent
war.” It might take ten years to win
this war.
Cross was a bit ambiguous about
whether or not he wanted the Aus-
tralian forces withdrawn an am-
biguity that is understandable in view
of the fact that the ALP machine
policy is still for withdrawal. Cross
said that he did not think that Aus-
tralia’s role in Asia was that of a
military power. There was a great con-
structive role for Australia to play in
assisting civil administration there. He
hoped that Australia would be able to
play a part in assisting in this civil role
when the troops were withdrawn.
Although Fraser and Beazley can be
counted among the big guns, there
is still plenty of very heavy artillery
to come into action. Both Deputy Op-
position Leader Gough Whitlam, and
Dr. J. Cairns, visited Vietnam and
South-East Asia during the Parliament-
ary recess. Both have already publicly
expressed views that suggest that each
has a viewpoint that differs consider-
ably from the other.
ALAN REID
Court’s Gesture
TAKE Charles Court out of the
Western Australian Cabinet and
there is not much left. Yet word
is circulating, as it has before, that he
will soon retire from political life.
While he carefully denies such
rumors of an imminent retirement,
the Minister for Industrial Develop-
ment, the North-West, and Railways
significantly leaves open the possibility
that this might well happen at any
time. And the most likely reason would
be as a gesture to dramatise a failure
the State Government’s failure to
convince the Federal Government that
there must be some limit on the pres-
sure it feels Canberra is putting on
Perth. Over the past year or so Mr.
Court has made himself banner-carrier
for this rift, and he has made no secret
of his impatience with the Federal line
on a number of issues.
This flared into open revolt over Sir
Robert Menzies’ allegation on State-
inspired inflation with the “gold-plated
railway line” now being standardised,
with Mr. McEwen’s refusal to approve
Hammersley Iron’s pellet contract, with
the Commonwealth’s refusal to back
the State over the township at Ex-
mouth Gulf, and, of course, over the
still-unresolved Ord problem. This
rebelliousness has flattened earlier
thought that he might become a Fed-
eral politician, and similarly his refusal
to compromise with his Country Party
colleagues and sometimes with
fellow Liberals virtually rules out
any hopes he might have had of lead-
ing the State.
Who Killed Jillian Brewer?
WESTERN Australia’s Deputy Opposition Leader, John Tonkin, hopes this
week to persuade his Labor colleagues to press for a public inquiry into
the Darryl Beamish case. This follows the publication of a review of the
Beamish trial by Professor Peter Brett, Professor of Jurisprudence at Melbourne
University.
Beamish, a 20-year-old deaf mute, is
in Fremantle Gaol serving a life sen-
tence commuted from the death penalty
for the murder of 22-year-old Jillian
Brewer, found nude after having been
killed with an axe and grotesquely
stabbed in her flat in Decetnber, 1959.
Professor Brett is articulating a num-
ber of doubts that have hung over the
case since Eric Edgar Cooke claimed
after his rampage of murder three years
ago to have killed Jillian Brewer; Cooke
was convicted of five murders and con-
fessed to several others. The Beamish
Case went right through all possible
appeals. Application for special leave
to appeal against the Criminal Court
decision was made to the High Court
and refused. Then after Cooke’s con-
fession a motion was put to the Criminal.
Court for a new trial and rejected;
application was made to the High
Court for special leave to upset the
Criminal Court of Appeal ruling; and
finally application was made to the
Privy Council for special leave to
appeal.
Before the Privy Council appeal,
Opposition Leader Mr. Bert Hawke in
November, 1964, brought the case
before Parliament, asking first that all
case papers he had seen on a confiden-
tial basis be tabled. Eight days later
he introduced a bill seeking a new trial
with Cooke’s confession allowed as evi-
dence. Both measures were defeated 20
to 19 on Party lines. In July last year
Mr. Tonkin asked the Premier, Mr.
Brand, questions about the similarity
between the Beamish case and Britain’s
case of Timothy John Evans, hung for
a murder to which John Christie sub-
sequently confessed.
There were two public inquiries into
this case and it will be this form of
inquiry Mr. Tonkin will seek for
Darryl Beamish.
Of the Government’s action he says,
“I am convinced Cooke’s execution was
hastened in order to reduce the pres-
sure for a trial at which he could have
been called as a witness.” Mr. Tonkin
has been in touch with the British
Prime Minister, Mr. Wilson, and
claims to have the necessary back-
ground to the Evans case to back his
call for a public inquiry into the Beam-
ish case. To the layman, one of the
key doubts was in Cooke’s claim that
Jillian Brewer spoke after she had been
struck. At first it was claimed this
was impossible; later the Premier con-
ceded that new advice indicated this
to be possible though highly unlikely.
Also there was the disturbing time lag
between Beamish’s confession and his
arrest. Mr. Tonkin speaks of another
doubt. “Cooke mentioned having seen
milk bottles at Jillian Brewer’s flat.
According to the milkman’s testimony,
he could not have seen these other than
on the morning she was murdered, be-
cause on the day of the murder—and
only that day—delivery was unusually
early.” In fact, the Crown has virtu-
ally acknowledged that Cooke had
been in Miss Brewer’s flat, and pos-
sibly on the night she was murdered.
He had known too many details to
have picked them all up fro,m reading
evidence of the Beamish case.
While Professor Brett’s book has put
the cat among the pigeons it has un-
earthed nothing new. Nor could it,
being written as it was from the tran-
scripts of evidence. Professor Brett
says “no conscientious lawyer can
accept with equanimity that an
innocent man may be serving a long
jail sentence for a crime which he did
not commit. I wrote the book to bring
to notice the view that a miscarriage
of justice had taken place.”
Despite its limitations the book has
the objectivity of an academic and
nobody can claim it is motivated by
political considerations. Professor Brett
has simply stated afresh a set of doubts
that have never really died in the
public’s mind and certainly some action
will follow. What can this be? All
legal answers have been negative, fail-
ing to alleviate the doubts inevitable
in such a controversial case. Only a
politically inspired decision can now
be made. The State Government has
acted impeccably in that it has backed
appeals and then stood firmly by the
court’s decisions. Now it faces the
alternative of making a move indepen-
dently or probably having the Oppo-
sition and a disturbed public press-
ing strongly for action. And action can
be either a new trial or, as Mr. Tonkin
would like, a public inquiry Timothy
John Evans style.
YD Alarms
JUST how controversial the findings
of a survey on venereal disease
can be was proved at a little-
publicised symposium of public health
experts in Sydney earlier this month.
The survey, carried out by Sydney
University’s Preventive Medicine
Department among 3000 doctors and
medical specialists in private practice
throughout the metropolitan area, had
been kept fairly quiet for the best part
of six months. \
Plans provided that it should not
be made public until agencies of the
Australian Medical Association had
studied the findings.
The airing of the survey results


ahead of schedule among members
of the N.S.W. Public Health Associa-
tion could have led to a minor up-
heaval but for the presence of some
wily newspaper representatives who
sensed, but who waited vainly, for a
showdown among the experts.
The controversy which did ensue
was not caused by the apparently
premature release of certain statistical
• r . , , , • r __ *• „ •*
in formation tat by the mfoonatton it-
self. The facts, presented by Dr. A.
Adams, a young medical o icer °
the University s School of Public
Health, must have irritated the Health
Department seniors, who lost no time
in challenging them.
The Director-General of Health,
Dr. C. J. Cummins, said, diplomatic-
ally but pointedly, that “at this stage”
he was unable to accept all the impli-
cations of the survey. His director of
the Bureau of Child Health and Mater-
nal Welfare, Dr. N. S. Solomons, went
one further. He suggested that unless
the case findings were confirmed by
exhaustive laboratory tests their
thentiritv ij be Questioned
authenti i y q
What were the facts and how were
they obtained? Early this year Dr.
Adams sent out a general questionnaire
to doctors about the incidence, type,
and extent of venereal disease they
diagnosed and treated among their
patients in 1965.
The results showed:
• Last year doctors in an area with
a population of 2,300,000 people dis-
covered 767 cases of infectious syphilis.
• The incidence of gonorrhoea was 13
times as high and 10,500 new patients
suffering from the disease were found.
*32 percent of all VD cases occurred
• i j on c
people under 20 years of age.
# The incidence of syphilis was about
33 per 100,000 head of population and
that of gonorrhoea about 448 per
100,000 head of population,
• About 75 percent of all VD cases
were seen by doctors in private practice
and. the remainder in hospitals and
clinics.
• Only nine percent of all cases of
venereal disease seen by doctors in
private practice were ever officially
reported to the Health Department.
# .Almost two percent of all VD
P a f ient « wer <; infected by homosexuals.
In the °P in . 10n ? f Dr - Adams these
figures are alarming, particularly as
they show a nslng trend ’ the u P ward
climb having started about 10 years
ago, w jth the peak of the disease
nowhere in sight.
He believes that unless urgent action
is taken at an official level gonorrhoea
could become the most infectious
disease in the community because
present control measures are “grossly
inadequate.”
Dr. Adams is particularly disturbed
that last year doctors discovered eight
cases of congenital syphilis an indi-
cation of inadequate laboratory investi-
gations in private practice and some
maternity hospitals. He has urged the
establishment of a special venereal
diseases division in the Health Depart-
ment, educational campaigns for
specific community groups, and doctors’
refresher courses as well as new lectures
for medical students and improved
diagnostic facilities to come to grips
with the problem. And to break the
rapid infection process he advocated a
contact tracing personnel program by
trained interviewers.
There is some justification for
Health Department annoyance about
the results of this particular survey. For
a start the Department maintains its
own contact tracing service. It is also
engaged in a variety of educational
activities through its health education
programs. Finally, it can point to the
futility of at least one previous survey
on the same issue that collapsed when
laboratory evidence failed to substanti-
ate all the signs and symptoms some
doctors reportedly found in their
patients.
G. VAN DER TREY
Tanner
"I hope you're not a member of the Defend Australia Committee the ALP might expel me!"


Judging the Police
The Case for an Independent Tribunal
Judge Goran
Mr. Justice Wallace
Mr. Justice Sholl
By PETER CLYINE
THE police have great powers.
There cannot be the slightest
doubt that on occasions these are
abused, with disastrous results to some
unfortunate citizen. It is equally clear
that often the victim is not believed.
When his allegations are upheld in
Court, there is usually an outcry and
a caff for some general “probe” or
inquiry. But what these cases really
underline is the need for some impar-
tial non-police tribunal which inquires
publicly into such allegations. For every
true allegation against police officers
there are many false ones. Even if
police inquiries into police misconduct
are carried out fairly and completely
. . . and how can we tell whether this
is so or not? . . . the public cannot
be expected to feel comfortable about
such procedures. An independent Tri-
bunal of Inquiry is necessary not only
to protect the public against the police
but to protect the police against the
public.
Two recent N.S.W. cases which have
brought this problem to the surface
once more concern different aspects of
police misconduct, neither uncommon.
In one case a man alleged in a Court
of Petty Sessions that he had been seri-
ously injured by a number of police
officers inside a police station. The
magistrate did not believe him. The
matter was made the subject of a police
investigation, but the accused could
not look at the investigators’ files be-
cause privilege was claimed for them.
On the other hand, the prosecuting ser-
geant did use the same files to cross-
examine the accused. This, and not
the man’s actual conviction, was re-
garded by the Court of Appeal (presi-
dent: Mr. Justice Wallace) as a denial
of natural justice. The conviction
was quashed, and the Court showed
by its comments that it regarded police
evidence in this matter with the utmost
suspicion.
The other case concerned a young
man accused of indecent exposure in
a public lavatory. The case came down,
as usual, to the accused’s word against
that of police witnesses. In such in-
stances the accused is entitled to
acquittal if there is any reasonable
doubt about his guilt.
The police denied that they had
entered the lavatory as agents pro-
vocateurs and said they had simply
gone there because one of them
wanted to use it. This was later held
to be a blatant lie, but the magistrate
believed it and convicted the accused.
According to the appeals judge he
“tended to reverse the onus of proof.”
The conviction was quashed, and Judge
Goran publicly stated what has been
taken for granted in Sydney over many
years: that ordinary citizens frequent-
ing public lavatories are “in grave
danger.” The danger, of course, lies
not only in the possibility that some
member of the vice squad will tell lies
about you if he finds himself in need
of an extra victim but in the certainty
that, if he does, the effect of defending
the case will be crippling.
J HAVE extracted a remarkably simi-
lar case from my scrapbook, one
reported in the morning papers of
November 11, 1957. A young man of
impeccable record was charged with
offensive behaviour. The police said he
had been sitting inside a cubicle and
staring out, through a hole they sug-
gested he had cut in the door, at others
using the lavatory. Two police officers
swore that they saw his eye peering
out at them through the hole for about
thirty seconds. When the matter came
before the Court of Petty Sessions we
had taken photographs of the offending
door, but the police did not know this.
The hole was shown to be circular in
shape and about one inch in diameter.
And we had carried out experiments
to show that from where the police
were supposed to be standing you could
not see an eye through that hole.
This difficulty was put to both police
officers in cross-examination, and, of
course, they both said they had seen
the eye, and you could see it, and if the
defence thought otherwise something
must be wrong with its experiments.
The case was then adjourned for a fort-
night and we subpoenaed the local
Council to produce the door. But when
it was produced in Court two weeks
later the hole had grown. It was
square instead of round, and about
three inches in diameter. Through it
you could observe not only a man’s
eye but most of the man as well. But
the magistrate held that our allegations
were very grave ones. He could not
lightly bring himself to say that the
police had tampered with evidence and
told deliberate lies about the accused.
As he had a doubt, he convicted him.
Thus, he “tended to reverse the onus
of proof.”
We won the appeal, of course, and
the accused was acquitted. But the
case must have been ruinous to his
morale, to his reputation, and to his
pocket. One wonders how many people
in his place would have taken the easy
way out, pleaded guilty, and paid a
£5 fine. And how many of them do just
that, every week?
Cases like these are not isolated, and
they can be culled at random from the
law books and from newspaper reports.
The victim is nearly always relatively
helpless. He is either a quiet sort of per-
son unlikely to fight the matter out in
the Courts or someone whose pre-
vious record makes it unlikely that he
will be believed. It is only when on
occasions this policy fails that publicity
is attracted.
Thus, as far back as 1944, the Chief
Justice of the N.S.W. Supreme Court,
the late Sir Frederick Jordan, was
driven to making the following com-
ments on an incident which led to
a man’s conviction on a grave sexual
charge: “This account (of the man’s
interrogation) is taken from the evi-
dence of the police officers themselves.
It makes ugly reading. It shows that
after the appellant was arrested ...
instead of being at once taken before
a magistrate and charged, he was taken
to a room and cross-examined closely
by police officers for upwards of two
hours for the obvious purpose of ex-
tracting from him either a confession
or admissions . . . the course of conduct
on the part of the police of which I
have given a compressed account was
quite unjustifiable.”
In the same judgment, His Honor
sounded a general warning. “If these
methods are tolerated it is a short step
to the moral, if not physical, tactics
of the Gestapo.”
In 1955 I appeared for a man who,
if he was to be believed (and the
Court finally believed him), was a
ready-made victim for police brutality.
He had been in and out of mental
homes all his life and no one was likely
to believe him. After he had had an
argument with a local fisherman who
happened to be a friend of the local
inspector, he said he was taken to
Brooklyn police station, where the in-
spector sat down and supervised a
regular Gestapo session. Under the
inspector’s instructions, a constable
punched the man repeatedly about the


AWA capability
i i
1
n
ZJZ
~ f.V-v'l* *> •• la
j
vJZSsI
3
*dl
w«an«r
BLI u*:
4
a
rc
Z 5
i
vs\
c
ranges
far and wide
The potential of AWA capability may be measured by its 50 years long
experience in radio, its broad resources through world-wide affiliations
and its depth of technical and engineering ability. Australian owned,
Australian managed and Australian staffed, AWA serves everyone
every day.
And so, too, with Export—in open competition with
the world’s greatest radio communication equipment
makers—AWA has met the standards demanded—
television transmitters in Singapore, tele-
communication installations in India, police patrol
radio-telephones in Hong Kong, broadcasting stations
in Pakistan —India—Thailand—Ceylon, tele-
communication stations in Egypt—Pakistan—
Singapore—South Africa, test equipment in India —
Libya—two-way radio telephones in South Africa—
Philippines—Hong Kong—East Africa—Mauritius—
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Head Office: 47 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne, Wellington (N.Z.), London, New York,
Kuala Lumpur.
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio
amplifying systems: electronic components:
testing instruments: telephones: programme
recording: television and broadcast receivers:
data transmission systems and training in radio
technology.
496/6


m
m
How did
he do it?
LO \0
IHe arrived in Melbourne
at 9.00 a.m.
2 He made six calls in
different suburbs.
3 He drove across town to
head office.
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends--
Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was
waiting
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon.
Within moments of your arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own, for as long as
you like. And you and the car are always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket, or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival... f
For a day, a week, or all the time.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
iilNI
AF369
face, threatened him with a rope and
a gun, and inflicted injuries which were
clearly visible on photographs taken the
following day. Unfortunately for the
police, our man turned out to be simple
but stubborn. He sued the constable
and the inspector in the District Court
for assault, and the jury believed him.
What makes this case really disquieting
is that the inspector gave evidence that
after the incident he also had been sub-
ject to mental treatment; yet no
disciplinary steps were ever taken
against him. The constable’s promotion
appeared in print three weeks after the
jury’s verdict. And no one to this day
has ever heard of any inquiry into the
matter on the part of the police. The
jury awarded our man £6OO damages.
Who paid the verdict?
Another statement by the then Mr.
Justice Sholl, of the Victorian Supreme
Court, made in 1962 sounds the same
warning. “Unless a citizen is actually
arrested on a stated charge he is not
obliged to go with police to a police
station, and if he is questioned in these
circumstances he is entitled first to be
warned and may say nothing if he
likes.”
One is compelled to regard the
authenticated instances as the top tenth
of the iceberg, and to infer that for
every instance detected by the Courts
there may be ten times when the police
get away with it, and for every ten
times they resort to wrongful methods
there are probably a hundred times
when they are falsely accused of similar
tactics. All this creates a vicious circle.
Because there are some acts of mis-
conduct, the reputation of the whole
police force suffers. Because that repu-
tation is slipping, criminals renew their
efforts to escape from having made a
confession by making false accusations
against the police, and juries are prone
to accept their allegations.
When police misconduct does occur,
some victims have few remedies. They
can challenge the admissibility of the
confession, but this puts men on the
horns of an impossible dilemma if they
have a bad criminal record. For if a
man attacks the character of police
witnesses he can be cross-examined on
his previous convictions. Thus, if the
police pick up an old lag and use
rubber truncheons to obtain a written
confession, or simply invent a verbal
one, what can he do? He can go quietly
and be convicted on his confession. Or
he can challenge the confession and
find himself convicted on his prior
record because he has to accuse the
police of perjury or violence.
“The present operation of . . . the
Crimes Act,” said Mr. Justice Sholl,
“means in effect that a man with a
criminal record is likely to have it dis-
closed to the jury if he alleges intimida-
tion, and to that extent he would seem,
to a policeman improperly disposed to
use intimidation, to be a safe victim.”
Thus only a man with no criminal
record can afford to allege improper
tactics against the police.
Other remedies? well, occasionally
a man is acquitted if the tribunal which
tries him helieves him and disbelieves
the police, but in magistrates’ courts
the cards may seem stacked against
him by the reluctance of some magis-
trates to disbelieve the police.
The same criticism must be made of
police inquiries into police misconduct.
These may be complete, vigorous, and
objective. I have reason to believe that
under the stewardship of the present
Commissioner they are completely
objective, utterly complete, and too
vigorous for the comfort of many police
officers. But how can the public know
that this is soP
A general “probe” or inquiry is not
the answer. An Independent Tribunal
should be appointed, headed by a judge
assisted by two assessors. One of the
assessors should be a very senior police
officer, whose knowledge of police ad-
ministration would obviously be help-
ful. The other should represent the
public, and might perhaps be appointed
from a university.
'J'HE Tribunal should conduct a public
hearing, and should be substantially
but not completely bound by rules of
legal procedure. Thus the victim of the
alleged misconduct should be the com-
plainant. Counsel should be assigned
at public expense to represent him, and
other counsel should represent the
officers against whom charges have been
made. And the Tribunal’s report should
be published, though it should be de-
ferred if it recommends criminal action
or dismissal against anyone until the
criminal action has been completed or
the dismissal has been tested on appeal.
The Tribunal should also have power
to penalise the complainant, if his
charges turn out to be false, by making
him pay some or all of the costs in-
volved. Like the proposed Ombudsman,
the Tribunal could neither punish nor
dismiss. Its decisions would merely take
the form of a public declaration.
Some procedure must be devised to
prevent this machinery being set in
motion without due cause. When a
complaint is made against the police,
this should be verified on affidavit by
the complainant, and an investigating
judge (not the head of the Tribunal)
should question the complainant and
grant leave to proceed if a prima facie
case of misconduct has been raised for
investigation. This investigation should
be private, to protect the police against
the public airing of charges which are
manifestly false. But a complainant re-
fused leave to proceed should have the
right to appeal, at his own expense,
against this decision.
The very fact of some such procedure
being available even if it is not often
used will tend to cool the ardor of
over-zealous police officers and at the
same time protect the whole force
against the attitude of public suspicion
and distrust which seems to be building
up against it. Closed doors are always
frightening. Most of all, when they are
the closed doors of a police station.


Conscription ...
Cranks and Romantics
YOU do occasionally run up against
hard, mean people often older
people who will say that con-
scription is a good thing. Bluntly like
that. They may mutter a few thoughts
about conscription toughening the char-
acter, imbuing discipline, improving the
posture of mollycoddled youth, getting
them physically fit. And mentally fit,
too. And they may even recall that
hoary old puritan conservative phrase
“building up the moral fibre.”
These people usually tend to see war
in round terms, in terms of spartan
virtues of glory, adventure, discip-
line, manliness, togetherness. They
are cranks, people with a sadistic
kink in their character or people who
have not been informed of the very
real horror of war.
'For these people it is good that the
ABC should screen a film like that
of Michael Charlton on the war in
Vietnam, vividly presenting the dread-
ful injuries, the pain men suffer, the
pain women and children suffer, the
horrible and stupid mistakes which do
occur, the callousness of some of the
soldiers involved, the disruption of
ordinary life of ordinary people . . .
For the cranks, the romantic perverts
who see war itself as something noble,
this is a good sedative drug, good
corrective treatment.
But I think there is a danger we
may create something of a bogy here,
imagining formidable forces for evil
where they do not exist. The great
mass of Australians in their general
decency, in their experience and that
of their fathers in two world wars and
in their cynicism and knocking of
jingoism have no time for the roman-
tic perverts.
Michael Charlton’s message is banal,
like the banner of the demonstrator
who says “Make love, not war.”
The message is a trite commonplace
for all but a tiny minority of nuts who
do not count. The romantic perverts
do not matter.
The romantic simplifiers do matter.
These are the people who look at
the war and see how horrible it is.
They look at conscription and say:
yes, it is a severe reduction in in-
dividual rights. They let their whole
minds be filled by the horror of it
and scream hysterically: stop it all,
end the war, end conscription, let us
have none of this beastliness.
I most profoundly believe that this
is wishful thinking, dangerous, and
destructive at that. I believe that op-
position to conscription and our part
in the Vietnam war is based on roman-
tic and unsoundly based optimism
about the alternatives we face, I believe
that our military involvement is in the
circumstances just, moral, and neces-
sary. Conscription is a technique for
mustering the troops we need and I
will leave my discussion of that until I
have considered the matters to which
the technique is being applied.
The people we are helping to con-
tain by our military involvement are
the most reactionary and dangerous
force in Asia today, the most reac-
tionary force of any substance in the
world generally at the moment. I am
referring to the Communist movements
aligned to China, the fundamentalist
Marxist-Leninists who believe that the
Thought of Mao is gospel and that
they are under deep moral compulsion
to liberate the world and impose their
earthly Utopia on unenlightened
peoples. These are the people who reject
the Russian and East European Com-
munist moves toward some limited re-
conciliation with the rest of the world
PETER SAMUEL’S recent
address to a Monash Univer-
sity “teach-in,” 14 months
after the first national ser-
vice intake , looks at the state
of the argument today.
as a betrayal of the moral imperatives
of their philosophy. We are in conflict
with the Com,munist movements of the
States of China, North Vietnam, and
North Korea, the large developed in-
surgent force in Vietnam and Laos, and
smaller less developed insurgent forces
in Thailand, the Philippines, and in-
directly that of Burma. The common
characteristic of all these semi-indepen-
dent movements is that they share the
fervor of the Chinese Communist Party,
and are prepared to accept its leader-
ship in most matters and that they will
work together using the technique of
so-called People’s War—as we see it
in Vietnam —in a series of protracted
bloody struggles to attain power.
It is a negative, war-mongering
movement which is dominated by
romantic perverts who find war and
violence ennobling. To quote the
Thought of Mao Tse-tung to which
continual dedication is made, war is
“the highest form of struggle,” the
“bridge over which mankind will pass
into a new era in history.” A “beauti-
ful future” is to be built on the “debris
of a dead imperialism.”
In a major doctrinal statement pub-
lished on September 3 last year, vice-
chairman of the Central Committee of
the CCP and the man who is emerging
as the most likely successor to Mao,
Mr. Lin Piao, said, “Fighting is the
pivot of our strategy and tactics . . . in
the last analysis the Marxist-Leninist
theory of proletarian revolution is the
theory of the seizure of State power
by revolutionary force, the theory of
People’s War . . He went on to re-
iterate Mao’s old adage that “political
power grows out of the barrel of a
gun . .
We should not mince words, the
leaders of this movement are brutal
tyrants. They are not morally in-
hibited from inflicting any suffering
or injustice on the people they rule.
This is because of their rejection of the
belief of civilized peoples that moral
values are something which exist in-
dependently of politics.
This decadent, grossly insensitive,
and anti-humanist approach to values
has, as we know, produced a chronicle
of bloodiness and repression equalled in
history only by that of Nazism. Occa-
sionally the Party decides that a bloody
purge has gone too far and it switches
the line, and it is then that we get the
admissions of what has happened. To
give you an example, we had General
Vo Nguyen Giap in 1956 saying of
what had happened in the so-called
Land Reform movement: “We executed
too many honest people. We attacked
on too large a front, and seeing
enemies everywhere resorted to terror,
which became Far too widespread . . .
We failed to respect the principles of
freedom and faith . . . Torture came to
be regarded as a normal practice during
party reorganisation” (“Nahn Dan”
newspaper, 31/10/’56).
These people have complete con-
tempt for humanist ideals of social
equality, the ideas of democratic
Socialism and the Welfare State.
So there is no commitment to de-
veloping the rule of law, social security,
or the expansion of consumer welfare.
Indeed, these are increasingly rejected
as items which will sap the revolution-
ary moral fibre, encourage the develop-
ment of bourgeois complacency, and
bring on revisionism.
These people are great bunglers
of economic affairs. Communist
governments are fairly unique in the
extent to which they create havoc in
areas which do not do too bady by
themselves agriculture and com-
merce in particular. Through indis-
criminate, obsessive policies of collecti-
visation and communication based on
traditionalist and dogmatic holy
books, they have not only failed to
help but have gravely hindered farm-
ing. And, of course, in largely agricul-
tural economies this is a crucial blow
at economic development.
In China you have the fact that food-


on NOIIVMO3 33HV1d333V WSM
U{ fS9Attf
Paid up capita!
DEBENTURE STOCK
7il
NEW ISSUE
FOR 7 YEARS
5i% 12 MONTHS
Other rates arid terms available ~~ see prospectus for full
details. Prospectus and application fomt available from;
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.NX BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF LAX.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms
of application attached to « printed copy of Prospectus,
UNDERWRITERS lAN ROTTER & CO.
1005 Members of the Stotk exchange, Melbourne.
grain production is still running at a
lower level than before the Great Leap
Forward, and it has to be spread among
a population possibly 20 percent larger.
You have had a process of immiserisa-
tion of the masses. In North Vietnam
you have this, too. In a speech on the
economy at the National Assembly in
April (see “Asian Analyst,” June,
1966) the Prime Minister, Phan Van
Dong, said: “We cannot say that in
five years much has been done in the
building of the material and technical
basis of Socialism. In this completely
new field we have groped our way step
by step, and shortcomings are unavoid-
able.”
Finally, these funamentalists live
in a little closed medieval intellectual
world of extremes —of absolute good
and absolute evil—and in this context
scholarships, intellect, specialist know-
ledge, and humor as well, of course, as
dissent are crushed. You can well
appreciate this if you look at the mind-
less idolatry of Mao’s thought, the fact
that men who are apparently sane can
ascribe to his thought the winning of
international table tennis tournaments,
more-efficient treatment of burns in
the Peking hospital, the ascension of
chicken feathers.
Evidently one of the issues in dispute
in China in the current purge is
whether the people are to be allowed
to read traditional Chinese ghost
stories. Evidentally some dreadful re-
visionists said they were harmless and
chided the leadership with being afraid
of ghosts and ghost stories. These people
are being indignantly denounced.
To sum up, then, we are fighting a
movement which is run by romantic
perverts who idolise violence, which
commits atrocities against its people in
the name of an expedient view of
morality, and which lives in a medieval,
humorless, intellectual world.
Now how do we deal with these
fanatical nuts? We and the other non-
Communist people of Asia have no
desire to embark on any counter-
crusade, and the West has been quite
firm in saying that all it seeks to do in
the current struggle is to prevent Com-
munists from expanding their area of
power through means of so-called
People’s War. There is to be no attempt
to overthrow them from their existing
seats of power. So we are not threaten-
ing their survival, and all they have to
do to achieve peace is to call off the
insurgency and warfare.
is now the great test for
both sides. Both sides have commit-
ted themselves heavily to the war both
militarily and politically. If the Com-
munists succeed in their aim they will
have proved that this strategy of
People’s War can win through against
great resistance, against all the armed
force which the non-Communist world
can muster. It will prove convincingly
that the West is a paper tiger, lacking
the skills and the resolution to resist.
The nuclei of further liberation move-
ments have been formed in other coun-
tries and we could expect that they
would be greatly encouraged by a vic-
tory for their colleagues in Vietnam
and the Communist countries would be
able to devote their resources to aiding
these movements with instructors,
cadres, propaganda, armaments, and
so on. It would be on again.
If, on the other hand, we win,
things will be the other way around.
The ability and determination of the
West to resist a massive guerilla-type
takeover will be demonstrated. Small
countries who would have no hope of
resisting by themselves would be
encouraged to ask for assistance should
they be subjected to this sort of attack,
and in the Communist movement the
crusaders would suffer a great loss of
prestige.
Herein lies the hope for peace in
strengthening the hand of those in
Hanoi and Peking who say that it is
romantic to believe that victory can be
attained in Vietnam. We will do that
by following a policy of unequivocally
providing the necessary military coun-
terforce to the military force of the
Vietnamese Communists.
Already they are fighting on largely
in the belief that the doubters, the wish-
ful thinkers, and the protestors will
prevail in the West and cause a with-
drawal even at this late hour.
So it is my belief that a strong Aus-
tralian military contribution to Western
counterforce is just, necessary, and a
contribution to peace.
At last I come to conscription,
again. Without conscription this
country in 1964 had a combat field
force of 6000 men. You have to have
about half of these at home, at any
one time, so Australia was able to put
only about 3000 soldiers into action. I
am sure Fiji or Panama could field
about as many as that.
Now, maybe the Government could
have done more to increase the forces
without resorting to conscription. It
could have spoken more insistently
about the struggle in which we are
involved and called for more volun-
teers. Perhaps it should have done this,
though I doubt whether it would have
attracted many more volunteers. It did
raise pay substantially—by more than
20 percent and that almost had no
effect whatsoever. I understand the
number in the armed forces was 15
more three months after the pay rise
than before.
I suspect a realistic analysis would
show that conscription was simply the
only way of increasing our number of
combat troops beyond 6000.
The target now is about 10,000,
which is modest enough. I venture to
say that it is not enough, that we re-
quire more. But I will not pursue that.
I only want to say that to be content
with 6000 troops implies an extraor-
dinarily optimistic view of our situa-
tion.
Of course, the challenge we face is
not merely a military one. It is a more
broadly faced challenge and we should
be participating more fully in its other
aspects. Our economic aid in Asia
should be vastly increased; we should
be taking more diplomatic initiatives
and we should be getting rid of un-
necessary and antiquated barriers to
understanding in the region. I am
thinking of the White Australian Policy,
or what remains of it.
Unfortunately, doing these quite pal-
atable things does not absolve us from
the responsibility for contributing
to the construction of a military
shield behind which we can participate
in the cleaner wars against poverty,
hunger, disease, and inequality.


SPACE SAVER
m
DATA PROTECTOR
LOOK TO 3M FOR IMAGINATION IN IMAGE MAKING
gin
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier)
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 2 Wentworth Ave., Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
Please have one of your representatives contact
me to further explain how 3M microfilm could
help solve my company’s filing problems.
NAME
COMPANY
ADDRESS
State
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS
That's a 3M Microfilm System
SPACE SAVER: By reducing your records into microfilm cartridges,
you actually save 96% of your present filing space.
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier): Any one document stored in 3M
cartridges can be retrieved and viewed within 20 seconds. Another
4 seconds and you can have a full size dry copy ready for use.
DATA PROTECTOR: Store a duplicate microfilm file off the pre-
mises for protection against fire, carelessness, theft.
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS: Discover how easily
and economically you can win the paper work battle by using the
3M microfilm cartridge system. Send the coupon today and 3M
will contact you.
MICROFILM WORKSHOP: Sydney 43-0455, Melbourne 61-3841, Brisbane 5-4131,
Adelaide 51-5971, Perth 28-4651, Hobart 3-3104, Canberra 4-0791, Auckland 295-109
3M9/3003/66


ONE MORE
WEEK
Well connected.
SOCIAL NOTES, as “The New
Yorker” says, from all over. And
nobody has ever found a better way
to put the sort of thing we came across
in a Sydney real estate auction column
last week. A house advertised for sale
was described as: “Steeped in tradition
and originally owned by a direct
descendant of Hereward the Wake who
laid the massive stone foundations in
the year of the assassination of
Abraham Lincoln.”
Art patron
MANY COMPETITORS in Perth
have viewed with dismay the progress
of Tom the Cheap, Tom Wardle, from
a corner grocershop to the ownership
of more than 100 grocery shops. Now,
it seems, they have to face his emer-
gence as a major art patron.
First there was the Wardle Prize for
art at the Festival of Perth, then un-
publicised gifts to schools and learned
institutions. Now he has bought the
Capitol theatre, the largest in Perth.
Only one building removed from St.
George’s Terrace, it is alongside the
planned Bank of N.S.W. headquarters.
And at $lBO,OOO it seemed a reasonable
buy.
It is reported that Mr. Wardle plans
to hand the theatre to the city of Perth,
at least for a year or so, as a cultural
centre.
Punch in the Stomach
“IT IS THE MOST exquisite torture
really,” Michael Charlton said of work-
ing for the BBC’s “Panorama.” “When
you’re writing a script to be able; to
hit one shot out of ten in the film
with just the word which will punch
people in the stomach.” To help him
in his search for the most concise and
appropriate way of counterpointing the
films he has brought back from the
United States (six times), Vietnam,
Aden, Europe, and now Australia,
Charlton, as scriptwriter, works with
an editor who seems to enjoy the tor-
ture just as much.
The results of all this were quite
marked in the most recent and most
controversial of his reports, the hour-
long “Vietnam The War and the
People.” The work on the film began
with a discussion between Charlton
and his editor in which they decided
to find out what the Vietnamese them-
selves felt about the war. The final
product showed this clear line which
began over lunch in London.
Yet, despite the teamwork of editor
and writer, Charlton is quick to
emphasise the importance of the tele-
vision cinecameraman in “Panorama”
style programs. “The old business of
setting up a tripod, taking readings
with a light meter just won’t go any-
.more,” he said. Today, the best
cameramen will often shoot film with-
out even taking a light reading and
nearly always with a hand-held camera
or one strapped to the shoulder. The
results are jumpy, or sometimes even
blurred, but it means that events and
people are caught as they happen.
The other members of the “Panor-
ama” team for whom Charlton has a
high regard are the research staff. In-
terviews are so well prepared by the
television teams that politicians going
on to a program know they must be
well prepared. This, he said, raises the
whole standard of public discussion.
In Australia for a “Panorama” pro-
gram which will be shown to coincide
with the Commonwealth Prime Min-
isters’ conference in London next
month, Charlton is reporting on Aus-
tralia’s move away from Britain
toward the United States and the
prosperity of the country contrasted
with Britain’s current economic prob-
lems. The Australian segment will run
for about 12 minutes. “The whole con-
ference is a great yawn, really, but we
have to do something,” he said.
As we walked through Sydney’s
Hyde Park after lunch, Charlton mused
about the pleasantness of life here.
Every few minutes he would stop, look
around, and drink it all in. “People are
nice here, really nice. Look at that man
sitting over there with his daughter
playing in the park. Can anyone blame
him for not getting involved in politics
or Vietnam?”
When will he come back? “I’ll come
back here to live. There’s no question
about that. It’s just a question of
when.” He had a contract with the
BBC but he would prefer not to say
for how long. As for the ABC, that
would depend on what offers were
made.
Final of the Finial
A QUAINT but significant brouhaha
has these recent weeks been disturbing
Eltham, the Melbourne fringe area
long noted as a habitat of artists. Indi-
cative of the spread of suburbia in
recent years is the need, now being ful-
filled, for a kindergarten in the area.
A group of local residents got together
to plan the building. In tribute to
Eltham’s best known industry, they
commissioned long-time resident and
local sculptor Matcham Skipper to
design and make a 14ft. high finial to-
sit atop the kinder.
Finally debate got around to a name
for the place. Skipper and some of the
other long-termers plumped for the
Dorian Le Gallienne Kindergarten, a
tribute to the composer-critic who had
been one of Eltham’s most distinguished
residents for 25 years until his recent
death. But there was stiff opposition
... We didn’t know him . . . He isn’t
well known so he couldn’t have been
much good . . . He sounds like a
foreigner and we want a good Aus-
tralian name . . . Wasn’t he a bachelor?
. . . Fancy naming a kindergarten after
a bachelor. Smelling defeat, Skipper
who says it would have been different
if Le Gallienne had been a footballer'
insists on calling his finial the
Dorian Le Gallienne Finial, no matter
what name they give the building
underneath.
“It’s my finial and I have the right
to name it and they can call the rest
of the place Z 5 or any other bloody
thing they like,” he said. But at the-
moment, majority opinion seems just
to want to call it The South Eltharm
Kindergarten.
Cinderella
WILMA READING has come back to
her native Australia like Cinderella
returning from the entertainment
palaces of the United States. But, better
than pumpkin carriages, she came first-
class jet. Better than glass slippers, she
was wearing a mink coat and hat to
match.
Seven years ago Wilma was a
£3/2/6-a-week typist in Cairns, North
Queensland. Now, 70 nightclubs, hotels,
television, and recording engagements
later she is star of “Night and the
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
An increase in the number of rapes
this summer would be partly caused
by the clothing women wear, or don’t
wear.
Bishop Moyes.
If the Ord River is to be developed
further there will have to be a politi-
cal reason or a religious one.
Ben Dawson.
I have been asked more times than
I can remember what I think of the
sins of Sydney—as if I am an expert.
Archbishop Loane.
Sukarno is still the great leader.
—Sukarno.
The Australian Communist Party
attracts a legion of intolerant, self-
righteous, and dogmatic people. The
Labor Party attracts opportunists.
Rex Mortimer, Central Committee of
the Communist Party of Australia.
I would like to take out insurance
against fans, but insurance policies
don’t cover you for public riots.
Billy Thorpe.
I have run my last marathon.
—Ron Clarke.
In 100 years’ time whites will play
no major part in deciding international
affairs.
Pastor Martin Niemoller.
You cannot unhang a hanged man
or unflog a flogged man.
—Robert Mark, Chief Constable of
Leicester, England.
From the headlines in the British
Press at the moment it would appear
that the only section of the com-
munity who put in a solid day’s work
is the criminal class.
Barry Humphries.


Music,” the new presentation at Mel-
bourne’s Lido.
She has sung with Ellington’s band,
played at the Riviera in Las Vegas, the
Palmer House in Chicago, the Beverly
Hilton in Hollywood, the El San Juan
in Puerto Rico, made the radio record
charts, toured Tokyo, Hong Kong,
Bangkok, Singapore, and Manila. “Yet
I still remember how surprised and
scared I was the first time I went to
Sydney,” she said. “It all seemed so
fast.”
Miss Reading’s father was English-
Irish, her mother Jamaican-Scottish-
Polynesian. There were seven young
Readings in Cairns. Wilma got a place
in a softball team which went to Bris-
bane. One night they ate in a cafe, the
Primitif, and just for fun Wilma sang
a song. As in all modern fairytales,
an agent was there and told her he
could get her regular work. But Cinder-
ella went back to Cairns, her biggest
ambition to get a raise to £4 a week.
After six months she hadn’t got it, so
she returned to Brisbane and looked
the agent up.
Television had just starred, and with
radio and nightclub work Wilma did
well. She graduated to Sydney’s Latin
Quarter, Melbourne’s Embers. Within
two years she was touring the East.
At the Tokyo Hilton an American agent
heard her and it was the same story
over again.
“Americans accepted me right away,”
she says now in the pleasant mixture
of Cairns-Sydney-American voice her
travels had produced. “The fact that
I was from another place was im-
portant. They’re always looking for
new, outside talent. This means
opportunities that more Australians
should take advantage of.
“America is exciting because enter-
tainment is on a much higher plane.
Audiences are more blase and harder
to please. But managements look after
you. There’s no changing in the ladies’
room as you do in some places in
Australia. You get plenty of rehearsal
time. I think the union’s stronger.”
American surprises ranged from pay-
ing $2.25 for a haircut to a complete
absence of “situations” over her color.
“They billed me as Jamaican, which is
what my mother’s family was,” Miss
Reading told us. “I didn’t work much
in the South, only Houston, Texas, but
there were never any embarrassments.
But I never had any trouble in Cairns,
either. It was a small place and every-
body knew everybody. Color has never
been a problem with me.”
Television and film commitments will
take her back to America in November.
But before then her husband, Ray Lehr,
a comedian-musician she met in Manila,
will join her here and they will see
if plans can be laid to settle in Aus-
tralia permanently. She is still an Aus-
tralian citizen and pays taxes to Can-
berra as well as Washington. “I’d like
to return for more time with my family
and to have some children,” she said.
“And I haven’t had a pie and peas
since I went away.”
COUSIN
"Molybdenum! Molybdenum!"
CASH BOOK
"Let me out! I want to get out."


w x^;>!
*wm
7 f
— ,
7
w m_i;
feM :F .r
it
mm
L m
Many ships, many trips for on-time cargo delivery
Farrell Lines’ 21 trans-oceanic cargo vessels make 84
voyages a year to and from United States East Coast ports.
Over five sailings monthly from Africa to U. S. Atlan-
tic and Great Lakes ports. 15 trans-Atlantic cargo vessels and
12 feeder fleet vessels serve all three ocean coasts of Africa.
And, on Farrell Lines, it’s only 14 days from Cape Town to New
York! Faster than any other line—more ships, more trips, too.
18 trips a year from Australia/New Zealand to U. S.
Gulf and East Coast ports. Six trans-Pacific cargo vessels serve
“Down Under”...ports-of-call from Fremantle to Wellington.
So for on-time cargo delivery, you can count on
Farrell Lines’ fleet—and 40 years of experience.
ship via Farrell Lines
An American Flag Line Serving
Growing World Markets
FARRELL LINES LINER HOUSE, BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS: Sydney—Wilh. Wilhelmser Agency Pty. Ltd. Melbourne—Wilh,. Wilhelmsen Agency Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane —Burns Philp & Co. Ltd. Adelaide —Dalgety & New Zealand Loan Ltd.
Fremantle—R. G. Lynn Pty. Ltd. New Zealand—Dalgety & New Zealand Loan Ltd.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Queuing for the Grand Final
ONE of the most interesting of
all Melburnian customs is the
queuing for the football-final
tickets. I think that we queue with
more dash, more skill than other
queuers in the world. True, there
is always a magnificent orderly
queue waiting to see the cadaver
of Lenin in the Red Square at Mos-
cow. But would they queue for a
solid week, harassed by sharpies and
such? I don’t think so. We are a
very resolute people.
You see, the MCG is pre-sold
every year come the second week
in August. It is impossible to buy
tickets at the MCG on the day.
Last year the queuers began to
arrive a week to four days before
selling day, to build to a maximum
of 10,000. On selling eve there was
a marvellous atmosphere just like
“canvas town” in the days of the
goldrush back in 1852. Melburnian
queuers do it in style. They moved
in with rugs, storm lanterns, saus-
ages, and crates of beer. Many, as
soon as they established a permanent
spot in their queue, put up a tent.
They brought along furniture,
tables, chairs, kitchen dressers,
Porta-Gas stoves. One family
brought along a lounge suite of sofa
and two armchairs. A very nice
contemporary design it was, too.
During the night there was all sorts
of entertainment to be had, record-
players, guitars, community singing,
and the occasional portable TV set.
Altogether there were 5000 cars,
many of them bogged in the mud.
Some brought caravans or furniture
trucks fitted out with beds. Crafty
old queuers ran a shift system of
queuing four hours in the furniture
truck, four hours in the queue.
JN the early hours of the morning
it was a remarkable scene
thousands of little fires and as the
dawn came there was the smell
everywhere of sausages and eggs.
Immediately the tickets were sold,
as usual, there were cries of
“oriental squalor outside the
MCG.” Sir Herbert Hyland, a
former Country Party leader, called
for a full inquiry before a judge.
The Deputy Premier, Mr. Rylah.
said it must never happen again.
So this year the order went out.
no tents, no camping equipment,
no stoves or fires, no lounge suites,
and queuing was rationed.
Queuers were forbidden to start
lining up until 20 hours before the
windows opened. Selling was to be
on the Tuesday before, therefor
queuing couldn’t start until noon ot
the Monday.
This was a terrible hardship.
Always I have had a private theory
that Melburnians adore queuing.
Admittedly it is vital to possess
Grand Final tickets. Not to have
them is like losing one’s honor. But,
can you understand, the tickets are
not everything, our queues are not
entirely motivated by a desire
to be first. It is the companionship
that is important and the comfort of
standing one behind the other. If
one is in a queue, then one belongs,
one is part of a mob. The queuer
proves to all that his judgment is
correct and that he is seeking all
that is desirable.
However, our queuers are made
of strong stuff and they were not
that easily put off. The selling was
on Tuesday, but strong organisations
like the Essendon cheer squad ad-
mitted that they were in the
vicinity of the ground from as early
as the previous Wednesday. I don’t
know whether any actual tunnel-
ling went on, but queuers acted in
the best Viet Cong traditions. They
lurked behind trees and at the
approach of City Council officers
disappeared into the jungles of Rich-
mond Park.
The crowds began to arrive en
masse after 3 a.m. on Monday.
The thing to do was to break
the law with subtlety. Place one’s
sleeping bag, stool, etc., outside the
window to mark one’s position, then
as the MCC man approached
quietly melt away.
The crowd built up to 10,000
again. The first in one of the 11
queues was a woman from Mur-
rumbeena with her three-month-old
twins Michael and Victor in bassin-
ets. Melbourne was proud of her.
Her twins were being brought up
in the grand traditions of the game.
Also there on selling eve was a
female Collingwood supporter aged
85 and countless stout-hearted
queuers in their seventies. Although
tents were banned the Council had
put up steel barricades and most
people used these to make tents out
of rugs. Standard equipment was a
hurricane lamp, a chaise-longue, a
"No tents, no fires, and
nobody’s to queue up before
noon next Tuesday.”
sleeping bag, and a beach umbrella.
Many brought along their dogs and
their budgies. One very happy queue
had a niner of beer.
But there are a number of rather
sweet ironic angles to all this. The
VFL clubs get the right to sell
55 percent of the reserve D seats
to their members, and these are allo-
cated to the clubs. Therefore, while
there are the queues at the MCG
a week beforehand we also get the
queues at all the clubs. The Colling-
wood queue, for example, went for
four days and four nights, in almost
continuous rain and Antarctic wind.
This was double the time the Col-
lingwood queue queued last year.
See what I mean? They put a ration
on queues at the MCG, so they
queue more in the suburbs. People
have to queue somewhere.
THEN here’s irony number two..
All the tickets may have been
sold for the final series, but do you
think that will stop queuing out-
side the ground when the series
starts. Not on your life. It is then
that we get some of our most stead-
fast queues, lasting for a week. In-
deed, almost certainly, with four
matches, there will be a queue out-
side the ground for a month. You
see, it is vital for utterly devoted
fans to get the prime positions right
behind the goal-posts. These only go
to the first into the ground.
Irony number three is this. Grand
Final Day is September 24, which
is also Yom Kippur, the day of
atonement, the holiest day on the
Jewish calendar. Well, this year St.
Kilda has its greatest chance ever
of winning the flag, something
which it hasn’t achieved in history.
St. Kilda, though, is headquarters
for the Melbourne Jewish com-
munity. Can you see the tragedy of
it all? Many good Jewish people
have stood their three or four days
in the queues waiting for tickets,
but if St. Kilda actually makes the
grand final, and it probably will,
they won’t be able to go. It will be
a terrible test of faith.
As always, great discussions are
going on. There must be some easier
way of selling tickets. The sad truth
is the MCG holds only a little more
than 100,000 in comfort and 250,000
want to go. Personally, I don’t see
why the VFL has to submit the
public to the cruelty of selling the
tickets in mid-Melburnian winter.
The time is unimportant. I would
suggest that they sell the tickets at
holiday time. In balmy early Janu-
ary, perhaps even down at the beach
at St. Kilda or Frankston. It would
be nice for the queuers if they could
go for a bit of a dip occasionally.
BATMAN


Brabham
HAROLD DVORETSKY
On the way to his third world championship
HE somehow managed to hang on
to the traditional huge bunch of
flowers and the champagne glass
with a little bit of vintage bubbly left
in it. At the same time he gripped in
one hand a huge stuffed tiger that had
been pushed at him when he won. He
was quietly, yet very surely, slipping
through the crowd on the track. As he
gently edged along, he kept acknow-
ledging the cheers and wild applause
from an appreciative crowd in the
stand. And all the time his face wore
that big wide smile which is so
characteristic of him.
He saw me standing there a few feet
from him as he edged through. Some-
how he got a grubby right hand free.
The now empty glass (he’d spilt the
remainder in the last few yards), the
tiger, and flowers were somehow thrust
under one arm as he held his free hand
out. “How about that,” he said, and
his smile widened even more. “How
about that?” There he was with 30,000
fans cheering his victory and he had
time to stop to shake the hand of a
friend.
He, of course, is Jack Brabham,
Australian, 40, the son of a now-
retired, well-to-do greengrocer from
Hurstville, Sydney. For 11 years,
hardly knowing it, hardly daring to
even dream about it, he’d been trying
to reach a goal. Now he isn’t even cer-
tain he has reached it. In fact, he now
knows there are other goals.
Yet a few minutes before he had just
won the French Grand Prix at Rheirns,
which this year was the Grand Prix
of Europe. And he’d won it in a car
he’d designed and built himself, a
racing car that bore his name and
the name of an Australian company
which built the engine to power it. He’d
just left it in the winner’s bay and now
the crowds were swarming around it.
It’s a small, sleek yet powerful little
car with huge new racing tyres, painted
in British racing green with a gold
stripe down its bonnet and on its nose
in deference to Australia (Australia’s
International Grand Prix racing colors
are green and gold). The badge on the
nose said “Repco/Brabham.”
Brabham had just become the first
man to win a world championship
Grand Prix in a car he’d built himself.
He was to repeat the effort for an
astounding hat-trick twice more before
the month of July was out and make
it four in a row by early August, a
fantastic effort and one which virtually
assures him the world driving cham-
pionship for the third time, and the
manufacturers’ championship. Only
one record now eludes him: Fangio’s
five times world championship win.
Just 11 years ago at Goodwood in
Sussex I shook hands with him for the
first time. He was bending down into
the engine bay of a Cooper-Alta resting
in the paddock pits.
In Australia, after speedway and hill
climbs, he’d been racing-car champion
(whatever that might have meant in
those days). Anywhere outside eastern
Australia and New Zealand he was un-
known. But that was soon to change.
In fact, looking down at Brabham tink-
ering with the internals of that ex-Peter
Whitehead Cooper-Alta few could have
believed how quickly it was to change.
In four years Brabham was to help
revolutionise motor racing throughout
the world and bring a new conception
to it. He joined forces with John
Cooper, of Cooper cars, and together—
with the help of an Australian enthu-
siast named Ron Tauranac, based 12,000
miles away in Sydney—they built a car
that was to beat all others. And they
built it in typical Brabham fashion—
the best for the lowest possible price.
Whether Coopers would have, could
have come through to the top without
Brabham, and the far-away Tauranac
giving advice to Brabham on suspension
and layout, will probably be argued
about as long as motor racing exists.
In five years Brabham was to win
the world championship twice. He was
to win the constructors’ championship
for Coopers. He was to become the first
British driver since long before the war
to take a British-built car to the famous
Indianapolis 500 race. The car was
rear-engined. It was tiny. It gave
away at least two litres and more to
its front-engined rivals specially designed
and built for the “Brickhouse,” the
“Hoosier Bowl,” as the Yanks call it.
The Americans laughed at this tiny
Cooper car built for European racing
and modified for the Brickhouse. They
laughed at Brabham. But he qualified
and he finished ninth, ahead of a lot
of others. Last year and this he had
the satisfaction of knowing that two
British drivers in turn had won “Indy”
in rear-engined cars, and that every
car to start in this year’s race had its
engine at the rear. Brabham had caused
another revolution.
By then, of course, European Grand
Prix races had already started to switch
to rear-engined machinery for, as Brab-
ham had predicted: “While there are
some excellent front-engined cars that
handle exceedingly well, getting the
front end to drive the rear end pre-
sents all sorts of difficulties. The lighter
racing cars become, the more neces-
sary will it be for the engine to be
placed at the rear.”
It has taken time, but Brabham has
been proved right. There are now no
topline front-engined racing cars. In
fact, those that are left with their
engines in front are mostly museum
pieces.
After the only serious accident he
was ever involved in, in Portugal in
1959 (and one in which he escaped
with bruises and a shaking), I asked
him to tell me exactly what happened.
My recording never made the air-waves.
He simply replied with that big grin
getting even wider: “I crashed.” Brevity
is something. Jack Brabham can claim
to know well.
There is just a chance in Europe and
in the Argentine (where that other
mighty man of motor racing, Juan
Fangio, resides) that Brabham is known
even better than in English-speaking
countries. Fangio has a Repco-Brabham
team of racing cars and he praises
Brabham at every opportunity.
In England, today, they refer to
Brabham, more as a mark of respect
than anything else, as “the old fox” of
the racing track. In Europe it’s ”le
vieux tigre” . . . and “le vieux tigre” to
them is the tenacious and brave driver
who will never give up, the constructor
who produces the least-sophisticated
car of them all, yet who wins motor
races just the same.
For Brabham’s cars are not avant-
garde like the rest. Brabham still relies
on what is called a space frame—an
open box framework made up of tubing
welded together. Body panels of cheap
glass-fibre give the car its streamlined
shape.
The rest of the new Formula One
cars use the new monocoque construc-
tion idea following aircraft principle
of light metal (or metal sandwich)
riveted and welded together.
Brabham and Tauranac admit they
might give away a little torsional stiff-
ness which can affect a car’s handling,
but sometimes, as Tauranac points out,
this can be an advantage. Space frames
also suffer a weight penalty which can


think of green.,
What do you see?
Perhaps some of these:
Emeralds and beryls.
Peppermint and Creme de Menthe and
cool mint freezes.
Pine forests.
Olive groves.
Rich, verdant pastures.
Chlorophyll.
Verdigris.
A frog on a lily leaf.
The million greens of the sea.
But . .
... now think of black
Ebony and jet? Fair enough. But soot and coal and
lampblack? Not so pretty. Midnight and ravens and
crows? Worse still.
So imagine our problem in building an image. You
see, we make Carbon Black (the stuff that makes tyres
and plastics tough and dyestuffs and printing ink the
colour they are).
No matter how good we made our product, our image
was still plain black. So we had to add colour to our
personality.
The ingredient we added was Enthusiasm. Bright,
sparkling, colourful Enthusiasm. Give us a problem to
tackle and we’ll show you what we mean.
Next time you think of black, will you think of us?
AUSTRALIAN CARBON BLACK PTY LTD
1C81313


You may have the sweetest
secretary in the world...
Even the sweetest secretary in the world can’t keep skip-
ping lunch. Or go everywhere with you. Or work back three
times in a row. Or remember everything. Or never get sick.
Or stay single. The Grundig Stenorette takes over where
your secretary has to leave off. Grundig Dictating Machines
are used by millions of busy executives all over the world
—because they are the best on the market. Anywhere.
Write for details to:
but there’s only 8 hours
in a working day.
oiaunao
SALES & SERVICE
443 Kent St., Sydney.
Tel.: 29-1528
VIC.: 368 Little Bourke St., Melbourne. 67-1197. W.A.: 144 A William Street, Perth. 21-6500.
S.A.: 52-54 King William Street, Adelaide. 51-6351. GILD.: 235 Edward Street, Brisbane. 2-3247.
Please send me, without obligation, literature on Grundig Dictating Machines.
NAME
'ADDRESS
GE:P324i
affect acceleration and top speed. But
q)ace frames are easier and cheaper to
build. They are also cheaper and easier
to repair if you are unlucky enough to
have a “shunt.” It is this that makes
Repco-Brabhams so popular among
race drivers who must worry about
costs.
Still, they are expensive pieces of
machinery. Cost? For the Formula
One cars only Brabham and perhaps
Repco really know. Estimates are
around £lO,OOO to £12,000 stg. each,
if you take in everything in the over-
heads. But this is still half the cost of
the rest.
After Brabham’s third victory in a
row in the Dutch Grand Prix, John
Cooper, Jack’s one-time boss who is
now racing director of the Cooper-
Maserati team, commented to me:
“There’s something wrong somewhere.
There’s this car that has a relatively
cheap motor and an inexpensive space
frame beating cars costing £25,000 stg.
each and doing it consistently.”
Cooper would know . . . his V-12
Maserati engines are highly developed
and sophisticated pieces of machinery
costing around £9OOO stg. each. After
each race they are sent back to their
works in Italy for overhaul and testing.
They should be perfect. They should
give around 350 bhp rising to 400 bhp
by the end of the year. But they break
down, and they obviously don’t give
their proposed horsepower reliably all
the time.
The same could be said of Enzo
Ferrari, one of the most revered names
in motor racing. Ferrari is really
piqued at the moment. Just when he
has been wanting more money from the
Italian Government or, it’s said, from
the mighty Fiat organisation, his cars
are being slated by the unsophisticated
Brabhams. Ferrari’s Grand Prix cars
must cost all of £25,000 stg. prob-
ably more if the indirects are brought
into it.
Newcomers like Bruce McLaren and
Dan Gurney who are now constructors
in their own right must be wondering
what it’s all about, too. They plumped
for monocoque construction and the
expense involved. Their cars look im-
maculate, but they still await suitable
engines to power them.
Brabham’s engines, built 12,000 miles
away in Australia, are serviced by the
same small team of mechanics who look
after the cars at the track. They do
their work in a workshop Brabham set
up at the end of his racing division on
the Wey canal.
After each race they are taken down
and inspected and rebuilt for the next.
It’s nothing elaborate, this engineering
shop. Unlike the big-engine works there
are no “brakes” instruments for test-
ing the horsepower the engine is devel-
oping. Instead, as Brabham told me a
few weeks back: “Repco build ’em and
put ’em on the brake in Melbourne.
Then they are flown over here and wo
bolt them straight into the car and run
them in on the track. After servicing wo
do exactly the same. We reckon we can
hear whether they’re running right or
not.”
Remarks like this must make tho
engineering shops and boardrooms of
the big timers like BRM, Ferrari, Mas-
erati, and the rest shudder. But all this
keeps the cost down. Building most for
as little as you can. But always build-
ing right. The cost of the Formula One
Brabhams is, however, of academic in-
terest. You could not buy one. Brab-
ham only sells last year’s Formula One
cars from his two-man racing team
(his number two is New Zealander
Denny Hulme). This year he himself
is still driving his last year’s car, modi-
fied to take the Repco engine. Brabham
calls it his 1965| car.
at the cost of a Grand
Prix car today, it seems odd to
think about Brabham back in 1959
dreaming of his own team. I remember
him saying to me: “If I just had
£lO,OOO to spare for a small team”
at the same time he was said to have
refused that much and more a year to
join Sir Alfred Owen’s BRM team as
a development engineer. He could drive
if he wanted to; Louis Stanley, Sir
Alfred’s brother-in-law, is said to have
offered that as further bait. But Brab-
ham wanted to build his own car.
He drove with Coopers for another
year and cleaned up the world cham-
pionship for them once again. Then he
decided to “go it alone.” He coaxed
Tauranac, then a draughtsman in Syd-
ney, from Australia to England (no
small task as Tauranac was well set up
in a well-paid job with plenty of
security). But when Brabham gets per-
suasive you up and take your family
12,000 miles away to work on possibly
the riskiest venture of all —building rac-
ing cars.
There were some who said Brabham
should stop driving and attend to pre-
paring his cars. He was getting like
Colin Chapman (the Lotus chief) try-
ing to do too much and drive at the
same time. Brabham tried the idea—
obviously loathed sitting in the pits—


■
mm jf
'
m
■n
•tail
llliwlll
If a celebration
is worth celebrating
it deserves the best
Minchinbury makes it memorable!
When we say "deserves the best",
you must naturally assume that there
are Not-Quite-Best and Not-Best-
At-AII Champagnes. And this is
true. Champagne made the tradi-
tional way (as Minchinbury is), is
the only wine worthy of your cele-
bration. So if it's worth celebrating
it does deserve the best. And that
means Minchinbury. Marvellous
party wine specially a party just
for two. Minchinbury White Seal
Champagne the most famous of
Australian Champagnes. Minchin-
bury Brut Champagne very dry,
superb quality. Minchinbury Spark-
ling Burgundy light in character
and ruby red in colour. Minchinbury
Sparkling Moselle a light, sweet
sparkling wine. Find a reason to
enjoy a Minchinbury sparkling wine
tonight. You may simply want to
celebrate the fact that you like
champagne !
Be wine-wise, choose Minchinbury.
After all, 122 years experience
makes a difference you can taste.
PENFOLDS
PW1246


M
&m ~<
:
: -■ :
*., ,'J
...
MARGARINE
[llll
itiillilliil
If Mrs. Jones wants
margarine made only from
Australian raw materials...
the Quota System
has no right
to deny her
In 1960 the Dairy Industry Committee of Enquiry acknow-
ledged that Mrs. Jones had the right to buy, without res-
triction, margarine made from Australian raw material.
This is how they put it:
industry acknowledged that if margarine were a
wholly Australian product it would have no grounds for op-
posing the lifting of restrictions.”
But now that Australia can grow the vegetable oils needed
to produce a wholly Australian table margarine the same
Dairy Industry is fighting to keep the quota restrictions.
Earlier in the same year the President of the Australian
Dairy Farmers’ Federation in giving evidence before the
same Committee of Enquiry stated:
■“''“From a dairy farmer’s point of view the manufacture
of a substitute for any dairy product should be banned
unless it is made entirely from Australian primary prod-
ucts and manufactured under Australian conditions, or
recommended on medical advice for special diets as may
be the case for some ‘filled milks'.”
Here again we see a spokesman for the Dairy Industry
acknowledging the right of one primary industry to live
freely with another.
For over 17 years the Queensland Dairy Act which carried
the restrictions against free manufacture of margarine in-
eluded in its definition section on table margarine, the
following statement:
‘Any margarine prepared or manufactured wholly or in
part from any fats or oils mentioned in the definition of
the term margarine which, or the products containing
which, have been imported into Australia; the term does
not include any margarine prepared or manufactured
wholly from fats or oils, which have been derived from a
source within Australia.”
In the new Act passed in 1958 this clause is missing. Now,
when we have a vigorous edible oil seeds industry to create
the raw material needed for wholly Australian production
of margarine, the clause is missing!
The men who plant Safflower, Cotton and Peanuts and
the men who can use these raw materials to make mar-
garine are not asking for special considerations, they ask
only that the sentiments expressed so emphatically in
1960 be re affirmed —and that State Legislation once more
include the missing clause, so they can get on with the job
of creating a new, vital and dynamic primary industry.
"Para 1049. Report of the Dairy Industry Committee of
Enquiry — August, 1960.
Eric Gilbert Roberts, President of the Australian Dairy
Farmers' Federation; the Victorian Dairy Farmers' Associ-
ation and Chairman of the Australian Dairy Industry Coun-
cil, Melbourne. Dated 19/1/60.
MARRICKVILLE HOLDINGS LTD ■ An all-Australian Company
For further information regarding Margarine and Oilseeds write to Marrickville Holdings Ltd., P.O. Box 4, Marrickville, N.S.W.


Turnover
a new leaf
Turn over, a new leaf - Benson and Hedges Special
Smoking Mixture. Blended from Latakia, Perique
& other distinctive leaf, it's mild, smooth, aromatic.
For just 79c a tin, this is the right tobacco when
only the best will do. And isn't that all the time?
Benson and Hedges
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
79c
BH9SR. 8.66
and eventually went back on the track
where he so obviously belongs.
Then this year came the crunch. Like
every other constructor Brabham wanted
a new engine for the new 3-litre For-
mula being introduced for the 1966/
1970 period. Building racing engines
cost money—a lot of money. Sir Alfred
Owen said he would come to the rescue
of constructors who didn’t have an
engine of their own and supply a new
H-12 cylinder formation engine he was
developing.
But this wouldn’t have suited Brab-
ham. Even with Climax there was
always the thought someone else might
get the best engine. He wanted his
own, if possible.
Brabham went “down under” to
Repco, a firm he has been dealing with
since he started real motor racing in
Australia in the early 19505.
REPCO had already decided to try
to help Australian motor racing
enthusiasts by building a 2.5-litre en-
gine for the Tasman Formula (Aus-
tralia has its own “Formula”) to
replace the Coventry Climax power
unit they had been using and which
would now cease to exist.
Could the engine (based on an Ameri-
can V-8 block) be enlarged to 3-litres?
Repco thought it could.
Some Australians, even forward-
thinking businessmen, might not see the
value in Brabham’s shccess (some Repco
shareholders must wonder if it’s all
worth while, for the cost to Repco
must run into many thousands). But a
look at the sales figures of British cars
and engineering products since British
cars started to win motor races should
change their views.
In. three weeks in July Brabham
multiplied the engineering export pot-
ential of Australia many times. Fol-
lowed up with the right type of sales
campaign, all Australian engineering
products, but in particular Repco which
already sell in 85 countries abroad,
could smash sales records. Brabham suc-
cesses in Formula Two and Three (cars
which already carried the name Repco-
Brabham before this year) must have
accounted for quite a lot of Repco’s
almost one-third increase in exports
last year.
Publicity gained for a country by
its sportsmen is invaluable as a “gen-
eral” sales feature. After Brabham we
are no longer the country “where the
wool comes from.” Brabham has now
held title as the world’s biggest pro-
ducer of single-seater racing cars for at
least two years. This year at least 85
single-seater racing cars Formula
Two and Formula Three mostly
will roll from his small factory on the
edge of the Wey canal near Weybridge
in Surrey.
He would also like to produce sports
cars, but time in the factory, where 20
engineers a fair number of them
expatriate Australians produce the
racing cars, is so short that even Brab-
ham’s own Formula One car is one
modified from last year. The sports cars
he has built (the BT-8 and the BT-17,
the first to carry publicly the combined
initials of both Brabham and Taura-
nac) are still in the prototype state,
though they have already won races.
Twelve BT-8s have been built, and one
with Brabham’s No. 2, Denny Hulme,
at the wheel was one of the most suc-
cessful sports cars in Britain last year.
Next year the BTs, fitted with another
larger version of the Repco engine, a
4.2-litre, will be racing in Europe
probably bringing more honors to
Brabham and Australia.
Brabham’s success driving his Repco-
Brabhams fitted with the Japanese 1000
c.c. Honda engines in Formula Two
the second division of motor racing
has this year been fantastic. In seven
major events Brabham has won six and
his able number two, Denny Hulme,


has mostly followed behind in second
place.
Success to Brabham has meant no
more than doing more things he wants
to do like flying (he now owns an
eight-seater Beechcraft Queenair in
which he flies his crew and his engines
almost everywhere in England and
Europe). He has logged 1200 hours, he
has a big house in the stockbroker belt
of Surrey where his tiny and attractive
Australian wife, Betty, looks after his
three sons, Geoffrey (14), Gary (5),
and David (ten months).
Betty used to come to every race with
him: “I’d die if I had to stay at home,”
she would say. She still worries when
Jack drives, but nowadays with Brab-
ham’s racing commitments so heavy
(he’s away almost every weekend dur-
ing the season) and with her new baby,
she stays mostly at home. Despite the
size of her home and the big gardens,
Betty Brabham doesn’t have any regular
help. Brabham’s main interest is always
to build a better car, a better handling
and safer car a car that will go
around a race track faster and more
reliably than any other.
At 40, Brabham has reached a stage
in his career that could mean he should
settle back and guide the futures of
his many companies. This year he
needs but one more Grand Prix victory,
or a second place, to clinch the driving
title for himself and for his cars. (The
world championship this year will be
the best results from five of the nine
the world championship series.) With
four wins to his credit and only three
events to go, the task left to other
drivers is almost impossible. This
means Brabham now takes his place
among the greatest names motor racing
has ever known a name to go with
Fangio, Moss, Carriciola, Farina,
Ferrari, and the rest.
Brabham has received the world top
honors for his efforts in motor racing
“Driver of the Year” awards, Gold
Stars from the top clubs, the Ferodo
Trophy for his contribution to motor
sport. Only his home country took time
to honor him in any way at all. The
dark-haired Australian has brought
Australia honors far in excess of pro-
bably any other individual for many
years. The monetary value of these
honors is going to be worth a fortune
to us in engineering exports for years
to come.
He probably won’t like me saying
this, but there are many who agree. It
took a long time for someone in Aus-
tralia to wake up and give him some
public recognition of what he has done
for Australia abroad. This year he was
given an 0.8. E. in the Queen’s birth-
day Australian list.
Let’s hope it doesn’t take us that
long again.
[Repco’s part in the Brabham story
is on page 60 of this issue.]
A King’s Man
When Lord Beaverbrook Took Charge of Operations
By DAVID McNICOLL
IT all seems such a long time ago,
that abdication business. And it is.
Nearly 30 years. The principals now
have faded into a sort of Darby and
Joan mist, with even their critics say-
ing, “Well, at least the marriage seems
to have worked out happily.” All we
see in the Press is occasional pictures
of the Duke and Duchess in their
French garden or trying to give the
impression at some charity ball that
they are still in the Pepsi generation.
The young today, with dissection and
exposure of royalty taken for granted,
would no doubt have difficulty in
visualising the convulsions of 1936 when
Edward gave up the throne. It was a
tremendous news story, as well as a
constitutional and social event of shat-
tering consequence in England. I was
a newspaper cadet at the time, but I
can remember the frenzied activity in
the seats of the editorial mighty which
sent tremors right through the stratas
of reporters. The rumors from London
were bandied about and the confiden-
tial coded cables about strange doings
in royal circles led to a spate of half-
truths and titillating speculation.
A week or so ago, those old days
came into sharp new perspective. I
unearthed, in clearing out some old
desks, a file containing the cables sent
between E. W. Mac Alpine (then Lon-
don head of the Consolidated Press
group), and Syd Deamer, then editor
of the Sydney “Daily Telegraph.” In
the same week I was given a copy of
Lord Beaverbrook’s “The Abdication
of King Edward VIII.”
The Mac Alpine cables were an un-
folding drama of conjecture, followed
by confirmation. A cable mentioning
that a Mrs. Simpson, frequently seen
with the King, was to divorce her hus-
band at Ipswich Assizes. Then accounts
taken from the unfettered New York
papers of transatlantic passengers re-
tailing the London gossip which no
English paper would touch.
Then, when Mac Alpine, with his de-
lightfully Irish-Australian directness,
put the rumors fairly to the King’s
secretary, he was given this reply. “The
stories are so perfectly ridiculous I
would not trouble even to officially deny
them. They are fantastic from start to
finish. I’m afraid I cannot prevent the
American Press publishing such things,
but good taste is the guide here that
English newspapers obey.”
The interesting thing is that the
English newspaper silence was not
brought about by good taste. It was
brought about by that incredible news-
paper gnome, Lord Beaverbrook. The
King, by good luck or good manage-
ment, got The Beaver on-side early in
the drama, and The Beaver proved a
worthy ally. Not only were his own
claws blunted by the King’s approach
but he was able to persuade his fellow-
proprietors to fall in with his wishes.
In this new book, found in his papers
after Lord Beaverbrook’s death, is
traversed the exciting story of those
torrid months told, let it be em-
phasised, with the emotion and passion
of one who was on the losing side in
the argument.
The way in which the romance be-
tween Edward and Mrs. Simpson was
kept from the mass of the English
people will go down as a triumph of
voluntary censorship. American papers
were blaring it, some Continental
papers were hinting at it but, except
for those in newspaper or “society”
circles, the affair was unknown in
England.
Lord Beaverbrook was not a man
who recognised light and shade. He
knew only black or white, coward or
hero, goodie or baddie. His list of
“baddies” is an impressive one, and if
one accepts his judgment (and in many
instances his accusations are impres-
sive) then one can never again have
anything but contempt for the name of
Stanley Baldwin, and distaste for those
of Cosmo Lang (then Archbishop of
Canterbury), and Geoffrey Dawson
(editor of “The Times”). The Beaver
presents Baldwin as a lazy, devious
man, capable only of the “wisdom of
the serpent.” He presents the Arch-
bishop as a vitriolic and insensitive
mediocrity. And Geoffrey Dawson he
depicts as an upstart whose delight was
in toadying to Cabinet Ministers and
who believed himself as powerful as a
prime minister.
B Y October, 1936, the Simpson affair
was reaching, by word of mouth, a
wider audience in Britain. The King’s
Adriatic trip in the yacht Nahlin
(with Mrs. Simpson abroad), her
appearance in various photographs and
court circulars: all this was wagging
London’s tongues. Then came the news
that her divorce from Mr. Ernest
Simpson (how decently and quietly
this pleasant broker behaved before
and in the years after!) would be
heard.
Percy Cudlipp, editor of the “Even-
ing Standard,” phoned Beaverbrook
for instructions on how to handle the
divorce story. The Beaver phoned
Theodore Goddard, Mrs. Simpson’s
solicitor, and told him that the
“Standard” would be covering the
divorce. Goddard pleaded, unsuccess-
fully, for privacy. The Beaver said, in
effect, news was news. Then, a week


V . v
mmmmm
* s
' " ■■
3»
:■ mi
Hi
..
■ ", •: ■ . .■: ' '
WKKI.
ii—
!§jj||f
Si
Now
expressly
scheduled
for Unbound
Australian
businessmen
AIR NEW lEAIAND
★★★ ★ ★ The Five Star Jetline
Air New Zealand’s Five Star DC-8
Jets depart Sydney every Wednesday
and Friday at 3.00 am. for Los Angeles
through Auckland and Hawaii, is*-
Your Travel Agent or AIR NEW ZEALAND in Sydney, 28-2786; Melbourne,
63-2554; Brisbane, 31-2548; Adelaide, 51-0331; Canberra, 4-7147; will book
you the Five Star Jetway to the U.S.A.
in association with QANTAS and BOAC. General Sales Agent in Australia—QANTAS
Los Angeles
Sydney
Auckland
Hawaii


The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or
ordered for $1.10 including postage
from the same Library, Box 4088,
G.P.O., Sydney.
later, the King phoned Beaverbrook
and asked to see him. From that
moment The Beaver took charge of
operations.
And what an indefatigable and re-
sourceful King’s man he was! He got
together with Esmond Harmsworth
(the present Lord Rothermere) and
arranged a plan of campaign resulting
in British newspapers consenting to a
policy of discretion about the divorce
coverage. Then he tackled Ireland and
France and met with fair success in
both those countries.
The divorce was heard and reported
briefly in the Press, with no mention
whatsoever of Mrs. Simpson’s associa-
tions. No wonder the King was happy
with The Beaver.
From that time, until shortly before
the abdication, Lord Beaverbrook be-
came virtually public-relations man
and adviser to the King. But the King
did not tell him everything in the
early stages though he saw Beaver-
brook almost daily, he never revealed
that he had determined to marry Mrs.
Simpson when her decree became abso-
lute. “Even if I had known that he
did propose marriage I still would
have done what I did,” Beaverbrook
writes.
The story of the abdication is so
well known and is a tale told by so
many participants that reiteration be-
comes tedious. But the extent of Lord
Beaverbrook’s involvement is impres-
sive. So is the weight which was given
to the opinion of Australia’s Prime
Minister Lyons when the Empire
leaders were canvassed in the question
of the King’s marriage with a divorced
commoner. By this stage the proposal
of a morganatic marriage first put
up by Harmsworth was gaining sup-
port among the King’s friends, and
Baldwin was fighting lustily, and some-
what dirtily, against it.
There are several versions of Bald-
win’s consultations with the Dominions.
But it Is inescapable that he revealed
information, and posed questions in
such a way that the scales weighed
heavily against the King. The King
knew Baldwin intended to consult the
Dominions, and he also knew the
deadly way the question was framed:
“Do you recommend the King’s mar-
riage to a woman with two husbands
living, or do you recommend Abdica-
tion?”
Australia, with a Catholic Prime
Minister and devout family man at the
controls, came back with a “particu-
larly hostile answer.” And Baldwin
showed that reply, and none of the more
temperate other replies, to the King.
This, despite the fact that New Zea-
land’s Savage had failed to express any
real opposition to a morganatic mar-
riage, and Canada’s MacKenzie King
felt that the King’s relations with Mrs.
Simpson were of a purely personal
nature.
Now the situation started to hot up.
The King, increasingly agitated, show-
ing signs of increasing strain, would
repeat again and again, “No marriage,
no coronation.” The Press had sorted
itself into two camps on the King’s
side the “Daily Express” (Beaver-
brook) and the “Daily Mail” (Rother-
mere) and the “News Chronicle” (Sir
Walter Layton). Against the King were
lined up “The Times,” its editor, Geof-
frey Dawson (closely working with
Baldwin), the “Morning Post,” “Daily
Telegraph” and “Daily Herald.”
It was at this stage that Lord
Beaverbrook changed his tactics, and
started working on Mrs. Simpson to
make an act of renunciation. His sole
purpose, he avers, was to ease the ten-
sion and gain time. But Edward was
later to describe this action as a
“conspiracy”—which must have hurt
Beaverbrook grievously.
But Beaverbrook had reasons for
optimism that the King’s position could
be saved. The powerful Winston Chur-
THE BULLETIN, December 23, 1936.
Norman Lindsay’s comment on the
Archbishop’s condemnation of the
King’s habits and friends.
chill was on-side, public support for
the King was swelling, the pro-King
papers were selling like hot cakes.
Then it seemed that Mrs. Simpson
would renounce and make possible
breathing space for the King, the news
came to Beaverbrook that Edward was
negotiating abdication terms with the
Government, and must in future dis-
sociate himself from his supporters.
The chips were down, the cards had
been served to the players. Nothing
could stop the progress of the game.
Mrs. Simpson went to France. The
King abdicated. Stanley Baldwin gave
a speech to the House which Beaver-
brook describes as a “masterpiece,”
but which was “utterly untrue,” and a
perfect example of unscrupulous
advocacy. And the Archbishop of
Canterbury, not to be left out of the
act, came in on the grouter with a
condemnation of the King’s habits and
friends. “A scandalous broadcast,” says
Lord Beaverbrook.
Would a morganatic marriage have
worked out? A lot of wise people feel
that it would not have been successful.
Once the idea was proposed, it was
seized on eagerly by Mrs. Simpson,
and from that moment was supported
by the infatuated King, even though
Beaverbrook and others warned him
of the dangers.
The years have done a lot to dispel
criticism of Mrs. Simpson’s part in
the abdication. She was a woman in
love, and a woman keen to marry the
King. Yet this book makes clear how
she urgently offered to withdraw al-
together if the King would remain on
the throne. As the foreword states, “Her
generosity and unselfishness can now
receive belated tribute. It was thanks
to Mrs. Simpson, not to Baldwin, that
the affair had so smooth an ending.”
Personally, I found great pleasure in
reading this vindication of Mrs. Simp-
son because, apart from the under-
lying implacability of her face, I have
always thought that she must be a per-
son of tremendous character
Lord Beaverbrook’s book has been
edited by A. J. P. Taylor, and he does
not hesitate to append footnotes where
Beaverbrook is astray in facts, or where
his conclusions have not been borne
out by history. But the authentic stamp
of Beaverbrook is right through this
book the assumptions of power, the
furious resentment of the Establish-
ment, the plotting, the playing of per-
son against person. He was a formid-
able man, Lord Beaverbrook, and the
vitality which he imparted to England’s
20th-century Press and indeed to
the everyday life and attitudes of the
British people were very consider-
able.
Which side was right in the abdica-
tion crisis? It is a dry academic
question today, and quite overshadowed
by the fact that “everything turned out
for the best,” and that the infusion of
the commonsense Scots blood of the
present Queen Mother into the mon-
archy, and the succession, was perhaps
the best thing to happen to the royal
family for a couple of centuries.
Beaverbrook probably thought so, too,
in his later years. He recalls, years after
the abdication, talking to Churchill on
the Riviera. “The conversation turned
hither and thither on many political
struggles in the early days when we
sat on opposite sides of the House.
Churchill said that one or other had
certainly been right or wrong, as we
had always differed. Except once, I
said, mentioning the abdication.
“ ‘Perhaps we were both wrong that
time,’ replied Churchill.”


7
© ©
m
V
<1
JSI
9i
d
THESE TRAINS
MEAN BUSINESS
i
I
*:3
NS
es?
ca
£
ADT
From the Gulf to Derwent River . . . from the shores of Sydney Harbour to
the Avon Valley in the West . . . the freight trains of Australian Railways
are constantly at work on a never ending collection and distribution of the
nation’s wealth. Much of it concerns the great primaries from which we draw
our daily sustenance, as well as export wealth the bounty of our pastures,
the fruit of our orchards, our great mineral resources.
These trains mean business ., •In the
field of land-based transportation, nothing
matches rail over medium or long distance
hauls. No other land transport agency on
a ton-mile basis carries freight at such low
cost or so speedily.
Support for the Railways of Australia is
something more than just good business.
In a country of great distances, where
transport costs are higher than in most
other countries, the government-controlled
rate structure of Australian Railways is a
sound and basic common denominator, one
which works as it has done for over a
century for the betterment and benefit
of all Australians.
Inserted by authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
View from Emerald Hill
By J. C. KAYE
ALBERT CAMUS remarked that
Frenchmen who had been through
World War I continued to speak
of it 'almost entirely in the way re-
ported by newspapers, so what they
had read was more real to them than
anything they had experienced with
their own nerves and guts. The same
failing in Australians that they lose
accurate sight of their own lives under
the bombardment of alien impressions
through newspaper, films, television,
and other media horrifies Mr. Wal
Cherry.
Mr. Cherry, director of Melbourne’s
Emerald Hill Theatre, finds, for
example, that when actors in an Aus-
tralian play are asked to speak in a
terse fashion many say “Yup,” “Ya,”
and other Americanisms rather than
the true, dry Australian “Yeah.” They
have to ba taught to re-examine what
should be easy, unselfconscious aspects
of their native speech and manner.
He finds, in the same way, that arti-
ficial impressions are robbing Austra-
lians particularly young Australians
of awareness of the simple fact of
environment. It can be novel to such
indoctrinated ones to become conscious
of such an everyday thing as the texture
and weight of a brick.
An attempt to give his audiences an
awareness of their lives, in a general
way and in detail, has been one force
in his work in the theatre. It is the
mark of his approach that he has tried
to achieve this through Brecht, lonesco,
Max Frisch, Tennessee Williams, and
other moderns, as well as through
Shakespeare, Sophocles, and Moliere,
and through Australian plays and
musicals.
Cherry’s lively and intelligent
approach to theatre will now be taken
off to Adelaide, where he will take up
the position of Professor of Drama at
the new Flinders University next year.
Cherry has given his working life to
the theatre as actor and producer, but
to teach and write are his vocation.
It has also been his ambition to help
link all the world of theatre into a
community where writers, actors, de-
signers, producers, technicians, dancers,
and others move freely and creatively.
Television, radio, and films will have
their place in his courses at Flinders.
Playwriting, designing, producing, criti-
cism, and appreciation will all be
studied in the drama workshop.
At Flinders drama will be in the
School of Language and Literature.
Students will be able to include his
subject for their 8.A., but there will be
no “B.A. in acting.” If any of his
students decide on stage careers, that’s
all to the good as far as Cherry is con-
cerned. His field, as he sees it now, will
be “what drama is and does and how
it communicates with the people who
see it.” He wants to turn out talented
people, whether professionals, teachers,
or playgoers.
The move to Adelaide will end his
four years’ work with Emerald Hill
and its actors’ studio and workshop.
As I write their future is undecided.
The Emerald Hill Theatre is in
Dorcas Street, Melbourne not one
of Melbourne’s smartest suburbs in
a church built by Baptists in 1877, but
later used by Ukrainians and others.
Wall Cherry and his partner, George
Whaley, lease the old burnt-brick build-
ing from a film-making company,,
Eltham Films.
On Dorcas Street a green-and-white-
striped awning and white posts, together
with the electric theatre sign above, are
almost the only change from a church-
like appearance. Inside, the roof beams,
the varnished ceiling, the colored-glass
windows, and the gallery are still
Church: the green walls, the spotlights
at the sides and on a bar across the
room, the apron stage, a large green
curtain, and the 150 tip-up seats are
Theatre.
QHERRY, at 34, looks like an actor,
but takes only walk-on roles.
He’s well built, with a fine head and
handsome face dominated by a truly
aquiline nose. His manner is easy and
he talks quietly. He is not too sure even
now why he got caught up in theatre.
He writes poems, has finished one novel,
and partly finished another.
He was born in Ballarat, Victoria, a
Roman Catholic, and was educated first
at St. Patrick’s there. At 16 he had
turned from Catholicism, and he com-
pleted his education at State schools
before going to Melbourne University
to do a B.A. in English and history.
His family had no connection with
theatre, but his father had artistic
talent. He was a painter who would “do
anything from churches to portraits.”
On impulse, while at the University,
Wal Cherry went to auditions for a
production of “Our Town,” by Thorn-
ton Wilder. He got a small role, but
even then realised he was “not suited”
to acting. “I’m fascinated by the prob-
lems and techniques,” he told me. “At
the same time I am too conscious of
myself.”
He succeeded Ray Lawler as manager
of the Union Repertory at the Univer-
sity, and for a time was also director.
He left after the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust became influential in the Union
Rep’s affairs, but is still paid a weekly
retainer of $6O dollars by the Trust
which can call on his services. His
theatre, however, gets no aid itself.
In 1959, he formed his Actors’
Studio and Theatre Workshop at
Eastern Hill and began looking for a
theatre. In 1962, after a long search
(“We were in despair”) he obtained
the present building at $5O a week.
Conversion cost about $4200, with
everyone giving a hand. Otherwise it
would have been nearer $16,000 The
stage, 43ft. wide and 30ft. deep, in-
cluding the apron, has in the apron a
revolving stage 18ft. in diameter, pulled
around by hand as needed. Architect
Robin Boyd suggested Emerald Hill,
after the old name for South Mel-
bourne. He also planned the decor.
The company—with all-professional
casts —mounts “five or six” plays a
year, averaging “four or five” weeks.
Some seasons are longer. “Macbeth”
last year went for 13 weeks.
With about 500 permanent subscrib-
ers, and admission charges that make
the space economic on a half-full basis,
the theatre made a net profit of $2OO
in 1963-64, and $lOOO in 1964-65.
One of the problems has been that
the people interested in this kind of
theatre are largely the young marrieds
now spreading so far out into the Mel-
bourne sprawl that South Melbourne
is too far to come.
Concurrently with producing plays,
Wal Cherry teaches at his studio and
workshop, where the classes include
fencing (to encourage “quick patterns
of thought”), dancing, voice produc-
tion, the history and development of
the theatre, and other subjects. “Squash
is even better than fencing,” Cherry
says.
The teaching he calls “pretty em-
pirical.” Students, who range from
teenagers to experienced actors doing
refreshers, are made to observe “the
behaviour of their fellow citizens.” The
search is for “an Australian style.”
Cherry calls Emerald Hill “a theatre
of commonsense drama . . . not arty
crafty . . . learning as much as pos-
sible from tradition and from over-
seas.” He says it abhors chi-chi and
decorative effects for their own sake.
However, because it puts on people
like Brecht, who are considered exotic
by a great many Melbourne folk,
Emerald Hill has become known to
them as an arty crafty place just
the opposite of what Cherry has in-
tended. “We have fallen into the trap
I tried to avoid,” he says.
He feels keenly that theatre has
“lost the young.” A part of the
Emerald Hill program that he enjoys
particularly is his plays for schools.
Eath year the theatre produces the
plays set for matriculation students.
This year they are Sophocles’ “Anti-
gone” and Arthur Miller’s “Death of
a Salesman.” The students come along
to ordinary performances and not
special matinees, so that they get the
proper feeling of “going to the play.”
Cherry regrets deeply the gulf that
has arisen in Australia between the
theatre and TV. > “They come along
and interview us as if we were people
from another world,” he says.


ON FILM
The Old Wave at Bondi
TWO contrasts: Karel Reisz’s
“Morgan,” shown briefly at the
N.S.W. Film Festival, and
Michael Powell’s “They’re A Weird
Mob.” No difference could be greater:
these were the New and the Old Wave
of British cinema in prototype. And
even the screening conditions were
appropriate: “Morgan” was amateur-
ishly projected in the thoroughly un-
comfortable ultra-modern Science Hall
at the University of N.S.W., while
“They’re A Weird Mob” was shown in
the Second Empire (Leicester Square)
flummery of the State Theatre in
Market Street.
Karel Reisz’s film is a kind of pop-
art “Look Back In Anger.” The hero
or anti-hero doesn’t merely sound off
loudly against upper middle-class
mum-in-law, haughty wife, and Welfare
State, but takes positive physical action
against those now sadly shopworn
targets. He sets off a bomb under his
mistress’ mother’s bed. unleashes a
barrage of sound from a concealed
tape-recording device to startle his
lecherous symbolic enemy—an art gal-
lery proprietor—and makes a visit to the
obligatory British film location of a
graveyard, this time to pay homage
with his working-class Mum at the
tomb of Karl Marx. He winds up com-
pletely cuckoo in an asylum, making
a flowerbed into the shape of a
hammer and sickle.
This is all very old fashioned in
1966, despite its contemporary trim-
mings (pop-art cut-ins of “King Kong”
and “Tarzan”).
The exhausted direction snatches at
modish straws: Godard or Truffaut-
like jump - cuts and freeze - frames,
“Billy Liar”-like dream sequences (the
hero seized by visions of grandeur),
“The Knack”-like white-on-white sets.
Now that the Labor Government is in,
it seems that all the protesters who are
left are madmen. And Morgan is mad;
worse still, he is lacking in charm. If
anything could be calculated to kill
stone dead the kind of guttersnipe
figure fostered by the “in” British film
(Alfie, as played by Michael Caine, is
an even grislier example), it is David
Warner’s thoroughly nasty perform-
ance and the coldly smug and humor-
less direction of him by Karel Reisz.
The screening of “They’re A Weird
Mob,” by contrast, whisked one back
almost 20 years. It was like being at
the Empire, Leicester Square, in, say,
1947: at the head of the foyer, up a
flight of richly carpeted steps, John,
silver haired and distinguished, and
Googie, glittering with precious stones,
received the guests in a long line, like
royalty. Inside, Michael Powell was on
the stage reading a speech, adroitly
concealed in John O’Grady’s book, in
which there were as many references
to magic and magic carpets as in his
long-forgotten Arabian Nights ’Forties
fantasy “The Thief of Bagdad.”
Michael, one recalled, had given Googie
her chance in “One Of Our Aircraft Is
Missing.” It was a moment of extraor-
dinary nostalgia.
film, too, was old fashioned,
right down to a mud pie unerringly
slung in the face of a Chinaman, • a
creaking “Theme Tune,” (“It’s a Big
Country”) and “lyrical” British-style
music working itself up like nobody’s
business for the glimpses of the harbor.
There were intriguing technical echoes
of Powell’s past films; the use of hand-
held camera and multi-colored filters,
and hints, but only hints of his personal
style, which could be called Anglo-
Saxon Baroque: Nino Culotta falling
asleep in the pile of magazines, while
colored neon signs flash over his recum-
bent form, reminded me of “The Red
Shoes”; rain spatters on a newspaper,
announcing a storm, as it once spattered
similarly on the great padded jungle
leaves as the nuns leave the convent
at the end of “Black Narcissus”; Nino
and Kay on their block of land, and
the discovery of the fish carved in the
rock, carry more than an echo of the
lyricism of “I Know Where I’m Go-
ing.” The film’s Old Wave craftsman-
ship is often worth looking at: Arthur
Grant’s camera work has a high gloss
reminiscent of Rank films of the ’forties,
and the beach scenes are very adroit.
But much of the film has a strained
and forced air, as though resulting from
an awkward cross-breeding of John
Ford, Italian realist farce, and “Carry
On Sydney.” It is cold and impersonal,
lacking in spontaneity. But there are
several good scenes that rise above any-
thing in “Morgan” and show that old-
fashioned craftsmanship always tells:
the filter-shot harborside picnic at
dusk, the tea party with the exploding
meringues (very Fordian, this), the
interview with Kay’s father, well played
by Chips Rafferty. The physical beauty
of Sydney and the quick, brown Syd-
neysiders are vividly evoked: the
sparkling street scenes near the Qantas
building should boost the migrant rate
still further. But at the end a metallic
taste is left in the mouth, a sense of
hollowness. Why?
CHARLES HIGHAM
P[?]iz
"A Far Country/'
a play about Freud
at Sydney's
Independent
Theatre
Alastair Duncan as
Dr. Sigmund Freud
Nigel Lovell as
Dr. Joseph Breuer,
his friend.


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER'S NOTEBOOK
SHOPPING l* BT
noootote ef'/
4 si 300 Its of
i
.. and 120 pounds of caviar”
Ashopping list for a lifetime? No, just
a small section of the 2,000 separate
food commodities ordered by the Chief
Steward for one Trans Atlantic sailing of
the “Queen Elizabeth.” The immensity
of the food operation aboard Cunard’s
“Queen Elizabeth” and “Queen Mary”
is difficult to describe without figures.
For example, approximately 250 people
are behind the scenes for food prepara-
tion on each ship. There are six kitchens
covering more than half an acre; a vege-
table-preparing room, a potato room, a
fruit room, a salad room and a room
where Kosher recipes are prepared.
More than 300 choices of dishes are
available . . . over 60 kinds of hors
d’oeuvres. Tremendous variety is offered
—ll flavours of marmalade; 7 types of
shrimp; 24 different breads (2,500 rolls
are baked for each meal); 8 kinds of
salmon . . . Some of the many reasons
why getting there is half the fun with
Cunard. ,
"A'' -S- \
YOU might think that the Eiffel Tower,
Paris, is tall! The “Queen Elizabeth”
is 50 feet longer! In fact, she is 2i times
longer than the height of Sydney’s Har-
bour Bridge.
'T'HE “Queen Mary’s” gross tonnage
exceeds that of the entire Cunard
Atlantic and Mediterranean fleets of
1876 which consisted of 36 ships.
“Queen” has 6 children’s play-
rooms and nurseries .. . small worlds
of teddy bears, rocking horses, play pens.
Even a miniature replica of the Captain’s
Bridge.
The letters of the name “Queen Eliza-
beth” on the bows are 2i feet high
and 68 feet in length.
JJ7HEN you go Trans Atlantic spend
'' five of the most exhilarating days
and nights in your life . . . with Cunard.
CUNARD
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT
FILMS
Who’s Afraid of
Film-making?
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Direc-
tor, Mike Nichols.
They’re a Weird Mob. Director, Michael
Powell.
MIKE NICHOLS, already notable
| as satirist and stage director,
makes a triumphant screen
debut with his expert, authoritative
directing of “Who’s Afraid Of Vir-
ginia Woolf?”
Theatre men confronted with a film
script tend to fall into one of two
traps —they treat it as if it were to be
played in the confines of a stage set
(particularly when, as here, the film
is adapted from a play) or else are so
overcome with the excitement of hav-
ing a camera to play with that they
keep their actors whizzing about like
demented ballet dancers. Nichols
avoids both with effortless ease: he
moves the action from the original
one room around the house, outdoors,
and even to a nearby bar without
losing the play’s closed, claustrophobic
atmosphere of four ill-assorted charac-
ters boxed in together for a night of
boozing, confession, and accusation.
Edward Albee’s play is the story of
the volcanic marital relationship of
George, a university lecturer bitterly
recognising his own mediocrity, and
Martha, daughter of the college presi-
dent; and of the ambitious young scien-
tist and his fluffy wife who have been
invited in for a post-party drink and
get more than they bargain for.
Nichols is splendidly served by a beau-
tifully chosen cast of four. Richard
Burton dominates the film with his
tense but understated performance as
George; he makes the character the
focal point of the film, whereas in the
memorable Sydney stage production
the emphasis fell on Martha, brilli-
antly played by Jacqueline Kott. This
is no slur on Elizabeth Taylor, who
does astonishingly well. She’s no great
actress, but can respond to firm direc-
tion. And with her tousled hair,
smeared make-up, and general blowsi-
ness, she never looked better.
George Segal, as the ingratiating
young scientist, whose surface amiabil-
ity hides rock-hard selfishness, and
Sandy Dennis, touching and funny as
his silly, .maddening wife, don’t let the
Burtons have it all their own way.
One of Nichols’ greatest successes
is in conveying the basic affection and
understanding between George and
Martha, with their private jokes and
sudden intimate glances amid all their
anger and bitterness. Their marriage
may be disastrous, but it is in the truest
sense a marriage.
The world premiere of “They’re A
Weird Mob” finally came with the
excitement and ceremony attendant
on the announcement of a royal birth.
Well, it’s all right, I suppose, and
despite the doubts of the Immigration
Department is unlikely to harm Aus-
tralia’s overseas “image,” since it gives
the impression that even if rough, we’re
certainly diamonds, and that a
migrant can get a job as a laborer, pay
$lO a week off a debt left by a de-
faulting cousin, and still ,manage
within a matter of months to buy the
choicest block of land in Sydney. The
color photography is a bit chancy and
remarkably unflattering to Clare
Dunne; the script (which leans heavily
on the premise that foreigners are
automatically funny because they don’t
know the lingo) is pedestrian; the per-
formances are mostly smoothly profes-
sional. It won’t do anyone any harm,
but it will be interesting to see how it
goes overseas, where the distributors
can’t rely on an audience conditioned
as precisely as Pavlov’s dogs to laugh
whenever anyone says “bloody” or
“good on yer, mate” or makes a joke
about Graham Kennedy.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
All In the Head
Nathan Der Weise, Lessing. Kennen Sie
Die Milchstrasse ? Siedhoff; Burger
Schippel, Sternheim. Die Bruckle.
Union Hall, Adelaide.
THE three plays presented by Die
Brucke ensemble are impeccably
acted. It is German acting. Each
character is finely defined and con-
trolled and the cast conforms to a total
theatrical effect with precision. Over-
all, it is acting that is clear in delivery,
measured in its responses, and mean-
ingful in its moves. These qualities are
immediately recognisable, and show
what would be a German theatrical
characteristic: they are intellectual in
their approach to a character, it is all
in the head.
Of the three plays, I found “Nathan
Der Weise” the most interesting. Less-
ings’ 18th-century dramatic poem has
been made into a long but lively and
stimulating play. This was the only
production in which a most accom-
plished actor, Peter Luhr, appeared. He
is perhaps the most famous member of
the group, being on loan for the tour
from the Munich Kammerspiele, and he
played Nathan commandingly and
with great sensitivity. “Nathan Der
Weise” is concerned with the discovery
by a Jew, a Mohammedan Sultan, and
a Christian Knight Templar that they
are in degrees related. The plot is
forced, but it gave Lessing a vehicle
for expressing his views of love and
human tolerance. The poem is played
in 12 scenes, excellently dressed, and
set with an ingenious system of pulleys
and cloth panels.
“Kennen Sie Die Milchstrasse?” is
a modern play set in a mental hos-
pital. It is a play within a play, with
the audience becoming, after the first
scene, the inmates of the hospital
watching a play written by a fellow


SUCARYL NEEDED HERE
When waistlines expand,
chances are Sucaryl no-calorie
sweeteners can help. In tea
or coffee alone, Sucaryl saves
at least 30 calories per cup
(add up how many you could save!).
And there's no saccharin taste.
To cut down calories,
sweeten with . . .
No-Calorie
Sucaryl
+ BRAND
VVi
N
Natural-Tasting No-Calorie Sweeteners, from your chemist.
LOOK
A HANDS FREE TELEPHONE
L M ERICSSON'S
a**
Gliccvcxi
LOUDSPEAKING TELEPHONE IS PMG APPROVED
FOR A DEMONSTRATION CONTACT!
mm
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER PHONI 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD. NORTH SYDNEY PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hohart. 2 2SII
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pesrce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle l Co. (1859) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
inmate and acted by him and one of
the doctors. The theme is one of lost
identity, and the hospital can be taken
as the world. It is a play of moderate
humor and gentle satire, and the doctor
and patient were played by the com-
pany’s two directors, Dieter Brammer
and Jost Siedhoff. It was a tour de
force.
The final play was brutal satire,
“Burger Schippel,” by Carl Sternheim.
It concerns the rise through village
society of Bastard Schippel, whose
tenor voice makes him necessary to a
group of his bourgeois peers if their
vocal group is to win first prize at the
village competitions. Sternheim loathes
his characters; they could not be more
shallow, conniving, hypocritical, and
banal. Nearly the whole company
appeared in the play, and it was a
brilliantly harmonious presentation.
Die Brucke should not be missed.
The fact that it is a small touring
company, working on a low budget,
and with productions designed to be
presented under uncertain or even
primitive conditions, merely underlines
the fact that the theatrical environment
which produced them must have ex-
ceptionally high standards.
ROBERT WARD
TELEVISION
Unbalanced view
IT would be quite reasonable for an
overseas documentary team to visit
Australia, shoot some assorted film,
and then write a commentary in
Chinese, Albanian, or Urdu entitled
“Life in Ugh! Australia.” This might
go something like, “Australians are so
badly paid they have to buy almost
everything on hire purchase at high
rates of interest. To drown their sor-
rows they drink vast amounts of beer,
tipping the beer girls, who live on so
little that they can afford few clothes.
Unlike our glorious republic, Australia
has no film industry. The old receive
a pittance from the State, many live
in small rooms in slum houses. Aus-
tralia lets most of its precious water
run to waste, suffers the consequences
of drought, which last year killed mil-
lions of sheep and cattle.” And so on,
with you can imagine what kinds of
film shots to “prove” that what is said
in the commentary is the truth.
These reflections are prompted by
a recent documentary called “The
Other Germany” which should have
been prefixed by “A Peep . . .” or else
named “John Abbott’s View of How
17-Million Live in East Germany,” in
accord with the facts, which were few
enough to make the average Australian
viewer mutter, “Come Off It, Mate.”
As an attempt to give us a reasonable
look at life in East Germany, the film
was a miserable failure, and I say this
without knowing a thing about the
country, before or after viewing, except
that it is Communist run, dominated
by the U.S.S.R., and that few Aus-
tralians would care to live there or
expect it to be a paradise.
To waste great lengths of film on
shots to be used to prove the obvious,
the understood, the banal, and to give
these a sweeping title such as The
Other Germany seems to me at least
regrettable, at most ridiculous. If
viewers wanted to know more about
East Germany, which is doubtful, the
bits they were shown in this documen-
tary, and have been shown in other
similar views of other suspect terri-
tories, would be the last aspects they
would be looking for.
Why Australian documentary-makers
w h Q t 0 Europe ignore the interest-
; p i aces for the drab puzzles me. I
y episode f ABC Television . s
(( , r , .. 7 , • » , • *
M’selle de Parts much more interest-
mg, if less timely, and envy the doom
mentarles the Americans make ovei-
l°r mass audiences which they
don’t consider stupid,
FRANK ROBERTS


BOOKS
Miss Roper’s Guided Tour
By KARL A. WITTFOGEL
China The Surprising Country. Myra
Roper. Heinemann. $5.75.
IN 1963 Miss Myra Roper, the
author of the book under review
and the principal of the Uni-
versity Women’s College in Melbourne,
was a member of the first Australian
tourist group allowed to visit the
Chinese mainland after what she refers
to as “the lean years of 1960 to 1962.”
Before her departure she asked permis-
sion to make a film for television
during her stay. Upon her arrival in
Peking the Communist organisation
dealing with her trip immediately
granted this request. And not only
that. Her team was given professional
help in the person 'of a Mr. Feng,
“an experienced film producer,” a
younger assistant cameraman, and a
special interpreter.
Was it an accident of choice that
Miss Roper was among the first Aus-
tralians to be admitted as a tourist to
China after the post-commune crisis?
And was it an accident of choice that
the Communist regime allowed and
helped her to make a film of “every-
day life in China” a favor granted,
as she was aware, to very few people,
“apart from several journalists well
known to the Chinese (Edgar Snow,
Felix Greene, and the Gelders)”?
Snow and his colleagues were well
known to the Chinese not only as
journalists but as friends of their
regime. And what about Miss Roper?
What qualified her for the task she set
out to fulfil in 1963? According to her
own statement, she enjoyed only a
modest knowledge of China and “a
more modest one of Marxism.” These
deficiencies seem to have blended well
with a seasoned pro-Peking orienta-
tion.
Since the ’fifties she had been asso-
ciated with the Australia-China
Society, which in 1958 had chosen her
to visit China, together with three
other women, all “connected in some
way with women’s affairs.” The invi-
tation had been tendered by the
Chinese Women’s Federation, “un-
doubtedly,” as its membership shows,
“the biggest women’s organisation in
the world” undoubtedly also, as its
performance shows, Peking’s biggest
transmission belt in national and inter-
national women’s affairs.
Miss Roper arrived in China in mid-
September, 1958. She “moved around
the country and the cities” for about
Karl Wittfogel, Adjunct Professor of
Chinese History, Columbia University,
is the author of “A History of Chinese
Society.”
a month, i.e., until mid-October. The
time is crucial. When, in June, the
Federation —through the Australia-
China Society invited Miss Roper,
the lives of tens of millions of Chinese
women were already being radically
affected by the “Great Leap Forward,”
which since early 1958 had been pro-
moting the establishment of rural
nurseries (“cribs”) for small children
and canteens (“mess-halls”) for the
mass of the villagers in order to “liber-
ate” millions of peasant women from
their homes for work in collective agri-
culture and related enterprises.
When Miss Roper arrived on the
Chinese mainland in mid-September,
1958, the policy of the Great Leap had
just been climaxed by the creation of
the “rural communes.” The statutes
of one such commune that was hailed
as a “model” for all villages requested
that the use of nurseries and public
kitchens be made general and oblig-
atory. The British Left Wing socialist
R. H. S. Crossman, who in that same
month went to several communes, re-
ported a few months later: “Every vil-
lage I visited was equipped with a
creche, a kindergarten, a primary
school, and several canteens — with the
result that women were out at work
and the labor force had been doubled”
(“New Statesman,” London, Janu-
ary 10, 1959, italics added).
Miss Roper was in-
vited primarily to see “what the
new regime had done ‘to liberate’ women
in China.” While she was there, the
liberation of China’s rural women
assumed a shape that brutally altered
the peasants’ family life. The strong
hostility to this development, which
was linked to an equally strong hos-
tility to the new rural economy as a
whole, created an abysmal crisis in the
countryside. In October, this crisis
must have become extremely threaten-
ing to the regime, because throughout
November top-ranking Communist
leaders held secret conferences for the
purpose of critically re-examining
major features of the commune policy,
including those pertaining to the
peasants’ family life. One of the latter,
the obligatory use of the nurseries, was
abandoned in December, and another,
the obligatory use of the public kit-
chens, in the spring of 1959.
What was the effect of these critical
changes in the life of the mass of the
Chinese women on Miss Roper? To
judge from her subsequent account,
virtually zero. She recalls engaging in
political discussions, which perturbed no
one: her Communist hosts “seemed to
like me the better for having a go at
them from time to time.” She recalls
having seen several big cities, Canton,
Shanghai, and Hangchow; and she was
overwhelmed by Peking, “to whose
spell I succumbed completely. Unfor-
gettable are the glowing splendors of
the ancient buildings the Summer
Palace, the Temple of Heaven, and,
above all, the Imperial Palace, with its
vast courtyards, Throne Halls, marble
steps and terraces, its vistas of multiple
overlapping roofs, shining with amber,
turquoise, and sapphire tiles.” She re-
calls the broad boulevards, some pic-
turesque persons and some students in
the Opera School and a Teachers’ Col-
lege. And she recalls visiting a few
communes. But the brutal reality of
what was then rural —and rural female
—China never seems to have dawned
upon her. All she observed were people
who “tacitly” accepted the regime’s
achievements. Since the people were
silent about these matters, she accepted
the statements of her guides, who were
ready to speak in their stead. “The
People’s Communes, we were assured,
had made a promising start.”
Late in 1959 she heard “rumors”
suggesting “that the Leap was not the
bounding success its symbol indicated.” -
But she ignored these rumors about
the crisis in the foundations of the
new order and stuck to the surface
and the official symbol. On October
1, 1958, she notes, the .regime “joyously
enough” celebrated its tenth annivers-
ary. The show went on: indeed, Peking-
presented “the greatest show on earth,
Chinese style.” Disregarding the fact
that the country was in the grip of a
protracted and most severe labor short-
age a fact she could have gleaned
from easily available translations of the
Chinese Communist Press —she points
to the new luxury buildings, the new"
Peking railroad station, “a showpiece
... on every visiting list,” and the
Great Hall of the People, in whose
gigantic, glittering Banquet Hall the
Communists annually, on September
30, feted 5000 persons, half of them
foreigners. To be sure, the regime was
faced with problems and difficulties,
but Miss Roper’s recollection of 1958
was one of a popularly accepted glory
past, present, and future.
A friend of Mao’s regime, who was
so insensitive to the real life of the
people, could safely be invited to visit
China as soon as Peking opened its
tourist gate after the “lean years.”
Such a friend could be expected to
understand the tactful, if firm, direc-
tion given by ever-present official
helpers and guides. It should not sur-
prise the reader to learn that when
Miss Roper and her group entered
Communist China to be precise,
“two minutes” after they crossed the
border south of Canton they were
joined by several interpreters who
stayed with them throughout their
trip; and additional local function-
aries put in appearances at proper
moments. Allegedly most of the youn-
ger aides assigned them were not
organised Communists, but the senior
aides were. Miss Roper realised that


all of them were “wholeheartedly loyal
to their Government and the ideals of
Communism. And she realised that
the guidance they gave was substan-
tially political. Here then was her
problem. She wanted to make “a fair
and objective record of what life in
the new China is like”; and she did
raise some critical questions from the
standpoint of Western democracy; but
she also wanted to avoid “any filming
unacceptable to our hosts.” How did
she square the circle?
Eager to satisfy her Communist
friends, she yielded quickly even in the
most insignificant matters. When her
team was filming an old lady with
bound feet as an indication of the
Old China which the new rulers were
wiping out their Peking camera
expert, Mr. Feng, did not stop them
immediately, but “an hour or two later”
his interpreter-aide said Feng wanted
Miss Roper to cut out these shots. Her
declaration, “We will say this was Old
China,” did not change the negative
decision. Both still objected to the
scene: “It reflected on China, even if
the Old China.” And fqr Miss Roper
this settled it: “I understood and cut
the sequence out, of course.”
Miss Roper was extremely responsive
to official wishes when she and her
team were preparing their picture of
Communist China for a TV audience.
And the caution she exhibited in this
area of activity was equalled by the
caution with which she dealt with (or
bypassed) evidence of economic and
political conditions that might em-
barrass the Peking regime. She knew
Edgar Snow’s book “The Other Side of
the River” (published in 1961), in
which he admitted, his inability to get
at the “bottom of things” even in the
several months’ trip he made in 1960
into many regions of mainland China.
Occasionally she notes that she, too,
during her visits could not penetrate
far. Did this alert her?
iQBVIOUSLY, prior to, and after, her
1963 trip she should have consulted
the generally accessible evidence,
official and other, friendly and hostile,
including the testimony of refugees
then in Hong Kong. (Refugees from
Nazi Germany were often deeply up-
set, but post festum tests have shown
that in most cases their “emotional” de-
scriptions were eminently accurate.)
Before setting out on her 1963 trip,
Miss Roper talked “with some of Aus-
tralia’s Chinese scholars”; and she ex-
presses her “warm thanks” to Professor
C. P. Fitzgerald, of the Australian
National University, “for his books”
and also “for his reading of my manu-
script, which saved me from some
errors of fact and of interpretation.” In
her “Bibliography” (for the general
reader) she lists a few publications of
critical writers and a few critical jour-
nals, such as the “China Quarterly.”
But her book never faces up to the
evidence presented in these sources.
And she does not even mention the
continuing flow of translations made
from Chinese mainland dailies and
magazines by reliable centres of re-
search and analysis located in Hong
Kong. It seems inconceivable that the
Australian China experts she consulted
should have failed to point to these
basic founts of information. The gen-
eral reader would surely be interested
in learning about them. And he would
surely be interested in the grass-root
data about the “lean years” after 1958
provided by persons who escaped from
the mainland.
In view of her contacts with Pro-
fessor Fitzgerald, it is particularly
puzzling that she says nothing about
the Bulletin of Activities a set of
documents that originated in mainland
China from January 1 to April 26,
1961, and that by good luck fell into
American hands. This Bulletin, which
was distributed confidentially by the
highest Peking military authorities to
officers above the regimental level, dis-
cussed critical military and civilian
matters, including the agricultural crisis
and the popularity (or lack of popu-
iv\r • * • •
lanty) of the Commumst regime m he
villages and in the lower ranks of he
army. The Bulletin was released m the
Chinese original by the U.S Depart-
ment of State on April 5, 1963; and
comprehensile excerpts were published
! n English in the New York Times,
in three issues of the China News
Analysis, and elsewhere.
Professionally speaking, Professor
Fitzgerald’s guidance was certainly not
all it ought to have been. However,
in one respect, his viewpoint seems to
have found an unfortunate echo in
Miss Roper’s account. I am thinking
of her stress on ethnic (“Chinese” and
“non-white”) peculiarity and superi-
ority. As she reports it, the Chinese
Communists’ unformulated but un-
mistakable message to the backward
nations of the world is this: “Even
more so than the U.S.S.R. we have a
lesson for you, because we, unlike the
Russians, are non-Europeans, non-
white.” More often she focuses on the
Chinese alone. Throughout her book
she asserts that Mao and his subjects
accomplish so much because they are
“Chinese.” Professor Fitzgerald, it will
be remembered, has written: “Mao
Tse-tung and all his colleagues are
pure-bred Chinese, without any trace
of foreign ancestry, not men from
border areas of mixed blood . . . Stalin
is a Georgian. Many of the leading
Russian Communists are of similar
border peoples or partly Jewish. The
heads of the new Eastern European
Communist States are all persons of
mi * ed on g, in > of doubtful nationality
and certainly not drawn from the most
th ?, PJ pula^°",
q . T ’ vears the
i’ P ® caV > • i 7 cp j
spokesmen of Mao s regime have used
P t 0 furt J er their inter-
na(iona, . Officially the Peking
author Wes den “ this but t (, e arc care .
fu , nQt t 0 -' ct critica ll y wha t these
kesmen h^ve said . Pro f e ssor Fitz-
g^ rald . s just . cited statement fore-
“hadows this tr end; and Miss Roper’s
remarks „ ive it added support.
r „
por , a variety o reasons is
Roper s behaviour in 1958 p ease e
masters of the Chinese mainland. And
her 1963 visit must also have satisfied
her Communist hosts. As already noted,
she discussed with them the relative
merits of the Communist and the non-
Communist worlds. But in all operation-
ally relevant issues she met the wishes
The Impresario
The Basset is surrounded by the loving
Envy of the canine neighborhood.
His brow is Beethovenian but his eyes
Are troubadourish mellow, chocolate mild.
His muzzle smiles from ear to tongue to ear.
He will not fight and cannot be deflowered.
The sexual apparatus of the gentle
Basset is tremendous. Human maidens
Recognise obliquely that which Freud
Assumed a deprivation. Fig leaves mask
The open mouths; their eyes beseech the future.
The young men chortle and the husbands click
Tongues nostalgically. The smiles of matrons
Hover above the gulf of their libidos.
We are all reminded of our vulnerable
Estate and individual insignia,
Swinging or nestling just a little higher
Than the angelic Basset’s brave equipment
Above that grindstone leveller, the pavement,
And smile up at the tail of creativity.
BRUCE BEAVER


Has
medical science
found the
answer to the
discomfort of the
sore throat?
A unique anti-bacterial throat medica-
tion has been developed . . . acclaimed
as one of the most effective oral treat-
ments of throat infection so far dis-
covered. BAYER GERMANY named
this treatment Iversal. Since its release,
Iversal has gained wide professional
recognition and acceptance and has
been freely prescribed for the past five
years in Australia. Iversal, the anti-
bacterial throat lozenge, contains a
powerful active ingredient Ambazone.
It arrests the growth of haemelytic
streptococci, most commonly the cause
of throat infections.
A sore throat is the result of bacterial
invasion of the mucous membranes
which become aggravated and inflamed.
An Iversal lozenge, sucked slowly, does
more than soothe away throat soreness
and relieve painful swallowing, it strikes
deep at the core of the infection.
Iversal effectively fights the hurtful
bacteria, accelerates healing, provides
protection against renewed infection.
Yet Iversal does not contain a local
anaesthetic; it actually treats the source
of the infection.
For positive relief from the discomfort
of a sore throat you need pleasant-
tasting Iversal, quite safe for the whole
family. Your chemist will he pleased to
supply you.
A handy pack of 20 lozenges (a
complete treatment) individually sealed
in climate-proof foil, 68 cents.
Iversal, available from chemists only.
Iversal
Made by
BAYER
ER ) GERMANY
oi oner uj the reg </ trade mark I renal
Australian Subsidiary ft Distributor:
FBA Pharmaceuticals (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Botany, N.S.W.
<2676
F8A38.103
of her guides and interpreters, and
most importantly when she and her
team were filming their two major pic-
tures, “Peking Day,” with its main
focus on the life of two “typical city
workers,” and “Commune Day,” with
its focus on conditions in a
which, according to their key local
informant, was held to be typical.
(“ ‘This,’ he said disarmingly, in con-
clusion, ‘is not one of the best com-
munes, but it is not one of the
worst’.”) For good measure, her Com-
munist aides added a “model village,”
a housing settlement in Shanghai that
was considered representative of life in
some 60 “new ‘villages’ ” in or near
that city. How did Miss Roper, who
wanted to present a “fair and objective
record,” report on these three manifes-
tations of China’s new Communist
society?
“Peking Day,” The husband and wife
whom the Australian team, with
proper guidance, found in a cotton fac-
tory were supposed to fit into the cate-
gory of “typical city workers.” Did
they? The apartment in which they
lived contained conspicuous “signs of
prosperity,” including a sewing-
machine w r hich, Miss Roper tells us, “is
rather . . . costly and much sought
after.” Both were “model workers” who
had received several medals for fine
performance. The husband knew “some
three thousand characters” (double the
literacy minimum of 1500); and had
“passed examinations in three subjects
of his textile engineer’s diploma-course.”
Whether he was a worker in the pro-
cess of becoming an engineer or a
student of engineering who did part-
time work in the factory (because of
the labor shortage), in either case he
was not a “typical city worker.”
“Commune Day.” Miss Roper’s first
visit to a commune village near Can-
ton prepared her for the pleasant sights
she was to see in a commune near
Hangchow. At a time when, accord-
ing to an official Communist statement,
something like 50 percent of all
counties and municipalities were with-
out electricity (Ta-Kung Pao, March
13, 1963), Miss Roper, during her visit
to the commune near Canton, was
assured “that the majority of villages
now have electric light.” She gained
the impression that “furniture, once
very scanty, is now becoming common-
place, radios are almost taken for
granted, and most peasants have, or are
saving up for, a bicycle and a wrist
watch.”
This was certainly not typical for
China’s village communes in the early
’sixties. And the tea- and rice-produc-
ing Hangchow commune the Aus-
tralians were shown was even less so.
What Miss Roper saw reminded her
“so much of Shangri-La that I almost
expected Ronald Colman to turn up
for a retake of the romantic nonsense
of ‘Lost Horizon.’ ” Since she had set
out to get a film “objectively reflecting
the life of the average city and country
dweller, what Australians would call
the ‘ordinary blokes’ in ordinary
places,” she could have been expected,
even with her modest preparation, to
realise that this Shangri-La was no
average commune village.
But just as she was ready in Peking
to film as a “typical worker” a man -
she knew was on his way to becoming
an engineer, so again she uncritically
accepted her hosts’ statements and sug-
gestions. Production in the Hangchow
commune, she was told, had enjoyed
“a steady increase year by year.” Since
the commune was formed, “tea crops
had increased by 35 percent . . . rice
by 46 percent,” and this at a time
when rural China admittedly was just
beginning to recover from the worst
agricultural catastrophe it had suffered
“in a hundred years.” In view of the
famine years of 1959-1961, the steady
upward trend claimed for Miss Roper’s
Shangri-La commune was either a
brazen piece of propaganda or an eco-
nomic miracle resulting from a most
unusual combination of favorable
natural and technical conditions.
Assuming that the production claims
were more or less accurate, then the
history of the Hangchow commune she
visited differed strikingly from what
was being reported from most other
mainland villages. Surely any simi-
larity between conditions in the com-
mune the Australians filmed and those
that were typical of rural Communist
China was purely accidental.
'J'HE Shanghai “Model Village.” As
already noted, this “model village”
was no village at all. But in all prob-
ability it was a model for the way in
which settlement units above the village
level were controlled by a locally
powerful Street Committee. The
student of modern European history
will recall the “block” organisations in
National-Socialist Germany. And the
student of Chinese history will recall
the methods of control imperial China
exerted on small residential units. In
the total managerial society of Mao’s
China the local administration is much
more pervasive and much more power-
ful.
The Street Committee that interested
Miss Roper particularly because of its
impact on the life of female residents
had 21 paid secretaries. She was fully
aware that this body was an “im-
mensely significant institution with an
immeasurable effect on national life.”
And she was not unaware of the
omnipresence of the Party (and this
despite her belief that many lower and
middle officials were “democratically”
elected). Nor was she entirely unaware
of the hidden ways in which the Party
and the political police operated. An
Australian friend, she reported, told
her in Peking that a Chinese girl in
her office, after becoming friendly with
a young foreigner, had broken off rela-
tions with him probably under pres-
sure from the Street Committee. And
“bitterer critics” of the regime, she
also reported, “claim to offer proof
that the committees act as police
agents or at least liaison officers, even
agents-provocateurs.”
If this is true, then Communist
China would be a police state, super-


EH
In CANBERRA
take your choice of
MOTEL or HOTEL accommodation at
o t o
m'.T-'ii iwi
LOCATION: Corner of Canberra Av. (by Hwy. 23)
& National Circuit. Stay on Hwy. 23
until you reach this corner.
• Fully licensed.
• Comfortable accommodation.
• Motel fully air-conditioned with T.V.,
telephone and radio in all rooms.
• Superb dining room cuisine choice of
quick-service Cofiee Shop for budget-priced
meals or Grill Room for more formal service.
• Comfortable rooms and lodges, reasonable
tariff and the finest Hotel-Motel service
in Australia.
Reservations, further details from any
ANSETT-ANA travel sir vice
or THE WELLINGTON, Canberra Avenue, Canberra. 71313
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SEETHE BIG NEW
ISshp
Hammer
American
AND THE MAGNIFICENT
RAMBLER V 8
TODAY'S BIGGEST VALUE
IN COMFORT MOTORING
NOW AVAILABLE FROM
MARCO MOTORS
PTY. LTD.
Authorised Rambler Sales and Service
PARRAMATTA ROAD
Cnr. Hillcrest Street
HOMEBUSH 76-8329
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
vising and controlling all. Miss Roper
does not completely reject this possi-
bility, but she excuses the ever-present
Communist State by reference to its
“historical and philosophical context.”
What is the historical context? In line
with certain advocates of “progressive
totalitarianism,” she asserts that official
supervision and lack of privacy pre-
vailed throughout China’s past and
that therefore these conditions do not
disturb the people now. “Privacy, un-
known in the past, is not missed in
the present; past neglect is gladly ex-
changed for present supervision.” Miss
Roper is here speaking in generalities,
where specifics are of the essence.
Among all oriental societies, traditional
China was outstanding in permitting,
below the level of total political power,
many forms of individualism — : in pro-
perty, social life, and thought. Old
China produced some of the most
beautiful and personal (private) poems
in world literature and one of the most
profound and individualistic philoso-
phies Taoism. Whoever uses the
limitations on China’s past freedom to
excuse the totalitarian lack of freedom
in Communist China ’ disregards ele-
mentary truths of China’s institutional
and cultural history,
Objective observation? Serious his-
torical and philosophical views? Only
wishful thinking can claim this for Miss
Roper’s book.
The Month of Suicides
By PHILLIP ADAMS
The Professor. Hal Porter. Faber. $3.60.
HAL PORTER is a cultural chame-
leon. Given a pen and sketch-
book his architectural drawings
are as finely observed and decorative as
Bewick’s wood engravings. The most,
recherche novelist you’ll find this side
of Sarsaparilla, in autobiography his
prose becomes sharp and spare. And
his response to the idea of theatre is
to become unashamedly theatrical.
“The Professor” takes place in a
sultry Japanese July, the traditional
suicide month. The setting is Professor
Gilbert Medlin’s old-fashioned home in
Kyoto.
To augment his meagre academic
salary, and perhaps to provide herself
with entertainment, his sour, ex-actress
sister takes in Australian boarders.
There’s Irene Craven, a cynical,
wealthy hard-drinker straight out of
Albee, and her far younger and rather
vulgar husband, Roger. (“Pigskin suit-
cases and gold cigarette lighters,” says
Gretel Medlin. “After-shave lotion that
makes him reek like an Arab cata-
mite.”)
There’s David Monteith, a repellent
25-year-old businessman, whose contri-
butions to the goings-on are some
sexual sadism and a few words in praise
of White Australia. And there’s Helen
Rochester, a forthright 21-year-old
tourist who contributes nothing at all.
As poignant and fey as Madame
Butterfly, Fusehime Ishimoto is a
student who works for the Medlins as
a servant, while Toda Inagaki is “a
pretty, very pretty boy” who is Med-
lin’s foremost acolyte. The Professor
himself is a cold, aloof specimen with
a passion for costly Japanese prints
and traditional drama, and he and
Inagaki spend many a happy night in
their bedroom discussing chastity.
With the exception of the supercilious
Professor, the play’s Occidentals occupy
themselves with verbal cut and thrust,
with David and Roger taking.it in
turns to maul the obsequious servant
girl. While she is clearly pining for
the fetching acolyte, she suffers these
attentions at 2000 yen a time, claiming
that she needs the money to buy her
aged mother herbal medicines. But it
emerges that the money is really to
enable Inagaki to pay off the expen-
sive prints he has on the lay-by as a
gift for the Professor.
About now Medlin stages a play
within a play a 15th-century fable
about a mask maker. While father
whittles away trying to do justice to
Lord Yoriiye (acted by Inagaki), his
daughter (acted by Fusehime) falls
deeper and deeper in love with the
subject. Finally the girl dons the mask
of her beloved Lord so as to confuse
his enemies, and is slain. While we are
still digesting the playlet’s various
significances, Inagaki presents the Pro-
fessor with his prints. But the gesture
backfires. How could he afford them?
What has he sold? The Professor de-
mands to know, and Inagaki first tells
a white lie, and then confesses. The
Professor is furious, not because he
exploited the body of poor Butterfly
but because he lied. “I knew that
men were not immaculate lords of
creation but the dirty servants of
destruction. But you I perceived as
hope! The one untainted man. The
one beyond corruption! Better if you
had cut out your tongue!” Which the
distraught young man promptly does.
The problem with this play is its
mixture of East-is-East, West-is-West
styles. On the one hand, we’ve got
Gretel and Irene bitching away in the
sophisticated Albee manner. And on
the other we’ve the Japanese—and the
Professor—behaving like characters
from a Utamaro scroll. Both idioms
are extremely well written, but the
twain never meet at all convincingly.
It’s as if “The Professor” had been a
collaboration between two authors who
simply couldn’t agree.
Like Patrick White, Porter ap-
proaches drama with a formidable
talent. And, like White, he has chosen
elaborate artifice rather than sim-
plicity. More’s the pity.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Fair for Business
BUSINESS should be reasonably satisfied with the
Budget. In a year in which defence spending had to
increase so sharply, it was very difficult for the Trea-
surer to justify any tax reductions, and, being an election
year, the few he could concede reasonably went to needy
individuals in the community. Direct concessions like reduc-
tions in payroll or company tax were out of the question.
There is, of course, the indirect benefit for industry and
commerce inherent in the expansionary implications of the
Budget as explained in the now famous Statement 6. This
shows that the Commonwealth will disburse an extra $475
million in Australia while collecting only $320 million more
through taxes and its business profits. This means that it puts
some $155 million more into the stream of the community’s
spending than it takes out. As the Treasury rather weakly
argues, this will have a multiplied expansionary effect,
adding perhaps $3OO million or $4OO million to the level of
demand.
Whether this boost will be enough to raise the economy
from its recent slough is difficult to tell, because this de-
pends on assessments of other trends independent of Gov-
ernment action. It will be generally agreed that the boost
is a correct response to the situation. It will give a kick to
consumer spending by generating extra incomes and, in the
process, stimulate industrial activity. More difficult to tell
is how far this will enable business to get rid of excess stocks
and how well it will maintain confidence. That factor is
vital to keeping fixed investment at a high level and under-
pinning present prosperity. On a rational view, business
should be reassured about the medium-term view, able to
foresee sound growth in the markets, and so these should
continue their expansion.
Costs are quite a worry, mainly as a result of the reck-
less new policies of the Arbitration Commission in granting
an above-productivity rise in the basic wage and promising
immediate increases in margins. Together with higher raw
material costs, these actions make it impossible for industry
and commerce to avoid raising their prices. After all, State
Government instrumentalities are being forced to do just
this to prevent their profitability being eroded.
The Budget provided some useful, if small, additions to
spending on research, concessions for exports, and a contri-
bution to the work of the Design Council. It is a great pity
money was not found to speed up activity which promises
big, quick increases in productivity, money for harbor de-
velopment, and the exploitation of natural gas. The Com-
monwealth must move energetically in these areas if the
economy is to get the benefit of cost reductions which are
within our grasp.
Beware the Subsidy
NO one likes to look a gift horse in the mouth, but
farmers and agricultural scientists will need to do
some looking as a result of the new subsidy on nitrog-
enous fertiliser. Probably no country with a modern agri-
culture knows less about the use of nitrogen than Australia.
Its price has always precluded its use except on some horti-
cultural crops and on sugar the production of which is
already subsidised. Naturally, under these circumstances,
our agrostologists have generally neglected to conduct re-
search on fertilisation with nitrogen. Few would be able
MEN AND MATTERS
UNTIL she was 33, Margery Hurst
described herself as a failure: she
had wanted to become a dramatic
actress. Then her second husband, Eric,
redirected her talents and controlled
her impetuosities. So she became a mil-
lionairess.
In 1946, with one typewriter and a
£5O overdraft, Mrs. Hurst established
Brook Street Bureau of Mayfair Ltd.
in London. She is now managing direc-
tor, and her company claims to be
the world’s largest employment agency
for office and secretarial staff. It con-
trols 7000 employees in the U.K., the
U.S. (where it is a “phenomenal sue- '
cess”), and Australia.
Visiting Australia for the third time,
Mrs. Hurst last week arranged the
takeover of SOS Employment Centre
Pty. to add to the existing four
branches.
Brook Street Bureau is listed on the
London Stock Exchange, and its 1966
profits are expected to reach some
$A700,000. As a specialist service, the
bureau hopes to play an increasingly
valued role in persuading secretarial
and office staff to switch from service
to manufacturing industries in accord
with the latest British Government
intentions.
Mrs. Hurst attributes her success to
“know-how and ethical standards.”
Even when the bureau was small, a
client was not
charged if he felt
he had not re-
ceived his money’s
worth.
Four years ago
Mrs. Hurst laun-
ched a network
of non-profit mak-
ing social clubs
for travelling sec-
retaries. Called
the Society for
International Secretaries, the clubs,
among other things, create opportuni-
ties for girls to meet officers in the
services. “The one thing secretaries
need more than anything else is boy-
friends,” Mrs. Hurst believes.
TAKING the starch out of banking
appears to be one of the missions
in life of Mr. B. B. Callaghan,
top executive in the Commonwealth
Banking Corporation, who continues
to wait patiently for a new chairman
to replace the late Sir Warren
McDonald. The new chairman will
have his work cut out coping with
Callaghan’s impish wit. This was in
full cry in Melbourne recently when
he was introducing Mr. D. E. Kitto,
the new Victorian manager of the
Corporation, who has lately been man-
D. E. Kitto
Sir Frank Kitto
Margery Hurst
ager of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank in Sydney.
Though it hardly seemed necessary,
Mr. Callaghan dealt adroitly with
some apparent confusion as to Mr.
Kitto’s birthplace. Melburnians are
well aware that all three of the stal-
wart sons of the late Mr. J. W. Kitto
were born in Malvern. Mr. Kitto is,
of course, well known in Melbourne
business because he has lately done a
term in Melbourne as deputy manager
to Mr. Dooling, now retired.
But probably the best known to the
public of these three Kitto brothers is
the eldest, Mr. Justice Kitto (Sir
Frank), who has been a distinguished
member of the High Court since 1950.
The second eldest of the brothers
is John Reginald, who has been secre-
tary of Consolidated Press Holdings
and associated companies since 1955.


to offer even the sketchiest information on when, where,
and how to apply nitrogen, and Mr. McMahon’s decision
must surely have come as a big surprise to most.
He announced in his Budget speech that he expected
this subsidy to cost $5.6 million in its first full year of
operation. His estimate could be unrealistically low and
the scrawny baby that he now envisages could quickly grow
into a very lusty child. Wheat and sheep raisers, and
indeed all farmers, may not fully appreciate at this juncture
the potential magnanimity of the gift.
At the moment, Australian agriculture applies about 101 b.
of phosphorus for every lib. of nitrogen and almost 21b. of
potassium. Elsewhere the picture contrasts sharply: the
global use of fertiliser is in the ratio of slightly less than
half a pound of phosphorus to every pound of nitrogen and
three-quarters of a pound of potassium. In some countries,
such as the U.S.A., the proportion of nitrogen used to other
fertilisers is even greater. The price of nitrogen in Europe
is as low as 6c per lb., and U.S. farmers pay about Bc. Until
recently the Australian price was 12c, though some forms
of the fertiliser have been offered lately at 9c.
The subsidy of “$BO per ton of the determined nitrogen
content in naturally occurring sodium nitrates . . .” means
a reduction of over 3| cents per lb. of nitrogen. Hence the
bounty, plus the existing trend toward lower prices, suggests
that Australian farmers may soon be able to buy nitrogen at
a cost approaching the European charge. If this happens
there is no telling how high the consumption of nitrogen
fertiliser will soar in this country.
Only a few months ago, a committee of agricultural scien-
tists in Western Australia, calculating on nitrogen at 10
cents a pound, estimated that, whereas that State currently
uses about 10,000 tons of nitrogen per year, it could be gain-
fully applying 33,000 tons right now. And the committee
believed that within 20 years the State’s consumption might
well top 85,000 tons. What the immediate and future poten-
tial . for nitrogen fertiliser in the eastern States may be
is anyone’s guess.
l 'piiE effectiveness and economics of nitrogen fertilisation
of cereal crops is a relatively straightforward calculation.
Nevertheless, a wheatgrower needs to take a considerable
number of factors into account before he can decide whether
a nitrogen dressing is likely to show a profit. On this
account he needs the guidance afforded by the results of
local trials properly conducted by his Department of Agri-
culture. In most localities enough of this work has still to
be done. Meanwhile, a general guide is that if a farmer
is paying 10c a lb. for his nitrogen he needs to get at
least one extra bushel of wheat for every 101 b. of the
fertiliser he applies.
Calculating how to use nitrogen on pasture or fodder
crops is a vastly more complicated problem. It is not just
a question of dry-matter response, but whether the stock
can utilise the extra feed, if any, and whether the com-
position of the pasture will be improved or destroyed.
The result of one such experiment performed over five
years by H. Lloyd Davies, of CSIRO, at Kojonup, in W.A.,
is salutary. He was dealing with an annual pasture to
which ammonium sulphate was applied in autumn and
spring. It was grazed continuously by mature Merino
wethers. In the first year the fertiliser resulted in increased
liveweight and wool production. But in every year there-
after the sheep lost weight from December to May and
produced less wool per head than the sheep on the control
plots!
Mr. McMahon also expressed a hope that his bounty
would encourage the use of nitrogen in the form of urea
as a food supplement for stock. But here again the experi-
mental results are conflicting. The technique has scarcely
been refined to the point where urea can be fed without
poisoning the animals, let alone guaranteeing profitable in-
creases in production. Clearly, the introduction of nitrogen
to Australian agriculture is beset by a multitude of unknowns.
A great deal of applied research is needed, and until it is
done farmers of all sorts would be well advised not to be
too hasty in availing themselves of Mr. McMahon’s kind
offer.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: The Federal Treasurer be-
lieves the Budget “will probably run fairly heavily into
deficit” and that its “general effect” will be expansion-
ary. Various aspects of the Budget are discussed
throughout this issue: defence, page 14; business, page
15; education, page 15; and in Business and Finance,
pages 48, 50, and 51.
Seasonally adjusted, July’s registered unemployed rose
slightly from 58,800 to 59,000; job vacancies also in-
creased from 43,000 to 44,000 . . . The June quarter
saw new capital spending by private business gain just
3 percent on the corresponding 1965 period, very much
under the 26 percent advance shown in the March
quarter.
A peak $2900.8m. was reached by trading bank
advances for July, a rise of $56.2m. against the previ-
ous July’s $43.7m; deposits dropped back $53.9m. to
$4938.5m. . . . Interest rates on short-term fixed
deposits have been cut.
Australian producers lowered the copper price by
SIOO to sllsO . . . Following BHP’s steel price increase,
John Lysaght has lifted steel sheet and coil prices by
$2 a ton.
For the markets: Whatever Budget disap-
pointments were being ruminated, Australian share
markets quickly attained a fairly even keel at the end
of last week. Leaders and a bunch of good second-
liners brought some help. Metals are easier, but oils
hold a firmish tone.
Unresolved anxieties on the employment situation are
the principal factor keeping buyers away in London;
dealings remain low, as most equity sections recede
. . . Moderate volumes don’t serve to halt Wall Street’s
run of retreats; glamor shares are taking the knock.
For companies .* The seasonal deluge of mostly
quite decent profits is occasionally interrupted by other
happenings . . . Waltons has decided to offer $6 million
in cash and unsecured notes (“the best we can do”)
for what remains of retailer Marcus Clark, which is
on the edge of receivership and suffered another, though
smaller, loss for the year to July 31 . . . Sydney Stock
Exchange will suspend trading in F. W. Williams shares
so that shareholders may work out the “complicated”
Martin Corporation offer and their own directors’
counter plans; Martin furnished a requested clarifica-
tion of its proposals . . . More than 90 percent of
Merco Holdings’ shareholding has accepted the Bell’s
Asbestos (U.K.) takeover . . . The new Schweppes
(Aust.) issue of ordinaries is on a l-for-7 basis at a
50 percent premium; the English parent has found a
way to take up its entitlement.
Harder times for motor vehicles could not hinder
parts maker Repco: group profit went up by $264,568
to $4,618,221, to give a 24.3 percent earning rate, and
dividend was kept at 15 percent . . . Distributors don’t
sound so happy. BMC dealer York Motors holds a
12J percent interim dividend on top of a first half’s
reduced earnings; turnover remained steady . . . Sydney
Holden and Chevrolet dealer C. V. Holland had to
endure a 63 percent earnings slump, to $38,173, on
10.3 percent lower sales and slashed dividend from
to 5 percent ... A Tasmanian Holden dealer,
Nettlefolds, had profit retreat from $437,666 to
$306,659, but pays a steady 10 percent . . . Body
maker Olding Equipment was forced to bring dividend
from 10 to 8 percent after profit was more than halved
to $47,441 and sales cut by 15 percent.
None of this appeared to touch the financiers . . .
The ESA Bank’s subsidiary Esanda yielded an 11.7 per-
cent profit rise to $2,027,294, paying the parent
$750,000 (previously $700,000); outstandings gained
$9.6m. to touch $111.3m. . . . On higher business in
the June half-year General Motors Acceptance Cor-


poration managed a 25 percent
profit advance to $757,138.
Not unexpectedly, miner and in-
vestor Peko-Wallsend came to light
with a 30 percent profit leap to
$1,346,810, or 32.7 percent on capi-
tal, and brought dividend from 15 to
16 percent . . . Mount Morgan will
export 100,000 tons of pyrites to
Japan, beginning in April, 1967, “at
an anticipated satisfactory price” . ..
EZ Industries’ Electrolytic Zinc Co.
has started to seek “radioactive
minerals” in South Australia with
its American partner Newmont.
A few complaints about the
general merchandising divisions
came from Woolworths’ chairman,
Sir Theo Kelly, but supermarkets
were well up to expectations. So
profit for the six .months to July 27
rose “in line with budget estimates”
. . . Food industry supplier Mauri
Brothers and Thomson sent profit
up by 12.4 percent to $1,864,178
and dividend from to 10 percent
. . . Sales of grocer and produce
merchant Permewan Wright rose by
11 percent in the first quarter of its
current year . . . Confectioner Allens
Holdings earned $4833 more, at
$413,405, giving dividend a bump
from 12| to 13 percent.
Buoyant building enabled civil en-
gineer and contractor John Holland
to magnify profit by 61 percent:
earnings were $486,641 at 36.8 per-
cent earning rate. Shareholders gain
a l-for-5 bonus issue and a steady
12ijr percent dividend ... A 40 per-
cent profit leap, to $220,151, allowed
Leighton Contractors to shoot divi-
dend from 10 to 13 percent and
speak optimistically about the cur-
rent year . . . Plant hirer Wreckair
paid an 11 percent dividend as
profit moved $31,742 to $227,814
. . . Builders’ hardware maker
N.K.S. (Holdings) hit a peak
$1,073,175 profit (previous year
$965,219), paying its third succes-
sive 10 percent . . . William Adams,
engineer, steel and aluminium mer-
chant, proposes a l-for-8 issue of $1
shares at 75 cents premium . . .
Top scrap metal dealer A. G. Sims
affirmed its recovery by a $1,320,606
profit (up by $189,7725 after 19 per-
cent higher sales.
Pye Industries’ profit fell back 40
percent to $384,544, yet the 10 per-
cent dividend is nearly twice covered
... A dividend cut from 20 to 14
percent had earlier come from Milla-
quin Sugar; profit is seen to have
fallen from $725,474 to $520,695 ...
Sydney’s Bradford Cotton Mills an-
nounced a marginal profit advance
to $1,235,570; this established a new
record . . . Earnings of Drug Houses
■of Australia moved up from
$1,705,240 to $1,805,747 ... A rec-
ord year was achieved by Consoli-
dated Press Holdings: a $1,486,705
profit covers a 20 percent dividend
almost 2J times.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Budget Program "about right"
THERE is always room for lots of
argument around the periphery
of the Budget. It provides com-
mentators with an excellent oppor-
tunity to ride their favorite hobbyhorses
—the rising burden of taxation, public
squalor amid private affluence, or what-
ever it may be.
I have my own bitches about the
Budget. Reverberating in my mind are
the Prime Minister’s repeated affirma-
tions of faith over the past three months
in the possibilities for constructive
initiatives in South-East Asia. Behind
the shield of military defence, so the
admirable theme went, there was the
opportunity for exciting economic
development and regional co-operation.
What with peaceable pragmatists rising
to power in Djakarta and a new spirit
of solidarity evident among the non-
Communist countries of the region, we
could look forward to vigorous col-
laborative efforts to satisfy the needs
of the region’s peoples. Great stuff, and
the Prime Minister did not sound as if
he was making mere academic observa-
tions. We were with it. Involved.
What empty phrases they prove to be!
The most tangible gesture of our sin-
cerity, our economic aid program, a
penny-pinching $25m., far from being
expanded in the Budget gets the axe.
And so to mutter about hypocritical
phrase-mongers.
Others will have their different griev-
ances and disappointments. But, in the
broad, it is difficult to see any striking
faults in the Budget. It is quite
definitely expansionary, despite the
rather equivocating language of the
explanatory appendices and despite
some ill-informed comment to the con-
trary. Several newspaper writers and
the Chamber of Manufactures appear
to believe that a Budget is expansionary
only if it provides tax concessions. The
fact is that private industry and com-
merce can be given a boost just as
effectively through an increase in
Government spending. This is just what
the Budget does.
F provides for $25 lm. more to be
spent within Australia on extra pur-
chases of plant, equipment, materials,
public works, and the hiring of em-
ployees. This immediately generates
extra incomes and production in the
private sector; the impact is, as the
jargon has it, “multiplied” as the
newly created incomes are partially dis-
bursed in further spending on con-
sumer goods, promoting new rounds of
income creation and spending. In addi-
tion, $224m. extra goes for subsidies of
various kinds, interest payments, and
social service benefits. Although not all
of this will immediately be spent, a
good proportion will and it, too, will
boost the economy substantially.
A total $475m. extra is a large initial
forward nudge to a total community
spending running at $2l billion and
generally growing at about $ 1300 m. a
year. Of course there is the offsetting
damper inherent in the extra tax rev-
enues which the Treasury expects to
reap. But these will be a significant
25 percent smaller than last year and
mild in effect, since they will be drawn
out of the economy only after it has
grown and generated the higher tax-
able sales and incomes. There is not a
dollar to be grabbed straight off in
higher tax rates or charges. The naive
suggestion that the only stimulus is to
be found in the tax reduction on air-
conditioners entirely ignores the $5.7
billion expenditure side of the Budget.
A rather serious oversight!
JTEW people are prepared to put a
figure on the size of expansionary
impact likely to be felt, but $4OO
million is probably a good mean figure.
Naturally there is argument about
whether this is enough or too much.
And this depends on one’s assessment
of the strength of other forces operating
in the economy.
It looks, too, as though we are in for
something of a mild inflation. Due to
the irresponsible, damn-the-economic
consequences, Hawkish wage judgment,
we may be in for a fairly significant
bout of cost inflation. Government
instrumentalities and private firms
alike will be unable to absorb the
additional cost burden and they will up
prices, triggering a moderate spiral.
This will be accentuated if Commis-
sioner Winter interposes with another
boost to margins.
Unfortunate though this process may
be for pensioners and other under-
privileged people, it may have the
effect of stimulating some speculative
purchasing of consumer durables and
help to maintain business capital spend-
ing. The excellent rains of the past
few weeks will ensure a strong revival
of farming and, in combination with
the other forward forces, should con-
tribute plenty of momentum to the
economy.
So Mr. McMahon may have got his
proportions about right. His Budget
speech could have been more explicit
in its assessment of the prospects ahead
and the constraints within which the
Government sees us operating. But he
and his staff provided an impressive
array of supplementary papers and
appendices in explanation. These were
deficient in their treatment of defence
spending and occasionally quaint in
their archaic prose, viz, “Whence do
these increases in demand, needful for
the maintenance of a fully employed
and growing economy, emanate?” In
spite of this sort of charming nonsense,
they provide a wealth of valuable back-
ground and detail without which the
Budget speech itself would carry far
less conviction.


•II
a
/\
s.
■*?
I
S
'
Emerald $560
Cultured
Emeralds
UNIQUE GEMS OF EXCEPTIONAL BRILLIANCE
Cultured Emeralds are revolutionary in the world of gem-
stones. They are cultivated by reproducing the same
conditions in which natural emeralds are created. And they
have a hardness, brilliance and rich, deep emerald colour in-
distinguishable from the natural gemstone, yet are much'
lower in price. See them beautifully combined with Prouds
fine quality diamonds in a superb collection of original
designs. All exclusive to Prouds.
Castlereagh Street, 25 4021
16 stores throughout Australia
Some Outworn Budget Practices
By CROESUS
NOT, I would say, a virtuoso per-
formance, Mr. McMahon’s Bud-
get speech—he certainly could do
no worse on TV, say, against Sir Henry
Bolte. It wasn't so much that the new
Treasurer’s voice nearly cracked up in
the delivery, but more that he lost a
golden opportunity to enlighten the
public about the broad requirements
of Federal finances in the necessitous
circumstances of weighing in more
heavily for defence to meet our res-
ponsibilities under our various alliances.
For my liking, and I feel this is
shared by the majority of the public
and quite a few politicians, the broad-
cast Budget speech shouldn’t be clut-
tered up with innumerable detailed
figures giving the mathematics of minor
concessions and imposts. It should be
a clear, unencumbered statement of the
broad Budget strategy. It should ex-
plain the effects likely to be felt by
the man in the street as well as by
the economy as a whole.
Mr. McMahon was less than frank
on the vital issue of defence versus
development. Admittedly, he is under
strong pressure, particularly from the
States, to satisfy a wide range of out-
landish demands for increased expen-
diture on capital projects and social
investment which surely must be in-
compatible with the Government’s de-
fence policy. When are the States really
going to stop shadow boxing on this
question? Why didn’t the Treasurer
say quite bluntly in his Budget speech
that a sharp line had to be drawn be-
tween the two main priorities, defence
and development, instead of blandly
putting a bet on both and blurring the
issue,
JT is too bad that, for Mr. Mc-
Mahon’s liking, the leading States
are unsatisfied with the wagers he made,
believing, as they strongly do, that it
is still possible to go faster or at least
maintain the present pace (at the
higher cost levels) on both defence and
development fronts, and that surplus
taxable capacity remains after the
Federal Budget for them to increase
their own taxes to get extra funds
for development. The Federal Treasurer
hasn’t got his message across to them
and it hasn’t helped to allay their
own Budget fears that, since the Bud-
get, the Federal Government has set
higher targets for immigration.
If the needs of defence are as im-
portant as the Government maintains
—and I am not arguing against that—
then State Governments and the coun-
try must be made to understand that
there are economic complements to
the human sacrifices which must be
made to fulfil the program. As matters
stand, the community is hardly aware
of the economic requirements. Surely
it is up to the Federal Treasurer, fore-
most, to do the convincing. Unless
he succeeds in this the integration of
the manpower (services) requirements
with the economic requirements will
become increasingly difficult.
But if we get an undignified squabble
between the State Premiers and a
Federal Treasurer once again, private
industry and business seem to have
taken the Budget with a stiff upper
lip. The phoney estimated deficit of
$270 million seems to have fooled very
few people and has attracted very little
comment.
In my view the translation of the
estimated net increase in indebtedness
into national account form, provided
in small print after the Treasurer’s
big words, only compounds the phoney-
ness, since the same questionable as-
sumptions are simply carried forward
into the figures. For what they are
worth (not much I suggest), the figures
show that the net increase in indebted-
ness will rise from $242 million to $549
million in the current year.
On this showing it might look (to
the uninitiated anyway) that this year
the economy is going to get a $307
million bigger supplement from
Government financing than last year to
help it along. I suggest such projections
are dangerous—one remembers how
adroitly Mr. Hawke used them in the
Arbitration Commission a couple of
years ago to prove the Federal Govern-
ment was not giving enough stimulus
at the time and that this warranted a
rise in wages to increase effective de-
mand.
Apart from the various dubious as-
sumptions behind the net indebtedness
arithmetic, its validity as a guide to
the relative stimulus likely to be
afforded to the economy is questionable
on two other grounds. No distinction
is made in the current year’s projec-
tions for net indebtedness for the part
of Government expenditure incurred
abroad, although one notices in the
1965-66 actual figures that an adjust-
ment has been made “on account of
overseas defence procurement.” Why,
may I ask, is there no comparable ad-
justment for the current year?
While the usefulness of figures for
estimated net indebtedness for the cur-
rent year must surely be limited when
they simply lump into the calculation
the whole defence vote, be it spent
either here or abroad, there would also
seem to be an even more basic second
ground of objection, to which I have
alluded before in this column. This is-
the lumping in of income and capital
items together without discrimination
into the accounts, as if these were
homogeneous entities, which, of course,
they are not (I see by his remarks after
the Budget that Sir Henry Bolte is
right with me on this).


HURRY! CLOSES SATURDAY!
UK**®
fcOM*”
years
The SCC Loan —an Author-
ised Trustee Investment —
is backed by an annual in-
comeof $92-million and fix-
ed assets of $ 155-million.
It is your opportunity to
invest in the future pros-
perity of this State.
You are invited to convert
holdings in Loan No. 169,
maturing 1/9/66, to the
new Loan.
0
for
7 years
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited; Bank of New South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; Rural
Bank of New South Wales; or through a Stockbroker; or at the Council’s Head Office, Queen
Victoria Building, George Street, Sydney (’phone 2-0259).
Underwritten by Ian Potter & Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
000
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL _
44.935


r<§n
Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
I
PER ANNUM 9 YEARS
Ik
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
65%
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6r.
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
slr,
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
41%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form
referred to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of
application should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
FCN.2
J. C. HORSFALL'S MELBOURNE
Far from the Horse and Buggy
EVERY now and again in Melbourne
one runs across somebody who
takes you back—and literally—
to the horse and buggy days. There was
the old-timer, for instance, who last
week in a local hostelry swapped remi-
niscences with me on the colorful old
Eight Hour Day and St. Patrick’s Day
processions in this city, when horse-
drawn floats were all the rage. Then,
at the Athenaeum Club, there was fifty-
five-year-old Milton Green, whose
father early this century started the
business of George H. Green and Sons,
carriers, with horses as the sole means
of motivation.
George Green sent his three sons, of
whom Milton was the youngest, to
Scotch (in East Melbourne at the time).
The development of his business opened
the route, via Green McCandlish Ltd.
under Milton’s direction (after 1950),
to one of the most fascinating take-
overs in recent years —that of Transport
Development Group for Cargo Distri-
butors (in 1964) and, in the last week
or so, to TDG’s further acquisition of
a controlling interest in TNT.
Those of us who followed the intrigu-
ing build-up by a hearty combination
of enterprise and innumerable takeovers
of George Green and Sons Pty. Ltd.
into Cargo Distributors, until it became
an irresistible plum for picking by the
mammoth London-based TDG, will
understand Mr. Green’s nostalgia for
the good old days. But what hurts him
most since TDG took over the business
which he so ably directed is that the
famous name of “Cargo” has been
wiped from its carrying fleets. Where
he had built up this name with patience
and, as he thought, foresight, the new
London proprietors, in the fashion of
their operations in Britain, have un-
scrambled the integrated operations of
Cargo. They have set the various sub-
sidiaries hotfoot into barefaced com-
petition with one another.
pw, in spite of political opposition,
TDG has got control (but not, of
course, a majority interest) of TNT by
its reverse-takeover manoeuvre, it will
be interesting to see whether this name
also disappears from Australian roads
at the behest of the British. Anything
could happen. The strange thing is
that, although one would have thought
that the main motive behind this take-
over was to achieve a greater degree of
integration between the operations of
the carrying companies involved, every-
thing TDG has done thus far appears
to belie integration.
While Mr. Green thought the rod of
rationalisation of activities would be
exerted on the new combination, he
could not offer any explanation why
TDG should be so bent on breaking
Cargo Distributors into its several parts
for operational purposes. Maybe it
will take time for it to discover that
transport economies are the better
achieved by larger-scale operations in
Australia.
This talk was made the more topical
in that, quite apart from the changes
now in train in the transport groupings
in Australia in which Mr. Green is
still a key figure ds current chairman
(but now bowing out for Mr. Ken
Thomas of TNT) of Cargo Distributors
and various subsidiaries, he is chairman
of F. and H. Evans Holdings, the
Reservoir cartage equipment firm now
in process of floating through the
medium of John N. Robertson, Thomp-
son & Co. According to Green, it is
looking for new fields to conquer under
an enterprising new manager. Incident-
ally, as well as in being at the top of
the page in this float, Mr. Green has
hopes for the same ultimate Stock Ex-
change destiny for Jenkin Buxton and
Co. Pty. Ltd., the North Melbourne
printers, of which he is also chairman.


WILD CAT
PAGES
Prospects for Share Values
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
THE sharemarket’s immediate pre-
Budget behaviour showed that
investors were experiencing many
qualms about the possible Budget out-
come. Dealings at the end of last week
seemed to suggest that many of their
doubts are being sensibly, and correctly,
dissipated. No one, of course, should
expect any quick relief of the widely
cautious business atmosphere. Yet a
consensus of commentary, not least in
THE BULLETIN, certainly suggests
that the Budget should turn out quite
good for business.
Examples of three lucky strikes are
given in the item just below. As the ex-
pansionary elements of the Budget
“take,” a much broader swathe of in-
dustry should benefit. Some industrial-
ists may have their own reservations,
but these can be expected to fade
before probable increased consumer
spending and a seepage from internal
defence contracts.
Overall, though, investors can
scarcely expect any dramatic lift in
stock values without a downward move
in interest rates. They will b,e aware
that there has been a strong correla-
tion between interest-rate movements
and equity yields since 1960. Falling
yields, and their consequent rise in
share prices, must wait on generally
lower interest rates.
Such a lowering does not appear soon
in coming, if only because of the pri-
vate sector’s current large demand for
fixed-interest moneys (BHP and APM,
for instance, will take a lot of cash).
High interest rates are world-wide;
their effect in Australia will be directly
felt from the British Government’s des-
perate efforts to save sterling. Here
again investors have to tread carefully.
Barclay’s Bank Review is not the only
source predicting the slow decline of
sterling as a reserve currency.
MELBOURNE brokers John N.
Robertson, Thompson & Co.
made their traditional fast sum-
mary of the Budget on Tuesday night
of last week and most clients had the
resultant circular in their hands next
day. The circular proved a stroke of
mastery for the firm, as it made three
buying recommendations John Hol-
land, Leighton Contractors, and A. V.
Jennings. After the close of trading oh
Wednesday, John Holland announced
its bonus issue and a 61 percent profit
jump for the year, while Leighton an-
nounced a similar rise in profit and a
dividend boost from ten to 13 percent.
Although clients only had a few short
moments on Wednesday to decide
whether to buy or not, those who took,
the plunge will not be regretting it.
And by the time this issue gets to press
A. V. Jennings may have well made a
buoyant announcement, too.
A lot of luck was one of the reasons
for the success of the Robertson
circular, for its recommendations were
made with an eye to the future;
immediate prospects of the companies
were only a minor consideration. The
circular summarised certain aspects of
the Budget to prove that, despite sub-
sequent market reaction, it was more
favorable for the market than either of
the previous two. The summary pointed
to the lack of an increase in company
taxes, unchanged customs and excise
on .tobacco, petrol, beer, and spirits,
steady sales tax on cars, and the in-
crease in pensions. If the previous two
Budgets are combined, one finds lifts
in company taxes, increased customs
and excise, a rise in sales tax, and a
mere 50 cent improvement in pensions.
So, for the first time in three years,
no new direct or indirect taxes were
imposed. The broker deduced that
consumer spending would rise, mainly
because of the higher social services.
The reason for the three buying re-
commendations was that, apart from
defence, the biggest expenditure items
were in the Government sector.
0. T. LEMPRIERE shares have
moved up since the announce-
ment of the tin smelting deal
with BHP and the local Patino-con-
trolled interests, but they will probably
start to drift down again now that the
initial buying interest has passed. Once
the drift starts, a parcel of the 50 cent
units will be well worth buying the
group had bright prospects even before
the smelting deal was announced.
As well as the obvious advantages
which will flow from having such large
and influential partners, the group will
get immediate; capital benefits from
the sale of its land, buildings, and pliant
to the new smelting group. The new
group plans substantial production
boosts from which, Lempriere will get
a second lot of profits, as it is one of
the only two distributing organisations.
Its outlook could not be better.
PLANET OIL directors’ plan to
float off separate companies,
Planet Gold to explore for gold,
and Planet Metals to explore for base
metals, titanium, and nickel, was given
the “as-you-were” signal by the stock
market. The 50c fully paids, which
have been drummed up to par from
33c at the beginning of the month on
hints of mineral search news, shed 11c
in the first sale the next day.
Investors are looking no further at
the moment than the result of Esso-
BHP’s No. 5 well, renamed Marlin 81,
which within the next couple of weeks
should put a more definite value on
Planet Oil’s 10 percent interest in
Woodside’s adjoining areas.
The reason given for the hiving off
of these gold and metal interests is to
provide maximum tax benefits to
shareholders.
Planet Oil shareholders are entitled
to subscribe for 50c shares, in both the
gold and metals companies, in the ratio
of one-for-ten fully paid Planet Oil
shares or one-for-200 contribs paid to
2£c, A voluntary call of will be
made on the contribs on November 9,
The Chartist says:
PETERSVILLE could now be classed as a promising recovery situation. The
stock moved in an uptrend at a basic rate of approximately 17 percent per
annum from the low point in 1960 until early 1963, where a sideways move-
ment continued until the beginning of 1964; then a major reversal of trend com-
menced, resulting in a decline to a low point of 44c in July, 1965. A consolidation
base pattern has since formed and the stock has established a trend channel at a
rate of 25 percent appreciation per annum. Investors could expect the stock to
eventually move up to approximately the 85c level, where considerable resistance
would be encountered from the extensive trading in this area during 1962/63.
Last sale price on 19/8/’66 —63 c.


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To: STEPHANIE NASH and JOSEPH
BOGNAR late of 97 Park Road,
Auburn, in the State of New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that RADIVOSE
NASH has filed a Petition for divorce
No. 2305 of 1963 on the grounds of
desertion and adultery. Notwithstand-
ing the facts and circumstances set
out in a discretion statement filed
herein and seeks order for settlement,
custody and costs. If you wish to de-
fend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
28th day of September, 1966, and ob-
tain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. Alfred J. Morgan
and Son of 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
*> EUROPE -
WHITE EMPRESS
1,000 MILES LESS OCEAN
ON THE SHELTERED, SCENIC
ST. LAWRENCE ROUTE.
e 4
rO
I
£
il
Aboard a sleek “White Empress” you’ll find enjoyment and
comfort to highlight your journey to Europe. Staterooms,
crystal-clear pools, club room, shops, starlit terrace, dancing and
the world-famous Canadian Pacific service and superb cuisine.
Ask your Travel Agent for illustrated literature and details.
!$ Canadian (fkatfic
(incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited) Ships/Trains/Planes/Trucks
Hotels/Telecommunications. World's most complete transportation system.
1966, and contributing shareholders
will be able to increase their specific
entitlements. As vendors’ considera-
tion, Planet Oil keeps a half interest
in Planet Gold and Planet Metals. The
issued capital of each new company
might be, on directors’ calculations, in
the region of $850,000.
Planet Gold’s best prospects would
be the old Ballarat East goldfields,
where there is 2500 feet to be mined
beyond the 1600 feet already exploited.
Leases are also held on 7443 square
jniles of other goldfields districts in
Victoria and the company will explore
offshore placer gold prospects from
Bateman’s Bay to the Victorian border
of N.S.W. Planet directors say that
offshore mining is the big new frontier,
in mining.
Melbourne co-OPERATivE
BREWERY seems good specu-
lative buying now that the group
has announced a record profit for its
latest year. The last issue from the
company was a one-for-two bonus eight
years ago. The 11.4 percent profit
improvement in the latest year was the
best for 11 years. And, at 13.6 percent,
earning rate is the highest for 15 years.
Most of the profit is usually dis-
tributed in the form of dividends. No
final payout has been declared yet for
the latest year. The interim was lifted;
if the final provides a total rate of
anything less than 12J percent, then
an issue of some sort is sure to be in
the wind. The company owns several
hotels and is the second largest share-
holder in the Victorian monopoly
group, CUB.
WILLIAM ADAMS’ directors have
made their choice for fresh capi-
tal—a share issue, at a smaller
ratio and lower premium than the last,
just a year ago. Shareholders will not
enthuse at the likelihood of a lower re-
turn on their capital. Earning rate in
the last April year retreated solidly from
30.2 to 20.1 percent on the enlarged
capital.
No promises have been made about
maintaining the dividend rate at 12-£
percent and it seems feasible that this
may have to be revised downward if
economic conditions are not consider-
ably more favorable later in the year.
Directors are banking on increased
industrial activity in the second half
The increase m steel prices announced
by BHP may alleviate the position for
merchants such as William Adams if
some of the increased margin is shared
with distributors.
Investors who have followed the
company’s fortunes may find the stock
cheaper when the rights come on for
six weeks’ trading. There are bound to
be numerous shareholders whose
liquidity is exhausted.
HAVING proved itself as one of the
better-run textile groups, Cleck-
heaton seems worth investing in
at $2.80 a $1 share and yielding more
than five percent from dividends.
Profit rose eight percent in the latest
year and, although this is a smaller
increase than shareholders have be-
come used to, it goes against the
general profit trends of the big tex-
tilers, continuing the record run of
results which have graced the com-
pany since listing in 1955. Earning
rate on ordinary capital was close on
38 percent and provided wide cover
for the 15 percent dividend,
The main { of the shares lieg
in one of the subsidiaries, Stretch
Fabrics which cieckheaton plans to
float off as a separate public compa ny
next year Shareholders are sure to
get first preference in the float. The
value of their Cieckheaton shares
should not be affected, as the company
will undoubtedly make some sort of
profit out of the floating of its own
subsidiary.
Admitted the group is gradually
losing the benefits of its tax losses,
and trading so far in the current year
may be on a quiet note. But, although
tax provision was more than doubled
in the latest year (mainly as a result
of higher profits from Stretch Fabrics),
it is still a long, long way from normal
rates. It will be put further back once
the profits of Stretch Fabrics are no
longer incorporated in the accounts,
For these reasons and the proven top
management of the company, this is
one textiler which seems worth having
an interest in.


A
■I
m
tr ,
s
S:'-?.V Hi i
■
fc,/
■
|J
m
Manpower®
Office
Workers
Are Available
To Help You
Temporarily
Or Permanently
We have chosen “White Gloves” to
identify the thousands of office work-
ers who represent Manpower through-
out Australia. These gloves are a
symbol of their skill, experience and
dependability.
Manpower is Australia’s largest and
most experienced organization special-
izing in both permanent and temporary
staff. When you need typists, stenogra-
phers, secretaries or office machine
operators—call the best. Call the Man-
power office in your city listed below.
TYPISTS • STENOS • CLERICAL HELP
MANPOWER
National Headquarters:
MELBOURNE
Other offices in:
ADELAIDE • BRISBANE
PERTH • SYDNEY
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Permewan's Flood of Issues
THE generous 5.5 percent income
return and 12.4 percent yield now
obtainable from the 50c shares of
Permewan Wright Ltd., selling for
$1.13 ex-rights to the present issue, sug-
gest some disappointment with the
company’s performance. They also
reflect a lack of enthusiasm from hard-
pressed shareholders, who have been
approached by the company for money
in various forms all too frequently of
late, and in a period unpropitious for
capital raising.
Permewan is now making a one-
for-five issue of 50c shares at 30c
premium to raise $1.4 million, includ-
ing $527,000 in premiums. In the last
six years shareholders have been in-
vited to subscribe to four premium
issues. Apart from the current one,
there was a 15-for-100 in February,
1961, a two-for-three in January, 1962
(to finance the G. and G. purchase),
and a one-for-five in March, 1965.
Institutional investors were tapped
for $1,000,000 in redeemable cumula-
tive preference shares and $408,800
from the placement of 365,000 ordin-
ary shares at 62c premium in connec-
tion with certain takeovers, both
within the last six months. In October
last the company decided to issue up
to $1,000,000 in 1\ percent and 8 per-
cent registered unsecured notes to
shareholders, noteholders, and deposit
holders; by balance date only $295,100
had been raised in this way, a disap-
pointing response.
Directors’ latest stated policy is to
rely less on interest-bearing funds,
which will result in a lower return on
capital (Permewan pays percent
dividends). But the company should
prove a more solid equity investment
as the proprietorship ratio is
strengthened. Borrowing cost $325,000
in interest in each of the last two
years.
Over the six months to September,
1965, profit rose 58.6 percent, with a
20 percent increase in turnover. Final
results for the year to March 31, 1966,
revealed only a 16 percent improve-
ment in both, thus indicating a
deceleration in the second half. The
N.S.W. drought has had some bearing
on country trade so far in the current
year, yet overall group sales for the
first quarter were up 11 percent and
running at the annual rate of $69
million.
The 1966 accounts show increases
in freeholds and plant explained by
takeovers and establishment of a new
office and warehouse in Abbotsford
(Vic.). Stocks advanced from $9 mil-
lion to $10.6 million and debtors from
$4.8 million to $5.2 million, supporting
evidence of the record sales achieved
by both the grocery and non-grocery
sections of the business. Doubtful debts
provision was increased to $313,905
by the transfer of $lOO,OOO from insur-
ance reserve now considered excessive
for the company’s needs. The drought
has slowed down some collections, with-
out any great deterioration in the over-
all credit position.
The extension in overdraft from $2
million to $2.9 million will be correct-
ed by the current share issue.
The last four years have seen a
broadened operational base, designed
to reduce reliance on the country for
business. The policy has achieved con-
spicuous success. Country business,
which accounted for 60 percent of 1962
turnover, is now only 51 percent.
Groceries, both retail and wholesale,
account for 62 percent of 1966 group
sales, compared with slightly more than
half in 1963.
The measure of this success is not
only the improvement in earning rate
on capital from 15.2 to 28.0 percent.
Earning rate on total funds (includ-
ing term liabilities) has also
strengthened from 3.4 to 7.5 percent.
'J'HE most spectacular expansionary
move undertaken in its century and
more of service was the takeover of
the N.S.W. assets of Grocery and
General Merchants Ltd., which includ-
ed Sydney self-service groceries, N.S.W.
country stores, self-service wholesalers,
and two food manufacturing and pro-
cessing factories at Botany and New-
castle. However, the increase in profit
from $313,000 to $1,164,000 and in
sales from $34 million to $65 million
since 1962, the first year of the absorp-
tion of G. and G., cannot all be attri-
buted to that firm’s assets.
In the same year, W. J. Gorman
Pty., Yarrawonga storekeeper, was
bought out, followed by Mac’s Self
Service Store of North Albury, Jans
Bros. Pty. Ltd., of Melbourne, Petries
Holdings Ltd. (Camden produce mer-
chant and manufacturer), 27 stores of
Derrin Bros. Pty., and Maher Bros.,
the Forbes produce merchant. Late in
the 1965-66 year Permewan took over
Erratt and Co. Pty., Walcha store-
keeper, and Robins Stores, the Men-
tone (Vic.) self-service grocer.
To the income-conscious investor
also seeking some capital growth, this
stock may have more appeal than the
prestigious chains Coles and Wool-
worths or the department stores
Myers and David Jones. But 1966-67
may prove a harder trading period than
last year, and the higher capital which
Permewan has to service will surely
clip the earning rate.
March 31 19&2 1963 1964 1965 1966
Number of retail and
wholesale units 154 169 189 200 217
Turnover sm. 34.0 36 0 42 8 56.0 65.0
Working profit $OOO . 779 1108 1526 2058 2416
Depreciation $OOO . 242 233 276 343 375
Taxation $OOO . . 224 328 532 712 877
Net profit $OOO . . 313 547 7TB 1003 1164
Earning rate p.c. . . 15.2 19.0 21.6 29.7 28.0
Dividend rate p.c. . 12V2 12V2 12V2 12V2 12V2
Earning rate on
total funds p.c. . 3.4 5.5 6.0 7.1 7.5
Current ratio . . 1.5 1.7 2.2 1.7 1.5
Fixed assets $OOO . 6030 6168 7222 8432 10066
Dividend yield (a) . 6.5 4.6 3.7 4.6 5.5
Price/earnings
ratio (a) . . . 12.6 14.3 15.4 9 3 8.0
High price (b) . . .99 1.50 7.78 1.85 1.38
Low price (6) • • .79 .91 1.48 1.10 1.10


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
DEBENTURE
STOCK UP TO
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE,
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCHES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
8-12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tel. 27-9331
ft
MA243NSW
MINING
Activity on the Salt Fields
THE statement last month by Mitsui
and Company Ltd., of Japan, that
Australia will become a major
supplier of industrial salt for Japan
follows announcements by several local
and overseas companies of plans to set
up or expand existing solar salt fields.
On this basis it seems likely that Aus-
tralian salt production, which is har-
vested entirely from solar evaporation
pans, will more than double from 1964
levels of 545,000 tons by 1970. It is also
significant that most of this increased
production will come from Western
Australia and that a major portion
of the increase will be exported to
Japan under contracts with Japanese
chemical companies.
In recent years, about three-fifths
of salt consumption in Australia has
been accounted for by industrial chemi-
cals, the remainder by various 'forms of
refined salt. Salt is the raw material
for chlorine, sodium carbonate, and
caustic soda used in the chemical in-
dustry. In the past, South Australia has
been the main producer of Australian
salt requirements and currently pro-
duces about 80 percent of total Aus-
tralian production. In fact, in 1964,
ICI Alkali (Australia) Pty. Ltd. alone
accounted for almost 70 percent of the
Australian total from its solar evaporat-
ing pans at Dry Creek in South Aus-
tralia.
However, in future it seems that Wes-
tern Australia will challenge South Aus-
tralia as the leading salt producer, in
view of plans to develop large-scale
solar salt fields at Shark Bay, Port
Hedland, and King Bay (Dampier) in
conjunction with contracts for export of
the bulk of such production to Japan.
The Western Australian coast between
Port Gregory (just north of Geraldton)
and Broome is considered climatically
ideal for the production of salt because
of its low rainfall and high evapora-
tion rate.
According to last month’s announce-
ment by Mitsui, demand for industrial
salt in Japan is expected to exceed 4.5
million tons a year by 1970, in line
with development of the Japanese
chemical industry. Consequently Japan
will have to increase its imports of salt
by some 900,000 tons yearly and Aus-
tralian supplies will be in a highly
competitive position because of cheaper
freight costs in comparison with other
sources.
In actual fact, Australian exports of
industrial salt to Japan have risen from
32,000 tons in 1961 to over 93,000 tons
in the 1964-65 financial year, when
total Australian salt exports were some-
what over 111,000 tons valued at over
$650,000 f.o.b. On the basis of new
contracts already announced, exports
to Japan should rise meteorically in
the next few years.
Mitsui itself is currently stepping up
a plan to buy industrial salt from
Shark Bay Salt Pty. Ltd. under a
long-term contract for the delivery of
1.6 million tons over a period of seven
years, probably commencing next year.
The initial delivery rate has been
estimated at about 250,000 to 300,000
tons a year.
Shark Bay Salt Pty. Ltd. was formed
in 1963 by the Adelaide Steamship
Company Ltd. to develop a solar salt
project at Useless Loop in Shark Bay,
a Western Australian company, Gar-
rick Agnew Pty. Ltd., having a minority
interest. Although the project was
originally planned to commence oper-
ating in 1964, considerable technical
problems have been encountered, re-
sulting in lengthy delays in commence-
ment of production and in an increase
in the final cost of the project, which,
in November last year, was estimated
to be about $3 million.
major development plan
for a solar salt project costing $7
million in the Port Hedland area was
announced last June by Leslie Salt Co.,
of San Francisco. This company has
been granted a lease of 40,000 acres
near Port Hedland and plans to com-
mence exporting in 1969 at an initial
rate of about 475,000 tons per annum
under a contract with Tosroku Ltd.,
of Japan. Production rates will be ex-
panded progressively to a rate of about
two million tons of salt yearly. It is
believed that all production will be
sold under the export contract.
Another important project was an-
nounced recently in Tokyo by Maru-
beni lida Company. Marubeni and
another Japanese company, the Nissho
Company, have reached an agreement
with Comalco Industries Pty. Ltd.
(50 percent owned by Conzinc Riotinto
of Australia Ltd.) to form a joint com-
pany to operate a solar salt project
at Dampier (King Bay), the port from
which CRA’s Hamersley iron ore ex-
ports will be shipped. Comalco will be
the major partner in the joint venture,
which is expected to commence pro-
duction in 1970, mainly for export to
Japan. No details of production rates
or export contracts have yet been
announced.
Other companies have been investi-
gating the possibility of establishing
solar salt projects in Western Aus-
tralia. In 1965 Texada Mines Ltd.,
of California, was granted temporary
reserves on Lake McLeod near Car-
narvon, and Heine Brothers (Australia)
Ltd. was also carrying out preliminary
investigations- on temporary reserves in
both the Broome and Carnarvon areas.
Meanwhile, South Australian pro-
duction should increase from its pre-
sent levels of around 450,000 tons per
annum as a result of expansion being


CAMBRIDGE
«3> CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under The Companies’
Act of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
0
z*
DEBENTURE STOCK
4 6 or 10 YEARS
4,6 or 10 YEARS m%
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in, the
Prospectus, which may be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge
House, 249 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
27-8621
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without any obligation,
a copy of your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
330 IB
carried out by ICI Alkali (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. at Dry Creek, the main
source of salt for ICIANZ’s soda ash
works and chlorine plant at Osborne
in South Australia. Incidentally,
BHP also produces about 50,000 tons
of salt per annum at Whyalla.
In order to provide for increased salt
requirements necessary as a result of
expansion of the capacity of its Botany,
N.S.W., chlorine-caustic soda plant,
ICIANZ announced an agreement last
May with Central Queensland Salt
Industries Ltd. to establish a large-
scale solar salt works costing $2.5 mil-
lion near Port Alma in Queensland.
This project will have an initial annual
capacity of 150,000 tons, with the first
harvest expected in 1968. A large por-
tion of the caustic soda to be produced
at Botany will be returned to Gladstone
for use in alumina manufacture by
Queensland Alumina Ltd.
ICIANZ also indicated that it would
be in a position to enter chemical
manufacture in Queensland based on
locally produced salt when warranted
by development of the State’s industry.
Central Queensland Salt has been
producing salt from local underground
brines in the Port Alma area for some
nine years. In 1964 it also acquired
Bowen Salt Pty. Ltd. and Queensland
Salt Pty. Ltd. from Salt Industries Ltd.,
which simultaneously acquired a 50 per-
cent interest in Central Queensland
Salt. The company has shown marked
profit increases over the past two years.
After the disposal of its Queensland
operating subsidiaries, Salt Industries.
Ltd. is now operating solely in South
Australia. In 1964/65 the company
experienced a drop in consolidated net
profit from $133,000 to $BB,OOO, which
directors, attributed mainly to import
restrictions imposed on a previously
profitable overseas market and also to
increasing costs, particularly transport
charges.
COMMODITIES
Tantalum's Tricky Market
PRICES and demand for tantalum
ores have been steadily rising for
more than a year. The long-term
prospects for this rare metal are good.
It should be kept in mind, however,
that the market is very thin and short-
term fluctuations are always likely.
Metallic tantalum is useful because
of its ductility, tensile strength, hard-
ness, and, particularly, its remarkable
resistance to corrosion by most acids.
Alloys of tantalum with iron, nickel,
tungsten, molybdenum, and chromium
are also common.
There are several deposits of the
mineral in Western Australia, often in
association with tin, and Australia’s im-
portance in world production is grow-
ing although still measured in tons
rather than 100 or even tens of tons.
The recent acquisition by Minerals
and Chemicals Philipp Corporation of
at 14 percent holding in Arnad N.L.
(formerly Northwest Tantalum) under-
lines the interest in the situation.
Phibro, a MCPC subsidiary, is involved
in marketing the large Greenbushes
N.L. output of tantalite.
In the first half of 1964, U.K. prices
around 640/-' to 800/- stg. a unit of
tantalite were quoted. The latest
market estimate is in a range of 1360/-
to 1560/- a unit.
Rubber at a Low
RUBBER prices are at present at
their lowest level this year.
Malayan RSS No. 1 grade was at
19 7-16 pence (stg.) a lb., down 11-16
pence over the preceding month, at
last report.
The Northern holiday season has led
to a surplus of spot delivery supplies,
but the more basic reason for the fall
in prices is the ending of “Confronta-
tion.” As well as the more stable con-
ditions in the plantations that this
implies, there is the technical factor
of a switch of Indonesian supplies back
to Westei'n markets instead of direct
selling to Communist countries
Forward contract prices, for deliveries
in 1967 and later, are at a premium
over those for near-future deliveries.
Doubts about sterling play some part
in this—forward contracts provide a
“hedge” for buyers but it seems to
effect also some expectation by traders
that prices will improve. However, there
appears little basis at present for any
substantial gains.
Steady for Lead
FOR about months London.
Metal Exchange lead prices have
been unusually steady in a range
of about £stg.94-£97 a ton. At a time
when consumer demand in Europe is
low because of the holiday season and
the U.K. economy has a doubtful
future in the short term, prices for the
metal refuse to fall.
Market talk suggests that some sort
of support operation is in action, the
London “Financial Times” reports. It
is also widely believed that U.S. buy-
ing is the main factor. This could re-
flect action of U.S. producers holding
up prices to protect their own prices—
currently £124 a ton. Or it could
merely be a consumer taking advant-
age of the differential.
The buying could, too, be a support
operation by world producers, most of
whom sell at the LME price.


Share
Par
Div.
Year
Week
Fri.
1966
Yield %
Value
cents
ago
ago
close
High
Low
Syd.
Melb.
Div.
Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Abarfoyle
.50
2
1.95
2 42
2 35
2 58
1.90
4,200
5,500
0.9
Ampol Exp.
.50
1 10
1.12
1 15
1 40
89
4,500
2,600
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
4 50
5 30
5 52
4 80
1,550
1,600
2 5
A.O.G.
.50
2 33
2.60
2 52
2 81
2 26
6,550
2,200
B. South
C.
•5P
12
2.35
2 67
2 70
2 90
2 24
20,750
20,000
4.6
7 1
.50
8
3.7ff
5.36
5 50
5 82
3 92
3,950
4,850
1 5
3 8
C'wlth Min.
1 00
7
1.90
2 60
2 85
2 85
1.90
2,200
* 6,600
3 2; 5 1
K. 1. Scheel
.50
10
1.30
2.22
2 37
3 25
1 89
6,900
5,700
4 2
Mount Isa
.50
5
3.73
4 40
4 33
4.71
3 92
37,700
4,750
1.2
1 6
Mt. Morgan
1 00
12
1.93
2.551 2 60
2 90
1 90
9,400
10,800
4 8
9 2
Mt. Lyell
.25
4.5
1.00
1.45
1.40
1 58
1 25
21,600
21,600
3 2
10 2
New B.H.
.62
38
4.18
4.78
4 58
5 50
4 42
8,300
1,900
8.3
11 8
Oil Search
.50
.19
.15
.16
.20
.12
15,750
6,400
Ranlson
.50
15
5.70
7.76
7 50
7.80
5 00
300
700
2.0
Santos
.25
1 80
2 65
2 55
3 09
1 40
500
300
West. Min.
.50
10
2.33
5 66
5 68
6 00
2 45
18,450
8,775
1.8
1 9
Woodslde
.50
.28
.92
.95
1 00
.24
16,500
18,500
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4.16
1.13
1.10
1 06
1.12
1.00
4,800
8,100
3 9
9.0
Adams, W.
1 00
12.5
3 05
2 17
2 14
2 90
2.06
12,600
5 8
9.4
Adel. Steam
.50
4.25
69
.70
.72
80
.64
3,900
6,600
5 9
7.6
Advertiser
.50
5
2.10
1.79
1 75
2 50
1 67
2.9
5 5
Allen, S.
1.00
10
1 85
1.88
1 90
2 10
1.56
900
5.3
7.8
Allied Mills
.50
6
1 85
1.74
1 73
1 92
1.6/
13,750
300
3.5
8 3
Amalg. Cham.
.50
5.65
.87
.81
.82
1 50
.68
7,500
5,450
6.9
9.9
A.W.A.
.50
8
2.75
1.98
2 00
2.42
1 87
6,200
8,100
4 0
7 2
Ampol
.50
7
.98
.69
69
1 02
.66
33,000
34,900
10.1
12.2
Ansett
.50
5
.72
.70
1.50
70
83
69
13,300
24,100
7 1
13 6
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.45
1 56
1 70
1 43
8,950
3,200
3 2
6 1
Assoc. Pulp
1 00
9
1.60
1 50
1.46
1 74
1.37
8,950
8,800
6.2
7.5
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
5 33
5.58
5 58
6 30
5 58
3 2
6 0
A.K. Cement
50
5
1.50
1.35
1 27
1 62
1 20
8,100
16,200
3 9
6 9
Aust. Cham.
1 00
10
2.65
1.77
1 77
2 25
1.50
2,650
1,600
5.6
7.9
A.C.I.
2 00
20
5.55
5 60
5 68
6.12
5 40
12,575
6,200
3 5
7 0
Aust. Fart.
2 00
20
5.65
4 15
4 10
5 20
4 10
2,000
500
3 9
7 0
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1.55
1 49
1 52
1 52
1.22
21,250
8,500
4.9
9.6
A.P.M.
1.00
8.75
1 58
1.58
1 61
1 87
1 51
13,486
23,400
* f
7 8
A. Newsprint
2.00
2P
3.43
3 60
3 60
3.60
3 13
100
5001 5 6
6 1
A.U.C.
1.00
10
4 20
3 92
3 75
4 05
3 75
250
2.7
8.6
Bank Adel.
1 00
10
2.50
2 37
2.30
2 46
2 15
1,700
1,200
4 3
7 3
Bank N.S.W.
2.00
20
6,15
5 18
5 06
5 68
5 02
12,47'
2,100
4,0
7 5
Ballambi
.50
5
2.40
1.85
1.85
2 44
1 85
3,200
2 7
9 1
Berlel
1.00
15
3.10
2.80
2 60
3 30
2 60
1,200
5 8
12 4
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.60
1 47
1..48
1.87
1.43
30,150
7,600
5 1
7 5
.50
5
1.15
1 05
1 05
1 16
.98
8,500
20,300
4.8
9 8
.50
10
2 55
1 88
1 89
2 40
1 83
20,850
5 3
7 1
Borg Warner
1.00
6
2 45
1 70
1 78
2 05
1 50
900
4,300
3 4
8,3
.50
5
.70
.58
.60
.69
56
12,330
8 3
11 8
.50
7.5
1 78
1.72
1 76
1 92
1 67
3,600
4 3
6 9
Brit. Tobaceo
1 0
12
1 68
2.26
2 22
2 46
1 77
32,900
16,700 5 4
8 1
B.H.P.
2 00
18.4
4 97
6.35
6 36
6 54
4 54
62,800
71,250
2 9
4.8
Bruck Mills
.50
5 _
.63
.70
71
.73
.55
1,300
3,3001 8 8
12 0
1.00
10 *
3 90
4.04
4 04
4.14
3 65
4,600
2,000
2 5
6 5
C.U.B. "Z"
1.00
13
3.70
3.70
3.73
3 90
3 40
800
8,600
3.5
6 1
Carp., W. R,
.50
7 5
2.29
2.50
2 58
2 75
2 '41
16,250
4,000
2 9
6 0
.50
4
.75
.59
58
80
53
12,700
3,700
6.9
13 7
1.00
17
6.28
6.13,
6 15
6 50
5 93
1,850
700
2 8
5 2
.50
6.25
1.58
1 45
1 45
1 53
1 16
6,350
4,400
4 3
20 4
.50
7.5
1 09
.90
90
1 10
.90
4,900
8 3
13 1
Coal Allied
.50
5
1 05
1.70
1 68
i n
1 26
16,450
3,700
3 0
8 3
.50
5 3
1.45
1.34
1 32
1 41
1 20
16,250
52,700
4 2
6 3
C.S.R.
1.00
12.5
2 98
3.00
3 00
3 26
2 72
24,950
11,500
4.2
7 6
C.A.G.A.
C.B.C.
1.00
10
.73
1.57
1 54
1.65
1 30
3,400
1,100
6 5
9 2
1.00
10
2.48
2.17
2 17
2 65
2 13
14,150
2,000
4 6
8 2
C.B'.A.
1.00
10
2 28
2.05
2 04
2 27
2.02
’ 1,550
3,950
4 9
7 3
.50
4.25
1 55
1.26
1 28
1 44
1 12
1,400
2,750
3 3
4 9
C.I.G.
1.00
11
3.50
2.64
2 60
3 32
2 55
3,300
3,300
4 2
10 4
.50
.48
.33
32
48
25
32,650
3,800
14.1
.50
6.25
3.60
2 35
2.40
3 40
2 35
1,100
6,800
4 2
10 3
2 00
16
2 85
2.80
2 75
2 82
2 58
400
1,650
5 8
9 5
1.00
5
.81
.51
56
75
.50
400
8 9
12 1
1.00
12.5
4.10
4 80
4 90
5 20
4 10
200
200
2 6
7 2
2.00
20
5.75
5.00
6.30,
6 80
5 80
3 2
7 2
.50
5
.69
.83
81
86
.63
14,500
10,000
6.2
12 4
1.00
10
1.73
1.08
1 10
1 48
1 04
4,200
9,300
9.1
21.6
2.50
25.5
5.05
5.10
5 10
5 10
4 60
400
5 0
9 '4
D.F.C.
2.00
23
6 45
6.25
6 30
6 55
6 20
7.100
3 7
7.5
1.00
10
1.83
1.90
1 77
1 93
1.38
5,200
5.6
8 1
Dunlop
E.M.I.
1 00
8
1.94
1 31
1 28
1 63
1.20
7.180
14,300
6 3
10.3
.50
7.5
2.50
1 99
2 00
2 15
1 75
3,900
1,200
4 0
10.3
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
18
2.06
2.55
2 61
2 63
2 12
9,000
25,100
6 9
8 4
Eldtrt, G. M.
Eltc. "B"
1.00
10
2.33
2 44
2 46
2 53
2.01
6,200
7,600
4.1
9 1
1.00
10
1.18
.72
.70
1 04
.69
6,400
10,350
14.3
19 1
.50
3
.60
.43
.40
.51
.37
17,500
16,800
7 5
7 8
E.S.A.
250
14.69
4.68
5.30
5 30
6 00
5.20
150
2.8
8 2
.50
6.25
1.25
1.20
1 22
1 40
1.05
1,000
5,200
5.1
8 6
.50
8.5
2.45
2.31
2 32
2 80
'2.10
15,950
3.7
4.9
1.00
6
2.10
1 48
1 43
2 10
1 40
2,300
18,500
4 2
13.7
Felt. Text.
.50
5
.80
.51
.52
.61
.30
14,200
9.6
.50
6
1.75
1 32
1 35
1 40
1 23
1,100
4 4
8.5
Fitldlng, J,
1.00
.50
17.5
4
3.75
.57
3.70
.55
3 70
.58
3.72
.60
2.43
.50
5,000
4,800
7,300
4.7
6 9
6.8
10 3
2.00
12
1.22
1 28
1.2^
1.38
.95,
5,900
700
9.4
18 9
Gollln
50
4.5
.75
.73
.73
.88
.70
8,100
800
6 2
12 2
.50
10
2.60
2 10
2 05
2 70
2 05
4,200
4 9
6.7
Grace Bros.
.50
6.25
1.55
1.67
1.66
1.91
1.55
15,500
100
3 8
/ l
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
1 Week
1 ago
Friday
last
1 Week
I ago
Friday
>last
All ords ....
50 Leaders . . .
Banks . ■ . .
Other Fin, . . ,
Pastoral
Transport • . .
Retail (M'chants)
Services ....
Foods ....
Textiles ....
Chemicals . • .
Electrical . . .
Paper
Building ....
Fualf Power , .
Automotive
Steel Eng. . . .
Non-ferrous ,
328.47
160 98
508.61
238 46
481 24
343.44
171 36
169 71
328 83
413 30
665 78
168 19
737 26
492 80
1254 32
327.28
159 51
515 66
235 48
477.25
341.35
171.87
170 35
324 19
407.42
654 91
170 15
743 02
492 07
1253 66
105 46
111,19
107 82
69 60
124 35
96.91
96 53
44 89
105 60
72 11
83 05
61 98
103 21
90 48
75.13
120 70
211 07
105.11
110 47
106 98
69 95
125 55
95 39
95.47
45 52
104 42
73 08
80 52
61 46
102 77
89.77
75 59
121 05
213 50
OIL
SUGAR
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week 1
ago |
Friday
last
Brisbane ....
Melbourne . . .
153.15
126.50
156 34
131.51
117.62
114 51
Share
Par
Div.
Year
Week
Fri.
1966
Turnover
Yield %
Value
cents
ago
a^o
close
High
Low
Syd.
| Melb.
Div.
Earn.
Hardie, J.
1 00
10
5.85
4 95
4 92
5 U6I 4 401
3,7001 900
2 01 7 7
Healing, A. G,
.50
.57
.24
22
58
.19
28,100
16,200
38 6
Herald. W. T.
.50
12 5
4.63
4 45
4 40
5 23
4 35
600
15,350
2 8
3.9
Hooker, L. J,
.50
' .37
.32
.30
36
.24
10,000
3,800
13 2
H times
1 00
12 5
2 80
2 45
2 25
2 90
2 10
1,100 3,900
5 6
9.0
Huttons
.50
5
.98
1.00
1 03
1 04
88
1,900
3,400
4 9
9.4
I.A.C.
.50
5.9
.86
.88
89
94
75
4,500
11,800
6 6
11.0
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
2.00
15
4 67.
3 88
3 70
4 32
3.60,
2,500
14.400
41
5 6
Inter. Resist.
.50
6 25
1 45
1.02
1 00
1 45
83
4.600 400
6.3
8 1
Jones, David
.50
6.75
1 47
1 35
1.39
1.63
1 35
19,250
7,600
4 9
8 7
Jones, Henry
1 00
10
3 93
3.50,
3 50
4 10
3 401
4,300
2,200
2.91 8 2
Kauri
.50
.45
27
27
27
.18
1.250
3,800
Kelvinator
.50
7.5
2 30
1 93
1 90
2 08
1 85
3.40C
* 3,800
3 9
8 9
Koitakl
.50
12.5
1.25
1 35
1 42
1.42
1.15
1,2001
8 8
11 .4
Lend Lease
.50
5
.95
1 05
1 08
1 25
1 01
5.900
4.6
8 5
Life Savers
.50
8
2.49
2.54
2 £3
2 55
2 24
3,900
100
3 2
4 5
J>
1.00
11
2 98
2 41
2 45
2.63
2 14
4,500
1,700
4.5
7.5
2 00
31.68
6.80
8 15
8 16
8 40
7.66
2,975
2,750
3 9 3 9
MacRobertson
1.00
8
1.80
1 35
1 40
1 60
1 10
2,700
2,800
5 7
6 2
Marrickvllle
.50
7.5
1.33
; 1 06
1 08
1.55
1.03
6,800
2,400
6 9
7.9
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
1.92
2 03
2 06
2 09
1 82
13,050
3,400
2.4
5 3
M. Nickless
1.00
12.5
3 38
2 75
2 75
3 20
2 70
2,000
3,000
4 5
6 6
Mcllwralth, J.
.50
7.5
1 58
1.12
1 14
1 50
1 121
2,600
4,500
6 6| 11.9
McPherson
2.00
16 6
4 13
3.60
3 60
4.08
3 40
2.700
3,500
4 6
10 4
Millaquin
1.00
20
3 55
2.80
2 60
3 18
2 60
1,500
5 4
6 8
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.75
1 63
1 69
2.07
1 63
19,050
3,500
5.9
14 8
M inster
1.00
20 '
3 08
3 00
2 96
7 40
5 68
2 88
1,400
2,900
6.8
11 1
Morris, Philip
2.00
24
5.90
7.40
7 60
6 20,
400
1,750
3 2
16 0
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.78
.70
70
.80
59
8,655
6,300
17,800
7.)
8 9
Mver
.50
8.75
3.25
3 08
3 00
3.56
2 85
6,150
2 9
6 8
Myttons
.50
6
1.65
1 61
1 61
1 641 1 421
15,100
3 7
8 1
N.Z. Forest
1 25
9 56
2 95
2.94
2 96
3.03
2 60
1,0351 7,000
3.2
8 7
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
2 23
1 86
1 85
2 10
1 83
59,700
27,650
5.4
5 7
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2.70
2.32
■> 31
2 45
2 25
8,950
9,900
4 3
8 3
Nat. Dairy
News
2 25
26.7
41 50
38.00
38 00|42.00138 00
1 .'0 1.82 1 36
3.0
5 6
.50
5
1 54
1.50
3 31 6.9
N.Z. Ins.
1.25
11 5
3.05
2.75
2 75
2 82
2 60
5 3
7 8
Olympic
.50
5
1.01
.70
68
.80
64
11,950
19,200
7.4
14 5
Optical
1 00
15
4 90
4 35
4 40
4.70
4 111
1,300
3.4
6 8
Overseas
.50
5.5
1.13
1.00
98
1 16
OR
4rr
1,200
5 6
11 5
P.G.H.
.50
8
1.70
1 23
1 2;
1 1.601 1 181
1,900!
! 6.5
10 9
Peko
.50
8
1 65
2 37
2 35
2 60
1 85|
3,100
5,800
3 4
7.0
Penfolds
.50
6.25
1.50
1.90
1 83
2 03
1 50!
3,000
3 4' 4 7
Perp. Trustee
2.00
17
3.60
3.60
3 65
3 90
3 55
200
4.9
5 8
Petersvllle
.20
2.5
.55
.64
63
.66
551
21,400
35,500
4 01 5 8
Peters, W.A.
.50
6.25
1.85
1.69
1 70
1 93
1 501
3 7
6 2
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6.25
1.41
1 41
1 43
1 62
1.37
8,100
4,200
4 4
8 3
Prestige
.50
5
1.30
.75
76
1 05
.75!
6,500
5,900
8 2
16 1
Provincial Td.
.50
5.5
1.25
1.12
1 1C
1 1 30 .1 001
2.30C
1
5.0
11 0
Pye
.50
5
1 83
1 13
1 04
1 55
1 04
100
2,100
4 8
9 2
'land Can
.50
5
1.15
1.02
1.02
1 13
•92
4 9
8 9
'land Cement
'Id Ins.
2.00
20
7.55
7.90
7 80
7 95
7 00
2 6
5 5
1 00
12.5
4.05
4 15
4 15
4 26
4 00
,2,000
3 0
7.1
’land Press
1 00
16
5.25
5 05
5 10
5 45
4 75
1,150
3 1
5 6
R
eeds
.50
7
1.78
1 53
1 53
1 74
1 45
2,350
4 6
7 6
Repco
.50
7.5
2 23
2.11
2.15
2 24
1 95
5,400
20,200
3 5
5 8
Rocla
.50
7
2.30
1 81
1 80
2.14
1 78
800
6,500
3 9
5 8
Rothmans
1.00
20
3 28
2.70
2 70
3 15
2 63
5,250
2,000
7.4
12.3
S.A. Rubber
.50
5.62
1 43
.93
.93
1 25
.95
6.0
15 2
S.T.P. Hold.
.50
6.25
.97
.96
94
1.00
.88
1,000
1,100
6 6
15.3
Schweppes
.60
5.75
1.48
1 80
1.85
1 85
1 45
1,100
800
3 0
4.6
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2 25
2.53
2 53
2 55
2 30
3 0
8 2
Simpson Pope
.50
1
.43
.28
.28
.46
.27
1,000
1,900
3.6
10.9
Sleigh, H. C.
.50
5
.71
.57
.62
.72
.55
31,000
27,300
8.1
11.1
Smith, Hew.
2.00
10
2 98
2.72
2 60
2 75
2 39
4,350
4,100
3,8
6 6
Softwood
1 00
10
3,45
2.60
2 58
3 25
2 07
4,300
1.300
3 9
20 5
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.25
14,16
3 65
3 65
3 70
3 85
2.06
2,450
3 8
7.1
Steamships
.50
6 66
1.03
1.07
1 06
1 10
.88
20,550
4,400
6.3
10.1
Stedman, J.
.50
7.5
2.00
1.85
1 90
1.90
1 60
1,900
3.9
7.3
Swan Brew.
.50
3.12
2 45
2 70
2 74
2 75
2 21
2,025
11,800
2 4
3 2
Tarax
.50
6
1.00
1.30
1 32
1 35
1.00
2,300
8,700
4.5
7.7
T submans
.50
8
1.30
.93
.93
1.18
84
3,500
600
8 6
10 0
TV Corp
1.00
20
2.90
2.75
2 80
2 85
2 08
2,400
350
7 1
7.2
Thiess
.50
.46
.84
.83
.88
.63
11,300
7.8
Tooheys
,50
4.25
1.05
1 08
1 09
1 21
1.06
22,900
3.9
6.0
Tooth
1.00
15.75
4.88
5 14
5 20
5 70
4 90
6,950
2,050
3.0
4.3
Union Carb.
1.00
10
3.45
4.00
3.85
4 00
3 38
700
100
3 1
7.4
U.E. Box
.63
5.84
1.52
1.20
1,24
1 48
1 05
600
200
4 7
11.2
Walker, F. J.
Waltons
1.00
12.5
1.40
1.43
1.46
1.73
1.20
500
8 6
8 8
.50
6.5
.95
1.16
1 17
1.23
.85
23,250
13,400
5 3
8.5
Webster A, G.
.50
8
1 27
1.25
1 25
1.50
1 20
6 0
12.2
Williams, F.W.
Woolworths
1.00
10
3 50
4.00
395
4.22
2.95
8,200
2.5
0.9
.50
6
1.53
1.31
1.28
1.44
1.26
61,770
28,700
4.7
6.4
LONDON COM!
KODITY PRICES
Year ago
Month ago
Week
ago
This
Weak
Aluminium, ton
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wire bars, ton . .
£ 477V?
£ 12/11/9
£ 101 Ve
£511
£ 455%
“V/S*
£399
Gold, oz.
Lead, cash, ton
£ 12/12/2
£ 94 9-16
£ 12/12/4
Silver, troy, oz. .
Tin, cash, ton
lll%d.
£ 1535%
112Vad.
£ 1252%
£12%-£14
1121/
£ 123
&
-£ 14
Wolfram, unit,
c.I.f.
£9%
£ 101/4
£ 12%-
£ 14
ii ri\
Zinc, cash, ton
£ 107%
£ 981
M
1*1*
Wheat, Australia, ton . .
£ 253/4
£
.6
i 27 1
1-16
£ 27
Linseed oil, ton
£ 90
£ 81%
£ 87%
£ 86
Cocoa, 50 kilos
120/-
212/9
-207/9
197/9
Coffee
255/-
248/-
248/
245/-
Cotton, American, middling
lb. . . .
23.2d.
22.6d.
22.2d.
22.2d.
Desiccated Coconut.
ton
£ 160
£ 135
£ 130
£ 130
Rubber, lib.
21d.
19 7 /«d.
19%d.
19 Vs d.
Sugar, ton
£ 19
I 16%
£ 16%
£ 16
Tea, quality, lb. .
4/7-6/2
HOd.
4/3-6/^
4/2-6/6
Wool Tops. 64s. lb.
123d.
123d.
123d.
(All
figures
in sterling)
OVERSEAS INDEXES
1
London
| New York
| Tokyo
1 ‘
'Financial Timas
] Dow Jonas
ID.
Jones
| Inds. | Secs.
Gold
| Inds. i Ralls | Avga.
Jan. 3, 1966 .
. 1 338
7 | 78 741
61
3
965 54] 247 3811430 13
1966 High , .
. | 377
8 | 79 431
65
2
995 151 271
7211588 73
1966 Low . .
. 307
001 73.551
58
<
804 621 202
55|1412 93
. 31E
10
74 201
59.6
847.38 220.1911499 00
Week ago
Latest
. 1 307.001 73.551
61
9
840 59! 214.5411486 33
9 | 73 86|
59
8
804.621 202
55,1466 43
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
1
SYDNEY
I
MELBOURNE
MINING
INDUSTRIAL]
MINING
1 Value
1 Sales 1 Value
Sales | Value ]
Sales | Value
Vol.
S
Vol. 1
$
Vol.
S
Vol, |
5
i 1000 | 1000
| 1000 | 1Q0O
1000 | 1000 |
1000 |
IOOO
12936 114246 01 1422
.71 1768.01
2611 | 3639 |
1280 | 1446
Week to Friday
12565 8,3166 2
| 1849
6 1201 9
2265 | 3143 |
1482 | 1206
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY
average dividend .. . 6.36
MELBOURNE
dividend 5 32
earnings 8 40
LONDON (F.T,)
dividend 5 94
earnings 7.96
NEW YORK (S 8< P)
dividend 3 39
earnings 6.63
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short .. .. 4.90 4.89
Medium .... 5.13 5 12
Long 5.25 5 25


"Serpent Egg Clock" (1885-90), a diamond-
set gold serpent, a revolving egg of translucent
blue enamel, with applied motifs in gold.
■Ss&tf
n
a w,w
The excellence of an age
Faberge—brilliant designer,
jeweller, watchmaker for Kings
and Emperors. His “Serpent
Egg Clock" is one of the
loveliest examples of the four-
colour technique in gold.
As uniquely different as the
smooth, mellow, golden
blend of
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
NZL9S/6.2
Repco's Part in the Brabham Story
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
MR. JACK BRABHAM’S almost
legendary triumphs in world
motor racing this year are un-
doubtedly shared by the designer and
builder of the power units for his cars
the Australian company Repco Ltd.
The development of the engine is not
only a fascinating story in itself; it will
bring mounting technical and com-
mercial prestige to Repco.
The Repco-Brabham feat deseiVes
the spotlight, and these are only some
of the reasons:
• In all of the first-rank national
Grands Prix since they began with the
French Grand Prix of 1906, only one
non-European car has ever won before.
That was the huge American Duesen-
berg in France in 1921.
• Until late last year Repco and Brab-
ham had not contemplated the manu-
facture of a 3-litre engine under the
new international Formula One specifi-
cations.
• The only major mechanical failures
of the Repco-Brabham so far have been
with ancillary equipment supplied from
outside.
• The Repco-Brabham Formula One
motor is a fairly plain V 8 with single
overhead camshafts, and much less
elaborate than the 12-cylinder and 16-
cylinder twin-camshaft motors of
British and Continental manufacture.
• The success of the new machine
cannot be simply explained by the
genius of Brabham as a driver. Denis
Hulme, the New Zealand driver, had
driven a Repco-Brabham into second
place in this year’s British Grand Prix
at Brand’s Hatch and third place in
the French Grand Prix at Rheims.
• The new vehicle has proved itself
on all kinds of circuits.
For some years Australian and New
Zealand drivers and teams have been
using Repco components, services, and
advice. In 1963 Repco built for Brab-
ham a 2.5-litre Coventry Climax engine
for Tasman trophy racing, using a
maximum of Repco parts and racing-
under the Repco-Brabham name.
The success of the Repco-Brabham
Climaxes led to a decision to build
a wholly Australian 2.5-litre Tasman
formula racing engine to replace the
Climaxes, which had gone out of pro-
duction. The 2.5-litre motor has been
the basic design from which the 3-litre
Formula One and the 4.3-litre sports
car engines have been constructed.
The new Repco-Brabham has created
a fever of interest amongst overseas
motor sport followers and amongst
motor engineers. Brabham’s name has
been well known since 1959, when he
won his first world championship. But
the name of Repco now shares equal
prominence and the publicity will repay
both Repco and, quite probably, other
Australian manufacturing engineers
handsomely.
Repco began in the early 1920 s as a
one-man engine-reconditioning business
in Melbourne and today is the largest
manufacturer of automotive components
and service equipment in the Southern
Hemisphere, exporting to 85 countries.
It also manufactures in New Zealand,
England, South Africa, Hong Kong,
and India but, except for necessary
local partnerships in these countries,
remains Australian in ownership and
control.
rpHE Repco-Brabham engine is the
result of the firm’s history as a sup-
plier of components to Australian and
New Zealand racing drivers. Its first
contact with Jack Brabham was in
1957, when the Repco-owried Hardy
Spicer (Australia) company made
special universal joints and drive
shafts for his Coopers. It was using
these he twice won the world cham-
pionship. When Brabham set up in
England as a manufacturer of racing
cars he is now the largest in the
world he equipped himself largely
with Repco plant and pioneered the use
of Australian components in engines
where possible.
Regarding actual povter output
figures, Repco, like all racing engine
manufacturers, is reticent partly
through secrecy, partly through the fact
that racing engines are subject to con-
stant development and improvement,
and partly because variations in out-
put occur between one engine and
another. Approximate power outputs,
however, are: 2.5 litre, 250 b.h.p.; 3
litre, in excess of 300 b.h.p. The larger
version of sports-racing cars is now to
be changed from 4.3 to 4.4 litres and
is still undergoing development. It will
approach 400 b.h.p.
A notable feature of the engine is


Jack Brabham at the wheel of
a Repco-Brabham.
Rear view of a Repco-Brabham VB.
Side view of a Repco-Brabham V8.


The logical accounting machine to choose.
And you did.
Thanks.
f * »'/// *'. ft r
VV,V‘**V/.
Mmm,
You’ve earned our thanks. As the businessmen who
selected NCR Accounting Machines to handle their
decimal currency record-keeping, you made 1965 the
biggest year yet for NCR sales in Australia. You
showed an overwhelming preference for NCR, and
honoured us with the lion’s share of a very competitive
market. So you’re part of the swing to NCR.
We’re confident that the swing will continue. Why?
Because NCR is the logical accounting machine to
choose if you want to keep up with the latest
developments in office automation.
HSLPIN6 AUSTRALIA CHANQi TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THI NATIONAL CASH REGISTER GO, PTY, LTD,


It’s a pleasure to
do business when you
fly Ansett-ANA
drive Avis Rent A Car
msimm
S&sssssssssss
:
ssm-
■S': ■•• ;
|i*Pii®!|li|:
H
L
X M
ix»Ss:
ANSETT-ANA I —RENTA CAR m
The combination
that’s miles ahead for value.
You have more time for business and it's a pleasure to do it when you jet there in
Ansett-ANA 727 Fan Jet luxury and drive a sparkling new AVIS Falcon or other
fine car. AVIS operates Australia’s finest fleet of drive-yourself cars and they are
PROPERLY insured too. Book your AVIS Rent A Car when you book your
flight —it will be waiting at the airport. Decide now to fly there Ansett-ANA
and drive an Avis Rent A Car. It's the refreshing, economical way to do business.
2299/83/66
the manner in which it develops use-
ful torque down to substantially lower
revs than is usual in racing engines.
This feature is of special value on
tight circuits. Its compactness facili-
tates efficient streamlining of the car,
which is valuable on such very fast
circuits as Rheims.
The Repco-Brabham is fortunate in
incorporating such specialised com-
ponents as pistons, rings, bearings, gas-
kets, oil seals, fuel lines, etc., which
are made within the organisation,
whereas it is usual for an engine manu-
facturer to obtain these parts from
specialised outside suppliers. Repco’s
concern for the future development of
the racing engine project is shown by
its launching last April of the new
company Repco Brabham Engines Pty.
Ltd., and the establishment of a new
factory at Maidstone, Victoria. Manu-
facture of Repco-Brabham engines is
being steadily expanded and currently
20 people are employed full-time on
the project, three exclusively on design
and development.
rpHE engine has become a commercial
project. The demand for the three
versions has been such that the first
production batch of 20 units, with
spares, is on the way. Deliveries are
expected to start by the end of Septem-
ber, 1966, by which time work will
have started on additional quantities.
There will be no restrictions on the
sale of the engines, but the price of
$A7500 will restrict sales to those who
are professionally concerned in racing.
The cost of specialised racing engines
is high because of limited output and
the need for quality.
Probably 80 percent of production
will be exported, but, since demand
will never be large, the direct financial
returns will not be high. But Repco
are quick to explain the indirect bene-
fits not only for themselves but for Aus-
tralian industry generally: “It means
that Australian export salesmen will no
longer have to explain at length that
this country has highly developed tech-
nical skills and well-equipped factories
whose products can compete in both
price and quality. For Repco, already,
selling in 85 countries and manufactur-
ing in five, this aspect alone makes the
project worth while.”
Repco points out that, throughout
the world, people follow motor-racing
results keenly and are genuinely and
deeply impressed by success because the
motor vehicle is the only sophisticated
bit of machinery that they understand
and which directly touches their own
lives. The glory won on the Grand
Prix circuits rubs off not only on all of
our automotive and components indus-
try but every other manufactured pro-
duct as well. France, Germany, Italy,
and latterly Britain and America have
all cashed in on racing success.
The last year for which a balance
sheet is available shows a record con-
solidated profit of $4,320,000, which
makes the company one of the fastest
growing in Australia. Further overseas
expansion is likely as a result of better
market opportunities provided by the
opening of sales doors previously
closed to an Australian manufacturer.
And there can be no doubting Repco’s
claim that the whole of Australian
metal manufacturing will benefit from
this huge publicity obtained by the
victorious Repco-Brabham formula
The list of Repco subsidiaries extends
every year and now includes Russell
Manufacturing, Brico Manufacturing,
Paton Brakes, Specialised Engineering,
Hardy Spicer (Aust.), Replex, Coventry
Gauge and Tool (Aust.), Brenco, Pauer
and Co., Replacement Parts, Motor
Traders, as well as associate corn-
panies and overseas affiliates. Dividend
has remained steady over the past three
y ears at 15 percent and public confi-
dence U IS r u e ?f } n a shar r e market £
strength which is the envy of most of
the motor trade. The careful hands of
Jack Brabham and likely export gains
could steer Repco into a great year in
1966-67.


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES
($’000)
Year to March 31
1963
1964
1965
1966
Current assets
6348
7450
8657
8395
Current liabilities
3556
4408
5522
5292
Net working capital
2792
3042
3135
3103
Land & buildings
2792
2712
2781
2932
Plant, etc.
520
522
534
537
Investments
64
64
64
63
Total capital
represented by:
6168
6340
6514
6635
Long-term provisions
140
138
134
129
Ordinary capital
3528
3528
3528
3528
Reserves
2500
2674
2852
2978
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES ($’000)
Depreciation
102
112
114
114
Tax provided
278
397
417
316
Staff provident fund
82
120
84
64
Earnings
404
497
533 '
472
Ordinary dividends
282
353
353
353
Surplus
Earning rate %.
122
144
180
119
11.4
14.1
15.1
13.3
Dividend rate %
8.0
10.0
10.0
10.0
Dividend yield %.
4.5
5.1
6 0
6.3
High price
Low price
0.98
1.05
0.98
0.90
0.78
0.91
0.70
0.68
TEACHING VACANCIES
Owing to the addition of the 6th Year
to the Secondary School course, there
will be the following positions vacant from
January, 1967.
1. Mathematics Subject Master.
2. Mathematics and Science to School
Certificate.
3. English and French to School Certi-
ficate.
Salaries based on Education Dept, scale.
THE ILLAWARRA GRAMMAR SCHOOL
is a young and expanding school at
Wollongong, N.S.W.
Apply in writing to the Headmaster,
J. A. Mackinnon, M.A.
(Cantab.), 8.A., Dip. Ed.
WHITEFRIARS COLLEGE
DONVALE, VIC.
Young graduate required 1967 to
take Geography and some Econ-
omics at this secondary school for
Catholic boys. Departmental salary.
Superannuation. Please apply:
Father F. C. Shortis, O. Carm.,
Headmaster.
HALE SCHOOL, WEMBLEY DOWNS
Master to teach
Mathematics and Science 1967
Mathematics up to Leaving Certificate stan-
dard (Applicant must be familiar with the
New Mathematics), and Chemistry and Physics
up to Junior Certificate standard.
Salaries in line with West Australian Edu-
cation Deoartment, coupled with a super-
annuation scheme.
Applications >in writing, stating age, marital
state, qualifications, experience and religious
denomination and enclosing testimonials and
the names of two referees, should be addressed
to
THE ACTING HEADMASTER,
HALE SCHOOL,
Wembley Downs, Western Australia.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
In High Market Esteem
Younghusband's fair rate of growth
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED’S
financial year ends on March 31,
so it is the only one of the five
in this series which has reported re-
cently. According to the 1966 state-
ment of profit and loss and appro-
priations, net profit for the year, at
$536,423, was down about 12 percent
on last year, but it would appear that
it was affected by labor troubles which
caused the cancellation of two series
of wool sales. For some reason, the
shares of Younghusband are highly re-
garded by the market and currently
they are selling, in terms of earnings
and making allowance for the 12 per-
cent drop in 1965/6, at prices 24 per-
cent higher than the leader, Elder
Smith Goldsbrough Mort.
The dividend yield at the present
time is higher than Elder Smith G.M.
because the latter company has by far
the highest earnings cover for the cur-
rent 10 cents per share dividend, but
this dividend yield is still one half
of one percent lower than that of the
smaller pastoral finance companies and
nearly identical with that of Dalgety.
The company’s record of dividends is
a fair one as, according to the Sydney
Stock Exchange’s Research and Statis-
tical Bureau, dividends have not been
passed in any year since 1937 at least.
Since the end of World War 11, four
new issues to shareholders have been
made but, with the exception of the
first issue which was made at a 37J
percent premium in 1950 on a two-for-
five basis, the dividend rate has been
reduced after each such issue. Un-
fortunately, I do not have information
adequate to calculate the bonus content
of the cash issues, but I suspect that,
while the 1954 issue (two-for-five at
par) probably produced an increase in
dividend income since the rate was only
reduced from 12J percent to 12 per-
cent, the 1957 one-for-five issue at par,
accompanied by a reduction in the
dividend rate from 10 to 9 percent,
meant that shareholders suffered a drop
in their dividend income per share.
Certainly the “bonus” issue of one-
for-five in 1960 only served to increase
the number of shares held, for the total
dividend income, fell by 10 percent.
The dividend record for the past nine
years, expressed in index form with
the 1958 year as a base, would be as
follows:
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
100 111 116 100 100 107 133 133 133
The record of earnings per share on
the same basis shows rather more
growth:
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
100 94 139 122 114 137 178 188 165
Using the usual statistical techniques
for fitting this data, to a straight line,
we find that the average rate of growth
per annum compound for the dividend
series is percent and for the earn-
ings series about 8 percent. These
rates, while not remarkable when com-
pared with some of the rates of growth
that have been achieved by some of
the newer industrial companies (but
usually for a much shorter period), are
perhaps sufficient to justify the current
prices of Younghusband’s ordinary
shares.
The business is an old one and was
founded in 1889 by Mr. Isaac Young-
husband, who had been associated with
the N.Z. Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company Ltd. In 1902, a merger took
place with R. Goldsbrough Row &
Company Pty. Ltd. and the present
public company was formed in 1920
with a nominal capital of $500,000 and
a paid capital of $200,000. It is in-
teresting to note, even though they
can no longer be of any significance,
the tenuous connections with Dalgety
and Elders in the very early days.
Currently Younghusband is acquiring
Portland Wool Brokers Ltd.; in fact, it
must be assumed that the acquisition
has been accomplished, for it was de-
dared unconditional as long ago as
June 3, 1966.
This offer presents some problems in
assessing the future prospects of Young-
husband, for not only are there no de-
tails of the profits which have been
made by this company in recent years,
but also it is not possible to find out
from the information that has been
made public just how many shares will
be issued by Younghusband in the event
that 100 percent of Portland Wool
Brokers is acquired.
The only factor known about Port-
land Wool Brokers is related to wool
received into store. Younghusband’s
chairman said in his last address to
shareholders: “Of this total, Portland
Wool Brokers Limited will receive
approximately 40,000 bales.” This
would represent more than 28 percent
of the total wool received in Portland
and it is perhaps worth noting that,
although the centre only opened in
1963/4, wool received has increased'
more than \\ times and a further sub-
stantial increase is expected next year.
As Younghusband’s total receivables
totalled only 141,112 bales in 1965/6,
the acquisition of Portland is an im-
portant one as it will presumably in-
crease the volume of wool handled by
about 30 percent.
UNFORTUNATELY, again it is not
possible to find any correlation be-
tween the volume of wool sold and the
total revenue of the company. In the
following small table, “earnings from
operations” figures are taken straight
from the published accounts and, al-
though they are after provisions for
bad and doubtful debts, they would
appear to be a reasonable approxima-
tion to Elder Smith’s “income from
trading”:
Year to March 31 1963 1964 1965 1966
Wool sold (’OOO
bales) 150.4 137.6 152.0 138.1
Earnings from ,
operations ?’OOO . 2902 3228 3474 3315
Clearly, the value of the wool sold
would be a better guide, but this in-
formation is not disclosed by the com-
pany. It is possible to make a guess
based on average sale prices and from
these figures it would seem that com-
mission from the sale of wool probably
represents between 15 and 16 percent
of Younghusband’s “earnings from
operations.”
At this stage, it is difficult to see any
reason why Younghusband should be
priced at higher levels than the other
companies in terms of earnings. This
would indicate a price of about 77 cents
at the present time.


The
Schimmelpenninck
Half
Corona
Traditional Corona-
quality in a shorter
length for more frequent
smoking pleasure.
Singles, packs of 10
and boxes of 25.
Actual
size)
Holland’s
finest cigars -
fast becoming
Australia’s
favourites
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars
are imported for your pleasure by
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.) Ltd.
- sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck - Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen N.V.
Wageningen, Holland.
RPM23I
MORE ON MARGAMNE
Replies to Mr. R. C. Crebbin
By Professor H. R. Edwards
MR. R. C. CREBBIN (8., Aug. 13)
overstates his case in criticising
Mr. Peter Samuel’s statements
about the protection afforded butter
production. He refers to Dr. Harris’
excellent article in the Australian Jour-
nal of Agricultural Economics, Decem-
ber, 1964. This article should be re-
quired reading for anybody interested
in this matter.
The proper measure of the protection
given butter production is a complex
matter. Mr. Crebbin quotes one of a
number of carefully qualified estimates
from Dr. Harris’ paper and then goes
on to state that in addition butter bene-
fits from restriction of imports and the
quotas on margarine production. In
fact, Dr. Harris’ estimates include the
effects of these measures.
In measuring the protection afforded
butter production* it is necessary to
stress that, unlike most protected manu-
facturing industries, the butter in-
dustry produces a large export surplus
(about 40 percent of production is
exported). This means that a distinc-
tion must be drawn between “export
parity” and “import parity,” whereas
for most protected industries it is only
necessary to refer to import parity.
Export parity is largely governed by
the price of butter in the U.K. The
point may be illustrated with reference
to a London price of, say, 310 s. stg. per
cwt. Converting to Australian currency
and subtracting transport costs and
charges, this would represent about
SA33 per cwt. for “export parity.”
In contrast to this is a wholesale
price at which imported (New Zealand)
butter could actually be sold in Aus-
tralia. Since transport costs and
charges N.Z. to Australia are not sub-
stantially different from N.Z. to U.K.,
this wholesale price would not be less
than the London price, i.e., 310 s. stg.
equals $A38.75. In fact, the price
would be somewhat higher than this
owing to the by-passing of the London
market, and in addition there would be
an importers’ margin.
At present the actual tariff on im-
ported butter is 5 cents per pound,
By Peter Samuel
MRS. JONES is a pretty formid-
able public figure these days and
I think that we can agree that
on balance she is doing a good job in
her prodigious campaigning. We can
wish her well in her campaign for
greater freedom of choice for the con-
sumer, while at the same time insisting
that she has got a little carried away
in some of her public appearances.
I made that point in an article (8.,
July 30) and her assistant, Mr. R. C.
Crebbin, has rushed to her defence
(8., August 13). Unfortunately his
which would add $5.60 per cwt. Beyond
that, however, there is a “gentlemen’s
agreement” of sorts, such that it would
be unlikely that the N.Z. Dairy Pro-
ducts Marketing Commission would
make butter available for export to
Australia (save at Government re-
quest). It is evident that this does not
amount to “an infinite rate of tariff
protection,” as stated by Mr. Crebbin.
At this point one should revert to
the estimates in Dr. Harris’ paper, as
these presumably are common ground.
They may be set out as in the table:
Aggregate Returns from Butter Sales
Average 1960/61 to 1962/63
£ m. %
Export sales 23.5 26
Australian sales (includes
effect of margarine
quotas)
Analysed into:
Value at "export parity" 32.7* 37
Difference, valuation at
import & export parity 8 2 9
Value at "import parity" 40.9 46
Protection from imports 12 8 53.7 14 60
Bounty 12.3 _l4
Total returns 89.5 100
♦Valuation at "export (f.0.b.) value" £ 34.4 m.
Dr. Harris’ estimate of 73 percent
protection is the ratio of the sum of
protection from imports plus the
bounty (£ 12.8 m plus £ 12.3 m.) to the
export f.o.b. value (£34.4m.). But, as
he indicates, this does not take account
of exports. A reasonable counter view
would be to say (of course, in a
whisper!) that in effect the bounty
subsidises exports, so that as far as the
home market is concerned the measure
of protection is given by the ratio
12.8/34.4, about 37 percent.
These estimates do not include the
difference between home sales valued
at import, as against export parity. If
there were unrestricted competition in
the home market (no Equalisation
machinery), the Australian price would
in fact tend to fall to export parity.
Avoidance of this by Equalisation
is not protection against imports but
in effect protection of dairy farmers
against themselves and, while
opinions may differ at this point, there
is a case on equity grounds for neglect-
ing this element in that it does not
arise in respect of other protected in-
dustries which are not exporters.
In any event, the proper conclusion
is that in both cases the level of pro-
tection is too high.
arguments are most unconvincing, some
a little tricky. I was concerned in my
article with table margarines, since it
is these which are subject to quotas
and it has been these which Marrick-
ville Margarine makes great play of
for their dinkum-Aussie content and
their development of an explosive mar-
ket for Australian vegetable oils. Mr.
Crebbin has not challenged my statis-
tics, which showed that less than 25
percent of oil used is domestically
produced. It is rather tricky to reply
with non-verifiable figures for one


Glo-Weave congratulates
■
■
who congratulates
9
Is it unseemly for two companies to congratulate each other
unashamedly in public?
Well —with the help of Channel 9 television, Glo-Weave has
sold, literally, millions of shirts.
Consequently, Channel 9 has kept a good client very happy*.
Exclusively. For eight years.
So congratulations are in order.
9
ih
NATIONAL
TELEVISION
NETWORK
*Watch Channel 9’s “Give Dad Glo-Weave for Father’s Day” promotion: client —station co-operation in motion
GWNC/5-66


GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
io
J/
/o
4
TWO
YEARS
7%
FIVE
YEARS
7h°
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 /a%
180-269 DAYS 5%%
270-360 DAYS 5%%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6Va%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 /a%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7Va%
TEN YEARS 7 1 /a%
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at*
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
company and, into the bargain, to re-
late them to all margarines—not only
Mrs. Jones’ table product but the in-
dustrial and cooking margarines as well.
As Mr. Crebbin so often laments,
legislation requires him to make his
cooking margarine 90 percent and his
industrial margarine 75 percent from
tallow, which, of course, is a by-
product of the Australian meat indus-
try. This restrictive legislation evidently
has the value that it enables Mr. Creb-
bin to claim a high percentage figure
on the Aussie-content score.
However, he speaks of it denying
manufacturers the opportunity for
developing new markets for margarines.
Other manufacturers I have spoken to
say this is a myth, that the incorpora-
tion of vegetable oil into these mainly
tallow products would simply bump
up costs without making the product
more attractive to biscuit-makers and
other industrial consumers. They would
stick to the tallow, because it is good
enough and cheap. A market for such a
product could only be developed by
selling it to the Mrs. Joneses as a
“table margarine.” Not a very palatable
thought!
r £ , HE size of this year’s safflower crop
has been at the crux of this contro-
versy. Long before the ground was
ploughed for sowing, Marrickville
was speaking of 150,000 acres, or a
doubling of last year’s crop. This was
part of the “explosion” of oilseeds and
Mrs. Jones appeared to think she had
already heard the bang. The Queens-
land Department of Agriculture says
that 25,000 to 30,000 acres are in the
ground, with the sowing season close to
finished. I thought my estimate of
4000 tons of safflower oil an optimistic
one. Since I wrote there have been
excellent unseasonal rains up there and
they may get in as much as 60,000
acres, which are thought in Canberra
to be unlikely to yield more than
5000 tons of oil. That will be a fizzer,
not the explosion we are being so in-
sistently asked to anticipate or to have
heard.
Mr. Crebbin hardly challenges the
other points, which do great damage to
his propaganda story. Oil is a relatively
unimportant by-product of peanut and
cotton growing, and never looks re-
motely like providing a primary de-
mand for the growing of these crops.
Safflower is a last resort, because it
does not pay nearly as well as wheat or
even barley, and the results of the past
couple of years do not suggest it is any
more than an experimental crop. The
Queensland Department of Agriculture
is doing intensive “micro-climate” sur-
veys to find areas where it might do
better, and research work is being done
on some of its physical weaknesses. So
far there have not been the break-
throughs needed to establish it as a
viable, long-term proposition.
Mr. Crebbin repeats the well-worn
cliche that dairying is the most coddled,
protected primary industry. It is, as I
suggested, debatable that the oilseeds
may already be doing better for them-
selves than the cows in terms of pro-
tection, though they are up at the Tariff
Board at present for another dose. If,
as Mr. Crebbin foresees, all imports are
to be displaced, considerably more may
be needed.
The conclusion cannot be avoided
that Mrs. Jones has got too many of
her facts wrong and picked up too
many baseless arguments. The pity is
that her great efforts may be wasted.
However reprehensible the quota re-
striction laws may be, they cannot
simply be flouted. And it is unreal to
think they will suddenly be swept away,
however many economists testify in
support of this. Extravagant demands
simply harden the determination of
conservative forces resisting necessary
changes.
It is being said that our good lady’s
full name is Mrs. Marge Marrickville-
Jones. She would have done so much
better if she had remained our simple
Mrs. Jones.


INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
CREDIT
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF
$4,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT
TERM
STOCK
y
/o
PA.
m
Ufa.
3 MONTHS
6 MONTHS
53%
Upa.
9 MONTHS
12 MONTHS
MEDIUM & LONG
TERM STOCK
ALSO AVAILABLE
Applications may proceed
only on the form attached
to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is
obtainable from:
any member of a recognized
stock exchange,
any office of IHCC of
Australia Ltd.,
any branch of
lan Potter & Co.
UNDERWRITERS:
lAN POTTER & CO. AND
AUSTRALIAN UNITED
CORPORATION LTD.
HlB 17 D/8
AGRISEARCH
Consumer Tests for Meat
THIS column has railed about the
lack of market research on
primary products in this country.
To be fair, it must be said that the
meat industry has not entirely neglected
to study the promotion of meat sales.
It has, for instance, in recent years
prompted two polls in the Sydney area
of consumers’ views. However, surveys
of this type only elicit rather general-
ised information and fail to ascertain
exactly what people like or dislike
about any particular type or cut of
meat. Last year CSIRO’s Division of
Food Preservation brought out an ex-
perienced American meat-market re-
searcher to demonstrate how to find out
what consumers really think. His
methods also enable the subjective
views of people to be related to objec-
tive laboratory measurements or treat-
ments.
He was Professor H. D. Naumann, of
the University of Missouri. While here
he conducted a pilot study in Brisbane
with the help of two scientists from the
Meat Research Laboratory at Cannon
Hill, Brisbane. Their findings have now
been published. Though nothing start-
ling has come out of this one small
study, it has certainly broken new
ground. The methods used and the
results obtained have a distinct ring of
practical reality about them. Nau-
mann’s approach should become a
guide for future investigations in this
country of consumers’ requirements,
not only in meat but in other products
also. His study may mark the begin-
ning of a new era in which the palate
of the humble man-in-the-street will
have some influence on agricultural
research programs encompassing breed-
ing, production, and preparation for
consumption. After all, he’s the chap
who asks, and pays, for a second tomato
or a whole second serve at the dinner
table because the first was so seductively
attractive.
Briefly, Mr. and Mrs. Brisbane posi-
tively do not like the steak provided by
that city’s butchers. Mostly, it is much
too tough, they say. Their complaint
probably surprises no one living in any
other large Australian city, though
people who fortunately reside in many
small towns, and country people them-
selves, may not be so aware of this
criticism. However, nearly all Aus-
tralians will be surprised to learn that
the Brisbaneites found that frozen
steaks were at least as good to eat as
fresh steaks.
JTURTHERMORE, the tastes of the
Brisbane steak-eaters should tend to
settle one common argument, but pro-
voke lively discussion on a new ques-
tion. The members of the consumer
panel could not distinguish between
meat from different crossbreeds. This
suggests that cattlemen should not
allow themselves to be persuaded to
raise one particular breed of beef
animal rather than another on the sole
ground that one yields meat of higher
eating quality than the other.
The finding that will raise con-
troversy casts some doubt on the value
of the present system of meat grading.
As the report puts it, “there wsre
marked variations in the reactions of
consumers to beef from animals in the
several grades selected by meat inspec-
tors.” In other words, the study re-
vealed that people found that, in the
eating, meat from different animals,
though-graded the same, differed more
than meat from different grades. Meat
from a “B” grade carcass could, and
often did, provide more enjoyable eat-
ing than meat from an “A” grade car-
cass. It would seem, then, that the
criteria for grading meat need to be
examined carefully and urgently. Meat
grading influences prices from the mar-
ket pen to the dinner plate.
Another fact seemed to be confirmed:
by and large people do not let their
steaks “age” sufficiently before cooking.
When the test people were given steaks
that had been held to age in the labora-
tory they preferred them. The increased
tenderness of these steaks was especially
appreciated, but many people also re-
marked on the improvement in juiciness
and flavor. It would seem from this
observation that if the meat trade spent
some effort on educating the housewife
about shopping for storing meat it
might encourage sales.
RESIDES being given samples of meat
of known origin to cook, eat, and
report on, the consumers were also
asked some of the broad questions
typical of earlier market-research sur-
veys. Thus, it appears that the average
Brisbane housewife, who undoubtedly
owns a refrigerator, nevertheless goes
shopping for meat two and even three
times a week. It may be reasonably con-
cluded from this that much of the meat
she brings home is eaten before it has
a chance to age properly.
Other general questions uncovered
the fact that only one-fifth of the con-
sumers interviewed complained about
the price of steak, but half reckoned
that the steak they usually got from
their local butcher was too tough. This
is rather interesting, since the people
selected for the study were drawn at
random from homes all over Brisbane.
They should, therefore, have included
a representative sample of rich and
poor, young and old, well and poorly
educated. No attempt, however, was
made in this limited study to associate
the steak preferences of people v;th
their social class.
Even though most people complained
about the toughness of their local
butcher’s meat, scarcely any of them
made any attempt to tenderise it.
Accordingly, the Meat Research Lab-
oratory supplied a section of the con-
sumer panel with artificially tenderised
meat and another section with ordinary
fresh meat from the same animals. Ten-
derising did not have much effect: it
reduced the number of highly unfavor-
able reports, but did not increase the
number of favorable ones. Tough meat,
apparently, also lacks other desirable
attributes which further research may
succeed in defining.
Consumers were consistent in giving
uniform ratings to meat which, un-
known to them, had come from the
same mob of cattle.


Legal Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
(Matrimonial Causes
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY
No. M.C. 57 of 1966.
Between PAMELA HARLEY MORRAH
Petitioner and JOHN CATHRO
CHALMERS MORRAH Respondent.
To: JOHN CATHRO CHALMERS
MORRAH whose address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that PAMELA
HARLEY MORRAH of No. 23 Bellevue
Avenue, Launceston, Tasmania, Shop
Assistant has filed a Divorce Petition
against you on the ground of desertion.
AND TAKE NOTICE that if you intend
to defend the Petition you must file an
Answer within twenty-eight days of the
publication of this Notice at tHe
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart, afore-
said or at the Launceston District
Registry Cameron Street, Launceston,
aforesaid, from which address further
information can be obtained, other-
wise the Court may hear and deter-
mine the matter in your absence.
DATED this sth day of August, 1966.
J. R. EATON, District Registrar.
To: EDWARD FRANCIS CECIL
WHEATLEY. TAKE NOTICE that
Frances Joan Wheatley has filed a
Petition Number 1114 of 1966 for
divorce on the grounds of desertion and
separation or for a decree of nullity
notwithstanding the facts and circum-
stances set out in the discretion state-
ment filed and seeks an order for costs.
If you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before the
15th day of September, 1966. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. Delany & Delany,
Solicitors, 270 Campbell Street, Swan
Hill, Victoria or their Sydney Agent,
Daniel J. Dwyer, Solicitor, of 291
George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: CHARLES CAMILLERI. TAKE
NOTICE that CATERINA CAMILLERI
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1059 of 1966 on the grounds of cruelty
and desertion and seeks orders for
custody and costs. If you wish to de-
fend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before the
21st September, 1966 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
C. P. DIGNAM, Solicitor, 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE.
To: VITA CATHERINE FLORENCE
PERRY. TAKE NOTICE that WIL-
LIAM WESTON PERRY has filed a
Petition No. 1319 of 1966 for Divorce
on the ground of Desertion. If you wish
to defend, you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the sixteenth day of September, 1966.
A copy of the Petition may be obtained
by you without charge from Messrs.
E. R. Abigail & Co., Solicitors, of 115
Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H. Harms,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES IN DIVORCE.
To: SYDNEY AUTRIDGE GEORGE
BERKELEY. Take notice that JOYCE
MAY BERKELEY has filed a Petition
No. 3994 of 1965 for divorce on the
grounds of desertion and separation
and seeks orders for her right to claim
maintenance to be reserved and that
you pay her costs of suit. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Syd-
ney, on or before the 15th day of Sep-
tember, 1966. You may obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
Bull Son Schmidt and Berg, 17 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES IN DIVORCE.
To: ROY GOODWIN formerly of
Greenacre. Take notice that NANCY
SILVIA GOODWIN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4688 of 1965 in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales
on the ground of Desertion, and seeks
Orders for Custody, Maintenance,
Costs and an-Injunction. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Syd-
ney, on or before the Ist day of Sep-
tember, 1966. You may obtain a copy
of the Petition, without charge, from
Messrs. S. T. Hodge and Co., 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES IN DIVORCE.
To: JOHN YORKSTON RENTON,
TAKE NOTICE that NATALIE ANNE
RENTON of 2 Moyarta Street, Hurst-
ville in the State of New South Wales
has filed a Petition for dissolution of
marriage in Suit No. 1387 of 1966 on
the ground of cruelty, and seeks orders
for custody, access, maintenance, settle-
ment of property and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney on or before
the 15th day of September, 1966. A
copy of the Petition may be obtained
"by you without charge from Messrs.
Denis Solari, White and Co., Solicitors
of 56 Railway Crescent, Jannali or
from their City agent, Harold Rich,
Solicitors, 83 'Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or
ordered for $l.lO including postage
from the same Library, Box 4088,
G.P.0., Sydney.
"The Bulletin" Crossword
NUMBER 913
ACROSS
1. Members of the cargo-loading crew behave
affectionately, (4, 5)
8. The horse’s behind this reason for hoarseness.
(5)
10. Nothing unusual about this vulgar locality.
(11)
11. Crumb in backing an explosive. (5)
12. Hemp suite remodelled for one
who finds the nicest way of
saying hard things. (9)
13. Platform said to be wrong. (4)
14. Not gummy enough for such
firing equipment. (5, 3)
17. Medical man takes on leaves,
according to these dopes. (8)
18. A legside shortly to be negative
in an unknown authorship. (4)
20. But their country is noted for
its green. (9)
22. Split spice. (5)
23. Car is most smashed up in the
state of those in Coventry. (9)
24. Indian master I bash dread-
fully. (5)
25. High explosive slump on
royalty, there being no hope
for the fellow. (3, 1,5)
DOWN
1. Plant put in the cab warhorses.
(9, 5)
2. Our governmental system has
it as a rule within bounds.
(7, 8)
3. Jinxing who is ignorant doing
likewise. (9)
4. Whereby Cancer seizes some
youngsters. (6)
5. Gives a topping treatment for
unauthentic protests against the
evil-smelling. (8)
6. View. (5)
7. Love is shared, but that’s the
trouble with wholly incompat-
ible people. (7, 2,6)
9. Sinking eight balls, but pulling
a fast one. (7, 3,4)
15. Handcuffing some chap with a
tight grasp. (9)
16. When Communists marry in a
rosy light. (3, 5)
19. Snakes so twisted they’re never
straightforward. (6)
21. A source of light theatre for
Shakespeare. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 912


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London,
surface mail:
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for ....
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: HANS WALTER GRAF formerly
of Elizabeth Bay. TAKE NOTICE that
PHILOMENA JOSEPHINE GRAF has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 966 of
1966 in the Supreme Court of New
South Wales on the grounds of
adultery and desertion and seeks
orders for custody, maintenance and
costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
26-9-66. You may obtain a copy of
the Petition and notice of Petition
without charge from Messrs. Dudley
Westgarth and Co., Solicitors, 369
George Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
SPECULATORS DIARY
Stocks for after the Budget
Special industrial situations and mining
THE usual round of criticism from the usual biased quarters followed the
Federal Budget. Although labelled a “do nothing” Budget, it still managed
to end up with a pretty sizable deficit. Perhaps I’ve lost my capitalistic lean-
ings, but if I had a choice I’d rather have freedom than wealth.
Thus, for what it’s worth, I endorse
the emphasis on defence. If there is
any major criticism of the Budget, it
is the raw deal for the States. With
both the elements of nature and appar-
ently the Federal Liberals pitting their
forces against Mr. Askin, he must be
.
more than a little upset
The Budget is unlikely to spur the
industrial market into action. On the
other hand, if money does become
easier and interest rates fall, the stock
market should respond favorably. But
until this happens I’ll be sticking to
special industrial situations and min-
ing stocks. This week’s purchases in-
clude a stock out of each of these
groups Borg Warner representing
the former and MKU the latter.
In terms of price fluctuations, Borg
Warner probably took the prize last
week. Not many industrial shares under
$2 can move $1 in one week. Even
more extraordinary was that the shares
ended up at the same price as they
started. A heavy market at $l.BO at
the beginning of the week was fol-
lowed by some bad operating, which
knocked the price right down to $1.30.
So severe was this fall, and on so
little volume, that a sizable reaction
was to be expected,
While the share price was going
through these gyrations the directors
were releasing the interim report,
Initially the loss foi the half-year re-
minded one of the difficult period in
the fifties when losses exceeded
$2,000,000. Bu, that was before the
Borg Warner Corporation, of Chicago,
U.S.A., moved in and assumed control,
From a position of near disaster the
company now occupies a dominant
position in Australia in automotive
transmissions and related motor parts,
/po keep tQ the f ore f ro nt of this in-
J- dustry a substantia i expansion pre-
gram was recently undertaken. Inci-
dental costs re l a ting to this program
were, in fact, the reason for the trad-
ing loss in the first half of the year.
I now hasten to add this quote
taken from the end of the interim
report: “Directors expect a return to
profitable operations in the second half
of the financial year and have the
fullest confidence in the company’s per-
formance and expect an acceleration
of profitability in 1967.”
Remember also that any motor-
vehicle-part manufacturer is now in
the box seat since the Government
direction concerning Australian content
in locally made cars. Thus my pur-
chase of 200 shares at $1.70.
The other purchase this week was
the mining stock M.K.U. Its steady
climb in price over the last year was
rudely upset by the chairman saying
that he could not understand it. A very
effective way of knocking 40 cents off
the shares!
The MKU mine is on a care-and-
maintenance basis and is unlikely to
commence production before 1970. So
one has to go beyond the immediate
prospects of MKU to appreciate the
potential for uranium. In large-scale
power-station installations improved
techniques have resulted in atomic
power being produced more cheaply
than power from other sources such as
coal or oil. As a result, output from
atomic or nuclear power stations is ex-
pected to double every three years over
the next decade. The increase in de-
mand for uranium should cause the
price to Use from the present SU.S.6
a lb. to SU.S.I2 a lb. in 1980.
While there are substantial reserves
throughout the world, low cost reserves
are relatively limited. Fortunately,
MKU is a low cost producer. Long
term as MKU prospects may be,
uranium is still constantly on people’s
minds. Also, with the bulk of the shares
in the hands of CRA and Kathleen
Investments, it only needs a slight re-
vival of interest to trigger the shares
off into their upward spiral again.
The only sale this week was Fire
Fighting. Just a case of lost patience
and a need for liquidity.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
1000 Fire Fighting 72c $706
BOUGHT
200 Borg Warner $1.70 $349
200 MKU $3.00 $614
The account now shows a debit of
$247.
No. of Name of Date Cost Price
Shares Company Bought per 17/8/66
share
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.49
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.12
200 A. G. Campbell- 26/4/66 2.79 3.00
500 Tennyson 7/6/66 0.78 0.76
500 AMI 14/6/66 0.42 0.48
1000 Emperor Gold 12/7/66 0.55 0.58
500 Waltons New 18/7/66 1.13 1.15
400 Peko Wallsend 19/7/66 2.47 2.47
500 A. G. Sims 27/7/66 0.70 0.75
500 Woodside 27/7/66 0.81 0.95
400 West Titanium ctg. 2/8/66 1.30 1.35
500 Steel Mills 3/8/66 0.72 0.75
200 Mt. Isa 9/8/66 4.70 4.40
400 GMK 10/8/66 1.20 1.20
200 Borg Warner 15/8/66 1.70 1.76
200 MKU 17/8/66 3.00 3.00


Take the quick & quiet jets:
Douglas DC-8 or DC-9
Si
it,,
The Douglas DC-8 offers the ultimate in smooth, fast, reliable flight on long-c
Next time you take a flying trip, do
yourself a favor and specify a Douglas
DC-8 or DC-9.
Take the DC-8 for example. Every-
thing Douglas has learned in over 30
years of building outstanding com-
mercial aircraft has been incorpo-
rated in the DC-8. Like making the
fuselage wide where it counts, at seat
level, for greater comfort. Like
designing and building extra strength
into the wings and fuselage for
smoother more stable, more quiet
flight. Like making the windows half
again as big as other jets so you can
get a better look at the world. Ask for
a DC-8 by name next time you fly.
For your next short trip, request a
new Douglas DC-9. More and more
airlines are providing quick, quiet
DC-9 service on shorter flights and to
small and medium size cities where
only propeller airplanes could go
before.
Look for a quick, quiet Douglas jet on the
following 50 airlines:
Aeronaves de Mexico • Air Afrique •
Air Canada • Airlift International •
Air New Zealand • Alitalia • Allegheny •
Ansett-ANA • Bonanza • Canadian Pacific
• Capitol • Caribair • Continental • Delta •
Eastern • Garuda Indonesian • Hawaiian •
Iberia • /opan • AjLM • Korean • Middle
East • National • North Central • Northeast
• Northwest Orient • Overseas National •
Ozark • Pacific Southwest • Pan American
• Panagra • Philippine • 5/45 • Saturn
Airways • Saudi Arabian • Seaboard World
• 5//cfc • Southern • Siidflug • Swissair •
TWA • Trans-Australia • Trans Caribbean
• Trans International • Trans-Texas • £/7>l
• United • Fang • Viasa • PFes/ Coast.
DAIO6
The Douglas Royal Family of Jets


' : ■■;
Hill -m - ■./•jjjMHHMWi
5S »; .- -■ ■*ssw mm-x^r.w mmmpmmimmm
■, >,v 1 ' •,:- Vi
, ; .1
■ m
|l||;l||i;|if
■j
■
p.: <••■
a&AHtTTKt
■
; . -/■- .. ■ . -■; .■
'
*»
y :
%
Stuyvesant
■ nns*
;§f zsm&m )"
oVi
*
20
FILTER
1592
1672
RICH CHOICE TOBACCOS
KING SIZE
V
f:
ALL OVER
THE WORLD
..SO MUCH MORE
TO ENJOY
Wherever you go, whatever you do,
wherever life is fresh, vital, elegant,
you meet Peter Stuyvesant, the
international king-size cigarette.
Rich choice tobaccos, miracle filter.
Light up a Stuyvesant, you’ll be so
glad you did.
