

The Bulletin
w
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as' a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


For discerning people
who have a taste for luxury
-and an eye for value!
The new Ford Galaxie 500 brings a champagne touch to the fine-car field.
Styling is classic, sleek, unquestionably aristocratic.
The luxury of its interior and the abundance of its convenience items establish it instantly as a
pace-setter among prestige cars.
Behind the wheel it is a revelation to drive. Even a whisper can be heard at highway limits.
Power steering is precise in traffic, easy in parking. Power brakes need just “a touch”. A
massive “Torque-box” frame and four-wheel coil suspension give the car an incredible steadiness
even under the severest cornering and handling conditions.
Finally, there’s the brilliant performance from Galaxie’s 200 horsepower “Challenger” VB, or
optional 280 horsepower “Thunderbird” VB, teamed with dual-range “Cruise-O-Matic” drive.
Discover the new standard of the fine-car world ... at your Ford Dealer’s.
Ford Galaxie 500
Solid, silent luxury powered by Ford
FGI 04


take the
gamble out
of your next
function
Chevron was named top of the hotel restaurants
in the 1966 Golden Plate Awards—plus the Cater-
ing Exposition's first prize for cocktail savouries.
Chevron has been chosen by hotel men themselves
in 4 consecutive years for their annual gala ball.
Chevron is preferred by the most select wine and
food societies.
Chevron’s cellar is recognised as the finest in Aus-
tralia.
Chevron can cater for 8 to 800 at as little as $2.25
a head.
You can rely on the experience and renowned
service of Chevron for buffets, cocktails, luncheons,
dinners or banquets.
n&rj£\
5
m
Phone our Advisory Bureau, 35-0433, ext. 215, for sample
menus and range of costs. See how Chevron can help
make your next function a greater success. There’s no
obligation.
I
Ghevron
Macleay Street, Pott’s Point. 35-0433.
LETTERS
Porter’s Protest
Sir,
Several years ago a review of “The
Tilted Cross,” by Ray Mathew, stir-
red me to write for THE BULLETIN
an article on reviewers’ dirty ploys. I
used Wainewright’s own assessment of
reviewers as “reputation’s blowflies” for
title and, although later accused of
bitterness, was largely degage through-
out. I do admit to expressing a deep
anger at the dirtiest ploy, that of
revealing an author’s plot. I am once
more angry. Phillip Adams, in “The
Month of Suicides” (8., August 27),
uses 9fin. of his 13|in. of space to
reveal the plot of “The Professor.”
That he does it badly does not matter.
That he does do it does.
I’ve not seen Mr. Adams’ plays,
novels, poems, black-and-white draw-
ings, autobiographies, or short stories,
and cannot, therefore, put a value on
his credentials to present opinions on
such matters. I’ve no idea, in short, how
or why or by whom he was chosen
from other “blowflies” to review “The
Professor.” Perhaps Phillip Adams
is the pseudonym of someone who can
write. I doubt this. He breaks rules I
should never, as one trying to write
correctly, even consider breaking
sentences starting with “and” and
“but,” and a misuse of “like” which
makes my literary blood run cold.
I’ve long ago been compelled to be-
come used to the reviewers’ legend that
I finically chisel out work in a nest
of thesauri, dictionaries, and esoteric
encyclopedias. The truth is that I
write swiftly, painlessly, and am
forgive the immodesty! esteemed by
publishers as being among the least
pernickety, most insouciant of authors.
I’ve long ago become inured to an-
other reviewer’s legend that I care not
a jot about plot. I care a great deal,
and spend far more time on this scaf-
folding, long before I take pen in
hand, than I do on the actual writing.
It is precisely because so much thought
goes into this foundation work of plot
that I am again aroused to anger when
this is given away by someone cer-
tainly imperceptive and apparently
semi-literate.
The Press has too many freedoms
other than that of semi-literacy and,
although rebuked by THE BULLE-
TIN’S present editor for taking a
CONTENTS
The Prime Ministers’ Conference 21
Suicide in Australia 24
One More Week 30
Diana Ward 32
Yulgilbar 34
Short Story 39
Arts and Entertainment 41
Books 44
Business and Finance 48
Man On The Land 66


mm
M
w*
"'»:n ?u ,
mm<
We make some of our agricultural chemicals for beef producers,
some for fruit growers,
m
>\ m
\«*■ 4 *
y> m .
•» * #. (f
J>* *
« # ; "*-*«#
_ v .:# .<sB?s *
,«fex
sBgfc s;:
,* %K ?0&
« -V # ♦,
” .*. <*S ' H- jt \ *
* -51 0%
& M '&':.<
<% #
#s
♦ % Jp
gj*W!v> ji
Z
.** v /
,4,
4%.
X /#♦!
some for vegetable producers,
and some we even make for other agricultural chemical producers.
You never know where you’ll find
our agricultural chemicals. Our
insecticides are not only used to
control animal insects, hut for
farm fly control and industrial pest
control. Our soil fumigants are
found controlling the pests wher-
ever there are orchards, vineyards
or groves. The new Tordon* broad-
spectrum herbicide is used to con-
trol many weeds other herbicides
can’t control. We have a pretty
complete list of specialized agricul-
tural chemicals for both farm and
industry, including feed additives
for poultry and livestock. And
there are many, many more. This
breadth is no accident, merely a
reflection of our reputation for reli*
ability in all our products which
include chemicals and plastics, too.
We’d like to have the privilege of
putting our products in whatever
you make. May we? Dow Chemical
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., M.L.C. Build*
ing, 105 Miller Street, North
Sydney, N.S.W.
• Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company.


It’s a pleasure to
do business when you
fly Ansett-ANA
drive Avis Rent A Car
ANSETTANA 1
The combination
that’s miles ahead for value.
You have more time for business and it’s a pleasure to do it when you jet there in
Ansett-ANA 727 Fan Jet luxury and drive a sparkling new AVIS Falcon or other
fine car. AVIS operates Australia’s finest fleet of drive-yourself cars and they are
PROPERLY insured too. Book your AVIS Rent A Car when you book your
flight —it will be waiting at the airport. Decide now to fly there Ansett-ANA
and drive an Avis Rent A Car. It’s the refreshing, economical way to do business.
2299/83
legal stand on another of these shame-
less “freedoms,” I am now prepared
to find out how I stand on this present
one: I have not myself the training
to know how far the copyright taken
out on each of my works protects me
from bipeds (I presume here) of Mr.
Adams’ sort.
If legal advice show that my copy-
right still gives Mr. Adams and his
tribe the right to hand out my plots
like free samples when my publishers’
hopes are of selling the finished pro-
duct, nothing, of course, will be done
—I do not fight to lose.
In such a case this useless (but
soul-satisfying) protest will have to
serve in lieu of a more down-to-earth
(and soul-destroying) protest.
HAL PORTER
Garvoc (Vic.)
Romantic Samuel
Sir,
Peter Samuel is so blatantly an
inveterate romantic that one hesitates
to correct any of his exuberant errors.
One, I do feel, must be corrected for
his own sake if for nothing else. When
he writes of the Communist move-
ments of North Vietnam and North
Korea as sharing the fervor of the
Chinese Communist Party and accept-
ing its leadership he is obviously allow-
ing enthusiasm for his cause to distort
judgment (8., August 27).
North Korea, for instance, has made
it very clear that she intends to be
independent of both the Communist
camps—Chinese as well as Soviet. As
for North Vietnam; there is no cer-
tainty that Communist Parties from
such places as the Soviet Union, East
Germany, and Rumania would
endorse Peter Samuel’s readiness to
place it under the control of China.
For that matter, it is doubtful if the
Chinese themselves would be willing
to accept that uncertain honor. So, in
the end, the threatening Chinese have
not so much as all that with which to
frighten us.
J. WATERS
South Yana (Vic.)
Love
Sir,
Your reviewer Brian Buckley writes
of “Human Sexual Response,” by Mas-
ters and Johnson (8., August 13),
that it is morally unwholesome and
that Australian readers should not
attempt to learn about sex from it.
He agrees with its authors that it is
a textbook of sexual physiology based
on the findings of 11 years research
and experiment but complains that it
neglects the subject of “love.”
W. B. Yeats was familiar with the
ways of Irish reviewers and their as-
sumption of the role of moral censor.
He fought fiercely against this tendency
when it affected his friends (his poem
On those that hated ‘The Playboy of
the Western World’, 1907” comes to
mind). Not so familiar is the story
that Yeats’ “Collected Edition 1908-9”
was itself nearly the victim of a pre-
arranged hostile review. The editor of
“The Freeman’s Journal” “would have
given it to a good fellow who, I don't
know why, honestly thought W.B.
raised up by the devil to corrupt and
humiliate holy Ireland, and himself
raised up by God and I think the
Virgin Mary to save and protect her.”
... , ,
e stoiy lllustiates the tendency of
li eland and Australia, the two “most-
censored” countries of the Western
literary world, to hand over to review-
ers the task of warning readers not to
read books.
JUDY BARBOUR
The University of Sydney
Lullaby Lads and Lasses
„ , ,
* 1- Htian Buckley (B. Aug 13),
obviously believes that he himself has
achieved the “intellectual and emotional
development” sufficient for understand-
ing “the Chinese regime, its aims,
actions, and ideology . . in contrast


> t
0m-
Just who
does Mrs. Jones
thinksheis!
Mrs. Jones, like most other housewives, does her shop
ping two or three times a week. Like everyone she
keeps her eyes open for the specials and, despite all
the temptations, she tries to keep to her basic shop-
ping list, tea, sugar, rice, flour, butter or margarine.
Margarine? Mrs. Jones, like tens of thousands of other
housewives, uses and prefers margarine. In fact, she
takes margarine as much for granted as her neighbour
takes butter. Or rather, she did until recently. You see,
it never occurred to Mrs. Jones that such a simple
freedom of choice might be denied her. She believes
that the margarine she uses is better for her family
than is butter, and so for her it boils down to a simple
issue, has she the right to decide her own family’s diet?
If she hasn’t, and it seems that she hasn’t, then she is
surely the victim of legislation no longer equipped to
serve her better interests in a democratic way.
‘Horse-and-buggy’ legislation still going in 1966
Back a quarter of a century ago, when petrol was
rationed and nylon stockings were kept in the top
drawer for special occasions, legislation was drafted
against table margarine. At the time it seemed a logi-
cal thing to do, table margarine was made from wholly
imported raw materials and so to serve the interests of
our own butter industry, which needed all the help it
could get, stringent quotas were imposed on the manu-
facture of margarine. Fair enough—every country has
the right to protect its own primary industry against
outside invasion. But has any country the right to pro-
tect one local primary industry against another local
primary industry?
Obviously it cannot, unless it is willing to deny the prin-
ciple of free competition, and unless it is willing to
deny Mrs. Jones her freedom of choice. Today Austra-
lia can make margarine from raw materials grown in
Australia, by Australians, top quality margarines
second to none in the world. But, the quota system im-
posed 25 years ago, still persists and the legislation
that created it has, in effect, turned inward, it now pro-
tects one primary industry at the expense of another,
one manufacturer at the expense of another and, most
important, one housewife at the expense of another.
Just who does Mrs. Jones think she is?
Mrs. Jones doesn’t think of he,self as an Emily Pank
hurst, who fought for 25 years to gain the right for
every woman to vote. Instead, she sees herself as an
average Australian woman, a woman who, like many
others, sent a husband off to war and one who may
soon have to send a son. They went because they be-
lieved their way of life was worth fighting for. Mrs.
Jones fighting for the right to decide what her family
eats seems at first to be an ill-fitting comparison, but
democracy is a way of life and a belief that serves us
at every moment in the smallest and in the loftiest
things. Mrs. Jones thinks she's a good Australian.
MARRICKVILLE HOLDINGS LTD. An all-Australian company
For further information regarding margarine and oilseeds , write to Marrickville Holdings Limited, Box 4, Marrickville, N.S.W
27.218


p| CAD
Non-shattering
GEON RIGID PVC
If your company manufactures cosmetic products, it’s time you looked at the
advantages of Geon rigid PVC polyvinyl chloride. Unlike some other
plastics, Geon rigid PVC can be transparent you can show off colour in
your product to solve marketing problems. And Geon bottles will not shatter
if dropped another marketing benefit. In many applications Geon PVC is
proof against chemical reactions that prohibit the use of other plastics. It can
be economically moulded in any shape or size appropriate to its use, and
weighs up to 80% less than glass. Rigid Geon vinyl could be the answer to
your packaging problems. Find out
by calling or writing to us today.
A job for vinyl
is a job for Geon
polyvinyl chloride resins for industry
-CSR Chemicals Pty. Ltd., Dept. H, P.O. Box 2538, G.P.0.,
Melbourne. 65 8221
MSS7I
to the “dissenters.” However, his own
estimation of these does not appear to
go beyond the hackneyed cliche that
Communists- everywhere desire merely
to establish, in the words of his mentor
Irving Howe, “another totalitarian dic-
tatorship suppressing human freedom.”
Strange men, these Communists, whose
only aim in controlling a country is to
be “totalitarian” for the sake of being
“totalitarian” and who spend all their
energies in crushing human freedom.
Mr. Buckley, who purports to be so
familiar with the Chinese regime, might
have given them some credit for their
aims of modernising and industrialising
China, of removing peasant ignorance
and superstition, and of regaining the
position of influence that the Chinese
had traditionally believed to be theirs.
A glance at the Chinese ideology should
have given Mr. Buckley some hints in
this direction.
Mr. Buckley attributes a guilt feel-
ing to the “dissenters,” implying that
their references to China are prompted
by emotion rather than analysis. While
in some cases this may be so, in other
cases it may not be, a possibility which
he would probably deny. He omits to
mention more recent reasons for a pos-
sible feeling of guilt in relation to
China. I refer to the frequent (and
emotional) use of the term “aggres-
sor.” Whilst China certainly has an
aggressive attitude toward the United
States (ideologically determined to
some extent), analysis of China’s actual
foreign policy actions indicates not
wholly ideologically determined actions
but ones which are based on China’s
own national self-interest. In other
words, China does not act to advance
foreign Communist movements when
this endangers her national interests,
which includes physical security and
economic advance. Lin Piao’s warning
last September to the Vietnamese
Communists that they must fight their
own war is one example of this, for
China has reason to fear American
reprisals and may not be willing to
make the economic sacrifice that entry
into the war would entail.
This letter is not intended to be a
defence of the “dissenters” so much as
a criticism of Mr. Buckley’s bias in
the opposite direction. I do not feel
that I fit into the categories of “dis-
senters” he so skilfully delineates
(other than being middle-class per-
haps), but I do hesitate to reveal that
I am female, in case his psychoanalytic
powers are brought to bear on the
subject.
JAN COOPER
Warrawee (N.S.W.)
Sir,
In his article, Brian Buckley clearly
established the common bond of the
‘lullaby lads” when he documented
their attitude to China. It is important
to note, however, that whilst on this
issue DISSENT is no different from
OUTLOOK, ARENA, the Sydney
COMMENT, and so on, DISSENT’S
journey to this comfortable position has
been through quite different country


smrnrnmm*
m
liffannf
1
m
wmm
•••• s • • •: : ' 'A
Helping your staff to save money
helps you to keep them happy
National Savings Groups are popular with
employees . . . practical for employers. The
employee with savings behind him is a sounder
citizen and a better employee, self-reliant and
with confidence in the future. That is one of
the reasons why more and more employers each
year are co-operating in the formation of National
Savings Groups within their establishments. The
National Savings Scheme is sponsored by the
Commonwealth Treasury.
Find out more about National Savings Groups . . .
National Savings Groups are conducted in
factories, offices and shops throughout Australia
in conjunction with ALL savings banks.
Employees notify their pay office of the amount
they wish to save each pay day. These sums
are deducted from their pay and deposited
regularly on their behalf in the savings bank of
their choice.
On request, a trained National Savings Group
representative will gladly call and assist your pay
office in setting up a Group. Please telephone:
THE NATIONAL Si VINGS ORGANISATION
(Commonwealth Treasury)
SYDNEY: 2-0248
ADELAIDE: 23-2891
MELBOURNE: 63-1941
PERTH: 21-3113
BRISBANE: 31-0101
HOBART: 34-3957
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury
T5GE.53.FP.65


LET’S
CUT DOWN
ON
T“*“»
H-*
i
'V'''' '
- ■:
5*
i I
I 2
rjh
fAff. A.
m
* . !•:••
HI
■>s
xr}&SB(&
5
Si.
•v ...
m n
■
i
®*4-.
Reproduced from "Australian Outrage " (Ure Smith 1966)
Here’s a typical dead wood jungle! An eyesore in anybody’s
language. Overhead wires, poles and pylons in an endless
profusion of ugliness that belongs in another age. Traffic
hazards, footpath clutterers. Is this the way we want to build for
our world of tomorrow? Is this the promise in our future? And
it’s all so unnecessary. The answer is simple. Underground Cable.
Let’s follow the lead of other modern progressive cities
throughout the world and ask our local authorities for Copper
Underground Cables. Copper means less maintenance; is
everlasting. Copper means an end to dead wood and overhead wires!
Authorised by
COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE,
NORTHGATE HOUSE, 321 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
CBIOB
from the well-worn path trod by the
other Left club magazines.
In 1960 and ’61, when the ferment of
political activity at Melbourne Univer-
sity resulted in the launching of DIS-
SENT, the basic proposition to which
the journal’s founders were com-
mitted was that DISSENT was to be
a focus for anti-Communist Left wing
discussion and polemics. Such a propo-
sition — commonplace in Western
Europe and the United States — was a
radical one in Australian intellectual
circles. The name DISSENT was
chosen because the founders hoped to
develop in Australia the outlook em-
bodied in the American anti-Communist
and socialist DISSENT.
This approach constituted a serious
attack on the hegemony exercised by
the Communist Party’s intellectual
apparatus in the cultural Left milieu in
Australia, and it wasn’t long before
the full weight of the intellectual estab-
lishment was engaged in labelling DIS-
SENT as “extreme Right” (e.g., an
article in OUTLOOK in mid-1962,
entitled “The Right Rides Again”). In
the past 18 months or so, DISSENT
has come quietly but firmly to rest
in the safe harbor of the fellow travel-
ling Left liberalism which the journal
was founded to oppose- The reason is
that those now in control of the journal
have themselves found a comfortable
niche in the very establishment which
DISSENT set out to undermine.
RAY EVANS
North Carlton (Vic.)
After Lower , Batman
Sir,
A word to let you know how much
I appreciate Batman’s articles in THE
BULLETIN. I haven’t had so many
laughs since L. Lower. Stay with us.
Luck to you.
(MRS.) E. WALTON
Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
Retarded Children
Sir,
The Apex Club of Melbourne has
launched a public appeal to raise
$40,000 toward the cost of rebuilding
the Richmond-Hawthorn Day Training
Centre for Mentally Retarded Children.
We are seeking your assistance by
means of publicity to enable us to
ensure the success of the appeal.
We regret approaching you at this
late stage for support during August,
but we obtained approval for the appeal
only on the 20th of July. We are now
treating this as a matter of urgency.
All donations may be sent to the
Appeal Office at the Richmond-Haw-
thorn Centre, 41 Jessie Street, Rich-
mond, Victoria, or promised by
telephone to 42-4845.
R. W. MANNING
Appeal Director
Apex Club (Victoria)


CPA
FASTEST TO CANADA
HOW?
SUPER DCB JETS
THAT'S HOW! ALL THE
WAY FROM SYDNEY
\ TO VANCOUVER
VANCOUVER—
I THE GATEWAY TO
ALL MAJOR CANADIAN
AND U.S. CITIES
Canadian Pacific is fastest to Vancouver —gateway to ail North
America. You’ll save enough flying time for a side trip to Banff
and Lake Louise—Canada’s wonder mile-high in the Rockies! See
your travel agent for details.
FLY
Ca/iacfca/i (fizatfic
A/RL/NES
J?r
Incorporated in Canada. Limited Co. Canadian Pacific/Trains/Planes/
Trucks/Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete trans-
portation system. Sydney office: 247 George Street, Sydney. 27-3411.
Melbourne office: 59 William Street, Melbourne. 61-3371. General sales
agents: Ansett-ANA.
ASK YOUR TRAVEL AGENT ABOUT
THE VANCOUVER VISITORS'
HOSPITALITY PROGRAMME
STARTING IN SEPTEMBER
Is The Devil Dead?
Sir,
They say one man’s meat is another
man’s poison. It appears from “Is The
Devil Dead?” (8., August 6) that Den-
nis Pryor does not find the book “The
Challenge” palatable. While appreci-
ating his justifiable strictures on some
of the jargon perpetrated by some of the
contributors, I should think it a pity
that an important book should be
damned because a reviewer does not
appreciate the style of language.
The Most Reverend George Apple-
ton, Anglican Archbishop of Perth,
who is nobody’s fool, commended
“The Challenge” to the clergy in
Queensland at my request. He wrote:
“This book should be made compulsory
reading for all the ministers of all the
churches and for all laymen who take
any responsible part in the leadership
of the churches, at local, denomina-
tional,' and ecumenical levels. Thirty-
three writers have examined various
aspects of modern society in Australia,
have given facts, figures, judgments,
and warnings, and challenged us to
face the stark question ‘ls the Church
obsolete?’ ”
Your readers may think it worth
buying and reading after all!
THE REV. B. L. LANGFORD
Australian Council of Churches.
Brisbane (Qld.)
Sir Jack Brabham?
Sir,
The one unfortunate feature of Jack
Brabham’s successes this year has been
the number of ill-informed articles
written about this great Australian and
his car. Brian Buckley (8., August
27) states that “the huge American
Deusenberg” has been the only
non - European car to win a first-
rank national Grand Prix since 1906.
Has he not heard of the Japan-
ese Honda, which won the Mexican
Grand Prix (a world championship
race) as recently as 1965? Incidentally,
apart from the engine, Jack Brabham’s
cars are made in England. Ettore
Bugatti’s cars were built in France and
regarded as French even though the
company’s founder was an Italian by
birth. Full marks to Jack Brabham,
0.8. E. Next year, Sir Jack?
R. I. BATCHELOR
Hawthorn (Vic.)
SUNDAY LECTURERS
86 Years Ago: September 11, 1880
[Using the ‘‘Sunday lecture clause”
of the Licensing Act, Sir Henry
Parkes forbade Mr. R. A. Proctor,
astronomer, to lecture on the Uni-
verse in the Theatre Royal on a
Sunday night, admission 4s.]
CF. all the coarse, vulgar swaggerers
that offend or afflict mankind, the
worst is the over-fed clerical bully who
boasts of keeping his “sheep” in sub-
jection and helps to promote a
tyranny and dominion over those who
detest him or differ from his theologi-
cal views. We can see a specimen of
the genus almost daily. Plump but
pasty of color-—slow of pace in walk-
ing along the street, but with a slight
nonchalant swagger —his lips twisted
into a perpetual sardonic grin—he
goes forth to conquer or insult his
neighbors. That such a creature would
rush to a Colonial Secretary (on “his
last legs”) and howl about the viola-
tion of the L-l-ord’s Day is nothing
surprising; but that any kind of
Colonial Secretary would listen to the
howler and prevent 2000 people from
hearing a sublime discourse on GOD’S
evangel of external nature —more
especially that page of it, the stellar
heavens—is something that not only
insults but shocks men of ordinary
intelligence. Granted that there is an
old law of KING CANUTE about the
regulation of the theatres on the Sun-
day, the law was clearly made for
the suppression of noisy amusements
and not to eclipse scientific,, moral, or
philosophic teaching.


THE
GREATEST
NAME IN
CIGARETTES
First with "Puro-Thresh” tobacco,
tiner filter and true King Size flavour
Rothmans is the world's largest-selling
-most wanted-King Size Virginia.
Smooth and mild
Rothmans King Size really satisfies.
Australia’s largest-selling
export cigarette.


Yulgilbar Castle,
New South Wales
Three years ago the owner of
Yulgilbar Castle, on the
Clarence River, Mrs. Baillieu
Myer, commissioned Donald
Friend to do a series of paint-
ings of the castle. It was then
more than TOO years old and
in a romantic state of decrepi-
tude. It has now been exten-
sively renovated by the owner
and is in use as a private
house, at which sightseers are,
understandably, not welcome.
Yulgilbar Castle, 29½ x 21⅝ inches.
Yulgilbar interior, 16 x 22¾ inches.
The inner courtyard, 30 x 40 inches.


Face of the Week
Before leaving for the Common-
wealth Prime Ministers’ Conference
in London, Mr. Holt said Australia
could become involved in further
military action to preserve peace in
Asia, but expected Australia’s
defence expenditure to rise a little
next year. GM-H dismissed 700 men
in three States because of a con-
tinuing fall in new motor vehicle
demand. Peter Kocan, 19, was sen-
tenced to life imprisonment for the
shooting of Opposition Leader, Mr.
Calwell, on June 21. BHP-Esso’s
off-shore well near Gippsland began
blowing gas and mud, and U.S.
divers came to examine it. Three
Victorian fishermen were lost when
their shark boat was wrecked, but
one was found after 11 days. At
Wave Hill, N.T., 200 aboriginal
strikers were sacked at Vestevs.
★
South Australia is to have higher
rail, bus, and tram fares. Both
TAA and Ansett-ANA applied for
air fare increases. The Papua-New
Guinea select committee on con-
stitutional development asked for a
94-member House and no special
electorates for European members.
Western Mining Corporation pros-
pectors began a copper search in the
Warburton Range. Sydney business-
man E. Y. Seymour, who created
Fossey’s soft goods chain in N.S.W.,
-left more than $1 million in his will
to establish a performing arts centre
in N.S.W. Federal Treasurer Mc-
Mahon inaugurated a Chair of
Finance at Sydney University, and
said the 1965-66 Budget would be
expansionary. Statistics showed that
2000 U.S. people ask about coming
to Australia weekly, but the total
is about 2500 yearly.
★
Australia had 99,000 deaths last
year; 38,000 from heart diseases,
15,000 from cancer. Queensland
and N.S.W. both had widespread
crop rains, but the “corner ’ drought
areas remained. The ACTU execu-
dve redefined strong opposition
to overseas service conscription but
approved voluntary enlistments. The
Sydney Chevron Hotel sale was
queried by brokers during the week.
The Queensland Teachers’ Union
discussed a strike ballot on demands
for better pay, while N.S.W. teach-
ers spoke of a one-hour strike as a
token. N.S.W. will increase the
Opera House costs by $12.5 million
to $37.5 million, adding a parking
station. Australian television con-
tent was further increased by decree,
including two hours’ drama a month
for each channel by next July.
★
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88. No. 4514
SEPTEMBER 10, 1966
The Surrender Party
THE Labor Party’s Caucus
meeting last week finally
makes it clear, after a few weeks
of faint doubt, that the Party is
going to the electorate in Novem-
ber with the extreme Left Wing’s
Vietnam policy. Laid down on
May 12, this demands the return
of all Australian forces as soon as
practicable and calls on other
allied nations to pull out. Any
concessions are to be made by our
side. The Americans are not to
bomb targets in the North, al-
though the North remains free
to send men and equipment to the
South and to bomb to its heart’s
content. The allies are to be pre-'
pared to cease fire on the basis of
the “military realities,” although
it is difficult to know if there are
any such things in this shifting
sporadic war, and in any case the
clear meaning of these words is
that the Communist soldiers should
be left free to regroup and build
up their strength in their jungle
sanctuaries. Finally, all non-
Vietnamese troops are to be
withdrawn with no safeguards
whatsoever against the resump-
tion of so-called People’s War.
Only after withdrawal, and pre-
sumably after a Communist take-
over, would a Labor government
give economic aid.
This policy is to be expounded
with all the sweeping invective
which the Calwells, the Frasers,
and the Cairnses can muster. To
use Mr. Allan Fraser’s words, there
is a headlong collision between
ALP policy and Government
policy. There is little doubt that
the result of this will be that the
Government will romp home in
the elections, for the Australian
people will not trust a Party which
equivocates about the nation’s
defence and advocates a cowardly
surrender, but, more importantly
perhaps, it raises the question of
the calibre of the men contending
for the leadership after Mr. Cal-
well goes.
Mr. Whitlam has shown an un-
canny knack for choosing
relatively unimportant issues like
State Aid on which to assert him-
self, and he has been unable to
make any headway in his efforts
to reduce the influence of the Left
Wing in the Party machine. On
crucial issues the Left continues to
consolidate its position and, as Dr.
Cairns has claimed, the Party’s
present foreign policy is very much
his making. Whitlam returns from
Vietnam impressed by the civil
and military work being done
by our men and would like to see
it continued. But he has proved
himself powerless to do anything
to change the impossible policies of
his Party, and after the elections*,
in which the so-called Right of the
Party will be further reduced, his
chances will be smaller. Still, there
is almost no one else. The most
intelligent man in the Parlia-
mentary Party, Mr. Kim Beasley,
makes excellent speeches in
Parliament but stands inactively
on the sidelines of the real
struggle. Mr. Allan Fraser, once
considered a moderate, these days
outdoes the most rabble-rousing
Left-wingers in his personal attacks
on Ministers and in the violence
of his attacks on the free world’s
cause. For some time to come the
Labor Party will be claiming,
like the Goldwaterites, to promise
not an echo but choice. In fact,
there will be no real choice at all.


THIS AUSTRALIA
Can Benson win Batman?
One of the minoi’ ironies of “The Benson Affair” is that before he joined the
Defend Australia Committee Captain Benson went to his parliamentary leader
for advice. Mr. Arthur Calwell told him to go ahead and join.
Mr. Calwell felt the party should
be represented on the committee. Such,
as Tom Collins would say, is life. Now,
the ALP Federal Executive, which
allowed the Defend Australia Com-
mittee to be proscribed without calling
for an investigation into it even the
National Civic Council was investi-
gated before being banned has
allowed the Victorian ALP and Mr.
Calwell to get rid of Captain Benson
and lose Labor another seat.
Most commentators are agreed that
Labor cannot win Melbourne’s North
Suburban seat of Batman. But the
general view that Benson’s chances of
winning on an Independent ticket are
hopeless is not supported by analysis.
If Benson stands as an Independent, a
number of factors will work in his
favor: Sitting members often poll well
the first time they stand as Independ-
ents; Benson’s name will appear first
on the ballot paper; he is likely to be
granted official DLP preferences and
to hold a very high percentage of the
actual DLP preferences; to many voters
the recent publicity he has gained will
appear to have been the result of a
fight between himself and the ALP over
the need to defend Australia; the ALP
is likely to choose a militant Left
Wing candidate for Batman. At the
moment the two favorites for the new
nomination are a well-known, unity
ticket supporter and Peking-liner from
the waterfront, and a well-known
organiser of Communist peace fronts;
the Liberal Party candidate is not re-
garded as a very strong contender by
many Liberal officials, and he has been
in conflict with a number of party
workers at the branch level; Liberal
officials admit that Benson’s standing
in the district is higher than ever.
AT the 1963 election Benson polled
x 19,858 votes, Skeggs (Liberal) polled
14,823, and Little (DLP) 5,889. After
preference distribution Benson won by
a mere 703 votes. Without publicity for
his recent stand on defence and Viet-
nam, Benson would have found the seat
hard to hold because of a population
change. In the working-class areas
in the district, such as the suburb of
Northcote, the Labor vote is slowly
declining as the older Labor stalwarts
fade away and are replaced by post-
depression families and migrants. The
suburb of Ivanhoe, which has the largest
population of the electorate is middle-
class, votes Liberal by 5 to 3, and is
expanding with pink-and-cream brick
housing development,
.With his recent stand on defence, his
personal popularity, and the large-scale
publicity about his expulsion from the
ALP, Benson is certain to poll above
the DLP vote. He is bound, of course,
to get some of it and also some of the
ALP and Liberal vote. Once above the
DLP figure he is likely to get most of
their preferences and then be competing
with the ALP and Liberal candidates
for the top two positions. If his
primary vote and DLP preferences raise
him above the Liberal total, he is bound
to be elected on Liberal preferences.
If, on the other hand, he rises above
the ALP vote first, the outcome will
depend on to whom the ALP grants
its preferences officially, and how well
these hold. The ALP will be in a dif.
ficult situation over preferences. N 0
doubt the State Executive is keen to
see Benson defeated at all costs, but it
may not feel up to granting its prefer-
ences to the DLP or the Liberal Party,
Benson’s problem is that for almost
certain election he has to win a cer-
tain percentage of the ALP vote, but
not too high a percentage, otherwise the
outcome will depend on ALP rather
than Liberal preferences. But looked
at in any way his chances of election
as an Independent are not much less
than his chances would have been on
the official Labor ticket. 1967 could
see an Independent still sitting in the
House of Representatives, which may
be a situation Gough Whitlam will not
allow for long.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
A New-Old Cairns
There must always be hope that ideological thinking will be eroded by an
acquaintance with facts. And so, when six Labor MPs visited South-East Asia
during the Parliamentary recess, there was hope that they might return to breathe
fresh breaths of information and displace some of the myths which befoul the
Party’s intellectual atmosphere.
The conservative ideologues were
afraid of just this and so, when the
travellers returned and met with their
colleagues in Canberra, there were
moves to prevent them from reporting,
and the party from discussing, their im-
pressions. Mr. Calwell and the Left
Wing were happy with the status quo
and made censorial manouevres, They
were defeated on this occasion and the
reports were made. Theories were sub-
jected to some facts and happily a
little reason began to flow. Ideological
minds were jogged a little.
That is not surprising, since some of
the things reported devastatingly con-
tradicted the assumptions of Left Wing
theorists. Phlegmatic Manfred Cross re-
ported that the first problem in Viet-
nam is aggression from the North, add-
ing, “Anybody who has been there
would be either foolish or completely
dishonest to deny that it exists.” Dr.
Cairns, who stumped Australia last year
with a speech in which he quoted tiny
figures for infiltrated equipment and
repeatedly invoked the sarcastically
rhetorical question - is that aggression
from the North? has prepared
another speech.
In this he admits the existence and
implementation from 1965 onward of
what he calls “total Vietnamese war
plans,” which involved the “maximum
integration” of both North and South
Vietnamese Communist forces. Quite a
turnaround, although I suppose we
must expect the retort that this hap-
pened only as a response to beastly
provocations by the Americans.
Mr. Whitlam said he was impressed
by the dedication and ability of Viet*
namese Prime Minister Ky and that
he was surprised at the number of
able civilians he had enlisted in his
Government. Gross said he thought
that the Government was “honest” if
not yet democratic. The protesting
Buddhists, who manage to get such
space in the Western Press, had a rela-
tively insignificant following. There
was also agreement that the Chinese
are not completely innocent bystanders.
Whitlam believes that Chinese military
advisers are playing an important role
in training North Vietnamese forces,
and Cross spoke to Vietcong prisoners
who confirmed the role China is play-
ing in exporting insurgency know-how,
Cairns went along with this one by
expressing surprise at the restraint
which the Chinese have exercised.
But it was on policy matters that the
best confrontations have occurred,
Whitlam optimistically foresaw the end
of the war of major battles within
18 months, and the establishment of
conditions in which small military
forces could deal with remaining insur-
gency, while civil aid teams could fight
the cleaner wars against poverty and
backwardness. Cross referred to a
“great constructive role” for civil aid,
and both advocated that this start
immediately.
Cairns did not deny the absurdity
of his old claims that the war is “un«
winnable.” Instead he constructed an
elaborate argument to the effect that
it would be undesirable to win. He
asked whether China would “accept”
a Western victory. With an immense
gap in his logic he simply asserted that


Jim Cairns-an inverted domino
the defeat of Communism in Vietnam
would cause China to take stronger
action in Laos, Thailand, and other
countries, *in inverted domino theory.
Unless we gave in, an unending escala-
tion of the war was—useful word-
inevitable. He hoped for a Western
withdrawal followed by a settlement in
which the National Liberation Front
has “a big share of power.” This would
“lead to the killing of many and would
destroy the freedom of many,” but this
was better than the expansion of the
war, which he saw as the inevitable
alternative. Aid should be given after
the “settlement,” and this would be
directed to “modify a channel”—the
emergence of Communist power.
I N . his parliamentary speech he de-
livered a withering attack on the
Whitlam proposal that we should pres-
ently emphasise civil aid. Declared
Cairns: “I believe it is completely naive
and unrealistic to believe that aid, civi-
lian follow-up, revolutionary develop-
ment or whatever it is called, can
achieve much while the war goes on
and while a government of generals,
landlords, and merchants rule in
Saigon.”
Cairns accused Whitlam of wanting
to find a justification for keeping Aus-
tralian soldiers in Vietnam. He made
the obvious point that civic-action
workers would need protection from
the Viet Cong. In the Party room Whit-
lam mentioned the possibility of a
detachment like the one the Philippines
are sending. Outside he has admitted
he favors keeping the soldiers there.
The ideologues have not been des-
troyed by the deployment of facts
even if they have been usefully shaken.
Labor policy remains uncompromising
in its capitulationist implications, not
one word altered Whitlam’s way. The
Labor Party continues to ask the West
to make all the concessions to cease
the bombing of the North, convert the
war into a holding operation, pending
withdrawal of troops. The Communists
are asked to concede nothing, except,
by implication perhaps, a safe exit
pass for our withdrawing armies.
PETER SAMUEL
The Spy Who Didn’t
New Zealand folk are pretty hard to convince that internal security measures
need to be taken very seriously. Even the disclosure a few years ago that a pair
of Soviet diplomats were in fact spying, sensational as was their revelation and
expulsion, quite quickly faded from the news*
it never came to much; the Russian
Legation remained in business; a trade
pact was even signed not long after-
ward. Nevertheless, it was real spying
and the villains were exposed by real
counter-intelligence by the New Zealand
Security Service.
That was the high point for the
Security Service or Security Intelli-
gence as it much prefers to be called.
Everybody applauded; everybody was
suddenly much more alert to the fact
that even placid New Zealand had
secrets worth stealing. The Security
Service put its number in the tele-
phone book. Its annual vote of funds
(£NZ 122,1)00) became a separate
item in the official budgeting- instead
of being hidden away in, of all things,
the vote for prison officers’ overtime.
But the years since have been quite
lean for Security news except for a
brief return to the headlines earlier
this year when the New Zealand Com-
munist Party alleged that the hotel
rooms of Chinese delegates to a party
conference in Auckland were “bugged.”
Since the NZCP has aligned itself with
the Chinese in their idealogical troubles
with the Soviets (and has itself been
badly split in consequence) such an
effort to listen in to the Chinese visi-
tors, and their guests, was probably
irresistible to the Security people, but
the allegation drew predictable official
denials.
In early June this year, the Security
Service re-emerged as a prime talking
point this time, more or less, as the
accused rather than the accuser. After
rumors had circulated for months, an
Auckland student newspaper, “Out-
spoke,” published an article claiming
that a policital science student at the
5600-student Auckland University, Mr.
David Godfrey, was in fact a Security
Service agent.
The article said that Mr. Godfrey
(a part-time, adult student) had tried
to persuade other students to assist him
in checking on the activities of two
Russian students who were expected to
visit the university. But the real issue
raised by the article, and particularly
by the rumors within the university,
was whether Mr. Godfrey was also
reporting on what was said and done,
in and out of the classroom, by ordin-
ary students and faculty members.
In the flurry of subsequent com-
ments, it emerged that Mr. Godfrey
did indeed work for the Security Ser-
vice and told his professor so when
he enrolled. The professor, Robert
Chapman, principal of the department
of political studies, did nothing about
that; but when the rumors began to
spread he reported to the Vice-
Chancellor, Mr. K. J. Maidment, that
Mr. Godfrey was a Security officer
and that his presence in the classroom
was causing unrest. Then the “Out-
poke” article appeared and the issue
was taken up by the daily newspapers.
Mr. Maidment made his own
inquiries of the student leaders, faculty,
and of the Director of the Security
Service, Brigadier H. E. Gilbert - and
issued a statement emphasising that the
first responsibility of the university
authorities was to see to it that full
freedom of speech and discussion was
enjoyed by all its members, whether
staff or students. He said that he was
satisfied that whatever fancied grounds
of uneasiness there may have been,
there would be none in future. Then
he added that no action would be
taken to impair Mr. Godfrey’s rights
to attend the university as a private
individual. This latter sentence was
included at the request of Brigadier
Gilbert, who impressed on Mr. Maid-
ment that if Mr. Godfrey left the
class it would appear to be an admis-
sion of the charges.
(Later developments showed that
both men had in mind that Mr. God-
frey would soon leave, after what might
be termed a face-saving period. The
university vacation was due and there
was a chance that the thing would
fade away.)
But the students kept the pressure on.
When the second term opened, some
of the students (estimates suggest about
100) decided to demonstrate. Carrying
placards urging the removal of Mr.
Godfrey from the university, they went
to the political studies department and
there they were sufficiently noisy to
cause one of the lecturers, Mr. W. F.
Mandle, to ring up the police. Four
constables arrived; most of the stud-
ents went away but a few had to be
removed, and some of the students
alleged that the police used unecessary
force.
"JHE next day, Mr. Maidment con-
vened a meeting of the Deans Com-
mittee of the university, which has
disciplinary and other powers delegated
to it from the Senate. The committee
decided to take no action against the
demonstrators. It recorded the view
that the university would not tolerate
one student spying on other students;
nor would it countenance the victim-
isation of an individual by the rest of
the university. It decided to inquire
about the police actions at the demon-
stration. And it decided that “having
regard to all the student complaints con-
cerning Mr. Godfrey and the likelihood
of his constituting a disturbing in-
fluence upon normal teaching of classes,
henceforward separate instruction be
provided for him by Professor Chap-
man and his staff, on the understanding
that arrangements be made by his em-


This
Air Marketing:
guide is free.
fl
Published in English,
French, German, Italian
Japanese. Spanish
This month's issue lists just
the kind of overseas selling
or buying offers you’ve
been looking for!
What do you want to
sell? Or buy? Last year, our Clipper
Cargo Horizons published more than
5,000 worldwide buying and selling
opportunities in six languages.
Clipper Cargo Horizons was seen by
more than 178,000 businessmen
around the world. Your buying and
selling wants can be listed . . . and
read, too. Find out how. This
monthly magazine is just one of a
host of our free services to shippers.
Shouldn’t you know more about
Air Marketing the great new
moving force in worldwide business?
First step: Fill in the coupon and
mail it to us today.
Clipper, Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
World’s largest air cargo carrier*World’s most experienced airline
FIRST ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA FIRST 'ROUND THE WORLD
PAN AM CARGO SALES,
Kingsford Smith Airport, Sydney (67-1384)
or
133 Exhibition Street, Melbourne (63-9077)
□ Please send me further information
about Air Marketing and how it applies
to my business.
□ I’d like to receive a free copy of
Clipper Cargo Horizons.
□ Please send me information describ-
ing how I can have my product listed
in Clipper Cargo Horizons.
Name.
Title.
Company
Address :...
PASI7


ployers for his withdrawal as soon
as conveniently possible.”
That seemed to be total victory for
the students and they were jubilant. As
far as the university was concerned,
the thing could be left like that. But
it was not. Now came one of the more
piquant elements of the scene. Brigadier
Gilbert agreed to appear on television
(which is possibly the first time in any
country that such an officer has so
offered himself for public scrutiny)
and he was subjected to a rather search-
ing and extended interview. It did his
case no harm and what he said or
didn’t say was a good deal less im-
portant than the impression he created
of a humorful, sincere man, human
and quite devoid of menace. But if
Brigadier Gilbert could be gentle and
reasoned about it all, the politicians
could not.
In Parliament (and this is election
year in New Zealand) the Opposition
Labor Party was asking questions. It
argued that university students and
faculty should not be spied on and that
free expression was a cardinal
need in any university. The
Government countered that the
Security Service was not in the
least interested in views expres-
sed in class or at seminars and
that no inhibition of academic
freedom was involved.
The Prime Minister, Mr. K. J.
Holyoake, assured the House that
Mr. Godfrey’s sole security task
at the university was connected
with the visit of the two Rus-
sian students. (Later, Mr. Holy-
oake was to make a formal
statement to the effect that this
assurance, giveli in good faith,
was based on misinformation
and Mr. Godfrey did in fact
have other duties.)
The basic contentions of the
Government and the Opposition
in the debates in Parliament on
the subject were straightforward
enough. But the exchanges were
particularly noisy and bitter, and
during them, in spite of the con-
vention against using citizens’
names in Parliamentary debate,
Professor Chapman and a faculty col-
league, Dr. R. H. Butterworth (an
Englishwoman), were accused by
Government members, notably the
Minister for Labor, Mr. T. P. Shand,
of involvement in the “victimisation”
of a Government official going about
his proper business. Both Professor
Chapman and Dr. Butterworth invited
their accusers to make the statements
outside the House so that, denied Par-
liamentary immunity, they could be
sued in the Courts. The invitation was
tiever aecepted.
By now, it was a very messy busi-
ness. Finally, on June 29, the Prime
Minister announced a commission of
inquiry which, notwithstanding the
presumed delicacy of security work,
would be in public, presided over by a
retired Judge of considerable esteem,
Sir James Hutchison. Its order of ref-
erence was wide and opened examina-
tion not only of the Security Service,
but also the university administration,
staff, and students. After a hearing of
four days, in which the main evidence
was very much as has been recounted
above, Sir James issued his findings.
He concluded that Mr. Godfrey was
a bona fide student and that he was
not required to perform and did not
perform any duties as a security officer
while attending at classes. But he also
concluded that Mr. Godfrey was re-
quired to perform and did perform cer-
tain duties, as a security officer, con-
nected with the university. These were
“positive vetting,” suggesting suitable
students who might care to .make a
career in the Security Service and the
general duty of a security officer to
report on any matter that appeared to
have a security aspect.
“This,” said Sir James, “would not
include any opinions that might be ex-
pressed by any member of the staff
or any student in classes, lectures,
tutorials or seminars.” Sir James de-
fined “positive vetting” as reporting,
Prime Minister Holyoake and one of the Lawson
Quins-left holding the baby.
at the request of any branch of the
Government service, on any applicant
for employment which could lead to
access to secret information. In short.
Sir James decided, the Security Service
acted with propriety throughout. But
he added: “The result of the experience
gained on this occasion, however, is
that the director of the Service has
announced that, as a matter of policy,
future security inquiries within a uni-
versity will not be made by an officer
who is a student of the university.”
Sir James made a recomtnmendation
accordingly and also recommended that
the proposed attendance of a member
of the Security Service at a university
should be discussed between the Service
and the university authorities before
enrolment. On the banning of Mr. God-
frey from the classroom, Sir James
found that the university did have the
authority to take the action it did, the
Deans Committee decision having been
ratified by the University Senate, and
that the step was “probably the best
one that could be made under all the
circumstances.”
On the conduct of the university
staff, Sir James concluded that Profes-
sor Chapman acted in the best
interests, as he saw them, both of the
university and of Mr. Godfrey. “In my
opinion, there is no ground for
criticism of his conduct,” said Sir
James. Mr. Mandle, Sir James found,
was fully justified in calling the police
during the demonstration and Dr.
Butterworth was not (as had been
alleged in a newspaper article, repeated
in Parliament) an intentional party to
the entry to the political studies depart-
ment of the demonstrating students. Sir
James found that Mr. Godfrey was not
conspired against or victimised by any
member of the staff.
As to the students, he found that
the misstatement of fact in the “Out-
spoke” article, the spreading of un-
founded rumors, and the action of the
demonstrators were matters for
censure, but “conspired against,”
and “victimised” were too strong
words to apply. (These words-
were used in the order of refer-
ence for the inquiry.) Sir James
found that Mr. Godfrey had car-
ried out his duties competently
and with propriety and there was
no ground for criticism of him.
On the allegation of police
brutality, Sir James said it was
impossible on the evidence to
find that the police had used
undue force. So there it was.
Inevitably, the newspapers, talked
about the air now being cleared
and brought forth their predict-
able verdict that it was all a
storm in a teacup.
And Mr. Godfrey? Until he
joined the Security Service, in
1959, he was a .member of the
Colonial Service and Superin-
tendent of Police in Jamaica. He’s
a family man, about 40, of
pleasant, ordinary appearance; riot
much in the popular conception
of the secret agent. As he said
the other day, talking about the public
notion of spies and spying: “Frankly,
I couldn’t afford to act like James
Bond, even if I had the inclination to
do so. And I doubt whether a charac-
ter like Bond would last very long in
the Security Service; he just wouldn’t
have the temperament for it.”
Mr. Godfrey’s future is uncertain.
There’s a limited role for a security
officer everybody knows about. But he
is bound to be offered some other
Government post. Perhaps the last word
is with a distinguished visitor to New
Zealand Theodore Sorenson, friend
and adviser to the late President Ken-
nedy. In a speech at Auckland Uni-
versity the other day, he began: “Mr.
Chairman, members of the faculty,
members of the student body, mem-
bers of the Security Service . .
Everybody laughed.
DAVID BAUMFIELD


The Last of His Tribe
The last Victorian full-blood aboriginal is dead. He was Francis Lawrence
Moffatt—always known as Laurie Moffatt—who died of bronchial pneumonia
and uraemia in Traralgon District Hospital on August 24, aged 69. Three days
later he was buried quietly at the cemetery in the nearby Lake Tyers Aboriginal
Reserve.
These events escaped mention in the
Melbourne Press, despite the fact that
with Laurie Moffatt’s death Victoria
now joins Tasmania in not having one
surviving indigenous aboriginal. In
1834, when the white man first came
to Port Phillip, it has been estimated
that there must have been upwards of
10,000 aborigines in the area now
known as Victoria. That initial con-
tact marked the beginning of the pro-
cess that finally ended the week before
last in Traralgon. By 1861, when the
Government set up the first protection
board, the survivors were already down
to 2341. In the following year, the total
was 2165. In 1872 it was 1638, and in
1877 only 774. In this same year, there
were 293 half bloods. By the turn of
the century, half bloods out-numbered
full bloods. By 1906, only 275 full
bloods were still alive in Victoria.
The early official records of the
“blacks,” as they were simply called
in the officialese of the day, recount
little of violent destruction. Tuber-
culosis and venereal diseases were given
as the main destroyers of the race. All
these plus intermarriage with whites
and the production of progeny without
benefit of marriage played their part in
dissolving Victorian aborigines as a
distinct people.
There are still a handful of full
bloods in the State, but all were born
in other States. Most have drifted
across the border from N.S.W. and
there are one or two special cases, such
as the Northern Territory girl sent to
receive a church school education at
Ballarat. Leading and well-known
“aboriginal” public figures, such as the
footballer-turned-preacher Pastor Doug
Nicholls, singer Harold Blair, and
craftsman Bill Onus, are not full
bloods, having in all their family trees
some w'hite ancestry.
No one is sure just how many people
of mixed aboriginal ancestry live in
Victoria or, indeed, throughout Aus-
tralia. Official census figures vary
sharply from the estimates of the
various State boards and departments
that look after aboriginal affairs and
welfare. For instance, the 1961 census
indicated that throughout the country
there were 40,000 full bloods and 39,000
“half bloods.” But the State depart-
ments in 1964 added their figures, which
came to 43,000 full bloods and 64,000
“part aboriginal.” The State bodies
insist that their figures are more
accurate and point out flaws in the
census-taking system.
Despite the sadly historic news of
Laurie Moffatt’s death, the numbers of
full and part bloods in the rest of Aus-
tralia has now stopped falling and they
are rising, particularly in the Northern
Territory. Here there are now about
20,000 full bloods and about 4000 part
bloods. Queensland still has about
11,000 full bloods, W.A. about 10,000,
S.A. 2000, and N.S.W. and the A.C.T.
about 500. Some authorities believe that
all these figures could double by the
end of the century. But they will still
be a long way below the estimated
300,000 aborigines that were in the
country when the First Fleet landed in
1788.
Laurie Moffatt’s death was more
historic than his life. He was born on
November 11, 1897, at Ramahyuck
Mission Station on Lake Wellington, in
Gippsland. His parents were Nedy
(probably his father’s own mis-spelling
of the name he was known by) and
Florence Moffatt. Laurie worked most
of his life as a farm laborer around
Gippsland. A few years ago he quit
work, went on the pension, and lived
with friends around the Lake Tyers
settlement. His wife, who died before
him, was part colored, and so their
children do not carry his full abori-
ginal line. He was a friend of the
crusading Pastor Nicholls, and a few
times played a minor role in agitations
for a better deal for his race and
against moves to close down the Lake
Tyers settlement. He wanted the
Government and his people to stop
the old handout system.
In a few speeches he made and
letters written to papers and politicians,
he advocated that his people be taught
CONTEMPT
THERE seems a real danger that
unless the law of contempt of
court is drastically changed
public discussions of some of the
most important subjects now worry-
ing the business community may be
stifled. The implications of remarks
made last week in the Sydney Court
of Petty Sessions by Mr. J. R. Scar-
lett, a stipendiary magistrate, are
most serious.
Mr. Scarlett, who is conducting
protracted committal proceedings in
the H. G. Palmer case that have
already dragged on for three months,
objected strongly to an article in a
Sydney newspaper commenting on
an address by a professor of
Accountancy. This address dealt with
the role of the company auditor,
particularly when he is under pres-
sure from company directors. The
article, which made no mention of
H. G. Palmers, followed, and formed
a real part of, a general discussion
over recent years of this topic of the
auditor’s role in professional, busi-
ness, and Press circles. This is a
matter of major public importance
following the huge losses investors
have suffered in many company
crashes, particularly in Victoria, over
the past four or five years, some of
which may have been avoided had
the auditors and directors been able
to benefit from the enlightenment
brought to this topic by recent dis-
cussion.
Mr. Scarlett’s objection seems to
rest mainly on the fear that, in the
event of subsequent proceedings,
potential jurymen may have been
influenced by the article. His objec-
tion did not rest there. He also ob-
jected to a defence counsel’s cross-
examination because he considered
it “inspired” by matters mentioned
in the article; matters which, in-
cidentally, were raised in purely
general terms, which related to at
least half a dozen “failed” compan-
ies, such as Reid Murray, SDF,
Chevron Sydney, Stanhill, Latec, and
so on, and which a diligent advocate
may have been expected to discover
for himself.
On the last point it is difficult to
see how the administration of justice
is in any way being impeded by the
appearance of a general article that
may prompt an advocate to think
of a line of questioning he should
have pursued anyway. But Mr.
Scarlett said, “I am reluctant td
allow cross-examination founded on
what appeared in the article.”
There can be no doubt that it is
in the public interest to resist any
suggestion that a specific court case
should prevent general discussion
of so vital a subject as the role of
auditors and their relations with
directors. So far, the H. G. Palmer
case has been sub judice since Febru-
ary, when the first warrants were
issued; the committal proceedings
have gone on since June. It could
be years before the case is com-
pleted. It is unthinkable that articles
canvassing such matters as those to
which Mr. Scarlett objected should
not be printed during that time;
that public discussion should be im-
peded by the fear that it may cause
the displeasure of the legal system.
There can be no doubt that there
are grave threats to the administra-
tion of justice when the rights and
wrongs of actions by defendants are
canvassed in the Press in such a way
as to influence the outcome of a
prosecution. But it is intolerable
when the law appears to prevent the
proper and necessary public discus-
sion of a serious general topic
discussion which could well lead to
improvements in business techniques
of major importance simply be-
cause it bears some peripheral rela-
tionship to legal proceedings.
MICHAEL BAUME


to become self-supporting by growing
crops, milling, and raising poultry.
Only in the week he died the State
Aborigines’ Welfare Board handed the
Government a long report that urged,
among other things, the appointment
of an adult aboriginal education officer
to teach these and other facets of the
white man’s way of life to aborigines
who wanted to learn such things.
PATRICK TENNISON
Tanner
The Thought of Mao Tse-tung
No Swan Song
The wake was on Emerald Hill. At
South Melbourne Town Hall last week
a bitter-sweet gathering of debenture
holders of Reid Murray Acceptance
Ltd. approved a scheme to facilitate the
disposal of most of the remains of the
group.
It was no swan song for Reid Mur-
ray Holdings shareholders. They have
long since lost all. At the peak price
for the ordinary shares in the boom
days of July, 1960, the stock exchanges
priced their interests, now valueless,
at more than 50 million dollars.
Ironically for shareholders, unsecured
creditors are to get a pourboire under
the scheme of arrangement. But it is
only a mere one and quarter cents in
the dollar for their outstanding claims.
This is to be provided from the realis-
ation of assets not charged to the
debentures under the trust deeds. Only
half a dozen unsecured creditors turned
up at the Hill to hear this glad news
at a separate meeting.
The crowd of debenture holders at
the main meeting was the thickest I
have seen on Emerald Hill since Dr.
H, V. Evatt joined former Victorian
Labor Premier Cain in the ALP rally
there during a Federal election cam-
paign 13 years ago. It was so dense
that a good many went home after
passing a motion to chastise the trustees
(by cutting their fees) and before one
was moved to approve the scheme. »
What would otherwise have been a
very dull meeting was saved by some
spirited cut and thrust at the trustees.
These had taken the precaution of mov-
ing that their remuneration be docked
from $444,000 to $335,000. To a Mr.
Tikotin, a debenture holder, even this
payout to them seemed outrageous. His
motion to reduce it a good deal further
was defeated, but at any rate his blow
was in the right direction. The status
of the debenture has been treated all
too carelessly lately, as in the Gox Bros
“deliverance” scheme,
In the dire circumstances the receivers
and liquidators have done a good sal-
vage job on Reid Murray (the ripen-
ing up of the subsidiary Robert Reid
for sale to Ralli Bros was a particularly
stout effort). So the prevailing air of
the debenture holders was one of relief
that their losses were not bigger. The
ultimate result for debenture holders
who lent Reid Murray Acceptance, the
group’s public borrowing corporation,
58.2 million dollars will certainly be
better" than might have been expected
when the receiver was appointed in
February, 1963. Under the scheme of
arrangement (which now has to be
approved by the Supreme Court of
Victoria) they will all get 37 cents
(possibly a little more) in the dollar
back within about a month of the meet-
ing. All except those holding “Series
Three” debentures (which were not a
charge to the assets of the holding com-
pany) should get a further six cents,
making, say, 43 cents returned before
the end of this year.
Then as further assets are realised
during what the receivers think will be
up to four years, the luckiest ones will
receive a further 35 cents in the dollar,
making an ultimate return to them of
a bit more than three quarters of their
money back but of course no back
interest (none has been paid since early
1963). The best the “Series Three”
holders can expect looks to be about
60 cents in the dollar all told, but like
the others they will have a long wait
for some of it.
J. C. HORSFALL


CALL EXPORT ACTION
SYDNEY: 20372. MELBOURNE: 51 6881. BRISBANE: 2 1765. ADELAIDE: 239748.
PERTH: 21 7509. HOBART: 34 3869.
THERE’S A MEMBER OF THE DEPARTMENT ON HAND TO ASSIST YOU WITH
INFORMATION ON EXPORT MARKETS.
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND INOUSTRY
#
4
#
♦
Over 140 countries buy products from Australia. That's over 140
markets. And some of them could be yours. Join the many
vigorous, growing Australian companies enjoying the expanding
market opportunities abroad. Join the companies enjoying the
solid advantages that go along with export. These companies are
finding extra sales, bigger profits. Greater volume production,
lower unit costs. Independence from the fluctuations of a single
market. Added marketing know-how. Status and prestige that
can give an added fillip to sales at home. For further information
on profitable export marketing, contact the Regional Office of the
Department in your capital city.


Harold Holt and the “White Man’s Club”
Mission to Marlborough House
By ALAN REID
WHEN Prime Minister Harold
Holt departed last week for the
Commonwealth Prime Minis-
ters’ Conference, he must have won-
dered uneasily whether he was on his
way to attend an annual reunion or
the final obsequies of an Empire upon
which as recently as twenty years ago
the boast was that the sun never set.
Superficially, the gathering of Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers now
assembling in London seems to have
only indirect importance for Austra-
lia. Rhodesia, the main subject, is
somewhat remote from Autstralia, a
small country in a continent whose vast
problems are only hazily known to the
mass of Australians. On the surface,
the fact that Mr. lan Smith’s rebel
white minority regime has, in defiance
of United Kingdom authority, uncon-
stitutionally seized power and is opera-
ting it effectively and with impunity is
a British not an Australian headache.
But Rhodesia, important as it is
in its own tight, has the potential to
be the catalyst for even larger, more
extensive issues in which Australia has
a vital stake. Involved is the future of
the Commonwealth as a world group-
ing whether it is to continue or
to disintegrate. Involved also could be
the authority of the United Nations,
the standing of the International Court
(of which Australian Sir Percy Spen-
der is chairman), possibly the stability
of sterling (in which Australia has a
big financial commitment), and even
the attitude of Asian nations (at pres-
ent understanding) to Australian activ-
ities in Asian affairs, particularly its
military participation in Vietnam.
Holt, aware of these possibilities,
was a worried man when he left Aus-
tralia. If things go the wrong way
during the coming week, he could
return to Australia even more worried.
This conference will be the first Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers’ Conference
Holt has attended as Prime Minister.
It is a vastly changed Conference from
what it was when only the “old”
Commonwealth members - Britain,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and
South Africa used to attend.
Now, South Africa is right out. The
“old” members, Britain, Canada, Aus-
tralia, and New Zealand, are a small
minority. Though there might not be a
full attendance this time (some of the
African members have threatened to
boycott the meeting), there are 23
entitled to attend. There are the four
“old” members. There are the five
Asian members India, Pakistan, Cey-
lon, Malaysia, and Singapore. There
are nine African members. There are
Cyprus and Malta. There are two
West Indian members, and former
British Guiana.
since last year there have been
significant changes. Two Common-
wealth countries, India and Pakistan,
have actually been at war something
once viewed as impossible between
Commonwealth members. And what
former Prime Minister Sir Robert
Menzies warned against when the origi-
nal suggestion for the establishment of
a Commonwealth Secretariat was
advanced has come to pass. The Com-
monwealth Secretariat has moved up
from the organisational level into the
policy field. Against the backdrop that
the economic sanctions imposed in the
belief that they would force the Smith
regime in Rhodesia to its knees have
proved ineffective, the head of the
Commonwealth Secretariat, Mr.
Arnold Smith, a Canadian, is advoca-
ting that the Commonwealth, as a
group, should secure the imposition of
mandatory oil sanctions against
Rhodesia through the United Nations.
The effect of this is to rock a boat
already rolling heavily. Britain is
already under pressure to use military
force against the rebel Rhodesian
regime. The Indian Congress Party
has warned that India would have to
consider withdrawing from the Com-
monwealth unless Britain does some-
thing effective about Rhodesia. Even if
Britain does not want to go in for
UN - imposed mandatory sanctions
(which would place Britain in a posi-
tion of confrontation with South
Africa), it might have to agree as a
lesser evil when confroned with such
a demand as an alternative to force.
With the African members now the
most numerous, there will undoubtedly
be a majority of Commonwealth mem-
bers supporting action along these
lines, and the way things are shaping
this majority could enforce its collec-
tive will, even though there is no for-
mal vote at Commonwealth Prime
Ministers’ gatherings. Once oil sanc-
tions are imposed or even proposed
Rhodesia ceases to be the primary
target. South Africa moves right into
the firing line. Two countries—South
Africa and Portugal are supplying
Rhodesia’s oil needs. South Africa is
the major supplier; Portugal compara-
tively unimportant.
Whatever Britain’s political feelings
vis-a-vis South Africa, Britain, with a
disrupted and vulnerable economy, is
not in a position to confront South
Africa economically. South Africa is
a major British customer. It is the
world’s largest gold producer. There
is one school of thought that believes
that it has it within its power to wreck
both sterling and the sterling bloc. \
Put these ingredients into the one
mixture and you have something with
explosive potential.
The issues widen.
What happens if Britain and the
Commonwealth, under the pressures


-H
' '
m
* *
Thieves and vandals simply ignore “Keep Out”
signs. They walk right ’round them. But Cyclone
brand Security Fencing makes this impossible. That’s
why astute businessmen insist on Cyclone.
Cyclone Security Fencing has been the height of
protection for 67 years. It’s made by the
acknowledged authorities in the business—from only
top quality wire, galvanised to last. Cyclone fencing
specialists ensure expert erection, and are always ready
to advise on any alterations, additions or other fencing
queries you may have.
Be on the safe side, insist on
Cyclone Security Fencing
made better, erected better, stays strongest longest!
CYCLONE K-M PRODUCTS PTY. LIMITED
Ring for immediate service: Melbourne, 41 0271; Sydney, 644 4411; Adelaide, 4 5026;
Perth, 23 3171; Brisbane, 59 1051; Townsville, 9 2171; Launceston, 4 2481.
SF264ON


no w developing in London, seek and
secure a UN mandatory sanction on
supplying oil to Rhodesia and South
Africa ignores the mandatory sanction
(as on South Africa’s previous history it
well might)? Who enforces the sanc-
tion? No African nation has the power
to enforce it against South Africa, which
has built up the most formidable mili-
tary machine in the area. Britain has
not the capacity. Even if it were willing
(which is doubtful), the United States
already has its hands full elsewhere in
the world. An unsuccessful operation
would undermine further the prestige
of the UN as a world authority, and
South Africa could walk out of the UN
(there is talk that it may do so during
the coming session), undermining yet
further UN authority by pointing up
its ineffectiveness.
The problem at this stage is basically
Britain’s, but it is also Australia’s. Holt,
who seems to have a genuinely liberal
approach in this direction, has a real
horror of being identified with a
“White Man’s Club” both personally
and nationally. On the personal side,
he seems to have no sense of race. He
likes or dislikes a man because of what
he thinks of him as a man, not because
of his color. On the national side, he
can see the danger to Australia, an
enclave of European culture on the
periphery of South-east Asia, if it be-
comes in Asian eyes a European outpost
in an area of fast-developing and
highly sensitive Asian nationalism.
This non-identification with the
“White Man” type of colonialism is of
value to Australia. Labor parliamen-
tarians who have visited Asia recently
(and who went believing the contrary)
have declared on their return to Aus-
tralia that there is no Asiaff hostility
to Australia arising from its military
participation in Vietnam. According to
these Labor spokesmen, Asians have
taken the view that it was Australia’s
business as to how it should act to
protect what it believed to be its long-
term interests. It is this attitude, that
Australia is an integral part of the area,
and, as such, is entitled to pursue its
legitimate interests in the manner in
which it considers they can best be
secured, that Holt and his government
are desperately anxious to preserve.
Australian anxiety to dissociate
itself from any suggestion that it is
a member of a “White Man’s Club”
clearly emerged from the recent speech
in the House of Representatives by
the External Affairs Minister, Paul
Hasluck (a speech which in a way
was a preliminary gallop for Holt’s
appearance at the Prime Ministers’
London Conference).
The Holt government came out cate-
gorically against the use of force in
Rhodesia (going on this even further
than the British Government, which has
never completely repudiated the use of
force in all circumstances). The Holt
government was against force “because
of the practical difficulties of bringing
force to bear and because of the
human suffering and material damage
that its use would cause.” But Hasluck
was careful to add: “Australia still
regards the United Kingdom as still
having sovereignty over Rhodesia, and
at the request of Britain we have taken
various steps, including drastic restric-
tions of imports from. Rhodesia, to try
to induce the regime under Mr. lan
Smith to return to constitutional
government. We continue to believe
that the objective should be a govern-
ment in Rhodesia responsible to all the
people of the country and with effec-
tive safeguards for all elements of the
population, European and non-
European.”
Similarly the Holt government
politely but firmly disowned any part
in influencing Sir Percy Spender, the
Australian President of the Inter-
national Court of Judgment, whose
vote decided the outcome of the appeal
by Ethiopia and Liberia against South
Africa’s handling of the former League,
of Nations’ mandates in South Africa.
The judgment was applauded by
South Africa, condemned by the Afri-
can nations.
The Government made it clear that
Ian Smith
Spender had not consulted with them.
Nor had they consulted with Spender.
For either party to have sought to
influence or consult with the other
would have been improper. Spender
had made his decision as a judge not
as an Australian.
But again Hasluck was careful to
add: “The Australian Government
adheres to views which we have expres-
sed both privately to the South African
Government and publicly on several
occasions. Australia’s attitude is
governed by the fact that we regard
South-west Africa as a non - self -
governing territory, one in respect to
which there are specific international
obligations. Consequently, the principles
applicable to such territories apply to
it—in particular the need to advance
toward genuine self-government, the
acceptance of the doctrine of self-
determination, and acceptance of the
principle of advancement toward
equality of status among all inhabitants
of the territory.”
Hasluck’s words were obviously care-
fully designed to prepare the ground
for Holt in London. Hasluck was
addressing distant capitals in Africa
and Asia, asking for understanding
there, rather than from the Australian
public.
What Hasluck put in the House of
Representatives during his speech is
what Holt has to do during the present
conference. Holt’s task is to make what
he considers the right decisions and
yet simultaneously make it eminently
clear that he is making the decisions
because he thinks they are right and
not because Australia belongs to what
both the Africans and Asians suspect is
a “White Man’s Club.”
(AUSTRALIA will undoubtedly follow
the British lead on Rhodesia, even
though it might seek to influence it if
it believes that the lqad Britain proposes
to give is unwise or misdirected. As
Australia believes that Britain still has
sovereignty over Rhodesia it believes
that Britain has to take the respon-
sibility. Australia, following the guide-
lines laid down by Menzies when he
for years attended such conferences, also
believes that the Commonwealth as a
body should not interfere in the inter-
nal affairs of members (though this
principle has already been broken with
the advocacy by Mr. Arnold Smith, the
Canadian head of the newly formed
Commonwealth Secretariat, with his
advocacy of the enforcing upon Britain,
the responsible party, of an approach to
the United Nations for mandatory oil
sanctions against Rhodesia).
Committed by the Australian view-
point to supporting Britain’s right to
make the decisions on Rhodesia as a
matter of internal British concern, Holt
has quite a delicate job to carry
through if Australia’s own position is
to be maintained. Though he lacks
Menzies’ precision of speech and im-
posing presence, Holt is no neophyte
in the international arena. He has had
some dicky ones on his plate at times,
and he has handled them successfully
and without losing too much tail
plumage. He led the Australian dele-
gation to ILO in the post-Hungary
period when things were very tense.
He did sufficiently well there at a
critical time to be voted into the chair,
the first Australian to reach this emi-
nence.
This conference is a really tough one.
For British Prime Minister Harold
Wilson, the test will be whether he
will be able to leave the conference
without having presided over the final
dissolution of the Commonwealth as
a world grouping. For Holt, the test
will be whether he can walk the tight-
rope between responsibility (of a type
that in the emotive atmosphere of the
Rhodesian issue will not be popular
with many Africans and some Asians)
and the necessity to convince the new
Commonwealth members, particularly
the Asians, that Australia takes a world
view and not that of a “White Man’s
Club.” For Holt cannot afford to fall
and lose for Australia a lot of skin,
which, if preserved, would be invalu-
able to Australia in world councils, and
particularly Asia, in the years to come.


SUICIDE
In Australia , worse than road deaths
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
LAST year nearly 3200 people were
killed in motor accidents on Aus-
tralian roads, which means that
your chance of being killed in or by
a car this year is about 3500 to 1.
The figures are appalling enough for
the mounting of what has almost be-
come a national crusade for road safety.
The National Safety Council conducts
a continuous campaign to make driving
safer, State Governments are legislating
with vigor (and perhaps relish) against
drivers, and even car manufacturers
are beginning to look at their machines
as speeding metal missiles as well as in
terms of performance, comfort, and
prestige.
Bishops have written pamphlets
about “Sins of the Road,” research
boards have been formed to study the
latest methods of preventing accidents,
and the “road toll” has become a
standard grisly attraction of Sunday-
night television and Monday-morning
papers. It is not generally known, how-
ever, that in terms of raw statistics the
chance of any of us committing suicide
in 1966 is not a great deal less than
our chance of dying in a car smash.
The 1965 Commonwealth Year Book
gives the motor vehicle accident death
figures for 1963 as over 2600. The
official suicide death rate for the same
year was over 1700; and those figures
could not tell the whole truth. For one
thing, coroners are justifiably reluctant
to return findings of suicide, to save
further distress to relatives of the de-
ceased. Open findings, or findings of
death by accident or misadventure, are
usually recorded when there is any
possible doubt.
Double the official figures
ir fHE official figures also cannot record
suicidal deaths which have the out-
ward appearance of accidents: driving
into poles or over cliffs, drownings, etc.
Many sociologists claim that the of-
ficial figures in Western countries should
be doubled for accuracy; a leading
Melbourne psychiatrist said last week
that his investigations suggested that
the real figure was probably three times
higher than official statistics suggested.
There is little doubt that in Australia
and most other countries the suicide
rate is significantly higher than the
motor accident death rate.
On the latest official figures avail-
able the national suicide figures per
100,000 of population are:
East Germany 28
Hungary . 25
Austria 22
Finland 21
Czechoslovakia 21
Japan 20
West Germany 19
Switzerland 18
Denmark . . . . . . 17
Sweden 17
France . 15
Belgium 15
S. Africa (Europeans) 14
Australia 14
England 11
United States 11
Statisticians agree that the actual
rate is higher in all of these countries
and that the absence of a number of
predominantly Catholic and Moslem
countries from the list may be due not
only to religious prohibitions but also
to the fact that a verdict of suicide is
such a disgrace that it is avoided wher-
ever possible. The official rates of 3
per 100,000 in the Republic of Ireland
and .2 in Egypt are not generally ac-
cepted as accurate.
Although systematic research into the
sociology and psychopathology of
suicide lags far behind research into
road accident deaths, a number of con-
clusions seem soundly based. One is
that male suicides are more frequent
than female. The official Australian
figures for 1963 list over 1100 male
suicide deaths and less than 600 female.
In England and Wales for the decade
1951-61 there were an average of 9
female suicides and nearly 14 male
suicides per hundred thousand of popu-
lation per annum.
The age factor is also important.
Contrary to popular belief, most people
who kill themselves are elderly, and
the average age is in the fifties, accord-
ing to the English psychiatric research
leader, Professor Erwin Spengel. He
suggests that the common view that
suicide occurs mostly among younger
people suffering from frustrated love or
“poor moral fibre” is wrong. He also
points out that because of this age
factor developed countries in which
expectation of life is longer have
higher suicide rates than under-
developed countries.
Spengel and most other psychiatrists
working in the field agree that another
significant factor in suicide is social
isolation. Marriage and large families
provide a measure of immunity against
suicide (though they may stimulate
homicide). Suicide is more frequent
among the unmarried, the divorced,
the childless, those living by them-
selves, those whose social life is mini-
mal. The higher incidence of suicide
in cities is generally attributed to the
greater risk of social isolation. The
suicide rate is often proportionate to
the size of the city.
Social class also provides some- sig-
nificant statistics. Studies in England
suggest that the suicide rate is highest
in the professional and managerial
class, next highest in the business and
executive class. On the other hand,
suicide is more frequent among un-
skilled workers than skilled and semi-
skilled workers. A source of alarm for
the medical profession is that its rate
for self-inflicted death is double that
of the general population. According
to the British Medical Journal more
than one doctor in fifty takes his own
life and six percent of all doctors who
die before the age of 65 do so from
suicide. Ready access to poison is
usually given as the reason.
Studies in England have also revealed
that suicide is higher among univer-
sity students than corresponding age
groups in the general population. In
general it may be claimed that suicide
is positively correlated with the follow-
ing: Increasing age, male sex, single
or divorced state, widowhood, child-
lessness, city living, a high standard of
living, high alcoholic consumption,
economic crisis, a disturbed family life
in childhood, mental disorder, and
physical illness.
Suicide is less likely among the
young, the female sex, rural dwellers,
the religiously devout, the married,
those with larger families, and the lower
economic strata. It is also generally
less likely in wartime.
Eight tries for each “Success”
SCARCELY less tragic than the inci-
dence of suicide is the rate of
attempted suicide. Attempted suicides in
Australia are about eight times more
common than suicide deaths. Each of
the four major hospitals in Melbourne
sees more than one suicide attempt per
day. At the Alfred Hospital, suicide
attempts are now one of the four com-
monest non-traumatic conditions admit-
ted to the casualty department. The
number of patients admitted who have
attempted suicide is about the same as
those suffering from “heart attacks.”
The records of this hospital show that
the most common method of attempting
suicide was the taking of an overdose
of barbiturates; next on the list is over-
doses of other drugs, usually those re-
quiring prescription; poison, domestic
gas, and laceration follow in that order.
In England, domestic gas is most com-
monly used in suicide attempts, then
follow drugs and poisons, hanging and
strangulation, drowning, firearms, and
explosives and laceration. In the United
States, where access to guns is much
easier (a situation defended by a power-
ful Washington lobby), firearms and
explosives are used more frequently
than poison and hanging.
The methods are sometimes bizarre.
One case recorded in Australia
concerns a person with schizophrenic
tendencies who bought a couple
of pounds of meat, waited for it to
decay, pressed out the juice, and injec-
ted it into his liver. Fortunately, he was
saved. This is an example which shows
that suicide is not commonly a rational


r
-.1
a
■
Hi
m
*2
m ■■■i
jR
£i
es
0
«K
■
1
Vf
;■:
i ■
I
A
mmm
,
i
ill
Miss Qantas!
And you'll miss a lot!
Only Qantas flies these four great jet ways around the world: the U.S.A.
way, the Singapore way, the Hong Kong way, the Mexico way.
And whichever route you choose, you’ll enjoy the very special service
that only a long-distance airline can offer, and that immense Qantas sense
of hospitality, as wide as the world Qantas flies to.
See your Travel Agent or Qantas.
_ AUSTRALIA’S ROUND-WORLD AIRLINE—4S YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
SANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.


Turnover
a new leaf
Turn over a new leaf - Benson and Hedges Special
Smoking Mixture. Blended from Latakia, Perique
& other distinctive leaf, it's mild, smooth, aromatic.
For just 79c a tin, this is the right tobacco when
only the best will do. And isn't that all the time?
Bensomamt Hedges
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
79c
: :
i
"
: :
: i§||§ ||l ifgl 111 |
H m
Hi
■
mm
lv,> -
m
m
8H95R.8.66
and carefully executed operation.
A most important finding of English
and American research is that, contrary
to popular opinion, people who say
that they may or will commit suicide
often do so. As Professor Spengel
writes: “The notion that people who
threaten suicide do not carry it out
is a dangerous error.” Whereas suicide
deaths are more common among the
elderly, the 20 to 40 age group domin-
ates the figures for attempted suicide.
On the question of motives and causes
a study undertaken in London into 390
cases of suicide produced the follow-
ing statistics:
Contributory Principal
FACTORS in percent in percent
of cases of cases
Social Factors 60 35
Personal 20 14
Physical Illness 29 18
Mental Disorder 47 17
Personality
Abnormal 17 17
Understandably, depressive illnesses
are the mental disorders with the high-
est risk. Suicide proneness is also high
among alcoholics, and some forms of
alcoholism and drug addiction are
regarded as a kind of chronic suicide,
i.e., as substitutes for suicidal acts,
based on a similar need to escape from
reality.
Social factors, such as unemploy-
ment, decline in economic prestige,
insufficient social outlets for normal
aggressive tendencies, and inability to
love or command love, have all been
demonstrated to be important variables
in suicide statistics. On the other
hand, unhappy love affairs as such
appeared to have been the principal
cause in only 14 of the 390 cases
studied above, and in only 2 cases
was pregnancy in an unmarried
woman a possible cause.
. In Western countries the law on sui-
cide has often been extremely harsh.
The penalties for attempted suicide were
frequently severe, and in 1823 a Lon-
don was buried at a Chelsea
crossroads with a stake through his
body. Up to 1961 attempted suicide
was an offence in England.
In Australia the law pertaining to
suicide is a national scandal. In New
South Wales, Victoria, and South Aus-
tralia attempted suicides may be
prosecuted. In Western Australia,
Queensland, and Tasmania attempted
suicide is not an offence, nor is it in
New Zealand.
JN the prosecuting States, attempted
suicide may be punished by jail sen-
tences of up to two years, but the prose-
cutions are most arbitrarily conducted.
It appears that there were about 24
prosecutions in Melbourne from 1958
to 1962. This, presumably, out of a
total of thousands of attempted suicides,
many of whom would have received
public hospital treatment. Convictions
are rarer than dismissals and most of
the convicted are released on proba-
tion, but the fact that the law is still
sometimes used to harry those so dis-
tressed that they have tried to take
their own lives is a matter requiring
urgent reform. To quote Sir John
Barry: “Only a relentless and unimag-
inative adherent of the doctrine of
maximum severity would be prepared
to assert that the criminal punishment
of a poor wretch driven to attempt self-
destruction could act as a deterrent
upon him or others similarly distracted,
or that his conduct called for retributive
punishment.”
On the even more urgent question
of prevention, clearly there is no single
answer. Much greater research into the
nature and causes of suicide is neces-
sary, and the claim is greater than even
that of road safety. But the prevention
of social isolation, the diagnosis of
depressive illnesses, etc., are not quite
as easy as erecting road traffic signs.
The Samaritan service in England and
the personal emergency telephone ser-
vice in Australia do commendable work
for the small number of cases who con-
tact them, but the major task is of
detection and prevention before the
emergency stage.


STATURE
is the measure of a station
in audience loyalty,
integrity, responsibility, service,
understanding people’s
tastes and needs.
|9]
Melbourne: 22 Bendigo Street, Richmond. Phone 42 0201
Sydney: 54 Park Street, Sydney. 61 9931


China and Vietnam
Despite the Purge , no “Volunteers " for Hanoi
By W. C. WENTWORTH, MHR
IN' the past few weeks Communist
China has taken another swerve
to the Left. The hard-liner Lin
Piao has been named as Mao’s heir.
The denunciations of “Revisionism”
have become even louder and clearer
than before. A new purge of Party
and People guarantees Revolutionary
Purity. The pundits who told us that
Peking was going pink were obviously
wrong; it is a deeper red than before.
Yet still Red China fails to rush to
the overt aid of North Vietnam as
once she rushed to the overt aid of
North Korea. This failure is prima
facie incredible- Nevertheless, it is
an observed fact for which an explana-
tion must be found, even if it should
involve a major reassessment of our
outlook toward Communist China.
Let it be remembered that the osten-
sible reason advanced by Red China for
its split with Russia has been—and still
is—that Russia has gone “revisionist”
and is seeking an accommodation with
“American Imperialism.” The Chinese
“charge” is to the effect that Russia has
lost its revolutionary fervor and become
soft—and the evidence for the “charge”
is that Russia has failed to back the
Fronts of “National Liberation” by
force of arms. Ever-flowing streams
of Chinese propaganda allege that
Russia is so intimidated by the fear of
a nuclear holocaust that she has aban-
doned her Marxist mission of interven-
ing, by force of arms, to assist
Communist-led revolutions or to ex-
pand the borders of Communist states.
And yet, when a classic Marxist situ-
ation emerges on the very borders of
Red China itself, it is Moscow which
provides the ostensible material aid,
while Peking shouts Communist slogans
and so far has refrained from openly
sending its armies into the line!
The Russians Are Right
:r fHE situation is made all the more
puzzling by the fact that for some
years now the Chinese and Russian
Communists have been engaged in a
bitter contest for the soul of Hanoi:
until quite recently the balance inclined
toward China, but today—doubtless be-
cause of this extraordinary Chinese
reluctance to intervene openly—the bal-
ance swings decisively toward Moscow.
The mute acceptance of this state of
affairs by Peking adds to the difficulty
of explaining Chinese policy on the
customary lines. What has happened?
There is one explanation which fits
all the facts. May it not be that the
Russians are (for once) telling near
the truth about the Red Chinese?
Let us look at the allegations made by
Comrade M. A. Suslov on February 14,
1964, at the Plenary Session of the
CPSU Central Committee. Mr. Suslov
is the foremost Communist “theoreti-
cian” and his report was the keynote
of the meeting, officially adopted and
circulated by the Soviet throughout the
world. It may be accepted as the official
Soviet view.
Mr. Suslov asserted that when Mao
Tse-tung visited Moscow for the Com-
munist Jubilee celebrations in Decem-
ber, 1957, he pressed for the immediate
use of Communist arms in support of
liberation movements, even though this
could involve a major thermonuclear
war, with the death of one-third or one-
half of the world’s total population. In
fact, according to Mr. Suslov, Mao
would consider “900,000,000 deaths” a
cheap price for the establishment of
world socialism.
According to Mr. Suslov, Moscow
rejected Mao’s thesis and expected him
to come into conformity with the Party
Line as prescribed by Russia. Instead
the Chinese stubbornly maintained
their position and endeavored to per-
suade Communist Parties in Czecho-
slovakia, Italy, and elsewhere to accept
it.
Now from the point of view of Com-
munist doctrine this difference between
Russia and China would be a serious
one —one on which a convinced Com-
munist Left-Winger could reasonably
split the Party. On the doctrinal point,
there is (from the Marxist-Leninist-
Stalinist view) something to be said on
both sides, but the dialectical weight
would be with the Chinese view that
the Russians deserved the soubriquet
“revisionist,” the dirtiest word in the
Communist lexicon. In fact, the Chin-
ese are probably correct in their asser-
tion that they are in this merely fol-
lowing the Stalin Plan: that they are
the real Stalinists and that Stalin’s
Soviet successors are betraying him.
The acceptance of Mr. Suslov’s 1964
allegations about the Secret History
of December, 1957, thus explains (and
chronologically fits) the Sino-Soviet
split: it also explains the observed
events which followed.
The Russians at first, it would seem,
hoped to bring Mao back into con-
formity with Moscow: when this hope
was falsified, they withdrew their
economic aid to Red China, so that
the Great Leap Forward fell flat on
its face. Furthermore, by reversing
their plan to place large Nuclear Re-
actors in China and by slowing down
all Chinese industrialisation, they sig-
nificantly postponed the day when
China would herself have nuclear arms
and would be able to embark on the
Mao plan of “aggressive liberation” at
the risk of thermonuclear war without
having to call in Russian aid at all.
The Chinese realised that the key to
all this was themselves to have nuclear
arms. The Russian policy of industrial
withdrawal could postpone this, but
could not prevent it. They therefore
diverted a large part of their critically
scanty industrial resources to the manu-
facture of nuclear arms. Recently
they have achieved some success and
have exploded fission bombs and per-
haps even a fusion (thermonuclear)
bomb. They have not yet got any
real thermonuclear potential, but if
they can pursue their preparations for
thermonuclear war in peace for a few
years more, they will be in a position
to make unilateral decisions.
This, and this alone, adequately ex-
plains the Red Chinese coyness in Viet-
nam. Even at the cost of international
humiliation —even at the cost of being
derided as a Paper Dragon—they must
gain time for their nuclear prepara-
tions which will enable them to carry
out their plan against the rest of the
world. So far they have managed to
withstand the pressures for them to act
in Vietnam in a way which would
prejudice their nuclear plans or imperil
the security of the plants in which they
are building their nuclear bombs. But
their whole ideological position is now
so anomalous that they are under the
very greatest strain in this regard.
Thermonuclear War
ir pHE hinge of Red Chinese policy is
the avoidance of anything which
would escalate the war in South-East
Asia to the point which could involve
China before she herself is ready to
strike. When she is ready, her plan
would not necessarily be to use thermo-
nuclear weapons directly, but perhaps
rather to use her possession of them as
an umbrella beneath which her over-
whelming conventional power could
operate in safety. Even this would make
a poor outlook for those countries lying
in the path of her advance.
Meanwhile, Chinese propaganda goes
on in a way reminiscent of the tactics
of the ambassadors of the Great Khans
at the courts of eastern Europe. “They
are so far away—they cannot mobilise
across great distances—their concerns
are with their own territories —they
bring civilisation to savages but do not
seek to subjugate civilised peoples”:
until suddenly the Tartar horsemen are
at the Carpathians!
But this time the propaganda has a
new and subtler dimension. Red China
desires to avoid world war until she
herself has the thermonuclear weapons
to wage it: her main objective is the
prevention of any escalation of the war
which could destroy her nuclear fac-
tories before they have made their
bombs: and, meanwhile, she had some-
how or other persuaded us to direct
our own propaganda toward the attain-
ment of her objective—toward the
avoidance of anything which could pos-
sibly involve Red China and thus im-
peril her nuclear factories before she
herself is ready to destroy us.


HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH
TIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY
BIRTHS^
Born Australia-
All doing we*
«
:
m
*
today
fIMPOL
THE AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
celebrates its 30th birthday!
TIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY
HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH • HAPPY THIRTIETH


ONE MORE
WEEK
One for the Customs
IT IS with some pleasure that we draw
the attention of the Customs Depart-
ment to “The Official Sex Manual,”
to be published by Robert Hale, of
London. The author is Gerald Suss-
man, FRSC, and the book is sub-
titled, “A Modern Approach to the Art
and Techniques of Coginus.”
“This,” the publishers claim, “is a
bold new approach to the art and
techniques of coginus with complete
and foolproof instructions on the best
way to reach Oregon. Here, too, are
time-tested methods for clearing up
all coginutal problems from matricu-
lation and rigidity to impertinence and
metaphors.
“‘The Official Sex Manual’ pulls no
punches, spares no details. It gets
right down to business and describes
actual coginutal techniques in frank,
easy-to-understand language. It can
change a gawky, nervous partner into
an ultra-smooth, exquisite mate. Ger-
ald Sussman covers every phase of
coginus, from hot looks to hot batfis,
from foreplay to afterplay. He reveals
the hiding places of little-known
erroneous zones, outlines a remarkable
new method guaranteed to prevent
premature congratulations, explains
the Continental method of vector-play
and much more.”
According to the publishers, the
book is illustrated with exciting charts
and diagrams.
No More Free Board
NOW when, presumably, the unend-
ing and unnerving battle between surf-
board riders and beach inspectors will
begin to step up, in tune with the sea-
son, we report that Newport beach in
California is charging board-riders a $3
annual licence fee. A fine of $lO can
be imposed on unlicensed riders.
The Newport council will issue small
licence plates with the rider’s name, a
number and details of his board. This,
the council says, will help police to
identify stolen boards. The council says
that if the riders can afford $lOO for
a board, they can afford to pay to use
the surf. If they don’t like it they can
go elsewhere. Which might be just
what they will do.
Gold-diggers of 1966
SINCE PETER LALOR made his
stand at Ballarat, the Victorian Govern-
ment has cut the price of Miner’s Rights
from £36 to 25 cents—which is one
reason there are now 7000 Victorians
with gold-seeking licences. Now there’s
a new rush on, not only for gold but
for all kinds of gemstones.
There have always been hundreds of
licences current because people like go-
ing for holiday or weekend fossicks over
old gold areas. The Mines Department
always notice a run on Miner’s Rights
just before school holidays.
But renewed interest in recent weeks
is the result of publicity and public
relations rather than new discoveries.
It seemed to start with a Saturday
afternoon TV children’s program which
explained simply how and where Vic-
toria had proved a source of almost
every known mineral and gem. Then
the Mines Department came out with
its new edition of the Prospectors’
Guide. It has been publishing this
since 1894, but the new one was glossier
and more attractively laid out. It not
only said where all the goodies could
be found but gave illustrated directions
on how to get at them and recognise
them, details on how to make equip,
ment and all about claims and leases.
This new guide got a newspaper men-
tion and the 5000 print run almost
sold out in a few days.
Undeterred by the fact that gold
still fetches only $31.25 an oz., as it
did 30 years ago, people are striking
out these still-chilly weekends to dig,
scratch, pan, sluice, and fossick all over
the State. For the lucky ones —those
who find anything at all—ss to $lO
rates well for a long, hard day’s work.
But luck is handier in this business than
guides. Sixteen months ago a man
found a 1270 z. gold nugget near Ben-
digo. And he didn’t even have to dig,
as it was just lying on the ground. In
fact, he wasn’t even prospecting, just
walking along the road.
Not so Lucky
BEING BANNED in East Germany
may not be the summit of every
writer’s banning ambitions, but it
seems better than nothing. According
to a letter in the Melbourne Com-
munist newspaper, “Guardian,” Donald
Horne’s “The Lucky Country” was
turned back at the border.
The letter-writer, H. Zimmerpian,
reporting the matter, enclosed a copy
of a letter he had written to East Ger-
man President Ulbricht about it.
Zimmerman said he had sent “The
Lucky Country” to a friend in Berlin.
The friend had lived in Australia
during the Nazi period and wanted a
general survey of present-day condi-
tions here. The only readily available
book to meet this purpose, Zimmer-
man wrote, “despite certain weak-
nesses,” was “The Lucky Country.”
“I am surprised,” Zimmerman
wrote to Ulbricht, “to find that the
parcel has been returned to me with
a notice in French reading: ‘Return.
Content is not in conformity with cus-
toms regulations (cf. prohibited objects,
edition of July 20, 1959, number 2152,
sending of gifts). Detailed reason en-
closed in parcel.’ I may add that no
reason, detailed or otherwise, was en-
closed in the parcel. I would have been
very interested to know the reason for
this stupid, bureaucratic action.”
Victorian Portraits
BEHIND every screaming Beatle fan
there is a serious commentator pro-
pounding yet another theory. After
Murray Kempton met them in New
York he wrote:
“To see the Beatles is to confront a
gallery of eminent women of the 19th
century: women of character, to be
sure, who got themselves criticised as
masculine in their time as the Beatles
are entirely masculine now.
“But the hair is a mask obscuring
every other feature.
“It is not merely long, but Victorian
long, vicar’s daughter long, governess
long, unexpectedly great lady long. No
comparisons arise except with women
long dead. The image so overrides
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Australia needs the patriots who
spend their money on grog, girls, and
gee-gees.
—'W. C. Coutts (ALP, Queensland),
in Parliament,
Love of neighbor is shown by help-
ing a passing car to get in front of
you by slowing down a bit.
Member of the Witnesses of Jehovah.
A festival is the matchmaking be-
tween the audience and the perform-
ance.
—Peter Diamond, artistic director
of the Edinburgh Festival.
You can do what you like in
Shakespeare because people don’t
understand half of it anyway, but you
can’t in an Irish play because it really
means what it says.
Actress Siobhan McKenna.
It is sad to have to say it but
recent events in China are a carica-
ture of the ideas and principles of
Communism.
—Laurie Aarons, general secretary of the
Communist Party of Australia,
So psychologically unexpected is
poverty in the midst of overwhelming
prosperity that it remains largely
hidden even from ourselves.
U.S, Secretary of Defence
Robert McNamara.
The so-called birth-control pill
—Prom a statement by 37 Australian
Roman Catholic bishops.
1 have a lot of very good friends
in the Labor Party.
—Mr. Sam Benson, Victorian MP.
The Cabinet and the Ministry now
believe that there is a divine right,
not of kings but of Cabinet.
—Mr. Palkinder, Liberal MP.
Italians cannot judge a Swedish
film. It would be like asking a
giraffe what it thought of Vietnam.
—Swedish actress Ingrid Thulln.
I donH see that the Government
is bound to pick up the pieces when
the motor industry over-produces.
—Minister for Territories Barnes.
What the Bar Council says is of
no concern to me.
—Mr. Justice R, L. Taylor


that one’s own mind turns womanly,
and the thought at the first sight of
the Beatles in the flesh is what Ameri-
can ladies always tell you about their
glimpse of the Queen: ‘My dear, that
lovely British skin. It cannot be photo-
graphed.’
“So Ringo is George Sand and Paul
is Elizabeth Barrett and John looks
like Florence Nightingale ‘We are
ducks,’ said her mother, ‘who have
hatched a wild swan’ and George,
the only one who dares let the black
devils come through occasionally, is the
Caroline Lamb who drove Byron to
such a frenzy of detestation that he
begged only ‘To be spared from meet-
ing her until we may be chained to-
gether in Dante’s inferno.’
“All the women the Beatles evoke
were struggling with the problem of
being women in the 19th century,
when one was adored and never taken
seriously, but where the least little
thing one said might make a scandal,
which is rather like being a Beatle
now.
“The first question from the journal-
ists was to John and about Vietnam, of
course. He answered that he didn’t
like it. ‘We don’t like it,’ said George
suddenly. His voice was grim. Caro-
line Lamb was declaring her indepen-
dence. ‘War’s wrong and that’s all. We
can elaborate on that if we want to
in England.’ The question passed, of
course, to John on Christianity. ‘There’s
more people in America,’ Paul
answered, ‘so there’s more bigots. We
hear more from American bigots than
we do from Rooshan bigots.’ Besides
there were countries, Paul went on,
where what John said about Jesus as
a dying doll would not be taken up and
misinterpreted as it was here. ‘Here
somebody will take it up and use it
and not have too many scruples.’ Paul
paused and thought of the next scandal
and his face lied, by habit, that he was
just a child and did not mean it. ‘lt’s
just wonderful here,’ he finished. Every-
one laughed.
“ ‘And now that you’ve learned to
play the sitar,’ a journalist asked
George, ‘what instrument will you try
next?’ ‘I haven’t learned to play the
sitar,’ George answered coldly. ‘Ravi
Shankar hasn’t learned to play it, and
he’s been playing for 35 years.’
“The tone was bitter, as of depriva-
tion of adventure. And you began to
understand that, as women of the 19th
century, the Beatles are insulated and
protected from the nonsense of the con-
vention which surrounds them by the
sweetness and safety of their home. They
only play at the sitar. Ravi Shankar
lives by it. For it is only the men
who can go to the wars and bleed and
kill and hate. And one moment of Joe
Turner singing that ‘lt’s Your Dollar
Now But it’s Gonna be Mine Some
Sweet Day’ is more than all they have
ever said. What is raw and crude in
life is not for them. They are only
translators. They make us remember
that the 19th-century woman, stay
home though she usually had to, was
something of a piece of goods.”
The letters of Trevor Gooseboot
Dear Mother,
I have arrived in Australia and am as well as can be expected. I hope that
your attacks have ceased and that you’re continuing to take Dr. Pearson’s advice
and are not reading newspapers or watching television. Please try and pretend
that it is all just a bad dream.
I had an unpleasant turn myself shortly after my arrival here when I was
informed by a gentleman at the Immigration Office that as an alien I might be
liable for service in the Australian Militia. I pointed out that I had already
given my all in no uncertain manner in one great war, and felt exempt. If,
however, the authorities insisted, perhaps with my slight knowledge of Italian
I could be enrolled as an interpreter. In response to his cocked eyebrow, I
explained that just having spent an hour in the waiting-room with several of my
fellow migrants who have little knowledge of the English Tongue, I might be
of use on Drill Parades, explaining to some of the cranks the desires of the
Sergeant-Major. He seemed to miss the point of my little joke.
Anyway, Mother, I would find it difficult to serve Australia in their defence
of the land against the Cong. I have peruse'd the election manifestoes. The two
political factions have diametrically opposed views on Vietnam, both of which
are, to my mind, totally wrong. Mr. Holt, the Prime Minister, wishes to stay
there. Mr. Calwell, the Opposition leader, however, would leave, albeit after
consultation with President Johnson. Mother, picture the scene.
Mr. Calwell (still suffering from shock after his election): “President Johnson,
Australia is leaving Vietnam.”
President Johnson (casually crushing a billiard ball in his massive fist): “So
long, then, parrot face.”
Mr. Calwell: “Oh.” (Exits left, disgruntled.)
I mean, really, Mother, having got there, you can’t leave, even if you shouldn’t
have gone in the first place. It is all very confusing and I sometimes wonder
if it isn’t more satisfactory not to have a Vietnam policy at all, like Mr. Wilson.
Your loving son,
Trevor.
P.S. Could you send my old Army greatcoat just in case.


A Hyper-active Person
Laughter , in Parts
By DAPHNE GUINNESS
MISS DIANA WARD is one of
\ nature’s kind, sweet girls who
have struck it good in the un-
kind, cut-throat world of radio, tele-
vision, and journalism.
Her image is a wholesome one. A
girl who neither provokes nor grates.
She wears white stockings, flat-heeled
shoes, and above-knee dresses, does not
smoke, runs a Hillman Imp, describes
her social life as “terrible,” is some-
thing of an art collector, and early
this year became a shareholder in Max
Hutchin’s Gallery “A” in Paddington.
Miss Ward is also a lady of degrees.
She has an Arts degree and a Social
Studies degree. She studied at Mel-
bourne University, graduated, and won
a Fulbright scholarship to Columbia,
New York, and the London School of
Economics.
It is about four years since her first
faltering steps on television and radio
in Perth. Going into radio cold, she
says, was the most terrible experience.
She kept saying things like Her
Majesty’s Voice and HMAS Pinafore,
and thought at the time that she was
out of her milieu.
Now, however, she is as much a
household name as anyone could wish
to be in her line of country: ABC’s
only television girl. With Ellis Blain’s
“Let’s Find Out” on radio. Her own
radio program, “Diversion,” on Sun-
day. A weekly column with the “Sun-
day Mirror.”
What appears an obsession with
work is no more than a basic urge
to always be involved. “I need things
that demand things of me. I need to
give all. At university I was Vice-
President of the Liberal Club, in the
Drama Society, etcetera, etcetera, and
at school it was the same, secret
societies and all that. I am a hyper-
active person.”
Hers is a cliche success story. She
even, when it all began, “did it for a
laugh.” After graduating from uni-
versity she spun off round the world
for a bit, during which time Cupid
struck twice, but neither engagements
ended in wedding bells, and so she
returned to Australia. “I had just
parted company with my second
fiance and was staying with some
friends in Perth when I met someone
from the ABC who suggested I might
like to try television.” And so she did.
Then, with a year’s experience notched
up at Perth, they said please come
to Sydney for five weeks. “I am still
here,” says Miss Ward.
People assume that she is rolling in
money. This is untrue. As a salaried
member of the ABC staff, her financial
recompense is the same whether she
appears once or a dozen times a week,
That is, lower than an ABC senior
executive. Unlike other women in her
profession, she does not expect, or re-
ceive, fees when making public appear-
ances. “I don’t have to make them, but
* feel personally it is part of the job.”
However, all this talk about money up-
sets her. She would not like the ABC to
think she was complaining about her
earnings when the reverse is true.
Eighteen months- or so ago both
“Daily” and “Sunday Mirror” asked
her to write a column, but at the
time she was involved with the organi-
sation of some Asians in Australia. The
“Sunday Mirror” repeated the invita-
tion and she accepted. Her column,
she says, is not something she enjoys
reading. In fact, she hates it. But she
does enjoy words, though now and
again, she is told, she is a little ponder-
ous; and would she cut her sentences
down? The actual business of produc-
ing it is complicated by the fact that
she cannot type. “What I do is dic-
tate it to a long-suffering copy girl. It
takes about two hours. I always main-
tained I had sufficient strings to my
bow without learning typing. I can’t
do shorthand, either. I have my own
system, different cdlors meaning differ-
ent things.”
To some people Miss Ward comes
over as a highly intelligent girl, a “good
brain.” To others she appears as a
non-inquirer after the facts: In prac-
tice she says she is prepared to pursue
a hard line of questioning, “but I ask
only if it is important and if they
see it as an important fact in their
lives. Murdoch, for instance, was not
anxious for us to know that he was
92. He didn’t think it important. I
think the interesting information comes
from their interests and what they
regard as relevant to their life.” Miss
Ward was herself reluctant to disclose
her age, considering it irrelevant.
However, yes, she would ask an
embarrassing question, but she would
preface it with “you don’t have to ans-
wer this,” or “it’s probably quite pre-
sumptuous of me, but etcetera, etcet-
era.” “For example. I asked Tania
Verstak (Miss Australia and Miss
International Beauty, or something like
that, about four years ago, I think —
THE BULLETIN would know) over
in Perth whether or not she was iri
fact hiding from duty, refusing to
do charity things like that. After all-
representing Australia as she did
hiding her head in the sand, sort of
thing escaping from the limelight
this was a ticklish thing to ask her.”
Miss Ward works a six-day week
and frequently this develops into seven.
She wishes she could take part in more
current affairs programs of the Four
Corners variety, and thinks there should
be more of the intelligent woman’s
point of view on television. Mean-
while, she gets a certain satisfaction
from lectures. She mentioned two she
recently enjoyed: one, “The Total Man
in Business” (what the businessman
brings to his job), the other, “Woman
Graduate at Large,” which she gave to
the Sydney University Graduate Men’s
Club at a Kabeiroi she thought that
meant assembly of male Greek gods
and at which she was the first-ever
woman speaker.
“There was,” she said, “laughter in
parts.”


There’s no end
LIFE SAVERS NEW FACTORY::
111 l
■
i! rrn
...
Mi
to the applications
T Hi MONASH UNIVERSITY :
pvtw
Air Conditioning
by
CHRYSLER
f
PHONE YOUR STATE AIRTEMP DISTRIBUTOR
Q’LD.: Dutm Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 349-
Montague Road, West End. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W. & A.C.T. Strataflo Pty. Ltd., 100 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown. Phone 51 6645.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray
Street, South Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A. Airtemp Operations, Chrysler Australia Ltd..
Ninth Avenue, Finsbury. Phone 45 81 11
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray Street.
Perth. Phone 23 2214.
AIRTEMP OPERATIONS 5 CHRYSLER
TAT AUSTRALIA LTD
CM72
THE OTHER SEX
Adding Injury to Insult
I WAS having a
shampoo and
set and the
hairdresser asked,
"How on earth do
you manage this
great mop of hair?”
When I thought
about it afterwards
I wished I had had
the nerve to reply,
“I don’t. I pay you
to manage it, which
must be perfectly obvious or I wouldn’t
be sitting here now with water trickling
down my neck, letting you stick pins
into my scalp.”
What I did at the time was give
a nervous laugh and agree, “There is
rather a lot, isn’t there? Wouldn’t it
be easier for you if I passed the pins?”
Now perhaps I was a little sensitive
about my crowning glory being called
a great mop, but sometimes I wish I
had the courage to make people who
are insulting, no matter how uninten-
tionally, as uncomfortable as they make
me.
For instance, when I go to buy a
new swimsuit and the assistant says,
“A bikini? Who’s it for, madam?” I
should like to say, “Well, I thought
of buying one for my grandmother.
She’s 85, you see, and I think it does
old people good to bring a little frivol-
ity into their lives, don’t you? Not
that she gets down to the beach very
often in her wheelchair, but she could
fill the bra with soil and make twin
hanging gardens, and the bottom, I
thought, would make an ideal teacosy,
with the spqut sticking through one
leg and the handle through the
other.”
Instead, this rich vein of sarcasm
remains untapped until I’m outside the
shop, carrying a one-piece swimsuit
with a corset inset to hold my tummy
in.
It’s exactly the same at the shoeshop.
The assistant doesn’t even bother to
look through her stock before telling
you, “Oh, I am sorry, Madam, but I
know we won’t have anything in your
size. We only carry normal fittings.”
Now I would like to assume an ex-
pression of pure desperation and say,
“Oh, dear, and I was so sure that hav-
ing my toes amputated would make my
feet a normal size at last.” Instead of
which I say, “Oh, thank you very
much,” which is the last thing I mean.
I’m not the only person who has to
suffer silently. I was in the chemist’s
shop the other day and a customer said
to the young girl behind the counter,
“My daughter asked me to buy some
cream to clear up her pimples, but
she couldn’t remember the name of it.
What sort do you use?”
I hastily thought out a reply -and
tried to flash it across to the blushing
teenager by telepathy. It was, “Madam
are you implying that I must have once
had pimples and needed a cream to
clear them up, or do you mean that I
am still so pimply that if I name a
cream you will avoid buying that
brand?”
But she can’t have got my message
for she just looked at her feet and told
the wretched customer the name of a
cream.
It isn’t just in shops that the insults
fly. I was once standing waiting for a
bus when a little boy dropped half his
ice-cream down the back of my coat.
His mother mopped furiously and
then looked up at me and said, “I’m
afraid there’s a big clean patch where
I’ve wiped it off your coat.”
I wanted to say, “No, madam. The
fact is that ice-cream contains certain
very powerful chemicals which, in
spite of all your efforts to wipe it off
my coat, are even now rotting the
fibre. Removal of the dye in the fabric
is the first stage. When you see what
it’s doing to my coat it makes you
wonder what it’s doing to your little
boy’s stomach, doesn’t it?”
I did say, “Oh, that’s quite all
right. My coat was due for the cleaners,
anyway.”
JpRIENDS are no less guilty of send-
ing absentminded little barbs wing-
ing your way, like the one who says,
“You do look like your sister. Which of
you is the elder?” or the one who peers
at you and thinks aloud, “I thought
you were going to that health and
beauty place last week.”
Both imply you’re losing the battle
with youth and the only solution is
to tell a downright lie and let number
one friend recall at her leisure that
although you told her this time that
you were older than your sister you
had mentioned once before that your
sister was the elder by ten years. Num-
ber two friend will, the minute she
gets home, see on the mantelpiece the
postcard you sent from the health farm,
although just a few minutes ago you
denied ever being near the place.
And maybe they’ll both feel a little
uncomfortable, though there is the pos-
sibility that if they’ve been so thick-
skinned as to insult you in the first
place without being aware of it they’ll
revive the whole issue the next time
they see you to get to the bottom of an
apparent mystery.
Women are not the only culprits,
I had a male passenger in my car one
time who told me admiringly, “You
drive just like a man.” I had to bite
my tongue to stop the words coming
out, “Oh, I didn’t realise I was as bad
as that,” and substitute hastily, “I take
that as a compliment.” Perhaps that
man has wondered a little since why
I’ve not been so keen to run him about.
But perhaps the worst offenders of


i ■)
•' .. .
'!
How did
he do it?
1
2
3
4
5
6
He arrived in Melbourne
at 9.00 a.m.
He made six calls in
different suburbs.
He drove across town to
head office.
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends—
Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was
waiting _J
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon.
Within moments of your arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own, for as long as
you like. And you and the car are always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket, or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival...
For a day, a week, or all the time.
AVIS
RENTA CAR
X
all are husbands. Have you never
slaved over a stove and presented break-
fast only for him to ask, “What’s that?”
in tones of utter revulsion.
What I want to do in cases like this
is add to his distaste by being absolutely
honest. “It’s the embryo of a bird fried
in animal fat, meat from the underbelly
of a rather dirty animal, and fungus.”
But what do I say in fact? “Sorry,
darling. I didn’t mean to break your
eggs again, but the ham and mushrooms
are nice.”
One day maybe one day not so
far away I shall get up the courage.
ANGELA WHITTINGHAM
Yulgilbar Renewed
By J. C. KAYE
THREE years ago Donald Friend
was invited to do paintings of
the ruins of Yulgilbar Castle,
which overlooks the Clarence River
about 55 miles north-west of Grafton,
N.S.W. On page 12 are some of the
paintings he did then, and they record
a scene now gone.
Last year, dangerous sections of the
ruins were pulled down. The top storey
was levelled off. Using the remaining
sturdy 3ft.-thick walls of the castle,
the inner paved courtyard and the
cloisters, Mrs. Baillieu Myer, who now
owns the castle and its 28,000-acre
cattle run in conjunction with her
three children, began to build a new
home.
The castle, begun in 1860 and com-
pleted six years later, had 40 rooms
in its 90ft. by 85ft. area, and one
tower was 50ft. high. The new home,
now ready for occupation, has a large
sitting-room, kitchen, and four bed-
rooms around the courtyard.
Apart from the levelling of the
upper storey, much of the striking
appearance of the castle has been
kept. The castle has ended, however,
as a place for tourists to visit. It is a
private home again.
Yulgilbar is pronounced Yu-gill-bar
with the accent on the first syllable.
As. with many native names, historians
disagree about its meaning. Some say it
means “place of little fishes” because
of the minnows in the Clarence. Others
say it means “place of platypuses.”
The man who built Yulgilbar Castle
was Edward David Stewart Ogilvie,
eldest son of Captain William Ogilvie,
of the Royal Navy, who settled in the
Merton district after a distinguished
career, which included service under
Nelson at Trafalgar.
Edward, and a younger brother,
Frederick, explored and pioneered the
Yulgilbar region, and in 1840 estab-
lished a vast property of 200,000 acres
there. When Frederick died in 1846,
Edward carried on alone.
In the early 1850 s, two events car-
ried Ogilvie to riches. The Crimean
War from 1853 to 1856 caused a
demand from England for wool and
tallow at high prices. And in 1854 gold
was discovered in the region.
In 1859 Ogilvie returned to Australia
from a visit to Europe, bringing with
him a bride, Theodosia de Burgh,
whose family were well established in
County Kildare.
He also brought with him a Scottish
carpenter, , ten German masons, and
plans for building an ancestral home on
the lines of Moorish castles he had seen
in Spain.
Contemporary records show the im-
mense effect that went into the build-
ing, along with £BOOO of Ogilvie money.
Statistics include 1000 tons of local free-
stone and more than 100,000 bricks.
Drays brought oyster shells 80 miles
from the mouth of the Clarence to be
pulverised for mixing in cement. The
main timber used was red cedar.
The Earl and Countess of Belmore
were among the guests at the brilliant
house-warming in 1866, and the place
became a centre of lavish hospitality
and entertainment. There is a story
that Ogilvie, a stickler for formality,
kept a wardrobe of dinner-suits to fit
out any guest who came unprovided.
Theodosia Ogilvie died in 1885,
survived by her husband and eight
daughters. In 1891, when he was 70,
Edward married again, but had no
more children. In 1896, he died after
a fall from a horse, and was
buried at Yulgilbar beside his brother.
The castle, built as an ancestral home,
remained with the family until 1932.
MRS. BAILLIEU MYER, until her
marriage to Mr. S. Baillieu Myer,
of Toorak, Melbourne, in 1955, was
Miss Sarah Hordern, only daughter of
Mr. Samuel Hordern, who died in 1960.
The wedding, at St. Mark’s, Darling
Point, Sydney, linked the two great
emporium business families of Austra-
lia.
She told me that her father acquired
Yulgilbar “about 20 years ago.” She
could not say when it was last lived
in, but it had been in ruins for some
time when she and her children
inherited the property on her father’s
death.
Vandals continued to do a great
deal of senseless damage, pulling down
the remaining fine pillars along the
front, and wrecking much else, using
chains and crowbars when their hands
failed them. Tourists kept calling and
asking to see the castle, but it became
too dangerous to let anyone enter it.
Now that the new house is virtually
completed, she and her family will be
spending as much time as possible
there, and ask to be left alone. Staff
live there permanently. She has written
widely to local papers, motoring
journals, and other publications point-
ing out that Yulgilbar is no longer a
place for public inspection.


We
mean
/ N
\r;
business
Good filing has been called
the backbone of good busi-
ness. Right or wrong, filing
can either speed up or choke
up a business day. Steelbilt
filing cabinets mean busi-
ness, good business. They’re
built for the action of to-
day, built tough to resist
wear, dust and fire, built
smart to match the efficient
look of the modern office. Pass
your filing problems over to your
Steelbilt representative. A phone
call will get action.
i^yj
Steelbilt filing cabinets are avail-
able in one to five drawer sizes,
flush fronts or bow handles, and
in a choice of matching or con-
trasting colours,
Consult Steelbilt
for a variety of filing
aids to accompany
your Steelbilt cabinets,
WB
*
WORMALD
BROTHERS
INDUSTRY
STEELBILT
FILING CABINETS
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • TOWNSVILLE • HOBART


4 ■
Ijh,
ms
mm
1 f
n
•v. , .
*
<■ '% jS^6| :i
1 f jpl
Is it worth
maturing
Mount Rufus
Tawny Port*
for 15 years?
We’re sure you’ll
agree it is...
Seppelt Mount
Rufus Tawny Port
is a smooth
mellow port... aged
in big wood at
Seppeltsfield in the
Barossa Valley.
Winner of a Diploma d’ Honneur at
the Montpellier Wine Fair in
France in 1965.
B. Seppelt & Sons Pty. Ltd.'
Adelaide • Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Perth
C 556
Paradox of Peter Cowan
By DON LIPSCOMBE
PETER COWAN, Western Austra-
lian short-story writer who recently
had his second novel published, is
a paradox. He is a frank and friendly
man but one who preaches a philosophy
that skirts the borders of despair. He
is an uncompromising writer, proudly
non-commercial, yet one who uses his
talent with the English language as a
dictionary-flipper in a commercial TV
quiz show. In one breath he says: “I
wonder if we can live as human beings
in the big urban communities that are
to come; it seems to me we will lose
what human qualities we now have”
. . . and in the next he says of writers
in just such a big urban community: “I
envy current Americans the freedom
they have to write and express. Aus-
tralians don’t have the sort of pressures
that drive Americans to write.”
Peter Cowan bewails the sense of
“destruction of the
whole natural land-
scape” and the
knocking - down of
beautiful old build-
ings. He does not
express this resent-
ment, because it
would make him a
pamphleteer, not
the kind of writer
he is; atid he does
not join organisa-
tions to protest at
such destruction,
because he does not
like organisations.
Yet last week he
was away from his
Perth home in Can-
berra at the Ameri-
can studies confer-
ence of the Austra-
lian and New Zea-
land American
Studies Association.
Even his home is
a paradox. It is
introverted, hiding a modest house be-
hind a high cluster of bush on an
arterial road in a prosaic suburb. Like
Peter Cowan’s description of his own
writing style, the furnishings are “de-
liberately spare”; but in some ways it
is luxurious. Two preliminary paintings
of the Kelly series by “my old friend
Sid Nolan” are tucked away among
other sombre paintings on the walls
that seem to have been fabricated with
books, and at the back of the standard
quarter-acre block (complete with
access way provided at the time for
old-fashioned pan lavatories) is a mag-
nificent aviary, housing beautiful, rare,
and near-extinct birds which the author
breeds.
How does all this fit together in
Peter Cowan? John Barnes, his collea-
gue at the University of Western Aus-
tralia’s English department, says Cowan
uses his writings as a vehicle for his
Peter Cowan
own vision of life . . . and this is “a
feeling of resentment at what man has
made of man, a lack of joy in human
experience.” Cowan admits this, or
more correctly he endorses it prag-
matically.
Yet there is some evidence that he
might yet change. Cowan, who is 50,
started writing about 1939 before join-
ing the RAAF, and in 1944 “Drift,”
his first book of short stories, was pub-
lished. “The Unploughed Land” fol-
lowed in 1958, and “The Empty Street”
last year. The stories are dominated
by difficulty of communication, frustra-
tion and denial in personal relation-
ships, and the alienation of man from
his environment in a context such as
Australia’s.
These short stories and his subsequent
two novels have been published, he
says, only through the kind hearts of a
rare species
understanding edi-
tors and publishers
—despite the works’
lack of popularity.
After having been
a teacher at Scotch
College, part-time
for many years at
the uni v e r sity,
Cowan became a
full - time member
of the university
staff. “Summer,”
written in 1963
with the help of a
Common wealth
Literary Fund fel-
lowship and pub-
lished in 1964,
attempts to break
away from the
short - story form
while staying with
the loneliness alien-
ation theme, as he
does in “Seed,” his
second novel deal-
ing mainly with the suburbs. “This is
more a novel than anything else I
have done yet,” he says.
The author, like his works, is filled
not by an Osborne-type anger at what
he sees but by a guileless sadness. “The
happy boys today are the applied
scientists and the businessmen. I see the
human lot as a fairly tough one.”
But at this stage he makes no pretence
at trying to change this. So his ability
to communicate is used to spread to a
limited audience the word as he sees it.
Peter Cowan is a tall, lean man,
with a high forehead, fair hair, and
small moustache. He is so disarming
that it takes some time in conversation
to acknowledge that, as an author, he
is utterly unbending in recording, in his
own way, the increasingly bitter, in-
creasingly little world he surveys, with
no effort to rose-tint the view or to
change the causes.


Christianity: In Church and Out
"This Chap Jesus I can Buy , But Not the Church"
By PATRICK TENNISON
GIVING Beatle John Lennon’s now
immortal out-of-context comment
the attention it scarcely deserves,
his contention that his group was now
more popular than Jesus, seems to have
been given as something of a lament
as well as a boast. What’s more, it is
surely a lament similar if not com-
pletely identical with those heard fre-
quently enough from pulpits all around
the world today. One of the most
popular pulpit themes for years now
has been the see-saw effect between the
upsurge in enthusiasm for Beatle-like
fads along with a decline in religious
interest and activity. True, it’s prob-
ably better coming from clerics rather
than stray Beatles.
To date, Australians haven’t begun
to smash or boycott Beatles’ records
at least, not publicly. Yet here, as else-
where, the continuing debate goes on
based fairly squarely on Lennon’s
premise. In published reports at least,
laments about decline in everything
from morals to church attendance are
the most regular cries heard in
churches. Many churches have had to
scrap some services particularly
Sunday-night ones admitting defeat
to TV or blaming, in winter at least,
the bad weather.
The still optimistic have accommo-
datingly moved Sunday-night services
up to the late afternoon. That redoubt-
able innovator, the Rev. J. P. Steven-
son, vicar of St. Silas’ Anglican
Church at Balwyn, Melbourne, is
making a last-ditch stand by produc-
ing as he puts it his evening
services as a “feature,” while keeping
morning ones “straight.” But he still
says that evening services, on the whole,
are on the way out.
There have been a few churches
prepared to get even more “with it”
in determined bids for patronage. Jazz
masses din sanctuaries. Pop groups and
singers like the Idlers Five and Judy
Jacques make “guest appearances.”
One recent innovation was an inter-
pretative dance group portraying an
Old Testament story at a service. Mini
skirts and slacks have been approved
by Sydney Methodist Dr. Alan Walker.
Melbourne clerics a few years ago
said they wouldn’t mind couples hold-
ing hands in church. Anything but
come. Are such the manifestations of
the churches moving with the times
or struggling, pathetically even, to
keep up with them?
Mr. Bill Noble, the energetic editor
of “Presbyterian Life,” showed me his
simple way of knowing that Presby-
terianism was suffering no decline: he
pulled out his Presbyterian Year Book.
It revealed that Australian Presby-
terianism had 145,158 communicant
members in 1961 and 154,904 in 1965
-—a decided increase not attributable
merely to migration, as perhaps Catho-
lic and Greek Orthodox figures would
be.
The numbers game is a bit of a
favorite, too, with the Dean of Mel-
bourne, the Very Rev. Tom Thomas.
He likes to point out that on winter
Sundays Melbourne churches attract
four times as many people as go to
football on winter Saturdays.
But another church worker believes:
“It is plain that many people just go
to church for social and family reasons.
Church-going families are usually the
‘safe’ families. They rarely have icono-
clasts or deep questioners and they all
get a nice, emotional lift out of it.
These are not the broad mass of Aus-
tralians. Numbers are an indication,
perhaps, but not any sort of proof.”
There have been times when religious
strength could have been truly and
unquestionably measured by church
attendance, but that centuries-long era
probably ended as recently as World
War 11. As most churchmen and non-
churchmen agree, our post-war world
has been considerably different in both
the attitudes of people to religion and
religion to people.
Apathetic by Nature
the strength of Chris-
tianity today is hard because it’s
trying to measure something new,”
the Rev. Neil Wilkinson, Methodist
Minister at Doveton, just outside Mel-
bourne, said. “Today all the trim-
mings are in decline. Assessments
must be qualitative’ not quantitative.
You have an Australian community
that is generally apathetic by nature.
You’ve got to get to them somehow.
It is being done, but some of the most
important ways of. doing it are new
yet.”
He, for one, believes he is getting
a good step nearer the people of
Doveton because since last month the
area’s Anglicans, Presbyterians, and
Methodists have begun worshipping in
one church instead of going to the
three that are there now.
Most of Doveton’s members of the
three denominations now gathering
under the one roof for worship are
happy—or, at least, haven’t mutinied
—about the new arrangement. But a
minority have said they’ll quit going
to church or will travel to neighboring
parishes. A few dissentients are even
switching to the Baptists, who aren’t
in the amalgamation scheme.
Neil Wilkinson isn’t deeply con-
cerned. He knows such radical moves
will take time for acceptance com-
pletely, and is convinced this is the
right way to take as he sees the needs
and demands on a practical Christi-
anity today. Similarly, he is confi-
dent that in time there will be fewer
Dovetonians tut-tutting every time they
see him going off to play golf with
Father Fitzpatrick, from the local
Catholic Church.
His are by no means the only pre-
vailing views among Methodists or
among Protestants today. There are
some, grouped loosely into what is
called the Liturgical Movement
within the churches who are urging
action against a lot of the increasing
secularism of this type a,mong their
confreres.
One of ther spokesmen is school
teacher-quiz champion Barry Jones,
who is very active as a Methodist lay
preacher:
“We feel there is still a strong need
in people for worship in a church
where there is some set liturgical form.
People want something like this they
can hang on to and which they can
also find in other churches wherever
they might go. This allows people to
identify more closely with their
church.”
Taking a different tack from Neil
Wilkinson on the setting-up of librar-
ies, clubs, and shops, the liturgicals
would prefer to have these as a by-
product of their church.
There are some changes, too, in the
ministerial operations of the Rev. Ray
Jones, Presbyterian Minister in Mel-
bourne’s suburban Nunawading:
“Differences between sacred and
secular have now gone. This puts the
world in a new light. All the world is
sacred and it is very secular. The
rise of secularism has given us free-
dom and, with it, responsibility. We
are discovering that responsibility
forces us to look to the basic principles
by which we live.”
The action behind his words comes
with a lessening in his conventional role
in his parish and increasing activity
in the Church and Life Movement
and his industrial chaplaincy duties
through the Interchurch Trade and
Industry Mission. These duties he sees
as being more fruitful than having a
well-membered ladies’ guild. He recalls:
“A chap I was talking to in a fac-
tory canteen told me, ‘This chap
Jesus I can buy, but the church I
can’t.’ It is in situations and places
like these where today’s Christianity is
working. The real reformation is hap-
pening. The church is realising it is
the one with the beam in its own eye.
It now recognises its inadequacies and,
though it doesn’t yet know how to solve
the problem, it’s suggesting ‘let’s work
together on it.’ True Christianity is a
question of motivation. And the moti-


vation that distinguishes the Christian
from the humanist is love.”
“In industrial work alone, it is com-
pletely false to say that Christianity is
in any sort of decline. Whenever I
talk to the men, I find them awake
and interested. There is relevance in
our talk that the church didn’t always
have. Now it is a church that they see
doing something. Suddenly it earths.
Christianity is no longer up in the
clouds.”
In this work he is more than a
preacher-counsellor. He is a consulted
adviser to both management and labor,
sometimes acting as mediator in their
disputes. As an ordained minister, he
believes both sides have a higher
regard for his impartial attitude than
they would for any other person filling
that role. Nor does he find his work
impeded in any way by the fact that
he is a Presbyterian or because of his
church’s traditional attitudes to
gambling and liquor.
Conservative armor newly alloyed
perhaps is still the basic fabric of
the Catholic church, despite the great
soul-searching and changes of form that
have been achieved within. “The church
is now practically unrecognisable from
pre-Vatican Council days,” says Mr.
John Ryan, chairman of the board of
the lay paper “Catholic Worker.”
“It is gradually working more among
the people now, getting right down into
the pews. Catholics are still largely con-
formists, but there’s a great feeling of
freedom abroad. More power for lay-
men is coming. They’ll be running
schools and diocesan synods will be set
up. We still have a lot to learn from
others in organisation and freedom.”
For Catholics, however, the churches
will still always be the dominant centre
of their life and worship. One Catholic
priest conservatism persists in that
they are still reluctant to be named with
their personal views explained it:
“You’ve got to have churches as sort
of garages where you go to get your
batteries charged regularly.”
Lack of Enterprise
welcomed relaxations
from some of the old authoritarian-
ism with: “It can be good and bad
together. It’s tidy and efficient. But I’ve
often been saddend at the lack of verve
and enterprise in Catholics in non-
church directions. They grew up in the
strict church and church-school atmos-
phere and it seems to have sapped a
lot of initiative from many of them.”
Relaxation of some of the old
authoritarianism could be expected, too,
to ease one of Catholicism’s persistent,
nagging headaches of recent years: the
shortage of clergy and religious.
But there are now new problems, as
John Ryan bluntly described them:
“We have all sorts of arrangements to
get people into church, but often we
don’t know what to do with them when
we get them there. We have to give
them something to build.
“For instance, I’d like to see more
attention paid to the greatest command-
ment. Have it really put up and
observed. I look forward to the day
when a group of people, seeing two men
helping a drunk up out of the gutter
no longer say, ‘There’s a couple of
Salvoes,’ but instead, ‘There’s a couple
of RCs.’ ”
Whether the deeds like this come or
not among all Christians, it is certain
that they are puting far less accent to-
day on the words that go with their
beliefs. Sermons and services every-
where have been shortened. There is
less accent generally on prayer, both
public and private. More people readily
admit, with diminishing feelings of guilt
and embarrassment, their difficulties in
praying. Some church men have even
quit praying in the old, accepted
sense, anyway.
One confided: “I work hard all day
and then come home and talk it all
over with my wife. To us, that is prayer.
We talk out all the problems. It’s
God’s work and we have God in mind
all the time.”
Less firm and lasting in their appeal
seem to have been injections of pop
music into church services even for
the young they seem to have mainly
fleeting and just curiosity value.
“It’s a mistake to try and fool young
people,” says the Rev. Leslie Hahn, an
Anglican minister who is Anglican and
Protestant chaplain at Monash Univer-
sity. “They know that things like jazz
are just a 20th century icing over the
medieval cake.
“If formal practices aren’t as popular
with young people, it doesn’t mean
God’s name means any less and that
they’re not struggling with their
problems. I find that students are
working in their own ways to find out
what life and humanity are all about.
And they .give the matter a lot of
serious thought. I find if you can live
through with them, you can show them
the way to a greater degree of religious
faith. They don’t like it if anyone
tries to trick them. They’re happy
when they discover just what you’re
trying to tell them and when they
realise what you’re like and say ‘You’re
just like one of us.’ ”
An area like his-—the university—he
knows is one of the vital spots in Chris-
tian development. He is working now
with the Christians, or otherwise, of
tomorrow.
“With all their affluence—their own
homes, cars, gadgets—people find
they’re still not completely content.
They look then for something above
material affluence. The only place
they can look then is where spiritual
affluence lies. Then they have an urge
to attain that, too.
“The world wars played their part
also. They affected today’s older
generations. But through them some-
thing vital is being passed on to the
younger generations: a radical re-look
at the world has come out of all the
sufferings in the wars. Remember, too,
so much modern Christianity has come
from German theologians who were
very close to all the suffering.
John Ryan, in professional life a uni-
versity man also —a senior lecturer in
mathematics at Melbourne University
—backed up this thinking:
“Here in Australia, moves to drop
the White Australia policy began in
earnest with students. It’s invigorating
to see among students an idealism that
hasn’t existed before. They’re deliber-
ately turning away from the systems of
greed in their parents’ generations.
They’re striving after the full pleasure
of living—in its broadest sense.”
Industrial chaplain Ray Jones gives
further endorsement: “The rise of tech-
nology is backing all this now, too.
Technology demands an educated
society. Eventually, with the growth of
automation, society will demand more
education in fields away from straight
education and leading to creative leis-
ure. This is where there will be more
thought and time given to Christianity.”
If the ground is today all so sud-
denly fertile, what was wrong in the
past? Who made the mistakes, and
how?
A Soldier’s Beliefs
opinion seems to be that rathet
than culpable mistakes, there
were a lot of incorrect directions
taken. Different eras produced different
outlooks on everything religion,
morality, politics, customs,' and even
fashions and observances. In the same
process, today’s again different era is
producing different and more hospit-
able Christian influence. In the past,
it is readily admitted by churchmen,
judgments were faulty, expediency was
too often exploited. But other eras
also lacked some of the important
advantages we have today: greater
experience, knowledge, historical in-
sight, opportunity, scientific achieve-
ments, wealth.
Then there came an unusual aspect
from an Army chaplain:
“It wasn’t until the Korean war
that the Army woke up fully to the
fact that a man is a better soldier if
he has a belief; in our phrasing, if
he’s a Christian. Order and authority
in the Army come from the top down.
It works and everyone sees it works,
right down to the private who is a
part of it, too. He knows he’s an
important part of the one big team,
the Army. Order of rank is important
in that world, but all ranks feel an
importance because each is given his
job and each knows he has to do it,
and it’s better for everyone all round.
Chaplains now get full co-operation
from the Army because the Army
realises chaplains are part of the sys-
tem, too. I’ve found that working with
soldiers, reconversions are comparatively
easy. To them, their lives are impor-
tant. They accept that with a serious-
ness. They want to listen and learn.
They want to know the full score and
all the reasons. They see there’s
reason and order in the church’s mes-
sage just as there is in the Army.
“Once you get a spirit like that
among the people in civilian life, in
the parish, reconversions can happen
in the same way there, too.”


La Bell'talia
SHORT STORY
Ry LEONARD RADIO
HIS full name was Giuseppe Pana-
riello. For the Italians on board
it was no problem; but for my-
self, used to the hard syllabic sounds
of English, it was quite a mouthful. So,
when he came down to the cabin on our
first night out from Melbourne to in-
troduce himself, and said with a flash-
ing smile that lit up his pale brown
face, “Don’t you trouble, Mister Lane
—you call me Joe,” I happily agreed.
Joe was Neapolitan. He had been
born in the poor quarter of the city,
up on the side of the hill where the
tourists never go. And though twenty
years at sea had taken him to both
North and South America, the East
and the remoter corners of the globe,
he had never been closer than twenty
five boat lengths to Naples’s own Capri
or Ischia.
Right from the start I liked Joe. He
was small —barely five feet three—with
bright brown eyes and a sunny cheer-
ful disposition. There was nothing re-
served or withheld in his nature
nothing crafty, either, like the Genoese.
“We are a happy people—we sing all
day,” he told me, turning out his palms
in a gesture of utter truthfulness. I
don’t even remember him actually
doing as he said; the ship’s regulations
were probably against singing, at least
on duty. But I know this much: his
morning “buon giorno,” invariably
cheerful no matter how rough the sea
beneath us, and accompanied always by
a golden smile, was a kind of music in
itself.
JOE was the Venetia’s senior cabin
steward. He had worked his way up
from the bottom literally, having gone
to sea at fifteen as a galley boy, and
spent his first five years working in the
kitchens. Now, as far as promotion was
concerned, he was at an end. The post
above him —chief steward —could be
filled only by a trained officer. Joe was
not that; and even if he had been, it
is doubtful whether his happy-go-lucky
temperament would have fitted for the
post of capo alloggi. “I better where
I am,” he would say. “I see no one, and
no one come to see me.” What he
meant —but he did not dare to say it —
was that he enjoyed having the cabins
on the upper deck under his charge,
and the prestige it gave him amongst
his fellow stewards. It also meant a
higher scale of tips; and when one’s
wages were barely 30 dollars a month,
tips were important.
Joe’s working day—and all days were
working days; there was never any
respite—was a long one. It began a
full hour before our breakfast gong was
rung, and he was still on call at 10
o’clock at night. His only break, apart
fi'om meals, was an hour in the after-
noon when he would take a quick
siesta in his cabin. The rest was a
busy, monotonous round of scrubbing,
polishing, making beds, and serving
meals to those in his charge who were
either too sick or too lazy to serve
themselves. All this usually took him
through to eight or eight-thirty; there-
after he was fairly free. Seated at a
table at the end of the corridor, off
which all the cabins ran, Joe would
pass the time writing letters to his wife
and son, or laboriously picking his way
through an English language magazine
or paper left for him. by a passenger.
Occasionally the stewardess —a dark-
haired, softly spoken woman in her
early thirties—would join him. On these
occasions he would unlock his cup-
board and bring out a pair of glasses.
For the remainder of the evening they
would sit over a single bottle of beer
apiece, quietly sipping the contents and
exchanging banalities in Italian under-
tones.
Compared to the other stewards, Joe’s
grasp of English was good. Five years
on the American run had taught him
its usefulness; and he was ever eager
to improve his command of it. “You
teach me more, Mister Lane,” he said
to me one night. “I teach you Italian
back.”
Willingly I agreed. The lessons be-
gan hopefully. We were both keen
to learn, and for the first few days
we made good progress. Gradually,
however, it became obvious that neither
of us had any teaching gifts. Bit by
bit the lessons dwindled into exchange
of polite formulae in Italian about the
time of day, the weather, and our
mutual state of health, followed by
broken conversations in English on ship
life, Italy, and any other subject that
came to hand.
Still, I used to enjoy these conver-
sations. They may not have taught me
much Italian; but they were an endless
source of anecdote. Joe was only too
eager to talk about his travels. He was
even happier discussing Italy. “You
must go see her,” he urged over and
over again. “She a poor country, but
a beautiful one. I love her. ’ Not for
a moment did I doubt him. His love
for home was written in his eyes, his
endlessly gesticulating hands, his every
word. With care and tenderness he
would take up my map of Italy and
trace on it the towns and places of
especial interest Roma, Milano,
Bologna, Firenze returning always to
his own beloved Napoli.
Nothing, it seemed, could daunt his
mood of cheerfulness—neither the long
hours and the monotonous chores they
brought with them, nor the steamy
tropic heat. When we crossed the
Equator, there was Joe on deck, bright-
eyed and laughing like a child as King
Neptune and his bedaubed retinue went
through their crude initiations. When
we reached the Red Sea and the cap-
tain gave an Arabian Nights ball—his
fourth ball in a fortnight—there was
Joe and Elvira, the stewardess, got up
for the passenger’s benefit to look like
an Arab sheik and his favorite courte-
san; a .more grinning sheik and a less
seductive lady of the harem you have
never seen. At Aden he helped us
bargain for some children’s toys. At Port
Said, Joe stood at the rail and amusedly
watched us stagger up the gangway be-
neath a load of cheap wicker baskets.
“Your wife, she plan to start a laun-
dry?” he said jokingly.
JT was a day or two later, in the
Mediterranean, that I became con-
scious of a change in Joe. He no longer
smiled or grinned; the laughter had
left his face. His manner remained
polite; but suddenly it was formal. For
some reason that I could not fathom,
the warmth had gone right out of it.
His moodiness increased the closer
we came to Italy. It was no longer “la
beiritalia.” “She is a poor country,”
he repeated several times. “Life, it is
not easy there.” Once he added in a
heavy voice, the tone of which I should
have immediately recognised: “Italy is
an unkind mother.”
At the time I took no notice of his
words. Why should I? It was a tran-
quil Sunday morning when we passed
through the Straits of Messina. The
fishermen were singing in their boats;
the church bells were ringing out across
the water. In the distance lay Mt.
Etna, snow-capped and serene. Naples,
our first Italian port of call, was a day
away; but already I was more than half
in love with the country.
In this intoxicated mood, Joe was
forgotten. We piled off the ship im-
mediately it berthed, hailed a carrozza
after checking the horse first (as the
guide book recommended) to see that
it had not been whipped or cruelly
treated, and set off for an hour’s jaunt
about the city along the promen-
ade, over cobbled back streets, up the.
steep hill behind the hill, and back
down again to the Teatro San Carlo
and the Castelnuovo. There we paid the


The "9 of Rabbits" —one of the earliest
known playing cards. Engraved in Cologne,
Germany, in approx. 1470 A.D.
The excellence of an age
The 15th Century gave the
world —playing cards. Priceless
examples of the earliest
known designs indicate the
high degree of craftsmanship
attained by those unknown
medieval engravers.
Their art, matched today by
the skilful blenders of an
excellence of our age . . .
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
NZL96/6.2
SUCARYL NEEDED HERE
When waistlines expand,
chances are Sucaryl no-calorie
sweeteners can help. In tea
or coffee alone, Sucaryl saves
at least 30 calories per cup
(add up how many you could save!).
And there's no saccharin taste.
To cut down calories,
sweeten with . . .
No-Calorie *l®
Sucaryl
BRAND
✓ \
VS
Natural-Tasting No-Calorie Sweeteners, from your chemist.
driver off, gave him 100 lire extra for
himself and a further hundred as
recommended for the horse (“per il
cavallo, signore,” I murmured in my
best phrasebook Italian), and took to
our feet.
It was almost dinner when we re-
turned to the ship. The pimps, the
prostitutes, and the professional beggars
were on their beats outside the wharf.
Out in the Bay the lights were coming
up on Ischia, and here and there on
the flanks of Mt. Vesuvius. It was pass-
ing through the lounge that I noticed
Joe. He was sitting quietly at a table
with a portly woman who, from pho-
tographs, I took to be his wife. On
the table before them were two empty
beer bottles.
Joe was still in his white steward’s
uniform. I wondered at that. Hadn’t
he said he was going home for the day?
Then why hadn’t he changed? It wasn’t
till later that evening, with Naples
behind us and the lights of Capri fading
into the distance, that I gleaned the
truth.
JOE hadn’t gone ashore; he had been
unable to. For all but two hours he
had been on duty unloading bag-
gage, guarding the cabins, helping to
take on stores. Naples was for him a
chimera only a vision glimpsed from
the lounge windows once every trip and
then just as quickly lost again.
“You are lucky, Mister Lane,” he
confided that night, seated at his lonely
table in the corridor. “You have your
wife with you. Where you go, she
go. Not me. Two hours—that is all
for three trips, and then ten days holi-
days. It is not good for any man
or woman.”
Then why put up with it? I asked
naively. A weak smile crossed his
brown face. “In Naples, Mister Lane,
there are a million men ready to take
my job tomorrow. I have not my
wife, but at least we do not starve.”
It was then, belatedly, that I saw
it all—the poverty, the hardness, the
unfairness of it. “Italy, she is a poor
country. Life is not easy there,” and
“Italy is an unkind mother.” Llis
words came back to me and stung me.
Next day Joe was more himself
again. The moodiness had left him;
his face had begun to shine again.
Once I even heard him, singing quietly.
Naples was a couple of hundred miles
behind him now —too far to touch him,
too remote to feel its tug. He could
no longer see his home town; and be-
cause he couldn’t, he was free to dream
again, to don his rose-colored spec-
tacles. “Next stop, England,” he said
to me that night. “I do not like her.
She is too cold, too damp. The rain,
it never stops- Not like in la bell’ltalia.
There it is sunny always.”
I glanced down at the table. On
it was a Writing pad. Joe was half-
way through a letter to his wife. I
quickly translated the first few lines;
they confirmed my expectations. “My
dearest,” Joe had written, “It is only
eight weeks and six days till we meet
again. How much I look forward to
that day . .


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
A Question of Survival
By PATRICIA ROLFE
MR. JOHN McCALLUM, accord-
i ing to an acute, if slightly wasp-
ish, fellow-theatrical, played the
greatest role of his acting career as
joint managing director of J. C. Wil-
liamson’s with Sir Frank Tait for four
years. He looked right, moved in the
right circles, was even married to the
right wife. Regrettably, this is a role
which is, since the death of Sir Frank
12 months ago, no longer available.
And Williamson’s, which is so dedi-
cated both to long runs and to the
prolonged retention of aged staff, gave
Mr. McCallum very little time to fit
himself into the sole starring role of
managing director. Mr. McCallum has
resigned, “parting amicably” and it
is believed not unprofitably with
Williamson’s, “after,” he says, “a dis-
agreement with the board about policy."
The area of disagreement, he admitted,
included the venture into films with
“They’re a Weird Mob.” Mr. McCal-
lum, according to reports, still has
enough faith in films to have last week
bought out the Williamson’s share of
the Powell-Williamson film enterprise.
It is hard to see immediately why
Mr. McCallum should be judged to
have performed so badly. In fact, Wil-
liamson’s has in a sense been embar-
rassed by his successes, the musicals
“Funny Girl” and the revived “Oliver!”
“Funny Girl” was taken off in Sydney
while still doing good business to
accommodate “Oliver!” which was
taken off in Melbourne w'hile doing
capacity business.
Twelve months ago, when Mr. Mc-
Callum took over as managing director,
he told THE BULLETIN that “nothing
will be changed,” a statement which
may to the more alert members of the
staff have seemed something short of
inspirational. However, he then pro-
ceeded to make what were, for Wil-
liamson’s, some fairly radical changes.
One was the idea, not entirely new
when you think of Gladys Moncrieff
and Cyril Ritchard and Madge Elliott,
that major musicals can be cast here
and still be box-office successes, as well
as being cheaper, although Williamson’s
fees to anyone, foreign or home-grown,
do not tend to be spectacular. This
policy paid off with “Funny Girl,”
although “The Boys From Syracuse”
proved a more doubtful proposition.
Still, this was not a notably expensive
production and was a routine solution
to the first and major problem which
any head of Williamson’s faces keep-
ing the theatres it owns or leases across
the continent open as much as possible.
However, Mr. McCallum moved in
two other directions. One was to put
some of Williamson’s money into
“They’re a Weird Mob,” and his
board’s misgivings here are shared by
many people. The other was to star his
wife, the English actress Miss Googie
Withers, in an Australian play, “Desire
of the Moth.”
Mr. McCallum’s decision to stage
“Desire of the Moth” coincided with a
revival cf sympathetic interest in Aus-
tralian playwriting in several quarters,
although full-scale commercial produc-
tion is not the sort of encouragement
that a new playwright often benefits
from. However misguided “Desire of
the Moth” may have been theatrically,
a play with half a dozen cha r acters
cannot represent a major loss to a firm
conditioned to the upswing of a “My
Fair Lady” and the downturn of a
John McCallum
Williamson-Sutherland opera season.
But the decision to stage the play, to
star Miss Withers in it, and to fix her
conditions of appearance, seems to have
been taken without much notice being
given to the firm’s directors.
The effective directors in a matter
like this were probably the three New
Zealanders, who include the chairman
of the board, Mr. A. W. Duncan. Tarag
Pty. Ltd., an offshoot of a large New
Zealand chain-store group, owns
376,000 of the 750,000 $2 shares which
make up the capital of Williamson’s.
The other large shareholding is the
Tait family’s.
J. C. Williamson’s, in spite of its
accumulation of problems, is still a
wealthy company, and in spite of
lamentations there is still money to be
made in live theatre. Perth entrepreneur
Eric Edgley recently estimated that in
five years Williamson’s had made
$338,000, exclusive of theatre rentals,
as their share of Russian attractions
brought to this country by Edgley and
with their sole contribution underwrit-
ing part of the venture.
There seems a rather nice irony in
the probability that Williamson’s board
did not know the legacy of skeletons
in cupboards and dust under carpets
which Sir Frank Tait had left Mr. Mc-
Callum until it entertained a takeover
offer from the company which owns
TCN Channel 9 television station in
Sydney earlier this year. Then for the
first time in many years, it seems, the
board took a close look at the firm’s
total operation.
Part of Sir Frank’s legacy was his
refusal to establish long-term arrange-
ments to give the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust access to his theatres for a part of
each year. Sir Frank opposed subsidised
theatre, perhaps on principle. Perhaps
he was merely impatient with the
antics and attitudes of the Trust. How-
ever, Williamson’s maintenance of a
traditional aloofness from other man-
agements meant that in recent years
some of the six theatres it controlled
in Australia two in Melbourne, two
in Sydney, one in Brisbane, and one
in Adelaide were dark for three or
four months of the year. Two of the
three New Zealand theatres were dark
for more than half the year.
Williamson’s also maintains again
it seems almost a tradition an atti-
tude of indifference to the public, both
at the box-office and in general comfort
within the theatre. If Williamson’s has
a legacy of problems, further ones loom.
The lease on the Theatre Royal, Syd-
ney, held by the estate of Gustavo
Ramaciotti, expires within a year or
two, as does that of Her Majesty’s,
Brisbane, recently turned over for a
time and not entirely successfully to
films.
If the board was able to decide within
12 months that it did not have another
Sir Frank Tait in Mr. McCallum, the
logical thing might have been to look
for one. However, the board’s decision
—to be confirmed at a meeting later
this month has been to appoint Mr.
Charles Doming and Mr. John McFar-
lane as joint managing directors. Mr.
Doming, who came to this country
originally to play in the musical “Song
of Norway” and who was later busi-
ness manager of the Sydney Tivoli, has
been Williamson’s representative in
London. Mr. McFarlane, a retired Mel-
bourne manufacturer with a background
in amateur entertainment, was ap-
pointed executive director of William-
son’s on July 1. Mr. McCallum was
instructed to show Mr. McFarlane the
ropes, a task which Mr. McCallum did
not see as part of the normal duties of
a managing director.
There is also the firm’s capable
general manager, Mr. Harry Strachan,
who may understandably be wondering
where he stands in all this.
If the board had lost confidence in
Mr. McCallum, it is hard to see why it
is prepared to put that confidence in
a consortium. It may only be interested
to see who is the survivor of the
struggle. The survivor, however, may
not be J. C. Wiliamson’s.


FILMS
Box of Tricks
Morgan!: A suitable Case for Treat-
ment. Director, Karel Reisz.
IT seemed only fair to see “Morgan”
professionally screened, after see-
ing it through a glass darkly dur-
ing the N.S.W. Film Festival; but
though it looked and sounded clearer,
I found it no more likeable. At the risk
indeed with the certainty of be-
ing branded an old fogy, I admit that
this story of a man’s growing derange-
ment and alienation from the world
seemed to me to demand something
more than Karel Reisz’ affected treat-
ment, full of high-camp jocularity,
gimmickry, and slapstick.
Although the film almost busts a
gut being up-to-the-minute, it seemed
to be curiously dated, with its impli-
cation that the violent, destructive non-
conformist is automatically superior to
the poor boobs who order their lives
sensibly, keep their houses and clothes
clean, and even do regular jobs. I
thought this notion went out of date
with “You Can’t Take It With You.”
The film is based on a television
play, and in this form might have
been acceptable as a character study.
But in the wider scope of the film
the thinness of the dramatic develop-
ment is sadly obvious.
Morgan is a would-be painter from
a working-class background married to
a rich wife. (How did they meet in the
first place? This is the sort of question
that the movie raises and never
answers.) Desperate when she divorces
him, he takes refuge in a fantasy world,
tries to disrupt her remarriage plans
by wiring the house for sound, putting
a bomb under her bed and bursting
into her wedding reception dressed in a
gorilla suit. Morgan, with vague recol-
lections of his Communist father’s be-
liefs, resents and despises his wife’s
money while being quite willing to
live on it; he dreams wistfully and
inaccurately of animals, which he
finds “good” in a way human beings
never are.
In the few scenes in which Reisz
lets him treat the subject with the
seriousness it deserves, David Warner
proves himself to be a considerable
actor, giving us a frightening look at
the fear and insecurity of the man who
sees reality slipping from his grasp.
Ilut he can never make Morgan’s charm
(essential to the story) anything but
resistable; the character, sad as it is,
is that of a destructive child.
But Reisz can never let Warner
alone, so occupied is he in incorporating
every directorial trick from the New
Wave on. Action is speeded, slowed,
frozen; homage is paid to Godard,
Resnais, to “Billy Liar” and “The Goon
Show”; realism and fantasy alternate
uneasily.
With all these different elements in
his film, Reisz is bound to hit the jack-
pot occasionally and there are some
funny and touching moments; the per-
formances (especially those of Vanessa
Redgrave and Irene Handl) are first-
class. But I ended with a feeling of
uneasy distaste, with the impression that
I had been offered a man’s insanity and
misery as a subject for laughter, as in
the days when a visit to Bedlam was
accounted an afternoon’s merry diver-
sion.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
MUSIC
Dorati Territory
Israel Philharmonic Orchestra. Con-
ductor, Antal Dorati; Soloist, Zvi Zeit-
lin. Sydney Town Hall.
ANTAL DORATI is a conductor
who obviously enjoys his work.
With Bartok and Stravinsky now
firmly established in the international
repertoire, he has withdrawn from the
strenuous field of musical campaigning,
content in the knowledge that his
single-minded pioneering during the
’thirties and ’forties had borne lasting
fruit. Nevertheless, for understandably
sentimental reasons, he rarely directs a
program which does not include a work
by either of the two twentieth-century
masters he so ably championed. The
second half of the final concert given
by the Israel Philharmonic was
devoted to Stravinsky, and Bartok’s
boisterous suite from “The Miraculous
Mandarin” formed the undoubted
high point of Dorati’s only other Syd-
ney appearance with the orchestra.
Most refreshing in the final program
was Zvi Zeitlin in the solo role of
Stravinsky’s Violin Concerto in D. A
resident of Israel only in childhood,
Zeitlin has been appearing as a soloist
in the United States and Europe for
the past 15 years. His approach to
the Stravinsky concerto represented a
successful compromise between the
fully virtuoso elements of the outer
movements and the more reserved
concern for detail by the
tight, classical construction of the work
as a whole. Zeitlin played with
accuracy and strength, displaying in
his choice of dynamic and phrasing
that awareness of precise control which
is the life blood of the neo-classical
style.
The same could, unfortunately, not
be said for the orchestra. Dorati was
under continual pressure to keep the
accompaniment in approximate cor-
respondence with Zeitlin. It was
strangely comforting to find that the
Sydney Symphony is not the only
orchestra that loves to gallop away
from the soloist at every available
tutti.
In the suite from “The Firebird,”
however, the Israel Philharmonic pro-
duced a rich and savage sound of
overpowering intensity. Truly on home
ground now, Dorati distilled from the
work an impression of sheer animal
excitement.
The Brahms No. 4 in E Minor
abounds with the long themes and sus-
tained mournfulness which characterise
so much of his music. Dorati enjoyed
this opportunity for heavy romanticism,
making everything broad and lush,
mellow and warm, and just slightly
schmaltzy.
DAVID SALTER
THEATRE
Power Struggle
The Cell. Robert Wales. St. Martin’s
Theatre, Melbourne.
THE State school I attended as a
child was just a stone’s throw
away from the Catholic school,
so at playtimes we used to throw stones
at each other. This has been my only
real contact with Catholicism, so I
have no way of knowing how true a
picture “The Cell” presents of convent
life.
The proceedings get off to a lively
start with a power struggle in a pre-
sumably Australian convent, where the
Sisters are engaged in looking after
delinquent girls. The crisis comes when
the new Mother Superior orders Sister
Leonora to destroy the bird’s nest she’s
been secretly nurturing in her room.
Sister Catherine intervenes, and as a
result is demoted from supervising the
delinquents to catering duties. Over-
whelmed by the injustice of it all
she felt the Superior’s job was rightly
hers Sister Catherine goes a tiny
bit strange and dreams of poisoning
Mother’s supper. And it so happens
that Mother dies suddenly at table, just
as Sister Catherine can be seen
throttling Sister Leonora’s bird. Sinister
Sister Matthew suspects murder, and
tells all to Father Morris, but while
a subsequent investigation shows that
Sister Catherine is innocent of the deed,
she admits to being guilty of the
thought. Mother Superior, it seems,
died of a heart attack, but Sister
Catherine knows she must condemn
herself.
The plot has rich potential for the
sort of analysis that C. P. Snow
tackled in “The Masters,” for theology
notwithstanding, the ambitions and
strategies Wales observes in the Con-
vent don’t differ much from those
found in the Academy or Corporation.
But the characters are not developed
to any extent, and the play remains
more a thriller than a psychological
study. Yet Wales clearly has a real
sense of theatre. “The Cell” is well
constructed, and its dialogue clear and
strong.
Irene Mitchell’s production reminds
us how well off we are for mature
actresses. Patricia Kennedy takes the
powerfully authoritarian Mother
Superior and hints at an underlying
humanity. Alternately tranquil and


hysterical, Pauline Charleston tries hard
to make the schizoid Sister Catherine
credible, Sheila Florance plays the
child-minded Sister Leonora with sen-
sitivity, and Moira Carleton, Kay
Symonds, and Margaret Reid also
contribute good performances.
Paul Kathner’s blue-stone set is
appropriately chilling, but the sight-
lines were very clumsy.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Happy Marriage
The Death of Bessie Smith. Albee. En-
circle Company at the Wayside
Chapel, Sydney.
The Night of the Ding-Dong. Ralph
Peterson. South Australian Theatre
Company at the Old Tote.
A Far Country. Henry Denker. Inde-
pendent.
Barbara. Mona Brand. New.
GOOD plays that are well done are
the life 'blood of a healthy
theatre. But the happy marriage
of dramatic and theatrical art is all too
rare in our theatre. So often we have to
make do with good plays badly done,
bad plays well done, or mediocre plays
in mediocre productions.
It is a pleasure to be able to say that
the new Encircle Company’s presenta-
tion of Albee’s early play under the
direction of Fred Sims at the tiny Way-
side Chapel Theatre is a good produc-
tion of an exciting play. This powerfully
written study of racial intolerance in
the Deep South is much closer to the
compelling drama of “Who’s Afraid?”
than to the obscurities of “Tiny Alice.”
I heard someone say that the produc-
tion deserves a better theatre, but the
off-beat, experimental atmosphere of
the Wayside Chapel Theatre does suit
Albee’s harsh and passionate treatment
of his theme. This is the kind of play
that can rescue the theatre from stuffi-
ness, unimaginative realism, and cliche.
Max Cullen, as the negro who is
travelling with the famous singer, and
Carmel Koerber, as the beautiful and
ruthless nurse, both give strong per-
formances.
That a stylish production can bring
out the merits of a play most remark-
ably is proved to me by John Tasker’s
presentation of Ralph Peterson’s farcical
period comedy set in Adelaide. A weak
amateur production of this play which
I saw some years ago made it seem
merely tedious. But this time the drama-
tist has the benefit of John Tasker’s
lively direction, some very accom-
plished acting by Dennis Olsen as the
radical young schoolteacher, Ron
Graham as the incompetent Colonel
Beauchamp, Meta McCaffrey as the
sensible and witty grandmother, Jenni-
’ fer Hagan as an adoring girlfriend, and
Gordon McDougali as a Dickensian
builder, and also an elegant set by
Gordon French.
Apart from a sagging in the second act,
where much noise and rushing about
fails to cover up a lack of plot develop-
ment, this is a pleasant farce. As a
political allegory I find it less compel-
ling. When a Russian gunboat appears
in the Bight in 1870 the young radical
puts forward some strangely familiar
arguments of the isolationist, “it can’t
happen here” variety, for ignoring it
completely. In the event nothing hap-
pens, which is fortunate, since the Army,
represented by Colonel Beauchamp, is
totally incompetent; business, repre-
sented by Kelp the builder, is totally
corrupt; and the only intelligent section
of the community, represented by the
schoolteacher, is totally untrained.
“A Far Country” is a mediocre play,
about the life of Freud, which appeared
to offer no real opportunities to the
actors. To anyone interested in psy-
chology, Freud’s accounts of his early
investigations into the nature of hysteria
and repression are as exciting as a
thriller. But, extraordinarily, Henry
Denker manages to make them quite
undramatic.
The trouble is that he tries to inter-
weave the story of Freud’s investiga-
tions of a case of hysterical illness in a
young woman with the story of Freud's
own family relationships. But while
Freud’s work was full of drama his
family life was not.
Mona Brand’s play “Barbara,” set
in a lower-middle-class household in a
Sydney suburb, is also concerned with
family relationships. It is a kind of
modern Cinderella story. Whereas the
beautiful Cinderella’s stepmother made
her slave in the kitchen instead of going
to parties like her ugly sisters, the plain
Barbara’s mother makes her slave at
the university instead of going to
parties, like her pretty sister. This Cin-
derella rebels, too, but her Prince
Charming is a married man.
If the university is not better than
the cinders, if modern Prince Charm-
ings are married men, modern mothers
no better than wicked stepmothers [see
Freud), and there are no Fairy God-
mothers or magic pumpkins, then pro-
gress is an illusion after all. Mona
Brand’s social realism seems accurate
but unilluminating, unlike the imagina-
tive realism of Albee. Perhaps she
should try a fairy tale, like Brecht.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
RECORDS
Spoilt Brat
Turandot (Puccini), Birgit Nilsson,
Franco Corelli, Renata Scotto, Rome
Opera Chorus & Orchestra, conducted
by Francesco Molinari-Pradelli. Angel
SAN 159/61.
La Vida Breve (Falla), Victoria de los
Angeles, Carlos Cossutta, etc. National
Orchestra of Spain, conducted by
Rafael Fruehbeck de Burgos. (Last
side: Tonadillas by Granados, sung by
de los Angeles). Angel SAN 157/8.
EVERY time I Wince while listening
to Franco Corelli mutilating shme
aria, song, or even hymn on one
of his record recitals I have trouble
in remembering that this is the same
singer who appears, continually improv-
ing, in complete opera recordings. Cor-
elli has all the makings of a spoilt-brat
box-office idol: good looks, a fine figure,
and a magnificent tenor voice. Left to
his own devices he fits the picture, yet
in an ensemble his faults diminish
almost to vanishing point. I can only
conclude that he is intelligent enough to
accept production from people who
know better, and my advice is, there-
fore, to ignore all extracts from operas
by this singer when considering the pur-
chase of a complete opera in which he
appears.
The new “Turandot” is the latest
case in point. Corelli’s contribution
ranks high indeed; faults are few and
far outweighed by superb control of a
truly magnificent voice which seems
made for the part. > While he never
goes below mezzo, forte, one never has
the feeling of continuous belting. On
this showing alone, Corelli must indeed
be rated among the great voices of the
century.
Birgit Nilsson sings the title role for
the second time and eclipses her earlier
effort. Cold the voice is, yes, but one
who is “enclosed in ice” (see libretto)
does not melt easily, and the final union
with the Unknown Prince, Splendidly
realised by Alfano after Puccini’s death,
is on a plane other than human warmth.
Renata Scotto has lost the steely edge
we know from earlier recordings and
makes a touching and beautifully sung
Liu. If she can control the minor
evidences of an incipient Cal las wobble,
she may yet emerge belatedly as a
major singer.
After the ebullience of “Turandot,”
“La Vida Breve” is like a blissful walk
through Elysian fields. Falla, his opera,
his plot, and his characters are all
Spanish in the truest sense of the word.
Yet they are, with the exception of
the brilliant dances, far removed from
the passionate and violent made-in-
France Spain of grand opera. Salud,
the opera’s heroine, may be thp typical
operatic figure of betrayed womanhood,
but instead of flying into melodramatic
passion she obtains her revenge by drop-
ping dead at her lover’s feet. Serve
him right! On paper her fate is ludi-
crous. In the hands of Falla and his
almost perfect interpreters in this set it
cannot fail to touch anyone without a
heart of stone. In the hands of Vic-
toria de los Angeles Salud’s death be-
co,mes inevitable and understandable.
Great credit for the success of this
recording must go to the conductor,
Rafael Fruehbeck de Burgos, who is
rapidly carving a very important plac&
indeed for himself in international
music. He is helped no end by the
brilliant, if subdued, recording effects
which are so very close to the impres-
sionistic aspects of the music. It is a
crime that the recording engineers of
these sets should remain anonymous
while minor singers receive full billing.
It should also be noted that the latter,
no matter how relatively unimportant,
are in this case immensely better than
any Spanish singers I have heard in
recent recordings made in that country.
JOHN CARGHER


BOOKS
The Light in the Piazza
By LEONIE KRAMER
The Evening of the Holiday. Shirley
Hazzard. Macmillan. $2.75.
THERE are many admirable
qualities in this first novel. The
American reviewers, , who are
liberally quoted on the dust-cover, have
rightly drawn attention to its lack of
sensationalism, and to the delicacy and
discretion of its writing. It is certainly
a refreshing change from the over-
explicitness and unnecessary amplifica-
tion of many modern novels.
Its subject is love, explored through
the brief affair of an Italian, Tancredi,
and a part-Italian, part-English girl
Sophie. They meet at the height of
an Italian summer in a town which is
preparing for its annual celebration of
a famous battle. Their courtship is
marked by Tancredi’s patience, and
Sophie’s alternating encouragement,
passive acceptance, and reluctance. They
become lovers. They part (Sophie here
takes the initiative) in the autumn.
Their affair develops in the presence
of Sophie’s aunt Luisa, whose death
brings Sophie back to Italy in the
winter just too late to attend her
funeral. The seasons mark the flowering
of love and the process of decay, the
surrender to passion, and the sacrifice
of it. If one is left with any single
sensation after closing the Book, it is
of opportunities missed, both in life
and death, of the inconclusiveness of
human actions, of the suspension of pos-
sibilities. Love is sacrificed, death is
unimpressive, human relationships are
incomplete. There is a pervasive sense
of anti-climax, summarised in the last
paragraph in the words “the song never
reached its conclusion.”
At its best, Miss Hazzard’s writing
is sharp, lucid, and economical. This
is a short novel, but it is packed with
effects and that word is not used
pejoratively. A nice balance is sus-
tained between the external world of
Italy, manifested in its towns, streets,
cafes, and festival, and the inner world
of feelings and personal relationships.
The Italian town of the festival is
solidly present. One can feel the life
in its streets, see the hot light of its
piazza, and breathe the refreshing gloom
of its cathedral. In the same way the
Italian landscape is evoked, seen often
through the windscreen of Tancredi’s
car, as he and Sophie explore the
countryside, or measure the passing of
their golden days by its changing
features. At the same time, Miss Haz-
zard convincingly records the inner
world of her lovers, though Sophie’s is
given more emphasis, and fuller treat-
ment. Through them both, the sheer
perverseness of human nature is con-
vincingly displayed. Through her pro-
longation of the courtship Sophie
denies herself what she most wants,
and indeed knows, to be inevitable.
When Tancredi beings to wish her
attachment less strong, Sophie fills him
with despair by breaking it deliberately
and with anguish to herself. Their
happiness is recorded by a series of
simple gestures, such as the contented
irrelevance of their conversation. Their
parting is a persuasive and eloquent
description of silence.
Some scenes in the novel are likely
to remain for a long time in the
memory. Sophie’s agreement to meet
and go away with Tancredi is almost
foiled by the festival in which she
becomes trapped, and from which she
escapes by a nightmarish dash through
the darkened cathedral. As lovers, she
and Tancredi visit his farm, with its
Shirley Hazzard
Shirley Hazzard was born and edu-
cated in Sydney. After the war she
went with her family to Asia and has
since lived in New Zealand, Europe,
and the United States. She was with the
United Nations in New York for ten
years, resigning in 1962 to concentrate
on writing. A book of her “New
Yorker” short stories, “Cliffs of Fall,”
was published in 1963.
monastic ruins housing the remains of
an ancient fresco. In itself this is a
beautifully evocative piece of writing.
And there are smaller moments
throughout the novel which could
hardly have been better recorded.
This being so, to say “and yet” of a
first novel which does so many things
so well, is to sound impossibly hard
to please. And yet “The Evening of
the Holiday” does not quite satisfy. This
is certainly not because it is basically
concerned with anti-climax. The dis-
satisfaction I feel is not with the con-
clusion that human actions are doomed
to incompleteness—the opposite con.
elusion might well appear naive—but
with the steps by which the conclusion
is reached. This is not a matter of
ordinary logic, but rather of the design
and placing of certain incidents. One
point of weakness is the festival which
provides the title of the novel. One can
accept in a general way its relevance
to the air of holiday (and hence of
brevity and • transience) which is an
essential part of the love affair. One
can accept also the fact that the festi-
val puts Sophie, isolated in the midst
of mass gaiety, in the mood to accept
Tancredi as a lover.
Yet, in spite of these links, and in
spite of the care with which Miss
Hazzard describes the festival, it re-
mains somehow on the edge of the
novel, in marked contrast to, for ex-
ample, the description of divine muddle
in the “Temple” section of “A Passage
to India.” The same criticism is more
demonstrably true of the visit of Sophie
and Tancredi to Tancredi’s peasant
farmers. It is one of the best episodes
in the book, as an episode. The descrip-
tion of Sophie mounting a ladder to
look at the decaying fresco, and finding
herself face to face with the Madonna
“eye to non-existent eye” whose “pallid,
erased face, slightly larger than her
own, had less the look of decay than
of some utter forgetfulness” is startling.
Again, as in the festival section, one can
see its referential relevance to at least
one of the themes of the novel. Yet
it remains essentially an isolated epi-
sode, beautifully described, striving for
significance in the whole pattern of the
novel, and not quite finding it.
There are other examples of frag-
mentation. one should cite. I am in-
clined to think that the portrait of
Luisa, and most particularly the rather
protracted description of her illness and
death, might be the most significant.
These examples lead me to suggest that
perhaps the art of the short-story writer,
in which Miss Hazzard is adept, has not
quite turned into the art of the novelist.
Several of the important scenes in “The
Evening of the Holiday” can and do
stand independently. They lack that
intimate interdependence essential to
a novel. Reading them, one might
be reading self-contained short stories.
Perhaps this is why every now and
then one stumbles over a passage of
prose which is clotted statement, and
which clashes with the otherwise clear
tone of the writing. A passage such as
this is in marked contrast to Miss Haz-
zard’s usually pointed revelations of
mood and feeling: “The astonishment
Tancredi felt at being thus relieved in
an instant of any necessity to describe
their position had nothing to do with a
sense of deliverance for by demol-
ishing his belief in her unawareness of
their dilemma she automatically
brought into focus the dilemma itself,.
and he was faced not with discussion
of the thing but with the thing itself.”
In the last analysis, for me “The Even-


ing of the Holiday” resolves itself into
a number of brilliant, vivid scenes and
passages which do not quite satisfact-
orily cohere. ...
It is not, as some critics have claimed,
that the “compass of the scene is small,”
or that the novel is made out of “un-
likely material.” The first claim is true,
but unimportant; the second is not even
true. It is just that Miss Hazzard, for
all her undoubted skill and imagination,
has not managed to weld the materials
of the novel, that the whole adds up
to more than the sum of its parts. But
this should not be the final statement
of a review of “The Evening of the
Holiday.” For here much is achieved,
and much more, I would hope, pro-
mised.
Delinquents
By NANCY KEESING
Seed. Peter Cowan. Angus and Robert-
son. $3.25.
SEVERAL of Peter Cowan’s more
recent short stories have been of
novella length as if, perhaps, he
has been growing toward this novel. To
emphasise further the essentially or-
ganic nature of Cowan’s literary de-
velopment at least one of the episodes
in “Seed” moves on the periphery of
an earlier story.
As with his short stories, Cowan mutes
the tone of this novel, one feels, de-
liberately. A result of this lowered tone
is that, although the prose style is plain
and bare of obscurity or elaboration,
the book is not easy to read. A person
who speaks with a very soft, even voice
and who uses no physical gestures is
often hard to hear; similarly Cowan’s
prose makes great demands on a
reader’s inward ear and attention.
Although the school-age characters use
some slang, the overall effect of the
dialogue is of numbers of people all
speaking in the same way and, although
people and places are often fully de-
scribed, excitement is never allowed to
disturb the even pattern of the whole.
This is not to say that Cowan himself
is unexcited. For instance, he loathes
“developers” whether they speculate in
near-city land or mid-city “improve-
ments.” Characters and episodes in this
novel are well used to make its author’s
opinions of these matters perfectly plain.
He also dislikes a certain type of ad-
ministrator (the headmaster, Henry
Highly in this book), and the sections
where Highly occupies the dais or plays
God from his study come closer than
any other parts of the novel to real
emphasis.
Despite its difficulties the book is
well worth the effort of reading. Its
central theme concerns some of the
confusions and delinquencies of present-
day adolescents. The group concerned
all come from middle-class families
living in a “good” Perth suburb, but
with minor local variations (like the
Sydney North Shore fashion for gate-
Men of the Inland
The book is open, frail leaves fall apart.
Maps spidered with thin contours fill my days;
Explorer in the deserts of the heart
I see those others thrusting through the blaze,
Farewelled by fluttering kerchiefs: horse and cart,
Sad loping camel, dog with dusty snout.
Five shadow-men who cast no shadow down,
Their eyes like salt-holes left by vanished seas.
Upon each forehead clusters a thorn-crown;
I celebrate them in their madnesses,
Those who beyond the palm-fringed shoreline found
No healing beauty, but a festering wound.
On, on they went into a hole of heat;
Funnel of shimmering sand that stretched forever;
Shirts stripped from aching shoulders, and a sweet
Harsh call tugging their loins. They sought a river
That curved with grey-green tentacles along
Lion-coated banks, quenching their pain with song.
Until at last they found a rippling spring,
Breaking from arm-thick roots, pouring like rain
On those parched hopes their minds were nourishing.
A second, love and life leaped in the brain.
But then they saw the cracked and parchment faces;
Two carrion dogs; the wheeled ribs of horses.
Shielding their eyes, they peered into the light:
Still golden, glittering with promise of new worlds.
But all they saw was one vast sheet of white
On which the fallen angels had been hurled.
An arm stuck up, stripped of its stiffening rags;
A bird fluttered its feeble wings like flags.
A rusted truck, eaten by teeth of salt;
A hat stuck gaily, with a cold defiance
Upon a windshield strut. A skin’s worn felt.
Two children in a bright arrested dance;
Reaching black hands toward the jewelled sun,
A girl had run, and she would always run.
I say that still their bitter memory lasts.
Haunted by a stark inland, hope still dies.
Each day a savage denigration blasts
Our spirits that reach out for inland skies.
Look deep into your soul: you still can find
Dunes that struck Burke down, dust that made Sturt blind.
CHARLES HIGHAM


crashing) these youngsters could be
Australian boys and girls from any
city. Moreover, they are Australian.
They are not a series of variation;? upon
Holden Caulfield, or products of almost
freakish families (in the manner of
Thea Astley’s “The Slow Natives”).
Cowan may deplore the materialistic
obsessions of his group of parents, but
with one exception (Marlene’s mother,
who is very briefly presented) he does
not hate and despise these people or
consider them entirely to blame for
the misdeeds of their progeny.
The delinquent group are boys of
seventeen who attend a large private
school. At night they “borrow” cars
for an hour or so returning them to
their parking spots afterwards. A couple
of the boys drink too much—others
avoid liquor. Their interest in, and
success with, girls varies. The ring-
leader, Kevin, is rightly distrusted by
his boy and girl friends and, sadly, by
his father. Kevin precipitates the de-
nouement and is, possibly, the only
adolescent character in the book for
whom the future holds little likeli-
hood of adjustment.
The car-stealing jaunts and the illicit
parties with girls are really onlv possible
because the parents of those concerned
are uncaring, permissive, or pre-
occupied with problems of their own.
Hugh’s is the only conventionally
“happy” home, but from its refrigerator
comes the greater part nf the liquor
supply because “My old bastard doesn’t
know where it’s gone. Reckons he’s
drunk it himself.”
But Cowan is determined that his
readers shall not find any reassurance
from stock cliches —the boy who is not
quite “in,” who takes no part in the
car-borrowing escapades, is Nigel, son
of a widow and therefore the only
product of a real broken home. To
further the paradox Nigel is the only
youth who has no family car.
“S EED ” offers insight also into the
lives of some of the parents and
teachers concerned. We follow Alan’s
gradual slither from rat-race to racket;
wife Leonore (especially good in her
interview with the awful Mrs. Mengle)
is a musical might-have-been now pre-
occupied with material symbols as sub-
stitutes for lost art. Gerald and Joan,
Kevin’s parents, are possibly the most
tantalising people in the book, for a
great deal really hinges upon them and
I do not feel they are fully enough
presented. Because we are not shown
how or when their marriage failed
some of the central events of the novel
remain barely explicable. At the time
we meet Joan her affair with Max
(artist and art-teacher, creative and
frustrated) is credible enough. Cred-
ible, too, is her uneasy alienation from
her son Kevin. But Joan for me
remained a character who could not
be “placed” and therefore a major
weakness in the novel.
The cover blurb is right: “Seed” is
“important both for its social criticism
and for its intensely personal vision of
man and nature.”
History in Hard Focus
By MANNING CLARK
Lectures on European History. J.
McManners. Blackwell. $5.80.
IN the years immediately after
World War I first-year students at
the University of Oxford had the
good fortune to listen to a brilliant
course of lectures on Foreign History
by J. M. Thompson. Then in 1925
Basil Blackwell had the bright idea to
publish them as a book so that their
author might address hundreds of
thousands in all parts of the English-
speaking world. So that in the years
between the wars not only battle-
scarred old-Etonians but also scholar-
ship boys in Australia, driven by that
stern necessity to get an Exhibition in
the public exams, reaped the fruits of
Thompson’s wisdom, as well as his
very English view of the world.
The one trouble with Thompson was
that he stopped in 1789. To bring him
up to date Basil Blackwell had the
good sense to invite Professor Mc-
Manners to give a series of lectures on
European History from 1789 to the
present day, and then publish them
as a book. The result has been both
rewarding and instructive. McManners
and Thompson had much in common.
They were both Oxford men; they
were both ordained priests of the
Church of England who had moved
into the field of academic history; they
both believed that it was not learning
which made a historian but rather dis-
cernment; they both believed that the
heart of the matter was to get wisdom,
and get it not in the dreary classrooms
of Mr. Dry As Dust or Mr. Gradgrind
but in those of the men with the
creative imagination.
Yet, in a sense, a whole world
separated Thompson from McMan-
ners. Thompson used the eyes of an
imaginary traveller to introduce his
students to the Europe of 1494. Mc-
Manners, writing 40 years later than
Thompson, perhaps fearful of what his
academic colleagues might think if he
took that sort of liberty, takes his
reader on a journey, but limits himself
to the eyes of the contemporary. For,
since the academics captured the sub-
ject of history, every writer fears the
mockers, and fault-finders might hold
him up to derision, if he allows himself
to plumb the lower depths of the
human heart.
For Thompson, London, Paris, and,
not too happily, Rome were the centres
of civilisation. He does not even take
his traveller to the gates of Moscow,
while China and America were quite
beyond the pale countries and
people who had played little part in
what he understood by the making of
modern Europe. He was not just
European centred, he was Anglo-
French centred. McManners has
widened the frontiers of Europe to
include Russia, but makes no mention
of the contribution of Asia or America.
For him, England and France are still
the centres of civilisation.
Thompson neither mentioned nor
used the work of Marx. McManners
at least, knows what 1917 was about'
even if he cannot accept it as an event
which changed the course of human
history. Thompson wrote as though
Asia had not written its first page in
the collective history of mankind: Mc-
Manners, too, sticks resolutely to
Europe as the great creator.
For Thompson, history was mainly past
politics. For him the motives of men
had been explained by the wisest and
the best from the ancient world to the
present day. For McManners, history
embraces more than politics, and
includes the whole range of human
activity. McManners, too, has absorbed
to his own and the readers’ profit
Freud’s vision of the human situation.
had the commendable desire
to be both intelligible and lively.
It was perhaps easier for Thompson to
succeed in this field than McManners,
for the simple reason that any man
writing now has to master all the goods
delivered by that never-ending factory
Academic Enterprises Pty. Ltd.
Every academic writing history knows
only too well the similarity of his prob-
lem to the point made by William
Faulkner about telling a story of a
child he had seen in a tree looking
through a window at her grandmother
who was dying that no matter how
many people he gets to tell the story,
no matter how many narrators he uses,
or how much detail he gives, that
story can never be told properly. It
is easy to keep the narrative live, if
the temptation to explain and qualify
and modify are weak. In 1966 there
is a thick academic mist between the
writer and the subject.
What one is impressed by is the
skill and persistence of McManners in
clearing away enough of the mist to
interest and excite the reader in his
subject. For he is a writer with some-
thing to say especially when he
has the courage to drop that great
burden of academic learning off his
back and rush with the reader up into
the high places.
All academics tend to drop the
names of books they have read, not
hoping, like the name-dropper, to
impress their own importance on the
audience but rather as evidence of
their bona fides, or of the quality of
their wares. Some academics act like
coach captains in a tourist bus: they
feel some irresistible urge to tell their
audience the meaning of what they
are seeing. Thompson had the good
sense, as well as the grace, to let the
reader draw his own lesson from the
material he was presenting.
McManners, too, has much to say to


u
z
m
*3^
s***>*;.
Why shop around for
BOWLING CREAMS?
Fletcher Jones will fit you precisely, in
your size and style, right now, in famous
Coverdine finish Creams top quality
fine dense Wool and Terylene, long wear-
ing, and genuinely hand washable un-
beatable value at £8.13.6 ! Full range of
other Fletcher Jones washable Creams
from only £6.6.0.
Fletcher
JONES
Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, Launceston
Fjjgn
the reader. His theme is how men,
machines, and freedom fashioned the
history of mankind during his period.
He believes that man is rational, and
that, as he puts it, by the exercise
of reason he can master both his
environment and his passions and
achieve true freedom.
Many sons and daughters of the
genteel poor who read Thompson to
help them win an Exhibition at
Matriculation found to their delight a
man who had faced up to questions
which touched them more deeply
a man who had asked himself why
there were creatures as human beings
crawling between heaven and earth,
and so wrote on all questions with
reverence and tenderness for men. It
will be interesting to see how many
of the ones who want to know what
it has all been for, as distinct from
wanting success in examinations, either
find an answer in this lively book of
lectures or are stimulated to plunge
deeper.
Germans
By MARIA VOLKOWSKY
Court of Honor. Geoff Taylor. Peter
Davies. $3.80.
GEOFF TAYLOR obviously knows
his Germans. He was one of
those Australian prisoners of war
left to find his way home in the
chaos that followed the fall of the
Nazis. He sets his story in the Saxony
of 1945 at the moment the American
and Russian forces are about to join
at the River Elbe.
In the dungeons of the apparently
deserted Schloss Galgenstein (Gallow-
stone Castle) the General Count von
Bluckau, blinded at Stalingrad, sets up
the Fehme’s “Court of Honor.” Martin
Bormann, Hitler’s personal deputy, a
real-life figure who was one of those
who did get away and was just
recently reported as alive in South
America, is about to arrive on the last
plane out of Berlin to direct opera-
tions. His plan for the Fehme is two-
fold: it is to be an underground resis-
tance movement and it is to bring
enemies and “traitors” to secret trial
and execution. They begin by killing
off Russkis and Amis in ambush and
rigging the evidence so as to provoke
wholesale slaughter between the sup-
posedly friendly Allies. This could even
lead to a new war, with the armies
annihilating each other to leave Martin
Bormann in charge as new Fuhrer.
Sprays of lilac become the mark of
death, notes knifed melodramatically to
doors summon the guilty, and much of
the book is concerned with the flash-
back stories of the dozen men and
women who are brought to face the
blind judge with the noose, the sword,
and the lilac placed symbolically be-
fore him judgment before trial.
Perhaps not all of these vignettes quite
come off, but those of Dermott Duncan
the journalist (Taylor?) and the
Auschwitz anthropologist with a taste
for shrunken heads and lampshades of
human skin are authentic and com-
pelling.
Within the framework of a colorful,
essentially journalistic modern adven-
ture story Geoff Taylor brings the
atmosphere very much alive. One is
left with a sneaking sensation that
much of it is nearer truth than fiction
—the cryptic dedication and the pre-
cedent of the short revival of the
Fehme after World War I are not the
only pointers.
Psychologically, Taylor’s “good”
Germans are the most interesting
the count who thought of himself “in
order of precedence as a von Bluckau,
a Saxon, a German, and only then a
member of the human race” is shown
as a prime example of the way in
which inborn integrity and nobility,
when slanted toward the wrong ideo-
logy, can be co-responsible for the worst
of crimes in history. The blind count
is, perhaps, Germany itself.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
A Bank's Reserve
UNTIL last week, Dr. H. C. Coombs, the Governor of
the Reserve Bank, had not spoken to the financial
Press for three years. The public dissemination of the
Reserve Bank’s views on the economy and the explanations
for its instructions to the business community at large had
depended entirely during this period on the publication of
statements, although one or two sections of the commercial
world had received the benefit of its confidential advice.
The meaning of these statements was sometimes obscured
by the form of language that the bank chose to adopt or
else submerged in wishy-washy generalisations that have
marked its recent annual reports to the public.
At a time when the new Prime Minister had been setting
a pattern for all his Cabinet of frank “background” talks with
pressmen to make certain that, there were no misunderstand-
ings about the Government’s views; when the quality and
quantity of informative official publications out of Canberra
had increased significantly; and when even the doors of the
ultra-cautious Treasury Department had been increasingly
opened to the Press (and through it, the public) and its think-
ing outlined in regular Information Bulletins, the Reserve
Bank had remained in semi-silent isolation in its new marble
masterpiece at the top of Sydney’s Martin Place feeling ill-
treated and misunderstood.
To some extent it has been ill-treated in the Press. The
Reserve Bank is not the isolated, out-of-this-worldly, unknow-
ing monster it has been painted. It has a pretty good idea of
what is going on; it has regular discussions with large sections
of the business community; it has a large staff of skilled
economists at work on some of the major problems facing
the economy (particularly such subjects as the future of the
banking system, which is at present going through such
radical changes).
But the Reserve Bank’s reluctance to discuss matters with
the community at large (through the medium of the financial
Press) has given it this aura of separateness, of standing apart
from the mainstream of economic activity. This is a serious
shortcoming in an economic system that attempts to use per-
suasion of businessmen and the community as a major instru-
ment of policy, rather than relying entirely on the economic
bludgeon. If the Reserve Bank has no popular “image,” if it
finds it difficult to convey its views to the community at
large, this failure to persuade means that the need for the
bludgeon becomes greater.
Certainly, no central bank could ever supply the Press
with all the information it thinks it wants, and the Reserve
Bank is quite right in resisting much of the pressure for
more information on subjects on which it is proper to remain
reticent. But there seems little justification for its history of
oppressive silence. The central banks in Britain and the U.S.
have plenty to say, some of it under their own name and
much of it in “working papers” by staff members that give
guidance to academics and businessmen on economic subjects.
These entries into the public arena do not in any way
limit the effectiveness of the Federal Reserve system in the
U.S. or the Bank of England, and there seems plenty of
scope for the Reserve Bank to discuss matters in public with-
out implying any criticism of views held by the Government
or the Treasury, which presumably has been a factor in
preventing Dr. Coombs from following the resourceful lead
of the Treasury with its information bulletins.
Already the Reserve Bank does convey some of its views
MEN AND MATTERS
FORT STREET gets its second rep.
on the Reserve Bank Board with
the appointment of fifty-year-old
aluminium expert D. J. Hibberd to
replace the Government’s Jack-of-all-
board-trades R. G. Osborne, a Tas-
manian whose professions have run
from dean of the University of Tas-
mania’s Law faculty through the civil
(wartime) service to the Australian
Broadcasting Commission.
Everybody has been saying that Hib-
berd is going to vent Comalco’s frus-
trations in local capital raising when he
gets to Martin Place. But the modesty
of this former assistant-secretary to the
Treasury, who led the aluminium
industry from Government to green
private enterprise pastures, will ensure
this is done in the most objective man-
ner.
The board gets in Hibberd an out-
standing brain whose feet have experi-
ence of treading both the public and
the private sectors with consummate
and uncanny ease. Apart from some
inevitably stubbed toes involved in sit-
ting on a board with so many conflict-
ing international interests as that of the
Gladstone alumina refinery, we know
of no corns acquired. But his feet are'
young, a good thing because a lot of
other members of the board, whose
average age now becomes 58, have
plenty. Coombs is
60, Wilson two
years older, and Sir
William Anderson,
another Fort Street
High boy, is touch-
ing 70. Hibberd's
closest rivals to
youngest of this
class are Sir Wil-
liam Gunn and Mr.
W. W. Pettingell,
both a mere 52; J.
G. Phillips, Coombs’ deputy, is 55.
With a mining man the latest addi-
tion, the cross-section of economic
interests on the board now looks
admirable. The only minerals fellow
heretofore was Sir William Anderson,
Shell’s chief accountant for many years.
WHILE everyone is telling us what
bad managers we are, it is nice
to see a local boy make good
with a big international company. And
that is what 49-year-old Douglas Free-
man has done. Last week’s appointment
of this Sydney-born managing director
of Union Carbide Australia Ltd. to the
new post of regional director for Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, and Oceania on
the board of Union Carbide Eastern
Inc. is a big move up the international
business ladder for this Sydney Univer-
R. G. Osborne
D. J. Hibberd
D. H. Freeman
sity science graduate who got into the
manager’s seat through the laboratory
door.
Union Carbide’s “Eastern” subsidiary,
of which Mr. Freeman is now a director,
is responsible for the group’s activities
in 13 subsidiaries operating 20 manu-
facturing plants spread throughout
South-East Asia, India, Pakistan,
Ceylon, the Far East, and Australasia.
Apart from a short spell with Timbrol
(now, coincidentally, a Union Carbide
subsidiary) immediately after graduat-
ing in 1939, Doug Freeman has spent
all his working life with the Union Car-
bide group, getting his first executive
job 11 years ago as general manager of
the New Zealand operations and then
three years later going to Singapore to
become managing director of the South-
East Asian area.


on a “strictly confidential” basis to sections of business in
a way that often does it the world of harm; “suggestions”
made to the trading banks, for example, can lead to courses
of action by bankers that anger their customers, and yet the
banks are obliged not to reveal the reasons for their actions.
This naturally and unnecessarily creates an atmosphere of
hostility between the Reserve Bank and the trading banks.
There seems little doubt that the trading banks are most
disturbed about many of the methods the Reserve Bank
uses in its monetary control and they have been prepared
at times to give their side of the case, particularly by point-
ing to the rapid increase in “non-bank” financing that has
followed the severe controls the Reserve Bank has imposed
on banking (which accounts for a fast-diminishing proportion
of the credit structure and yet is the only portion subject
to the Reserve Bank’s direct controls).
It appears vital for the Reserve Bank’s effectiveness that
its lines of communication with the public be clear and
properly used. Dr. Coombs’ meeting last week with senior
financial pressmen is a welcome indication that the bank is
moving in the right direction.
From ANU fro Oxford
AUSTRALIAN scholarship gets further recognition with
the appointment of Maxwell Corden of the Australian
National University to Oxford’s prestigious Nuffield
Readership in International Economics. This was created
in the mid-1940s and has been held until now by Sir Roy
Harrod, one of the world’s greats among economists. Corden
said modestly in Canberra that we should not oversell his
new position: “Perhaps it is below Harrod and above me.”
Corden from Melbourne High School did an economics
course at Melbourne University in 1946. He was one of the
founders of the ALP Club in the days of the Communist
dominance in University politics. He edited “Melbourne
University Magazine” with Henry Mayer in 1949. He worked
as a managerial assistant with the Melbourne “Argus” and
then with the Department of National Development. From
there he went to England, where he did a doctorate in inter-
national trade. Since then he has done pioneering work on
measuring effective protection rates, concepts which have
been developed by other economists and which are now com-
ing into use in international tariff negotiations.
Enemy Property
AUSTRALIA is still at war with Germany. The failure
to sign a peace treaty after the German defeat of 21
years ago is not an academic matter; it has some
serious business implications. In a recent discussion on
“Investments in Australia” at a seminar in Frankfurt (West
Germany), the question of “enemy property” was resent-
fully mentioned by some German businessmen. They said
that German assets valued at about s2mill. have been frozen
since 1939, and that Australia insists on treating the release
of this money in accordance with the letter of international
law, which refers such problems to a formal peace treaty.
But if Australia genuinely wishes to arouse German invest-
ment interest, a more elastic attitude might be advisable for
the sake of good will, just as Australia found a way for
exchanging ambassadors and many other ties not generally
indulged in during a “state of war.”
From "The Economist"
ONE of the most impressive (and argumentative) com-
mentators on the world financial scene is the British
weekly “The Economist.” One of the vital heeds for
Australians hoping to gauge the pressures affecting our
own economy is an understanding of the world financial
scene.
So THE BULLETIN has arranged to reprint from “The
Economist” articles we consider important to Australians
without necessarily agreeing with them. This is a major
new service to BULLETIN readers which begins on page
52 of today’s issue.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: The June quarter’s national
income statistics revealed personal consumption spending
5 percent higher than the corresponding 1965 quarter,
the rise being largely ascribable to cost increases; private
capital spending dropped back by 1 percent, manufac-
turing and farm stocks mostly fell quite heavily . . .
Retail sales for the June quarter gained 4.3 percent on
1965, the smallest quarterly advance in three years.
Savings banks made new housing loans totalling
$324.3m during 1965-66, compared with the previous
year’s $298. lm, to bring loans outstanding at June 30
to $1358.5m.
Wool prices eased again at Sydney and Adelaide
auctions . . . Good eastern Australian rains may help to
produce a near-record 1965-66 wheat harvest.
New South Wales is to suffer higher rail and bus
fares, rail freight charges, hospital fees, and Government
ferry fares and port fees.
For the markets: A broad retreat was halted on
Australian share markets by midweek, apparently borrow-
ing some courage from London and New York. At the
close a wide range of shares looked decidedly firmer,
especially as a few leaders and base metals seemed to
be recovering from their recent malaise.
In point of fact London’s rally seemed largely techni-
cal, although the institutions re-entered a little; lower
machine tool orders and HP car sales brought depressing
notes . . . Wall Street looked somewhat firmer on Friday,
pre-holiday profit-taking being generally responsible for
the closing droop.
For companies: Some of the heavyweights are
presenting distinctly ragged results . . . Iron and steel
producer John Lysaght (Australia) has seen earnings
drop by 30 percent to $2,716,000 in the six months to
June 30, against the previous June period, although they
are much better than the December half’s sl.9m;
directors predict a complete year at around 1965’s
$5,718,000 . . . Much diversified Boral went back from
$4,059,690 to $3,447,660, chiefly because of colliery and
Queensland road building losses; a 20 percent dividend
is retained on a 22.2 percent earning rate . . . Tyre
makers are getting it bad and Dunlop Rubber proved
no exception; profits slumped 30 percent to $3,502,898,
an 8.9 percent earning rate covering the steady 8 per-
cent payout; slightly higher sales found margins
eroded by low-priced imports ... A 22 percent earn-
ings slide, to $1,531,499, was the fate of Felt and Tex-
tiles, on 8.5 percent lower sales, but a 10 percent
dividend is held; costs, imports, and the motor industry
are cited by directors . . . Appliance group Electr'onic
Industries brings back its dividend from 10 to 7 percent
as earnings go from $1,517,792 to $1,067,714 on a
slight turnover increase; the second half (to June) was
the worst . . . Fire protection engineer Wormald Bros,
did better in lifting profit by $14,481 to a record
$875,107; directors thought the “national general
liquidity position” so tight that they retained more
cash by cutting dividend from 10 to 8 percent.
Vehicle companies continued to look pretty drab, yet
Australian Motor Industries gave its first dividend, at
10 percent, since 1959-60; profits went from $1,401,022
to $1,616,282, clearly taking benefit from the Toyota
assembly begun early in 1965 . . . Normally brilliant
Larke Consolidated Industries had to endure a 28.8
percent decline to $471,395, but kept its 15 percent;
all activities, including engineering, were hit . . . Ford
dealer Hunt Bros, edged earnings up from $91,698 to
$92,621 . . . An advance also came to Perth’s Skipper
Holdings, whose profit moved from $124,496 to
$133,627 . . . Accessory maker R.V.B. Engineering paid
its 10 percent dividend, still well covered, on profits
down from $106,904 to $84,906.
Happy relief is furnished by gold and copper miner
Mount Morgan, whose profit leapt 45.5 percent to


Invest to:
INDOSTRIM ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD
DEBENTURE STOCK
Siiif i
0
0
NEW ISSUE
FOR 7 YEARS
5i% 12 MONTHS
OtW titts and tetow available sm Prospeetvs for full
dfttaii*. Prospectus and application form available from:
* Alt MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
* MX BRANCHES OF THE A*NX BANK
* AIL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications wilt proceed Only on one of the forme
Of appJlcarion attached ;fo- evprrntad oopy of Prospectus/
wmmmns im p&rm & co.
AUOii Member# of the Storfc exchange, Melbourne.
$1,470,255 and the dividend more
circumspectly from 12J to 15 per-
cent . . . Western Titanium reports
“significantly higher sales” and con-
firms a 20 percent dividend rate
with the 10 percent interim.
In the food line, Petersville
reached a peak $1,760,207 with a
$119,067 increase, enabling a third
successive 12| percent dividend;
drought effects were “more serious
than was anticipated,” yet allowed
record turnover . . . Victoria’s Aus-
tralian Bacon has earned $323,470
(previously $206,820) and resumed
dividend at 8 percent . . . George
Weston Foods expects a record year
to December, yet sees its profit
rate slowing in the current half-
year . . . Cake maker Herbert
Adams proposes to finance its new
factory with a one-for-five issue at a
25 percent premium and with a de-
benture issue . . . Parent profit of
Carlton and United Breweries rose
from $6,684,318 to $6,853,776; divi-
dend stayed at 13 percent.
Rayon maker Courtaulds (Aus-
tralia) has experienced lower de-
mand for the parent’s tyre fabric,
so pays 2 cents a share interim
against the December half’s 2.5 cents
. . . Sydney Woollen Mills can raise
its dividend from 6| to 8 percent on
profit moving from $84,128 to
$136,815 . . . Melbourne hosiery
maker Hilton Corporation earned
well by lifting profit $242,557 to
$772,359, paying a steady 15 per-
cent, while in Sydney Kolotex Hold-
ings brought dividend from 11.6 to
16 percent following an earnings ad-
vance from $340,300 to $362,701 . . .
Foundation-garment maker Berlei
could only achieve a marginal profit
gain ($12,120) to $849,444.
Sydney retailers Winns and Gow-
ings both improved ... In Mel-
bourne, Cox Bros.’ interest charges
converted a $1.3 million trading
profit into a $l.l million loss.
Construction, engineering, and
allied trades look uneven . . . ARC
Industries did well enough to shift
dividend from 8 l-3rd to 8| percent
when earnings climbed from
$1,879,092 to $2,212,087 . . . Build-
ers’ supplier John Mcllwr’aith ex-
emplified competition with an 18
percent earning retreat, to
$1,366,676, on a small sales decline
. . . Lift engineer Johns and Way-
good moved ahead by $289,785 to
$1,507,923 . . . Toolmaker Patience
and Nicholson had no particular
worries with a $359,783 profit repre-
senting a 23.7 percent earning rate
. . . Metal founder Thomson and
Scougall slipped noticeably from
$236,454 to $137,873 . . . Sydney
builder T. C. Whittle proposes a
one-for-five bonus after an 11 per-
cent earnings rise and an excellent
contracts position.
Timber companies Tasmanian
Board Mills, Kilndried, and Van-
derfield and Reid all fell back.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Double Check the Statistics
IF economic commentators have been
unduly pessimistic during the last
year or so, at least part of the rea-
son is that official statistics have proved
pessimistic. Take the latest quarterly
estimates of national income and ex-
penditure. Most people focus their at-
tention on the figures for the latest
period, but it is also important to
check what the people in the Bureau
of Statistics have done with previous
estimates.
This reveals that initial estimates for
both the December quarter of last year
and the March quarter of this year
proved far too low. The original figures
for the December quarter suggested a
fall in the value of production of ssom;
upward revisions have since turned this
into a rise of slsm. Similarly with the
March quarter, when initially a rise of
only sssin was indicated; figures in the
June quarter bulletin show that re-
visions have turned this into a rise of
almost twice the size s9om.
The mistakes seem to occur in esti-
mating the figure for stock change on
the expenditure side and the profits
item on the income side of the tables.
Some errors are to be expected, but
recent mistakes like this seem intoler-
ably large. Stock change for the Decem-
ber quarter was originally put at $279m,
but the latest figure is $345m. When
an extra s66m like this turns up it
makes a pretty big difference to the way
you look at the overall economic
situation.
These various upward revisions take
quite a lot of the gloom out of last
year’s economic story, suggesting a real
growth rate outside the drought-stricken
rural sector of about 5 percent.
But what of the figures we are given
for the latest quarter? Bearing in mind
past underestimation, they look quite
hopeful. Consumer spending rose by a
very solid s67m, or 2.15 percent, in
the three months. This represents an
annual rate of growth of almost 9 per-
cent to last financial year’s mere 5.2 per-
cent. Excluding the volatile spending on
cars it represents about 7.5 percent,
still a notable improvement.
Housing work was almost static in
the June quarter; this item added
nothing to either expenditure or pro-
duction. Of course it should be said that
the number of new houses going into
the pipeline is enough to ensure that
homebuilding will be an expansionary
element during the rest of this year.
The same applies to non-dwelling con-
struction.
The only really weak element in the
latest statistics is business spending on
plant and equipment, which over six
months has declined by s34m to a rate
of s4B7m a quarter. This goes about
a third of the way to offsetting the rise
in consumer spending. The stocks pic-
ture is rather confused, though it ap-
pears that overall there has been little
change.
June saw strong growth in produc-
tion. Non-farm GNP at factor cost grew
from a quarterly rate of $4350m to
$4460m, the largest rise since the
middle of last year. A sllom increase
in production is 2.5 percent, represent-
ing an annual rate of 10 percent, which
will be pretty good if we can keep it up.


y
n
is
As long as your arm!
The list of companies that
own the Beechcraft King
Air for executive transport.
It goes on and on and on.
The pressurized, turbo-prop King
Air has seating for 7 to 10 people. It
cruises for more than 1,500 miles.
Non-stop. There’s still room on the
list for your name.
So muscle in.
fe>
For a test flight get in touch with
HAWKER DE HAVILLAND
AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Sole Beechcraft Distributors for Australia & New Guinea.
Located at: Bankstown Aerodrome, N.S.W. Parafield
Aerodrome, S.A. Archerfield Aerodrome, Q’ld. Janda-
kot Aerodrome, W.A. & Civil Flying Services Pty. Ltd.,
Moorabbin, Vic. Territory Airlines Ltd., Goroka, N.G.
593/66R
J. c. HORSFALL'S MELBOURNE
A "Weird" Economic Mob
Committeemen are born, not
made. I am not of the breed. So
a few years ago it was with some
reluctance that I accepted an invita-
tion to be a member of what was styled
the “research policy committee” of an
organisation known as CEDA or, to
give it its full title, The Committee for
Economic Development of Australia.
After a delay of several months, a
meeting of this committee within a
committee was called in this city.
Economists came to it from far and
wide Sydney, Canberra, Tasmania,
and so on. We met in Federation
House in Flinders Street at 9 o’clock.
By 11 our dialogue was developing use-
fully, I thought. Then in walked a
certain VIP. He took the chair and
put a damper on practically every idea
put up. Discussion fizzled out. After an
hour or so all the economists were fed
up. We retired to lunch at The Aus-
tralia at CEDA’s expense. I didn’t
have to resign from that committee
because from that day to this I’ve not
heard another word from it.
SIMILAR sort of joke was per-
petrated on me about the same time
by the International Institute of Arts
and Letters in Switzerland electing me
to a Fellowship. Preening myself on this
“high” distinction, my ego was promptly
punctured by the revelation that this
honor was going to cost me a big annual
fee in the hardest of currencies in per-
petuity. My knowledge of German is
not all that good anyway.
Sprinkled liberally though they were
then with more business and other
VlP’s than surrounded me at the Mel-
bourne premiere of “The Weird Mob”
the other night, the fields of CEDA
still looked pretty bare at that time, the
main cultivation being masterly in-
activity. I believe they are greener
today. It looks as if the operation is
being streamlined.
That certain VlP’s name no longer
appears at the top of the paper. Mr.
D. H. Merry, the chief economist of
the ANZ Bank, whose economic
advocacies in its literature pack a rare
punch these days, looks to have taken
over the guiding role and the VEF’s
executive director, Mr. Peter Grey, is
doubling up as director of CEDA’s
research.
We were led to believe some years
ago that CEDA was producing (albeit
by remote control of part-time re-
searchers) six studies designed to point
the pattern of Australian economic de-
velopment. We are still waiting for the
last five of these. The only one to
appear thus far and it was not all
that path-breaking is on exports.
This was done by Mr. Merry with the
help, he tells me, mainly of Mr. Gordon
Beuns, also of the ANZ stable. It would
seem that the Vernon Report could
have spiked the Others (Bruns helped
out on that also).
Then there was the big grant to
CEDA from the Ford Foundation for
a comprehensive study of South-East
Asian economic problems. On this sub-
ject we had a monograph and a most
useful one at that from lan Shannon
on the Philippines published under
CEDA auspices. But this appears to
have been an independent work on the
author’s part. Apart from that, the
only publicised CEDA activity on
South-East Asia was the conference at
which a line-up of Australian and inter-
national notables thrashed out certain
matters recently in Melbourne.
I’m not all that sure we’ll get a
searching emission from CEDA on
South-East Asia. Nor do I think we
need a voluminous report from it on
this subject. I feel CEDA is at last
moving along the right track by con-
centrating more on seminars than get-
ting into print, except, say, as it has
done in its latest issue of its magazine,
“Growth.” This gives a full account
of proceedings at its May seminar on
overseas investment. One also notices
in it that Dr. Harold Bell, of the
AMP, says CEDA “is not a pressure
group.” If only for that reason it
deserves a wider audience.
Thinking in Pounds
THERE are good reasons why
retail stores should try to forget
that decimals have come: their
prices look lower in pounds, shillings,
and pence. But there can be no justi-
fication whatsoever for the accountancy
profession pretending that C Day did
not take place on February 14.
The number of company accounts
being filed in pounds at the State
Registrar of Companies for 1965-66
is staggering. This is not the respon-
sibility of the Registrars; they are
obliged to accept the dual currency
system until the end of the transition
period. It, reflects the sort of back-
ward-looking dreary conservatism that
seems to give some weight to foreign
criticisms of our business skills.
And there is no doubt that business-
men are still thinking in pounds. At
an annual meeting last week the chair-
man of a company admitted turnover
to shareholders, for the first time, as
“16 millions.” On inquiry, this was
determined as pounds not dollars. Yet
he would have been decidedly unhappy
if he had been misquoted.
After almost seven months of this
dual currency nonsense, the time has
surely come to call a halt. If the
full benefits of decimalisation are to
be obtained, the old system should be
entirely abandoned by a definite date.
The Treasurer should consider legis-
lation to make it an offence to publish
prices in pounds, shillings, and pence.


The IMF and World Liquidity
Moves toward new international units
The international monet-
ary FUND meets later this
month as the world faces a
mounting threat of a trade recession.
Restrictive measures by major trading
countries like Britain and the U.S.,
aimed at protecting their inadequate
international reserves, must mean
diminished prospects for exporters like
Australia and a general slackening in
the rate of world economic growth.
There seems little prospect that the
IMF will agree this month to some
revolutionary new method of improv-
ing the level of international liquidity,
and Mr. McMahon faces a massive
task at his first IMF meeting as
Treasurer in convincing the European
powets that the matter is one of
greater urgency than they have so far
shown, in their discussions within their
exclusive Group of Ten —an exclusive-
ness that was strongly criticised by Mr.
Holt at his last IMF meeting.
But there are signs that the Euro-
peans are moving slowly toward a solu-
tion. Last week “The Economist” com-
mented:
Official studies of the international
reserve system are now about to enter
their fourth year with not one dollar
of new reserves to show; and without
even the agreed contingency plan which
on last year’s timetable should now
have been ready. Small wonder on
this pessimistic, short range view—that
the financial markets express their scep-
ticism by adding still further to their
gold hoards, leaving little or no addi-
tional gold for monetary reserves.
Yet it is impossible to read the third
liquidity report of the Group of Ten,
produced under the able chairmanship
of Germany’s Otmar Emminger, and
an accompanying report by Working
Party Three of the OECD without see-
ing a different and more hopeful long-
run aspect. By getting down to the
sheer mechanics of possible schemes
for new international reserves, the big
issues of international finance have en-
gaged the attention of the centres of
power.
there is still a clear dichotomy
between the pressures on the world
financial system and the leisurely pace
at which its officials are going about
reforming it. Admittedly the Group of
Ten’s liquidity report is, as it turns
out, notably less negative than one
had recently feared. France’s dissocia-
tion from further progress on “con-
tingency planning” is sensibly dealt
with by periodic insertions: “one of our
members however . . .” More unex-
pected, and very welcome, is another
member’s minority view on the other
side. This is a proposal for “full free-
dom to convert any part of existing
reserve currency balances into the new
asset through a Trust Account, which
would issue supplementary reserve
units in return for them.” This is the
suggestion for an open-ended transfer of
sterling balances and dollar balances
into the IMF. The official proposer is
unnamed but there is not too much
difficulty in guessing it to be Italy.
Significantly,' Italy has in the past
week made a contribution in this
direction of its own. It has, in effect,
exchanged some of its existing dollar
holdings for a gold-guaranteed claim
on the IMF. This has been done by
lending the equivalent of $250 million
in lire to the Fund, which has in turn
sold these lire to the United States;
and the United States has used them
to buy back some of Italy’s dollars.
This marks the first use by the IMF
of its power to borrow currencies
from its members outside the special
General Arrangements to Borrow,
which involve some not very popular
collective procedures.
The Emminger report airs some sen-
sible suggestions for streamlining these
ordinary Fund operations. It raises the
possibility of paying interest on creditor
positions in the IMF arising from the
use by the Fund of currencies supplied
in the quotas as well as under special
lendings. It also raises the possibility of
an improvement in the presentation of
Fund accounting—“so as to reflect the
international unit account implicit in
the Articles of Agreement.”
In other words, Fund money should
have a name and a form. This would
be an important psychological boost
in encouraging countries to look upon
their Fund positions as available
reserves. The same considerations point
to a preference for creating new reserves
in the form of a Fund unit, rather than
a mere drawing right (though the dis-
tinction gets shaded in many cases in
practice).
The sharper division within the study
group was on a way in which such a
unit could be used. The “hard line” (of
Common Market countries) proposes a
compulsory “transfer link” obliging
countries that use their units for settling
deficits to transfer along with them an
equal amount of gold. This was
opposed by the Americans in particular,
who feared that it might increase both
the status of gold and the demand for
it, at their expense.
Their alternative proposal, which
presumably was backed by the British
was that countries should be able to use
their reserve units freely but not be
obliged to hold units paid to them by
other countries beyond some maximum
“holding limit” of say three times
their own initial allocation. This would
then require some procedures for get-
ting other countries to accept the units
through the intermediary of an agent.
QNE may still question some of the
underlying assumptions that, doubt-
less in the interests of compromise, have
been generally agreed. There is first an
underlying assurance, repeated at inter-
vals throughout the report, that there
is no intention whatever of associating
the scheme “with a transfer of real
reserves” which in plain man’s
language means “no aid through
money.” An odd priority for the
Decade of Development.
Associated with this view is another
refrain which appears a little too often
for comfort, that creation of the new
reserves should in no way be linked
to individual countries’ deficits. Perfec-
tion, in this view, would be for reserves
to be created with no deficits at all. But
then no reserves would be needed.
Moreover, since there would be no
occasion for the reserves to be spent,
the creation of new reserves would
then have no stimulating effects
whatsoever.
The important adjunct to this frugal
view of reserves is admittedly that
there should be less occasion to use
them because payments deficits should
be adjusted more quickly. Yet the
OECD adjustment report, which
probably holds some kind of inter-
national record for the number of re-
writes, makes no credible suggestions
in this direction, as it might have
done through, for example, some form
of continuing exchange rate adjustment.
The report does, in a brave para-
graph 46, acknowledge that exchange
rate adjustment may play some part.
Thus deficit countries should try
incomes policies first, then supplement
this as appropriate by reducing the
pressure of demand. But—in a section
that is likely to be quoted more than
once, though no names are named—
“countries cannot be called upon
deliberately to sustain prolonged peri-
ods of stagnant demand. There may
at times be cases where the above
policies appear unlikely to restore bal-
ance sufficiently quickly, and adjust-
ment of the exchange rate seems appro-
priate. It should be stressed, however,
that this is only likely to be successful
if the necessary conditions have been
assured beforehand; these include a
margin of spare capacity adequate to
provide for an expansion of exports,
and a readiness on the part of those
responsible for price and income deter-
mination not to seek to evade their
share of the immediate effects of the
devaluation.”


Cooma’s most
modem Motel /X
MV
w
■ -
Q 1310IAI (=>
°o°
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia’s leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals.
■ An MFA Motel ■
for reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or direct to Motel • Cooma 21133
A MEMBER company of ansett transport industries LIMITED
_ATL7OB_
Dr. Coombs Stays in Neutral
By CROESUS
SO many critics seem to have been
damning the Reserve Bank’s annual
report with faint praise, I feel
emboldened to come to its rescue. This
is not difficult. It is a high-class docu-
ment. Those who want this annual
report to be a “Go-Go” affair are in
m y view not “with it.”
Anyhow, even when “neutral,”
monetary policy is doing a job and, at
least in the interest-rate field, that is
how Dr. H. C. Coombs has interpreted
his responsibilities in the past year or so.
This is not to say that, in the interest
of succoring particular sectors and the
economy as a whole, the Reserve Bank
has taken the neutral line on quan-
titative adjustments or has failed
generally to strike a sensible balance
with fiscal policy.
Accusing fingers naturally point
hardest at the maintenance of such high
interest rates. Criticism is directed at
this on two counts. One, that the
opportunity was not taken in mid-year
or even a month or two earlier to
administer a lift to the economy via
lower interest rates. Two, that the con-
tinuance of such high interest rates
militates against long-term develop-
ment.
In the first half of the report it
emerges that Coombs had his eye on
two critical elements in the situation.
He was concerned about the deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments on
current account. Further, he had in-
herited from the Budget a striking in-
crease in public-authority spending,
with its concomitant of credit financ-
ing by the Reserve Bank. And, though
capital inflow was particularly strong
and assisting to finance the still big
deficit on current account, this was
also bolstering internal capital spend-
ing. Clearly in this situation there was
an overwhelming case not to lower
official interest rates, quite apart from
any consideration of the needs of
Government loan raising and conver-
sions.
However, as the current account posi-
tion improved in mid-year and the
drought struck hard at domestic private
spending and housing activity receded,
it became fairly obvious that the
authorities had an obligation to relax
monetary policy. Some of us advocated
that in these circumstances interest
rates might be cut, even fractionally, or,
on the fiscal front, some relief might
be given in tax rates or that there
should be a mixture of both. A third
choice lay in quantitative relaxation of
credit through the SRD arrangement,
and in special Federal supplementary
payments, say, for housing. In the
event, the authorities came slowly to
the ultimate conclusion that interest
rates should stay put and belatedly
adopted the latter quantitative
approach.
The authorities consider this policy
has been successful in restoring the
economy to a higher and more even
keel. The satisfaction is evident both in
the Budget speech and the Reserve
Bank report. The mixture of high tax
rates and interest rates is still being
administered.
Reading between the lines of the
report, it is evident that the Reserve
Bank feels stuck with high interest
rates and that this has severely reduced
its room for manoeuvre in monetary
policy. In this connection, not the least
of its concerns seems to be the shortage
of capital in relation to the tasks ahead
for development. It throws a question
mark over thfe continuance of overseas
capital inflow on the grand scale we
have become accustomed to and puts
the onus strictly on getting more local
savings to ease possible increasing
strains on available capital supplies.
Whichever way you look at it, then, if
we insist on keeping both the pace of
economic activity and capital develop-
ment high, high interest rates are inevit-
able.
Obviously the only route now seem-
ingly open to get interest rates down is
to cut back programs for expansion and
allow some slack in the economy as a
whole. Nobody, least of all the Fed-
eral Government, seems prepared to do
either of these things, even in recogni-
tion of the complication of the increas-
ing claims of defence on resources.
f fHE Bank has something to say about
improving our marshalling facilities
for local savings, institutional develop-
ments (the proposed National Invest-
ment Corporation), and so on. But it
doesn’t speak as hopefully on these
aspects as one might wish, reflecting,
perhaps, an inner conviction that there
are only limited possibilities of getting
much relief from current pressures on
the capital market while the inordinate
demands of the Treasury for loans have
to be met (these are probably the
biggest buttress of all to high.interest
rates).
One should imagine that Mr. D. J.
Hibberd, who last week was appointed
to the board of the Reserve Bank to
replace Mr. R. G. Osborne (after 15
years’ solid service), will strive to
change this somewhat defeatist atti-
tude. The CRA stable where he comes
from has struck its fair share of
obscurantism in the capital market, in
.particular from the institutions, in its
quest for the huge sums required for
its expansion.
Hamstrung with the rising claims
of defence and the inevitability of high
interest rates, and with nobody pre-
pared to curtail development or have
slack in the economy, the Reserve Bank
seems well conditioned to swing in with
the new Federal Treasurer’s apparent
preference for using Treasury Bill
finance to fill financial gaps. It would
be merely an extension of Mr. Mc-
Mahon’s line of thought for the
Reserve Bank to continue to put the
emphasis on trading and savings bank
liquidity as the main avenue of adjust-
ment in monetary policy.
The Reserve Bank has already been
proceeding stealthily along this path.
Last year it encouraged savings banks
to increase their housing loans despite
the slower rate of growth in their
deposits (this was the complement to
a special housing grant made by the
Federal Government at the same time).
Then there were the modifications
made to the banking structure during
the year, designed to provide farmers
with greater access to medium- and
long-term credits via a new Farm
Development Loan Fund, created out
of liquid reserves of the banking sys-
tem.
It is interesting to have the Reserve
Bank acknowledge in its report that
such new funds do not provide addi-
tional resources to the economy. This
is an oblique way of saying they have
been created at the expense of liquidity.
Some of my colleagues have been
advocating that even bigger siphonings
into long- and medium-term develop-
ment should be made from the Reserve
Bank’s uncommitted pool of liquid
funds.


Retailers Down but not Out
WILD CAT
PAGES
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
IF investors were wondering why
retail store shares had been falling
so sharply, last week’s national in-
come and retail sales figures gave a
pretty good reason. They are not doing
enough business.
There can be no doubt about the
market’s uneasiness about the retail
trade. Overall, retail shares have fallen
almost ten percent this year, witli
market favorites like Grace Bros, fall-
ing sharply from above the $1.90 mark
to below $1.50, Myers dropping from
$3.56 to around the $2.905, David Jones
sliding even farther down from its
peak of a few years ago of $2.40 to
$1.60 earlier this year and now to
below the $1.30 level, and even the
chain stores, Woolworths and Coles,
feeling some of the results of the tough
competition they are doing so much
to create.
Most big retailers have spoken of
tough times, and most have reported
either lower profits or earning rates
in the first half of the year and the
market clearly expects a poor crop of
annual results in coming weeks. But
the real facts of the “retail recession,’’
so temporarily talked about by Sir
Edgar Coles earlier this year are not
contained in the 4.3 percent rise in
retail sales (the poorest quarterly in-
crease since 1962) reported at the
weekend. The facts are much worse,
For the national income figures show
that personal consumption spending on
clothing, footwear, and drapery (the
retailer’s staples) increased only three
percent in 1965-66 to $1297 million;
that spending on electrical goods fell
two percent to $403 million and that
there was a five percent rise in spend-
ing on other household durables to
$524 million. Total personal spending
on these three items, which provide all
but a small fraction of retailers’ tradi-
tional turnovers, increased by only 1|
percent during the year compared with
six percent in 1964-65 and eight percent
in the previous year,
One of the major factors in all this
does seem to have been the drought,
Country stores have had a difficult
time, so the rains out west should mean
Myers should do a great deal
better in future from its extensive
country chain, for example,
To some extent, the lower retail
store spending may have been due not
so much to a fall in the per capita
quantity of goods bought, but a greater
swing by customers to the stores that
deal in lower margins and greater vol-
ume, so that the average cost of goods
may well have gone down as a result of
better merchandising methods. These,
if efficient, need not necessarily mean
lower profits for the companies operat-
ing this way, even though margins may
be lower. For example, Woolworths has
a profit margin of only about per-
cent to sales and Myers and Coles are
not much higher; the spread of this
sort of merchandising approach could
help make the sales figures look sicker
than they are.
The retailers’ burden has not only
been the slow-down in consumer spend-
ing in the stores, and the big swings
in consumption patterns away from
some of the conventional stores into
new types, like Big Ws and suburban
shopping centres. It has also been the
disruption in the industry following the
closure of so many old established and
failing stores (and the subsequent dis-
posal of their stock),
'pHIS has become almost a regular
feature of the industry in recent years-
and it almost looks as if retailers have
now become a little panicky in their
rush into the suburbs, with huge ex-
pensive projects (on which it is going
to be difficult to earn satisfactory re-
turns for quite some time) sprouting up
all over. Even the departure of such
old failures as Snows, Hicks, Paynes,
Marcus Clark, and the host of furni-
ture shops that have shut their doors,
and the transforming of acres of show-
rooms into offices has not brought any
reduction in the floor space available
for retailing in the capital cities; it
has simply been replaced with much
more expensive floor space.
Nevertheless, the retail business is not
as sick as it thinks it is. Disasters apart
(and a badly located expensive sub-
urban shopping centre could be a dis-
aster), this year should be the bottom;
things seem likely to improve consid-
erably despite the likelihood that State
taxes will skim off most of the basic
wage rise that should have gone into
retailers’ tills. Most of the lame ducks
have now gone, the drought is oyer,
management seems to be improving,
bad debts are getting down to manage-
able proportions, and now it is up to
the to show us their real
quality.
IT is heresy to mention facts about
what a company actually does in
the presence of chartists, who make
their investment decisions solely on the
trend lines shown by their charts of
share prices. But the fall in the price
of sugar to a new post-war low has
upset our chartist’s predictions about
the market for Colonial Sugar Refining-
Last week’s fall to £stglsJ a ton,
The Chartist says:
STEEL MILLS-is a stock in a very interesting technical situation, with good
recovery prospects. The long-term trend on the chart since 1961 shows a
strong upward trend at a basic rate of 150 percent per annum was main-
tained for approximately thirteen months, resulting in a high point of $1.40 and
a top formation about the middle of 1962. A sharp decline followed the break
in the uptrend and a low point of 55e was recorded toward the end of 1963.
Wide fluctuations have been evident for nearly three years and a strong resis-
tance level has been established at 82c. The stock has been gaining market strength
over recent months and the base consolidation suggests a rise to about $1.25
eventually, where strong resistance would be encountered from the top formation
of 1962, atid the situation would then call for reassessment. There would be a
risk element for investors to enter this stock before a decisive break in the
resistance level at 82c, Last sale price on 2/9/66 —78 c.


True Measure
of Value
The true measure of value of any
article is not merely how much it
costs you .*. but rather, how much
you get from it
With every grinding wheel you
buy from Australian Abrasives, you
gain the immediate bonus benefits of
experience, technical know-how,
after-sales service that only A.A. can
supply.
A.A. Sales Engineers and their Dis-
tributors are immediately at your ser-
vice. To give you a free plant survey,,
to check speeds and safety of your
machines, to prepare job specifica-
tions. .. to offer you whatever service
you need.
If you have a grinding problem, send
this advertisement to us on your
letterhead. We'll send a technical
expert to you immediately... and his
service will cost you nothing.
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
AUSTRALIAN ABRASIVES PTY. LT.D.
302 Parramatta Rd., Auburn, N.$.W. #4B 2*fl
I
with no early prospects of any solid
price improvement, coming on top of
uncertainty over the Mt. Newman iron
ore project following the withdrawal
of Cleveland Cliffs (and its Japanese
contract) from the proposed develop-
ment group, helped push CSR shares
down 16 cents to their lowest point for
the year at $2.64 before recovering.
THE BULLETIN’S Chartist recom-
mended CSR for both medium- and
long-term investors about the $3 level
in the August 13 issue. But now the
Chartist reports:
“Since that date, the stock has de-
veloped ‘bearish’ tendencies which indi-
cates that something has happened to
change the supply-demand balance. If
prices fall below the support level at
$2.60, the short- to medium-term out-
look for the stock would have to be
reassessed and the possibility of a
further decline to the support level at
$2.20 would then have to be con-
sidered.”
SOME good buying opportunities
should crop up soon if the
rumblings about increased com-
missions from pastoral houses come to
fruition. The last adjustment in com-
mission rates was eight years ago. Since
then costs have risen and, with turn-
overs currently running very low
because of drought effects, there seems
a good case for the pastoral houses to
adjust their profit margins.
Some pastoral companies halted the
cost rises by gaining economies of size
through mergers, but the cost-saving
benefits from these have probably well
and truly run their course.
The companies’ performance is
geared to turnover and most profits
come from commission operations on
behalf of rural clients. Sidelines include
selling rural goods to these clients. And
right now their biggest activity seems
to be lending farmers money to stay
afloat. This year the pastoral houses
will come out smiling because the low
turnovers troubling them in 1965-66
will probably be followed by steady
increases, and once turnovers resume
their normal levels profits should rise
accordingly.
But the immediate problem is to
counter the loss of revenue caused by
drought-lowered turnovers. For 1965-66
the number of sheep and lambs was
down eight percent to the lowest level
for four years. Cattle numbers were also
at a four-year low, although down only
about 4J percent. It may take some
time for these losses to be made up,
but an adjustment in commissions will
restore the position of the pastoral
houses now and put them on an even
better footing when operations are back
to normal.
NOW that the Reid Murray Ac-
ceptance scheme of arrange-
ment has been approved by
debenture holders, it would seem a
WlSe move for those seeking high re-
turns over the long term to buy a few


INVEST NOW IN THIS NEW ISSUE
FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Providing finance facilities for short term
mortgages together with Consumer,
Industrial and Commercial Credit.
DEBENTURE
STOCK AIM
PER ANNUM TOO
5 CIO YEARS
0
BENEFICIAL
*
25at\2
Applications will proceed only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus obtainable from
STOCK EXCHANGE MEMBERS
throughout Australia
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia, all branches
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
in New South Wales and A.C.T.
S.A. FARMERS’ CO-OP. UNION LTD.
in South Australia,
or the Underwriters
lAN POTTER » CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
GAVIN F. GARDNER Cr CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
BENEFICIAL BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Sydney 29 5244 Melbourne (2 1432
Brisbane 31 1861 Adelaide 51 6661 Perth 21 6273
TEACHERS
ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE. WOODLAWN
Situated in the temperate climate of Lismore, N.S.W.,
within easy access of Brisbane. A boarding school for 350
boys in pleasant surroundings invites applications for the
following positions for February, 1967:
1. Senior Mathematics or Science Teacher.
2. Language Teacher (Latin and/or French).
3. Senior English/History.
4. Teacher middle school subjects.
Salaries are in line with Education Department scales.
Permanency assured on usual conditions. Write, stating
qualifications, experience, etc., and give names of two
referees to:
The Rector, St. John’s College,
P.O. Box 6, LISMORE, 4C, N.S.W.
The $lOO debentures can be bought
for about $6O (although series three
are cheaper they should be avoided
as their eventual repayment may not
be as great). Once Supreme Court
approval is won, the trustees expect
to be able to distribute a minimum
$43 on each debenture, probably before
Christmas.
The overwhelming support which
debenture holders gave to the scheme
last week should ensure that Supreme
Court approval comes through with-
out any hitches. Moreover, the trustees’
minimum $43 dollar repayment esti-
mate before Christmas seems likely to
end up around $45. So, by the end of
this year, an investor would have only
$l5 or thereabouts tied up in each
debenture.
Total eventual returns will be a
minimum $7B; they could end up
around $BO or more. The trustee
estimates that about four years will be
required before this repayment can be
made in full. Thus, for every $l5 tied
up once the first repayment is made,
a return of $35 can be expected over
a period of four vears. This is equiva-
lent to 33 1-3 percent annually, which
makes an investment in the debentures
good sense in any language. Even if
these repayment estimates fall drasti-
cally short (and there is no reason
why they should), the annual percent-
age returns could hardly go below 20
percent. This, too, is an attractive re-
turn for the average investor.
AN uninspiring interim report and
the increasing number of large
shipbuilding contracts awarded to
BHP’s Whyalla shipyard have com-
bined to push Evans Deakin’s 50 cent
shares down to an unreasonable level
over the past few weeks. Currently
moving between $1.20 and $1.30, they
are near an historic low point and
yielding better than five percent from
dividends.
The recently won contract to build
a third roll-on roll-off ship for the
Australian National Line brings the
value of this source of business up to
a total $2O million. There is enough
work on hand right now to keep' the
shipyard busy until 1970. Despite
the poor times for the sugar industry
it services, the company is holding its
own in its non-shipbuilding fields, and
profits for the latest year should pro-
vide double cover for the percent
dividend. The company has not missed
a dividend payout since 1935.
Add to these factors the strongly
rising and conservatively stated profits
of recent years and the shares look even
better buying. Tax has frequently been
higher than necessary and results have
been calculated after providing against
contingencies. This has given rise to
an extremely strong financial posi-
tion. Net reserves are far above paid
capital, while each 50 cent share has
a net tangible asset backing of $1.28.
They can currently be bought for less
than this.


TAKE THE SCENIC ROUTE
THROUGH CANADA'S ROCKIES
to
M*
The
SCENIC
DOME
RO
UTE
'iT\ NOT
Mile-high Banff Springs Hotel
Rail away through Canada’s mighty Rockies ... a whole
new world of beauty and hospitality awaits you in Canada.
On your way to Europe go Scenic Dome through Canada’s
Rockies. Stop over in beautiful Banff, take a side trip to Lake
Louise. See all the wonder of the Rockies through the tinted
Scenic Dome and enjoy Canadian Pacific’s unique cuisine and
unsurpassed comfort. Your travel agent has full details.
CanadbmGtxcitic
(Incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited. Trains/Planes/Trucks/
Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete transportation system.)
MINING
The Search for New Copper
DESPITE the background of un-
certainty as to which way copper
prices will move next, the search
for new copper deposits in Australia by
both local and overseas companies is
continuing. Even after the marked
changes in the Australian producer
price during August, at current levels of
$950 per ton it is still $BO per ton above
the price ruling for the first seven
months of 1966, and $2OO above its
counterpart at this time last year.
Amongst the smaller local companies
which have been intensifying their
search for copper are some of the oil
exploration companies who, in line
with overseas trends, have been forming
separate subsidiary companies or divi-
sions to investigate interesting mineral
occurrences encountered during their
search for oil.
One such company is Longreach Oil
Limited, whose 25c fully paid shares
have recently been selling above par
for the first time in about three years
on the strength of encouraging reports
by the board on early results of testing
its copper prospects south of Mount
Isa, near Duchess and Dajarra.
Through its subsidiary Longreach
Minerals Pty. Ltd., the company com-
menced exploratory drilling operations
in these areas last January; in June and
August directors issued enthusiastic pro-
gress reports. In one lease a high-grade
copper ore body, mainly chalcocite,
revealed by previous mining operations
down to the 120-feet level, has been
intersected a further 100 feet lower by
diamond drilling. The horizontal extent
of the ore body was known to exceed
100 feet, with prospects for several
hundred feet more.
JN their latest announcement on Aug-
ust 22 Longreach developers said
that approaches made by several major
companies to participate in an acceler-
ated mineral exploration program were
under consideration. Such companies
could be in a position to supply the
funds required for more intensive ex-
ploration and development operations
if warranted.
However, at this stage any such
assumptions are premature particu-
larly in view of the fact that these
areas around Mount Isa have been in-
tensively explored in recent years by
several large companies, including Con-
zinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd. Since
last century, numerous small-scale
copper mining operations have been
carried out in the Mount Isa-Cloncurry
area of Queensland, working the
secondarily enriched zone of mineralis-
ation which in some cases showed grades
of over 20 percent copper. These en-
riched surface zones could extend to a
depth of a few hundred feet from the
surface before encountering primary
we of a lower grade.
To date it appears that Longreach
has only been testing the secondary
enriched zones. For instance the
directors mention that grades of around
8 percent copper have been encountered
around the existing Little Bit mine. By
comparison, the primary copper ore
reserves of Mount Isa Mines Ltd.
average 3.5 percent copper.
A similar grade exists at Cobar, but
grades at Mount Morgan (1.1 percent
copper) and Mount Lyell (0.94 per-
cent copper) are much lower. These
lower grades must be worked on a
larger scale if the operation is to prove
economically feasible and obviously the
existence of other secondary minerals
(for instance 2.34 dwts gold per ton at
Mount Morgan) would add to the
profitability of the venture.
Another oil company which is shortly
to float its gold and mineral explora-
tion activities as two separate com-
panies is Planet Oil Company N.L.
Amongst the prospects that one of the
new companies, Planet Metals Ltd.,
will acquire is a porphyry copper pros-
pect at Mount Robin, near Ravenswood,
about 85 miles south-west of Towns-
ville.
As yet, no true porphyry copper
mines have been discovered in Australia.
However, low-grade deposits of dissem-
inated copper mineralisation in
porphyry are mined economically by
large-scale open-cut methods in other
parts of the world. Incidentally, the
Bougainville Island copper prospect of
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd.
is porphyry copper.
At Mount Robin, Planet’s geological
consultant has given a provisional esti-
mate of the possible average surface
values as 0.8 percent copper and 2oz.
silver to the ton, with significant values
of gold, lead, atid molybdenum also
present. An area of about three million
square feet has been outlined as pos-
sible ore. No drilling has yet been
carried out and an assessment of the
prospect for open-cut mining will be
dependent on these results. An airborne
magnetic and scintillometer survey will


MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
INCORPORATED IN 1935, PAID-UP CAPITAL $8,000,000
DEBENTURE
STOCK
3 MTHS. 5% PA
6 MTHS 6% PA
12 MTHS 6V2% P.A.
2 YRS 7% PA
3 YRS 7%% P.A.
4 YRS 7 1 / 2 % P.A.
STO 10 YRS. 8% P.A.
YIELDING UP TO P.A.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications are obtainable from:
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative Office, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
• Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
N.B. Applications for Deben-
ture Stock will proceed only on
one of the Forms of Applica-
tion referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the
Prospectus.
The main business of Mercan-
tile Credits Ltd. is the provision
of finance facilities in various
forms for industrial, commer-
cial or private purposes. szs/ee
commence soon, to be followed by a
drilling program.
Planet Metals Ltd. will acquire other
mineral prospects from Planet Oil, in-
cluding the Petermann Ranges base
metal prospect in the Northern Terri-
tory, where copper values have been
encountered in initial sampling of
gossans. Planet Oil has emphasised
that these ventures to be taken over by
Planet Metals will be highly speculative.
In other parts of Australia numerous
other copper prospects are also being
examined. One prospect which could
prove to be very interesting is in the
Warburton Range area in Western
Australia. The company involved here
is Western Mining Corporation Ltd.,
whose nickel deposits at Kambalda
have attracted so much attention in
recent months. In a brief announcement
in June, directors said that they were
negotiating terms under which the
company would be permitted by the
Western Australian Government to
enter and prospect within the War-
burton Range Native Reserve and that
they would make a further announce-
ment “when the Corporation is in a
position to do so.”
COMMODITIES
Failure of Coffee Marketing
another commodity marketing
j[ scheme the International Coffee
Agreement is at present on
the point of failure. After about a year
0 f negotiation, the producers have been
una ble to agree on the future of the
q UOta scheme in the agreement,
A n , total tas balance world
r .. c ,r -n- u
consumption of 45 million bags a year,
c r . • . ° r 1 ~
So any increase in quotas tor the
rA ' n j
faster-growing smaller producers must
, A, ° r f,
be at the expense of the two major
, t> ~ j ri i u-
producers, Brazil and Colombia,
r ’ .
. Brazil h as taken drastic steps to
improve its own and the woild situ-
ation by cutting support prices to its
growers (achieved in a climate of run-
away inflation by holding the nominal
price steady).
Brazil’s warehouses contain 50 million
bags of coffee beans, and this gives it
some bargaining strength in the two-
week talks.
A proposed solution is establishment
of separate quotas for each of the main
grades Africa’s robustas; Brazil’s un-
washed arabicas; Central America’s
milds and possibly Colombia’s mams.
The market price of each grade would
determine the quota allocation for that
grade. Higher prices, and demand, will
mean higher output.
It is clear that a scheme such as
this, excellent as it is, will present
problems when it comes to details of
price and production.
Early Copper Surplus?
WORLD copper producers will be
watching the London Metal
Exchange market and their own
order books very closely during the
next few weeks. September is tradi-
tionally a month when demand picks
up after the Northern holiday season.
The London “Metal Bulletin” says
that “the way in which consumer
demand has swung right around in the
course of the last six to eight weeks
has got copper producers quite wor-
ried.” The copper surplus could be
here earlier than at present anticipated,
even allowing for the increased
demands of the Vietnam war, the jour-
nal says.
Most customers of the big copper
companies are now specifying “mini-
mum” under their contracts and
some have even asked to be allowed
to take less than their minimum, the
report continues. For this reason, rather
than lack of supply, the “Metal
Bulletin” is disinclined to lend credence
to rumors that Kennecott had offered
to make good to its customers the
delivery cuts made earlier this year.
“One would not have expected the
normally astute Kennecott sales force
to have made such a proposition, unless
perhaps as a means of testing the
market.”
Lead-Zinc Quotas
PRESSURE is mounting for the
revival of U.S. quotas on im-
ports of lead and zinc, abolished
last October. The chairman of the
Interior Committee of the House of
Representatives tried, recently to intro-
duce a measure re-imposing the quotas.
The move stands little chance of
success in the current session of Con-
gress. The elimination of quotas took
place at a time when lead and zinc
were a sellers’ market all over the
world.
Since then the position has changed,
and U.S. producers can be expected to
increase opposition to entry (even with
the import tax) of foreign metal. The
wider markets made available to Aus-
tralian producers by the ending ol
quotas are regarded as of significant
long-term benefit to them.


Par
1 Div.
I Year
[Week
1 Fri.
1966
! Turnover
1 Yield %
Valua| cents
1 ago
1 ago
Iclose IHIgh |Low
1 Syd.
| Melb.
| Dlv.|Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoy le
50
2
1 83
2 35
2.38
| 2.58
1 1 90
1 6,700
1 4,500
I 0 8
1
Ampol Exp.
.50
1.13
1 07
1 01
1 1 4C
.89
5,400 4.90C
Aboc. Min.
.50
15
4.35
5.40
5 201 5 401 4 80; 2,650
100
2.91
a.o.G.
.50
2 63
2.40
2 4C
2 81
2 26
4.70C
2.95C
B.H. South
.50
12
2.29
2 52
2 55
2,90
1 2 24
20.00C
17.60C
4 9
7 5
C.R.A.
.50
8
3.73
5 00
5 20
5.J32
3.92
8.00C
8.60C
1.5
4 0
1 00
7
1 73
1 2 5!
2 45
2 85
1.9C
3.00C
70C
3,1
6 0
K I. Scheel
.50
1 io
1 53
2.271 2 29
3 25
1 85
l.BOC
3.80C
4 i
.50
| 5
3.73
4.26
4 28
4. n
3 92
32.85C
i 32.60C
1.2
1 6
Mt. Morgan
1 00
15
1 83
2 3E
2,42
2.9C
1.9C
1.60C
! 7.40C
6 2
14 6
Mt. LyeM
.25
4 5
1 00
1.301 1 31
1 5£
1 25
4.20C
I '17.90C
3 4
10 9
New B.H.
.62
3B
4 55
4 40
4 25
5 5C
4 25
1.50C
1,-100
8 S
12 7
Oil Saarch
.50
19
19
.17
2C
.12
18.95C
5,700
Renison
.50
15
5 73
7 35
7.35
7 ec
5.00
600
2.C
Santos
.25
1.73
| 2.40
2.35
3 09
1 40
3.80C
>600
wilt. Min.
.50
10
2 50
5.28
5 46
6, OC
2 45
9.20C
.'6 ,'650
18
2 0
Woodiide
.50
.28
89
.90
1 00
.20
8,100
18,000
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4 16
1.07
1 07
1 10
1.12
1.00
10,700
24,3001 4.0
10.1
Adams, W.
1 00
12 5
3.00
2 18
2 14
2.90
2 06
8,650
1,850
5.8
9.4
Adel. Steam.
.50
4 25
.68
.72
.70
. 8C
.64
7.30C
2,500
6.1
7.8
Advirtiser
.50
5
2 02
1,74
1 68
2 50
1.67
3.0
5.7
1 00
10
2 00
1 88
1.80
6f.lt)
1.56
400
5 6
8,'3
Allied Mi'll*
.50
6
1 85
1.75
1.76
1.92
1.67
22,500
3.4
8.2
AmalQ. Chim.
.50
5 63
81
.76
.73 1.5C
.68
5,750
1,400
7.7
11.2
a.w.a.
.50
8
2.50
1.98
1 94
2 42
1.87
4,300
1,200
4,1
7 4
Ampol
.50
7
•96| ,67| .67
1 021 .'66
25,900
31,900
10 4
12 5
.50
5
.74
,6a
.71
.83
.63
16,500
8,600
7.0
13.5
ap.c.m.
.50
5
1 45
1.55
1 52
1 70
1.43
4,000
4,800
3 3
6 3
1.00
9
1.49
1 50
1 49
1.74
1.37
6,700
12,900
6 4
9 7
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17 62
5 25
5 50
5 50
6 30
5 50
1,050
3 2
6 1
A.K-. Ciment
.50
5
1.44
1 20
1.19
1.62
1 17
16,600
26,300
4.2
7.4
Ault. Chem.
1.00
10
2 65
1.76
1 76
2 25
1.50
4,700
3,900
5.7
7 9
A.C.I.
2 00
20
5 45
5 54
5 40
6 12
5.40
16,925
8,475
3.7
7 4
A list. Fart.
2 00
20
5 80
4 00
4 00
5 20
4 00
4 0
7 2
A.S.C.
.50
7.5
1 40
1.45 1.46
1.52
1 22
19,600
8,900
5.1
10,0
A.P.M.
1.00
8.73
1 55
1 58
1 55
1 87
1.51
22,950
26,300
5 8
8 1
A, Newsprint
2 00
20
3.43
3 53
3 49
3.5a
3.15
300
400
5 7
6 2
A.U.C.
1.00
10
4 10
3.45
3 45
4 05| 3 43
500
10 0
3 2
1.00
10
2 39
2 30
2.30
2.46
2 15
1,000
4.3
7.3
200
20
5,75
4 98
4 96
5 68
4.92
23,100
3,000
4 0
7 7
Bellambl
.50
5
2.45
1 85
1 85
2 44
1.85
200
2./
4 9
Birlal
1 00
15
2 90
2 52
2 55
3 30
2 45
2,400
5 «
12 7
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1,53
1.47
1.40,
1.87
1 39
18,600
5,100
5.4
7.9
Bonds Ind.
.50
5
.97
.96
. .99
1 16
.96
6,400
5 1
10 4
Bdral
.50
10
2 18
1 38
1 86
2.40
1.80
33,533
14,100
5 4
7 2
Borg Warner
1.00
6
2 30
1 7 §
1 78
2 05
1 50
1 ;850
J 4
8 3
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
.68
.63
63
.69
.56
9,200
2,300
7 9
11 2
Brimbles
.50
7.5
1.77
1 72
1 70
1,92
1 67
6,000
3,400
4 4
7 1
Brit. Tobacco
1.0
12
1 68
2 18
2.26
2 46
1 77
11,750
5,000
5 3
8.0
B.H.P.
2 00
18 4
4.99
6 181 6 08
6.54
4 54
56,926
71,350
3 0
5 1
Bruck Mills
.50
5
.58
.72
.72
./J
.55
900
■ 2,400
8 7
11 8
Burns Philp
1.00
10
3 88
3 75
3 75
4 14
3,65
8,150
2.300
2 /
7 0
C.U.B. "Z"
1.00
13
3 85
3 70
3.60
3 90
3.40
100
3,300
3 6
6.4
Carp., W. R,
.50
7 5
2.23
2 50
2 50
2 15
2 41
24,537
6,750
3.0
6 2
Carrier Air
.50
4
.74
56
.55
.80
.53
7,900
2,000
l.i
14 5
C'milne Perk
1.00
17
6.15
6 10
6 05
6 50
5 93
5,150
450
2 8
5 2
Chamberlain
.50
6.25
1 45
1.41
1 32
1.53
1.23
2,400
4 7
22 5
Clyde Ind.
■ 50
7 5
1.081
09
.90
1.10
.90
9,100
3,500
8 3
13 1
Coil Allied
.50
5
1.04
1 66
1.64
i n
1 26
11,900
2,800
3.0
8 5
Colas, G. J.
.50
5 3
1.40
1 31
1.27
1 41
1 20
21,990
45,000
4 3
6 6
C.S.ft,
1 00
12.5
2 85,
2.80
2,88
3 26
2 64
57,100
14,500
4.3
8 0
C.A.G.A,
1 00
10
,72
1.57
1.48
1 65
1.30
3,650
400
6.8
9 6
C.B.C,
1.00
10
2 46
2 00
2 02
2 65
1.95
7,700
5.0
8 8
c.b.a.
1.00
10
2 25
1.90
1.90
2 27
1.85
2,600
4,600
5.3
7 8
Com, Union
■ 50
4 25
1.50
123
1 20
1 44
1.02
1,200
2,300
3 5
5 3
C.I.G.
1 00
11
3 33
2.62
2 65
3,32
2.55
3,000
■2,900
4 2
10 2
Concrete Ind.
.50
.45
.35
.34
.48
.25
44,200
13,000
13 2
Consol, Press
50
10
3 38
2 45
2 50
3 40
2 35
3,000
4 0
9 9
Containers
2 00
16
2 80,
2.80
2 73
2 82
2.58
4,100
3,400
5 9
9 5
Courtaulds
1.00
5
.75
.55
.51
75
.50
2,800
1,100
7.8
13.3
Crane, G. E.
1.00
12 5
4,10
4 90
4 85
5 20
4 10
1,400
2.6
7 3
Cmsco
2.00
20
5.10
5,00
5 00|
6 25
4.90
32
5 6
Cust, Cred,
.30
5
.68
.76
.81
.86
.63
11,200
11,900
6 2
12.4
Cyclone
1.00
10
1.73
1 10
1.121
1 48
1.04
7,000
14,750
8.9
21.3
Dalgety
2.50
25.3
5.05
'4 50
4 50!
5.10
4 50
5.7
10.7
D.F..C.
2 00
23
6 45
6 30
6.30|
6 55
6.20
200
37
7.5
Drug Houses
1 00
10
1 66
1 75
1 69
1.93
1.58
8,200
7,800
59
9 0
Dunlop
1 00
8
1.90
1 22
1 23
1 65
1 20
14,850
13,900
6.5
10.7
E.M.I,
'.50
7 5
2.50
2 00
1 95
2 15
1 75
1,400
600
4 1
10 5
E.Z. Ind.
1 00
18
2 00
2 53
2 52|
2 1 4
2 12
8,500
15,100!
7,1
8 7
Elders, G, M.
1 00
10
2.25
2 43
2 35]
2 53
2 01
5,200
5,4001
4.3
9.5
Elec, "B"
1.00
10
1 13
,67
■661
1,00
.66
3,300
2,300|
15. if
20.3
Email
.50
3
59
37
.39
.51
,36
21,700
13,5501
7,7
7,9
E.5.A.
2.50
14 69
4.68
5 30
5.30
6 00
5 20
8001
2-8'
8.2
Evans Deakln
.50
6,25
1 20
1.25
1 27|
1.40
1.05
3,300
4.9
8.3
Fairfax, J.
.50
8 5
2 25
2 32
2 27
2 80
2 10
18,400
600
3 7
5 0
Fllrymead
1.00
6
1 95
1.40,
1 42|
2.101
1.36|
2,0001
1,
4.2|
Fat. Text.
.50
5
.72
.51
,56|
.'61
.50
16,250
14,100!
8,9'
12 7
Fbre Cont.
.50
6
1 73
1 35
1.36
1 40
1,23
7,2001
2,600|
4 4
8 4
Fielding, J.
1.00
17 5
3.78
3.65
3 65
3.72
2 43
5,300
4 8
6.9
Gen. Credit*
50
4
.59
57
.56
.60
,50
3,000
4,700
7.1
10.7
Gan. ind.
2 00
12
1 19
1 27
1 25
1.38
.95
8,600
900
9.6
19 4
Gollln
.50
4 5
.73
,70
.70
.88
.70
600
3,000
6.4
12 7
Gordon Goteh
.50
10
2.54
2.04
2 05
2 70
2.03
2,400
4,700
4.9
6.7
Grace Bro*.
,30
6 25
1 55
1.58
1 49
1.91
1.45
17,950
4 2
7,9
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY 1 MELBOURNE
| Week
1 ago
Friday
1 last
| Weak
I *0O
Friday
'lest
AN ords , . ,
50 Ladders , . '
Bunks , , , ,
gth.r Fin, , ,
{•Moral . , ,
rr«nsport , , ,
5.Vy'| l^ M ' ChinU
{oods ....
TlXtllM . , .
Chemle»ls . .
|l*ctric»| , , ,
jSRdinj ; ; :
? u ;l Powir , .,
Automotive , .
**•«! Eng. . .
Non-ferrous . .
318.72
156 11
499 84
227 88
468 42
323 10
166 06
167 60
318 90
399,64
652 87
166 94
723 57
481,30
1191,47
318 28
156 05
505 32
224 80
470 18
330 28
168 03
170 76
316 15
398,02
641.91
166,70
707 54
474.14
1207,54
102 93
107 24
103 88
70.17
124 39
93.35
93 38
45 98
102 82
72 05
80 16
60 26
102 23
89,77
73 71
118 12
202 24
101,94
106 90
102 19
69,40
121.29
92 03
92 17
45 26
101 75
71 98
80 17
59 75
101 44
89 27
72,46
115,43
203.20
0
L
SUGAR
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week 1
ago |
Friday
last
Sp«» n « . , .
. ,
149 87
128.87
148 02
124.78
113.70
111.73
Share
Par
Div
Year
1 Week
Fri.
1966
|
Yield %
Valut
cents
ago
1 ago
close
High | Low
Syd.
I Melb.
1
DIv.lEarn.
Hardie, J.
1.00
10
5.70
1 4 93
4 93
5 06! 4.40
4,750
1,050
2.0
7 7
Healing, A, G
. .50
12,5
,5E
.21
23
58
19
13,600
3,000
37 0
Herald, W, T.
.50
4 50
. 4 21
4 26
5.22
4.
21
3.700
14,900
9
4.0
Hooker, L, J,
.50
12 5
.36
.31
.30
.36
24, 6,900
3,300
13.2
Humes
1 00
2 65
2 40
2 40
2 9C
2
1C
1,000
3.400
5.2
9.1
Huttons
.50
5
1 00
1 12
1 10
1 12
38
2,400
700
4
5
113
. A.^.
,50
5 9
.89
.86
85
.94
75
9.70C
16,600
7.1
11.5
I.V-.I.A.N.4.
2.00
. 15
4 43
3 65
3 64
4.32
3
6C
6,25C
5,750
1
5.7
Inter. Resist.
.50
6 25
1 35
.88
.89
1.45
33
1,800
2,100
Jones, David
50
6 75
1 45
1 36
1 32
1 63
1
24
61,800
5.200
5
1
9 1
Jones, Henry
1 00
10
3 78
3 54
3 55
4 1C
3.41
2,150
600
2.8
31
Kauri
.50
• 4C
.24
.25
27
.18
3,400
9.500
Ke vlnator
.50
7 5
2 28
1 901 1 89
2 081 I!
35
4,950
300
4
0
9 0
Koitakl
.50
12 5
1.25
1 45
1.45
1.45
1
15
a
6
11 1
Lend Lease
.50
5
82
1 05
1 06
1 25
1
11
5,250
2.500
4.7
8.7
Life Savers
.50-
8
2 5C
2 45
2 35
2 55
2.
24
1,800
600
3
4
4.9
Lysaght, J.
M.L.C.
1 00
11
2 93
2 40
2 35
2 63
2,
14
6,150
700
4
7
7 8
2.00
31.68
6 35
8 16
8 18
8 40
7
36
2,700
1.375
3.9
3.9
MacRobertson
1 00
8
1 7C
1.45
1.40
1.60
1
10
1,100
600
5
7
Marrickvllle
.50
7.5
1 15
1 061 1-05
1 55
1.
13
8,500
1,100
7
1
8 1
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
1 77
2 02
2.02
2 09
1
32
10,900
3,100
2
5
5.4
M, Nickless
1.00
12.5
3.1C
2 70
2.65
3.20
2,65
300
1,600
4.7
6.8
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7,5
1 53
1 15
1 13
1 50
1
12
1,100
1,000
6
6
9 0
McPherson
2 00
16,6
4 08
3 60 3 55
4.08
3
40
550
3.500
4.7
10.6
Mllliquln
1 00
20
3.10
2 67
2 68
3.18
2.
60
2,300
400
5
.2
6.6
Miller, R, W.
1 00
10
1 83
1 65
1.66
2 07
T.63
6,750
3,550
6 0
15.1
Minster
1 00
20
3 00
3 04
2 98
5,68
2
18
800
6.550
6
7
11.1
Morris, Philip
2 00
24
5.80
7.40
7.14
7.60
6 20
450
300
3 4
16.6
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.78
.70
.73
.80
59
4,800
5,500
6.8
8 6
Myer ,
Myttons
.50
8 75
3.14
2 99
2 93
3 56
2 85
10,000
20.200
’
0
7,0
.50
6
1.65
1.62
1 55
1,64
1
4?
6.825
100
2
9
8.4
N.Z. Forest
1.25
9 56
2 75
2 97
2 95
3 03
2.
>0
1,300 1,600
3 2
8.7
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
2 15
1.83
1 84
2 TO
1.83
16,600
15,300
5 4
5.8
Nat. Consol,
.50
10
2 46
2 30
2 25
2'45
2
?4
1,400
5.700
4
4
8.5
Nat. Dairy
2 25
26 7
40 5
38 00
38 00
42 00 38
10
10
3.0
5.6
News
50
5
1 45
1 ,45
1 .45
1 82
1
36
1,000
100
3.4
7.1
N.Z. Ins.
1.25
11 5
2.85
2 75
2.75
2 82
2
>0
*,
3
7.8
Olympic
.50
5
.93
66
.67
B0
64
7,050
11,100
7
5
14.7
C
ptical
verseas
1 00
15
5.05
4 30
4 32
4 70
4
.1
700
200
3,5
6 9
0
.50
5 5
1.13
1 02
1 02
1 16
.98
100
4,900
5 4
11 0
K.U.M,
,50
8
1 69
1 08
1 10
1 60
1
06
R5
4,300
1
3
9 8
Peko
.50
8
1.65
2 25
2 28
2 60
1
8,100
4.800
5
5
7.2
Panfolds
.50
6,25
1 45
1.85
1 65
2 03
1
50
5,400
1
8
5 8
Perp. Trustee
2 00
17
3 60
3.53
3 55
3 90
3
53
500
5
1
5 9
Petersvllle
.20
2 5
.51
58
.62
.66
.55
,21,448
23,100
4
0
5.9
Peters, W.A.
.50
6 25
1 80
1.70
1.71
1 93
1 50
600
3.7
6.1
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6 25
1 39
1 35
1 35
1 62
1
30
4,400
3.300
4
6
8 7
Prestige
.50
5
1.18
,77
77
1 05
.75
500
E
1
15 8
Provincial Td.
.50
5.5
1 IB
1 14
1 14
1.3C
1
30
2,1501
<
e
10.6
Pye
.50
5
1 78
1 07
1 05
1.55
1
)4
1,000
800
H
9.1
land Can
50
5
1 09
1 03
1 00
1.13
.92
‘
1
9 1
'land Cement
2 00
20
7 40
7.85
7,90
7.95
7 00
2
.8
5 4
'land Ins.
1 00
12,5
3 98
4 15
4 15
4 50
4 001 2001
3 01 7,1
'land Press
1 00
16
5.00
5.00
5 00
5.45
4
75
800
3 2
5.7
eeds
,50
7
1 80
1 58
1 58
1 74
1
45
2,600
4 4
7.4
Repco
.50
7.5
2 06
2 07
2 00
2 24
1,
95
4,950
18,800
2
.8
6.1
Rocla
.50
7
2 13
1 76
1 67
2 14
1
>7
200
1,000
4
2
6,3
• Rothmans
1.00
20
3.13
•1 37
2 73
2 63
3.15
2
63
6,950
1.000
7.6
12 6
S.A. Rubber
.50
5 62
.93
.90
125
.90
300
6.2
8,1
S.T.P, Hold.
.50
6.25
98
.94
.93
1.00
.88
2,300
3,500
6
7
15 5
Schweppes
,60
5 75
1 47
1.85
1 80
1 85
1.45
600
900
3.1
4 8
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2 20
2 53
2 53
2,55
230
2
0
a 2
Simpson Pope
.50
1
.43
• 28j
,28
.46
.27
500
800
2
6
10 9
Sleigh, H, C.
.50
5
.65
.62
.60
.72
.55
15,800 20,350
8.3
11 5
Smith, How.
2 00
10
2 53
2.50
2 51
2 73
2 39
2,200
5,500
4
0
6 9
Softwood
1 00
10
3 20
2 55
2 55
3 25
2 07
700
500
2
9
2 7
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1 25
14.16
3.58
3 60
3,59
3 85
2 06
8,300
3,9
7.3
Steamships
.50
6 66
.93
1.05
1 00
1.10
.88
3,000
1,200
6. /
10.8
Stedmans, J.
.50
7 5
2 08
1 98
2 15
2 20
1.60
4,900
4
2
6,7
Swan Brew.
.50
3 12
2.43
2 63
2 53
2.75
2 21
4,800
17,200
2
6
3 5
Tarax
.50
6
1 00
1 ?5
1 16
1 35
1.00
4,100
2,400
5
2
94
Taubmans
.50
8
1 28
.94
.90
1.18
.84
2,200
1,800
8.9
10,3
TV Corp.
1 00
20
2 83
2.80
2.70
2 B5
2.08
1,700
1,200
7.4
7.4
Thiess
.50
.46
.78
.81
.88
.63
4,750
8.0
T ooheys
,50
4 25
1 08
1 02
1 02
1 21
1 00
20,100
4
2
6,4
Tooth
1 00
15.75
4 83
5 10!
5 12
5 70
4.90
8,550
1,550
3
1
4 4
Union Carb
1 00 |
12 l
3 35
3 851
3.80
4 00
3,38
3,300
1,400
3
2
7,5
U.E. Box
.63
5 841
1 50
1.25
1 25
1 48
1 03
600
4
6
11,1
Walker, F. J.
1.00
12.5 |
135
1 46
1 45
1 73
1.20
1,700
8.6
8 8
Waltons
.50
6 5
.95
1 14
1.12
1.23
.83
29,650
6,800
5,6
8 9
Webster, A, G,
.50
8
1 28
1 30
1 30
1 50
1.20
5,8
11.8
Williams, F.W.
1.00
10
360
3 75
4 221
2.93
Woolworths
.30
6
1.43
1.23
1 26
1,44
1.20
40,650
14,5001
4
8
6 5
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year ago
Month ago
Week ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton
£ 196
£196
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wire bars, ton . .
£ 48314
£ 455i/a
£ 3B41A
£ 3971
Gold, oz. . .
£ 12/11/0%
£ 12/12/4
£ 12/12/5
V4
£
12/12/
5%
Lead, cash, ton ,
£ 107%
£ 98%
£93 11-lbth
£ 91 I!
-16
Silver, troy, oz
Tin, cash, ton
lll%d.
£ 1538%
1121/ad.
£1255
112%d
£ 1225V
112%d.
£ 1230%
Wolfram unit,
c.i.f.
£ 10%
- £ III/4
£12%-£14
14
£ 13%-
£ 14%
Zinc, cash, ton
£ 109
13-16tl
£ 981/g
£94%
Wheat, Australia, ton . .
£ 25%
£ 27
13-16th
£28
£ 28
Linseed oil, ton
£ 88Va
£ 87l/a
£ 85%
£ 86
Cocoa, 50 kilos
135/-
207/9
146/-
181/-
Coffee . . .
Withdrawn
248/-
245/-
Cotton, American, middling
lb
23.2d.
22.2d.
22.2d.
22.2d
Desiccated Coconut,
ton .
£ 1571/2
£ 130
£ 127Va
£ 130
Rubber, lb. .
20% d.
19%d.
19d.
IE
ll-16d.
Sugar, ton
Tea, quality, lb, .
Wool Tops, 64s. lb.
£ 191/a
5/2-6/B
£ 16%
4/1-5/6
£ 15%
4/5-6/-
£ 15%
4/4-6/:
llld.
123d.
123d.
123d.
(All
figures In sterling)
OVERSEAS INDEXES
1
London
1 New York
Tokyo
1 "
Financial Times
1
1 Dow Jones
D. Jones
| inds. | Sees. |
Gold
| Inds, |
Ralls
Avga.
Jan. 3, 1966 ..
| 338
7 | 78 74
ol
3
| 965 54 | 247 38I143C
13
1966 High . .
| 377
9 | 79 431
63
2
| 995 15| 271 7211588
73
1966 Low .. ,
1 294
101 73 321
57.4
1 780 56! 195 03,1412
93
Month ago .
| 319.501 74 111
59
3
I 852 39; 219,62 1 1479 85
Week ago , .
| 294
1 | 73 42}
57.4
| 780 56 195 0311459
00
Latest
1 307
20|. 73 32 1
59
3
| 787 69 | 195 18|1470
95
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
jIN DU5TRI AL| MINING
INDUSTRIAL!
MINING
Sales
Value
Sales | Value
Sales 1 Value
1 Sales
Value
Vol.
$
Vol.
1
Vol.
$
Vol.
lOOO
1000
1000
| 1000 | 1000
1000 | 1000
I 1000 |
Week before
2600 5 3391 5
1447
2| 1142 3
2372 1 3218
} 1167
1122
Week to Friday
2420,113379.8
918.21 769,9
3784 1 6451
| 827
708
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY . %
average dividend , . 636
MELBOURNE
dividend S 47
earnings 8,65
LONDON (F.T,)
d v dend 6 18
earnings 8 25
NEW YORK (S S< P)
d'v’dend 3 47
earnings 6 68
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before ' Friday
% %
Short , , , , 489 490
Medium . , , , 5.12 5 13
Long ~ 525 5.25


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Custom Credit's Attraction
TO some extent the recent much-
improved result from Custom
Credit Corporation reflects the
generally better times through the whole
hire purchase-finance industry: its bad
debts fell as it did “cleaner” business;
its insurance subsidiary did much bet-
ter; and its outstandings went up con-
siderably despite the stagnant state of
the motor trade, indicating some
healthy diversification into other forms
of financing apart from cars.
But the result also represents the end
of the era in the wilderness for Cus-
tom Credit that followed its “million
pound mistake” of four years ago, its
reduction of dividend and its internal
turmoil. All that is now' past. The com-
pany is to be judged on its present
rather than its past —and the present
has some attractive features.
Since the $2.3 million overstatement
of profit in earlier years was discovered
in 1962 and the “income yet to mature”
provision was appropriately increased,
the company has made significant
changes in its lending structure aimed
at withdrawing from the long-term
lending that had brought these problems
and so diminishing the amount needed
in that provision. Substantial pre-
payments of long-term loans have
helped that fall, and now' the accounting
problem that brought the initial con-
fusion has been perpetually resolved by
the introduction of electronic data pro-
cessing.
The most striking change for Custom
Credit is the remarkably liquid state
this company is now in compared
the bad old days of lending long and
borrowing short. Like its rival AGC,
Custom Credit has substantial sums of
cash in hand. The reason does not
appear to be any inability to find
enough business to occupy the funds
so much as a desire to protect existing
business should the tight liquidity posi-
tion in the economy limit the company’s
ability to refinance the one-third of its
total borrowings that fall due for
redemption in the. current year.
And the structure of borrowings and
receivables itself is also improving.
Notes to the latest accounts reveal that,
as at June 30, 1966, compared with
a year before, amounts receivable with-
in tw'o years had increased from 70 to
75 percent of total debts, while amounts
payable within five years had fallen
from 57 to 51 percent of total borrow-
ings.
Although most borrowing has been
to replace issues maturing, the response
to debenture and note issues has been
excellent. The company was able to
put aside sl.sm. in Government bonds
during 1965-66, which have since
matured.
It was in the preceding year that the
company received a net $1,350,000 on
the disposal of Customlife Assurance
Ltd., after seven years’ operation.
Although it claims to be no less
active in the traditional motor hire
purchase business, recent expansion has
been more in land and property mort-
gages and personal loans to approved
borrowers, so that motor vehicle hire
purchase business constitutes a lesser
proportion of total business than it did
once.
A MAJOR factor in the $582,000
profit improvement for 1965-66 was
the $200,000 better profit of the sub-
sidiary National and General Insurance
Co. Ltd. to $412,000. Although it is dif-
ficult to judge an insurance company’s
performance on one year’s results, it
is apparent that the underwriting losses
experienced two or three years ago in
London have now been overcome.
Another $500,000 of 1966 profits were
appropriated for doubtful debts, bring-
ing this amount to s2m. It would seem
unlikely that the company will con-
tinue to make appropriations of this
magnitude in future. Bad debts writ-
ten off were slightly lower than last
year, although 1965-66 saw a substan-
tial rise in business volume.
Like most finance companies, which
prosper in times of tight bank credit,
management views current prospects
with a great deal more optimism than
the stockmarket, but does expect
stronger competition in future. As a
counter it has broadened the base of
activities and established new branches.
The National Bank of Australasia
Ltd., which holds 40 percent of Cus-
tom Credit’s share capital, provides
over 700 additional contacts for the
financiers with the public, through its
extensive branch network.
An attractive income return of 6.4
percent can now be obtained from the
50 cent shares selling at 78 cents to
show an earnings yield of 12.9 percent.
After several years of prudence, a more
generous attitude’to dividends could be
eventually expected if profits continue
to be as sound as those just turned in.
June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Working profit 5000 4640 3888 4278 4482 5448
Depreciation $OOO 205 213 212 221 291
Tax $OOO 1889 1574 1781 1852 2166
Net profit $OOO 2546 2101 2285 2409 2991
Net outstanding $m 132.3 139.2 138 6 141.6 147.0
Short term debt $m 33.5 43.6 31.7 34.3 39.9
Long term debt $m 80.8 76 7 87.1 82.1 83.2
Earning rate p.c. 18.2 15 0 16.3 16.6 20.1
Dividend rate p.c. 15 15 12V2 10 10
Earning rate on total
funds 2.5 2.2 2.2 2.3 2.8
Dividend yield (a) 7.0 6.4 6.8 7.2 6.4
Earnings yield (a) 11.9 15 6 11.0 8 3 7.7
High price (b) 1.41 1.30 1.42 83 86
Low price (b) 96 1.00 80 51 83
(a) End of month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1966 to date.


mm
SPACE SAVER
DATA PROTECTOR
I
r
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier)
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 2 Wentworth Ave., Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
Please have one of your representatives contact
me to further explain how 3M microfilm could
help solve my company’s filing problems.
NAME
COMPANY
ADDRESS
State.
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS
look TO 3M for imagination in image making
3m
That's a 3M Microfilm System
SPACE SAVER: By reducing your records into microfilm cartridges,
you actually save 96% of your present filing space.
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier): Any one document stored in 3M
cartridges can be retrieved and viewed within 20 seconds. Another
4 seconds and you can have a full size dry copy ready for use.
DATA PROTECTOR: Store a duplicate microfilm file off the pre-
mises for protection against fire, carelessness, theft.
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS: Discover how easily
and economically you can win the paper work battle by using the
3M microfilm cartridge system. Send the coupon today and 3M
will contact you.
MICROFILM WORKSHOP: Sydney 43-0455, Melbourne 61-3841, Brisbane 5-4131,
Adelaide 51-5971, Perth 28-4651, Hobart 3-3104, Canberra 4-0791, Auckland 295-109
3M9/3003/66


Consolidated Milk Industries Ltd.
146-148 George Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
1966 ANNUAL MEETING
Address given to members by the Chairman of Directors at the Forty-sixth Annual
Ordinary General Meeting of the Company, held at the Lecture Hall, Federation House,
166-168 Phillip Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 30th August, 1966.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Whilst the Directors’ Report covers the financial statements submitted, a review of the
trading operations for the period will prove informative.
During the year the Company encountered intensive price competition in the Ice Cream
Industry arising out of the rapid development of Ice Cream sales through supermarkets, and in-
creased competition from Companies operating Interstate. This position was mentioned last year
and has been further accentuated during the current year; consequently in order to maintain
gallonage there has been a reduction in earnings.
The Milk Condenseries were seriously handicapped by reduced intake in the early part of
the year due to the drought. Although beneficial rains were experienced during the summer
it was some months before production was reinstated to a normal level. The Company was not
in a position to take advantage of the ready market available for Milk Products because of re-
duced intake. However, current seasonal conditions are encouraging and with good rains in
the early spring a satisfactory year is expected. There is a world shortage of Milk Products which
the Company manufactures, and the present satisfactory prices are expected to be maintained
throughout the current year.
The N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice Pty. Limited has been subject to increased operating expenses
during the year and the relief given as the result of the N.S.W. Milk Board Inquiry is considered
unsatisfactory in view of the facts placed before it, particularly the recent Basic Wage determi-
nation and other known increases since the Inquiry.
The operation of the Cold Storage Company during the year was satisfactory and the
Company was able to take full advantage of the increased demand for cold storage facilities by
modernising equipment for handling export products.
Peters Ice Cream (S.A.) Pty. Limited has functioned successfully and is now well established
in the distribution of ice cream and frozen foods despite keen local and interstate competition.
The installation of new equipment in recent years for the manufacture of Ice Cream Cones
has resulted in the Company enjoying a large portion of the market. The demand is due in no
small measure to the quality of the product being produced.
The Nizer Refrigeration Company has expanded its production in regard to Commercial
and Farm Refrigeration which demand is constantly increasing.
The increase in Bank Accommodation has been more than offset by increased Stock and
Debtors in addition to Capital Expenditure for the year amounting to $1,066,257. Customers
in drought affected areas required increased credit but the present tendency shows a satisfac-
tory reduction in most areas due to improved conditions.
Foremost Dairies, Inc. of San Francisco, have exercised their final option which together
with the issue of 209,524 shares to T. A. Barrett Pty. Ltd., of Orange, accounts for the in-
crease in Issued Capital. There had previously been a close association with T. A. Barrett Pty.
Ltd. through distribution facilities and the purchase of the property and plant has consolidated
the production of ice cream and milk distribution in that area, and is expected to prove a
valuable adjunct to the Company.
During the year there has been a further satisfactory development in the Company’s
export markets principally for Butter Oil and Powdered Milk products. The area of the markets
has been extended and the Company is now exporting to thirteen countries. Every opportunity
is being taken to introduce new products which will prove of future advantage to the Com-
pany and additional products will be placed on the Australian market during the coming year.
In conclusion, it gives me pleasure to record the continued loyalty and efficiency of the
Executive and Staff, which has materially contributed to the results achieved.
Redfern,
A. E. McCARTNEY
30th August, 1966.
7
Chairman.


THEATRE DIRECTOR
Wellington, New Zealand.
Applications are invited for position of Direc-
tor of DOWNSTAGE THEATRE, a Profes-
sional company performing in its own theatre
52 weeks of the year. Two-year contract.
Starting salary £1,500 per annum. Director
will have responsibility for planning and
execution of programme and will undertake
some productions himself.
Apply: The Secretary,
Downstage Theatre Society,
P.O. Box 1503,
Wellington, New Zealand.
CANBERRA
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
requires in 1967:
1. SCIENCE MASTER to teach sth
and 6th Year Physics and Ad-
vanced Mathematics.
2. HISTORY MASTER to teach in
the senior school.
Apply in writing to the Headmaster,
Canberra Grammar School, Can-
berra, giving details of curriculum
vitae and names and addresses of
two referees.
SECURITY analysis
Some Building Stocks Now
Blue Metal Industries a good buy
THE sharemarket is behaving as
though the recent Budget was de-
flationary rather than inflationary,
and the Federal Treasurer has not
pointed to many areas where the Budget
would provide a strong stimulus.
Clearly, defence expenditure at home
will add a little stimulus to the build-
ing industry, and Mr. McMahon said
that dwelling construction would be
maintained and not allowed to sink into
a recession. I propose over the next six
weeks to examine a few New South
Wales based companies which might
stand to benefit from the existing state
of affairs. They are: Blue Metal Indus-
tries, Brickworks, Hunter Douglas,
PGH Industries, Pioneer Concrete Ser-
vices, and Wormald Bros. Industries.
The examination is also prompted by
the fact that at least three of these
companies Blue Metal Industries,
PGH Industries, and Pioneer Concrete
Services have had their ordinary
share price marked down quite sub-
stantially in recent weeks.
Blue Metal Industries, which will be
the subject of this article, must be one
of the oldest established companies in
the quarrying field, although it did not
make a serious attempt to enter the
pre-mixed concrete field until 1959-60.
In those days “pre-mixed concrete” was
called “ready mixed concrete”; there
was always some confusion with the
actual material and the name of the
largest and original company in this
field, now half owned by Blue Metal
Industries. In those days there were a
number of small operators in the pre-
mixed concrete field and there were
also a number of quarry masters supply-
ing material to them. It was always a
matter of judgment whether the pre-
mixed operators needed the quarry
masters more than the quarry masters
needed the pre-mixed concrete opera-
tors. We still do not know, because,
although Blue Metal Industries has
acquired a number of pre-mixed con-
crete operators, probably to have
assured outlets, Pioneer Concrete Ser-
vices, a pre-mixed concrete operator,
has acquired a number of quarries, pre-
sumably to assure supplies.
,r fODAY Blue Metal Industries sup-
plies a number of products in addi-
tion to aggregates. Its pre-mixed con-
crete operations cover the Sydney, New-
castle, and Wollongong areas as well as
extending into New South Wales coun-
try areas such as Dubbo, Wellington,
Parkes, Forbes, Cessnock, Singleton, and
Gosford. The acquisition of Melocco
Bros. Pty. Ltd. in 1960 gave Blue Metal
Industries an interest in marble and
terrazzo, which has since been extended
by the acquisitions of De Marco Bros,
and Charles Heath & Sons (both of
Melbourne), Loveridge & Hudson and
others in the Sydney area, and con-
trolling interests in South Coast Paving
& Terrazzo and Canberra Paving Ser-
vice. Also, in 1960, Clark Kilns
(N.S.W.) was acquired, and in 1962
this company’s productive capacity was
extended from about 16,000,000 face
bricks per annum at Moorebank to
about 33,000,000 bricks per annum by
the completion of a new modern kiln
at Prospect. Some further increase in
capacity occurred in 1964-65 when
Illawarra Fireclay and Brick Co. Ltd.
was acquired.
J>LUE METAL INDUSTRIES has
been a major supplier of bitumi-
nous mixes in the Sydney metropolitan
area for some time and in 1963 its sub-
sidiary, Bituminous Pavements, joined
forces with Dammann-Neuchatel. The
combined group now has a dominant
position in the Sydney area and its
operations extend north and south of
Sydney to Newcastle and Wollongong.
It is perhaps to be expected that, dur-
ing a period of rapid expansion and
development, earnings per share are
rather static and there is no doubt
that Blue Metal Industries has a static
record since 1960-61. After making
several adjustments in respect of doubt-
ful debts and staff benefits, and treating
the Mascot runway loss as non-recurring
with appropriate adjustments for tax,
the record of earnings per share appears
as under:
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Cents 14 3 12 9 12 6 14 4 12 9
Average market price 2.01 2.26 2.05 2.43 1.84
Price earnings
multiple 14.1 17.5 16.3 16.9 14.3
There is every possibility that the
present price of about $1.50 (which
shows a price-earnings multiple of only
11.7) represents the market concern
about the eventual outcome of this par-
ticular contract. The contract itself was
completed last October, but there has
been no news about the claim which
the company has made for compen-
sation. On the face of it, there should
be an excellent chance of a substantial
recovery, for it would seem that the
loss was outside the company’s control.
Unfortunately, the announcement of
this loss was made at the same time
as another loss on a contract to supply
the Wollongong Council was disclosed.
On the information that is available,
Blue Metal Industries should be about
to stage a recovery, since its brick-
making operation will benefit from the
upturn in home building activity which
now seems to be taking place, as will
its timber merchant subsidiary,
Thatcher & Oberg. It is perhaps im-
portant to remember that each cottage
built requires a few tons of aggregate
and a block of flats would need con-
siderably more than its equivalent in
cottages.
There is good reason to believe that
the rate of road construction will in-
crease in the coming year, for not only
have the allocations been increased but
also the emphasis is likely to swing
from bridge construction to road con-
struction. In about a month or so the
preliminary profit announcement for
1965-66 will be made and the annual
report should be available toward the
end of October. In view of the fact that
the Mascot contract did not finish until
well into the current year, and the
Wollongong contract would have con-
tinued throughout the year, any attempt
to estimate the year’s result would be
foolhardy. Perhaps one would guess that
earnings per share will not be less than
eleven cents nor more than thirteen
cents.
With the shares currently selling at
near to their lowest point for the past
five years and with prospects at least
as good as they have ever been, it
seems that the present is an appropri-
ate time to buy. Even if earnings are
only eleven cents per share, the cur-
rent price of about $1.50 is under
fourteen times that amount.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES ($’000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 5996 6188 7400 8586 10130
Current liabilities 4312 5210 5958 6122 9806
Net working capital 1684 978 1442 2464 324
Fixed assets 9682 11876 13126 14336 15654
Investments 162 1370 1396 1528 24870
Intangibles 14 — 152 140 144
Total capital 11542 14224 16116 18468 40992
Represented by:
Loan capital 274 372 1194 1938 4214
Minority interests 146 304 326 636 630
Long-term provisions 244 282 264 616 694
Ordinary capital 6556 7102 7192 7192 11380
Reserves 4322 6164 7140 8086 24074
PROFIT STATEMENTS SUMMARIES ($’000)
Depreciation 1014 1234 1282 1456 1668
Tax provided 1224 1140 1166 1452 1074
Provision for
doubtful debts n.a. 18 52 74 102
Provision for staff
superannuation 8< long
service leave n.a. 30 136 8 16
Earnings 1670 1862 1908 2120 2614
Ordinary dividends 866 1050 1078 1078 1706
Earning rate % 31.6 26.2 26.5 29.5 23.0
Dividend rate % 15.0 15.0 15.0 15 0 15.0
Dividend yield % 3 7 3 3 3 7 3 1 4,1
High price 2 31 2 68 2 25 2 72 2.29
Low price 1.72 1 85 1 85 2.15 1.40


a great moment
for all
whisky
drinkers
Connoisseurs are aware of the vital part grain plays in pro-
ducing a fine, smooth whisky. Australian barley, grown
under ideal climatic conditions, has reached such high
quality that it is now recognised internationally for its
superb whisky-producing qualities. This is important for
Australia; it is important for the entire Australian Whisky
industry. For the first time our modern distilleries, with
their highly skilled blenders and strict quality controls, are
now able to create smooth, matured whiskies of truly
unique character.
This is the era when Australian Whisky has achieved full
international recognition—so much so that it is being
sought in increasing quantities by overseas countries.
Connoisseurs are already celebrating this new era. Why
not join in and enjoy a nip or two tonight? You'll be
pleasantly surprised.
\s
-.V ' lit i.oS
v\\\\
Mm
TRAVEL
By Air to New Caledonia
NOW that Qantas and UTA, the
French national airline, have
buried the hatchet over their New
Caledonia flight disagreements, this
French Pacific dependency should be-
come an important tourist attraction
for Australians.
Plagued for some years by inade-
quate air services due to disagreements
between Qantas and Air France-UTA
(or by their respective government
owners), the New Caledonian tourist
industry grew only slowly. Two new
hotels, the Chateau Royal Hotel and
the Nouvata Hotel, in the dependency,
needed tourists to make them pay.
While UTA and Qantas fought their
protracted quarrel over air services,
New Caledonian tourist interests
decided to ask Air - India to serve
Noumea. Air-India would have gladly
operated to Noumea but it was not
prepared to do so at the risk of losing
its Paris rights if the French Govern-
ment counter-attacked. Pressure for
Air-India to land at Noumea arose late
in July. It was sparked by criticism
from UTA, published in the New Cale-
donian tourism interests urged that Air-
“lack of co-operation” in developing
traffic on the Sydney-Noumea run.
UTA declared that the then existing
air sei'vice between Sydney and
Noumea was insufficient. This harmed
the island’s tourist industry and
hindered its growth to its rightful place
as the second-biggest industry. UTA
criticised the Australian Government
for its failure to respond to requests
for a joint French-Australian investi-
gation of means of expanding traffic
on the route. This was not published
in Australia, but the Australian Consul
in New Caledonia, Mr. lan Nicholson,
came to his Government’s defence.
JJE said he had tried to put UTA’s
case before the Australian Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation. Australia had
never been asked to increase Sydney-
Noumea regional flights, but rather to
grant UTA an extra weekly touchdown
in Sydney on its round-world services.
This request had been conveyed to the
Government.
Putting their weight behind UTA’s
complaint, a meeting of New Cale-
donian tourism interests urged that Air-
India be offered the right to add
Noumea to its network. Speakers told
the meeting that Australia constituted
a potentially vast market in tourism for
New Caledonia. They criticised Qantas
for refusing to allow expansion of ser-
vices, which the meeting was told was
needed to fill both the island’s major
new hotels.
The Chateau Royal Hotel threatened
not to open unless travel facilities to
Noumea were widened. The meeting
decided to press through the French
High Commissioner and the Territorial
Assembly for Air-India to call at
Noumea on its weekly Sydney-Suva-
Sydney service.
If nothing else could, this decided
Qantas and UTA to close ranks. The
result is that, instead of the fortnightly
service by each airline, Qantas and
UTA are, from last month, now oper-
ating a joint service, UTA leaving Syd-
ney by DCB every Wednesday, and
Qantas by Boeing 707 every Friday.
As one Qantas publicity man said
recently, it is hard to find seats for
the airline’s own publicity team.
The public now has a wide choice
of inexpensive tours to Noumea and
these are being well patronised. It is
obvious that neither Qantas nor UTA
gained any benefits from their past
quarrels. Both are now burying the
hatchet while enjoying their newly dis-
covered prosperity on this route.


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
MR. R. S. TURNER
(Incorporated in South Australia)
Chairman’s Address at the
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
held on Tuesday, 30th August, 1966
The Directors’ Report and the Balance Sheet
as at 30th June 1966 and supporting accounts
of the Company, and the consolidated state-
ments of the F.C.A. Group circulated to
Shareholders, have already notified them of the
satisfactory results achieved for the past year.
The consolidated net profit, after deducting
minority shareholders’ interests, and after pro-
viding for income tax, was $1,226,533. The
profit disclosed for the previous year was
$1,027,842.
Net outstandings of the Group—i.e. after
deducting unearned income—rose by 8.6%
over the past year to $74,600,803. Unearned
income included in certain types of transactions
amounted to $26,915,461, or 32.5% of the
relevant outstandings.
The major part of the business undertaken by
the Group continues to be loans secured by
mortgage on real estate. Of the total net out-
standings, 86% are in this category. Leasing
contracts represent 10%, hire purchase 2%
and personal loans 2% of the total.
Leasing transactions are becoming an increas-
ingly important phase of the business, and are
being expanded because the Directors consider
that leasing as a method of finance will con-
tinue its growth in conformity with overseas
patterns. Our subsidiary company—F.C.A.
Leasing Limited had outstandings of
$9,474,316 at 30th June 1966—an increase of
38.7% over the year.
The minority interests of this Company were
acquired in June 1966 from Greyhound
Leasing and Financial Corporation of San
Francisco, U.S.A., and Australian United
Corporation Limited. I am happy to report
that our association with the two vendors will
continue. We acknowledge the benefit which
our Group has had from the experience of
these two companies.
The contingency and doubtful debts reserve,
which is not treated as part of the Sharholders’
Funds but is deducted from outstandings in
the current assets, had a balance of $630,000
at 30th June 1966. Your Directors consider
this reserve adequate for any losses which may
be incurred in the future in respect of debtors
at 30th June 1966. The reserve was $BOO,OOO
last year, and a provision of $20,000 was made
in a subsidiary company, F.C.A. Leasing
Limited, this year. The reserve was used to
the extent of $190,000 to write off part of the
loss incurred by the parent company on loans
to Kosciusko Chalet Limited. The balance of
the loss on this bad debt was written off in the
profit and loss account for the year under
review.
Receivers appointed by our Company sold all
the assets of Kosciusko Chalets Limited late
in the year. The proceeds covered only part
of the debt due to our Company, and the
amounts written off have cleared the account
from our books.
During the year, the Company’s eighth
consecutive issue of 1,000,000 ordinary shares
of $l.OO each at par was made to Shareholders.
This issue was paid up to 50 cents per share,
and the balance is due to be paid on Ist
December 1966.
Paid up capital at 30th June 1966 was
$7,522,775. Reserves and retained profits at
that date, which are all used in the Companies’
business, totalled $3,091,010, (an increase of
$559,026 during the year). Group Share-
holders’ Funds now appear in the consolidated
balance sheet at $10,618,617, which includes
$4,832 paid in advance in respect of the instal-
ment on ordinary shares due Ist December
1966.
The dividend has been maintained at 10% per
annum—the rate which has been paid in every
year since the Company was incorporated.
The year’s dividend payment, inclusive of the
interim dividend paid, will amount to
$683,892, from profits which represent an
earning rate of 18% on the average capital
paid up for the year.
The number of Stockholders and Shareholders
has grown to 1,641, and for their convenience
Registers are maintained in all mainland
capital cities.
Our largest Shareholder, The Bank of Adelaide,
which owns 40% of the issued ordinary capital,
continues to give the Company invaluable
assistance.
We are pleased to acknowledge the continued
support of individual and institutional inves-
tors, and sharebrokers throughout Australia in
the subscription of debenture moneys. At 30th
June, 1966 our debenture holders numbered
15,830, an increase of almost 25% over the
corresponding figure a year ago.
The current debenture issue of $2,000,000,
which opened on 18th May 1966, filled
quickly and over-subscriptions accepted to
date have taken the total issue beyond
$3,500,000. The wide range of maturities—
3, 6, 9 and 12 months in the short term and
2,3, 6 and 9 years in the medium term sectors
—and the attractive rates of interest offered,
have contributed to the success of the issue.
Total debentures issued and outstanding at
30th June 1966 amounted to $56,907,500.
As a matter of policy, since the re-introduction
of short term debenture issues, your Directors
have been restricting the amounts which will
be accepted on deposit.
The Company continues to maintain a high
degree of liquidity, and available funds in bank
balances. Commonwealth Government Stock,
deposits and other investments at 30th June
1966 exceeded $6,200,000.
Despite keen competition, a satisfactory
volume of business has been transacted in the
past year in the five mainland States, and the
Australian Capital Territory. At present there
is evidence of a great demand for money, but
your Directors’ policy in the current year will
be one of consolidation, rather than of
spectacular growth. Satisfactory profits should
continue to be earned by the Group.
Sir Edward Hayward and Mr. C. J. Glover
retire from their office as Directors this year.
Both are eligible for re-election and offer
themselves accordingly.
I wish to conclude with some special references
to management and staff. Last month your
Company suffered a great loss in the death of
Mr. K. C. Collins, who was our first repre-
sentative appointed in Victoria, and our senior
executive in that State. His contribution to
management in several specific tasks—includ-
ing assignments overseas—-had been invaluable.
He will long be remembered as the author of
“The Collins’ Factors”, a system officially
recognised and adopted by members of the
Australian Finance Conference with the
approval of The Institute of Chartered
Accountants in Australia, for calculating with
actuarial accuracy earned income on longer
term instalment contracts, where the use of
“The Rule of 78” produced results which
which were not sufficiently accurate. Your
Directors and Management have lost a valued
colleague, and an esteemed friend.
Mr. A. C. Noble, who has been General
Manager of this Company since its inception
more than eleven years ago, has expressed a
wish to retire for health reasons, following a
serious illness which he suffered several months
ago. It is with sincere regret that your Directors
have acceded to his request. Although Mr.
Noble’s resignation will not take effect until
31st December 1966, it is appropriate that this
opportunity should be taken to make the
announcement to Shareholders and to pay a
tribute to Mr. Noble’s work as the Company’s
Chief Executive.
Our General Manager undertook the task in
1955 of organising a new business with a staff
which had had little experience in an industry
in which fortunately, he had spent most of his
working life. In the early years, operations
were confined to South Australia, and growth
was gradual. In 1958-59 the Company com-
menced business in New South Wales and
Victoria. By this time Mr. Noble had selected
key staff' capable of transacting a much wider
range of business than had been contemplated
at the foundation of the Company. Other
Branches were soon opened, and in the ’sixties
the Company has achieved a somewhat
spectacular growth both in volume of business
transacted, and profitability.
To Mr. Noble must go much of the credit for
the foundations of the Company’s success.
Perhaps one of his finest achievements has
been the building of a virile, keen executive
group throughout Head Office and all the
Branches—a team on which both he and your
Directors can confidently rely to continue the
successful management of our business.
On your behalf, I express our thanks to Mr.
Noble for his leadership over the past decade,
and we wish him improved health with
which to enjoy a more leisurely way of life
when he enters on his retirement in 1967.
To our Assistant General Manager, Mr. K. W
Adcock, and our key executives at Head Office
and in the Branches, and to all members of the
Staff, I also express the thanks of the Directors,
and, I am sure, of the Shareholders, for their
efforts which have produced another satis-
factory result in the year which we have
reviewed today.
30th August, 1966
R. S. TURNER
Chairman o f Directors


.
n
\
LOOK
THE ARD 52-
CROSSBAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
Features: Any extension can be nominated as “operator”
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other • Outside calls dialled direct by
extension • Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
■
m
r.K
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD, FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
MAN ON THE LAND
Spending Extension Grants
THE wrangle over the spending of
the Federal Government agricul-
tural extension grants has reached
a stage where a completely satisfactory
solution seems beyond hope. It is a
great shame, but perhaps only to be
expected. Perhaps we should not look
for the completely satisfactory result.
Any government plan, whether it is
a medical scheme, an Opera House,
or what have you, is bound to create
argument.
The important thing is not to lose
sight of the basic need for improved
extension in agriculture. The need does
exist and the grants must help. Our
personal view is on the side of the
school of whole-farm economic man-
agement. We agree with those people
who assert that the need is greatest
in this sphere. We are not sure, how-
ever, that this is how the bulk of the
money will be spent or whether it
will get even an adequate share.
The unfortunate fact is that, as the
argument rages, the ultimate decision
must become more a politician’s deci-
sion than a farming, scientific, or
econometric decision. (Perhaps we
should ask Nikita Khrushchev to visit
Australia to help sort it out. With time
on his hands he might have come to
some interesting conclusions as to the
reasons why farm programs have a
habit of bogging down.)
In the long run, any politician,
whether Federal or State, will consider
the extension grants in terms of jobs
for the increasing number of graduates
coming out of the universities. There
is supposed to be a great shortage of
scientists in agriculture. There is and
there isn’t. Veterinary graduates are a
case in point. Surveys have shown that
the majority, as students, would prefer
to devote themselves to the serious
side of the profession in genuine farm
livestock practice.
But what happens when they gradu-
ate? A great number, perhaps even the
majority, go into dog and cat practice
in the suburbs because that is where
the money is. It may be satisfying, up
to a point, but it is hardly serious
work.
Graduates in agricultural science, in
the main, go into the Departments of
Agriculture, where they have to accept
the usual Public Service rule a long,
hard road to advancement. For the
brilliant there is the CSIRO, where, to-
day, it is pretty well automatic that
a Ph.D. is needed to get in the door,
This results in Department versus
CSIRO rivalry, with the charge being
made that the CSIRO is developing
into an academic arena for takers of
degrees.
Many of the best students leave Aus-
tralia for overseas posts and never come
back.
What all this means, in the political
sense, is that the department or
organisation which can show that it can
spend-the extension money to best meet
the demands of the graduates is likely
to get the biggest share. Whether it i s
best for farming generally is rather be-
side the point. The belief that it does
not matter too much which way the
money goes, because it is good for
farming and is therefore "in the
national interest (whatever that is), i s
something the politician can comfort
himself with particularly if he is
Country Party.
So it now becomes, in a very real
sense, a contest to see which depart-
ment or organisation can put up the
best case to the politicians. The exten-
sion grants have already cost the
Federal Government (the taxpayer, that
is) $1,400,000, and by 1970 this will
have risen to $5,400,000. In each State
the money is being spent in different
ways, and in no State is there agree-
ment that it is being spent the right
way.
In Victoria the president of the
Graziers’ Association, Mr. J. A. Rus-
sell, has said that he has no enthusiasm
for the proposal to develop the agricul-
tural extension branch of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture into a division at
this stage. He has said that the “re-
wards would be greater and more
quickly achieved if extension is directed
to existing divisions for regional re-
search and practical application through
trials of the various techniques already
known to local farmers.”
H E has called for a more “realistic
approach” to research generally
and has indicated that applied regional
research deserves “absolute priority.”
Too much money is going on the
development of new techniques, he says,
and too little on their economic appli-
cation.
Mr. Russell has got qualified support
from the Australian Institute of Agri-
cultural Science, which is powerful
backing indeed. Naturally the Depart-
ment of Agriculture is anxious to prove
to the world that what it is doing is
best and that the new division of exten-
sion will be just what farmers need.
Only rarely does one hear anyone,
usually a farmer who is branded a
reactionary, question the need for the
Government to be in extension at all.
No one wants to hand the money back.
We admit that this is a reactionary
view. Nevertheless, there is some point
to it. It can hardly be denied that pri-
vate enterprise has been quick to take
up, and develop, any scientific break-


CLASSES FOR ADULTS
IN SYDNEY
Sixty-three new classes arranged by
the University of Sydney’s Department
of Adult Education and the W.E.A.
commence on 12th September.
CURRENT AFFAIRS
POPULAR CULTURE
MUSIC, FILM, AND
THEATRE APPRECIATION
LITERATURE
UNDERSTANDING MEDIA
AND MANY OTHERS
FREE SYLLABUS AVAILABLE
W.E.A., 52 Margaret St., Sydney
29-2222
The man
who leaves no will
may be
leaving trouble
How many people think about making a Will? Almost everyone,
at one time or another. And how many die intestate? Their
assets are sold up, often on an unfavourable market, and the
proceeds distributed to a regulation set of beneficiaries as
laid down by the Laws of Intestacy . . . often with unpleasant
results. Is this what you would want for your family?
It’s so easy to give your family the final protection of a
Will. Don't hesitate—call the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company.
They’ll help you to plan your Estate, and then have a Will
drawn up by your Solicitor that precisely expresses your
wishes.
But—why a Trustee Company? Because if you appoint
the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company to be your executor, you
have the services of a friendly, experienced, reliable adminis-
trator. Union-Fidelity gives you what no individual can . . .
security and continuity of service.
Call Union-Fidelity right away. Or send this coupon for
free booklet, "When Making a Will”.
UNION-FIDELITY
tbustcc
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT, GEELONG, HAMILTON, TRARALGON, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ALBURY, CANBERRA,
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, CAIRNS AND CHARLEVILLE
100 Exhibition Street, Melbourne
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
I would, appreciate a complimentary copy of your “When Making a
Will” Booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
UT50.102N
through which has immediate practical
application.
This viewpoint does not, we think,
really minimise the need for extension.
Rather it does support the view that
the greatest need for extension is in the
intangible area of whole-farm econo-
mics. This is the area in which the
private consultants are making great
headway and the fact that they are
private naturally arouses some hostility
in the departments (and the CSIRO).
IAS in any profession, particularly a
1 new one, there is the risk of the
charlatan undoing a lot of good work.
But this is, we think, about as relevant
as saying that there are leadswingers in
government departments. We cannot
see the private consultants getting much
out of the extension grants. Private con-
sultants would like to be able to make
use of regional research establishments
just as doctors make use of hospital
facilities and this may come in time
if, and only if, there is a completely
new attitude shown by the departments.
It may be speeded up as department
men go out into private practice, with-
out rancor, and maintain personal con-
tact with department colleagues. We
say it may happen. We do not say it
will happen.
In the meantime the argument seems
likely to get worse. A new argument
not unrelated to extension is building
up in Victoria over the administration
of the new Veterinary Research Insti-
tute, which is one of the best in the
world. Since its inception it has been
administered by the University of
Melbourne. But the State Government
is now said to be considering taking
the administration away from the Uni-
versity and handing it over to the
Department of Agriculture. The
Government has a say all right a
$lOO,OOO say to be exact. It is by
no means a purely academic discussion.
Divisions on this question run deep.
In some circles the move is applauded,
in others it is regarded with deep mis-
givings. The students perhaps need
not worry too much. One way or an-
other they will get their jobs.
We feel rather sorry for students,
in most faculties, these days. No won-
der they have such a poor opinion of
their elders and exhibit this in such
weird behaviour. They become tax-
payers themselves in time and the
merry-go-round cranks on.


Finance Corporation
of A ustralia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
3
0
4
PER ANNUM 9 YEARS
0
2
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
0
0
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
6sr.
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6%
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
51%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
41%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form
referred to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of
application should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
. BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
FCN.2
AGRISEARCH
The Cause of III-thrift
“"¥TT TE believe that the majority of
W outbreaks of ill-thrift (among
young sheep) in South Austra-
lia are caused primarily, if not perhaps
always entirely, by E. ovis.” So write
D. Sheriff, K. H. Clapp, and Marjorie
A. Reid, of the Institute of Medical
and Veterinary Science, Adelaide.
Other scientists at the Institute and
Mr. M. F. Pulsford, the S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s Principal Veteri-
nary Research Officer, support this
view. If this is the case in South
Australia a similar situation probably
prevails in other States, for the disease
was first discovered a few years ago
in New South Wales. Unfortunately,
there is nothing that graziers can do
about it at present except to save time
effort, and money attempting to treat
the trouble as if it was due to inade-
quate nutrition or worms.
Eperythrozoon ovis was first identi-
fied only as recently as 1934, in South
Africa. Since then it has been found
afflicting sheep in Algeria, France, and
North America. In 1958, I. R. Little-
johns, at the Veterinary Research Sta-
tion, Glenfield, N.S.W., recognised the
organism in sheep on two adjacent
properties on the Southern Tablelands.
It is a blood parasite and very
elusive to study. In some ways it be-
haves like malaria in man. Thus, it
appears and disappears as its numbers
in the bloodstream wax and wane right
down to a few specimens over the
course of a couple of weeks. The cycle
may be repeated several times within
the space of eight weeks or so before
the animal either dies or recovers. By
the time a sheep is obviously failing to
thrive and appears sick, the organism
usually can’t be found in samples of
its blood.
rpo prove the parasite’s presence it is
necessary to take blood from the
unthrifty sheep and inject it into the
veins of other young sheep. A week
or so later the organism has multiplied
sufficiently in its new hosts to appear
in blood smears taken from them and
viewed under a microscope. Alter-
natively, blood samples can be taken
from several of the apparently healthy
flockmates. If the parasite is, in fact,
present among the sheep, chances are
that in one at least its population will
be at the high point at the time' of
testing. Even then, the blood samples
have to be handled carefully and
examined within 24 hours in the
laboratory, as the parasite easily be-
comes detached from the red blood
cells and clumps into unidentifiable
masses.
Diseased animals look like sheep
suffering from worms, or starvation, or
the lack of a certain vitamin or trace
element such as copper or cobalt.
They are anaemic, and hence lethargic,
pot-bellied, and generally unthrifty.
The death rate has been known to
reach 50 percent. If feed for the wean-
ers is plentiful and if they are not
simultaneously afflicted with worms or
other troubles, all may pull through
and gradually recover strength and
bodyweight. They are then immune
for life, but undoubtedly remain car-
riers of the parasite, which is passed
to the next season’s lambs probably by
some insect or another.
Twenty-six unthrifty lamb and
weaner flocks from Port Lincoln to
Mount Gambier, in South Australia,
have now been examined. E. ovis was
definitely seen in 16 of them. The
South Australian scientists are now try-
ing to work out a cheap, simple, and
reliable method of distinguishing the
disease from other forms of ill-thrift
so that farmers can take appropriate
action when beggary appears among
their young sheep.


Legal Notices
in the supreme court
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To- EDWARD GEORGE McMILLAN.
TAKE NOTICE that NOREEN MC-
MILLAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1005 of 1966 in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales
on the ground of Desertion, and seeks
Orders for Custody, Reservation to
apply for Maintenance, and Costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Euilding, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 10th
day of October, 1966. You may obtain
a copy of the Petition, without charge,
from Messrs. S. T. Hodge & Co., 4
Castlereagh St., Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: FRANCIS JOSEPH COMERFORD.
TAKE NOTICE that MAUREEN
CLARE COMERFORD has filed a
Petition No. 2124 of 1966 for Divorce
on the grounds of Drunkenness and
seeks Orders for Custody, Maintenance,
Property Settlement and Costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 6th
day of October, 1966, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from J. P. White, the Public Solicitor’s
Office, 55 Market Street, Sydney. C.
A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To: BERNARD COWAN. TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN PHILLIPS
COWAN has filed a petition for divorce
No. 2005 of 1966 on the grounds of
separation and cruelty notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out
in a discretion statement filed by her
and seeks an order for co.sts. If you
wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
19t|h day of October, 1966, and obtain
a copy of t|he Petition without charge
from MAURICE' J. McGRATH of 56
Hunter Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. M.C. 155 of 1966.
BETWEEN GAIL DARYL CREELY
Petitioner and MALCOLM JOHN
CREELY Respondent.
TO: MALCOLM JOHN CREELY form-
erly of Derwent Avenue, Lindisfarne in
Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE that Gail
Daryl Creely has filed a divorce peti-
tion against you on the ground of
desertion. Included in this petition
are claims for custody, maintenance
and costs. AND 1 TAKE NOTICE that
if you intend to defend the petition
you must file an answer within 28 days
of the publication of this notice at
the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart
from which address further informa-
tion can be obtained otherwise the
Court may hear and determine the
proceedings in your absence. DATED
this 22nd day of August, 1966. (Signed)
C. Brettingham-Moore REGISTRAR.
IN THE SUPREME C OURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: VIVIAN BRUCE STANTON.
TAKE NOTICE that DORIS MAY
STANTON has filed, a Petition No.
2684 of 1985 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion and seeks orders
for Maintenance, Settlement of Prop-
erty, Expedited Hearing and Costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
10th day of October, 1966, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without c.harge
from A. G. Knox, Solicitor, of 55
Market Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: CHARLES JOHN HERBERT.
TAKE NOTICE that LILLIAN IRENE
HERBERT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1404 of 1966 on the ground s
of Cruelty and seeks Orders for
Custody Maintenance and Costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 19th October, 1966, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from C. P. Dignam, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A.
H. HARMS, Registrar.
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend ito change
their addresses are asked to notify
THE BULLETIN Subscription De-
partment well in advance in order to
avoid a break in the continuity of
service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.
"The Bulletin" Crossword
NUMBER 915
ACROSS
1. Let off in honor of Guy Fawkes, it’s crazy
for biscuits. (8)
4. Listens for “Shark!” somewhat confusedly.
(5)
9. Used some purchase when given leadership
just about always. (7)
11. English post-office like this musical direction
with circumstantial associations. (7)
12. Wagnerian is no chicken, he carelessly
finishes. (6)
13. How’s the Idriess autobiog-
raphy hardly a satisfactory
prelude to kissing? (5)
15. Cheeky off Southampton. (8)
16. Hutton goes to double figures
fast, relatively speaking. (6)
18. Rough timber junk. (6)
19. Hun cloth is cut for anything
but cold comfort midday. (3,
5 )
21. Fast with love having some
aroma. (5)
22... . the piper’s son, but not a
piper’s instrument. (3-3)
24. I met Poe to get an abridge-
ment. (7)
26. Cure for piano-thumpers? (7)
27. Kisses of the perfunctory meas-
ures of Gregory. (5)
28. Scrambled egg is for French-
men. (8)
DOWN
1. Eurasians overhead at 90
degrees north or south? (9,
5 )
2. Apres-midi d’un Meggs. (4)
3. Reeking of the Russian version
of 21-across. (8)
5. One in the morning ? What’s
the purpose to be achieved?
(3) t
6. A king mount kicked the
Nationalist force of the celes-
tials. (10)
7. The birthday present is too
much for this war-ravaged
Belgian city. (5)
8. Blue tips which have received
much pluck. (4, 2,3, '))
10. Listener I misrepresented has
springiness. (9)
13. Pretends not to see b owling
features.. (9)
14. Wanderer is drunk and mother
joins high society. (10)
17. Legislator who is not so rare..
(8)
20. It can put one under then? for
a change. (5)
23. Wild ride for a German Brio.
(4)
25. Approval about a fine mate.rial
for barrels. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 914


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(Niew Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Wool worths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
3/00 Orchard Road, Singapore, 9.
Oiir freight:
'i6 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London,
surface mail:
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
'229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
CRANBROOK SCHOOL
Victoria Road,
BELLEVUE HILL, N.S.W.
ADDITIONAL School Masters
required for 1967.
Positions will be available for
experienced and well qualified
teachers of:
MATHEMATICS (2)
FRENCH (1)
ENGLISH (1)
LATIN/ANCIENT HISTORY (1)
ECONOMICS/COMMERCE (1)
From Ist January, 1987.
Applications in writing should be
made to the Headmaster.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
An Answer to a Critic
THE following extract is from an article written some six weeks back by a
local financial writer: “If we are going to get even a moderate inflation,
this would be the time to forget the meagre yields now offering on blue-chip
stocks, I mean recession-proof stocks with a growth potential, and fill one’s
stocking with them. You might do better doing this than, say, following
Speculator’s Diary.”
Whether justified or not, most people
don’'t like to be criticised, and I’m no
exception. Still, this should not be
grounds for retaliation, so I managed
to control my initial feelings.
Six weeks may not be a very long
time, but there has been reasonable
movement in the market in this period.
IFm naturally at a bit of a loss to un-
derstand what is a blue-chip stock.
So, to be on the safe side, I’ll settle on
our largest companies in compiling a
list of blue chips.
“BLUE CHIP” PORTFOLIO
July 6 Aug. 31
Ampol 68 68
A. 5.74 5 54
B. 6 26 6 02
British Tobacco 2 38 2 18
Bank of N.S.W.. 5.36 4.94
G. J. Coles 1.29 1 31
C. 2.97 2.77
Dunlop 1 26 1.23
1.C.1. 3 86 3 66
Myers 3.25 2.94
Woolworths 1.31 1 26
Out of iche above 11 stocks only one
rose, and this was only a fractional
rise.
“SPECULATOR” PORTFOLIO
July 6 Aug. 31
Fire Fightin-g .71 .71
Westralian .38 .50
Comeng 1 08 1.10
Deposit & Investment 24 .32
Kathleen Inv., new 2.10 2.15
A. G. Campbell 2.90 2.95
Steel Mills .80 .80
Advance In dustries .58 .57
McDowells .80 .83
O'Donnell Griffin 130 1.25
Tennyson Textiles .79 .75
A.M.I. .48 .54
T.N.T. 1 58 1 23
Western Mining 5.00 5.30
Philip Morris 7.06 7.20
Out of the above 15 stocks, nine
stocks rose in the period.
Let us now return to the quotation.
The performance of the blue-chip port-
folio would not qualify it being de-
scribed as recession proof. In fact, this
portfolio showed a five percent fall in
a period when the industrial index de-
clined by three percent. With a four
percent rise, the Speculator portfolio
could more aptly be described as re-
cession proof.
ir pHE weekly newsletter of a leading
New York stockbroker this week
also had some interesting comments on
blue-chip stocks. To quote: “As we have
observed repeatedly, the principal vic-
tims in this comedy of errors (the U.S.
Administration’s handling of the
economy) are the old-line stable blue-
chip stocks whose market value are
directly tied to interest rate.”
Our New York friend makes more
practical sense than our local man. It
does irritate me seeing those age-worn
cliches “blue chips” and “recession
proof” being used. It is this very
negative attitude of “you can’t go
wrong with the old-established com-
pany” that has caused so many dis-
appointments in the past few years.
On this business of being positive, I
should be looking at some of our
stocks that have suffered pretty abrupt
falls in the past week. Industrial stocks
like Ansett, Australian and Kandos
Cement, and Petersville, and mining
stocks like Kathleen Investments and
King Island Scheelite.
A difficult choice, but I finally
settled on Petersville. Steady at 65 cents
only a few weeks ago, the price i s
now 59 cents. In February, the interim
report told of a “substantial” increase
in sales and profits. If there was a
cloud on the horizon at that stage it
was that it didn’t contain rain.
Put another way, the only major
unknown was the drought. With this
broken, and the final figures shortly
to be published, the shares should be
in a good buying position, particularly
with McGooley now helping to sell
peas and puffs.
The sales of Waltons and A. G.
Sims were motivated by the usual
need money. Both were sold at close
to their purchase prices, but, because
of the element of brokerage, a total
loss of $44 was incurred.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 Waltons, new 1.11 $544
500 A. G. Sims .71 $348
BOUGHT
500 Petersville .59 $302
Just managed to scrape through the
week with a $l7 credit.
Cost
No. of Name of Date per Price
Shares Company Bought share 24/8/66
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.12
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 3.00
500 Tennyson 7/6/66 0.78 0.76
500 AMI 14/6/66 0.42 0.48
1000 Emperor Gold 12/7/66 0.55 0.58
600 Peko Watlsend 19/7/66 2.40 2.47
500 Woodside 27/7/66 0.81 0.95
400 West Titanium ctg. 2/8/66 1.30 1.35
500 Steel Milts 3/8/66 0.72 0.75
200 Mt. Isa 9/8/66 4.70 ‘4.25
400 GMK 10/8/66 1.20 1.30
200 Borg Warner 15/8/66 1.70 1.85
200 MKU 17/8/66 3.00 3.00
1000 Planet 24/8/66 .40 .36
500 Petersville 30/8/66 .59 .59


JOBSON'S
great "TRIO"
He Complete Reference Libmry for
USINESSMEN, INVESTORS, MANUFACTURERS, AGENCIES
ssa wfo
MINING YEAR BOOK
1966
JOBSON'S
MINING
YEAR BOOK
Price $6.35
POST PAID
THE 1966 edition, published in May, provides the mow
comprehensive coverage of the booming mining »nd oil
prospecting industries. Each public company is covered in
considerable detail. The information mcludes (where applic-
able) production, profits, dividends, share prices for the last
live years; details of leases, ore reserves; drilling results; maior
developments, ett;. There is also an authoritative review of
ill maior sectors of the mining industry, a detailed examina-
non of export potential and mineral price trends. Other major
tores include a list of mineral producers according to the
minerals produced (including many non-public companies),
i nd the exclusive Directory of Directors which lists every
director according to the boards on which he sits. Ae abeolete
mm for those investing la, baying from, or aelllng to Ike
mining snd oil exploration industry.
'YEARBOOK
t#66
JOBSON'S
YEAR
BOOK 1966
Price $13.50
POST PAID
FIRST published in 1970, Jobson's Year Book of Public Com*
panics is Australia's premier financial and investment reference
book. It lists every public compuny listed on the Stock Eschunges
of Australia and New Zealand .as well as many other important com-
panies. Details include the names of directors and other key per-
sonnel, capital structure, names of subsidiaries, history, capital
moves and a live-veer table showina profits, dividends, net asset
backing, shure prices, etc. An exclusive feature of the book it the
directory of Directors, which lists some 7,000 individual directon
and shows each board on which they sit. The Year Book is a must
for all serious investors and also has countless applications through-
out commerce and industry as a quick credit guide, a top class
mailing and sales promotion and the most effective way of check-
ing your own performance against that of others engaged in similar
fields. Any businessman or Investor not In noose is ion of this book
b giving the tfeonannda of subscribers ■ dear start. No one can
afford this in today's competitive world.
GEST
sks
r
JOBSON'S
INVESTMENT
DIGEST
Price $9 for 12 month*
$4.50 for 6 month*
Poet paid. Airmail extra; *4.20 for
12 maatbs; s2.lt for ilx month*
FXSUNDF.D in 1920, Jobson's Investment Digest, published
twice t month, is Australia's oldest and most reliable
investment guide. For nearly half a century, it has kept its
subscribers reliably informed on share market trends and has
snabled them to keep well ahead of the market generally,
rhis does not happen' by chance. Jobson's team of highly
qualified analysts is backed by the most comprehensive invest-
ment research facilities in Australia as well as nearly two
generations of experience, gained under all possible market
situations—boom, depression and war included. Anyone can
make money from investments in a boom but you need
professional advice in times such as we have been experiencing
in the last two years. The table below proves that ibis service
Is obtainable from Jobeoa's Investment Digest at a tort which
is la the reach of even the smallest Investor.
JHf CHOICE IS YOURS! Jobson's offers a service to businessmen ami investors which has been favourably compand with similar services available
mywhen in the world. It provides information which is being tamed into profits in many different ways by thousands of satisfied subscribers
Can you afford to lot such an opportunity slip by when tbe cost is virtually negligible?
m
r
I — l
WHY DIG FOR FACTS LIKt THISt
WHIN AU THI INFORMATION IS in
JOBSON'S
r/if on/y ivay to judge the merits of an investment service is to test its performance under
li/liailt conditions. The share market has shown no real growth in more than two years
>ti Issue by issue, month by month, Jobson's Investment Digest has provided its readers
™ HPealed opportunities to participate in profitable investment situations. This list by no
mms covers all the profitable selections—it is designed to show the consistency with which
predictions have been made. Furthermore, wt do not merely select individual com-
panies but also industry trends. Jobson's was the first to predict (In September, 1964) that a
Wneml market downturn would take place and also gave its subscribers “
w.v warning of the boom In base metals, the boom and slump in sugar,
other major developments. ANY ONE OF THESE PREDIC-
JMS WOULD HAVE REPAID YOUR SUBSCRIPTION MANY
Tim OVER. YOU SIMPLY CANNOT AFFORD TO REMAIN IN
THr - DARK ANY LONGER
This photograph
shows i small sec-
tion of Jobson's ex-
tensive research
facilities. SUB-
SCRIBERS TO JOB-
SON'S INVESTMENT
DIGEST ARE INVITED
TO SUBMIT INDIVID-
UAI INVESTMENT IN-
QUIRIES OR PORT-
FOLIO REVIEWS AT
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
Here's PROOF of the Benefits of Subscribing to Jobson's
• Special Recommendation, t Takeover price.
SPECIAL
INTRODUCTORY
OFFER
THE COST Of SUBSCRIBING SEPARATE
LY TO JOBSONS INVESTMENT DIGEST
FOR TWELVE MONTHS AND TO THE I!)Gfi
EDITIONS OF THE YEAR BOOK Of PUBIIC
COMPANIES AND MINING YEAR BOOK
AMOUNTS ID S2B 75.
AS A SPECIAL COMBINED OfIER. THE
THREE PUBLICATIONS ARE BEING MADE
AVAILABLE AT 521.75 A SAVING OF
NEARIY 25 PER CENT! • THIS OFFER IS
ALSO AVAILABLE TO LXISTING SUB
SCRIBERS.
POST THIS COUPON!
The Circulation Manager,
JOBSON’S FINANCIAL SERVICES PTY. LTD.,
“SHIPNEWS HOUSE,” cnr. Elisabeth and Hill Sts., North Sydney.
(Bo* 316, P. 0., North Sydney.) Tel».: 92-0750, 92-0759.
* I wish to take advantage of the special combined offer and enclose cheque
for $21.75
* Please enrol me as a regular subscriber for 6-12 months commencing with
your next issue of Jobs on's Investment Digest. 1 enclose cheque f0r54.50
or $9.00. Please tick for optional air mail delivery ( ). Add $2.10 for six
months or $4.20 for 12 months.
* Jobson’s 1966 Mining Year Book— Please send immediately.... .copyfles)
at $6.35 per copy, postage paid. Cheque for,.. ~...is attached.
* Jobson’s 1966 Year Book— Please send Immediately ..copy(ies) at
$13.50 per copy, postage paid. Cheque f0r..... is attached.
(USE BLOCK LETTERS AND BALL POINT)
Name
Address
* Delete if not applicable.
State
8.l


Omega Seamaster calendar with matching bracelet. 14 ct. gold capped $l9O (£95); stainless steel $135 (£67.10).
Yon can trust the Omega Seamaster jnst as athletes rely on Omega sports timing
The world’s sporting experts rely on Omega precision.
The Seamaster puts it on your wrist... and winds itself for constant accuracy
■ From the starting line... to everyday
life. If world sport puts complete trust
in Omega timekeeping, Omega responds
with a special admiration for sportsmen!
It is expressed very practically, through
many years of devoted research and unique
experience.
Everywhere competitors have met-tracks,
stadiums, swimming pools, ski slopes -
Omega has judged the timing... for
national events, internationals and the
Olympic Games themselves. Always with
the surest ultra-precise equipment, always
with the same absolute impartiality.
This is why, yet again, Omega has been
chosen to time the next Olympics.
The decision of the Mexican authorities
brings the number of Olympics timed by
Omega to eleven since 1932.
Every watch made by Omega benefits
from this vast experience in world sports
timing.
■ Omega’s Seamaster the watch to
trust. It’s the right watch, wherever you
go. Elegant enough for town: rugged
enough for the mountains: waterproof
enough for swimming. Its case has the
same protection as a submarine! Both are
fitted with special “O-Ring” joints... in
the Seamaster they protect the screw-back
and winder so water can never enter.
Yes, your Omega Seamaster will go any-
where ... and it always has the added safe-
guard of trained care in 156 different
countries, thanks to the unique Omega
world Service Organization.
(Tf C 1 \
508
999
MEXICO
Omega - official timekeepers of the Pan-American Games, Winnipeg 1967, and the Olympic Games, Mexico 1968.
Q
OMEGA
