

The
Bulletin
* * u ■ " h \'-T7\ A n ~* r - *
JUNE 18, 1966
1N <SP fipo rat i rg(j I bAhlst ismArflf' lA at si
SNOW
BUSINESS
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1
- - i ; - : '• • ' : * r I £ !


Better blended
; •
SpPPfiti
Psifipill
W£Ws§
m
tm>.
■
yfer
vss
Wt.
.-■ ' .=
*WM
■m
m
‘MM
i m
*e6gS|!ljß
a SI|
KSm.,
...better than ever
fv*
If
m
: w t, ■ C
\
t \
t? k ■
Sfjß ■
CRAVEN
FILTER
belongs to the world of today
Now is the time to make the change, join the
people who have made the change, and you’ll enjoy
the better taste of Craven Filter.
“-V- T - ;
4 j- ■
CRAVED
J/.
2553—1/1


, V\'
I
N
Y
N
r
r
V
A%
X r~
mu
i
...
*^&&*'*** < * % **
Wi
: •;
1
v. R R A
Not just ‘Coonawarra’ but
COONAWARRA ESTATE
Coonawarra Estate is the original “Coonawarra”. This famous vineyard
was founded in 1890 (an illustration of the original cellars appears on
every label of genuine Coonawarra Estate wine). Years of careful culti-
vation have consistently produced vintage wines of exceptional quality.
If you prefer originals, collect and enjoy Coonawarra Estate.
Coonawarra Estate HERMITAGE 1962 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate CABERNET 1959 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate RIESLING 1965 Vintage
An Estate of S. Wynn & Co.
CS4R
LETTERS
The Ord River Blues
Sir,
Readers of THE BULLETIN must be
becoming tired of the continual voices of
hatred against the Ord River lt
must infuriate the export-earning Western
Australians to see this line consistently
taken bv a responsible magazine when
Sydney and Melbourne are the most glar-
ing examples of the so-called uneconomic,
wasteful use of resources from the national
economic viewpoint—the criteria used by
your Dr. Davidson and Peter Samuel for
example.
I was amused to read of Mr. Samuel’s
comments (8., May 28) regarding* Dr.
Davidson’s address to the Economic-
Society, where, as correctly stated, none of
the agricultural economists opposed his
views. Let Mr. Samuel know that there
were many of us present who could,
and would have dearly loved to, blow Dr.
Davidson’s facts to pieces—those who, un-
like Davidson, possess all the latest scien-
tific and economic facts on the Ord River.
But the truth, as much as it hurts, is that
we junior officers.think more of our future
incomes and promotion possibilities. Know-
ing full well what our respective Ministers’
thinking is on the Ord and the subser-
vient adherence to this line of thought by
the senior public servants, we have not the
“guts” to incur the displeasure of our
policy-making superiors. We sit and take
it. For. after all, what does the future of the
Ord really mean to the Canberra public
servant? Nothing,. of course.
Could Mr. Samuel see Dr. Rex Patter-
son (even as a public servant) listening
meekly to Dr. Davidson’s lecture? For
Mr. Samuel’s information, Dr. Patterson
has probably forgotten more about the Ord
than Dr. Davidson will ever learn. How-
ever, junior officers in Canberra are not
like Dr. Patterson—-they are faithful public
servants obeying the policies of their
-..superiors.
The cold facts about the Ord are that
it has not the votes to persuade the Gov-
ernment to back it. Even if the Western
Australian people reacted against the Gov-
ernment only one or two electoral seats
might (a big might) change hands. Poli-
ticians, of course, like to spend funds where
the votes are.
Instead of Peter Samuel and others fol-
lowing the blind and incorrect statements
made by Dr. Davidson, let them concen-
trate their attack on the Government for
CONTENTS
Snow Business 42
The Peking Purge 20
One More Week 26
Ross Campbell 34
Overseas 38
Film Festivals Sydney, Melbourne 48
Short Story 51
Books 54
Poem by A. D. Hope 55
Business and Finance 58
Man on the Land 75
Speculator’s Diary 80


Tec-Felt can ease costs and
increase plant product efficiency
The questions are simply where and
how much will Tec-Felt save you?
Tec-Felt has thousands of applications
and yet the industrial felt specialists at
Felt and Textiles are constantly finding
new uses for felt and new felt for uses.
They will develop a fe!t for your needs.
For instance, of the almost 1,000 types,
grades and colours of Tec-Felt only
about 2CO are standard.
Tec-Felt can be manufactured to con-
form to a specific thickness, a specific
resilience, a specific shape, absorption
and density. It can be brought to almost
any consistency of softness or hardness.
It can be proofed against moths, flame,
water, fungi and corrosion. Write for
that free book today.
r~H
m
w<iiiiiiW :•
This heavy roll grinder, in the John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. mill at Port Kembla, is
cushioned on a hidden layer of Laminated Vibrasorb Anti-vibration Tec-Felt. The
grinder is completely isolated from the rest of the building.
%
Tec-Felt Filter in this Hoover protects
mechanism from dirt. The Hoover polisher
uses Tec-Felt polishing pads.
isfe
Miim
m
Polishers from tiny polishing discs
for precious stones to large buffing
wheels are available in Tec-Felt.
Vibrations in this metal stamping press
at Gadsden-Hughes Ltd., Five Dock,
N.S.W., are isolated by Vibrasorb Blue
Line Tec-Felt. The pads bond to machine
and floor —anchor bolts are eliminated.
Tec-Felt
The Industrial Felt Sales Division of Felt and Textiles is the
developer and producer of Industrial Felts in Australia
FREE BOOK
Write on your
Company stationery:
Industrial Felt
Sales, 791 Botany
Road, Waterloo,
N.S.W.
Phone MU 2451


Thinking about
new plant
expansion?
If so, you are probably thinking about the many complexities to be over-
come. The problems of design, of how to expand or modify an existing
plant or add process or plant capacity. Of how to effect these improve-
ments with the minimum interference to present plant output. The
problems are many and various, however on top of all of these factors
you're undoubtedly concerned about getting the best value for your
construction dollar.
This is where we can help you, because this is one of the fields in which
we specialise. Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant
fabrication, we are equipped in terms of experience and facilities to save
you time and money in engineering and construction of your project.
Our present clients include a wide range of top industrial companies in
a wide variety of industries. Moreover, 60% of our total contracts each
year come from companies that have built with us before. So why not
phone us for further details? Your enquiry will only cost five cents.
WARDROPE& CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
24-32 O'Riordon Street, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. 69.1727,69.3620
not releasing, at any stage, any official
material on the Ord case. In other words,
if, as Samuel says, the Treasury and the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics have
come out against the Ord, then why not let
the public (and Mr. Samuel) see these
facts? Oh, no, then the mighty Treasury
and BAE economists could be subject to
trenchant attacks by scientists, farmers,
economists, and the like. This, of course,
would incur the wrath of their respective
Ministers, which, in turn, would reflect on
the departmental heads, and so the whole
sorry process of political administration
goes on.
The most up-to-date facts published
about the Ord are those shown in Dr.
Patterson’s paper at the last ANZAAS
Conference (anybody but a Dr. Patterson
would never have been allowed to pub-
lish them). At the recent symposium on
northern development last February in
Sydney, Dr. Davidson’s attack on Patter-
son’s case was based on two counts only—
the level of freight rates from Wyndham
to Japan and the conversion factor of
seed cotton to lint. As was pointed out, the
freight rates used by Patterson were those
also used by the State and Federal Gov-
ernments and officially supplied by Japan-
ese shipping lines — ; this was accepted by
Davidson.
As regards criticism of the conversion
factor used by Patterson, it was facetiously
pointed out that this was identical with the
factor used by Davidson. All other criti-
cisms were related to assumptions. Patter-
son based his on the latest facts available.
Davidson based his on hypothetical data
compiled before the project even started
to produce cotton and on his experience
of two days spent on the Ord about five
years ago.
As for the nonsense talked about cotton
subsidies to the Ord farmers, surely Mr.
Samuel would have admitted that this is
Government policy to all cotton farmers
in Australia. Why not argue for a reduc-
tion in the subsidy as Patterson does and
then we would see who would survive? If
Mr. Samuel does a little arithmetic, he
will find that Namoi farmers received a
far greater subsidy than the Ord. A re-
moval of the subsidy would also send dry-
land cotton farmers bankrupt (particularly
in Queensland). But wait and see what
the Queensland reaction will be if Mr.
Adermann contemplates such a move.
Perhaps the critics of the Ord would also
like to know that there will be no cotton
in the Namoi next season if rain does not
fall to fill the Keepit Dam a fact con-
veniently ignored.
What a laugh to hear the new primary
industries’ expert Mr. Anthony make the
point that the Government can only
justify the Ord if cotton can be sold at
import parity prices. Does the Country
Party Minister argue this way for sugar,
wheat, lamb, butter and dairy products,
dried vine fruits, rice, and the whole host
of secondary industries protected by tariff?
Of course he does not. The tragic part
of the Ord case is that everyone knows
it will proceed in the end. But perhaps
Mr. Court may not even wait for Federal
backing who would really blame him
if he invited the Americans and Japanese
to help Western Australia develop the
Ord?
And lastly, because I am a “good and
career-conscious” public servant, I am not
prepared to run the risk of losing promo-
tion in the service by signing my name.
PUBLIC SERVANT
(Name supplied, but withheld as
requested.)
Canberra, A.C.T.
Unity Ticket
Sir,
Having read the article by Mr. Brian
Buckley “A Marxist Lesson,” and the
letter from Mr. Doug White (8., June
11), I should like to endorse the content
of Mr. White’s letter and record my sur-
prise that you allowed Mr. Buckley’s
article to be published.
Mr. Buckley obviously carried out little
or no research or inquiry into the facts
surrounding my nomination of Mr. White
for the forthcoming by-election of the
Central Committee of the Victorian
Secondary Teachers’ Association. If Mr.
Buckley had made any inquiry, he would
have ascertained that I am a member
of the Democratic Labor Party, a fact
which would, I feel sure, tend to negative
the distored conclusions arrived at in im-
plying that Mr. White’s nomination was
by the Communist Party.
PETER D. ROUSCH
Thornbury (Vic.)
Sir,
Perhaps Brian Buckley is in the position
where he can obtain first-hand information
of the Communist plot to influence our
education system (8., May 21). As an anti-
Communist myself, I do not claim such
sources of inside information, which in one


EXECUTIVE SUITE BY
Dodge
Phoenix
AUTOMATIC V 8
$5795 (£2897-10-0) tax
This is the front passenger
seat. It is contoured and
form - fitting. Thick
foam-padding cushions
you gently but firmly. The
upholstery is glove-soft
luxury sponge i/inyl. And
there are centre and door
armrests. The headrest lifts
up to where you want it and
the seat-back reclines to
any angle within a 45 deg.
arc. If just one seat offers all
this , think what the rest of
the car will do for you ...
with its 230 b.h.p. V 8
performance, Power
Brakes, Power Steering,
3-speed TorquefUte
Automatic plus other
luxury furnishings and
equipment that set a new
precedent in prestige
motoring. This is the car
you MUST see!
W
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.


R&N DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE
. . . your logical choice for complete planning,
design, construction and on-time completion at
lower cost of your company’s next industrial building.
r
'1
I
ENGINEERING
SITE FINDING
PLANNING
CONSTRUCTION
DESIGN
m
m
m
Creative engineering backed by practical professional advice—that’s the
R&N Industrial Building Service. Our informative brochure contains all
the pertinent facts you’ll need—have your secretary send for a copy.
R&N STATHAM LIMITED
*Holding Company of R. & N. Trading Co. Ply. Ltd.
*
SYDNEY: "UNION HOUSE,” 247 George St., SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone 27-8941/2
NEWCASTLE: 25 Pacific Hwy., Bennetts Green, Newcastle, N.S.W. Ph. 4-8391 (10 lines)
Illustrated below: a typical R.&N. Industrial Building.
HIT
RN 39
way makes it impossible for me to dis-
prove his allegation. On the other hand,
I am a teacher who is in the fortunate posi-
tion of being fully qualified to teach at
both Primary and Secondary level, and as
such I can clearly see both sides of the
issue between the V.T.U. and the V.S.T.A.
This is quite simple, and does not require
political insight for understanding—or, for
that matter, solving.
When the main teachers’ organisations
were formed, the V.T.U. emerged as the
one commanding universal support, and
subsequently received sole recognition by
the Government as the official teachers’
organisation. At that time the majority of
State schools and teachers were in the
Primary Division, because at the time only
a selective few attended Government
secondary schools. Since then there has
been a radical change in education in Vic-
toria, resulting in a host of secondary
schools being built, and with it a corres-
ponding increase in the number of second-
ary teachers staffing these schools.
A few years ago we saw the situation
where high schools and technical schools
were considered, at least on par, in im-
portance with primary schools; but, be-
because their combined teaching strength
was relatively smaller than that of the
Primary Division, the Council of the
V.T.U., based on representatives elected
by democratic means at its annual con-
ference, continued to be strongly dom-
inated by the majority, which means the
Primary Division.
This meant that when the “Crisis in
Education” became acute, some sections
of the Secondary Service felt that their
cries for help did not receive the priority
backing which they considered was war-
ranted. And as a result the V.S.T.A. was
formed. Incidentally, I strongly suspect
that many teachers do belong to both or-
ganisations, though reliable figures are not
available.
Personally I commend the leaders who
feel that a federation is the answer. In a
way, that is exactly how our Common-
wealth was born, namely with the establish-
ment of the Senate, which safeguards the
interests of our less densely populated
States.
Fundamentally all teachers’ organisations
aim to improve the standards of educa-
tion, and, indeed, there is fullest agreement
on all major points, though there does
appear to be a divergence on how to
achieve these aims in the minimum time.
RONALD MOTTEK
Chelsea Heights [Vic.)
Where is Figaro?
Sir,
I don’t believe the list of “Favorite
Operas” on page 45 (8., June 4). What-
ever happened to “The Marriage of
Figaro”? Has it been dissolved? When
“Peter Grimes” outsells this classic of
W. A. Mozart, I’ll start buying the Beatles!
A. BRANDENS
Broadview (S.A.)
Population Fizzle
Sir,
With reference to P. Gibbons’ com-
ments (8., June 4) on my article in the
previous issue I point out that Professor
Karmel over 20 years ago established that
an examination of marriage duration fer-
tility rates represented the best way to
analyse fertility changes. By using this
method can one detect the number of chil-
dren per completed marriage. The statis-
tics in “Population Fizzle” are the results
of this type of calculation, and the 1965
figures are derived on the simple assump-
tion that the variation in marriage dura-
tion fertility rates between marriages of
different durations for 1965 are similar to
the differentiations of earlier years. Aus-
tralian marriages only are considered so
as to neutralise the distortion produced by
migrant marriages.
In 1966, 67, and 68, the crude birth-
rate could rise simply because the mar-
riage rate itself has increased greatly and
may disguise the underlying situation. The
remarkable fact is that during 1964/65
and the early part of this year, the crude
birthrate has dropped, even though many
more marriages have occurred. Mr. Gib-
bons does not seem to appreciate that the
kinds of errors which he purports to find
in my analysis are the very ones which


•••• • • •
• • • • • • ••• • • ••
•• • •••* . • •••• • ••••• • • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••«
••••••• • •• ••••••••
•• • ••• • • • • •• •• •
•• • •• •• ••• •••• •• • ••••
m
TAA THI NATIONS JtrUHC
'
I
mm,- - i. --wewV
»**S
• • «
TAA and ADP
The most important initials in
the business world
Some day when you’re relaxing on a Whispering
T-Jet, try listing all the important things with a
three-letter group of initials. You’ll come up with
an impressive collection.
But none more important to you than TAA or ADP
(Automatic Data Processing).
ADP because that means all the modern electronic-
and-computer wizardry that’s revolutionising business
procedures. And TAA because that means the
fast-growing, forward-looking airline whose services
throughout Australia and Papua New Guinea lead
the way. In passenger travel, in cargo handling, in
services to the businessman.
When you put TAA and ADP together—which is
what we’ve done—you get a combination which
guarantees you unrivalled service. In your travel
bookings, for instance. Soon we’ll add computers
to our reservation system. To put your bookings on
record automatically, accurately, fast. Just phone
TAA and you’re on the jet line.
AIR, another 3-letter combination. An important
one because that’s what we are here for. As specialists
in airline operation. Another reason so many business-
men depend on the Friendly Way. TAA.
TAA is in business for your business
Fly
TAA
the Friendly Way 4
a
TA A512/66


mmm
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
■
m
m
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
SB
sS
rD
o
33
ipfipl
3=-
©
SAI7S/1
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
1 PIODUCT OF DOOWE EGBEITS IOTII FUFOIIES, tITIECHT, MOLLIII
dSEh
have been eliminated by the above methods
of calculations.
I take this opportunity to note that in
my original article the children per Aus-
tralian marriage as interpolated for 1966
is incorrect. The expected offspring is not
2.25 per marriage, but rather 2.35 to 2.38
per marriage.
KEVIN M. CAIRNS, M.P.,
Federal Member for Lilley.
Brisbane (Qld.)
The Coolgardie Safe
Sir,
It has occurred to me that among your
readers may be someone who could help
me with a project I am engaged on, con-
cerning innovation and invention in Aus-
tralia. I am trying to discover the origin
of the Coolgardie safe, and I would be
very glad to receive any information,
thoughts, or suggestions on this subject.
(Mrs.) MARJORY O’DEA,
Dept, of Political Science,
Australian National University.
Canberra (A.C.T.)
HANG NED KELLY
86 Years Ago: July 3, 1880
TN the brief space of a week the
notorious Kelly gang has been com-
pletely broken the leader a prisoner
in Melbourne Jail, grievously wounded,
and the rascally two constituting the
rank and file lying in dishonored graves.
It is scarcely two years since Sergeant
Kennedy and Constables Lenergan and
Scanlan were shot down in cold blood
whilst searching for the Kelly brothers
in the Strathbogie Ranges, but during
the interval the very name of the gang
has been synonymous with terror. The
papers seem to have had the name of
“Kelly” kept standing in big capitals
for daily use.
Father Gibbie was the first to enter
the burning house at Glenrowan. He
says he saw Dan Kelly and Steve Hart
lying in such a position that he believed
they had shot themselves. This asser-
tion was afterwards borne out by the
fact that the charred bodies were not
encased in armor, but the iron plates
were lying beside them. Their bodies
were taken by their friends and there
is much reason to fear that the revenge-
ful dispositions of the sympathisers will
lead to lawless outbreaks in the district,
several of the most decided spirits hav-
ing declared solemnly their intention
to avenge the dead “heroes.” A strong
police force however will be kept up in
the vicinity of Greta.
Ned Kelly was transferred to Mel-
bourne Jail, in the hospital of which
he was visited on Wednesday by his
mother, who has long been a prisoner.
The interview is said to have been an
affecting one.
Sentiments should not be brought into
play over the fate of villains. The life
of Edward ‘Kelly, should he ever leave
the prison hospital alive, should be
taken coolly and deliberately, with the
stern relentlessness of that Justice which
never dies.


!
VV.£ y
* V
5 m'
S« ■ 5
i i
? *
y
i
4
#.V** ? • - ,
m/r
(»'4
.M
>
Si
a*
*v-'
LW
That mighty little giant, the LWI6R Tractor, in common with all
other LW equipment, is built in Australia, by Australians with many
years of on-the-job experience.
Backed by the world-wide Le Tourneau-Westinghouse technical
service organisation, LW Tractors are doing a mighty job on a host
of major and minor projects under all conditions throughput the
Commonwealth and overseas. Here are a few of the many projects
on which Australian- made LW Tractors are in operation:- |
■ AIRPORT CONSTRUCTION, MALAYSIA ■ ROAD MAINTENANCE,
CONSTRUCTION AND SUB-DIVISION WORK THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA ■ TANK SINKING, THAILAND ■ COPPER MINING,
TASMANIA ■ ROAD CONSTRUCTION, INDIA, PAKISTAN, ANGOLA,
PORTUGAL, SOUTH AFRICA.
m
for EXPORT
Only earthmoving equipment manufacturer to receive
the Award for Outstanding Export Achievement.
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINGHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW264.106


Face of the Week
The Ist Battalion RAR marched
through Sydney and its C. 0., Colonel
Preece, predicted a long war in Viet-
nam, but said the Allied forces were
beginning to win it. Fifty years of the
RSL were celebrated, and the Australian
National University published “The
Politics of Patriotism,” a study of those
50 years. There was further confusion
over the Sydney Opera House interior
design, West Germany’s architects
awarded Mr. Utzon an international
prize, several N.S.W. groups continued
to demand an inquiry, and Utzon
offered to return without “outside inter-
ference.” The ANL freighter Jeparit,
due to carry supplies to Vietnam, was
refused a full crew by seamen. An
overseas freighter ran aground on W.A.’s
northern coast. Parts of the Centre had
rain up to two inches, Alice Springs
had a fog as well. Australia’s trade
balance had a $33.2 million surplus for
May.
★
Bank officers began a campaign for
a 30 percent margins increase. Mel-
bourne’s Victoria Building was proposed
as the site for a city square, and work
began in Adelaide’s Victoria Square.
The Elizabethan Trust announced four
operas to be performed in most capitals
except Adelaide, which had had its
Festival. Australia appointed an Am-
bassador to South Vietnam and a High
Commissioner to Tanzania. The Queens-
land Liberal Party decided to contest
all Country Party seats in the Federal
elections, and Mr. Holt disowned the
move.
★
Tasmania had its coldest night, with
temperatures as low as 12 degrees. The
Victorian Railways replaced its last two
shunting horses at Ballarat. Rolf Harris
began four weeks at London’s “Talk of
the Town” club. The DCA began a
survey of Australia’s pilot needs. The
national wage case drew to a close.
There were protests when the Kosciusko
State Park Trust erected boom gates to
close the Alpine Highway when heavy
snow covered it. TV Bingo began on
TVW7 in Adelaide.
★
Four W.A. iron ore groups suggested
a new deal to Japanese steel mills, in-
volving shipment of nine to 12 million
tons of ore a year, using joint rail and
port facilities to cost $2OO million. The
Bureau of Agricultural Economics re-
ported 78 percent of Murray Valley
grape growers in worse debt than
sheep or wheat farmers.
★
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666, Ext. 2504.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4502
JUNE 18, 1966
A Man on the Island
THE Federal Government’s
plans to establish a diplomatic
mission in Taiwan are so common-
sensible and so overdue that it has
only itself to blame if some commen-
tators, as much out of ignorance as
naivete, see the move as a victory for
the pressure groups of the way-out
Right Wing who have recently been
agitating about this issue. The reason
for the decision and why it should
have been made years ago has
nothing to do with any Right Wing
sympathy for President Chiang Kai-
shek. It is the same general reason
why we have diplomatic missions in
a host of countries, from Yugoslavia
to Spain, of whose systems of govern-
ment we do not approve; and much
the same reason why over 30
countries have missions in Taipei,
including not only extreme anti-
Communist regimes like the Repub-
lic of Korea, but moderate ones like
Japan, and anti-Western ones like
a number of African States.
It is not merely because we already
recognise the country, receive its am-
bassador, have no national quarrels
with it, support its membership of
the United Nations and its indepen-
dence of Peking, or admire its econ-
omic progress. It is mainly because
we have trade links with it (operating
very much in our favor) and, like al-
most every Asian country, recognise
that with its 600,000-man army and
400-jet air force, it plays a role in
containing Peking expansionism by
pinning down some of the elite of
the Red Army along the Chinese
coast facing the island of Taiwan.
These trade and defence considera-
tions justify the simple step of placing
in Taipei an Australian Government
representative who can make Taipei’s
policies clearer in Canberra and
Canberra’s clearer in Taipei. Com-
munists apart, even those who criti-
cise the new step maintain we should
continue friendly relations with
Taiwan, but if friendliness is
desirable, what is improper about
sending a diplomatic representative?
The case of the Republic of China
should not in any way be compli-
cated by the case of Communist
China. We trade with Red China
but we do not exchange diplomatic
missions with it and never will
while Peking makes as its main con-
dition of such an exchange our
willingness to see the 11,000,000
people of Taiwan, about the same
population as Australia’s, handed
over to the Peking regime. Since we
will never meet such a condition,
there is no point in not having a
mission to Taipei. If it is said that
the move will annoy Peking, then
since when are our political decisions
to be decided by Peking?
Having said that, it also follows that
the decision is not one of very great
importance. It marks no significant
change in Australian policy except
to emphasise what is already well
known: that we oppose Peking’s claim
to Taiwan. It certainly does not solve
any of Taiwan’s problems, although,
if followed up with more trade and
student-exchange programs, it could
help Taiwan and further strengthen
our system of Asian alliances. One of
the ironies of this situation is that,
far from being a victory for the hard-
line Right-Wingers, the agitation of
these groups may have delayed the
decision, since the Government
wanted to avoid this misinterpretation.
The lesson probably is that if this
sensible and obvious step had been
taken ten years ago, no mountain
could have been made out of this
mole-hill.


THIS AUSTRALIA
CONFRONTATION
Pulling out of Borneo
FOR the Australian troops serving in the jungles of the Borneo States the statement
from Malaysia’s Tun Abdul Razak was a welcome one. As part of the agreement
to end confrontation British and Commonwealth troops were to be withdrawn from the
area leaving Malaysian forces to handle the local problem of Communist rebels.
In practice it is not that simple. For one
thing there is no indication of how long
either British or Commonwealth troops
will stay in the area. In London some
saw it as only a matter of weeks. In Can-
berra the time-scale was less definite.
Peter Samuel reports:
There was no official reaction here to
Tun Razak’s statement and Canberra
knows of no official request from Kuala
Lumpur, although the Australian Govern-
ment will be only too happy to withdraw
its troops as soon as Malaysia decides this
is appropriate. The understanding here is
that the Tun’s statement means that troops
will be withdrawn when some further pro-
gress has been made in normalising rela-
tions between Malaysia and Indonesia.
At a Press briefing late last week the
Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, expressed
pleasure at continuing progress in ending
Confrontation. He said "also that he
thought it likely that the Construction
Squadron of Army Engineers would be
. . , 1 . c , , . r- . i rr
mvited to stay on in Sabah to finish oft
. , ,
the road-building program they have
. , ~ °x i • i i i
undertaken, Mr. Ho t said that there was
at least another twelve months work still
to be done on the roads, and although the
engineers would contribute to security
operations they would also be valuable in
opening up the country for economic
development.
A group of 200 men from the 22nd
Construction Squadron of the Royal Aus-
tralian Engineers left Karrakatta, W.A.,
last week to relieve members of the 21st
Squadron, which has just completed six
months of roadworks. Beside the road
teams there are about a thousand Aus-
tralian combat troops at present in
Malaysia. Most of these are members of
the 4th Battalion, which has been in
Malaysia since October last year. It has
only been in the Borneo territories for two
months and in the normal course of events
would leave in October,
It is in Malaysia under the general
Anglo-Malaysia Defence Treaty, forming
part of the 28th Commonwealth Infantry
Brigade Group, to which Britain and New
Zealand also contribute. Thus its commit-
ment predates Confrontation. The Special
Air Services Squadron, on the other hand,
went to the Borneo States when Con-
frontation started. A small crack unit of
commando-type troops the SAS Squadron
* s on . e 11 our * n t^le Australian Army
especially trained for rough assault work.
It is expert in airborne attack, cliff -
r , ~, . ,
climbing, and amphibious work,
T . , , , r
In mainland Malaysia small numbers of
Australian forces are ' deployed at Butter-
worth air base and the Army has anti-
aircraft batteries there. In Singapore there
are a handful of Australian officers, and
altogether about a hundred military men
scattered here and there in headquarters
and training centres in Malaysia. Alto-
gether, almost a fifth of Australia’s modest
armed strength is deployed in the area.
INDUSTRY
Waterfront Progress
“T HAVE made no report,” Mr. A. E. Woodward, Q.C., told THE BULLETIN last
week when asked to confirm the rumor that his inquiry into the Stevedoring
Industry had concluded and his report was already in the hands of Federal
Cabinet.
It was also unlikely, he added, that
any report would be ready for. at least
a couple of months. Mr. Woodward ex-
plained that conferences with the major
parties concerned with the stevedoring
industry were still proceeding and his
commission was “to pick things up where
the conferences leave off.”
Under Mr. Woodward’s chairmanship,
these conferences consist of representatives
from the Waterside Workers’ Federation
(3), the Australian Council of Trade
Union (2), the Department of Labor and
National Service (1), the Australian
Stevedoring Industry Authority (1), and
the Association of Employers of Waterside
Labor (4).
Mr. Woodward was able to confirm that
some progress has been made at these
conferences, which have been proceeding
for some months. Although he was not
able to reveal details of conference dis-
cussions, it is fairly well established from
sources at the ACTU and AEWL
that agreement has been reached in a
number of key areas. Most importantly,
employers and Government representatives
have agreed to WWF claims that the
casual labor system be abolished and per-
manent employment be introduced for
waterside workers.
It is also understood that general agree-
ment has been reached by employers and
employees’ representatives that the Aus-
tralian Stevedoring Industry Authority
should lose its supervisory and disciplinary
powers. Mr. Woodward may recommend,
as a result of the views of the conference,
that the chief functions of the ASIA be
performed by the major private steve-
doring companies. It was significant that
a stopwork meeting of watersiders in Mel-
bourne last week carried a resolution de-
manding the abolition of the ASIA. Con-
tentious issues at recent conferences have
been the bare pay rate and pensions. The
WWF wants a base pay rate of at least $5O
per week (the present rate is just under
$40); the employers are offering $45. The
WWF is holding out for a non-contributory
pensions scheme, while the AEWL is
pressing for a contributory scheme.
If Mr. Woodward’s report follows the
lines of agreement so far reached, the
Federal Government is likely to be faced
later this year with recommendations to
repeal the penal legislation Mr. McMahon
introduced last October, and to severely
restrict the powers and functions of its own
instrument, the ASIA. At present the ASIA
is the sole employer of waterside labor,
but both employers and employees would
prefer that a system of direct hiring be
introduced at the same time as water-
front employment is made permanent.
The objection the Government may raise
to direct employment is that most of the
big stevedoring companies are sub-
sidiaries of overseas-owned shipping lines.
Cabinet will certainly hear the objection
that overseas-owned stevedoring companies
and the militant waterfront unions are too
likely to make deals with one another at
the expense of the Australian exporter.
However, this risk seems well worth facing
given the benefits which permanent em-
ployment will bring to waterside workers
and the increase in stability which this
is likely to bring to the industry.
The heavy shadow hanging over the
present conferences is, of course, the threat
of automation. No one can predict how
mechanised the ports will be in another
ten years, but the pace of mechanisation
is increasing every year and the whole
character of stevedoring will be changed
radically by the time Mr. Woodward’s
findings take effect.
“How could you expect any recog-
nition! You never even wished her
a Happy Birthday.”


tfr
M c Callum's
is a
SCOTS
Whisky!"
s
m
Wp
%
<■
'
it never was an
ordinary scotch.
The name is
fl^Galluitfs
The whisky is perfection
&
a
For epic occasions, McCallum’s
De Luxe Scots Whisky also
available. Distilled, blended
and bottled in Scotland.
MC 75.103
INDONESIA
Sukarno the Charmer
TO hear the confident Indonesian Foreign Minister, Adam Malik, tell it there was
no need for President Sukarno to ratify the agreements reached in Bangkok on
ending confrontation against Malaysia. Mr. Malik foresaw no difficulties. But
Sukarno is known to be opposed to the agreements.
From Djakarta Donald Kirk reports:
President Sukarno is exercising his old
charm in an effort to dissipate the opposi-
tion that threatens to oust him from office
before the end of June. Sukarno, who was
65 last week, has already succeeded m
driving a wedge between members of the
Right-wing Masjumi, a Muslim politica
party he outlawed six years ago, and the
Muslim scholars, who won his favor before
last autumn's unsuccessful Communist
coup, by co-operating with Indonesia’s
Communist Party
rr., , /
The Muslim scholars are opposing the
efforts of Mohammad Hatta - who re-
signed as Vice-President nearly ten years
ago, as the result of a feud with Sukarno-
t 0 m^j nlSe 3 ai^ e -. US 'T, '' t u
would draw most of its members from the
, , ~ . . tt . l j u
old Masjumi. Hatta has made a number
of speeches lately attacking Sukarno’s con-
cepts of “Guided Democracy” and “The
Great Revolution ”
Like many of Sukarno’s opponents,
Hatta insists that Indonesia must revolu-
tionise its dilapidated economy and says
that Sukarno’s great revolution ended with
the abortive Communist coup. As a re-
suit, the Muslim .scholars have accused
him and his followers of “anti-Sukar-
noism.” The Muslim scholars who provided
much of the leadership for the drive against
the Communists and their far Leftist
backers after the coup might conceivably
wind up allied with Leftist elements who
also c i a j m to SU pp Qr t Sukarno. The irony
j s that these same Leftists have been
accused by Muslims of secretly providing
a f res h foothold for Communism in Indo-
nesia.
, C "T ral Suharto, to whom Sukarno was
focced to transfer most of h.s iwver m
March, has indicated that he wants Suk-
arno to remain as President, at least until
af , he elections for the ’people's Con .
sultatiye Con s The Congress, which
has t 8 elect both Pr S esid ; nt and
Vice-President, is expected to consider
stripping Sukarno of some of his titles dur-
• iu • , T 1 n
ing tbe session beginning on June 17.
65 ° J
Suharto and Sukarno appear to be
establishing a tacit quid pro quo arrange-
ment that Suharto, fearful of Suk-
arnl°’s remaining popular support, will not
embarrass Sukarno by letting Congress
dlsmiss him summarily from office, pro-
Vlded Sukarno, fearful of the military
establishment, does not embarrass Suharto
and his allies by refusing to support their
policies.
MEDICINE
Spare-parts Surgery
THE body’s remarkable self-sufficiency remains a major obstacle to the surgeon of
today, and when the phenomenon of rejection of foreign grafts has been over-
come, a big step will have been made toward the perfection of so-called spare-
parts surgery.
Transplants of vital organs were among
the most exciting developments discussed
by the Australasian Congress of Surgeons’
Congress at their 39th general scientific
meeting, which ended last week in Perth.
In this field, the engineer and the scientist,
working with the surgeon, have moved too
fast for the chemist and radiologist. While
new techniques have been perfected with
the help of other sciences, they are fall-
ing down because of this rejection process,
despite the development of new and less
toxic drugs to help curb it.
In other fields, rejection can help the
doctor Gynaecologists are experimenting
with the use of a simple graft of the hus-
bands skin to help the wife conceive; it
is thought that some cases of infertility
may be caused by rejection. But to the
surgeon it remains a hurdle, although Mr.
Vernon Marshall, director of Royal Mel-
, it ii j . . r -i
bourne Hospital s department of surgical
metabolism, told the congress he was con-
vinced it would eventually be overcome
“and open up new vistas in spare-parts
surgery.”
Mr. Marshall was speaking of kidney
transplants—l 3 of them through Royal
Melbourne in the past three years. For
a while the experiments were dishearten-
ing; in 1963 and 1964 the four patients
j n the last stages of kidney failure died
after having been given kidneys from
cadavers within an hour of the donors’
death. But last year a major advance
was chalked up when a 28-year-old Perth
woman, and a young man, both accepted
transplanted kidneys. Then three succes-
s j ve g ra fts on one patient failed—a rejec-
tion, a technical hitch, and another rejec-
tion—before the operation succeeded on a
35-year-old minister,
Even bolder techniques, were described
b t speaker p rofess0 r D. Hardy, of
the Univer sity of Mississippi, who gave a
man a ch i mpanZ ee’s heart as part of his
experimental program. The elderly man,
h / said coul / no ? have i ive d long because
r , xl _ x *? A ,
of cancer and other ailments, but with
~,r i , , . ,
of a heart-lung machine the
chimps heart worked in the mans body,
supporting blood pressure near normal
levels until the patient died two hours
later,
In 1963, Professor Hardy carried out


m
5M
m
mm
@1
S®B£i
si
ssp
MM
BUS
; —
this is the
only true
Dry Photo-Copier
(except for the fully automatic model)
See it at the 3M Business Communications Centre
No inks. No chemicals. Or powders. And every copy is clean. Precise.
Sharp. On dry white bond-weight paper (instantly usable.) Compact.
Simple to use. Anyone can use the 3M Brand 107 Dry Photo-Copier. See
it now at the 3M Business Communications Centre.
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Adelaide 51-5971
Perth 28-4651 • Hobart 3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109
3m
H COmPANY
3M2/2729/66


s- How did -x
he do it?
\ He arrived in Melbourne
at 9.00 a.m.
1 He made six calls in
different suburbs.
3 He drove across town to
head office.
z| He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends—
-6 Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m. for dinner!
Avis was
V_ waiting /
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon.
Within moments of your arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own, for as long as
you like. And you and the car are always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket, or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival.. .
For a day, a week, or all the time.
RENTA CAR
one of only three known lung trans-
plants, removing a cancerous lung and re-
placing it with one from a donor. Surgeons
at the meeting saw a color film of this.
Two drugs and cobalt radiation had beeti
used to suppress the body’s natural rejec-
tion, and the professor said the patient
lived 19 days—“the lung did beautifully”
—before death from other causes.
The prospect of artificial hearts was
discussed with Melboure surgeon Mr. J.
Hayward, who was wary of “mechanical
gadgets because they can go wrong. Until
we get a Rolls-Royce standard heart I
think' they will be full of troubles. We
have no Rolls-Royce model yet, nor can
I foresee one for several years.” Mr. Hay-
ward was speaking of heart surgery
methods used before heart-lung machines
were perfected, and made the point that
of 240 patients who had undergone closed
mitral valvotomy over 13 years, nearly
half were leading a reasonably full life.
If the patient could stay healthy for about
seven years after the operation he had a
near-normal life expectancy.
Mr. Hayward doubted that three-
quarters of the cases he reviewed could
have been helped by other surgery like
the open method, and advocated the closed
technique so long as the heart valve con-
tinued to function properly. If this valve
was damaged, calling for an artificial re-
placement, he conceded that open heart
surgery using the heart-lung machine would
be justified.
PERTH Hospital’s thoracic unit
is averaging two open heart operations
a week, its senior surgeon Mr. J. A. Simp-
son reported. He was speaking on an
operation now considered minor—fitting a
heart pacemaker, which has been done for
23 adults and one schoolgirl in the west
over the past four years. Only three of the
patients were under 60 at the time of their
operation, and the lives of all would have
been extemely restricted without the pace-
maker, a tiny battery implanted in pockets
of muscle, usually in the abdomen, giving
off periodic charges to prod a heart that
beats too slowly. Mr. Simpson added that
although the hospital fees and cost of
appliances might total $7OO, nobody who
needed it had been deprived of it because
of not being able to meet the cost.
Another simple operation that promised
spectacular results in the realm of rheu-
matoid arthritis was described by Perth
plastic surgeon Mr. J. C. Bremner, who
said surgeons removing diseased soft tissue
early could prevent the gross arthritic de-
formities often seen in people in their 50s.
If the disease were allowed to progress,
surgery could be used only to reconstruct
joints and realign tendons to restore some
of the hand’s functions.
Peptic ulcers were topics for two of the
professors at the meetings. Professor Henry
Harkins, Foundation Professor of Surgery
at the University of Washington, said about
800,000 Australians would suffer from
duodenal ulcers, and one-in-four would
need surgery. Yet the cause remains a
mystery. He is in Australia to demon-
strate a new operation for duodenal ulcers
which allows the patient to have bigger
meals and a less stringent diet. It Involves
removing less of the stomach than was
thought necessary, and severing at a lower
point the vagus nerve, which signals the
stomach to produce digestive acids. At the
congress Professor Harkins presented a
paper on gastric ulcers, which he said
would affect another 250,000 Australians,
with three-in-four of them needing surgery.
Professor W. Burnett, Queensland Uni-
versity’s Professor of Surgery, said of the
duodenal ulcer that the synthetising of
gastrin, the stomach’s hormone, could lead 1
to a breakthrough in treatment. Synthetic
gastrin had been produced for research in
the past couple of years, he said, and
“with this it will be possible to find out
a lot more about the functions of the
stomach. And it should be possible to work
on the production of an anti-gastrin pro-
duct which would knock out the stomach’s
acid-producing cells.” Nobody had the
answer to ulcers, but he suggested (with
the rider that such an idea was still wild
speculation) that the biochemists might
now start working on a pill to beat them.
Meanwhile, surgery could give relief to
the minority of cases with a long history
of excessive pain. Though ulcers are not
the by-product of anxiety, they are aggra-
vated by worry, he added, confirming what
the cartoonists and TV comedians have
been long maintaining that the most
likely candidate is the young executive
trying to make the grade but never quite
getting there.
What scope is there in specialised medi-
cine for a woman with home and family?
Be an anaesthetist, suggested Adelaide’s
Dr. Mary Burnell (vice-dean of the Royal
Australasian College of Surgeon’s faculty
of anaesthetists) and Sydney Dr. Gwenifer
Wilson, two of six visiting women anaesthe-
ists among the 400 surgeons and wives.
In this field, women are readily accepted
by both profession and patients, and “most
people seem to consider that women have
more patience for this routine kind of
work,” says Dr. Burnell. “The specialisa-
tion is convenient for married women
because we can accept or refuse a case
as it suits us. We have no trouble fitting
a practice in with the demands of a home
and family.”
Perhaps the least clinical and most
emotive papers read to the congress were
by Dr. I. S. Russell, of Royal Melbourne,
and Dr. P. J. Ryan, of St. Vincent’s, Mel-
bourne, two Colombo Plan doctors who
have been working among the civil popu-
lation of South Vietnam, with a group of
Australian volunteer surgeons at Long
Xuyen, 100 miles south-west of Saigon.
Their patients were mainly the civilian
sick, but included many little children,
among the worst sufferers from Vietcong
booby-traps—like the corked bottles that
float down a canal, full of metal and ex-
plosives. They told of one Saturday
morning when 21 civilians were brought
to them after a Vietcong mine had ex-
ploded, killing two and maiming ten
women and nine children while their
men were away.
Yet in their three months among these
war-weary people, neither doctor heard a
wounded child cry or complain, or a
mother groan during The birth of a baby.


Esanda
Limited
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase leasing and other finance operations.
UNSECURED
NOTES
UP TO
Wlo/
4 2/0
UNSECURED NOTES
Currency issued at par Interest rate
10 years
8 years 7%%
6 years 7%%
5 years 7 1 /i%
4 years 7%
3 years 6*/s%
Interest per annum payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only on one of
the forms of application referred to in, and
attached to, printed copies of the prospectus
which are available from
Members of Stock Exchanges
and at any office of
The English Scottish and Australian Bank Limited
«
ESAJVDA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
365 George Street, Sydney
COMMONWEALTH
The Spectre Stalking India
WHETHER the Commonwealth Prime Ministers’ Conference is held in London next
month as many African members want, or whether it will be postponed until
September as Britain and Australia would prefer, one item does not look like
getting anywhere the attention it deserves—what to do about India. Rhodesia and the
tensions in Africa will be uppermost.
But if anything illustrates the con-
tinuing weaknesses of the Commonwealth
it is its long drawn out failure to act in
India with anywhere near the vigor the
situation there demands. John Williams
writes from Bombay:
When Mrs. Indira Gandhi last month
faced her first meeting of India’s ruling
Congress Party since her election as Prime
Minister, she was received with great
acclaim by the 4000 packed into the large
Shanmukhananda Hall. But. the problems
confronting Nehru’s daughter appear
greater than anything her father faced,
Chief among them seems to be giving
the country some reason for getting
moving. The Congress Party was the great
mobilising force in the independence
struggle, but today it seems to have grown
fat and flaccid. It inspires less and less
confidence among the intellectual leadcr-
ship of India, which is the backbone of the
country. Equally basic is the lack of any
valid political alternative. Congress has
nearly 500 seats in the Lok Sabha (the
lower House of Parliament), while the
biggest opposition party have only 23.
The food crisis has focused discontent,
Mrs. Gandhi said recently that 46.6 million
people had been affected by the scarcity
of grain. There is much suspicion of official
statements. The “Indian Express’” printed
on its front page pictures of . peasants in
the State of Orissa sweeping up leaves to
eat alongside a report of a statement
by the Prime Minister denying any know-
ledge of this kind of thing. And the worst
food crisis may still come this month or
July particularly if the monsoon does
not come up to expectation.
But the general dissatisfaction goes
beyond what many hope will be a tem-
porary food problem. The economic life
of India is at stagnation point. Unemploy-
ment is rising and many factories have
had to shut down or be run at as little
as one-tenth capacity. A watch factoiy
which used to turn out 1000 watches a
day is now producing 100. This is chiefly
due to the lack of foreign exchange. Per-
mits to buy one spare part for a foreign-
made machine can take up to six to 12
months to obtain. And, of course, the
temptation to bribe in such circumstances
is very great. It is said that there is
$A6,000,000,000 in black money in circu-
lation.
The debilitating effect of corruption and
the black market is impossible to estimate,
but it is safe to say that if it could be
eliminated it would put into the right
channels enough money to pull India out
of its mess. A sales executive of an electri-
cal firm, whom I had known nine years
ago in London, told me that to get a
certain make of car, made in India, lor
his personal use and through legal means
could take him 14 years. On the black
market he might only have to wait 18-24
months. My host’s brother had to wait
nearly a year for a permit to start a
poultry farm on land he had already pur-
chased at a time when the Government
was advocating more egg production.
What is the cure for such a situation?
My sales director friend, while deploring
the Government’s plethora of regulations,
was very nervous about what would
happen if they were ended! Perhaps their
worst effect is the way they curb initiative
and make people not want to start any-
thing.
At dinner the other evening with a pros-
perous young businessman and his wife, I
asked what they thought could be done—
and was shaken at the vehemence with
which he said that the only solution lay
in violence. From many other directions
you hear rumblings of the same idea
though no one has thought through where
such a course would end. And, indeed, some
already seem to be beginning to use viol-
ence as a means of registering their pro-
test. There have been several explosions on
the railways in the past few weeks that
could have had no other motivation. The
prospect of such a spectre stalking
Mahatma Gandhi's land is a horrifying
one.
Even when the wheels of India get mov-
ing, the distance she has to travel to be-
come a modern society is immense. One
hundred thousand villages have no well for


think of yellow...
What do you see?
Perhaps some of these:
A buttermilk sky.
A field of daffodils.
Sunlight on a haystack.
A lemon. A dingo.
A sun-drenched beach.
A London fog.
Mustard. Melted butter.
Sulphur.
A corncob.
A canary.
A topaz.
Mostly beautiful things, but . . .
... now think of black
What do you see? Ravens and crows at midnight in a
sea of soot and coaldust and lampblack!
So imagine our problem in building an image. You
see, we make Carbon Black (the stuff that makes tyres
and plastics tough and dyestuffs and printing ink black).
We had to add colour to our personality. So we put in
a gleaming laboratory to help serve our customers. We
put in a colourful library crammed with books, for the
free use of anyone in the industry. And added the
ingredient of bright, sparkling Enthusiasm to our whole
operation. Give us a problem to tackle and we’ll show
you what we mean.
Next time you think of black, will you think of us?
AUSTRALIAN CARBON BLACK PTY LTD


drinking water and the villagers have to
walk up to 5-10 miles daily for it. A
prominent trade union leader has said that
some two and a half million sleep on
Bombay’s streets every night—and it is
worse in cities like Calcutta.
One fact of the Indian scene that could
have long-lasting effects is Russia’s grow-
ing hold on the economy. The Soviet Union
does more trade with India than any other
country outside the Communist bloc and
by threatening to cut it off could hold
blackmail power over this nation. So
equipped are the armed forces with Russian
weapons that military observers believe the
Kremlin could stop the military machine
in a few weeks. This is a sobering fact, even
if one concedes that it might be far worse
if the Chinese were the potential overlords.
What can a nation like Australia do to
help? Government shipments of wheat and
private gifts of milk and other aid are of
course essential and urgent. But they can-
not make a basic contribution to the prime
problem facing India: that of becoming a
viable nation. The whole possibility of un-
dertaking development in a democratic way
in Asia—and perhaps in other continents
as well—will very likely swing on whether
or not India can do it.
The Minister for External Affairs, Mr.
Hasluck, recently underlined that nothing
is more important to the future of the
world than that the Government and
people of India succeed in what they are
attempting. To stress what the world ex-
pects of and believes about this nation, so
much cut off from the world by a lack of
foreign exchange, may be our most im-
portant job. Our Commonwealth ties could
be sinews of life to India. A problem of
this size cannot be solved with a few
minutes’ spare thought. It will need to be-
come the most urgent priority of our best
minds—and beyond that, of our best hearts
and wills—if India is going to be helped
to be the pillar of democracy in Asia that
she is meant to be. We need to attack the
situation with all the urgency of a wartime
operation.
EDUCATION I
Teachers’ Phantom Crisis
THE flurry of activity the Victorian Education Department has seen in recent weeks
is unlike anything since the retirement in 1928 of the Department’s first director
and patron saint, Frank Tate.
The difference is that whereas Tate
devoted his considerable talents to pointing
out faults in Victoria’s education and
remedying them, the present generation of
leaders is more concerned with proving
that nothing is wrong.
The stimulus to this activity is, of course,
the stop-work action which has been con-
ducted during the past 12 months by the
Victorian Secondary Teachers’ Associa-
tion. The original occasion of this action
was the failure of the Teachers’ Tribunal
to grant secondary teachers a pay rise
which they had sought, but since then the
issue has broadened into a general debate
on the adequacy of secondary education
in Victoria. Certainly, it is unlikely that
teachers would have shown such unpre-
cedented militancy unless they had been
deeply disturbed by the whole condition
of .their profession.
One of the most notable features of
the debate has been the comparative silence
of the responsible Minister, Mr. J. S.
Bloomfield, who has been content to leave
the brunt of the attack to his assistant
Minister, Mr. John Rossiter, and the
Chief Inspector of Secondary Schools, Mr.
R. A. Reed.
Mr. Reed’s latest contribution to the
affair has been a lengthy circular which
he has sent to all members of High School
Advisory Councils. These councils repre-
sent parents and local interests, and are
the closest approach in Victoria to any
community involvement in education. Mr.
Reed’s missive draws the attention of
councillors to the great difficulties the
department has had in coping with tfie
post-war baby boom, and the remark-
able progress it has made in this situation.
The number of teachers has increased both
absolutely and relatively to the number
of students, and the number of schools
has more than doubled. These claims are
supported with official statistics. How-
ever, his claim that the overall standard
of teaching has also improved is not sup-
ported by any evidence.
Mr. Rossiter’s arguments are similar,
but are directed through the columns of
the Melbourne “Age.” Mr. Reed has also
used the correspondence columns of this
paper to deny the allegations of some of
his supporters that he has been forced
into his public stance by his political
superiors, and to assert that all that he
has written has been of his own volition.
To prove his impartiality, he added that
he believed that “all political parties,
when in office, have made the best possible
provision for education within the means
available to them,” an assertion which is
hotly denied by the present administration,
who believe that all progress dates from
their accession to office 11 years ago.
It is undoubtedly true that, by any
material measure, conditions have im-
proved remarkably during the past ten
years. It is also true that the* morale of
teachers is at their lowest ebb ever during
this same period. The remarkable fact is
that no one in the administration has
attempted to reconcile this apparent con-
tradiction.
If it were true that the department is
providing everything reasonably to be ex-
pected, some explanation is needed for
the fact that 5000 secondary teachers have
stopped work three times in the past 12
months. Either they are willing to be led
by a small group of trouble-makers, a
theory favored by the department, or they
are too stupid to understand the true
situation. Either explanation would in
itself be sufficient evidence of crisis.
The objection to the department’s atti-
tude is that it leaves out so many factors
as to be positively misleading. In the first
place, the gross figures of teachers and
students given by the department conceal
the effects of the steady rise in the number
of students in senior classes. Many of these
classes are quite small, and drain off
qualified staff from junior forms, so that,
while the average class size may fall,
students may still have to spend their first
yeap in over-size classes.
Secondly, an increasing proportion of
teachers are temporary teachers or teachers
on loan from primary schools. Many of
these teachers are fully qualified and
highly competent, but their numbers in-
clude all the untrained and unqualified
teachers in the department. If this pro-
portion is increasing, it is probable that
the proportion of untrained teachers is
also increasing. It is impossible to obtain in-
formative figures on the actual numbers
of unqualified teachers, as the definitions
of qualifications vary so widely. However,
even among qualified teachers there are
many who are taking subjects for which
they are unqualified. Thus, the numbers
of trained mathematics, science, and Eng-
lish teachers are falling, while there is a
surplus of art and craft teachers.
Finally, the natqre of teaching has
changed to such an extent that com-
parisons with the past are no longer
meaningful. One statement that can be
made, however, is that no Victorian high
school can now guaranteee a student six
years of education with qualified and
competent teachers. Such a guarantee
could have been made at least as late as
1950.
The great problem of the administra-
tion is that it is so tied down with minutiae
that it cannot understand the true situa-
tion. Even a decision on the type of
furniture to be placed in a new commer-
cial room has to go to the assistant dir-
ector, and all senior officers regard a six-
day week as normal. Naturally, they are
proud of such success as . they achieve.
Moreover, the schools they are most likely
to notice are those where the best work
is being done, and it is certainly true that
one result of the post-war revolution in
reaching methods has been to provide some
teaching superior to anything which has
been seen before.
It is, however, just the teachers who
have achieved the greatest success in their
own work who are most concerned about
the general decline in standards.
HOHN McLAREN
EDUCATION II
Crash Programs
THE drought will finally pass and good
seasons return. But no sudden cloud-
burst can easily silence the critics of
the New South Wales Government’s
policies on education the biggest politi-
cal and administrative headache Mr. Askin
faces.
If the Renshaw Opposition was more
imaginative and less lethargic it could ex-
ploit this headache and may yet do
so.
One of the key notes of the Lib.-C.P.


policy for the 1965 elections was to “speed
up school building” and to give a greater
priority to education generally. It now
appears that the Government, although
allocating a record sum for education, has
shuffled priorities in an effort to provide
a short-term solution to its education and
fiscal problems.
As the post-war baby boom has passed
through the primary level, the Government
has shifted its attention to secondary
schools, and the additional facilities re-
quired in this field by the Wyndham Re-
port. While the most pressing and immedi-
ate problems are now at the secondary
level, the Government has met this need
not by allocating additional funds but by
shifting funds away from other sectors.
Latest figures justify a drop in the
growth rate of expenditure on primary
education but, as the Martin Report indi-
cates, while the primary rate of growth
has declined, it is expected to rise again
shortly. This apparent failure to plan
ahead at the primary level may in the
short term save money, but in the future
will present expensive problems.
Including technical education and ex-
penditure on universities, the 1964-5 bud-
get shows that 42.8 percent went to edu-
cation, including 17.8 percent to the pri-
mary sector. In 1965-6, although the actual
allocation has risen, the percentage for all
education has dropped to 41.8 percent, and
in the primary field to 15.9 percent.
In addition to the problems the Gov-
ernment has created for itself, it has also
inherited one from the former Labor ad-
ministration. The ALP, desperately trying
to stay in power, over-committed itself for
school buildings in strategic electorates.
In this way it met a pressing electoral
need which could be covered up in the
following budget and also ensuied that if
Labor were beaten its successor would
either have to extend itself seriously or cut
back.
This manoeuvre provided the explana-
tion for the Lib.-C.P. announcement that
27 major projects, including some for
which contracts had been let, would have
to be deferred. If the new Government be-
lieved it could stonewall its way out of the
predicament forced on it by Labor, it fin-
ally faced up to the realisation that Lab-
or’s shortcomings were no substitute for
action on its part hence the $6 million
“crash” program announced recently with
the promise of a further $5 million to
come.
These funds, Education Minister, Mr.
Charles Cutler, explained, would come out
of the coming year’s loan allocation, thus
following the practice of the former Gov-
ernment. At the same time, Public Works
Minister, Mr. Davis Hughes, announced
that, because of the urgency of the works,
public tenders for some of the buildings
proposed would not be called. On Novem-
ber 18 last year, Mr. Hughes was strongly
critical of the former Government for
adopting a similar practice and promised
that the procedure would not be repeated.
The expenditure announced by the Gov-
ernment will only meet the more glaring
requirements, and will not provide a solu-
tion to the overall problem. Something in
the order of $5O million is needed for
that.
The Peking Purge
A Canberra Assessment
By PETER SAMUEL
FOR years it has been an important
piece of common ground, for
academics and administrators, Left
wingers and others, that the Communist
regime in China is stable and firmly en-
trenched. Hardline men in the Defence
Department in Canberra could agree with
sympathisers and conciliators at the Aus-
tralian National University that there was
no doubt about its stability. Indeed, it
was more united and safe in power than
any other Communist government.
Only senile old remnants of the past like
Chiang Kai-shek believed otherwise.
In the United States this view is
similarly general. Only three weeks ago a
Congressional Sub-Committee whidh had
been conducting hearings on China policy
issued a carefully worded statement of
conclusions in which it referred to the
great “solidarity” of the Communist
regime and used the words “firmly en-
trenched.”
But recently we have heard from Peking
Radio and from Chinese newspapers that
freaks and monsters, bourgeois royalists,
traitorous anti-Party groups, Soviet
revisionists and similar undesirable ele-
ments abound in China today. It has
even been said that a Hungarian-type “fas-
cist” uprising was imminent, and the return
of Chiang and the restoration of capitalism
quite possible unless the people were vigi-
lant. The “Peking Review” devotes
most of its current issue to denouncing
enemies within; the TJ.S, imperialists who
usually get such a run being relegated
to an odd column at the very back of
the magazine.
Peng Chen, one of the inner six of
the supremely powerful Politburo of the
Central Committee, head of the most
important regional unit of the Chinese
Communist Party, the Peking Municipal,
and prestigous as the Mayor of Peking,
has gone down.
Before him went a good proportion
of men in key positions in newspapers, uni-
versities, government departments, and
the Party machine in Peking, and to a
lesser extent in Shanghai, too. These
events are so out of tune with conventional
wisdoms about China that they suggest
the need for a basic reappraisal,
China specialists in Canberra are unani-
mous in the view that the current purge
is unprecedently severe and sweeping and
that the regime is in more serious trouble
an at time since it attained power.
The curre nt purge may reach as
, as Premier Chou En-lai. The
ar scale purges of the so-caled recti-
ficatiori campaign following the short-
lived liberalism of the Hundred Flowers
period, the troubles with the Army in
1959, and the peasant and military
regional revolts of 1962 are small com-
pared with the present troubles. And all
the specialists believe that the internal
struggle is only starting and that we can


' ~ .
LI
iiilJj
m
1
ill
€}
s
W
v
*
I-
W I «
.


m
W
A
m
.
IBM has the ability
This is the IBM
Specialist Tearrfon
Banking Systems
Their mandate: focus the entire
resources of IBM on Banking
problems, and needs.
There are IBM Specialist Teams
covering practically every industry.
They’re part of IBM’s “total value”
concept.
The computer is just machinery. You
have to tel I it exactly how to do a job
—step by step. This can get
expensive if you have to start from
scratch. That’s where IBM specialist
teams come to your aid.
They have the knowledge, they have
the experience, they have the ability
to bring your IBM installation to its
fullest capacity in the shortest time
without dislocation, delay or doubt.
% These men have spent years becoming
Specialists in the fields they serve. They include
Systems Engineers to tailor a system to your exact
needs . . . Programming Specialists to find new
ways to get you the right kind of information when
you need it. And Customer Education Specialists
who arrange classes at our education centres (for
everyone from the Chairman of your Board to
key-punch operators).
IBM
IBM AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
123 80 1BM.65.108(2)


expect to observe far more turmoil than
we have seen to date. The denunciations
and sackings of previously extolled leaders
may subside for a while, but most prob-
ably will quite soon start again as vigor-
ously as before.
It seems that the dissension is very
much the product of five underlying
difficulties facing the regime. A basic one
is economic, the failure to get beyond a
recovery from the tragic results of the
Great Leap Forward and to establish the
basis for planned growth. In the most
elemental department, foodgrains produc-
tion, there is no evidence of any progress:
for several years now the harvest has been
stagnant in the 180 million to 190 million
ton range. This is no higher than in the
year before the Great Leap Forward
(which saw the harvest leap down to 150
million to 160 million tons) and so with a
growing population the crop now has to be
spread more thinly.
Industry is doing somewhat better,
though it is hampered by three things.
The agricultural failures force the regime
to devote something like a half of the
country’s export earnings to buying foreign
food, leaving less than before for the pur-
chase of industrial equipment. The very
high priority accorded to increasing
China’s military strength also is a severe
drag on industrialisation. The nuclear
weapons program absorbs the energies of
a large proportion of scarce scientists and
technicians, and certain key manufactur-
ing industries electronics, chemicals,
steel, electricity, non-ferrous metals
see much of their output being consumed
by the military.
And paradoxically, for we usually think
of China as being highly planned and
organised, a lack of planning and defici-
encies in administration are holding up
economic advance. Since there is little
scope for private enterprise, since there is
virtually no capital market and a severely
restricted price system, the quality of ad-
ministrative planning of production and
investment is quite crucial to economic
success. And yet there has been no plan
for six years now, and the one proclaimed
at the beginning of this year seems to be
nothing more than a statement of vague
intentions, detailed programming and allo-
cation being precluded by regional jealous-
ies and ideological fanaticism which denies
the importance of . mere material consider-
ations insisting that economic problems
can be overcome through mobilising the
revolutionary will of the masses.
The American specialist, Lucian Pye,
writing in the latest issue of “Foreign
Affairs” says: “To an extraordinary degree,
government in China today is still of a
quasi-revolutionary nature, highly depend-
ent upon special campaigns or drives and
upon the personal dedication of individual
cadres. Even in day-to-day activities there
is little in the way of regular bureaucratic
management . . . they lack the capacity to
get things done quietly and efficiently; they
must still rely heavily upon total mobil-
isation . . .”
This may produce some results initially,
but with the experience of past failures on
the one hand and regional and ideological
dissensions on the other, it is unlikely to
work again. Reason will make the indi-
vidual react to the slogans with cynical
contempt and passive resistance and. the
administrative apparatus will be increas-
ingly corrupted and stymied.
Everyone seems agreed that the foreign
policy reverses which China has suffered
in the past eight months have been im-
portant in fomenting dissension. After
several years of substantial gains the
humiliation of India, the rising strength
of friends in Indo-China and Indonesia,
her establishment as the alternate Rome
of a split Communist movement more
recent ties have seen a stalemating of
the struggle in Indo-China, the liquida-
tion of friends in Indonesia, humiliating
diplomatic failures in relation to the
Afro-Asian Conference, and the India-
Pakistan fighting and deteriorating rela-
tions with North Vietnam. Despite fran-
tic declarations to the effect that China
and North Vietnam are as close as the
Chou En-Lai.
lips are to the' mouth, China stands idly
by while North Vietnam suffers for her
support of the insurgency in South Viet-
nam.
Another cause of dissension arises from
the Army. As long ago as 1959 there
was a major purge of the Army, Defence
Minister Peng Te-huai and Huang
K’o-cheng, Chief of the General Staff, be-
ing only the most senior men to get the
axe. They do seem to have had some
of the pro-Russian tendencies with which
they were charged, wanting to develop a
modern, technological army, and being
sceptical of the ability of the Chinese eco-
nomy to provide this if Russian aid ceased.
There is some dispute among the special-
ists as to how far resistance of this sort
in the Army has been squashed by the
Party. But it seems unlikely that its
romantic suggestion that revolutionary
will and Mao’s strategy are a substitute
for the weapons and technology, has been
fully accepted in the Army.
Dr. lan Wilson, of the ANU, argues
the Army has been brought into line with
the Party and points to the campaigns
to “Emulate the People’s Liberation
Army,” army heroes being given immense
publicity and propaganda as being
exemplars of the truest revolutionary
spirit. In doing this the Party was indi-
cating its confidence in the Army as the
standard bearer of true revolutionary
traditions. The intense ideological indoc-
trination in the early ’6os was successful
in eliminating unrevolutionary thinking.
Mr. Gavin Boyd, of the ANU, and a
government specialist have a different
view. They believe there is a substantial
element in the Army which does not
accept the Party line. Their argument is
that the elimination of ranks in the Army
in June last year, administrative chaos,
and the worsening relations with Russia,
plus the evidence of the failure of guerilla
warfare in Vietnam, have caused many
Army officers to rankle at what they see
as Party dogmatism and romanticism. The
government man claimed that the Politi-
cal Conference for the Army early this
year was aimed at correcting ideological
“errors” among officers.
But Defence and External Affairs
Department men were quite emphatic
that there was no evidence so far that
the Army was involved in prosecuting
the purge, except that the Army news-
paper was taking the lead in denouncing
the anti-party elements, the Party news-
papers tailing along. Both Boyd and
Wilson think that Mr. Lin Piao, the
Defence Minister and one of the inner
six, may be most important in initiating
the coup. Defence Department-External
Affairs think that Lin, like Mao, is too
sick to be involved and suggest that since
Chief of the General Staff and Minister
for Public Security, Lo Jui-ching, has been
disposed of, the Army as a unit is most
unlikely to be on the winning side des-
pite the fact that its newspaper is being
used by it. They think that the purge is
the work of the Secretary-General of the
central committee of the Party, Teng
Hsiao-ping.
Mr. Boyd makes the general point that
as long as the Party continues on its
present fervid tack and as long as the
regime continues to run into difficulties,
tensions between the Party and the Army
are likely to grow. Despite the Party the
Army tends to become increasingly prag-
matic as it becomes more professional. It
follows then that an Army coup is not out
of the question, looking a little beyond the
present power struggle. The Army after
all is a unified command, controlling land
forces, air, and navy units and the vast
militia. The security forces and police are
very small and would have no chance
against the Army.
The fourth source of trouble is of course
the problem of succession. Mao, the
founder of the regime’s revolutionary doc-
trine, the leader of the revolutionary
struggle and epitome of all revolutionary
virtue ever since, is blind and increasingly
incapacitated in other ways. So he no
longer rules as he did and the fight is on
for the right to succeed him when mor-
tality finally asserts itself. Lui Shao-chi,
head of State and a contributor to Party


MOST MOOQIN THEATRE GOMG
9
jv::
mat
r
-
*
/
There are bigger theatres showing first-run
colour movies. But there is no more comfort-
able one. There certainly isn’t a faster theatre.
500 m.p.h. at 32,000 feet. Between Sydney
and Manila, all points east, and on. Conven-
ient connections to UK and Europe. Present-
ing in-flight colour movies, or nine different
music channels, two of them full stereo. Sud-
denly the biggest ocean of all exists no more.
You’re at the Philippine Air Line’s theatre.
Instead of just sitting, with nothing to see but
sea. PAL theatres are now playing every Mon-
day and Thursday. And the price of an aisle
seat includes our very special kind of service.
HONG • EUROPE VIA TOKYO
I.KONG ■
•TAIPEI
SAN FRANCISCO
Mumwßmsmmmm
HONOLULU
EUROPE
EUROPE
VIA BANGKOK
■■■•■■■
SINGAPORE
■ ■»■•’
EUROPE
• SYDNEY
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
L
For PAL flight schedules, and Philippines tour infor-
mation, see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Cnr. Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane.
140 North Terrace, Adelaide.9B Williams Street. Perth.
62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra. 178 Liverpool
Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NAME
ADDRESS
MY TRAVEL AGENT.
PHONE.
69.125


classics, has for a long time been a favorite
in the succession stakes but the latest specu-
lation is that he is being caught off guard
in the current purge. This is based on the
fact that he and Chen Yi, the Foreign
Minister were in Afghanistan when it
started and so if not directed against them,
it is not being in any way directed by them.
In any case the leadership problem will
not be easily solved. For one thing it has
never even been faced before, Mao having
been leader from the beginning. And since
the average age of all plausible contenders
is said to be nearly 70, nature could con-
tribute to a rapid succession and contin-
uing instability on that account.
An all-pervasive set of problems can be
described under the heading: management
of ideology. China is at present firmly
committed to a fundamentalist revolu-
tionary ideology which demands adherence
on account of its pure and untainted char-
acter. It stresses voluntarism, the potential
of man armed with revolutionary beliefs.
And it therefore discounts the importance
of specialists: research, learning, special-
isation are despised. So there is a two-way
conflict, the Party ideologues disparaging
and distrusting the educated specialist elite
and they in turn fighting a series of under-
ground defensive operations against the
anti-pragmatism of the Party men.
It is by no means simply a matter of
conflict with “intellectuals” in the limited
sense in which we use the term. The intel-
lectuals who have gone in recent purges
include editors of leading newspapers,
directors of universities, Party historians,
film and theatre producers, scientists in
short members of the educated elite
throughout key areas of the regime. And
when they go, so do a lot of people under
them.
All sorts of ideological problems and con-
straints have arisen since the break with
Soviet Communism. The attempt to play
up the Chinese character of true Marxism-
Leninism brings a host of problems. In
response to the Party’s call in 1961 for
scholars to go back into Chinese history,
disastrous ideas were turned up ancient
warlords began to be glorified, peasant
revolts discovered as early manifestations
of revolutionary ardor, and these were
propogated as plays, novels, short stories,
operas, and films. There was tremendous
scope for dissentient intellectuals to subtly
put across attacks on the regime in the
form of allegories; by giving villains the
characteristics of current party heroes, for
instance. Such indirect criticism of the
regime is part of Chinese tradition.
And so Teng To, editor of the Peking
Party magazine and secretaary of the
Peking committee, and Wu Han, a promi-
nent historian who directed the whole
search for Marxism-Leninism in Chinese
history, have both been purged for the
most dreadfully heretical allusions in
their writings: attacking the doctrine of
Party infallibility, the victimisation of the
former defence minister, and so on. And
the significant thing is that these poison-
ous heresies now being tracked down
were written and published years ago and
have been widely circulated. Some of the
ideological “offences” are undoubtedly
real, others phony. But the fact that they
are being pressed so vigorously has one
result whatever the basis of the charges:
it clamps down on the creativity of artists
and intellectuals, a creativity which is
itself needed in order to transmit the
ideology to the people generally. Unless
ideological messages can be dressed up in
plays and stories and films of some human
interest there is no way of getting people
to listen to them.
A further question obviously arises
from the present purge: is the result a
swing to the Left or to the Right in the
Party line? The specialists were generally
of the opinion that if anything it was
a slight. swing to the Left, a further in-
tensification of Maoist fervor. Many of
the elite people under attack were by
the nature of their jobs more pragmatic
types, inclined to favor a little revision-
ism if not the wholesale sellout of which.
they are accused. But, of course, some
who have gone—Peng Chen most notably
—have been as hardline as any. Peng,
after all, led the offensive at Bucharest
and in Moscow in 1960 which did a great
deal to split the international Communist
movement and establish Peking as a
ideological rival to Moscow.
It is clear that to have any chance
of succeeding Mao, each contender will
have to engage in an intensive struggle
to prove that he is a truer disciple of
Mao than the others. Already the idolatry
and adulation which is being poured on
the old man suggests this is on. There
will be no room for any manoeuvre from
a fundamentalist stance until the new
leadership is relatively securely held by
Mao’s successor. If there is any deviation
from recent policies it will be Left Wing.
For the time being it is clear that China
will continue to commit both reckless
and violent acts while being patient and
cautious at other times in pursuit of its
present general objectives. It will only
abandon them after a long process of
ideological erosion, which can be pro-
moted mainly by Western resolution: in
demonstrating that the aggressive elements
of their ideology are based on false
assumptions. Thus we will have to show
that wars of liberation in Maoist style will
not work in the third world, that the
West has the will and the ability to coun-
ter them.
It is quite incredible that with this
present purge going on in China West-
ern governments are quite silent and in-
active. There are so many things which
could be done. First, the point should be
made both domestically and internation-
ally that crises of this sort in the totali-
tarian world are frightfully unjust and
cause great human suffering to the indi-
viduals involved. Why not treat them as
violations of human rights which could
appropriately be taken up by the United
Nations? Second, they are grossly dis-
ruptive of the efficient functioning of the
State and the community since they
directly involve key people and indirectly
impose a deadening reign of fear over
large sections of the community. Third,
thev are an almost inevitable result of a
lack of constitutional procedures and a
lack of liberal institutions and traditions.
And why not get in on the struggles
themselves by publicising the naked
power considerations and the ideological
hypocrisy and contradictions of the top-
dogs, using radio and pamphlets to get
across the message of the underdogs? It
generally gives us an excellent opportu-
nity to expose the foul dynamic of sys-
tems which so impertinently claim to
satisfy rational and humanist aspirations.
Politicians of Patriotism
The RSL’s First 50
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
LET me introduce a new BULLETIN
competition: NAME THE OR-
GANISATION. Here are the clues:
• The editor of the “Anglican” news-
paper in 1963 called it an “unqualified
social evil” and alleged that its affairs
were largely controlled by “racketeers who
have insinuated their way into the top
strata of the movement.”
• Mr. Bruce Petty, a cartoonist for “The
Australian,” depicted this organisation as
an elderly sot, glass of beesr in hand,
watching Australian soldiers being sent to
their deaths and calling for “more.”
• Victorian MHR, Mr. Gordon Bryant,
a couple of years ago declared that it had
become “a conservative and bureaucratic
organisation dedicated to the preservation
of values no longer valid,” intent on
“phony campaigns on Communism and
National Service training which have
nothing to do with (the organisation’s)
real purpose.”
• Dr. J. F. Cairns told a cheering crowd
last year that “the real threat to Aus-
tralia comes from (this organisation) and
other reactionary organisations.”
What do you guess so far: the DLP?
The League of Rights? The Mafia? Wrong
each time. Here are some more clues:
• A Federal Minister said in 1964 that
it was .., he onl organisation in Australia
„ j-
, , 1 access o c ommon-
'T ealth Government and added that .
„ s °rg amsatlon Lad not been formed
t 0 ta^e care - e bereaved and dis-
abled, one would have to be created.”
• Back as far as 1917 a Cabinet Minister
told this organisation that it would fare
best if “instead of speaking through the
Press it came and talked things over with
me .”
• Donald Horne, in “The Lucky Country,”
described it as “one of the most skilful
-*u . £
pressure groups . . . with a quarter of a
Lmi- ® i n
member ... ,t speaks to any Gov-
ernment ln u the an S ua B e of the ballot box
... it is the only pressure group that has
formal access to Cabinet . . .
Too large for the Chamber of Manu-
factures, too small for the Catholic
Church, too influential for the Salvation


Arjny. Perhaps, then, it is the Public Ser-
vice Association? The Masonic Lodge?
Wrong again. Some more clues:
• The organisation arranges funerals for
indigent members and their widows, pro-
vides food and clothing for the needy, dis-
tributes many thousands of gift parcels at
Christmas, and visits the lonely in hos-
pitals.
• It subsidises family welfare and child
welfare clinics, formerly ran employment
agencies, and in New South Wales main-
tains a modern neurological clinic.
• It has over 40,000 children enrolled in
its youth clubs, arranges for its members
to make regular blood donations, and last
year in Tumut built a house for the widow
and children of an aboriginal.
Guess again. The Brotherhood of St.
Lawrence? The Red Cross? The St. Vin-
cent de Paul Society? No closer. Here is
the last BULLETIN clue in this week’s
competition. In Alan Seymour’s play “The
One Day of the Year,” young Hughie de-
clares to Mum and Wacka: “We’re sick
of all the muck that’s talked about this
day . . . the great national day of honor,
day of memory, day of salute to the fallen,
day of grief . . . it’s just one long grog-
up .. . yeah, it’s a lot of old has-beens
getting up in (this organisation) and say-
ing, ‘Well, boys, you all know what we’re
here for, we?re here to honor our mates
who didn’t come back.’ And they all feel"
sad and have another six or seven beers
33
You’re no Barry Jones but, yes, you’ve
guessed it. The old RSL. The loved and
hated, abused and praised, noble and
selfish, narrow-minded and big-hearted,
wet and dry RSL, the always much talked
about and now appropriately written
about RSL.
The latter reference is to the 300 pages
of “The Politics of Patriotism,” sub-
titled “The Pressure Group Activities of
the Returned Servicemen’s League,” by
G. L. Kristianson, now Assistant Professor
of Political Science, University of Saskat-
chewan.
A graduate of the University of British
Columbia, Dr. Kristianson spent almost
three years in Australia, with the ANU as
his base, investigating the activities of what,
when he first arrived, was the Returned
Soldiers, Sailors, and Airmens’ Imperial
League of Australia, and is now just the
Returned Servicemen’s League.
Being a political scientist, Dr. Kristian-
son continually refers to the RSL as a
pressure group and relates all of its activi-
ties to pressure-group theory. “Pressure-
group” is one of those fine controversial
terms: A “boo” term with the general
public and a “hurrah” term within the
academic discipline. But Kristianson’s book
is basically about the organisation’s forma-
tion, history, structure, tactics, aims, and
effectiveness. On most counts the RSL
scores well in the book. Its pressure activi-
ties have been so successful that a com-
parison of the benefits available under the
Australian Repatriation Act with those of
ten other Western countries indicates “that
Australia’s provisions compare more than
favorably with those elsewhere.”
The RSL has had only one major pro-
posal for the benefit of ex-servicemen re-
From THE BULLETIN, March 13, 1919.
THE TOUTS
The Obsequious Touts: “Hotel, sir?”
Returning Billjim: “No, thanks - I'm
putting up with a cobber of mine till I
have a look round.”
jected by the Government (preference for
promotion in the Public Service); it has
direct access to Cabinet; and it exercises
much more initiative than the Repatria-
tion Department in the Federal legislature
and senior administration.
Kristianson is incisive enough to note
that the League’s success is not only due
to its own political abilities. Just as im-
portant has been the League’s identification
of itself with major parts of the national
mythology, with the “Digger” tradition,
the honor of the “volunteer” soldier, with
the legend of Anzac: “As part of the Aus-
tralian tradition that has made Anzac Day
Australia’s national day, the League is able
to press repatriation matters against virt-
ually no opposing groups (with the ex-
ception of the Treasury) and, while hav-
ing the benefit of support from numerous,
uninvited allies, is able to stand aloof
scorning the need for formal or informal
affiliation with other bodies in its efforts
on behalf of returned servicemen. The
RSL has always been a fully and openly
accepted part of the Australan political
process.”
One of Kristianson’s most interesting
appendices is the result of an inquiry con-
ducted into the policy priorities of mem-
bers. Some 870 questionnaires were dis-
tributed to members of selected sub-
branches in New South Wales, Victoria,
Queensland, and South Australia. Forty
percent of these replied. Respondents were
asked to choose, from a list of nine items,
the five which they considered most im-
portant, and to give the order of priority,
The ranking of priorities was as follows:
War service homes 1; war pension rates 2;
defence 3; national service training 4; anti-
Communism 5; soldier settlement 6; onus
of proof 7; preference for ex-Servicemen
8; immigration 9.
Kristianson also gives the replies to a
questionnaire sent to 770 members who
were asked whether they thought the
League,. should be concerned with three
issues ribt directly concerned with ex-
Servicemen’s right and favors: Defence,
anti-Communism, and the restrictive im-
migration policy. Of the 41 percent who
replied, 89 percent were in favor of the
League’s concern for defence, 77 percent
for anti-Communism, and 65 percent for
the restrictive immigration policy. It was
no doubt alarm at the Leagues concern
for such issues which prompted one re-
viewer to remark that Readers seeking
a definitive study of the RSL s effect on
Australian politics and the reasons for its
retrogressive side . . . will have to wait
for another time.”
On the other hand, readers who want
a comprehensive and impartial account of
the nature and functions of the League will
not need to go past “The Politics of
Patriotism.” With all of its manifest and
often-exposed faults, the RSL described
by Kristianson emerges as a successful and
honorable organisation working for legiti-
mate ends in a democratic society. It may
be symbolic of certain contradictions in
that society, and especially its academic
chambers, that we had to wait for a
Canadian to tell us so.


IHS' >1
11 € m
! 1 '1
; 1
mV®.' V'i '
uußih* i
1!
a* »
* ;i 1
S I !
»
f.l
;i.V-
-m
f
If
Praktica
belongs
Belongs in a world of people who
know and appreciate fine things,
who know the special benefits of a
precision-built German single
lens reflex camera.
Praktica’s crystal-clear. Reflex
View Finder allows you to see the
picture you are taking, accurately.
Allows you to take wide-angle
and telephoto shots and the
instant-return mirror makes sure
you see the shot you took,
right through the lens.
From the moment you hold a
Praktica, you know it belongs.
Experience the thrill of holding a
beautifully finished instrument,
meticulously made. Praktica, from
$89.50. Distributed, serviced and
fully guaranteed in Australia
by Hanimex.
HANIMEX
BELONGS TO THE GOOD LIFE
A
As exhibited in the Photokina
World Exhibition, Cologne,
Germany.
HAP 2669/66
A Nuclear Power Station
In the Snowy
Before the Team Splits Up
By W. C. WENTWORTH, MHR
NOW that the vast Snowy Scheme is
coming to completion, many people
are asking what is to become of the
vast and efficient organisation which has
been built up to carry it through. It is
easy to find alternative uses for the ex-
ploratory and design teams which are
already surplus to requirements. Most of
their work on the Snowy is already com-
pleted, but Australia has plenty of oppor-
tunities for their skills.
Already these teams are available to be
scattered for preliminary reconnaissance;
and with only a little foresight and drive
it will be possible to select a few of the
most promising projects; to make a first
analysis of their merits; and to select two
or three of them for construction and
development.
But this work takes time: and it is un-
likely that detailed and properly evaluated
development projects will be available in
sufficient quantity in time to absorb the
capacities of the construction organisa-
tion which will become surplus as work
on the Snowy Scheme tails off.
There is, however, one project which
could be put in hand without delay, and
which would dovetail with the whole
Snowy Mountains Scheme namely, the
building of Australia’s first nuclear power
station.
This would be a five-year program
which could be started at short notice. It
would not, of course, be big enough to
absorb the whole capacity of the Snowy
teams, but it would help to smooth their
transition to other development works all
over Australia.
Nuclear power stations are expensive in
capital costs as compared with coal power
stations, but they are cheap in running
costs: so that, if they can be run at a
high Load Factor (i.e., if they can be kept
generating for most of the 24 hours on
most of the days of the year) they can
get their total costs down toward the best
coal-fired station costs.
Now, this is where the Snowy Scheme
fits in. The latest Snowy plant on the
Tumut side is designed to work at a low
Load Factor: and on both the Tumut and
Jindabyne sides provision is being made
for “pumped storage.”
Under this scheme certain of the units
are reversible, the generators operating as
motors and the turbines as pumps. When
there is surplus electrical energy available
from outside the Snowy it is planned to
feed it back and use it to raise water,
which will then be released to generate
power for the periods of electrical peak
load.
Thus, if a nuclear power station were
incorporated in the overall Snowy plan
it would be capable of operating at maxi-
mum Load Factor, using off-peak capacity
to pump extra water to peak-load genera-
tion.
Furthermore, the Snowy Scheme is
already part of the main Sydney-Mel-
bourne grid, which would be able to
absorb a big nuclear plant economically
as part of its normal planned development
over the next five years.
An efficient nuclear plant needs to be
big certainly 300 megawatts of generat-
ing capacity, and preferably more than
that. The annual growth of the Sydney-
Melbourne grid will exceed this figure, so
that there would be no difficulty in marry-
ing a big nuclear plant into the system
over a five-year plan.
Where should such a plan be estab-
lished? It is tempting to think of putting
it between Melbourne and Adelaide and
using it as a means of linking South Aus-
tralia with the main grid, but this might
involve long delays in negotiation between
Commonwealth and States, and might
even raise some constitutional difficulties.
gINCE time is of the essence of the mat-
ter, with construction work in the
Snowy about to taper off, it would seem
preferable to establish the nuclear plant
inside the Snowy Scheme itself.
All the organisation already exists in
this locality, so that no establishment costs
would be involved: there would be no
constitutional difficulties: and the basis of
electricity sales to the States is already
in being.
Furthermore the load centre for pumped
storage is on the Snowy Scheme; and the
transmission lines to the main grid serv-
ing both Sydney and Melbourne are
already established.
The Snowy Scheme is a Commonwealth
organisation; so also is the Atomic Energy
Commission indeed it is in the same
Department and under the same Minister.
On the whole, then, there would seem
every reason for the selection of a site
somewhere in the Cooma-Jindabyne-
Eucumbene area, and the adoption of the
project as a Commonwealth responsibility.
The cost of a 300 M.W. plant would
be some $90,000,000 say $18,000,000
per year over five years. About half this
$90,000,000 would be saved immediately,
as it represents the cost of the coal-fired
plant which would have to be constructed
to meet increasing electricity demand if
the nuclear plant were not constructed.
Something over half of the remaining
cost would be recovered over the life of
the plant, because the running costs of
a nuclear plant (once constructed) are
considerably less than the comparable
running costs of a coal-fired plant.
This still leaves a small margin of total
cost advantage to the coal-fired plant
and it may well be asked why should we


Ansett
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
FLY AND DRIVE IN '66. 130 Avis Stations throughout
Australia are ready to give you instant service. Drive
one of the great new Falcons or other fine cars . . .
proper insurance protects you and frees you from care.
Avis honours Ansett-ANA and all nationally-recognised
credit cars. Book your Avis car when you book your flight.
VNVU3SNV
A VIS RENT-A-CAR
1397/as/«s
bother about constructing a nuclear plant
at all.
This is a good question, to which there
are three good answers —
1. The Technology answer.
2. The Plutonium answer.
3. The Defence answer.
TECHNOLOGY: Nuclear power is the
power of the future. Its competitive posi-
tion is constantly improving, and it is
relatively certain that before long it will
be driving the generators of the world.
Australia should not divorce herself
from this nuclear technology. Without
our own nuclear power system, our
engineers and designers are going to be
left in a backwater. As an industrial coun-
try we cannot afford the maintenance of
this gap.
PLUTONIUM: One of the by-products
from a nuclear power plant is a new
manmade element plutonium. This
material is likely to be of crucial import-
ance for the new generation of nuclear
power plants, which is at present under
investigation and which is likely to be
emerging in the next decade. These new
power plants look like being the cheapest
sources of electrical power available any-
where.
So far as can be seen on the basis of
existing knowledge, it is probable that
there will be a world-wide shortage of
plutonium in the 1975-85 period.
If Australia does not have plutonium
stocks at that date she may well find
herself excluded for some time from the
cheap-power program. This would put
all Australian secondary industry at a
disadvantage, and would thus prejudice
our cost-structure and depress our living
standards.
DEFENCE: Plutonium, in addition to
its significance for industrial purposes, is
also one component of nuclear weapons.
In fact a stock of military-grade pluton-
ium (which can be obtained as a by-
product from a nuclear power plant) is
over halfway toward the production of
nuclear weapons. The nation which has
such a stock could become a nuclear
power at comparatively short notice:
whereas a nation starting from scratch
would have many more years to wait.
Now nobody would suggest that, at the
present juncture, Australia should manu-
facture nuclear weapons of her own. Most
Australians would agree that the establish-
ment of an effective scheme of world-
wide nuclear disarmament, properly veri-
fied, should be a prime objective of our
foreign policy, and that we should do
nothing to hinder the emergence of such
a scheme.
But what if, in spite of best endeavors,
no such scheme comes into existence
as seems all too tragically probable? Then
surely our interests require us to be able
to cut down the time-lag in gaining for
Australia the nuclear protection which
may be the condition of survival.
Possession of a nuclear power plant
does not imply any decision to make
nuclear weapons it simply enables us to
cut down the time-lag if, at any time in
the unforeseeable future, we were forced
to make this decision in the interests of
Australian survival.
It is not, of course, suggested that we
should put ourselves in the same position
as the major powers (U.S.A., Russia,
U.K., France, and Red China) in regard
to the actual possession of nuclear
weapons.
But why should we not be at least as
far advanced as Japan, India, Canada,
Italy, Sweden, Holland, both Germanies,
and Czechoslovakia countries which
are installing power reactors as the basis
for a nuclear technology which will cut
down their time-lag if they decide that
circumstances require a weapons pro-
gram? Geographically, Australia could
find herself at least as much out on a
limb as any of them.
If the gross cost of a power plant is
only $15,000,000 per year, and the net
cost 4 (after allowing for the electricity
credits) is under one quarter of this, the
outlay is not terribly significant in terms
of defence expenditure, while the .dividend,
in respect of Australian security and sur-
vival, might turn out to be enormous,
(In next week’s issue Professor S. T.
Butler, Professor of Theoretical Physics,
University of Sydney, will discuss Mr.
Wentworth’s proposal.)


ONE MORE
WEEK
Under Two Flags
A WOOLWORTHS TOY counter in Syd-
ney is offering an item called Our Flag
Puzzle. It comes in two varieties: the
Union Jack and the Stars and Stripes.
Success Story
WHEN WE TALKED to Geoffrey
Chapman he shuddered a little at the pros-
pect of being the subject of a local-boy-
makes-good story, but could not deny the
charge. Chapman, now 36, has established
from a Wimbledon, London, headquarters
the largest Catholic publishing house in the
Commonwealth. This year the sales turn-
over of his company will approach the
$1 million mark.
Educated at Xavier College and Mel-
bourne University, Chapman took his
LL.B. and young graduate wife to England
early in 1954. His plan was to do some
study, some work, travel around as much
as possible, and drink reasonable quantities
of mild and bitter. He had no notions of
entering the book trade and intended to
return to Australia after a couple of years
to enter law.
He tried editing a few books in England,
but after striking trouble with publishers
decided to try publishing himself. There
was no money, no experience to back the
ambition: only the feeling that a man
who could withstand a London winter
could try anything, and a growing belief
that a new spirit was emerging in the
European Church which should be com-
municated to the world.
One of his first publications was “Incar-
nation and- the University,” a collection
of papers delivered at the 1955 University
Catholic Federation of Australia confer-
ence. He has sold ever 8000 copies of this
in three printings and there is still a con-
sistent demand, mostly from the U.S.A.
In 1959, the struggling firm began
translations of Continental Catholic works
and gained the English-speaking rights for
Fr. Yves Congar’s magisterial work, “Lay
People in the Church,” which has been
reprinted every year and has sold over
20,000 in hardback.
The biggest scoop was winning the
English-language rights to the spiritual
diaries of Pope John XXIII, “The Journal
of a Soul,” which has sold over 150,000
in hardback. At the end of this year
Chapman’s are bringing out a paperback
edition. “A million is not beyond us at
the price about $1.25.”
As well as moving strongly into the
American, Irish, and African markets,
Chapman’s has just completed forming an
association with “Sun” Books in Australia.
“Sun” Books and Brian Stonier will man-
age the interests of Geoffrey Chapman
here.
From the Golden Age
WE REMEMBERED Wilfrid Thomas —
from the golden era of radio, broadcasting
human-interest stories from all sorts of
unlikely places to stay-at-home ABC
listeners; the sort of thing that Peter Sellers
does in “Balham Gateway to the
South.” No, said a distinguished columnist
at our elbow. Sellers was out for James
Fitzpatrick in that record. But if anyone
ever had interviewed a workman who put
holes in the top of toothbrushes, it was
probably Wilfrid Thomas.
But Mr. Thomas, being entertained by
the ABC on a recent quick trip here,
turned out to be even better value than the
Sellers record, and of such longstanding
fame that he could remember broadcast-
ing on 2FC when it wasn’t even the ABC,
round about 1925. He had come to Aus-
tralia with his parents at the age of six,
gone to Petersham High School, where
he’d led a strike for longer holidays, and
taken his first job at a company called
Nicholas Cain’s Coastal Co-operative
Steamship Company Limited.
“I thought it would be my first step to-
ward seeing the world,” Mr. Thomas said,
happily reminiscing, “but the furthest I
ever got was to Port Macquarie on my
annual holidays.” What exactly had he
done? “Mostly I sat beside the weigh-
bridge checking incoming cargo, including
wild pigs.” Dead or alive? “Very much
alive,” said Mr. Thomas. “We spent half
the day chasing them. It was not, I fear,
the kind of job I was looking for.”
After his adventures in the pig-skin
trade, Mr. Thomas moved to Shell Oil,
and thence to his first broadcast for 2FC,
then the Farmer Company station, from
a studio in Palings’ Building.
But to his old friends he’s been visiting
here on his way to Bangkok, and to the
passersby who’ve reverently watched him
breakfasting behind the plateglass windows
of the Town House Hotel, Mr. Thomas
seems not much changed. “It all sounds
very nice,” he said, “but the really heart-
warming thing is the way people remem-
ber you through the years. As an old lady
said to me in Auckland only the other
day, I haven’t changed a bit since I sang:
in the boys’ choir at Parramatta.”
Just Add Soda Water
NEW YORKERS have long grown used
to a sign in the subways, “You don’t have
to be Jewish to enjoy Levy’s rye bread.”
However, recently in that city Mr. Eman-
uel Pillar decided he could help things
along a little and put a new product on
the market, a tin labelled “Instant
Jewish,” priced at one dollar.
According to the instructions on the
label, all you had to add to the contents
was a little soda water. The tin contained:
powdered chicken soup; instructions on
holding a plush barmitzvah in a Chinese
restaurant; an egg cream recipe; a note
of introduction to Mr. Arthur Goldberg, at
U.N., a Cadillac registration; a list of New
York wholesalers; a Jewish horoscope; and
a guide to New York delicatessens.
A bit of mild fun, Mr. Pillar thought,
and sold 200 of the tins. Then it was clear
that the American-Jewish Congress did
not agree.
The Congress approached the “New
York Times,” which apologised for running
an advertisement for the product and
promised not to run it again. Mr. Pillar
withdrew his product and finally acknow-
ledged: “It was a lapse of taste.”
Put Another Nickel In
EVERY FEW YEARS newspapers and
magazines (and, we suspect, people a little
closer to the industry with a misty eye
and a nose for publicity) declare that the
pianola is back in fashion, that more
families are finding them fun, and danc-
ing instructors are rediscovering that a
pianola is cheaper than a pianist.
The last time the pianola, or player-
piano to give it its right name, was re-
ported to be booming was 1964 and it
would be rather foolish to take the matter
up so soon again, if we hadn’t heard from
America that an electronic player-piano is
now being made there at a price of $2OOO.
One city salesman said his firm had sold
five pianolas in one day recently, which
sounds almost like a boom. The biggest
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Australia’s decision-makers are living
in the past.
Gough Whitlam.
People in public positions here seem
more sensitive to being attacked or
laughed at than in Britain or the United
States.
Chairman of the A.8.C., Dr. Darling.
When Paul preached the same gospel
as I am preaching they threw him in
jail.
Dr. Billy Graham.
“Love of money,” says the Apostle, “is
the root of all evil.” Not on your nellie,
' says the telly.
Rev. W. A. Smellie,
of the Church of Scotland.
“The ruins of Yucatan are wonderful.
Sydney Opera House becomes a ruin one
day, so why worry?”
Postcard from' Joexn Utzon.
Britain today is incorrigibly insular.
London “Times” on the British decision
to leave ELDO.
The nomination of Ronald Reagan as
Republican candidate for Governor of
California gives a new lease of life to
right-wing Republicanism, and also to
Hollywood’s middle-aged actors.
BBC commentator.
London drama critics have no in-
stinct. They really hate the theatre.
Playwright John Osborne.
Sex prejudice is now the only preju-
dice considered socially acceptable.
American poet Eve Merriam.
No, I don’t think I’m an exhibitionist.
I just love to wear a topless dress..
Michelle Greer on ABC’s “'People” program.
Friends have said that even his enemies
would recognise him.
■ — Pietro Annigoni,
on his portrait of Lord Moran.


buyers of players are in country areas.
Brewarrina in north-west New South Wales
is a good iparket. Another player is being
sent there this week.
It seems that no one has bought an elec-
tronic player-piano here yet, but recon-
ditioned old-style models are in good
demand. A handful of restaurants have in-
stalled them. One restaurant in Kings
Cross has had one of the penny-in-the-slot
variety for six years. Patrons are said to
sing-along between mouthfuls even quite
early in the evening. The pianola can keep
children occupied for hours and is popular
with women who would like slim ankles.
According to Mr. Ted Rea, of Paling’s,
a good, reconditioned player costs about
$6OO. “A new import is out'of the question
at $2000,” he said, “but a reconditioned
model will last with no trouble for at least
25 years.”
Things are much more buoyant in the
music-roll market. The only roll-makers in
Australia, Mastertouch, who say they have
it all over the Americans in their field, re-
port that their label is preparing for the
boom sweeping America now. One of the
three American labels has placed an exten-
sive order with Mastertouch because, so
the local maker claims, overseas companies
have not yet learnt to record modern music
selections.
Mastertouch’s “Golden Jubilee* lasts for
about 15 minutes and costs $2. A two- to
three-minute pop tune roll costs $1.30.
The new catalogue includes “Shakin’ All
Over,” “Tears,” “We’ve Gotta Get Out
Of This Place,” “Help!”, “I’ve Got You,
Babe,” “Wipe Out.”
However, the day of Paling’s lending
library of 50,000 rolls has gone. In the
good old days the annual subscription was
$B.BO and five messenger boys would supply
up to }8 rolls a week at the drop of a
telephone receiver.
But there are still difficulties apart
from the competition from radios, radio-
grams, television, and juke boxes in
making a comeback. Someone in America
is said to be working on two obstacles
raised by modern architecture small
doorways and the reduced space which
comes with home units and apartments in
high-density living. There will be a midget
player-piano on the • market there soon,
but it is doubtful if many will find their
way out here.
More Migrants
Driven by dreams
From Glasgow’s Gorbals, "
To a Bondi Boutique
Where I’m selling glass baubles.
In far Belgrade
I was betrayed.
For years I strayed,
Became depraved.
In Adelaide
I think I’m saved.
From London I came,
Back to London I go.
I’ve missed Royalty, pubs,
Fogs, rain and snow.
MAUREEN WELLS.
“One or two
wouldn’t be so
bad. But when it
goes on knight
after knight ..."
“This is the first
year I’ve
missed out. "
“You never
mentioned you
were knighted. "


agg&sgggg
D
i #'■
»: *!
SS
*t V
m
y $ *
m
'
I
1
*
i i
111
d i
■ %
( f f
II
A j
JB
■
i
in
Total Support
Collins’ support programme provides product service
internationally, consistent with the company’s traditional
standards for equipment design and manufacture. Total
Support assures users of reliable, specified performance,
from installation through the equipment’s useful life.
Subject to customer review at all steps in planning and
execution, programmes are developed using advanced
computer techniques for maximum effectiveness. Instruc-
tion manuals and logistics support data become part of
the support system.
Serving as the customer’s consultant, Field Support En-
gineers provide on-site assistance during installation,
training in operation, and maintenance techniques.
COLLINS RADIO CO. (A/asia) PTY. LTD. 327 Collins Street, Melbourne—Tel.: 61.2626.
COMMUNICATION/COMPUTATION/CONTROL
COLLINS
COLLINS RADIO COMPANY/DALLAS, TEXAS • CEDAR RAPIDS, lOWA • NEWPORT BEACH, CALIFORNIA • TORONTO, ONTARIO.
Bangkok, Beirut, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Los Angeles, London, Melbourne, Mexico City, New York, Paris, Rome, Washington, Wellington.


AROUND MELBOURNE
Everything in apple-pie order
IT is considered very nice to build
east and south of Melbourne, out
toward Ringwood North, Wan-
tirna, Scorseby, Mulgrave, Glen Wav-
erley. This is the perambulator belt
where you find about 80 percent of the
display houses.
It’s the popular pastime, almost as
good as the footy, to swarm out every
weekend to see the 0.Y.0.H.5, the
exposition houses, the futuramic, sheer-
line models already equipped with w.w.
carps, and b.i. robes.
Now we have one which is rather
different, “Appletree Hill,” or better
known, perhaps, as Boydtown. Inspec-
tion is “by appointment only; that is,
you have to apply to the project
manager for tickets. They don’t want
the weekend horde pouring through.
After getting your tickets, you drive
out along Waverley Road, through Mt.
Waverley, through Syndal, past the miles
of triple-front cream brick veneers to
the edge of the perambulator belt at
Glen Waverley. Here it is beautiful.
You reach a very high elevation, the
peak of which is dominated by Corpus
Christi College. (As Barry Humphries
says, they get all the best spots, don’t
they?)
There you turn left along the ridge
down Gallagher’s Road, past the “Cin-
erama Estate” with a view right across
to Mount Dandenong. Here you come
to a sign “Appletree Hill A Better
Way To Live.”
At the project office you get a large
brochure which points out that the
homes at Appletree Hill have been de-
signed by the Melbourne architect part-
nership of Romberg and Boyd. Most
of it, though, seems to be Robin Boyd.
It goes on: “A distinguished practi-
tioner in his own right, Mr. Boyd is
also a gifted writer and critic who has
spent much of his adult lifetime cam-
paigning against the butchery of nature
and the vulgarity and anarchy which
pervade the Australian residential scene.
In one of Mr. Boyd’s books, ‘The Aus-
tralian Ugliness,’ in which he attacks
the butchery and vulgarity, he also
proposes architectural solutions. It is
planned that Appletree Hill will be the
living expression of these solutions
a brilliant and satisfying practical
demonstration of what hitherto in Aus-
tralia has been seductive theory.”
The people behind Mr. Boyd are
Lend Lease Homes Pty. Ltd. And they
are spending $7,000,000 to build a 400-
home Boydtown. According to the
firm’s publicity staff there have been
plenty of other big projects in Aus-
tralia, but never before has one planner
been given the lot, so to speak. Robin
Boyd designed the five different houses
available. Robin Boyd designed the lay-
out. He decides how the houses are
oriented. He decides the choice of only
two exterior color schemes. He decides
that you cannot cut down any trees
and that there will be no front fences
at all, only the back fences already
erected. He has decided that all power
and telephone lines are underground.
As the brochure says: “Having accepted
the disciplines, you will enjoy and ad-
mire your neighbors’ houses almost as
much as you will your own.”
The result is perfect. Nothing assaults
the eye. All is harmony. No pop-art
clash of colors from house to house,
no violent terracotta roofs. All the
roofs that you see have the one shade
of tile a respectful charcoal-grey.
There are only two exterior colors,
cherry-brick and white, and there will
be control here, too.
It is not exactly cheap housing. The
prices of the three- and four-bedroomed
brick veneer houses with land, plus a
number of extras, range from $16,500
to $20,800.
There are now five houses available
for inspection. They are built, as we
expect them all to be built, around a
little cul-de-sac with grass and trees
in the centre. Every house is angled so
that it is not offensive to its neighbor
and every house gets a share of that
“We were going to cut it down
but Mr. Boyd would have been
furious”
view across to Mount Dandenong. Mr.
Boyd says that the designs set out to
be “sensible, livable, and solidly good.
They are trying to give a lift to the
best conventional Australian qualities,
rather than trying to be something new
or exotic or super-anything.”
The biggest two designs are RBOO4
and RBOOB, and already one can see
a certain class distinction in Boydtown.
“Oh, darling, haven’t you seen them?
They’re RBOIO people.”
RBOO4, perhaps, is the most imagin-
ative house four bedrooms, two bath-
rooms, and in the centre a large court-
yard decorated with white stones on
the ground, bamboo bushes and such.
Every room in the house looks into and
gains light from this glassed-in area,
and the idea is that maybe on a 100-
degree Melburnian night you wheel up
the TV to the living-room glass wall,
sit out in the courtyard among the
bamboo plants, and enjoy the cool.
One can only hope that it would be
equally practical during Melbourne’s
long winter.
The colors everywhere match beauti-
fully. The kitchens have fascinating
tones like terracotta, or dark blue lam-
inates, or good beige colors, always with
wood-color cupboards, none of the
traditional antiseptic white.
Indeed, just occasionally, the heart
cries out for a set of sand-blasted glass
doors decorated with sailboats, a Genoa
velvet armchair, a trio of ducks flying
up the wall, or maybe a china gnome in
the front garden.
One has to enthuse. The whole con-
cept is magnificent and beautifully done.
Yet before taking up membership in
Boydtown you would have to decide
whether you could fit into the Boyd
mould. The front gardens are all land-
scaped and the back gardens often pretty
small. There is a place for everything,
a correctly designed space. There are no
outhouses. The toolshed is a cupboard
with a clip and position for every article
including motor mower and wheel-
barrow. If you want to put in a sack
of cement and some half-empty paint
cans, you’ve had it, chum.
One wonders, too, how you would
go if you wanted to build a boat, breed
Afghans, or put in a treehouse for
the kids. Yet, if you get a chance, drive
out to Appletree Hill. The big hope is
that this will start a new era out in the
perambulator belt. As I departed I
noted one great help to you . . . they
have a playground available “for your
kiddies.”
I’m worried. Do you think Robin
Boyd also worded and designed that
notice?
BATMAN


mt
X
\
m
*
.
,v O ;
.
-
g:-
m
-a-:
jtr :
.
A
eg?
•:\ A
r
m-
I i
I
1 I
M
Jaaa.
; ’ * ■
MBm
g
■
i ■& -
:
i*S


$s
. is
■
Look who's put in
Penci/ine Partitioning.
E.S.&A. Bank has.
(In Australia's first ladies’ banking suite.)
English Electric has.
These famous companies, and their architects,
weighed up the advantages of new Lysaght
Penciline internal partitioning. And they liked
what they saw. Penciline is a fresh concept in
partitioning (free standing, floor to ceiling, or rail
height). Damage-resistant Lysaght Marviplate
panels on a rigid galvanized steel framework.
Fully demountable and re-usable. All services
carried through steel studs. It has the highest
soundproofing qualities of any demountable
system. Termite proof, rodent proof and fire
resistant. Scuff, scratch and stain resistant. And
speedily erected. 15-20 sq. ft. per man hour is
easily achieved. We’d be glad to show you
the facts and figures on Penciline. Facts and
figures that will prove it the perfect choice for
your office, shop or factory partitioning.
Just contact John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTOR-ERECTORS
N.S.W.
Associated Insulation Pty. Ltd. 929-9700.
Frank G. O’Brien Limited. 69-0466.
Co-ordinated Design & Supply Pty. Ltd. 42-6420.
Pavey, Young & Mathews Pty. Ltd., Newcastle.
57-3943.
VICTORIA
A. J. Brooks (Vic.) Pty. Ltd. 46-4924.
David H. Bill & Associates. 86-5071.
British United Shoe Machinery Co. 41-2157.
Picton Hopkins & Son Pty. Ltd. 42-3541.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Sigal Industries Pty. Ltd. 45-4148, 45-5757.
Bissland Partitions Pty. Ltd. 45-3656.
Parsons & Robertson Pty. Ltd. 45-2171.
QUEENSLAND
Northstate Engineering Pty. Ltd. 79-1031.
Robb & Brown. 4-4421.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Jason Industries Limited. 6-2061.
Lysaght
Pensilinß


AUSTRALIA AND THE MONARCHY
On My Feet
The avant-garde puts the clock back
By LEONIE KRAMER
SOMEHOW, naively I suppose, I
thought I might find answers to
various questions about “Australia
and the Monarchy” in the Sun Book of
that name. But instead the mystery
deepens. What is this book for, and what
are we supposed to do about it? Geoffrey
Dutton says in his editorial preface that
it' is “an attempt to find out what Aus-
tralians do think about the monarchy”
and “to induce Australians to ask them-
selves where their loyalties lie.” I have
to confess at once that both these aims
seem to me, in this year 1966, to be
peculiarly unimportant. In fact I find it
difficult to imagine a time in our history
when they might have seemed less im-
portant. Moreover, the first question, like
all questions of this kind, is not a sensible
one, or at least not productive; some Aus-
tralians think one thing, and some another,
and some don’t think about it at all. This
is no doubt why several of the contributors
-—notably Max Harris and Donald Horne
—are in fact much less concerned to find
out what Australians think than to tell
them what they ought to think. These
chapters belong in the section which Geof-
frey Dutton labels “avowedly polemical.”
They are exceedingly bad polemics, based
on unsound sociological speculation, and
greatly addicted to the argumentum ad
hominem.
And so to the proposition that we, as
Australians, should ask ourselves where our
loyalties lie. In terms of “Australia and
the Monarchy” we are really asked to de-
cide whether we are monarchists or re-
publicans. Again, I personally do not feel
called upon to give an answer to a ques-
tion which does not offer real alternatives.
While republicanism in Australia is a
political possibility, monarchy is only in
a special sense a political fact. The ex-
tent to which it is this has been admirably
demonstrated by Zelman Cowan in by far
the best chapter in the book. Professor
Cowan’s analysis of the constitutional
problem of republicanism shows precisely
how intemperate and, indeed, irrelevant
are the shouts of the polemicists. It re-
veals, too, the basic inconsistency in the
book. The attack on the monarchy,
launched by Jock Marshall and pursued
diligently by Donald Horne and Max
Harris, is made ostensibly in the cause of
Australian nationalistic sentiment. Must
we replace one obsession with another?
The polemicists (they include the editor)
would have it that a love for Australia
and a concern with its future as a nation
are incompatible with even the most
modest respect for the tradition of
monarchy. This delusion seems to me
possible only to people with no historical
sense whatsoever. One can agree that
there is absurd and vulgar publicity about
the monarchy today; that the Queen is
required to grace innumerable tiresome
gatherings; that the system of honors is
open to abuse, and that the worthy can
go unrewarded. But to blame the in-
stitution itself for these shortcomings is
simply unrealistic. To do so without at
any point asking why the monarchy should
have survived at all in its present form
is to neglect the most interesting and dif-
ficult question that can be asked. Further,
to imagine that there would be no social
snobbery, no system of favors, nothing but
an independent, democratic Australia if
we were to cast off the shackles of the
past, stop playing the National Anthem,
and pay allegiance to an Australian presi-
dent is to live in a world of delusion
which makes Furphy’s Australian nation-
alism seem pathetically unambitious. I am
sure there must be many people who, like
myself, want to see Australians place more
confidence in their own capabilities; who
do not believe that the last word on lit-
erary matters is uttered in the anonymous
columns of the “Times Literary Supple-
ment”; who do not believe that London
is always and in- oiably the centre of
culture; and who ..> not believe that to
have been to Buckingham Palace guaran-
tees one’s value to the community. I am
equally certain that these same people do
not have to justify their faith in their own
country by vulgar and inaccurate attacks
upon those whose views are different from
theirs.
By a sheer accident, I was in London
on the day George VI died. It so hap-
pened that I saw, in an almost empty
street, the ceremony of the proclamation
of his death. It did not seem to me then
that the cry “The King is dead, long
live the Queen” was empty of con-
tent. And one can say this while at the
same time acknowledging the vulgarisation
of the monarchy by Press and public,
and asserting that Australia, and not Eng-
land, is home. This, moreover, has noth-
ing to do with loyalty, which is altogether
a more personal matter than most of the
contributors to “Australia and the Mon-
archy” seem to imagine. Indeed, it is
loyalty of a kind which makes me dis-
turbed by the polemical note in “Aus-
tralia and the Monarchy.” We are con-
stantly being told by various “intellectuals”
that Australia is always ten years behind
Europe in its fashions, ideas, and culture.
We have been told so on other occasions
by contributors to this book, and I have
dissented from their view more than once.
Now they, the self-styled avant-garde, have
proved me wrong by putting the clock
back themselves.
In England in the ’sos, Mr. Muggeridge
and Lord Altrincham launched their
attacks upon the monarchy. Ten years
later (and with frequent references to
their pioneering work) our polemicists
tell us what we have all heard be-
fore. Why? Donald Horne would say
we need a shock. I personally do not feel
that I need to be shocked, in language that
I deplore, out of views I do not hold into
a situation which no one is prepared or
able to define. If I have to choose between
the embarrassment of latter-day Furphy-
ism and the National Anthem —a choice
which is, after all, quite unreal —I shall be
found on my feet.
Wheezy Organ
By courtesy of Washington , Berne , and Bonn
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
IT may still come as something of a
shock to English readers, and perhaps
some Australian ones, too, that none
of the articulate and intelligent con-
tributors to “Australia and the Monarchy”
has anything much to say for the monar-
chical institution as such.
As Max Harris points out in his con-
tribution, “Monarchy and the Australian
Character,” the conventional view of Aus-
tralia might well have led one to expect
to find strong republican sentiment and
even an important republican party there.
The descendants of convicts, after all, it
might be supposed, are unlikely to hold
in reverent and strong affection the
Throne, under whose auspices their ances-
tors were shipped off to the Antipodes as
felons.
Yet, in practice, as we all know, Aus-
tralians have been as prone hitherto as
anyone else to get into striped trousers,
top hats, cutaway coats. As to Royal
Visits to Australia —• in the past they
have been signalised by bumper crowds in
the streets and at official receptions, as
well as by evoking a sort of editorial
pomp in which the leader-writers mark
their own personal lack of enthusiasm for
such occasions. What the contributors to
Australia and the Monarchy are say-
ing in their different ways is that in recent
years this situation has changed. Unlike
Sir Robert Menzies, a good many of them
—probably a majority—find it easy to see
the Queen passing by without loving her
till they die. For that matter they might
even be able to bear wtih equanimity not
seeing her pass by at all.
Part of the explanation for this change
is provided by that very perceptive and
companionable journalist, Rohan Rivett,
in his interesting contribution, “The Mon-
archy and the Migrant.” He points out
that the half million or so post-war im-
migrants who have come to Australia from
other countries than Britain have no par-
ticular reason to esteem Queen Elizabeth


II or to hold in respect a monarchial in-
stitution, of which, in the case, for in-
stance, of the Italians, they have far from
happy memories in their home countries.
As for the very much larger number of
British immigrants—they for the most part
decided to come to Australia in a mood
of disillusionment with post-war welfare
Britain. This to some degree would have
extended to the occupant of the throne.
Anyone who has talked with such British
immigrants, as I did some years ago, is
likely to reach the conclusion that their
state of mind is a good deal closer to that
of the Americans of the time of the Boston
Tea Party than to Sir Robert Menzies.
It is, of course, true, as Zelman Cowen
and A. J. Marshall point out, that, con-
stitutionally and juridically, Australia re-
mains linked to the Crown. This, however,
has long been in practice a legal fiction,
and need be taken no more seriously than
the Queen’s own title of “Defender of the
Faith,” bestowed by the Pope on Henry
VIII before he embarked on his matri-
monial career. If we British were to dis-
pense with our monarchy, it wouldn’t cause
the slightest dislocation in Canberra. Sir
Robert might repine, and Lord Casey
wonder just where he stood, but otherwise
there wouldn’t be a ripple.
A contributor to “Australia and the
Monarchy” who comes out as definitely a
republican is Donald Horne. He recom-
mends something like the American Presi-
dential system, with the Southern Cross
the flag, Anzac Day for national day; and
an elected head of state, might also be, as
in the United States, a chief executive. “I
am not suggesting,” he writes “that we
should develop some tatty kind of nation-
alism . . . However, I suppose we would
have to steel ourselves against some of the
Australian Unlimited boasting. Perhaps at
the end of a movie we could stand loyally
to attention as we saluted the Snowy
River Scheme on Cinemascope: we could
open formal dinners by toasting our ex-
port figures.”
In whatever terms the contributors to
“Australia and the Monarchy” express
their scepticism about Australia’s relations
with the British Crown in the person of the
present Sovereign, they touch only lightly
on what seems to me the heart of the
matter, namely, the fantastic decline which
has taken place in Britain’s power and
status in the world of the mid-
20th century, accompanied by the decline
of London into the swingingest, tawdriest,
filthiest city of the western world, a happy
hunting ground for pornographers like Mr.
Girodias, and the admiration of “Time”
I well remember a sagacious old
Colonial civil servant saying to me years
ago there were three things which held
the Empire and Commonwealth together
Britain’s capacity to defend her colonies
and overseas dependencies with naval and
later air power; the economic and financial
advantages of belonging to the sterling
trading area; and the emotional attachment
to the Crown. But the third, he said, would
not survive the collapse of the other two.
A book like “Australia and the Mon-
archy” is an indication of how right he
was. The whole world knows that today
that Britain no more counts east of the
Suez than does Luxemburg, say, or
GUEST CARTOONIST SHEAD
The Australian National Emblem
Monaco. The whole world also knows that
sterling exists today as an international
currency only by courtesy of Washington
and Berne, even (ironically enough) of
Bonn: that, in short, the Commonwealth,
militarily and economically, is ridiculous.
To the English upper classes the Mon-
archy has been an organ, with stops they
could pull out to drown the noise of civil
strife and mutinous rumbles at home and
abroad. A nice royal visit every now and
again to the Antipodes, they calculated,
and the discreet distribution of decorations,
honors, and other inexpensive favors would
keep everybody happy and contented.
Royal personages were plentiful and always
ready for a jaunt. Now the organ note
has become wheezy and almost muted; the
bellows are leaking; and the organist is
too short-sighted to see the music and
too rheumatic to manipulate the keys.
Britain, today, is a small, overcrowded
island, existing precariously off the coast
of Europe; Australia is a vast, largely
empty continent, existing precariously in
close proximity to some thousand million
milling Asians; so that all that is between
us is the link of our marvellous common
language and of institutions, a way of life,
even of the relics of a sublime religion,
deriving from the same origins. Otherwise,
we must go our separate ways, seeking our
security, our Government, our economic
and social and political well-being as best
we may. A phony dedication to an ex-
piring monarchy may momentarily disguise,
but cannot alter, that ineluctable reality.
I am personally grateful to the authors of
“Australia and the Monarchy” for so per-
ceptively and honestly showing that this
is so.
(Mr. Muggeridge’s article is reprinted by
courtesy of the Talks Department of the
A.8.C.)


48^
n
f n'fr-l
* ** Xi <*...
/*"***
“Vive la France . . .
and Vat 69
fine old Scotch Whisky ”
All over the world . . . one Scotch stands out
VAT 60
NZL67/6.2C
ON THE MARGIN
Fire, Marine, Pluvius, and Virtue
THE recent attempt of an Itaiian
citizen to insure his daughter’s
chastity aroused mild interest.
Italian companies refused the risk, con-
tending that virginity was not an insur-
able commodity, but a policy was issued
by a firm in Peru. It is not generally
known that the Australian Universal Bene-
fit Society has handled this kind of in-
surance business for years. The Chief
Actuary, Mr. F. Caution, discussed it this
week.
“Chastity used to be a profitable branch
of work,” he said. “But frankly there is
not much in it nowadays. The statistical
position is chaotic.” He gestured to a
large Expectation of Virginity chart on
the wall. “These things are out of date
as soon as we make them.
“We used to have a bell on the main
floor that was rung every time the chastity
of an insured person became a total loss.
We had to give it up a few years ago.
The noise on Monday, when the weekend
returns came in, was deafening.”
I asked him to explain the types of
policy issued.
“The usual kind used to be the straight
chastity or Whole Virginity policy,” he
said. “But we don’t sell many now. The
risks are big and premiums have risen
sky-high. Another thing, there’s a trend
toward the view that loss of chastity is
not a severe disability. However, you might
be interested to see what the policy looks
like.”
He handed me the standard printed
form. It began in large letters:
“WHEREAS we the assurers do hereby
agree to pay the undermentioned moneys
in the event of this contingency; to wit,
the total and irrevocable loss of chastity
of the assured, and touching the adven-
tures and perils which we the assurers
are contented to bear, they include: Travel
to and from Work, Attendance at Church
Fellowship Meetings, Visits to Doctors’
and Dentists’ Consulting Rooms,” etc., etc.
But underneath there was a great deal
of small print, pointing out that the com-
pany accepted no liability for loss of
chastity due to War or Civil Commotion,
Office Christmas Parties, Holidays at
Surfers Paradise, Interstate Business Con-
ferences, Visits to Drive-In Movies, Wine-
Tasting, and numerous other special risks.
I asked Mr. Caution if the AUB had
encountered any cases of fraud and mis-
representation.
He smiled reflectively. “We certainly
have. I remember a girl named Millicent
McDimm. Her father wanted to take out
quite a large policy on her. Our senior
chastity assessor reported she was a good
risk homely appearance, religious inter-
ests, total abstainer, etc. So we issued the
policy.
“Two months later the father came in
and claimed his daughter had stayed at
Katoomba with a bookmaker’s clerk named
Gary Flash, and a contingency had re-
sulted for which the company was liable.
We suspected something fishy and put a
special investigator on the case. He found
that Gary Flash had gone to Katoomba
with the insured’s twin sister, a girl of
very different character. Millicent herself
was as pure as the day she was insured.
“You’ve got to keep your wits about you
in this work.
“Couple of years ago we issued a policy
on a girl of apparently wholesome type
she was a Brown Owl, running a pack
of Brownies. Just lately we heard she had
been seen in discotheques. We loaded her
with a special risk premium, but it may
be too late.”
Mr. Caution went on to give details
of a new type of policy which he said was
gaining popularity.
“We call it our Limited Bonus Incen-
tive Plan,” he said. “A parent, or the
insured herself, can insure chastity up to
a certain age, say 20. The value of the
policy (V) increases steeply according to
the formula V = T 2 +B, where T is the
"S
period of chastity, B is accumulated
bonuses, and S the insured’s coefficient
of attractiveness.
“It has the advantage of giving the
insured a direct interest in maintaining
limited-term chastity. Some big firms
have established Group Insurance Schemes
of this kind for employees. It’s worked
quite well except in one case.” >
“What was that?”
“The Kosyfit Shoe Co. Things went off
the rails at the annual picnic, and a
number of policies were cashed soon after-
wards. But there were special circum-
stances —warm weather and so on.”
When I asked Mr. Caution about future
prospects in this line of business he looked
thoughtful. Then he said: “There are
indications of a big change. We’ve been
getting inquiries from female prospects
desiring to insure themselves not against
losing their chastity but against retaining
it. This will call for radical rethinking.
But if the demand is there, the old AUB is
ready to serve the public.”
ROSS CAMPBELL


Flying to
San Francisco
or L.A.?
Air-India’s
daylight
flights to
FIJI
give you about
9 free hours
in a tropical
paradise
(AND YOU STILL GET TO THE U.S.A. ON SCHEDULE!)
AIR-INDIA pampers you like a potentate all
the way to Fiji.. . then you enjoy the
leisurely atmosphere of superb hotels, with
their lavish swimming pools, elegant cock-
tail bars. Laze on white sand beaches
fringed with palms. See an exciting Fijian
meke. Tour Nandi and Lautoka by car
(economically!). Dance to soft island
music. Really relax ... but don’t overlook
the duty-free shopping bargains! Then
make your onward connection refreshed
. . . and still get to the U.S.A. on time! Fly
AIR-INDIA's Daylight Flights to Fiji.
AiR-tNDiA
the airline that treats you like a Maharajah — worldwide.
AIR-INDIA OFFICES: 3 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
440 Collins Street, MELBOURNE 246 Queen Street,
BRISBANE 31 King William Street, ADELAIDE
52 William Street, PERTH.
with BOAC and Qantas
A185a.122N
Conscience before Society
The spy who stayed out in the cold
By GORDON HAWKINS
UNDER such headlines as FUCHS: A
Double A-Spy? Klaus Fuchs last
week returned to the front pages of
the world’s Press for the first time since
his release from an English prison in
June, 1959. The occasion of this revival
of attention was a report from Paris that
Fuchs is under arrest in East Germany
for supplying atomic information to Com-
munist China. It is said that, ever since
the first Chinese atom bomb was ex-
ploded, both Western and Eastern Intelli-
gence services have been seeking the source
of Chinese nuclear information. The
story that Fuchs “had pulled off a remark-
able double,” as one Bonn security official
put it, suggests that the answer may have
been found.
It is impossible to assess the reliability
of the story. But it is not improbable. I
got to know Fuchs well during the years
of his imprisonment and spent many hours
talking with him. I don’t entirely agree
with Alan Moorehead’s statement in “The
Traitors” (1950) that he was a man who
was “prepared to break all bonds of
loyalty.” But he seemed to regard him-
self as owing allegiance to an idea or
cause rather than to any nation, State,
or, for that matter, political party. He
had been a member of the Communist
Party as a student but his membership
lapsed when he fled from Hitler’s Ger-
many. He never joined the British Com-
munist Party.
From that time forward he seems to
have stayed out in the cold deliberately.
Through the years from October, 1941,
when he started to give information to
the Russians, until March, 1949, when he
abruptly ceased to do so, he pursued a
solitary path. His only contacts were
with pseudonymous figures whose real
identity he never knew. Thus he didn’t
know that “Alexander,” to whom he gave
copies of his monthly report on his work
on Atomic Energy during 1941 and 1942,
was in fact Simon Davidovich Kremer,
Secretary to the Soviet Military Attache
in London. He was unaware that
“Raymond,” who was his contact in the
United States, was Harry Gold, a bio-
chemist who had been a Soviet agent since
1935. This, of course, was the way that the
intelligence apparatus worked but it is un-
likely that Fuchs w'ould have had it any
different.
It was at Wakefield Prison that I first
met him. There he served the major part
of his 14-year sentence. (In fact he served
only nine years and four months, for he
received the full statutory one-third good
conduct remission.) His arrival at the
prison was regarded by many of the
prisoners as raising the status of everyone
in some way. Prisoners are very status con-
scious, largely because the prisoner as a
social reject is generally regarded, and re-
gards himself, as being right at the bottom
of the social scale. The fact that a man
of Fuchs’ eminence had also been con-
demned and rejected made it easier for
others to accept their own relegation. Also,
among a lot of routine murder, rape, rob-
bery, and embezzlement, high treason pos-
sessed a certain cachet.
In this case, too, all the hysteria and
hyperbole surrounding Fuchs’ trial had re-
sulted in his acquiring an awe-inspiring
reputation. He had been widely referred
to as a genius and the man who told the
Russians the essential principles behind the
construction of the H-bomb. Actually,
although he was a scientist of the highest
standing in his own particular field, he was
no genius. Moreover at the time of his
arrest scientists did not know Jtiow to make
an H-bomb. Nor, incidentally, was he
guilty of high treason. Fie couldn’t be con-
victed of treason because we were not at
war with the U.S.S.R.; indeed, for most of
the period during which he had supplied
them with information, they were our
allies.
But Fuchs himself appeared to have
little interest in his reputation among his
fellows. He was by nature quiet, shy,
serious, and withdrawn. He wrote some
popular science articles for the prisoners’
paper. He played chess occasionally, but
he was a formidable player and in order
to get a game he played without a queen;
and then always won. He helped other
prisoners who were doing correspondence
courses with their mathematics and physics.
He was generally referred to by the others
as “The Doc,” but he formed no intimate
associations with anyone.
My talks with him were mostly about
philosophical problems in which we shared
a common interest and rarely dealt with
personal matters which he seemed reluc-
tant to discuss. Indeed in a letter I
received from him some years ago from
the Central Institute for Atomic Physics
at Rossendorf in East. Germany (of which
he was Deputy Director) he said: “The
conversations with you in particular
the philosophical ones belong to the
pleasant memories of my time at Wake-
field.” The words in parentheses reflect
the direction in which he always sought
to turn any discussion.
Yet, inevitably over the years I learned
a good deal about him and about his
views on other subjects. Occasionally a
news item would catch his attention and
inspire a remark. I remember, for
example, that when, after it was announced
that the Soviet Union had exploded a
hydrogen bomb, Churchill made a speech
referring to it, Fuchs marked a passage
from the report of the speech. It ran as
follows “It may well be that we shall
by a process of sublime irony have reached
a stage in this story where safety will be
the sturdy child of terror and survival
the twin brother of annihilation.”
“I suppose the process of sublime irony


will not extend to my being released as
a benefactor to the human race,” he said.
As a matter of fact he didn’t appear
to feel any guilt at all about having dis-
closed information to the Russian agents.
I asked him once what he had meant by
reference in this statement before sen-
tence at his trial that he had “also com-
mitted some other crimes which are not
crimes in the eyes of the law.” He had
then gone on to say that the explanation
of his behaviour which had been put for-
ward by his counsel had not been in-
tended to mitigate his offence but rather
“to atone for those other crimes.” He
told me that he felt distressed because
he had betrayed his friends at Harwell,
the British atomic energy installation, and
in particular Wing-Commander Henry
Arnold, the security officer there. But re-
garding the offences with which he was
charged, he felt no distress; although he
became increasingly critical of Russia.
When the time for his release drew
near I asked him what he intended to
do. “Even if I wanted to, which I do
not,” he said, “I couldn’t go east of the
Iron Curtain because over there I am
regarded as being largely responsible both
for the arrest of Harry Gold and David
Greenglass, and for the execution of the
Rosenbergs. I cannot stay here because
my British nationality has been res-
cinded.” He dismissed the possibility of
going to America. It is highly improbable
that he would have been admitted, and,
anyway, although he was an anglophile,
he was strongly anti-American. “I think I
shall go to India,” he said. “There I could
do useful work, and they are neutral in
the East-West conflict, which is where I
stand.” But in the end, in response to an
appeal from his aged father, who was
Professor of Systematic Theology at the
University of Leipzig, and whom he both
loved and revered, he went to East Ger-
many.
There was one characteristic of his
which all the commentators have remark-
ed and which could explain what he is
now alleged to have done. Alan Moore-
head talks of his “Olympian confidence.”
Robert Jungk, in “Brighter Than A
Thousand Suns” (1958), speaks of his
“arrogant self-sufficiency.” Rebecca West,
in “The Meaning of Treason” (1949),
discussing his motivation, says that “the
Lutheran right to private judgment moved
over into the secular field.”
And again there is a curious passage
in Moorehead’s book which runs: “But
he was basically a man who would always
refer to his conscience first and society
afterwards. There is no place for such
men in an ordered community. They be-
long where Fuchs is now, sewing mail-
bags.” If the current reports are true,
then it would appear that the East Ger-
man Government agrees.
BULLETIN INDEX
The Bulletin index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or ordered
for $l.lO including postage from the
same Library, Box 4088, G.P.0., Syd-
ney.
OVERSEAS
1. Sunrise in Djakarta
. . .Now this Wang Lun had one secret
ambition in his life, but it took him fifty
years of strenuous effort to realise it. His
ambition was to be able to behead a per-
son with a stroke so swift that in accord-
ance with the law of inertia, the victim’s
head would remain poised on his trunk,
in the same manner as a plate remains
undisturbed on the table if the tablecloth
is pulled out with a sudden jerk.
Wang Lun s great moment came in
the seventy-eighth year of his life. On
that memorable day he had to dispatch
sixteen clients from this world of shadows
to their ancestors. He stood as usual at
the foot of the scaffold, and eleven shaven
heads had already rolled into the dust
after his inimitable master-stroke. His
triumph came with the twelfth. When this
man began to ascend the steps of the
scaffold, Wang Lun’s sword flashed with
such lightning speed across his neck that
the man’s head remained where it had
been before, and he continued up the steps
without knowing what had happened.
When he reached the top of the scaf-
fold, the man addressed Wang Lun as fol-
lows: “Oh cruel Wang Lun, why do you
prolong my agony of waiting when you
dealt with the others with such merciful
and amiable speed?”
When he heard these words, Wang Lun
knew that the work of his life had been
accomplished. A serene smile appeared on
his features; then he said with exquisite
courtesy to the waiting man.
“Just kindly nod, please” . . .
This parable, taken from Arthur Koest-
ler’s “Arrow in the Blue,” is an appropri-
ate introduction to “Twilight in Djakarta,”
the first work published in English of the
heroic Indonesian novelist Mochtar Lubis.
It also provides a symbolic clue as to
why President Sukarno jailed him without
trial. Lubis was one of the many In-
donesians who found Bung Karno’s awe-
some rhetoric an implausible mask for
the gross mismanagement and corruption
of his regime, and one of a smaller
number who spoke out publicly against it.
Now, after almost a decade of incar-
ceration and defiance, Lubis has been
freed, and all free men should celebrate
the event. Mochtar Lubis was born in
Padang, Sumatra. He was educated in
a business college, entered journalism, and
during the early years of Indonesian in-
dependence from the Dutch became
editor of the influential daily paper In-
donesia Raya (“Greater Indonesia”).
By 1956, this was one of 17 dailies,
which, along with numerous bi-weeklies,
weeklies, and monthlies, gave Indonesia
perhaps the most liberal and representa-
tive Press amongst the world’s new
emerging forces. Indonesia Raya con-
ducted a relentless campaign against
racketeering and against inefficiences and
hypocrisies in the post-revoluntionary
administration.
Eventually its strictures extended to
some of the top echelon of the Govern-
ment and almost to the feet of the President
himself. In the latter half of 1956 Lubis’
editorials sharply criticised aspects of the
Government and Army administrations.
The military police struck on December 21;
Lubis, then aged 30, was arrested and im-
prisoned without trial for two and a half
weeks and then kept under house arrest
for over four years. His paper was closed
down, an event which heralded the erosion
of free speech and presaged the emergence
of the policy of “guided democracy.”
Exactly two months after the arrest of
Lubis, Sukarno denounced Western-style
constitutional democracy as “listening to
the voice of the Dutch” and announced the
new policy of “gotong rojong” (mutual co-
operation)^—“guided democracy” in which
all parties and peoples would join together
in “one endeavor, one charity, one task
. . . toiling together, sweating together, a
struggle of help-me-to-help-you together.”
The former editor of Indonesia Raya
sweated it out under arrest for four years
while the International Press Institute,
representing more than 1400 editors in 48
nations, and many world leaders, made a
continuous series of protests about his
arrest and confinement. Their claims that
Lubis had a right to fair trial were re-
jected and they were told that this was a
personal matter with the President —until
April 1961, when successful representa-
tions were made to General Nasution and
Lubis was released.
Less than a month later he attended
the tenth General Assembly of the Inter-
national Press Institute in Tel Aviv, where
he reaffirmed his belief in the freedom
of the Press and decried its absence in his
homeland. He refused offers of newspaper
posts abroad and at a Press Conference
in New Delhi, on the return journey, re-
peated his criticisms of the Indonesian
Government. Within two weeks he was
rearrested by the security police and


NORTHERN DEVELOPMENT
IS VITALLY IMPORTANT
TO AUSTRALIA
Power speeds and assures many Queens-
land projects which have a vital Nation-
wide significance. A planned programme
of massive electrical expansion in recent
years means, today, that Queensland’s
vast resources of natural wealth can
contribute to the Nation’s economic
well-being and help secure the future
of every Australian.
But this is, virtually, only the beginning
for the task to continue, for the
dividends to grow, power development
must intensify. And this means money
a huge investment which merits the
consideration of people in every State.
Here, in the Queensland State Electricity
Commission Loan is your opportunity to
assist in a task of National importance
and, at the same time, to gain the
substantial benefits of Australia’s highest
Government - guaranteed interest rate.
Open for subscription now!
5 i
% per annum
for
10 or IS years
5%
% per annum
for
7 years
AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED INTEREST RATES
Apply through your Bank or Stockbroker, or direct to the State Electricity
Commission of Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane. Deposit
10 % now and pay the balance by 31st October. Interest is paid half-yearly
and securities are readily negotiable. This loan is an authorised Trustee
investment in Qld., W. Aust. and Tasmaria.
OUEENSI AM)
STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
LOAN
Underwritten by:
Ord, Minnett
r. J. Thompson & Partners


m
i
■
vZvS:
MEET ME AT MERIES
Melbourne's most gracious hotel
A Member of The Federal Group —6O 1581
Reservations through Menzies, Savoy Plaza,
Federal (Melbourne); Hampton Court, Menzies
(Sydney); Wrest Point (Hobart): Lennons (Bris-
bane). Lennons(Toowoomba), any airline or travel
agent.
taken from his wife and three young
children to a concentration camp.
The pressure to recant was applied by
brainwashing, starvation, confinement in
filth, and by promises of a complete par-
don and a free passport. Despite the
varying pressures of mental torture, dysen-
tery, malnutrition, skin sores, and ulcers,
Lubis maintained that Indonesia needed
his testimony and he refused to deny
his former public criticisms of the adminis-
tration. The International Press Institute
and Amnesty persisted in trying to win
either a release or a fair trial for Lubis
over the past five years but always they
met the reply—“ This is a personal matter
with the President; if only Lubis would
admit his errors he could go free.”
In 1962, the novel “Twilight in Dja-
karta,” on which Lubis had been -working
for some years, was smuggled from his
prison and published in English by Hut-
chinson in association with the Congress of
Cultural Freedom. The novel describes
Djakarta society and politics around the
mid-19505. The rackets of the leading
political and commercial operators, the
hunger and violence of the slums, the
alienation of the young intellectuals, the
dreams of the minor agitators, the criminal
and prostitute underworld are all revealed
with a simple frankness that never dis-
guises the author’s love of his homeland
an< i its chief metropolis. The central
character is Suryono, a young Javanese,
who has become dissatisfied with Djakarta
_his job at the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs after a stay in New York. He
makes a mistress of the young second wife
°f his father, a financier and racketeer
w hp devises for the almost bankrupt
ruling party a system for the sale of im-
P ort licences which will enrich both the
party and its leaders. But for all of its
clear intent to expose corruption in high
an d low places, “Twilight in Djakarta” is
a surprisingly uncontrived, gentle, and
sensuous book,
After the anti-Communist coup last
October, IPI and Amnesty redoubled their
pleas for Lubis to be tried under due
process of law or released. It is a measure
of the decline of Sukarno’s power that this
young writer, against whom the Bung
nourished a special and personal hatred,
was released on May 18 last month. His
testimony may not have been in vain,
BRIAN BUCKLEY
2. Sjahrir—
In Memoriam
(Sutan Sjahrir, March 1909 —April 1966)
SO they gave Sjahrir a State funeral in
Djakarta. He was proclaimed a hero
and buried in the heroes’ cemetery.
And there was the biggest crowd there
since October 5, when they buried the
six generals who had so brutally been mur-
dered by the Communists during their ill-
fated coup attempt on September 30.
And Hatta, who had resigned as Vice-
President in 1956 in protest against Suk-
arno’s mad course, testified to the cruel
injustice perpetrated in 1962 by Sukarno
in imprisoning the then hapless and help-
less Sjahrir. And the powers that be opened
the gates of the prisons for two days so
that those who had been incarcerated for
years in Sukarno’s dungeons could pay their
last respects to a giant figure who, alas,
had been all but forgotten during his im-
prisonment by most, except for those of his
former co-workers in Indonesia’s cause who
had languished there together with him,
put there by the same unrelenting and un-
forgiving tyrant. And those outside who
still remembered had to keep silence under
the suffocating dictatorship lest they join
the unfortunates in jail.
Plere they were, Natsir and Harahap,
former Masjumi Prime Ministers; the Bali-
nese Anuk Agung, former Foreign Min-
ister, and one of the most trusted lieu-
tenants of Sjahrir; Mochtar Lubis, the most
capable, prominent, and courageous journ-
alist in all of Indonesia, known the world
over, and a member of the Executive Com-
mittee of the International Press Institute;
and 20 others. There they were, breathing
free air for the first time in years, and con-
sciously not discussing, all except, charac-
teristically, Lubis, who announced that he
would begin writing immediately and fight
for freedom as soon as he was released from
prison. That happened a few weeks later.
One hears now and then of a figure who
triumphed only in death. Surely here was
a poignant case in point. But what a wast-
age of majestic talents—a luminous intel-
lect, a sensitive humanist, a humble demo-
crat, and, for Indonesia, an unrivalled
political theorist. But even more tragic was
the irreparable loss for the country which
could have escaped the agony visited upon
it for a decade by Sukarno’s “Guided
Democracy,” had the line of development
been followed that Sjahrir originally had
projected for a future, independent Indo-
nesia.
For to Sukarno’s distorted vision, his
frenetic nationalism run riot, his foreign
adventurism, his cruel authoritarianism
which laid waste to a beautiful and rich
country and divided its people down the
middle, Sjahrir opposed his profound faith
in democracy and his compassion for
people. During the long, lonely years of his
enforced exile under Dutch colonialism,
first at the internment camp of Boven
Digoel in New Guinea, and later at Banda
Neira, in the Moluccas, Sjahrir pondered
on the fate and the future of his country.


His thoughts were embodied in the two
chief works he will be remembered by:
(1) the pamphlet “Our Struggle,” written
in October, 1945, and (2) that enduring
classic “Out of Exile,” the first part of
which were letters to his first (Dutch)
wife from his exile in Boven Digoel and
Banda Neira, and the second part an
analysis of the situation created for Indo-
nesia in the wake of World War ll’s im-
pact on Asian events (finished in 1947).
Sjahrir sensed the potential for des-
tructiveness in an unbridled and uncon-
trolled nationalism, and was fearful of it.
In “Our Struggle” he insisted that, “Demo-
cracy, not nationalism, should be the
primary objective of our revolution. “He
was profoundly worried about the lack of
democratic institutions, life, experience, for
a people who had been under the colon-
ialist yoke for centuries. That is why he
so fervently opposed Sukarno’s “Guided
Democracy,” for he saw clearly that this
would prevent the Indonesian people from
gaining exactly the kind of experience so
long denied it.
JN the meantime, he rejected terror as
a political weapon, either for control-
ling and disciplining the masses or for run-
ning a country. I distinctly remember a
conversation I had with Sjahrir in Djakarta
as far back as 1952, in which he con-
fessed his worry as to the excesses that
might be committed by a people whose
experience in political control was neither
extensive nor deep enough to supply a
necessary and desirable brake on emo-
tional impulse and atavistic reaction. It is
as if he had a presentiment of the pos-
sibility of the kind of frenzy which fol-
lowed in the wake of the recent Com-
munist attempt at a takeover of the coun-
try and left such a terrible toll of human
lives behind it, something which will weigh
on the conscience of Indonesians for a long
time to come.
But Sjahrir was a voice crying in the
wilderness and now he is gone. And where
was Sukarno while one of Indonesia’s
greatest sons was being laid to his final
rest? Absent, which was good, for it would
have been a final blasphemy to have him
present at the bier of one who was a victim
of his malevolence. Sukarno never forgot
nor forgave opposition (like Sjahrir’s and
Hatta’s), criticism, real or fancied slights.
It is no secret that he hated Sjahrir more
perhaps than any other Indonesian leader.
That hatred is glaringly evident in his very
revealing autobiography, recently pub-
lished. His sneers and invidious accusa-
tions against Sjahrir amount to a majestic
falsification of history. He harassed the
“little giant” and, after 1956 especially,
hounded him into virtual obscurity. In
1960, he ordered the liquidation of the
Socialist Party and in 1962 threw Sjahrir
into jail.
Into prison he went with all the other
“rebels and renegades” without the slight-
est shred of justice, as Hatta so forcefully
reminded the world at the funeral.
Sjahrir’s uncompromising opposition to
“Guided Democracy” and his spirited
defence of democratic values against
Sukarno’s assumption of virtual dictatorial
powers only added fuel to the flames*of
Sukarno’s hatred, flames which were
ignited way back in 1945 (and had never
quite gone out) when Sjahrir, in the
aforementioned “Our Struggle,” casti-
gated those who in pre-independence days
had collaborated with the . Japanese dur-
ing the latter’s occupation of Indonesia.
Sukarno always felt that the shaft had
been directed by Sjahrir against himself
and one can’t be quite sure that a sub-
conscious sense of guilt may not have
rankled Sukarno’s innards. Be that as it
may, Sjahrir at the time tried to soften
the blow by explaining that he didn’t
really have Sukarno in mind but only
the real, crass collaborators. There can
be no question that, at the time, Sukarno
and Hatta were interested in protecting
the interests of the Indonesians and fur-
thering the movement for independence of
the country. There is ample testimony to
this effect by Sjahrir himself in “Out of
Exile.”
It is true, however, that in distinction
to Sjahrir and Hatta, Sukarno had illu-
sions as to the progressive role that the
Japanese were playing in Asia, that he
tended to favor them in the war against
the West (because of certain anti-West,
anti-white attitudes already apparent in
his ideological make-up) and thought of
developing an independent Indonesia in
cordial co-operation with Japan, which,
purportedly, was building its “Co-pros-
perity Sphere” on a progressive basis.
Also, what most people forget is chat
the Declaration of Indonesia’s Indepen-
dence, which was proclaimed in the name
of Sukarno and Hatta on August 17, 1945,
as Japanese control was crumbling, was
really done because of the persistent and
continuous urging of Sjahrir. It was
Sjahrir who was the moving force in
directing the underground resistance
while Sukarno and Hatta were “col-
laborating” with the Japanese. Hatta
agreed, but it was Sukarno who hesi-
tated.
But the first Cabinet Sjahrir selected
(named on August 31) did not last long,
nor did Sukarno as Prime Minister. On
November 12, Sukarno gave up the post,
dismissed his Cabinet and designated
Sjahrir, whose influence and popularity
had grown tremendously, as Prime Min-
ister. Sjahrir served also as his own Foreign
Minister. Since Sjahrir and his followers
among the Resistance had criticised the
Cabinet, the forced change did not sit too
well with Sukarno.
This was the first of three Govern-
ments which Sjahrir headed. He was
Prime Minister until June 26, 1947, when
he resigned. The next month he was
sent as special Indonesian envoy, the first
one, to the United Nations to present the
case of the Indonesian Republic against
the so-called Police Actions in Java and
Sumatra of the Dutch who were trying
to regain their old control.
His contributions to the cause of Indo-
nesian independence and the birth of the
Indonesian Republic were second to none.
No more encomiums are needed. And
now he is dead. The massive public out-
pouring at his funeral dramatised the
“shock of recognition” of his stature, and
his services, so long forgotten. Perhaps
the consciences will be touched enough
and the memories sink deep enough so
as to prevent in future a repetition of
Sukarno’s madness.
If, as the country painfully works its
way out from the horrible heritage of
Sukarnoism, this, hopefully, comes about,
then it can be said that, in his death
Sjahrir triumphed, that his death accom-
plished what he was prevented from do-
ing in his lifetime!
HARRY GOLDBERG
Long Day at Bogalusa
“We shall strike a match on you, Baby"
By WILLIAM E. HOLDER
BOGALUSA has little to offer a visi-
tor. Few Americans visit the
Southern mill town of 21,000 these
days. For more than a year a tussle be-
tween the races has torn the place apart,
occasionally attracting a spot in the
national news.
The Negroes demand votes, jobs,
schools, and equality of treatment in law
enforcement. These demands remain un-
satisfied, being countered by a core of
segregationists and an active Klan. Early
attempts at co-operation quickly stale-
mated as opposing positions hardened. Yet
in Bogalusa the Negroes had unusual
strength; the scene was set for a drawn-
out confrontation of the races.
The Louisiana town is dominated by a
William E. Holder is an Australian at
the University of Mississippi } where he is
Associate Professor of Law.
Northern-owned paper mill, its reaching
chimneys spewing noxious fumes. Omin-
ously, perhaps, the sign “Welcome to
Bogalusa” is riddled with bullet holes.
Two blocks beyond the small central shop-
ping district begin the unpainted shambles
of the Negro shacks—found in all South-
ern towns. In “nigger-town” there are few
footpaths, and no neons to scream in the
dark; the trail of a new highway is still
being blazed across the cheap real estate.
A startled skinny Negro in an oversize
coat politely pointed the way. It was to
a barber’s shop around the corner, in
broken-down fourth street. This, he said,
was where I would find the civil rights
leaders, the planners of the Negro effort.
Thus, smothering my apprehension, I
proceeded through the maze of squatting
dark bodies, amidst unabashed querulous
stares.
The barber was a huge Negro and an
efficient snipper. Within minutes he


produced a civil rights worker, the only
white fellow among 10,000 black skins. His
job was to control the inflow of informa-
tion, people, ideas, and money from his
national organisation the Congress of
Racial Equality (CORE). Last June
John came with friends from Los Angeles
where his father is a wealthy town
planner and stayed on when the others
left. Lie was just out of high school,
barely eighteen. Like most of the “out-
side agitators” from the North, his only-
qualifications were idealism, empathy for
the black man, a cynicism of current
American politics, patience, and a sense
of humor. His uniform was right, too:
blue jeans and tennis shoes.
In Bogalusa there is an ordinance re-
quiring segregation of races in places serv-
ing alcohol. Nonetheless, I wandered into
the Circle Bar next door, where Negroes
gathered. They argued pro and con: Shall
we picket today? My presence, a stranger
unexplained, drifted them into silence. It
was an awkward moment. Membership
cards? I had none. A vociferous and
muscly type described how some time
back he had run off two whites who had
wandered in, suspecting they were com-
municants with the Klan. Only after
spouting the names of some civil rights
lawyers working in Mississippi were the
tables turned. “Yeh, they’re way out man!”
someone said. I was “in.”
One of the group introduced himself
as Art; an attractive philosophic character,
hardened by work “in the field.” He
appreciated a beer. Two years ago, Art was
an entertainer with an incomplete college
education. It was in Las Vegas, accom-
panying Sammy Davis Jr., that he was
attracted to a passing civil rights demon-
stration. He downed the chips.
Now he is an organiser in a small
community across from Natchez on the
Mississippi River. It is tough there, he
explained, for traditional Southern hospi-
tality does not extend to civil rights
workers. Said Art: “It’s a long battle, but
a worthwhile one, attempting to give dig-
nity to these Southern souls who have
had absolutely no chance. For 100 years
they have been afraid and fear, when
unleashed, can spring to violence.”
An older man entered and introduced
himself as Charles Sims. Around 50, fit
and well dressed, in the image of Jomo
Kenyatta: brutal piercing eyes, broad
nose, charcoal skin, and pointed greying
beard. Raucously but intelligently, with a
clear air of authority and the posture of
a puller of strings, he spoke. Bullets were
integrated with small change in his pock-
ets. Under his belt, against a slight
paunch, he displayed the shiny shape of
a pistol. When the need arises, it will be
used, and the claim will be self-defence.
In the display of courage and the use
of force, Charles sets the example. He
heads the local Negro vigilante group
whose goal is self-protection outside
the law if necessary. They are a tough
crew, ready to meet any challenge. They
move with confidence. They laugh at the
Ku-Klux-Klan. Only a few days previously
a throng of 500 -cheered approval when
a leader declared before them that, if
necessary, they would fight the flaming
crosses with fire “We shall strike a
match on you, baby.”
Charles, too, warned that if police pro-
tection didn’t improve then the deacons
would “come off of defence and go on
an offence.” Henry, a smiling listener,
apparently took heed, and was introduced
as “the one who shot the Klansinan dur-
ing the march last year.” Clearly Charles
packs the punch, and he is proudly billed
(by his compatriots) as “the most feared
man in Louisiana.” Only once has he been
shot, and that was by his jealous wife.
Fifteen times Art has been to court
and fifteen times he has been acquitted.
Despite his lawyer’s warnings, he sticks at
it, saying that “you have to keep the
pressure on; you have to get the com-
munity organised.” His grasp of political
organisation and social action seemed
sound; he recognised that without local
participation and support by the Negro
population and on a wide scale
achievement of the movement’s goals
would be impossible. This was, we both
agreed, the hidden strength of Bogalusa.
Uniquely, for over a year the marches,
protests, demands, and stimulus had
bulged forth not from outside planners
but from local initiative.
About jail, John was more easy-going.
He had been in several, and only to one
does he object; in a town nearby, an
unused room of musty air embroidered
with spider-webs is especially kept for his
type. (When the F. 8.1. interviewed him
there and he invited them in, they pre-
ferred to ask him out.) Not surprisingly,
among the white community John is a
hated figure, for a “white nigger” is the
worst of all. He can only venture into
town with Negro protection. This depen-
dence irritates John; meanwhile his dark
friends enjoy this irony and laugh like hell.
An economical meal of chicken and
beans served its purpose. Henry and Art
eyed me. They were hungry and wouldn’t
admit it. They were broke; in six months
only two small checks had filtered down
to them. After persuasion they accepted a
meal. We talked of many things. Particu-
larly, there was last Friday’s successful
march, an anniversary effort through the
centre of town.
White shop owners closed as one. True,
it took a national figure James Farmer
to draw the crowd, yet it was a success.
Perhaps most significant of all was the
production and donning of Klan uni-
forms by the Negroes! They giggled
and laughed, nervously: for nigh on 100
years this was the symbol of fear now
it was being ridiculed.
As a tourist, I had to be shown the
“freedom house.” This is the headquarters
for the civil rights groups and their activi-
ties, a home for the wandering reformers
from the North. Like them all, Boga-
lusa’s is a complete shanty; a meagre
wooden hut, twisted with time. To John
it was a jewel, and.he was mighty proud.
He had closed the walls to the elements,
and inside had collected nearly 10,000
books ready for the summer school. They
were the discards from across the
country, including all sorts of unwanted
texts and novels and stories and maga-
zines. But they were books.
The bold sign on the front wall caught
the spirit of the civil rights movement:
“You are only defeated by the white man
if you are what he calls a nigger.” Such
a sign and such activity is somewhat of
an attraction to a do-it-yourself bomber,
and I surveyed with a scarey sink of the
stomach the passing cars stocked with
middle-aged, unsmiling, gritty white
faces. One day, probably, this wobbly sym-
bol of resistance to the white man’s order
will go up in smoke. There were tasks to
occupy us; a water pipe to be fixed, and
a septic tank to be inspected. The latter
John built himself. As he explained, “the
city said they didn’t have any money for
sewerage around here because they had
to spend it all to control the demonstra-
tions, though they still had enough for
that new highway.” He added: “And we
tried to stop them spending federal funds
on that, too. They are employing Negroes
now as ditch-diggers.”
Back in the cafe, conversation continued.
Henry wanted a loan of $1.50 for “some
pussy” and was kind enough to extend
me an invitation. (Judiciously, I declined.)
Art laconically commented that there was
certainly no shortage of sex in the move-
ment and this was quickly verified by
other accounts. A newcomer, Scottie,
brandishing a “freedom now” shirt and
partly hiding behind a trimmed goatee,
broke the trend of the discussion by in-
jecting “And how about the aborigi-
nes?” (Oh, my God, that question again!)
We visited the barber’s shop to observe
a melodious trio extemporise some gospel
songs. A small crowd had gathered: I sat
tentatively in the barber’s chair. John
quickly displaced me: it was exposed to
the window. It remained vacant. The fear
of the possible was in the air; John sug-
gested that I would have to stay with
him the night. It would be unsafe to stay
at a motel because my car, my person, and
my associations would be well publicised
over the Klan communication system.
Climaxing the day, I travelled across
town to a white wooden church for a
civil rights meeting. Warmly, they took
me in with a smile, assuming sympathy


(ADVERTISEMENT)
BRAMBLES
a
©
Australian Owned Australia Wide
Volume 3, No. 5.
June, 1966.
Digging Deep
Brambles Industrial Services, Sydney Region, is
performing an interesting rock excavation under sub-
contract at Kurnell as part of the Cronulla Outfall
Sewer Project, which is designed to serve the needs
of the rapidly growing Sutherland Shire.
John Holland (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. is the contractor
to the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage
Board.
At its greatest depth the trench is 25 feet deep and
up to 12i feet wide. The section illustrated in the
two photographs will be 2,908 feet long.
This is a good example in the use of pre-splitting
techniques in the excavation of sandstone, which gives
a high degree of accuracy enabling the rock face to
serve as a back form for concreting.
.V
a:
m
m
m
V
Wtm&rJ
JL
W
* •
THE BULLETIN, June 18, 1966.
■ X- ' ■
m
• V
~ “:' ‘
* .
?/"
*»• ,
->., ? rtjX ■ *
sM
r ...
~\
.-
m*
i- /,
yfit
i
.
'til t K < -S>.. •»».. *
4 '
SSHfe*
*T ■
I
- /
SKi >
1M
c| .4*
..’i
Mr
l v **
II
m
l
4m


Brambles News.
(ADVERT.)
The Money Runners
Until now the story has been classified information,
but today it can be told!
Prior to C-Day and Australia’s change to decimal
currency, the Reserve Bank was required to distribute
the new currency to banks throughout Australia, to
meet the demand on February 14th. To supply the
needs of a large city, millions and millions of new
dollar notes and coins were required and all had to be
shipped about Australia with the greatest possible
secrecy.
In Newcastle, Brambles carried, in one day, millions
of dollars in the biggest consignment of cash ever
taken to the city. The money was packed in fourteen
crates and taken to Newcastle in a locked rail van,
guarded by Commonwealth police, attached to the
Newcastle Flyer.
At the station, a Brambles pantechnicon was waiting
to transfer the money to a city bank. The Brambles
driver and his offsider had no knowledge of their load
until they arrived at the station, and police in plain
clothes were everywhere as the train arrived.
Outwardly, there was nothing to hint that the
Brambles truck was carrying anything but another
warehouse consignment, but it was closely escorted
by two carloads of detectives as it drove to the Bank.
♦
CHEP in Export Action
When we buy a can of fruit from the supermarket, we
seldom think of how that can found its way to the
shelf: when we see a ship sailing down a harbour,
bound for an overseas port, we know it is loaded with
cargo, but we do not concern ourselves with how that
cargo reached the ship from the many manufacturers
who supply goods to fill its holds.
1
»
::
I
»
t
-i
SB
~-v» V
/i
■Si-
•• - •
■imm
i- il
Mi!
SBP.
f
2
But there are many men throughout Australia who
spend their working days planning the movement of
goods to the supermarket shelves or the ship’s hold.
There are still others whose job it is to get those
goods to their destination, on time, undamaged and
in the quantities desired. These men are employed in
the field of materials handling. Brambles trading
division, CHEP, is in this field. With the largest
pallet pool in Australia and the Commonwealth’s
biggest hire fleet of fork-lift trucks, they play an
active part in servicing manufacturers whose goods
must be moved.
Three pictures can tell one story of CHEP’s co-
operation in moving, goods from factory to ship-side.
The story of the shipment of canned fruit is typical
of the Materials Handling techniques used in moving
any type of product.
1. The end of the production line at Riverlands Fruit
Products Co-op. Ltd., at Berri in South Australia.
Cans of fruit destined for sale in Holland are packed
and placed on CHEP pallets.
2. A CHEP Towmotor fork-lift truck loads a rail
truck for the journey from the factory to Port
Adelaide.
3. Rail trucks carrying the canned fruit are shunted
to the ship’s side, still safe and secure on their CHEP
pallets, ready for loading and the trip to Holland.


(ADVERT.)
Brambles News
“Getting a Quart
into a Pint Bottle”
The April edition of Brambles News told of the part
which Brambles is playing in the Gove Peninsula
alumina project being undertaken by Nabalco
Pty. Ltd.
These photographs portray the first of a number of
shipments of a packaged camp—houses and work-
shops, being loaded into the vessel “Lemana” at
Sydney. The size and delicate construction of the
buildings created quite a handling problem, but Chep,
Brambles Materials Handling Division, successfully
demonstrated its ability to cope with the situation.
.
r'iij
/
.
~jJr +
X
'OP
®«fes
-I
The buildings were unloaded from Brambles Trans-
port vehicles and removed to the ship’s side by
20,000-lb. capacity fork-lift trucks. The ship’s gear
placed them carefully in the centre of the hold, where
smaller 8,000-lb. capacity fork-lift trucks, powered
by L.P. gas, positioned them for the voyage.
The Manager of the Stevedoring Company, Brown’s
Wharf Pty. Ltd., Mr. Dave Preston, watched the
loading and described the operation as like “getting
a quart into a pint bottle.”
Tasmanian Growth
Brambles rigs carrying two eight-ton buildings to
Renison Bell, 7 miles from Zeehan, Tasmania, at the
end of a journey from Mt. Gambier, South Australia.
The two buildings are portable sleeping units, each
divided into five compartments and able to accommo-
date 20 men. The Brambles units pictured carried
the buildings from a freighter at Burnie, Tasmania.
otic!
jsgWfi
US
i:xn9*
. -•••••
3T
.
%.
Sig
’-*•• * :
“'V.
-v y
■ &*
* u
>»* :


Brambles News
(ADVERT.)
m
*****
i»f
ll#
r"
'tskB&&*& ~s3%mp*n
iliiiHS
.
-*w-
SsS^aii
■
CHEP
IS
GROWING
From the Captain of the Port
Australia’s new Navy is taking shape with the
arrival of the guided missile destroyer H.M.A.S.
PERTH, built for the R.A.N. in the United States.
A Brambles Industrial Services crane was at the
dockside at Sydney’s Overseas Terminal, to help
unload Navy stores and equipment, when H.M.A.S.
PERTH arrived on her maiden voyage from America.
For their part in the unloading of the warship,
Brambles Industrial Services received a letter from
the Captain of the Port, which said that a message
had been received from the Captain, H.M.A.S.
PERTH, “conveying his appreciation of the willing
and efficient co-operation of the team which assisted
in unloading stores from the Ship.”
■
o
v
On 23rd May Chep Hirings opened in Sudholz Street,
West Melbourne. This new branch of the Materials
Handling Division is managed by Mr. John Walker,
M.8.E., who transferred from Sydney where he was
Manager of Chep Pallet Pool. The branch is fully
equipped to service the requirements of industry in
Melbourne for fork lift trucks and pallets.
At the time of publication, in Sydney the Chep Pallet
Pool has moved to a larger area at the corner of
Dacey Avenue and Dowling Street, Waterloo. The
picture indicates site development work in progress,
including the large outside area for pallet stacking.
After 21 years at Glebe Island this move severs a
link with the past. The former premises were the
original location of the Commonwealth Handling
Equipment Pool established in Sydney during World
War II by the Commonwealth Government to speed
cargo handling.
♦
Safety is Our Business
If road safety slogans have any effect at all, this one,
penned by a ten-year-old Armidale boy, should hit
the spot.
Man in Car,
Went in Bar,
Drank a Bottle,
Opened Throttle,
Hit a Pole,
Poor old Soul
Doctor, Nurse,
Coffin, hearse.
REPRINTED FROM GOODYEAR NEWS March 1966


Copper is for those
who care...
i
.
>
A
■z
about beauty
Copper and its alloys, brass
and bronze,areidealforhome
decoration because of their
ageless beauty and dura-
bility. Copper fire hoods,
bronze screens and copper
or brass light fittings will
tastefully complement any
setting period or contem-
porary.
about economy
Copper pipes never rust; are
light, flexible and easy to bend
or fit. For new cold water
services or renewals, they
reduce time and labour costs
for installation and give a life-
time of trouble-free service
because COPPER IS FOR
KEEPS!
*«
J ft ' -A
► t i '*
««ygttt§
i
-
-
mm
• .
■I
u
about reliability
The most efficient and enduring hot
water storage cylinders are made
from copper or* its alloy, silicon
bronze. They never corrode; never
allow your hot water supply to be-
come rusty or discoloured. To avoid
the worry and expense of early
replacements, buy only a hot water
service which bears one of these
CABIC stickers.
CC't'PL:
SOLID COPPEB
§
©
Post this coupon for your FREE copy of the
booklet "COPPER and YOUR HOME" to
COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE,
NORTHGATE HOUSE, 321 KENT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
CBIO4
with their cause. Only 80 activist souls
ventured through the brisk and hostile
night bringing statements of disap-
pointment from the pulpit mostly older
folks. Said someone: “Most of the teen-
agers left town.”
There was a mystic excellence about the
meeting. The ceremonies began with an
exhortation to the good Lord, a sensible
declaration of faith really.
It was also a call to action under the
banner of “the movement.” And where
were the natural leaders of the com-
munity the teachers, the preachers?
(Everyone tacitly agreed that they were
Uncle Tom’s and under the thumb of the
whites.) “And you know what you do
with such leaders,” the speaker articulated,
“You hit them where it hurts, in the
pocket!” And the crowd would chant a
reply, endorsing each statement: “That’s
right!”
Resort to the faith of the Christian
teachings was a contrast to frustrated
statements by political realists earlier in
the day. “Let’s keep the Lord out of this;
we have relied on him too long.” Art,
too, endorsed this attitude: “Most South-
ern Negroes have been defeated by their
religion. Why, if J.C. himself came down
to earth and said ‘Follow me to the picket
line’ most would respond ‘Not today, Jesus
—we will wait here for you.’ ” That
night Art was more conciliatory. “The
Lord will help you, but you must help
yourself.” “That’s right.”
M R - YOUNG was the local chief, im-
pressive in size and appearance,
heralded by a blazing red shirt and a broad
smile, oozing quiet confidence. He stood
tall, calling attention to his slow, decisive
directives and colorful narratives. Not as
emotional as most civil rights leaders, he
knew these people and had their confidence.
He did not believe in compromise. Rather
than capitalise on the gains of the last year
—such as inclusion of Negroes on the
police force—he stated that “it would take
a microscope to see the change in the local
scene.” Before the coming of the demon-
strations he was well off, with a cab ser-
vice and a job in the mill. Yet when the
need for leadership arose he stepped in.
Expectedly the banks foreclosed on his
business loans and his cab licence was
cancelled. His Cadillac was gone, but he
was a leader now and proud of his losses.
“When I say march, we must march.
When I say boycott the local insurance
companies you must all go down and
turn in your policies. When I need a
lawyer they will send one from the North.
When we need money and clothes they will
send it from San Francisco.” It was a rare
display of confidence and a marked con-
trast to the fabled shy shiftiness of the
Southern Negro. “We can beat the Klan!
I laugh at them when they make threaten-
ing calls in the middle of the night. We
must not be intimidated! Did you know
that only last week Mrs. Timmins was
dragged from her car and beaten?” (The
crowd gasped and comments rippled
around the pews.) “The absurd thing is
that Negroes are being beaten and shot
at in Negro districts! This must stop!”
With linked arms I joined the refrain:
“We shall overcome . . .”


Paradox in the Snow
Skiing Booms as Developers Bust
By MICHAEL BAUME
THIS month the company that ran one of Australia’s best skiing resorts finally
went broke. After barely three years in commercial hands, the skiing develop-
ment at the Chalet at Charlotte’s Pass near Mt. Kosciusko has been sold to a
motel company for about one-seventh of its cost.
Another N.S.W. ski-development com-
pany looks far from healthy, with its
50-cent shares at only 9 cents in the stock-
market (it has not yet made a profit
or paid a dividend in almost three years’
existence). The shares in Publishers Hold-
ings Ltd., which operates one of Australia’s
biggest resorts on the Perisher Valley, are
down at their lowest level for years. And
Lend Lease, which owns Thredbo, has
not yet really done well out of its area.
Yet the skiing business is booming.
There is now overnight accommodation
available for more than 7000 people in
skiing resorts; seven years ago there were
beds for less than 1000. More than $l6
million has been spent by private enter-
prise in the N.S.W. snowfields alone in
recent years, with the four development
companies that have been awarded
franchises over the major skiing areas put-
ting up most of the money.
In addition, there have also been a
lot of lodges built as commercial under-
takings in these areas (a business that has
yet to prove really rewarding financially).
But the main contribution to accommoda-
tion in the snow has come from ski clubs,
whose lodges scatter through all the resorts
—and even to isolated spots away in the
mountains.
Despite the boom, not one of the big
operators on the N.S.W. snowfields (there
are no public company developments like
this in Victoria) has made good net pro-
fits for its shareholders. The reason could
be that the developments are all too new
to have settled down to good profit rates;
most are only 3 or 4 years old. Experience
could bring profits.
Another reason for their difficulties is
that snow is an unpredictable commodity;
the 1964 season had too much snow, which
added heavily to costs, and the 1965 sea-
son had too little snow. But this added
to problems rather than caused them,
although there seems little doubt that if
this winter is to be a good one, the
operators would do a lot better than
in the past two years.
The biggest problem facing the snow
developers is that the skiing season lasts
only about 13 weeks in the year; all pro-
fits have to be made then, although the
attempts to popularise the Alps as a
summer holiday area could bring some
change in this pattern. To some extent
these disappointing results have been due
to inexperience, particularly in handling
the “peaking” of demand. To try to im-
prove its results, Lend Lease this winter
is taking a much more flexible view of
pricing in order to make the most of
peak demand periods.
Demand for accommodation is greatest
on Saturday night (as weekend skiers
come in hundreds), so it has shortened its
hotel booking period to six days, enabling
it to charge extra on Saturdays. And
this flexibility runs at the other end to
offer lower charges as the uncertain ends
of the 13-week season.
This year, to improve their finances,
most ski developers are increasing their
lift prices. At Perisher, a day ticket will
now cost $4 compared with $3 only a
couple of years ago. Lend Lease has lifted
the Thredbo day ticket rate to $5 and
done away with weekly tickets. Other
lift charges are $3.50 at Mt. Hotham, $4
at Falls Creek, Smiggins and Charlotte’s
Pass, and at Mt. Buller one lifting com-
pany charges $3.50 and the other $3, so
the combined cost is $6.50.
Publishers Holdings at Perisher has been
the most successful developer and has
earned enough from the snow to get by;
Lend Lease at Thredbo has never really
made profits that relate realistically to its
investment there, although this seems in
keeping with its long-term approach to the
area, which envisages good returns begin-
ning by the end of the decade; Smiggins
Kosciusko Ltd. has never made a profit,
and Kosciusko Thredbo Ltd. has gone
broke.
J7JVEN if it has not done much for
shareholders, there can be no doubt
that the “big developer” . approach in
N.S.W. has done far more for skiing than
the fragmented approach in Victoria.
In Victoria, the skiing resorts are under
the control of different governmental
authorities, so the same consistent attitude
does not exist as in N.S.W., where the
Kosciusko State Park Trust controls all
the developments; for better or for worse
at least it is consistent. The N.S.W. de-
velopment has meant that instead of be-
ing the minor skiing State of seven years
ago, it has surged well ahead. There are
more than 4000 beds available in N.S.W.
skiing resorts against less than 3000 in
Victoria.
In Perisher, there are about 1700 beds,
in Thredbo 1400, in Smiggins 370, at
the Chalet 280, and about 350 in other
N.S.W. resorts. Victorian resorts have
about 600 beds at Falls Creek, 1000 at
Mt. Buller, 200 at Hotham, and about 200
at Mt. Buffalo.
But then a lot more Victorians can go
weekend or day skiing than can skiers
in N.S.W., as the Victorian snowfields are
so much closer to Melbourne than
Kosciusko is to Sydney. However, the
growth of population in Canberra is tend-
ing to offset this.
There is no doubt that the N.S.W. boom
is slowing down—but it is still moving.
There has been a clear slackening in the
number of applications for lodges in the
past year, but to some extent this has
been due to the lack of sites, as the
Trust has held back development in some
areas for special reasons in Perisher
because of a lack of water storage facilities
and in Smiggins for a lack of sewerage.
Changes in charges and increased re-
turns through higher use of the existing
capacity of ski-lifts should mean that some
of the profit problems of the snow de-
velopers will gradually be reduced over
time. But this alone may not be enough
to help the companies that are overcapi-
talised per skier; where they could not
really make profits unless they can accom-
modate more skiers to build up their usage
of lift and other capital equipment.
This is the problem that faced the now
departed Kosciusko Chalet company and
still confronts the Smiggins company. But
in both areas, the chances are that some-
thing will happen to improve things (see
page 65).
The biggest N.S.W. development at
present in terms of beds available at
Perisher Valley on the road to Mt. Kos-
ciusko and at Thredbo—are the only
profitable ones.
Both these areas are, in effect, under
monopoly control by development com-
panies that have exclusive franchises to
erect ski lifts (and in the case of Thredbo,
to allow lodges, either private or comer-
cial, to be built).
Lend Lease Corporation, through its
subsidiary Kosciusko Thredbo Pty. Ltd.,
has an effective 95-year control over the
Thredbo resort; Publishers Holdings,
through its subsidiary Perisher Valley
Hotels, has a 45-year-old lease over the
transport and hotels at Perisher.
Both these snow ventures are directed
by the top men in their companies; Mr.
G. J. Dusseldorp takes direct contrpl of
Thredbo (and visits it most weekends
during the snow season) and Mr. K. G.
Murray has always spent the bulk of the
snow season looking after his company’s
now extensive snow interests. Both would
claim that to run a ski resort you must
understand skiing and skiers; both admit
to some managerial mistakes in the past;
both are confident that their companies
can do well in the future.
The most striking developments planned
for the N.S.W. snowfields are clearly at
Thredbo. Last year a comprehensive
master plan covering envisaged expansion
for many years ahead was approved by
the State Park Trust. The next develop-
ments for Thredbo are to increase and
upgrade the hotel accommodation avail-
able and to expand the area available for
skiing.
But the most revolutionary change in
Thredbo is to be the creation of a village
within the snowline; a village that is aimed
to compete directly with the “in snow”
living appeal of rival Perisher Valley.
The new village, planned eventually to have
a maximum accommodation level of 500
beds (about one-third of the total now
available in Thredbo’s below-the-snow-
line village), will be at the top of a new
chair-lift to be built from the present


“bottom station” to an area called “Mer-
ritts” well to the right above “lovers’
leap.”
The new chair-lift, which will probably
be installed in the next couple of years,
would increase the existing chair capacity
at Thredbo by 500 people an hour to
1700 an hour; the present capacity of
about 1200 an hour could take up to 30
percent more skiers per day than at present
without further capital expenditure.
One of the major advantages of this
planned development at Thredbo is that
it would open up a large area of beginners’
slopes—a feature that at present is much
better provided for at Perisher than
Thredbo.
But, massive as the plans are, last year
brought only a modest rise in Thredbo’s
size after years of rapid expansion.
A new subdivision was released on the
eastern side of Thredbo village and some
new clubs and commercial lodges were
built during the summer, increasing the
accommodation by 50 beds to total 1400
in the area. But there are plans for
another 200 beds to be added there next
summer in keeping with the development
plan.
Lend Lease’s occupation of Thredbo is
under a 45-year lease with an option of
renewal for a further 50 years, so the
company is clearly able to take a very
long term view of its development of the
area. This has meant that to some extent
Lend Lease has over-provided for the
short run in putting in basic services.
So there is scope for considerable ex-
pansion, in pace with demand, without
Lend Lease having to spend equivalent
amounts on non-revenue producing items.
This is one reason why Lend Lease does
not expect to reap the real rewards of its
developments over the past five years until
the end of this decade.
Perisher Valley has made bigger profits
for its managers than Thredbo, but just
how much is not revealed. It is much
lower capitalised, as about $1.4 million
has been spent by the company owning
the lease in this area to cater for the
people who fill the valley’s 1700 beds,
and the skiers who come up for the day
or weekend.
But it seems that unless Perisher gets
some unexpected further development,
Thredbo will take over soon as the big-
gest centre in N.S.W. The existing 13
lifts in the Perisher Valley (most are T-
bars, except for one chair-lift and a couple
of Pomas) can carry about 6200 people
an hour for shorter distances than at
Thredbo, so they are not comparable.
Development at Perisher has been dif-
ferent from Thredbo. In the first place,
the nature of the area—unlike Thredbo,
the huts are in the snow has meant
that skiers cannot drive into the area,
although on this matter there has been
heated controversy between skiers and the
Trust. Parking is some miles away and
the Ansett group has a transport monopoly
from the parking station to the Smiggin
Holes terminal, and then for the over-
snow transport to the huts spread around
the valley.
This reduces the proportion of day or
weekend trippers as against those at other
resorts like Smiggin Holes and Thredbo.
In addition, the lease at Perisher was
originally only a seven-year one and has
only recently been changed to 45 years.
So the basic approach of the develop-
ment company clearly has had to fit these
lease conditions. It was important for the
company to make certain its projects had
immediate satisfactory returns; this sense
of immediacy has lessened, but there is
no doubt that it has helped explain why
Perisher with its almost modulated
development has been able to cater for
far more people living in the area than
Thredbo, at far less cost at this stage of
the game.
The pace of development at Perisher
has slowed down after years of rapid in-
creases and the operating company that
has the franchise, Perisher Valley Hotels,
does not have any major expansions in
mind for the immediate future. This year,
for the first time for quite a while, skiers
at Perisher Valley will see few new
developments in the valley from last year,
with only another five lodges added to
the landscape. There is expected to be
a steady rather than spectacular rise in
the number of people using the valley.
There is no point in looking at the
annual accounts of Perisher Valley Hotels
to get any idea of the profitability of the
valley to Publishers Holdings, the parent
company. For the results in the snow are
hidden in the other operations of the
Publishers group; the accounts for Perisher
Valley Hotels relate to only a very small
proportion of its snow operations.
The stockmarket is uneasy about Pub-
lishers’ snow interests, and has put its
shares down to their lowest level for
years. But in fact the company has been
able to provide $600,000 out of profits
($lOO,OOO in one lump last year) to write
down its leasehold buildings in the snow
to only $500,000 and has made sub-
stantial depreciation allowances against
its plant and equipment. So the total cost
of its snow investment of about $1.4 mil-
lion has already been about half written
off although the buildings and plant in
volved will he there earning profits for
many more years to come.
The experience of these two companies,
Lend Lease and Publishers, however,
indicates that with good management
that understands its problems, the snow
business can bring profits. If it can settle
down to a reasonable level of growth
that does not bring intolerable strains on
people and costs, then the time is coming
when the good companies should make
handsome profits after their fairly lean
years. But for the badly capitalised or
wrongly located companies in this busi-
ness, not even good times will be able to
bring good profits.
FORUM
Controversy at Kosciusko
Keeping the public out of the public park
By JOHN TURNER
TO any summer visitor the vast sweep
of the Main Range of the Australian
Alps from Mt. Kosciusko is dramatic
and impressive. Yet, by contrast, the winter
prospect fills one with, the deepest awe, as
if confronted with a new and fascinating,
although menacing, world. It is not merely
that the familiar slopes take on a new.
aspect under the heavy mantle of snow and
ice. During the summer and autumn one
may roam as freely on the tops as in any
other typical Australian bush country.
Winter adds a new dimension to the
mountains comparable to undersea
exploration or space travel, neither of
which can be properly undertaken without
understanding that they involve a funda-
mental change of environment.
In other parts of the world, of course,
people live in mountainous areas under
winter conditions far more severe and
prolonged than those met here. They have
adapted themselves successfully to their
hard environment, and have developed
ways of life which differ greatly from
those of other people—physically, socially,
and spiritually.
Few Australians have really become
alpine dwellers despite the fact that many
have, spent years in the Snowy Mountains.
For, while alpine dwellers in the true
sense live independently, our alpine pene-
tration has been largely dependent on
outside support, essentially an attempt to
extend familiar modes of life to an un-
familiar environment. Thus, most of us
have remained “visitors” to the moun-
tains and much recent planning accepts
this view as necessary and fundamental.
Since the Kosciusko State Park Trust
was constituted in 1944, it has been con-
cerned —on the one hand —to develop
the Park so that this and future genera-
tions may have the “fullest possible
range of recreational experience, whether
physical, mental, or spiritual, in natural
outdoor surroundings” and on the
other to maintain it in a basically
natural condition so that its value as a
scenic, wonderland, as an area of unique
scientific interest, and as a vital water
catchment may not be lessened.
Experience has shown that these two
broad aims often conflict, so that the one
may only be fully realised at the expense
of the other. As the attitudes of those
concerned with the Park (Trust and pub-
lic alike) reflect their special, interests
and temperaments, this conflict of aims
has been one of the basic themes of the
development of Trust policy from the
outset. Generally, one might hope that
* Mr. Turner is a committee member of
the Australian Alpine Club. The Kosciusko
State Park Trust has advised the club of its
intention to resume the Lake Albina ski
lodge.


' ,
Now we have Jets to New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa,Tahiti, Hawaii
and the USA
And you never had
/vivi:
PA(V
Think a long-distance holiday costs too much,
takes too long? Not so. We can have you in the
dream-about places in hours for less money
than you think.
Spend a lazy Polynesian holiday in Tahiti.
A lively one in New Zealand. Fiji. Or Samoa.
Ride an outrigger through Hawaiian surf.
And if you’re on your way to the U.S.A.
or Europe with us, you can stop over at all of
these holiday islands at no extra fare.
Wherever you "fly with us, you’ll enjoy
the service, savor cuisine by Maxim’s of Paris.
Most important, you’ll have a good feeling,
knowing you’re flying with the very best.
Call your Pan Am Travel Agent, or call us at
28-2621 (Sydney), 63-9077 (Melbourne). Or,
mail coupon below for more details on Pan Am
New Zealand Holidays.
\ 1
I Pan American Airways
I 82 Elizabeth St., Sydney. 133 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
□ Please send me free literature about Pan Am
Holidays in New Zealand.
Name .
Address '.
Phone I
I 1
World’s most experienced airline
FIRBT ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC
FIRBT IN LATIN AMERICA
FIRST ROUND THE WORLD
SYDNEY: 82 ELIZABETH STREET. 28-2621 • MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET. 63-9077


NEW ADDITION TO
inaemans
RANGE OF TABLE WINES
ST. CORA
WHITE
BURGUNDY
The new addition to Lindeman’s
popular range of Table Wines is
a pleasant dry white wine with a
soft round character and flavour.
It will accompany all sea foods,
salads and light meat dishes, and
is best served chilled.
1
mDFMAX'S - PR.OPRIKTO%.
WVTFR fyVER V>NEVi«fc
i-i N DEMANS
S T CORA, WHITE
BURGUNDY
1-iNDfmans wines
wise counsels would prevail and that in
the “Proposed Plan for the Preservation
and Development of the Kosciusko State
Park,” at present under public discussion,
a balanced scheme might emerge.
Ideal solutions hardly ever occur. Lack
of funds, irreconcilable aims, difficulties of
terrain, and administration; all of these
inevitably limit or prevent the most desir-
able of schemes. Thus, on many occasions
the Trust has simply not been able to carry
out certain of its plans. As far back as 1947
(see “Australian and New Zealand Ski
Year Book, 1947”), one reads of accom-
modation houses for 25 to 30 persons to
be built near Smiggin Holes, the Perisher
Mountain, Mt. Wheatley, and Pounds
Creek Valley, with later consideration of
the claims of White’s River, Grey Mare
Range, Jagungal, and other localities. Not
only this; there were also plans for un-
attended stop-over huts to be erected on the
Main Range so as to give safety and over-
night shelter to skiers touring on the tops.
These plans have been revived and re-
vised regularly since, but in the matter of
accommodation above the snowline the
Trust has so far made no progress.
schemes for isolated buildings in
good ski and walking areas have much
in common with the system of high-moun-
tain lodges in France, Austria, Switzerland,
and Italy, built and maintained by national
alpine clubs, in co-operation with the State
authorities concerned. These picturesque
yet simple buildings (which can be seen
even on the flanks of Mt. Blanc itself) take
their place as a characteristic part of the
rugged mountain environment and, by pro-
viding food, warmth, and shelter, open up
to skiing enthusiasts, walkers, and rock-
climbers a huge alpine area.
In our Snowy Mountains, even the
highest slopes had long been known to
graziers and stockmen whose huts and
fences still remain. Much later Wragge,
Franz Malcher, Dr. Teece, George Day,
Golin Wyatt, the Mitchells, and others
were to rediscover them in their winter
guise. It seemed that “over the Pass” there
was a fabled world where only the bold
and energetic might go on skis, but not
without considerable effort and the risks
of accident and bad weather. The western
faces offered not merely an invitation but
also a challenge which could be adequately
met in the long run only by. establishing a
base in their very heart.
Thus, it was that, late in 1950, represen-
tatives of the newly formed Ski Tourers’
Association (later to be incorporated into
the Australian Alpine Club) met members
of the Trust to obtain permission to build
a 12-bed lodge near Lake Albina. The
results of this meeting could hardly have
been more favorable, for it was then learnt
that the Trust actually had plans for a hut
at Lake Albina, but—due to limited re-
sources—was unable to proceed. It not only
welcomed the initiative of the STA, but
actually undertook to give direct assistance
in the building and maintenance of the
new project.
This was a lusty period of exhilarating
growth in which obstacles were faced and
overcome so that—despite mistakes (some
serious) of both clubs and Trust—by its
close in 1958, a complete transformation
of skiing in this State had been brought
about. While other interests played their
part in this stupendous change, the
decisive role was overwhelmingly ihat
undertaken by the skiers themselves and
their clubs.
And, of all these enterprises, none were
so ambitious as those of the burgeoning
Ski Tourers’ Association. For, while all
the others depended on some form of
road or track access, the STA built out
on the Main Range. Here was the
supreme challenge! At no time was the
undertaking easy, and on many occa-
sions we faced disaster.
The success of the STA in securing
and maintaining a foothold on the Main
Range was hard won. Today we can
laugh at the sleepless nights of long road
trips, at holidays given up to the labor
of carrying endless loads of material on
our backs, at overturned sleds, and creeks
foaming with a season’s supply of soap-
suds, at snowpoles somehow erected in
soaking rain, or at heavy equipment man-
handled through driving snow. Yet, often
things seemed desperate; hardly laughing
matters at all! It was only through the
enthusiasm and devotion of hundreds of
volunteers, often working under condi-
tions of extreme hardship, that the day
was won.
Each of our Main Range projects,
Albina, Kunama, Northcote Tow, and Illa-
wong, has made demands far beyond the
expected, normal, or reasonable, and these
demands could be met only by people who
were prepared to give of themselves, with-
out counting the cost,
Is it surprising then that such people
should develop a keen sense of identifi-
cation with these lovely lodges and a deep
feeling of “belonging” in the high moun-
tains? In what sense could they be re-
garded as outsiders, mere visitors in an
essentially alien region. They made it
possible for thousands of others—members
and non-members alike to venture out
upon the western faces in the sure
knowledge that these lodges offered them
a place where shelter, food, warmth, and
aid were available. Surely such sacrifices
and devotion have won the right for
members of the largest ski club in Aus-
tralia to regard these lodges as their
own!
Yet, from the early days of the Park,
conservation and scientific interests have
opposed activities which may have ini-
paired the catchment potential of the


V
LOOK
THE ARD 52-
CROSSBAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted —no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
Features: Any extension can be nominated as “operator"
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other • Outside calls dialled direct by
Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
sm a
mm
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle A Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
higher mountains, or disturbed their
scenic and unique scientific character.
Hence the moves toward the elimination
of alpine grazing. Hence the opposition
to certain important aspects of the Snowy
Mountains Hydro-Electric Project. Such
groups have favored the establishment of
primitive areas within the park, as origi-
nally provided for in the Kosciusko
State Park Act, 1944. Generally, it has
been observed that these groups have been
much less concerned with the human than
the non-human aspects of park manage-
ment. This, while they have shown active
concern to prevent erosion, accumulation
of litter,'and the encroachment of develop-
ment” within areas of outstanding scenic
beauty, this concern has tended to result m
arrangements whereby people, whose needs
and interests should be at all times para-
mount m any preservation and develop-
ment plan are likely either to be excluded
or seriously limited in their potential use
ot the rark.
This writer takes no issue with the
concept that the Kosciusko State Park
should be safeguarded from spoliation,
and adequately developed for this and
future generations. However, a concept
is one thing and the bureaucratic imple-
mentation of a “Master Plan for the
Park” * is another. From this point of
view it is felt that the decision to resume
Lake Albina Ski Lodge is quite unrelated
to the broad issues of park preservation.
While it is well known that some of
the more extreme advocates of so-called
“park values” ** have long favored the
demolition of Albina simply because its
presence in the recently proclaimed
Kosciusko Primitive Area is offensive to
their views on park management, it is
felt that the Trust may not do this, at
least at first. In fact the Trust has given
no details of its reasons for the “pro-
posed resumption” or of its intentions
afterwards. However, page three of the
“Proposed Plan, etc.,” may cast some
light upon this. Inter alia, we find
Wilderness and Unique areas will be
protected from:
• Buildings except simple survival huts
where absolutely necessary;
• Constructed roads except essential fire
trails which shall be closed to the general
public.
The first of these extracts hints at
what the ultimate fate of Albina might
be. Either it could be destroyed if it
were not found to be “absolutely neces-
sary” or it could become a “simple sur-
vival hut” in the manner of the Seaman
Memorial Hut where food supplies (for
survival) have been provided by the Aus-
tralian Alpine Club due to the past failure
of the Trust itself to do so.
The second extract poses a dilemma
when it is noted that the Trust has lately-
been reconstructing and sealing the
Kosciusko Road beyond Charlotte’s Pass
(i.e., in a unique natural area). Is this
road to become an “essential fire trail
which shall be closed to the general pub-
lic”?
Inevitably one senses an inconsistency
here with respect to the differing treat-
ments of Lake Albina Ski Lodge and the
Kosciusko Road. Perhaps it is felt that,
while the resumption ol the lodge might
be a relatively easy matter, the closure
of the road (whether in a unique natural
area or not) might, by its very absurdity,
provoke a sharp public protest.
Yet, is it any less absurd that the Trust
—with no experience in maintaining high
mountain lodges—should resume Albina
from an organisation with long, proven
experience? Or, is it any less absurd to put
a ban on oversnow transport in the Kos-
ciusko Primitive Area, without giving any
reason, and so deprive members of the
general public of their only chance of access
to the Main Range in winter?
“Visitors ” in the Park
in these arbitrary acts can be
seen the beginnings of bureaucratic
tyranny! Reduce the public to the status of
“visitors” and so effectively deprive them
of any voice or rights within the Park! On
the one hand speak of: “planning land
usage within the Park so that its primary
values shall remain undiminished and so
that the public may have the fullest pos-
sible range of recreational experience”
(page 1 of “Proposed Plan, etc.”). And, on
the other hand, state that: “The public may
be excluded from certain areas, except
under permit” (page 2 of “Proposed Plan,
etc.”).
Here indeed we have the blueprint for
a rule by arbitrary decree. At any time,
because of the professed need to protect
some unexplained “primary value,” any
type of ban, exclusion, or resumption could
take place. No reason need be given. The
so-called public interest is sufficient, even
if this effectively limits public enjoyment
of the Park to scheduled resorts, so that
only a hardy minority prepared to walk or
ski long distances will ever be able to know
the real majesty of our Snowy Mountains.
There was a time when German people
were treated by the civic authorities as
“visitors” to the fine public parks of their
cities. They could hardly “use” them (as
we in Australia can), for everywhere were
signs “Betreten Verboten.” Thus, in the
public interest, was the public prevented
from using the public parks.
“Betreten Verboten” is a favorite weapon
of the bureaucrat which—in suitable cir-
cumstances —can be used subtly and effec-
tively as a means of exclusion and preven-
tion. Events of recent years have shown
how suitable are local circumstances to its
application, and point ominously to gloomy
prospects for the future, of which the “pro-
posed resumption” of Lake Albina Ski
Lodge is but the latest and most disturbing
indication.
This move is a far cry from the days
when the development of our park—for all
its faults—was a partnership between the
Trust and properly constituted community
groups in the best democratic tradition.
* Mentioned in a letter from the Trust
to the Australian Alpine Club.
** Similar expressions appear throughout
the “Proposed Plan for the Preservation
and Development of the Kosciusko State
Park” without any definition or even des-
cription of such “values” ever being given.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Musician on the move
By DAVID SALTER
THIRTY-ONE years ago composer
Peter Maxwell Davies, at present in
Australia, was born into a Manchester
family of no musical distinction whatsoever.
During this short period (and to the under-
standable surprise of his relations), Davies
has become a foundation member and now
a leading figure in the “new” group of
recognised British composers. With Har-
rison Birtwhistle, Alexander Goehr, and
the Australian expatriate Malcolm Wil-
liamson, he maintains a younger, counter-
balancing influence to that of the estab-
lished Britten, Tippet, Walton, and Bliss.
A composer since the age of eight, his his-
tory is almost as interesting as his work.
Music first came into the Davies house-
hold with an ancient upright piano in-
herited from an aunt. It was the proud
product of Binns Bros, “and,” according to
Davies, “sounded like it.” Nevertheless,
young Max was eventually packed off to
sl-per-week lessons from the local music
mistress. These were entirely derived from
Smallwood’s Piano Tutor, and the influ-
ence of this volume on Davies’ first compos-
itions was unmistakable. By the time he
had left school it was obvious that any
further studies would have to be musical.
Unfortunately, Manchester University’s
Music Department offered a degree course
which seemed to Davies nothing short of
“horrible,” with an arch-conservative pro-
fessor to match. Davies remembers this
academic as “a tall, thin man who was in-
tent on making everybody into some sort
of pocket Delius,” and, more significantly,
as the composer of such works as the
oratorio “High Tide on the Coast of Lan-
cashire.” Despite the efforts of this pro-
fessor, who actively campaigned against
“modern” music, Davies managed to grad-
uate with honors, choosing Indian music
as the topic of his thesis a subject about
which the crusty gentleman presumably
knew nothing.
Birtwhistle, Goehr, and the pianist John
Ogden were students at the same univer-
sity, and with Davies they formed a small
group dedicated to the study and perform-
ance of the then current and classic works
of contemporary European music.
Although its concerts of Schoenberg,
Webern, Messiaen, and friends were poorly
attended, the individual talents of its mem-
bers gradually became known among the
musical circles of England. Goehr went
to study under Messiaen, Ogden became
Britain’s first successful postwar concert
pianist, Birtwhistle continued his writing
and study at home, and Davies was
awarded an Italian Government scholar-
ship to study composition in Rome with
Petrassi. On the strength of his early
compositions notably the “Five Piano
Pieces” and “Prolation for Orchestra”—he
received a Harkness Fellowship to study at
the School of Music at Princeton Univer-
sity.
Davies says that the opportunities in
America for an academically disciplined
study of music, particularly in composition
technique, are undoubtedly the finest in the
world. At Princeton, the course in serial
music was taken by Milton Babbit, a grad-
uate in mathematics as well as music and
a recognised composer. One lecturer did
nothing except provide a course in analysis,
while others specialised in composition,
performance, and music education. At
frequent intervals throughout the year pro-
fessional musicians from the nation’s lead-
ing orchestras were brought to the univer-
sity for rehearsals and performances of the
works produced by the composition class.
Naturally, such an exacting environment
tends to eliminate the weaker students and
stimulate the gifted (six out of ten starters
finished the composition course) and it is
understandable that Davies looks upon
his time at Princeton as the most signi-
ficant formative influence on his composi-
tional technique.
All study and no work does little toward
keeping a young composer in food, clothes,
and manuscript paper, so, on his return to
England from Princeton, Davies set about
finding a job in which the considerable
amount of theoretical knowledge he had
acquired could be put to some practical
use. The grammar school at Cirencester,
a small town in Gloucester about 85 miles
west of London, needed a music master,
the position offering peaceful accom-
modation with quite lengthy vacations for
private work. P.M.D." (as his pupils
quickly dubbed him) entered a period of
his life which was to make him as re-
spected a music educationist as he was
composer.
Davies taught through the medium with
which he was most familiar creative
music. Not only did he compose pieces for
the children, they in turn were encouraged
to produce works for themselves. The tape
recording of “Incidental Music to Peter
Pan,” a tableau assembled by a group
of students in his flat during the space of
a single Sunday afternoon, is one of
Davies’ most treasured possessions, and
when he plays it now in lectures on his
work at Cirencester he does so with that
wonderful mock-modesty of
fatherly pride. “O Magnum
Mysterium,” a work which
draws on the stylistic ele-
ments of medieval music,
was composed specifically
for the school orchestra and
choir, but as evidence of
his statement that “it is
completely wrong to com-
pose down for kids,” the
piece has become the most
popular of his entire output.
For various reasons (including a prolonged
difference with the sportsmaster) he event-
ually left Cirencester and devoted himself
to full-time composing.
In 1965 he was invited to take part in
the UNESCO Seminar in School Music
held at Sydney University. “The Shep-
herd’s Calender,” a work commissioned for
the seminar, was rehearsed and conducted
by the composer at its premiere—an occa-
sion which involved most of the Univer-
sity’s Music Department as percussionists,
a group of instrumental players, and the
choir of Sydney Church of England Boys’
Grammar School. By the end of their visit
to Australia, Davies and his music had
made such an impression that he left with
an offer of a lectureship in composition at
Adelaide’s Elder Conservatorium. This he
accepted for the first two terms of 1966,
and by early March he was back in Aus-
tralia, complaining that these continual
equatorial crossings had kept him in winter
for the past 18 months.
During the recent university vacation,
Davies returned to Sydney to give a two-
week course on musical analysis. His
direct and sometimes offbeat style of lec-
turing is generously laced with caustic
references to any school of analysis which
doesn’t try to “find out exactly how it
(the music) is built up.” To him, the
curse of music has been that too many
people were, and still are, talking around
the notes instead of at them. Very much
in this vein, the preparatory remarks to
his first lecture show how disturbing he
finds the situation:
“It is surprising how many people be-
come frightened when we get down to
talking about the notes themselves. Some
people manage to get through their
entire lives without talking about the
notes. They are given degrees in Music
and hence have a qualification to pass
Peter
Maxwell
Davies


on their ignorance. They’re still regarded
as musicians, but never mind . . .”
Peter Maxwell Davies will be in Eng-
land just in time for winter. His two
visits to this country have done much
to put our future academics and com-
posers at least within striking distance
of the educational standards of their
American and European counterparts. He
believes that we have the talent but not
the facilities to train, and points to the
exodus of artists, actors, composers,
writers, and even practical musicians as
evidence of this unfortunate state.
MELBOURNE FILM FESTIVAL
Another bout of cine-masochism
WITH some words on the ugliness of
Australian censorship by Robin
Boyd, set to filtered sound effects
from nearby Luna Park, the 15 th year of
Melbourne’s cine-masochism began. And
suddenly the new festival merged with old
festivals until it seemed that one was always
at the festival, and the familiar symptoms
of festival trance began to appear. This
state is induced by bombarding images,
irregular meals, lack of sleep, and the
disorientation caused by repeatedly mov-
ing out of the cinema’s aesthetic darkness
into philistine sunlight. Unlike those caused
by LSD and such, festival, trance does not
result in heightened awareness. In fact, I’m
convinced that were the organisers to slip
a print of Debbie Reynolds’ “Tammy”
into the program, it would be seriously
viewed, gratefully applauded* and rever-
ently discussed, under the delusion that it
was a sign of the New Wave from
Rumania.
At the half-way point, the Big Film has
yet to emerge, but the Heartwarming Film
has been seen and loved. Each year, one
entry from India, Turkey, or Lower Slob-
bovia charms by sheer ineptitude or naivete.
This time it is “Samyong” from South
Korea. The Koreans usually make the
world’s slowest Japanese films, but Sam-
yong’s momentum is all but overwhelming.
It is the story of a mute farm-laborer —
played by an oriental Jerry Lewis—who
is brutally treated by the son of a rich
farmer. He devotes his life and consider-
able energies to the bully’s angelic wife,
and finally dies in his eagerness to oblige
her. It was a running, jumping, and never
standing-still film, and its physical ex-
hilaration was enhanced by some glorious
sub-titles. For instance, the mute drags
a venerable doctor from his bed with
enough arm-waving mime for a major
earthquake. But when the ancient master
of acupuncture follows Samyong he finds
the disaster is a dead pet bird. Where upon
he turns to the mute, and in a voice of
finely carved ivory says, “You stupid
punk!”
Other sub-titillations were found in the
otherwise unremarkable Japanese mystery
“A Chain of Islands,” where a Catholic
priest’s blood serum became his semen.
But the big laugh came when the Press
were cross-examining a police official about
the murder of a Japanese air hostess. “Was
it jealousy? Did she have a lover?” they
ask. “No!” replies the official indignantly.
“She was a Christian.”
But to serious matters, Georges Franju’s
rendering of Cocteau’s “Thomas the Im-
poster” was a delight. One looked at
World War I as at a display in an antique
shop window. Except for a few documen-
• c u l i a- *
tary scenes in field hospitals, the conflict
was as remote as the Crusades Franju
chose to symbolise the war m stunning,
, . 1 =”
surrea images.
The plot begins with the e egant Princess
de Bormes throwing a final party before
she leads a group of friends in an amateur
ambulance service to the front But she is
thwarted by officialdom, until a delicate
16-year-old Thomas de Fontenay joins
he troupe. Claiming to be the nephew of
* e fa n°!l S G T ra de F^ my ’ he cu “
through the red tape and the convoy of
veteran cars can move off. While the
others romanticism is shaken by their ex-
penences, Thomas dream world intensi-
ties, until he dies playing the hero in the
moonhke no-man s-land
rranju works in a black and white as
muted as Bergman’s is brilliant. He binds
frowmowto & j * j u
anecdotes and observations
from Uocteau s novel into somethmg as
haunting, nostalgic, and melancholy as an
old family album.
In “The Hat,” John and Faith Hubley
. . ° f . . .....
create animation so fresh and uninhibited
t at it might have come from a kinder-
garten prodigy. Freed from imprisoning
hnes> two almost finger-painted soldiers de-
bate the tyranny of lines—the borders be-
tween States and nations. One soldier’s hat
has fallen across the border, and the other
refuses to return it. While birds and
animals and insects meander this way and
that over the border, the soldiers are pre-
pared to die for its significance. Their
voices are provided by Dizzie Gillespie and
“Beyond the Fringe’s” Dudley Moore, but
the quality of their ad-lib dialogue is far
from being as rich as the Hubley’s images.
p -°L? h £
U.S.A. entrant “Zero in the Universe,” and
Melbourne irl Pam Bad k was one of its
leadi la 6 ers Accordin ' the 0
T „ * «. ® •
notes, the him concerns two enemies,
business rivals, and perhaps conspirators”
and ~js almost indescr F The film sets
sail somewhere between lonesco and James
Bond an(J is hell . bent on bei as o^cure
as ible No two |ines of dia f relat
the ; are determined f lunatil J
T found it b J ri and pmen tiou S . No in-
joke , hou|d last s Bs mi F ute! . A ,g. minute
Dutch film in a similar idiom-“P”_was
vastl more inventive and successful. “P”;
a b l a ’ ck .cloake d creature with googly eyes
is the ultimate perfectionist an S d while hh
activities were just as obliqu( , as "Zero's”
j an Ke j a ’ s direction and editing was
breathtakingly hip.
r J: ' „ uu „ ,
• f’Tk V C ° ntr^ u,ed . H °! l y'™> | d
In Deblatschka recsara, an ironic little
documentary on the 53rd day’s shooting of
• v i • ai 6 -*u
Geng \ s Khan m Yugoslavia. Along with
a few dozen P oker f»« d farmers, we watch
c“ Ja P araUOn an a " ep ‘ C battle SCene ’
Stuffed horses and dummy corpses are posi-
tioned, actors roar out ' the ir idiot-simple
lines a hundred times, assistant-assistants
bri ng endless cups of coffee, and make-up
girls dispense wounds and blood,
"
PHILLIP ADAMS
SYDNEY FILM FESTIVAL
Picking and choosing
THE arrival of the program for the
Sydney Film Festival always sends
me into a small personal frenzy.
There it is so neatly laid out—datej time,
theatre—but how am I to get to all these
films?
The years—this is the 13th Festival —
have taught me something. After the
initial panic I realise that nobody can
see everything and still retain any judg-
ment; that there are some things I really
don’t care if I miss: that, in fact, I have
got to pick and choose. Of course, I make
occasional bad mistakes missing a
masterpiece, wasting my time on a flop
- but this is the luck of the Festival
TL , ,
game. There are people whose dedicated
purpose is to see everything offering but
at the end, could they really tell the
difference between The Silence and
“What’s New, Pussycat ?
So far the year’s offerings have been
varied in theme and in quality. Kon Ichi-
kawa is represented by two widely diver-
gent films. “Fires On The Plain,” made
in 1959, is a work of horrifying, macabre
beauty set at the war’s end in the Philip-
pines, when defeat, despair, and sheer
hunger reduced the remnants of the
Japanese army to bestiality. It makes a
strange yet logical complement to Ichi-
kawa’s other war film “The Harp Of
Burma,” shown at an earlier Festival,
One is a bitter, sickening denunciation of
warmaking, the other a glowing hymn
to peace. Ichikawa shows himself capable
of lighthearted frivolity in “My Enemy,
The Sea,” a remarkably engaging and
beautifully photographed record of a
voyage across the Pacific in a small yacht
undertaken and carried out by a young
Japanese. Apart from its humor and
technical brilliance, the film is an accur-
«dy observed character study of the
single-minded enthusiast who is admit-
able at a distance, maddening to deal
&
Wl X here are some powerful scenes arid
fi ne performances in “The Adventures Of
Werne r Holt,” but a ruthless pair of
scissors could have made this story of a
young German’s gradual disillusionment
with the Nazi philosophy a great deal
more telling. Too often the director falls
into the Teutonic habit of didactic lectur-
ing, but there’s always some entertainment
to be found in the eccentric sub-titling,
where morals are referred to as “nor-
mals,” and a soldier, referring to a couple


of hostages, remarks mysteriously:
“They’re to be shot as soon as it bongs.”
The performances in “Les Abysses,”
too, are noteworthy, but the film itself—
the story of two maidservants who turn
against their French provincial employ-
ers struck me as tiresome and unsuc-
cessful. Nico Papatakis never made it
clear that the girls had been driven to
their violent extremes by ill-treatment
and oppression; they just looked like a
noisy pair of nuts whom no employer
would have put up with for ten minutes.
The theatre of the absurd is one thing,
just plain silly is something else again.
After the naivete of “A Blonde In
Love” and “The Age Of Daydreaming,”
it is something of a relief to turn to the
sophistication of Visconti’s “Sandra,” a
rococo melodrama vaguely based on the
Electra legend, but far more concerned
with Electra’s involvement with her
brother than with their desire to avenge
their father. No masterpiece; but profes-
sional and stylish, with handsome people
and a striking evocation of the crumbling
old city of Volterra.
“The Pawnbroker,” a film deserving
far more than a casual mention, and
some of the high-quality short features
will be reviewed in a later issue.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
FILMS
Floating Grand
Hotel
Ship of Fools. Director, Stanley Kramer.
Barclay, Sydney.
A Patch of Blue. Director, Guy Green.
Liberty, Sydney.
Life at the Top. Director, Ted Kotcheff.
Victory, Sydney.
THERE’S nothing very exciting from
the viewpoint of direction (*r tech-
nique in this week’s three films, but
they’re all redeemed to some extent by the
quality of the performances. This is
Actors’ Week at the cinema.
Stanley Kramer has always been far
more interested in the content than the
technique of his movies, but they have
generally been expert enough in that field
as well; so that the off-handed treatment
of much of “Ship Of Fools” is surprising
and a little disconcerting. One doesn’t ex-
pect nowaday to see such rank bad back-
projection and model shots the ship
is as realistic as a child’s toy in a bathtub
—particularly in a major, and presumably
big budget film.
Katherine Anne Porter’s original novel,,
to me almost unreadable, was heavy with
significance. Kramer pays it lip-service by
giving us a short message at beginning and
end, easily ignored by any practised movie
fan. In between, he settles cosily to pre-
senting a. water-borne Grand Hotel, and
manages to convert a pretentious bore into
a piece of genuine entertainment.
Set on a German liner in the early 19305,
the films deals with the clashes of person-
ality of the oddly assorted people on board.
Oskar Werner and Simone Signoret make
their autumnal love-affair truly moving,
and Vivien Leigh is remarkably effective
in her vicious portrayal of an aging kitten-
beauty.
Though the script has no great pro-
fundity, the dialogue is lively, always rele-
vant, occasionally witty; and the film
provided you shut your eyes to the plastic
ship—is a satisfying and diverting affair.
First-class acting saves the day with “A
Patch Of Blue,” an eminently right-minded
film which, when you come to look into
it, is a right old tearjerker, with the poor
blind girl neglected and oppressed by her
slatternly mother and drunken grandpa,
forced to earn a few pence by stringing
beads, and befriended by a terribly decent
negro. (It ought to be accompanied by
massed violins playing “Hearts And
Flowers,” but, in fact, Jerry Goldsmith’s
discreet score tones the sentimentality down
considerably.) But thanks to,the sensitive
but down-to-earth performance of Eliza-
beth Hartman and Sidney Poitier, the film
manages to be touching but rarely unduly
saccharine. Its worst moments are generally
the director’s fault the embarrassing
fantasy-sequence of the girl’s dancing
through the park, or that all-too-opposite
thunderstorm and even then the players
generally manage to keep things from be-
coming too lachrymose. Poitier in parti-
cular deserves praise; he is one of the few
actors who can overcome the film indus-
try’s inverted color prejudice, which can
never allow a negro to appear as any-
thing less than a paragon of virtue.
Apparently author John Braine and the
producers of “Life At The Top” felt that
there was still a drop to be squeezed out
of the success of “Room At The Top,” so
we have a further edition of the mis-
adventures of Joe Lampton, who, having
pulled himself up by his bootstraps, is now
wondering whether it was worth it. His
efforts to go it alone end with his being
more firmly imprisoned than ever. It’s
very well acted —Laurence Harvey, Jean
Simmons, and Michael Craig are all first-
class —but is flung together rather than
directed.
B.T.
THEATRE
Lively Lessons
Romeo and Juliet in Rehearsal. Script by
Jill Graham. Produced by Alan Edwards.
Independent, Sydney.
Hamlet in Rehearsal. Script by A. Ashworth.
Produced by Peter Summerton. Indepen-
dent. j
A Thousand Clowns. Herb Gardner. Inde-
pendent.
THE Independent Theatre is to be con-
gratulated on these lively programs,
which are designed to help the
schools in their study of two set Shakes-
pearian plays. Seven or eight experienced
actors stage a mock rehearsal of each play.
The scriptwriter and the actors between
them have worked up a dramatised dis-
cussion about many of the famous puzzles
and differing interpretations of the plays.
At intervals they enact selected scenes
to illustrate or test points in the discussion.
Nigel Lovell acts the part of a patient
producer, Alastair Duncan takes a cynical
attitude, John Unicomb is romantic, James
Condon is judicial, and Charles Little
is a young hothead.
For the students to be able to actually
see the actors trying out different ways of
interpreting and acting scenes and char-
acters brings vividly before them the real-
isation that Shakespeare’s plays are very
much alive in the theatre and that dis-
cussion of different interpretations is not
just a classroom exercise.
For example, John Unicomb and Doreen
Warburton seem reasonably acceptable as
a “mature” Romeo and Juliet until they
are replaced by the skinny youthfulness
of Charles Little and Jennifer Cullen.
Then it is immediately obvious that they
and they alone must play the young lovers.
John Unicomb is seen to be much better
suited to playing Mercutio and Doreen
Warburton becomes an excellent nurse.
In this part she demonstrates her skill by
first playing her as kind and jolly and then
playing her as tough and bawdy. After
discussion it is decided that she needs
to be a mixture of both to fit the text.
As a dramatised discussion Jill Gra-
ham’s script is the livelier. Arthur Ash-
worth has favored a more orderly precis
of “Hamlet” with linking narrative, which
enables him to concentrate more on the
dramatic structure of the play.
Of course these programs cannot be
regarded as satisfactory substitutes for
full-scale productions. Indeed, they would
be excellent supplements to such produc-
tions. But since the Independent cannot
afford to mount fully professional
Shakespearian productions they are cer-
tainly wise to avoid inferior attempts and
offer these discussion-playlets instead. If
more English teachers had been aware
of this excellent aid to classroom, teaching
the Independent Theatre would surely
have been full at every session.
“A Thousand Clowns” is one of those
amusing, sophisticated, sentimental,
American comedies which I find unbear-
ably tedious.
Wise, witty Murray Burns can make a
lot of money writing television scripts for
an inane children’s program. But he
prefers to keep his soul clean and live on
unemployment relief. This, according to
the ethics of this play, makes him a cour-
ageous non-conformist. Improbably, he is
bringing up a brilliant 12-year-old nephew
dumped on him by his flighty sister some
years earlier.
This boy is the innocent cause of Mur-
ray being persecuted by bureaucracy, in
the shape of the Child Welfare Board.
Although Murray wins over 50 percent
of the Board’s investigation committee to
his side —a very pretty social worker it
is a pyrrhic victory. Being a woman she is
able, at one and the same time, to admire
him for his fearless, witty non-conformity
and force him to resell his soul to the
television program. In this she is supported,
by the clever boy who, like all children,
does not wish to be related to any non-
conformists. The moral of this is: if the
television doesn’t get you then the women
and children must.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


FIRST N.S.W. INTERNATIONAL
FILM FESTIVAL AUGUST 12th to 22nd
FESTIVAL MEMBERSHIP $7.50
Enquiries to Secretary, I.F.F. Committee, Box 3488, G.P.0., SYDNEY. Phone 78-8798.
TELEVISION
Unfunny Old Hat
THE trouble with Dawn Lake’s new
show, “The Private World of Miss
Prim,” is that the nominated heroine
is absent. Not as Mavis Bramston was,
absent in fun, and for a purpose. There
is simply no Miss Prim in Dawn Lake’s
show. There is Dawn Lake, smiling in
her usual befogged way, but no one who
could possibly be named Prim. And this,
■puzzling the viewer, takes any possible
fun out of the show in which Miss Lake
is the supposedly goofy secretary in a firm
apparently publishing novelettes for back-
ward girls. Miss Lake samples the product
and daydreams herself into the novelettes’
situations.
This format could have had wonderful
possibilities. Had the heroine been prim,
but with a secret yearning for adventure,
fine. The personality changes could have
been exploited. But Miss Lake begins with
a farcical character who would have
been better named Miss Primrose, and
assumes that by donning fancy dress she
becomes funnier. It is not so. She is still
Dawn Lake in costume, launched by
“Peg’s Paper” plots into action, which I
can only liken to very young children’s
ideas of play acting.
It is regrettable for two reasons. Last
year I was a standout among the reviewers
who either panned or ignored “Here’s
Dawn.” I thought the action was often
funny, and Miss Lake a gifted comedienne
who could retrieve even the worst of
sketches. The talent was much more hers
than her writers’, and it was good to see
this growing as she experimented with new,
frenetic characters with wild hairdos or
hats and malice in their hearts.
One clue to the switch may be Miss
Lake’s stated wish to please children. But
I doubt this can be done by imitating
children imitating adult stereotypes. Only
a rare and great comic can be funny with-
out malice, either his own or his friends’.
Basically, someone has to be put down,
whether the comic or the villain. Pure,
simple, unsophisticated fun is very old
hat. I fear that the “Private World of
Miss Prim,” so far, should be labelled
Not Suitable For Adults Or Children.
In the same “old hat” .manner and for
similar reasons “Australian Playhouse”
continues to sink. A recent drama called
“What About Next Year” creaked in
almost every joint. It is bad when the
viewer knows that a character moving
toward a door is going to pause on the
threshold and utter a Significant State-
ment before he or she exits. As for the
significant shotgun blast off set, followed
by a re-entry, and the question, “Is he
dead?” what could be more pitiful? One
can only remark that ABC Television
producers are the world's most stubborn
in refusing to learn anything from other
producers and directors in their own
medium. With such direction as one sees
in much of “Playhouse,” even a good script
would look bad.
PRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
Lukewarm
The Heat of the Moment. Alfred Shaugh-
nessy. St. Martin’s, Melbourne.
THESE irreverent days, the word
“queen” is as likely to suggest devi-
ate sex as Elizabeth Rex, and if
one were to run the Union Jack up a
flagpole, it’s more likely to be pop-painted
than saluted. But there are signs that ram-
pant liberalism might have a counter-
revolution on its hands. The cadaverous
Mr. Muggeridge has been using the pages
of “New Statesman” to blast the progres-
sives, fulminating against everything from
universal suffrage to orgasm, and a num-
ber of British plays have lately defended
patriotism, old school ties, and regimental
honor.
The worst play of the genre is probably
“The Heat of the Moment.” Major Sir
Richard Scott-Carey catches a ten-year-
old whipper-snapper disturbing a brood-
mare, and gives him a few strokes with
his riding crop. Enter a Richard Burtonish
Welshman, a left-wing schoolteacher who
demands an apology on the child’s behalf.
The Major’s stiff upper lip sets rigid, and
the class war is on. A charge of assault
is laid, and the Sunday papers take a lively
interest. Not only does the Major’s
Oxford-educated daughter fail to rally
to her father’s side but she finds a certain
rapport with the Welsh plebeian.
In England, conflicts of class and gen-
eration are, by all accounts, fairly intense,
Yet at the end of the third act, the deepest
gulfs between people have been blithely
bridged, and every last loose-end of plot
neatly knotted. It was like watching a
TV pyscho drama in which schizophrenia
must be cured in the three minutes before
the Ajax commercial. What purported
to be an “idea” play finished up not
merely reassuring but soporific.
Irene Mitchell’s production was efficient,
and Paul Kathner’s setting appropriate.
Carl Bleazby looking very like our be-
loved State Governor was the military
ramrod and Jennifer Hagan put far more
energy into playing his daughter than the
author had any right to expect. Margaret
Reid was a convincing Lady Scott-Cary
and Jeffrey Hodgson was a sturdy Welsh
lefty. Harold Lang’s St. Martin’s season
was poorly attended. It’s sad to think that
Shaughnessy’s trumpery will probably play
to capacity houses.
PHILLIP ADAMS
RECORDS
Inquisitor and Prince
Don Carlo. Verdi. Ghiaurov, Bergonzi,
Tebaldi, Bumbry, Covent Garden Orches-
tra. Conducted by Solti. Decca SET
305/8.
Goetterdaemmerung Highlights. Wagner.
Nilssen, Windgassen, Frick, Fischer-
Dieskau, Vienna Philharmonic. Conducted
by Solti. Decca SXL622O.
FOR 50 years or so “Don Carlo” was
the most neglected of Verdi’s major
works, but its day has come at last.
Regular new productions of which we
can only read and no less than four com-
plete recordings are convincing evidence
of this.
“Don Carlo” is in reality a French opera
in the tradition of Meyerbeer, which de-
mands a large cast (no less than six
roles for major star singers) and a ballet.
Since French opera can no longer provide
the former and nobody is going to sit
through three hours of badly sung Verdi
for the sake of the ballet, revivals are
invariably in Italian and omit the ballet,
which is no loss musically. The new set
uses the last of the three versions arranged
by Verdi himself.
This is an opera which must be sung
and conducted perfectly and the new set
is close to ideal. Georg Solti’s handling
of the score is perhaps not on the level
of his “Goetterdaemmerung” (see below),
but it is the equal or better than any other
on disc. The singers are further ahead
of their recorded rivals. For the first
time we have a first-class, if lightweight,
Don Carlo in Carlo Bergonzi; his pre-
decessors varied from abominable to fair.
Renata Tebaldi, only just past her prime,
is still better than any present or recent
past Queen I can imagine and Dietrich
Fischer-Dieskau, though he has to bow to
the incomparable Rodrigo of Gobbi, is
in every way excellent. Grace Bumbry
sings magnificently as Eboli, though
emotionally she is not the fireball she
might be.
But “Don Carlo” belongs to the basses.
Nicolai Ghiaurov is quite the equal of
Christoff, whose Philip is supposedly
unique. Martti Talvela, a voice new to
me, makes a magnificent Inquisitor with
enormous volume cutting through any en-
semble with ease. Minor roughnesses are
not really a handicap in this part. Lastly,
there is Tugomir Franc, as the friar whose
identity even Verdi did not know. In
a .lesser set he might well have played
either of the big parts. Yes, this “Don
Carlo” is an all-star set which succeeds.
I strongly recommend it to anyone tired
of the older Verdi war-horses.
The highlight’s from Solti’s great com-
plete recording of “Die Goetterdaemme-
rung” can only give a hint of what the
whole is about; Wagner does not lend
himself to extracts. But as an example of
what a great opera recording can really
be it serves a useful purpose. It is fas-
cinating to speculate what Wagner would
have done with resources such as these
at his disposal.
JOHN CARGHER


The Tramp
SHORT STORY BY PETER SHRUBB.
TWO months after the death of his
wife, old Mr. Johnson went to stay
with his married daughter, Lucy. In
his own musty house nothing seemed his,
any more, of all that had been theirs; he
felt small and clumsy in it, unjustifiable, a
sort of trespasser. He did not eat well, he
lost interest in the garden, and he found
the small domestic talk of his friends
emptier than his own silence; he began to
wonder, very soon, what there was worth
living for. When Lucy and Jim said they
would love to have him stay a while, and
had the spare room all fixed for him, some-
thing more like his old life seemed to
beckon again. “When I was a boy,” he
said, thanking them, “there was hardly a
house without its old person.”
“It will be marvellous for Philip, hav-
ing you here,” Lucy said. “Things will be
good.”
Mr. Johnson thought of good things that
were past, of sunny days all gone.
Like the birds, he awoke early, before
his daughter and her husband, and well
before even young Philip, who was only
seven but seemed already to have taken
after his mother in the matter of sleeping
in. No lover of bed for its own sake, Mr.
Johnson was up as soon as he was awake,
and dressed as soon as he was up. When
he was dressed he quietly made himself a
cup of tea, and then sat on the front
porch sipping it. With his back to the
house and his face to the street, he some-
times felt like something or someone of
whom there was only one remaining.
One holiday morning he softly stepped
out on to the porch with his cup of tea,,
and saw a man sitting in the sun, resting,,
on the front fence. All he looked was:
shabby, but Mr. Johnson knew he was old.
His brown felt hat, of a high, centre-
creased style Mr. Johnson remembered
wearing around the time Lucy was born,,
had a black sweat stain above the band,,
clearly visible from the porch ten yards
away; the shoulders of the coat were
lumpy, countrified, the cuffs soft; there
was even something old, to Mr. Johnson’s
long-sighted eyes, in the stillness of the thin
hands the man pressed on the fence to
prop himself up. He was some sort of
tramp, for certain. On the ground at his
feet there would be a dusty old grey
blanket roll, a swag, and in it there would
be a spare shirt and socks, old and not
clean. What was he up to? Who was he:
waiting for?
But then Mr. Johnson heard a car
come roaring along the top road, and for-
got the man on the fence completely.
Barbarous and convulsive with its roaring
and throwing, the paper car noisily
rounded the corner; Mr. Johnson cursed
its wild driver, and, for forgetting that it
came late on weekends, cursed himself.
The car sped desperately down the hard
black road. The paper broke away from it
like jetsam from a wreck, spun fiercely
through the air, and crashed to earth in
the eriostemon Lucy had transplanted from
the gully on the other side of" the highway.
Mr. Johnson was filled with indignation
to see many of the little shrub’s pale stars
fall. In a moment, though, the bellowing
car and its furious driver both were gone.
Mr. Johnson stiffly retrieved the paper,
thinking that Jim ought in all justice to
complain to the newsagent before all the
front shrubs were ruined. When he looked
up he saw that the man on the fence had
turned to watch him. The face was dirty,
unshaven, unintelligent; the man might
as easily have been an alcoholic as old.
More fiercely than he should have, Mr.
Johnson said, “You mustn’t sit on that
fence. There’s nothing for you here.”
r pHE man’s face did not change. But
in a moment- —not as if he were obey-
ing, though—he picked up his swag, a
rolled grey Army blanket with a black
billycan hanging from it, and slowly set
off downhill toward the highway.
At breakfast, Mr. Johnson told Lucy and
Jim about the eriostemon, and then about
the swagman; but Jim saw no reason for
complaint. “You may lose that eriost-
emon,” Mr. Johnson said, “the only native
plant in the whole lot of them. He should
slow down. It’s dishonest to call that de-
livery. It’s attack, not delivery.” ~
Jim smiled. “He’s got to live.”
Mr. Johnson said, “He frightens the
birds away with all his noise.”
“You can’t turn the clock back, Daddy,”
said Lucy. She tilted her head to keep her
hair out of her toast.
Mr. Johnson stirred his tea vigorously,
and stared down at his plate. “You can
.stick up for the preservation of what is
natural and right,” he said.
But just then in strode Philip. He was
still in his pyjamas; in front of him, hang-
ing down over his chest, he held a large
sheet of butcher’s paper on which two
warships smokily battled under the yellow
eye of a tall red lighthouse. A sailor in
the sea shouted, “H-E-E-E-L-P!” Philip
held the paper so that Mr. Johnson had
the best view of it. “It’s that story,” he
said.
“A vividly dramatic portrayal,” Mr.
Johnson said. But no one laughed because
the words were so long.
“How did the man get in the water?”
Jim asked.
Philip turned the paper around so that
he could see it himself. “Well,” he said
slowly, for time. “There was this explosion
in the mizzen in the mizzen fo’c’sle
-and he was unfortunately exploded
overboard. Whooom!”
“The worst possible place for an explo-
sion,” Jim put in gravely but not
so gravely that Philip didn’t see through
him instantly, and giggle. Jim turned to
Lucy. “Is there room for this epic on the
kitchen wall?”
Lucy nodded,*holding out her hand for
the paper, which Philip gratefully gave
her, and asked, “Has it a title?”
Philip said, “Alone in the Tasman
Ocean, by Philip Newby.” i
Mr. Johnson tfaid, “If you’d been up
in time, you’d have seen a tramp. Have
you ever seen a tramp?”
“A tramp is a kind of dirty ship.”
Jim laughed, and gave it as his opinion
that as far as Philip was concerned every-
thing in the world was a ship if it wasn’t
a horse. To prove it, he blew his whistle
twice, loudly, before casting off for the
bathroom. Lucy followed him into the
kitchen with the breakfast things, and Mr.
Johnson and Philip were left alone.
“A tramp,” Mr. Johnson said, “is a man
who has no home. Swagmen, or swaggies,
we used to call them. They carry every-
thing they need in a big sort of bag on
their backs, and they never stop in any one
place for more than a few days at a time.
If they’re broke, they might work for a
week or two on a property, doing odd
jobs, but they never stay long. Sometimes
they’re called sundowners, because they
often turn up at the back door or the
gate just at the close of day, just as the
sun is setting, and ask for a place to sleep
and something to eat. But there are very
few sundowners left, these days. Very
few.”
Quite unheralded there came over his
spirits as he spoke these last words a deep
and moving sense of loss, a leaden sadness
he had barely strength to resist. All the
man had done was rest on the fence; it
was a small enough liberty, in all consci-
ence. Mr. Johnson sighed. ,
Philip was staring at him. Mr. Johnson
sighed again, and smiled. He squashed
Philip’s nose flat with his ‘thumb and said,
“Would you like to come for a walk with
me and we’ll see if we can find him?
I’ll bet no other little boy at your school
has ever seen a swagman.”
Philip made no attempt to undo his
nose. “I could tell it at news time on
Monday,” he droned, listening to his funny
voice. “Miss Brown said I’m going to be
first with my news this Monday.”
“Go and ask your mother, then,” Mr.
Johnson said. “And put on something
warm.”
They reached the gate and faced down-


PLANNING A FAMILY?
It so, you'll be interested in obtaining a copy of the
CANBERRA
CONSUMER SPECIAL REPORT
on Contraceptives
• This publication is the first comparative test report on the effectiveness
and reliability of contraceptives available in Australia.
The illustrated 64-page report deals with the types and brands of
contraceptives, their advantages, disadvantages and costs. Of 54
products tested, 4G were found to be unsatisfactory. The tests were
carried out by highly qualified persons for Canberra Consumers
Incorporated, c non-profit consumer education and testing organisation.
• Copies are available, price 20s. posted, from Canberra Con-
sumers Inc., P.O. Box 591, Canberra City. Write today.
hill, and the edge of a long cloud went
over the sun. A brief wind blew past them,
and Mr. Johnson pressed his old hat more
firmly on to his head. “We’d best hurry,”
he said.
Philip took his hand. “He has a big start
on us.”
His perfect willingness touched Mr.
Johnson and made him smile. “An hour,”
he said. “But we won’t lose him, we won’t
lose him.” Lie stopped and waited till
Philip looked up. “Which way do you
think he would have gone?”
Philip’s round eyes dropped and he was
silent.
Mr. Johnson squeezed his hand. “It’s
a hard question and I don’t know' the
answer myself. But what a hunter would
do is imagine he w'as the quarry. Right?”
Philip still w'as silent and Mr. John-
son’s soft heart reprimanded itself. “I
don’t mean that you might be a tramp
yourself one day,” he quickly added.
But then, looking up, he saw what held
Philip’s attention. Two horses, a chestnut
and a dappled grey, caught in the sunlight
at the bottom of the hill, paced their
proud, ungainly w'ay across the end of
the street. Tw'O stylish girls in riding cos-
tume led them. Beyond, the highway
sw'ished and buzzed.
“If he was going back home to the
country,” Philip said, “he w'ould have
gone where they’re going, to get a horse.”
“One day, long ago,” Mr. Johnson
began, smiling, “your mother bought a
horse called Greatheart. She had a blue
dress w'ith little roses all over it, and she
came into the shed behind the house
w'here I kept all my tools, and asked me
how much horse seed cost.”
Philip guffaw'ed and it was a minute
before Mr. Johnson could continue.
“She was onlv a girl, remember,” he
said. “And what happened was that a man
had come to the school gate that day and
told all the children that up in a paddock
near the lighthouse he had a herd of wfild
ponies, brumbies, that he’d just brought
down from Queensland, and that he didn’t
want a lot of money for them because
they had cost him nothing but their feed.
He was selling them for a shilling a head.
A shilling was a lot of money then. It
took your mother months to save a shil-
ling.”
“I have three shillings,” Philip said. “I
have more than three shillings.”
“And so did Lucy. But not for long.
About six of them bought horses, and the
man told them the names of the horses
as he collected their money. But when we
went up to the lighthouse, of course, there
wasn’t a single horse to be seen.”
“Did the man give her the money
back?” ,
“By the time we reached the paddock
he was miles away. He didn’t even have
a horse himself, let alone a whole herd.
He was just a tramp and a very bad
one, to take money from little children,
from girls. There was only one thing I
liked about him.”
Philip looked up.
“I think Greatheart was a good name
for a horse. It’s what a horse should be.”
stood at the bottom of the hill,
waiting to cross the highway. “We’ll
have a look at the riding school tomorrow
morning when they’re all having their
lessons,” Mr. Johnson said.
They waited while a huge yellow trailer
carrying eight new cars .dragged its noisy
length past them. Then the way was clear;
holding hands firmly, they hurried to the
grass dividing strip, paused, and then hur-
riedly crossed again to safety.
Before them, parallel to the highway,
stretched the valley, a mile wide and four
or five miles long. Far away to the left,
beneath heavy cloud, a tiny leaden square
of its river glinted, but the unbroken grey-
green crust of bush before them gave no
sign that there was water in its depths.
The soil was poor, full of shale, and on
the far slopes clay-colored cliffs showed
through the twisted white trunks of gums.
The trees had no size to them, no vigor,
no character; the river did not feed them,
and they showed none of the softness of
gratitude. To Mr. Johnson they looked
like nothing so much as the dusty fur of
a bush animal something on the road had
killed.
"I suppose he’s in there somewhere,”
Philip said, “but I can’t see him.”
“We may be too late, after all,” Mr.
Johnson said. A drop of rain fell on his
hand. Once, he remembered, there was
such a weekend of rain up the coast that
the filling beneath the railway tracks
washed away; a train was held up, and its
passengers became the town’s guests. It
was like a holiday. Mr. Johnson quite
clearly remembered the man who had
stayed in his father’s house. His name was
Wethei'by, a jolly, fat man in thick black
clothes, always smiling and talking of his
travels. He wanted to pay for his keep.
But there was nothing mean in that house;
whoever was in it or came to it was
welcome to what it had to offer. No one
was sent away from that house.
“I think it’s going to rain,” Philip said.
“We probably should go home.”
“There’s shelter down there, if it
does,” Mr. Johnson said. Hand in hand
they clambered down the roadside bank
and on to the rough path that led to the
river.
Almost immediately they had to slow
down to pick their way through the high-
way’s moraine of broken glass and rusting
tin and rotten paper, but when they were
through that and over the cleared dead
stretch beneath the telephone lines they
came to undeniable bush. It was thin and
stunted, but it was bush. Tough gum
leaves rustled and slipped beneath their
feet; dusty sticks caught at their trousers;
spider webs clutched at their faces.
“Shall I look for tracks?” Philip asked
eagerly.
Running into the bush makes all boys
happy, Mr. Johnson knew. He nodded.
“I’ll wait for you on this rock,” he said.
“Don’t go far. Look back often to make
sure you know where you’ve come from.”
Kicking stones, trampling bark, Philip
was off. With a grunt Mr. Johnson sat
down, and the grunt surprised him, as he
relaxed, by turning into a groan. He knew
they would never see the tramp again. It
was a mistake to have stopped; while
they were walking and talking, success had
seemed possible because change could be
thought of as progress; but the roaring,
smelly highway both interrupted them and,
like a river, destroyed any trace there
might have been of the man they sought.
He might have gone north or south along
the road, or west through the scrub; there
was no way of finding out, and Mr. John-
son now made no pretence of looking for
him. The harm was done. It was too late.
He felt as old, as dry, as stiff as the
rocks on which he sat. Nothing moved
near him. Nothing stirred on the bare
earth in front of the rock, nothing in
the thin grass, nothing amongst the dry
trees nothing, it seemed, between him
and the very foot of the slope, the depth
of the valley, where secret water slowly
trickled through shadows. He was a stony
peak, and when time wore him away a
little more he would be air. He lay back
on the broad ledge of rock and shut his
eyes.
A bird called, and behind his eyes Mr.


FLY TO TOKYO
HONG KONG, BANGKOK
SWISSCARE WORLDWIDE
Johnson saw the paths he had run along
sixty years ago to the beach. In a quiet
mind he found his way through the stiff
grey heath behind his father’s house, down
over the hot, heavy dunes, and along White
Beach to the first sandpiper’s nest his
grandfather had ever shown him. What
a wonderful bird the sandpiper! Avoiding
with equal grace the sea and the scrub,
it found all it needed in life on a single
stretch of beach. As, indeed, when all was
said and done, he had himself, then. When
twelve o’clock came, certainly, it often
turned out there were baked pork bones in
his grandfather’s basket, or pigs’ trotters;
but that was all and in any case they
could have made lunch of the fish they
caught themselves, had it come to a point.
There were mangoes, bananas, passionfruit,
all within a hundred yards of the hissing,
tumbling green surf. The hot sands could
be, and on many a golden afternoon were,
their bed; there were trees from beneath
which, if it rained and the rain were not
warm, you could look out across the grey,
beaten sea. Old, untouched, beautiful Aus-
tralia. One afternoon he had lain there,
hidden, on warm grass, with Elsie West.
With a sinking heart he felt, what he
had not felt since his wife’s death, the
first slow stirrings of excitement awake
in his body. Disgusted with himself, he
sat up. He looked down into the dry
bush, but the vision of theii young warm
bodies sweating and straining together
in the warm salt air filled his mind; as
if he saw them from a distance of years,
they looked like two fat maggots twin-
ing and writhing in mindless, selfish,
juicy greed. But the pulse in his body
did not stop. And then, all at once, he
desired heat and joy again; he felt him-
self fill with love; he wished and wished
that he were not old, that there were no
death.
But his heart throbbed and thudded,
and there was. How ridiculous to want,
at sixty-seven, to be sixteen! Like an
old horse, he awkwardly stood up, and
shook himself, and put love out of his
mind, and felt better.
With life in his body still, and strength
in his mind, when he saw Philip run-
ning through the trees, Mr. Johnson felt
ready and able to welcome and help him.
But he was not ready to hear what Philip
cried out as he came near.
“I’ve found him!” he called.
Mr. Johnson’s heart went weak, but
he jumped from the rock, and staggered
and stumbled to where Philip stood wait-
ing for him.
“Down near the old fireplace,” Philip
said.
Fifty yards down the path, where the
slope momentarily levelled out, there was
a small clearing; at the edge of it some-
one had pulled together enough stones to
keep a fire enclosed. Next to it, when
they got there, the tramp was kneeling,
blowing life into the few tiny flames that
fluttered over twigs he had piled beneath
the blackened grill. He looked up, looked
down, and then, as if suddenly remember-
ing Mr. Johnson, looked up again, and
sat back on his heels. “Good day to
you,” he said.
Mr. Johnson said, “I was a bit rude
to you this morning I think, sending you
away. In fact, I was very rude. I’d like
to say that I’m sorry.”
It seemed to Mr. Johnson that it was
a long time since he had felt so well.
He felt all one, and himself, strong, full,
poised. All the past, both distant and
near, had lost its grip on him; he was
new and now. He waited for action.
“Ah,” said the tramp, smiling, “if I
got upset every time some bastard moved
me off his bloody fence, I’d cry myself
to sleep every bloody night.”
“There’s a child present,” Mr. John-
son said.
“I’m not bloody blind,” the tramp
said.
“Then perhaps you’ll mind your lan-
guage,” Mr. Johnson said.
T HE tramp stood up, brushing his hands
on his trousers. “Is that what you
came down here to tell me?”
“Of course not,” Mr. Johnson said. “You
know what I came to tell you.” To his
surprise, a quiver ran through him, and
caught for a moment at his breath.
But the tramp merely took his full
billy from beside the fireplace, and put
it on the grill. He was only a small
man, and his shallow blue eyes were
watery and his cheeks flushed and some-
how raw-looking; he had to balance him-
self even against the weight of the billy-
can. “Are you some kind of a minister?”
he asked.
“No,” Mr. Johnson said.
The tramp faced him again. “Well, why
don’t you just f— off, then?” he brazenly
shouted. “I’m going to talk how I f—
please, and no old pansy bastard . . .”
By that time, Mr. Johnson had reached
him, and had one hand over his mouth.
The man spat into it, and in utter dis-
gust Mr. Johnson pulled it away and
wiped it on the shoulder of the tramp’s
coat, all the time holding him as tightly
and firmly as he could with his other
hand. Mr. Johnson was easily the
stronger, and had no difficulty in hold-
ing his little opponent at arm’s length.
The man started shouting obscenities
again, and Mr. Johnson slapped him hard
on the face. Behind Philip was screaming
at the words that Mr. Johnson did not
hear till he had hit the man again to
stop him from shouting. As he turned
away, then, to help Philip, the man
skipped around to the other side of the
fireplace.
Mr. Johnson knelt, and Philip, weeping,
quickly climbed into his arms. He stood,
and started to leave the clearing.
From behind him the tramp shouted,
“You’re dangerous, you are!” There was
nothing in his voice to suggest that he did
not mean it. “You’re a bit gone in the
head.”
Mr. Johnson turned, and Philip held
him tightly as he said, “I’m going now,
and I don’t want to hear any more from
you before I do. But if I do . . .”
But the man had a large stick in his
hand now. “I’ll be ready for you this
time,” he said. “Lay one hand on me
and I’ll go for the kid.”
“You’re an animal,” Mr. Johnson said.
Disgust and anger gave his voice an un-
steadiness that he thought the man might
take for fear, and for a moment he was
tempted to stop again and at least take the
stick away from him. But he knew what
Philip would feel if he found himself out
of the arms that now held him close and
safe, and he walked straight on.
“Nursemaid!” the tramp screeched out
as they came to the trees again. “Nurse-
maid! Nursemaid!”
Mr. Johnson made no reply, but the
word struck home enough for him to stop
when they were halfway up the track and
put Philip down, though he kept a tight
hold on his hand. Without a word they
scrambled back up toward the highway.
Before they reached it, Mr. Johnson
realised that since he had picked Philip
up the tramp had not sworn. His heart
lifted, but then he felt embarrassed. What
was wrong with swearing? He could not
think what, and felt a fool. Men swore.
But they should not swear before chil-
dren. When he put it to himself like that
it sounded priggish and prim; but the
closer they got to the highway the more
and more certain Mr. Johnson became
that what he had done, for all its weak-
nesses, was right. And as they stepped
up on the edge of the road he felt him-
self in danger of pride, and for the first
time since they had left the tramp he
looked down full into Philip’s face. It
was drawn still, and stained with tears.
Philip avoided his eye, Mr. Johnson felt.
Feeling this, he was in danger from pride
no longer; he knew that, even if he had
been right, he had also been violent, and
wrong, and that Philip had been upset by
the violence after all, not the swearing.
That’s life, he thought, and then said, “If
I’d had any idea he was that kind of man,.
Philip, I would never have taken you near
him. I suppose I should have just come
away with you again instead of trying to
make him stop. But you can’t think of
everything.”
Philip said nothing, but held his hand
hard as they crossed the road and went
back up the hill to home. At the gate,
Mr. Johnson stopped and looked up at
the dark rainclouds that now drifted or
fled, low, toward the hills. He saw them
framed by three branches of the tree at his
back. Into that dark space flew two birds,
high, headed unwaveringly north, faster
than the clouds. Beneath them soon
would stretch the long sands of the coast,
the sunny golden sands.


BOOKS
A Cry from the South
By DAVID MARTIN
Everything that Rises Must Converge. Flan-
nery O’Connor. Faber. $3.15.
SOME of the lands of literature we know
as well as we know our own, or per-
haps better, having been mapped for
us by great cartographers. Slowly, over
generations, one is added to another, as
the atlas expands from Dickens’ industrial
England, Balzac’s imperial France, Tur-
genev’s and Chekhov’s Russia to the Ire-
land of Yeats and O’Casey. In our time
the American page has been added, or;
rather, two pages: one bearing the im-
primatur of Dreiser, Dos Passos, and
Henry Miller, and the other that of Faulk-
ner.
We know the American South as we
hardly yet know Australia, save through
her painters. We can see, smell, and touch
it. We can set off “Gone With the Wind”
against “Porgy and Bess” and “A Streetcar
Named Desire” to make a maze in which
even those who are not too well read will
not get lost. Its sameness of burrowing
hatreds no longer deceives us, since we have
learned to adjust our sights. When a new
path is opened, be it ever so small, we dolly
in, drawn by a macabre fascination. Books,
films, television have made us no strangers
in the north, too, but there is not this de-
tailed intimacy; the picture may have
sharper daylight outlines, but travelling
southward we reach the territory of our
common nightmares, which is hard to
leave again.
Flannery O’Connor, who died in 1964
at the age of 38, wrote only two novels
which I regret not having read and
a score or so of short stories, of which
this selection has assembled the best. It
contains a near-perfect one, but it is im-
possible to judge the dimension of her
talent from such light evidence. Her can-
vas is not large and she builds her stories
around themes that seem to have an
obsession, minute circularity. Accept it,
and the circles begin to grow to let you
move about inside them with surprising
freedom. You are restive at the start be-
cause each conflict appears to repeat itself
in but slightly changed form, until you
understand that she is teaching a lesson
for which this is the right method. Her
repetition is rarely dull.
The main characters are always whites,
negroes, good and bad, are the symbols
of their defeat. But not of the sexual,
racial, or moral defeat of which we read
in other works: Here it is a matter of the
social and domestic; the black man
choruses the decline of the white man’s
(more often woman’s) self-respect and
honor, for which, were they courageous,
they would blame themselves. And the
decline is rooted in the decay of love, love
not between the young but between parents
and children. They cannot love because
pride will not let them. This, again, is
not the old Southern hauteur. Sons, proud
of their mental superiority, hate mothers
who are proud of their sacrifices for their
sons, and of the trappings of their back-
ground, once impressive but already hol-
low; though sometimes sons hate mothers
because they at least still have something
to cling to in imagination. The whites
are shipwrecks from the boat of wealth,
tradition, and faith, cast upon islands
where negroes laugh to see them wade
ashore with their sea-spoilt belongings.
When a Georgia boy wants to hurt a
Georgia mother, he plays with the idea
of threatening her to bring home a negro
academic, which he has no intention of
doing. When his spite is refreshed by her
encountering on a desegregated bus, a
negress who wears an exact duplicate of
the outrageous hat that disgraces her own
white hair, his joy is short-lived because
Mama solaces herself by offering a dime
to the dark woman’s youngster, which is a
solace no longer open to him.
Then nemesis catches them both. The
negress knocks down the old lady where
no one can see, her weak heart does the
rest, and “the tide of darkness seemed to
sweep him back to her, postponing from
moment to moment his entry into the
world of guilt and sorrow.” Death squares
the account in every story, and there is
almost always a negro who somebody
hopes can be exploited to bind up a self-
inflicted wound. And the negro he is
usually willing, knowing it is fatal and
that exploitation has turned back on itself.
Miss O’Connor twists this rope into a
dozen knots, as if eager to find out how
many she can tie. An octogenarian lies
dying in New York in the dirty flat of his
flint-hearted daughter, dreaming of his
dirty Georgia cabin where a dirty Georgia
negro waits for his corpse to be shipped
home. The daughter buries him in New
York, but her conscience pursues her until
she has him dug up and railed to his last
proper destination. Down South, a widow,
a farmer, tries to compel the hired man,
a useless fool, to shoot a trespassing bull
owned by the fool’s prosperous sons; she
is exacting vengeance because his boys
have turned out better than hers. The
bull, of course, gores her to death. In
“A View of the Woods” a grandfather is
killed by his adored granddaughter, who
will rather be whipped by her dad than
loved by the one who humiliates him.
To use death like this, as a solution to
every tangle, raises problems of artistry
too complex even for Flannery O’Connor’s
cunning, and certain pieces obliquely re-
mind us that she took an M.A. at a Uni-
versity Writers’ School, which to me still
seems a strange and slightly doubtful
achievement. In other words, we see her
skeletons too clearly—but only just—before
thev are fleshed. But in “The Enduring
Chill” she has created the justification of
her experiment, a story simpler but as un-
forgettable, I think, as Joyce’s “The Dead.”
Ashbury, a young Southern would-be
intellectual and writer, abandons Brooklyn
to die at home in his despised mother’s
house. He is sinking, despite the ministra-
tions of the equally despised local doctor.
In three superb sequences he first tries to
induce the negro farmhands to drink for-
bidden milk in his mother’s dairy, to make
them shadow accomplices in his febrile de-
fiance, forces her later to drag them to his
deathbed, and finally blackmails her into
fetching a Jesuit priest . . . not to hear
his confession but to ease the loneliness of
his sophistication. Instead of discussing
literature, of which he is utterly ignorant,
the deaf, half-blind, and furious father
wants to rescue his soul. This is described
in two pages of matchlessly acid dialogue,
followed by a climax different from all
the others. Ashbury’s illness is suddenly
diagnosed as not lethal. His death-wish may
not have been strong enough.
But wait.
“Ashbury blanched and the last film of
illusion was torn as if by a whirlwind from
his eyes. He saw that for the rest of his
days, frail, racked but enduring, he would
live in the face of a purifying terror. A
feeble cry, a last impossible protest escaped
him. But the Holy Ghost, emblazoned in
ice instead of fire, continued, implacable,
to descend.”
Arthur Miller’s Jews
By R. M. WILDING
Incident at Vichy. Arthur Miller. Seeker
and Warburg. $2.30.
RTHUR MILLER has always been
a “committed” writer, dealing with
recent or contemporary events, in-
volved in political and social happenings.
Yet perhaps his best play is “The Cm-
cible,” where his contemporary subject is
dealt with at a distance, placed in a his-
torical past. The persecution and burning
of the Witches of Salem was a subject
full of potential for the committed
dramatist in its own right; Miller gave it
even greater force by seeing it as a pic-
ture not just of past atrocities but of the
contemporary McCarthyite ones. Both
themes gained from this treatment
they were seen not just as isolated
phenomena, but as outbreaks of a hysteria
always latent in society,
With .. Inddent at yiehy,” though, he
, , .. , . . 1 . , ° ’
deals directly with a twentieth-century
theme - Hl , s subject is the destruction of
t | ie J ews by Nazi Germany. He takes a
single representative event the rounding
up of nine men and a boy in occupied
France. The play takes place, with no
act or scene divisions, entirely in a deten-
tion room in Vichy in 1942. The charac-
ters “represent” Jewry Old Man, Boy,


Artist, Musician, Businessman, Capitalist,
Marxist—and so on.
That Miller deals with a single inci-
dent is the first weakness of the play.
Willy Loman in “Death of a Salesman”
could stand for a certain kind of Ameri-
can, be a kind of Everyman in a con-
sumer society run riot, and his case
could be seen as a paradigm for others.
But to represent the murder of six mil-
lion Jews by one event, one scene indeed,
is very different. And Miller does not
take advantage of the smallness of his
sample to produce any far-reaching
examination. There is no analysis in
depth that might justify the reduction in
scope.
The obvious question is whether the
theme can be dealt with at all. What can
literature say about such mass-murder
except that it is inconceivable; and Mil-
ler’s characters, unwilling to believe a
rumor that reaches them that their fate
is murder, say just that.
One solution might have been to have
taken a Brechtian model, something like
“Galileo Galilei.” In that play the issues
involved in Galileo’s case were made
dramatic; the dialectic of the argument
was as engaging as the personalities, and
the argument was engaging as argument.
With Miller, though, we are offered only
personalities, individuals who put forward
not ideas but conversational gossip. For
instance the Austrian Count, Von Berg,
argues with Monceau the musician, and
says, “Can people with respect for art go
hounding Jews? Making a prison of
Europe, pushing themselves forward as a
race of policemen and brutes? Is that
possible for artistic people?” Monceau
convinces him that the Germans do have
a great respect for art: and do persecute
Jews. And Von Berg then remembers
“I’m afraid I know many cultivated
people who . . . did become Nazis.”
This is merely cocktail party gossip,
chatting about opinions. It is not engag-
ing with any of the issues involved. And
Miller never really does engage with the
ideas —unlike Brecht. We don’t see the
Nazis at all, except for a “professor” who
is examining the detainees to certify their
race, and an army major. He is a regular
army man, revolted at being involved
in the racist policies. He provides a minor
incident. But the racist policies are never
examined; they are like the rats in
Camus’ “The Plague” they just come,
a motiveless evil.
It is a highly questionable assumption,
but we are never given the chance to
question it. Miller is not interested in
the Fascists. His concern is with the Jews
themselves (and with a gipsy, too, who
perhaps symbolically can hardly speak
the language, so cannot communicate
and. his plight is almost ignored). Miller
takes the Hannah Arendt position: the
Fascists were banal, uninteresting—figures
serving a totalitarian State; what is inter-
esting is why the Jews allowed them-
selves to be killed, the “collaboration” of
the victims with the criminals. And Han-
nah Arendt’s account of the Eichmann
trial and the massacre of the Jews has been
followed up by a French writer, Jean-
Francoise Steiner, in a book called “Treb-
linka” (the first extermination camp in
Poland), published this year; he accuses
the Jews of complicity, of co-operating
with their Nazi guards in the camps.
As Norman Podhoretz pointed out in his
review of Hannah Arendt’s book (“Eich-
mann in Jerusalem”), this account is one
especially suited to a modern sensibility.
wj . , , '
We are no longer convinced by accounts
~r ° . . j , ..
of the confrontation of good by evil,
persecutor by victim. They seem melo-
dramatic. And the Arendt line offers us a
sophisticated version of the massacre of the
Jews paradox, ambiguity, complexity
are all there marking the account as “pro-
found.” But Podhoretz doubted its truth.
Miller, though, makes the “complicity”
theory the basis of his play. Sometimes he
is very crude about it: the wealthy Jewish
businessman is set free it is implied he
has bribed his captors. Undoubtedly such
bribery occurred but what does it tell
us about the massacre of six million?
In so * a . r as k suggests “complicity,” it is a
complicity of the most trivial kind an
“ cldent P en P h . eral to the racl |, m - T _, he . n
there are political arguments: Bayard is
~ . , 7
a Marxist. He argues that Ihe bourgeoisie
sold France; they let in the Nasis to destroy
the French working class .. Miller> having
p Ut U p h as no difficulty in suggesting
it s irrelevance to the situation everyone is
in, and the argument between the aristocrat
and the Marxist emphasises that. But the
irrelevance is something that we all know.
What we need to know is what is relevant,
what does cause or encourage fascism,
It is of discussions like the Marxist-
Lament for the Murderers, 1966
Where are they now, the genteel murderers
And gentlemanly sleuths, whose household names
Made crime a club for well-bred amateurs;
Slaughter the cosiest of indoor games?
Where are the long weekends, the sleepless nights
We spent treading the dance in dead men’s shoes,
And all the ratiocinative delights
Of matching motives and unravelling clues,
The public-spirited corpse in evening dress,
Blood like an order across the snowy shirt,
Killings contrived with no unseemly mess
And only rank outsiders getting hurt:
A fraudulent banker or a blackmailer,
The rich aunt dragging out her spiteful life,
The lovely bitch, the cheap philanderer
Bent on seducing someone else’s knife?
Where are those headier methods of escape
From the dull fare of peace: the well-spiced dish
Of torture, violence and brutal rape,
Perversion, madness, and still queerer fish?
All gone! That dear delicious make-believe,
The armchair blood-sports and dare-devil dreams.
We dare not even sleep now, dare not leave
The armchair. What we hear are real screams.
Real people, whom we know, have really died.
No one knows why. The Nightmares have come true.
We ring the police: A voice says “Homicide!
Just wait your turn. When we get round to you
You will be sorry you were born. Don’t call
For help again: a murderer saves his breath.
When guilt consists in being alive at all,
Justice becomes the other name for Death.”
A. D. HOPE


Write
your
way to
success
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( ) Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highJy-quajified professionals. Stott’s step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
I STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
I COLLEGE
■ 157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
■ Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
■ Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
■ send me your Literary prospectus.
J Mr./Mrs./Miss
I ADDRESS
J AGE
! I understand that no sales representative will
i ca " on me - BUM
leumiq
UJ
lO
a
A
n TODAY’S
DESIGN FO
TOMORROW
HOME MOVII
EUMIG'S superb Mark S
(S for Sound) 8 mm.
projector brings a new
concept in ease of
operation to movie
projection.
For literature contact:
R. Gunz (Photo) Pty. Ltd.,
24 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
aristocrat one that the play mainly con-
sists. The only approach to action is when
the possibility of overpowering the guards
is considered. It is obviously a dramatisa-
tion of the question put to witnesses at the
Eichmann trial by the prosecutor, Gideon
Hausner: “Fifteen thousand people were
standing there and hundreds of guards fac-
ing you why didn’t you revolt and
charge and attack?” When at last Leduc
and the boy do begin to make an attempt
to overpower their guards, though, Miller
avoids the issue by having the German
Major walk in and see them. He uses an
accident to prevent any full examination
of the question; and interesting and in-
volving enough as the pages of argument
0 f whether or not to trv to escape are, they
a re nullified by this dramatic evasion,
„ difficu |, to evaluate as litera _
~,, . x ,
ture a play on such a subject. lo try to do
,
s °.?f e ™ s t 0 be j ll ™ l bes , lde sach a tbeme '
M,ller has Produced a play that is always
interesting, he is a skilled enough writer
to compensate for the lack of incident by
creating an intensity from merely verbal
reference to physical insult. Finally,
though, the play is empty and almost point-
less.
The Minister of England
By M. H. ELLIS
The Most English Minister. Donald South-
gate. Macmillan. $8.90.
THIS magnificent new analysis of the
policies and politics of Lord Palmer-
ston is not a biography but rather
a facet of a biography dealing with the
subject through the medium of his speeches
and dispatches and his diplomatic pro-
ceedings in general.
The author aims (he declares) to pre-
sent a study of Palmerston “with some
attempt at assessment of his foreign policy
and, it is hoped, some degree of under-
standing enough, perchance, to shake
certain stubborn misapprehensions, of the
kind not held in general by scholars, but
surviving after the manner of secondary
folk-legend through the medium of the
school text book of former days.”
The title, of course, is taken from
Greville’s note after Palmerston’s parlia-
mentary triumph in the Don Pacifico
affair, that “amongst the middle classes he
is immensely popular ... he is the
minister of England.” And, indeed, he
was, permanent, unshakable during his
long career and only strengthened by
interim defeat or dismissal from office
to such an extent that even Disraeli’s
sepulchral “There Was a Palmerston,”
after his apparently ignominious and de-
cisive fall in 1851, was only the prelude
to almost immediate further triumphs,
culminating in his rise to the Prime Min-
istership (which he held twice) four years
later.
Born before the revolution in France,
Palmerston was a Member of the House
of Commons at 23, the Secretary-at-war at
25, during the Napoleonic conflict. His
life extended from before the foundation
of the Botany Bay settlement well into
the age of responsible government in the
Australian colonies. He lived to see the
American Civil War at its end and the
first British Dominion overseas, Canada,
formally created during his second Prime
Ministership. He sat in the Commons
longer than any other Member, save Glad-
stone and Churchill. He held ministerial
office longer than any other man in British
history 48 years, for 24 of which he
was Foreign Secretary, another record.
That his name is not written in large
letters in modern historical writing was
probably due to his isolation from his
class in the field of foreign relations.
He saw Britain as “standing between
the extremes of despotism and democracy,”
to “serve as a model and perhaps an
umpire,” and “while proclaiming that free-
dom was the natural state of society, he
did not wish to export the British Con-
stitution.”
He was original in that he was the first
British Foreign Minister to draw his
strength not from the support of the
Monarchy and the “Establishment” but
from the popular will of the common man.
As he himself expressed it, “There is in
nature no moving power but the mind”
(which) “in political affairs is public
opinion. Who can grasp this power, with
it will subdue the fleshy arm of physical
strength and impel it to work out his pur-
pose.”
Grasp it he did. For thirty-five years he
was master over the will of the British
public, whatever the Crown and the Wel-
lingtons and Peels might feel. Others, of
course, in the leadership began to imitate
him, but they ran far behind him, and it
was a full twenty years after his death that
Gladstone was heard in Liverpool inton-
ing the assurance that, “All the world
over, T will back the masses against the
classes.”
Palmerston rose to power in the reign
of George IV, who hated him and rejected
his nomination by Canning in 1827 as
Chancellor of the Exchequer. Later he
was hated also by Victoria and Albert the
Good for his supposed pandering to the
opinion of “radicals.” Most members of the
governing class old enough to remember
the days of Peterloo found the term trans-
latable as canaille.
It was probably one of the great secrets
of his sureness of touch and success that
he had the ability to await and prepare for
his time. He did not make his run for
eminence until he had been in Parliament
23 years and the dull and plodding in-
cumbent of a minor ministerial office out-
side the Cabinet for 21.
From 1829, when his speech to a thin
House on our relations with Britain’s oldest
ally, Portugal, electrified a thin attendance
of Commons members, he dominated in-
ternational affairs almost uninterruptedly
for 35 years, ahvays speaking his mind


Handsome New
Cloths & Colours in
wonderfully warm Wool Trousers
w '
PURE NEW WOOL
m
Choose now from our tremendous selection of
new colours, new patterns, new styles in
wonderfully warm Wool Worsteds, Hopsacs and
Melange. F. J, Trousers are priced from £5.19.6
Fletcher
JONES
Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, Launceston
FJI73
clearly, rarely provocative, giving strong
support but never threatening save when
the interests of Britain or some British
citizen were directly involved. And he
invariably succeeded in leaving himself a
way of retreat and an excuse to justify any
action no matter how violent or inequit-
able.
He could, as he did in the Don Pacifico
case, blockade the Greek port of Pir-
aeus and force the Greek Government to
eat crow over the sad case of a dis-
reputable Portuguese Jew, who was a
British subject born in Gibraltar and
whose house had been pillaged by an
Athenian mob, causing him some supposi-
tious financial damage. He could skilfully
exploit such a situation to secure not only
full electoral support but loud national
acclaim. He could boldly assure the Par-
liament that in acting as he had done he
had merely been “affording protection to
our fellow subject abroad.” He declaimed,
indeed, that when “as the Roman of old
held himself free from indignity when he
could say ‘Civis Romanus sum/ so also
a British subject, in whatever land he may
be, shall feel confident that the watchful
eye and strong arm of England will protect
him against injustice and wrong.” He
found, he said, “Mr. Pacifico’s ill repute
irrelevant. He was a British subject.” And
he thus succeeded in conveying to the man
in the street the inference that, while he
was Foreign Minister, he “would move the
whole force of the British Empire” (as
Edward Walford put it in an obituary
memoir) “in order that Brown or Jones —
Civis Romanus —might not be defrauded
of his Worcester sauce amid the snows of
Siberia, or of his pale ale in the Moun-
tains of the Moon.”
Brown and Jones certainly “loved the
man who makes the world talk of what
England will do and dare,” and not the
less for the hectoring, though adroit,
manner in which he did it.
His supremacy in the politics of his
time, both at home and abroad, was
almost, and almost continuously, absolute.
His reputation was that “wherever abroad
there is a desire for constitutional liberty,
repressed by bayonets or threatened by
irresponsible autocrats, there his Lordship
has admirers and friends.” And again
and again he proved that he could walk
the knife-edge between peace and war
menacingly without bringing the world
to conflict.
He prevented a European war in 1830-31
and later in 1848-49 without doubt. And
though he has been blamed for having
forced Aberdeen into the Crimean war,
the meditation of Queen Victoria is prob-
ably near the truth: “Lord Palmerston’s
mode of proceeding always had the ad-
vantage of threatening what it was hoped
would not become necessary, while those
hitherto taken (i.e., in respect of the
Russo-Turkish situation by Aberdeen)
started on the principle of not needlessly
offending Russia by threats, obliging us
at the same time to take the very steps
we refused to threaten.” When the deluge
destroyed Aberdeen’s administration,
Palmerston did a workmanlike job in
cleaning up the war.
It was always inherent in Palmerston’s
policy that the “cold wind” of danger
blew from the direction of Russia and
that the Near East and Middle Europe
must look westward for shelter from it.
One wonders what his “touch” might
have done with the Russian revolution
and whether, as Canning’s disciple, he
would have been heard in 1946 saying
what his forerunner said after the
Napoleonic wars, when he wondered
whether it would “be wise for Britain to
abdicate the high rank we now maintain
in Europe, to take our station among
secondary powers and confine ourselves
to our own island ... to abandon all
our colonies, the fertile sources of our
commercial wealth.”
It can only be remarked that Sir Robert
Menzies’ illustrious predecessor in the
Wardenship of the Cinque Ports an
office which he proposed to abolish until
he discovered that it carried no material
perquisites was no Attlee.
His policy was practical and construc-
tive for his times. He left his mark not
only on the world but on London and
Westminster, which he reconstructed, and
in which the Thames Embankment is one
of his visible monuments.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Privileged Life
THE MLC affair has been handled with kid gloves by the
financial Press for very good reasons. It would be shock-
ing for newspaper comment to be made that could
jeopardise the position of thousands of policyholders and the
millions of pounds held on their behalf by this large and highly
reputable life assurance office.
There comes a point, however, where it may be possible to
direct reasonable criticism at the actions of MLC directors
without damaging the position of the policyholders, whose funds
are so ably managed by the MLC’s general manager, Mr.
A. F. Deer. This is particularly so when some of the things
that directors of the MLC have said and done are clearly making
Mr. Deer’s job a lot more difficult than it should be.
Last week’s annual meeting of the company was simply
the latest example of avoiding the sort of discussion that is
long overdue on this matter. Quite apart from the unpleasant
habit of bundling up all the questions to be answered (or
not answered) in one hit at the end and so preventing the
development of any line of questioning which a shareholder
should be entitled to pursue, and apart from the failure to deal
in any adequate way with the question of the resignation of
the trustee (a point raised initially not by the company but by
the financial editor of the “Sydney Morning Herald”), the
meeting left much to be desired.
It was astounding that the chairman should not have given
his view on the consequences of admitting the Press to the
meeting before the vote on this question was taken rather than
after it. The meeting quite properly agreed to admit the Press;
the chairman then said he had been advised that since the Press
was there it “affected the qualified privilege that applies to pro-
ceedings at meetings of shareholders.” Had the meeting been
aware that admitting the Press became a reason for discouraging
discussion that may otherwise have taken place, then it may
have taken a different view on the motion.
In any event, if this is the law it is bad law. Reporters
can attend any company meeting they want by obtaining a proxy
from a shareholder; on controversial occasions when companies
have taken the same view of privilege as the MLC directors, and
have kept, reporters out, the privileged proceedings are just as
comprehensively reported by the proxy-bearing journalist.
So the situation put by the legal advisor to the chairman has
a ridiculous appearance about it.
The thing that intrigues so many observers of the MLC-H. G.
Palmer disaster is that, despite the huge amount of money lost
by what has been shown as a wrong board decision, no director
has felt that enough responsibility for this attaches to himself
to have resigned. Most people who lose as much money as these
directors no longer have a company to run.
Nothing on Apprenticeship
IT is years and years now since schemes were first talked about
for improving on our outmoded and inadequate apprentice-
ship system. The Government, employers, and others have come
up with one scheme after another. Slow and painful negotiations
dragged on, promises were made, and patience counselled. And
very quietly it has become known that absolutely nothing was
achieved. We were right back where we started.
This is one of the most dismal failures among recent efforts
at social and economic innovation, and one of the most striking
MEN AND MATTERS
FINAL proof that Rosella is very
definitely under new management —
not just taken over—by Unilever
came last week. There is no longer a
Rosella man on the board of this food-
processing company that Unilever bought
(with the agreement of Rosella directors)
for $9 million exactly three years ago.
Since that takeover Rosella has not
been a real success in the highly competi-
tive canned foods (especially soups) busi-
ness. After making $360,000 in its last
«!nnnnn fore , the take ° ver and almost
$400,000 in the next 15 months (nine of
«Mn?nnn^- er new b° ss )> Rosella lost
$406,000 in the next full year under the
Unilever flag, and last year managed to
mt ° a minute P r °fi t about
$16,000 or so.
During this time the Rosella men have
been given the bird, and Unilever staffers
have swept well and truly through the
place.
Last week’s appointment of Mr. John
Gates as managing director of Rosella
Foods Pty. Ltd. and of a group of
Unilever men to executive jobs in Rosella
completes the replacement trend that has
been going on over the past three years
Mr. Gates got his food experience as
managing director of the World Brands
subsidiary of Unilever, which is now a
part of Rosella. He had managed Birds
Eye when that, too, was part of Unilever
before its sale (a mistake in the light of
later developments)
to Edgells.
The other execu-
tives in with Mr.
Gates are Unilever
men in the real in-
ternational organisa-
tion tradition. The
new marketing dir-
ector, Mr. Tim Rob-
erts, is a former
Walls Ice Cream
man from Britain, who was with the local
Unilever subsidiary, Streets Ice Cream, in
1961-62. And the new sales manager, Mr.
Kevin Hayes, was a Lever and Kitchen
man, which seems to suggest that selling
soap and selling soup requires the same
sort of skills.
THE last rumblings of the controversial
Ready Mixed Concrete takeover two
years ago by Colonial Sugar Re-
fining Co. and Blue Metal Industries were
heard last week. Mr. J. G. Palmer, the
former chairman, and Mrs. Aileen Rich-
ards, the former secretary-director of
RMC, last week wrote letters to the two
Sydney newspapers against whom they
had legal actions pending. These letters,
to which the editors added their com-
ments, are understood to have ended the
prospect of legal action.
Mr. Palmer and Messrs. J. H. Stephen-
John Gates.
Bryan Kelman.
Mrs. A. Richards.
son, R. F. Street, and F.C. Michell, who
joined him in the letter, had issued writs,
on August 27, 1964, claiming $150,000
damages each against John Fairfax and
Sons Ltd. Mrs. Richards was claiming a
similar sum.
The only one in this group still on the
RMG board is Mr. Street, now the secre-
tary. Another old RMC director, Mr. N.
Pardoe, is still on the ten-man board. But
the most ironic membership is that of
Mr. Bryan Kelman, who made a bid for
RMC early in 1964 while he was top man
in its former UK subsidiary. He is now
one of the management team at CSR.
Mr. Palmer and Mrs. Richards, whose
life had been RMC for 20 years, today
have no public directorships. Mr. Palmer
concentrates on his legal business and Mrs.
Richards the most capable woman in
business, according to her ex-chairman
is having a complete rest from business
life.


examples of reactionary unionism and Government indecisiveness.
The need for reform is glaringly obvious. There is simply nothing
to be said for the present apprenticeship system. It takes an
inordinate time to train young men; it should be possible, for in-
stance, to learn the art of bricklaying in five weeks instead of
the five years which apprenticeship requires.
Since the medieval practice of bonding workers is being
abandoned, fortunately it no longer makes sense for employers to
invest time and effort in taking on apprentices and training
them. More pertinent is the fact that the conditions for appren-
tices simply do not attract nearly enough lads for trade training.
Because the system will only admit lads under 18 years of age,
it is a severe restriction on the opportunity to acquire skills and
constitutes a major transgression of the freedom of the individual
worker to better his lot.
The opposition to reform came principally; from Left-wing
metal trades unions, with both a political and an industrial in-
terest in maintaining the present primitive system. For their mem-
bers it may be true that more new tradesmen would mean a
reduction in their bargaining power; so in the short run they
may be acting in their members’ interests. But in the long run
Government and business must find a way round the shortage of
skilled labor, whether through modifying machinery for unskilled
men or by employing non-unionised subcontractors who simply
picked up their skills outside apprenticeship. This will just as
effectively reduce the monopoly strength of restrictionist unions,
while being less efficient in providing the skills the economy
requires.
Most blame, however, attaches to the ACTU and the Common-
wealth Government. The ACTU has failed dismally in represent-
ing the interests of its members, which is clearly served by systems
which enable them to acquire new skills and rise in the wage and
salary structure of the nation. Its opposition makes a mockery of
its sensible and justified demands for schemes of retraining to
counter the effect of automation.
The Government’s failure is patent. Its commitment to develop-
ment dictates that it should do all in its power to remove
obstructions to higher productivity and higher standards of living.
And if the old slogan of free enterprise means anything, then it
should be acting to abolish restrictions on the freedom of the
individual to improve his lot by a contribution to the common
good. It is quite clear that the Government’s attempts to carry
the unions with it by persuasion and negotiations have got it
nowhere; in fact they have delayed the introduction of reforms
about three years. It now has a duty to the community to stop
mucking around and to introduce legislation immediately.
A Lift for Textiles
THAT promising new mixture of wool and synthetics, the
Australian Textile Export Corporation, whose leading Mel-
bourne spirits include the managing directors of Felt and
Textiles (Mr. H. W. Rowden) and Fibremakers (Mr. Norman
G. Wilson), goes from strength to strength and hand in hand
with the Federal Government. Starting off in 1963 (as the
AWTEC), with its headquarters in Bourke Street, primarily with
the object of promoting exports of wool textiles and with power-
ful support from the Wool Board and Department of Trade,
ATEC has not only been getting a big promotional grant from
the Government ($34,000-a year for three years) and supple-
menting this with money of its own but has been making good
use of it.
Now embracing all manner of textiles, it has set its sights
firmly on the U.S. market. To assist in this the Government
agreed to appoint special Trade Commissioners to operate from
New York and California specifically to assist the member firms
represented in promoting their products (the ATEC itself doesn’t
trade). One of these Commissioners, Mr. R. D. Ansell, is now in
position with a display annexe at Rockefeller Center, New York.
It looks as if ATEC has got a big lift by bringing in the man-
made-fibre people, because this has meant getting Mr. Norman
Wilson in the swim, and he’s now probably the most energetic
figure in the Australian textile industry. The latest move is the
formation of a marketing committee. Outlining the objects of
this committee in Melbourne last week. Wilson, its chairman,
said he could more than double our exports of garments to the
U.S. in the next five years. They bring us in about $11,000,000
a year at present. The ATEC is putting on a big show at the
Australian trade display in Los Angeles in October.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the CCOnomy: Last week started brightly
with the announcement of May exports, at an excellent
$256.1 million, exceeding imports of $222.9 million by
$33.2 million, to yield the first favorable balance on
current account since July, 1964. Mineral shipments prob-
ably furnished much of the fillip . . . Some improvement
had perhaps been suggested by April’s all-group’s export
price index, up 1.8 percent on March and 9.9 percent
on April, 1965.
Employers told the Arbitration Commisison that not
only the wages and salaries element in the Gross National
Product had fallen since 1953-54; so also had the pro-
portion of profits. Mr. Hawke suggested price stability
was beyond the Commission’s “legitimate contemplation.”
For the markets: It hasn’t been left to the
continuously effervescent minerals and oils to provide
all the encouragement to Australian share markets,
although they still impress as the main focus of investor
attraction. And, of course, there’s obviously a fair
amount of BHP domination among the industrials. Yet
the second-liners regained a measure of interest in recent
trading; significantly, turnovers moved higher across a
reasonably wide range.
Sterling has not avoided trouble for long, so London
had to cope with that as well as repeated shipping strike
worries and doubts on Bank Rate. Nevertheless, the
undertone seems relatively firm on, accountably, dull
dealings . . . Markedly reduced volumes are serving to
express Wall Street’s uncertainties; the market appears
capable of technical rallies only.
FOr Companies: The wave of industrial deben-
ture issues runs on . . . Queensland’s biggest fertiliser
maker ACF and Shirleys Fertilizers is offering £2 million
to shareholders and institutions to help a broad expansion
program; ICIANZ is the largest shareholder . . . Build-
ing supplier ARC Industries asks for $3 million from
shareholders and noteholders for expansion and extra
working capital.
“Continuing growth” impels Melbourne’s Eliza Tins-
ley to a share split, a l-for-4 bonus issue and a l-for-4
premium issue; paid capital will move from $890,000 to
$1,390,625, dividend from 12| to “a minimum” of 10
percent . . . Financier Esanda is after another $8 mil-
lion unsecured notes (including $5 million oversubscrip-
tion ).
A $l.l million cash takeover bid for rubber com-
ponents maker Merco Holdings has come from the
British Bell’s Asbestos group through its vehicle Bestobell
Australia Pty., which may eventually list . . . Scots
investor William Baird and Co. will acquire 35 percent
of Alltrans Group (Australia) Pty. . . . British Tobacco
has moved further into food, this time in South Aus-
tralia, but sheds its indoor bowling interest in American
Machine and Foundry Co. (Aust.) Pty.
The Robe River (W.A.) iron ore development by
BHP, and Cleveland Cliffs, of U.S.A., may be postponed
if they combine with American Metal Climax and CSR
at Mount Newman . . . Future development of Tas-
mania’s Savage River iron ore is guaranteed by massive
proven and estimated reserves.
Absence of a dividend from Mary Kathleen Uranium
hit Kathleen Investments, whose profit went back from
$1,099,044 to $232,328, and was mainly contributed from
subsidiary Coffs Harbor Rutile . . . Mount Morgan’s
copper output fell by 29 percent for 1965-66, but was
sold on much better prices . . . Copper production from
Mount Isa, on the other hand, is moving well ahead.
Importer and exporter Collin Holdings maintained its
half-year profit .on lower sales . . . Vickers (Aust.) pos-
• sesses a “sound” order book . . . Boilermaker Inter-
national Combustion Australia continues currently suc-
cessful operations.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
DEBENTURE
STOCK UP TO
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pring Dean & Co.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
8-12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tel. 27-9331
M A236NSW
Budget Talking Points
By CROESUS
TIMES have lately been lean for economic commentators. Six months or more
ago, we were all a bit pessimistic about the economic prospects. Now—or so
we are told—everything in the garden looks fairly lovely again and we’ve been
assured by the new Treasurer, Mr. William McMahon, that his repair kit is ready to
mend any weak spots in the economy and that the Budget will be framed flexibly
to keep the ball of full employment rolling.
Those of us whose economics teachers
taught to be darkly suspicious of Budget
deficits can possibly be excused for being
a little worried about the Treasurer cur-
rently, in a full-employment context, run-
ning a big cash deficit and talking, as he
did in Melbourne to a Liberal group re-
cently, as if he intended to reduce tax-
ation in the coming Budget.
One can understand Mr. McMahon’s
political instincts prompting him to take
an easy Budget line in an election year.
But it is as well to realise that this would
seem likely to produce an even bigger
deficit next year. There has been no sug-
gestion that the Government intends to
brake the present high rate of increase in
its own spending next year. Indeed, the
pressures are all the other way. In par-
ticular, if going only on the state of the
Vietnam war, one would expect the de-
fence vote to take a new leap. Equally,
the States will require much bigger re-
imbursements for current expenditure,
while their loan requirements have been
lifted all round. Going on the Treasurer’s
recorded views on the role of Government
in the overall capital investment equation,
the forecast decline in fixed investment in
the private sector could presage a much
more vital contribution from Government
to make weight.
On the revenue side, special recognition
needs to be taken of the stagnant state in
company profits, now underlined by what
the national accounts now reveal for the
March quarter. Compared with the cor-
responding quarter of 1964-65, company
profits (gross) actually fell by 1 percent.
In the March quarter last year, they in-
creased by 8 percent. Unless a substantial
increase occurs in the June quarter (which
seems most improbable), the overall in-
crease for 1965-66 from which the
Treasurer could expect higher company
tax revenue next year will be very small.
Taking together the increases of 3 and 5
percent in the first two quarters this
year and the fall of 1 percent in company
profits in the March quarter, one would
expect them to be up by less than
percent in the full year, as against rises
of 9.3 percent in 1964-65, 10.2 percent in
1963-64, and 17.9 percent in 1962-63.
Again, on the revenue side, the Treasurer
will have to live with the certainty that
taxable incomes of the rural population
will be substantially reduced. In the
March quarter, farm incomes (gross) were
44 percent down and this followed re-
ductions of 21 and 33 percent in the
first two quarters.
As for Customs and excise, which are
both yielding below last August’s estimates
this year, next year’s out-turn is problema-
tical. On overseas trade figures, private
imports seem to have established a down-
ward course which could be continued until
internal activity takes a new lease of life.
Presumably the forecasts by business
of an easing of fixed investment mean that
imports of capital equipment for civil
purposes are likely to fall next year,
whereas those for defence will rise. Equally,
despite the present very adequate level of
overseas funds one would not be all that
confident that consumption goods imports
will rise next year in the context of sub-
dued demand and the expected continua-
tion of intensified competition in this field
(notably durables) in the local market.
If revenue increases from Customs,
excise, and sales tax look problematical
and companies and farm income together
appear likely at best to yield no more than
this year, looking at the matter strictly in
terms of Budget sums the Treasurer will
be hard put to it to make a case for re-
ducing personal tax rates. This is, of course,
unless he is careless about the size of his
prospective deficit, or has in mind to axe
Government expenditure.
Mr. McMahon’s decisions on personal
tax rates are going to be enormously com-
plicated, not only by the ultimate results
of the current wage hearings in the Arbi-
tration Commission but also by the delay
in the proceedings there, caused, inter alia,
by calling the Vernon committeemen. Can-
berra is already in the thick of Budget
preparations without an answer to what
is probably the key to major Budget sums.
rpHE Treasurer’s consideration of per-
sonal tax rates would be complicated
enough even if this year’s wage judgment
could be abstracted from the matter. The
blunt truth - and one would imagine the
Arbitration Commission as well as Mr.
McMahon would already have been struck
by it—is writ large in the March quarter
national accounts. While gross profits and
farm incomes are falling, wage and salary
income is increasing at between seven and
eight percent a year.
Perhaps with retail sales rising so slowly,
an “effective demand” pundit, as Mc-
Mahon has often expressed himself to be,
would find it difficult to look at this
relative buoyancy of wages and salaries
straight in the mouth. In the light of the
slow performance of savings in recent
months, it would certainly be interesting
to hear from him where continued big addi-
tions to wages and salaries are coming
to rest. On the other hand, a non-politically
minded Treasurer (admittedly no such
person ever existed) would look at them
very hard indeed and have little com-
punction in working his revenue-raising
will on them as the most buoyant of the
available sources of tax income.
The case for doing so would look all
the more attractive if, say, the wage and
salaries sector was. by an accident of
divided economic helmsmanship, to receive
a big fortuitous boost before the Budget.
And from the recent sittings of the Arbi-
tration Commission I’ve attended, I would
say the chances are very strong that such
a boost could be coming in July. In that
event I wouldn’t care to be in McMahon’s
Budget shoes or treading the dual paths
of cost and price inflation which could be
opened up if he happened to make the
wrong Budget decisions.


PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA COMMENT
The Mess in Margarine
IF ever there exists an issue that stirs
the economist’s laissez-faire instincts, it
is government involvement in the dairy-
margarine industry. There is such a mess
of government-imposed tariffs, bounties,
quotas, dual-price schemes, and subsidies
that someone who believes that generally
the free-price system does not do a bad
job of allocating resources is turned into
a rabid revolutionary. He wants to storm
the barricades and overturn the agencies
which administer the crazy devices for
defying the market.
But, of course, being an economist and
not a political man, he holds back and
just watches. And, if he does so in the
case of the dairy-margarine industry, he
can get some nasty satisfaction in the
fact that the existing set of devices is
being confronted by rapidly changing
economic, political, and legal factors.
Taking the legal point first, the position
of the margarine industry is coming to a
head, with Marrickville Margarine Pty.’s
case being heard before the Privy Council.
This company has admitted that it is ex-
ceeding its quota as determined by the
N.S.W. State Government. It is allowed
under the quota to make 2166 tons a
year, but, in fact, has said it makes close
on 10,000 tons. Very naughty, and after
ten years of sporadic litigation, the issue
is coming to a climax. Whatever the
decision, there will be some problems for
the governments concerned—nicely com-
plicated by the fact that both the States
and the Commonwealth are involved.
F the Privy Council decides against
Marrickville, then about a third of the
table margarine in the shops will disappear.
Consumers will be faced with a shortage,
and most probably prices will go up from
their already high levels to ration out the
available supplies. Governments will then
have an adverse reaction from consumers
to deal with, and from the producers,
too. Were Marrickville to be slapped
back to its quota, something like a seventh
of the market for vegetable oils used in
the production of margarine would be
lost. So some farmers 'would be pretty
angry.
In the event of Marrickville winning its
appeal—unlikely, most people think—then
the system would go by the board. In
that event Marrickville would have a
head start and the well-behaved firms
would lose out relatively. So whatever
the legal outcome, there are a number of
political pressures building up —the in-
terests of the manufacturing companies
and of farmers who can grow either pea-
nuts, safflower, or cottonseed, the three
sources of the vegetable oil produced dom-
estically for making margarine.
The position is also complicated by
changing economic factors. Cotton pro-
duction has increased so rapidly in the
past two years that the by-product, cotton-
seed, is becoming a major factor in the
vegetable-oils situation. From 6m. lb. of
raw cotton the financial year before last,
production jumped to 24m. lb. and this
year it will be close to 50m. Our total
usage is only about 75m. lb., so quite soon
the industry will be having to cope with
the world market. Even so, it will be put-
ting a lot more cottonseed on the market,
making things less rosy for the peanut and
safflower producers (the three oils are
quite substitutable). That is not the end
of the bafflingly complex situation. The
cotton industry itself will be coming up
against two restraints. This is explained
very clearly in an excellent article in the
latest issue of Bureau of Agricultural
Economics’ “Quarterly Review.”
At the present level of production, a full
third of cotton growers’ returns come from
a bounty on cotton. But,. unlike most
bounty schemes, there is a built-in safe-
guard for taxpayers, a ceiling on the total
sum to be disbursed; so as production ex-
pands, the bounty fund will be spread
more thinly, reducing the unit return to
growers. Even this year it appears that
returns will be down about 5c a lb., the
unit bounty being 8c compared with 14c
last year. On top of this, the article argues
that the prospective fall in world prices
of cotton will affect local returns.
An immediate fall of 2c is predicted as
a result of changes in the American price
support arrangements. So, altogether,
growers will only get about 24c a lb. this
year compared with about 32c last year.
For the future, the Bureau sees further
falls in prices.
Obviously, unbounded optimism on the-
part of cottongrowers, or the producers
of safflower, could get a lot of farmers
into serious trouble. The past two years
of expansion in production and the main-
tenance of prices are not going to be
repeated.
J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Touchy on Foreign Banks
BRANCH banking, at least in its inter-
national context, is a touchy subject
in this city. We were reminded of
this last week when Mr. Louis D. Cullings,
the First National City Bank of New
York’s personable representative in Aus-
tralia, came from Sydney to tell us what
we were missing by not having more
branches of foreign banks in our midst.
It is touchiest of all, of course, for the ANZ
and ES and A because, although highly
Australian flavored and oriented, these
two are still registered in Britain and their
operations here are virtually on a branch
basis.
But local bankers generally fear that
more foreign branches would eat into their
earnings from overseas transactions, which
they sorely need to offset the high cost
of maintaining the extensive networks of
their own branches throughout Australia.
They don’t like to be reminded of the fact
that they also do pretty well out of their
own branch operations overseas, say in
London and New Zealand. Professor
Arndt estimates Australian branches have
about 40 percent of the banking business
in New Zealand.
It is not that they have immediate
worries. Only last month Mr. McMahon
made it clear in the House that the Gov-
ernment had no present intention of
licensing more foreign branches. The three
foreign branches already licensed, the
National D’Escompte de Paris, the Bank
of New Zealand, the Bank of China, and
the Bank of Tokyo would seem to have
some claim for one of this basis, in that
the Yokohama Specie Bank had a branch
here up to World War 11. Other foreign
banks have had to be content with opening
representative offices. There are three of
these in Sydney—the Bank of Tokyo, the
Bank of America, and the latest, the First
National City and only one, the Chase
Manhatten, in Melbourne.
Mr. Callings, who has been in the
foreign branch game for his bank prac-
tically since he graduated from Syracuse in
1927, was not denying that foreign
branches would be out to make profits,
yet he strongly denied that this need
necessarily be at the expense of Australian
banks as one of his questioners, Mr. N. A.
Jackson, general manager of the CBA, who
was taking the chair, believed. His point
was that, although foreign banks increase
competition (don’t the Australian private
banks espouse this in their main advertise-
ments, is my comment), they don’t take
anything away from anybody but simply
add to the volume of business, as indeed is
the case merely with representatives. They
not only help to pave the way for overseas,
capital to come here but also broaden the
channels and volume of trade. Mr. Cul-
bn § s thought we could do with a bit of
help fr ° m Al " e c ricai ? bank s. ™ extending
° ur trade Wlth ®T th America (on which
Were experts > and also wlth the Far
He also A ht that we had some .
thing to learn from American bank in .
eluding their involvement in the equity
G f companies to which they lend and in
term lending. He had been surprised at
our shallow understanding of term lend-
ing based on cash flows as distinct from
collateral. Nor should so much of the
capital provision field be left to investment
bankers. The trading banks could give
package deals to company clients and take
a bigger share of their totality of capital
commitments. Such thoughts were more
to the liking of Mr. Cullings’ Melbourne
audience than his views on foreign
branches, but one banker present (bearded,
withall) could applaud the latter and
show that at least some of us believe Aus-
tralia can and should accept more fully
the implications of living in a closer and
more sophisticated international world and
drop the mantle of “little Englanderism.”


COMPLIMENTARY COPY
Details of Allocation of $2 Million Actual
Investment in Small to Medium Sized
Listed Growth Companies.
Details of Composition of Moir’s Mutual Fund
Incorporated and Unit Cost Data.
TNVESTORS are invited to apply for a
“■* complimentary copy of the May 27 issue of
the monthly investment publication, Moir’s
Australian Investments. We feel this issue will
be of particular interest, as it details the actual
allocation of close to $2 million investible funds
managed by us, in various small to medium
sized listed growth companies. Over a period
of five years, Moir’s Investment Service claims
to have more experience and proven success in
this field of investment than any other invest-
ment service in Australia.
The May 27 issue of Moir’s Australian Invest-
ments also provides a summary of our general
approach to the management of funds invested
in small to medium sized companies, plus our
general management philosophy in relation to
leader stocks.
No Substitute for Actual Performance. —There
is no better way of evaluating the perform-
ance of an investment service than by studying the
record of actual buying and selling decisions made by
the service over a period of some years, embracing
both bull and bear markets. It is all very well for us
to quote individual spectacular successes achieved by
our monthly investment recommendations or by our
portfolio clients, but how does the average investor
assess in aggregate a service’s performance in terms
of actual results, where buying and selling decisions
must be backed by cold cash?
We feel a real-life case history of a portfolio’s progress
provides a keen measure of both the service’s skill in
locating special situations plus the degree to which
the service is prepared to back its own judgment in
terms of a specific percentage of available investible
resources. A real-life case history over a period of time
also provides evidence of the degree of flexibility of
the investment service in moving ahead at a stage
when the market is standing still or even moving back.
M.A.I. Monthly Investment Publication provides
Authentic Case History. —Subscribers to the monthly
investment publication, Moir’s Australian Invest-
ments, over the last five years have been able
to watch month by month the progress, in terms
of new buying and selling moves, of an actual
incorporated investment company. This was formed
by the publisher during the first half of 1961 as a
legally constituted mutual fund, the accounts of
which are subject to audit. Apart from certain
nominal holdings issued to enable the company to
qualify as a public company, virtually the whole of
the Fund’s paid-up capital was and still is held by
the publisher.
Subscribers to M.A.I. were advised of the Fund’s
commencing portfolio together with the detailed
reasons for taking up the situations chosen. Although
the Fund is not open to public participation, M.A.I.
subscribers have been kept fully informed of all
changes made to the Fund’s portfolio.
Included in the May 27 issue of M.A.I. is the present
composition of the portfolio, together with net unit
cost of each holding. At present there are 47 com-
panies in the portfolio. These are subject to constant
reassessment and review in M.A.I.
The success of the Fund to date may be measured
by the fact that from an initial outlay of $4410 in
1961, aided by progressive advances totalling $11,240,
a share portfolio currently worth in excess of $32,000
has been created. A degree of appreciation has been
derived from participation in new issues on a favor-
able basis, but this has not been a major factor in
the success achieved to date.


MOIR’S AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENTS
HOW HAS THIS SUCCESS BEEN ACHIEVED?
By Pioneering Investment in Successful Newly Listed
Established Companies. In 1962, when the market was com-
paratively dead, M.A.I. was the first to point the way to the
dramatic capital appreciation which could be achieved by
investment in established newly listed companies. One of
the best examples of the benefit which can be derived from
this type of investment was provided by the extensive survey
made of Protector Safety Industries shortly after listing.
History now reveals that Protector Safety has moved from
75c on listing to an effective current price of in excess of
$3.00, after allowing for the benefit of the 1964 par issue.
This approach is still followed.
By Backing the Industry Trends. In 1963 M.A.I., in its
monthly issues, placed considerable emphasis on backing
industry trends, especially in the sugar, newspaper, base
metal and brewery industries. Subscribers to M.A.I. were
able to know that, in the service’s assessment, the potential
for capital appreciation was so outstanding that it allocated
a substantial proportion of the resources of Moir’s Mutual
Fund Inc. for investment in key stocks in these industries.
The resulting capital gains recorded were dramatic in terms
of some hundreds percent appreciation in investment outlay.
Substantial appreciation was also derived by those of our
M.A.I. subscribers who backed our monthly recommendations
on a straightout share investment basis.
By Taking Defensive Action When Necessary. We were
among the first in the field, in mid 1964, to recom-
mend the taking of profits on sugar stocks, and the
majority of our portfolio clients moved out of substantial
holdings near the top of the market. Regarding the agricul-
tural equipment industry, ours was the first investment ser-
vice to consistently stress, in 1964, the shortening of the
statistical odds in favor of Australia being eventually affected
by a nation-wide drought. In practical terms our portfolio
accounts, which had taken advantage of formerly undervalued
stocks such as John Shearer in 1963, were able to reduce
unit costs to near zero by taking defensive action in mid 1964
near peak prices.
Some 12 months ago we substantially cut back, for port-
folio accounts and also Moir’s Mutual Fund Inc., holdings
in lead and zinc stocks, and placed much greater emphasis
on copper, tin and beach sand producers and coal exporters.
By Backing Recovery Situations Where Sustained Capital
Growth Prospects Exist. This type of situation has been
largely confined to the sounder small to medium sized com-
pany which, during an early stage of development, has
suffered an abnormal setback. The market takes time to
forgive a lapse but, providing one is sure of the basic sound-
ness of the company in question and the prospects of its
industry, considerable capital appreciation can be recorded.
Good examples are provided by Hanimex Corporation and
Stramit Boards, in which substantial holdings have been
acquired by us since 1963.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT SERVICE
We conduct a share portfolio management service for larger
portfolios with market values in excess of $50,000. The
charge for this service is at the rate of |% per annum for
the first $200,000 market value of the portfolio and -|%
per annum for that portion of the market value which is
in excess of $200,000. However, the fee for the first six
months, which covers the initial re-organisation period, is
equivalent to a normal full year’s fee.
In the case of portfolios worth less than $50,000, the fee
charged will be as for a $50,000 portfolio.
There is no capital gains charge on capital profits won,
and all portfolios are subject to the personal control of the
principal. Investors interested in our portfolio management
service are invited to write for full details or to telephone
62-3945, Melbourne, to arrange an appointment to see us.
CURRENT INVESTMENT STRATEGY
We believe the maximum appreciation on Australian share
markets will be derived through a combination of investment
in key mining stocks and special small to medium sized
industrial growth situations. Within the mining section, we
particularly favor investment in companies with interests
in tin, copper, iron ore, aluminium, uranium, beach sands
and the export of coal.
Some of our most spectacular gains have been recorded in
the field of small to medium sized growth situations. Special
attention has been devoted to manufacturing companies
which can not only operate successfully at home, but have
the ability to survive in world markets.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE TO M.A.I.
$10.50 PER ANNUM
The subscription rate to the monthly publication, Moir’s
Australian Investments, is $10.50 per annum for Australian
and New Zealand subscribers. The publication is mailed on
the last Friday of each calendar month and incorporates a
free airmail service for interstate and New Zealand sub-
scribers.
COMPLIMENTARY COPY OFFER
MOIR’S INVESTMENT SERVICE PTY. LTD.,
11th Floor, National Mutual Centre,
447 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Please forward me a complimentary copy of the May
27, 1966, issue of Moir’s Australian Investments.
Name
Address


p
L
P
* w;
1 mm
w
(
CROSS
HOW DO YOU MEASURE IT?
In 20th century Australia, oil is a good indicator of
progress. In 1901 when Shell opened its first small
bulk installations at Gore Bay, New South Wales.
Birkenhead, South Australia, and Williamstown, Vic-
toria, there were barely 100 motor vehicles in Aus-
tralia. Annual usage of petroleum products (mainly
lighting kerosene) was a few thousand tons.
Today there are more than 3,500,000 motor vehicles
in Australia and yearly fuel consumption has rocketed
to 15,000,000 tons.
Shell now represents a £150,000,000 capital invest-
ment employing 6,000 people through-
out Australia engaged in exploration,
manufacturing, distribution and market-
ing and supplying the energy needs of
transport, industry, aviation, agriculture.
Shell in Australia —an organization on the move in a nation taking great strides towards a bigger, better destiny.
PR66/2
BUSINESS BOOK REVIEW
Electro. Zinc's History
EZ Review, 1916-1966. Fifty Years of Pro-
gress. Electrolytic Zinc Company of Aus-
tralasia Ltd.
INDUSTRIAL development waves radi-
ating from the silver-lead-zinc hub at
ttrnkpn Hill InvP been felt far and
~.A r , o
far, as these have come through the
rhannek of RHP and CRA their doru-
channels ot ana ana oka, tneir aocu
mentation is fairly full, not only through
6 U ° US dud u 6 varl "
ous pu ications as roug out a
its various anniversaries (the latest of
these was in 1 , its t year o opera-
tions). Up to last week, however we have
had very little on w at was probably t e
most intngumg of all the offshoots from
the Hill, that is the formation and rise
to eminence of Electrolytic Zinc.
The gap m the story has now been
fibed by the company itself, to mark
the fiftieth year since, it was formed in
Melbourne as a proprietary company (it
went public in 1920). This new dimension
to the story of the Hill takes us from the
original amalgamated Zinc (de Bavays),
tantalising problems associated with the
Hill’s originally discarded zinc-bearing
dumps, across to the well-filled pockets of
Melbourne financiers, and then over to
Tasmania. We alight at Risdon, on the
shores of the Derwent, where EZ paved
the way not only for its own remarkable
success but also for Tasmania’s transition
from a quiet rural backwater to the scene
some °f Australia’s most profitable in-
du . s ' rial act . ivit s\
We are also taken into the rugged western
highlands of the island where, if the run-
nmg has a „ays been mostly with Mt.
L y el1 ’ EZ ( whlch bought Lyell s mining
interests at R oS ebery in 1920) has played
a notable part in "development. Its use
of large quantities of Rosebery ore to
supplement the bulk of Risdon’s raw
m^rialj drawn from Broken Hill, re-
quired the development of communica-
t M ionS} rail> and ports to the nort h,
while, largely because of the power needs
0 f Ri sdorlj tbe Tasmanian Government
pressed on to harness the island’s hydro
resources, so N opening up new vistas in the
i ndustria i fie ld.
TT has always been an intriguing ques-
tion w hy EZ established its main
operation at Risdon, so far from Broken
Hill which provides the bulk of its raw
material. Was it just a historical accident?
You will find the answer to this here,
that is, if you are prepared to give EZ
the benefit of a few doubts. At any rate
the credit apparently must go to a certain
James H. Gillies, a Broken Hill metallur-
gist, who got on the scent eight years be-
fore the company was formed when he was
thinking in terms of marrying Tasmania’s
hydro resources (not at that time being
exploited) to an, as at that time, un-
discovered process whereby concentrates
of zinc sulphide could be reduced to
metal.
Students of interlocking directorships
and board genealogies will find the publi-
cation of absorbing interest, though, like
myself, they might have to check a step or
two in the following of father’s footsteps
in the directing and managing of the com-
pany. The names of Cohen, Baillieu,
Shackell, and Bult have a permanent
thread through the EZ story.
Mr. Edward Cohen, the present chair-
man, is the grandson of Montague Cohen
who, with W. L. Baillieu, whose nephew
is now a board member, arranged the
original finance for EZ. Brigadier Cohen,
the present chairman’s father, was on the
board before him. Mr. James Shackell, on
this board and also that of BHAS of
which he is chairman, is the son of Edward
H. Shackell, also once a director and
secretary of EZ. Mr. J. A. Bult, now a
director and joint general manager, is the
son of Aubrey Bult, long the company’s
secretary and an old board member.
All in all EZ has always been a tight
affair of a group of closely related families.
The miracle is that they’ve got along so
well together all these years. Perhaps the
only blot on the record (sic) is that some
years ago they moved out of Collins House
and set up their abode in Lonsdale Street.
J.C.H.


WILD CAT
PAGES
Is Snow on the Skids?
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
THE best thing for investors to do with snow has been to ski on it, not invest
in it. But despite one company failure, the discomfort of another and what seem
to be only modest returns from the two biggest snow developers, the time to
invest in snow may not be far off.
Investors have looked at the Chalet
failure and the Smiggins difficulties and
decided that there is no money to be
made out of the snow. Both Publishers
Holdings and Lend Lease may prove them
wrong within the next couple of years.
There has been a lot of money invested
at Thredbo (the most capital-intensive
resort in Australia per skier) and a lot
more is to be spent in the next few years.
Total assets of Kosciuko Thredbo, the
Lend Lease subsidiary that runs the
Thredbo resort, were $2.8 million by the
end of last year, made up of sl.7m. worth
of land and buildings (after deducting
amortisation) and sl.lm. in plant (less
depreciation). During the year, the com-
pany wrote about $90,000 off the value of
xts assets.
But there is no way of finding out what
sort of profits the company is making on
the snow. For the rest of the figures
supplied by the company to the Registrar
of Companies bear little relation to the
real financial position of the project. Lend
Lease straightforwardly says so in its latest
annual report: ‘The results of the activi-
ties undertaken throughout the group are
not necessarily reflected in the accounts
of the company primarily responsible for
a particular area of operations. All that
it was prepared to say about its snow
profits in its annual report was earnings
are expected to improve during the coming
y ear -
Publishers Holdings is probably the most
appealing snow developer stock, although
by far the greater part of its assets and in-
come is from its extensive publishing oper-
ations. Publishers Holdings knows what
it is doing in the snow (which is more
than can be said for some of its competi-
tors in other resorts). It earns profit?
there (also unusual) and although the
benefits to the company of the accelerated
depreciation when it had a seven-year
lease are no longer available in tax terms,
the 42 years left to run on its current lease
gives it a greater continuity and stability.
The company’s shares are at a low
point of 2.35 to yield 4.3 percent on a
20 percent dividend that is covered more
than twice by earnings. It has been able to
maintain quite a good record of bonus
issues. Publishers’ fall from market grace
(it was up as high as $4.50 two years ago)
seems due as much to the end of specula-
tion over some casual approaches from
overseas publishing groups as to the mar-
ket’s unhappiness about the way things
have been going in the snow,
Snow operations of Lend Lease involve
only a small part of the company’s assets,
but the long term prospects are that the
company could do quite well out of its
Thredbo resort (see page 42).
The failure of three-year-old Kosciusko
Chalet Ltd. was inevitable. It spent a large
amount of money on an impractical 3J
mile chair lift that did not work properly
before the skiing population of the area
was large enough to support it. At present
there are only about 280 beds in the Chalet
area. Had the company proceeded first
with its plans for subdividing part of its
lease at Charlotte’s Pass into 50 lodge
sites, and then thought about building the
chair, the cart (of heavy operating ex-
penses) would not have been so far ahead
of the horse (the skiers to use it).
The new owners of the Chalet, the motel
operating chain Moteliers Ltd., do not in-
tend to run the lift because it is clearly
non-economic, but they will look into the
matter again in a year or two. In _ the
meantime, they propose to go ahead next
summer with the subdivision that should
eventually lift the number of beds in the
area to about than four times
the present number—and to provide lifting
facilities in keeping with the rise in de-
mand.
The development of Smiggin Holes,
Smiggins (Kosciusko) Ltd. in which
British Tobacco and James Wallace Ltd.
are major shareholders —has yet to make
a profit. Its current share price of nine
cents for a 50 cent share does not in-
dicate any market confidence about its
future.
There are only about 370 beds in the
Smiggins area, as the development of more
lodges in the area has been limited by the
lack of an adequate sewerage treatment
works. Next season this will have been
provided.
ONE company that must at least be
attracting the attention of British
Tobacco is the South Australian
Coca-Cola franchise holder C-C Bottlers
Ltd. This company is in the process of
floating publicly; British Tobacco has the
Coke franchise in Melbourne and Perth.
C-C Bottlers is an important company
THIS week, the Chartist begins a
new feature in which he will pick
out a stock he thinks is on the
rise in the market—according to the
charting principles that limit his in-
terest exclusively to the market price
of the share in question over recent
times.
Those analysts who take a more
fundamental view of the stocks the
Chartist will discuss may disagree with
him. For example, with the current
recommendation on BHP, it is possible
that the uncertain world steel situation
could well prove in the long run a
more significant factor in BHP pricing
than the oil and gas news from its Bass
Strait areas.
But with latest production figures
from BHP looking up, despite the
economic slow-down it commented on
in the last annual report, and with the
prospect of clear benefits from oil and
gas and the changed developmental
plans for iron ore in W.A., BHP is
certainly a more interesting stock than
it was this time last year.
The Chartist Says:
BOTH long- and short-term investors could consider BHP. An upward trend
was followed during a “growth” phase for several years before a top formation
formed in 1961. The downtrend which continued until early this year has now
been decisively penetrated on high volume and, although no definite uptrend has yet
been confirmed, the technical indications point to a short- to medium-term rise to
about the $6.50 level, where considerable resistance would be encountered. This
change in direction could be the commencement of a new uptrend for BHP which
could continue for some years. The stock has risen sharply over the past week
to a new high of $5.98 for the year and advantage could be taken of any short-term
reaction.


Now choose between any of
6 weekly big, friendly
jet flights to Europe
\ *1
rr*
3
Rome
“■"2-
‘ Ml
•«rri«
m
T
, ,
■ -
y
usi
t*'
Frankfurt
Zurich
■nr
•* i •
»*«»
lIIU
London
Now. Go when you like on any of six flights weekly to the four most
exciting gateways to Europe. Rome, Zurich, Frankfurt, or London, on
BOAC’s big Rolls-Royce 707’s. Bonus offer! Zip up to Singapore by
Rolls-Royce 707—enjoy a night on the town —then jet on next morning
to Europe in the big silent VC 10 ... the exciting new jet that experienced
jet travellers are talking about.
Talk over your itinerary with your Travel Agent,
BO AC or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
with Air India, Air New Zealand and Qantas.
in the soft drink industry not only because
it is in South Australia (one of the very
few areas where British Tobacco does not
yet have soft drink interests) but also
because of its wide spread into other areas.
The company’s franchises either to sell
or bottle Coke products extend across the
border into Victoria as far as (and includ-
ing) Geelong, throughout the A.C.T., and
take in a good slab of N.S.W. Bottling
plants interstate include the wholly owned
line at Wagga and a 46 percent interest
in Geelong. Directors express confidence
that Canberra and the Southern Table-
lands area of N.S.W., over which distri-
bution rights are held, will warrant a
bottling plant “in due course.”
In its report with the prospectus the
board concedes that the franchise rights
are all due to expire in 1970, but is con-
fident that “as long as franchises are oper-
ated satisfactorily it is reasonable to assume
that agreements will be renewed at
maturity.”
If the company’s present spread is any
indication, C-C Bottlers has been well
regarded by the Coke organisation to date.
Whether it can retain that esteem remains
to be seen. Difficult as it is to tell at this
stage, the prospectus does not depict an
organisation capable of the sort pf program
ahead of Coke in Australia (Bulletin, May
14).
T HE prospectus for the float is hardly
exciting. Holders of the ordinary 50c
units ih the original company have been
allotted the new dollar C-C units on a
three-for-two basis —a nice bonus. The
smaller number of “A” and employee 50c
shares have been bought at one-for-one.
Earnings on the old capital were quite
impressive, having grown from 19.2 to
39.2 percent between 1961 and 1962. On
the much - inflated structure of C-C
Bottlers this record reduces to 3.7 percent
in 1961 and 9.2 percent in 1964.
Profit for the first nine months of the
current financial year came out at
$237,277, and directors have forecast that*
the full result will be about this figure.
The current year’s indicated earning rate
is therefore about 13.2 percent.
Not that directors have unduly stuck
their necks out. Chairman Sir Edward
Hayward modestly comments: “The dir-
ectors hold the opinion that in the absence
of material change in the existing trading
conditions, the group will earn sufficient
to enable the holding company to pay its
shareholders a dividend of 8 percent per
annum, and also to allow some retention
of earnings to finance expansion which
should take place in the future.”
The shares start their public career with
an asset backing of 84 cents in the dollar.
No doubt the management at British
Tobacco will be keeping a close watch on
the market performance of this company
once it gets on the lists.


The Trendex Profit Record
Cannot Be Beaten
Questions asked about Trendex often
run along these lines: “Yes, we know that
in the last few years Trendex has pointed
out such performers as Ansett, Bellambi,
Consolidated Press, Dunlop, E.Z. Indus-
tries, Hanimex, Mobile Industrial,
National Bank, and Repco, which doubled
in price thereafter. We also know that
Trendex recommended the sale of Blakis-
tons, Consolidated Homes, Custom Credit,
Drug Houses, Dunlop, Frigrite, 1.A.C.,
Lend Lease, Marrickville, Millaquin, Pio-
neer, H. C. Sleigh, TV Corporation, Wal-
tons, and others which later fell to half
their former market price or even lower.
But what about the others which Trendex
pointed out? What about those which
failed?”
Others sometimes say: “Yes, but what
about the cost of brokerage? Doesn’t that
take the profit out of it?”
The table above shows the result of
every Trendex recommendation which has
been made since we began to publish the
Action Table in 1963. Up to that time
Trendex had been making its forthright
market comments in text form only. To
help subscribers, in 1963 we began placing
every recommendation in an Action Table,
with precise follow-up comment in each
weekly issue. Every recommendation, for
either buying or selling, stays in the Action
Table until some positive action is recom-
mended to close it out.
Not every Trendex forecast works out
profitably, of course, although most of
them do. However, all of them, including
those in which losses were taken, are repre-
sented in the summary of results given
above. Brokerage has been charged on all
buying and selling transactions, too, at
full rates.
The “buying only” columns in the tabu-
lation show the result of buying 100 shares
in every Trendex buying recommendation,
and selling again when advised in Tren-
dex. If still holding at balance date, the
stock is valued at last sale price.
The “portfolio as well” columns show
the results of buying 100 shares of every
buying recommendation as just stated,
and also the results of selling 100 shares
of all stocks for which Trendex recom-
mended sale. You can sell short in Aus-
tralia only if you can borrow scrip; the
profit is then realised in cash. If you have
the stock in an existing portfolio, and sell
100 shares, you have avoided losing money
if the price falls. Money saved by selling
100 shares of declining portfolio stocks, as
recommended by Trendex, is included as
gain in the tabulation above, under the
heading “portfolio selling as well”.
For example, if when Trendex recom-
mended selling Lend Lease, 100 shares
were sold from an existing holding, the
gain or profit is the difference between
the realised price of the 100 shares (less
brokerage) and the market price at the
end of the period —or when Trendex
closed it out from the Selling Recommend-
ations portion of the Action Table.
However, the capital freed by the sale of
portfolio holdings has hot been taken into
account in the table to offset cash employed
for purchases, although it would have con-
siderably reduced the new cash required,
and would have increased the percentage
yield on new cash as shown.
Of course probably nobody has consist-
ently bought just 100 shares of each and
every Trendex recommendation. The
stocks discussed in Trendex are chosen to
illustrate particular points in the Trendex
market action studies. They have to cover
a wide range, to suit both traders and
investors. We also exclude thinly traded
stocks.
Therefore, by picking and choosing,
according to whether one is a trader or an
investor, and according to personal fancies
and dislikes among the stocks, individual
subscribers may have fared either not so
well as, or much better than, the above
tabulation indicates.
However, the plain undeniable fact is
that by taking every transaction, the bad
with the good, Trendex has shown sub-
stantial profits in each of the last six half-
yearly periods. This applies both on the
buying side and on the selling side.
Nobody yes, nobody, whether invest-
ment service, financial publication, or
broking house can produce a record
that comes within miles of the Trendex
record shown above. Same conditions, of
course reasonable range of recommen-
dations as published over the last three
years; every recommendation to be
included; stocks to be held until advised
to be sold; brokerage to be taken into
account.
Our own full work-out of purchases and
sales, leading to the table published above,
is available for perusal at both our Mel-
bourne and our Sydney offices.
Can you afford not to start subscribing
to Trendex right now? For immediate
action, simply post the coupon below.
DIRECTORS
Dr. M. D. Garretty
Capl R. J. Robertson
TRENDEX & Co. Pty« Ltd. (inc.mvie.)
INVESTMENT COUNSELLORS
PEARL ASSURANCE HOUSE, 151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, 671309
SYDNEY BRANCH OFFICE: CENTURY HOUSE, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 2111434
TRENDEX, G.P.0., BOX 763, MELBOURNE. Enclosed is remittance of
$25 to cover one year’s subscription to the weekly publication TRENDEX.
I understand you will send also, without charge, your background book
“Forecasting Australian Stock Prices with Trendex”. All sent airmail in
Australia and New Zealand, without additional charge.
NAME
ADDRESS.
MDG./518


COMMODITIES
Hew Sources of Aluminium
WITH Australia’s aluminium ore and
metal industry increasingly depen-
dent on overseas markets, the
possibility of new sources of the metal
in the U.S. is an interesting development.
At present, aluminium supplies are rather
stretched, but bauxite deposits are being
developed in several parts of the world.
Exhaustion of U.S. fields has created a
useful and growing market.
But bauxite is only one of many ores
containing aluminium, although it has
been virtually the only commercial source
in the past. Of the several other minerals
studied with an eye to commercial ex-
ploitation, kaolin, or china-clay, is the
most promising. Kaolin contains 35-40
percent of aluminium oxide, compared
with 50-60 percent in bauxite.
To avoid dependence on foreign supplies
—mainly Guyana—U.S. aluminium and
chemical companies have been busy in
recent months buying leases on thousands
of acres of kaolin deposits in Georgia.
Savings in transport costs would compen-
sate somewhat for the lower grade of ore.
Georgia’s supplies are believed to be
virtually unlimited. Production of kaolin
from the area in 1964 totalled 3.3 million
short tons, used largely for whitening
paper, and in ceramic paints, plastics, and
rubber.
The Anaconda Co., as part of its diver-
sification away from Chilean copper pro-
duction, has made the first moves toward
aluminium production from kaolin. At
present, Anaconda is shipping the mineral
to its metal-production facilities in Mon-
tana for smelting of primary aluminium.
For some time, according to the New
York “Times,” there have been reports that
Anaconda was considering the construction
of an alumina-from-clay plant in Georgia,
with a probable cost of up to SU-S.lOO
million. Meanwhile, Anaconda, Reynolds
Metals (a major U.S. aluminium pro-
ducer), and Stauffer Chemical Co. have
been leasing prospective kaolin areas in
Georgia.
Silver Rising?
THERE has been an upsurge of specu-
lation in New York on a rise'in the
price of silver. Dearer silver would
provide some compensation for Australian
lead-zinc-silver producers hit by falling
lead and zinc prices.
Trading on the N.Y. Commodity Ex-
change in silver for delivery next year
has been very heavy lately. The buying
reflects a belief that the U.S. Govern-
ment’s efforts to cut the gap between silver
use and mine production will not be as
effective as hoped.
The U.S. Treasury at present sells silver
freely at about 129 U.S. cents an ounce.
Price must be kept below 138 cents an
ounce, for at this level it becomes profit-
able to “buy” U.S. coins and melt them
down for the silver content.
The latest issue of coinage has virtually
eliminated silver, but silver coins will
still be available for many years. Treasury
stocks stand at about 718 m. lb. down
from 10001 b. a year ago.
Some observers believe that the coin-
age switch and other Government
measures have not guaranteed a balance
between supply and demand. They also
disagree with forecasts that the recent
rapid growth in industrial use of silver
will be sharply reduced in the near future.
So, although Treasury officials have
denied that supplies will be restricted or
the price raised, speculators are hopeful
and are backing their prediction by
paying 135 cents an ounce for metal for
delivery next April.
Photographic film is the largest indus-
trial use for the metal. Kodak has esti-
mated that for every one U.S. cent an
ounce rise in the price of silver, its costs
would rise by $U.5.200,000 a year.
Tungsten to Improve
WOLFRAM and scheelite (tungsten
ore) prices seem likely to recover
some ground in the next few weeks.
Earlier this year a new U.S. stockpile
release policy caused a reversal of the
uptrend that had brought prices to a
post-Korean War peak of 370/- stg. a unit
(22.41 b. of pure metal). For several weeks
the price has held around the current
270/- level.
With no reports of large-scale selling by
China at the recent Canton Industrial
Fair, the market’s attention is concentrated
on the U.S. stockpile releases. On balance,
further bearish moves on this trend seem
unlikely.
For perhaps another ten years the
market will be influenced by the dis-
posals of ore bought during and after
the Korean War. Of course, China is still
the dominant world supplier of the metal.
The U.N. Tungsten Committee, how-
ever, feels that the U.S. Government is
more amenable than Mr. Mao, and has
lately been suggesting improvements on
the present sales program.
Uranium Usage
THE recent London discussions on
nuclear reactors revealed that the
fast-breeder reactor is not the only
development in the more efficient use of
natural uranium fuel for electricity pro-
duction.
The head of the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority’s Reactor Group has forecast
that fast-breeders, if as efficient as expected,
would enable Britain to be independent
of further imports of uranium until well
into the next century.
A year ago the Dounreay experimental
fast-breeder (which creates “synthetic”
nuclear fuel from the only partly useful
natural uranium as it generates heat) had
reached 9 percent efficiency, against the
4 percent predicted as the break-even point
for fuel use.
At the London conference a 75 percent
level was confidently spoken of in fore-
casts of costs. But the new “Dragon”
reactor at Winfrith is expected to be more
efficient than the fast-breeder for some
time, and is believed to be less costly to
bring to a commercial status.
So high-efficiency commercial reactors
may be available sooner than expected.
Dragon is a European scheme to study
high-temperature reactors, and is con-
siderably more advanced than a similar
U.S. project.
Stations utilising the Dragon method
would be equivalent in capital costs to
fast-breeders. But the high-temperature
reactor is credited with exceptionally good
utilisation of natural uranium resources.
Dr. C. A. Rennie, head of the pro-
ject, said it would be possible to gener-
ate the estimated world needs for nuclear
power up to the year 2000 with high-
temperature reactors using only assured or
likely uranium reserves available at prices
under SU.S.IS a lb. This meant that the
fast-breeder’s in-principal better uranium
utilisation would not be needed before
1990.
Jumping Beans
COCOA beans are more prone to drastic
price moves than most other com-
modities. After hitting an all-time
low of £stg.l2s last year, the' ex-Ghana
price today is close to £2OO. The chief
world producer, Ghana, suffers wide fluc-
tuations in quantity and quality because
of relatively primitive methods of produc-
tion.
In the U.K. a world cocoa shortage is
predicted as severe as the over-supply
which produced last year’s low prices, witb
inevitable price rises for chocolate
products.
Australian chocolate makers may have
to make a fresh decision about weights in
lieu of prices, although, as cocoa bought
now is for delivery in about January of
next year, they have some time to make up
their minds. Manufacturers are, undoubt-
edly, watching the London market closely,
even if they have stocked up when prices
were lower.
The quality beans come from Ghana,
but for the bulk cocoa and couverture
market chocolate supplied to manu-
facturers of ice-cream, cakes, and biscuits
which may make up half the turnover
of local chocolate makers beans can
be used from elsewhere. Macßobertson’s
own New Guinea cocoa plantation reduces
its vulnerability to world price movements.
Last year, even the masterful Life Savers
was caught with high-priced cocoa stocks
and had to write them down $263,000 when
the price plummeted. Of course, profits for
this year to July should correspondingly
benefit by the recent price trend; the first
half was the best first half ever.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION
LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’
Act of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950.)
I
PA
0
UNSECURED
NOTES
3
YEARS
The main business of the Corporation is
to make loans on the security of first
mortgages on property and the accep-
tance of selected hire purchase agree-
ments.
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in the
Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any branch of: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• The COMPANY’S OFFICES: 249 George Street,
Sydney. Phone 27.8621.
REGISTERS: SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA, NEWCASTLE.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your Prospectus.
NAME.— ™
ADDRESS
3394
MINING
More Names in Nickel
Following in the footsteps of the
spectacular market gains for Western
Mining Corporation Ltd. since the
first results from the Kambalda nickel de-
posits were announced in April, two little
known and, until recently, infrequently
traded companies with interests in nickel
deposits in Western Australia have sud-
denly found market favor. Of these two
companies, Gold and Mineral Exploration
N.L., an Adelaide-based company, is only
listed in that city, while Hampton Gold
Mining Areas Ltd., a London-based com-
pany, is listed in both Adelaide and Mel-
bourne.
The most spectacular rise has been in
the Gold and Mineral Exploration N.L.’s
$2O fully paid shares, which jumped in
May from a previous high this year of $l4
to $75 on May 30. Since then they have
slipped back into the s6os. The issued
capital is currently only $75,000 in 3750
fully paid shares. In early May the chair-
man said that he thought the strong rise
in the company’s shares was due partly
to its holding of 28,000 shares in Western
Titanium N.L. but mainly to the com-
pany’s indirect interest, amounting to about
percent, in the nickel deposits at Wingel-
lina in the Tomkinson-Blackstone Ranges
Area on the border of Western and South
Australia. The lease area totals 3000 square
miles.
Although, in the 16 years since it was
established, the company has been without
success in the exploration field and, in the
main, unsuccessful in its promotional
activities, it had a listed share portfolio
worth $47,400 at April 12, 1966. Its most
important asset, however, is its sharehold-
ing of 200,000 shares, almost 25 percent
of the issued capital, in the unlisted public
company, Nickel Mines of Australia N.L.
In turn, Nickel Mines of Australia N.L.
holds 27 percent of the present issued
capital of South Western Mining Ltd. (the
balance being held by International Nickel
Co. Ltd., of Canada), which holds the
leases at Wingellina*. Thus Gold and
Mineral Exploration’s indirect interest in
these leases is about percent.
Figures published overseas by Inter-
national Nickel Co. (Inco) indicate proven
reserves at Wingellina of over 30 million
tons of ore averaging 1,7 percent nickel
and inferred reserves of another 70 mil-
lion tons. South Western Mining has
been undertaking a comprehensive pro-
gram of exploration to assess the com-
mercial potential of the deposits, includ-
ing a feasibility study for the establish-
ment of a nickel smelter, at a cost of
about $lOO million, using natural gas from
Mereenie, some 230 miles to the east.
As part of this investigation, about 500
tons of ore from Wingellina are being
shipped to Canada for analysis at the
processing plant of Inco at Port Colburn
on the Great Lakes.
In the event of these deposits being
declared commercial, Nickel Mines of
Australia will require additional capital
to finance its share of the development
expenses. Already it holds “options” to
subscribe for additional capital in South
Western Mining up to a maximum of 39
percent of the issued capital of that com-
pany for cash at varying premiums. On
the other hand, additional shares are
allotted to Inco as progress payments for
work carried out, at the same premiums.
The latest issue to Inco was made in
April at $2 per share.
It is believed that, in the event of
further funds being required, Nickel
Mines of Australia will issue further shares
to shareholders, of which Gold and Mineral
Exploration is currently the only listed
public company and therefore the only
way in which the public can participate
in the development of these deposits. As
a result of recent publicity on the Win-
gellina deposits, a rather active unofficial
market for the unlisted Nickel Mines of
Australia has developed in Sydney and
Adelaide, with recent sales in the $1.20
to $1.40 range. It is known that there
have been two main buyers for these
shares.
,r pHE other small company, Hampton Qold
Mining Areas Ltd., has sold recently
at around 20c for each Is stg. share, com-
pared with a sales range of l|d to
in 1965 no sales being recorded in 1966
until the past couple of weeks. This com-
pany is not carrying out active operations,
but holds leases amounting to some 100,000
acres adjoining, on the north side, those
held by Western Mining Corporation Ltd.
at Kambalda. Western Mining Corpora-
tion has an option over the mining rights
in these leases in the event of a discovery.
This could be quite on the cards, since
part of WMC’s nickel find is in the north-
ern part of its area.
This in turn could be another bull point
for WMC, which has risen over $2 per
share on the market since April. If Hamp-
ton Gold Mining Area’s leases prove to
be of similar standard to the original
Kambalda discovery, WMC may be able
to add substantially to its reserves. In this
connection, it is understood that WMC
has recently applied for an exploration
area in the Southern Cross district to in-
vestigate further nickel deposits. In addi-
tion it holds a ninth interest in a joint
venture with other Australian and over-
seas companies, through Newmont Pty.
Ltd., to explore for minerals, including
nickel in the Fraser Range area in the
south-east of Western Australia.
Another interesting point for. share-
holders of Planet Oil Company N.L. is
that the Petermann Ranges area in the
south-western corner of the N6rthern
Territory, where Planet is currently in-
vestigating an extensive mineralised area,
adjoins the Blackstone Ranges over the
Western Australian border and the Tom-
kinson Ranges on the South Australian
side. It could well be that Planet may
discover nickel deposits here in addition
to the silver, lead, copper, and gold values
already reported.


howto
succeed
in business
without
really trying
BOND 7
iTfnt* J/ttfttrt/'i 1
WHISKY
-arV /r ~.r~\Z.
.» rM
NET 1 PT. 6 FLO/.
•Juf./kJ mmX 'JY.~6.S~Uh
X H Kufrw -» ty
BOND 7
SMOOTH . . . WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN.
ONE OF THE WORLD’S 5 GREAT WHISKIES
“5989
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Mark Foy's as a Landlord
AS a retailer, Mark Foy’s Ltd. is a
good landlord. It has closed down
and rented off more of its Sydney
city retailing space than it now uses for
selling; it is making a lot more money
out of rents than sales. And this year
it will have another floor in its main store
earning rents, so that little more than
half the store will be left to the company’s
use.
Mark Foy’s lost $104,846 on trading but
earned $241,869 in rentals and invest-
ments in the 11 months to January 31:
Ignoring the $15,800 excess tax from pre-
vious years, which was written back, the
net profit was $71,424 (after $50,500 tax),
compared with $151,014 in the 12 months
to the end of February, 1965.
But does this mean that Mark Foy’s
will inevitably lose the battle to remain
a big retailing company and eventually
be forced to live off its properties instead
of its retailing skills?
The latest accounts do not show its
retailing function in a good light; if
management can cope with the problems
the company faces, however, there does
appear some chance of saving the com-
pany’s retailing image and allowing a re-
turn to a reasonable earning rate but
based on a solid core of rental income
there seems little doubt that if the com-
pany rented off more of its remaining
retailing space, it could do a lot better
in the immediate future.
Yet the company appears to consider
many of its problems as passing rather
than permanent, and so clearly hopes to
be able to build up its retailing function.
It says that 1965-66 trading was adversely
affected by restricted economic conditions,
a “general lack of confidence,” public
hesitancy about the decimal currency
changeover, and the drought all con-
ditions common to even the most vigorous
Sydney retailers.
Mark Foy’s clearly takes the view that
it can avoid the painful decision of Marcus
Clark (from whom some senior men have
come to Foy’s) in closing down its city
store altogether and concentrating only
on suburban trading. The present chair-
man believes that a chain of stores needs
a headquarters, and clearly the losses of
the Piazza store contain a proportion of
losses it suffers on account of its,branches.
This contraction of retail activity in
favor of rentals has its problems; Mark
Foy’s buying power —and so its scope for
doing' good deal? with suppliers —is going
down at the same rate as its sales are
declining. To offset this loss in its com-
petitive position on prices, the company
has to discover some special retailing skill
if it is to follow its aim of getting a
better return on its sales. To some extent
it has done so; its boutique approach to
fashion goods, for instance, allows for dis-
tinctive styles and higher unit profits.
Since 1962 the company has been
reorganising its city properties, with the
result that the furniture store opposite the
main store was converted to office space
for rental, the parking station was let to
a car distributor, and two floors of the
seven-storeyed Piazza store were let, leav-
ing parts of basement, all the ground, first,
second and third floors for retailing and
Foy’s offices. This area was considered
ample to cater for the volume of current
sales or those achieved in any of the pre-
vious ten years, which is a commentary
on management in earlier years.
The Piazza store at the corner of Liver-
pool and Elizabeth Streets, in the de-
pressed railway end of Sydney city, con-
tinued to experience difficulties, aggra-
(Continued on page 72)


Share
Par
| Div.
1 Year
Week
1 Fri.
1966
T urnover
1 Yield %
Valuej cents
1 ago
ago
| close
High
| Low
Syd.
| Melb.
| Div.
EEarn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
2 081
2.131 2 15
2 35
1.90
8,7001 12,600
Ampol Exp.
.50
1.18|
1.2*
1 22
1 45
.85
23,200
9,900
Assoc. 'Min.
.50
15
4.10|
5.00
5.00
5 52
4 80
100
2,750
A.O.G.
.50
2.301
2 39
2 53
2 60
2 25
18,900
5,950
B.H. South
.50
12
2.371
2.471 2 48
2.90
2 24
20,300
17,350
5.0
7.7
C.R.A.
.50
B
3.78|
4 82
5 04,
4 98
3 92
20,05cr
28,700
1 6
4.2
C'wlth Min.
1.00
7
1.83|
2.25
2 28
2 40
1 90
3,300
4,400
3 5
6.0
K. 1. Scheel.
.50
10
1.501
1.88
1.97
3 25
1 801 4,100
1,500
Mount Isa
.50
5
3.751
4 04
4.12
4 55
3 92
26,200
38,050
1.2
1.7
Mt. Morgan
1.00
12
1 .-901
2.16
2 38
2.49
1 90
26,200
19,100
5 3
10 0
Mt. Lyell
.25
3
1.081
1.32
1 34
1 46
1.25
5,600
11,200
1 9
4 1
New B.H.
.62
38
4.001
4 75
4 80
5 28
4 42
500
2,900
7.9
11.2
Oil Search
.50
• 19[
.17
.18
.19
.12
8,450
4,900
Renison
.50
10
6.101
7.00
7.10
7.50
5 00
450
550
Santos
.25
2.001
2.85
3.10
2 90
1 40
13,300
6,000
West. 'Min.
.50
10
2.401
4.88
4.46
5 00
2 45
58,800
47,450
2 2
2 4
Woodslde
.50
,28|
.73
.83
.83
.24
27,200
70,600
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4.16
1.04
1.081 1 081
1 10! l 00
12,400
12,690
3 8| 8.8
Adams, W.
1.00
12.5
3.08
2.55
2.52
2.901 2.30
5,200
500
6 0! 12 0
Adel. Steam
.50
4.25
.67
■70| .71
80
•64| 2,100
2,500
6 Oi 7.7
Advertiser
.50
5
2.151 1.73
1 75
2 50
1 67
2.9
5 5
Allen, S.
1.00
10
1.901 1.70
1 60)
2 10
1.60
1,400
6 3
9 3
Allied Mills
.50
6
1.851 1.85: 1 81'|
1.90 1.67
7,400
4,900
3 2
7.7
Amalg. Chem.
.50
5.65
,85| ,74| 71|
1 50] .70
7,500
5,000
8.0
11.5
A.W.A.
.50
8
2.65| 2 07| 2 031
2 42
2 05
64,900
4,900
3.S
7.0
.50
7
1.011 .79' .77!
1 02
.75
61,20C
80,950
9.1
10.9
.50
5
.751 .76
.77
.83
.73
15,100
12,000
6 5
12.4
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.421 1 61! 1 6 3J
1.70
1.43
2,700
2,700
3.1 5.9
1.00
9
1.411 1.411 1 45,
1 74
1.37
4,200
13,6001 6 2| 75
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
5.451 6.00
6.00|
6 23
5.65
3 0
5.6
A. K. Cement
.50
5
1.35
1.36
1.311
1.62
1.20 21,20c
4,300
3.E
7.4
1.00
10
2.631 1.80
1 721
2 55
1.80
3,600
2,200
5.8
8.1
A.C.I.
2.00
20
5.60, 5.88
5 841
6 02
5.40
9,250! 8,600
3.4
6.8
2.00
20
5.131 4.80
4 701
5.20
4.10
400
2,300
3.4
6.1
AGO
.50
7.5
1.531 1.45
1 481
1 48
1.22
38,100
14,050
5.1
9 5
A.P.M.
1.00
8.75
1.54i 1.61
1.661
1.87
1.51-| 29,700
23,800
5.21 8.7
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3.30
3.20
3 201
3 45
3.15
1,800
1,300
6 3
6.8
A.U.C.
1.00
10
4.50
3.90
3.85|
4.05
3.75
100
2 6
8 4
1.00
10
2.68
2 10
2 22!
2.46
2.15
3,600
4,100
4 5
7.5
Bank N.S.W.
2.00
20
5.75
5.12
5.36|
3 68
5.02
19,010
5,550
3.7
7.1
.50
5
2.101 1.95
1 851
2 44
1.95
100
2 7
9.1
1.00
15
2.80
3.25
3.20 j
3.30
3.00
1,200
4 7
10.1
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.551 1.70
1 681
1 87
1.52
4,550
6,650
4.5
6.6
Bonds Ind.
.50
5
1.13
1.13
1 16|
1 16)
,98|
4,3001
4 3
8.8
Borai
.50
10
2.351 l.VU
1.911
2 40
1 83
14,500] 11,800
5.2
7.0
Borg Warner
1.00
6
2.301 1.75
1.701
2.05
1.70
6001 200
3.5
8.7
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
.70| .57
57 i
69
.56
5,400
7,700
8.8
12.3
Brambles
.50
7 5
1 80
1 82
1.67
15,984
2.600
4 2
7.2
Brit. Tobacco
1.00
12
1 70
2.39
1.77
29,9007 32,550
5 i
7 6
B.H.P.
2.00
18 4
4 98
5-701 5 84
5.98
4.54
113,7651113,275
3.2
5 8
Bruck Mills
.50
53
■ 651
73
.55
700
12,700
9 6
13 1
Burns Philp
1.00
10
3.70
3.80
3.801
4.10
3.65
6,700
3,500
2.6
6.9
C.U.B. •■Z"
1 00
13
3 83
3 48;
3 88
13.40
5,400
8,400
3.7
6.6
Carp., W. R.
.50
7 5
2 36
2 43
2 50:
2 73
2.41
20,750
8,600
3.0
6.2
Carrier Air
.50
4
. 65
.64
.621
.80
.60
9,800
11,450
6 5
12.8
C'maine Perk
1.00
17
6 00
6 00
6 10|
6 40
5 93
700
2 8
5.2
Chamberlain
.50
6 25
1.48
1 25
1.25
1.38
1.23
6,600
5 0
23.7
Clyde Ind.
.50
7 5
1 05
.95
.961
1.10
.91
12,600
4,000
7.8
12.3
Coal Allied
.50
5
.98
1 45
1 50
1.50
1.26
8,100
1,900
3.3
9 3
Coles, G. J.
.50
5 5
1.45
1 23
1 311
1 41
1 20
51,150
64,400
4 2
6 4
C.S.R.
1.00
12 5
3 16
2.77
2 ?8
3 26
2.72
34,050
16,950
4.3
8.5
C.A.G.A.
1 00
10
.78
1 38
1 37;
1.65
1.30
2,418
1,400
7 3
11.8
C.B.C.
1 00
10
2 50
2 22
2 28'
2 63
2 15
14,600
1,300
4 4
7.6
C.B.A.
1.00
10
2 25
2 22
2.23
2.25
2.02
900
5,400
4.5
6.4
Com. Union
.50
4.25
1 45
1 15
1.121
1 44
1 12
800
1,800
3.8
5.6
C.I.G.
1.00
11
2.48
2.70
2 80
3 32
2.55
2,200
2,600
3.9
9 6
.50
.49
36
•36]
.48
• 26
97,550
24,700
12 5
Consol. Press
.50
6 25
3 35
2 73
2 80
3 40
2 60
1,000
5,200*
3.6
7.1
2.00
16
2 78
2.75
2 80
2 82
2.58
1,500
5.7
9 3
Courtaulds
1.00
5
87
62
.63|
.75
.57
800
400
7 9
10 8
1 00
12.5
3 95
4.50
4 601
4.601
4 10| 1,300]
2 7
7.7
Cresco
2 00
20
5 90
5 00
5 00|
6 25
4.90
12,300
3.2
5.6
Cust. Cred.
.50
5
.62
.71
.79
.63
17,700
11.0
Cyclone
1 00
10
1.80
1 16
1 08|
1.48
1 04
2,000
12,400
9 3
22 0
2 50
25.5
5 20
4 65
4.76 J
5 00
4 60
2,600
5.4
10.1
D.F.C.
2 00
23
6.40
6 20
6 201
6 55
6 20
400
3.7
7.6
Drug Houses
1 00
10
1.65
1.72
1.721
1.93
1.58
6,250
6,000
5 8
8.3
Dunlop
1.00
8
1.96
1 30
1 35|
1.65
1.24
12,900
19,350
5.9
9.8
E.M.I.
.50
7.5
2 13
1 78
1 831
2 15
1.78
8,400
6,700
4.1
10.1
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
18
2.15
2 22
2.38|
2.40
2 12
21,300
24,600
7 6
9.2
Elders, G. M.
1.00
10
2 00
2 20
2 181
2.38
2.01
8,500
5,900
4.6
10.3
Electronic "B”
1.00
10
1.13
.80
■ 80j
1.04
.80
3,000
6,900
12.5
16.8
Email
.50
3
63
.38
• 40|
.51
.37
23,650
12,050
7.5
7 8
E.S.A.
2.50
14.69
4.90
5.80
5 80:
5 80
5.20
100
450
2 5
7.5
Evans Deakin
.50
6 25
1 20
1.27
1.29]
1 40
1.26
11.450
4 8 8?
Fairfax, J.
.50
8 5
2 48
2.13
2 15|
2.80
2.10
5,9001 1.300
4 0
5.3
Fairymead
1.00
6
2 15
1.65
1.68!
2.10
1.50| 2,500
3.6
Felt. Text.
.50
5
75
56
• 56|
.70
.54
8,700
17.200
8.9
12.7
Fibre Cont.
.50
6
1 80
1 31
1 33|
1.40
1.23
2.200
1.500 4 5
8.6
Fielding, J.
1.00
17 5
3 75
3 58
3.60|
3.72]
3.431 1.700
4 91 7.n
Gen. Credits
.50
4
.53
53
■541
.60
.50
200
6,600
7.4
9.7
Gen. Ind.
2 00
12
1.18
1 25
1.26|
1.38
• 95| 1,600
1.300,
9 5
19.2
Gollin
.50
4 5
80
80
.801
.88
.701
750
5 6| 11 1
Gordon, Gotch
.50
10
2.90
2 35
2 30]
2.70! 2.251 2,087
2,600|
4 3' 6.0
Grace Bros.
.50
6 25
1.60
1.73
1.77;
1.91
1.69
15,150
1,000
3.5
6.7
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
last
Al' ords. H .
318.01
323.09
101.81
102.90
50 Leaders
105.96
107.81
Banks
165.60
168.23
109.22
110.49
Other Fin
479.57
492.29
66.32
67.73
Pastoral ....
219.20
220.30
115.09
112.60
Transport
478.02
482.60
97.07
97.31
Retails (Merchants)
337.10
337.52
94.34
93.85
Services
43.03
44.11
Foods ....
166.86
170.96
100.74
102.45
Textiles ....
184.03
182.65
75.98
75.72
Chemicals
333.44
339.69
83.79
84.02
Electrical
413.44
415.53
61.03
61.34
Papa; . . . .
102.88
103.74
Building
669.97
670.80
90.86
90.43
Fuel power
169.96
170.39
Automotive
729.80
733.21
76.85
77.22
Steel, Eng. .
449.82
458.00
111.77
113.30
Non-ferrous
1145.61
1182.12
193.01
198.48
OIL
SUGAR
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
'last
121720
Brisbane
Melbourne
147.05
120.49
158.24
127.88
117.47
Share
Par
1 Div.
1 Year
IWeek
1 Fri.
| 1966
Turnover
I Yield %
Value! cents
1 ago
1 ago
| close
]High |Low
1 Syd.
| Melb.
] Div.jEarn.
Hardie, J.
1.00
10
5.601 4.73
4 65
5 06
4 40
1,300
2 2
6 4
Healing, A.G.
.50
.63
.24
.22
■ 5£
.18
13,500
9,600
37.0
Herald, W. T.
.50
12.5
4.80
4 60
4 5C
5 22
4.35
2.90C
12.0001 2 8
3 8
Hooker, L. j.
.50
.35
.26
25
36
,2‘
14.20C
2,400
15 8
Humes
1.00
12.5
3.08
2 25
2 45
2 9C
2 1C
1,216
4,150
5.1
8.3
Huttons,
.50
5
.98
.90
. 9C
1 04
. 8E
2,200
5 6
10 8
I.A.C.
.50
5.9
.90
.80
.82
.82
.77
37.30C
11,300
7.1
11.9
I.C.i.A.N.Z.
2 00
15
4.20
4 00
4.1C
4 32
3.6C
6,40C
3,500
3.7
5 1
Inter. Resist
.50
6.25
1.33
.90
• 8£
1.45
.85
1,500
1,200
7.1
9 2
Jones, David
.50
6.75
1.53
1 40
1.4C
1 62
1 38
19,450
14,000
4 8
8 h
Jonas, Henry
1.00
10
3.70
3.50
3 5C
4 1C
3.4C
3,95C
700
2.91 8.?
Kauri
.50
.43
.19
.21
.26
.18
400
3,300
14 5
Kelvinator
.50
7.5
2.50
1.95
1 95
2 0?
1.92
900
3 8
8.7
Koitaki
.50
12.5
1.18
1.15
1.20
1 3ui 1.15
500
10 4
13 5
Lend Lease
.50
5
.93
1.14
1 14
1 25
1.01
13,950
3,200
4 4
7.9
Life Savers
.50
8
2.58
2.42
2 45
2 55
2 24
3,700
2,000
3 3
4 7
to ht> J -
1 00
11
2.88
2.16
2 20| 2 63| 2.14
5,200
4,100
5.0
8.4
2 00
31.68
7.10
8.16
8 16
8 40
7.66
6,550
1,250
3.9
3.9
MacRobertson
1.00
8
1.85
1.14
1.15
1 55
1.10
500
3,700
7.0
7.6
MarrickviJIe
.50
7.5
1.39
1.35
1.36| 1 55
1.22
13,000
400
5 5
6 3
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
1.6®
1.86
1 88! 2 08
1 82
9,600
2,400
2 71 5 6
M. Nickless
1.00
12.5
3.28
2.85
2 75! 3.201 2.70
55C
6,300
4.5
6.0
6.6
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7.5
1.65
1.18
1.26
1.5C
1.16
3,200
3,600
10. fl
McPhersons
2.00
16.6
4.13
3.60
3 5E
4 0£
3.40
300
2,600
4.6
Millaquin
1.00
20
3.50
2.65
2 82
3.1E
2.60
1,050
' 1,100
7 1
8.1
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.82
1.64
1.76
1 2 07
1 62
10,800
4,600
5.7
14.2
Minster
1.00
20
6.50
3.48
3 40
5 68
3.13
2,700
5,000
5 9
12.6
Morris, Philip
2 00
24
5 50
6.80
6.90
7.36
6 20
200
600
3.5
12.1
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.95
.65
.66
. 8C
.58
4,000
14,450
7.6
9.5
Myer
.50
8.75
3.26
2.93
2 91
3.56
2.85
21,950
51,320
3 0
7.0
Myttons
.50
6
1.53
1 57
1 541 1 64
1.42
200
8,500
3.9
N.Z. Forest
1.25
9.56
2.80
2 90
2 90
2 95
2.60
950
3,000
3 3
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
2.25
2 00
2 01
2 10 1 87
17,100
11,950
7,500
5.6
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2.65
2.35
2 35
2.40
2 27
2,000
Nat. Dairy
News
N.Z. Ins,
2 25
.50
1.25
26.7
5
11.5
41.00
1.50
3.03
37 50
1 40
2.60
39 0O|42 00j38.00
1.46 1 82| 1.36
2.60 2.82 2 60
90
400
10
2.5
3.4
5.5
7.1
Olympic
Optical
Overseas
P.G.H.
Peko
Penfolds
Perp. Trustee
.50
1 00
.50
.50
.50
.50
2.00
5
15
5.5
8
8
6.25
17
.97
4.60
1.18
1.68
1.52
1.53
3.75
.65
4.10
1.10
1.31
2 22
1.56
3.90
.70
4 10
1 04(
1.30
2 40
1.52
3.77|
.80! . 641 6,800
4.70) 4.10| 800
1.16; 1 08| 400
1 60| 1.20| 8,850
2 40! 1.85] 51,900
2 03] 1.50 2,200
3.901 3.551
14.400
10,500
17.400
7.1
3.7
5.3
6 2
3.1
6.6
14.1
7.3
10.8
10.3-
5.3
10.6
Petersville
Peters, W. A.
.20
.50
2.5
6.25
.53
1.80
.59
1.73
.59
1.80
.64
1 92
.55
1.70
10,700
28,000
4.2
6.2
Pioneer Cone.
Prestige
.50
.50
6.25
5
1.47
1.30
1.40
.90
1 47
.90
1 62
1 05
1.37
.80
18,600
5,100
4.3
8.6
Provincial T.
.50
5.5
1 20
1 11
1 10
1 30
1 00
950
5 0
.50
5
1.98
1 39
1.33
1 55
1 20
1,500
3.8
13.5
Q'land Can
.50
5
1.15
1.02
1 00
1 13
1 00
7 00
400
Q’land Cement
2 00
20
7.40
7.45
7.25
7.70
Q'land Ins.
1.00
12.5
3 73
4 18
4 13
4.50
4 00
2,100
Q’land Press
1.00
16
5 80
5.Q5
5 00
5 45
4.78
200
3.2
Reeds
.50
7
1.99
1.51
1 50
1.74
1.48
8,000
4.7
Repco
.50
7.5
2.18
2.01
2 04
2 24
1.98
9,550
135,800
3.7
6.2
Rocla
.50
7
2.30
1.80
1.80
2 14
1.78
300
6,200
3 9
Rothmans
1.00
20
3.55
2.82
2 88
3 15
2 68
3,200
’800
6 9
S.A. Rubber
.50
5.62
1.40
1.05)
1 05
1.25
1 00
400
8,300
5 3
S.T.P. Hold
.50
6 25
.90
.97
.96
1 00
.88
2,200
4,900
Schweppes
.60
5.75
1 65
1.50
1 45
1 85
1 45
2,800
1,600
3 8
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2 30
2 55
2 55
2 55
2.30
2 9
Simpson Pope
.50
1
.45
.30
.30
.46
.27
1,500
3 3
Sleigh, H. C.
.50
5
.75
.58
.56
.72
.55
28,450
37,400
8 9
12 3
Smith, How.
2.00
10
2.48
2.40
2.43
2.57
2 39
8,500
2,900
4.1
Softwood
1.00
10
2.95
2.65
2 65
3 25
2.07
2,200
4 4|
3 9
Sth. Brit. ins.
1.25
14.16
3 80
3.60
.901
3.60
3 85
2 06
3,800
Steamships
.50
6.66
.96
.94
1 05
.88
6,600
1,800
7.1
11.4
Stedman, J.
.50
7.5
1.92
1.60
1.65
1 88
1 60
7,000
4 5
Swan Brew.
.50
3.12
2 30
2 33
2 45
2 50
2 21
3,400
15,550
2.7
3.2
Tarax
.50
6
.93
1.05
1 05
1.22
1 00
100
1,200
5.7
9 6
Taubmans
.50
8
1.56
1 01
1 03
1.18
.90
4,200
1,700
7 8
9 0
TV Corp.
1 00
20
2.88
2.75
2.75,
2 75
2.08
600
7.3
Thiess
.50
.40
.69
.68
.76
.63
7,900
9 5
T ooheys
.50
4.25
.99
1.13
1 14
1 21
1.10
23,000
3 . 7|
5 7
Tooth
1 00
15.75
4.84
5 22
5 35
5 40
4.90
8,750
3,400
3 O'
Union Carb.
1.00 .
10
2.98
3 50
3 52
3 65
3 28
2,100
200
2 8
5 8
U.E. Box
.63
5 84
1.33
1.35
1.23
1 48
1 23
500
4.7
11.3
Walker, F. J.
1 00
12.5
1.68
1.36
1.43
1 63
1 25
3,000
8 71
Waltons
.50
6.5
.86
1 50
1.03
1.12
.85
22,354
15,500
6 1
Webster, A. G.
.50
8
1 25
1.50
1.20
1 50
1.25
900
6.3|
3.1
Will’ms, F. W.
1.00
10
3 80
3.10
3 22
4 04
2 95
10,300
100
Woolworths
.50
6
1 53
1.37
1.36
1 44
1 30
47,052
23,200
4 4|
6 0
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year Ago
Month ago
Week ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton
Copper, wire bars, ton .
Gold, oz. . .
Lead, cash, ton ....
Silver, troy, oz
Tin, cash, ton
Wolfram, unit, c.i.f .
Zinc, cash, ton ....
Wheat, Australian ton
Linseed Oil, ton ....
Cocoa, 50 kilos ....
Coffee ... ....
Cotton, American middling
£ 196
£ 4981/2
£ 12/11/3V4
£ 103 15-16th
109%d.
£ 1562
£ 11- £ lli/ 2
£ 116l/ 2
£25%
£ 971/2
108/9
withdrawn
£ 196
£ 5721/2
£ 12/11/61/4
£ 91 15-16th
1115/ad.
£ 1344
£ 13- £ 13%
£ 94
£ 265/fe
£ 831/2
186/3
withdrawn
£ 196
£ 605
£ 12/11/91/2
£ 931/4
lllV4d.
£ 1283%
£ 12"%- £ 13%
£ 96%
£26%
£ 861/2
191/3
withdrawn
£ 196
£ 6451/2
£ 12/12/1
£ 961/2
112d
£ 1294
£ 13-£ 14
£ 973/s
£26 ll-16th
£ 841/z
193/-
withdrawn
lb
Desiccated Coconut, ton
Rubber, lb
Sugar, ton
Tea, quality, lb. ...
Wool Tops, 64s, lb. .
23 45d.
£ 180
21%d.
£ 21
4/2-6/-
107d.
23 35d.
£ 131
20 ll-16th d.
£ 20%
4/6-4/9
121d.
23 6d.
£ 140
21 ll-16th d.
£ 19
4/7-6/Z
121d.
23.6d.
£ 140
21 ll-16th d.
£ 171/2
121d.
(All figures
in sterling)
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
London
New
York 1 Tokyo
| Financial Times ’
Dow
Jones |D. Jones
Inds.
Secs.
Gold
Inds.
| Rails | Avge.
Jan. 3, 1966 . . .
338.7
78 74
61 3
965 54
247.38:1430 13
374
79.43
65 2
995 15
271.72 1588.73
337.3
76.91
58.4
864.14
220 54 1412 98
365.2
77.09
59.3
876.11
228 50|1560.28
364.6
76.91
60.3
882.73
227.1511517.81
364.1
76.51
60.6
882.62
227.70jl507.03
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
| SYDNEY | MELBOURNE
|l N DUSTR1 AL| MINING |INDUSTRIAL|
MINING
Sales | Value 1 Sales 1 Value 1 Sates 1
Vol. | J | Vol. | $ Vol. |
1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 | 1000 |
Value 1
S 1
1000 |
Sales 1
Vol.
1000 1
Value
S
1000
Week before
Week to Friday
2384.013606.01 1262.01 1034.01 1830 1
2620.214032.21 2390.7| 1750.8) 2192 |
2813 1
3243 |
352 |
2945 |
836
1837
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend . . 6 30
MELBOURNE
dividend 5 43
earnings 8 65
LONDON ( F.T.)
dividend 5 15
earnings 6.95
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3 22
earnings 5.94
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short 4.97 4.97
Medium . . . . 5.13 5.14
Long . . 5.25 5.25


If it's
Banking!
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
vated by stock clearing at discount prices
by neighboring businesses. This is the only
major store left in business between Park
Street and Central. It appeared to lose
about $164,000 last year.
Last year, all branch stores were de-
clared profitable, contributing $58,822 in
total to 1965-66 profits. Rockdale was
the only one not to show increases in
turnover and profitability, and major
alterations to the Rockdale shopping centre
should give that store more area for better
service.
Foy’s avoided liquidity problems by rais-
ing sl.3m. in 1964-65 on mortgage of
the Piazza freehold from a leading life-
assurance company. Although repayments
were to commence in 1973, the loan was
in excess of requirements, so $400,000 was
repaid in the year under review, and at
January 31 there were still $200,000 lent
out in short-term deposits. This fixed-
term borrowing cost Foy’s $76,256 in
interest in 1965-66, and $79,748 the year
before.
If JTHE Parramatta property, bought about
ten years ago, cannot be leased to ad-
vantage and has been for sale for a year.
Freeholds are in the books at sl.Bm. (1962
valuation mainly), although the Valuer-
General puts them at $5.2m. (on which
rates are calculated). This, of course, is
not necessarily their market value (sale
of the Marcus Clark city store was well
under the VG) but at any rate shows a
huge margin over book value.
Mark Foy’s does not face the same
sort of debtor problem as Marcus Clark by
any means. Trade debtors were reduced
from sl.lm. to $978,000 after writing off
$23,972 bad debts, and before providing
$77,554 for doubtful debts and unearned
interest. Stocks, after a steady provision
of $420,000 . for “fluctuation,” fell from
$2,050,340 to $1,964,836.
The year 1961-62 saw the first net loss
since the depressed ’thirties, and touched
off managerial and board squabbles in this
old family firm which are still resound-
ing. The percent dividend paid for
four years up to and including 1963 was
cut by half in 1964, then increased to 8
percent in 1965, and chopped back to 5
percent with the latest result.
Some shareholders did not approve of
the declaration of a final \\ percent divid-
end for 1965-66. Another shareholder,
brother of a former chairman and manag-
ing director, suggested a 10c capital return
on the 50c shares, but was told at the
annual meeting that liquid funds were
required for equipping new branches. (A
new fashion shop will open in September
at Bankstown, for instance.)
February Jan. 31
1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Gross profit s’ooo
(1) u.a. 207 138 258 178
Tax s’ooo u.a. 33 51 51
Depreciation s’ooo 57 52 33 56 56
Net profit s’ooo 38 122 105 151 71
Earning rate p.c. 0.4 8.2 6.7 10.9 4.1
Dividend rate p.c. 12 J /2 12V2 6V2 8 5
Earning rate on _ _ . ,
total funds 0.1 3.8 2 5 3.2 1.6
Current ratio 1.64 1.67 2 00 2 84 2.57
Fixed assets s’ooo 2056 1960 2269 2334 2366
Dividend yield _ _ .
p.c. (2) 6.0 5.4 6.1 8.3 7.1
Price/earnings __ _
ratio (2) 52.6 27.7 23.2 8.9 18.2
Share prices:
High (3) 148 125 103 66 55
Low (3) 97 78 52 38 30
1. Profit before tax and depreciation.
2. End of May, month accounts presented.
3. Calendar year; 1966 to date.


—aXKWftOf - ftQftrinr, •■
sm,
:mSSSSSBSS&BSSSS: fMtSmm
<ikZ»*Q,
1’ *
.TMJ
mmm
m
mm
vmxcr
* , (
m h
mm
It
F_.
Cinzano Vermouth is a great party drink; fashionable, and
not expensive. Superb in cocktails, it’s utterly enjoyable
straight and very cold, “on-the-rocks,” or with a little
soda. Add a professional touch by serving
CINZANO SWEET (red) with a lemon peel
CINZANO EXTRA DRY with an olive
CINZANO BIANCO (sweet white) with a cherry
CINZANO AMARO (pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
I
f
ihLk.
House Founded 1757
Write to Cinzano. Birmingham Street. Alexandria. N.S.W., for
"Have a Cinzano Party" Folder.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Healing Very Speculative
Market doubts on the dividend
IN our present rather nervous market,
it is not perhaps surprising that the
announcements made by A. G. Healing
Ltd. on May 6 and May 13 seemed to
have depressed the price of the com-
pany’s shares, so that they are now being
traded at 27 cents and have been as low
as 20 cents. If the 1964-65 dividend rate
of four cents per share is to paid in
1965-66, the current price gives a dividend
yield of 14.8 percent. One can only assume
that the market is not expecting this rate
of dividend and may not be expecting any
dividend at all to be paid this year.
In the chairman’s address in the 1965
annual report, it is stated that: “As you
know, two of our companies, AGH Manu-
facturing Pty. Ltd. and Healing (Sales)
l J ty. Ltd., include domestic-appliance
manufacture and wholesale distribution in
their activities, and although profitable
this does not by any means constitute a
major part of our business.” In the same
report, a split-up of group sales shows that
“consumer appliances, television, radio,
refrigerators, etc.,” constitute about 17 per-
cent of the total. It must, therefore, be
assumed that the problems which produced
a fall of 38 percent in net profit before
tax, depreciation, and interest on loans
did not emanate solely from the consumer
durable section.
It would seejn that the major problem
occurred in the automotive spare parts
division.
PERHAPS the most surprising factor
which emerges from the 1965 con-
solidated baFance sheet is the high level of
debtors, even after the sale of R & G
Finance to Mutual Acceptance Company,
rhe decrease in total amounts receivable
decreased by only $5.5 million approxi-
mately and the amount at June 30, 1965,
was $12.5 million in round terms. In the
announcement of the sale of R & G
Finance, it was said that the total con-
sideration would involve about $5.6
million, which would be paid in cash
over a two-year period. “This will com-
prise £75,000 for the issued capital and
the assumption of liabilities for advances
by A. G. Healing to its subsidiary, R & G
Finances Pty. Ltd., of approximately
£2,725,000.” It is now apparent that this
figure of $5.6 million represented the whole
of the outstandings of R & G Finances.
The borrowings of the group present a
rather intricate pattern as the table shows:
Maturity Mortgage Secured Unsecured Total
Date Debentures Loans Loans
5 $ 5 s
As at balance date June 30, 1964
WitwPtwo 2,818,600 172,700 3,407,112 6,398,412
five 1,224,600 247 > 738 523,350 1.995,688
108,200 551,300 1,361,530 2,021,030
years 2,363,800 1,151,300 3,515,100
Total 6,515,200 2,123,038 5,291,992 13,930,230
i .. As at balance date June 30, 1965
to 30.6.66 1,224,600 174,788 2,748,652 4,148,040
witnin two
two ea o five 226,200 72,364 505,100 803 ’ 664
over* five 2,812,600 480,800 1,360,834 4,654,234
years 932,800 2,098,600 8,580 3,039,980
Total 5,196,200 2,826,552 4,623,166 12,645,918
These figures indicate a reduction in
borrowings under mortgage debentures
which it might be guessed were issued to
provide the funds for R & G Finances
(although the amount as at June 30, 1964,
seems to be rather greater than the $5.6
million which seems to have been the
approximate amount of the outstand-
ings of that company). Other borrow-
ings actually increased slightly by $35,000
approximately, but some easing of the
liquidity strains would have been achieved
by increasing the secured debt due after
five years by $947,300. Amounts re-
ceivable consisting of trade debtors, sundry-
hirers, other debtors, advances, deposits,
r ? ay ™, entS are due as t 0
' f tWO years ° Ut ° f a total
° ri , ,
seems that, of the debentures which
matured on March 31, 1966 ($1 224 600)
at i east $744,000 were redeemed in cash!
But I cannot find any reference to the
amount of the $1,200,000 issue of un-
secured notes which matured last Novem-
ber and was similarly redeemed. In any
event, it is clear that borrowings due
within twelve months will be substantially


SYDNEY WATER BOARD
LOAN NOW OPEN!
A new $4,550,000 Loan is your opportunity to gain the
maximum return from a Government-Guaranteed security.
i
2
D
10 OR 15
YEARS
3
8
FOR 7 YEARS
Highest Interest offered by any Government-Guaranteed security
now available in Australia.
Absolute Security. The N.S.W. Government unconditionally
guarantees interest payments every 6 months and full repayment
of principal at maturity. The Loan is also secured on the Board’s
annual revenue, estimated at $62,000,000 in 1966/67.
Cash Applications will be accepted in full or by instalments;
investors pay 10% deposit on application, and the balance by 30th
September, 1966.
Two Conversions. Holders in Loans Nos. 150 and 262 (5£%)
maturing on Friday, Ist July, are invited to convert to the new Loan.
Trustee Security. An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Tax Concessions. An approved security for Trustees of Pension
and Superannuation Funds who wish to qualify for Taxation
Concessions.
Invest or Convert at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New
South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of
New South Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the Board’s
offices.
SYDNEY WATER
Underwritten by A. C. GOODE & CO., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
29.783
less at June 30, 1966, than they were at
June 30, 1965.
However, the most interesting feature
of a reduction in borrowings so far as the
equity shareholders are concerned would
be the accompanying reduction in prior
charges against income. Over the past
five years net profit before tax, deprecia-
tion, and interest on loans has been re-
markably steady, but so have the prior
charges, as the following table shows:
Year to Net profit before Interest and Percent
June 30 tax, depreciation and grossed-up of (B)
interest on loans pref. dividend to (A)
s’ooo
(A) ( B >
1961 2,959 928 31.4
1962 2,965 1,112 37.5
1963 3,017 1,058 35.1
1964 2,925 1,110 37.9
1965 2,993 1,196 39.9
1965 (December) 2,455 1,174 47.9
The problems associated with Healing’s
type of capital structure are apparent from
the results of the 12 months to December
31, 1965, when a marked down-turn in
profit occurred at a time when liquidity
was still difficult.
The merger with A. E. Goodwin cer-
tainly seemed to have achieved its stated
objective of providing stable profits until
this year, but the high cost of borrowing
seems to have been overlooked. In the
1964-65 year, the amount of interest paid
represents 8.1 percent of the average
amount of borrowings over the year, de-
spite the fact that at least one-third of the
total was for a period of less than 12
months.
If, as a result of the payment for R & G
Tinances, borrowings could be reduced to
about $9 million and if net profit before
tax, depreciation, and interest can regain
the level of 1961 to 1965; i.e., about $3
million, then it is possible to see the earn-
ing rate back to about 17£ percent. If
the dividend rate is then raised to 15
percent again, it is possible to believe that
the price might eventually get back to $l.
This year, it seems that, even if a full
recovery occurred in the second half, „ the
earning rate cannot exceed about 8.3 per-
cent, and if the level of the first half con-
tinues into the second, then the earning
rate could be down to 3.4 percent. I would
think that current prices are low, but I
must also admit to the very speculative
nature of the shares at the present time.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES ($’000)
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 13,996 14,500 15,108 15,052 18,916
Current
liabilities 13,542 13,906 14,250 15,090 17,666
Net working
capital 454 594 858 (38) 1,250
Debtors 16,097 15,104 14,875 16,141 11,322
Land and
buildings 5,556 5,796 6,062 8,954 8,836
Plant, etc. 3,734 3,862 3,734 4,090 4,176
Investments 541 545 539 322 2,742
Intangibles 146 168 132 116 292
Total capital 26,528 26,069 26,200 29,623 28,618
represented by:
Negative working
capital 38
Loan capital 13,328 12,856 12,708 13,930 12,676
Preference
capital 1,100 1,100 1,100 1,100 1,100
Employees’
capital 125 125 125 125 125
Ordinary capital 5,955 5,955 5,955 5,955 5,955
Reserves 6,020 6,033 6,312 8,475 8,762
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES ($’000)
Income from
investments NA 157 154 105 . 63
Interest on loans 815 999 945 990 1,076
Depreciation 400 402 390 436 435
Tax provided 605 647 622 470 438
Preference dividend 69 69 69 69 69
Employees’
dividend 19 19 15 15 10
Earnings 1,051 829 946 945 965
Ordinary dividend 893 893 715 715 476
Surplus 158 (64) 231 230 489
Earning rate % 17.6 13.9 15.9 15 9 16.2
Dividend rate % 15.0 15.0 12.0 12.0 8.0
Dividend yield % 7.7 7 4 6.0 7.7 6 0
High price 1.08 1.15 1.15 0.98 0 85
Low price 0.88 0.88 0.85 0.67 0.49


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION UMITEO
Paid up capital $23,350,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
NEW ISSUE
7i% 6 YEARS
7 % 5 YEARS
6i% 4 YEARS
•
51% . ... 12 MONTHS
FOR 7 YEARS
Other rates and terms available —• see Prospectus for full
details. Prospectus and application form available from:
♦ ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGEp l I!
♦ ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
♦ ALL BRANCHES OF I.AX.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
1006
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
MAN ON THE LAND
Toward Stable Wool Prices?
Less heat on private buying
THE tumult and the shouting over the
threat, or alleged threat, of private
wool buying seems to be subsiding.
In its place there is commendable com-
ment and suggestion.
Mr. Thompson, of Woolcombers Ltd.,
who took such strong objection to our re-
marks a month ago, has been unable to
persuade the producer organisations to set
up co-operative units to supply him pri-
vately, although his buyers are undoubtedly
increasing their private purchases on an
individual treaty basis.
A recent London “Economist” article
throws new light on Mr. Thompson’s
moves. The “Economist” said: “By this
means Woolcombers hopes to get wool at
a lower price (some Australians have
spotted this, hence the squeal) and, just
as important, at a stable price. As a
comber, in an industry which is becoming
more capital intensive, it does not regard
the speculation which is the essence of the
traditional top-making business as a good
basis for investment.
“There is also another likely result of
Woolcombers’ pressure for more stable
wool prices, which it has not been so
anxious to talk about. Many small top-
makers only keep going by successful
speculation. Greater stability will cut down
the room for speculation. Thus their last
way of compensating for the structural
weaknesses of their position will be blocked.
Many of them will go out of business,
taking the combers with which they are
allied with them. Capacity will be cut —
something that is long overdue. This trend
may make things a little tougher for Wool-
combers, too, in the short run by cutting
its own profits from speculation (naturally
it tried to take over the best speculators
when it was on its buying spree among
the top-makers), but it is now so large that
it can ride things out and play for the
long term. This is ruthless action, which
will not find favor in many corners. But
it’s what Yorkshire needs.”
As one who did “squeal” that Wool-
combers’ aim was cheaper wool we find the
above extract from the “Economist” par-
ticularly interesting.
Even more so is the new angle on
“stability” which the International Wool
Secretariat tells us woolgrowers need so
badly. Stability, while it may have advan-
tages for growers, perhaps has greater ad-
vantages for large concerns wanting to
take over small ones . . . and thereby,
in the long run, cut down competition.
Sydney woolbuyer and Queensland
grazier Mr. Rowland Smith reported on
his return from a trip to the U.S., Britain,
and France last month that the great
majority of wool manufacturers and mer-
chants he had spoken with were not inter-
ested in buying wool privately.
Mr. Rowland Smith said he found little
support for Mr. Thompson’s claim that
wool processors throughout the world
generally were “becoming dissatisfied with
the auction system.” Said Mr. Rowland
Smith: “They gave me a number of reasons
why they would continue to purchase their
requirements of Australian wool through
the auction system.” These were:
• The auction system did not involve
them in heavy costs.
• They knew six months ahead the
quantities and types of wool to be offered
in the various selling centres.
• The wools offered were prepared satis-
factorily.
• In many instances, they did not have
to pay for their purchases until the wools
were delivered overseas because finance
was provided by woolbuyers in Australia
operating through the auction system.
• Everyone had equal access to the auc-
tions and they were competing against one
another in a fair manner.
Mr. Rowland Smith said he was more
than ever convinced that support for pri-
vate buying and the by-passing of the
auction system was only due to a desire
to buy wool at a lower price. Significantly
he added that U.S. growers were unhappy
about the private system of selling in
operation there and many were now sell-


% /tSICMESs I^SOTo^
m
as*
psl
YOUR
'*****■;<s
PROTECTION
It pays to put all your
‘insurance eggs’
in one basket
FOR YOUR PROTECTION and FINANCIAL BENEFIT it could pay you hand-
somely to consult us now on all your insurance requirements. Simply
complete and post the coupon below or call us and we will be pleased
to provide you with full information without obligation.
&
THE AUTOMOBILE FIRE & GENERAL INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Founded 1422}
Branch Offices: Melbourne 678531; Sydney 211 4099; Brisbane 5 4726; Perth 232148; Hobart 2 6403
Sub-Branches at Geelong, Canberra,. Albury, Wagga, Goulburn, Newcastle, Townsville.
SEE prompt settlement
A.F.G. * COMPETITIVE RATES
FIRST * UBERAL POUCIES -
Post today:— A.F.G., P.O. 'Box 1625 M, Melbourne.
Please supply me with further information regarding your special
benefits and services available to me.
I am especially interested
IN
NAME
INSURANCE
ADDRESS..
PHONE
A . F.G 1 2786
ing through growers’ co-operatives on a
sealed-bid system.
While agreeing entirely with this part of
Mr. Howland Smith’s remark, one hazards
that he may have found less enthusiasm
had he gone into the matter of presenta-
tion of catalogues.
Yet this surely is something the industry
can improve with no recourse to bureau-
cracy. The traditional practice of offering
wool for sale as it comes into brokers’
stores does appear to result in an over-
supply of certain types at certain periods of
the selling season.
Professor F. Gruen, of Monash Univer-
sity (agricultural economics), more or less
threw a bomb at a management symposium
at Ballarat recently when he said: “The
emergence of private selling may provide
brokers with some useful competition and
I for one cannot see why growers should
object to this,
“An awful lot of nonsense is talked
about private selling of wool. There is no
reason why growers should not sell pri-
vatelv so long as they get more money by
doing so.”
Professor Gruen (and we agree with
everything he said this time) also ques-
tioned the wisdom of increased massive
wool promotion and the “stability theory”
so much in favor with the IWS and the
Wool Board.
He said the main reasons why synthetics
had gained some markets at the expense of
wool were not to be found in either price
stability of man-made fibres or the relative
lack of wool promotion. Up to mid-
-1965 the IWS had not succeeded in
measuring or quantitatively estimating the
effectiveness of its promotion expenditure
in terms of increases in wool consumption
and/or price.
He made reservations about all these
remarks, pointing out that it would be dif-
ferent if private buying increased to 50
percent of the total clip (at present it is
around seven percent) and insisting that
he should not be taken as being opposed
to all research and promotion expenditure.
M R. i, a. SIMPSON, a strong supporter
of the defeated reserve price plan,
has also had some pertinent things to say
about private buying, which appear to
make good sense. His view is that, as
private buying is likely to increase, the im-
portant thing is to advise the grower so
that he does well out of it. He thinks
growers contemplating getting their wool
valued by a private buyer should get a
valuation (for sound quality merino wools)
of between 18 and 20 percent better than
the price they got last year at auction.
“Growers who are prepared to do a bit
of bargaining could well get very attractive
offers, and it is quite certain that on the
information available there is no need to
panic and sell at any price,” he says.
Meanwhile, Mr. W. J. Vines, of the IWS,
has informed a London Press conference
that the “IWS is confident of selling all the
extra wool Australia can produce next
year.”
This we pass up. The IWS has not, and
does not, sell one single bale of wool. When
wool is bought it claims the credit, and
when it is not it remains silent. It’s doubt-
ful also if there will be “extra” wool.
Like Professor Gruen we await with in-
terest some real proof that the vast pro-
motion expenditure has had any real bear-
ing on wool consumption.
The Wool Board has set up a committee
to investigate private buying, which will
report to another committee, which will
report to the Board, which, in turn, will
report to the Wool Industry Conference.
Sir William Gunn, after announcing the
formation of the new committee, took off
for U.S.A. and other parts. Possibly he
had time, before he left, to catch N.S.W.
graziers’ executive officer, Ick Hewins’,
comment . ; . as fine a piece of drollery as
we have come across in a long time.
Said Mr. Ick Hewins:
“My association earnestly hopes that this
is a step which will lead to the recon-
struction of the Wool Board’s permanent
Marketing Committee in a manner which
will enable industry representatives, drawn
from woolgrowers, buyers, brokers, and
others, to function continuously as members
of that committee.”
It’s about time. .


nisi
tit'**
osT
»«*>*%
M.U*
u
post M»V C ‘
Geeteevee
£s■«»<> st
-dtG GW*®**
_ i/GIPOL * IGr
vkbticip^ 108 stop t O5 t ° ?
C -- - - -
** GTV9'
B> «■ J*
<• -r 0 F F ' c -
"a** 9 *
*USTR& Ufctl
T
OSf °f\
AmpoTand GTV9:
proud to be associated in another first
in the sports world!
Since the inception of television Ampol and GTV9 have combined to
bring viewers the great events in Australian sport, including telecasts
of Olympic Games, Davis Cup, Melbourne Cup, Football Finals.
\
STRALIAN
wm
Q
Lru
OWNED
AMPOL BIG GAME
FOOTY QUIZ
THURSDAYS AT 7 PM
ON GTV 9
AM2691


INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CREDIT CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF $4,000,000 DEBENTURE STOCK
6;%
p.a.2 YEARS
7%
p.a. 5 YEARS
p.a.7 YEARS
p.a. 10 YEARS
SHORT TERM STOCK ALSO AVAILABLE 3,6, 9 AND 12 MONTHS.
Applications may proceed only on the form attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is obtainable from:
any member of a recognized stock exchange
any branch of the A.N.Z. Bank Ltd.
any branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
any office of IHCC of Australia Ltd.
any branch of lan Potter <St Co.
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co. and Australian United Corporation Ltd. hi77s.d<«
AGRISEARCH
More Rain Where It's Needed
We can make it ourselves
AVERAGE rainfalls over a great belt
of eastern Australia could be increased
economically by up to 25 percent.
Dr. E. G. Bowen, Chief of CSIRO’s Divi-
sion of Radiophysics, is confident of this.
And he does not exclude the possibility that
rain can be induced to fall abundantly over
the western and northern regions of the
continent: he just can’t say for sure be-
cause rainmaking experiments have not yet
been conducted over these areas, but he
points out that the cloud formations and
weather patterns are often of the right
type. All of Tasmania, with the exception
of the west coast, can also be given more
rain.
Unfortunately, he is not at all hopeful
about the Centre, where suitable clouds
rarely occur. This is the situation over
much of South Australia, too. Attempts to
make rain within 50 miles of the eastern
seaboard were also likely to be unavailing
because when the right clouds appeared
they usually precipitated rain anyway.
Dr. Bowen, therefore, recommends that
rainmaking be established as a regular and
routine activity over all the country from
250 miles inland to within 50 miles of the
eastern coast, stretching from southern
Queensland to Tasmania. His staff is will-
ing and able to provide advice and training
in the art and to help in planning the
operations, which he considers should be
undertaken by State instrumentalities. Per-
haps at first, while practical experience and
materials are being built up, operations
could be restricted to drought areas.
“Hit or miss” programs of this type, how-
ver, would not permit anyone to decide
with scientific certainty how much of the
rain precipitated was artificially produced
or fell naturally. Likewise, this approach
could be used to lessen a fire risk or even
stem a bushfire, as was done last summer
in Gippsland, in Victoria, when a large fire
was raging out of control. On this occa-
sion, after clouds were treated, heavy falls
of rain occurred along much of the fire
front and the firefighters were soon able
to mop up the remaining fires. Probably
this rain was a direct result of cloud seed-
ing, though some or all of it may have
fallen by chance. Such an experience, i.e.,
one based on a particular instance, does
not help in deciding whether the technique
was applied most effectively, nor can it in-
dicate what to do on a future occasion.
BUT, if rainmaking were instituted over
water river systems on a continuing
basis according to a plan, the results would
show not only how much extra rain had
definitely been produced but also how
the operation could be modified to make
it even more effective. They could, further-
more, indicate how rainmaking activities
in other areas could be refined. If this
approach were adopted, besides gaining
more rain we would win more knowledge
about rainmaking.
Dr. Bowen’s economic pointers make
his proposal look good. The Snowy
Mountains Hydro-electric Authority has
apparently satisfied itself that a one per-
cent increase in rain would repay the
cost of a year’s rainmaking activity over
the catchment area. Water, of course, is
less valuable in the production of food
than it is for generating electricity, but
in agricultural areas a five percent in-
crease would surely cover the costs. An
exact figure is hard to determine, as it
will be strongly affected by the type of
agriculture benefiting from the rain and
the time when the rain fell.
According to Dr. Bowen, each addi-
tional half inch of rain that falls during
August and September in the Riverina
adds s2| million to the district’s wheat
yield. He has estimated that one aircraft
could look after 10,000 square miles of
country and the total annual operating
cost would be $50,000, i.e., less than one
cent per acre per year.
Obviously, tremendous problems are
going to arise in organising any large
rainmaking scheme. The legal implications
alone are appalling. But in a dry land such
as ours, in an increasingly hungry world,
the difficulties simply must be surmounted.
And if anyone wishes to avoid the issue
by challenging Dr. Bowen’s figures he
should first consider that rainfall increases
exceeding 25 percent have been recorded
in some of the experiments.
Moreover, the Division of Radiophysics
is not alone in its conviction that rain
can be caused to fall from certain cloud
systems by sprinkling silver iodide among
them. The U.S.A., Russia, Israel, and
Japan all agree and claim average in-
creases ranging from 10-15 percent as a
result of cloud seeding.
The only point at issue is whether
enough cumulus-type clouds appear over
a particular area often enough to make
rainmaking sufficiently rewarding. Dr.
Bowen has now charted these areas for
eastern Australia.


CLARENCE DEGENHARDT
AND COMPANY
INCORPORATING
DAVIS, ROTH WELL & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
John W. Duncan, Peter Davis,
K. Rothwell, A.8.1.A.
Members of The Sydney Stock
Exchange Limited
A. A. Lakos, A.A.S.A.
H. P. Vains, A.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
BUILDING
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
28-1751, 25-1853, 25-3327
GEELONG CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL, CORIO, VICTORIA
A Scholarship Examination will be held on
Saturday, Ist October, 1966, for entry to the
School at Corio.
Candidates must be between 12.8 and 13.8
on that date (except for the George Good-
man, where the age limit is 13.8 - 14.8 and
the Junior Scholarships, wnere the limit is
10.8-11.8). Eight boarding scholarships will
be awarded. Two will be worth half, and the
others worth one-third of the full school
fees.
There is no need for a candidate to travel
to the school tor the examination.
Application forms may be obtained from
the Headmaster, and must be returned before
the closing date, Ist August, 1966.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL: NORTH
SYDNEY.
There will be a vacancy on the staff of this
school from January Ist, 1967, for a Master to
teach Science to Matriculation standard. Apply in
writing to the Headmaster, B. H. Travers.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To STELLA CARRALL. TAKE NOTICE
that JOHN WILLIAM CARRALL has
filed a Petition No. 3974 of 1965 for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 15th day of July, 1966, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from David C. Bivens & Emery,
Solicitors, of Cessnock, by their Sydney
agent, W. F. Holmes, 209 a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Regis-
trar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
No. M.C. 17 of 1966.
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY.
TO LYNETTA OLIVE BELLINI formerly
of Blythe Heads, in Tasmania. TAKE
NOTICE that DOMENICO BELLINI has
filed a divorce Petition against you on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that if you intend to defend the Petition
you must file an Answer within 28 days of
the publication of this notice at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart, or at
the Launceston District Registry, Cam-
eron Street, Launceston, from which ad-
dress further information can be obtained
otherwise the Court may hear and de-
termine the proceedings in your absence.
DATED this 30th day of May, 1986. J. R.
EATON, District Registrar.
HELP
all the year round
The OLDEST and LARGEST
Mercedes-Benz Dealer
in the Commonwealth
Announces with Pride
that on display in their
Parramatta Showroom,
the New Range of
MERCEDES-BENZ
230 & 250 Models
Your Inspection is Invited
XttARSHAJULS
MOTORS
PTY. LTD.
312 Church St., PARRAMATTA
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or ordered
for $l.lO including postage from the
same Library, Box 4088, G.P.0.,
Sydney. A few copies of the 1963 Index
are also still available.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 903
ACROSS
1. Do you pawn the Chantilly people in general? (8)
5. Some spelling father utilises. (6)
9. It’s sweetest turf ride if bond is broken. (9, 5)
10. Idriess, I see, has a capital style. (5)
11. Sing badly enough for some of 1-across. (9)
13. Irritable in some private urger deleting it. (8, 2,3)
16. The show-off critic may be thus in denouncing a
show, but the brilliance is not sustained. (5, 2,3, 3)
20. Executive amateurs orphaned
these clippers. (9)
22. Backward melody thanks a
lasso. (5)
24. Although walking heavily in
an art that obviates the need
of offering a penny in pur-
chase. (7-7)
25. Chemical corporation laid on
the wood. (6)
26. Pawnbroking establishments’
reports on beer? (8)
DOWN
1. Bird to enter when short of
breath. (6)
2. Chaperon doesn’t take tea
with a dictator. (5)
3. Lava-lava from Colin Holt.
(9)
4. Fish chills these manuscript
rule-books. (7)
6. A rift composed by an Arabian
demon. (5)
7. Not yet dead? (9)
8. A Nip is like this suffering.
(2, 4)
12. Still one having an abominable
reputation in high places. (4)
13. A lucky strike? Should have
been a catch. (6, 3)
14. Simple air composed for
Napoleonic long-hairs. (9)
15. Newts taking 150 from the
clefts. (4)
17. The North should love. (6)
18. The bloke’s threesome is a
stage-player. (7)
19. Measures scrambled egg
(U.S.A.). (6)
21. Where Charles Martel had his
triumph journeys. (5)
23. Is the first person of leave
with a Spanish friend? (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 902


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name .
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for ....
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change
their addresses are asked to notify “The
Bulletin” Subscription Department well
in advance in order to avoid a break
in the continuity of service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper hearing the former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.
SPECULATORS DIARY
Beware of Too-high Dividends
Reflections on a growth cycle
BRITISH TOBACCO’S interim report, with its news of increases in both profit and
dividend, illustrates how quickly things change in the share market. Only a year
or two ago the name Rothmans was synonymous with growth. British Tobacco
■was an “income stock,” a damning label if ever there was one. (Some cynic once said
that a stock went through four cycles: first it was growth proposition, then an income
stock, next a recovery prospect, and finally a vehicle for a backdoor listing!)
But to return to British Tobacco, which
has so strikingly turned the tables on Roth-
mans. Today it’s a growth stock, with its
yield slowly contracting as its share price
rises. Rothmans, with profits barely steady
and yielding over 7 percent, is the in-
come stock.
There’s a moral in all this as far as
dividend rates are concerned. Beware the
company that pays too high a dividend
rate. There’s no scope left for an increase,
only the risk of a decrease. Gompanies like
Brambles, Stocks and Holdings, and Payn-
ter and Dixon have recognised this and
have used bonus issues to get their dividend
rates down to levels from which increases
might again be expected.
Currently Ampol would appear to be
the classic case of a company paying a
dividend rate that is too high for the good
of its own shares. If Ampol had cut its
dividend back to 10 percent three or four
years ago, it’s conceivable that the shares
would be higher on the market than they
are now at a precarious 14 percent rate.
I digress. None of this has anything to
do whatever with my week’s transactions.
Instead, the mining market has once
more lulled me into some sort of fixation,
Of course I’ve been delighted to see Kath-
leen Investments back to its cum-issue
price in the very first week of rights trad-
ing. Yet I utter a weak cry every time
I look at the Western Mining and Wood-
side markets. There I was, not two months
ago, overjoyed to be making 40 cents a
share on my Western Mining. By now I
could be making over $2 a share. Just
three weeks ago I was even more elated
to be making 12 cents a share on my
“little Woodies.” By now I’d be making
30 cents a share. However, I mustn’t be
greedy. They were nice profits at the time,
And I do still have 500 Woodsides on
which I am making 30 cents a share. So
what have I to complain about?
4 his week I decided the mining market
was best for just watching and wonder-
ing. Some good potential gains must surely
be lurking about in the industrial market,
which, slowly but surely, is showing all the
signs of rising. Even the financial writers
of the Sydney dailies, who much prefer
to purvey doom and gloom, are being
forced to take notice of the industrial
market’s stirrings. The doyen of their trade
has even been rash enough to say, in
passing, that the economic pointers for
next year are looking more favorable.
That was enough to make me rush in
and buy a few more industrials.
I began by adding 200 more shares to
my holding of Hanimex. Here is a typical
case of a “sleeper.” The shares have been
steady at just under .151.50 for weeks. Yet
the yield is 6.6 percent from a dividend
that should be at least twice covered by
profits this year, even though earning rate
could well be lower (on increased capital).
Next year Hanimex’s profits look like re-
suming their upward path.
r £ , HE company is nothing if not aggressive,
whether it’s trying to break into the
magnetic tape market here or into the
photographic business in Canada, or even
in Germany, for that matter. Next they’ll
be selling cameras in Japan! One thing is
certain: Hanimex’s management should
never be underestimated. And that’s just
what it has been by the majority of brokers
and investors in recent years.
I was tempted to buy some more
Comeng at just over $1 (yielding 7.4
percent) but hadn’t the funds, as I’d also
bought 400 Tennyson Textiles. News of
the suggested merger \vith S.T.P. put the
shares up over 80 cents, although they
were quickly back to 78 cents. Tennyson
is another of those underestimated stocks.
Its record has been faultless in recent
years. Earning rate last year was 35
percent, which was nearly three times the
12 percent dividend rate. Yet the 35-cent
shares sell at little more than twice par.
S.T.P., with figures almost as good, is rated
no better. Perhaps they’ll both enjoy a
higher status merged into one company.
They deserve to.
BOUGHT
2 CO Hanimex $1.48, $302.
4C3 Tennyson 78c, $319.
SOLD
2CO VAM 59c, $ll6.
200 Fowlers Vacola 46c, $9O.
ICO Tyree $1.65, $l6l.
400 Nuttall 70c, $294.
The portfolio now comprises:
Cost
No. of Name of Date Per Price
Shares Company Bought Share 8/6/66
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 SI. 10 SI.OO
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.73
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.38
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.06
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.19
400 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 1.98 1.95
50 Kathleen rights
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 2.73
400 Steel Mills 2/5/66 0.68 0.70
500 Hanimex 6/6/66 1.45 1.48
500 Haulage 11/5/66 0 54 0 58
500 Woodside 13/5/66 0.25 0.40
200 Sydney Mutual 17/5/66 3.45 3.4 C
200 F. W. Williams 24/5/66 3.05 3.02
400 McDowells 31/5/66 0.75 0.75
200 O'Donnell Griffin 31/5/66 1.23 1.23
400 Tennyson 7/6/66 0.78 0.78


fl/v-
-:
Si*
las’ i
-yfl&iiM
m
. A,
H.v
i -55 V. .«
t:\.
• ■ *
,&• '
the cure: Wanaka!
(pronounce it to rhyme with Monica)
mm
fU
*«
Hi
*
r*- - ~\i>
#9
- •
\<ZsL r '-.r.
Think of thirty miles of blue
lake cradled in the craggy highlands
of New Zealand's Southern Alps, its
shores edged with poplars and
green pastures. You're at the
Wanaka Hotel. 200 miles to the
nearest stock exchange yet
you are living - really living - in a
sumptuous international hotel. The
Wanaka Hotel is one of New
Zealand's new look resorts, only
recently opened but fast making
a world-wide name for
itself. Why so fast? Because there
are few places on earth where God -
given beauty and man-made comfort
so blend to charm and tranquillise
you. And there's even more to it.
Wanaka is a crossroads. To the
south, a wonderland of lakes and
fjords; west is the new Haast Pass
Road cutting right across
the Southern Alps to glaciers,
forests - and another dazzling new
resort hotel at Franz Josef Glacier;
A
Want to know more? See your travel
agent or the New Zealand Government
Tourist Bureau, 14 Martin Place,
Sydney; 93 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne;
M. L. C. Building, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
WANAKA
NEW ZEALAND


■
$BB
B
m
gas*
■
~~
m
Omega Ladymatic, requires no winding. The faceted watch is cut from a man-made sapphire. In 18 ct. yelloiv gold. $l3O (£65)
With one flick of your wrist, your Omega Ladymatic
conies to life . . .
From the moment you slip the Ladymatic on your wrist, its self-winding
movement starts developing its own power.
This Omega Ladymatic is based on a
brilliant new idea. It is that a woman’s
watch can be strikingly fashionable and
practical at the same time. This Omega
Ladymatic is perfect for the style-
conscious woman who depends on her
watch in her day-to-day life.
Like many men’s watches sold today,
it is self-winding. It draws its power
from every natural movement of your
Omega Ladymatic actual sz\e
wrist, frees you from worries of over-
winding, under-winding. Take it off at
night and it still works perfectly in the
morning. And the Ladymatic is even
more reliable than hand-wound watches.
Your every-day wrist movements supply
its mainspring with a gentle flow of
the power that pays off in enhanced
precision.
Your Omega Jeweller will show you the
full range of Ladymatics. In fact, it is
the largest collection of self-winding
watches in the world.
Slip one on your wrist and see how
elegant a self-winding watch can be.
ci
OMEGA
0M65 96
•#>
i
