

The
Bulletin
APRIL 30, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
MAKING A
UNIVERSITY
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


Solid sterling silver
14 carat gold-
makes a Parker 75
yc
i
a
: ...
But it’s Parker penmanship that makes the difference.
Until you write with this pen, you'll never know how
near to perfect the Parker 75 really is.
Just a few ingenious adjustments and the 75
attunes itself to you, to your unique mannerisms the
way you hold a pen, your individual writing style.
Encased in antiqued sterling silver with contrasting
14K gold point and arrow clip, the magnificent Parker 75
is deservedly yours. As a distinctive gift, its exceptional
elegance speaks eloquently of the giver. Price $39.95.
+ PARKER
maker of the world's most wanted pens
Matching Ballpen
available at
$lB 90
P125.107.1005C.


how do you move this and keep it working?
use this.
A Grace Bros, expert is only a
phone call away to move any sized
office quickly, economically, effi-
ciently. □ Guarantee to have the
office back in operation on sched-
ule □ Offer you a foolproof cata-
loguing system which prevents
confusion and mix-ups □ Have
Australia’s biggest office removal
equipment pool □ Also specialise
in executive, government depart-
ment and consular moves □ Cus-
toms and forwarding services
□ World-wide removals. Grace
Bros. will safely store inactive files
and records, allowing immediate
access at anytime. Grace Bros.
are geared to give
you the most rea-
sonable quote.
GRACE BROS
ACROSS THE STREET . ACROSS THE WORLD
GRACE BROS REMOVALS
Sydney 2-0946 □ Melbourne 48-7316 n Brisbane 5-4631 n Adelaide 51-1316
Perth 24-5137 □ Canberra 9-0234 □ Hobart 34-3988 □ Newcastle 2-4302
Townsville 6091 □ Lismore 2265 □ Murwillumbah 133 □ Queanbeyan 737
LETTERS
Dylan for President
Sir,
Charles Higham must be getting old,
or in need of a holiday. First Yevtushenko,
then Private Eye, and now, though a little
more obliquely, Bob Dylan. I am dis-
turbed by his eagerness to misinterpret
his subjects by judging them only by
external appearances, ignoring the import
of their work.
Example: Bob Dylan strongly influenced
by James Dean? Hardly; both are alike
perhaps in their rejection of an outdated
code (for want of a better word), but
Dylan’s outspoken comments and songs
are totally unlike Dean’s mute protest.
Dylan is trying very hard to influence his
generation for good, and with mass media
and communications becoming more effec-
tive he may just about succeed. Certainly
the reactionaries are worried. Dylan’s
words would sound strange coming from
President Johnson, as would Yevtushenko’s
protests on the lips of Mr. Kosygin. What
the world has needed for generations (a
pipe dream, this . . . ) is more men of the
calibre of Yevtushenko, Dylan, and, yes
even William Rushton in far more
strategic positions than the “system” will
allow them.
BRUCE MORLEY.
Wentworth Falls (N.S.W.).
Defence
Sir,
I wish to draw attention to the fact
that Mr. Brian Buckley’s comments on
“Aspects of Australian Defence” (8.,
March 26) gives a misleading impression
of my contribution to that work. He
states that my contribution “is concerned
with the tactics of Communist subversion
and how to counter them.”
Out of a total of 21 pages not much
more than two dealt with this aspect.
There is a danger that Mr. Buckley will
have people thinking that I spend 21 hours
per day looking under beds for Com-
munists from China. In this modern age
I would not be likely to find either Com-
munists or China there.
F. L. SKINNER
Lieutenant Colonel.
(Retired List.)
Beaumaris (Vic.)
The Opera House
Sir,
Granting that THE BULLETIN has a
higher-than-average share of good copy,
surely Mr. Michael Baume’s Opera House
article “Who Are The Guilty Men?” (8.,
April 2) is one of the most brilliant things
of its kind. Until I read Mr. Baume, I
thought I would never see a balanced
report of the issues. With a sort of master-
ful aloofness he led us briskly through
major facts, back-room asides, and a vast
spectrum of opinion without once fumbling
the theme. Thank you for a fine report
well presented.
JIM TAYLOR.
Hawthorn (Vic.).


I V
■
■
■
in
the world
of
chemicals
mm
<
.. v; , ■
w
means quality
Whatever the .Industry... plastic**
paints, agriculture, textiles,
packaging, rubber or electronic**
Allied Chemical is your most
dependable source for quality
chemicals ... over 3.000 in all.
Executive Office: 40 Rector Street, New York, N.Y. 10006, U.S.A.
Australfa & New Zealand: Allied Chemical (Australia), Sales Ltd., P.O.
Box 164, Penrith, N.S.W., Australia
W. HERMON SLADE (IMPORTJ-HOMEBUSH N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
Pty. Ltd., Mandemar Avenue
ALLIED CHEMICAL-PENRITH, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
(Aust.) Sales Ltd., P.O. Box 164
at
SWIFT & COMPANY (TRADING)-ASHFIELD, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Milton Street
SWIFT & CO - WELLINGTON C.t., NEW ZEALAND
(Trading) Pty. Ltd., Box 1002
W. H. HUTHNANCE & CO. • LOWER HUH, NEW ZEALAND
P.O. Box 469


Friden
He has an electronic calculator
with a visible memory.
See the TV screen?
That’s where all his entries and
answers appear. They’re on a
restful, blue-green field. Four reg-
isters can be seen.
A fifth, unseen register can be
used for storing constant factors.
In fact, figures in all registers
are in memory. He can recall any
of them back to the working reg-
ister for further calculation. This
saves him an amazing amount of
time. And also eliminates any
chance of making an incorrect
re-entry.
He can work complex prob-
lems and never take his fingers
off the keyboard, except to write
the final answer.
This is the incomparably fast,
new 130 Electronic Calculator by
Friden.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
The 130 Electronic Calculator by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
254 ALBERT STREET, EAST MELBOURNE. 41 1133
Branches:
Conscription
Sir,
I would like to thank Dr. M. Charles-
worth for his fine article on conscription
(8., April 9). The claims of prudence and
expediency (as made in the other three
articles of April 9) must still leave us
facing the question: Do we believe that
the individual is really not worth much
when measured against the community
or State?
A similar situation is sometimes sug-
gestive. If a lifeboat was so crowded that
the safety of the group was endangered,
how many readers (and writers, too) of
THE BULLETIN would consider the
group morally justified in heaving out a
few members to save the group? Logically,
most of those who are convinced that only
our participation in the war in Vietnam
can save our democracy should now be
offering themselves for battle instead of
unselfishly forcing others to it.
(Miss) A. C. DORAN.
Armadale (Vic.).
Trading with the Enemy
Sir,
Thank God for Alan Reid! I refer to
his article “Trading With the Enemy” (8.,
April 9).
In the course of a recent speech, Sir
Wilfrid Kent-Hughes pointed out that
the wheat we exported to China did not
alleviate the hunger of the starving mil-
lions. China exported to Japan rice and
soya beans to the value of SUS. 69 mil-
ion in 1965.
W. M. BURCH.
Armadale (Vic.).
Wheatgrowers ' Case
Sir,
Man on the Land (8., April 2) poses
some interesting questions in his reply to
Mr. Meehan’s Presidential Address at the
Victorian Wheat and Woolgrowers’
Annual Conference. Some relative points,
however, have been overlooked.
I have never heard of barley growers
who sell outside the Barley Pool in Vic-
toria and South Australia being on con-
tract, but many sell to get the cash which
they so urgently need. Individual selling
naturally leads to collusive buying.
Your reference to the 1930 s is apt.
About 6000 Australian wheatgrowers
walked off their unprofitable properties
during those hungry ’3os; crowding the
labor market; causing unemployment and
business losses. It was during that period
that organisations such as the Victorian
Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Association
were born.
Hope came with the new organisation
and the prospect of orderly marketing,
but many years were to pass before Wheat
Stabilisation became a reality. It came
after World War 11, when the market
was buoyant overseas and, during its early
period, growers contributed approximately
£2OO million to the Australian economy
by selling wheat for Australian consump-
tion below the overseas price. You
evidently consider now that this debt has
been repaid by the effluxion of time.


i
>:
A long way since the horse and plough . . ■ Many things have
changed since then. Different ways of turning the soil. Newer methods of sowing the
seed. Better, faster ways to harvest the crop.
In agriculture, Frigrite are there, too. Through their modern agricultural division,
Dangar, Gedye and Malloch, they design and manufacture equipment for the fast
handling of grain for storage and new techniques in irrigation and water movement.
Frigrite play a vital part in the development of Australia’s agriculture.
AIR CONDITIONING • REFRIGERATION • AGRICULTURE • INDUSTRY
CREATING THE CLIMATE FOR PROGRESS


How
would
you
label
a
butterfly
Why label a butterfly? To study their migratory habits.
Seems some butterflies travel a thousand miles!
And Avery came up with the answer.
Was fun. Another first for Avery. It comes naturally.
In 30 years in the labelling game, Avery have always been
first.
Tricky labelling problems are fun for Avery. They enjoy
their work. Which is why. Avery are the biggest and the
most successful in the world.
Want to label a butterfly? Or anything? Temporary or per-
manent? Large or small? Better ring Avery right now—and
reverse the charges.
830/4/66
Please send me free samples and full information on
Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kum Kleen labels.
COMPANY.
NAME
ADDRESS.
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 Union Street, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 560-7177
30 Cotham Road, Kew, Victoria. 86-7911
131 Elizabeth St., Brisbane, Qld. 2-8259
49 Flinders Street, Adelaide, S.A. 23-1504
AL.J3
You have overlooked the fact that
growers must pay the storage and main-
tenance cost on 60 million bushels of
wheat provided for home consumption
and wait for payment on about 20 million
bushels which the Federal Government
insists must be carried over the end of
the season to insure against a possible
shortage in any part of the Common-
wealth.
Australian manufacturers and Australian
workers are subsidised by tariff protection
against overseas competition, but wheat-
growers must sell their product on the
world’s market, competing against heavily
subsidised wheat from other exporting
countries which is sometimes sold on non-
commercial terms.
Growers are not so well off as you
apparently consider. Land values are
accentuated by the desire of many farmers
to keep their boys on the property. The
farmer with a growing family must expand
by using all available credit, or the boys
go elsewhere for employment.
The Wheat Stabilisation Plan, function-
ing over five-year periods, is a powerful
incentive to increasing efficiency, as
growers who can rise above the average
are sure to succeed.
P. B. LEACH
Vice-President,
Victorian Wheat and Woolgrowers’
Association.
Walpeup (Vic.).
Exports to Africa
Sir,
If Australia is to become a competitive
exporter in world markets, constructive
and forward-looking action is essential.
I would like to raise three points in this
connection.
1. Here in West Africa, there is a con-
siderable potential market for Australian
goods, in particular for meat, dairy pro-
ducts, wine, and canned fruit and veget-
tables. Australian produce—when im-
ported, and this is seldom—compares
very favorably in price with the American
and European product. But outside of
Nigeria, where there is a Trade Depart-
ment office, little effort seems to be made
either by the Australian Government or
by the individual manufacturer to solicit
business.
2. Australian products here meet with
initial prejudice; they are, in general,
considered to be of inferior quality, and
much of this is due, I feel, to unattractive
packaging, which is not only lacking in
imagination but which presents a definitely
old-fashioned and dowdy image.
3. A major factor in Australian export
action is distance from many of the
world’s markets. If we are to sell to such
far-flung areas as West Africa, where
direct shipping services are not only slow
(7-12 weeks) but infrequent, would not
a Government subsidy of additional ship-
ping be possible? If, as recently hap-
pened; a Monrovia store orders Australian
goods which leave Sydney on March 31
and do not arrive in Liberia until June 8,
what incentive is there to import from
Australia? Similar goods can be received
from Europe or U.S.A. in 3-4 weeks.
(Mrs.) HELEN EVANS.
Monrovia, Liberia.


i
■ •
HH
*
i
m
■
mNMMWH
Why do so many
businessmen fly TAA?
Businessmen in a free enterprise
economy appreciate the benefits of
competition.
They know that their best guarantee
of good service lies in having organi-
sations competing for their business.
This is the position in the Australian
Airline Industry.
IN OPEN COMPETITION
TAA enjoys no special privileges
over its competitors. It is subject to
income tax, payroll tax, sales tax, etc.,
normally met by other commercial
enterprises, and is required to pay a
dividend to the Federal Treasury out
of profits.
TAA has no exclusive rights to any
airline traffic, and must compete
openly for every passenger and pound
of air cargo.
JET-AGE EFFICIENCY
The fact that TAA gains the greater
overall share of the competitive pas-
senger market is indicative of TAA’s
business efficiency.
The continued business success of
TAA helps ensure the competition
vital to a healthy airline industry.
BENEFITS OF COMPETITION
This competition guarantees that
every Australian will continue to
enjoy the right to choose by which
airline he will fly, or consign air cargo.
Supporters of free enterprise, in
placing business with TAA, are pre-
serving for themselves these benefits of
business competition in the airline
industry.
This is one reason why so many
businessmen fly on our Whispering
T-Jets. Another is that they simply
prefer to fly TAA.
TAA\
Fly
*yp>
the Friendly Way
TAA is in business for your business
TAA 275/66


MMliilliMilM
y
J
*
imnunm^
on their
second visit
to Sydney
most people
stay at
Chevron
those who
miss it the
first time
are sorry...
those who
miss it the
second
are few
Why? It’s Australia’s most complete hotel
• Chevron is ideally situated: the only hotel in the
“life" of Sydney, with sweeping views of the harbour
from every room • All rooms and suites 24-hour
service, soundproof, air-conditioned with ultra-modern
conveniences including bathroom, remote-control TV,
radio, background music—even choice of soft or hard
beds • Variety of restaurants and bars • Recognised
best dining facilities in Australia • Finest wine and
beverage cellar in Australia (from vintage local and
imported wines to 25 types of beer) • Topline inter-
national entertainers • Masseurs, beauty salon, travel
agencies and bank on premises • Avis Rent A Car
at door • Ample parking • plus many more features—
yet at rates comparable with standard hotels.
Macleay Street, Potts Point, Sydney. Phone 35-0433
1 Chevron
... and the most complete car
rental service
Avis has the widest range
of latest model cars, prop-
erly insured—and there’s
no hidden charges. Rent
it here and leave it at
any of 130 Avis depots
around Australia.
AVIS
RENTA CAR


They've relaxed the migration policy they won't have you if you're unskilled and they discourage you if you are


Face of the Week
Part of the Vietnam Task Force
marched through Sydney, and Mr.
Holt left to spend Aiizac day in Viet-
nam. A panel of architects was named
to finish the Sydney Opera House, and
Mr. Utzon presented a bill for a final
$500,000. In Sydney, 596 yearling race-
horses averaged $2562 each. Tasmania’s
ALP supported State Aid. Fewer bank
hold-ups but four murders. A carters’
strike left Melbourne without milk for
two days. Queensland meat workers’
refusal to work at N.Q. plants cost
graziers $2 million a week. Mr. Has-
luck joined talks on Britain’s “Far
East” defences.
The Australia-Japan Business Co-
operation Committee began discussions,
mostly behind closed doors, to establish
patterns for future trading. The Asso-
ciated Chambers of Commerce began
their annual conference in Adelaide,
with northern development a major
topic. A Health Ministers’ conference
in Sydney agreed to keep a close watch
on Scientologists. A Papua-New Guinea
House of Assembly select commitee be-
gan talks with Territories Minister
Barnes. The Public Service Arbitrator
heard evidence in the Post Office dis-
pute over electronic mail sorting
machines. In the national wage case
hearing in Melbourne, the Common-
wealth counsel advocated a moderate
wage rise.
★
Lady Hudson fired the last shot in
the last tunnel of the Snowy River
Scheme, while in Adelaide Sir William
Hudson called for similar projects in
the North, noting the total flow of all
Australian rivers was half that of the
Mississippi alone. About 30,000 univer-
sity students held a one-day “workout”
to publicise deficiencies in education.
The RAN abolished semaphore signal-
ling. Six models of the 1966 HR Holden
were released. Author Eric Lambert
died in England. Rear-Admiral Becher
was appointed Director of Recruiting,
Sir William Upjohn, Chancellor of Mel-
bourne University. Australia sent
$35,000 of powdered milk to India and
bought rice in Thailand to give In-
donesia’s flooded homeless. Dawn
Fraser and daughter attepded the Osaka
Trade Fair. A branch of the Rhodesia-
Australia Association was formed in
South Australia.
★
Thea Astley won the Miles Franklin
Award, 15,000 N.S.W. nurses won an
eight percent wage increase, ATVO lost
nearly $900,000 in 11 months, and Mr.
Calwell closed a Caucus meeting before
his leadership could be challenged
effectively. Australia’s birth rate was
reported lowest since 1942.
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666, Ext. 2504.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4495
APRIL 30, 1966
Vietnam Balance Sheet
riIHE arrival this week of the
Australian Task Force in South
Vietnam has more than a military
significance important as that
obviously is, since 4500 men with
their own artillery and helicopter
support and their own reconnaissance
squadron will be no mere token force.
But there is also a political signifi-
cance. Australia announced its new
commitment and is making it at a
time when the political rioting in
South Vietnam has so disgusted
people in other countries that many
now want to dump Vietnam, leaving
it to stew, as it were, in its own juice.
Why, they ask, should good men die
for a set of squabbling generals, ambi-
tious bonzes, hooligan and even pro-
Communist mobs in Saigon and Da
Nang? Korea, in fact, postponed
sending its new division pending
political clarification, and the Philip-
pines is again debating its proposed
commitment of 2000 men. The
arrival of the new Australian Task
Force, however, is obviously based
on the assumption that the political
situation is not as bad as the damn-
them-all school maintains.
From the military point of view,
this is clearly true. During the recent
crisis the Vietnamese Army which
has always borne the brunt of the
war largely stopped fighting the
Viet Cong in the northern region,
and since bombs were not unloaded
in Da Nang, the U.S. Air Force had
to reduce its raids by about one-third.
Yet the most striking military fact of
the crisis was that, despite these fav-
orable conditions, the Viet Cong did
not seize the initiative or even in-
tensify their attacks. The reason is
simply that after over a year’s in-
creasingly costly defeats, they were
unable to. They are losing the war and
the crisis merely gave them slight
relief.
But the politics of South Vietnam
are important; ultimately we want to
withdraw from the country, leaving
behind a stable democratic regime.
Yet it is pointless to be optimistic.
Instability is inescapable: the country
is fighting a savage war; there are
no political parties (the 70-
odd so-called parties, as well as
being ridiculous in number, are only
cliques); the real political power
rests with generals, who are unpopu-
lar, or with the bonzes, who want
influence without the responsibility
for running anything; the civilian
elite throughout the provinces was
systematically murdered by the
Viet Cong in the early 19605;
and there are massive numbers of
foreign troops creating not only
inflation but angry xenophobia. To
expect political stability and dem-
ocracy, or even reasonableness, in
such a situation is to spin dreams.
As far as the recent crisis is con-
cerned, the signs of hope are that
it ended not only without a civil war
between Saigon and Da Nang but
without serious bloodshed at all; and
the moderate Buddhists who are
the political base on which we must
build now have a better chance to
participate in Government. The posi-
tion is not good, but it is not worse.
The balance sheet is still in our
favor and shows nothing to weaken
the soundness of the basic reason why
the Australian Task Force is there;
to help prevent the Chinese Commu-
nists from controlling the country,
which over 20 years ago was the base
from which the Japanese swept down
Malaya and Indonesia to Australia.


S.-E. ASIA
Closing the Causeway
IT was Malaysia’s most drastic' move
against Singapore since the two States
separated last August. By announcing
plans to halt the free flow of people and
traffic across the historic causeway which
links Johore State and Singapore, the
Kuala Lumpur Government gave notice
of its determination to oppose any move
Singapore might make to accept Indo-
nesia’s “recognition” feelers. From Kuala
Lumpur Harvey Stockwin reports on the
background to the causeway crisis:
The tragedy of separation continued
to work itself out last week as the two
“confrontations” visibly merged into one.
Indonesia appeared to be adopting a
flexibility in her confrontation approach,
which it would have been in her interests
to have retained all along. Malaysia gave
the appearance of adopting an “uncondi-
tional surrender” approach, but if past
performance and statements are anything
to go by this can easily be changed.
Given these two factors, Singapore’s
understandable attempt to face both ways
riled Kuala Lumpur far more than
Djakarta. Not only has Indonesia’s
Foreign Minister Malik offered to recog-
nise Singapore but also economic “over-
lord” Sultan Hamengku has placed pri-
vate enterprise back within the main-
stream of the Indonesian revolution. Even
as the latter recognises developmental
reality, so does the former epitomise the
victory of real over ideological politik.
Domestic preoccupations may have in-
hibited Djakarta from realising the
“divide-and-rule” possibilities latent in
separation, but she has now set about
making up for lost time.
In retrospect, however, what is most
amazing is that in the eight post-
separation months Singapore and Malaysia
have not worked out a unified response
against a separate Indonesian approach.
They must have expected this, but they
did not allow for it. That they have not
done so is but one more sign amongst
many that the co-operation talked about
to justify separation has found precious
little expression in anything more concrete
than words.
Consequently, while the confrontation
tactics may be moving along the road to
its own demise, the post-separation
tendency to further separation has been
accentuated. At root, this is the result of
the apparent Kuala Lumpur conviction
that confrontation will continue, which
Singapore does not share. The offer to
recognise Singapore was accompanied by
several pronouncements straight from the
orthodox Indonesian litany. These, Kuala
Lumpur would seem to have taken at
face value even though it was previously
assumed there, as elsewhere, they would
accompany confrontation’s slow departure.
Q.IVEN her previous experiences with
Indonesia, plus the fact that while
Djakarta’s tactics may change her long-
term strategy is less likely to do so,
Malaysia’s stand is understandable, if not
justifiable. She demands that confronta-
tion must be called off and all hostilities
must cease.
Lee Kuan Yew would seem to believe
this leaves no room for manoeuvre or
for change. “Mutually beneficial economic
relations” are as much in his interests as
they are in Indonesia’s and, in the
long run, Malaysia’s, too. To some degree
Indonesia’s constants her interests and
ambitions must be either accommodated
or lived with, if the status quo is not to
be solidified.
That the Tunku is not yet ready to
proceed on such an assumption was made
clear further when he turned down the
recent Filipino mediation bid with only
slightly less abruptness than the ultimatum
to Singapore to choose “Malaysia or Indo-
nesia.” Evidently the Indonesians had not
discouraged the Filipinos from trying to
arrange a Foreign Minister’s meeting at
which close consultation might create a
face-saving formula for all concerned.
Where separation was conceived —Tunku Abdul Rahman in a London Hospital bed, 1965.
Le Kuan Yew: The pressure tightens.
The attempt ended in Kuala Lumpur,
where irritation at Indonesia’s success in
“persuading” President Marcos to continu-
ally delay recognising Malaysia encour-
aged the conviction that Malaysia and
Indonesia should end konfrontasi without
the help of a third party. “Normalisation”
of relations with Manila has been loudly
in the offing since January. That it has
yet to take place well illustrates the
maxim that open diplomacy means no
diplomacy.
The absence of unpublicised rapport is
even more conspicuous between Malaysia
and Singapore. The Tunku’s recent three-
hour chat with Lee Kuan Yew in Singa-
pore wetted the sand but no ,cement was
made. It would be idle to blame the two
leaders alone for the ease with which
Djakarta drove home its wedge. Suf-
ficient to note that Lee Kuan Yew was
sending telegrams of assurance from
Bangkok when it might well have been
better to deliver them in person at the
Residency in Kuala Lumpur.
Meanwhile, the Malaysian Cabinet
placed itself in the odd position of
accepting Indonesian statements about
continuing opposition to the “Koho-London
conspiracy” (when the very offer to
recognise Singapore implies some degree
of acceptance of the British presence) as
meaning just that, but at the same time
refusing to believe that when Lee wel-
comed recognition he meant merely that.
Acrimony, rather than harmony, will
continue to increase across the causeway
until the mutual instinct of suspicion is
recognised and uprooted.


BUSINESS
A Pacific Basin?
THE Australia-Japan business commit-
tees were not expected to come up
with any startling innovations in
their Canberra talks last week. Nor did
they. The lines of future economic co-
operation are fairly well defined. It is now
more a question of removing obstacles, of
which there are plenty.
Most hopeful of the portents was a
further crystalisation of the idea for a
Pacific Basin co-operative development
scheme. Present at the talks as observers
were representatives of Canada and New
Zealand, which revealed a growing in-
terest in the possible establishment of a
permanent secretariat as a first step.
Obviously there is a long way to go
before this idea is implemented. This also
applies to such key matters as the estab-
lishment of a joint Australia-Japan ship-
ping line to handle bulk cargo trade be-
tween the two countries under government
auspices. Outside the committees Mr.
McEwen reported his talks with Mr. Sato
on the matter and gave the impression that
the Japanese Prime Minister is in no hurry.
The committees had useful discussions
around this subject without producing any-
thing tangible. This was also the case
with the big problems such as deterring
a fuller participation by Japan in joint
industrial ventures here in which Japanese
capital would participate. Two stumbling-
blocks were mentioned by the Japanese
side. One was the absence of a double
tax agreement between the two countries.
A break-through on that will depend on
a revision of the Australian Government’s
belief that such an agreement would
mainly benefit Japan. The other difficulty
lies in Japan’s own restrictions on the out-
flow of capital. Businessmen on both sides
vowed to keep up their pressures on gov-
ernments on these two questions.
The question of more Japanese capital
coming here has become more urgent with
the likelihood of a rise in tariffs on
Japanese motor vehicles leading to the
assembly of more vehicles here. At present
Japan’s investment in Australia is small.
Industrially it is confined to a handful
At the Canberra talks: Dr. Shigeo Horie,
Chairman of the Bank of Tokyo.
of industries such as fertilisers, plastics,
textiles and printing inks.
As our biggest potential market for
minerals Japan also expressed its con-
tinued interest in establishing joint ven-
tures, particularly in iron ore, and is ob-
viously vexed that the minerals field is
being occupied so energetically while she
has to stay on the sidelines.
J. C. HORSFALL
ARBITRATION
Judges or Juries?
THE big question everyone at the
Arbitration Commission wants
answered is: Who was responsible for
inserting into the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s case the submission that the Com-
mission be unanimous in its decisions?
“So, the Commonwealth puts the view
with very great respect, that the proper
approach is for the members of this Bench
. . . not only to consult together but to do
their utmost, through fullest discussion, to
reach a unanimous decision . . .”
The urbane, silver-haired, Mr. John
Kerr Q.C., was near the end of his four
hour submission on behalf of the Common-
wealth Government when these words
caused a sudden stiffening of backs
amongst spectators, at the Bar table, and,
unfortunately for the Commonwealth, on
the Bench and then came the fatal
analogy.
“. . . An analogy may be the respon-
sibility of a jury. It is the prime duty of
a jury to continue discussion until agree-
ment is reached. Deadlock can occur but
it is a relatively rare event . . .” Judge
Wright leaned forward and fairly bristled:
“I find that paragraph extremely offensive
to me personally. I hope you are not res-
ponsible for it.”
Mr. Kerr retreated to the neutral
corner: “Your Honor, I can only put
the submission this way in my own words.
The submission is designed to produce, if
possible, a unanimous decision of a fact-
finding tribunal. It is designed to ask the
Commission, with the very greatest of res-
pect, to see the advantage of that result
55
Judge Wright: “It is something I have
always done so far as I have been a mem-
ber of a multi-Bench. Each of us is under
an oath to faithfully discharge our duties
Mr. Kerr: “I appreciate that.”
Judge Wright: “And, frankly, I resent
the analogy to a jury.”
Mr. Kerr: “The analogy to the jury I
think is made only to make the point . . .
that at the very heart of the Commission’s
task is a very complex and difficult finding
of fact, namely, the state of the economy
55
Judge Moore interposed at this point
to keep the Commonwealth on the run:
“Why do you keep saying we are a fact-
finding tribunal? The more difficult fea-
ture of our task, I would think, is not the
finding of facts but the decision making,
the quasi-legislative nature of our task.”
M R . KERR side-stepped and tried to re-
turn to the question of the state of the
economy but Judge Wright came in from
the other flank: “So, following up this
analogy of the jury are we to have re-
trials if we cannot reach unanimity?” Mr.
Kerr must have wished himself back in
the Sydney Criminal Court addressing a
real jury—real juries can not talk back.
He told His Honor with the very greatest
of respect that of course consciences have
to be followed, etc., and the Common-
wealth was only suggesting what was
“desirable” . . .
Judge Wright: “That is one consruc-
tion. Another might be that the Common-
wealth is assuming the role of the judge
directing the jury in these proceedings.”
(That fatal analogy, again.) Judge Wright
went on to suggest to Mr. Kerr that he
take his “unfortunate paragraph” back
to where it came from and smartly.
The Commonwealth Counsel assured
the Bench (Judges Wright, Moore, and
Gallagher, and Commissioner Winter)
that he would return it to the “appropri-
ate authorities” to see if they wished to
persist with it, and then returned with
some purpose to concluding the Govern-
ment’s case: not what one would call a
happy ending. The Commonwealth had
better get one thing straight. If it thinks
it can push the Arbitration Commission
around, even if with the greatest respect,
it has another think coming at least,
so long as Judges Wright and Moore are
on the bench. The one excuse for the
Commonwealth’s submission was that last
year Chief Judge Kirby let it be known
that his minority judgment in the national
wage case was drawn up without his
being aware of the nature of the majority
judgment of his three colleagues. This
entitles the Commonwealth to suggest that
there be adequate consultation amongst
members of the Bench, but it is scarcely
a warrant for suggesting unanimity.
The Commonwealth case was, alto-
gether, rather poorly constructed and on
crucial issues like what it meant by “a
moderate increase” in wages and whether
it is proper for the Commission to review
marginal rates on general economic
grounds, the Government offered no real


.2
m
msam
kiM:,-
i
**''•• J
<■ ■■:
:
ipfc
Hi
HR
am
Compete on level terms with overseas manufacturers
Speedo does-with Qantasflir Cargo. So do Sheaffer and A.C.I.
Australian manufacturers who
regularly use Qantas Air Cargo
meet the same delivery deadlines
in overseas countries as do local
producers. Speedo broke into the
highly competitive American market
with swimsuits that were even
bought and worn by competitors in
the American National Swimming
Championship. Sheaffer competes
successfully with its own parent
U.S. company with sales of pens in
the Far East. A.C.I. flies plastic
moulds to New Zealand to make
and market bottles locally in
double-quick time. Whatever your
products, you can compete overseas
as successfully as these companies.
Only Qantas offers you so many
direct jet flights to so many major
world markets. You can depend on
Qantas to expedite the handling of
your goods from the Jet-Age Mascot
Terminal. Clinch your first order
with Qantas. Follow up with Qantas’
superior after-sales service.
Air freight costs less than you
think—frequently costs no more.
Credit these savings. Lightweight,
low-cost packaging . . . Qantas care
of handling . . . insurance rates
greatly reduced . . . special lower
freight rates can be negotiated for
regular users. Write for literature
to: The Export Consultant Service,
Qantas Empire Airways Limited,
70 Hunter Street, Sydney.
/U*t
s
m
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 150 flights a week to and from Australia.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.
A 69.107.46


m
A
IWv
MAC BAREN’S FINEST
—
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
PLU M CAKE
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 89c SAlggn
assistance to the Commission. Whoever
prepared Mr. Kerr’s brief had clearly
decided there was going to be a rise in
the basic wage and that suggesting it be
moderate, and that the Commission be
unanimous, might help keep it small. The
Commonwealth was also anxious to remind
the Commission that wage rises can cause
price rises and that part of the Com-
mission’s task is to take into account “the
interests of society as a whole.”
Not being able to say what it meant by
a “moderate rise” and offending the Bench
did not help its case.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
DENTISTRY
The 20-Year War
ONE of the longest political “lobbying”
campaigns ever carried out in New
South Wales has just been finally de-
feated. The campaign, which lasted nearly
20 years, was to gain registration for dental
technicians to deal direct with the public
in making dentures.
If successful it would have put tens
of thousands of dollars a year into the
pockets of the State’s dental mechanics.
Dentists have fought against the cam-
paign since 1947. The New South Wales
Health Minister Jago has told a deputa-
tion from the Australian Dental Associa-
tion that Cabinet had unanimously re-
jected the technicians’ case for registration.
In addition, he said, the Government
would strengthen its capacity to crack
down on technicians practising illegally.
Inspectors armed with warrants will be
able to enter premises where illegal dent-
istry was suspected of being carried out.
Technicians will have to have a written
order from a registered dentist to make
dentures or they will be liable to prosecu-
tion.
The State president of the Dental
Association (ADA), Dr. Derek Freeman,
hailed the Government’s decision as a
“victory for commonsense.” He said that
the State’s 400 dental technicians worked
either directly for dentists, in private busi-
ness on their own, or in dental laboratories.
The correct procedure was for dentists to
take impressions for false teeth, instruct
the technician on pecularities of each
denture, have it made by the technician,
and then fitted and adjusted by the dentist.
He maintained that dental technicians
should never be allowed to deal direct
with the public. They were not trained in
the highly specialised sciences of path-
ology, bacteriology, and prothetics (the
mechanical restoration of missing parts of
the mouth) which were so essential for
proper dental work.
Serious illness could result from un-
trained people trying to fit dentures, Dr.
Freeman claimed. He strenuously denied
that dentists had fought against the tech-
nicians’ campaign for mercenary reasons.
However, the secretary of the 292-strong
Dental Technicians’ Association (Mr.
D. V. Lang) described the Government’s
decision as “a most retrograde step.” Mr.
Lang claimed that dental technicians were
now making about 60 percent of all
dentures in direct dealings with the public.
This was “technically” illegal, but he
claimed there had never been a complaint
to the Health Department from a member
of the general public.
The only prosecutions launched against
technicians for dealing direct with the
public had been initiated by the dental
profession.
Mr. Lang claimed that dentists charged
anything from $9O to $l6O for a full set
of dentures, while technicians could sell
the same dentures to the public for $36
to $6O. “And if this Act gives the dentists
a complete monopoly there will be nothing
to stop them increasing their fees,” he
said. “We believe the public will rise up
against the Government’s decision to
deprive them of our services.”
The campaign by the dental technicians
has been one of the most intensive ever
seen in political circles. For 20 years the
technicians have “courted” influential
politicians. At least two prominent poli-
ticians have openly displayed dentures
made for them by technicians. At hotels
around the Trades Hall officials of the
Technicians’ Association have frequently
entertained politicians and trade union
leaders.
In 1952 the Technicians’ Association,
which is affiliated with the ALP, suc-
ceeded in having the Labor Party make
the licensing of technicians to deal direct
with the public part of official ALP policy.
In 1960 the then-Labor Premier (Mr.
Heffron) said the Government would
legislate to licence the mechanics. But
the move was blocked by the Opposition
majority in the Legislative Council.
Last month the Technicians’ Association
renewed its campaign with a personal
letter to every Member of State Parlia-
ment. Cabinet’s decision to reject the plan
seems to have closed the question once
and for all.


pwg I
iapj
mil
a®
jpa
*7
PAX: HOT LINE TO THE EXECUTIVE POOL
STC will install PAX any-
where you need it or want it.
PAX means Private Automatic
Exchange a telephone system
inside your company. And it
means loudspeaker phones for
use in noisy-but-critical areas if
you wish. Also a central dictating
system with a two-edged pur-
pose: To cut secretarial costs
while providing an instant sec-
retarial source for you and your
other busy executives.
Also PAX means bright, cheerful
coloured telephones and loud-
speaker telephones too! All told,
PAX is modern, clean, efficient
and compact. Better ask about it.
For further information contact
Standard Telephones and Cables
Pty. Limited, 252 Botany Road,
Alexandria, Sydney. Phone:
69 0444. Melbourne 44 5161. Can-
berra 91043.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons
Pty. Ltd., Brisbane 41771. S.A.: Unbe-
haun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide
51 3731. W.A.: M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd.,
Perth 21 6461. TAS.: W. & G. Genders
Pty. Ltd., Launceston 2 2231. Hobart,
Burnie, Devonport.
ITT
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
ASSOCIATE
at
UIOBA


POLITICS
Holt the Unready
THE first Parliamentary session of Mr.
Harold Holt’s Prime Ministership
is drawing to a close with both
major political groupings in a state of
some disarray.
The Liberal-Country Party coalition,
which has now controlled the Treasury
benches in Canberra since 1949, has a
personality problem. After years of
patient, loyal waiting, Holt has physically
followed Sir Robert Menzies into the
Prime Ministership. But as yet he has not
re-orientated himself mentally to his new
role. Nor has he yet given any promise
of being capable of re-orientating himself
to his new role.
The Holt Government could prove itself
administratively superior to the Menzies
administration. With Holt in the chair,
the Government has shown itself ready to
make decisions promptly and crisply.
Quite a significant number of major de-
cisions have been made, even in the brief
period of the new Government’s existence.
But while there are indications that
the Holt team could prove superior to
its predecessors in matters of administra-
tion, there are no signs that it will be
as successful politically. The Parlia-
mentary testing time for a Prime Minister
is Question Time. It is during this period
that a Prime Minister establishes both his
control of the Parliament and his capacity
as a “front man” for the forces; which
sit behind him in the back benches. It
is during question time that Holt has
shown up poorly.
For one thing he talks too much. He
does not seem to realise that unlike an
ordinary minister, which he was until a
few months ago, a Prime Minister’s role
at question time must be defensive. He
is an Aunt Sally. He is there to have
things thrown at him. He has to avoid
putting his head in front of a flying brick.
Yet Holt cannot resist the temptation
to pick up whatever brick is thrown so
that he can throw it back at his Opposi-
tion attackers. He appears to want to
score in a game in which a score for
him does him very little good, but a score
against him does him a lot of harm. Holt
shocked even his own Ministers and back-
benchers last week when Opposition
Leader, Arthur Calwell, asked him a
question about a Brisbane newspaper
referendum on the use of National Service-
men in Vietnam. Calwell said that the
result of the referendum showed an over-
whelming majority against the use of com-
pulsorily recruited servicemen in this way.
Instead of curtly dismissing the whole
thing as something which a responsible
Government could not take seriously
because of the loose way in which such
a referendum would of necessity have to
be conducted, Holt produced an anony-
mous letter to cast suspicion upon the
referendum as a genuine expression of
public viewpoint. Holt was lucky. The
starting point of the argument an
unofficial referendum could only be
regarded as a minor issue. If Holt had
produced an anonymous letter to buttress
an argument on a more vital theme, he
would certainly have involved the Gov-
ernment in major trouble. As it was, faces
on the Government side were understand-
ably long after Holt revealed that the
letter was anonymous. It would be bad
enough for some backbencher to rely
upon anonymous information. For a Prime
Minister to do so was probably unpre-
cedented.
But if the Government Parties are in
some disarray, the Opposition ranks are
even worse. On the Labor side there is
not only the ideological clash between
the Right and Left Wings which mani-
fests itself in a variety of ways, particu-
larly on foreign policy, but there is the
now boringly prolonged dispute about the
leadership. Mr. Whitlam clearly wants
to take over the leadership from his
aging, but still indomitable, chief, Arthur
Calwell. But he does not seem to want to
personally have to wrest the leadership
from Calwell. It is as though he wants
somebody else to do the wrestling and
then hand it to him on a silver platter.
This has meant that in the long weeks
since Whitlam first issued his challenge
to the ALP Federal Executive (since
withdrawn) and made clear his desire to
take over the leadership from Calwell,
Labor has gone agonisingly around in
circles. The threat of action has been
always present, but those seeking action are
always .minor characters and not Whitlam
himself.
In its way it has become rather a
ghastly farce, with the apparent intention
of wearing down Calwell (who must be
under a tremendous daily strain physi-
cally) rather than through direct, clear-
cut political action.
ALAN REID
THE PRESS
Libel in the West
A LIBEL award is the latest incident
in a series of personal and public
political clashes between the Liberal
and Country parties in Western Australia.
The Honorable Leslie Arthur Logan,
Western Australia’s Minister for Local
Government, Town Planning, and Child
Welfare, last week was formally awarded
$lOOO damages against the “West Aus-
tralian” for libel.
Logan alleged that he was libelled in
an editorial of the Perth morning paper
on July 21, 1965, entitled “C.P. pressure
against coalition cabinet.” After a three-
day hearing a jury of five men and one
woman gave findings in answer to four
questions submitted to them by Mr. Justice
Virtue in the Supreme Court. They
assessed damages provisionally a $lOOO
if it was found that Logan was entitled
to damages.
The jury found that the editorial was
defamatory and was not justified by the
defence of fair comment on a matter of
public interest. However, the jury also
found that the publication was made in
good faith in the course of discussion of
a matter of public interest (traffic control
in Western Australia), the public discus-
sion of which was for the public benefit.
Discussion as to whether the jury’s ver-
dict was contradictory was conducted by
counsel before Judge Virtue decided to
enter judgment in favor of the minister.
The question of country traffic control
has generated friction between the Liberal
Party and the Country Party and has
disturbed the good relations between
members of the coalition government.
The Country Party is campaigning for
the retention of the present system of
control of country traffic by local gov-
ernment authorities, whilst the Liberal
and- Labor parties and the pro-Liberal
“West Australian” are in favor of more
qentralised control.
The libel case finally rested on what
counsel for the complainant claimed was
“the allegation, the statement, or what-
ever it might be called, that Logan had
breached the principle of collective res-
ponsibility of cabinet.” Counsel for the
defence claimed that recent legal decisions
emphasised that this was not libellous be-
cause it was honest comment and “honest
comment now came within the definition
of fair comment.”
“You're no sportsman — you've brought nothing to throw at the umpire.”


Making a University
The Macquarie Experiment
By SAM LIPSKI
IN the brochure handed out to the
guests at Macquarie University’s
foundation-stone laying ceremony last
month, the section on Physical Develop-
ment noted proudly: “The site may well
be the greatest endowment Macquarie will
ever receive.”
There seems little doubt that it will be
and not just because the coming of
the university has sent real estate values
in the area rocketing. On mixed farm-
land, dotted here and there with houses,
the university site rolls expansively over
332 acres of small valleys, 11 miles north-
west of the Sydney GPO. Between Epping
Road and the Lane Cove National Park,
the university’s site bespeaks not only
rustic charm but the very real necessity
for future growth. Here, one feels, is an
opportunity denied to Sydney’s other uni-
versities, an opportunity for students and
staff to draw a long breath in unconfined
surroundings. By 1975, a short eight years
after it accepts the first undergraduate,,
the room to breathe will be needed, for
by then Macquarie will be a university
with 10,000 students.
Another sentence which did not appear
in the brochure, but could have quite
easily, would have been: “The times
are more propitious for a new university
in Australia than what they were five
years ago.” For since 1961, when Vic-
toria’s Monash University was the last
metropolitan university to start from
scratch and not as an extension of an
already existing university, there have
been a number of developments in uni-
versity education which may prove to be
just as much an endowment as the physi-
cal site. Monash University also started
out with high hopes of being a “different”
university, but necessity and the demands
of growth have prevented many of these
hopes from being fulfilled.
Macquarie will start teaching under-
graduates in 1967 after five or six years
which have seen half-a-dozen new uni-
versities established in Britain, 15 in
Canada, and scores in the United States.
The British experience, still very much
the model for much of Australian uni-
versity thinking, has included the experi-
ments at Keele and Sussex and has intro-
duced the controversial ideas of the
Robbins Report on universities into the
mainstreams of academic thinking.
Locally, there has been the Martin
Report, and from academics themselves
the growing criticism of the lack of
diversity in Australian university education
to name two factors which may help
to make the Macquarie innovations work.
There has also been the bulge in student
numbers as the statistical predictions of
the late ’fifties have become the campus
hordes of the mid-’sixties struggling for
a seat in libraries, a square yard of space
in laboratories, or for the meaning of
their subjects in the over-crowded lecture
halls.
All this has been happening against the
background of the accelerating knowledge
boom and has forced a re-evaluation of
traditional university organisation, teach-
ing methods, and relationships between
subjects. The real difference between
Macquarie and the established univer-
sities is that Macquarie has a chance to do
something about it. Established universities
in Australia seem to be victims of their
own systems. Notoriously conservative
institutions, they are trying to cope by
occasionally varying the basic 19th-century
pattern.
“Space and time are working for Mac-
quarie, summed up one academic from
another university. Perhaps it is this which
partly explains the enthusiasm and op-
timism which pervades the working
atmosphere at the phoneless offices of the
new professors on the building site,
But the main cause for excitement is
undoubtedly the challenge of being able
to start something new, which, in a favor-
ite phrase at Macquarie is not different
merely for the sake of being different,
but is an attempt at pursuing the academic
ideals of a university within a new edu-
cational framework meeting today’s par-
ticular needs.
In the case of Macquarie the re-
evaluation began in 1964 when the
Academic Committee of its University
Council, consisting of seven academics
from the universities of New South Wales,
Sydney, and the Australian National Uni-
versity, met at regular intervals to plan
the structure of the new university. From
the start the trend in a number of new
English universities, Sussex being, perhaps,
the prime example, influenced the plan-
ning for the College of Arts and Sciences.
(Together with the college of post-
graduate studies, the yet-to-be established
professional schools, and the special organ-
isation for part-time studies the college
makes up the four mam elements of the
university.)
The British trend was in the direction
of “schools” of studies rather than depart-
ments and faculties the conventional
pattern in most Commonwealth univer-
sides until the early ’sixties/ While the
Macquarie authorities point out that
“schools” at Macquarie will not be the
same as those at the new English univer-
sities, they agree that the thinking in
establishing them was the same.


Professor A. G. Mitchell, Macquarie’s
Vice-Chancellor, has described the aims of
the approach: “To get away from frag-
mentation, to encourage integration and
communication between the disciplines, to
be rid of the walls between faculties, and
to provide the maximum flexibility for a
student in his choice of course.”
In practice this means that Macquarie
will have facilities for study in 11 schools.
For students enrolling in 1967 the School
of Behavioural Sciences will offer psy-
chology; the School of Biological Sciences
will offer biology, botany, zoology; the
School of Chemistry, chemistry; the
School of Earth Sciences, geography,
geology, and geophysics; the School of
Economic and Financial Studies, econo-
mics accounting, finance, and statistics;
the School of English Studies, English
and linguistics; the School of Historical,
Philosophical, and Political Studies,
history and philosophy; the School of
Mathematics and Physics, mathematics
and physics; and the School of Modern
Languages will offer French and German.
There has been no decision yet on what
courses will be offered in the School of
Educational Studies and the School of
Classical Studies. Neither will offer any
courses in 1967. The university has still
to appoint professors for both these
schools.
In size and scope all these schools will
be somewhere between department and
faculty. The hope is that they will not
become so large that they are just facul-
ties by another name, with the same sort
of communication breakdown between dis-
ciplines (and even within them) which
characterises traditional universities.
The role of the administration, the
power of the professors (at Macquarie, in
keeping with the newness of most things,
it is the “professoriat” not the “profes-
sorial board”), the relationships between
individual professors within a school and
the school’s head are still unresolved ques-
tions. Much of the interest in academic
circles will be to see whether the familiar
departmental imperialism departments
competing with one another for staff, re-
search money, students, and prestige, all
adding to the greater glory of the de-
partmental head will reappear in dis-
guised form at Macquarie despite the
looser arrangement of the schools.
The first degree for all students in any
of the schools, whether in the humanities,
social sciences, or experimental sciences,
will be the Bachelor of Arts. Macquarie
hopes that this will not lead to too much
confusion, especially when scientists gradu-
ate B.A. instead of the more widely
accepted B.Sc. and economists and stati-
sticians do not have their Bachelor of
Economics or Bachelor of Commerce
degrees. Prospective employers will be
able to check detailed transcripts of
student records. The broad idea behind
having the one degree was the symbolic
hope that humanists and scientists could
work together within one framework. But
as far as the prospective student at Mac-
quarie is concerned what does this mean?
Of far greater importance than the utop-
ian ideal of getting the geologist to read
more poetry or the historian to under-
stand any of the laws of thermodynamics
is the very practical educational con-
sequences of the arrangement of three
possible courses within the one degree.
Macquarie is calling these three ap-
proaches specialised, subsidiary, and
general interest.
The best way to see the differences
between Macquarie and the older uni-
versities is to contrast the position of a
student interested in studying political
behaviour. Under the Macquarie system
he will be able to specialise in the study
of political institutions in the School of
Historical, Philosophical, and Political
Studies; he might also take courses in
political philosophy and modern history
in the same school. But he will also be
able, as part of his course, to study
opinion poll techniques in the School of
Behavioural Sciences and statistics in the
School of Mathematics and Physics. He
will not have to do a full year’s course
in these subjects but will take them as
part of his subsidiary course. The neces-
sary courses may be only a series of special
demonstrations or they may be two terms’
work. The main point is the flexibility of
the framework. It is what the Deputy
Vice-Chancellor at Macquarie, Dr. S.
Cohen, describes as “providing access” for
the student.
An elective system
JN established universities the presence
of separate faculties means separate
degrees and that means separate regula-
tions for each degree. The same political
science student in another Australian uni-
versity would find it difficult, and in
many cases impossible, to get the neces-
sary training in statistics and opinion poll
techniques without doing a year’s course.
Even then it might be of no benefit to
him simply because the other departments
are not aware of his needs and do not
prepare the course with them in mind.
Instead of acquiring what are sometimes
necessary tools, students are, instead,
forced into doing pre-requisites in which
they have no interest, compulsory subjects
which they treat as cram courses to be
passed and forgotten.
The Macquarie system will therefore be
more elective, offering students a wider
range of choice at different levels of
specialisation in their chosen fields. The
choosing of courses will be worked out in
discussion with academic advisers. At one
extreme the specialised course will in some
cases allow a student to spend more time
studying one discipline than he does at
present. At the other end of the scale
there will be “general interest” courses.
The subsidiary courses will be available
for those students who need them to sup-
port their major study. The general
interest course will be available for those
students who actually do want to learn
something of the other culture out of
choice. These will be “non-specialist but
demanding” courses—literature for the
physicist, mathematics for the moral
philosopher.
The B.A. degree will also be awarded
at honors level normally after four years
instead of the pass degree’s three. But
there will be provision for the American
style “admission to advanced standing”
for students entering Macquarie with an
outstanding matriculation examination
record. In certain cases this couid mean
being admitted to the equivalent of second
year and completing the honors degree in
three years.
Many of the details of Macquarie
courses are still being worked out, gener-
ally under an inordinate pressure of time.
Most of the 13 professors so far appointed
have been able to devote their full time
to planning studies at Macquarie only
since January, 1966. Although the basic
lines have been drawn for them by the
Academic Committee which preceded
them there is much to fill in. In dis-
cussing their plans with them all showed
a readiness to question most of what they
have been doing up to now in other
universities, and a commendable tough-
minded willingness to experiment.
Among them, the head of the School
of Mathematics and Physics, Professor F.
Chong, is a strong advocate for the elec-
tive approach. Himself a mathematician,
his advocacy is obviously derived from his
own experience of the central role of
mathematics as a “research tool par excel-
lence” for so many other disciplines. He
likes to speak of the degree at Macquarie
being divided up into what have been
dubbed “Chong’s gastronomic units.” “We
offer a student an a la carte menu instead
of the usual table d’hote menu he gets
elsewhere.” For example the advent of
computer mathematics has created the
need for courses to economists, accoun-
tants, business administration students,
biologists, medical specialists, and social
scientists.
Students preparing for these profes-
sions may only be interested in the one
area of mathematics and Professor Chong
is insistent that they should be provided
with it as part of an integrated course.
The Professor of French and Head of
the School of Modern Languages, Profes-
sor K. J. Goesch, is hopeful that the rapid
developments in communications tech-
nology will enable Macquarie to begin
early in its teaching program with the
use of audio-visual aids and language
laboratories. The plan is for Macquarie
to have three 20-booth language labor-
atories and to concentrate on the develop-
ment of other modern techniques in
language study. Professor Goesch is par-
ticularly pleased at the new look Mac-
quarie has taken at the place of the formal
lecture. Instead of formal lectures Pro-
fessor Goesch, as with other Macquarie
teachers, hopes to make wide use of study
guides. “We feel that a lecture should be
an event not just the monotonous
routine which it is for many students.”
Macquarie has the chance not only to
radically revise teaching methods but also
to contribute in its own way to what Pro-
fessor Asa Briggs, at the University of
Sussex, has called “Drawing a New Map
of Learning.” In New South Wales it is
the first time since the University of
Sydney was founded last century that a
university has not been allied to another
institution and has had any real measure
of academic freedom to determine its
syllabus. Of course, it is not free from the
pressures of educational needs in the com-


I
take it anywhere \ ] jj
A new approach to dictating...
the IBM Executary 224.
Now you can get your paperwork done anywhere. The IBM Executary 224 Dictating
Unit is small enough to slip into your briefcase with room to spare. Big enough to
give you all the full-performance major features of full-size office dictating units. Its
10 minute tapes—approximately 700 words —are re-usable. Easy to mail and
compatible with the entire IBM dictation range.
The new 224 is the most portable dictating machine you can buy. It’s
also the easiest to use. Like to try it? We’re sure you will talk yourself
into it. Weighs just 28 ozs. / Full size 6" x 4%" x 1%" / Cordless.
IBM
AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED


RBA 838 C
r
m
>, <s
ztjf
-X xwi
<-V i
£&rl Mi\n LiV^..
1;A | M f <.•■# 1./ii
/ >3*k
* J
“Y !\v^
You can take it from me, Mac . . .
. . . I've invested with the St. George
& Cronulla Building Society. Not thous-
ands, of course . . . only a few hundred,
but it earns 6% p.a., current rate, on
NO FIXED TERM. It's readily available
without deductions if I need it, and I
know it's safe with the St. George &
Cronulla Building Society. I don't reckon
there's any better investment.
PS|
TY
oh
ST. GEORGE & GRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward, General Manager
Head Office: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
City Office: 82 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME ....
ADDRESS.
munity, and complete academic freedom
from governments which determine ex-
penditure is in any case a myth. But more
than any other Australian tertiary institu-
tion this century, Macquarie has the pos-
sibility of starting off by substantially
changing what it teaches as well as how
it teaches it.
It is still too early for most professors
to give firm answers to questions about
what they will actually teach in their
syllabuses. Unfortunately, the sheer pres-
sure of time, rapid growth of the student
population in the first three or four crucial
years, and the demands made on teaching
staff may take the answers out of their
hands. If this happens it will be even
more damaging to Macquarie than if it
had started out as a conventional faculty-
department university without any fanfare
about being a centre of innovation and
experiment.
Academics at all universities agree
revolutionary changes in knowledge have
made questioning of the syllabus neces-
sary. At Macquarie the immediate needs
make the questions more pressing and the
new opportunity makes it possible to
revise. In the Biological Sciences, for
example, the Head of the School, Pro-
fessor F. V. Mercer, faces a comparatively
recent set of discoveries in biology which
will have as much impact on science as
the work in particle physics. Professor
Mercer believes the biologist is close to
understanding the mysteries of the life
process. Whatever the moral questions
which will be raised by scientists being
able to affect that process, his immediate
concern is how it changes the thinking
about what should be taught in biology.
POR Professor I. K. Waterhouse the
problems of integration and subject
definition are just as acute. As head of
the School of Behavioural Sciences he is
concerned initially with preparing the
syllabus in psychology. But it is a
psychology syllabus which must reflect its
place as only one of the disciplines in the
school. It has to bear a relationship to
anthropology and sociology because it is
a social science, and because it is a be-
havioural science it must also give weight
to the biological bases of behaviour.
The multi-disciplinary approach of
psychologists, biochemists, biologists,
psychiatrists, and neuro-physiologists to
behaviour study means the need for links
with Professor Mercer’s school and any
future medical school which may be estab-
lished at Macquarie. Apart from any of
these questions of inter-disciplinary rela-
tions there is the question of how much
time to give to vocational and professional
training.
Despite the pressures from the com-
munity for better “technicians”—whether
in the humanities or the sciences—Mac-
quarie hopes that at the centre of its
teaching the spirit of the university as a
community of scholars will remain. Pro-
fessor H. R. Edwards, head of the School
of Economic and Financial Studies,
emphasises that the first degree, even with
the flexibility provided for at Macauarie,
remains of an analytical and general edu-
cational character, not vocational and pro-
fessional.
Outlining his curriculum, which will
allow students to take programs of study
similar to those leading to the Bachelor
of Economics or Bachelor of Commerce
degrees awarded by other universities,
Professor Edwards noted that his school
will provide four main study areas—one
designed for the student with a developed
interest in economics who plans a career
as an economist, another aimed at de-
veloping a basic knowledge of modern
accounting and managerial techniques, a
third course for the specialist student of
economic history, and a general course
where the student may combine a study
of economics with history of politics or
other social or physical sciences. This
combined course could provide useful
basic training for such careers as
journalism.
What chance all this innovation and
rethinking has of working depends on
some unpredictable factors. But it definitely
depends in part on how successful Mac-
quarie will be in the handling of another
one of its distinctive features.
For another of Macquarie’s already
controversial features, apart from the
academic structure of its undergraduate
courses in arts and science, will be the
special provisions it will make for what
is being called, euphemistically according
to some critics, “part-time studies.” This
term is preferred to “external studies”
because the university plans to regard all
students who cannot attend full-time
studies, no matter whose they are, under
the one heading.
This off-campus teaching which Vice-
Chancellor Mitchell sees as one of the
university’s biggest challenges will be
organised by a special administrative divi-


Measure of
m
mm ■
*w*il
M
L \ <>
r* . \
/. V
» <£*
EXX
V
lx
1
m
i&rfSSjij
capability!
CAPABILITY in an industry as complex and progressive as ELECTRONICS demands more than a
knowledge of production and distribution. It requires the inspiration of dedicated engineering skills, the
support of world-wide technical resources and precision manufacturing processes and to be maintained
in service by competent know-how. Of such is the substance of AW A—an all-Australian-owned enterprise
and the nation's largest manufacturer of radio communication equipment. AWA not only serves the
nation's needs but has, over the years, built a reputation of dependable performance for equipment here
and abroad.
AWA capability embraces development, manufacture and installation—having supplied two-thirds of
the broadcasting stations in Australasia * over 75 television transmitters in Australia * broadcasting
stations in Pakistan, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Ceylon * telecommunications stations in Egypt,
Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa * television transmitters in Singapore * test equipment in India,
Libya ★ two-way radio-telephones in South Africa, Philippines, Hong Kong, East Africa, Mauritius ★
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston,
Wellington, N.Z., London, New York, Kuala Lumpur.
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio ampli-
fying systems: electronic components: testing
instruments: telephones: programme recordings:
television and broadcast receivers: data trans-
mission systems: and training in radio technology.


*Pn mn+
perfection jJj
am
m
❖
Give Your Slides “Paximat Per-
fection” Treatment. For extra col-
our brilliance, superior optical
systems ... coolness and ease of
operation .. . magazine load ...
reliability and largest range of
lenses to suit you. See your slides
large as life, twice as colourful.
Regular or quartz iodine, projec-
tion lamps. Discriminating people
choose Paximat world’s largest
selling projector.
Paximat Triumph 4 models
Give ample illumination for nor-
mal home use, cool running, pop
free, jam proof operation.
• 300 W model £36.0.0 ($72)
• 12V/100W Cold light £42 ($B4)
• 24/150W (same light as from
the DeLuxe N 24) £47.0.0 ($94)
• or popularly priced Pico 12V/
50W cold light
£29.15.0 ($59.50c)
Paximat DeLuxe N 24
World's most up to date model . . .
fully automatic ... variable self timing
device . . . remote control focus . . .
forward and reverse slide change. “Cold
light” 24V, 150 W lamps yield light
output of I,OQOW . . . interchangeable
lens . . . synchronised for tape re-
corder commentary.
• Paximat DeLuxe N 24, £79.10.0 ($159)
• Paximat super N 24, same as DeLuxe,
but without self-timer £73.10.0
($147)
"iHinnip
Paximat Electromatic 300 W
The classic automatic model 300 W light
output gives 500 W brilliance. Remote
control focusing and forward and re-
verse slide change .. . interchangeable
2.8 lens attachable to tape recorder.
Only £54.4.0 ($108.40c).
SEE THEM AT ALL LEADING CAMERA DEALERS
FREE Brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTV. LTD.
153 Barkly Street, BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
sion to be set up for the purpose. Its aim
will be not only to bring university educa-
tion to outlying rural areas but to balance
up the “inequalities of opportunity” which
burden many part-time students in metro-
politan areas. Deputy Vice-Chancellor
Cohen, who admits to having a “soft
spot” for the part-timer, having done much
of his own study while working, points out
that a student living in the western suburbs
of Sydney may be just as isolated from a
university education as the country student.
Macquarie is making detailed plans on
how to help the part-time student with
prepared study-guides, tape-recorders, the
setting up of regional centres which will
be periodically visited by academic staff,
and the provision in his course for attend-
ance, on campus, for laboratory work or
special lecture series. The kind of accom-
modation needed by such students who
may attend full-time studies for -a week or
a fortnight once or twice a year is being
planned to minimise their costs and suit
their special requirements. Where possible
students will be encouraged to do at least
their final year full time.
Some of the more difficult problems will
arise in the science subjects, where Mac-
quarie will be the first university in Aus-
tralia to provide such an extensive range
of science subjects for external study. But
even here Macquarie authorities feel that
they can overcome many of them. In fact,
they point out that the need to find solu-
tions for the problems of external study
has forced a reconsideration of some teach-
ing methods, especially the role of the
lecture in certain subjects, for full-time
students.
Yet all the enthusiasm, determination,
and planning cannot answer the doubts
of some academics about the role of
external studies in a university. The doubts
arise partly because of the damning figures
the Martin Report presented on failure
rates among part-time students at metro-
politan universities. In fact, the critics
say the improvement of techniques which
would probably lower the failure rate is
a way of putting off the basic problem
which is simply that there are not enough
scholarships for the needy but bright
students to attend universities full time.
The critics say the improvement of tech-
niques only gives governments an excuse
to avoid more scholarship assistance which
they would otherwise not have and that
universities should refuse to undertake
part-time studies.
For some critics external study is
inimical to the very idea of a community
of scholars, which they say cannot exist
if the teacher is in Sydney and the student
is at Tipaburra. At Macquarie professors
concede the difficulties. Professor Mercer
says that no one is looking at the problem
through rose-colored glasses or out of mis-
guided idealism. All professors agree that
it would certainly be wonderful if all
students could attend the university full
time. In the meantime, insists Vice-
Chancellor Mitchell, students who need
university education but cannot attend
full time cannot be ignored or abandoned.
There is still, however, a major diffi-
culty especially in the early formative
years which lie ahead of Macquarie
and that is whether the university can
attract enough high-grade staff to cope
with the added responsibilities of part-
time study which, if it is to have any
chance of success, cannot be done “on
the cheap.” Already there are signs that
in an applicants’ market some academics
are unwilling to undertake the extra work
which will be involved in the handling
of part-time studies. Some professors at
Macquarie are concerned at this difficulty.
But most feel that the challenge of a new
university where new ideas are welcome
and necessary outweighs the admitted dis-
advantages of coping with a largely un-
known off-campus student body.
Professor Mercer summed up this
spirit, a contagious one out at Macquarie,
when he said: “Most of us were quite well
off in our previous positions. But we had
got to the stage where we could do our
jobs standing on our heads. Suddenly
we’ve been jolted into asking all these
questions. I don’t doubt that the next
few years will be the hardest we’ve ever
had, but the whole idea appeals to me
as a scientist and as a teacher.”


Must H-Bombs Spread?
Next Japan , then India , then Israel... ?
By E. W. TITTERTON
(Professor of Nuclear Physics, Australian National University)
MODERN industrial nations are con-
suming fossil fuel reserves —oil and
coal—at an ever increasing rate.
Reserves of both are limited and, unless
our energy-hungry civilisation is to revert
to an agricultural economy, other sources
must be found. The only one available
which can provide power on the requisite
scale is the nuclear source, and this is
exploited presently by the fission process
in large nuclear reactors though, someday,
it may be possible to harness thermo-
nuclear reactions to provide a fusion
source.
There is no question, then, that the
world must move to an era of depend-
ence on nuclear power stations. It has
been known, since the earliest days of
atomic energy, that such stations can be
dual-purpose. As well as generating
electricity they can, through their nuclear
reactors, manufacture the fissile material
plutonium—and on a large scale. And
plutonium is one material from which
nuclear bombs can readily be made.
The spread of nuclear power, to many
nations therefore implies that those who
possess such stations have the potential
to make nuclear weapons. It can be
demonstrated beyond doubt that many
nations have the financial and technical
resources to make bombs and that, when-
ever one of them decides to do so, it will
inevitably have an important bearing on
the actions of the others.
These are the central facts that have
provoked Leonard Beaton to write his
Penguin special “Must the Bomb Spread?”
Depending on which answer is obtained
to his question, international and national
policies will have to be framed to cope
with the evolving situation. If a definite
choice is not made, and appropriate
arrangements are not developed, we shall
drift into a position where the insecurity
felt by many nations will inevitably lead
to an extension of the nuclear club.
An important factor in the position is
the production of weapons-grade fissile
material. Only one—U-235—occurs in
nature and it is a major industrial under-
taking to separate it in large quantity
from the U-238 with which it is mixed.
There is an easier route —via two other
materials which can be made in nuclear
reactors —plutonium and U-233. Beaton,
however, indicates correctly that, as far as
is known, only plutonium has been used,
and he therefore omits U-233 in later
discussion. A quick survey of presently
installed reactor systems—both for power
and experimental purposes illuminates
the problem. Accepting as a rule of thumb
that each megawatt (thermal) of installed
reactor capacity will produce 1 gramme
of plutonium per day while it is oper-
ating, and that a nominal bomb requires
5 kilograms of plutonium, the present
bomb potential of the “non-nuclear”
powers in bombs per year is Italy 132,
Canada 60, Belgium 56, Japan 34, West
Germany 13, Switzerland and Sweden
3 each, India 2, and Israel 1. The
same analysis applied to reactor capacity
planned up to 1972 changes the situa-
tion to read: Canada 240, India 238,
West Germany 188, Japan 92, Sweden
35 and adds Czechoslovakia 30 and the
Netherlands 10.
Nearer to home Beaton assesses Aus-
tralian and Indonesian capacity for pro-
ducing fissile material at present as zero
and regards Red China as a beginner,
unlikely to achieve parity with the great
powers for several decades.
This makes it clear that there is no
lack of nuclear potential among a dozen
or so nations. Why, then, have these coun-
tries, so far, abstained from making
weapons? Beaton proffers the view that,
although such developments are expensive,
the real reason is that proliferation of
weapons, with all the attached implica-
tions, would undermine the stability of
the “mutual deterrence” which, until a
few years ago, appeared to work so well.
Indeed, while the bomb was confined to
the U.S.A., the U.K. and the U.S.S.R.
there was stability and the behaviour of
Russia, as she approached nuclear parity
with the West, became steadily less in-
transigent and aggressive. The Big Three,
in fact, have been very careful not to pass
weapons or know-how to their allies. The
advent of France as a nuclear power did
not seriously disturb this position; but
Red China’s two nuclear explosions shat-
tered complacency and irreparably im-
paired the power equilibrium which had
come into being. Without doubt many
nations, which have previously abstained
voluntarily from embarking on a nuclear
weapons program, are now reanalysing
their position. Unless something positive
one way or another, is done, some of these
nations, as France and China did before
them, will, either for prestige reasons
or for the real needs of their defence,
choose to be independent of their major
allies and develop a nuclear weapon
capability for themselves.
The three most likely candidates nomin-
ated by Beaton to take such action in the
next decade are Japan, India, and Israel
and he offers strong arguments to support
this assessment. The picture for the suc-
ceeding decade 1975-85 is not so clear.
If India and Israel make bombs, Beaton
believes Pakistan and the United Arab
Republic will surely follow. And, unless
the development of the Western security
system can satisfy the worries of Canada,
Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, and Italy,
Beaton believes that they may opt for
nuclear weapons in this period, too. He
further points out that in a politically
unstable Africa, the Government of South
Africa—with her huge uranium resources
and provoked by the constant threat from
the non-white power bloc within the
BOARD ROOM


s
mmm
am
tmm
7
0
11 < \ *
Interesting people smoke
EDGEWORTH
\\w
s \i.S>v
3 GREAT PIPE TOBACCOS
Creators . . . painters . . . artists
...men of letters...leaders...
back room boys who plan the
moves... men who have the know-
ledge and experience to know
the finest in life... naturally
choose Edgeworth pipe tobaccos,
rich in cool Kentucky burleys.
EDGEWORTH READY RUBBED
Exclusive texture results
in cool smoking bur leys.
2oz. 82 c.
Cs
I6CRR
m
m
y,VV.N
.
.' :
Larus & Brother Company Inc.,
Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A.
EDGEWORTH ‘BLEND 11’
Subtly aromatic, mild,
smokes cool, stays lit.
2 oz. 72c.
EDGEWORTH SLICED . . .
. . . for smokers who
prefer to rub their own
texture. 2 oz. 80c.
United Nations —might quite reasonably
take the view that possession of nuclear
firepower is essential for its survival.
Beaton notes that the prestige position
of the great powers has already been
assured —the present five nuclear powers
are precisely those who were given per-
manent membership of the United Nations
Security Council. This offers an oppor-
tunity, now, for cutting off the spread
of weapons since there is no non-nuclear
power (unless Nationalist China is
counted) to veto any measures which
might be proposed by the Security Coun-
cil against new nuclear aspirants. This in
itself, might be a good reason for admit-
ting Red China into the U.N.
Is it really so important to stop the
spread of nuclear weapons? It is apparent
that in the Soviet-American conflict the
development of roughly equal nuclear
capacity has made the politicians,
especially those in the Kremlin, more
cautious, and war between them less
likely. Might not a first-hand knowledge
of the catastrophic effects of such weapons,
through weapon testing, have a similar
effect on Israel and Egypt, or India and
Pakistan, or even on Malaya and Indo-
nesia?
The reputation of nuclear weapons as
a deterrent to military adventure on a
large scale is gaining ground and there
tends to be a swing to the view of certain
French writers—“that nuclear guarantees
are meaningless and that, therefore, all
powers who can afford it should equip
themselves with these weapons.
Beaton, however, believes that there are
many reasons for discarding the argument
of universal deterrence as a dangerous
simplification; but he does rather weaken
his own case with the final statement of
the relevant chapter—“A breach in the
virtual nuclear monopoly of the Soviets,
Americans and certain Western Euro-
peans might be equitable and even
realistic; but the instinct which says that
it makes the use of these weapons more
likely cannot easily be denied.”
Having set the stage, given the back-
ground, and asked the questions, Beaton,
in a chapter entitled “An anti-prolifera-
tion strategy,” attempts to provide answers
—especially to the central question. He,
of course, finds himself in great difficulties,
and the arguments and speculations are
ringed about with “ifs” and “buts” and
conditional clauses. He talks about
guarantees, the multilateral force, the
possible freeze of delivery systems, the
control of fissile material, nuclear black-
mail and so on. The argument leads to
the view that for the nuclear powers to
urge a non-nuclear status on a great
number of countries is to proclaim, in
effect, that their own nuclear weapons
are held in trust. And this carries with
it profound implications which Beaton
believes the great powers have not brought
themselves to accept —and in this sense he
is pessimistic. But he proceeds to
enumerate the steps to be taken and
includes a non-dissemination (of weapons
information) agreement, a total nuclear
weapons test ban, an end to weapon
material production by the great powers,
and establishment of international owner-
ship of all production facilities, establish-
ment of firm commitments by uranium
producers not to sell materials without
controls, and the organisation of a “self-
conscious group of leading non-nuclear
powers (Canada, Germany, Japan, India,
and Sweden for a start) to see that any
general guarantees were properly designed
and that they were not compromised in
the planning or organisation of nuclear
powers.”
All this is fair enough. But the further
suggestions—of planning to minimise the
use of nuclear explosives in the design of
military equipment, of efforts to restrict
the sale of power reactors without controls.
of attempting to reorganise atomic energy
commissions to end the proliferation of
knowledge, training, and technology for
its own sake, and to encourage wherever
possible non-nuclear ways of achieving
power for civil purposes—are unreal. We
cannot put the clock back.
Beaton’s book is priced 65 cents. It
should be read widely. At a time when
the United Nations Disarmament Com-
mission can list only a dismal series of
failures —multilateral nuclear forces, non-
proliferation agreements, and a complete
nuclear test ban—an informed public
opinion on the problems posed by nuclear
weapons is vital.


ONE
MORE
WEEK
The place for a sonnet
MANY AUSTRALIANS while in Lon-
don have made a sentimental or sacred
pilgrimage to Poets’ Corner in Westmin-
ster Abbey, where so many of England’s
great literary figures are commemorated.
Australia now has its own Poets’ Corner,
and before critics cry “cultural cringe”
it must at least be admitted, as this photo-
graph of the redevelopment at Redfern,
Sydney, with blocks named after Gilmore,
Lawson, and Kendall, shows that we have
at least translated the idea into Australian
terms.
Accustomed guineas
BIDDING at the auction of 95 works
of European art in Sydney last week
was all in good old-fashioned guineas.
A spokesman for the auctioneer, Geoff
Gray, said afterwards his firm used
dollars for everyday auctions, but several
art collectors had asked for guineas to
be used with this particular auction
because they found it difficult to think
quickly enough in dollars.
Thinking quickly enough in the guineas
to which they are so happily accustomed,
buyers spent $120,000 in an afternoon for
the collection brought here by London
dealer George Whyte. After the auction 39
separate invoices were written. The greater
percentage of buyers did their own bid-
ding, against employing an agent.
But last week’s auction, the spokesman
said, showed “that Australians had a
growing appreciation of art and a growing
appreciation of the value of art.” This is
indeed true. It certainly showed that
more and more Australians can see the
beauty in a painting which is likely to
increase in value rapidly over the years.
The atmosphere in the salesrooms was
a lifetime away from the gentlemanly
world of the Schureck and Voss-Smith
auctions only a few years ago when the
loved possessions of a lifetime went under
the hammer. Last week’s auction was a
carefully planned business operation based
on knowledge of prices and possibilities
gained at the auction of European paint-
ings which Frank McDonald, of the Clune
Galleries, held in 1963 and which raised
$BO,OOO.
Although the day’s figure was short of
the $200,000 which Whyte and Gray’s
had originally mentioned, they were
happy with the result. Eighty-two percent
of the paintings only were sold. Among
others, they still have the Picasso, top
bid for which was $9660, but which may
be sold by private treaty, and a Calder
mobile, which had an estimated top price
of 4000 guineas, but for which bidding
stopped at a very unspirited 45 guineas.
Renewing the old
THE NICHOLSON MUSEUM at Syd-
ney University, 106 years old, is almost
at the end of a three-year modernising
programme. There may be some senti-
mentalists who regret the passing of the
museum’s traditional appearance as a
second-hand furniture-shop basement, but
these do not include the present Professor
of Archaelogy, Professor Alexander Gam-
bitoglou.
The part of the museum which has been
refurbished has been open to the public
since May, 1965, and there will be an
official ceremony later in the year to mark
the completion of work. The new museum
has been designed to disguise the Uni-
versity’s dear old mock-Gothic. It will
have diminished rapidly in recent years
Near East, Egyptian and Greek and
Roman with the smaller European col-
lection beyond. The plastercasts have
been banished to the basement.
The museum now has a full-time con-
servator and photographer. Sydney’s
humid climate, Professor Gambitoglou
said, provides as acute problems for
antiquities as for art treasures. For
example, salt is present in many stones
and clays. With every change in humidity
each particle of 'salt can expand and con-
tract, pressures which could in time frag-
ment the whole object.
The Nicholson is undoubtedly Aus-
tralia’s finest collection of antiquities and,
the market for them being what it is now,
it is likely to remain so. Even Canberra’s
noted lavishness with the taxpayers’
money probably could not provide the
capital with a collection as good, at least
not at short order.
Sir Charles Nicholson, who became
Chancellor of the University in 1854, made
his first gift of Etruscan, Greek, Roman,
and Egyptian antiquities in 1857. This
has been added to spasmodically over the
years. In the later years of the 19th
century pieces came in from excavations.
In 1934 Nicholson’s sons, Archibald
and Sydney, presented the Hermes, which
is one of the outstanding items of the
collection.
The Nicholson draws on University
funds, but some help comes from the
Friends of the Nicholson, a group of
people who simply are interested in the
museurfi. Sydney University is not noted
for the strength of its activities, outside of
getting as many students through to de-
grees as quickly as possible, but the
Friends of the Nicholson thrive.
Subscription is two dollars a year, to
fit the pockets of students. However, more
affluent members give donations at times
for individual purchases.
Three or four times a year the Friends
are invited to lectures on subjects related
to archaeology. Between 200 and 300
people might attend.
Although the Nicholson is Australia’s
finest collection, by European standards
it is extremely modest, and likely to re-
main so. The great age of looting, which
filled the British Museum and the mus-
eums of almost every country, or even
city, in Europe, is long over.
Professor Gambitoglou said that the
best way to acquire pieces these days was
probably through dealers who specialise
in antiquities. These might be in London
or New York. Switzerland, he said, was a
good place “it has a common border
with Italy.” It often did not do to ask
dealers how items came into their pos-
session. It was enough they were available.
Few countries in the Mediterranean now
allow anything to be exported and are
usually deaf to any special pleading by
universities. Prospects from excavation
have diminished rapidly in recent years.
When the Aswan dam was being planned,
President Nassar allowed excavations in
what was to be a flooded valley. The ex-
cavators were allowed to keep half of
what they found. But that is the sort of
glorious bonanza that comes rarely now.
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Zara and I are living together as
man and wife for the first time in our
married life.
—Harold Holt
I can’t help but believe our problems
with China Will be vastly different if
there is no major war in the next 15
years.
—General Maxwell Taylor
If we do not breed enough little girls
to become mothers, where will our
nation be?
—Lady Cilento
It is a Hamlet-like torture to be
truly Liberal.
—Leonard Bernstein
I expect to be extremely busy for the
next three years.
—Peter Hall, new architect in charge of design
for the Sydney Opera House
Nelson’s formula has been rewritten
to read: Europe expects every American
to do his European duty.
—Herr Franz Josef Strauss
The Mills of God grind a damned
sight faster than those of the Treasury.
—Sir Miles Thomas
The day will come when America
will understand us and will recognise
General de Gaulle as the far-sighted
leader of its oldest faithful ally.
—M. Georges Pompidou


Hospitable Medium
COMEDIAN Dick Bentley came home
from England early in March to do a
radio series, “Gently Bentley,” for the
ABC. His arrival was unobtrusive, the way
the ABC likes things. He has since spent
a good deal of his time in the sepulchral
gloom of a converted church in Darling-
hurst, recording the series before sparse
audiences, and will have long left the
country before the series goes on the air
in mid-May.
Bentley may at times have felt as un-
wanted as a remittance man, but at the
end of a recording session with Ruth
Cracknell, Diana Davidson, John Meillon,
and Richard Meikle he seemed alert and
cheerful. The sample of “Gently Bentley”
we heard with its recurring jokes about
Bentley’s age “The jokes and Mr.
Bentley have been specially revived for
the program,” said Michael Eisdell
seemed an echo of the past, but Bentley
is prepared to justify his continuing love
for radio in the television age.
“The biggest laugh in England at
present is ‘Around the Horne,’ with Ken-
neth Horne on radio,” he said. “It had
nine million listeners for its original broad-
cast and probably many more for the
repeat. ‘Time’ magazine many years ago
said that television was the most inhospit-
able medium ever devised for comedy.
This is still true and will remain true.”
Bentley, who makes occasional tele-
vision appearances but who has been
getting good supporting roles in films
lately, said that if he had found a popular,
long-running television series when he
came to the end of the radio series “Take
It From Here” five years ago, he could
now be absolutely finished as an enter-
tainer. “TV just gobbles people up,” he
said. “Look at Maigret, Steptoe and Son
those people were fine actors but.
nobody wants them now. In America
people are even more expendable. Time
means money to those boys and they will
choose a second-rate actor above a good
one if the second-rater happens to be a
quick study.
“It’s the actors’ old tragedy. Nothing
ever changes in this business. They offer
you something with some permanence,
you clutch at it and it’s the finish of you,
simply because it is permanent. Ah, acting!
By the time you are old enough to know
all the tricks, you are too old to learn
your lines.”
Noiseless
DURING last week’s march in Sydney of
the 1300-man contingent for Vietnam, the
strongest indication of how today’s
soldier is equipped and the sort of battle
he fights was that the sound of marching
feet was deadened to an occasional squeak
of rubber on bitumen. The troops were
wearing their new rubber-soled jungle-
boots, which have a metal strip through
the sole to prevent the Viet Cong’s favor-
ite poisoned spikes. However, the noise-
lessness of the boots meant that out of
earshot of the bands, many soldiers had
difficulty in marching in step.
IN SYDNEY
"Australia sadly lacks standards
they won't bid as high as London or New York."
"You're too interested in material things—
baby carriages, cots, playgrounds, strollers..."
"Well, you know how it is at the Bathurst Show."


THE OTHER SEX
Dainty Dishes
IT occurs to me that we all have a list
of horrible experiences which we
would not wish to duplicate at any
stage, in any circumstances, for the rest
of our life. My list seems at times depres-
singly overlong, highlighted by, for
example, the time my sister and I crossed
from France to North Africa in the
fourth class of a small ship, having for
fellow passengers men of the Foreign
Legion en route for Indo-China, and
Arabs, lots of Arabs, at the end of Rama-
dan.
The time I tried to learn to drive, still
causes cold sweats on the palms of my
hands. First I tried on a motor-scooter,
on a tennis court, and I immediately
drove up the wire like a real wall-of-death
cyclist, and several years later, when I
had partially recovered from the shock,
I tried in a real motor-car and before
six months had elapsed my panel-beating
bill was approaching £B4. I have never
since ventured on to the roads behind the
wheel of a car and never will.
These horrors are as nothing compared
to something which happened recently
when, driven on by financial necessity, or
downright poverty to be more accurate,
I advertised “Lady able to cook seeks
work,” etc., and was extremely elated
when a club rang me to ask when I could
start. It did seem suspicious that I was
not asked to demonstrate my prowess at
the stove, but I put that disquieting
thought from my mind and presented
myself, neatly garbed, a few days later,
a merry smile upon my face and dreams
of delicate sauces and dainty dishes in my
mind.
“The small tablecloths are in here and
the big ones are in there,” said the
woman showing me my duties. It became
apparent that before actually starting in
the kitchen I had to set-up tables for 47,
including folding the napkins into that
curious Glengarry cap shape much be-
loved by hotels and restaurants. As I
knew only the Waterlily shape, this took
me a long time. When I had finally
got my peppers and salts and sugar basins
and toothpicks on the tables, I faced up
to what was going on in the kitchen, a
fairly hygienic-looking place with abso-
lutely nowhere to Dish Up.
I was shown how to run cold water
over a gargantuan pan of frozen chip
potatoes to unfreeze them, how to fry the
par-boiled sausages, and how to apply
what could only be described as a rough
garniture to all the dishes. Then, horror
of horrors, I was shown how to work the
cash register, still in pounds, shillings,
and pence, and with that the first
customers appeared.
A feeling which I recognised as blind
panic descended upon me. I actually had
to take their order, run out and cook it,
serve it, and then add up the cost. I
tried my deepbreathing-relaxing act for
two or three seconds and realised before
I had begun that it wasn’t going to work.
The first customer ordered sausages and
for that I got his bill to total 1065 cents,
which I realised later was nearer to five
pounds than any sausages, no matter how
beautifully garnished, had any right to
be.
People kept on coming in to the dining-
room and I would turn a frenzied glance
away from the chip-frying from time to
time, grab up my order book (all greasy)
and pray they would all say sausages, but
steak and eggs seemed to prevail and to
pile Pelion upon Ossa, some people
wanted medium well done and others
fancied slightly underdone.
I was sorry for them all but it was by
now a question of sauve qui peut and
eventually they were all served after a
fashion.
The time came to shut the dining-room
door (2 p.m.) and with trembling hand I
lit a cigarette. “No smoking in the
kitchen” I was told rather severely. So
I got out my compact and inspected my
face, really to see if it was still there.
AH traces of art had long since been
steamed off by the fumes, and nature’s
face, wild of eye, stared back at me,
complete with a large black smear across
my forehead.
Next time I get bad service in a
restaurant, overcooked chops and soggy
lettuce, and a bill for 20 dollars, I will
leave a large tip and ask for it to be
given to the chef.
NANCY CASHMORE
Living with False
Eyelashes
THE makers say false eyelashes are
“created for the world’s most allur-
ing women.” What they should say
is the world’s most patient women.
The first time I wore them my husband
asked why my eyeballs had gone “starey.”
We were standing on a friend’s doorstep,
as a matter of fact, poised to join a party
of the more elegant kind where, one
hoped, false eyelashes would mingle un-
noticed with soft lighting and later, per-
haps, after a few alcoholic sips, would
provoke compliments of the more
pleasant kind. “Good God, you’ve stuck
those things on. You look like a witch,”
were the actual words he shouted as we
made our entrance into the drawing-room.
“Come and see Dum’s eyeballs, every-
body.”
Another time I wore them when it
snowed. My arrival at the “Sunday
Citizen” was sensational. The commis-
sionaire, pop-eyed at this vision of Minnie
Mouse on Ice peering through his glass
window, could hardly contain his excite-
ment. “Mr. Wright will see you now,”
he said, and looking back I can appreci-
ate the irony of that statement. Mr.
Wright is probably still seeing me and
repeating to all and sundry what hap-
pened when I sat down in the warmth of
his office and my lashes, covered with
snow in the street, slowly melted and
dropped into my lap.
Once one becomes an owner of false
eyelashes, one lives in constant fear of
losing them. The makers tell you how to
fix them on, but they omit what I consider
vital information on how to find them
when dropped on the carpet. At 25 bob
a pair, it is not a pleasant thought that
their destination is the floor sweeper,
and thence to the municipal rubbish dump.
Neither is it amusing to go out with one
clinging to your jumper. They have an
extraordinary similarity to caterpillars, and
unexpectedly catching sight of one of
these on your chest can, I promise, give
you a nasty turn.
Anyway, for a long time I decided false
eyelashes were not for me. I cannot
remember what brought me back on the
eyelash track again. The challenge of it,
I expect. Or the salesgirl who flapped
her own inch-long lashes at me and said,
“Madam, you’d look a dream in these.”
I hid my self-adhesive, real-hair, ready-
trimmed, sable-styled, two-star black
lashes, staring ghoulishly from their trans-
parent plastic box, in a drawer, safe, I
hoped, from sticky four-year-old fingers
and facetious husband comment.
While my child was at school and my
husband at work I practised. It is not
pleasant to be caught mid-sticking on
lashes by the telephone, someone at the
door, or the sight of your dog being
mauled by the next-door cat; and there is
something about false eyelashes in the
daylight that is unnerving. Some, indeed,
might say sinister.
For quite a few weeks these furtive
sessions went on, while I did as the makers
instructed. Eventually I found the opera-
tion greatly simplified by ignoring their
instructions completely.
Who knows? I might still be practising
if, by some happy chance, the four-year-
old child hadn’t decided to draw a lovely
picture of Mummy on Mummy’s bedroom
wall with all that remained of Mummy’s
instant liquid mascara for longer, lovelier,
natural lashes. Without which, I might
say, Mummy looks bald.
I was in a spot. The shops were closed
and a pressing social engagement was
becoming more and more pressing as time
went by. With beating heart I withdrew
my lashes from their plastic box, sent
up a prayer for help, stuck them on, and
with face averted, joined my husband.
“All ready,” I said, whistling past him
into the car.
Later, at the coffee and brandy stage,
a man leant across the table and said:
“I can’t think why, but you look like
Vivien Leigh tonight.”
And, sir, the haul was long and tedious.
DAPHNE GUINNESS


The fantastic feats of Alfie Watts
...And the wonderful world of Tom Taylor
By DAVID McNICOLL
MY colleague Mr. Robin Slessor speaks
Mandarin and is very involved
with the cultures and customs of
the Orient. For this reason I have always
thought it possible, when he related the
fantastic feats of Alfie Watts, the Narran-
dera duck-shooter, that Slessor had been
on the pipe. For only from opium dreams
could come these unbelievable stories of
an aged man who made Annie Oakley
appear myopic. But now I know better.
I met Alfie Watts a few weeks ago. I
went shooting with him. I still cannot
believe the things I saw. We set off from
Narrandera on, a warm, early autumn
day. As all duck-shooters are aware, the
birds this year are wild and very scarce.
On public shooting spots there are virtu-
ally none to be seen; your only chance is
to get permission to shoot on private
property. I was fortunate in my sponsors
—Dave Taylor and Dick Feint—who had
permission to shoot on Yanco Creek and
the Murrumbidgee tributaries which slice
Somerset Park, the beautiful spread be-
longing to John Coghlan,
Three or four miles out of town we
stopped while Dave Taylor set off down
a side-road to pick up Alfie Watts. Fifteen
minutes later he returned. Seated along-
side him was The Man.
Alfie is probably crowding 70. He wears
battered khaki slacks held up by braces
and a supplementary piece of string. Sand-
shoes on his feet. A battered hat, half as
bid as Alf. ' His mouth, when he grinned,
was innocent of teeth, real or artificial (he
had, I was informed, consigned several
sets of dentures to the Murrumbidgee).
His eyes were hidden behind tiny Dicken-
sian blue-tinted, steel-framed specs with
perforated blinkers on the side. I had
been told about the gear he would be
sporting, and it was true in every detail.
He has a suit borrowed from Dave
Taylor 31 years ago when Alf married,
and still the only suit he possesses. Some
day I want to see it.
My reaction was no different from that
of everyone else who meets Alf for the
first time—incredulity. I was staggered
that this ancient could lift a Browning
automatic, let alone fire it successfully.
An hour later we put up a flock of
black duck. Quietly, deliberately, and with
no fuss ? Alfie fired four shots and down
came four duck. No winged or wounded.
Stone dead, one after the other, the
lengthening range presenting no problem.
If you’ve never shot duck this mightn’t
sound too extraordinary. But let me
assure you it is. As Frank Duval, the
Tokyo millionaire, says, if Alfie could be
smuggled to a pigeon shoot in Spain or
Monte Carlo you’d get 1000 to 1 against
him on his looks alone—and you’d clean
up.
But this will never happen. Alfie is
not a traveller. He has never been farther
from Narrandera than Wagga, and the
thought of Sydney or Melbourne terrifies
him. He lives on a few acres of land,
has a few ducks and chickens, and fattens
a few sheep. Money has always been
pretty scarce, so Alfie saves spent cart-
ridge shells and puts his own long-range
load in them. His fame as a duck-shooter
is widespread in the Riverina where he
has, year after year, made mincemeat of
Australia’s best shooters.
Alfie’s ability to shoot ducks as they
flew through the trees along the creeks
was to me his most astonishing skill. A
local Narrandera bookie has a standing
bet of £5OO on Alf to beat any shot in
Australia—provided the shoot was on a
swamp. My day with Alf was a swamp-
less one, for the great billabongs and
swamps of the Riverina are dry in the
drought. But I saw enough of Alfie on
the creeks to convince me.
Tom Taylor, the Kosciusko Park ranger,
is to the trout what Alf Watts is to the
duck.
World of lush valleys
lives at Currengo, tucked away in
the fastnesses of Kelly’s Plains, hard
by the new Tantangarra Dam. He is one
of the most wonderful bushmen I have
ever met. He tells stories which would
have made Munchhausen blush, delivers
homilies, home-made philosophies, and
dogmatic pronouncements on any subject
from rat-poison to nuclear disarmament.
He is scornful of anyone who holds an
opinion contrary to his own and makes
no attempt to conceal it. He is a genuine
Australian character—and he is a great
trout fisherman.
Taylor’s world is one of lush valleys
and timbered hills, of gang-gangs scream-
ing in the trees and wombats waddling
by the creeks. He can take you by tor-
tuous, scarcely perceptible tracks up and
down mountainsides and across ridges into
Shangri-La valleys where brumbies graze
and wild pigs totter (they do totter, not
walk). Tom will show you the places
where the kangaroos came a few years ago,
bred in their hundreds, then died when
the terrible winter hit them, many of
them huddled one on top of the other
for warmth in the shepherd’s huts in the
valleys.
But this is digressing. Tom is one of the
greatest trout fishermen, and his enemy
is the cormorant who has come from the
sea to clean up the trout in the mountain
streams. Tom will shake his fist as he
sees the black and white shags, their gul-
lets so full of fish they have difficulty
gaining height, following the course of
the ’Bidgee and the Goodradigbee.
Some years ago, before the lakes and
dams came to the Snowy, and before the
access roads brought the fish-killers and
the poachers and the nature-ruiners, we
were camped at the Blue Water Hole,
some miles from Tom’s house. I had to
get back to Sydney and Tom had come
down in his jeep to get me out.
We had been flogging the streams all
day with moderate success, and my son,
then about 12, had caught nothing. When
Tom arrived, I asked him if he would
show my boy just how to catch a trout.
Tom mumbled and grumbled. He had
no rod. Rupert Murdoch, who was camp-
ing nearby, lent him one. He had no
boots. Alan Reid lent him some. He
didn’t have the sort of fly he wanted.
We found him one, and finally he had no
excuses.
Tom turned to my son. “I hope you’re
good at getting fish off hooks, because I
won’t be playing these,” he said.
We sat down beside the stream and
waited till dusk crept on us. The moths
started to flutter and the nocturnal activity
of the beautiful little valley started.
Tom stood up, stretched, lifted his
borrowed rod, and sent the fly silently
across the water to the spot where an
almost imperceptible ripple had appeared.
Splash! No mucking about, the trout was
on. A sweep and Tom had him on the
bank, my son running to take the hook
from his mouth.
Tom caught 18 trout in 22 minutes.
That’s why I regard him as a pretty fair
man with a rod. Agreed?
“How is it you can always pick a couple of plainclothes Ds?”


Tec-Felt can ease costs and
increase plant product efficiency
The questions are simply where and
how much will Tec-Felt save you?
Tec-Felt has thousands of applications
and yet the industrial felt specialists at
Felt and Textiles are constantly finding
new uses for felt and new felt for uses.
They will develop a fe!t for your needs.
For instance, of the almost 1,000 types,
grades and colours of Tec-Felt only
about 200 are standard.
Tec-Felt can be manufactured to con-
form to a specific thickness, a specific
resilience, a specific shape, absorption
and density. It can be brought to almost
any consistency of softness or hardness.
It can be proofed against moths, flame,
water, fungi and corrosion. Write for
that free book today.
r~h
> £
m i
SSI II
/
mm
m
This heavy roll grinder, in the John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. mill at Port Kembla, is
cushioned on a hidden layer of Laminated Vibrasorb Anti-vibration Tec-Felt. The
grinder is completely isolated from the rest of the building.
;
[•EEJ
Polishers from tiny polishing discs
for precious stones to large buffing
wheels are available in Tec-Felt.
m&m
m
i
Vibrations in this metal stamping press
at Gadsden-Hughes Ltd., Five Dock,
N S W., are isolated by Vibrasorb Blue
Line Tec-Felt. The pads bond to machine
and floor anchor bolts are eliminated.
FREE BOOK
Write on your
Company stationery:
Industrial Felt
Sales, 791 Botany
Road, Waterloo,
N.S.W.
Phone MU 2451
L *****
r *°^r
Tec-Felt
The Industrial Felt Sales Division of Felt and Textiles is the
developer and producer of Industrial Felts in Australia
FF69 T


AROUND MELBOURNE
Who’s been working on the railroad?
IT must be admitted we are a jolly
good town for producing reports.
Just lately we have had the Scien-
tology Report, the Liquor Report, and
now we have had the monumental
transport study report produced by the
American firm of consultants, Wilbur
Smith and Associates, at the cost of
sAustralian 835,000.
It outlines a sort of dream world of
the Melbourne of 1985. It sees us
with 3,700,000 people spread out over
450 miles and 45 percent of house-
holds with an income over $5OOO com-
pared with 18 percent now. Further-
more 1,300,000 cars will be garaged in
Melburnian homes, an increase of
800,000 over 1964. Advancing grandly
in the American style, 29 percent of us
will be two-car families.
The report does not tell us how to
do anything, but it does say we will
need 350 miles of freeways, a new ex-
press railway-line to the Doncaster area,
a system of express buses running on the
freeways into the city and, utterly vital,
an underground railroad.
But here’s the rub. Melbourne, for its
size and obvious affluence, lays claim
to being the most under-freewayed city
in the world. We have precisely If
miles of freeway. I bet you can’t beat
that. Then, as for underground rail-
road, we have no mileage whatsoever.
No doubt every city has something which
it has pined after for several gener-
ations. Brisbane right back since
World War I has desperately wanted
electric trains. It still doesn’t seem to
have the slightest chance of getting
them. Sydney has always wanted an-
other Harbor bridge or maybe a splen-
did tunnel. Not much hope there,
either. Adelaide has always wanted
... No, I believe everybody thinks
Adelaide is perfect. And we, pas-
sionately, have always wanted an under-
ground.
It was in 1925 that we first became
deadly serious on the subject. After
Sydney scored an underground in 1926,
it was obvious that we would not be
far behind. Our enthusiasm was main-
tained rather splendidly. In 1929 the
Metropolitan Town Planning Commis-
sion produced a fine report, which was
praised everywhere and it was con-
sidered to be far ahead of its time. A
committee had worked on it for seven
years. Actually, it was not all that dif-
ferent to the report of Wilbur Smith
and Associates. It ran to 308 foolscap
pages and cost £22,500 instead of
$835,000. But this is the intriguing part:
it recommended an underground rail-
road almost the same in concept as the
one we want now. The underground
was to run from Richmond to North
Melbourne stations with a loop line.
The present idea is for the loop to run
under Spring Street, and under Latrobe
Street. In 1929 the route was under
Victoria Street.
The Depression came, nothing hap-
pened. World War II came, nothing
happened. In 1945, Cr. Morton, a
former City Council engineer, revived
the scheme and in 1949 the Premier,
Mr. Hollway, actually announced “pre-
liminary planning” for an underground.
In 1950, the State Cabinet announced
it was making “urgent inquiries,” then,
in 1954, 10, the Parliamentary Public
Works Committee published its re-
port on an investigation into “the pro-
posed provision of an underground
city railway.” The committee said,
“Start at once.” The plan was still
much the same except now the route
was under Lonsdale Street. Things
looked quite promising for a week or
two. The Utah Construction Com-
pany even made a flat offer to build
the railroad in three years for £l5
million. The present estimate is £35
million or $7O million. In 1958, Sir
Arthur Warner, glory be, said that
work would actually start in 1965.
In 1960, there was legislation. The
Government decided it would pay
“Here we are - Melbourne in
1985. All gone underground!”
three-fifths of the cost and the Mel-
bourne City Council and the city rate-
payers would pay two-fifths. This was
described by one Lord Mayor as
“murder.” By this time we were get-
ting testy and the newspapers began
running a series, “Famous Underground
Railroads of the World,” from Toronto
to Paris to Moscow to London. Why,
even Sydney got a guernsey.
Comparisons were interesting. We
discovered that the city fathers of
Paris bickered for 45 years before they
won their Metro. But then, after all,
they got it in 1900. London, too, was
a very large city with 2,800,000 people
before it opened its first 3f miles of
underground. But then the year was
January, 1861.
Well, we pressed on. By November,
1965, we had spent £150,000 on pre-
liminary planning and we had actually
sunk all sorts of test shafts, put down
numerous drills, and found the under-
neath of Melbourne absolutely ideal
for tunnelling. It was then that the
State Cabinet shelved the start of the
underground indefinitely -- we were
back where we started in 1925, and
the excuse was just the same no
money. Sir Henry Bolte rejected a
proposal by the Victoria Employers’
Federation for private financing of the
underground. Sir Bernard Evans said
he had an idea: Why not run the State
Underground Lottery? This seemed a
marvellous idea. What Sydney could
do above ground with its Opera House
we could do underground with our
railroad.
And the pure beauty of it was that
this could go on forever every draw
another mile of tunnel. Sir Henry
described this suggestion as “in the
realms of fantasy.”
Your correspondent also had an idea.
Put the track right under Bourke
Street and have stations at the Southern
Cross Hotel, a station at Foys, outlets
to Woolworths and Coles, a magnifi-
cent station for Myers, bring the loop
round another station for Ball and
Welsh, a very charming expensive
station for Georges, and make them
pay for the lot.
At this point in history “behind the
scene financial moves are being made.”
And we are terribly optimistic, hoping
that the whole report is not in the
realms of Sir Henry’s fantasy. But wait,
there’s one thing I forgot to tell you.
The report recommends that in 1985
our trams should be underground. How
about that: In 1985 our dear, beloved
Melburnian trams should be the great-
est tourist attraction on earth.
BATMAN


Hi
'-v-vmIII
V
SABvmn si mwm
There’s 5,000 more miles of Pacific Ocean to
go. But he’ll never notice them. He took our
advice and relaxed in his personal entertain-
ment centre —his seat on a PAL DCB fan jet.
He started with jazz. Eased into folk, classics,
music from the shows, and hit the children's
channel just when the lullaby started. He
might cross to first-run colour movie. But he
won’t miss the Pacific. The most boring 68
million square miles in the world. He’ll arrive
refreshed, relaxed and ready to go in Manila,
Hong Kong, Taipei, Singapore, or Honolulu.
Connections to U.K. and Europe. PAL has
more flights to more islands than any other
airline in the Pacific. Next time you fly over-
seas, travel PAL the entertainment way.
EUROPE
HONG
EUROPE VIA TOKYO
TAIPEI
||aa# .KONG
EUROPE
VIA BANGKOK
SAN FRANCISCO
HONOLULU
SINGAPORE
EUROPE
• SYDNEY
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
PM
For PAL flight schedules, and Philippines tour infor-
mation, see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon,
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A, Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Cnr. Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane.
140 North Terrace, Adelaide.9B Williams Street, Perth.
62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra. 178 Liverpool
Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NAME
ADDRESS
PHONE
MY TRAVEL AGENT


Fairbairn on Santamaria
A Call from “The Resistance ”
THE manifesto of a very able political
activist has just appeared. It is a
set of three pamphlets by Mr. B. A.
Santamaria under the title of Policy for
Australia.*
Though Mr. Santamaria has the gift of
superb oratory and a capacity rare, even
odd, in Australia to relate political be-
haviour to certain “first principles,” the
figure that emerges most vividly from
these pages is that of the politician: cool,
specific, and pragmatic. Nevertheless, on
a deeper level which is never ostenta-
tiously revealed, but is always evident to
those who would wish to understand him
as a most impressive human being, here is
a person who cares very profoundly and
feels very strongly about the quality of life.
The unavoidable juxtaposition of the
two kinds of practical activity is often
revealing of the tensions involved in what
one might call living publicly. For ex-
ample, when touching upon the Knopfel-
macher case, he begins by pointing out,
obviously correctly, that it was “flabbi-
ness” (a word he uses as often and
pointedly as George Orwell did) which
was “the key to the Liberal failure.” For
Mr. Santamaria, Liberalism “merely ap-
peals to the flabbiness of human nature
and can hardly act beyond the capacity
of its electoral base.”
But then the politician declares: “What
was demanded was not an act motivated
either by altruism or by a sense, of in-
justice toward Dr. Knopfelmacher. It was
an act motivated by simple self-interest.”
A defeat for Knopfelmacher and his sup-
porters was also a defeat for the Gov-
ernment’s South-East Asia policy, as well
as demonstrating for the benefit of any
other anti-Communist who might other-
wise have dared to be brave—that at, at
least, one major Australian university a
small group of pro-Communists could
break an opponent’s career with impunity.
Another example: “I do not believe
that any political party Communist,
Fascist, or Nazi whose raison d’etre
involves the destruction of democratic
liberties has any right to claim democratic
liberties for itself at any time. As a matter
of technique, however, the process of
restriction (of individual Communists in
matters relating to defence security)
ought to be measured by the degree of
national emergency which exists from
time to time.” Inconsistency is not to be
found in these examples; simply the nice
sense of proportion appropriate to our
manner of political activity in Australia,
and the acceptance of an inner tension
which marks off the civilised political
activist from the flabby insouciant and
the iron-souled totalitarian.
What Mr. Santamaria is working for
requires an abundance of this quality. He
is deeply, though never frantically, con-
cerned to alter our present flatulent
society’s understanding of its predicament
in Asia and, through the DLP and what
he calls “the Resistance,” to engender a
determined will to survive the likely,
threats of the future, with or without U.S.
assistance. The crux of this matter is a
question of domestic politics. So long as
the Left Wing continues to gain more
and more control over the Labor party
machine outside Parliament; and as long
as non-Communist Labor men through
“moral exhaustion” fail effectively to fight
the pro-Communists in the unions and in
the Caucus, then the necessary “consensus”
for a rigorous and vastly larger defence
policy is impossible of attainment. At
present the only power-base left to the
non-Communist “Right” is the Federal
Parliamentary Caucus, a base upon which
little appears to be getting built.
Here lies the raison d’etre of the DLP
for Mr. Santamaria. If the non-Communist
“Right” finds the guts to fight, the DLP
alone can “guarantee the politcial future
of the same 'Right’ against continued
Communist pressure in a Party which
still has unions affiliated with it.” If the
Geoffrey Fairbairn discusses B. A.
Santamaria’s recent political
manifesto
“Right” finally loses out in Caucus, it will
be only the DLP “which will then be
in a position to replace an ALP which
has become indistinguishable from the
Communist Party.” (He also sees the
DLP as having an important relevance
vis-a-vis a Liberal Party whose flabbiness
has resulted in the fact that “the political
conditions do not exist for the type of
economic policy which is essential to the
defence effort on which every other Aus-
tralian policy stands or falls.”)
There is nothing in the least esoteric
about Mr. Santamaria’s standpoint. He
simply argues that Australia must assume
(prediction does not come into it) that
China will seek dominance over South-
East Asia, including Australia and New
Zealand; (and uses various statements of
Professor C. P. Fitzgerald’s to underline
the necessity of this asumption); that
the U.S.A. must not be assumed in all
cases to be a permanent presence in the
area; and that therefore Australia must,
and quickly, begin preparing to be able
to defend itself. In his view everything
must be subordinated to this task and
priorities rigorously established . . . State
Aid being somewhere down the line.”
(Which does not mean that his State Aid
pamphlet is unimportant: it is a model
of reasonableness and clarity.)
His defence program is very ambitious
indeed: the spending of 10% of gross
national product on defence; a separate
defence budget; the development of tacti-
cal nuclear weapons; the ability to help
“whatever forces in South-East Asia may
wish to keep their countries outside the
area of Chinese predominance”; and a
wider (and more clearly equitable) type
of national service. This would involve a
drastically different economic policy for
the nation: investment of up to 30% GNP
“on development and essential industries”;
differential taxation to engender essential
development; a much more purposeful use
of the engineering industry; and the
economic aplication of national service.
“The automobile industry which today is
making a disproportionate demand on
labor and materials, and which is a source
of many of the abuses inherent in hire-
purchase, ought to be put to work more
usefully on defence production.”
Gee whiz! many people will be ex-
claiming at this point. Moreover, Mr.
Santamaria admits he is not an economist;
and perhaps wisely (though I am even less
of an economist), since whereas he says
flatly that GNP has been growing at the
rate of 7-8% per annum, “The Economist”
of April 4 has 6|% for 1964, 1965,
and a predicted 4 percent in 1966. How-
ever, this is not really to the point. Mr.
Santamaria is “not so foolish as to be-
lieve that all of these things will be
done or that any of them will necessarily
be done.” Elsewhere he writes, “I do not
underestimate the difficulties facing those
who make my choice. We are in exactly
the same position, without the same pres-
tige or power, as men like Churchill and
Vansittart between the wars. They were
right about the Nazis. But they were simply
disbelieved.”
And yet as Charles Peguy said, “Free-
dom is a system based on courage.” Mr.
Santamaria is above all a man of un-
flagging courage. While our fellow-
travellers lick their lips over every Ameri-
can set-back and await the day when they
can make an accommodation with Peking
like that of Prague with Moscow, I would
like to be able to think of myself as be-
longing to what Mr. Santamaria calls “The
Resistance.”
Some of his statistics may be debatable
and some of his remedies not immediately
practicable in a society grown flabby
the special beneficiaries of the flatulent
society are as great an impediment to the
necessary acts of will to survival as is
the pro-Communist Left but an in-
creasing number of people in Australia
are “determined to survive.” It is not
necessary for someone to be a DLP-er to
find in these pamphlets, by an honorable
and remarkable man, an exceedingly
stimulating call to action.
* “Determined to Survive”; “Politics of
1966”; “State Aid in Perspective.” B. A.
Santamariai Hawthorne Press. 35 cents
each.




m
m
m
✓ x’y
i A ( J\
N
m
m
>: ■
S'
Wonderfully Warm pure new wool Trousers
Why shop around for Trousers Fletcher Jones has by far the biggest selection of pure
new wool cloths, colours, patterns and styles in your precise fitting, today—and you save
by buying direct from the maker! Warm Worsted Tweeds, from £8.9.6. De luxe Hopsac
Worsteds £8.18.6. Flannel-finish Melange £8.13.6. Other F. J. Trousers
from £5/19/6
Fletcher Jones has the world’s most experienced Trousers fitters.
PURE NEW WOOL
Fbtclier
JNEB
Canberra vdney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, Launceston.
OVERSEAS
Djakarta’s New Order
By DONALD KIRK
THE recent announcement of the
names of Indonesia’s new Cabinet
ministers was hardly an occasion for
rejoicing. President Sukarno himself went
through the ritual of listing the six presi-
dium members in a voice that was barely
audible.
The six, sitting beside him in the recep-
tion-room of Merdeka—for “freedom”—
palace did not alter their sombre expres-
sions during the brief recitation. After
the President had left the room, Dr.
Johannes Leimena, the new First Deputy-
Prime Minister, read the names of the
32-man Cabinet beneath the presidium.
There were neither questions nor applause
when he was through. The six deputy-
prime ministers merely got up silently
and left.
If the audience of newsmen and photog-
raphers was not enthusiastic, the Indo-
nesian public was even less so. The
reaction, in fact, was surprisingly swift—
and almost entirely negative. The Action
Command of Indonesian Students, respon-
sible for the series of student demon-
strations that led Sukarno to yield power
to General Suharto, his Army commander,
promptly put out a statement charging
the Cabinet belonged “to vested interests,”
who were ambivalent about their political
views and “unable to administer economic
affairs.”
The objections of the Action Command
(KAMI) were echoed by newspapers and
political parties, all of whom regarded the
Cabinet as a compromise pleasing to no
one. Indeed, informed sources . said
Sukarno was wrangling with Suharto and
his principal allies only minutes before
announcing the names. Students and mili-
tary officers were especially angry that
three of the President’s oldest cronies, Dr.
Leimena, Dr. Idham Chalid, and Dr.
Roselan Abdulgani, should rank as first,
second, and third deputy-prime ministers
respectively.
Leimena, a political neuter, shrewd
enough to have offended no one, was
second deputy-prime minister in the
President’s old 100-man Cabinet and fifth
deputy-prime minister in the “interim”
Cabinet appointed by Suharto on March
18. Dr. Abdulgani, once the secretary-
general of the foreign ministry, has sided
with both Sukarno and the armed forces
in the past few years, but was regarded
as one of Sukarno’s allies before last
October’s abortive Communist coup. Dr.
Chalid remains chairman of the powerful
Moslem Scholars’ party despite widespread
opposition from the party’s anti-Com-
munists, who charge that he failed to
fight the Communists before the coup.
While Sukarno’s friends have the most
impressive titles, his enemies—or at least
his political rivals—hold the power.
Hamengku Buwono, the Sultan of Jogja-
karta, ranks as fourth deputy-prime
minister in charge of all economic and
financial affairs, General Suharto is fifth
deputy for defence and security, and Dr.
Adam Malik is sixth deputy for “social-
political affairs” and also foreign minister.
In contrast, Dr. Leimena merely super-
vises some administrative details, while
Dr. Chalid and Dr. Abdulgani head such
meaningless propaganda organs as the
People’s Consultative Congress and the
National Front, among others.
The pattern of Indonesia’s new top
leadership was set on March 18. The only
deputy-prime minister who was not on
the “interim” presidium was General
Suharto, whose powerful position had been
clear ever since Sukarno authorised him to
run the country on March 11. Although
the duties of the deputy-prime ministers
had not been spelled out in the “interim”
presidium, no one was surprised that the
Sultan, Malik, and Suharto should form
a triumvirate wielding the real authority.
The surprise was that they had bowed to
the President’s demands by letting the
three other presidium members hold the
top titles—or even sit on the presidium at
all.
Another surprise was that both Suharto
and Chalid were named deputy-prime
ministers “ad interim.” It seemed obvious
from this development that they had been
the focal points of the greatest controversy
in forming the Cabinet. The prevailing
theory was that Suharto had merely
accepted the position of deputy-premier
because Sukarno was adamant in his dis-
like for General Abdul Haris Nasution, the
popular defence minister whom he had
dismissed on February 21 in an effort to
rob the Armed Forces of power and pres-
tige and reassert his own authority.
It is difficult to believe, however, that
Suharto, the man who really defied the
President and forced him to outlaw the
Communist party (PKI), was not pleased
to find himself in both titular and actual
control of the nation’s entire defence estab-
lishment. Nasution, meanwhile, was
restored to the position of deputy-supreme
commander of the Crush Malaysia Com-
mand, from which he had also been dis-
missed in February. It remains to be seen
whether Nasution will be able to use the
Crush Malaysia Command, known as the
Supreme Operations Command before
February 22, as a stepping-stone to the
presidium.
As for Dr. Chalid, he apparently
remains on the presidium merely to please
Sukarno, who has regarded him as an old
friend ever since he began supporting the
President’s far-Leftist ideological views
several years ago. Dr. Chalid, as chairman
of the Moslem Scholars’ party (NU), has
considerable backing among Moslems, but
he also has inspired the dislike of two of
his party’s three vice-chairmen. One of
them, Z. E. Subchan, heads the Pantjasila
Front that has co-ordinated the civilian
side of the anti-Communist struggle ever
since October 1, the day of the coup. The
other. Mohammed Dachlan, has been the
guiding force behind the NU youth group,
responsible for slaughtering thousands of
Communists, particularly in East* Java.
Both Subchan and Dachlan, as well as
the many Moslems and other Indonesians
who support them, have charged privately
that Chalid is “too inclined to temporise
and compromise” with the Communists.
At the same time, they are afraid to come
out openly against Chalid, whom they fear
has the support of old-line Moslems who
still revere Sukarno. An inner struggle,
largely unpublicised, is likely to revolve
around Chalid, whose continued presence
on the presidium may well result in serious
divisions among Indonesia’s Moslems, 90
percent of the country’s 106 million popu-
lation.
Just as Indonesia’s anti-Communists
Moslem officials are not quite willing to
oppose Chalid openly, so anti-Communists
in general are still wary of frankly express-
ing their opinion about Sukarno. Almost
to a man, they tell foreign correspondents
that they regard the President as “the
great leader of our revolution.” They say
the only problem with Sukarno’s govern-
ment was “his assistants,” 15 of whom
were arrested on March 18. The most
hated among these are Dr. Subandrio,
deposed as first deputy-prime minister and
foreign minister, who forged Indonesia’s
ill-fated alliance with People’s China, and
Dr. Chaerul Saleh, former third deputy-
prime minister, reputed to have embezzled
millions of dollars from the Indonesian
government and banked it abroad.
THE real opinions of Indonesia’s anti-
Communist students, military officers,
professors, and others only became clear
during prolonged discussions. “But, you
see, we need Sukarno,” a young member
of the faculty of the University of
Indonesia patiently explained to me. “In
parts of middle and East Java, there
are millions of people who don’t even know
there’s been a big change in the govern-
ment. They idolise Sukarno. What are they
going to do if they hear we’ve thrown
him out? They might even start fighting
for him. We would lose our mass sup-
port.”
The anti-Communists have another
reason for wanting Sukarno in office—one
that has been virtually unpublicised and
would seem implausible to many foreigners
not accustomed to the ironies of Indonesian
politics. They are afraid that if Sukarno
is removed, the “Young Turks” of Indo-
nesia’s Armed Forces impatient junior
officers and others will try to form
a Right-wing military dictatorship. They
actually regard Sukarno’s presence in office
as a form of protection for whatever po-
tential Indonesia still has for democracy.
Eventually, they hope, the country will be
able to hold free elections, not only for
members of Parliament, now completely
powerless, but for the Presidency as welh_
Even more surprisingly, General Suharto
supports this point of view, along with
General Ibrahim Adjie, commander of the
vaunted Silliwangi division and one of the
first military leaders to ban the PKI in
his area after the coup. Suharto and
Adjie’s deepest fear is that, if Sukarno re-
signs, a civil war may develop between
elements in the Army and Indonesians who
continue to worship Sukarno. Either way,
the result could well be more dictatorship
—and defeat of their dreams for the de-
velopment of democracy, legality, and
freedom of expression in Indonesia.
The country’s anti-Communists, how-


1
km '
a
* #
There are over 200 highly skilled people working in IBM Service Bureaux around Australia. They’re waiting to serve you.
IB M64.108(2).855c
11786
to let
(by the hour, by the minute, by the job)
iks yssi
«■. ■>


SPrjSf
I r
%
fS
Australia’s largest, best equipped
Data Processing
Problem Solving Team
The most important part of any Service Bureau is people. Our team is easily
the biggest in Australia. But what’s really important, it is the most experienced.
We give our people precision training and the best IBM computers to work with.
The 1620, the 1401, the 7044 and soon the System/360. The latest. The small
computers for small problems. The big ones for big problems. How small? How
big? Many jobs handled cost less than $3O. Some cost $30,000. Can the Service
Bureau help you? How much will your job cost? There's a way
to find out quickly. The Pink Pages under Data Processing. We're
there—in every State.
IBM
IBM Australia Pty. Limited


ever, have made clear they will not tolerate
the new Cabinet for long if it is unable
to find a cure for the economic and politi-
cal chaos that has overwhelmed the
country in recent years. One of the KAMI
leaders told me the students plan to
resume demonstrations —“but not on such
a large scale” —and will also try to realise
their demands through political parties
and other conventional channels. “We
will give them (the new Cabinet) a
chance,” he said, “maybe one or two
months. Then we will start moving again.”
Sukarno will not find it. so easy to
undermine the powers of ministers whom
he dislikes, although it seems almost
certain that he will do all he can to
manoeuvre with allies at any level of
government. Just how much manoeuvr-
ing Sukarno will do at the start is a topic
of debate here. Some observers believe he
may wait for a year or so until the situa-
tion has calmed down before trying once
more to reassert his authority.
Whatever course Sukarno follows, he
will have to face the formidable authority
of the Sultan, Dr. Malik, and General
Suharto. The Sultan, who has emerged
as possibly the leading candidate to suc-
ceed Sukarno in case he is finally forced
to give up his titles, was principally
responsible for advising the old Supreme
Operations Command on economic affairs.
Sukarno’s fear of the Sultan was manifest
when he dismissed him from the com-
mand in February, along with Nasution.
He also fired Dr. Abdulgani, but appar-
ently as only an incidental part of his
purge of Nasution and Buwono.
D R : MAI,IK, former ambassador to the
Soviet Union, will doubtless override
Sukarno’s desire to maintain good rela-
tions with Peking and will develop
a neutral stance vis-a-vis the United
States, the Soviet Union, and China.
Although he was disillusioned with
the Soviet system during his stay in Mos-
cow, he may direct Indonesia’s foreign
policy toward Moscow while still attempt-
ing to restore cordial relations with the
United States. One reason for the likeli-
hood of close relations between Indonesia
and the Soviet Union is that Indonesia
needs spare parts for military equipment,
including ships, planes, and tanks, supplied
by Moscow in the past 10 years.
But the new government must move
fast if it is to enjoy any success at all.
The students are slowly returning to
classes. They have two more months of
school before summer vacations begin.
They have given the government no
longer than that to prove its ability to pull
Indonesia out of the mire of corruption,
economic disorder, and political deteriora-
tion.
Then, as they have said repeatedly in
the past few days, they will again raise
the cry for “reshuffling” the Cabinet.
Veteran observers here already regard
more conflict as inevitable and tend to
view the “new” Cabinet as just another
“interim” political step. Indonesia, in
short, appears headed for a long, hot sum-
mer of political wrangling and crises.
NEW YORK LETTER
LSD, Anyone?
From GEORGE McGANN
LSD may be losing ground as a world
monetary system, but another kind
of LSD is gaining alarming currency
among this country’s youth. LSD is, of
course, the tag commonly used to identify
the hallucinogen known technically as
D-lysergic acid diethylamid.
LSD in recent months has become the
“in” drug among the far-out set of Green-
wich Village, the University of California
Campus, at Berkeley, and the vast army
of kick-seeking kids everywhere eager to
make the scene. Allegedly non-habit-
forming and, therefore, not a true nar-
cotic, LSD nevertheless has frightening
effects on users, which place it in the
category of harmful drugs and have led
narcotics authorities to take steps to curb
its ever-growing spread.
Two incidents involving LSD in New
York in the past fortnight dramatically
demonstrated its enormous potential
danger. In the first episode, a girl of five
opened the refrigerator door of her home
in Brooklyn and found a cube of sugar,
which she promptly chewed and swal-
lowed. Moments later she was in a state
of hysterical convulsions and had to be
taken to hospital, where she seemingly
recovered. No one knows whether the
child’s mind suffered permanent damage,
for the sugar cube had been soaked in
LSD. The child’s 18-year-old uncle had
purchased the cube in Greenwich Village
for the standard price of five dollars and
had placed it in the refrigerator overnight,
pending his first experiment with the
mind-expanding substance. He was
arrested, to his understandable bewilder-
ment, and charged with impairing the
health and morals of a minor.
The other case was far more tragic. It
involved a brilliant former medical
student, estranged from his wife, who
entered the home of his wife’s parents and,
after threatening his mother-in-law for
several hours, finally slashed her to death.
When the police arrived, the dazed youth
looked around the blood-soaked flat and
asked: “What have I done, killed my
wife? I’ve been high for three days on
LSD.” In the hue and cry raised by this
crime, a full-scale investigation into the
sources of supply and methods of dis-
tribution of LSD has got under way at
City Hall. The city’s medical examiner
warned that “of all the drugs abused in
this country today, LSD is the most
dangerous” far more dangerous, he
added, than marijuana, which it has dis-
placed as the favored addiction of
America’s young intellectuals.
The only American drug manufacturer
licensed to produce LSD, an affiliate of
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals of Switzerland,
has ceased making it. But it is compara-
tively easy to make in university labora-
tories, which are a prime source of the
substance. Inasmuch as it is colorless and
tasteless, LSD is difficult to track down.
It is so powerful that the minutest quan-
tity applied to a sugar cube is sufficient
to take the user on a ten-hour “trip,”
during which he may experience the most
terrifying of hallucinations or unimagined
delights. Its effects vary according to the
individual. Judging by its widespread
popularity, most users enjoy their trips.
LSD and similar psychedelics, including
mescalin and peyote, have been fascinating
the intellectual community for a decade
or more. The late Aldous Huxley was
perhaps the best-known proponent of their
use, and today Dr. Timothy Leary, the
former Harvard professor, is the leader
of the cult and its martyr, too, since
he was handed a thirty-year jail sentence
in Texas for inducing his teenage daughter
to smuggle marijuana across the Mexican
border in her brassiere.
A recent survey by the “New York
Times” disclosed that heroin and other
“hard” drugs were virtually never taken
by university students. There was much
experimentation with all the hallucino-
gens, marijuana and LSD mainly, par-
ticularly among graduate students and
those majoring in the sciences. A great
number of anthropology students have
taken to the hallucinogens. A professor
at the Berkeley campus of the University
of California recalled that when a visit-
ing anthropologist lectured about the
Indians of the American south-west, “it
damn near turned into a recipe-swapping
session for peyote and the magic mush-
rooms.” The LSD users were found to
be products of upper middle-class environ-
ments, “vaguely Leftist, disenchanted with
American policies in Vietnam, agitated
because there are negro ghettoes, and
bored with conventional politics.” They
do not join the Peace Corps, which is
scoffed at as “strictly for boy scouts.”
LSD induced a kind of religious experi-
ence, reported some students who had no
previous religious interests. Others spoke
of “meeting the naked self” or becoming
“terribly honest with myself.” Others
admitted to terrifying trips on LSD,
involving revelations of their own inade-
quacies. “It is not the flashing lights and
visual distortions—it is the psychedelic
soul-searching.”
There is no doubt that, on and off the
campus, LSD use has grown to epidemic
proportions. The “flight deck” at Bellevue
Hospital now receives more LSD victims
than mainliners (heroin addicts). In
Greenwich Village and similar bohemian
areas of the larger cities a “psychedelic
review” circulates widely. Off-Broadway
theatres re-enact the experiences of an
LSD trip. A rock-’n-roll group called the
Turtles recently played what it called
psychedelic music on the Ed Sullivan
Show. That is just about the ultimate in
public exposure in Videoland, so we can
now expect LSD to filter rapidly down to
the masses.


THE
HAPPY-GO-LIVEUEST
STATION WAGON
OF THEM ALL
m
w
&
m
• .
■* *
With a Valiant Safari VB, you get more when you buy
it, drive it, and finally trade it —A handsome, roomy
station wagon big enough inside to carry a mountain
of camping gear, and to sleep in. For extra measure in
load capacity, a roof rack comes as standard equip-
ment. The combination of 273 V 8 power and Torque-
flite 3-speed automatic transmission brings driving at
its thrilling best and provides the ultimate for trailing a
boat or towing a caravan. Brilliant performance is
matched by outstanding safety —and, because Safari
V 8 is Chrysler built, the quality and value last. This
year, move up to the Valiant way of life with a Safari
V 8 or Valiant 273 V 8 sedan.
Valiant Safari V 8 $3590 (£1795) tax inc.
Valiant V 8 Sedan $3550 (£1775) tax inc.
Valiant
SAFARI
V 8
w
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Profit, Not Politics
By J. C. KAYE
AUSTRALIA has never before had a
theatre family quite like the Edgleys.
Eric (“Mick”) Edgley is managing
director of the family business, Edgley and
Dawe. His second wife, Edna, and his
two sons, Phillip, 34, and Michael, 22,
are directors. Mick has been in theatre
for 60 years. Edna, was the soubrette, Edna
Luscombe. She also went on stage first
as a child.
Phillip’s mother was the late Phyllis
Amery, the dancer who once partnered
Cyril Ritchard, before Cyril teamed with
Madge Elliott. Phillip is an actor, but
now gives his time to the business. Michael,
an accountant, is the only one who hasn’t
acted. Even Christine, 16, still at school
in West Perth, at St. Mary’s Church of
England Grammar, has been in several
shows.
Business distinction and considerable
money have come to the family as a result
of an inspiration that hit Mick Edgley
in 1961, when he was touring the world
and had a look at Russia. He saw a lot of
Russian theatre, as many other tourists
have, but decided as well to call on Gos-
concert, the central theatrical authority, at
its Moscow office. He asked politely through
an interpreter if there was anything to be
done with Russian artists for Australia.
As a result, the Edgleys have been the
Australian end of tours by Soviet artists
and companies, including the Bolshoi
Ballet, the Georgian and Omsk dancers
and the Moscow Circus, for the last five
years. They have struck ore. Australians
have proved to be the most avid Russian-
showgoers in the world outside Russia, for
the size of the population.
The Edgleys’ current show, the Berioska
(Birch-tree) dancers have had a standing-
room-only success in Melbourne and begun
the national circuit by way of Adelaide.
The Edgleys have other shows booked for
five years ahead, including a Polish com-
pany, the Red Army Choir, and a return
of the Moscow Circus with different acts.
The essence has been an unwritten agree-
ment to keep politics out of it. The Edgleys
are capitalists engaged in theatre. The
Russians gain currency and the propaganda
value of the popularity of their artists.
Mick Edgley has been to Russia 10 times,
Phillip three times, Edna twice, and
Michael once. The deals are set in con-
tracts running to many pages, with copies
in English and Russian. It’s all 50-50.
“We split the transport costs to and
from Australia,” Mick Edgley explains.
“We pay the accommodation and they pay
the meals. They pay the dentist and hos-
pitals. We pay the doctor.”
The Edgleys provide the theatres and
meet transport within Australia, including
freight movement and the provision of
buses for the Russians between hotel and
theatre and on recreational outings.
Russian thinking is careful. Even with
hundreds of thousands of dollars involved,
they check small items. When, one per-
former had to have a dental operation
here they debated whether it was medical
or dental treatment, seeing that a surgical
incision had been made. They settled for
“medical” and the Edgleys paid. But after
the Edgleys paid for some of the Russians
to take home excess baggage, Gosconcert
cried “Nyet” and paid.
Sword fights in the Georgian show put
two men into hospital with eye injuries.
The lady tiger-tamer in the circus, Naza-
rova, went to hospital when one animal
tore her hand in Melbourne. Otherwise
luck has been good.
“They’re strict and fair to deal with,”
Mick Edgley says. “They’ll even change
a contract to their disadvantage if they
see the reason. That’s more than you can
say for most. If ever the atmosphere ices
up I just drop a gag or two. Theatre
jokes are an international language.”
Every tour has had its crisis. For the
Berioska visit the baggage was put on
the wrong ship in Europe, and the Ilyushin
jet bringing the company direct to Sydney
was forbidden to land in New Delhi,
because the Indians felt the flight upset
an arrangement between Air India and
Aeroflot on shared traffic. The Melbourne
opening was twice delayed. The general
story, however, has been of good fortune.
The movement of the Moscow Circus
around Australia was a $500,000 gamble
with the weather. But in 14 weeks the
show met heavy rain three times, and two
of those days were Sundays.
have been peaceful. There have
been no defections. The Soviet politi-
cal man who travels quietly, with every
party has had no apparent worries. There
have been no anti-Russian demonstrations.
Today, the Edgley fortunes are solid.
The first enterprise, the Moscow State
Variety in 1962, was entirely an Edgley
and Dawe affair, and could have bank-
rupted the business had it gone wrong.
Since then Mick Edgley has had no
trouble finding partners to share the risk
and the takings. The circus has been the
most spectacular earner. About 600,000
people saw it and it grossed $1,200,000.
Mick Edgley, whose proper family
name is Edgley-White, was born in Birm-
ingham, England, to a family so theatrical
that at one time about 30 members of it
were on tour in Australia alone. It’s part
of family lore that grandma was the first
to sing the Marseillaise from the English
stage and that Mother (Elizabeth War-
den) was the first to do the Serpent
Dance.
All Mick’s brothers and his sister
became theatricals. Clem, the eldest, was
Mick’s partner, as Clem Dawe, until he
died eight years ago. Dorothy and Dick
became the Dick-Dorothy dance act.
Dorothy married a Russian violinist,
Gregory Ivanov, who died a year ago.
Ivanov, for 11 years, conducted the
orchestra at the St. James Theatre in
Sydney. Dorothy now lives in Hobart. Les,
the other brother, after a life in the
theatre, is now in the property department
at Melbourne’s GTV9 television station.
Mick began to learn tap-dancing almost
as a toddler. At seven he was on the
stage. Soon after he was with the Lanca-
shire Lads, where Chaplin served an
apprenticeship. Mick and Clem, as Edgley
and Dawe, a comedy team, were doing
well in Britain when a J. C. Williamson
scout spotted them in 1919 and offered
them a contract to come to Australia.
When Mick appeared in pantomime at
the King’s Theatre, in Melbourne, Edna
Luscombe, a girl of eight, was one of the
tinies of the show.
Mick and Clem prospered here until
1935, when they took a chance and lost.
They gathered an Australian company
together and toured Britain, where the
public were not amused. The entrepren-
eurs went broke. There was nothing to
do but get the Edgley and Dawe act
going again to restock the treasury. In
1940, Mick’s wife Phyllis Amery
died. Mick and Edna, who had been with
the show for years as comic “feed,”
married in 1942. With submarines sinking
ships from almost every British convoy,
the party sailed first to South Africa and
then back to Australia.
Fifteen years ago the base for Edgley
enterprises became His Majesty’s Theatre,
Perth, which the family still holds on
lease from its owners, the W.A. Wheat-
growers’ Co-operative. It was to keep
His Majesty’s on an economic footing
that Mick first thought of Russians. With-
out the Russians, in fact, the Perth theatre
could well have closed. The Berioska
tour will end there, and the Ilyushin will
be in Perth to take the troupe back home.
The Edgleys have never leased other
theatres long-term. “If I were six years
younger I’d leap at taking the Tivolis,”
Mick said. But he is not well. He returns
to Perth every now and then for medical
treatment. Edna and Phillip, with Michael
now, carry on. On the circus tour, Phillip
broke down, too, and Edna battled on
alone.
Edna, Mick, Michael, and Christine live
in a Tudor-style house at Dalkeith, Perth,
with the lawn running to the river. Phillip
has his own house, near the theatre. He
is learning Russian and, as a man who
has flown through Siberian snow to see
one company’s performance, is the farthest
traveller of the four.
When I called to see him at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, the Berioska people
had just decided to go to New Zealand,
reversing an earlier decision.
The company has so much baggage that
a special Qantas charter was in mind. A
moderate flap was on. Phillip Edgley is
a buoyant man who can take a lot of
punishment. But his hair is beginning to
show a fair amount of grey.


£.llliillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||||||||||||||||||||!lll|||||||lllllll||||||||||||||||||||||ll|||(w
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiih?
PETER O'SHAUGHNESSY
33$ RPM BULLETIN RECORD
SPIRIT OF ANZAC
Available for only $1 post-free. The noted Aus-
tralian actor presents specially recorded excerpts,
evoking the spirit of soldiering, from the works
of William Charles Wentworth, C. J. Dennis, lan
Mudie, A. B. Paterson, John Manifold, John Mase-
field and Alan Seymour.
■
■
W 5
m
TANNER BUST
OF MENZIES
We have arranged for the casting of a limited
number of life-size plaster copies of Tanner's
bust of Sir Robert Menzies, which appeared on
the cover of the January 29 issue of The Bulletin.
These are available to readers for $lO (£5)
each, post-free.
1 11 11 1 ! 11; 1 11 1 11 11 11 11 11 m 11 1 1 1 11 1 m 11 11 11 1 11 1 m 1 11 1 m 11 11 1 m 11 1 11 11 11 1 1 11 11 11 1 ( 1 11 11 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1,1 1 11 11 11 11 11 1 mu
'miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir
BARRY HUMPHRIES'
45 RPM BULLETIN RECORD
CHUNDER DOWN UNDER
Available for only $1 post-free. It has two of
the hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie's
"The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications"—with a new ski song especially
composed for this record.
For each record send $1 (a cheque or postal note, not cash) to “BULLETIN RECORDS", BOX 7052, G.F.0., SYDNEY, and for each bust $lO (cheque
or postal note, not cash to “BULLETIN SCULPTURE", BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY, together with the coupon and address label below. Both records
and bust may also oe purchased over the counter from the PAPER SALES DEPARTMENT, sth FLOOR, TELEGRAPH HOUSE, 168 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
r— ——————————————————————
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN BUST I BULLETIN ANZAC I BULLETIN BARRY
OF MENZIES I RECORD | HUMPHRIES' RECORD
Cross out item(s) not required Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
PLEASE DESPATCH BULLETIN BUST(S)
ANZAC RECORD(S) BARRY HUMPHRIES' RECORD(S)
Name of Sender
Address
State
If more than one record or bust is ordered, attach list giving full name,
address, State and, if overseas, country.
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN RECORD(S) ONLY
BULLETIN BUST(S) ONLY
Cross out item(s) not packed
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name....
Address.
„„ State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
ON FILM
Housing the Blockbusters
THE opening in March of the new
Capri Theatre at Shepparton, Vic-
toria, the My Fair Lady Theatre
in Adelaide, and the Avalon at Hobart,
and the unveiling later this year of three
new theatres in Sydney The Ascot,
the Paramount, and the Lyceum, and
the new Hoyts Cinema Centre in Mel-
bourne seems, on the face of it, to be
coming at a strange time: most people
tend to think of this as a bad period for
the cinema.
But the fact is that, in this past year,
Hollywood has had a startling resurgence,
its box-office receipts up, its production
schedules increased. And the blockbusters
are effecting the miracle: the huge, multi-
million-dollar films. Since these run for
years and tie up theatres, precluding the
showing of other films, new ones have to
be built to accommodate the new block-
busters. And these additional theatres are
likely to be luxurious, pricy, and designed
for the “big” ratio screens.
Meanwhile, the smaller theatres, especi-
ally those in the suburbs, struggle along
with difficulty. “We keep most of them
open during the week for only one
reason,” Herb Hayward, of Greater
Union, told me. “So that the people
passing in cars won’t think the theatre is
closed for good. When you see the bright
lights shining they think they might drop
in on Friday or Saturday. And that’s
when we get the crowds.”
The art theatres all seem to suffer from
indifferent projection, rather poor prints,
and a general air of malaise; an American
commentator has described them as “400
seaters with coffee.” I have seldom been
to a single one of these places in Sydney
and enjoyed it (in Melbourne they are
much better). The heat in summer always
seems insufferable, the clientele scruffy,
the atmosphere rancid, and the projection
feeble. The prices are invariably high,
too high, and the films advertised with a
knowing crudity which would be intoler-
able from a so-called “commercial” house.
Films of major artistic importance from
overseas are held up for months, even
years, while the heavily obvious sex
comedies or breasty melodramas get in
first.
Which brings me at a leap to the Sydney
Film Festival, recently taken over by a
new director. Here, one feels, there would
be a case for increasing the price of
admission. Because of Australia’s peculiar
geographical position as a massive island,
the Customs Department exerts an
exasperating control over the showing of
feature films: it charges exorbitant duty
fees unless the Festival is prepared to leave
the films in bond for the duration of the
Festival. Thus, the films are allowed in
duty free, provided that no individual
charges are made for admission to screen-
ings; this alone would cripple any effort
to make Sydney’s a major world festival.
In view of this, the charges should be
increased for admittance to the festival;
in Melbourne $8 a head is charged for
4000 people (twice as much as Sydney).
At present, the Sydney Festival is
probably the world’s poorest: disgracefully,
the State Government has done nothing
to subsidise it (whereas the Cannes,
Venice, London, and other overseas festi-
vals are heavily subsidised by the respec-
tive governments). It cannot afford to
pay freight on films both ways, it cannot
afford to import a famous director or
star (Jean-Luc Godard offered to come to
Melbourne with his feature “Pierrot le
Fou,” and the producer of Robert
Bresson’s “The Trial of Joan of Arc,”
to Sydney with that film, but the Mel-
bourne and Sydney Festivals, respectively,


meet their expenses. Without this kind of
contact between successful artists and
young Australians trying to make films
there can be no satisfactory climate for
these young people to grow in.
A visit by an Antonioni or a Resnais
or a Godard would be of incalculable
help to our experimenters here. But unless
the Sydney Festival either raises money by
subsidiary committee, raises levies on its
members, or charges heavier fees it will
never be more than an extended Univer-
sity Film Group set of screenings or an
education course in the cinema, well-
intentioned, run with a good deal of self-
sacrifice by its various committee mem-
bers, but still a group of oldish films
already in the country, consulates’ offer-
ings, a few lucky items lent with generos-
ity by overseas companies, and very little
really new, central, or significantly of the
year in question. (The refusal of dis-
tributors like Sidney Blake to lend major
films is another thorn in the festival’s
side.)
The trouble partly, at least, boils down
to the old Australian tight-fistedness: the
best wanted for the cheapest possible out-
lay, as well as the limp, democratic idea
that everyone should get art cheaply,
without sacrifices. But the best, in fact,
always costs or should cost the most.
The increased charges would hurt a few
students’ pockets (but, like their British
or American counterparts, they must
learn to go without for the cinema). The
arty upper middle-class set who form the
majority of subscribers will have to decide
whether they are going to fork out more
money (which they can well afford) or
admit openly they are only paying gush-
ing lip-service to the cinema.
CHARLES HIGHAM
THEATRE
Unlearnt lessons
Busybody, by Jack Popplewell. Directed
by Raymond Westwell. Comedy, Mel-
bourne.
A FEW weeks ago, Jimmy Edwards
oompahed sadly on his euphonium
and the walls of the Tivoli came
tumbling down. And sentimental people
stood around and surveyed the nostalgic
rubble, agreeing it was a sign of the times
and that worse would surely follow. One
of the few who disagreed was JCW’s
energetic John McCallum, who conceded,
however, that theatrical box-offices weren’t
exactly being besieged. His main com-
plaint was that Australian TV showed
so many late model films. But surely these
feature-film re-runs are more directly com-
petitive with the cinemas. Yet, while
theatres close, new cinemas proliferate.
Is there a moral?
When faced with the full impact of TV
in the early ’fifties, the film industry
adapted quickly and intelligently. Their
new marketing strategy was to go where
TV couldn’t follow into the wide open
spaces of the megafilms, and the special-
ised nooks and crannies of “art film.”
Yet our commercial theatrical manage-
ments have learned only half the lesson.
“My Fair Lady” and the other musicals
can be equated with the wide-screen epics,
but where are the counterparts for the
serious films? In repertory, that’s where.
Since the early ’fifties we’ve seen Wesker,
Pinter, Miller, Williams, Osburne, Becket,
lonesco, Hochulth, Albee, Brecht, and
Seymour praise be to the Reps. The
commercial success of such filmed plays
as “Taste of Honey” and “The Enter-
tainer” underlines commercial theatre’s
fearfulness and failure. Theatre’s young
audience has been going to the pictures
to see good plays.
Which brings us, at long last, to “Busy-
body,” a sad case in point. TV’s leading
Cockney, Irene Handl, appears in a
comedy that could be called harmless;
if it wasn’t for the long-term effect of
such negative fare. Handl is a brilliant
comedienne, and her TV work and re-
corded sketches with Peter Sellers (one
of the best of which she wrote herself)
suggest she could easily sustain a Barry
Humphries or David Kossoff type presen-
tation. Instead, she labors away in a tire-
some piece of nonsense about a charlady
turned detective.
The time is overdue for theatrical man-
agements to invest in sophisticated audi-
ence research, to experiment and venture
In programming, to discard obsolete pro-
motion, and advertising and, above all,
to emphasise what there is in theatre that
remains unique. Then theatre can sur-
vive TV, the way painting survived the
camera.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Old Days, New Ways
Lysistrata. Aristophanes. Athens Drama
Company. Elizabethan Theatre, Sydney.
Muriel’s Virtues? Peter Kenna. Indepen-
dent Theatre.
The Gents. Harry Martin. Q Lunch-hour
Theatre.
WOMEN of the Greek world unite!
You will gain both peace and
your husbands.” Lysistrata’s plan
of campaign for achieving peace in the
21st year of the Peloponnesian War was
different from that of present-day peace
campaigners. “Do not lie down,” she said
to the women. But she was no unilateralist.
The success of her plan depended upon
the co-operation of the wives of the enemy.
Given the idea of a sexual lock-out by
the women —a comic idea of genius—the
main scenes of broad comedy can be easily
understood: the initial reluctance of the
women when presented with Lysistrata’s
audacious plan; the feeble attempts of the
old men to seize the Acropolis from the
angry women; the disgust of Lysistrata at
the ruses and deceptions of the would-be
defectors from chastity; and Myrrhine’s
teasing of her love-starved husband.
Costis Michaelides’ lively production is
graced by a fascinating Lysistrata in
Helena Rigas. Lina Krassa is a delightful
Myrrhine, while Dimitris Kalivokas as her
cheated husband and Grigoris Vafias as
a pompous magistrate are a pair of accom-
plished comedians.
The modern choreodrama “Mona-
stiraki” which precedes “Lysistrata” is
seen in retrospect to be sadly, lacking in
the coherence and intellectual vitality
Doreen Warburton, Ben Gabriel, and Don
Philps in Harry Martin’s “The Gents.” Q
Theatre, Sydney.
which distinguish its 2500-year-old com-
panion piece.
A similar criticism has to be made of
two Australian comedies which have
opened recently.
The theme of “Muriel’s Virtues?” is
that helping people is a kind of tyranny.
It is a promising theme, but Peter Kenna
does not succeed in developing it satis-
factorily and the play is much too
reminiscent of the sketches of Barry
Humphries.
The otherwise entirely realistic setting
for this low-intensity suburban satire in-
cludes two screens upon which are pro-
jected a stalk of gladiolus and a flight of
ceramic ducks. This super-imposing of
one convention upon another simply
means that Peter Kenna is making his
points twice over. I wish he had thrown
out the realistic scenery altogether and
just kept the two screens. His characters
are such caricatures that they would look
much better in a non-realistic play.
Harry Martin, on the other hand, has
given his play “The Gents” some of the
trappings of a non-realistic play, although
in fact it is quite realistic. The characters
two male lavatory attendants and one
female lavatory attendant are made up
with white mask-like clown faces and
they chop logic in their underground
kingdom about the bomb and happiness
and related topics.
Actually they chop logic just like
lavatory attendants and at times their
quibbles are funny. But the only point
of such arguments is their pointlessness,
though Mr. Martin seems to hope that
some higher truth has emerged from the
setting, the masks, and the final act of
sudden violence. But it hasn’t.
This is a pity because Harry Martin has
a theatrical sense and a gift for dialogue.
All he needs is something to say. Don
Pascoe, Ben Gabriel, and Doreen War-
burton give good performances and
Martin Sharp’s Victoriana setting in grey
has a pleasing simplicity.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


TELEVISION
The Radical Right
TELEVISION producers often com-
plain bitterly about their reviews
and denounce their reviewers. There
is another side to this coin. Praise a TV
production, tell your friends how im-
proved it is, and that will be the week it
is terrible. Run it down and it proceeds
to surpass itself.
Recently a Melbourne reviewer
accused “Four Corners” of dullness, and
rightly. On the same Saturday night it
leaped back into the action with a timely
and controversial look at what it called
The Radical Right. Timely because
Sydney’s biggest demonstration against
conscription, or Australia-in-Vietnam, had
occurred the previous night, and the film
of it was wovenfinto the already prepared
material about our new Vigilantes.
Among the counter-demonstrators were
many who had been interviewed by John
Penlington earlier and who had shown
themselves as much more than mere Right
Wingers. To clear up the terminology,
three of them had accused the entire Aus-
tralian Press and the ABC of giving
slanted, pro-Communist versions of news
from abroad, a view which would startle
the owners of our newspapers, whom one
of the Vigilantes’ spokesmen identified as
“part of the Communist conspiracy mani-
fest in Australia.”
The “Radical Right” was shown in
action trying to break up a Sydney meet-
ing at which Mr. John Cairnes was orat-
ing against the Vietnam participation.
The demonstrators were told to leave, and
Young Liberals who were present dis-
owned them publicly. Either Penlington
or people he interviewed labelled them
racist, pro-apartheid, anti-Semitic, and
dangerous in their pretence that theirs
were the actions of the only true anti-
Communists.
Logically, “Four Corners” should
follow up with an equally incisive look
at the radical Left, improving on the
supper club impression filmed recently
by a “Seven Days” crew, and yet giving
some attention to the radicals who are
not what the Vigilantes call “hard-core
activists” and film and record at the
rallies “to turn over to the proper
authorities.”
I would have thought that the public
was the proper authority in this matter,
protected by its official legal apparatus.
Evidently this was the “Four Corners”
view of it, and television reporting of
this kind is rare at a time when everyone
else is debating the same issues on TV,
repeating the same catch cries, arrogantly
certain that the only truth is in their pos-
session. Here is one viewer who is becom-
ing heartily sick of the lot of them, and
their debates, which are becoming the
true dullness on television.
FRANK ROBERTS
MUSIC
Deterioration
Sydney Symphony Orchestra. Youth Con-
cert. Conductor, Dean Dixon. Sydney
Town Hall.
DEAN DIXON, returning to the Syd-
ney rostrum for the season’s first
Youth Concert, depleted of some of
its finest players by the establishment of
the Conservatorium String Quartet. There
was no doubt that the S.S.O. has again
deteriorated in the months since Dixon’s
last sojourn with them. The most glaring
shortcomings were not, however, in the
string sections and even they might have
been far less obvious had we not recently
experienced the wonderful playing by the
London Symphony.
Dixon himself seems much changed.
His conducting, sparing of beats at all
times, was much sobered; his body move-
ments have become more economical (at
this rate he need fear no further damage
to his arm) and J had an impression of
tiredness and flagging interest in his work.
The first work, Stravinsky’s 1937 Ballet
Suite “Jeu de Cartes,” had a ragged start
that tended to expose the weaknesses of
some of the wind sections. As the work
proceeded, playing improved somewhat
and the lightweight music was performed
with generally adequate spirit. The even-
ing’s best playing came in Prokofiev’s
spectacularly nationalistic “Lieutenant
Kije” Suite. The score of this, possibly
the composer’s most popular work, is
extremely colorful and the orchestra rose
to the occasion.
The new work on the program was
“Improvisations for Jazz Band and Sym-
phony Orchestra,” by Matyas Seiber in
collaboration with band leader Johnny
Dankworth. In this work the full orchestra
is joined by 16 jazz players, who perform
both in concert and as soloists. The sec-
tions of the score which are purely jazz
came off quite well and there were some
fine soli, particularly from drummer Mark
Bowden. Considered as an orchestral
piece, the work is little more than a
novelty, although the idea is a good one
and the combination of the contrasting
forces skilfully engineered.
The disappointment of the evening was
a performance of Mozart’s great “Jupiter”
symphony, which, for the very first time,
came pretty close to boring me. The open-
ing Allegro, taken rather fast, was played
in a dehumanised, clipped fashion; the
lovely Andante, though much better, was
very matter-of-fact and shorn of all
magic; the Allegretto sounded lifeless, the
Allegro rough.
PAUL FROLICH
Members of the Kalakshetra Dancers of Madras, sponsored by the Indian
Government, which has just finished an Australian tour. The dancer on the
left is Pushpa Shankar, who takes the role of Shyama in the dance-drama
by Tagore. Alongside her are other dancers from “Shyama” and, at right,
musicians in the company. The Kalakshetra Dancers, which were founded in
1936 by Rukmini Devi, were presented by the Arts Council.


BOOKS
The Risks in Vietnam
By GEOFFREY FAIR BAIRN
War Without Honor. Gerald Stone. Jacar-
anda. $3.95.
DESPITE its garishly sensational title
this is a serious, honest, and often
instructive book whose chief defect
is that it seems really to be two pamph-
lets, of unequal merit, co-existing rather
than reinforcing each other within the
same covers.
One pamphlet consists of a truly excel-
lent piece of war reporting. The book
is worth buying simply for its description
of the Australian and American advisers
setting up a Special Forces camp and
for its incisive explanation of the differ-
ence between the Australian and American
method of counter-guerilla fighting. In
my opinion this ranks high amongst
writing on the war.
But and this is a tribute to Mr.
Stone’s fine understanding of the terrible
nuances of such a war (for example, he
writes of Viet Cong “tortured beyond the
requirements of interrogation”) the
war reporting does not really support the
contention of the other pamphlet to the
effect that this war is peculiarly dishonor-
able. There is no doubt whatsoever that
countering Communist revolutionary war-
fare involves terrible problems of moral-
ity, which are quite deliberately exacer-
bated, when not deliberately provoked,
by the tactics of an enemy who acknow-
ledges no such morality himself.
Mr. Stone allows none of the fatuous
arguments beloved of the Left Wing. So
far as he is concerned the “war was
started by the Communists”: significant
infiltration occurred in 1959-60 (when
there were less than 700 U.S. advisers in
the country); and by 1960 “the North
Vietnamese Communist Party had given
official public endorsement to the revolu-
tion and set up the administrative appa-
ratus needed to control, support, and
expand a war of liberation in the South.”
True, he argues (like some of the most
intelligent and politically independent
opponents of Western intervention) that
the 1900 assassinations during 1957
and 1958 were the work of “southern
Communists,” implying that these people
rose against Diem’s “harassment” and
that Hanoi had to “intervene” in order
to prevent their possible destruction.
Unless new evidence is adduced, this view-
point must remain untenable. Since 1930
there has been only one Communist Party
in Indo-China (disguised after World War
II for purely tactical reasons); since well
before the beginning of fighting in 1946
there has been but one Communist com-
mand throughout Vietnam, and that com-
mand was so effective that a countrywide
armistice was quickly achieved and rigor-
ously observed during the period of
French withdrawal. Is it being seriously
suggested that between late 1954 and the
middle of 1957 (when the slow escalation
of “moral persuasion,” political warfare
was resumed) that the immaculately
efficient Viet Minh organisation collapsed,
to be replaced by local figures, or that
branches spontaneously resorted in such
co-ordinated fashion to a policy of
violence which, on Mr. Stone’s own admis-
sion, was doomed to failure without
Northern support? Where are the local,
southern figures of significance? It really
is up to the proponents of this theory to
show why the Communists in South Viet-
nam allowed themselves to act so foreignly
to normal Communist practice.
This is an example of where the very
fine war correspondent is desperately, and
very unconvincingly, trying to get along-
side the Left to the extent that his honesty
will permit him.
Mr. Stone’s central thesis seems to be
this: “There are powerful arguments in
favor of the allied military intervention
in South Vietnam. They do not, however,
answer one of the basic problems facing
the allied governments in their effort to
conceive a sound, overall defensive
strategy against Communism in South-
East Asia. It is easy enough to show how
the loss of South Vietnam would endanger
Western security. But there is also a
grave possibility that the effort required
to keep South Vietnam from going Com-
munist may ultimately prove an even
greater danger to Western interests. The
choice, therefore, is not simply of whether
to act or not against a threat of security.
It is whether to take certain risks to avoid
others and, perhaps, to absorb short-term
losses in an attempt to achieve long-term
aims.” For Mr. Stone, this involves “let-
ting go” in South Vietnam in the greater
interest, which hinges upon what is made
of the so-called “Domino Theory” on the
one hand and the price likely to be in-
volved in a Western “victory” on the
other. Mr. Stone is perfectly aware that
“every alternative” has been “fraught with
danger,” a proposition against which no
intelligent student of the South-East Asian
scene in recent years could disagree
only the Left Wing, seeing in a Western
defeat and an American withdrawal across
the Pacific its sole chance of attaining
political office, has argued otherwise
and so the whole question, in Mr. Stone’s
terms, has nothing whatsoever to do with
a “war without honor” but solely with
strategic choices.
These have been onerous indeed, the
decision to support the Government of
South Vietnam may prove, as a result
of the efficacy of Communist revolution-
ary warfare applied to urban conditions,
to seem to have been the wrong one. Mr.
Stone is certainly right in arguing that a
decision to intervene became progressively
more dangerous as the years were
allowed to pass; but ... in 1965 could
the U.S.A. have really chosen otherwise;
and could the Australian Government
have done other than it did? As Mr.
Stone, himself, says, “No one doubts that
the United States has the power to
accomplish these things, even should it
take a million men” and “these things”
include the winning over of the South
Vietnamese peasantry.
From the very-beginning, the struggle
has hinged upon whether the West would
be prepared to pay the price: “Will the
American, Australian, and New Zealand
people accept the price?” as Mr. Stone
puts it. The contest in South Vietnam
is not really very complex in its essentials.
The stand has been made there; there is
no possibility now of any kind of politico-
military induced withdrawal that would
not be catastrophic for non-Communism
throughout South and South-East Asia;
whatever its validity may have amounted
to in 1963 or 1964 (and I believe that it
was psychologically valid then), surely the
validity of the “Domino Theory” is
obvious now: rightly or wrongly, the
U.S.A. and its allies have, in fact, accepted
the challenge offered by what Peking and
Hanoi openly regard as the “test case”
for revolutionary guerilla warfare.
Mr. „ Stone very truthfully points out
that whereas the U.S.A. and its allies
have very unwisely messed about with
their terms for negotiations, Hanoi’s terms
have been altogether consistent: an
American withdrawal a withdrawal in
As It Comes
To celebrate, yes, but discriminately:
art is a sort of powerhouse
lighting the neighborhood;
it need not bum itself out:
sends signals out, does not
name the direction, intention
or recipient: is concerned
with the how, not casual where.
The poem is a sort of still life
arrangements on the table of the mind,
gold of oranges, the detached
air of bananas.
Help yourself, madame, there
are more where that came from;
a whole Pacific clusters just for you
its islands only to grow such fruit
mute in iis dish but for
taste and color without which
proportion would not last.
Life itself is a progress
from lamp-post to lamp-post
as dogs and drunks know,
and going home another
illusion that something belongs.
Oh, yes, and fences. These help.
Mark out your areas. Peel
yourself another grape; there is
always more where it came from
and art of course is long.
Which drawer? Why, lady,
the top of course; would any
other merit our offering?
LOUIS JOHNSON


the face of the armed politico-military
might of the Communist Party of Indo-
China, which controls the Pathet Lao, the
presently quiescent (for tactical reasons)
Cambodian “Workers’ Party,” and the
important Vietnamese minority in North-
East Thailand; a withdrawal in the face
of an insistently proclaimed Peking belief
that in the efficacious Leninist purity of
revolutionary guerilla warfare lies the
means of conquering the whole “inter-
zone” of South and South-East Asia,
Africa, and Latin America.
Even Mr. Stone, while arguing a scheme
of disengagement, is prepared also to write
“. . . the one useful purpose left to the
American intervention is to provide a
little more time for the more stable allies
like Thailand, Malaysia, and the Philip-
pines to strengthen their own political,
military, and economic defences against
the coming challenge of Communist-
fostered social revolution. If the United
States can accomplish that, it will have
accomplished a great deal.” Which is
perhaps as good an example of Mr.
Stone’s troubled honesty as could be cited
to end the review.
After all, no one who has tried to study
the violence and suffering of Vietnam
over quite a long period of time can be
other than troubled by this terrible war.
This is doubtless why Mr. Stone’s com-
ments on the careless insouciance of the
Liberal Government under Sir Robert
Menzies most MPs being content to
vie with each other in quoting one indif-
ferent U.S. document, little interested in
anything beyond it, sometimes seeming
more concerned with the flavor of their
speeches than with the stench of fear and
death in Vietnam ring so very true.
If only he could see that the Left’s
activities are directed only to weakening
the Western will to resist and to sool on
the PAVN’s and Viet Cong to kill more
Australian swotties for purely domestic
political reasons, then he would have
avoided occasional sillinesses. But this is
a book to read with respect.
African Pistol-Shots
By R. M. WILDING
Landlocked. Doris Lessing. Macgibbon and
Kee. $3.15.
POLITICS in a work of literature,”
wrote Stendhal, “is like a pistol-
shot in the middle of a concert,
something loud and vulgar, and yet a
thing to which it is not possible to refuse
one’s attention.” That, though, was in the
grand days of politics; the trouble with
the political parts of Doris Lessing’s
latest novel is that they are not loud or
vu gar. She is dealing with political defeat,
with the gradual running down of an
activist group in Southern Africa. The
group has splintered, has divided into
Trotskyist and Stalinist, paternalist and
Zionist. Meetings are held but nothing is
resolved. And the strike of the African
workers, which forms one of the climactic
episodes of the book, is a parody of a
strike. The government is afraid not of
the strikers but of the white population,
afraid that the whites, forming gangs of
vigilantes, might provoke violence. The
Africans go into the townships, which
are guarded by government troops to keep
out the whites and to prevent the Africans
who go in from coming out again. And
& j r j • v ■ v ii
no one sends food into the townships, all
,i A r• , x r V
the Africans have to eat are the fine
, , , .-iij i , j
words of the strike leaders-but they do
have the strike leaders; the Africans are
in fact given a compulsory course in union
theory and strike techniques—compulsory
as the white tioops and police will not
allow anyone to leave the townships.
But Doris Lessing does not deal with
this strike directly; she relates a few
aspects of it only as they impinge on her
group of white characters. The political
activity with which she is concerned is
only that of white leftists; and one of the
things happening in the course of the
novel is the increasing suspicion of the
white liberals and socialists by the African
political figures. There is a moving scene
when old Johnny Lindsay, dying slowly,
hardly able to breathe, gives a talk on
the trade union activity on the Rand at
the turn of the century, the chamber of
mines against the white workers. A young
African listening asks “And where were
the black miners during this struggle? I
understand that every year at that time
8000 Africans were killed in accidents?”
The gulf, then, between the white
socialists and the African nationalists has
widened, and is increasingly widening at
the time of this novel. It is a tragic
situation—but tragedy is hardly the effect
Miss Lessing seems to be aiming for.
Rather, she is creating an atmosphere of
political futility, evoking those dusty, hot,
tired rooms of political meetings. And
because she chooses to write the novel
about her group of characters—whom she
is following through in the five volume
work “Children of Violence”—the posi-
tive political results that the African
groups may be achieving are not shown
us. We get a lopsided view of the political
scene.
This has unfortunate results for the
novel. The sense of futility is achieved
at the cost of interest; the political de-
cline, the lack of enthusiasm is captured,
but with it goes a lack of drive in the
novel. Boring and meaningless encounters,
true as they may be to the situation Miss
Lessing is describing, will not sustain a
three-hundred-page novel. And it is just
too easy to refuse these politics one’s
attention. The attempts to suggest the
violent consequences of political life are
little help, either. Pasted-in documentary
facts of the conclusion of World War II
are offered details of atrocities by
Russians and Germans; but these seem
little other than pasted in. And the gulf
between the fatalities of the war and the
futilities of the meetings of the political
group is inseparable.
Martha meditates on the fact of forty-
four million people dead in the war. “But
what was the use of saying forty-four
million, as Athen presumably now dead
—had pointed out, when one could not
feel more than, let’s say, half a million,
and even that with difficulty, after long
strain.”
But it is scarely a solution to this prob-
lem to say that one cannot feel forty-
four million dead. Miss Lessing’s business
is to try to make us feel this, not to
resign her self-appointed task in despair.
Certainly she has tackled a nearly im-
possible theme or collection of themes;
it is impossible to conceive of, and to
feel, so many dead, and it is almost im-
possible to write an interesting novel of
the politics of failure, politics that result
in no action. And she hasn’t at all suc-
ceeded.
Her method so often is to state to
state that forty million are dead and let
the reader do the rest. Indeed, to suggest
the urgency of her concerns she tries
direct presentation of a thesis.
“Having lived through a war when half
the human race was engaged in murder-
ing the other half, murdering more vilely,
savagely, cruelly than ever in human
history, what does it mean to say: I don’t
believe that violence achieves anything?”
But it is a thesis that is hardly in-
tegrated with her novel, and that indicates
the cerebral nature of her writing. She
is trying to deal with ideas, with state-
ments; she hardly creates. Her prefer-
ence for statement rather than enactment
becomes an enervating habit; certainly
her refusal to capitalise on death scenes
can be understood, her desire to avoid
sentimental cliche. But not only in Johnny,
the old agitator, given a death off stage,
so, within a page of each other, are Mr.
Quest and Thomas Stern, the father and
the lover of Martha Quest, the heroine
of Miss Lessing’s sequence of fiction.
The fact that the war occurred off stage
gave a soft of irony, a sort of background
threat, and a sort of stimulus to the
political figures and their theme. But so
little in “Landlocked” occurs on stage.
And the feeling of stultification, of
being trapped, that the title directs us
to, is one that soon inhibits our interest.
Miss Lessing has written a very tired
book. It is almost as if the attitudes she
describes have entrapped her. The writing
is uniformly dull, amateurish. “The two
young women kissed,” she tells us, to
remind us that they are young; but we
don’t need to be reminded. She opens part
three with a compound of cliched
imagery and clumsiness, trying to suggest
the wide political context. “In Europe
the worst winter in decades was over, and
their northern summer was healing, it
was to be hoped, some of the scars| of
cold and hunger. But at that moment
there was famine in Greece, famine in
China . . . Martha had just come from
Mrs. Van’s office, where the old woman
was engaged in bringing her news cuttings
up-to-date.” The explanation for the back-


"The only way to get rid of a
temptation is to yield to it."
(Oscar Wilde)
Then yield we shall, to the delights of
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
ground information is so contrived that
it draws our attention to what otherwise
might have been unobtrusive.
Martha’s sex life, which is the other
strand to this novel, is as dull as the
political world and as similarly uninspired.
Doris Lessing resorts to borrowings of
scene and style from Lawrence, which
doesn’t help. Martha and Thomas disport
naked in a thunderstorm—though before
an open window, not right out in it; but
the window allows them to feel the rain—
“rods of strong wet drove and stung their
strong flesh satiated bodies.” “They felt
half-savage with the pain of loss.” Echoes
occur all the time. “She let herself go
into a condition of pure delicious drunken-
ness. She was a space of knowledge inside
a shell of swaying drunkenness, and she
swung from dark to light, from light to
dark . . .” But Miss Lessing is eclectic in
her borrowings. She recalls Eliot with
her “White flowers tossing against a blue
sky.”
When she departs from the usual flat
prose it is so often to echo other writers,
and the final impression of Miss Lessing’s
writing is of an imaginative poverty.
Poetic Switchbacks
By VIVIAN SMITH
The True Confession of George Barker.
George Barker. Macgibbon and Kee.
$2.80.
The Dead Seagull. George Barker, Mac-
gibbon and Kee. $l.BO.
The Poetry of War 1939-1945. Edited by
lan Hamilton. $4.60.
The Fern on the Rock. Collected Poems
1935-65. Paul Dehn. Hamish Hamilton.
$1.90.
The Inlander. Mary Lisle. The Writer’s
Press.
GEORGE BARKER is a remarkably
even poet who has written some
poems which are among the best
that have appeared in England in the past
twenty years or so. “Channel Crossing”
and the sonnet “To My Mother” are both
beautifully achieved poems and have
already become famous anthology pieces.
Barker is an ambitious poet and he has
always been tempted unlike other poets
of the ’forties and of the New Apocalypse,
with whom he is usually associated by
the long poem in its various guises. If
his success with more spacious forms has
been considerably more limited than
Auden’s or Macneice’s, he, nevertheless,
remains among the small group of poets
who have taken the problems of the long
poem seriously in recent times.
Great hopes have always been held out
for Barker’s promise and fulfilment, but
his situation has hardly changed since
Kenneth Allott first commented: “Read-
ing hj s longer pieces is like riding a switch-
back, continually being jerked and
bucketed from some well-phrased percep-
tion into the bathetic and the grotesque.”
The revised and comp i eted edition G f
cctt r-p /■■'< r * cc* td i 55
Ihe 1 rue Confession of George Barker
§ ives one no reason t 0 <l ualif y this state *
ment in any way.
The poem as a whole lacks order,
coherence, resolution, or calm and remains
a hotchpotch of hits and misses, scabrous
puns and bastard rhymes in profusion. Of
course, Book 11, recently written, is more
balanced than Book I; Part 3 with its
invocation to Newman is one of the most
eloquently sustained sections; and there is
a rather barbed canto on love and money,
as well as touching tributes to Macneice
and Dylan Thomas.
The humor varies from the scatological
to the simplv witty:
The little singing birds upon the
branches of the golden tree
Persist in whistling on and on
Although they are as good as dead.
The birds are silent in Italy
But not because they are afraid
No, for this simple reason it
Is hard ot sing upon a spit.
But these confessions remain confes-
sions. Facts and fantasies from life have
not been through the fires of art; they
hang about, rough, lumpy, and odd. And
they lack the basic requirement for any
poem of length: a broadly based direct-
ness of attack.
A search for honesty marks Barker’s
short prose work. “The Dead Seagull,”
recently reissued. First published in 1950,
it recounts the author’s reaction to his
marriage, his adultery during the preg-
nancy of his wife, and her death in child-
birth. A study of hysteria and damna-
tion, it is an obsessed, claustrophobic little
book written with a glassy violence of
style; a piece of Manichee moralising.
Those who want Barker at his best are
recommended the recent Penguin selection
of his work.
For most people the ’forties in poetry
means the time of the “New Apocalypse,”
the time of the Dylan Thomas epigoni
and the rhetoric of “The White Horse-
men.” lan Hamilton sets out in his useful
and attractively printed anthology, curi-
ously entitled “The Poetry of War,” to
show how incomplete and incorrect this
picture is. His aim is to do justice to those
poets “who did not rush to extremes and
whose work, in direct descent from Eliot
and Auden, attempted to confront a dis-
integrating world in personal terms that
could make poetic sense out of it.” His
anthology presents us with a selection
of poems written by poets on active ser-
vice who tried to write honestly about
the experiences they had to face. Alun
Lewis, Keith Douglas, and Roy Fuller
take pride of place in this collection, and
Mr. Hamilton rightly praises them for
their consistent determination “to be
articulate and intelligible, sensitive . . .
and scrupulous with the language.” This
is a valuable collection, attractively illus-
trated by contemporary drawings by Keith
Vaughan and Graham Sutherland, among
others.
Paul Dehn is one of Mr. Hamilton’s
war poets, though his collected poems
show that he did not continue in the more
serious vein his pre-war and war experi-
ences opened up. Dehn’s strength is a
cynical lightness of touch, the other side
of the youthful and not unsympathetic
sentimentality of his early poems. Those
who like epigrammatic comments and
squibs might enjoy the epitaph of a
columnist
Believing that his hate for queers
Proclaimed a love for God,
He now (of all queer things, my dears)
Lies under his first sod.
in the “jeu d’esprit” section of this book,
while the settings to Debussy manage to be
sensitive without affectation.
Mary Lisle’s “The Inlander,” in a
pleasant format by the Writer’s Press,
ranges from Australian to European set-
tings in a number of different styles and
modes. Her verse, reflective, melancholy,
and abstract, is written/ in the “timeless”
diction we now associate with the
Georgians. Some of the shorter nature
poems like “Tea-Tree” and “The White
Bird” are pleasing, while “Green Orchids,”
her best poem, is marked by-the precision
that is one of the rewards of close observa-
tion.


Cooma’s most
modern Motel
"fe M^rttof&uak
<=> MOTEL 0
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia’s leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals.
For reservations and furtherioetails contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or ANSETT-PIONEER, 74 Sharp St., Cooma.
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETTi TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
AT 1.708
TOPCON
fj*
r-V
I
ALL THE 1
TIGHT \
Ml MATTERS
THROUGH THE LENSI
To peon camera*
Hava no limitation
to automation. For Ulus-
tratod literature con-
tact: R. Gum Pty.Ltd.,
24 Wentworth
Aw.,
Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
Roman Perversions
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
The Satyricon and the Fragments of
Petronius. Translated by John Sullivan.
Penguin. 75c.
THE era of Nero was one of the
wealthiest and probably most effici-
ently governed periods in Roman
history. Several subsequent Emperors, on
setting themselves up, announced they
would restore the splendor of Neronian
times. Also a number of imposters
appeared in the years succeeding Nero’s
death alleging that they were Nero.
The Nero of history could hardly have
been the evil fairy of our childhood
history books.
It is now generally accepted that the
Petronius who wrote the Satyricon and the
Petronius Arbiter of Nero’s court were one
and the same person. Petronius’ elegant
suicide is, of course, very famous. The
same attitudes which must have pervaded
Nero’s court also find expression in the
Satyricon.
Suetonius says that Nero used to terror-
ise Rome after dark with a cap over his
eyes and would beat people up and rob
shops and then publicly auction off his
ill-gotten gains next day.
The Satyricon displays a similar interest
in low life, minor crime, and a rather
carefree, disreputable approach to things.
It is a good deal less brutal in its attitudes
than the conventional stories about Nero’s
self indulgence. The emphasis is more on
weakness and decadence rather than
active evil.
The narrator of the book is Enscolpius,
a dithering but well-bred pederast.
Throughout the work Enscolpius displays
snooty disapproval of the bad taste of
others, but often appears in a ridiculous
light himself. He is the passive observer,
manipulated by events, significantly fleeing
through the course of the book from the
wrath of Priapus, the god of fertility.
The fragment of the work which sur-
vives begins with a discussion on rhetoric.
We then go along to a banquet conducted
by a nouveau riche former slave, Trim-
alchio. This is one of the greatest comic
scenes in the whole of literature.
Trimalchio is not at all bashful and has
murals of his own days as a slave inscribed
on the wall together with one picture of
himself being led into Rome by Minerva.
Nearby is a large sign BEWARE OF THE
DOG. Various sumptuous and ostenta-
tious dishes are served up, including one
which comprises all the signs of the zodiac.
Between trips to the lavatory, Trimalchio
philosophises about the nature of the uni-
verse and finally insists on performing a
rehearsal of his own funeral. The band
strikes up a dead march so loudly that
the fire brigade is called, extinguishing the
party and the guests.
Enscolpius then loses and regains his
boyfriend. We meet a dirty-minded and
sly old poet and eventually go on a
voyage. There are various unmaskings
and uncovering and the ship sinks. The
old poet kicks up a great stink when he
is dragged off the sinking ship because he
is busy on a poem. Our friends are washed
ashore and get on to a racket for extract-
ing money from legacy hunters.
Enscolpius falls in love with a beautiful
woman but loses his potency. He goes
along to an old priestess for a cure. She
subjects him to some unpleasant remedies,
but first starts off by falling off her own
rotting stool into the fireplace, putting
out the sacrificial fire, and getting soot all
over her face. Later Enscolpius takes to
his heels when she and another old troll
try to take their pleasure of him.
Shortly afterward the fragment finishes.
It is most unfortunate that this is all
that remains of this marvellous work.
Normally I cannot take literature which
has such a strong streak of perversion.
This book is an exception (and Cavafy
provides another).
The Satyricon, while being absolutely
frank, has such tact that it is impossible to
be offended. It has extraordinary vigor,
freshness, and power. The tone is always
genial, never destructive. This new trans-
lation by John Sullivan is neat and
elegant. Mentor Books have published a
less literal but much more vigorous and
lively translation by William Arrowsmith.
I prefer Arrowsmith, as he highlights far
more than Sullivan the point of many
incidents.
In Arrowsmith’s translation Trimalchio,
at his ostentatious banquet, produces a
bottle labelled “GENUINE FALERNIAN
WINE, GUARANTEED ONE HUN-
DRED YEARS OLD! BOTTLED IN
THE CONSULSHIP OF OPIMIUS.”
Sullivan translates this as “FALERNIAN,
CONSUL OPIMIUS, ONE HUNDRED
YEARS OLD.”
There is sometimes a tendency to
compare the breakdown of values in
imperial Rome to the breakdown of our
own values. The art of our own age is,
however, much more cerebral and tor-
tured. The people satirised by Petronius
have gargantuan and gross obsessions, but
are always peculiarly lovable. Petronius
is always cheerful, even if he is not ulti-
mately optimistic. Petronius reminds one
far more of the genial cynicism of the
eighteenth century than our own age.
Mixed with the undoubted viciousness
in Nero there must have been a strong
love of life and sympathy and curiosity
about ordinary people, which made him
dress up as a hoodlum or take his turn
in the queue and drop his name in the
urn for operatic contests. In Petronius,
too, there is the same ironic delight in
exploring experience.
On a Warm Road
On a wann road
sky-filled puddles
are jumped in.
Alas, I am not dog or child.
JENNIFER CLARKSON


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Banking Invasion
THE U.S. banking invasion of Australia is really stepping up.
Soon there will be five American banks with representative
offices in Australia. A year ago there were none. And
while these all sit around hoping to get permission to put up
their shingle to do banking business here, the Japanese are also
demanding to get in on the banking act.
There have been more VIP visits from top overseas bankers
here in the past six months or so than at any time in our com-
mercial history. The tea and biscuits (or coffee and doughnuts)
have been flowing freely at official opening ceremonies of local
representative offices. Already the Chase Manhattan, the First
National City, and the Bank of America have set up non-banking
offices here. And behind the travel-postered portico of the
American Express Co. in Sydney there lies the heart of a large-
scale international trading bank. Next on the list of U.S.
invaders will probably be the Bankers Trust Co., which has had
a long-time association with, and growing interest in, the Aus-
tralian scene.
But there is no prospect of these purely representative offices
(or “listening posts”) being the basis on which the U.S. banks
or other international banks already here, like the Hong
Kong and Shanghai and the Bank of Tokyo being allowed
to set up a banking operation in Australia. The Reserve Bank
has granted as many bank licences as it is likely to; all the
lobbying and public protests about this restriction are doomed
so long as both main political parties here are so conscious of
the electoral disadvantages of letting in the outsiders.
It is the international banking potential (with Australia’s big
role as a world trader) that is arousing all the interest from
foreign bankers at present, not the hopes of setting up business
as an “across the counter” depositors’ bank here. Internal banking
is not worthwhile on its own and Australia is already heavily
overbanked in comparison with other countries on this score.
But how the Government would respond to a proposal from
these foreign banks that it merely grant them the rights to move
international exchange in to and out of the country is another
matter.
The local banks would, naturally, object as the present require-
ment that international movements must go through them pro-
vides one of their creamier profitable operations at a time when
internal banking profits are clearly on the way down. And it
keeps the profit on these deals inside Australia. But in view of
the pressure from Japan, some concession (at least to the Bank
of Tokyo) seems inevitable. The chairman of the Bank of Tokyo,
Dr. Shigeo Horie, has been doing some intensive lobbying on
prospects of up-grading his bank’s long-standing “representative
office” here during his current visit. But one of the top reasons
he gives of Japanese banks thus being able to ease the
financing problems facing Australian mineral developments
is a little eccentric in view of Japan’s enthusiastic international
indebtedness.
One of the most intriguing of all of the U.S. banks here is
the American Express Co., whose vice-president in charge of
international banking in Asia, Mr. E. J. Schuyten, did a quick
MEN AND MATTERS
THERE is someone at the helm of his
companies but not yet of his yacht.
The problem of succession after the
death of Sir Arthur Warner, founder of
Electronic Industries Ltd., has been settled
inevitably by his elder son, Mr. Graham
Warner, moving into the chairman’s seat
of the manufacturing companies and his
younger son, Mr. Peter Warner, taking the
top job of the merchandising ones.
But the coming of the Warner “boys”
does not mean the manufacturing and
retailing functions of the group will now
become separate empires or that the under
40s are taking over. Graham is 42, had
16 years’ experience as a director of the
Astor group and very clearly is the lop
.man; Peter is 35, has been a director for
six years and has had 15 years’ full-time
work for the group. In effect, the opera-
tions of the group have been quite sensibly
split like this for some time, although the
presence of Sir Arthur as “executive
chairman” had given the group a more
unified look.
Graham, a B.Sc., M.1.R.E., who has
taken a far more prominent role in pro-
duction than his father did, has also
taken the chair at A. & I. Insurances Ltd.
Peter, a qualified accountant (A.C.1.5.,
A.A.S.A.), retains his dominant interest in
the Reids group of stores and in market-
ing the group’s products, and moves into
the chair at the finance associate, A. & I.
Discounters, and of Mick Simmons Ltd.,
the ailing Sydney sportsgood company
that has not yet responded to the Warner
touch.
Peter Warner will
now have to spend
much more of his
time in Melbourne
rather than in
Sydney, where he
has made his home
and keeps his
yacht, the 26ft.
Astoriti. But the fate
of Sir Arthur’s big
46-footer, “Winston
Churchill,” is not yet clear; Graham
Warner may be too busy to go sailing for
a while.
But the “boys” are saved from cne
thing: the market for their comoany’s
shares will not be affected by any large
disposals for probate purposes by the
Warner family.
THE Springs are still enjoying their
autumn years out at Metters.
Last week the General Industries
Ltd. board announced that Mr. F. W.
Spring had retired from his executive posi-
tion after 48 years’ service with the
General Industries-Metters group, but that
he would stay on the board to give con-
sultant advice, particularly on problems
of enamelling technology.
There is still a Spring actively working
in the group, however. Mr. David Spring
is a director of Metters Ltd., the bath and
stove subsidiary. His father is Mr. R. A.
Spring, the fiery former chairman and
managing-director, who retired in the late
1950 s and who is still going strong at 92.
P. R. Warner
G. A. Warner
J. B. Clarkson
The Spring family started off Metters
in Adelaide back in 1888. Mr. H. L.
Spring was its first managing-director. The
company became General Industries after
Metters and another foundry company,
KFB, came together in 1927.
The irony of this link was that KFB
had been started in 1916 by three former
Metters employees—Keysor, Forrest, and
Barnett—who had decided they could do
better on their own. Mr. Keysor was Mr.
R. A. Spring’s successor as the top man
at General Industries for a short time
before the present chairman and managing-
director, Mr. J. B. Clarkson, moved up
from the Admiral subsidiary to take over
control of the group in 1958.
Mr. Clarkson’s decision to move Metters
from the dingy pile at Alexandria to the
bright new factory at Bankstown has
brought a period of industrial peace to
the group unknown for many years. No
longer is there the dangerous combina-
tion of depressing working conditions and
a nearby park large enough for stop-work
meetings.


round of the Australian banks last week to let them know that
American Express wanted to do big business with them in the
international banking sphere. It will probably be adding a Mel-
bourne office to its Sydney branch some time in July. It now
has 48 banking branches in 16 countries outside the U.S.
American Express also has a big interest in Australia through
its not quite half holding in Hertz, the rent-a-car people.
Yet it seems likely that Mr. Schuyten did not limit his
activities here to his company’s international banking activities;
American Express is also big in the credit card business and
already has established a formidable list of Australian restaurants
and smaller exclusive shops that accept its U.S. credit cards. The
scope for development of this business here with local credit cards
is immense. No doubt the. subject came up in his discussions with
the Reserve Bank, and it seems possible that a credit card system
based on Australian dollars (instead of U.S. dollars, which would
be intolerable here for foreign exchange reasons) could be
possible. The major obstacle to its beginning an Australian
credit card business appears to be the lack of a good enough
credit reference bureau. One way out of this might be to go
into partnership in such a venture with a group of smaller Aus-
tralian banks which would otherwise not have the resources to
develop a card but which would have substantial information
on creditworthiness.
All this, and particularly the credit card activity in Britain,
where some of the staidest banks are jumping on the band-
wagon, indicates that the bigger local banks will have to think
fairly seriously about credit cards, even if they do not go quite
all the way with the president of the First National City Bank
of New York, Mr. George Moore, who said on a recent visit to
Australia that credit cards would make cheques obsolete in ten
years’ time. Each of the four U.S. banks out here has a credit
card operation: First National has the Carte Blanche; Chase
Manhattan (Rockefeller’s bank) has the Diners Club in the U.S.
(and in conjunction with the Westminster Bank in the U.K.);
the Bank of America has the BankAmericard, which reciprocates
in Britain with Barclays Bank’s Barclaycard, and then there is
the American Express credit card. It is only a matter of time
before the bank-backed credit card comes here.
Shipping Conferences
AT long last the Federal Government is showing determination
to reduce our dependence on the dictates of overseas con-
ference lines for the carriage of exports. Even if, in his
explanation of the new shipping provisions of the Trade Prac-
tices Act, Mr. Snedden seemed a bit too prepared to sanctify
present arrangements in which the conference lines have a
virtual monopoly of the business, at least the new provisions
should give the Department of Trade and Industry (which will
administer them) a strong hand in seeing the lines act more
reasonably in our interests. The prime interest, of course, is
to keep freight rates at levels consonant with the need to keep
our exports competitive on world markets. But there are other
requirements, not least of which is to open the door for the
participation of Australian-flag operators, and the provisions
give a lever for this.
Obviously, from his proposal that we join with Japan in
setting up a Government-owned overseas shipping line, Mr.
McEwen, who is master-minding Government moves on the
shipping front, and likewise taking the power into his own hands,
is not only thinking of private Australian operators like Heine
Bros., which in the past have proved highly vulnerable to maul-
ings by the monolithic conferences.
Shipping interests here are not unanimous by any means that
a joint venture with the Japanese is the answer to Government
participation in overseas shipping. It is felt that if the Govern-
ment is going into this business, as apparently Mr. Holt and
the WWF both favor, it would be better to go it alone, say on
broadening the functions of the Australian National Line, whose
chairman, Captain P. L. Williams, is no stranger to overseas
shipping lines. Not that his efforts to storm overseas waters on
the Government’s behalf have been all that successful (on his
own admission) in the past. This is clearly the view of the
Minister for National Development, Mr. Fairbairn, who last
week said that “a significant share” of Australia’s iron ore
exports should go to Japan in Australian ships.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the CCOTlOmy Monetary authorities are
pulling out all stops to keep the economy going, releasing
another $5l million from the Statutory Reserve Deposits
to reduce them to 9.4 percent, the lowest proportion ever
. . . March trading bank statistics had evidenced an
early advent of seasonal money shortages, advances rose
by $55.2 million to $2697.9 million, whereas deposits
dropped by $69.6 million to $5153.2 million; the rise in
advances was in line with March, 1965, but well above
a February-March ten-year average increase of $11.4
million . . . Factory production figures indicated some
slow-down, especially in BHP’s bloom and slab output,
in Portland cement, and in commercial motor chassis
. . . However, registrations of new motor vehicles advanced
by 2900 to 33,100 in March.
The Commonwealth Government would not deplore
a “moderate” increase in the basic wage but could not
be drawn on a more precise definition for the Arbitra-
tion Commission . . . Employers describe the union wage
claims as “incredible” and estimate they might cost $lO6B
million a year
Registered unemployed dropped by 7300 to 58,300
in March: vacancies also fell back by 10,200 to 39,000.
For the markets Once again Australian share
markets were reasonably firm, but unexciting. Mild
reactions to the SRD releases may be expected, yet a
considerable body of industrials has started to be viewed
very selectively. Indeed, at one stage last week, the slow
industrial advance was apparently arrested; as well, the
key leader stocks did not suggest any positive trend.
London has had to keep on coping with a considerable
boom in coppers. This, at least, serves to draw attention
from the rest of the market’s repeated flatness. Only
what one commentator calls “odds and ends” are giving
a semblance of life to industrials in the face of the Budget
. . . Vigorous technical impetus has kept Wall Street on
the move in generally high volume dealings. There
remains, however, a fair amount of indecision; a firmer
handling of America’s economic problems would doubtless
re-assure investors.
For companies! It was an outstanding week for
the miners . . . Conzinc Riotinto of Australia produced
the finest annual report ever seen from a mining com-
pany in Australia and also brought expectations of
another excellent year to shareholders (see page 52)
. . . New Broken Hill continues to lift ore reserves and
will. increase output in the current year . . .Western
Mining Corporation’s nickel prospect looks even more
promising than first announcements made evident . . .
High gold and silver content is indicated in Pacific Island
Mines’ Misima Island lease; “major underwriting” may
come from Cultus, the Canadian associate . . . Specula-
tion on a near flotation of the Mount Cleveland (Tas-
mania) tin prospect was heightened by Aberfoyle Hold-
ings’ sale of its shareholding in Western Titanium.
In the midst of keen sharemarket flurries, Ansett Trans-
port Industries placed a further 2.7 million 50 cent shares,
at 75 cents, with Boral to finance fleet expansion; as
well, Ansett gave a $750,000 debenture to a Dutch Bank
to help buy a Fokker Friendship . . . G. J. Coles intends
to expand “selectively” and proposes to raise $14.8
million by a one-for-five issue at a 50 percent premium,
this time with transferrable rights . . . Sugar isn’t nearly
as cheerful as retailing, yet Gibson and Howes is ventur-
ing on a one-for-eight par issue on top of a $257,480 loss
for 1965 and a dividend cut from nine to four percent
. . . Earnings of Pioneer Sugar Mills fell by 30 percent,
or $359,160, to $838,896; dividend goes to ten percent
after 1964’s 18 percent; indicating that northern pro-
ducers have fared a bit better than the southern ones.


CLOSES NEXT MONDAY!
a
FOR 10
15 OR 20
YEARS
3
8
FOR 7
YEARS
PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST UNCONDITIONALLY
GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
You back the growth of Industry in Sydney when you invest in the SCC Loan
An Authorised Trustee Investment. Holders of SCC Loan No. 158,
maturing 1/5/66, are invited to convert to the new Loan.
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank, Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New South Wales, Com-
mercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited, Rural Bank of New
South Wales, or through a stockbroker; or at the Council’s head office,
Queen Victoria Building, George Street, Sydney (Phone 2-0259).
Underwriters: A. C. Goode and Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
@OO
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
44.889


1 GENERAL CREDITS A
LIMITED
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog*
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
210 Alinga Street, Canberra. Ph.: 4 4231
Brokers: lan Potter & Co. 6846/C/2R
J
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
National Income Accounting
Are the figure pictures realistic?
By CROESUS
MODELLING is more than ever in vogue, and nowhere more so than in the field of
statistical science, where macro-economic accounting is all the fashion. Though
they have been rather shy of displays in the past, the back-room boys in this
field have recently been putting more of their models in the shop window.
It is not, of course, that the national
income concept was born yesterday. It
is three hundred years since William Petty
made the first estimate of national income
in England. What is fairly new is the
transition from national income thinking
to its application through national account-
ing, to a series of concepts which enable
us the better to understand and evalue
economic performance in terms of macro-
economic theory as developed from
Keynes and Tinbergen.
Although, even in Cambridge, where
Keynesian theory was born, it was widely
acknowdedged in the 19305, and even by
Keynes himself, that the first seeds were
sown by Ricardo early last century. What
Keynes did was to transplant and develop
them in his search for an explanation and
solution of the mass unemployment prob-
lem in Britain in the early ’thirties. In
the process he found it necessary to move
away from classical economic concepts as
enunciated in general equilibrium theory
(now reduced to the status of micro-
economic theory) and to evolve concepts
of national aggregates to express in more
manageable forms the complex spectrum
of economic reality.
The theorists and statistical practitioners
have taken the matter on from “The
General Theory of Employment, Interest,
and Money.” Neither pretend that the end
of their developments is in sight, statisti-
cians in particular. But the consideration
of economic activity in terms of national
and sector accounts has now been standard
practice for some years the world over.
most authentic exponent (in print,
anyway) in Australia has long been
Professor R. I. Downing, the Richie Pro-
fessor of Economics Research at Melbourne
University, who took up the running from
L. F. Giblin, his predecessor in that chair.
Both have built firmly on the work of local
pioneers like Sutcliffe and kept us reason-
ably well in step with work overseas in
clarifying national income concepts and
measurement. In its turn, the Bureau of
Census and Statistics has never been far
from the party. In recent years, when
Government, politics, and business have
widely accepted the macro-approach to
economic analysis and prediction, the
Commonwealth Statistician has progres-
sively recast and improved his statistical
offerings to keep them abreast of the
times.
Not for the first time, one can
thoroughly recommend the introductory
notes to the official annual bulletins of
the Bureau of Census and Statistics en-
titled “Australian National Accounts,”
particularly the issue covering the revised
accounts for the period 1948-49 to 1961-62,
as being necessary reading for anybody,
particularly politicians, who in recent
years have been more frequently inclined
to take the skin of the statistician at its
face value without further penetration
of its make-up.
The most chronic case of wanton use
in political argument relates, of course,
to the concept of Gross National Product
as a yardstick of economic growth. At
least on the political front we’ve passed
the stage, at any rate one hopes so, of
ignoring price movements in comparing
Gross National Product from year to year.
There is a general realisation that the
figures must be discounted for price move-
ments, yet not, one feels, that the tech-
niques employed in doing this are neces-
sarily satisfactory. The Commonwealth
Statistician tacitly admits that the method
he uses to value GNP in constant prices
does not result in an expression of GNP
in “real” terms, even if the result is near
enough for most purposes.
If this warning must be heeded, so
must his further ones, in the latest issue
of the National Accounts, bearing on the
treatment of the actual estimates of
national product from which GNP at
constant prices is calculated. These relate
to the inadequacies of the national income
concepts themselves, as well as to the
quality and quantity of the data available
to the statistician and to the delays in
getting information.
JTRANKLY, this is an area where the lay-
man had better tread warily and, useful
though he may find the nice convenient
lump figures of national and sector income
and expenditure to be as rough guides, the
material is fissionable. The trouble is that,
although the concepts are simple enough,
they are dangerously simple and much
safer in the hands of theorists than the
statistician.
There is no easy way to cut corners to
get an understanding of the details of
the national accounts. It will be difficult
enough for most people to get a firm grip
of the basic concepts, let alone improve


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
6%
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
bk
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
71:
PER ANNUM 9 AND 10 YEARS
51%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
Ah
PERANNUM3MOMHS
Applications for debenture stock can be. accepted only on the printed form referred
to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application should
be obtained from:
. The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney.
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten &. Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambler.
NIN.2
on them or suggest where the theorists
may be on the wrong track or say how
the statistician should go about develop-
ing more realistic pictures of the economy.
In “Systems of Social Accounts,” re-
cently published by Oxford University
Press, a treatise addressed to experts on
the subject, Mr. G. Stuvel, lecturer in
Economic Statistics at Oxford University,,
takes as his text a homily from J. R.
Hicks, that statistics should speak for
themselves. But, like Hicks himself in his
various works, Stuvel proves to be tortu-
ously complex in his expositions of the
problems involved and laymen will have
extreme difficulty in following him.
Stuvel’s readers will come mostly from
universities and Government departments,
but accountants in the field of micro-
economics, especially those taking an
interest in national economic affairs, will
find mental exercise rewarding if they
choose to follow through the accounting
disciplines Stuvel has set himself. They
will best be able to judge his claim that,
like its counterpart in business accounting,
the accounting discipline for macro-
economic accounting is essentially simple.
Stuvel brings us up to date on overseas
advances in the statistical techniques
required for faithful national economic
accounting and underlines many of the
doubts one feels about them. There are
not only the intractable problems sur-
rounding the whole business of imputing
values (which one has mentioned above),
the collection of data, its timing, and so
forth. He also thinks there is a serious
gap the failure of systems now in use
to take account of speculative activity in
the economy. This reduces their worth in
providing pictures, say, of income, produc-
tion,. and capital aspects of economic
activity. Unfortunately, as Stuvel says,
the information available on speculation
is far from perfect, far from complete.
Biting the hand ...
WHAT an exquisite sense of timing
Mr. Robin Corrie, Brisbane’s
bustling, Rolls-Royced stockbroker,
displayed last week. Having apparently
been dumped after years as an under-
writer of Ansett Transport Industries, he
bit the hand that had fed him by advis-
ing his clients to sell their Ansett shares
at exactly the same time as Melbourne’s
lan Potter and Co. was selling another
2.7 million of them to Boral Ltd. for $2
million, to lift Boral’s holding to 15 per-
cent of Ansett’s capital and finding Boral
an early use (returning 6| percent) for
some of the $8 million it recently raised
from the public at a cost of 7| percent.
Mr. Corrie’s advice, based on the politi-
cal uncertainty behind Ansett should a
Labor Government win the next election,
was fascinating on several scores: firstly,
he had never previously taken this view
in public, even when elections were in
full swing; secondly, this latest circular
does not appear to fit in with his firm’s
recent publications, which have had more
the flavor of a Melbourne investment
analyst than a Brisbane broker; and
thirdly, the stock he suggested Ansett
shareholders to switch to was Comeng
Holdings Ltd., which has a very large
stake in one of the world’s most politi-
cally uncertain areas South Africa and
Rhodesia.
B UT Mr. Corrie was not the only reason
Ansett shares fell to their lowest level
this year. Last week Ansett’s television
station added another $900,000 to its
losses, which now total $1.36 million. Then
the company announced a $750,000 Dutch
loan to help finance a Fokker Friendship
purchase (underlining the need for the
Boral share placement in order to gear
up the borrowing structure) and, of
course, a new boss, Sir Frederick
Scherger, was appointed to Ansett’s rival,
TAA. All this was on top of last month’s
interim report that the rate of profit rise
has fallen away. It was quite a week for
Mr. Ansett.


Natural Gas Prospects
Eggs in the “offshore” basket
By JAN MATHESON
Australia should not put ail her
eggs in the “offshore” basket,
despite the recent highly encourag-
ing discoveries of oil and natural gas by
BHP and Esso off the Gippsland coast
in Victoria. Many oilmen consider the
present belief that Australia is ringed
with oil to be over-enthusiastic and that
within a couple of years on-shore drillers
will again be in favor.
Criticism of over-dependence on off-
shore fields includes the substantially
higher cost of drilling, the likelihood of
unpredictable production stoppages in
Louisiana production has been curtailed
several times by cyclones and the vul-
nerability of offshore fields in the event
of war. Also, the fear that gas pilot lights
could go out altogether, causing tremen-
dous leakages when production is resumed,
has caused all U.S. producers to ensure
alternative supplies on shore.
The Gippsland strike has left the lay-
man puzzling over its effect on the pros-
pects of other companies which have
already made discoveries, mainly natural
gas, in far more isolated areas. It would
seem that the short-term prospects of these
companies selling their gas to the larger
Australian markets in south-eastern Aus-
tralia are more limited. But any ultimate
discovery of oil—far more readily market-
able than natural gas and less dependent
on proximity to markets could hand-
somely repay the efforts of these explorers.
Estimates of the total potential demand
for natural gas in New South Wales, Vic-
toria, and South Australia over the next
20 years (the usual length of time con-
sidered for pipeline feasibility studies)
are in the order of eight to ten trillion
cubic feet (in natural gas terminology one
trillion equals one million million, and
one billion equals one thousand million).
Reserves of a further 20 trillion cubic
feet have been estimated as necessary to
maintain deliverability over the following
20 years and to cope with the* anticipated
rise in demand.
In his report tabled in the Victorian
Parliament on March 30, Dr. Charles
Hetherington gives the proved recoverable
gas reserves of the first Gippsland gas
and condensate field, discovered last year,
as up to Q trillion cubic feet enough
to supply the Victorian market for almost
20 years. He considers that the recently
discovered second field (oil and gas) is
potentially as large and probably larger
than the first, giving assurance of adequate
long-term gas supplies for Victoria, and
possibly surplus gas for markets outside
the State.
Dr. Hetherington further estimates that
Victorian offshore and coastal sediment-
ary basins, the Gippsland, Otway, and
Bass Basins, in which other companies
such as Woodside, Interstate Oil, and
Planet also have interests, could have
between 15-60 trillion cubic feet of gas
and between 2.5 to 10,000 million barrels
of oil. Yet unless the rate of drilling in
the area is stepped up many times, the
discovery of reserves of such magnitude
could not be proved for some considerable
time.
The two main groups which have been
carrying out feasibility studies with an eye
on gas markets in south-eastern Australia
are the Santos-Delhi group at Gidgealpa,
in far northern South Australia, and the
Magellan-Farmout Drillers-Exoil-T ransoil
group in the Amadeus Basin. Reserves at
Gidgealpa have been estimated at around
\ trillion cubic feet and in the Amadeus
Basin (Mereenie and Palm Valley) at
about lj trillion cubic feet.
In the short term, Santos appears less
likely to suffer from the effects of the
Gippsland strike. With its recent gas strike
at Moomba No. 1 giving hope for a new
field to supplement reserves, Santos
appears to be in a stronger position to
bargain with the South Australian Govern-
ment, which would probably prefer South
Australian gas to interstate gas, anyway.
The South Australian Government has
been examining the feasibility of piping
gas to Adelaide the Premier is cur-
rently overseas studying marketing tech-
niques but may defer its decision until
further exploration has been undertaken
by Shell Development on its new offshore
lease closer to Adelaide.
F seems that the Amadeus Basin part-
ners (whose interests in various pros-
pects there vary) will have to shelve any
plans they might have for entering the
south-eastern Australian market in the
immediate future. However, as the de-
mand for natural gas grows and, with the
strong likelihood that their own reserves
will be increased through further drilling
planned over existing and new prospects,
they could come into the market at a later
date to help supply the load. This would
depend on some sort of interstate grid
of pipelines being established.
Queensland and Western Australia are
most unlikely targets for any future excess
gas from Gippsland, because the relatively
small markets in these States would not
justify the prohibitive pipeline costs. In
any case, the Associated Group in Queens-
land, and Wapet in Western Australia,
both seem to be in a strong position to
supply their local markets.
The Associated Group, with its reserves
of over 135 billion cubic feet of gas in the
Roma area, is almost certain to go ahead
with its Roma to Brisbane pipeline plans,
following this month’s announcement that
a consortium of three American companies
and one Japanese company may build a
$4O million nitrogenous fertiliser plant in
Brisbane, utilising natural gas. This should
be more certain in May when repre-
sensatives of the four companies, Skelly
Oil, Swift & Co., Dow Chemical Cor-
poration, and Mitsubishi meet to dis-
cuss the project.
The other major gas discoverer in
Queensland, the Phillips-Sunray group
must now be in somewhat of a dilemma
over what to do with its potentially large
gas field at Gilmore, estimated to have
reserves in the order of half trillion cubic
feet. The Associated Group has beaten it
to the Brisbane market and the Gippsland
field is far closer to Sydney. With rapid
industrial development in Queensland, a
linking pipeline to Roma, or perhaps via
the Associated Group’s Rolleston field to
the coast at Gladstone, could be envisaged.
In Western Australia, Wapet (in which
Ampol Exploration Ltd. has a one-seventh
interest with overseas partners) is to date
the only explorer with potentially com-
mercial finds, although the Alliance Group
has had a small gas flow in the Bonaparte
Gulf area. Wapet is currently testing its
shallow Barrow Island well. Results should
soon be known and, if favorable, Wapet
expects to have the field in production
next year. The prospects here are high-
lighted by the close proximity to the major
iron ore projects on the West Australian
mainland.
Wapet’s other significant discoveries,
apart from the disappointing oil flow at
Rough Range in 1953, are the large gas
flows at Gin Gin, only 55 miles north of
Perth and the growing industrial complex
at Kwinana, and oil and gas flows around
Yardarino in the Geraldton area. Although
promising, thorough testing has yet to be
carried out in both these areas.
Since 1953 the focus of oil fever has
swung from Western Australia to Papua,
to Queensland, to Central Australia, and
now to Victoria. Where next? It could be
New South Wales, the only State which so
far has not had a major oil or gas strike.
Admittedly there have been minor, shallow
gas flows in the Sydney and Clarence
Basins, which to date have not proved to be
commercial.
In this light, the announcement that
Shell Development (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
will drill a deep test well only 20 miles
north-west of the city of Sydney js of
tremendous interest.


IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including...
The Persian Room—Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque, too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations— Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392.
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE *
RHIB7
MARKET POINTERS
Show Faith in C.R.A.
WILD CAT
PAGES
By JASON
FAITH is the greatest requirement for investing in Conzinc Riotinto of Australia
Ltd.; those who have shown faith in the company’s management in the past have
had most rewarding results. The same probably goes for the future. Those willing
to spend money (and a lot of it at current prices for CRA shares) can get little
guide to the company’s future performance from its past achievements.
The only common denominator readily
seen is that they have all been profitable
(or at least are now) particularly those
that came from the Consolidated Zinc side
of the partnership rather than the far less
inspiring Riotinto portion. The latest
accounts fit this pattern. Investors buying
CRA shares are not doing so in the hope
that last year’s earnings (or their source)
will be repeated, but, on the contrary,
that the whole structure will change
drastically. And it has always been so.
Four years ago, two-thirds of CRA’s
profit came from uranium; last year none
did. Instead, 78 percent of its profit (in-
creased by five times over that period)
has, luckily, come from its long-established
lead-zinc interests, which represent only
about 20 percent of the group’s assets.
There can be no doubt that in another
four years the picture will be very dif-
ferent. It will want to be. The dominance
of lead-zinc in mining and smelting is due
to the current high world prices for lead-
zinc and to the fact that the group’s biggest
investments have not yet paid off. When
(and if) they do, the huge profit rises
of the past four years will not look any-
thing like as startling as those in the next
four.
About 50 percent of the company’s
enormous assets of $193 million are tied
up in five operations that together re-
turned less than ten percent of its profits
last year. These were iron ore and
uranium, returning nothing in profit
terms at all; copper, that took 2.6 percent
of the assets and brought in less than one
percent of the group’s profit; acids, fer-
tilisers, and chemicals, that made up 7.4
percent of the assets and only 3.4 percent
of the profit; and aluminium, that com-
prised 15.1 percent of the assets and only
5.5 percent of profits.
(All this excludes the investments that
CRA lumps under such vague titles as
“other” and “sundry,” and which include
a $742,000 investment in the search for
oil and gas through holdings in Interstate
Oil, the Associated Oil group, Frome-
Broken Hill, and Santos. “Sundry” and
“other” took up 27.9 percent of assets and
only 7.7 percent of profits.)
Each of these operations has been, or
still is, in the process of massive expan-
sion and development; each has a striking
potential for profit growth. And, on the
other hand, the lead-zinc operations could
be vulnerable to a considerable down-
turn once the current high price levels
for metals inevitably ease back. Iron ore,
with 23 percent of the company’s assets,
is clearly its biggest single venture, and
has not yet returned any profits. Nor will
it do so in 1966, although shipments are
scheduled to begin to Japan later this
year.
JN the current year the aluminium
interests should make an even greater
contribution than last year, when Comalco
(half-owned with Kaiser) paid its first
dividend to the group.
The prospects for copper come not only
from the Cobar mine, opened last year,
but also from a “very promising” deposit
in Bougainville; prospecting is continu-
ing in New Guinea. Even uranium is now
regarded as a likely candidate for poten-
tial profits for CRA, as the Mary Kathleen
mine is being kept on a care-and-
maintenance basis in the hope that new
contracts will be signed.
The investors who reluctantly took up
last year’s badly timed CRA new issue
(badly timed as far as the market was
concerned) showed faith when, it was most
needed; but many did not, and left the
underwriters to pick up what then looked
like an embarrassingly large bundle of un-
wanted shares. But this turned into a
windfall for those brokers who could hang
on to the shares for long enough. This
meant they made money out of CRA by
accident. Investors with faith may make
even more.
What CRA Does
Assets Sales Profits
% % %
Lead-zinc: Mining 12 47.7 63.1
Smelting 7.6 24.8 14.6
Total 19.6 72.5 77.7
Aluminium: Mining 1.9 n.a. n.a.
Smelting 7.8 n.a. n.a.
Fabrication. 5.4 n.a. n.a.
Total . . 15.1 5.5
Iron Ore 23.3 nil nil
Acid, Fertilisers, Chemicals 7.4 12.8 3 4
Beach Sands 1.0 3.5 3.3
Uranium 1.0
Copper 2.6 2.6 0.9
Building Materials 1.7 3.6 1 5
“Other” 6.7 5.0
Sundry Investments 21.2 7.7
100.0 100.0 100.0
SPECULATORS in the lower-priced oil
1 stocks would be wise to cast a close
eye on those companies branching
out into mineral exploration. A natural
diversification, the search for minerals
could be a less costly and more rewarding
venture for the many groups which have
yet to strike commercial gas or oil.
Planet has already come across several
large base metal prospects in the Peter-
mann Ranges of the Northern Territory.
Samples from the surface of the deposits
have contained high silver values and
significant showings of lead, copper, and
gold. Mid-Eastern Oil may have dis-
covered a dense copper mineralisation at
shallow depth during exploration near
Cloncurry, in Queensland. In another
Queensland area the group is said to have
found alluvial tin.
The Associated Group is planning
diversification, on a joint venture basis,
into a search over areas believed to hold
coal, silver-lead, copper, bentonite, and
tin. The shares cannot be regarded only
as those of an unsuccessful oil and gas ex-
plorer, however, especially after the news
of its Queensland gas sales.
In each of these three cases only drilling
will determine the extent of a successful
find and its commercial value. But, in
Planet and Mid-Eastern’s case especially,
mineral exploration will provide new
appeal for two companies which have
suffered a relatively unrewarding and dull
period of listing so far.


TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT
GROUP IN 7965
Finance
It has again been a year of growth, with profit
before tax at £4,815,000 exceeding by 29 per
cent the profit of the previous year. Corporation
Tax has been provided at an assumed rate of 35
per cent and the tax charge amounts to £1,394,000.
If the rate of tax announced in the forthcoming
Budget should vary from this, then each one per
cent variance will require the sum of £33,000.
The provisions of the Finance Act 1965 made it
advantageous to declare a second interim dividend
of 4 per cent less tax on the ordinary shares and
this was paid on 22nd March, 1966.
A final dividend on the ordinary shares of
per cent less tax is recommended. After taking
into account the interim dividends already
paid the total dividend for the year is per
cent. The equivalent figure for the previous year,
after adjusting for the capitalisation issue, was
1H percent. Subject to approval by shareholders
at the annual general meeting on 22nd April, divi-
dend warrants will be posted on 29th April 1966.
The Board recommends the capitalisation of
£1,806,000 of the Company’s reserves and the
issue to ordinary shareholders on the register
at the close of business on 28th March 1966 of
one new ordinary share of ss. credited as fully
paid, for every ten ordinary shares then held.
Trading in the United Kingdom
Road Haulage
The year has been one which called for deter-
mined combat with rising costs; pressure on profit
margins has been considerable. Despite this,
enterprise and ingenuity on the part of Group
executives, coupled with a constant search for
new ways to meet the needs of customers, has
produced increased profit.
In Aberdeen, the vehicle fleet of Charles
Alexander & Partners (Transport) Limited was
enlarged by 50 vehicles to service the fish trade,
following the cessation of all railway fish de-
livery services from that port other than to
London.
Vehicle ferry services to the Continent continue
to multiply. A new service between Hull and
Rotterdam enabled the establishment of Euro-
poort-Hull Trailers, an enterprise operated jointly
by two Group undertakings—Gilyott and Scott
Limited in this country and Gebr. van den Bos
Transporten NV in Holland. These services are
likely to increase still further in the years ahead
and a trailer service to Scandinavian countries
by a Group company has now begun.
As yet liner train services remain unrealised.
It is still considered that the liner train concept
offers advantage to Group operations although
under present circumstances it is likely to be
viable only on the longer routes.
Wharfage and Warehousing
Outside the London area traffic throughout the
year was buoyant despite the effects of the import
surcharge and the tightening of credit restrictions.
Extensive storage of new cars has been under-
taken in the Midlands.
New warehouses at Dartford, Hatfield and
Barking came into use during the year. Wharf
accommodation in Millwall was sold and agree-
ment was reached for the sale of a further wharf
at Brentford; in each case, continued use had
become uneconomical.
The acquisition of The Liverpool Warehous-
ing Company Limited has immensely enlarged
Group resources in the warehousing field.
Cold Storage
Almost throughout the year the cold stores were
working to capacity. Sheffield Cold Storage
Company Limited moved into its fine new premi-
ses on the outskirts of the city. It also purchased
a store of 107,000 cu. ft. on the outskirts of
Doncaster which was fully utilised at once. An
addition to the cold store at Taunton was also
completed during the year and has made its due
contribution to revenue and profit.
Water Transport
Craft were well utilised on the Mersey and
Humber estuaries. In London, traffic continued
in good volume until the latter part of the year
when there was a decline.
A new 1,000 h.p. tug, General VIII, came into
service on the Thames and orders were placed for
the construction of twelve new insulated craft
of 250 tons nominal carrying capacity; six of
these craft are now in service.
Other Activities
Of other Group activities, the exhibition work
and storefitting of Beck & Pollitzer Contracts
Limited is the most important. The company has
made intensive efforts to extend its activities in
the store and office fitting fields and these have
met with considerable success. Land adjoining
the main freehold depot of the company at Iver-
son Road, Hampstead, was purchased during the
year. This will, in due course, enable an extension
to be built.
In the case of industrial removals, plant hire
and packing, the year saw a marked increase in
demand for the facilities available and record
profits were earned.
On the light engineering side Cox’s Machinery
continued to be successful in securing export
orders including orders from countries as far
apart as China and Mexico.
Acquisitions
The principal road haulage company acquired
in 1965 was Crow Carrying Company Limited
which, from a depot on a site of five acres at
Barking and a terminal in Manchester, operates
a fleet of more than 230 tanker vehicles. The
company is pre-eminent in the field of bulk haul-
age and the acquisition consolidates the Group as
one of the leading tanker operators.
Two Liverpool-based public companies were
acquired, J. A. Irving & Company Limited, which
operates warehouses in Liverpool and specialises
in the handling of canned goods and food-
stuffs, and The Liverpool Warehousing Company
Limited, which has more than 300 warehouses in
Liverpool and Manchester and a fleet of 200
haulage vehicles operating from depots in Liver-
pool, London, Southampton, Birmingham and
Manchester. With a view to re-invigorating this
large concern steps have already been taken to
bring to life a number of its existing subsidiary
companies, and to channel into those companies
assets for particular areas or activities. With this
decentralisation and the introduction of Group
budgeting and costing, there is every reason to
expect that the very extensive assets of this under-
taking will in due course show a return more
commensurate with their size than has been the
case for the past few years.
Western Europe
The scale of operation of our Dutch sub-holding
company, Europa Transport Ontwikkelings
Maatschappij “ETOM” NV, in which we have
as partners Thomsen’s Verenigde Bedrijven NV,
of Rotterdam, is now enlarging. Companies ac-
quired included two Dutch haulage undertakings,
and a firm of forwarding and freight agents in
Rotterdam. In Western Germany the acquisitions
comprised two associated companies based at
Frankfurt am Main, which provide warehousing,
wharfage, road transport and freight agency ser-
vices, and two forwarding agencies. In Belgium, a
haulage company operating distribution services
in Belgium and Luxembourg has been acquired.
The future for investment on the continent of
Europe is less rewarding now than previously
because of changes resulting from United King-
dom Government action. It is to be hoped that
this disability will prove to be of a temporary
nature, for experience has already shown that
there is abundant opportunity for large scale and
profitable extension of the Group’s activities on
the Continent.
Australia
Reorganisation of Cargo Distributors Limited
continued during the year and profits before
tax increased to $490,000 as compared with
$232,000 for the previous year. In due time
substantial progress is expected as the Australian
economy accelerates, and the Board is alert to
any opportunity to increase investment in this
continent.
Group Reorganisation
During the year there was planned, and put into
effect from Ist January 1966, a further develop-
ment of the Group structure. This involved the
creation in the United Kingdom of three sub-
holding companies: Southern Area Transport
Group Limited in London, Northern Area Trans-
port Group Limited in Liverpool and Scottish
Area Transport Group Limited in Glasgow.
Great importance is attached to this new struc-
ture as it carries a stage further the Group policy
of decentralisation and provides a. firm base to
accommodate substantial future growth.
Outlook for 1966
The current year has begun with trading at a
similar level to that of the early part of 1965. If
the momentum of the economy is maintained, the
Board is confident that Group profits will con-
tinue to grow during 1966 and targets have been
set towards that end.
The foregoing is an extract from the annual
report and accounts of Transport Development
Group Limited, Bucklersbury House, Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4. Monetary refer-
ences are to pounds sterling.
1962
15,704
2,215
18,021
14-1
14-1
8,374
6-7
1963
20,094
2,651
19,992
13-
14-
10,468
8-7
1964
29,839
3,739
28,631
12-5
16-8
14,031
11-3
1965
38,533
4,815
37,054
12-
15-7
19,271
13-
ROAD TRANSPORT ' LIGHTERAGE * STORAGE


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
NEW ISSUE
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications tor Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S, White & Co./Pring Dean & Co.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street. Sydney. Tel. 61-9701. 61-6421
MA23ONSW
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Courtaulds Lacks Cheer
THE latest balance sheet from Court-
aulds (Australia) Ltd. is not very
meaningful. But that may be just as
well, as the meaning it does manage to
convey is not too cheering to shareholders.
The change in accounting period neces-
sary to make the Australian company
coincide with its U.K. parent (following
last year’s partial takeover offer) has
enabled directors to issue a balance sheet
with no real comparisons for the benefit
of those shareholders who may wonder
by how much the company really managed
to do even worse than last year.
They are entitled to know. However,
the directors have preferred to avoid mak-
ing any direct comparisons between the
six months to December and the same six
months in 1964, and instead have repro-
duced the results for the previous 12
months—clearly an unacceptable basis of
comparison in a textile group that surely
has some seasonal patterns. Shareholders
will get little help by going back to the
previous year’s interim report for a guide.
It was in very broad terms, with not a
statistic in sight.
Without the benefit of any directional
guidance, shareholders are faced with the
news that Courtauld’s profit for six
months is $459,298, compared with the
full year’s 1964-65 figure of $1,032,192.
On an annual basis, the most recent earn-
ing rate was 6.8 percent, so appearing to
continue the downward trend of the
previous two years. The reduction in divi-
dends from percent to an annual rate
of 5 percent confirms increasing diffi-
culties.
The directors complain in their current
report of severe competition from tyre
fabrics alternative to Courtaulds own
rayon, to an increase in imports of tyre
fabric and tyres (particularly from Japan),
and to the falling off in motor registrations.
Proceeds of the sale of short-term de-
posits and first mortgage debenture stock
of a listed company have been applied
chiefly in the period under review to re-
ducing trade creditors from $1.9 to $1.5 m.
and bank overdraft from $900,000 to
$315,000.
The net book value of assets acquired
in Samuel Courtauld and Co. (Aust.) Pty.
(a man-made fabrics merchant, formerly
owned by the UK parent) exceeded the
cash price of $200,000, so the surplus re-
duced goodwill on consolidation from
$200,086 to $30,294.
Judging by a 1964 Tariff Board report,
about 60 p.c. of Courtaulds capital was
then invested in the tyre and industrial
side of the business, where more than two-
thirds of the employees were engaged.
Revival of the motor market and an in-
crease in protection on Australian man-
made fibres and yarn, tyre cord, and fabric,
on which a Tariff Board decision is pend-
ing, are the two best bets for a recovery.
Year to June 30 6 mths.
to
Dec.
1963 1964 1965 1965
Gross profit (1) s’ooo 3382 2965 2637 1288
Tax s’ooo 968 870 725 355
Depreciation s'ooo 901 895 880 474
Net profit s'ooo 1513 1200 1032 459
Earnings p.c. on
ord. capital 11.1 8.9 7.6 6 8
Dividend p.c. 7V 2 6V2 6V2 5
Earnings p.c. on
total funds 9.3 7.2 5.9 5 1
Current ratio 2.08 1.99 1.65 2 09
Fixed assets s’ooo 10,486 10,476 11,720 11 666
Dividend yield (2) 8.0 7.7 9.8 8 2
Price/earnings
ratio (2) 8 5 10.9 8.7 8.0
Share prices, High (3) 1.12 1.09 99 75
Share prices, Low (3 ) 69 8 0 64 60
1. Profit be'ure depreciation and tax.
2. End of October month accounts presented up to
October, 1965, 1966, mid-April.
3. Calendar years; 1966 year to date. Price per $1
share.
Soft Spots for Intercolonial Boring
THE drought, low sugar prices, and
tough times for tobacco have prob-
ably affected Intercolonial Boring Co.
Ltd. more than directors would care to
admit, but probably not as much as the
market fears in pricing the 50c shares at
only $1.15 to give a percent dividend
yield.
Earlier this year the shares fell below
one dollar until the release of the solid-
looking result for the 12 months to Octo-
ber put more heart in the market. But
while the profit and loss account was
clearly maintaining its improvement, with
earning rate now better than before the
controversial merger with Engineering
Supply Co. 4| years ago, the balance
sheet did show some soft spots.
Results for the last two years are not
strictly comparable, because 1963-64
results included trading of Engineering
Supply and another subsidiary, Agricul-
tural and Industrial Finance Co. Pty. for
16 months, and Wyeths Pty. (taken over
in 1962-63) for 14 months.
The upward profit trend, successfully
maintained in what should have been a
difficult 12 months to October, should be
tested this year, and a steadying note
would not be surprising.
A two-for-three convertible note issue in
1960 will increase ordinary capital by
$640,000 to $2.6 million in August next
year. Interest on these is an annual charge
of $45,024, and the total interest bill
$131,842. (Term loans and unsecured ad-
vances have been increasingly resorted to
for financing additional business.) The
note conversion will lift the dividend
charge by about $lOO,OOO to about
$395,000, and the drop in interest charge
would have lifted last year’s net profit by
about $30,000 to $548,000
Year to October 31 Consolidated
1962 1963 1964 1965
Gross profit s’ooo 42 6 493 842 1052
Tax $’OOC 109 158 298 382
Depreciation s’ooo 66 50 138 15?
Net profit s’ooo 251 285 406 518
Earnings p.c.
to ord cap. 14.0 15 5 20 9 27 1
Dividend p.c. 15 15 15 15
Earnings p.c. to
total funds 4.0 40 54 65
Current ratio 2.8 3 8 3 1 2 6
Fixed assets s’ooo 2550 2832 3264 3673
Dividend yield (2) 5.5 5.0 5.8 6 4
Prics/earnings
ratio (2) 19 2 19 2 12 5 8 7
Share prices, High (3) 168 160 130 126
Share prices, Low (3) 122 130 103 99
1. Profit before tax and depreciation.
2. End of following February, month accounts pre-
sented. r
n 3 ‘ P 7o!o f i° o r „ yea , r o A n A|?L ch accounts are presented
(i.e. # 1962, 1963, 1964, 1965 and 1966 respectively).


EDITORIAL
ASSISTANT
SYDNEY UNIVERSITY PRESS
UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
To undertake detailed preparation of
Manuscripts for publication and to
carry out the necessary correspon-
dence with authors and to be re-
sponsible for proofreading. Good
educational qualifications and good
typing essential. Experience in lib-
rary work, teaching, book-selling and
especially publishing, an advantage.
Salary up to $44-27 per week initially,
according to qualifications and ex-
perience and conditions of Clerical
Officers’ etc. Agreement, including no
Saturday work; four weeks’ annual
leave. Applications in writing to the
Registrar.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
A.W.A. Fully Valued
“Poor record of dividends”
Amalgamated wireless
(A’ASIA) LTD. was in the new T s
recently because of the change in the
company’s articles which would allow the
board of directors to appoint a “presi-
dent.” In the company’s explanation it
would seem that this person would act
as an adviser to the board. It is not, as
yet, clear whether this is a step toward
the American type of corporate admini-
stration, where the president heads an
administrative group but is not necessarily
a member of the board of directors.
However, the purpose of this article is
not to discuss the pros and cons of such
an appointment but rather to examine
the immediate future prospects of AWA
as a member of the industry group which
manufactures radio and television sets.
The examination has been prompted by
the fact that the durable consumer in-
dustry is regarded as being a “soft spot”
in the economy at the moment; it is,
therefore, possible that some stimulation
might be given if the situation does not
improve of its own accord during the next
six months.
On March 15 the directors issued their
interim report, which stated that margins
were still low and sales of consumer goods
were still depressed. During that week,
which ended March 18, the share price
fell slightly from $2.12 to $2.10; the fol-
lowing week, after reaching $2.05, the
price closed at $2.15. Since then the price
has varied between $2.15 and $2.22 and
the last sale took place at $2.19. The
interesting feature is that, in the four
weeks prior to the interim announcement,
the price of the shares fell rapidly from
$2.40 down to $2.10, i.e., by about 124
percent. It is true that the Sydney all
ordinary index fell at about the same time,
yet its fall was only about half the drop
in the AWA share price.
While the current price seems low, in
relation to the prices that have been paid
over the past four years, it must be pointed
out that, in terms of immediate dividend
yield, the price is almost directly compar-
able with the other two companies with
whom comparison seems to be viable.
EMI last sold at $2.10 to show a dividend
yield of 3.8 percent, and Pye at $1.25 to
show a yield of 4.0 percent. Consequently,
the shares are not cheap relatively. Over
the next few weeks it could come to light
that they are well priced if either of
these two competitors should have a
significantly better record than AWA.
When I last wrote about AWA only
the accounts for 1962 and 1963 were
available, so a five-year comparison of
balance sheet and profit statement figures
was not possible. Prior to the passing of
the 1952 Companies Act, AWA’s accounts
were not very informative. Revenue was
disclosed under the heading of “Sales,
wireless services, commissions, rentals,
school fees, dividends received, interest,
etc., but related to the parent company
only. From this figure was deducted
another item designated as “Costs of
manufacture, trading, and administration
purchases and services, salaries, de-
preciation, etc.” The resulting “Net profit
for year” represented 4.46 percent of
revenue in 1958-9, 4.32 percent in 1959-60,
and 3.39 percent in 1960-1. Since con-
forming with the Companies Act, revenue
has not been disclosed.
JF we were to compare 1961-2 with
1960-1, we would probably say that, so
far as the profits are concerned, the figure
of £519,908 is comparable with the figure
of £489,971 in 1960-1. However, when
we take the 1961-2 profit figure we find
that several adjustments can be made.
Firstly, the profit increases to £592,451
on consolidation. Secondly, there is a
provision before the net profit is struck
which amounts to £201,085. This pro-
vision does not relate to the stock and
debtors provisions, for these would surely
be “for diminution in value of assets,”
nor does it include long service leave,
which is shown separately. Thirdly, we
might well add back that portion of the
depreciation provision that applies to land
and buildings. So, for the past three years,
it is possible to get profit figures which
would look something as follows:
Year to June 30 1963 1964 1965
(? ’000)
Disdosed profit 1565 1693 1720
Add minority interests 139 104 114
„ 1704 1797 1834
Depreciation of land and
buildings 76 82 76
Stock provision 208 (30) 220
Debtors' provision 8 46 178
Totai 2444 2061 2518
Tax provided 1654 1630 1824
Consolidated net profit
before tax 4098 3691 ' 4442 '
tstimated tax thereon 1630 1604 1880
Having in mind the different tax rates
in New Zealand, the above figures are
probably quite close. I will also assume
that the minority interests are not entitled
to any of the “surplus profits,” so earn-
ings for the past three years become
$2,305,000, $1,957,000 and $2,404,000,
and the earning rates would be 38.4
p.c., 32.6, and 40.00.
Accepting the 40 p.c. earning rate, the
earnings yield becomes 9.1 p.c. (or, for
those who prefer it, the price earnings
multiple is 11.0). On these terms the
shares look cheap. Many will cast their
minds back to the last issues ever made
by the company, in 1956, when, prior to
a convertible note issue, shareholders
received a one-for-one bonus. There is
little doubt that earnings could be raised
to a level where the company could make
a bonus issue and even maintain the divi-
dend rate. It would certainly have no
difficulty in adopting the same rate after
the bonus issue as last time (9 p.c. after
previously paying 16 p.c.).
Despite this high !! notional” earning
rate, the prospects of future growth seem
to be limited and there has not been
much growth in the past three years.
Demand for much of the company’s pro-
duction seems to have settled down to
replacement demand. The chairman stated
in his last address to shareholders on
December 14, 1965, in relation to “de-
fence” orders: “. . . I regret to say that
despite considerable effort we have received
no major orders for Australian produc-
tion.” It would appear that, in the field
of military electronic equipment, the Aus-
tralian manufacturer has to compete with
overseas manufacturers, so there is unlikely
to be any profit even if the contract could
be won.
While the “notional” earnings yield is
quite attractive, the poor record of divi-
dend payments in the past ten years (since
the 1956 bonus and convertible note issues)
suggests that, even at the current depressed
price, the shares are fully valued.
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES ($ million)
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 20.6 22.5 23 6 24 7
Current liabilities 6.4 7.5 3.0 8 8
Working capital 14.2 15~0 J5~b 15~o
Land & buildings 4.5 4 6 4 9 5 3
pla "t, etc. 2.1 1.8 i4 !7
Investments 0.7 1 o 11 f’4
Intangibles 0.2 0.2
Total capital .. .. 21.7 22.6 23 4 24 4
represented by:—
Loan capital 0.2
Long term provisions 1.2 14 14 13
Minority interests 0.6 0 7 0 7 OS
Ordinary capital 6.0 6 0 6'o 6 0
Reserves 13.7 14.5 15.3 16.1
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES ($ ’000)
Interest 120 13
Depreciation 868 ‘ 966 908 972
Tax provided 1108 1654 1630 1824
Minority interests 100 139 104 114
Earnings 1588 n 8 i 4 1858 1930
Ordinary dividends 624 960 960 960
Surplus 964 854 898 970
Earning rate % 35.6 30.2 31.0 32 2
Dividend rate % 14.0 16.0 16.0 160
Dividend yield % (a) 3.4 3 4 3 8 3 1
High price (b) 2.28 2.70 3.20 2 98
L °w price (b) 1.85 1.94 2 55 215
(a) Based on the average of the high and low prices
tor the year.
(b) Calendar year.


Invest in
T3gQ
INTEREST
UP TO
%
PER
ANNUM
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE WALES* FOR DETAILS
ND.I6.N.
COMMODITIES
A Nail in Copper’s Coffin
Chile’s price rise hits the boom
CHILE’S 50 percent price rise has probably put the decisive nail in the coffin of the
copper boom. Free market prices will probably remain high for a year or so, but
they must eventually fall as capacity is being increased world wide at a time when
consumption is being inhibited and supply is already closely matching demand.
WITH or without increased copper
prices, Mt. Isa Mines seems set for
a record profit this year after a
drop of almost 40 percent last year when
the strike severely curtailed production for
seven months. On current estimates it
seems that this year’s profit will at least
double and probably treble that of last
years, even though Mt. Isa is keeping to
the Australian Copper Producers’ Associa-
tion decision hot to raise its price over
$B7O a toh.
The current year’s production in the
first 40 weeks to April 10 totals 59,460
tons of blister copper, 45,970 tons of
lead bullion, and 46,928 tons of zinc con-
centrates. Based on latest production rates,
rough estimates for the full year are in
the vicinity of 75,000 tons of copper,
60,000 tons of lead, and somewhat over
this figure for zinc.
A comparison with 1964 pre-strike
totals of 70,953 tons of copper, 62,470
tons of lead, and 2578 tons of zinc is very
favorable, especially for zinc and, to a
lesser extent, copper. When we consider
that average prices realised in 1964 were
copper SA6IO, lead $194, and zinc $216
per ton, compared with current prices
which could average out at about $B3O
for copper and at least $250 for lead and
zihc for the full year, this year’s profit
expectations are even more promising.
In addition, although total ore output
rates are currently in excess of 10,000 tons
per day, an increase is planned to a daily
rate of 16,000 tons by the completion of
the new K 57 shaft and No. 2 concentra-
tor. But for the strike, these would have
been in operation by late 1965.
The lift from £stg.336 a ton to £496 a
ton by Chile, one of the world’s three
or four major suppliers, must be a very
strong encouragement to the pressures the
lower and steadier “producer” price was
intended to fight substitution of copper
by other metals like aluminium or even
by plastics.
Other producers have not rushed to
follow Chile some seem to prefer
smaller increases, while others, including
most Australian mines (except Mt. Lyell
and Peko) have held steady.
In the London Metals Exchange, de-
mand for copper is very strong at the
moment, although, according to the
British Bureau of Non-Ferrous Metal
Statistics, 1964’s 200,000 ton-odd deficit
in Western countries between production
and consumption changed to a surplus
of 152,200 tons in 1965. Globally the sur-
plus was about 78,000 tons.
With U.S. releases of several hundred
thousands of tons and small mine pro-
duction increases, the basic supply position
is becoming more liquid.
As producers have often claimed, much
of the current demand must be due to
consumers attempting to replenish de-
pleted stocks in the face of considerable
concern over supply disruptions. The
Rhodesian-Zambia crisis is the biggest
unknown in this equation.
World Leather
BEHIND the soaring Australian hide
and leather prices during the past
year has been, as well as the local
drought, a stronger world market. In
February the domestic price of major
natural leather items rose an average of
15 percent.
This followed a 10 percent rise in
November last year. On the other hand,
the price of “Corfam,” the du Pont syn-
thetic distributed in Australia by Associ-
ated Leathers, was recently cut by around
20 percent.
This product, regarded by many as at
least the equal of leather, was originally
priced well above leather, aiming at the
market for “quality” shoe-uppers. The
recent price moves must add to its attrac-
tiveness for the shoe industry, already
under pressure from imports.
World production of hides has, in fact,
been rising, but not nearly fast enough
to satisfy a boost in consumption, par-
ticularly in Russia and its satellites. One
of the main markets for these countries
has been the Argentine, which at one time
last year was sending as much as 60 per-
cent of its supplies to the Communist bloc.
But with local tanners finding the com-
petition too hot, export controls were
introduced and Russia turned to the U.S.
for supplies.
However, with pressure of large orders
for forces in Vietnam added to a tight
situation, the U.S., too, last month intro-
duced export controls on hides. In the
first three months of this year alone, U.S.
hide prices had soared by between 50 and
60 percent.
The problem is: how will demand in
future be supplied? Last year, for instance,
U.K. footwear sales rose one million pairs.
The U.S. and Argentine controls are
the main factors at present on the supply
side. The Argentine cattle industry is re-
covering after stock depletion, but even
1963 levels of hide exports are not likely
to be reached for some time. The hide
market is likely to remain buoyant in the
foreseeable future, then. And demand for
suitable synthetics will also be strong. In
1965 75 percent of the 625 million pairs
of shoes produced in America had soles
made out of materials other than leather.
And 20 percent had uppers made of sub-
stitute materials.
Any lift in living standards amongst the


ill/I
Schimmelpenninck
Duet
(Actual size)
in tins of 5,
packets of 10 and
barrels of 25.
Schimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Holland’s
finest cigars -
fast becoming
Australia’s
favourites
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars
are imported for your pleasure by
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.) Ltd.
sole Australian agents for
Schimmelpenninck—Sigarenfabrieken
VJH Getirts & Van Schuppen N.V.
Wageningen Holland.
RPMI9B
poor nations of the world will mean vast
rises in demand for shoes last year’s
Communist buying must have been partly
a result of this factor.
So leather will continue to find a
market, while “Corfam” .and its newer
rivals will also continue to expand.
Cocoa Shortage
COCOA prices continue to rise as the
supply-demand gap grows in im-
portance. Last week’s 200/- stg. a
cwt. level is 25/- more than a month
earlier.
There is both a shortage of immediate
supplies and an overall production deficit
of about 170,000 tons a year. Of the
major suppliers, Nigeria and Ghana had
sold their main crops by last week and
Brazil was the only large producer still
in the market.
Further rises seem likely, as many manu-
facturers are thought to hold only small
stocks.
Wolfram Slides
WOLFRAM and scheelite prices have
been helped on their downward
slide by an additional authorisation
of U.S. stockpile release. On top of the
five million lb. recently made available
(at a fixed price equivalent outside the
U.S. at 290/- stg. a long ton unit) 500,000
lb. of high-grade material is being offered.
Before the U.S. moves, free market
prices had risen from 122/6 stg. early
last year to a 368/9 peak this year. (Since
the new policy a steady decline has set
in, to last week’s 300/- level.)
Some observers are pessimistic about
future trends, but in all probability no
substantial long-term fall from present
levels will occur. The underlying short-
supply persists; a definite boost to supplies
would be needed before any real slump
could occur.
Even a substantial fall would be unlikely
to leave average prices for the year below
last year’s level.
MINING
Gold’s Progressive Decline
REFLECTING the Commonwealth
Statistician’s bulletin on the gold-
mining industry released in April and
showing a progressive decline in the
quantity of gold mined in Australia since
1950, latest production figures from three
of the major West Australian producers
indicate that their current year’s produc-
tion will be down on last year’s levels.
However, these three companies, Lake
View and Star Ltd., Great Boulder Mines
Ltd., and North Kalgurli (1912) Ltd.,
stand to benefit more than other major
producers from the amendment last year
to the Gold Mining Industry Assistance
Act. This extended the relief payable for
costs in excess of $27 per ounce which
costs have already been exceeded by the
three companies.
The major Australian producer, Lake
View and Star Limited, in its latest pro-
duction report to March 8, 1966, not only
showed a lower production rate compared
with the previous period but also reported
that the estimated mining surplus to date
for the current year (covering the period
July 1, 1965, to March 8, 1966) is
£stg. 90,302 before subsidy, compared with
£234,601 for the same period last year and
£259,168 in 1964. Subsidy to date is esti-
mated at £109,000, compared with a total
of £310,421 claimed last year.
Great Boulder Gold Mines Limited has
also showed a decreased rate of produc-
tion in its latest report to March 8, 1966.
In addition, the company has deferred any
decision to declare a final dividend for
the current year to June 30 until later in
the year. Despite increased gold subsidies,
profitability has been reduced due to
higher costs and a chronic inability to
maintain a satisfactory grade of ore.
Following this pattern, production re-
ports from North Kalgurli (1912) Ltd.
over the 36 weeks to April 5, 1966, total
51,997 fine ounces of gold compared with
65,301 fine ounces in the corresponding
period last year.
In contrast, the Fijian gold producer,
Emperor Gold Mines Ltd., seems likely
to maintain its five-year run of record pro-
duction figures. However, the current high
rate of production is dependent on much
higher ore reserves, which in turn depend
upon a large scale exploration and de-
velopment program. The chairman has
stated that funds available from current
production are not sufficient for this pro-
gram; he is hopeful that the company
will receive a subsidy from the Fiji Gov-
ernment for this purpose.
Iron Ore
IN the light of the growing demand for
increased local equity in the develop-
ment of Australia’s mineral resources,
it will be interesting to see who the suc-
cessful tenderer will be for the 72 square
mile reserve of iron ore deposits in the
Weld Range, near Cue, the first deposits
to be released by the Western Australian
Government since 1961.
Diamond drilling by the W.A. Mines
Department in 1960 indicated 20 million
tons of good grade hematite, averaging
about 63 percent. Economic development
of the reserves would probably depend on
the upgrading of the railway between Cue
and to enable ore to be shipped
from Geraldton.
Japanese companies have been known
to be interested in the area, one group
being associated with a syndicate of Perth
businessmen. Applications close on April
30, but it will probably be some time be-
fore the successful tenderer is known.


Dear
Masterfoods:
it’s time you met
Judy Nelson
She’s compiling a shopping list of party
foods. But not from your products.
j
Smotww©
l*«vr
I I
8524
Judy’s a young-married. She lives with her husband
in a charming old terrace house they’ve recently
restored. She loves entertaining and serving
imaginative meals to her friends. But she’s never
served your products.
It’s not that she wouldn’t. It’s just that she’s
never heard much about you.
There must be close on half a million Judys in
the Sydney and Melbourne viewing areas, as well as
thousands of other women who’d be delighted to hear
of new and different foods to tempt their families
and friends. All you have to do to sell them, is tell
them about your products. How? We’ll give you a hint.
The two “Nines” put your name before the largest
captive audience in Australia . . . seven nights a
week. And they’re all potential buyers wide
open to the potent selling skills of the two “Nines,”
which are always at your service. Interested?
Channel
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
TCN-9 SALES — Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street. 61-9931
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336
GTV-9 SALES — Melbourne: 22 Bendigo Street. 42-0201
_____ Sydney: 54 Park Street. 61-9931


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATE !f» U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
0,
'0
61
4
7%
7h
TWO
YEARS
FIVE
YEARS
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 4%%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 /a%
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 5 3 A%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6Va%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS .... 6 1 /a%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7Va%
TEN YEARS 7 1 /a%
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectusand Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications wili proceed only -®n one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
P6QS
MAN ON THE LAND
South America and IWS
IF South American wool-producing
countries do not come into the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat very soon
then the role of the IWS must be revised
drastically. This seems the only sensible
conclusion to draw from recent revelations
of South American developments from a
source other than the IWS itself or the
Australian Wool Board.
Both the IWS and Wool Board chair-
man Sir William Gunn have been trying
hard to get the South Americans to accept
their share of international wool pro-
motion for some years now. There have
been a number of delegations and Gunn
was there, for about the third time, only
a few weeks back. The IWS version of
these trips is that all will come right in
the long run.
Wool Board statistics usually give
Argentine and Uruguay figures; these put
Argentine fourth as a wool producer
(behind Australia, New Zealand, and
South Africa) and Uruguay fifth.
The Australian woolgrower, who is
shouldering the burden of the greater part
of international wool promotion, knows
these figures and probably imagines that
the Argentine and Uruguay will stay in
fourth and fifth position. But a recent
visit to Australia by a leading sheepbreeder
from Ecuador, Mr. Walther Wohlermann,
revealed that a dramatic upsurge in the
South American sheep industry is taking
place.
Wohlermann (apparently a South
American of German extraction) was
reported as saying that in the past decade
total South American sheep numbers had
increased from 100 million to 150 million;
that the increase was being maintained
and that wool cut per head was being
lifted along with the increase in flocks.
He spoke glowingly of Australian shearing,
fencing, and management methods gener-
ally, saying these methods were being
put into practice in all South American
wool countries.
His figure of 150 million total for South
America is most revealing. If this is true
(and there seems no reason to doubt it),
then South America, as a whole, is getting
closer to Australia in total numbers (about
170 million). From United Nations figures
(for 1963) we obtained the following:
Argentine 50 million sheep; Uruguay 22
million; Brazil 20 million; Peru 16 million;
Bolivia, seven million; Chile six million;
Ecuador two million; Columbia two mil-
lion; Paraguay one million. This gives a
1963 total of around 126 million. As these
are now three years old they tend to sub-
stantiate Wohlermann’s figure of 150 mil-
lion.
Substantiation is necessary because
South American statistics are, in many
cases, very rough estimates (so are some
of our own) and interpretation is needed
also. Wool cut per sheep, and type of
wool, are important factors. But from
Wool Board statistics we can work out
that the average Argentine cut is around
eight pounds per sheep and, in Uruguay,
nine pounds. If this is improving as
rapidly as Wohlermann indicated, then
once again we can see that South Ameri-
can sheep countries are getting close to
Australia.
He was reported as saying that, in
Ecuador, the sheep industry was producing
48 to 56 counts, whereas the manufactur-
ing industry would prefer 56 to 58 counts.
This would be all Corriedale-type wool,
so in 64s Australia is still well ahead of
the rest of the world.
The IWS view, of course, does not
make any point of whether Australia is
threatened by another competitor as a
wool supplier. The grand design is that


C.5.1.R.0.
Computing Research Section
EDUCATIONAL OFFICER
SALARY: Scientific Services Officer Class 1, $2960 $4768 p.a.
or Scientific Services Officer Class 2, $4976 $5616 p.a.
For an applicant having extensive experience of an appropriate
kind, consideration will be given to appointment within the
salary range of Scientific Services Officer Class 3, $5826 —$6446
p.a.
Salary rates for women are $402 p.a. less than the corresponding
rates for men.
LOCATION: Canberra, A.C.T.
GENERAL: The Computing Research Section operates a network
of computers consisting of a Control Data 3600 in Canberra, and
three Control Data 3200 s in other areas. The peripheral equip-
ment associated with the 3600 includes a wide range of input
and output devices, including graph plotters, several cathode
ray display units, and large capacity drum storage units.
The Section provides a scientific computing service to other
C.5.1.R.0. Divisions and Sections, Commonwealth Departments,
and the Universities on an “open shop” basis. This calls for
programming knowledge on the part of the users of whom many
have either no previous programming experience, or who have
experience of other machines and wish to convert to languages
used with Control Data computers.
DUTIES: The appointee will assist the present Educational
Officer in giving courses, initially at the basic and later at the
advanced level, in the programming languages of FORTRAN
and ALGOL, and with the organisation of courses, lectures,
seminars, etc. where necessary, to complement the normal
training. He will also edit and write technical publications and
deal with several aspects of user/Section communication. Fre-
quent travelling within Australia will be necessary in carrying
out the duties of this position.
QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants should have professional quali-
fications in Science, Engineering or Arts, with Mathematics as
a major subject, or their equivalent, together with training and
experience in the use of computers. Teaching experience would
be an advantage.
NOTE: A married male applicant appointed from outside
Canberra, may be eligible for a rental subsidy until a permanent
residence is obtained.
Applications quoting reference number 900/51, and stating full
name, place, date and year of birth, nationality, marital status,
present employment, details of qualifications and experience,
together with the names of not more than four persons
acquainted with the applicant’s academic and professional
standing, should reach:
The Officer-in-Charge,
Computing Research Section,
C.5.1.R.0.,
P.O. Box 109,
CANBERRA CITY. A.C.T.
by 20th May, 1966.
wool producers of the world present a
solid, united front and that what is good
for one is good for another. As long as
more wool is used no one will suffer.
This is all very well, in theory, but in
practice the South Americans seem to take
the old-fashioned view that number one
matters most. South America has what
Australia had 50 years ago—large acreages
and low costs. We still have the acreages
but costs have spiralled upwards and look
as if they will continue to do so.
Woolgrowing, as an investment, would
appear to promise great rewards in South
America. Management and the changeover
from a feudal system must increase sheep
numbers and wool quality. In the past,
apart from Argentine and Uruguay, the
heavy demands of the local population re-
duced the quantity of wool available for
export. But, according to Wohlermann,
even tiny Ecuador has a thriving textile
industry producing synthetic blends with
wool, cotton, and linen. Synthetics and
synthetic blends to clothe their own people,
releasing wool for export, would appear
good policy in South American countries.
THE United States is traditionally the
biggest purchaser of South American
wool. U.S. consumption is going up and
our own sales are increasing to the U.S.
But overall we still buy three times as
much from the U.S. as we sell there. The
South American free trade association,
including the wool producing countries
mentioned earlier, has a much healthier
balance of trade. It is about equal, ap-
proximately 2000 million dollars each way.
We have been unable to ascertain exact
U.S. purchases of wool from South
American countries, yet did discover that
the U.S. normally takes about 35 percent
of Argentine wool. Obviously Australia is
not sharing in the U.S. wool usage as
much as we might. The U.S. last year
(1965) used 387 million pounds of wool.
Australia (allowing for an approximate
conversion from greasy to clean) supplied
around 40 million pounds, the home U.S.
industry around 130. This still leaves about
217 million pounds; the obvious inference
is that nearly all of it came from South
America. Where else could it come from?
The U.S. also uses large quantities of
made-up cloth imported from Japan, the
U.K., West Germany, and other manu-
facturers. Total wool consumption last
year was 527 million pounds, as against the
EI.S. mill consumption of 387 million
pounds.
The IWS, the Wool Board, and the Aus-
tralian woolgrower may well have been
pursuing the dream instead of the reality
in international wool promotion.
Now, if the South American nations stay
out, the thing for Australian woolgrowers
to do might be to look to something they
can grapple with. The Australian textile
industry is in trouble, yet it is the fourth
largest user of Australian wool. Australian
fashions and designs have won a world-
wide reputation. Goodness knows we have
criticised the international Woolmark
theory, but something like this, tied to
Australian manufactured woollens, could
be viable. It could w'ork and work well.


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GRAEME WILLIAM O’BRIEN late
of 12 Brown Street, Newtown, N.SW.
TAKE NOTICE that Patricia Ann O’Brien
has filed a petition No. 380 of 1966 for
divorce on the ground of Desertion and/
or Separation notwithstanding the facts
and circumstances set out in a discretion
statement filed herein and seeks orders
for custody, maintenance and costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 7th day of June,
1966. You may obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from Gregg Milne
& Co., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
cc
INTERNATIONA!
HARVESTER
CREDIT
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF
$4,000/000
DEBENTURE STOCK
A
An
p a a«
10 YEARS
SHORT TERM STOCK
5% p.a. 3 months
5J% p.a. 6 months
5?% p.a. 9 months
6% p.a. —l2 months
LONG TERM STOCK
61% p.a. 2 years
7% p.a. 5 years
71% p.a. 7 years
71% p.a. —lO years
International Harvester Credit Corporation of
Australia Limited is engaged principally in the
wholesale and retail financing of products of
International Harvester Company of Australia
Pty. Ltd.,
UNDERWRITERS
(of $3,000,000 Long Term Stock)
lAN POTTER & CO.
(Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne)
AUSTRALIAN UNITED
CORPORATION LIMITED
Applications may proceed only on the form
attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
which is obtainable from any Member of a
recognized Stock Exchange, any branch in
Australia of the A.N.Z. Bank Ltd., any branch
in Australia of the Commonwealth Trading Bank
of Australia, any office of IHCC of Australia
Limited, or from the Joint Underwriters.
lAN POTTER & CO.
325 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
44 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
122 Alinga Street, Canberra City, A.C.T.
41 Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
84 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
288-298 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
H1726D16A
AGRISEARCH
New Cure for Foot rot
IN pen and field trials, footrot of sheep
has been cured by a single intramus-
cular injection of a mixture of anti-
biotics. This news, which may eventually
prove to have wide practical value, has
just been announced by J. R. Egerton
and I. M. Parsonson, who are members
of the staff of the CSIRO Division of
Animal Health.
So far, only relatively small numbers
of sheep, less than two hundred altogether,
have been given the injection, but the
percentage of cures has been very high.
Thus, among penned animals, eight out of
ten were cured by a single injection. When
a much smaller dose was given to seven
afflicted sheep, five recovered within a
week or two. None of these sheep was
given any other treatment and all were
kept under conditions that normally tend
to promote the disease.
In a field trial on a Victorian property
where footrot has been bad for many
years, fifty diseased sheep were given the
injection and 70 percent of them soon
became sound. On two other Victorian
properties the cure rate was 96 percent
and 87 percent. However, besides being
given the antibiotic mixture, the sheep on
the first property were walked through
a formalin footbath; on the second of
these two properties they had their feet
pared before the injection as well as
being given the footbath treatment after-
wards. From these results it appears that
foot-paring and bathing aid the anti-
biotic treatment.
Only further experience will show
whether these additional treatments will
be necessary adjuncts to the injection if
a satisfactorily high number of cures is
to be attained. If paring could be elimin-
ated entirely, the injection method of
treating footrot would represent an im-
portant advance, as much noisome and
costly labor would be saved. However,
the scientists are not optimistic about this,
though they think that the job could be
skimped. They point out that some degree
of paring will probably always be neces-
sary to distinguish between infected and
clean sheep.
The most effective mixture of anti-
biotics tested consists of penicillin and
streptomycin. The requisite formulation
is already available commercially on
veterinary prescription. At current prices
of labor and material it may cost almost
a dollar a dose. Unless the work of foot-
paring can be greatly reduced, therefore,
the injection method of controlling foot-
rot may not prove to be economically com-
petitive with the present methods of treat-
ment, which also require that affected
feet be thoroughly pared before a rela-
tively cheap, but effective, bacteriacide is
painted on the hoof. Of course, if large-
scale manufacture of the antibiotic mix-
ture is developed the retail price might
fall considerably. Even at current costs
the new treatment might be preferred for
its convenience by some flockmasters,
especially when only small numbers of
sheep are diseased, for example, in ram
and stud flocks.


LOOM FOR SALE
Good opportunity to
commence business
This semi-automatic, electronically - con-
trolled, equi-tension loom is ideal for the
manufacture of woven wood, metal, or plastic
fabrics. It is only offered for sale because of
non-availability of raw materials in N.Z. (due
to import licence controls), and the fact that
the N.Z. market is too small to absorb its
high-production potential. It is in near new
condition, fully operational, and has always
been carefully maintained.
Power: Electric 1230-240 volt A.C. 50 cycle
single phase) and Pneumatic (Line pres-
sure lOOlbs. required).
Dimensions: Loom, take-off, thread rack 21ft.
x 12ft. Feed tray 9ft. x 4ft. Wall mounted
control panel sft. 6in. (high) x 12in. x
30in.
Warp: Yarn synthetic or natural.
Weft: 9ft. maximum. Wood, metal, or plastic.
Trimmed automatically both ends on
maximum width. Trimmed one end only
on widths of under 9ft.
Feed: Manual with provision for change to
automatic.
Rate of Production: Dependent on width of
slat being used (and operator efficiency
if manual). As indication, reasonably
proficient operator using 5-16 in. slat
hand-fed, produces 9 sq. ft. per minute.
The purchaser of this loom will be given
the sole licence franchise for Australasia.
For further detailed information, please
write:
‘lndustrial Opportunity'
Stuart Wearn Advertising Ltd.
P.O. Box 1138, Christchurch, N.Z.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
No. 1919 of 1985
between
MARIE ELLEN NEALE, Petitioner
and
FRANCIS JOSEPH NEALE, Respondent
TO: FRANCIS JOSEPH NEALE. TAKE
NOTICE that Marie Ellen Neale has filed
Fetition No. 1919 of 1985, for divorce on
the ground of cruelty and drunkenness
and seeks orders for the Respondent to
pay the costs of and incidental to this Suit.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before 2nd May, 1966. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from D. G. Thomas, Solicitor, 39
Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NANCY EVA SPENCER late of New-
castle. TAKE NOTICE that Jim Spencer
has filed a Petition for divorce number
397 of 1966 on the grounds of desertion
and separation notwithstanding the facts
and circumstances set out in the Dis-
cretion Statement filed by him. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before the 27th day of April, 1966,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. T. G. D. Marshall
Landers & Co., Solicitors of 251-253
George Street, Sydney, or Harris Wheeler
Williams & MacKenzie, Solicitors of 43
Bolton Street, Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: REUBEN GLUCK late of Randwick
N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that Edith Ella
Hildegard Gluck has filed a petition for
divorce, No. 903 of 1966 on the ground
of Desertion and seeks orders for main-
tenance, custody, injunctions and costs
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 2nd day of June, 1968, and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from Gregg Milne & Co., Solicitors
of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GEORGE THOMAS SMITH late of
Nelson Bay. TAKE NOTICE that Eliza-
beth Ann Smith has filed a petition for
divorce number 2383 of 1965 on the
grounds of Separation and Desertion and
seeks orders in respect of maintenance
property settlement and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the second day of May, 1986. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from T. G. D. Marshall Landers
& Co., Solicitors of 251-253 George Street
Sydney, or Harris Wheeler Williams &
McKenzie, Solicitors of 43 Bolton Street
Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar’
MISSING PERSONS
Thompson (Seale). Would anyone
knowing the whereabouts of Elizabeth
Thompson (or Seale) who at various
times might have resided in Victoria, New
South Wales or Queensland please ask
her to communicate with The Union-
Fidelity Trustee Company of Australia
Limited (Mr. Lugton), of 100 Exhibition
Street, Melbourne, which will be to her
advantage.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 896
ACROSS
1. Ignorant milk-producer dragged along and abased
himself. (8)
5. French star suggesting where to drink and spot.
(6)
9. Skite next confused by 5-across, for instance. (3-6)
10. Ado associated with it as a state pigment. (5)
12. Anger the kings of the Italians. (3)
13. Stephen is urged to telephone on the waterfront.
(11)
14. Arrange a test for discrimination. (5)
16. A germ it suppressed for Simenon’s detective. (7)
18. High delight from Yass, etc. (7)
19. Got near enough for one who
denies. (7)
20. Causing danger for the article
taken from the imperial fish.
(11)
23. Object because it’s one in the
morning. (3)
24. Idol holding you with a
cheese. (5)
25. Put 25 -across in tin spoons
and necks. (9)
26. Don’t take all the food lest
there’ll be plenty left. (6)
27. Lists of omitted material to
be included in dead sand. (8)
DOWN
1. Game enough for a romantic
moment in Wagner. (4, 2,3,
4)
2. Swell garment as matches.
(3, 6)
3. Leaves out its following on
the Order of Merit. (5)
4. Doing very, very little business
wherein my talkers excel. (9,
5)
6. Parking the vessel which is
keeping a corn nigh. (9)
7. One is after dope in a Timor
town. (5)
8. Names or subjects in the fol-
lowing followers turned it up
to love Kelly. (14)
11. Fascist headquarters giving a
correct basis for argument.
(5, 8)
15. Lift its alternative way to ven-
tilate luggage. (9)
17. Rattled around the first-class
with an appendage of rodent-
like associations. (3-6)
21. Ezra to thump strays in this.
(5)
22. Avenue good for a musical
reference. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 895


Share
Par
Div.
Year IWeek
Fri.l
1966 1
Turnover
Yield
%
Value
cents
ago
1 ago [
closej H igh |
Low |
Syd. |
Melb. |
Div. |Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
. .50
2
1 80
2.20
2.32
1.90
5,700|
4,100|
1
Ampol Exp.
. .50
—
1 03
I 02
1.15
.85
7,900]
4,350|
1
Assoc. Min.
. .50
•15
3.80
—
5 52
4 80
1,500|
1,650|
A.O.G. . .
—
3.00
2.49
2.60
2 25
4,850|
1,300|
!■
B. H. South
. .50
12
2.18
2.57
2.50
2.90
2 24
16,3501
19,0001
5.01
7.6
C.R.A. . .
. .50
8
3.55
4.48
4.55 4 65| 3 921 11,4001
17,550|
1.8|
4.6
C’wlth. Min.
.1.00
7
1.73
2 30
2 40
1 90
2,700|
3,900f
3.51
5.9
K. 1. Scheel
. . 50
10
1.40
2 10
3 25
1.95
2,3001
4,200|
1
Mount Isa
. .50
5
3.09
4.39
4 34
4.55
4.14
36,850]
24,400]
1.11
1.6
Mt. Morgan
.1.00
12
1.55
2 29
2 40
1.90
11,6001
13,1001
5.4|
10.3
Mt. Lyell .
. .25
2
.98
i 1 46
1.36
1 46
1.261 12,7201
17,8001
1.7|
3.8
New B.H. .
. .50
22
6.05
5.00
5 05
5 28
4.50
1,1501
4,900]
6.11
8./
Oil Search
’ .50
1
20
.14
.19
.12
11,4501
6,0001
1
Renison
. .50
10
5 60
' 7.16
7 50
5 90
200|
1,2501
r
Santos
. .25
2.20
2.70
2.85
1.40
4,275|'
6,650|
i
West. Min.
. .50
10
2.38
3.04
' 3 46
3 46
2.45
15,300]
43,1501
2.91
3.1
Woodside
. .50
—
.32
.56
.59
.24
16,600]
20,900]
1
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C. .
.50
4 25
1 06
1.06
1.05
1.12
1 00
4,600
24,500
3.9
9 0
Adams, W.
1.00
12.5
3.05
2.45
2.42
2.89
2.25
6,250
8.2
13.3
Adel. Steam
.50
4.25
! .69
.70
.68
.80
.64
3,100
2,000
6.3
8.0
Advertiser
.50
5
2.18
—
2.17
2.50
2.17
—
2.3
4.4
Allen, S. .
1.00
' 10
1.78
1 93
1.9C
2.10
1.75
300
5.3
7.8
Allied Mills
.50
6
1.73
1.71
1.72
1.75
1 67
9,650
1,800
3.5
8.4
Anialg. Chem.
.50
5 51
1 10
.85
.85
1.50
.80
3,200
—
6.6
9.9
A.W.A. .
8
2.53
2.18
2.22
2.42
2.05
6,950
2,200
3.6
6.4
Ampol
.50
7
1.01
.89
• 89
1.02
.82
43,850
38,050
7.9
9.4
Ansett .
.50
5
.69
.78
.73
.83
.73
25,450
82,400
6.9
13 2
A.P.C.M. . .
.50
5
1.50 1.55
1.55
1.43
14,700
4,700
3.0
4.7
Assoc. Pulp
1 00
9
3 03
1 55
1.54
1.74
1.74
7,900
17,700
5 8
7.0
A.N.Z. Bank
2 50
30
5 05
6 23
6.20
6.23
5.65
1,775
—
2 9
5.4
A.K. Cement
.50
5
1 32
1 29
1.30
1.62
1.20
17,132
10,400
3.9
7.6
Aust. Chem.
1.00
10
2 6C
1 88
1.85
2.55
1.85
3,200
5.4
7.4
A.C.I. . . .
2.00
20
5.03
5.86
5 92
6 02
5.40
11,325
8,475
3.4
6.3
Aust. Pert.
2.00
20
5.00
5 00
5 00
5 02
4 10
800
3.2
5.7
A.G.C. . .
. .50
7 5
1 55
1.40
1.43
1.43
1.22
15,400
42,400
. 5 2
9 8
A.P.M. . . .
1 00
8.75
3.05
1.72
1.76
1.87
1 65
8,900
34,450
5.0
8.2
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3.30
3.45
3.20
3.45
3.15
400
300
6.2
6.8
A.U.C. . . .
1.00
10
5 00
4 00
4.00
4 00
3.75
2.5
8.1
Bank Adel.
1.00
10
'. 2 58
' 2.31
2 45
2.45
2 15
—
4.1
6 8
Bank N.S.W.
2 00
20
5 63
' 5.24
5.24
5.68
5.02
1,400
10,080
3.8
7.3
Bellambi
.50
5
1.71
2.30
2.20
2.44
2.00
1,500
—
2.3
7.7
Berlei
1.00
15
2.70
3.20
3 23
3.30
2.00
2,500
4.7
10.0
B.M.I. . . .
.50
7.5
1.60
1.68
1 66
1.87
1.65
28,300
9,900
4.5
6.6
'Bonds Ind. . .
.50
5
1.05
1.15
1.15
1.15
.98
4,500
—
4.3
8.9
Boral . .
.50
10 '
2.45
2.18
2.25
2 40
2.10
17,050
14,150
4.5
6 0
'Borg Warner .
1.00
6
2.30
1.85
1.85
2.05
1.80
300
—
3.2
8 0
B.C.H. . , .
.11
.07
.09
.10
.07
4,000
3,600
—
12 8
Brad. Cotton .
.50
5
.67
.60
.60
.69
.56
16,500
3,700
8.3
11.7
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.78] 1.74
1.74
1.80
1.67
16,100
3,400
4.3
7.4
Brit. Tobacco
1 00 '
11
1 63
1 95
1 93
1.99
1.77
10,000
26,800
5.7
9 3
B.'H.’P. . . .
2.00
20 4
5.03
5.58
5.46
5.62
4 54
90,925
72,700
3.4
6.2
Bruck Mills
.50
5
.53
.67
.68
.73
.55
2,200
34,100
9.2
12.5
Burns Philp
1.00
10
3.89
3.77
3.97
4 10
3.65
4,900
1,900
2.5
6.6
C.U.B. "Z '■ .
1.00
13 1
3.85
3.65
3.60
3 88
3.60
700
9,200
3.6
6.3
Carp., W.R.
.50
7.5
2.50
2.65
2.65
2 75
2.50
27,250
8,800
2.8
5.8
Carrier Air . .
.50
4
.63
.20
.70
.80
.60
3,500
1,400
5.7
11.4
C’maine iPerk. .
1.00
17
5 65 5.93
6.08
6.40
5 93
1,400
100
2 8
5.2
'Chamberlain
.50
fa.25
1.85
—
1.20
1.38
1.23
—
6,700
5.2
24.7
Clyde Ind. . .
.50
7.5
1.05
1.05
1.02
1.10
1.03
12,700
900
7.4
11.6
Coal, Allied
.50
5
.84
1.37
1.35
1.45
1.26
11,600
—
3.7
10.3
Coles, G. J. ,
.50
5.5
1.44
1.26
1.30
1.41
1.20
48,710
72,850
4.3
6.4
C.S.R. . . .
1.00
12.5
3.08
2.84
2.89
3.26
2.80
35,324
24,450
4.3
8.5
C.A.G.A.
1.00
10 '
.85
1.35
1.35
1.65
1.33
2,950
5,300
1 4
11.9
CJB.C.
1.00 '
10
2.3
2.44
2.56
2 56
2.15
11,150
600
3.9
6 8
C.B.A
1.00
10
2.25
2.18
2.18
,2 22
2.02
4,700
11,900
4.6
6.5
Com. Union
.50
4.25
1.53
1.30
1 32
1 44
1.30
1,950
6,100
3.2
4.8
C.I.G. . . .
1.00
11
2.3
2.80
2.87,
3.32
2.55
7,900
8,000
3.7
9 4
.50
.55
.33
.33
.48
.26
36,650
23,500
11-4
13.6
.50
6.25
3.38
2.75
2 70
3 40
2 70
200
—
2.8
7.4
Containers . .
2.00
lfa
2.75
2.68
2.70
2 75
'2.58
200
5,250
6.0
9.7
Courtaulds . .
1.00
5
.87
.61
.60
.75
.60
9,200
900
8.2
11.3
Crane, G.E. .
1.00
12.5
3.85
4.15
4.151 4 601 4.20
2,050
—
3.0
8.6
2.00
20
5.30
6.40
6 50
6 50
4.90
—
150
3.0
6.9
'Cust Cred.
.50
5
.71
.76
.75
.79
.63
9,750
4,100
6.8
11.1
Cyclone . . .
1.00
10
1.63
1.10
1 12
1:48
1 04
1,000
11,800
8.9
21.2
Dalgety . .
2.50
30
5.25
4.80
4.70
5.00
4.60
600
—
10.2
D.F.C
2.00'
23
6.50
6.20
6 20
6.55
6.20
300
—
3.7
7.6
Druq Houses .
1.00
10
1.71
1.73
1.79
1.93
1 58
4,600
5,000
5.61' 8.0
1.00
8
1.93
1.42
1 45
1.65
1.24
10,800
24,850
5.5
9.1
E.'M.I. . . .
.50'
7.5
2.13
2.10
2.13
2.15!
1.90
2,350
1,500
3.8
8.7
'E.Z. Ind. . .
1.00
18
2.15
2.19
2.22
2 40
2 12
9,500
19,100
8.1
9.8
Elders, G. M.
1.00
10
2.03
2.10
2.26
2.35
2.01
10,050
9,800
4.4
9.9
1.00
10
1.10
.94
.91
1 04
.91
2,900
7,800
11.0
14.7
.50
3
.70
.40
.41
.51
.39
24,000
9,800
7.5
13.3
E.S.A
25
4.60
5.52
5.54
5.70
5.20
125
150
2.6
7.7
.50
fa.25
1.25
1.28
1.30
1.40
1.28
300
—
4 8
8 0
.50
8.5
2.48
2.23
2.22
2 80
2.22
9,400
1,200
3.8
5.1
1.00
12
2.05
1.77
1.70
2.10
1.70
1,800
—
3.5
—
.50
5
.77
.58
.58
.70
.56
14,800
12,300
8.6
12 2
.50
fa
1.68
1.27
1.3C| 1.40| 1.23
2,700
1,700
4.6
8.8
1.00'
17.5
4.60
3.50
3.45
3.72
3.43
2,400
—
5.1
7.3
.50
4
.55
.55
.55
.60
.50
—<
12,300
7.3
9.5
2.00
12
1.17
1.20
1.20
1.23
.95
16,100
2,300
10.0
20.2
50
4.5
.88
.71
.70
.88
.70
3,000
4,300
6.4
12.7
.50
10
2.65
2.33
2.39
2.70
2.25
1,000
2,900
4.3
7.0
.50
fa 25
1.69
1.89
1.88
1.90
1.69
52,949
—
3.3
1.00
10
5.10
4.95
4.90
5.06
4.50
2,500
500
2.0
6.0
Healing, A. G.
.50
4
.68
.40
.41
.58
• 35|
21,500[
9,100
9.7]
20.7
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
| Sydney
MELBOURNE
Class r.t*tian
| Week
ago
| Friday
[ last
| Week
ago
| Friday
last
A'l OKls.
323.12
324 47
103 92
104.25
Bants . .
171 02
172.20
111.76
112.52
O'Kor Pin. . .
493 43
499.07
69 93
70 S3
Pastoral ....
217 54
221 74
100 69
114.97
4&» 32
475 27
97 02
9586
R«IA Ik (Merchant*)
340.90
347 79
97.62
99.90
Bsrviea* ....
44.83
44 32
165 30
167 15
102.95
102.32
184.30
140.43
79 23
79 68
342 92
347.54
ei.su
e* 42
442 95
442.20
64.76
6*1.47
Papar
—
109.24
1C3.54
H-, IsJi M4I
581.10
606.)1
41.36
92.73
Fu«i power . .
287.1X1
387.65
—
—
Automotive
753 48
765 89
83.59
63 27
Steel tens.) . .
443 74
437.16
312.71
111.28
Non-ferrous
1172.38
1371.45
195.23
195 76
OIL
SUGAR
1 Week
] ago
1 Friday
[ last
j Week
1 *90
Friday
last
Melbourne
Brisbane ....
96 53
122 01
101 61
125.74
125 35
124 »4
Share Par J Div.
Value| cents
Year |Week
ago | ago
Fri.|
close
1966 |
H igh | Low j
Turnover J
Syd. | Melb. 1
Yield %
Div. lEarn.
Herald, W. T. .50
12.5
4.90
4.78
4.78
5.22,
4.73
1,800
10,900
2.6
Hooker, L. J. .50
—
.37
.26
.28
.36
■?4
77,650
41,000
15.2
Humes . . 1.00
12.5
3.03
2.57
2.48
2.90
2.48
1,300
5,200
'Huttons ... .50
5
.90
.97
.97
1.00
.94
4,900
3,000
5.2
10.0
I.A.C 50
6
.95
.80
.84
.87
.77
10,050
15,400
7.2
12.0
I.C.'I.A.'N.Z. . 2.00
15
4.50
4.00
4.06
4.32
3.60
10,200
6,300
3.7
5.5
Inter. Resist. . .50
6.25
1.38
1.15
1.07
1.45
1.07
4,600
1,500
5 8
7 6
Jones, David . .50
6.75
1.53
1.49
1.52
1.63
1.44
18,300
2,800
4.4
7.9
Jones, -Henry . 1 00
10
3.78
3.72
3.68
4.10
3.50
1,800
600
2.7
7.7
Kauri 50
2
.46
.26
.24
.26
.23
2,800
3,100
11.7
Kelvinator .50
7.5
2.10
1 95
1.95
2.08
1.92
1,000
600
3.8
8.1
Koitaki .50
12.5
1.25
1.25
1.24
1.30
1.20
500
10 1
13.1
Lend 1 Lease .50
5
.92
1.14
1.18
1.18
1.01
12,100
200
4.2
7. b
Life 'Savers .50
8
2.55
2 48
2.50
2.52
2 24
2,600
2,600
3.2
4.6
Lysaght, J. . .1.00
11
2.70
2.20
2.25
2.63
2 15
5,250
3,800
4.9
8.2
'M.L.C. . . . 2 00
31.10
9.75
8.10
8.20
8 20
7.66
9,050
1,250
3.9
5.6
MacRoberts-on 1.00
8
2.05
1.25
1.25
1.55
1 20
1,900
4,400
6.4
7.0
Marrickville .50
7.5
1.38
1.36
1.31
1.55
1.22
17,600
3,100
5.7
6.6
Mauri Bros. .50
5
1.65
2.01
2.00
2 08
1 86
15,750
3,100
2.5
5.3
iM. Nickless . 1.00
12.5
3.30
2.86
2.86
3.20
2.83
500
1,600
4 4
6.3
Mcllwra:th, J. .50
7.5
1.70
1.31
1.28
1.50
1.24
22,200
4,150
5.9
10.7
McPhersons . 2.00
16.6
4 10
3.65
3.60
4 08
3.40
1,000
2,900
4.6
10.5
Millaquin . 1.00
20
3.60
3.00
3.05
3 18
2.90
1,400
1,000
6.6
7.5
-Miller, R. W. 1.00
10
1.63
1.87
- 1.76
2.07
1.76
23,500
14,000
5,5
13.8
Minster . .1.00
20
6.65
3.74
3.85
5 68
3.74
1,830
5,250
5.2
11.3
Morris, 'Philip 2.00
24
5.03
6.75
7.00
7.36
6.20
200
—
3.6
12.4
Moulded Prod. .50
5
1.39
67
.66
.80
.61
2,700
17,350
7.6
13.0
Myer 50
8.75
3.01
3.30
3.28[ 3.56
3.10
12,900
48,400
2.7
6.2
'Myttons ... .50
6
1.56
1.59
1.63
1 63
1.42
600
8,300
3.7
8.0
N.Z. Forest . 1 25
10
2.78
2.90
2 91
2.91
2.60
2,100
5,300
2 3
6.0
Nat Bank . . 1.00
10
2.18
2.00
2.00
2.10
1.95
5,550
10,000
5.0
5.3
Nat. Consol. . .50
10
2.65
2.38
2.36
2.40
2.27
5,250
5,600
4.2
8.1
Nat. Dairy . . 2 60
103.5
78.00
77.25
8.00 84 00
77.00
—
—
1.4
2.8
News 50
5
1.43
1.65
1 65
1.82
1.70
—
1,200
3 0
6.3
N.Z. Ins. . . 1.25
13.4
3.03
2.80
2 80
2.82
2.70
—
4 8
6.1
Olympic . . . .50
5
.981 .71
.72i .80
.70
4,850
14,600
7.0
13.9
Optical . . .1.00
15
4.801 4.40
4 45
4 70
4 10
3,600
—
3 4
6.8
Overseas . . .50
5.5
1.10
1.13
1 14
1.16
1.08
4,754
13,200
4.8
9
P.G.H 50
8
1.80
1.59
1 58
1.58
1.33
4,600
5.0
8.4
Peko .50
8
1.391 2.13
2.131 2 13
1.85
21,150
4,800
3.5
6.0
Penfolds . . . .50
6.25
1 40
1.65
1.70
2 03
1.65
400
—
3 7
5.0
Perp. Trustee .200
1 17
3 80
3.74| 3 74
3 80
3.55
250
—
4 5
5.7
2.5
.53
.61
.63
.64
.55
27,900
59,800
4 0
5.9
Peters, W. A. .50
6.25
1.89
1.75
1 73
1 92
1.73
400
.
3 6
6.5
Pioneer Cone. .50
6.25
1.46
1.56
1 58
1.58
1.42
21,050
1,800
4 0
7.6
5
1.28
1.14
.90
1 05
.90
100
500
6 9
17.8
Provincial T. .50
5
1.28
1 14
1 15
1 30
1.00
2,500
—
4 4
10.6
5
1.99
1.25
1 20
1 55
1 20
4,300
600
4 1
14.5
Q’land Can . . .50
5
1.11
1.01
1 01
1.13
1 00
—
4,100
5 0
9.0
Q’land Cement 2 00
20
6 88
7 12
7 12
7.70
7 00
—
—
2 8
6.0
Q’land Ins. . .1.00
12.5
3.60
4.10
4 15
4 50
4 00
2,050
—
3 0
7.2
Q'land Press . 1.00
16
5.65
5 20
5.20
5 45
5 05
—
4,050
3.1
5.5
7
2.00
1.57
1 55
1.74
1 55
3,200
4 5
7.4
Repco 50
7.5
2 05
2 07
2.14
2.14
1.88
12,000
50,500
3 5
6.1
Rocla 50
7
2.10
1.78
1 80
2.14
1.78
1,000
1,800
3 9
6.9
Rothmans . . 1.00
20
3.30
2.93
3 CO
3.15
2.68
3,700
1,400
6 7
13.0
S.A. Rubber . .50
5.62
1.63
1.05
1 05
1 25
1.00
1,000
3,400
5 3
13 4
S.T.P. Hold. . .50
6.25
.85
.90
.93,
1 00
.90
1,500
1,700
-6 7
15.4
Schweppes . .60
5.75
1.65
1.65
1 65
1.85
1.65
—
400
3.3
5.2
Shelleys .50
7.5
2.20
2.45
2.45
2 45
2.30
—
—
3.1
8.6
Simpson Pope . .50
1
.45
.28
.28
.46
.27
27,200
3,500
3.6
10.9
Sleigh, H. C. . .50
5
.74
.65
.63
.72
.61
22,600
33,600
7.9
10.7
Smith How. . 2.00
24
4 65
4.95
4.90
5.15
4 87
4,100
2,200
4.1
10.4
Softwood .1.00
10 -
3.10
’ 2.90
2.90
3.23
2.72
300
2,200
4 0
13.5
Sth. Brit. Ins. 1.25
16.87
3.65
3.80
3.80
3 85
2 06
2,500
—
3 7
6.9
Steamships . .50
6.66
1.10
.96
.95
1 05
.88
12,950
5,400
7.0
11.2
Stedman, J. .50
7.5
1.80
1.72
1.76
1 88
1 65
700
—
4.3
7.9
Swan Brew. .50
3.38
2.43
2.44
2.40
2 50
2.21
2,600
13,100
2.6
3.2
Tarax 50
6
.90
1.15
1.15
1.22
1.00
—
7,200
5.2
8.8
Taubmans . .50
8
1.43
1.05
1.08
1.18
1.05
1,700
200
7.4
9.0
TV Corp. . . 1.00
20
3.05
2 40
2.35
2.40
2.08
400
900
8.5
8.7
Thiess 50
—
.40
.73
.70
.76
.66
18,650
—
—
8.8
Tooheys ... .50
4.25
1.00
1.18
1.17
1 21
1.10
19,310
—
3.6
5.6
Tooth .... 1.00
15
4.83
5.12
5.07
5 36
4.90
13,500
3,150
3.0
4.3
Union Carb. . 1.00
10
3.13
3.30
3.31
3.65
3.28
2,700
1,200
3.0
5.6
U.E. Box . . .63
6.3
1.33
1.40
1.35
1.48
1.35
300
—
4.6
9. b
Walker, F. J. . 1.00
12.5
1.85
1.38
1 38
1.63
1.30
4,900
—
9.1
9.3
Waltons . . . .50
6.5
1.02
1.03
1 08
1.08
.85
37,850
15,800
5.8
9.4
Webster, A. G. .50
8
1.30
1.37
1 37
1.37
1.25
—
5.5
11.1
Will'ms, F. W. 1.00
10
3.20i
3.60
3.50
4.00
3.45
3,100
—
3.1
5.5
Woolworths . . .50
6
1.47
1.38
1.39
1.43
1.30
90,940
19,350
4 3)
5.9
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
London
"Financial Times”
New
Dow
York i
Jones
T okyo
D. Jones
Inds.
Secs. |
Gold
| Inds.
Rails
Jan. 3, 1966
1966 high
1966 low
Mth. ago
Wk. ago
Latest
338.7
374.0
337.3
348.20
342 4
345.8
78.74
79.43
76.93
77.13
77.48
77.48
61.3
65.2
58.6
62.3
59.6
58.6
965.54
995.15
911.08
929.95
945.48
954.73
247.38
271.72
243.60
252.28
262.34
265.92
1430.13
1588.73
1412.98
1550.21
1537.90
1502.80
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year Ago
Month Ago
Week Ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton . . . .
Copper, wire bars, ton
Gold, oz. . .
Lead, cash, ton
Silver, troy, oz. .
Tin, cash, ton .
Wolfram, unit, c.i.f.
Zinc, cash, ton
Wheat, Australian, ton
Linseed Oil, ton
Cocoa, 50 kilos
Coffee, cwt. ....
Cotton, American middling,
lb
Desiccated Coconut, ton
Rubber, lb
Sugar, ton
Tea, quality, lb. ...
Wool Tops, 64s. lb.
£ 196
£ 520
£ 12/U/2V4
£ 1255/8
lll%d.
£ 14371/2
£ 8i/>- £ 9
£ 114%
£ 25
£96
122/6
104/
23.5d.
22Va d.
£ 24
4/5-6/
108d.
(All figures
£ 196
£ 666
£ 12/11/01/4
£ 1053/4
1115/ a d.
£ 13521/2
£ 103/4- £ 171/2
£ IIOI/2
£ 2 6 5/ a
£ 87
180/
252/
23.35d.
£ 137V2
207s d.
£ 21
4/5-5/10
120d.
in sterling)
£ 196
£ 763
£ 12/11/51/4
£ 1031/8
lll%d.
£ 1362
£ 151/4- £ 16%
£ 102
£ 2 6 5/ a
£86
206/9
withdrawn
23.35d.
£ 1371/2
201/8 d.
£ 201/4
4/5-6/3
120d.
.£196
£ 6771/2
£ I2/H/6V2
£ IOOV2
1115/sd
£ 13661/2
£ 143/a- £ 153/s
£ IOIV2
£ 265/a
£ 831/2
198/6
Withdrawn
23.5d
£ 1371/2
19-15/16d
£ 193/4
117d
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
| SYDNEY ] MELBOURNE
INDUSTRIAL! MINING INDUSTRIAL
MINING
Sales | Value
Vol. | $
1000 | 1000
Sales | Value 1 Sales 1 Value 1
Vol. | $ 1 Vol. | $ 1
1000 | 1000 [ 1000 | 1000 |
Sales | Value
Vol. | $
1000 | 1000
Week to Friday
Week Before
3162.814608.61
2669.413356.7|
1398.6) 807.31 2242 1 3361 |
953 1 706.21 1346 | 2048 [
321 | 779
239 1 543
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY
average dividends 6.2
MELBOURNE
dividend 5.38
earnings 8.55
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend 5.38
earnings 7 52
NEW YORK <S 8< P)
dividend 3.07
earnings 5.70
C’WEALTH RONDS
Week
Before Friday
% %
Short . . . . 4.99 4 99
Medium . . . . 5 13 5.13
Long . . . . 5 25 5.25


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail—26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Coliyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight: Vj
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
AMERICA
Australian Consolidated Press ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —^
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for.
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North,
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change their
addresses are asked to notify “The
Bulletin” Subscription Department well
in advance in order to avoid a break
in the continuity of service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
A Report with Style
Getting away from triteness
ANNUAL reports always make an interesting study. Even the dullest can have some
gem tucked away in the small print. Lately, of course, the trend has been to jazz
up company reports with lots of illustrations, color, and elaborate layouts. But to
date there has been little attempt to bring the prose style into line with some of the
more flamboyant productions.
Hence it was with some surprise, when
I settled into a comfortable chair with
Sebels’ report, to come across phrases
like “prospects a-plenty,” wisps of
philosophy (“Perhaps it is just as well
that we cannot know for certain what
the future will bring”), and, finally, “Sub-
ject to the usual ifs and buts, we must,
as a company, look forward optimistic-
ally toward 1966.” At least a refreshing
change from the triteness of most chair-
merl’s addresses. And a degree of simple
honesty that others could well note.
Well, to the week and what to buy.
The index continues to creep up. An air
of confidence (premature, perhaps?) is
again perceptible. But it’s still not easy
to make the proverbial fast buck in the
industrial market. Now look at John Fair-
fax, for instance. It’s just had its sharpest
fall lin many a long day, from $2.50 to
$2.10. There was a chance to buy on
the recovery at $2.15. Yet would the
shares go far enough to make a purchase
worthwhile? I doubt it, what with talk
of lights going out on Broadway, and
so on. Reluctantly, I passed the oppor-
tunity up.
I was about to turn my back on the
industrial market when I suddenly realised
that it should now be safe to exercise my
Amalgamated Chemicals’ put option. This
put option was taken out at $1.35 early
in March in one of my more inspired
moments. I bought back the 500 shares
at 85c three weeks ago but hadn’t dared
exercise the option until the takeover
offer had well and truly closed, lest some
cad of an underwriter might dispute the
option on a technicality.
£ DID the underwriter an injustice. He
took it like a man, without a murmur.
The total profit of $176 was enough to
restore my faith in options. What was I
saying a moment ago about not being
able to make any money in the industrial
market? Still, let’s not get carried away.
That sort of thing doesn’t happen every
day.
What next to conquer? The mining
market still seems to be the place to make
money. How much longer can it go on?
The Barrier stocks have long since run
out of steam; so have the tins. Coppers
are now failing to make any further head-
way, despite the dizzy price of copper.
Yet the “Economist” and others still urge
us to buy into the diversified mining
groups. What are they? C.R.A., but at
$4.50? Western Mining? I’d already had
a lucky break there with the nickel find.
Kathleen Investments. Now there’s one
with a good range of interests (tin, rutile,
ilmenite, uranium). What’s more it’s cur-
rently not getting much attention, which
mean it’s probably a safer time to buy.
The shares ran up to $2.60 at the begin-
ning of February. They’ve since come
back to about $2. The only drawback
is that the annual report for the year to
December is yet to be released. And this
could have a sobering effect on the
immediate market, as it’s quite possible
that the profit this time won’t cover the
forecast 25 percent dividend. Consequently,
I confined my purchase to just 100 at
this stage. I may buy some more after
the annual report comes out, which should
be within the next few weeks.
This was my only modest transaction
for the week, apart, of course, from the
sale (through the option) of the Amal-
gamated Chemicals.
Details of these two moves were:
SOLD
500 Amah Chemicals, $1.35, $661.
BOUGHT
100 Kathleen Investments, $2.02, $207
The Amalgamated Chemical deal left
me in such a handsome liquid position
that I still have $506 on hand.
The portfolio now is:
..... . Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 $l.lO $1 13
200 VA'M 28/9/65 0.50 0 47
400 B. J. Ball 2/2/66 0.88 080
400 Riverina TV 13/2/66 0.74 073
400 West Titanium ctg. 13/2/66 1.15 l'oB
iOOO F| re Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.73
anno ,9,° a L A llied 24/2/66 1.36 1.38
1000 Westralian 8/3/ 66 0 3 5 035
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 IUS
200 Fowlers Vacola 13/3/66 0.45 0 48
200 W. R. Carpenter 24/3/66 2.58 2.68
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0 18 022
onn J yr .? e 30/3/66 1.62 1.65
200 Cottees 5/4/66 2.96 2 %
400 Nuttall 5/4/66 0.70 O^O
500 Consol. Rutile 13/4/66 0.89 092
100 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 2.02 2.02


;
Inimitable
(defies imitation)
--- , „ ,
T'.' .....\, -
-
i
m
■
m
m
m.- m)
«r$ w /
'/«m »«
Ml LI Hk
X1..Z7
J
MILMRA
mmmm-
M ILDAR A
1 Supremt «
BRANDY
Nft&tfA WtiWk jjk, i
. _ lJ2ph»l
?
'OTIM
SPECIAL
WB»I rn V*ii
brandy
, >wi*»wwww. ■
i ■ t ,|iiidara Supreme
IBt
mmhmnm «««*
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRALIA
MI LI)AH *
par ifliL
i®s
Mil
--
wmb «■*
j ®&WU? fiiLtClf 0 AUStPMiAN SP
L NO IPIUTBHOZ
Ml I PINT 6 FU2
V
SET #*W
#
,T
All Mildara Brandy is made by the traditional pot-still method. This means that selected white wine is
heated in a copper pot-still, and the vapours are condensed. This liquor (called “brandy feints”) is
distilled a second time and only the “heart of the run” is considered good enough for Mildara Brandy—
other fractions are discarded. The new brandy matures in casks of imported oak for several years to give a
smooth finish and delightful flavour. MILDARA SPECIAL THREE STAR BRANDY is a light style brandy,
excellent in a long drink with water, soda or dry ginger ale—especially with a tinkle of ice. MILDARA SUPREME
BRANDY. Each year the new brandy destined to become Supreme is selected for its richer flavour, then
matured for up to ten years in oak casks, in the cellars beside the Murray, to develop its inimitable style.
MILDARA EXTRA POT-STILL BRANDY is the pride of Mildara’s skilled distillers and blenders, who select the
best original brandies which have won prizes over the years, and mature them for many more years to develop
the magnificent style and bouquet presented in the distinctive label for Pot-Still Brandy. MILDARA TOPAZ
BRANDY is the lightest style of quality Australian brandy with no sugar, and of special interest to those on
a sugar-free diet—a wonderful mixer. m ß .s7.fpc
MILDARA The Best Australian Brandy —it makes a host of difference


m
m
Ki
ft?
it
m
mm
tw
m
m
ever
-
m
' ■ S
.. M
. f
1
/,i
4MI
CRAVEN
FILTER
belongs to the world of today
Now is the time to make the change, join the
people who have made the change, and you’ll enjoy
the better taste of Craven Filter.
/jV g
•V
c ßaven
J/ .
Z553-1/66
