

The Bulletin
JANUARY 29, 1966
/
/
♦
THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
COAT OF ARMS
OF SIR ROBERT MENZIES
KNIGHT OF THE MOST ANCIENT
AND MOST HONORABLE
ORDER OF THE THISTLE
PORTRAIT BUST BY TANNER
Mistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/- (20c.), New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $1, Malaysia $1


For discerning people...
m
7
It
who have a taste for luxury...
i
V
"* #%<*! * *
r j i f *- y- *
and an eye for value
The new Ford Galaxie 500 is becoming the overwhelming
choice of people with an eye for good taste, and an appre-
ciation of the finer things the world has to offer.
For it represents unique investment value. Apart from its
eye-holding styling, luxurious quietness, and limousine
comfort, it features the following items as just some of its
standard equipment: Feather-touch power steering; power
brakes; heater/demister; deep-pile, fully-fitted carpeting;
reversing lights; “Cushion-Ride” four-wheel coil sus-
pension; “Cruise-O-Matic” dual-range 3-speed automatic
transmission; “Challenger 289” V 8 engine with twin-
venturi carburettor.
At your Ford Dealer’s now! £2,610 tax paid.
Best Year Yet To Go Ford!
FORD GALAIIE 500
Prestige and value matched perfectly together
FORD OF AUSTRALIA


Chevron Hotel
Cocktail Bar
Theatre Restaurant
Oasis Smorgasbord
View from Suite
For the best
EXPERIENCE
in Australia...
CHEVRON ... in the heart of fascinating King's Cross —minutes Trom
sporting facilities and business houses. Where experience and new
concepts of luxury satisfy the world's most discriminating people.
ACCOMMODATION ... all rooms and suites fully air-conditioned—own
bath, toilet, TV, radio and phone—overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT with an excellent cellar. Golden Grill—
breakfast or dining by candlelight with soft music.
Silver Spade—unequalled cuisine, international artists and dancing
nightly.
Oasis Lounge. Smorgasbord. Light entertainment and dancing nightly
for the young in heart.
CONVENTIONS, RECEPTIONS, EXHIBITIONS ... Ask for Chevron's
booklets, “Planning Made Easy” and “Entertaining Made Easy.”
When entertaining or staying at Chevron it will be your best experience
ever.
SYDNEY
RESERVATIONS: CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Phone: 35-0433. Cables: “Chevron Sydney”
MELBOURNE: 51-1281 or any Travel Agent
AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED
Send for illustrated brochure
y .
I
Avis Rent A Cm
&
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun when you drive a sparkling
new AVIS car. The car of your choice will be waiting for you al
the airport, railway station, shipside, or will be delivered to Chevron Hotel as part of the
Chevron/flvis service. And remember, you and the car are protected by proper insurance
The Bulletin
Established 1880
JANUARY 29, 1966.
VOL. 88,
No. 4482
the age of menzies
By Alan Reid 10
MRS INDIRA GANDHI
India’s New PM 13
THE FARCE OF TEACHING
ART
Donald Brook’s experience 26
DUMPING U.S. WHEAT
American policy v. Australian
markets 39
TANNER 9 LETTERS .... 22
CELLARMASTER 21
THIS AUSTRALIA
Menzies’ last advice 6
Little impact, much distance 6
Defence from Puckapunyal? 7
Education: Repeating American Mis-
takes 8
SHORT STORY
The Harlot’s Life 32
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
The unqualified employer 26
RECORDS: Old School 28
THEATRE: The Deadly Game 29
BOOKS: Roy Thomson 30
Day of My Delight 31
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Banking systems in transition 36
Tension in tyres 42
Speculator’s Diary 46
man on the land
Plough Shallow, Young Man 40
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0566.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


CHAN Nft NO. 9 IS UJLLABYS
■mmm
W> m
' *-*
There’s 5,000 more miles of Pacific Ocean to
go. But he’ll never notice them. He took our
advice and relaxed in his personal entertain*
ment centre —his seat on a PAL DGB fan jet
between Sydney, all points East, and beyond.
He started with jazz. Eased into folk, classics,
music from the shows, and hit the children’s
channel just when the lullaby started. He
might cross to first-run colour movie. But he
won’t miss the Pacific. The most boring 68
million square miles in the world. He’ll arrive
refreshed, relaxed and ready to go in Manila,
Hong Kong, Taipei, Singapore, or Honolulu.
Connections to UK and' Europe. After all,
who wants hours of nothing to see but sea.
When you can travel the entertainment way.
EUROPE HONG
lEUROPE VIA TOKYO
EUROPE • T AIPEI
VIA BANGKOK SAN FRj
■ ■■•■BKW -IMTMri
HONOLUL
Wl I
FRANCISCO
SINGAPORE
ißiaM
EUROPE
% SYDNEY
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
PAL
For PAL flight schedules, and Philippines tour infor-
mation, see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon,
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swartston Street,
Melbourne, Cnr. Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane.
140 North Terrace, Adelaide.9B Williams Street, Perth.
62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra. 178 Liverpool
Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NAME
ADDRESS
MY TRAVEL AGENT,
PHONE,
•s.jai


ONE MORE
WEEK
Shuffle
THE POLITICAL PROGRESS of
Angus Maude, a former editor of
“The Sydney Morning Herald”, has been
a curious shuffle of two steps back for
every one forward. Maude has just
resigned from the shadow Cabinet of the
British Conservative Party following
publication in “The Spectator” of some
of his criticisms of the party which party
leader Edward Heath didn’t care for.
Maude was Colonial Secretary in the
shadow Cabinet, an odd position for a
man Macmillan said was so far to the
Right he couldn’t see him any more.
Maude came to Sydney in 1958 and
stayed two years. Previously he had
been a Suez rebel and had become an
Independent Conservative. His resig-
nation from Parliament to join the
“Herald” seemed to his fellow-rebels a
kind of desertion. The only residuum of
any mark he made on the “Herald” is the
still quoted remark he made in answer to
a reader who complained about the
“Herald” moving to the Left: “None of
the directors of the ‘Herald’ know what
is going to be in the ‘Herald’s’ leading
articles until he reads it at his breakfast-
table”.
Maude failed to get the South Dorset
seat in 1962, although his wife declared
it was “inconceivable” that he shouldn’t
be in Parliament. The following year he
won Stratford, left vacant by the resig-
nation of John Profumo, although with a
majority of only 3470 to Profumo’s
14,129. The “Guardian” said Maude had
“won the election but lost the cam-
paign”.
It is hard to see what lies ahead for
Maude, who remarked some years ago
that “the influence of a backbench MP
now is almost nil”. Unless he is prepared
to give the “Herald” a second try, too.
Take it from where?
NEXT MONTH the ABC is bringing
comedian Dick Bentley back from Eng-
land for a series of 13 radio program-
's, “Gently Bentley”. Bentley was last
here in 1960 when he did a radio series,
I Flew for Bismarck”, and a fairly dis-
astrous television series, “Bentley’s Band-
box”. Most television was fairly disas-
trous in those days.
Since then Bentley’s BBC radio series,
Take It From Here”, which kept his
re Putation high here, has died. In the
Past five years the only cuttings in
entley’s file refer to a small film role
and to a court case in which he won
£4OO from a car-dealer who sold him a
Bentley which was considerably older
than the dealer had claimed.
Bentley himself is like the rest of us,
growing older, although he is still not
quite as ancient as he used to claim to be
when his radio partners were Jimmy
Edwards and Joy Nichols. He is a bril-
liant comedian and, by all accounts, a very
charming man, although his brand of ex-
patriatism sounds a trifle embarrassing
now. However, it is hard to see how the
ABC could have decided that Bentley
was what it needed for the new, bright
ABC of 1966. When Joy Nichols was
here a few months ago many of the Press
who interviewed her had never heard of
her.
Another indication of how fleeting is
today’s fame is the report that the first
of the “sicks”, Tom Lehrer, now has
students at Harvard who do not know
he was ever an entertainer. Lehrer went
back to teaching mathematics shortly
after his Australian tour in 1960.
Filling the house
“PORGI AND BESS” is off to a good
start in Sydney, building on both the
Brisbane and Melbourne seasons. Much
of the credit must go to the indefatig-
able party-bookers. Party bookings have
for some time been the backbone of the
theatre, but r man, non-newspaper, who
recently rang a theatre for his entirely
above-board free tickets was told they
would have to be Saturday night. Satur-
day night, traditionally, is no free list,
but the party bookings had filled the
house for the other five nights, leaving
a small, lonely full-price audience for
Saturday.
Quid
TRADITIONALISTS are already
grieving for the slang terms for pounds
shillings and pence which will go into
disuse on February 14. But we learnt
"No, darling, they're not Ninjas!"
from designer Gordon Andrews that the
10-dollar Henry Lawson note he designed
will preserve “quid” for posterity. An-
drews looked through Lawson manu-
scripts for the words “five quid”. He
could not find “five quid” but he found
“quid” and it is part of the background.
Simplicity Itself
FROM Oscar Mendelsohn’s “Dictionary
of Drink and Drinking”, just published,
we got the final answer on red and white
wines, as given by a French vineyard
proprietor:
“It is really very simple. Burgundy,
you must understand, is red and so is
claret. Chablis, however, is Burgundy
although it is not red at all, but white
or even yellow. Bordeaux, too, is red
because it is claret, but Graves is also
sometimes called claret although it is
white. On the other hand, I cannot deny
that some Graves is not, in fact, white
but red, and it is also Bordeaux.”
“And what,” he was asked “would you
drink with a grilled herring?” “For my-
self, monsieur, a cup of nice strong tea,
with plenty of sugar.”
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
I am tired.
—Sir Robert Menzies.
Are you asking me whether I want to be
Governor-General? The answer is no, no, no.
—:Sir Robert Menzies.
/ just can't imagine this country without
Bob as Prime Minister.
—Mrs Harold Holt.
Harold's a nice man truly he is.
—Mrs Harold Holt.
Changing the title "restrictive immigra-
tion" won't enable Australia to get away with
her policy as easily as some people think.
—DLP Senator F. P. McManus.
/ have always had a hidden wish, a
frustrated desire, to run a hotel.
—Mr Edward Heath, MP
The average person doesn't want sports
sheds. He only wants to see the streets
clean and to have his garbage collected.
—Alderman J. A. R. Balfour.
/ was a sort of prodigy. Every second
Hungarian is a child prodigy. It is nothing.
—Georg Solti
The mass production, mass marketing age
has produced the mass thieving society.
—Mr KC Bath,
Manager of Store Detectives Ltd
A man who wants to show what sex he is
shouldn't wear clothes.
Mr JOHN TAYLOR
Editor of Tailor and Cutter


THIS AUSTRALIA
CANBERRA
Menzies’ Last Advice
6i Maintain the Country Party alliance 99
Sir Robert Meitzles last week bestowed upon Mr Harold Holt the legacy of the
Prime Ministership and the leadership of the Liberal Party. He also bestowed upon
him some good advise — “Get along with John McEwen and the Country Party if
you want to continue to be Prime Minister.”
Sir Robert probably put it as bluntly
as that in the private chats he has had
with Holt in the withdrawn recesses of
their offices and in the Cabinet ante-room
when they were alone and a lot of un-
official Government business was trans-
acted.
Holt probably did not need the advice.
Now he has escaped from the desiccating
influence of the Treasury and is back
again in pure politics he is almost cer-
tain to revert to the form he showed
as Immigration and Labor Minister
when he operated on the principle that
human factors were larger than
economic doctrines.
Holt, despite his inferiority in age
he is 57 to Menzies’ 71 went through
the period when the first Menzies Gov-
ernment disintegrated largely as a result
of conflict between the United Australia
Party (to which Menzies and Holt be-
longed) and their Country Party non-
Labor colleagues. As a participant in the
events of that period he must be aware
that internecine strife between the non-
"The thought that I am a member
of a race of people descended from
convicts has always been particularly
abhorrent to me!"
Labor parties must inevitably produce
not rewards but years of opposition.
Now that, after years of waiting, Holt
has the Prime Ministership, he undoubt-
edly wants to enjoy it for as long as he
can possibly hold it.
Menzies probably could not speak
with the same bluntness to the Country
Party leader John McEwen as he could
to Holt. McEwen is not receptive to
fatherly advice. At 65 a very experienced
politician and in the coalition Govern-
ment undoubtedly a law to himself, he
dispenses his own fatherly advice, not re-
ceives it.
There were suggestions over the past
week that Menzies might be uneasy
about the attitude that McEwen might
adopt towards Holt. Menzies was
obviously trying to convey his advice
indirectly to McEwen when he spoke in
terms that he has never previously used
about the Country Party and its indepen-
dent role.
Twice he came back to the subject of
Liberal-Country Party relationships in his
farewell Press conference. What did he
see as his most lasting achievement of
the past 16 years on the political side?
The creation of the Liberal Party. And
here he went into really great
length the “fruitful and constant
alliance with the Country Party in the
Federal Parliament.” He had had the
most tremendous loyalty, not only from
Country Party Ministers, in particular
Mr McEwen, who was a most dis-
tinguished man, but also from private
members.
Did he foresee the day when the Lib-
eral Party might govern Australia with-
out the assistance of the Country Party
(which is a desire that Country Party
members have always suspected has
been held by the Liberal Party a sus-
picion that has poisoned Liberal-Country
Party relationships for years)? Sir Robert
did not foresee such a day. He went a
lot further. “If at any time in these years
I had come back with an absolute
majority for the Liberal Party on the
floor of the House of Representatives,
I still would have said to the Country
Party ‘I want you to be in' because I
believe it is in this alliance, this con-
junction of affairs, that a great deal of
strength has existed (during the lifetime
of my Government).”
He was talking to an audience of
Pressmen and into microphones and
facing a TV camera, but my impression
is that at that moment he was not talk-
ing to his huge audience (which must
have been the largest audience for any
TV show in Australian history) but try-
ing to help his heir. He was talking dir-
ectly to John McEwen, hoping that his
words would register. To a great extent
it is the kind of association that Holt and
McEwen can establish that could be a
major factor in determining the fate of
the new Holt Government.
If Holt yields to the blandishments
of a significant section of the Liberal
Party that hungers for the day when the
Liberals will govern in their own right,
there could be real trouble. There is an
electoral redistribution coming up.
ALAN REID
ASIA
Little Impact, Much Distance
From HARVEY STOCKWIN in Singapore
Sir Robert’s retirement marked, in Singapore, the end of The Year of the
Snake and the beginning of The Year of the Horse.
That the end of the Menzies era co-
incided with the climax of the Chinese
calendar will no doubt symbolise some-
thing for the portent-seekers. Not that
the “Ming Dynasty” (appropriately, if
coincidentally, the first character of the
Chinese translation of “Menzies” was
the same surname as that of the
philosopher, Mencius) ended in Asia with
a whimper. “During his time as Prime
Minister, Malaysia and Australia have
drawn very closely together, sharing as
we do a common interest in almost all
aspects of international affairs,” said
the Tunku. “Few men have held high
office for so long. Still fewer men re-
linquish office while still undisputed
leader,” commented Lee Kuan Yew.
“Sir Robert has always been a stylist .. •
he led Australia with a grand compound
of elegant management and avuncular
patronage ... an epoch has come to
an end,” editorialised the “Straits Times”.
In Japan, possibly, the parallel will be
drawn with long-time dominance of
Shigetu Yoshida, ex-Prime Minister and


mmm
Joopnod^^j
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
m
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromati®
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
SAI7S/1
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco]
6'9
2 01.
« PRODUCT OP JJOUWE EGBERTS ROYAL FACTORIES. UTRECHT, ROLLAO*
elder statesman, while in India the Nehru
and Menzies eras will be compared for
their longevity, contrasted for their dis-
tance in outlook. Nearest to home, the
“Straits Times’ ” polite reference “this
was leadership in an old-world cast, an
enormous anomaly in one of the world’s
most boisterously democratic countries”
will inevitably be compounded with
the anti-NECOLIM emotions the Men-
zies presence could so easily generate.
And, if Hsinhua or Peking Radio
scarcely deign to mention what for Aus-
tralia is a major event, then it will be as
well to remember that for them Shastri’s
departure only merited a couple of lines.
Beyond the mainly sincere expressions
of regret and assessment lies the hard
fact that while an era ends for Aus-
tralia, externally there is no such feeling,
unless it be the hope of a new era
beginning. For, beneath the surface,
there is a fairly strong parallel between
the Asian reaction to Menzies’ departure,'
and the Australian view of Churchill’s.
In both cases the two leaders are
respected, even highly regarded, for their
personal qualities and command of
power, but are scarcely admired, let
alone loved, since these virtues had much
less impact further afield. Menzies, like
Churchill (like de Gaulle even), is seen
as essentially a nationalist when the need
for a more internationalist approach is
strongly felt. He is acknowledged to
have advanced his own country’s vital
interests considerably, but it is felt that
his appreciation of other countries’
equally vital interests (and, equally im-
portant in Asia, emotions) was insuffi-
cient or inadequate.
Churchill made Curtin feel British
self-interest could, at a pinch, sacrifice
Australia’s. Menzies scarcely convinced
the various Asian elite that, Malaysia and
Vietnam notwithstanding, at any crucial
point his view of Australia’s interest
would defer to theirs. This is not to
say that it should. But that others
should feel it could is all important.
Even as Australia wants Britain to be
committed east of Suez, so much
moderate Asian opinion is alienated if
Australia appears too much committed
“west of Suez”. The sorry truth is that,
for all the gradual changes that have
been ushered in under Menzies’ aegis,
Britain and America are still far, far,
better known to Asia than is Australia.
There may be historical reasons why this
is so; geographically and for the future,
there are none. Humphrey, Rusk,
Mountbatten, Brown, not forgetting
Kosygin, reached New Delhi in time for
Shastri’s cremation—but there were no
Australian notables present who had
made a special effort to attend.
It may be argued that Menzies made
Australia less isolationist than she would
otherwise have been. From the Asian
vantage - point Australia is still too
isolated.
Thus Menzies was right to observe, at
his farewell Press conference, that Aus-
tralia’s voice is heard with respect. The
tones and tunes are, nonetheless, quite
often dissonant to the Asian ear. My
mind flies back to a Press conference in
Colombo in 1956 when Menzies made
one of his all-too-infrequent stopovers in
Asia to meet the then new Premier,
S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike. “When is
the White Australia Policy going to
change?” was almost the first question.
“There will be no change in the immi-
gration policy of Australia,” was the
immediate reply, after a baleful stare at
the questioner, and an additional puff
on his cigar.
The Holt Ministry could indicate new
departures from old tendencies if the
opportunity presented by India’s Re-
public Day being also on January 26 is
taken to send more than just a cliche-
ridden message. . . . Put another way,
Menzies well reflected in his Asian view
the Australian environment that was; his
successors will have to be more zealous
to reflect the one that is, and is certain
to stay, too.
HAROLD HOLT
Defence from Puekapunyal?
The new Prime Minister, Mr Holt, is understandably loath to disturb the balance
of national priorities which have yielded such bountiful fruits of prosperity for so long
under his predecessor.
But he was unwise last week to hold
out the prospect in public. Overseas
events and pressures from Australia’s
partners in our alliances may overtake
his expectations, his assurances, that
expenditure on direct defence measures
can be held at any particular level, so
that Australia’s rapid rate of economic
development can proceed unimpeded.
His arguments at the Citizens’ Con-
vention, in Canberra, on the eve of his
succession to the Premiership, smacked
too strongly of wishful thinking, but
there was nothing new about them; it
was the familiar Government line. While
Australia’s Western allies are prepared
to do most of the hot defence work, and
home-loving Canberra strategists delude
themselves that Australia can be defend-
ed from Puckapunyal, it is obviously
going to take shifting,
Holt’s restatement of this comfortable


official approach to defence at this time
was meant primarily for the ears of Mr
Denis Healy, the British Minister of
Defence, in advance of his visit here to
canvass the possibility of Australia mak-
ing an additional contribution to Western
defences east of Suez in the mooted event
of a partial British withdrawal. If so, Mr
Holt has still to learn that open dip-
lomacy has no place in deciding defence
inter-relationships among allies. A pub-
licly ventilated squabble on which ally
does what and at what price to their
economies to keep the peace in this
part of the world, would damage the
whole effort. It would be downright silly.
Mr Holt put the circular argument
why the Government believes Australia’s
direct defence contribution should be
limited clearly enough. Its base is that
a strongly developing Australia is essen-
tial to build-up of security east of Suez.
If Australia spends more than a certain
amount on direct defence measures (Mr
Holt was careful not to give a definite
figure) it would have to reduce the pace
of development to the impairment of
indirect contribution to defence. If
Australia tried to spend more than this
notional sum on direct defence measures,
and at the same time failed to cut back
on development, new problems would
arise in the economic field which could
well defeat the whole exercise. In any
case, he appears to think that the balance
of national priorities, as now established,
is somehow sacrosanct, making a virtue
of Australia’s economic blessings in the
name of new migrants yet to be attracted
and local beneficiaries alike.
He got pretty near to saying, in fact,
that by doubling direct defence expendi-
ture in the last three years Australia
had gone just about as far as it could
go without courting unbalancing prob-
lems. Australia must be careful in inter-
preting such a proposition. If these
problems simply consist of cutting down
personal consumption to free more re-
sources for defence, the argument that
this would make Australia less attractive
to immigrants looks to be altogether too
supine and, among other things, could
be a cloak for fears that higher taxation
would have unpalatable political reper-
cussions. As a matter of fact, if the
need to spend more on direct defence
was put to Australians in much less
equivocal terms than Mr Holt did last
week, he would get the right response,
just as the Government has on sending
defence forces to Asia. The Govern-
ment must get off the fence in this vital
matter and it would be much better for
Australia if it did this without waiting
for Healy or McNamara to shove it
ignominiously.
Although there would doubtless be a
public outcry, Australia would also
steel itself to a rate of increase in social
investment, which would be one of the
first national priorities to be tossed into
the ring of re-balancing problems. A
lower rate of growth in social amenities
would have to be considered as one of
the first steps, certainly before operating
on industrial investment providing the
material sinews of defence if not, say,
that devoted to producing electrical com-
forts around Ihe home.
. .. .
As well as putting more pressure on
available local resources, and so calling
for readjustments in the list of priorities
for their use, the. strain of spending
more on direct defence measures would
also add appreciably to the imports bill.
There is plenty of evidence to suggest
this process has been at work for some
time and it looks like being accelerated
if Mr Holt’s own forecasts of oversea^
spending on defence come true. (Orders
have been placed for more than $7OO
million worth of arms and equipment in
the , US aIo ” e , and even granted the
cred.ts extended on them they will have
to P a,d J t ‘ >r * ,thln * he " ext few y ears )
Admittedly. Australia has a goodly pile
ove J seas reserves ‘° draw on > evc ”
after the run-down in the last two years.
Yet jt js as well to realise that at some
stage extra direct defence spending could
we jj mean imposition of selective
import controls discriminating against
non-defence «oods
°
J. C. HORSFALL
EDUCATION
Repeating American Mistakes
Now that the Victorian Education Department has admitted that new diploma
courses in the Humanities at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and other
technical colleges are under “serious consideration” (as reported in “The Bulletin”
last week), there are a number of matters which demand public discussion.
These are important to other States
because, in the history of Australian edu-
cation, Victoria, with a denser popula-
tion and a good financial start dating
from the gold rushes, has generally been
the most advanced. For some decades
Victoria has led the rest in the avail-
ability of tertiary education per medium
of its technical college courses in the
applied sciences, engineering, commerce,
graphic arts, etc. Other States are now
following the Victorian lead, and it is
likely that Victorian experiments in
liberal arts courses will not only be
watched, but copied by them.
At present the State Government and
the Education Department are anxious to
drop below matriculation to the Leaving
Certificate as the qualification for entry
to the proposed new humanities course.
This would provide the Education De-
partment with a course for its working
teachers who have a trained primary
teacher’s certificate, and who are anxious
to gain further qualifications for promo-
tion. Few of them have matriculation,
and therefore universities are not open
to them. In addition the State Govern-
ment may be thinking of the remark of
Sir Robert Menzies, when he released the
Martin Report, that the Federal Govern-
ment would assist with the financing of
technical colleges—but not with teachers’
colleges.
With a leaving certificate entry quali-
fication, the new humanities courses
could be used by the Government for
the training of both primary and junior
secondary teachers. At the end of the
course they could be trained for a year,
or less, in teaching technique; or, even
better, education might be introduced as
a major into the Dip. Hum., as it is in
many American colleges. Then the Com-
monwealth might be committed to assist
with the financing of the whole teacher-
training programme.
It was significant that the Chief In-
spector of Technical Schools stated last
week: “If there is a diploma course it
must have a vocational objective. It
would not be like the present university
Arts course, which for some people is
only a social necessity. It would be
aimed at providing further training bases
for teachers, social workers and the like.”
“The like”, according to my informa-
tion, includes journalists, and people con-
cerned with “communications” in such
fields as radio, TV and advertising.
The new course, with a Leaving Cer-
tificate entry, may provide relief for the
finances of the Education Department in
the short run, but it will not contribute
so much to the cause of education.
There is no need for a Leaving Cer-
tificate entry on the grounds of numbers.
There are now thousands of students
with matriculation, who have failed to
make university quotas, and are there-
fore available for the new diploma
course. If the aim is to make the
Diploma of Humanities course a worth-
while and well-regarded tertiary qualifica-
tion it should be primarily geared to
attract those with the highest qualifica-
tions.
One of the main dangers with Leaving
Certificate entry is that the first couple of


years of the course will be pitched at a
low standard, the better students will be
alienated, and the whole course will lose
credit, and come to be thought of as an
Education Department sub-tertiary sub-
stitute for an education.
The standard of the course will only
be maintained if there is a good pro-
Portion of students who enrol volun-
tartly because they desire a liberal edu-
cation, and cannot gain entry to the
university. If the course becomes domin-
ate d by trainee-teachers or older, quali-
Sed teachers forced to add an extra set
°f initials, it is most likely that the
Morale of the new Humanities Depart-
gents will collapse under the weight.
Most older primary teachers freely
that they undertake additional
studies only for the purposes of promo-
tion within the Department, and many
of them openly declare that for men
who have become settled in a suburban
mode, and have lost much of the habit
of reading, the quest for higher quali-
fications is a tiresome bore. It is a rare
soul, who, in his 20s, 30s, or 40s, and
conditioned to family care, domestic
chores, lawn-mowing and TV-watching,
freely and gratefully embarks on a
course of liberal education.
Such considerations have not so far
worried the practical and, in many ways,
able administrators who are planning the
conditions of the new diploma. Most of
them are more concerned with problems
of numbers, money and buildings than
with the quality of courses. From their
angle it is up to the individual lecturers
and teachers to maintain and raise
standards. What they have not so far
appreciated is that the course may suffer
a disastrous start because of a series of
administrative decisions which will in-
evitably lower standards and destroy the
reputation of the diploma. The more
entrants with only Leaving Certificate,
and the more “vocation training”, the
worse the standards will be. The problem
of qualifications may be solved but not
the problem of education.
Unless more serious thought is given
to this college Humanities Diploma
course Australia will once again be re-
pe'ating, a generation removed, the edu-
cational mistakes of the United States.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
Tanner
"Somehow ' Pig-Iron Harold' doesn't have the same swing to it."


The Age
of MENZIES
The great consolidator
By ALAN REID
Sir Robert Menzies is a man who enjoyed the trappings of power more than
its exercise. Yet he had a sense of public xluty that led him to desert a highly
lucrative legal practice and a conviction that, as power has to be exercised, he was
the appropriate person to do the exercising. Blend those factors together and we
start to understand the strengths and the weaknesses of a man who stamped much
of his personality and philosophy upon Australians in the 16 years of his supreme
authority and created the Age of Menzies.
In the Australia of 1949 the year
Menzies came to power he was the
man for the hour. As the new Prime
Minister, Harold Holt, has said, percep-
tively referring to 1949 and the Menzies
entry upon power, “a political party
cannot afford to work beyond certain
limits. When Mr Chifley, the Labor
Party Prime Minister until late 1949,
made his historic announcement about
bank nationalisation he got beyond the
margin of support in the electorate, and
from then on I was confident that we
would win the election of 1949”.
It was a period in which, after the
radical changes of the immediate post-
war world, Australians wanted and
unless there were to be major unwanted
changes consolidation. Menzies, with
his determination to preserve what he
considered to be the best from the past
before moving into the future, certainly
electorally and probably administratively,
had the ideal temperament for the period
of consolidation.
It is nonsense, of course, to talk of
Menzies as a reactionary as his political
opponents have in the past. Even to
describe him as a conservative is to
stretch the meaning of that word to the
limit. On his record, probably the most
accurate description of him within the
framework of domestic politics is that
he is a cautious reformer,
It is equally nonsensical to describe
him as a tyrant in the political sense. He
could be merciless toward rivals who
were seeking to deprive him of the trap-
pings of political power that he loved
the prestige, status and the forum of the
Prime Ministership on which he could
display his oratorical talents and capacity
for leadership. But he was actually spar-
ing and most moderate in the exercise of
the power that his office of Prime Mini-
ster conferred upon him. A more realistic
complaint than the one levelled against
him by critics would have been that he
was cautious, and sometimes dilatory,
in the application of his power to Aus-
tralian situations.
The record shows that he was a superb
consolidator. He did not turn the clock
back when he and his Government took
over from the previous Labor Adminis-
tration in 1949. He advanced it at a rate
certainly better suited to the electoral
climate of the time and possibly
almost certainly in the light of what has
happened - better adjusted to the state
of the nation’s development.
It requires a conscious effort of mem-
ory (so long has the Menzies Age en-
dured) to go back to 1949. Power was
short, people cooked meals over open
fires in backyards and went to bed by
lamplight. A coal strike the culmina-
tion of a series of coal shortages that
had impeded the growth of industry
dependent upon power was barely
over.
Housing was not so much short as
non-existent. Petrol rationing was still
operative and the previous Labor Ad-
ministration had stated that it could not
be lifted without disastrously crippling
the economy. Both the bureaucracy and
the Administration were control-minded.
There were 32,000 students at univer-
sities, a proportion of them ex-servicemen
completing their post-war courses. The
population was 7.9 million. Savings banks
deposits represented £97 a head. There
was one car for every 12.1 persons in
the Australian population and one tele-
phone for every 10.7 persons. Full em-
ployment was a theoretical aim rather
than an accepted fact of Australian life.
In terms of consolidation, the statis-
tics speak for themselves. How long is
it since anyone cooked over an open
fire in the backyard because of a gas
shortage? The mining industry has been
modernised and mechanised; conditions
in the mining industry have improved.
There is an embarrassment of service sta-
tions. Expenditure on education has
grown from £8,000,000 to £55,000,000,
and there are over 80,000 students at
Australian universities. Savings banks
deposits represent £222 a head. There is
one car for every 4.1 persons. Full em-
ployment has become so accepted a
part of the Australian scene that as
recently as last week Mr Holt told an
interviewer: “A government which allows
two and half per cent of unemployment
to develop will be thrown out.”
The consolidation process has shown
itself in other figures. In 1947 (I cannot
find any figures for 1949) 59 per cent
of Australians were either home-owners


0 r in the process of acquiring their own
homes. In his 1963 policy speech, Men-
zies claimed that 76 per cent of Aus-
tralians were home-owners. This figure
has never been challenged, and some
researchers claim that the figure is now
79 per cent. Of the 3.3 million dwelling
units in Australia, nearly 1.3, or 39 per
cent, have been built during the term of
the present Government. The national
income has risen from £1,870,000,000 to
£7,677,000,000, and private investment
from £333,000,000 to £1,632,000,000.
Menzies critics advance all kinds of
reasons for this growth and consolidation
(which they do not seriously challenge),
and suggest that it took place despite
Menzies, not because of him. But it took
place during the Menzies Age. The plain
fact of the matter is that he was in
charge and he did not rock the boat at
any time sufficiently seriously to change
the pattern of growth and development.
It was upon this affluence, which oc-
curred fairly early in the Menzies regime
and has expanded over the later period,
that Menzies’ Labor opponents have
blamed the change in voting habits among
the younger people. This change has
been marked. Until now it has been
clear that the young vote, by and large,
has tended to go to the parties that sup-
ported him, rather than to Labor. During
the Menzies Age, however, the Demo-
cratic Labor Party has emerged that
minority whose extinction Opposition
Leader Mr Calwell has forecast at
every election, but which still manages
to retain its hold upon a decisive por-
tion of the Australian electorate in de-
fiance of Australian historical precedent.
“Hip-pocket nerve”
Jn my view, this explanation that the
young have in the Menzies Age voted
the way they did, purely because of
what Labor’s Mr Chifley used to describe
as “the hip-pocket nerve”, is too simple
and escapist. People in a democracy
will vote against their economic interests
if they are moved deeply ideological-
ly. Menzies - reinforced by the very
able propagandists of the DLP after
the 1954/55 ALP split undoubtedly
used the world struggle between Com-
munism and non-Communism to intensify
the suspicion of Communism which had
listed for years in Australia in a vaguer,
less precise form. Menzies, with the
ruthless clarity that has made him one
°f the most effective speakers in Aus-
tralia’s parliamentary history, pointed
°ut the issues that were involved in the
Lotnmunist-non-Communist struggle and
pointing them out.
Due to Labor stupidity, and the fact
that a significant section of the Labor
movement refused to recognise Com-
munism as totalitarian authoritarianism
in another form, Menzies was able to
project the world struggle into the local
arena. He used this section of the Labor
Party as a political asset to identify at
least a dominant group with domestic
forces aligned with Communism. He
went a step further. He used the symbols
that the opposed forces within Labor,
those tolerant of Communism and those
hostile to Communism, were using against
each other, against the Labor moment,
generally with deadly effect. He and his
followers drew attention to Unity Tickets
between ALP members and Communists
in union elections. He gave State Aid
to denominational schools which had also
become a symbol in the Labor struggle.
By taking his anti-Communist stand,
Menzies undoubtedly produced a more
precise form of hostility to Communism
than existed in the pre-Menzies Age.
Some of his critics say that he has laid
the foundations of a Police State and
scathingly accuse the Government of tele-
phone-tapping, compilation of dossiers,
and of maintaining a network of spies
and informers. But I cannot see too many
examples of how liberty has been in-
fringed.
None of the Communists I know show
any inhibitions. They speak their minds
over the telephone and in public, move
round with complete freedom and
organise strikes unmolested. They work
in defence undertakings such as Garden
Island, the naval dockyard. They are
identified publicly as Communists, which
some people think is wrong (and a letter
by Dr Cairns in “The Age” on Decem-
ber 10, 1964, is worth reading in this
context), but surely, if they are Com-
munists, or it is genuinely believed they
can be identified with the Communist
viewpoint, there is nothing wrong with
this. I have heard plenty of non-Labor
participants in public life described
inaccurately in my view as Fascists.
Undoubtedly this ferment over the Com-
munist issue has been a feature of the
Menzies Age, but I cannot see it passing
with Menzies’ departure from the Prime
Ministership.
Another feature of the Menzies Age
is the fact that Australia, on the govern-
ment level, has moved closer into the
United States orbit. Menzies, in his fare-
well Press conference, listed ANZUS (the
defensive alliance between the United
States, Australia and New Zealand) as a
major happening of the Menzies Age.
There was a lovely irony in this listing.
Menzies has sometimes dismayed Aus-
tralians with what they believe are his
archaic views on the monarchy and
Britain. But he was sufficiently modern
to claim, as a jewel in the crown of his
Government’s achievements, an alliance
from which Britain was excluded, much
to Britain’s anger and dismay.
With brief intermissions (the 1961
elections when Menzies’ House of Rep-
presentatives floor majority was reduced
to one was such an intermission), the
Menzies Age by and large passed fairly
smoothly. It was a lucky as well as a
politically stable Age. During this period
oil was found in Australia in sufficient
quantities to give hope for possible
future self-sufficiency. Mineral finds,
particularly of iron ore, were made on an
undreamed of scale. Seasons were gener-
ally good until in the closing period
drought gripped some of the most fertile
areas of Australia.
Defence
there were ominous signs of future
troubles for Australia not too far
distant from our shores. On the defence
side, Menzies’ reluctance to exercise his
power and authority a reluctance that
probably was his most valuable asset in
the process of consolidation on the
peaceful home front was unmistakably
a weakness. He was convinced that the
external situation was not good. He
made speech after speech in which he
hammered this home. But until the last
two years he could not bring himself to
wield the power that was in his hands.
He left Australia for years with an ob-
solescent bomber the Canberra
without a- replacement being decided
upon.
Torn between the desire, possibly the
political necessity, to maintain “expand-
ing business as usual” at home, and the
need to take the action that his words
implied he should take, he deferred
action until it was virtually forced upon
him. Right to the end he had a strange
awkwardness in dealing with Asian prob-
lems. Though he undoubtedly made a
conscious effort to do so, he could not
escape completely from his boyhood
teachings (and the utlook that persisted
in Australia virtually until the Second
World War) that Asia was merely a
land mass separating Australia from the
United Kingdom and the United States.
He was at home in a country which had
the English language, Anglo-Saxon cus-
toms, and a common law tradition. To
the end, though, he strove valiandy to
equip himself with understanding and
knowledge of the emergent nations of
Asia the people that he flew over as he
travelled to London, New York and
Washington.
Possibly Menzies stepped down at the
right time. His work of consolidation
was probably completed, and it was time
for a new era —a time of thrusting for-
ward into a future that is far removed
from the world that Menzies knew for
most of his life an Australia vastly
changed and socially improved
from the one he had taken over when
the Menzies Age started 16 years ago.


Every
should have
one...
mmm
" Jffe
*- - - v«T 43
«s£?
• • • an NCR Class 12 adding machine that is. NCR
has something new in portable, electric adding
machines. A real lightweight, weighing only 10
pounds with a compact 8 x 12 inch frame. Most
people wonder how such a small machine can do a
BIG iob. The answer is simple. It has many features
of larger, heavier, more expensive adding machines.
A stair-step keyboard, correction lever, digit indi-
cator, transparent tear-off blade, non-add and sub-
total bars, and $99,999,999.99 adding capacity.
You’ll like the price of the Class 1 2, too. ONLY £7B.
For more information, contact your local NCR repre-
sentative—he’ll bring a Class 12 right to your desk.
SYDNEY
211-2188
MELBOURNE
63-0271
BRISBANE
2-0631
TOWNSVILLE
3276
NEWCASTLE
2-4837
ADELAIDE
51-5821
PERTH
21-9727
HOBART
3-3887
CANBERRA
4-0327
WAGGA
4345
AUSTRALIA CHANCE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THI NATIONAL CASH RSOISTM CO. W. LTO.


Indira Gandhi
the Nehru Touch
Without his deadbeats
From CYRIL DUNN in New Delhi
BY taking Indira Gandhi as their new Prime Minister, have the people of free
India retreated before the menace of their future and gone right back to their
beginning? By elevating Nehru’s daughter do they hope to recapture the exultant
faith with which Nehru inspired them, but which has since drained away?
When Shastri took over 18 month ago
he started a much more Indian kind of
leadership than could ever have come
from Nehru, whose education had been
that of an English aristocrat and who as
a nation-builder had been most deeply
influenced by the success of the Russian
Revolution. Oddly enough, both the Rus-
sians and the Americans seemed pleased
hy the new and more indigenous tone
Shastri had given to Indian life and most
other outsiders felt it was right. But Mrs
Gandhi is at least as Western as her father
Was. Indeed, she is in some ways rather
like the Queen. She has about her the
glamor of a dynasty and is aware of it.
She is smaller than newspaper pictures
lead you to suppose. Although the severity
°f this week's struggle for Indian power
left her looking desperately tired she
Sa ys herself that she is “frail and hardy
a f the same time” she has at 48 a real
a &d sometimes overwhelming beauty, an
e loquent presence.
She has Queen Elizabeth’s small but
clear and penetrating voice. She uses it
to express subtle and complex country
ideas like courage, hard work
and the adventurous spirit—which would
win applause on speech day at an English
school for girls or be accepted with
approval in a Christmas broadcast.
It is already clear that the change from
Shastri to Mrs Gandhi has meant a mark-
ed change in the atmosphere of the
leader’s court. It is rather as if the White
House had reverted from Johnson back to
the Kennedy’s though the ways of life are
not comparable. Those who waited in
Mrs Gandhi’s garden to be the first to
pay her homage were quite unlike Shas-
tri’s shabby friends and their rather gaudy
wives. You could scarcely whirl a garland
through the air without hitting a maha-
rani, an elegant socialite, or a notorious
industrialist. But when this unbidden
gathering of the bon ton perhaps
mistaken about the nature of the coming
revolution obstructed a clamorous in-
flow of the Press, Mrs Gandhi at once
ordered the fashionables away and they
went, meek as lambs. And in this slight
event she showed a promising difference
both from Shastri and from her father
—a brusque and determined common
sense neither of her forerunners might
have thought appropriate to the moment.
Even so, it might well be thought that
her origins and upbringing have not really
qualified Mrs Gandhi for what her most
ferocious opponent, Morarji Desai,
called “the toughest job on earth”.
Her childhood must have been deeply,
even dangerously, disturbed. She saw
policemen outrage the privacy and
dignity of her home and take her
parents away to gaol. It would not
be strange if Mrs Gandhi were driven
now by a quite uncommon spirit, if she
were perhaps too intense. No doubt the
shock of seeing her parents arrested was
modified later when she and her husband,
the late Feroze Gandhi (he died some
six years ago), themselves were impris-
oned as rebels against the British and
recognised prison as the only possible
resort of Indian honor. In fact, Mrs
Gandhi repeats the Indian miracle and
seems to have subdued her resentment
against the British, though it flashed out
again briefly during the recent war with
Pakistan. She went to Oxford and both
her sons are now training themselves
one at Cambridge, the other with Rolls-
Royce in England for the future.
What did emerge from Indira’s startling
formative years was a devotion to her
father left emotionally isolated by the
death of his wife which in recent years
grew into something like total identity
with him. She was drawn into the Indian
Government only after her father died
and nobody could doubt her chosen
function. Certainly she did not sparkle
as Minister for Information which was
her formal task: India’s relations with the
foreign Press have never been worse
than they were during the Indo-Pakistan
conflict and this was far from being solely
the fault of the foreign Press. But Mrs
Gandhi was otherwise engaged, embody-
ing her dead father’s spirit and using it
without rest and with immense effect to
rally and sustain the Indian people.
Earlier she had operated chiefly as the
guardian of her father’s political and
economic legacy, keeping a somewhat
baleful eye on the progress of the big
plan of socialism and of non-align-
ment. It was apparent from the start
that Mrs Gandhi suspected Shastri’s in-
tentions and withheld from him her full
and open endorsement, though the little
minister obviously loved and honored her.
And when Shastri tried a mild revision-
ism in the economic field, it was Mrs
Gandhi who most powerfully rebuked
hint.
If Mrs Gandhi’s elevation really makes
Indians feel they have gone back to


PILKiNGTONS
lead the world in glassmaking
3?
■
*
m
w
1
m
There’s no more searching test of a
glass than to make it into a mirror, and
reflect an object in it again and again.
There’s no doubt which glass makes to-
day's finest, truest mirrors Float glass,
invented and developed by Pilkingtons.
Pilkington glassjs made or processed
in up-to-date plants in nine countries,
and behind every product are the vast
resources of some of the glass industrys’
largest laboratories, working on quality
control, and on research and development.
Pilkington research and development
produced Float glass which, with its new
clarity and brilliance, outdates Plate
glass in modern building, for mirror
making and for toughening into
safety glass.
For the finest glass specify Pilkingtons.
Pilkingtons’ Agent in Australia ..
Pilkingtons’ service in Australia is
provided by Mr. C. Rogers who can help
you in any problem concerning the use
of glass. Just write to Mr. C. Rogers,
4 Bridge Street (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney,
N.S.W. Pilkingtons' glass is available
from glass merchants throughout
Australia. Head Office: Pilkington
Brothers Limited, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England.
FOR MODERN BUILDING SPECIFY GLASS BY PILHIN6TONS-INVENTORS OF ROM
rK 1502/65


T&t cowfiQetes Success f
PLAN YOUR SALES CONFERENCES,
CONVENTIONS & RECEPTIONS AT A
HOTEL
IN CANBERRA. Canberra-Rex Hotel: Australia’s
finest convention centre. Spacious areas to accom-
modate up to 600 guests. Accommodation, service
and cuisine to international standards. All areas
and rooms fully air-conditioned.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Affording convention and reception
areas for up to 400 people. Centrally situated.
Rooms, service, cuisine to exacting standards.
IN SYDNEY. Carlton-Rex Hotel: Situated in the
heart of Sydney and offering international standards
of service. Four magnificent reception areas cater
for every type of function: weddings, cocktail parties,
banquets, private dinners. Fully air-conditioned.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Air-conditioned reception areas for
conventions, sales conferences, trade showings and
weddings. Beautiful appointments and facilities.
Full particulars from Functions Manager
Carlton-Rex Hotel: 56 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. Phone
28-5541.
Canberra-Rex Hotel: North-
bourne Avenue, Canberra City.
Phone 4-5311.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Canberra:
Cnr. Limestone and Ainslie
Avenues, Canberra. Phone
4-3351.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Cnr. Beach
Road and Glenayr A ve., Bondi,
Sydney. Phone 30-7247.
or any Rex Hotel
L264
square one, then her duty may be stern,
indeed. In foreign affairs there is little
need for uneasiness. Her father might
not have signed the Tashkent Agreement
on peace with Pakistan, but if he were
now in her shoes he would certainly
honor it, and this Mrs Gandhi has al-
ready said she means to do. But at home
she must quickly create a new and en-
tirely personal image, and of this she
happily seems capable. There is no doubt
that she commands the veneration of the
Indian masses and for this reason will
serve the Congress party well in the
coming election. But if the return of a
Nehru to the top simply lulls the masses,
though this might serve to abate panic if
this is to be famine year, in the long run
it might do more harm than good. For
the Indian people need to be roused, not
reassured.
Making the elite work
I>ut Mrs Gandhi’s influence must be
33 exerted primarily upon the Indian
Westernised elite and here she will meet
initial resistance. It would be idle to pre-
tend that this succession has delighted all
of them. Many dislike the dynastic idea
and many, in spite of their denials,
evidently dislike being led by a woman.
But the new Prime Minister must make
the elite work harder, must excite in them
what certainly does not exist in many of
them at the moment the notion that
saving and then rebuilding India is a
splendid adventure.
This Mrs Gandhi seems in fact well
qualified to do, if anybody can do it.
She has inherited her father's air of trag-
edy but is not herself a pessimist. At
her Press conference, though naturally
weary, she showed herself to be gay, self-
possessed, relaxed and deeply confident.
If she is strong enough to reject her
father’s loyalty to deadbeats in the Gov-
ernment and allies herself to the younger
men, like Chavan and Subramaniam, who
are without Shastri’s gentle addiction to
religious and other folk tradition, she
may show that by going back to their
start the Indians have been wise.
We must wait for signs, and the first
of these will come early this week when
the names of Mrs Gandhi’s Cabinet mini-
sters are made known. Much will ob-
viously turn on what Mrs Gandhi does
about her chief, and indeed implacable,
opponent in this week’s struggle for
power, Morarji Desai. Although he was
beaten, this strong-willed and unforgiving
man won, from the party hierarchy’s
viewpoint, a dismaying number of votes.
It was plainly the size of this vote rather
than any sudden inclination towards
courtesy which made Morarji rise and
offer his “co-operation” to the party and
nation. His meaning was clear, and must
have sent a tremor of anxiety through the
Party leaders. He was not saying that he
accepted subservience, and would do
whatever humble job the party bosses
thought fit to offer.
With the votes of 169 Congress MPs
behind him, Morarji was more probably
defying the party bosses to keep him out.
And since he added that his offer of co-
operation was made only on terms con-
sistent with his self-respect, one may
suppose he expects a job in the Cabinet
very close to the top. If Mrs Gandhi and
her advisers give way before him, it will
certainly look as if the new regime has
started by accepting an important defeat.
It is true that there is a strong element
of personal dislike in the resistance set
up by Congress leaders to Morarji’s bid
for power. But the fervor with which
they sponsored Nehru’s daughter as an
alternative was not primarily spiteful.
The leaders were convinced that with
Morarji in command there would be
changes of policy which, though in many
ways desirable, would also be too severe,
too drastic and too disruptive for the
times.
But no situation in India is ever
simple. It is conceivable that India’s
new regime may now bow before Mor-
arji’s pretensions because the party has
always had an almost tribal addiction to
the appearances of unanimity. And the
Gandhian notion that the best way to
deal with a dangerous opponent is to
absorb him still commands respect. If
Mrs Gandhi does not seem to let these
considerations weigh with her, then in-
deed she will be making a significant
break with the past.
For it can be argued that the trend
towards a more Indian way of life which
Shastri seemed to lead has started too
soon. The road points in the right direc-
tion but there are confusing forks leading
off to religious dominance and even fas-
cism. If Mrs Gandhi can stir up the
Westernised elite and, as she says, echoing
Kennedy, really get things moving, she
will strengthen Indian society and hasten
the day when the Indian people may safe-
ly throw off a Westernised dominance
and run things themselves in their own
way.


RUSHTON’S T-SHIRTS
Will Rushton, tiring of writing for books
and newspapers, found a new creative
satisfaction in writing for T-shirts. His
English creations, such as the “Pommy
Bastard” T-shirt used by Barry Humphries,
have enjoyed a critical success at the “Private
Eye” gallery in London. Here he offers the
designs of some of his new creations, which
he intends to launch on the Australian T-
shirt market.
UtK k>Wh/' Lcrfc
]X)m 7?Mr
fjyFFSoMt P^tfoPfifA
It is tvt Vviytf
nU- TO
- fcHr AM pit fez
IHt {HcjffT OF AAY
' CfiOMTW Tt H/tl/FA
6/W-
JMfotfl
I
W*


O wonderful, wonderful, and most
wonderful!
And yet again wonderful, and after
that, out of all whooping!"
(Wm. Shakespeare)
Enthusiasm! Such as one must always feel for
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
Her Life for Beauty
The present feminine image probably
owes more, at least in externals, to
Helena Rubinstein than to any other
person. When she first came to Aus-
tralia in the 1880 s the jars of face
cream given her by her mother in
Poland were eagerly sought for as mar-
vellous fragments to shore against their
ruins by ladies whose European peaches-
and-cream complexions and become
something closer to sun-dried apricots.
Her first salon in Melbourne was an
amateur affair of curtains made from the
dresses she had brought from Poland,
bamboo and rattan furniture of the kind
then common in conservatories, with
cushions made of bright calico, and walls
painted white by Helena herself. It was
a new, daring, imaginative venture. For,
at the time, Australia did not even have
the secret beauty treatments given at
home behind closed doors to the wealthy
women of Europe.
The personal nature of the whole idea
of beauty for every woman is seen in
the fact that Madame Rubinstein always
called her laboratories her cuisines-
from the original pokey room in Collins
Street to the gleaming factories of today.
Her first salon in London was opened
in 1907-1908, when make-up, apart from
the lightest film of dead white rice
powder, was used only by actresses and
cocottes.
Curiosity brought her first clients, who
came to see what terrible things she had
done to Lord Salisbury’s home in Grafton
Street, which she rented for her salon.
They were anxious not to be seen or
known, and would arrive alone, in
covered carriages which would drop them
at the corner of the street. With veils
lowered, they would wait to make sure
the street was clear, then hurry to the
salon. These were fashionable ladies,
with kid gloves to the elbow, carrying
in their small gold mesh handbags a
perfumed handkerchief, a gold card case
and a gold pencil. Ladies never carried
money.
From such uncertain beginnings
Madame Rubinstein had, within a year,
over 1000 clients on a yearly basis of
£2OO each for regular weekly visits.
Quick to see the possibilities of inno-
vation, she advertised her salon in
society magazines. Such publicity was
then unheard of.
After completing her experiments with
flesh-colored face powder, Madame
Rubinstein moved on to rouge, which at
first only Margot Asquith was brave
enough to wear.
She opened a salon in Paris where
the clients’ names read like pages from
a fashion magazine, and where Colette’s
overheard praise of the new Swedish
massage (“Now I am ready for any-
thing . . . even my husband!”) made it
a raging success.
She left Paris during the First World
War and arrived in New York to find
the Gibson girl, shy, pure and unmade-
up, everybody’s ideal. She introduced
not only her original products, but
mascara (used only by French actresses)
and colored eyelids, which were worn
with great eclat by Theda Bara, the
siren of the silent screen, and copied by
her many admirers.
So the Rubinstein empire grew. She
lost her husband to it, and the son she
hoped would succeed her died in his
forties. She made money to spend on
beautiful houses, art treasures, jewels,
entertaining her friends, patronising
young artists. She had members of her
family in charge in various countries.
Helena Rubinstein’s autobiography,
“My Life For Beauty”, leaves you to
elaborate on these facts as you will. Her
energy, courage, determination are
obvious. Anything more individual comes
mainly from the photographs the
clothes, the jewellery, the characteristics
painters like Graham Sutherland have
seen in her.
The book is well worth reading. Be-
sides the life, which is full of anecdotes
about the famous, it gives basic inform-
ation about beauty care. It also contains
one piece of occupational therapy which
I mean to try at once. In order to dis-
cover what your taste really is, you cut
out pictures —of clothes, objets d’art,
faces, etc. —from magazines and paste
them into a scrap book. The only
stipulation is that they must be pictures
you really respond to fully; you have to
be strong-minded about this. At the end
of a year (or maybe less) you assess the
pictures in relation to the clothes you
actually have been wearing, the furniture
and faces you seem to have around. Then
you act accordingly.
The only thing that really bothers me
about the principle behind “My Life For
Beauty” is a little piece I once read in a
consumers’ guide about a lady who,
on one of their tests, went about for six
months religiously creaming and cosset-
ting one side of her face and ignoring
the other. At the end of six months no
one could tell the difference.
CLARISSA BLACK


Wgm HH ■
Free time off in
duty-free Hong Kong!
II
Mi
v:
T“
\
-■:■ '*•
Stop to shop
as you jet
BOAC
Who can resist the appeal of
a free port? Especially if it’s
as exotically colourful as
Hong Kong. So many un-
believable bargains! Fly there
by BOAC and stop-off for
the time of your life.
After your shopping spree,
you can choose any one of
BOAC’s daily jet flights to
Europe or Japan. Spacious
Rolls-Royce 707’s whisk you
there in total comfort. What
a wonderful way to do it!
And your Hong Kong stop-
over adds not a penny (or a
cent!) to your air fare.
Talk it over with your Travel
Agent, BOAC Sales Office
or Qantas (BOAC’s General
Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD
BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BOAC
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
with Air India, Qantas and Air New Zealand
11814
A63.AU. 107.855 C


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
m
■m
W2k ft*
I
m
mm
M
1%
FLY AND DRIVE . v It’s time-saving .. . money-saving . .
worry free! Drive a great new Falcon or other fine car from the Avis
fleet. Fly/Drive is the jet age way to travel . . . gives you extra time
for business or pleasure . . . lets you see more, do more. For instant
service book your Avis car when you book your Ansett-ANA flight
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENT-A-CAR
<S»d/6)/6*
Making Pogo Stick
The funny side of politics
becomes pretty outspoken at
r* times,” American cartoonist Walt
Kelly said. Kelly was in Sydney
last week on his third visit to this
country. “Numbers of newspapers drop-
ped the strip temporarily when I got into
the political field.”
The hunky-dory little possum char-
acter has more than once rubbed
readers up the wrong way. In 1962 a
pig in the Pogo strip, speaking a kind
of pig-Russian and bearing an unmistak-
able resemblance to Nikita Khrushchev,
confided to his companion, a bearded,
cigar-smoking Fidel Castro goat: “The
shortage will be divided among the
peasants.” Three Canadian newspapers
dropped the pig-goat sequence, a US
paper—the Toledo “Blade”—temporarily
killed Kelly, and in Tokyo the English
language “Asahi Evening News” finally
yielded to Soviet embassy protests and
dropped the sequence after 11 days.
In recent years, Southern newspapers
have vetoed Pogo’s comments on public
>Oll fOMSf nomiHt MCN&Bf
V6BY WNNV IN BUSSIAN: ThE
ShOflTaGE WILL Be DIVJdEO
vAfIIOHG The pEaSAHTS.
school integration. None of this bothers
Kelly, who is syndicated in 612 news-
papers.
“The editors objected that the comic
page was no place for editorial com-
ment,” said Kelly. “I said: ‘All right, I’m
willing to change places with you. You
put the editorial on the comic page and
I’ll put my comment on the editorial
Page’.
“Pogo was spawned in comic books
in the early ’4os,’ he added. “I was
moonlighting—working outside my nor-
mal job, which was in New York with
the foreign-language unit of the armed
forces. Pogo has developed since the
strip began in 1948. He started off ugly
—a possum is ugly—very ratty and hairy.
I turned his nose up instead of down
and just cleaned him up at bit.”
The animal characters all live in Oke
Fenokee swamp, lying between southern
Georgia and north Florida. “Means land
of the trembling earth, because the
swamp has no solid ground. It is all
decayed wood and rotting leaves,” wrote
Kelly on our pad, as if to add significance
to the setting.
The only times the Oke Fenokeeans
have made a sortie from their swamp-
land home has been to come to Aus-
tralia. Pogo and his friends freighted
themselves over here in a Pan Am box
for the Olympic Games. “I think I
started this business of Australians ship-
ping themselves in boxes,” said Kelly,
balancing his horn-rims on his silvering
head. Pogo would be back, he assured
me. “Australia is the only country other
than America crazy enough to under-
stand what’s going on in the strip,” he
said.


Measure of
capability!
'
%
■ .
/<?
% c
’/
f
,s*
~ rntmgmmmmm "
S-" :
: ; :i : ; :-: '-; :: :x
w
."■■:■■
:
Wj&Y.
CAPABILITY in an industry as complex and progressive as ELECTRONICS demands more than a
knowledge of production and distribution. It requires the inspiration of dedicated engineering skills, the
support of world-wide technical resources and precision manufacturing processes and to be maintained
in service by competent know-how. Of such is the substance of AWA—an all-Australian-owned enterprise
and the nation's largest manufacturer of radio communication equipment. AWA not only serves the
nation's needs but has, over the years, built a reputation of dependable performance for equipment here
and abroad.
AWA capability embraces development, manufacture and installation—having supplied two-thirds of
the broadcasting stations in Australasia ★ over 75 television transmitters in Australia ★ broadcasting
stations in Pakistan, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Ceylon ★ telecommunications stations in Egypt,
Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa * television transmitters in Singapore ★ test equipment in India,
Libya ★ two-way radio-telephones in South Africa, Philippines, Hong Kong, East Africa, Mauritius *
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston,
Wellington, N.Z., London, New York, Kuala Lumpur.
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio ampli-
fying systems: electronic components: testing
instruments: telephones: programme recordings:
television and broadcast receivers: data trans-
mission systems: and training in radio technology.
4768


SHOW WINES
YOU
CAN BUY FROM YOUR
HOTEL, CLUB,
RESTAURANT OR
LICENSED RETAILER.
Lindeman’s Show Record for the
second year in succession Lindeman’s
were awarded the trophy for The
Most Successful Exhibitor at the Aus-
tralian Championship Wine Show
1965 Royal Melbourne Show 1964
Adelaide Wine Show.
mm
'v
PRIVATE BIN WINES
PRIVATE BIN BURGUNDY BIN 50, VINTAGE
1963
A soft, round, gererous Burgundy with an
attractive flavour and palate. It is a product
of Lindeman's "Ben Ean" Cellars, where
it was matured in small oak casks, and
was made from Red Hermitage grapes grown
at Lindeman's and other vineyards in the
Hunter River, Clare and Barossa Valleys,
and at Coonawarra. An ideal accompaniment
to all meat dishes and cheese.
PRIVATE BIN RIESLING BIN 23, VINTAGE
1965
This wine was made from Riesling grapes
grown in the Hunter River, Barossa and
Clare Valleys and was bottled very soon
after vintaging to retain the original flavour
and character of the grapes. A light, delicate
dry wine with appealing bouquet and
flavour.
VINTAGE PORT
So It Is a
Lot of Trouble
So what?
By CELLARMASTER
LTow are the mighty fallen, to coin a
AA phrase, to coin a phrase. Vintage
port is one of the great wines of the
world, yet in recent years it has been
slowly slipping in the international grape
gallup poll. The Jet Age of wine drinkers
prefers lightness and youth, can’t bother
with crusted wines, can’t wait and wait
and wait. And in Australia there is the
added reason of hot summer, vintage
port being the most wintry wine of all.
Yet a great port remains an incredible
wine for extensions of the very reasons
that give any wine merit. Bouquet, taste
and complexity of flavor, balance,
richness is another word, and don’t
confuse it with sweetness.
Tawny port, more popular in this
country and the basis of the Portuguese
wine trade, is a different glass of red
altogether. Usually a blend of different
years, and matured in the cask instead
of in the bottle, it is lighter, has a
different flavor and color, and is
"I used to fly tourist then one
day I tried first class. I was given
a complimentary bottle of cham-
pagne then a cognac and
another ..."
sweeter. Some companies put vintage
stickers on their tawny ports because
they are the product of a single year
and this can confuse. Of the two, vint-
age port is very much the big brother
and both, of course, look down on the
younger, brighter ruby ports.
In Portugal, a vintage port can only
be made when the conditions are exactly
right, and often many years lapse be-
tween them. In Australia-a distinguished
winemaker told me that the right cir-
cumstances occur here once in four years.
Too hot a summer means too heavy and
coarse a wine, and when it is too cold
and wet there is insufficient body. When
conditions are just right, the grapes are
picked before over-ripeness and are
handled gently. The baume, or degree of
sweetness, is not as high as that for the
tawnies. The wine is fortified, prefer-
ably with brandy, after fermentation has
ceased, and the wine spends only a
couple of years in wood. It is then
bottled, and the long wait commences.
In England this bottling often takes
place at the spot where it will be con-
sumed, the home or the club by gad! For
the thick crust that forms should be dis-
turbed as little as possible. Often the cork
becomes so delicate with the years that the
neck is snapped off with heated tongs.
In this country you can still buy good
vintage ports. If you do, take them
home and cellar them. If they are ready
for consumption, at least let them rest
for weeks until the crust and sediment
has settled again. Then decant carefully,
choose your two best friends, send the
girls to the pictures, pick out a good
cheese, and enjoy yourselves. Drink the
whole bottle, for these wines do not hold
up like the sweeter ones, and the marvel-
lous flavors and esters quickly go.
So it is a lot of trouble. So what.
What a wonderful thing that we still
have the facility for taking trouble in
this modern half-done age. It’s a bit like
cricket, somehow.
And if you want to take the trouble
try these: the incredibly soft and full
flavored 1945 Stonyfell Vintage Port,
winner of galleons of gold medals and
worth every one; Lindeman’s Bin 1285
1954 Port, the 1957, which is still de-
veloping, and the magnificent 1949, made
from Alvarelhao, Bastardo, and Tourega
grapes, all natives of Portugal (the
Rutherglen/Corowa district has practic-
ally the only selection of Duoro —the
home of port —grapes); the Seppelt’s Bins
DP 32 1947, DP 77 1950, DP 8 1952,
of which I prefer the latter, still im-
proving; and finally the twenty-odd year
old wine that Jack Mann made at
Houghtons in Western Australia.
Take care, for, as Johnson said, port
is the drink of men.


good
:
ORLANDO
miamba claret
Hill
c CHAMP C SOHIS PIUIO.
nitipim gfluido;
ORLANDO
Miamba hock
AUSTRALIAN HI"
c.cramp r, so«s pinn
NIT I PINT G riDIDOT
ORLANDO
MIAMBA HOCK &
MIAMBA CLARET
People who prefer their wine
white choose Miamba Hock
for its fruity bouquet and crisp
finish. Those who like a red
wine that is medium to full,
with a pleasing bouquet, in-
triguing palate and soft tannin
finish, choose Miamba Claret.
But there are many who like
both white and red, with a
meal. And, this is where
Miamba Hock and Claret be-
come truly memorable be-
cause one balances perfectly
with the other.
1663
LETTERS
A Glass of Wine
SIR. — It’s good news that at least some
of Sydney’s wine bars are getting a face-
lift and are attracting a new kind of
customer. But this makes it specially sad-
dening to consider the lack of progress
in another area of our social drinking.
On a recent hot midday I had occasion
to meet in the lounge of a leading city
hotel with an overseas visitor of some
importance, and a Presswoman also
of some importance! We all of us had an
afternoon’s work ahead and wanted none
of their beer or hard liquors. The unani-
mous choice was a glass of crisp, cold,
dry riesling. It was refused first by the
glass, then by the bottle, with the unsatis-
factory explanation that “you can only
get wine in the dining-room”.
This experience was to be repeated
several times in subsequent weeks, and
I felt that the most patriotic excuse 1
could make to my overseas friend was
that in this world of self-interest, the
local publicans either preferred you to
drink beer or hard liquor because the
profit margin was higher, or were re-
luctant to serve wine, except at table,
because of their close link with the
breweries. They were, no doubt, I said,
shrewd businessmen and much to be ad-
mired for it.
What I was too ashamed to say was
that I had more than a suspicion that the
pubs were asleep on their feet, uncon-
scious or unheedful of the radical shifts
in public tastes, in ways of living and
ways of spending. Somehow, I can’t help
thinking, the thought hasn’t reached
them yet that in two of the three clubs
I belong to I can drink wines at any
time in any of the areas where liquor is
served.
MAURICE PETERSON
Darling Point (NSW).
Unequal Women
SIR. — Dennis Pryor, in his article “The
Tame-cat Senate” (8., Dec. 18), remarks
on the mysterious omission from the
new Queensland University Act of Sec-
tion 30 of the old Act guaranteeing
women equal rights. During the second
reading debate on the University Bill, the
Minister for Education, Mr Pizzey, at-
tempted to justify the excision of Section
30 of the old Act on the ground that
“women now enjoy the same university
privileges as men”. Either Mr Pizzey
was misinformed, or he was being disin-
genuous, for what he said is manifestly
untrue.
Only a few weeks before he spoke in
the Parliament the Staff Association had
vigorously affirmed the principle that
all academic and administrative positions
at the university should be open to ap-
plicants of either sex. Its resolution arose
out of the case of the position of
assistant to the Vice-Chancellor, a
senior administrative post which had been
advertised as being available only to
a male graduate. This is by no means
the only example of discrimination
against women in the university. (Women
do not get equal pay as librarians, or
as laboratory assistants, as they would
have done for some time in some other
Australian universities.)
It is a discrimination which may well
prove actionable under the old Section
30 which Mr Pizzey claimed is unneces-
sary. It has subsequently been reported
in the Press that the Equal Opportunities
for Women Association is contemplat-
ing legal action against the university.
If Mr. Pizzey did not know that
women at the University of Queensland
still need to have their rights protected
by statutory provision he should have
taken the trouble to find out. It might
well have helped had he not persistently
refused to meet representatives of the
Staff Association.
N. S. THORNTON
University of Queensland.
Brisbane ( Qld ).
The Monash Teach-in
SIR. —Writing about the Monash teach-
in on- Vietnam (8., Dec. 25), Peter
Samuel states: “Through miserable
PRESS OR SUPPRESS
ffiJiulletin
80 Years Ago: January 30, 1886
'J'HE Hon. Dan O'Connor on Saturday
night last accused "The Sydney Morning
Herald" of glaring partiality in reporting
speeches in Parliament. He accused the
"Herald" of suppressing matter in the
speech of a member which was opposed
to the views of that journal, and of dis-
torting what was printed in such a way
as to hold the speaker up to public ridi-
cule and contempt. The charge is the
most serious that can be brought against
a daily newspaper. Such an organ, by
the mere fact of chronicling public oc-
currences tacitly engages to publish a
true and impartial account of matters of
general interest. If, as Mr O'Connor
alleges, the "Herald" has prostituted its
functions for the gratification of its own
ends, it is more culpable by a thousand-
fold than the scorers in an intercolonial
cricket match would be if they wilfully
falsified the record of the runs in order
that the side which they favored might
seem to win. With its honesty of motive
thus impugned, the evident course for
the paper to adopt would be to print the
accusation and then refute it. In place of
doing so, the "Herald" gives strong color
to the indictment by suppressing the very
charge itself, although made by a Mini-
ster of the Crown . . .


H. J. Heinz Co. Australia Ltd. recognise the difference in fencing
brand security fencing lusts longer
because it’s better made and better erected
Heinz preferred Cyclone’s 67 years of experience
when it came to choosing a security fence to guard
their valuable plant and assets.
Although the security fences Heinz compared
looked alike, they chose Cyclone brand because
they could be sure it was better made and better
erected. These are the reasons why big industry
throughout Australia prefers to specify Cyclone
security fencing above all others. They know they
get top quality materials, a first class erection job,
and will always be able to rely on service.
1
m
n
EbmhA
SSSs
a?
ns
%
■
hhh
i
Cliclone SECURITY FENCING
the height of protection
RING FOR IMMEDIATE SERVICE: Melbourne: 410271. Sydney: 644 4411. Adelaide: 4 5026.
Perth: 23 3171. Brisbane: 591051. Townsville: 9 2171. Launceston: 4 2481.
5F176550N


this is do!
an original
DDAUDI CC
DrvAM dLLo
INDUSTRIAL
EXCAVATIO-N
663*0465
(you see them everywhere)
The B J.S. sign on your construction site reflects
good judgment and the best approach to economical
site development.
This Brambles’ sign means that you have at your
call Australia’s widest range of equipment for hire
for crane work, steel erection, concrete pouring,
excavation, earth moving, site development, well
point de-watering and haulage.
Brambles Industrial Services will contract to do
the whole job for you or you can hire equipment
(with or without operators in some cases). Cranes
from 2-60 tons, shovels, backhoes, draglines, com-
pressors, drill rigs, dozers and tippers. Modern
up-to-the-minute equipment is available for your
job today. You can estimate your costs to the shilling,
for all 8.1.5. hire rates include servicing and repairs.
Call Brambles Industrial Services
and have expert advice free of
charge for all your requirements
without delay.
BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL SERVICES
CORNER OF DOWLING STREET & TODMAN AVENUE,
WATERLOO, N.S.W. TELEPHONE 663 0465
vsia
threats of withdrawing support, Left-
wing professors managed to cajole the
student organisers into abandoning plans
to invite, as a speaker, Dr Frank Knop-
felmacher ... It was symptomatic of
the gutless illiberality of which Left-wing
academics are capable.” So it would be, if
true; but this is the first I’ve heard of
these “threats”, even although I was on
the staff at Monash last year and Mr
Samuel wasn’t. Perhaps he might care to
substantiate his assertion. Or retract it.
G. C. BOLTON
University of Western Australia
Perth (WA).
Franco , Fascist or Anarchist?
SIR. —In reply to David Martin (8.,
Jan. 15) I would like to point out that
Hugh Thomas (p. 618 of the 1961 edi-
tion of his “The Spanish Civil War”)
says Franco rules “according to no
theory of government save his own brand
of compromise, developed during the
civil war, between Church and
Monarchists”. He was no imperialist,
expansionist dictator, avoided war,
sought the good of his own people by
peaceful means after his victory and in
setting up the Catholic idea of a corporate
state following the 1931 encyclical of
Pope Pius XI, Quadragesimo Anno,
rather than Mussolini. There was no
anti-Semitism either, nor in its authori-
tarianism did the State ever assert abso-
lute supremacy in the fields of morality
and law, as did Nazism and Commu-
nism.
Finally, among the people of Spain, as
recorded by numerous visitors, there has
always been an extraordinary freedom in
the lively expression of opinion, and a
general atmosphere such that Benjamin
Welles’ recent and excellent political
survey of Spain today (deemed by Hugh
Thomas “the best political survey in any
language”, 1965) is entitled “The Gentle
Anarchy”.
MARTIN HALEY
Brisbane ( Qld ).
Merchant Robert Campbell
SlR.—Having some four years ago pub-
lished a book on Robert Campbell’s life
and commercial interests, perhaps my re-
action to Miss Steven’s book, “Merchant
Campbell, 1769-1846”, might interest
your readers. Like Miss Steven’s book,
mine was reviewed in your columns by
M. H. Ellis and the review answered by
me in the same columns.
Miss Steven has done a service to
posterity in adding her authority to the
already available evidence of the integ-
rity and sterling character of Robert
Campbell. I consider her book a good
one, though I disagree with the stress


MAKE N
TRAVEL
PAY
this way
Export minded? Next overseas trip,
go via South Africa. There’s a new
world of export opportunities in this
prosperous, fast-expanding country—
and in as yet unexplored markets
further afield.
Budget minded? It’s a bonanza.
Flying this way to U.K./Europe, you
visit South Africa and see major
European capitals, too and the
extra air fare is from a tiny £15.10.0,
depending, on your departure point.
Business-cum-pleasure minded ?
This is manna to jaded travel
appetites big game, magnificent
scenery, wonderful new ports of call
like Johannesburg, Lisbon, Paris,
Rome. Stopover if you wish—there’s
little or no additional air fare. Your
travel agent has all the details.
LONDON
'A:
\
l
\ V
ATHENS
■I
FRANKFURT#
■K /
\ /
RoMEl|fe|
\ \ \ ROMEI
I\ V /
\ \ PZURICH
\ v /
\ A /
l - slp PARIS
1 /
\/
i ,,
■MADRID
TV . /
/ / /
u /
n /
11 /
nf
uf
iff
!f
LUANDA
SALISBURY
in
fa \W,
‘j j
rfM !
V*. v' .4 J/Jinji 1 / H
JOHANNESBURG
MAURITIUS
* , J ?
vM'M
V/.,
5 ✓
‘ j f tj.
t'ft
A
%
PERTH
•AA7B/p/30
Two services
weekly to South
Africa with daily
connections at
Johannesburg for
U.K. and Europe.
Operated by
5.4. A., ir\ associa-
tion with Qantas,
8.0.A.C . and C.A.A,
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
TO U.K./EUROPE VIA THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
she lays on the iniquity of Robert Camp-
bell’s importation of liquor. He did im-
port it, often unasked for and unwillingly,
but this was not the trouble. The evil
lay in the virtual control of the market
by the military officers and their con-
freres, who reaped enormous profits by
retailing rum at as much as ten times
what it cost them. Robert Campbell’s
advent had curbed prices somewhat, but
until Bligh arrived no Governor had the
will or the strength to stop this racket
and they had found in attacking Robert
Campbell’s importations an easy and
safe way to placate the home govern-
ment.
My second criticism of Miss Steven is
that a preponderance of the facts and
documents she used were previously
used by me, and that but for the fact
that I unearthed and dissected Hook’s
letters and permitted her to read and
digest those letters in my house so that
she might write a thesis for her doctorate,
she could never have written much of the
book under review. Yet when reviewing
my book, after she had been given this
privilege, she sneered at my references —
references she has since used in her own
book.
C. E. T. NEWMAN
Bellevue Hill (NSW).
ABC and the Agnostics
SIR. The ABC should consider the
large number of non-churchgoers among
its listeners and provide programmes
similar to the BBC which cater for
humanists, rationalists and other free-
thought societies. As many agnostics
as Catholics view the ABC television
and should have some time made avail-
able to them. The statistical data was
published in the “Courier-Mail” dated
April 8, 1965, page 6.
HAROLD BAYLEY
Brisbane ( Qld ).
Eric Butler
SIR- The Rev. D. Pope claims Eric
Butler is the “officially accredited cor-
respondent for the John Birch Society”
(8., Nov. 27). Mr Butler denies this (8.,
Dec. 11). Rev. Pope g'ves his source as
“American Opinion”, the official organ
of the John Birch Society (8., Dec. 18).
Mr Butler again denies this (8., Jan 8),
but admits that he “acts as a professional
correspondent” for “American Opinion”.
Surely this is typical of Mr Butler’s
double-talk, a feature of all his writings
and lectures. If he is a correspondent
for the official organ of an organisation,
be is in fact a correspondent for that
organisation.
PETE STEEDMAN
Carlton (Vic.).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
The Unqualified Employer
By DONALD BROOK
The Department of Technical Edu-
cation of New South Wales does
not have an absolute monopoly,
but it is by far the most quantitatively
influential art educator in the State. It
runs the hopefully so-called National Art
School at the East Sydney Technical
College, which has many branches in
what are referred to as “country
centres” —including the federal capital
of Australia.
It is, I think, a matter for general con-
cern that the Department, however cap-
able it may be in other ways, administers
the teaching of art outrageously badly.
The performance is so poor, indeed, that
one cannot charitably account it a tem-
poral accident, to be set right in due
course with a more effective senior ap-
pointment or an amendment to the
syllabus, but must rather find the weak-
ness intrinsic and incurable.
There is no doubt that art education
ought to be in other hands; but it is not
at all clear how this is to be brought
about. The Department will not volun-
tarily resign, and it cannot be argued
out of business, for it need not and does
not answer criticism. It might, perhaps,
be mocked into mending its more egre-
gious faults, but this is only palliative and
moreover there are pitfalls in derision.
It is not enough to say, soberly, that
the Department is philistine and authori-
tarian; yet to fill out this flat charge with
fizzy stories it would be necessary to get
down to defamatory cases. The Depart-
ment’s officers are protected, as everyone
is, by a law that will not let them be
exposed to the mockery and contempt of
right-thinking men and women for
carrying out their duties lawfully, how-
ever stupidly.
Something can be done by quoting
texts instead of cases, although the cases,
in sum, provide the overwhelming evid-
ence of practical incompetence that does
not follow of necessity from the docu-
ments. The prime document of art edu-
cation as conceived by the Department
Lj the syllabus of the National Art
School. It is a comic composition, usually
Donald Brook is a professional sculptor
with philosophical interests who has
settled in Australia after taking a doc-
torate in aesthetic theory at the Australian
National University. He is art critic of
the “Canberra Times.” Since his resig-
nation from the NSW Department of
Technical Education this month he has
returned to full-time work as a sculptor.
defended on the comic ground that
teachers do not follow it: although the
Department has not, I think, officially en-
dorsed that defence.
The syllabus is a sub-intellectual essay,
or series of essays, rich in grammatical,
syntactical and logical solecisms. Worse
than this (for these are only mandarin
objections), it imports deep aesthetic pre-
suppositions that are certainly invalid;
and it does so with a culpable innocence.
Although it is an immensely theoretical
document it lacks any bibliography, and
has not even a footnote to refer students
DONALD BROOK
and teachers to source material in its
complex and contentious field.
It utters gobbledygook, ex cathedra,
like a play-acting child, and it dresses
up in jargon to seem important. Consider:
Drapery Drawing is given to teach
the student the structure of drapery
under conditions of fold. Large pieces
of cloth are draped over a support, i.e.
[v/c] a chair, with a number of focal
points. The student is shown the in-
evitable behavior of drapery brought
about by focal points. This behavior
brings about an anatomy which is a
common factor governing all drapery
. . . The exercises develop with cloth
draped around a cast . . . over bent
arm toga fashion, etc. . . .
Toga fashion, indeed! Our young
Poussins shall be firmly grounded in the
elements! Or, to take the case of some-
thing that is to be distinguished from
painting and drawing, called Pictorial
Composition:
The purpose of the subject is to
teach the student the basic structure of
picture-making . . .
There is, as a matter of fact, no such
thing as “the basic structure of picture
making”. There have been theories of
art and of beauty—and from time to
time very different theories —that have
influenced artists; and no doubt the
authors of the syllabus have one such
theory tenuously in mind. That they do
not identify it explicitly, offer a defence
of it, and present it in an, historical
and theoretical context, is evidence of
the innocence I spoke about. It is
attributable in part to the fact that a
high proportion of the teachers at the
National Art School are ex-students of
the same school, so that they share com-
mon prejudices that they may mistake
for final truths; and in part, not to
mince words, it is attributable to a
culpable ignorance of the subject that is
professed.
Much the greater part of the syllabus
is devoted directly to the problem of
representation, which again is not seen
as having a history and as being in
evolution today, but rather as an uncon-
tentious craft skill that the teachers have
the knack of and the students, at first,
don’t. This absurd over-emphasis on one
aspect of art has been a cause of bitter
student complaint, walkouts and deputa-
tions; but I think that the demand for,
and the grudging promise of, more time
to be given to “abstract” art misses the
point to some extent. The Department
would, on its present showing, handle
non-figurative art as badly as it handles
representation: by treating it as a species
of craft skill assimilable for educational
and administrative purposes to the com-
mon pattern that equally informs House
Drainage and Dry Cleaning.
This claim, being general, does less
than justice to individual cases of ex-
cellence amongst teachers. The Depart-
ment certainly has some teachers on its
staff better than it deserves, quietly ignor-
ing its syllabus and subverting its dreary
anti-intellectual and anti-cultural atti-
tudes. But they face disheartening
obstacles that they should not have to
face, and would not in a properly con-
ducted school. Again, the Department is
sometimes given the doubtful benefit of
the defence that good teachers have done
well in spite of it.
They are, for a start, too few, since
the Department is committed to uniform
practices over a great educational and
training range and has developed a
qualifications policy that is not intrinsic-
ally absurd but is simply inappropriate to
the fine arts. Art being what it is, most
of the great artists and teachers of the
past, as well as those of today, would
not be eligible to teach for the Depart-
ment of Technical Education. There is
not quite an inverse relation between
artistic distinction and eligibility for the
Department, but one might amuse oneself
for half an hour setting out the evidence


for it. None of the Bauhaus lot, for
example, would do in Sydney.
Secondly, the Department is committed
to the Public Service seniority principle.
Its executives and policy-makers are the
m en who have been there a long time,
avoiding blame. Their tribal wisdom
issues in such forms as: “Officers who
possess a private car and are desirous of
using it on transfer in lieu of travelling
by train . .
I did not know about the seniority
principle when I joined the Department,
and when I first started teaching at
Canberra I wasted a great deal of time
arguing with my principal the educational
advantages of including what he called
the ceramics section, taught by my
friend Henri leGrand, within the art
school. It eventually emerged that his
insistence upon maintaining what he
called “two areas of administration” in
our little group of shacks behind the
bus sheds was not merely crass. He had
a problem that I have since come to
recognise as characteristic. It was this:
I drew more money than Henri, but
Henri had worked for the Department
II years: who was to be in charge?
Introduce the teachers’ union, and it is
evident that the problem of what shape
an art school ought to be is not educa-
tional, it is socio-political.
Incidentally, the best answer I was
ever able to get out of the Department
about how it decided what to pay me
was: “The salary formula used ... is
intended to recognise your qualifications,
but at the same time to preserve the
seniority of other officers already in the
Department.”
Qualification demands, the time-serving
seniority principle and the weak syllabus
would be quite enough to keep the
Department’s art school negligible by
international standards: but there is
more, if not worse.
All over the world it is recognised that
art is not something taught as a drill,
but something involving attitudes, that is
communicated; and that very deliberate
steps must be taken to prevent teachers
deteriorating into ex-artists and becoming
thereby almost useless. Advertisements
overseas nowadays say, and mean:
Applicants must be practising
artists . . .” In the great schools where
standards are set artists are cajoled with
studios and talk of duty into working at
their job not too far from the sight and
hearing of students.
The Department of Technical Educa-
hon, splendidly aloof from developments
0n the international scene, actually de-
mands that teachers make special appli-
cation for permission to work as artists
'o their own time outside the school.
When I applied for this “right of private
Practice” I was asked some fairly silly
questions (“Is the work compatible with
h e maintenance of a proper standard of
conduct and respectability?”) before I
was told, in meanly phrased negative, that
“The Public Service Board has approved
of no action being taken under Section
68 . . (in other words, you may) and
that ‘ This approval has been given sub-
ject to a return being submitted each
year of all moneys earned in terms of
Regulation 32 . .
There is no provision whatever of time
and facilities for staff to work inside the
schools. The Department, presumably,
fears that it could not handle a parity
claim by panel beaters and television
maintenance men: and indeed it prob-
ably could not. That is one of my
complaints.
The Department enforces rules that
are not at all to the point. Art teachers
must sign on and sign off in a time
book, as if they were not to be trusted.
They are given what is lugubriously
called a “teaching load” which consists,
as well as six hours’ preparation each
week, of 24 hours in front of a class,
irrespective of the real situational needs.
In my own case at Canberra, because
there were not quite 24 hours available
for me when I started, even after sacking
valuable part-timers, all my classes were
extended by a few minutes in order to
make up the precise tally.
There was no educational reason to do
this; indeed, educational aims were
thwarted by sacking part-time teachers
in a range of subjects whose work I
could perhaps do less well than they,
rather than allow me to spend my time
more intelligently. The paradigm of
idiocy was achieved when a life drawing-
class was extended by 15 minutes in
order that my “load” should weigh with
the prescribed oppression, while the life
model’s time and pay were parsimon-
iously not extended by a corresponding
amount. The students went home at the
same time as the model: I stayed on lest
I should be found wanting by an
administration that was, in this respect,
commendably zealous,
It is perhaps a little thing, though
telling, that teachers lie in the time
book. Even teachers who do more than
their bare duty, and they are many,
seem to feel the need for this sort of
defensive manoeuvre, and they sneak


five or 10 minutes to the good coming
and going, to be @n the safe side of big
Jjm brother who seems to wield magical
power by counting things. They lie in
the roll books too and must do so
or they could not keep worthwhile
classes going. The Department lays down
minimum student numbers that are
Usually much too big; and hobby classes
fun in draughty sheds in winter regularly
fall below the critical level. I do not
blame teachers who invent an attendance
or two to save a class from closure, for
they are the true educators: I blame the
Department, which will force men to
petty deceit rather than grant them
mature responsibilities of judgment.
The Department is not responsive to
suggestions and initiative. I addressed
a memorandum on the entire question of
the Art School at Canberra to Sydney
on April 27 last, and it has not yet even
been acknowledged. It has, by the way,
been misreported in the Press, in con-
nection with my involuntary and,
apparently, punitive transfer by the De-
partment, that my proposals were
“revolutionary”; but this is not so. They
would be regarded as commonplace
enough, heaven knows, wherever art is
seriously taught.
Failure to reply is a Departmental
vice. I have copies of many letters,
mostly about small but nagging day-to-
day matters, that were addressed to or
through my principal and to which there
Was no response. Whether this is due to
inertia or overwork or oversight or the
sheer lack of discretionary power to
make decisions it is impossible to say.
To give an example, more serious than
most: there are nine books, none of them
very useful, in the art section of the
Technical College library at Canberra.
Since we had no official librarian I
asked the principal to initiate trans-
actions through the inter-library loan
service: and I even provided a helpful
telephone number at the National Library
as a starter. There was no action.
None of the magazines I asked for
ever came, and materials and equipment
were not ordered. The sculpture school
contained nothing but a few decrepit
benches left by a previous occupant.
There were no tools: not so much as a
hammer. As the head of the National
Gallery School in Melbourne said to me
when he looked round: “You start from
a long way back.” Or, as the acting
head of the National Art School in
Sydney said when he looked round (in a
similarly gloomy tone of voice): “We
haven’t got much more than this in
Sydney.”
The circumstances of my transfer and
subsequent resignation are too tedious
tp tell in their squalid detail, and I am
already weary of the whole thing. But
I cannot generalise from the particular
without particularising at all; and shall
quote three short extracts from Depart-
mental correspondence. Taken together
they seem to show that the Department
is muddled, or unscrupulous, or both; and
the third one shows that its standards are
inscrutable and —since even the most in-
genious challenges have failed —not open
to challenge. The Department wrote,
after being pressed to explain its puzzling
decision to move me when I had just
bought a house in Canberra, built a
studio and started work:
Briefly, the position is that if you
wish to be appointed as a permanent
officer of the Department it will be
necessary for you to complete a
teacher training course, which must be
taken in Sydney. (Letter, 7/9/65.)
Now, since I had made it an explicit
condition of accepting an appointment
with the Department that it should accept
my recognition as a qualified teacher by
the Ministry of Education in London;
and since the Department had agreed;
this was a clear breach of faith.
A great many letters, a minor furore
in the Press culminating in a sober
editorial, and more than two months
later, the Department changed its story:
It is a misunderstanding to assume
that the major purpose of the transfer
is to permit you to satisfy formal
teacher training requirements. The
Department accepts that it was agreed
that completion (!) of teacher training
would not be insisted upon in your
case. (Letter, 18/11/65.)
Nevertheless, the transfer stood. Why?
. . . you have not satisfied the
Department that you are, at this time,
able to provide the kind and range of
service required of a full-time teacher
of art at Canberra Technical College.
Since the Department is counsel for
the prosecution, jury and judge in such
a case, then there’s an end of it.
Whether I have a strong point here
against the Department’s fitness to ad-
minister art education, or no more than
a grievance of a kind said to be common-
place in the State education service, de-
pends on the question, roughly, whether
the Department would make itself
ludicrous arguing its case before an in-
formed and civilised forum of public
opinion. Since the Department evidently
will not come into court we must draw
the inference that seems most natural.
It cannot be seriously doubted that
professional art education must be taken
out from under its inappropriate, and
therefore incompetent, management. To
nominate a better is perhaps to open
out the question too far; but experience
elsewhere has shown that universities,
liberal arts colleges and great galleries
are all capable of doing the job. There
is very much to be said, too, for com-
pete autonomy; although this raises
tricky questions where public funds are
involved. On the whole, universities are
probably the most suitable caretakers
if they can silence the reactionary and
ill-informed objection that throwing paint
is not worth a degree.
The Slade School in the University
of London awards a prestigious diploma,
Other universities, especially in America,
do not strain at the gnat. For it does
not matter: the point is that univer-
sities understand, or ought to understand,
the workings of the courageous experi-
mental imagination. The point is not
that universities bestow a coveted prize
for regular attendance and reasonable
diligence in certain traditionally
sanctioned fields, and that art students
want or need to share it.
It is in many ways a pity that the
Power will was not clearer, or vaguer,
But in any case the University of Sydney
has a fine opportunity looming to asso-
ciate, of its own volition, an exemplary
school of art with the projected Power
foundation, to the great advantage of
both. What should be done in the rest
of the State, and in Canberra, is a set
of problems that will have to be solved
piecemeal.
Nothing effective is likely to be done,
though, until it is recognised that the
Department of Technical Education has
failed; and that this is no mere passing
curiosity, good for an occasional modest
headline when students strike or teachers
resign, but a continuing and shocking
public scandal.
RECORDS
Old School
Summer Wind. Wayne Newton. Capitol
Stereo. ST 2389.
This is Love. Johnny Mathis. EMI.
OCLP. 1859.
The Judy Garland Story: The Hollywood
Years. MGM. VO2 9121.
Summer Sounds. Robert Goulet. CBS.
BP 233259.
Looking Back. Nat King Cole. Capitol.
ST 2361.
WfrrH a shrill, rather harsh voice that
sounds disconcertingly like a cross
between Dakota Staton’s and Shirley
Temple’s, Wayne Newton nevertheless,
at the Chevron Hotel in Sydney, de-
livered his numbers with euch aplomb
that he reduced the audience to complete
acquiescence within seconds of setting
foot on the stage. A belter of the old
school —he even breaks into an A 1
Jolson routine at one stage, and does a
clown routine straight out of the sawdust
belt —Newton is an electrifying showman;
on “Summer Wind”, though, he discloses
how heavily he depends on his remark-
able stage “presence” for his effect. This
very loud record offers a lower level of


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER’S
NOTEBOOK
' A dog’s life
is a great life aboard
the Queen Mary
This poodle is a seasoned
traveller. He’s made many
Atlantic crossings in both
Queen Elizabeth and Queen
Mary. The “dog hotel” on
the Queen Mary can accom-
modate twenty-six guests.
(Single or double kennels
are available.) The kennels
have removable teakwood
floors, a skylight for air and
ventilation and hot and cold
water. There is even an
eighty-foot exercise deck,
exclusively for residents.
Homo Sapiens are equally
well looked after. There are
35 public rooms aboard the
Queen Elizabeth and a
theatre seating 338 people.
Twelve hundred people look
after you on each of the
giant Queens. Three quar-
ters of the Cunard stewards
descend from seafaring
families.
At mealtime on the Cunard
Queens, you choose from a
menu which is the equivalent
of the combined menus of
forty leading restaurants on
land ... There are more than
a dozen bars on each of the
Queens. You can choose from
forty brands of whisky. The
wine list is the largest afloat.
And you can celebrate with
any one of 21 kinds of vin-
tage champagne.
There is a tranquil library
with 5,000 books. Or if you
need toning up there is a
vast swimming pool and a
Turkish bath under the care
of a professional masseur.
Getting there is half the fun.
PUNAR D
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT
c.i
orchestration than Terry Wilkinson’s
band gave him at the Chevron: tinny
where it should be tough and brassy.
By contrast, on “This is Love”, Johnny
Mathis takes his numbers very slowly
and deliberately; his voice, no less
androgynous than Newton’s, is controlled
by a still more deft and experienced
technique. The tone is exultant; he
relishes the most inane lyrics as though
gobbling marshmallows. A lush orchestra,
a succession of the schmaltziest numbers
in the repertoire—all spreading messages
of sunshine and good cheer: Johnny
Mathis is very much at home in all
this velvet-padded sentimentality. He
has the ability—shared by Mel Torme
and Lena Horne —to give the charge of
romantic poetry to lines that written
down can only look preposterous:
Poinciana, those skies have turned
from blue to grey.
My love will live forever and a day . . .
The art that conceals bad art is Mr
Mathis’ strongest suit.
Three more records round off the list
of summer releases: “The Judy Garland
Story: The Hollywood Years”, Robert
Goulet’s “Summer Sounds”, and Nat
King Cole’s “Looking Back”. Judy Gar-
land’s record—in the invaluable “Encore”
series—reminds us of a voice that was
once clear, innocent and strong with an
undertone of expertly suggested poig-
nancy; a far cry from the hollow, wob-
bling thing she owns today. Mr Goulet’s
smoothly handsome face on the sleeve
of his newest release scarcely prepared
one for the hideous sounds that proceed
from it on the turntable: the late Nat
King Cole shows him point after point
in a series of numbers poured out with
the thick, creamy consistency of con-
densed milk.
CHARLES HIGHAM
THEATRE
For the Lizard
Season
Ihe Deadly Game. James Yaffe. Indepen-
dent Theatre. Sydney.
The Fan. Carlo Goldoni. Genesian Theatre.
Deadly Game” is a comedy of
suspense, a genre favored by theatres
ln the Lizard season when the sun-baked
citizenry, their brains fuddled with fresh
air and salt spray, are presumed to need
a rest from the strenuous intellectual life
the y lead during the remainder of the
year. Perhaps because I was only balf-
haked, I found the underlying assump-
h°ns about law and morality in the play
f 3 alarming as to disturb my salty somno-
lence.
James Yaffe’s adaptation of Friedrich
ITiirrenmatt’s novel “Trapps” is set in
the Swiss Alps. Three retired legal gentle-
men meet to dine and afterwards con-
duct a mock trial of a snow-bound
stranger who comes to the house for
haven. He is a brash American salesman
called Howard Trapp (well played by
Stanley Walsh) who is cheerfully confi-
dent of his own probity.
The three explain that they play this
game frequently because it saves them
from being bored into neurosis in their
retirement. It turns out to be a rather
sinister way of solving the geriatric
problem.
Starting from the assumption that we
all deserve to be hanged if the truth
were known, they apply their wits to
finding out the truth about innocent, or
rather guilty, passers-by. Each is a mix-
ture of Sherlock Holmes, a psychiatrist
and God. It is to be hoped that this view
of lawyers is confined to writers of fiction
and is not shared by the legal profession
itself.
In Robert Levis’ taut production the
play serves as an excellent vehicle for
the performers. Alexander Archdale is
quiet, courteous and inexorable as the
retired Chief Judge: a man who would
hang you with the utmost civility. Ron-
ald Morse plays the good-hearted Public
Defender who tries to save the guilty
from his tougher colleagues. Alastair
Duncan as the former Public Prosecutor
has the Marshall Hall part, and he per-
forms his legal histrionics very stylishly.
Michelle’s elaborate set is both pleasing
to look at and well-suited to the needs
of the action.
As far as classical drama is concerned
Sydney theatre is a desert with only an
occasional oasis. Consequently, when an
amateur group performs a classical play
critics are tempted to rally round with
banners and drums. But the trouble is that
most classical plays need to be stylishly
produced if they are to spring to life on
the modern stage. In spite of the per-
formers’ obvious enthusiasm for their
play, Brian Donovan’s production at the
Genesian Theatre does not fully succeed
in reanimating Goldoni’s comedy.
Since “The Fan” is a comedy of situa-
tion and character the dialogue, in
translation at any rate, being rather flat
everything depends upon swiftness of
pace, a rather formal pattern of action
and a lively realism in the acting. With
the exception of Leone Hill’s pert Gian-
nina, the performances are both over-
acted and under-imagined, and the pro-
duction lacks shape. The Australian
Theatre for Young People’s professional
production of another Goldoni comedy,
“The Servant of Two Masters”, is a
useful model which successfully combines
formality and realism.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


AUTHORS
Invited submit MSS, all types (including
Poems) for book publication. Reasonable
terms.
STOCKWELL LTD.
ILFRACOMBE, ENGLAND. (Est. 1898)
BOOKS
An Appetite for Newsprint
By DAVID McNICOLL
Roy Thomson of Fleet Street. Russell
Braddon. Collins. 365.
VTou hear many different opinions
A about Roy Thomson. In certain
homes in Scotland and England you
will hear him spoken of as though he
were a reincarnation of the Devil. In
others, you will hear him patronised,
accepted with an amused tolerance, or
praised to the skies.
The point, of course, is that fantastic
success sticks in most people’s gullets,
and Lord Thomson has just been too
successful to please anyone except per-
haps his bankers and his employees.
Russell Braddon, in his “Roy Thomson
of Fleet Street”, has attempted to pre-
sent a man who, despite all his failings,
is a nice guy; misunderstood by some,
but wrongly. A chap of such naivete,
such candor, such gaucherie that his fan-
tastic success becomes even more fan-
tastic. Braddon does a real job on Thom-
son, with all the stops pulled out, but
somehow you never hear the tune.
Lord Thomson started from nothing.
Today, for reasons -best known to him-
self, he now owns hundreds of papers
and magazines, as well as TV and radio
stations. He is, in fact, a pathological
collector of advertising media. He is
not a newspaperman, because —if Brad-
don is right—Thomson has no “feel”
for what a paper is and can do, apart
from the revenue and profit side. But
he is a sensationally successful buyer,
organiser, and proprietor of newspapers.
He will be remembered in years to come
as a journalistic bower-bird, a collector
of practically anything that was avail-
able, a newspaper takeover tycoon of the
first order.
The task of writing a book about a
man still very much alive cannot be a
very enviable one. Braddon does his
best with Lord Thomson, and the de-
tails of his cabin to House of Lords
progress has an awesome fascination
about it. Braddon has made parts of the
book live, but other parts are barren.
He makes Canada sound as unattractive
as I have always imagined it, and his
Canadians sound as knuckle-headed as
some of them undoubtedly are. He also
has a habit of using- the word “thus”;
“thus it was”, “thus, in 1952 . . A
grim little word, “thus”.
Lord Thomson was obsessed with
desire for a title, preferably a peerage.
To say that he left no stone unturned
to get one would be the understated
cliche of the decade. He liked being
with titled people, but it does not seem
to have been snobbery that drove him
relentlessly in pursuit of the ermine and
the coronet. He saw in a peerage the
pinnacle of success; outward proof that
he had made it. His determination to
become a peer even extended to becom-
ing a British citizen and posting his
papers to Downing Street marked “for
attention”. His fellow Canadians were
not amused by his defection or pleased
with his accolade.
Russell Braddon presents us with a
parade of Thomson’s friends, colleagues
and relatives, mostly undistinguished,
uniformly dull. They are mere irritants
and do nothing to delineate the curious
portrait of the central figure. Thom-
son’s grasp of newspaper financing, his
judgment on price and personnel as
staggering. He made very few mistakes
in his purchases during his march to
eminence. Could he have dreamed
when he ran the corny paper in the
small Canadian town of Timmins that
one day he would own the London
“Sunday Times”? If Braddon is right,
there were no limits to his dreams.
There are many “Thomson-isms” cur-
rent today. His quote that having a
TV licence was like having a licence to
print money flashed round the world.
Similarly, his view that news in a news-
paper was “merely the stuff you separ-
ate the ads with”. He has said many
things displeasing to newspapermen. But
throughout the world today Roy Thom-
son has the respect —in some cases grudg-
ing—of all proprietors.
Roy Thomson hit his quota of hurdles.
He lost the race for Odhams to the
formidable and chilly Cecil King. He
missed out on the Glasgow paper, foiled
by a Scottish gang-up. He missed out
also —and is very bitter about it—on
the “Dominion”, Wellington. He has
stated publicly that he has no desire to
try his luck in Sydney. Ours is a tough
city. It is interesting that he never made
big moves in the United States. But
then peerages were not available there,
ROY THOMSON
and, as he keeps reiterating, he wanted
a title.
What sort of a man is Roy Thomson?
I watched him and listened to him years
ago at a Commonwealth Press Union
conference in Canberra. He was ami-
able but a bit ill-at-ease. Colleagues
who have met him since say that he has
grown more genial, more assured and
that the aura of power and position has
left a definite mark on him.
Russell Braddon’s book, as a detailed
menu of a gobbling newspaper gour-
mand, is well worth reading. But you
are left with a very hollow Roy Thom-
son. Because, as Braddon presents him
—unread, lacking intellectual resources
or hobbies, candid sometimes to the
point of boorishness —he is not a lov-
able man. And yet he apparently is
a warm-hearted tycoon as well as a
financial and business genius, and has
a host of fervid supporters. It is a
great pity Russell Braddon makes such
a remarkable man sound so damned
uninteresting.
Credo
That each thing is a word
Requiring us to speak it:
From the ant to the quasar,
From clouds to ocean floor
The meaning not ours, but found
In the mind deeply submissive
To the grammar of existence,
The syntax of the real;
So that alien is changed
To human, thing into thinking:
For the world’s bare tokens
We pay golden coin,
Stamped with the king’s image;
And poems are prophecy
Of a new heaven and earth,
A rumor of resurrection.
JAMES McAULEY


Stotts
TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
Stott’s renowned home-study courses
can raise your pay. Each course has
been prepared by highly-qualified
professionals. Stott's step-by-step in-
struction plus the personal tuition of
expert instructors will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
( 5 Accountancy
( ) Cost Accountancy
( ) Industrial Organisation
and Control
( ) Business Statistics
( ) Advertising
( ) Economics
( ) Secretaryship
( ) Business Admin.
( ) Salesmanship
( ) Sales Management
( ) Personnel
Management
( ) Commercial Law
Stott’s curriculum contains over 100
courses.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
! STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
| 157 Flinders Lane, Melb. 383 George St.,
Sydney. 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane. 45
! Gilles St., Adelaide. 1130 Hay St., Perth.
: Please send me your prospectus on
MR.
MRS.
MISS
ADDRESS.
AGE
I understand that no sales representative
will call on me. ii 166
BOOKHUNTER 4
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
The Devil and Martin Boyd
By CHARLES OSBORNE
Pay Of My Delight Martin Boyd. Lans-
downe. 455.
Dack in those innocent pre-Patrick
** White days just after the war (we
were innocent of him in Australia, at
any rate) I remember reading Martin
Boyd’s “Lucinda Brayford” and rather
liking it. I thought of the author as a
kindlier but less intelligent version of
Somerset Maugham, and was intrigued
to discover that he came from an old
Victorian family and had escaped to
England as soon as he decently could.
Almost immediately after, I got to know
the Melbourne Boyds, those wayward
charmers, and found that Uncle Martin
had either just returned to Victoria or
was just about to. Arthur Boyd, David
Boyd and John Perceval, who had mar-
ried Mary Boyd, were actively engaged
jn painting and potting at Murrumbeena,
but Martin Boyd buried him-
self in the country further
away from Melbourne at The
Grange, his mother’s child-
hood home. After a couple of
years he returned to Europe.
Now he lives in Rome,
whence he has issued his
Edwardian - style memoirs.
What is one to make of them?
They are not the memoirs
of a dedicated writer, and in-
deed Mr Boyd makes it clear
in his book that writing has
by no means been his entire
life. One has the impression
that he took it up as a gentle-
manly profession and that nowadays,
when novels are so sordid, he’s turned to
painting instead. What he has, in fact,
written is a charming and leisurely ac-
count of an ordered life, filled with a
bttle writing, a little travelling, a little
romantic infatuation with youth and a
good deal of sententious moralising. The
personality that emerges is, on balance,
a sympathetic one, though innately con-
servative.
Mr Boyd is, I fear, no elegant stylist.
His shaky syntax tumbles to the ground
® the first few pages (“. . . they all
seem to have had this impulse to find
truth in the beauty of nature, which if it
does not return to the artist, art will
■tself die in ridicule’’) and he appears to
think that “allergic” means the opposite
°t what it does mean. But this is part
°* His charm, as is his whopping lack of
self-knowledge. This latter quality is
hardly unexpected in one who almost
equates Freud with the Devil, but it is
somewhat amusing to find him on the
MARTIN BOYD
one hand congratulating himself on his
naturally rebellious temperament and on
the other being fiercely condemnatory
of scepticism in others. Though almost
all of his adult life has been spent abroad,
he thinks of himself as Australian, and it
is as such that he writes: “I do not think
it unfair to say that the worst Australian
characteristic is a reverence for money,
and for the artificial social distinctions
created by its possession in any quantity.”
It is not one of his personal char-
acteristics: his snobbism is distinctly
spiritual, like his love affairs. On his
return to Australia in 1948, Mr Boyd
was worried by what he called “an under-
current of Fascist feeling in Australia.
In 1950 there was, and still may be, a
secret association prepared to take
action if things went too far to the Left.
A man who belonged to it
told me that if there was any
trouble they were ready to
‘rope in every shade of pink’,
which meant any one with the
mildest ideas of social justice,
including probably myself.” It
would be nice to be assured
that he was talking nonsense,
though I myself have experi-
enced something of the ir-
rational fury of the disgrun-
tled stay-at-homes. But, to end
Mr Boyd’s Australian criticism
on a lighter note, there is his
story of de Madariaga in Aus-
tralia, praising some of the
local wines and thus provoking a letter to
a newspaper saying that we didn’t want
foreigners coming here teaching our
people to drink.
I ought, I suppose, to mention that
Mr Boyd spends his last chapters in that
saddest of pastimes, fulminating against
modern art, and making himself furious
to the point of incoherence. There was
a time when one could have made allow-
ances for him by remembering that he
is, after all, now in his seventies. But
today, when creative energy and open-
mindedness live on in so many people
of more advanced age than Mr Boyd,
it is harder to forgive. Better, then, to
accept it, and concentrate on his more
positive qualities. He had the courage
to be a pacifist in wartime Cambridge,
and the strength and decency of feeling
not to have forgotten Churchill’s criminal
destruction of Dresden. In fact, his
social conscience generally is in good
condition: he is much more heart than
bead, just like the theatre of today
which, strangely, he so detests. “Ai
nostri monti ritorneremo”, he sometimes
used to sing as he walked among the
Victorian hills, and his choice of Azu-
cena’s half-crazed, sentimental song of
yearning for the Biscayan hills tells us
something about Mr Boyd’s character:
he’s something of an old gipsy himself.
“There may be inconsistencies in what
I have written,” he says (there certainly
are!), “but one has conflicting impres-
sions.”
Understandably, one has conflicting
impressions about Martin Boyd. An
infuriating old gentleman, but I found
myself liking him at the end. I’ve
never disliked a Boyd yet.


Barry Humphries’
45 R.P.M. EXT. RECORD
BULLETIN RECORD
Chunder Down Under
is still available for only 10s. post-free. It has
two of the hits from the show "Excuse I"
the surfie's "The Old Pacific Sea" and the
skier's "Snow Complications".
Send 10s. (a cheque or postal note, not cash,
please) to "Bulletin Records", Box 7052, G.P.0.,
Sydney, together with the coupon and address
label below. (Records may also be purchased over
the counter from the Paper Sales Department, sth
floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
RECORD
RECORD ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name ....
Address
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
ORDER BULLETIN record
FORM Box 7052, G.P.O. Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price 10s. a copy
(post free). I enclose 10s. cheque/postal
note.
Name of sender
Address
State B
If more than one record is ordered,
attach list giving full name, address.
State and, if overseas, country.
The Harlot’s Life
SHORT STORY BY NANCY PHELAN
goodness’ sake stop,” her hus-
band said. “You'll make yourself
ill. What happened?”
“A man,” she sobbed. “I saw a
man . . .”
“Did he frighten you?”
“But not in the way you think.”
“I’m trying to understand,” he said.
“But if you won’t tell me . .
“I’m trying ... I’m trying to tell you
. . .” but she began to cry again, because
it was not just a matter of telling what
she had seen The horror was only part.
Shame must also be unloaded if she were
to find relief. And what would he think
of her? Laugh? Judge her insensitive?
Look uneasy in his well-bred way,
wondering what sort of mother he had
chosen for his children?
“Look,” he said. “This is our honey-
moon. We came out to enjoy ourselves.
Are you going to cry all the evening
over something you can’t even describe?”
“I’ll try,” she said again, for suddenly
it was important he should understand.
She said clumsily, “We were all ob-
sessed with sex at my school. We talked
about it all the time. Specially commercial
sex. Prostitutes. Well-brought-up girls
often do.”
“Darling! Is this going to be the story
of your life?”
“I'm trying to explain so you’ll under-
stand.” For he must know how sorry
she was, how ashamed; yet, without pre-
paration or skill, how communicate the
incommunicable?
“It’s not a joke,” she said, feebly
ploughing on. Books weren’t enough.
Harlots in literature didn’t count, were
not real. It was the real thing you wanted,
here in the flesh, on the street corner; at
close quarters, to be guessed about, stared
at, described, identified with. Only
ignorant innocence could breed such
curiosity.
“I didn’t even know the facts of life.”
Garbled snatches from other girls . . .
confused hints from servants . . . “ Don’t
tell your mother I told you. She said I
wasn’t to talk of these things.” Why did
no one explain, tell the truth? Who could
one ask, apart from those as uninformed
as oneself? Mother? Impossible. The
embarrassment! Please listen. Please be
patient, because it was this muddle that
bred one’s stupidity, one’s idiotic con-
ception of squalor, misery, poverty. Life!
Life was what you wanted to know
about; peering from railway carriages
into slum backyards, nervously skirting
dark alleys; but how, protected on every
side? Could that be a prostitute on the
corner? What was she thinking of? How
did she feel? How did she do her work?
What happened? What did it feel like?
How could you find out? Who to ask
. . . where to encounter the one who
could answer?
Life was the sloping attic roof, the
north light, cheap wine, la vie de
Boheme. “Goodnight, Julie; goodnight,
Yvette . . . any luck?” Coins changing
hands in the lamplight (was that how it
was done; or was it afterwards?). The
climb up the narrow stairs; the cigarette
smoke; Fifi on the landing below . . .
The innocent voyeuse. In but not of.
How otherwise, since reality kept its dis-
tance; or would it be truer to say reality
could not penetrate immaturity?
There had been occasional opportuni-
ties.
“Let’s go to the Pussycat Club. John
knows how to get in.” “We’ll have to
think up false names in case the police
. . .” “They raid it for gangsters and
prostitutes . . . dope . . . queers . .
The password; the dim, stuffy room;
the small dancing floor. Exorbitant prices
for drinks. The sense of dangerous living
stirred by habitues’ dull hostility to ob-
vious tourists. Then the thin, tired woman
in suit and felt hat; the haunted, unhappy,
dark-circled eyes.
“But how could she be? She’s dowdy.
Respectable.”
“Well, she is.”
“But she doesn’t look like a prostitute.
She’s not even young.”
“What did you expect them to look
like?”
“I don’t know . . .” But more excit-
ing, surely; more gaudy, flaunting, sexy.
Who would want so drab a creature, such
mousy hair, pallid cheeks?
“. . . like a Hollywood starlet, per-
haps?” ,
Confused by this worldly superiority,
“But she doesn’t look as though she . . .”
enjoyed it. “She doesn’t look very
happy.”
“Good God, what has she got to look
happy about? Do you really think these
women like what they do?”
“But . . .” But after all why be a pros-
titute if you didn’t? Why not a shopgirl
... a factory hand . . .?
“She doesn’t do it for fun. She’s got a
child to support in a convent and no
one to help her.”
“How do you know?”
“She told me when we were dancing.
And if it’s not true of her it is of others.
Wake up, my dear. There’s no glamor
in it, you know. It’s a hell of a life; sor-
did, squalid, hard, horrible.”
But the words had no meaning. Out-
side her experience. Nor could the thin,
dreary woman convince, for what of
traditional gaiety, champagne, diamonds,
furs, bulging bosoms, form-fitting sequin
dresses . . .? Far more acceptable the
exciting glimpses, safe little starings, con-
jectures, imaginings with sometimes a
bonus in passing . . . (Get out! / won’t
have you women in here! Get out or
I’ll call the police!)
Yes, she admitted, he had told her to
take a taxi; not to walk through that area
by herself. But the day had been so
mellow, benign, and she was so early.
Yes, he had told her . . . Yes, she knew
he had said the restaurant was in a bad
district: yes, it was her own fault . . •
“I did get a taxi,” she said. “But I


THE SCENIC DOME
ROUTE TO EUROPE!
'S*
/
RAIL AWAY THROUGH CANADA’S
MIGHTY ROCKIES-SEE BANFF, TOO!
On your way to Europe, take the Scenic Dome route through
Canada's Rockies aboard the “Canadian.” Stop-over in
Banff, take a side trip to Lake Louise! See all the wonder
of the Rockies through the tinted scenic dome! Enjoy the
“Canadian’s” unique cuisine, unsurpassed comfort! Your
travel agent has full details!
'4
(Incorporated in Canada. Liability of members is limited. ) Trains/Planes/Trucks/
Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete transportation system.
~W ;.
ass*!
m
m
m
was too early. I didn’t want to sit here
waiting by myself. I got out and walked.”
In the high, narrow street she paid off
the taxi, sauntered on in the mild even-
ing light, peering into alleyways, between
broken back fences. Out of the past came
the old fascination. This was a slum, if
you liked; a grey world of garbage and
ramshackle privies, drains and cabbage-
water, broken windows, newspaper
patches. Who lived in those dark, narrow
houses? Thugs? Perverts? Prostitutes?
Round the corner, into the next empty
street, idly, and into a distorting mirror.
The far corner duplicated her entry, step
by step her approach. A figure, tall, nar-
row. Blue seaman’s jersey, knitted tas-
selled cap. Why did she pause, impeded
by . . . what? Vibrations? Something;
something other than he was advancing.
Horror. Ice in the blood.
The walk. The walk! Knee joints too
high, half-way up the thigh; long robot
calves swinging forward, stiff, un-
real, terrifying. Why? Never mind why
. . . this was primitive, instinctive terror.
Draw back against the wall . . . Oh, God,
don’t let him touch me! The stalking
mechanical doll in the nightmare web . . .
Not that he spoke; not that he saw her.
The blank eyes had long since been
focused on hell.
In the closed, half-Asiatic face, know-
ledge of every sin, every horror. Gold
rings in dark, withered ears. Gold rings
on skeleton fingers. The dull gleam of
gold on black charnel skin. The hand in
the sarcophagus. She had never imagined
such beings; nothing beyond the health-
ier, noisier vices . . . drunken brawls,
screams, shouts, animal lusts. Now, as he
passed in his sleepwalker’s trance, she
received a psychic communication:
disease; perversion; death; corruption;
hell. Incarnate evil.
“But you say he didn’t speak . . . didn’t
even see you! Of course, he was drugged.”
“No. No, he didn’t. He didn’t have to.
But I saw . .
“But why on earth then? I mean, it’s
not as though he attacked . . .”
“But I saw ... I saw . . . Oh, God,
how horrible. Those poor women!”
“What women?”
It was the silence, the silence; the utter
lack of living vibration, of human contact.
Who could communicate with this cada-
ver? Who could have brought him into
the world? Who could have loved . . .
touched that mummified, black, wrinkled
day? He was death and corruption.
. Their utter lack of protection . . .
terrible isolation ... I never realised
' • •” If only he could understand, assume
s °me of her remorse, how she would
l°ve him. “We don’t understand ... we
tlon’t realise . . . our watertight world
He said soothingly,- -“Now, you just
sit here and I’ll get you a brandy. Don’t
worry; d °n;t move. We’ll have a quiet
drink here m the bar, then a nice dinner
and get home early. You’ll feel quite
different in the morning. Just stay here
and I’ll get the menu and wine card and
we’ll order. If you like we could eat in this
corner . . . It’s more private. How does
that sound?”
His eyes were full of concern; but for
her, only for her. Not a word had pene-
trated. She had communicated nothing.
She pulled away her hand and opened
her bag.
.. And; darli don - t . walk abollt these
places again b yourse|£ A|l ri ht? l
dor p t it »
~ , !
f he Brope ? ,nto her ba «’
“All right,” she said. “I won’t again.”
But she kept her eyes lowered to hide
disappointment and anger and sudden,
intense isolation. Then a flash of self-
knowledge ripped through her grief and
she hated him; oh, how she hated him.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
The Irony of It All!
OIR ROBERT MENZIES, the most Empire-minded of men, with an affection for
Britain that is deep and sincere, has led Australia out of pounds and into
dollars and not just in currency terms.
During his 16 years in office from
1949, and under an atmosphere created
by his governments, Australia’s links
with Britain on the economic and
business front have been steadily
whittled away. At the same time, those
with America have grown at what some
consider a startling rate. No longer is
Australian business oriented towards
London but, instead, towards New York.
All the areas of real and rapid
growth motor vehicles, mining, phar-
maceuticals, even construction are
dominated by American companies And
they earn far greater profits on their
. . . , n t-
investments here than the British.
Was this simply an accident? It seems
most unlikely. As Sir Robert told his
farewell Press conference, one of the
achievements he counts among his
greatest was the ANZUS pact an
arrangement that annoyed Britain im-
mensely and clearly indicated that Aus-
traiia considered the US to be its more
logical partner in this area than Britain.
It needs no Marxist interpretation of
history to see that this strategic move
to the US prepared the way for a deep-
ening of the business ties between the
two countries. Aggressive, dynamic, ex-
pansionary and energetic US companies
stepped up their interest in Australia.
They brought a new approach and
they brought money.
The Government policy towards this
massive inflow of US capital has always
been one of encouragement during Sir
Robert’s stewardship. He even sent Mr
Holt over to Washington last year to try
to break down President Johnson’s plans
to limit the US dollar outflow to coun-
tries like Australia.
Certainly it can be argued that there
were other factors at work to reduce the
strength of the British-Australian econ-
omic link. The British found more
interesting trading partners and so did
we, particularly in exporting to Japan.
And for a rapidly expanding country like
Australia to have to depend for most of
its capital requirements on a country
with such regular balance of payments
problems as Britain would have been
ridiculous. But there also seems no doubt
that the eagerness of the Government,
during Sir Robert’s 16 post-war years,
to encourage US capital without much
concern for such side-issues as local
participation in its ventures (or of the
long-term consequences in terms of own-
ership of Australian resources) hastened
the US dominance in Australia’s major
growth areas.
How Sir Robert combined this en-
thusiasm for US capital with his love for
UK traditions may emerge in his
memoirs. But he may well have been in-
fluenced by his pre-war nine-year spell
as a director in the Capel Court group
of companies, where Mr Staniforth
Ricketson has long held the view that
the tough business methods of the
Americans are far preferable to the
doubtful business morality of the City of
London. This is not the only irony in Sir
Robert’s period in office. In 1949 he
became Prime Minister largely because
Mr Chifley wanted to nationalise the
banks. He has retired as Prime Minister
with the banks more securely hog-tied by
the Government than Mr Chifley could
ever have dreamed possible.
Perhaps the greatest irony of all is
that Sir Robert’s policies in the business
and economic area (particularly in draw-
ing closer to the US) may have brought
far more long-term benefits to Australia
than some of his decisions in such fields
as foreign affairs, in which he was an
expert.
Iron Ore Principles
’T'he real question is not whether Mr
A McEwen should have rejected the
latest iron ore deal with the Japanese; it
is whether all the deals signed with the
Japanese steel industry should have been
stopped.
It is irrelevant that the price offered
for the ore, to which Mr McEwen objects,
is economic to the foreign-owned com-
panies that are digging it out of Aus-
tralia.
And it is depressing that the disagree-
ment at present going on between Mr
McEwen and the companies concerned
is only on price and not on principles.
It is curious that Australia should be
doing anything to improve the competi-
tive position of a rival steel producer.
But that is exactly what is happening as
a result of the huge long-term iron ore
supply contracts that are giving the
Japanese steel industry an even greater
edge in its export drive into Australia’s
prospective overseas steel markets.
The fact that Australia has not yet deve-
loped those international markets is, of
course, a national disgrace. It is unfair
to blame the BHP, as its physical and
managerial "skills have probably been
tested to the utmost in coping with the
huge expansion programme needed sim-
ply to meet Australia’s growing steel
demands.
But it is disappointing that the Federal
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the markets: Mining shares set a particularly brisk pace on all
Australian stock exchanges throughout the whole of last week, their well-
spread price increases forcing the sectional indexes to a series of fresh
peaks. In the light of such ebullience, most industrial issues, even the
leaders, loked rather becalmed and very much waiting upon the seasonal
stimulus of interim reports. A glowing report on beach sands, together with
high copper and tin prices, will keep metal shares up, yet profit-taking has
already put in an appearance . . . Wall Street is basking in an atmosphere
of praise since, for a brief moment on Tuesday, January 18, the Dow Jones
pierced the almost mystical 1000 barrier. The index has, according to
one enthusiast, galloped like a thoroughbred; the end-of-week downturn
apparently signals only a brief and mild decline . . . Grim comments from
the bank chairmen, Keynes’ erstwhile “twittering swallows”, tended to keep
London share markets careful.
For companies: There could be little complaint about most of last
week’s interim reports, although two steadfast earners at least raised
doubts on a uniformly successful stream. Carpet leader Minster faced
intensely competitive sales and its hitherto buoyant profit succumbed a
little to the pressure; the markets penalised the shares severely . . . Carlton
and United Brewery had to endure a marginal fall in profits in spite of a
small sales gain; a lift in excise duty is partly to blame . . . Peko-Wallsend
lifted dividend to an indicated 16 per cent annual rate after higher profits
from its copper, gold, coal and investment activities . . . On the other hand,
North Broken Hill reported lower revenue from lead, zinc and silver sales...
Investors took announcement of a £6 million debenture issue from Australian
Consolidated Industries comfortably in their stride.


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7k
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
7i*
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
6%
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
bk
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
7h
PER ANNUM 9 AND 10 YEARS
51%
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
41%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form referred
to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten &. Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambler,
NIN.2
Government should not have played a
positive role in starting a West Aus-
tralian steel industry, even at the cost of
importing foreign skills to do so.
The huge WA iron ore discoveries
mean an almost limitless supply of cheap
iron ore would be available for a local
steel industry relying on export markets
for the bulk of its sales. Of course, the
export market for steel is subject to all
sorts of pressures; it is now entering a
period of severely depressed prices.
But the fact remains that Australia’s
balance of payments stands to benefit
far more by the export of a ton of steel,
even at depressed prices, than of a ton
of iron ore. The employment that such
an industry would provide and the stimu-
lus it would be to industrial growth in
the west would be most significant.
The only possible justification for
exporting iron ore from the WA deposits
to a rival steel producer would be if
mining at the rate required by a big local
steelworks would not be enough on its
own to bring reasonable economics of
scale. And even then, the foreign cus-
tomer should have to pay through the
nose for it.
This iron ore issue is not a matter of
simply being concerned that Australia
is selling her resources too cheaply. It is a
case of Australia willingly cutting its
own throat as a potential exporter of
steel.
No Business Like . . .
fPHERE is nothing funny about the enter-
tainment business right now. Losses
by the live theatre companies, sharply
reduced profits by the established tele-
vision companies (and heavy losses by
the new ones), and evidence that things
are still tough in part of the picture
JCW's McCALLUM
TIVOLI'S MARTIN
Not much to smile about
theatre industry, confirm that last year
there was no business in show business.
J. C. Williamson Theatres Ltd has just
announced losses of £26,059 for last year
and Tivoli Circuit Australia Pty Ltd
ended the year £7826 in the red. Only
independent entrepreneurs like Harry M.
Miller seem to be making money.
The main trouble was a lack of pro-
duct to sell; the same problem that is
affecting the Greater Union Theatres-
Amalgamated Holdings picture theatre
group which is currently being thorough-
ly out-pictured by the rival Hoyts group.
Last week s report of a fall in profit by
its State Theatre in Sydney could be a
pointer to further profit falls in the
organisation.
The lack of good crowd-pulling shows
is underlined by the fact that, for the
first time in 50 years, the three big
“live” group Williamsons, the Tivoli
and the Carroll organisation have all
had to shut some of their theatres for
lengthy periods during the year.
The television companies are also suf-
fering from a lack of product or too
much demand, depending on how you
look at it. Ever since the Government
allotted the third commercial television
channel, the cost of buying programmes
has soared as four Australian networks
have been competing for the resources
of three major overseas feature film
outlets. And to add to these problems,
advertising revenue now has to be spread
over three instead of two capital city
networks.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
%
4
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK |
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
Applications for Debentures accepted only on the form
referred to in and attached to the printed prospectus
which is available from:
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
BRANCHES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
MA.226.NSW
Banking Systems in Transition
W. F. Crick surveys the British Commonwealth
By CROESUS
TF, as they frequently complain, Australia’s ‘Tree enterprise banks” feel inhibited
from playing a fuller role in the economy, they can comfort themselves that at
least in some other parts of the Commonwealth private banks are in much tighter
strait-jackets.
This may not be all that comforting,
of course, because most of the more
straitened operate in countries which
have only emerged to independent status
since the war.
What will interest local bankers
most in a reading of W. F. Crick’s
new tome, “Commonwealth Banking
Systems” (published by Oxford University
Press at $7.5G), will be to compare local
strictures on their operations with those
in member countries with sustained re-
cords of independence and where sophis-
tication of the financial machinery has
proceeded to the tune of modern indus-
trial development much as it has in
Australia. Unfortunately the field is
very limited.
If one excepts Britain itself (the
mother of so much other Commonwealth
banking practice), which is not examined
in this book, the only clear-cut candidate
for comparison with Australia is Canada.
New Zealand also has claims, at least
on the score of longevity and extrapola-
tion of British tradition, even if banking
there still lacks the fuller background of
industrial experience of Canada and
Australia. Again, South Africa, not in
the Commonwealth of course, but in-
cluded nonetheless because its banking
institutions still have a strong Common-
wealth flavor and the country itself is
still in the sterling area, offers useful
comparisons with banking controls and
practice here.
However, for a reader interested not
so much in the past as the present, even
the examination of banking in these three
countries falls short of expectations, be-
cause most of the chapters of what is
virtually a symposium (Crick has writ-
ten only one of them, the remainder
being by acknowledged banking experts
from the various countries themselves)
appear to have been ruled off two years
ago and only brief addenda have been
included to cover events since then. For
instance, there is only a brief reference
but no discussion on the report of the
Royal Commission on Banking in
Canada issued in April, 1964.
The historical flavor becomes ever
stronger in the chapters on many other
parts of the Commonwealth and in a lot
of cases threatens to get more so with
the passage of time in the persisting
climate of political change. Political dis-
turbance and disintegration are now as
much endemic to Commonwealth coun-
tries as to most other parts of the world*
if not more so. The unscrambling of
federations, the establishment of new
sovereign entities and the threats of
political dissolution in countries such as
Nigeria, which one imagined might re-
main stable, have become the order of
the day.
With all this going on it gets more
and more difficult for common bonds
between Commonwealth banking institu-
tions and practice to shine through; I
can’t help feeling that, in trying to pick
up the story where Professor Sayers left
off in 1952, Crick has to some extent
been a victim of wishful thinking. This
is not to say that the exercise has been
abortive by any means. As an intel-
lectual exercise, Crick’s own chapter on
the framework of inter-relations between
the various banking systems of the Com-
monwealth in transition (collapse, per-
haps?) is a masterpiece. So is R. F.
Holder’s account of the Australian sys-
tem, for its historical clarity as well as
its understanding of resolved and unre-
solved issues in the adaptation of banking
here to the sophisticating processes still
very much at work in our financial struc-
ture. When he takes up his pen to
interpret or comment on banking or
economics, Holder has few equals among
his fellows here.
One of the attractions both of his and
other accounts of banking in the book
is that they are prefaced by potted sum-
maries of local economic background. Of
particular interest also are the expositions
of the working of monetary policy in
the various countries, though in some
cases, that of Canada is an example,
the reader is taken on rather too long a
ride through the workings of official
policy over the years. Holder doesn’t
fall into this trap, but gets across a
faithful picture of the improvement in
monetary policy here in recent years
against the background of the more sen-
sitive financial machinery being de-
veloped. He even throws a few bouquets
at the Reserve Bank and is at pains not
to make too much of the private banks’
well-known grievances, such as on the
competition of fringe financiers.
All the authors attempt an assessment of
the role of central banks in their systems
and the broad picture comes out some-
thing like this. Only four of them are
depicted to have “old style” central
banks. In all four, Australia, Canada,
NZ and South Africa, these banks have
been modernised in form, substance and
modus opemndi; they now exercise
active but primarily regulative functions
vis-a-vis primarily private banking sys-
tems within frameworks of broadly ac-
cepted (by the private banks) government
policy. The picture is not so different in
some of the others, India, say, and
Pakistan, but in the latter the power of
the State Bank looks to be almost abso-


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JAMES RICHARD NORMAN SMITH, late
oi 65 Ferris Street, Annandale. TAKE NOTICE
Wat NOLA JOSEPHINE THERESE SMITH has
Med a Petition for dissolution of marriage
Wo - 4076 of 1965, on the grounds of desertion
and separation notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances as set out in a discretion state-
ment filed. If you wish to defend you may
e an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
etne Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, Aus-
on or before 14 March, 1966, and
otain a copy of the Petition, without charge
mom MESSRS ROY F. TURNER JONES &
Solicitors, 350 George Street, Sydney.
~~ c - A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Absolute Security
for every investor!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
si°?o
For 10 or 15 Years
Vo
For 7 Years
Principal and Half-Yearly Interest Payments are
Unconditionally Guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government
Cash Applications will be
accepted.
Conversion. Holders in Loans
Nos. 143 (4|%) and 290 (54%)
—both maturing Ist February,
1966 —and 60 (34%), maturing
Ist March, 1966, are invited to
convert to the new Loan.
Taxation Concessions. The
Loan is an approved security for
Trustees of Pension and Super-
annuation Funds entitled to
qualify for Taxation Concessions.
Trustee Security. An Author-
ised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
Invest or Convert Today at
any office of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited;
Bank of New South Wales; Com-
mercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited; English, Scot-
tish and Australian Bank Limi-
ted; Rural Bank of New South
Wales; through your Stock-
broker; or at the Board’s offices.
BMHiyWH!
Underwritten by A. C. GOODE & CO., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
29.722
lute from the account in the book and,
of course, private banks are the excep-
tion not the rule there (they can be
closed on an order by the State Bank,
which can delve into their books at will).
A common characteristic in most of
the systems is their growing interest in
satisfying the need for developmental
finance, as in our own case with the in-
stitution of the Term Fund, the expansion
of the Commonwealth Development
Bank and the mooted organisation to
mobilise institutional finance for devel-
opment under the main aegis of the
trading banks.
Our own highly developed banking sys-
tem, as with those of Canada, NZ and
South Africa, is shown to be in marked
contrast to that in a large number of
other Commonwealth countries, such as
Ghana, Nigeria, Jamaica, Cyprus, Cey-
lon, Malawi, Zambia and others. In
these the central bank has strong nominal
powers but the countries lack sufficiently
developed commercial banking for these
powers to be of much use. The primary
task in these countries is to stiffen com-
mercial banking, to promote a much more
widespread use of banking in their com-
munities and to create more favorable
background for the infusion of develop-
ment finance. In a word, monetary policy
has very little to work on in such
countries.
With its growing preoccupation with
monetary policy and the broadening pur-
poses of that concept, Crick (formerly
economic adviser to the Midland Bank)
thinks central banking is becoming much
more exciting than in the old days, say,
of Montague Norman. Central bankers
have spread their wings. The profession
is “no longer concentrated within a
tight little club of like-minded and com-
parably placed institutions”, he says.
More than that. Central bankers now
have to be “with it”. To make an
impression and do their duty, the likes
of Dr Coombs don’t have to wear beards
or ride about in hansom cabs after
dark. They are up to their necks in
economics, like the rest of us. If their
actions and reports don’t make sense they
Pretty quickly hear about it from
governments, the Press and even the
wan in the street.


Invest in
MSTRIAI ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
A
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
£
2
7% 4 YEARS
61% ....... 3 YEARS
61% 2 YEARS
•
5|% 12 MONTHS
FOR 5 YEARS
Prospectus and application form available from:
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z, BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of fhe Stock Exchange, Melbourne
MARKET POINTERS
It Pays to be Unpopular
By JASON
ANE of the best ways to make money in the stockmarket is to take the unpopular
” view at the right time.
One well-held opinion in the market at
present is that companies will be inclined
to hold their dividend rates steady this
year, rather than raise them, because of
the shortage of cash and the high cost
of borrowing. There could be a lot of
, , ~
money made by disagreeing.
But first, to get things in perspective,
it is true that cash is likely to be in even
shorter supply in the next few months
than at present. The seasonal shortage
of ready cash that comes with tax pay-
ments and pastoral considerations will be
worse this year than usual unless the
Res f ve Bank h , el P s out b y handing back
t 0 the tradm ® b *»nks some of their idle
money “ holds tn SRD
accounts. For the usual system of State
Government instrumentalities doubling
their rate of spending in the last three
months of the financial year will not be
followed this year for the first time, as a
result of a change in official policy.
Granted all that, the prospects are for.
an easing in this pressure after the middle
of the year. As a result, there seems every
chance that companies which have
hoarded their funds by paying out
only a tiny fraction of their profits in
dividends will be inclined to be a little
more generous with their shareholders.
A surprisingly large number increased,
their rate of dividend payments even in
money-hungry 1965. That proportion
seems certain to rise as things get easier
later on in 1966, particularly as the un-
certainties and uneasiness of last year
are resolved.
The moral for investors in this
situation is such a simple one that many
overlook it. Share prices are related to
dividends if dividends go up, so, as a
general rule, do share prices.
Which companies will be raising their
dividends in 1966? One group that
should provide a large number of pro-
spects is made up of those companies
which last year paid out only about one-
third or less of their profit in dividends
and retained the remainder to finance
their operations. Provided these com-
panies can keep up last year’s earning
rate and most should be able to do so,
despite an evident slowing down in the
rate of Australia’s economic advance
there should not be the same need for
them to keep so much of their profits
to themselves.
Companies in this category whose
dividends were covered more than three
times by 1965 profit include: ACO;
Bisley, Captain Products, Cascade Bre-
wery, Colbro, Consolidated Press, G. E.
Crane, Danks, Dwyers, Freighters, E. A.
Greenwood, Harden and Johnston, James
Hardie Asbestos, Hestia, Instrol,
Kolotex, R. W. Miller, Minerva Centre,
Philip Morris, National Properties, Nutt
and Muddle, Osti, Pongrass, Protector
Safety Industries, Pye, Shannons, R.
and N. Statham, Stegbar, Treloar, Wat-
kins, AUC, Ballarat TV, Bunny
Industries, Chamberlain, Clarke Rubber,
Consolidated Home Industries, Golden
Poultry, Hardware Holdings, Hopkins
Odium, Italiano Cheese, Siddons, Soft-
wood Holdings and Spotless Dry
Cleaning.
Many in that list are clearly
speculative. But there are some solid
leaders like James Hardie which could
provide good buying through the rights
to its share issue (which end this week),
and G. E. Crane, which seems to
be preparing itself for a generous
celebration in the next year or so.
Others worthy of special consideration
include Osti, Hestia and Kolotex for
those keen on this section of the market;
Colbro, which has an excellent record in
its short listed life as a butchers’ supplier,
Protector Safety Industries, and both
Bunny Industries and Softwood Holdings*


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
w%
GO
nr
>< UJ
GO >-
mo
J /
/o
m
NINE
YEARS
JL o
7
/o
TWELVE
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS .... 5%
90-179 DAYS 5V 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5V 4 %
270-360 DAYS 5V 4 %
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 614%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
SIX YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
NINE YEARS 7V 4 %
TWELVE YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact*
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
MAN ON THE LAND
Dumping American Wheat
US Policy v. Australian Markets
flow Australian primary producers can
permit themselves the luxury of
forever squabbling amongst themselves is
both puzzling and depressing. Compared
with the great majority of Australians,
they are, mostly, well off indeed and are,
in many ways, a pampered section of the
community.
There is, however, a development right
now in the United States which may
bring them to their senses. It is the John-
son Administration’s new four-year farm
compensatory payments programme.
To begin with, this programme has
been the most remarkable example of
“managed news” since that phrase was
invented during the Kennedy Adminis-
tration. All the wire services, all the major
news magazines, and most UK, Australian
and European observers have stressed
only one aspect of this programme—that
part dealing with food for under-deve-
loped nations. It is natural enough. One
writer follows another. The story builds
up as it goes along.
The accent on the arrangements for
distributing food to the poor nations at
once gives the programme an appearance
of great respectability. It also hides the
ominous threat of large-scale US dump-
ing of wheat, cotton and feed grains on
world markets.
One very observant writer in the US
has pointed out that there is only one real
barrier to dumping and that is that the
Johnson Administration may baulk at
the cost of the programme, if fully im-
plemented, to the US taxpayer. Yet it
seems undeniable that the door is now
open to dumping.
The International Wheat Agreement
■tself may be in grave jeopardy and the
Kennedy Round of tariff talks, on which
such hopes were pinned, may become
little more than a charade.
It is one of the paradoxes of the new
Programme that the overall cost initially
m ay be even higher, to the US taxpayer,
than keeping a percentage of farmland
ou t of production and farmers on what
Nay be termed relief payments for work
Ihey do not do. Even US observers very
dose to Washington admit that some sec-
h°ns of the new programme are baffling.
US Department of Agriculture experts
are said to be unable to explain some of
ihe ramifications themselves.
What matters to us is that the plan, if
Nlly implemented, will enable the US to
c aim to the world, in the Kennedy Round
aQ( I so on, that it is doing no more than
Su Pporting grains at the world price. In
Actual fact it will be in a position to
guarantee US farmers well over the world
price and will therefore be able to sell,
overseas, at well under the world price.
The difference will be made up, to the
farmer, by the US Government, which
has always, in the past, tried to avoid
marketing involvement itself and has con-
centrated on free market price supports.
The spirit of the new programme is
probably best indicated, if not fully
explained, in a recent US Government
statement on the usefulness of commodity
agreements by Mr Henry Brodie, special
assistant to the assistant secretary for
economic affairs. He said: “The United


*•*» ,-T. **##*#.
• e o
tor
X
\W
' ~ - «s&££
S
vt &
mm
TRIP?.
im
V
<z
iH
I
&
/r
SJs V
,A/' v V>/ ;>
of TREAT!
(EVINRUDE STYLE)
If weekend driving drives you to dis-
traction, try taking to the waterways
instead of crowded highways. Join the
privileged families who are seeing a
new world of adventure seeing
Australia at its best . . . from the
water! Give yourself a fresh outlook
on the world . . . beginning with
electric starting, pushbutton gear-
shifting and whisper-quiet "Evinrude"
power. Start today by coming in to
see the complete range of boating out-
fits at your "Evinrude" Dealers.
SEND FOR FREE
ILLUSTRATED
BROCHURE AND
LIST OF
AUTHORISED
“EVINRUDE”
DEALERS IN YOUR
STATE.
FIRST IN OUTBOARD MOTORS
EVINRUDE MOTORS Division of Outboard Marine
Australia Pty. Limited, 84 Canterbury Road, Banks*
town, N.S.W, Please send me free brochure.
NAME i
ADDRESS
..EM59A.10J
States Government is prepared to con-
sider sympathetically any reasonable
proposal for the improvement of com-
modity markets. We are prepared to
help develop and support agreements
which have the potential for dealing
effectively with the short-run and long-
term difficulties of particular commodities
important to the trade of the developing
countries”.
Then came a significant passage:
“Agreements cannot for long sustain
prices out of line with the underlying
forces of supply and demand, unless, as
in the case of the wheat agreement, the
producing countries are rich enough to
continue to hold burdensome stocks. If
the producing countries are weak and
poor, they cannot afford to hold ever-
growing stocks and the price range must
continuously be adjusted to accommodate
supply or the agreement will fall apart.
“Trie basic solution of tailoring pro-
duction, and not just exports, to world
demand has not yet been undertaken in
any agreement.
“To sum up, commodity agreements
can play a useful though limited role in
helping the developing nations with their
trade problems. However, they are
essentially an interim measure which pro-
vides the developing countries time to
come to grips with their underlying struc-
tural problems.”
Following this, the US Kennedy Round
agricultural negotiator, Mr Irwin Hedges,
issued another lengthy and equally am-
biguous statement, in which he said that
the United States policy was that any
world grains arrangement must hinge on
three principles:
® 1. The need for meaningful assurance
of access to the major commercial mar-
kets of the world and equal opportunity
for all to compete.
• 2. The need for all participants in
a world grains arrangement to accept
part of the burden and to share the re-
sponsibility for adjusting production and
managing the supplies moving into com-
mercial markets.
• 3. The need for all participants in
a world grains arrangement to share the
responsibility for feeding the hungry ol
the world.
Hedges noted that, while the US had
sharply reduced its acreage and used
much of its surpluses for aid pro-
grammes, at the same time “other
nations such as Canada and Australia
have increased acreage as well as yields”.
Let’s ask ourselves, honestly, how Aus-
tralia has fulfilled the three requirements
considered necessary by the US and
what the US view of our efforts might
be. From their point of view, which is
what matters, we might be accused of
falling down.
The International Federation of Agri-
cultural Producers^ —on which Australia
is represented by the NFU —is aware of
the likely outcome of the new-look
American policy. A recent IFAP meet-
ing in Rome urged prompt action on
world wheat trade problems “to avoid
possible chaos for both farmers and
consumers”. The meeting said that “in
view of the pending termination of the
present International Wheat Agreement,
and of the relatively slow progress on
cereals in the GATT and Kennedy
Round negotiations, there might be a
real danger that the valuable interna-
tional co-operative effort over the past
16 years to bring about a measure of
stability in world trade in wheat would
collapse”.
RESEARCH
Plough Shallow, Young Man
It gives higher yields
npHOUGH an older generation of farmers
would probably be somewhat shocked
by this contrary recommendation, recent
research findings indicate that under Aus-
tralian conditions shallow ploughing will
give higher yields than deeper tillage. For
instance, in a pot experiment in which
clover was the crop, yields averaged 4.4
grams per pot when the soil was stirred
to a depth of only one inch. In pots in
which the top two inches of soil was
mixed, the yield*vas 2.7 grams and only
1.8 grams when the pots contained a
mixture of soil to a depth of four inches.
The soil used for this experiment was
taken from a pasture paddock that had
been top-dressed fairly regularly with
superphosphate over many years.
The explanation of this important find-
ing is that the fertiliser had accumulated
near thg soil surface. When this phos-
phorus-rich layer was mixed with the
deeper soil, phosphate-binding com-
pounds in the sub-surface zone seized a
large part of the phosphorus and so the
plants could not make use of it. In most
Australian soils, applied phosphorus
divides into two fractions; one remains
free and, when in solution with water,
readily available for uptake by the plants,
but the other very soon becomes locked
on to certain soil particles and is conse-
quently beyond use by plants. After
years of supering, all the phosphate-
binding soil particles near the surface
have become satiated and much un-


Behind all Industry
there’s a Bank!
Ht
m
W-J
m
m
iipll
' .
V
itii&y
r> -V
-v
S«3
,4
- SB
«*'.-.
bss^p:
*- •
"■
4;
The C.B.C. serves almost every type of business
and industry: its modern banking services
have helped Australia for more than 130 years.
Perhaps the C.B.C. can help you, too!
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
attached phosphate collects there. When
this layer is mixed with deeper soil the
free phosphate is given a new opportun-
ity to come in contact with and marry
with the phosphorus-loving soil particles.
It is not just a simple case of mechanical
dilution of the phosphate by mixing. In-
deed this point was proved in the experi-
ment. The soluble phosphorus was
extracted from the mixed-up soil used in
the pots and much less was obtained than
the sum of that extracted from the separ-
ate layers of soil.
The build-up of free phosphate near
the top is a mixed blessing, of course.
Even this unbound fraction is available
to plants only when it is in solution. And
being near the surface it is more frequen-
tly immobilised temporarily as a result
of a dry spell than it would be at greater
depth. On the other hand, temporary
water-logging sometimes also causes
changes in the soil chemistry such that
more phosphorus is made unavailable in
some types of soils, but more available
in others. The valuable concentration of
phosphorus at the surface is also subject
to dissipation by erosion.
The experiment mentioned was per-
■*-formed by Dr Williams and Dr Simpson
of the CSIRO Division of Plant Industry
at Canberra. They proved the value of
“shallow ploughing” in quite a variety of
soils that had been under pasture. In-
cluded in their tests were a number of
podzols, a terra rossa, a krasnozem, and
a chocolate soil. In each case they found
that the availability of the phosphorus
was proportional to the depth of mixing.
However, this response was not obtained
when they mixed layers of a red-brown
earth taken from a cropping paddock.
Presumably, the previous regular culti-
vation of this field had already distrib-
uted the surface nutrients throughout the
plough zone. Shallow ploughing of regu-
larly cropped paddocks would, therefore,
seem to have nothing to commend it.
The time to plough lightly is when
ripping up an old pasture for renovation
°r for sowing a cash crop. For these
purposes the chisel plough may well be
an appropriate tool. It must be emphasi-
sed that the recommendation made here
1° plough shallowly is based only on pot
studies. In practice, light cultivation,
though perhaps conserving the fertility of
the soil, may fail to knock out the weeds;
this may be the sole intention in tearing
U P the pasture. Or it may not permit the
Proper growth of certain cash crops.
However, the research was prompted by
the frequent observation that when pas-
tures on the Southern Tablelands of New
houth Wales are torn up by normal
Ploughing and resown the new pasture
Stakes poor headway.


Tension in Tyres
By JOAN McCOLL
npHE odds were six to one against when a trotter called Unißoyal led the field home
•*- in Melbourne last week. Whether the Unißoyal tyre can do as well in the race
for sales in the highly competitive Australian tyre market is another matter.
But at least the odds look appropriate.
Unißoyal, whose £3 million factory at
South Salisbury in South Australia is
only now coming into full production,
is the sixth tyre maker to start up a local
plant. It picked a bad time to do so, for
it faces a competitive situation that
promises to get worse before it gets
better.
There is already over-capacity in the
industry and more is to be added; im-
ports are disturbingly high and are in-
creasing; competition to supply car
makers with tyres is severe and the
number of cars being made is falling.
True, the long-term trend looks clearly
one of continued growth. But there are
immediate problems for the tyre com-
panies that may mean some cheerless
interim reports to shareholders in the
next month or two. And hovering in the
background is the spectre of more US
moves into the industry by takeover,
partnership or simply coming here and
setting up shop in competition with
everyone else.
Not so long ago, four manufacturers
had the Australian motor-tyre industry
to themselves and were making a com-
fortable living out of it. But the calm
life has ended for those four —Goodyear,
Dunlop, Olympic and Hardie. In the
last couple of years two major US makers
have set up manufacturing plants in
Australia in conjunction with local com-
panies, and the prospects are that an-
other two could be on the way.
The two who have come are B. F.
Goodrich, in conjunction with Ampol
and Caltex, and US Rubber, whose Uni-
Royal tyre is being made by SA Rubber,
in which the US company has taken up
a 25 p.c. interest. The two who look
like coming are General Tire, which has
already established a marketing link with
Hardie Rubber, and Firestone, the num-
ber two company in the US which al-
ready occupies a dominant position in
the New Zealand market. These two
seem to be deciding when to jump in
rather than whether to do so.
So far the older tyre companies—
particularly the long-established big three,
Olympic, Dunlop and Goodyear—have
not yet noticed any impact by newr-
comer SA Rubber on their sales. They
have seen no evidence that Unißoyal has
broken into the initial equipment busi-
ness, but they expect to see them in a
small way when motor-vehicle produc-
tion picks up after the just-completed
Christmas break. And they say that
Unißoyal’s share of the replacement tyre
market is still very small indeed, as the
company is slowly building up its pro-
duction and distribution volume to its
capacity of 2300 tyres a day.
The tyre industry was competitive
enough from all accounts, even in the
prolonged motor boom when registrations
jumped from 345,000 in 1962-63 to
400,000 in 1963-64 and 421,000 fo
1964- But registrations for September-
November, 1965, of only 90,000 were
down 12 p.c. on 1964 corresponding
months. Motor-vehicle and tyre makers
hastily revised their estimates of the
1965- market to between 360,000 and
perhaps slightly less than 400,000 new
vehicles.
The very great excess in productive
capacity in the local tyre industry puts
the pressure on marketing. Tyre plants
are sticking close to the motor-vehicle
manufacturers in Melbourne, Sydney
and Adelaide, to chase the original
equipment business (it is vehicle pro-
ducers’ policy to have at least two tyre
suppliers) which has been making up
about one-third of tyre output in recent
years. So this business is spread around
all the tyre makers, and all are keen to
tender, even at very competitive prices
that involve slim profit margins, but
lower selling and handling costs.
With so much of the Australian motor
industry owned in the US, it seems likely
that US-controlled tyre companies in
Australia may at least have a foot in
the door with those car makers who
use their products back home. One repre-
sentative of the Australian-owned tyre
producers claimed some US tyre makers
think they have “a divine right” to the
same market share in Australia as they
enjoy at home.
In addition, to links of this kind
through its US Rubber affiliation, SA
Rubber already has very close associa-
tion with GMH. Its main products
for many years before moving into tyres
were rubber components for automotive
and appliance industries, and it is the
chief supplier of rubber for the Vic-
torian motor-body industry. With the
US company’s technical know-how',
patents and trademarks, it will present
formidable competition for the older
producers.
The remaining two-thirds of the tyre
market —replacement—is where the pro-
fit margins are higher (and where the
competition from imports is having a
serious impact on profits). Outlets are
the key to that part of the business, and
all the producing companies have their
own shops in one form or another.
Dunlop, Hardie, Olympic and Goodyear
each own retail tyre outlets, and Hardie
also has a dominant position at Golden
Fleece service stations, as both are
owned by H. C. Sleigh Ltd.
B. F. Goodrich has Ampol and Caltex
as partners in its Australian operations,
and consequently its tyres theoretically
take a dominant position in their service
stations. But there is often a big gap
between the theory and the practice, as
_ many service station managers prefer to
push whatever brand suits them best


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: KARL JOHANNES ISER, late of Neutral
Bay NSW. TAKE NOTICE that ANN ISER has
?ied a Petition for Divorce No. 4672 of 1965 on
the grounds of desertion and/or separation
notwithstanding the facts and circumstances
et out in the discretion statement filed here-
'n. If you wish to defend you may file an
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Build-
g, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
th day of March, 1966, and obtain a copy of
ne Petition and notice of petition without
cnarge from MESSRS GREGG MILNE & CO.,
licitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
u A ' H. HARMS, Registrar.
Invest in
XMB
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNUM
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applicotions for Debentures ond Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ‘WALES’ FOR DETAILS
ND.J6.N.
rather than the “linked” brand. For
there are no “tied houses” for tyres as
there are for petrol; you can order any
brand from any service station.
This question of outlets raises prob-
lems for newcomer Unißoyal, which has
only two retail points of its own in
Adelaide, and now must fight to get
into the service stations and the inde-
pendent tyre distributors. This need has
prompted some speculation over the
future of M. S. McLeod Ltd, Australia’s
biggest independent tyre distributor,
which is, coincidentally, headquartered
in South Australia.
The tyre industry, however, does not
face simply the problem of coping with
SA Rubber’s attempts to win itself a
share of the market. It also has to put
up with expansion in capacity from
existing makers. By this time next year
there will be another big increase in the
industry’s capacity, as Goodyear, which
has been making tyres at Granville
(NSW) for 39 years, and has recently
embarked on a considerable increase in
productive capacity there, has now de-
cided to build a £sm. tyre plant at
Thomastown (Vic.)
This follows the big developments at
Goodrich. The plant set up by B. F.
Goodrich (owned 41.8 p.c. by Ampol)
in 1960 established a daily output of
1100 tyres, which was more than doubled
in 1963. Last financial year, production
was unable to keep pace with demand,
and the company was importing some
types of Goodrich tyres from the US.
Plant and buildings are now being ex-
panded to give a daily capacity of 4000
tyres by July. It is going into “off-the-
road” tyres, as well as increasing its
present lines of passenger and truck
tyres.
In an attempt to lessen competition in
two States, Dunlop and Olympic some
time ago sought refuge in a mutual em-
brace, establishing tyre plants in Eliza-
beth (Tyre Makers South Australia Pty)
and in Perth (Westralian Tyre Makers
Pty) making both Olympic and Dunlop
brands.
The smallest and perhaps most vulner-
able of the tyre makers, Hardie Rubber
manufactures at Auburn (NSW), and
Yeronga (Qld) and has a small plant at
Guildford (WA) where it enjoys exclusive
preference for the first three years to
1966 in the supply of tyres and tubes to
Government departments and instru-
mentalities. It has over 120 United Tyre
Service stores, as well as Sleigh sales
avenues.
Hardie directors pleaded for orderly
marketing within the highly competitive
framework of our developing economy
in their 1965 report. They said until tyre
makers (and importers) increased prices,
it was difficult to envisage any profit
improvement.
fIN the other hand, the intense com-
petition within the industry does not
bring price-cutting the rubber com-
panies agreed to fix and police wholesale
and retail prices in all States. In 1964
two tyre retailing firms sued major
rubber companies for alleged restraint
of trade.
The Hardie, Dunlop and Olympic
diversification into general rubber pro-
ducts and plastics can insulate some
shocks from their bread-and-butter tyre
lines.
On top of all its other trials, the
industry is confronting competition from
imports—various brands from Japan, the
UK and US, Michelin from France,
Pirelli from Italy. Imports were about
7 p.c. of the tyre market in 1964, but
are variously estimated at between 12
and 15 p.c. of the present market. The
value of tyre and tube imports has
jumped by seven times from £l.4m. in
1958-59 to £9.7m. in 1964-65.
The problem is bringing increasing
pressure for tariff protection, especially
as imported tyres may retail at 10-15
p.c. below locally made tyres. Local pro-
ducers say the imports, particularly from
Japan, are of popular sizes, to the capital
cities, where the volume of the profit is.
Australian tyre makers must achieve wide
distribution to even the remotest parts
of the country, and sell at a uniform
price. They also have to provide ser-
vice—they have to live with their cus-
tomers. The foreign exporting companies
have hardly any warehouse or distribu-
tion and service costs.
One reason for the higher cost of
locally made tyres is that Australian pro-
duction of synthetic rubber (used for all
passenger car tyres) and of rayon and
nylon tyre cord (most tyres are of rayon,
but nylon’s share is growing) is protected
bv tariff duties. Australian tyre pro-
ducers must pay above world parity
prices for their major raw materials and,
compounded with our wage structure,
are at a cost disadvantage compared with
overseas producers.
Another plank in the local tyre indus-
try’s defence is that it can claim to be
a rara avis in that, since 1956, tyre
prices in all grades have been progres-
sively reduced.
The most important thing about the
problems facing the tyre industry is that
none of them is insoluble. The central
problem of excess capacity—a situation
that exists whenever large new factories
are built —will be gradually whittled
away as demand inevitably rises. The big
question that remains is how long will it
take.


ANSETT
TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
£1,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
sm>
10 YEARS
Bi%
7 YEARS
8%
5 YEARS
UNDERWRITERS
• lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
• AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LTD.
Applications can be accepted only on the
printed form attached to the Prospectus, which can
be obtained from any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or any office of Ansett Transport
Industries Ltd. or its subsidiaries, or from any
branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd.
or the Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
or the Joint Underwriters, lan Potter & Co.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
44 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Alinga St., CANBERRA, A.C.T.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LTD.
489 Swanston Street, Melbourne. C.l
(P.O. Box 1629 M) Phone 34-0401
Please send me a copy of your 84% Prospectus.
NAME , ADDRESS
STATE vas9i/a4N/n
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: HAZIM DZUHERIC. TAKE NOTICE that
ELIZABETH DZUHERIC has filed a petition
for divorce No. 2225 of 1965 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 10th day of March,
1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition from
SHAW MCDONALD & CO., Solicitors, of 11
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHANN WILLIBR AND LERCH. TAKE
NOTICE that ROSALIA LERCH has filed a
Petition No. 3802 of 1965 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce Regis-
try, Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before February 21, 1966. A copy
of the Petition may be obtained without
charge from MESSRS WOODGATE ROURKE
& CO., Solicitors. 32 Bolton Street, Newcastle,
or from their Sydney Agents MESSRS PIGOTT,
STINSON & CO., Solicitors, 39 Hunter Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Five Years’ Remarkable Growth
How will Philip Morris finance expansion?
IYhilip Morris (Australia) Ltd en-
* tered the Australian cigarette market
about the same time as Rothmans and re-
ported its first profit in 1956/7— a year
before Rothmans. Strangely enough,
Philip Morris’ profitability ratios showed
a downturn from 1958/9 to 1960/1,
while Rothmans’ ratios still moved up-
wards. However, since that year, there
can be little doubt that Philip Morris has
forged ahead at quite a remarkable rate.
Using the 1960/1 year as a base, the
indices of adjusted per share earnings
and dividends appear as follows:
EARNING'S
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1955
Philip Morris 100 146 212 274 w
Rothmans 100 98 104 109 130
DIVIDENDS
Philip Morris 100 -133 150 167 lfw
Rothmans 100 120 137 137
As with all such series, tlie base year
is a critical factor; the choice of 1960/1
is favorable to Philip Morris (since it
happens to be a low point in the earnings
series) and unfavorable to Rothmans
(since it seems to be a high year in the
earnings series). Yet there is no doubt
that, over the last five years, Philip
Morris has a superior record to
Rothmans.
The trend in dividends per share does
not seem quite as favorable to Philip
Morris, but it must be remembered that
the whole of the increase arises from
increases in the rates of dividend for
Philip Morris as no new issues of capital
have been made since listing. In the case
of Rothmans, the whole of the increase
arises from the “bonus content” of two
cash issues; the dividend rate was the
same at the end of the series as it was
at the beginning and was, in fact, re-
duced in the second year (1961/2). One
tends to have more confidence in the
continuation of a rising dividend rate
policy (all other things being equal, such
as increasing per share earnings) than
in the continuation, on a regular basis,
of cash issues to shareholders.
It seems likely from the information
available on total sales (which is rather
suspect because it is based on a rather
small sample) that Philip Morris’ share
of the market increased by about 50 p.c.
in the last three years, while earnings in-
creased by 165 p.c. The importance of
volume is indicated very clearly by these
figures.
From the 1965 directors’ report, it


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Tear to June 30
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
1661
1941
2173
3032
3994
Current liabilities
359
459
535
991
1468
Net working capital
1302
1482
1638
2041
2526
Fixed assets
724
7 25
726
882
1173
Investments
200
150
125
—
—
Total capital
Represented by
2226
2357
2488
2923
3699
Loan capital
—
—
—
10
265
Ordinary capital
1700
1700
1700
1700
1700
Reserves
526
657
788
1213
1734
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Investment income
13
9
6
6
—
Depreciation
58
71
95
105
160
Tax provision
120
174
250
368
516
Earnings
184
269
389
504
710
Dividends
102
136
153
170
187
Surplus
82
133
236
334
523
Earning rate %
10.8
15.8
22.9
29.7
41 8
Dividend rate %
6.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
11.0
Dividend< yield %
5.4
5.7
5.1
4.6
4.1
High price (b)
24/6
32/6
41/8
50/9
60/-
Low price (b) .
19/9
23/6
29/3
36/6
46/6
(a) Based on the average
low prices.
(b) Calendar year.
of the
year's high
and
a ppears that the company is about to
increase its coverage in New South Wales
and Queensland, for office and warehouse
buildings have been acquired in Bris-
bane and land has been purchased in
Sydney to erect warehouses and offices.
Capital commitments outstanding as at
June 30, 1965, amounted to £llO,OOO
approximately; as retained profits and
depreciation amounted to about
£683,000 in 1964/5, it is apparent that
the company will have no difficulty in
financing its fixed assets expansion in-
ternally. The problem of financing in-
creasing current assets is a far larger
one. Over the last five years, the annual
increase in stocks and debtors have pro-
ceeded as follows:
Year to £'ooo
June 30 Stocks Debtors Total
1961 99 127 226
1962 290 (10) 280
1963 278 54 332
1964 697 62 759
1965 774 188 962
From 1960 to 1964, the company had
funds available from its investments in
short-term deposits; these have now dis-
appeared and in 1964/5 “other creditors”
increased by about £343,000 to £405,000
and a short-term loan of £255,000 was
obtained. The total of these two amounts
clearly only went part of the way to
financing the large increases in stocks
and debtors and, as bank overdraft and
trade creditors were actually reduced,
the balance of the financing was evi-
dently provided by shareholders’ funds.
ThiE interesting question is how will
the company continue to finance its
expansion? Perhaps the company’s
bankers could be persuaded to increase
the overdraft limit. Although it is no sure
measure of overdraft facilities, it is
noticeable that as at June 30, 1965, Roth-
mans’ balance sheet figures for overdraft
at £2.1 million represented about 124 p.c.
of stock and debtors at book values while
Philip Morris’ overdraft at £306,000 was
only about 7i p.c. of stock and debtors.
I would certainly expect the financing to
be short-term to match the assets which
are also short-term, but there can be
no doubt that the American parent com-
pany will make the decision as to the
form that any fixed interest financing
will take. A further share issue seems
unlikely at this stage and it remains to
be seen whether or not future dividend
distributions will be limited to increase
retained profits. The tobacco companies
generally seem to expect that at some
time in the future the Commonwealth’s
scheme to promote tobacco-growing will
be modified and the new arrangements
will include some plan to assist tobacco
companies with the financing of the local
tobacco crop.
I like income comparisons. If we
assume that Rothmans’ earnings and divi-
dends per share will only grow at 3 p.c.
per annum compound in the future, then
the effective return from dividends at
current prices would be 9i p.c. approxi-
mately. If we assume that Philip Morris’
earnings will increase at the same rate
but that the dividend rate will be in-
creased until the payout becomes 50 p.c.
of earnings (same as Rothmans), the
growth in dividends per share will be
about 9 p.c. per annum compound for
the next ten years. To get a precisely
equal yield, the investor could not pay
more than 565., at the present time, for
Philip Morris shares.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 883
ACROSS
I—A Gilbertian race for rams and billy-goats? (9)
s—lf following the epigram theme. (5)
B—Legging caper to make ma go bad. (7)
10—Othello surrounds a louse to be one of the pupils
helping teacher. (7)
—Tormented in the Sahara’s sedatives. (8)
12—Issuing invitations as ruler. (6)
15—Imaginary express? (5, 2,7)
18—Check for bricklaying materials-which are sent to
ballast weakened forces. (14)
20—Be first to testify it’s an
animal with a beard. (6)
22—Cruelly pull the seaman
down and under and up. (4,
4)
24—Rough treatment during an
incident at strip-poker? (3, 4)
26 When to take cha. (7)
27 Ensemble ill-equipped for
trawling. (5)
28— Obstruct it with one’s voices.
(9)
DOWN
1— Shells the VlP’s. (8)
2 Asian emperor in a more
domesticated way. (9)
3 You wouldn’t get it in 24-
across at 26-across. (6, 4)
4 Carnivore turned up with
mother. (4)
5 Our kind staff. (3)
6 When everybody plays the
very dead pharaoh and turns
it up. (5)
7 Refrain from claiming in
favour of self-belief and self-
assertiveness. (6)
9—Sound resemblance as some
child to the distressed ances-
tress. (9)
13— Masque all composed in little
scales. (9)
14— Hetty the Elegant is in town.
(10)
16— European one born in late
March or early April is
lynched. (9)
17— The corresponding after-
thought changes volumes of
religious texts for singing. (8)
19—Fairy decoration given to
Ronald. (6)
21—Wanly corrected this boy’s
■ name. (5)
23—Mace society having the
bludgeon suit. (4)
25—Newt left without 50. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 882


No. of
Name of
Date
Cost
Per
Cur-
rent
Shares
Company
Bought
Share
Price
400
Pongrass
15/9/65
11/-
10/6
5/'
19/-
28/6
12/2
3/2
19/9
19/-
31/;
5/9
22/-
40/'
7/'
200
VAM
28/9/65
5/-
200
Tyree
27/10 65
19/-
200
Malleys
18/11/65
28/-
400
Kolotex
24/11/65
12/6
1000
L. J. Hooker
24/11/65
3/1
400
Peko Wallsend
6/12/65
17/6
400
Kathleen Inv. new
14/12/65
18/-
200
Associated Pulp
5/1/66
30/-
500
Petersville
13/1/66
5/6
200
Mt Morgan
13/1/66
20/9
100
Tableland
20/1/66
40/-
400
Tennyson Textile
20'1/66
7/-
GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
VSSJfc
• Debenture Stock
(Second Series)
UP TO
L 5-10 YEARS
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog*
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
Of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters: lan Potter ft Co.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
SPECULATORS DIARY
The Markets a Decade Ago
And present excursions into mining
T AM generally so preoccupied with the present market that I tend to forget the
tremendous changes that have taken place in the last decade.
This week I happened to come across
a November, 1954, Stock Exchange
Gazette —a time when I had not long
been out of short pants. The usual line
of company reports occurred at the be-
ginning, but a good half of them from
companies not listed today—Kraft Hold-
ings, Lincoln Mills (Aust.) Ltd, Poole
and Steel Ltd, Grocery and General
Ltd, and Colliers Interstate Transport.
On to the Stock Exchange index page,
where I discovered the then current
index was 179. A little further on was
the fixed interest securities list, which
occupied only three pages compared with
the nine of today. In the ordinary lists
(then classified) the most conspicuous
figure was the size of the share capital
(conspicuous because of subsequent in-
creases). BHP then had a capital of only
£26,633,000, against the present
£121,057,000 (almost a fivefold in-
crease). Seeking for the extreme, I
found it with L. J. Hooker: from a
meagre £104,000, the issued capital has
since risen to £5,452,000.
Mind you, the changes in market
capitalisation in some of our mining
companies in the last couple of years
must almost equal this performance. In
this matter, even the last week has made
its contribution. Although I haven’t got
the star performer, King Island Schee-
lite, three of my mining stocks were up
Is. in price. In fact, now that NAUC
is at Bs. 9d., I’m easing myself out with
a pleasing £35 profit. Originally, I’d
bought the shares to participate in any
rise in the wolfram price. As it turned
out, wolfram did go up substantially, but
a fall in KlS’s production of wolfram
and tin has kept the share price down
until this week.
My earlier expectation of a fall in the
world tin price was not to be. It has
now recovered to above £stgl4oo, with
the result that tin shares are looking
more healthy. Of the several listed tin
shares, I’m afraid I resorted to the one
most familiar to this column, Tableland
Tin.
However, before Tableland’s profit is
announced, I shall be well out of them.
All I want is a price rise to 45s. My
100 shares cost 40s. each.
It seems to be the 1966 pattern to buy
one mining stock and one industrial stock
each week. This week the industrial
stock was Tennyson Textile. From a
height of 9s. 3d. last year the shares
are back to 7s. — just twice the par value
of 3s. 6d.
Why should the shares be so weak?
Perhaps it was the note of caution in the
annual report that sales for the first four
months of the current year approximate
those of the corresponding period last
year. Thus there is the possibility that
current profits might only be steady after
several years of rapidly rising profits.
Yet a pause in the very steep uptrend in
profits is only to be expected. Last year,
adjusted profits were up 33 p.c. and
earning rate was touching 40 p.c. So if
profits did remain steady this year, earn-
ings yield would continue to be 20 p.c.
If Tennyson Textile was dependent on
one segment of the textile industry, then
this high yield might be understandable.
However, its textile activities are very
widespread. Also, the group is a major
distributor of dress and furnishing fabrics,
these materials coming from both local
and overseas producers. Buying 400
shares at 7s. won’t make too great an
impact on the account.
Late sales this week were the 300
Stocks and Holdings at 13s. and the
200 Australian Bacon at 14s. 6d. Both
helped to replenish the kitty; the Aus-
tralian Bacon also contributed £19 to
the profit account. Depleting the kitty
was the £200 application money due on
Kathleen Investments.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 NAUC, 8/9 £212
300 Stocks & Holdings, 13/- .... £191
200 Aust. Bacon, 14/6 £142
BOUGHT
100 Tableland Tin, 40/- £205
400 Tennyson, 7/- £143
Still in debit to the amount of £54.
A thought has crossed my mind that by
this time next month Australia will be
swamped with dollar millionaires!
The portfolio now comprises:


m
am
rm
m
at
is**
PEGASUS-
a major breakthrough in aero power
Vertical take-off and forward flight from the same engine
Powers the world’s first operational V/STOL strike aircraft
Powers the world’s first jet V/STOL transport
VERTICAL take-off isn’t new. Helicopters
have been doing it for years.
But vertical take-off combined with near
supersonic speed from a single
engine is an achievement a
Bristol Siddeley achievement.
Pegasus is the engine, a vectored-thrust
turbofan that makes the Hawker Siddeley
P 1127 V/STOL strike aircraft so manoeuvr-
able it can dance on air.
The tactical possibilities are enormous. An
aircraft equipped with Pegasus
is immediately endowed
with flexibility, mobility and
surprise—three indispensable elements in
combat.
Applications of the Pegasus are not con-
fined to single-engined aircraft. Two Pegasus
engines, partnered by pure lift engines, also
power the Dornier DO 31, the world’s first
jet V/STOL transport.
Bristol Siddeley Engines Limited. Executive
Headquarters: Mercury House, 195 Knights-
bridge, London SW7, England.
Bristol Siddeley supply the power


Vn
m
i
bss
.
■
(S'
o
>*
vm
■ Jo |
«
'fc
*
*
-t*.
,; —
3>4
:v-
-w*
’*<■+
•*€r
' tb,
je
* A>
* ■•
Ss,
w*
•"
. (T
- V
»v
-
Now’s the time!
Get a N°l buy
on the N°l car!
Who’s having more fun these days? New Holden owners, that’s who! People who’ve already
discovered how beautifully Holden’s built for the good times. There’s that sleek, trend-
setting style, for instance. Curved to give you the kind of lively looks outside and spacious
comfort inside no other wagon near the price can match. Up front, 5 inches more shoulder
room than before. Out back, a bigger-than-ever load area and 7 ft. 2 1 2 inches of sleeping space.
Then there’s that special Holden brand of driving excitement from engines up to the fiery 140-hp
twin carburettor X 2. And a great range of such high-
performance options as disc brakes and Powerglide
automatic transmission. Small wonder it’s taking
over! Why not team up with the lively look yourself
at your Holden Dealer’s right now.
General Motors-Holden’s
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
Station Sedans from £960 plus tax
