

The Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
MAY 7, 1966
hh
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $1, Malaysia $1


You know
what you are buying
m
- with a Falcon
«£/ 24
’/a
3!
Best blend of action, thrift and handling-ease on the road!
...“lively, more agile...more solid...surefooted”*
*. . . That’s the praise given to Falcon by the experts of
“Wheels”, top ranking Australian automotive magazine
after the most exhaustive road tests possible.
Falcon’s combination of power, economy and driving
ease is still unmatched by any car near its price.
This is expert assurance that you know what you are
getting when you choose the Falcon —still the best built,
best riding, best performing car for your money!
Test-drive Falcon today. Australia’s ‘Car of the Year’.
From $2140 (£1070), tax paid. At your Ford Dealer.
Best year yet to go Ford
ĥ


HOW TO RECOGNISE THE COONAWARRA ESTATE VINTAGE WINES
A
WYNN
ESTATE
WINE
ħ
TRALSt
h
A
SQouGtX
&4uStmUoy
:\ 2S^
37°
a
COONAWARRA
SkT
0 25 50
I»■ I IHi
ICAUINMU£S
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra Estate.
The vintage wines are
HERMITAGE Vintage 1962
CABERNET Vintage 1959
RIESLING Vintage 1965.
#•
ĥ
The Coonawarra Estate
Vintage label denotes the
best wine of the district for the
particular year.
Like all the truly great wines
of the world, Coonawarra
Estate Vintage wines should be
treated with due respect and
reserved for those occasions
that call for the best.
Estate wines of
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ħ
m
□□
Kit
C6l
LETTERS
People the North
Sir,
Larry Foley plays a fine Oliver for
the People the North Movement, wielding
his bottomless bowl with great humility.
(8., April 23). His alliterative laceration
of my article on northern development
accuses me of misconception, misinforma-
tion, and misinterpretation. However, he
fails to establish that the many huge de-
velopmental projects I listed have not
been completed, or that I attacked People
the North. That movement has brought
down at least three Federal members
indirectly or directly since 1959, and will
certainly shake up a lot of Federal think-
ing this year. Again I ask my question:
What 'Case has North Queensland for
more money for development in prefer-
ence to any other part of Australia? There
has been colossal development in the
north, ranging from the establishment of a
university, a CSIRO research group, and
an Army battle group in Townsville alone
to four storage dams.
People the North will do more for the
north telling the world what is being
achieved by private enterprise there than
by selling the north short crying “wolf”
about all sorts of things which have
nothing to do with the Federal Govern-
ment.
CLIFF CALDER
Kew (Vic.).
The Opera House
Sir,
I refer to the article “Who are the
Guilty Men?” by Michael Baume (8.,
April 2), in particular the second para-
graph. To the best of my knowledge
no other Plywood company has been
offered the opportunity of working in
collaboration with the Opera House
architect although approaches were made
by a group who believed, from the
meagre information that was made avail-
able, that they could carry out the work
required.
As far as the matter of delivery by
water transport is concerned, surely this
is a simple administrative function. This
company, located on the Parramatta
River with a wharf at Mortlake, has often
quoted for delivery of large scarf-jointed
sheets by water transport, but finally the
method was found not to be expedient.
In a telephone conversation with Mr.
Baume he said it was reported that large
CONTENTS
Shield of the Pacific 18
One More Week 26
Batman 33
Ross Campbell 36
Cellarmaster 37
Overseas 39
Arts and Entertainment 45
Books 50
Business & Finance 58
Man on the Land 75


■
■
*
Jibs****'*'
To go where you want
When you want, and fast
m
rSss*
■
•ifvrv^
H
:
■
m
►rSBHHHFi ,«
- jt - ~sM
f«*- • -'' . aHHBR
•' ’ *' ........ ;
1
Your own 125 business jet makes business sense
How soon can you be with a customer 1,000
miles away, starting from your factory gates?
Scheduled airline services will fly you quickly,
in the big jets. But you have to abide by their
timetables (and you have to fight all the way
to a major airport).
A private piston aircraft will fly you direct, but
only at speeds around 200-mph.
Your own Hawker Siddeley 125 business jet
will carry you—and 5-7 colleagues—the whole
way in just over 2 hours. You travel in luxury—
standing headroom in the aisle, seating a
boardroom could envy. Your pilot has every aid
to take him in and out of the world's biggest
airports (or the smallest), and proven power
from two Bristol Siddeley Viper engines.
The 125 is a tool of modern commerce. For-
ward-looking firms, all over the world, have
already placed their orders with Hawker
Siddeley—the only manufacturer with exper-
ience of both business aircraft and jet airliners.
If you want to look into the business sense of
the 125 (and if you don't now, you could be
kicking yourself in five years' time) write to us
for the book of the 125.
*e>
125
HAWKER SIDDELEY
BUSINESS JET
1 3
Hawker Siddeley Aviation, Richmond Road, Kingston-upon-Thames, Surrey. Telephone: Kingston 7741
Hawker Siddeley Group supplies mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service.
Represented in Australia by: Hawker Siddeley International (N.Z.) Ltd., Wellington, New Zealand*


Men
She’s a data processing specialist
(and just a typist).
Typing skills are ail she needs
to use FLEXOWRITER* automatic
writing machine by Friden.
With this machine, a girl can
capture data on edge-punched
cards, or punched paper tapes.
These cards or tapes automat-
ically type business documents:
sales orders, invoices, purchase
orders, etc.; paperwork jobs that
cost so much to do manually.
By-product tapes are available,
too. While she prepares individ-
ual purchase orders, for example,
a tape is created that automatic-
ally reads out a purchase com-
mitment report at the end of the
day. This Is automation that’s
easy to operate, inexpensive to
own.
Call us for complete Informa-
tion and a demonstration of
FLEXOWRITER automatic writing
machine by Friden.
h
The automatic writing machine by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
254 ALBERT STREET, EAST MELBOURNE, 41 1133
ĥ
ħ
sheets produced by the scarf-jointing sys-
tem were not acceptable to the architect,
due to gaps, and that he had specified
panels pressed in one unit with no joints.
This completely overlooks, of course, the
fact that apertures may occur in giant-size
sheets, even if veneers are laid up with
the utmost care.
Jumbo or large-size sheets, scarfed from
the standard-size sheets, can be produced
to almost exact dimension without waste,
and the scarf joint (particularly where
denser species are used) can be proven to
be, in most cases, at least as strong as
the single sheets constructed of lesser
density species veneers. However, the
plywood panels sought initially would
seem to be moulded to shape and the
pros and cons of giant-size plywoods and
scarf-jointed jumbo sheets are not neces-
sarily pertinent in this issue.
W. C. L. BADGE,
Manager, N.S.W.
Hancock Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Concord (N.S.W.).
MICHAEL BAUME writes: Whether or
not scarf-jointed plywood panels are as
good as those without joints is a matter for
Mr. Badge to debate with Mr. Peter Hall,
not me. I simply stated that Mr. Utzon
required panels with no joins and that
Ralph Symonds Ltd. were the only people
who could supply them.
S. F. Convention
Sir,
My enjoyment of Mr. Charles Higham’s
report on the Seventh Australian Science
Fiction Convention (8., April 23) was
marred by what I must describe as a most
unfortunate error: not, I am sure, on the
part of Mr. Higham, but on the part of
an informant. A Bertram Chandler is
described as “a worker on a ship.” Doubt-
less he does work on his ship, but the
phrase is hardly one which is applied to
the captain. The other minor error is
easily corrected: Dick Jenssen, who lec-
tured at the University of Wisconsin, is a
meteorology lecturer. These minor
blemishes, which are so obviously not the
fault of Mr. Higham, have spoiled a re-
port of which the committee of the con-
vention would certainly be proud.
JOHN FOYSTER
Drouin (Vic.)
Fluoridation
Sir,
Whom would D. Hewitt (8., April 23)
nominate to consider the long-term effects
of fluoridation—the Australian League of
Rights? After 20 years of the most
researched public health measure in
human endeavor there is not a reputable
scientific body in the world which does
not support it in principle and vouch for
its safety.
The naivety of his argument does,
however, point up a very real problem
of which fluoridation is, perhaps, the best
example; namely the lack of communica-
tion between the scientific world and the
general public. It has been well said
that what is most needed is not more
research, but the application of knowledge


h
one in a series of case histories of Goodyear reliability in industry. ..
WE WAITED
■I
TO BRING YOU THIS STORY
mm
\ M
m
. •; y
**
* *■
pi
i
-•m;
■ r -.
X.
CASE HISTORY 1
In 1951, that’s 15 years ago, a set of
six Goodyear Clos multi V-belts was
installed to drive the No. 8 Circular
Saw at a large firm of Sydney Timber
Merchants, Vanderfield & Reid Ltd.
Operating at 950 R.P.M. from a 35
H.P. motor, the V-belts drive from
an BV2 O.D. pulley to one 13% O.D.
The saw operates, on the average, 6
hours a day, 5 days a week. That
means that these Goodyear V-belts
have worked about 22,500 hours over
15 years. So that’s a long time. So
they’re Goodyear belts. They’re made
to take it.
With reliable performance like this,
it’s no wonder that this firm insists on
all Goodyear rubber products.
CASE HISTORY 2
At the North Melbourne Bedford St.
plant of Metropolitan Refrigerated
Services Pty. Limited, Goodyear Green
Seal V-belts are giving maximum
trouble-free hours at minimum cost.
Eleven D 270 Goodyear Green Seal
V-belts have been operating in the
freezer and stores side of the plant
for 10 years. The compressor is an
80 ton twin cylinder 11 in. x 11 in.
Werner. It works approximately 112
hours every week of the year.
Six D 240 Goodyear Green Seal belts
drive a 7 in. x 7 in. Werner compres-
sor, while three Wilac twin cylinder 70
compressors are each fitted with twelve
D 270 Goodyear Green Seal belts.
Both the Werner and Wilac compres-
sors are fully automatic and the belts
fitted to them are exposed to a con-
siderable amount of wear and tear. Yet
in their 4 years’ service since installa-
tion, the drives have given no trouble
at all. They have, in fact, many years
of service left.
It’s this type of reliable service that
makes Goodyear V-belts synonymous
with high quality engineering know-
how.
When you want extra driving force at
the lowest drive cost, contact your
Goodyear technical man at the Good-
year branch in your State.
GOOD,
a*
m
CSOOB


Dependable as gravity ...
simple as the wheel...
ĥ
the new
Kodak Carousel ‘S’ Projector
An improved Carousel Projector at a
new low price. Up to 80 slides ride
on a circular slide tray and are gravity-
fed automatically as it turns. Gravity
itself would have to fail for slides to
jam! A tough, transparent cover keeps
slides safe from dust and scratches
right through the show, and when it’s
over the whole tray simply lifts off
cover and all for storage.
Inside, there’s another revelation. A
24V, 150 watt quartz-iodine lamp.
Little bigger than a flashbulb, it gives
an astonishingly brilliant, ultra-white
light yet lasts twice as long as old
fashioned bulky lamps. Projector
operates on 240-250 volts A.C.
The lens is a superb 100 mm Schneider
“Procolar” with a standard of defini-
tion which will surprise you no matter
what you’re used to. And remote
control comes as standard, with pro-
vision for tape synchronization too!
Built in Germany where the “Retina”
precision cameras come from, the
Carousel S is undoubtedly one of the
finest 35mm slide projectors ever
made by Kodak or anyone else.
You owe it to your slides to see the
Carousel ‘S’ Projector at your Kodak
dealer’s. Price, including lamp: $174
or £B7.
NEW CAROUSEL 'S’ PROJECTOR
Kodak
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
KM 1159 /R
already gained. That an anti-fluoridation
association should even exist illustrates this
point. The problem is widespread and
of such proportion that in the United
States sociologists have recently been tak-
ing an interest in fluoridation and their
analysis of community attitudes makes
interesting reading.
One would have expected D. Hewitt
when writing to a sophisticated audience
to have confined his argument to the
more sophisticated and current one of
infringement of personal liberties rather
than that of the safety of fluoridation,
which is simple to refute on a factual basis.
The personal liberty angle, however, while
just as conclusive is at least debatable.
L. P. RYAN
Brisbane (Qld.).
The Mitchell Library
Sir,
The trustees of the Public Library of
New South Wales have decided to extend
the hours of opening of the Mitchell
Library, which is the Australian and
Pacific section of the library. As you will
know, the Mitchell Library in the past has
been open only two evenings in the week,
Wednesday and Thursday. It is now open
on Monday to Friday evenings inclusive
until 10 p.m.
R. McGREAL,
Deputy Principal Librarian
Public Library of N.S.W.
Sydney (N.S.W.).
Advance Australia
Sir,
One was much impressed by THE
BULLETIN’S first par in “One More
Week” (8., April 16) re the Adelaide
Festival of Arts. The Festival Board,
obviously upset by adverse criticism of
the Press and people that it lacked a
theme or focus, is now implementing its
new policy by drawing on “music, art,
and drama from Central and Northern
Europe.”
Why overseas? Goodness, have we not
enough talent and material to draw upon
in our own artistic nation? Why “travel”
for a theme? Cannot our cultural vul-
tures, whether on TV, the radio, or the
concert platform, give a chance to our
vocalists, artists, musicians? It is time to
support the policy of Australian-made in
the world of entertainment. One can but
suggest to the anxious Adelaide Festival
Board to reconsider its proposal for 1968
and Advance Australia Fair for its future
festivals.
ANDREW MILLETT,
Secretary Australian Literature Society.
Melbourne (Victoria).
Film Funds
Sir,
Due to an unfortunate misprint, it may
not have appeared from my “On Film”
column in the last issue that the Sydney
and Melbourne Film Festivals had not in
fact met the expense of importing Jean-
Luc Godard and the producer of “Jeanne
d’Arc” to Australia. They did not—and
this was the point of my complaint—find
the funds for importing either person.
CHARLES HIGHAM
Sydney (N.S.W.).


>
f/s
4
*
V'&d
n
m
m
&
as
').
ft
1
;> V
i
Her orchids are flown daily to the U.K.
So are the fruits and steak on the menu
and her fashions by Cornelius
Orchids are delicate creatures. Yet they are
expected to arrive half-way around the world
looking dew-fresh. Foods and fashions are just
as perishable! That’s why Australian exporters
depend on Qantas’ fast, frequent flights to
Europe and the U.K. Australian manufacturers
of everything from Cornelius furs to heavy
machinery have also come to depend on frequent,
swift and sure world distribution by Qantas.
Qantas offers you more direct jet cargo services
to more world markets than any other airline.
Whatever your products, they can be selling
overseas within 36 hours—regardless of des-
tination, you thus compete on equal terms with
overseas manufacturers on their home ground.
Air Freight costs less than you think—
frequently costs no more. Extra savings:
Special low rates can be negotiated by regular
users—your export capital is never idle. Write
for literature to: The Export Consultant
Service, Qantas Empire Airways Limited,
70 Hunter Street, Sydney.
save wrrH
air CARGO
ħ
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 125 flights a week to and from Australia.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.
A 70.107.56


mw
mkA '
■ r ’
.
■MiP
5 swinging ideas for old tyres
Using an old tyre this way can
make a kid happy.
Keeping it on your car could kill
the very same kid.
You know that’s true as well as
we do, so we don’t need to
elaborate.
Just to remind you.
We take a risk that you may be
offended at being reminded.
So if you see someone you know
with a bald tyre, will you take
the risk of offending them, too?
You may save a life.
Oh yes. About those 5 swinging
ideas for old tyres:
1. As illustrated. Makes a great
swing.
2. Around trees as a border.
Can be pretty neat.
3. On Guy Fawkes or Common-
wealth Night bonfires. Indis-
pensable.
4. On the side of your boat.
Softens the impact.
5. As a trade-in on the new
ones. Also softens the impact.
Perhaps you have some other
ideas.
Care to write us about them?
Join the Circle of Safety with
M©bil
MP6608.50


THE SYMBOL OF LEADERSHIP IN THE
FIELD OF CLAY AND CARBON PRODUCT:
morganihe
AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
65-67 Bourke Rd., Alexandria, N.S.W. 67-1371. 117 Thistlethwaite St., Sth. Melbourne, 5.C.5. 69-6106. 33 James St., Valley, Brisbane. 51-5041
CARBON PRODUCTS DIVISION: Carbon brushes and contacts; welding and spectrographic
carbons; carbon parts for mechanical, chemical and metallurgical uses.
REFRACTORIES DIVISION: Structural and monolithic refractories; crucibles; crucible
furnaces; pure oxide tubes and pyrometric ware; graphite dispersions; ceramic fibre blanket.
RESISTOR AND CERAMIC COMPONENTS DIVISION: Resistors; potentiometers; silicon
carbon heating elements and industrial ceramic components.


h
Put the brakes on
your spreading, sprawling
filing system with this entirely
new Steelbilt filing idea
. . . and see how much space you save!
When the present day cost of floor space is con-
sidered, the space taken up by non-productive
items like filing must be kept to a minimum.
This thought inspired the development of Steel-
bilt Lateral Filing.
Steelbilt Lateral takes your filing up and uses
only a third of the floor space occupied by con-
ventional filing of equivalent capacity. More-
over, Steelbilt Lateral gives greater visibility
and accessibility than drawer type cabinets—up
to ft. of filing can be seen and handled at
one time.
These figures prove the space-saving with
Steelbilt Lateral Filing:—
2 4-drawer filing cabinets
and there are no drawers
41/2 Sq. ft.
. • :
m
©
AREA OCCUPIED BY
2 FOOLSCAP FILING
CABINETS
(U>/ 2 sq. ft.)
Steelbilt LATERAL files are designed to
take three-inch tabs (1) which accom-
modate bold, legible information. As an
alternative you can take advantage of the
three-sided visibility afforded by the
short title-holder (2). Colour coding can
be applied to either type of titling,
although the three-inch tabs afford a
greater colour area for immediate identi-
fication.
A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY
WB
*
STEELBILT
i a t c d a i > c i i i rvi r±
Os s N
mm
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimi
iiiaill
SSS
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE » MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE • TOWNSVILLE • HOBART
5B6.95


"Get with the strength! Don't volunteer!
/


Face of the Week
A Melbourne youth was fined $4 for
draft-card burning, and the ACTU
issued a May Day statement opposing
overseas conscription without a referen-
dum. in Thailand, Mr. Holt told a Press
conference a majority of Australians
supported the commitment in Vietnam,
and in Malaysia he told wives of Aus-
tralian servicemen that Australia was
proud of them. A $7 million contract
was let for accommodating a Pacific
Islands Regiment battalion at Lae, to
be ready 1968. Mr. Hasluck returned
from visits to L T .S.A. and U.K., talked
freely to Press. A seminar on consti-
tutional future of Papua-N.G. de-
nounced “7th State” idea. Gunner
O’Neill lost appeal against his Army
discharge. “My Brother Jack” won
the TV award at Grenfell Henry Law-
son Festival. Sir Henry Bolte appeared
in Hong Kong.
Third squadron of elite Special Air
Services left for exercise in New
Guinea, and Melbourne detectives went
to Shepparton area to follow new leads
in teenage murders of late February.
There were two murders in Brisbane
and one in Sydney. 65,000 saw St.
Kilda beat Melbourne, referees and
players were stoned at soccer matches
in Melbourne and Wollongong
(N.S.W.), and nominations closed for
Brisbane Cup and Stradbroke, with a
possible Eyeliner-Citius clash in Strad-
broke. Hamersley Iron made its first
non-Japanese sale, to Welsh iron mill.
Bob Crosby decided to leave Australia.
★
In Queensland, water conservation
schemes to cost $350 million were dis-
cussed, and in N.S.W. a $l2OO million
plan to double water resources over 25
years was proposed. The Federal
Government was advised that $192 mil-
lion spent on beef roads would mean
exports returning another $72 million a
year, but that it had accepted a
Queensland Government estimate of
construction costs which was 60 percent
under the real costs. The High Court
upheld a S.A. pastoral company’s
appeal against tax assessments on a
$1,408,000 profit after sale of land to
the S.A. Housing Trust, on grounds
that it was not bought for resale at a
profit and should be tax free.
*
CSIRO scientists announced shrink-
proof and non-matt wool process; Mr.
Calwell retained ALP leadership 49-
24 against Mr. Whitlam on show of
hands. The World Wildlife Fund,
U.S.A., gave Tasmania $lOOO to search
for a Tasmanian tiger. Joern Utzon and
family flew to Honolulu.
★
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666, Ext. 2504 i
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4496
MAY 7, 1966
One night in Singapore
ASIAN tours continue to throw
normally affable Australian
politicians out of stride. The extra-
ordinary handling of the Australian
Press by External Affairs Minister
Paul Hasluck on his return at the
end of last year is still fresh in
memory: he quickly insulted the
Australian public through the report-
ers by telling them he had spoken
to the Press in Singapore and that
was enough for him. On their current
trip the Prime Minister’s party may
have gone one better in Singapore
by irritating the Asian Press and
public.
Mr. Holt’s primary intention was
to visit Australian servicemen in
Vietnam and Malaysia and this side
of it has been both successful and
worthwhile. But he also wanted to
cement Australian-Asian relations;
the tour has been, in his words, a
major diplomatic exercise. Yet on one
level at least—dealings with the Asian
Press and people it has been much
less successful. One can only add that
some of the Australian journalists
travelling with him must take part
of the blame.
Singapore was the outstanding
case. As Mr. Holt knows from his
1964 visit as Treasurer to Kuala
Lumpur, Asian Press conferences
have a special pattern. The move-
ments and arrangements of the
visiting dignitary are publicised well
in advance (security is never a matter
of withholding information, it is
pointless to try); at the airport the
Great Man is ushered before the local
Press; after a polite pause someone
politely inquires about the purpose
of the visit; local susceptibility having
been flattered, a few more direct or
leading questions follow, a few almost
disarming probes; finally it breaks up
as courteously as it began.
When the Prime Minister first
arrived in Singapore, however, the
pattern was disrupted. For a start his
movements were made a sort of State
secret; Australian officials seemed so
reluctant or unable to discuss them
that they appeared more like evangel-
icals confiding hints of a prophet’s
advent. Then it was announced, to
the disgust of Singaporean Press,
that, unlike, for example, Mr. Denis
Healey or Mr. Edward Heath, Mr.
Holt would not have a Press confer-
ence at all. In the end he agreed to
read a statement, which he assumed
had been already distributed, but
had not. It left almost to the end the
necessary expression of his happiness
to be in Singapore.
Worse was to come when some
Australian reporters monopolised
the interview for stories which they
could send back to Australia to
the indignation of less thrusting
Malaysian and Singaporean reporters
who assumed that, being in their
country, Mr. Holt would like to
convey some message to the people
of Singapore and Malaysia.
The result was the Press and people
of Singapore were shocked and an
opportunity was lost to build up our
connections and reinforce Australian
diplomatic effort in the region.
There is no need to exaggerate the
matter. The rest of Mr. Holt’s tour
was fortunately better managed and
in any case Australian soldiers in
Vietnam and Malaysia are better
ambassadors for Australia than any
politician or journalist. But surely the
least one can expect is a well-run
Press conference. One has only to
remember the harm, even if only
temporary, which Mr. Hasluck did
his reputation in Australia to realise
the sort of damage that may have
been done in one night in Singapore.


DEFENCE
Who’s Talking Moonshine?
EVEN for Mr. Paul Hasluck it was a
bland statement. “Nevertheless,” he
said, speaking about the future of the
Singapore base in Parliament last week,
“the adequacy of existing defence facilities
in Australia, which is always under review,
is being examined also in the light of pos-
sible British requirements and availabilities
in certain contingencies.” In simple terms
—if the British are forced out of Singapore
or decide to pull out.
There are some basic differences between
Britain and Australia on defence in the
South-East Asian region. Andrew Wilson,
defence correspondent for the London
“Observer,” reports:
Despite Australian pressure to commit
Britain to an indefinite stay in Singapore,
staff talks between the two countries are
going ahead about an alternative base in
Australia.
The discussions cover the location of
land forces, facilities for a naval squadron,
and joint use of three air bases, at Darwin,
Tindal, and Alice Springs, all in Northern
Australia.
In addition a main fighter base is being
extended at Amberley outside Brisbane to
handle British F-11l squadrons if neces-
sary. Land force facilities would provide
for the quartering of 15,000 British troops.
This is the upshot of Anglo-Australian
differences on east-of-Suez contingency
plans, which have looked like splitting the
white Commonwealth.
The differences arose when Mr. Healey,
the British Defence Minister, met the
Australian Prime Minister, Mr. Holt (who
is his own Defence Minister), in Canberra
last February.
In a very tough talk, Mr. Healey said
that a joint base should be explored in case
Britain’s position in Singapore became sud-
denly untenable. Otherwise, he told them,
the British Far East forces might have
no choice but to retire to Salisbury Plain.
The Australians, no less forcefully, said a
British withdrawal from Singapore would
lead to a collapse of morale throughout
South-East Asia. (This is also the American
view.)
In the end, just in time for inclusion in
the defence review, Mr. Healey got the
Australians to agree. But the breach re-
opened during the visit of the Australian
External Affairs Minister, Mr. Hasluck, to
London for talks with Mr. Healey and the
Singapore Premier, Mr. Lee Kuan Yew.
Mr. Hasluck is believed to have told Mr.
Healey that Australia, as a trading nation,
continued to regard the freedom and
security of South-East Asia as the key to
both her security and her prosperity.
Prompted by fears (for which there is
some substance) of a British Cabinet split
over east-of-Suez policy he let it be known
that in Australia’s view any talk of “hav-
ing” to quit Singapore in the five-year
period foreseen by the defence review was
“pure moonshine.”
Mr. Healey replied by reminding Mr.
Hasluck of his (Mr. Healey’s) statement in
Singapore and Kuala Lumpur in February
that Britain would stay in Singapore as
long as she was welcome—even, at reduced
strength, after the end of Indonesia’s “con-
frontation.”
A solemn promise on the same terms is
believed to have been given to the Aus-
tralian Government. But this has not
quietened the Australians, who still see con-
tingency plans for an Australian base as a
shaky compromise by which Mr. Wilson,
Mr. Healey, and the Foreign Secretary,
Mr. Stewart, could abandon Singapore
under pressure from the Treasury and
other members of the Cabinet while still
keeping Britain formally “east of Suez.”
The critical question of Britain’s Far
East future may now depend on Mr. Lee
and his will and ability to prevent any
pretext for Britain’s withdrawal from
Singapore. He is believed to have assured
Mr. Healey that Britain will be wanted in
Singapore for a long time to come. (Apart
from the security aspect, the British forces
spend £5O million a year there.) At the
same time, as seen from Singapore, it is
essential to stabilise South-East Asia before
China acquires a credible nuclear delivery
system —expected in about 10 years’ time
—and the best way to achieve this is by
regional co-operation, which could be
underwritten by the Great Powers, includ-
ing Russia.
But the big worry is Malaysia. If Indo-
nesian confrontation were to end, there
could be a confluence of Malay nationalism
Mr. Hasluck —contingency planner.
in both countries, leading to a revival of
Communism among their large Chinese
minorities.
Reports reaching London speak of re-
newed insurgent stirrings in Malaysia,
with 1000 rebels just north of the Thailand
border. If this trouble were to grow with
time, the threat to the stability of Tunku
Abdul Rahman’s Malaysian Government
could in turn affect the future of Singa-
pore.
THE LABOR PARTY
The Bandwagon that Failed
WHEN Labor’s Mr. Tom Uren told
Mr. Gough Whitlam in Caucus last
week that he admired Mr. Whit-
lam’s cleverness in some things but thought
Mr. Whitlam did not know how politics
works, Uren was expressing the obvious.
In my view, from the day Whitlam
withdrew his criticisms of the Federal ALP
Executive and undertook meekly to obey
the directions of properly constituted ALP
authorities his defeat last week for Mr.
Calwell’s Labor leadership (49 votes to
24) was a foregone conclusion.
With his submission to ALP Federal
Executive authority (which he had earlier
declared “will and must be repudiated”),
Mr. Whitlam transformed the struggle
from one of a basic nature into a wrangle
on elector-ally important but politically less
important issue of whether he or Mr.
Calwell had the better TV image
As I then saw it (and for a while I
was lonelier than a drover’s dog whose
boss has taken off for a day in town),
Whitlam’s defeat was certain in this con-
flict. An attractive TV image is an advan-
tage for a politician, but it does not decide
the outcome in a leadership struggle, par-
ticularly when the struggle has deep ideolo-
gical overtones.
On the evidence that has emerged since
Whitlam got involved in this struggle,
Uren’s criticism that Whitlam does not
understand how politics works is justified.
As a politician, Whitlam seems to lack the
ability to weigh the various and varied
possibilities that are always present in a
political situation.
Earlier this year the ALP Federal
Executive came out with its anti-State Aid
resolutions and its directions to Labor
Parliamentarians to vote suicidally against
existing State Aid benefits. It denigrated
the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party by
replacing Caucus- approved Right Wingers
°!\ .policy-making bodies with mdi-
vlrdu,a]s whose views were closer to those
2/ tke . k,e^t Wing-orientated ALP Federal
Executive. But apparently all Whitlam
saw was a bandwagon. It was a band-
wagon that could—and, to judge from
Whitlam’s subsequent anti-Federal Execu-
tive statements, one which he deemed
would—carry him to the leadershrip.
But Whitlam does not seem to have
considered the possibility that due to the
flexibility of the “softliners” among the


ALP Left-wingers (who do not have a
dogmatic approach on State Aid but re-
gard the issue merely as a political factor)
the bandwagon might cease rolling.
A politician who considered this possi-
bility (and as it turned out it was not only
a possibility but what happened) would
have first studied whether in the light
of that possibility he should get aboard
the bandwagon, and, , secondly, if he
decided to get aboard, knowing the wagon
might stop rolling, how to apply sufficient
momentum to keep the bandwagon
rolling, after it ceased rolling of its own
accord.
But Whitlam seems never to have
visualised the possibility of the band-
wagon ceasing to roll on its own momen-
tum. Once it stopped rolling, all he
seemed intent on doing was getting off
with a minimum loss of skin. He with-
drew his criticisms of the ALP executive,
and renewed his pledges of fealty. A
special Federal Conference was held to
discuss the issues he had raised and to
its deliberations he contributed only the
single sentence, “I have nothing to add”
(to his letter of apology to the Federal
ALP Executive).
Admittedly he engaged in guerilla-type
activities against Calwell in the Caucus,
seeking to exploit the fact that he is un-
doubtedly a more effective TV performer
than his older antagonist, and trying to
snatch the leadership from Calwell on the
plea, “You fellows in doubtful seats might
survive with me as leader, but you are
taking a terrible risk if you persist in
keeping Calwell as leader.”
To me, however, there was something
schoolboyish about the whole performance.
It reminded me of a schoolboy footballer
playing with a team of men. He showed
out well in the open play but when the
hard rucks went down he was smothered
completely. When Calwell offered him an
opportunity to move a vote of no confi-
dence in his leadership, Whitlam declined
it. After he had submitted his resignation
declaring that it was “impossible” for him
to work with Calwell and after Caucus
had endorsed Calwell’s leadership he
allowed himself to be talked out of it.
In his speech to Caucus, Whitlam
claimed that his actions had produced
results. A special Federal ALP Conference
had been called to deal with State Akl—
something that would not have happened
if he had not moved in the way he had.
The ALP Federal authorities had been
made aware of Caucus resentment against
the way in which Labor Parliamentarians
were humiliated.
There is some justification for these
Whitlam claims. But basically what has
happened is that Whitlam’s moves, started
but never carried through to a conclusion,
have strengthened the position of the
“softline” Left wing in the ALP machine.
Up to the time Whitlam commenced
his attack upon the ALP Federal Execu-
tive, the “hardline” Left-wingers were the
dominant Left-wing force on the ALP
Federal Executive. The “hardliners” went
too far. Their indifference to public, party,
and parliamentarians’ sensitivities started
rolling the bandwagon of anti-Federal
Executive feeling on to which Mr. Whit-
lam climbed so unsuccessfully.
But because Mr. Whitlam got off the
bandwagon as soon as it stopped rolling
under its own momentum, power has now
shifted, not into his hands (as he hoped),
but into the hands of the “softline” Left-
wingers. The ALP Left-wing “softliners”
will undoubtedly encourage the liberalisa-
tion of Labor’s policy on State Aid. They
will undoubtedly use their influence on
the ALP machine more subtly and with
greater sophistication than their previously
dominant “hardline” allies.
It is not without significance that the
motion calling on Whitlam to withdraw
his resignation as Deputy Leader was
moved in the Caucus by Left-winger
Uren. His is a much more sophisticated
group than the Chamberlain-Victorian
axis that is now the major dynamic in
Labor’s internal politics.
It is an interesting outcome to an
exercise which Whitlam started with high
hopes, but, in my view, with insufficient
thought or determination.
ALAN REID
VIETNAM
Wanting the Viet Cong to win
COPIES of the current issue of
“Woroni,” the student newspaper at
the Australian National University,
were scarce in Canberra .last week after the
Postmaster-General, Mr. A. Hulme, de-
clared it “obscene” and ordered copies
found going through the mails to be burnt.
But “Woroni” was scarce also because
ALP members, among others, were
anxious to read an article by Professor
H. W. Arndt, of the Australian National
University, which strongly criticised Labor
Party policy on Vietnam. Professor Arndt
is Professor of Economics in the Research
School of Pacific Studies. Although it was
suitahly and academically qualified, Pro-
fessor Arndt’s most damaging statement
left no doubt about its meaning. He wrote:
“The majority of the politically active
opponents of the present Australian policy
are in two other categories: they are either
convinced Communists or they believe that,
while Communism is not desirable for
Australia, it is desirable for Asia, or at
least the lesser evil as compared with
American capitalism or with the regimes
that the United States is prepared to
support.
“The point I want to stress is that it is
primarily if not wholly because, on balance,
they want Communism to win in Vietnam
that all the Government’s most active
critics, and in particular the leaders of
the ALP Left like Calwell and Cairns,
oppose the present policy.
“I am emphatically not saying these
people are Communists or would support
Communism in Australia. Nor would I
deny that they have an arguable and ten-
able point of view, though I disagree with
it. What I deplore is the tactics by which
they enlist support for their campaign
among all the other dissident groups
the pacifists, the ostriches) the defeatists
and above all the manner in which they
are whipping up emotions and exploiting
the anxieties of mothers over the issue of
conscription.”
Disagreeing with those who advocated
the immediate or quick and voluntary
withdrawal of U.S. forces from Vietnam,
Professor Arndt said:
“First, it would surrender to Communist
vengeance hundreds of thousands of South
Vietnamese whom the Americans have
promised to defend. Secondly, it would
convince Peking and its Asian proteges
that the strategy of combined subversion
and aggression pays, that provided it is
pressed with sufficient resolution the West
will give way (not least because of domes-
tic Left-wing pressure).
“To this extent the ‘domino theory’ is,
I think, substantially valid. The same
arguments now used by the Asian Com-
munists (and their Australian protagon-
ists) for the view that a Communist vic-
tory in Vietnam would be in the interest
of the people of Vietnam would be put
forward, and no doubt quite sincerely and
with no less or more reason, to justify a
policy of combined subversion and aggres-
sion in Thailand, in Malaysia, and indeed
in every non-Communist country of South
and South-East Asia in turn.”
Coming from a member of the ALP for
the past 15 years, Professor Arndt’s criti-
cism may end in another move to expel
him from the party. He was threatened
with expulsion ten years ago when he
called for modernisation of policy and
organisation.
DEVELOPMENT
The Bitter West
THE bitterness in Western Australia
against Federal intervention in the
iron ore business has hardly been
heard, partly because the State and Federal
Governments are, on paper at least, on-
side politically.
The West’s Minister for Industrial De-
velopment, Mr. Charles Court, laid out
the State’s attitude when he commented
that “some Governments go beyond umpir-
ing. They not only take part in the game
but change the rules as they go along.”
Another dismayed comment came from
Tokyo, where the influential president of
Fuji Steel, Shigeo Nagano, said with un-
characteristic bluntness: “I no longer feel
the same trust for Australia. A contract
between two private companies has been
completed, then the Australian Govern-
ment stepped in. It is unprecedented.”
One leading Western Australian mining
man, speaking off the record, said he be-
lieved the Federal action in repudiating
contracts and laying down conditions for
international sales would prove calamitous
for the industry.
But there was no reticence by Mr. Lang
Hancock, the flying prospector who found
the original major iron ore deposits in the
West. He became a millionaire selling


ĥ
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
m
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
v
Fly and Drive in 66. it’s time-saving .. . money-saving .. .
worry free'. Drive a great new Falcon or other fine car from the Avis
fleet. Fly/Drive is the jet age way to travel . . . gives you extra time
for business or pleasure . . . lets you see more, do more. For instant
service book your Avis car when you book your Ansett-ANA flight
ANSETT-ANA \ AVIS rentacar
ma/es/Mk
them to Hamersley Iron, who he claims
have been singled out for special discri-
mination by the Federal Government be-
cause, through their Kaiser Steel affiliation,
they are the most likely competitor for
BHP. The Commonwealth is using socialist
techniques to protect BHP big business, he
says, maintaining that the Savage River
group is being allowed to sell at a lower
average price than Hamersley because Mr.
McEwen is wooing Tasmania to make it
easier for the Country Party to set up
there.
“The Commonwealth Government is
taking upon itself the power of life and
death over companies and industries,” he
says. “It is ludicrous for Mr. Fairbairn to
think he can change the trend of world
iron ore prices simply by saying Australia
won’t sell any lower.” Already, Mr. Han-
cock says, the reaction has begun: Within
Australia, institutions have taken fright and
refused to lend to CSR in the company’s
financial difficulties with Mt. Newman . . .
and overseas buyers are by-passing Aus-
tralia to look elsewhere.
NEW GUINEA
No Seventh State?
WHATEVER their differences of
emphasis and approach, most of
the speakers at a special confer-
ence called by the Council on New
Guinea Affairs in Sydney last week were
agreed on some basic points. Mr. John
Kerr, Q.C., summed them up: the Govern-
ment had been inconsistent in its public
statements about the future of the Territory
of Papua and New Guinea and had not
clearly told the people of the Territory
what were the real alternatives facing them
in the future.
One possibility which was strongly
attacked was the proposal for a “Seventh-
State” relationship. Sydney solicitor Mr.
Norman Cowper said that the objections
to the idea were so “numerous and fatal”
that he was astonished it should be seri-
ously considered. He saw five main
objections to the proposal.
‘ First, the people of the Territory if it
were an Australian State would not be
independent. They would have rights of
self-government with respect only to those
matters which are not by the constitu-
tion vested in the Federal Parliament and
Government.
“Secondly, how would the rest of the
world regard the incorporation of New
Guinea into the Australian Common-
wealth? It would be denounced as blatant
neo-colonialism or worse.
“Thirdly, the seventh State solution is
one that would not endure. If there is
one thing that the history of the last two
hundred years shows, it is the strength of
nationalism. National sentiment is, per-
haps, a feeble infant in the Territory to-
day, but it will inevitably grow and
strengthen until it is irresistible.
“Fourthly, it would retard the develop-
ment of the Territory, and lastly, it was
a solution which would never be enter-
tained by the Australian people. They
would regard it, rightly I think, as import-
ing a racial problem from which they are
now mercifully free.”
The retiring assistant administrator of
the Territory, Dr. John Gunther, criticised
the government’s contradictory statements
on the future relationship the Territory
could possibly have. Summing-up what the
Territory itself wants he said:
“The majority of the people don’t want
self-government, mainly because they are
frightened of it, because they don’t know
what it means; the Members of the House
of Assembly are well divided on the issue;
a political party with a Socialist plat-
form and a program for early self-
government has had to dispense with its
program dates and cut its socialism that
it might survive; there are groups of
people who want internal self-government,
but haven’t thought through the pre-
liminary needs; there are some real dissi-
dents who have a ‘cause’; the Select
Committee of the House of Assembly
needs certain answers before it can
effectively report to the House.”


B8M8888888888B»Mp
IS
tF
I
M
H
I
t
-
•\,Y,
1
Why do so many businessmen fly TAA?
Because TAA is a successful
business enterprise
TAA is a business enterprise required
to make a profit and pay a dividend just
like any other commercial undertaking.
And people naturally prefer to do business
with sound, competent enterprises.
The Airline is operated by the Australian
National Airlines Commission, in the same way
as a public company is controlled by a board of
directors.
7*% DIVIDEND
TAA has a capital of $15,000,000, unchanged
since 1961.
Out of a net profit for 1964/65 of $1,409,052
TAA’s 7i% dividend to the Treasury absorbs
$1,125,000.
TAA PAYS TAX
TAA is subject to income tax, payroll tax, sales
tax, etc., normally met by other commercial en-
terprises, and has to pay special tax on aviation
fuel and air route charges as well.
In its operation TAA enjoys no special privi-
leges over its competitors. TAA must win every
passenger and pound of air cargo in open business
competition.
JET-AGE EFFICIENCY
The fact that TAA gains the greater overall
share of the competitive passenger market is in-
dicative of TAA’s business efficiency.
The continued business success of TAA helps
to preserve the competition vital to a healthy
airline industry.
BENEFITS OF COMPETITION
This competition guarantees that every Austra-
lian will continue to enjoy the right to choose by
which airline he will fly, or consign air cargo.
Competition also helps maintain the highest
standards of service for Australian air travellers.
Supporters of free enterprise, in placing busi-
ness with TAA, are preserving for themselves
these benefits of business competition in the air-
line industry.
This is one reason why so many business-
men fly on our Whispering T-Jets. Another is that
they simply prefer to fly TAA.
JAAi
Fly
the Friendly Way
TAA is in business for your business
TAA 225/68


EDUCATION
Teachers in Need of a Lobby
THE lack of effective Parliamentary
lobbying by the teachers’ unions is
revealed in the present clash between
the leaders of the Victorian Secondary
Teachers’ Association and Mr. Brian
Dixon, MLA.
Mr. Dixon, a former secondary teacher
and likely future Minister for Education,
recently claimed that some of the leaders
of teachers’ organisations which organised
the teachers’ strike were Communists.
He was immediately challenged by the
VSTA, which has no Communist connec-
tions, and asked to name the Communists.
Mr. Dixon named Mr. Charles Silver,
President of the High Schools branch of
the Victorian Teachers’ Union as being
mentioned as a Communist in a 1950
Royal Commission and added that he had
done nothing since to deny his member-
ship. Mr. Dixon also replied that a care-
ful reading of “The Guardian,” Mel-
bourne’s Communist Party newspaper,
would reveal that some of the teachers
are supporters of Communist policies,
make trips to Red China, address meetings
at the homes of Communists, and belong
to the China Friendship Society.
The VSTA has answered Mr. Dixon
by accusing him of smearing the teaching
unions, of using highly deplorable tactics,
and of besmirching the integrity of teach-
ers. Mr. Dixon’s charge was, without
doubt, indiscriminate, but it is a measure
of the partial failure of the VSTA to
communicate to Parliament, Press, and
the public that the charge could have
been made at all.
That it was made by an ex-teacher,
who is sympathetic with many of the
aspirations of the teachers’ organisations,
highlights the breakdown in communica-
tion. The fact is that most people still
do not know what the teachers are striking
about, nor the important differences
between the VSTA and the VTU.
CRIME
Who Swings Next?
THERE are signs that capital punish-
ment may be on the way back in
Victoria and that the public will
not oppose it too strongly.
The last time it was used was in 1951,
when two men and a woman were hung
after being found guilty of a particularly
brutal murder. The most recent attempt
at hanging by the Liberal Government
failed when public opposition saved the
life of the partly insane “Vicarage mur-
derer” Robert Peter Tait.
In the cases of some recent convictions
there is little possibility that public opinion
can be strongly marshalled in the same
way. The news coverage of an escape from
Pentridge Jail last December established a
week of terror in the suburbs. If the
Government wants to bring back capital
punishment, and there can be little doubt
that a significant group in the Victorian
State Cabinet does, now, it seems, is its
chance.
“Louts have become more audacious
with their increasing chances that, despite
past records, even on conviction there is
strong hope of a suspended sentence or
an early release on parole.” Mr. Arnold
gave two examples of serious crimes com-
mitted recently against policemen trying
to do their duty. He mentioned a senior
detective who is still recovering from gun-
shot wounds he received while trying to
stop an armed holdup. He also wrote of'
a young constable who received knife .
wounds when speaking to a man about
alleged offensive behaviour.
One indication of Government opinion
was given last week when the Police Com-
missioner, Mr. Arnold, attacked “kid-
glove” methods of dealing with criminals.
Writing in the police journal, “Police
Life,” Mr. Arnold said “a shadow of
terror” was at present being maintained
by the criminal fraternity in this State.
“As police officers, as distinct from arm-
chair criminologists, we are irrevocably
convinced that crime is committed by
criminals,” he said. “Keeping these
criminals in close confinement for long
periods is the only way in which our
society can be made safe. The answer then
is in the hands of the courts. Kid-glove
methods in dealing with louts have been
outmoded.”
Mr. Arnold said this type of danger
was constantly With members of the
police force. “The need of the hour is for
juries with consciences supported by
judges, directing all their efforts to seek-
ing guilt or innocence rather than techni-
calities,” he said. “There is room for the
courts to give equal justice not only to
the criminal but also to the law-abiding
citizens who are the victims of savagery
perpetrated in our streets and places of
public resort.”
It was not coincidence that the day
Commissioner Arnold’s comments appeared
six men were remanded in the City Court
on eight charges of murder. Somebody
soon is likely to swing for it.
SPORT
Seller’s Market
THERE is a seller’s market for foot-
ballers in Victoria. The latest example
concerns Kyabram full-forward Dick
Clay, who signed with the League club
North Melbourne two years ago and has
remained in the country waiting for his
two-year contract to expire.
Clay is considered to be one of the best
country footballers of the past decade. He
is even compared with the great John
Coleman, the best post-war full-forward in
Victoria. Clay claims that North Mel-
bourne signed him only because of their
late-night persistence after he arrived


home two years ago from a dance. “I
thought I had better sign so I could go to
bed.”
North Melbourne feels that the expenses
involved in maintaining Clay’s goodwill
over the past two seasons gives it a moral
claim on his services. Clay, however, now
wants to play for up-and-coming Rich-
mond, a club with much greater financial
resources than North, now that they are
playing on the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
Richmond says that Clay has come to
them of his “own free-will,” but North
Melbourne wants to know why Clay is now
driving a car registered in the name of a
Richmond Football Club official.
The Clay case is one of many similar
cases in which allegations have been made
that financial inducements have been
offered to country recruits. League clubs
are now chasing country boys at high
school and spending money on their
tertiary and even secondary education, a
risky investment since the contracts with
these future footballers run only for two
years. Other clubs can wait for the expira-
tion of these contracts and then offer new
bonuses.
Victorian football, of course, denies that
money ever changes hands. Country foot-
ballers don’t mind the “hypocrisy”; the
stakes are high, and even if they never
make the big League they can drive and
be educated on the cheap.
RELIGION
Inter-Faith Row
TENSION between Liberal and Ortho-
dox is again running high in Mel-
bourne’s Jewish Community. The
latest focus of discontent is Jewish partici-
pation in the Monash University Inter-
Denominational Religious Centre. Some
Orthodox rabbis oppose it, but all Liberal
rabbis and a minority of Orthodox rabbis
support the scheme.
The agreement by the official Jewish lay
body The Victorian Board of Deputies
to participate in some of the activities
of the Centre provoked a fierce reaction
from some of the strictly Orthodox. The
moderate Rabbi Lubofsky, Chief Minister
at the prestigious St. Kilda Hebrew Con-
gregation, in particular, has come under
strong attack for commending the religious
Centre. Some Orthodox leaders have
charged him with advocating what would
amount to an infringment of the din
(Jewish Law). But he has been supported
by the University’s Jewish chaplain, Rabbi
B. Rackovsky, who is also Orthodox.
The controversy has gone on in the
Letters to the Editor columns of the “Age,”
as much as within the Jewish community.
The Chief Minister of the equally prestigi-
ous Melbourne Hebrew Congregation,
Rabbi Dr. I. Rappaport, has been the main
Orthodox rabbi to publicly oppose the
scheme in a letter which some Orthodox
laymen have criticised as too emotional
and dogmatic.
His main complaint, other than the re-
ligious objections to the Centre, was that
the Board of Deputies had not informed
the Orthodox Rabbinate that it had
committed the Jewish community to sup-
porting the scheme.
Other letter writers have pointed out
that Jewish clergy do not have any special
religious authority over members of the
Jewish community. A former speaker in
the Victorian Legislative Assembly, Sir
Archie Michaelis, for instance, has sup-
ported the Centre. He is an “establish-
ment” figure in the Jewish community.
Nevertheless, some equally prominent
members of the Jewish community, while
regretting the public dispute, feel that it
was unwise and mistaken of the lay leader-
ship to commit the community on what
was essentially a religious issue without
consulting more than one or two rabbis.
Although the divisions in the commun-
ity on the issue are along Orthodox-
Liberal lines there are differences within
the Orthodox segments as well. Mel-
bourne’s 35,000 Jews are divided between
some 3000 adherents of the Liberal “de-
nomination” and an unknown number—
some estimates place it at 10,000—who are
Orthodox. The rest are religiously non-
aligned.
But among the Orthodox elements dedi-
cation to strict religious observance varies
greatly. Only a minority would accept the
religious authority of rabbis on most issues.
This is one of the problems in this dispute.
The Board of Deputies and Rabbi Lub-
ofsky have argued that their participation
in the Centre will be for all activities ex-
cept devotional ones: They claim it is
permissible for the Jewish student body
to participate in the activities of the re-
ligious Centre in a non-devotional frame-
work, i.e., lectures, debates, talks, dis-
cussions, etc.
Rabbi Lubofsky last week called for a
full Rabbinic Conference to argue the
matter through: “My view was quoted
by the President of the Board of Deputies,
Mr. L. Lasky, at its last meeting, and it
was on this basis that it was justifiably
felt we could become involved in the
Inter-Denominational Centre. The conster-
nation and confusion that now reigns can
only be ended by a full Rabbinic Con-
ference at which all points of view can
be aired. I am pleased to mention that
already a number of rabbis have agreed
to attend a full meeting in the near future,
as a result of which a definitive and
authoritative view will emerge.”
Because the debate so far has been con-
ducted in both the secular and Jewish
press its intensity has been a source of
embarrassment to Jewish community
leaders.
The path of ecumenism is not entirely
strewn with palms.
A Case of Injustice?
THE BULLETIN has received this
letter from the Secretary of the N.S.W.
Association of Blind Citizens:
SIR,
The Association of Blind Citizens
wishes to bring to the attention of the
public the treatment received by a
member, Miss Leah Wilson, at the
hands of the N.S.W. Department of
Education. Miss Wilson has been a
teacher with the Department for the
past twelve years and is highly quali-
fied in the specialised field of the edu-
cation of blind children. That she was
professionally highly regarded is indi-
cated by the fact that in 1958 she was
awarded a Rotary Foundation Fellow-
ship, enabling her to carry out a year’s
study overseas. This study tour was
undertaken with the fullest support and
commendation of the Education
Department to which Miss Wilson re-
turned with a wealth of additional
knowledge.
Miss Wilson is now forced to resign
her position because, since 1962, she
has been given only a token amount
of teaching work. She has had no
adverse reports on her work, yet it
has been stated to her by officers of
the Department, as well as to other
blind students who have inquired about
a teaching career, that she has been
a failure as a teacher. In addition to
this, her program involves her in hours
of travelling each day and her duties,
for the greater part of the time, more
in the nature of clerical work.
With no prospects of obtaining an
appropriate teaching appointment and
with the implication that she is not
a competent teacher, what other course
is open to Miss Wilson if she is to
maintain her integrity? Miss Wilson
will be forced to resign from the
Education Department unless there is
tangible evidence that her status as a
teacher is recognised. Are we to
allow such injustice, particularly when
the person concerned receives no
explanation? Miss Wilson has a right
to know why, although the Education
Department considered her for many
years, to be a capable teacher, its offi-
cers now express a different opinion.
There is no reason either why other
suitably qualified blind people should
not train as teachers when a number
of blind teachers are doing excellent
work throughout Australia, not to
mention those holding high positions
in the profession overseas.
If Miss Wilson is forced to resign
her position, the Education Department
will be throwing away the services of
one of the few teachers highly quali-
fied to teach blind children. Others
highly qualified in this special field
have been forced by the conditions in
which they have had to work to for-
sake it for general teaching. Although
much money has been spent in recent
years on buildings and equipment in
schools for blind children, what use
are these if the most important ingredi-
ent, the highly qualified and dedicated
teacher, is missing?
MARIE SPELMAN
Secretary,
The Association of Blind Citizens


Shield of the Pacific
The U.S. Seventh Fleet Another country
Launch Time on the U.S.S. Coral Sea as a “Skywarrior” is catapulted into combat.
By SAM LIPSKI
]pOR Rear-Admiral James R. Reedy and
Task Force 77, which he commands,
it had been a frustrating two days in the
South China Sea. Poised for a major strike
against North Vietnam targets, the attack
force of the U.S. Seventh Fleet had been
restricted in its operations by bad
weather.
Lighting his long Filipino cigar, Admiral
Reedy called for another after-dinner cup
of coffee and asked his Operations Chief
about the weather prospects for the next
24 hours. They were not good. “Weather
can be a problem for us up here,” ex-
plained Admiral Reedy. But he did not
think it was a crippling one. Talking in his
spacious wardroom, Admiral Reedy dis-
cussed other man-made limitations to the
war. “This war is a great deal like the
Korean War, which had its political limi-
tations. Certainly no military commander
has freedom of action in destroying the
enemy. Our targets are carefully chosen.”
The conversation was interrupted as one
of the Admiral’s staff, carrying a decoded
message, came through the door just behind
us which led to the War Room—the centre
of attack co-ordination for Task Force 77.
The War Room is part of Admiral
Reedy’s headquarters, which were moved
from the carrier Independence last
November to the Kitty Hawk. Here the
data from the Integrated Operational In-
telligence System (IOIS), a centre next
to the War Room, is analysed and co-
ordinated for the whole Task Force. In
the lOIS centre the homogenised sound
of the Tijuana Brass wafted out from a
stereo tape-recorder while officers checked
reconnaissance photographs and weather
information. Using frame and panoramic
cameras, side-looking radar, and a wide
range of electronic information gatherers,
Navy aircraft provide full information on
target areas. For the pilot the lOIS
centre is where his sortie’s planning starts
with an intelligence briefing. These
first briefings are classified, but the pilots’
next briefing, given by their group com-
manders is open to newsmen.
Overhead the roof groaned and shud-
dured as it seemed certain to cave-in from
the strain. The mission briefing for Fighter
Squadron 114 was being held in the Ready
Room directly below the landing deck of
the Kitty Hawk, punctuated by the bounce
of planes touching down and the clatter of
the arresting cable as first it was yanked
forward by the trailing hook and then
released to snap back tight across the deck
for the next landing.
Even in perfect silence the briefing was
almost beyond comprehension to the lay-
man. In a patter which mixes combat Pop
and technical jargon, it has been part of
the daily routine twice a day, seven days
a week, while the Kitty Hawk and Task
Force 77 have been on “Yankee Station” —
the area of the U.S. Seventh Fleet’s duty
off the coast of North Vietnam. “Dixie
Station” is the name the Navy has given
to the waters off South Vietnam. For pilots
“Dixie Station” means only occasional
ground-fire from the Vietcong: “Yankee
Station,” where they face heavy anti-
aircraft fire and missiles, is a much more
hazardous assignment.
The mission briefings for the pilots and
their radar intercept officers begin an hour
and a half before take-off. Fighter
Squadron 114, the “Aardvarks,” fly the
F4B Phantom 11, the world’s fastest fighter
plane capable of speeds better than twice
the speed of sound. Because of the plane’s
versatility, its missions vary from bombing
and rocket-firing attacks to flying inter-
ception and support duties.
This mission was a bombing raid on a
supply base near Vinh, which has been
one of the main target areas for U.S. Navy
aircraft since the air war began over North
Vietnam. The group-leader outlined the
target area, explained what bomb load
would be carried, what the plane’s take-off
weight would be. He pinpointed known
concentrations of North Vietnamese anti-
aircraft batteries and gave the latest intelli-
gence on the potentially deadly Surface-
to-Air Missile (SAM) installations. A map
in the Ready Room shows how the SAM
“envelope” (the area covered by the range
of the missiles) has spread rapidly in the
past six months. Formerly encountered
only around Hanoi and Haiphong SAM’s
now dot much of the length of North
Vietnam. Next to the map hangs a sign
“Complacency Kills.”
Because of the limited nature of the air
war over North Vietnam the briefing also
covered prohibited targets which pilots
could not attack. The briefing over, the
pilots had a few minutes to relax before
strapping into their bulky flight-gear,
which includes a special frequency two-
way radio, which has saved a number of
pilots who have been downed in North
Vietnamese territory, personal weapons,
lifebelt, oxygen masks, and helmet. The
talk was small talk with occasional, self-
conscious attempts by some at humor.


“Over the seas which matter most to these countries across 30 million square miles, runs the writ of the
Seventh Fleet yet another country, potentially the most destructively powerful of all of them ”
“Hey, Drex, wouldn’t it be lousy to get
hit by a SAM only two days before going
home?” one asked. “Stop goofin’ around”
was the answer.
The underworld half-light of the car-
rier’s endless passages and stairways gave
way to the bright Gulf of Tonkin sunshine
as I followed the pilots up to the flight-
deck. As always the first impression there
was a sudden splash of color. The deck
crews were in yellow, green, blue, red, each
denoting a different task in the incredibly
complex choreography of men and
machines which precedes a launching.
From the “catwalk”—a well at flight-deck
level which runs alongside the launch area
—the forward “cats” (the catapult con-
trollers) wait for the right signal to hurl
the jets off the deck at speeds of up to
200 miles an hour and at intervals of Dss
than a minute. Two other catapults are
operating at the same time, so that in
little over a minute Kitty Hawk can launch
three planes.
At launch-time the catwalk is an awe-
some place to be. One stands behind the
forward “cats” looking like extras in a
Cocteau film in their black goggles, black
helmets, and Mickey Mouse earmuffs.
The earmuffs deaden the roar of the jets
taking off a few feet away; they do not
eliminate it. Together with the rush of
steam from the catapults, the scurrying
of men from what seems to be every point
of the deck, the speed of the planes as
they hurtle off the deck in two seconds
all is buzzing confusion when seen
from the catwalk. Yet when seen from
the bridge above, the comparison with a
carefully drilled corps de ballet is un-
avoidable. All is grace and power.
In the five years since she was com-
missioned the crew of the Kitty Hawk
have performed the ballet of the launch
nearly 50,000 times. And each launch
demands the same split-second timing, as
does the cycle which inevitably follows
every launch the recovery. If the launch
is the more spectacular, the recovery is
more fraught with the possibility of mis-
hap, even though the pilot has some five
major technical aids working for him in
his landing approach. Until he has felt
that tug on his shoulder straps which
tells him his hook has caught he is
ready to fly on off the deck and come
back again. To maintain his speed he
pushes his throttle wide open as he touches
down giving him enough power to get
airborne if his hook does not pluck up
one of the four cables stretched across
the deck.
The returning pilot finds a world on
board a super-carrier like the Kitty Hawk
remote from the flak and missile barrage
he has experienced a few minutes pre-
viously. Usually he has met with anti-
aircraft fire heavier than that used by
any side in World War II in fact,
pilots now worry more about the flak
than the missiles. If he was not so tired
from the strain of having flown two mis-
sions and being on duty for an average
16-18 hours a day he could look forward
to seeing “Lolita” or Elvis Presley on film
in the wardroom or the Navy-Notre Dame
football game on the internal television
circuit. In television films of the Navy at
war in huge carriers like Kitty Hawk or
the nuclear-powered Enterprise (both are
over 80,000 tons) much is made of the ice-
cream bars, the many barber shops, or
the juke-boxes which can be found on
board.
The visitor may have time to enjoy
these amenities and, when the carriers are
not on active war stations, the crew pro-
bably can as well. But while these ships
are on “Yankee Station,” sleep is what
means most to the pilots and the 4800
personnel aboard, who work long and
hard to ensure that the pilots get off the
carrier, complete their mission, and return
safely. There is no “gung-ho” spirit among
the pilots, only a quiet determination to
On the bridge of the U.S.S. Ranger
plotting the course of Task Force 77.
complete their job and survive. Yet the
carrier is a tranquil haven. It is fighting
in a war where so far it has not been in
any serious danger of attack, but where
it can use all of modern technology to
support its pilots.
Admiral Reedy sees the war as a strange
contradictory mixture of an enemy who is
partly sophisticated in his responses, partly
primitive. He believes that the United
States is hurting North Vietnam with its
use of mobile air power and naval bom-
bardment, but has plenty of military targets
in North Vietnam which it may have to
hit before there is any indication of Hanoi’s
willingness to negotiate.
Senior officers aboard the Kitty Hawk
take it for granted that in Vietnam they
have played a critical role in what at
first glance seems to be mainly a land war
with limited air support. In fact, the ex-
pansion of the American war effort in
Vietnam could not have happened on the
scale it has without the Seventh Fleet.
As on previous occasions the Fleet has
shown that in strategic considerations of
the situation anywhere from the Bering
Sea in the North to Antarctica, and from
Pearl Harbor in the East to the Indian
Ocean, the Seventh Fleet is a vital factor.
With its 140 ships, 700 aircraft, and 70,000
men the Fleet is the largest in the world,
and its combination of conventional and
nuclear arms make it easily the most
powerful in history.
The Fleet became directly involved in
the Vietnam war in August, 1964, when
the destroyer Maddox was attacked by
North Vietnamese gunboats while on
patrol in international waters off the Gulf
of Tonkin. In a 21 minute gun battle—
the first direct clash between U.S. and
Communist armed vessels since Korea
the Maddox, assisted by jets from the
carrier Ticonderoga, drove off the attack-
ers. Two days later when six North Viet-
namese gunboats attacked again, President
Johnson responded by ordering the Fleet’s
planes to destroy the boat bases in North
Vietnam. In a successful demonstration
of its ability to get its aircraft carriers
into position, to brief its pilots, and get
planes into the air quickly the Fleet was
able to show in practice what it had
argued passionately before U.S. Defence
Secretary McNamara that its carrier-
based operations were not only the best
strategic deterrent in South-East Asia bur
the best guarantee of a quick and flexible
response to sudden limited aggression.
This was further demonstrated in Feb-
ruary, 1965, when Navy-based planes made
the retaliatory raids against North Vietnam
after the Vietcong had attacked U.S.
and South Vietnamese bases near Pleiku
and Tuy Hoi. That was the beginning of
the U.S. air war over North Vietnam
in which Navy aircraft have dropped more
bombs than U.S. Air Force planes.
But the Fleet has shown more than its
capability at maintaining a high-level car-
rier-based air attack program. It has
pounded targets deep inland in South
Vietnam, it has mounted amphibious
landings, it has provided invaluable sup-
port to land-based troops in action against
the Vietcong; it guards supplies moving
to South Vietnam, patrols the rivers and
waterways of the Mekong Delta, and
guards against Vietcong infiltration by
sea. The Navy’s highly developed at-sea
supply and replenishment system has kept
ammunition and supplies coming regu-
larly across communication lines which
stretch back across the Pacific to the
United States.
The efficient response shown by the
Navy has been prepared and worked out
in the years between Korea and Vietnam,
although those years were not free from
major incident for this modern armada.
In May, 1954, when the French were in


AUSTRALIAN
VOLUNTEERS
ABROAD-
Vacancies for Teachers,
Graduates, Tradesmen,
Nurses in Asia, Africa,
New Guinea and Pacific
Islands.
One- and two-year terms.
Small allowances, insur-
ance and fares provided.
Apply now to Australian Volunteers Abroad,
at the following addresses:-
VIC. —124 Jolimont Rd., East Melbourne (63-8496).
N.S.W. C/- Room 1, 4th Floor, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(28-7155)
S.A. C/- Community Aid Abroad, 5A Gay's Arcade Balcony,
Adelaide.
their death throes at Dien Bien Phu two
carriers were standing by off the Viet-
namese coast ready to intervene if they
had been so ordered. The next ten years
record many cases where the Fleet proved
its deterrence value in the Western Pacific
and it is possible only to speculate on
how many other occasions it did so, but
where the evidence was less dramatic.
In 1955, north of the Taiwan Straits,
the Chinese Communists attacked and
seized one of the Tachen Islands. Five
attack carriers ranged off the Tachens to
cover an amphibious evacuation of the
Nationalistic Chinese lB,OOO civilians
and 20,000 military personnel. In 1958,
while the United States was involved in
the Lebanon crisis in the Mediterranean,
the Chinese Communists began firing on
the Nationalist held Kinmen group of
islands, Quemoy and Matsu, across the
Straits from Taiwan near the Chinese
mainland. This was accompanied by a
build-up of Chinese forces on the main-
land and declarations that Taiwan would
be “liberated.” Again, the Seventh Fleet
was alerted and a large air defence exer-
cise using high performance jet aircraft
began over the Taiwan Straits.
Showing the Flag
rpHE attack carrier task groups were em-
ployed in an arc around Taiwan in
such a way as to make their potential
destructive power clear while surface units
escorted the Nationalist logistic forces in
international waters moving to and from
the island groups. By the end of October,
1958, the Chinese Communists had
reduced their actions to sporadic shelling.
The Seventh Fleet has remained on per-
manent patrol near the islands ever since.
In 1962, when fighting broke out in
Laos after the break-down of peace talks,
the Fleet made news again when it landed
a battalion of Marines in Thailand and
made a show of force in the South China
Sea.
Looking back on the operations of the
Fleet some U.S. Naval strategists have
pointed to some significant features. Most
striking is the difference between the theory
and practice of Seventh Fleet strategic
doctrine. Originally intended to emphasise
its nuclear deterrence capacity, the Seventh
Fleet was not supposed to play a large role
in such traditional activities as supporting
amphibious operations, controlling the sea
lanes, and showing the flag. Yet all of
these missions have in practice become
major tasks. Another example of how the
Seventh Fleet’s practice has differed from
the doctrine comes from Admiral David L.
McDonald, U.S.N., who has pointed out
that “amphibious evacuation has been
encountered about as often and as im-
portantly as amphibious assault. Perhaps it
is natural that this role has been commonly
overlooked. Few planners plan on disaster
One other feature of the Seventh Fleet’s
operations has been its knack for having
major units close to trouble-spots in
advance of Washington’s decisions to com-
mit them there. This has led to the
mystique which surrounds much of the
Seventh Fleet’s operations, and among
critics of American policy has been viewed
cynically as evidence of the independence
of the American “war-machine.” While
the U.S. Navy does have its own intelli-
gence-gathering system and can discreetly
deploy forces at will, there is no evidence
that it has ever acted independently of
Washington on any major issues.
Vietnam is a case in point. The Navy
does have its “Hawks,” who want to hit
North Vietnam much harder than Wash-
ington is prepared to allow at the moment.
It derives not only from their view of the
war but because to Navy pilots and their
commanders the restrictions on bombing
over North Vietnam are frustrating.
Whether the pressures from the Navy (and
even more strongly from the U.S. Air
Force) for a freer hand in the bombard-
ment of North Vietnam is successful in
Washington or not, it seems clear that its
performance in the Vietnam war has im-
pressed the civilian defence planners. New
aircraft-carriers are being built and the
fleet is being expanded in other ways by
the addition of new craft and equipment.
The Fleet’s organisation which has given
it its flexibility is based around its attack-
carrier striking force. This consists of three
attack-carriers forming the core for three
carrier-task groups, each with its own
destroyer escorts. As in Korea the carrier
has again demonstrated its versatility. It is
being used not only as a mobile airbase
for' long-range bombing strikes but for
close air support of amphibious operations
and for direct participation in amphibious
assaults to support the “vertical envelop-
ment” phase of Marine Corps landing
operations.
“Vertical envelopment” is a new concept
in amphibious warfare in which large heli-
copters, lifting several tons of equipment
and combat-ready troops, are launched in
waves from the decks of amphibious
assault-carriers into areas inaccessible to
the conventional types of landing craft.
In Vietnam this has meant that despite
the limitations of the coastal highway,
mobile U.S. Naval and Marine forces,
based out in the South China Sea, can
launch attacks well inland at short
These troops do not use in-country
resources, being fully maintained by the
Seventh Fleet units.
As well as the attack-carrier strike force
and the amphibious assault force, the
Fleet is using its destroyers and cruisers as
naval gunfire support and for shelling
targets of opportunity all along the Viet-
namese coastline. The Mobile Logistic
support force, which keeps the Fleet
supplied with food, ammunition, and fuel,
is itself a small fleet of more than 30 ships
and 5000 men.
The Hunter-Killers
to the Seventh Fleet’s strength,
but not as directly involved in combat
operations in the Vietnam war, is the
submarine force, which consists of at least
eight submarines equipped with Polaris
missiles, and the anti-submarine warfare
units known as the Hunter-Killer groups or
HUK units. This force is also built around
a carrier, as well as a squadron of 24-32
destroyers and specially equipped anti-
submarine aircraft and helicopters. The
anti-submarine warfare effectiveness of the
Fleet has not been tested in the Vietnam
war, but it remains crucial to the survival
of its central elements, the carriers, who
are vulnerable to the submarine threat. In
1954 the Soviet Union had some dozen
World War II long-range submarines
patrolling the Pacific. Now there are more
than 120 modern submarines in the area.
The Communist Chinese submarine fleet
is relatively smaller, but still potentially
dangerous, with about 30 craft.
Between them, therefore, the ships of
The Seventh Fleet can wage anything from
unlimited nuclear war to small-scale con-
ventional campaigns. Missile armament
includes a, full range of air-to-surface, air-
to-air, sub-sdrface-to-surface, surface-to-air
missiles. The range of conventional wea-
pons in use is wide, and includes rapid-
fire anti-aircraft and surface guns, depth-
charge rockets, sub-surface and aerial tor-
pedoes. Most of these weapons are con-
trolled and fired by highly sophisticated
electronics tracking systems and com-
puters.


How to
find time
for fun in
FIJI
and still
arrive in the
USA
on schedule
. - 3
You’re flying to the
U.S.A. and you want
to get there on time.
So you shall and
have a tropical break
on the way! How?
Fly AIR - INDIA’S
Daylight Flights to
Fiji. This way, you enjoy about nine hours'
stopover for a taste of the leisurely South
Seas life. You can relax in superb hotels with
their lavish swimming pools and elegant
cocktail bars . . . dance to soft island music
. . . see an exciting-Fijian meke . . . you can
swim at a palm-fringed white-sand beach . . .
tour Nandi and Lautoka by car (economic-
ally!) Really relax . . . but don't overlook the
bargains at the duty-free shops! Then make
your onward connection refreshed and
still get to the U.S.A. on time. Wonderful idea!
Fly AIR-INDIA’s Daylight Flights to Fiji.
ħ
A/R-/ND/A
the airline that treats
you like a Maharajah
worldwide.
h
with BOAC and Qantas
Ships of the Seventh Fleet carry “Terrier,” a potent self-guiding surface-to-air missile.
Aboard the Kitty Hawk, for example,
this sophistication has led to the develop-
ment of a Naval Tactical Data System.
This data processing and communications
system evaluates enemy threats to the
carrier and the Task Force and can recom-
mend counter moves to the naval com-
manders all in a matter of micro-seconds.
Developed to cope with modern warfare
in which aircraft and missiles may be
approaching at speeds of thousands of
miles an hour, it can anticipate simul-
taneous attacks on the Fleet’s units from
several directions at different altitudes. At
great speed it can exchange tactical infor-
mation throughout the Fleet by means of
radio equipment and present an overall
picture.
The 700 aircraft of the Seventh Fleet
include a versatile range of defence,
attack, and reconnaissance planes. Among
the newest are the A 4 Skyhawk, a light-
weight attack bomber which while less
than half the size of other jet fighters
boasts a superior performance to many of
them; the A 3 Skywarrior a twin-jet
swept-wing attack bomber which is the
most powerful aircraft ever designed for
carrier operations and carries out a large
share of the photo reconnaissance work
over North Vietnam; the F4B Phantom 11,
which has rewritten the record book for
operational fighter aircraft; the F-8
Crusader, a single-seat supersonic fighter;
the E 2 Hawkeye, a twin-engine, prop-
powered, early warning aircraft, which
carries its radar gear in a distinctive
mushroom-shaped saucer 24ft. across; and
the A 6 Intruder, a sub-sonic, all-weather,
attack aircraft.
Two-edged Policy
Y £ T with all the most complex equip-
ment and power these aircraft have
brought to the Navy, it is ironic that the
Navy plane which has dropped more
ordnance in the Vietnam war than any
other is at least 20 years old and has been
periodically marked for obsolescence. This
is the single engine, prop-driven A 1 the
Douglas Skyraider, capable of torpedo,
glide-bombing, and rocket attacks as well
as tactical support missions. It continues
to prove its usefulness. Originally designed
to carry a 10001 b. bomb, it showed during
the Korean War that it could carry ten
times that amount, or more than the four-
engined Flying Fortresses of World War
11. Equipped with a 20mm. cannon, it de-
livers both conventional bombs and
missiles with equal accuracy. Skyraider
pilots scoff at the jet flyers who, they
claim, are flown around by their weapons
systems which are no longer aircraft.
With all its power the Seventh Fleet
remains only about one-third of the larger
Pacific Fleet headquartered in Pearl
Harbor, Hawaii. The Pacific Fleet incor-
porates major commands like the Seventh
Fleet in the Western Pacific, the First
Fleet in the Eastern Pacific, the anti-
submarine warfare force at Pearl Harbor,
and other Naval forces in the Philippines,
Korea, Japan, and the Marianas; it has
approximately 425 ships, 3000 aircraft,
and 250,000 Navymen and Marines.
For its more political, less military,
tasks the Seventh Fleet finds showing the
flag is a two-edged policy. The recep-
tion in Asian ports varies in its enthusi-
asm. Thus while the nuclear-powered
giant carrier U.S.S. Enterprise, currently
on station with the Seventh Fleet, impresses
in some ports with its sheer size and
demonstrations of fire-power; elsewhere,
together with other American ships, it is
a reminder of the Western military pres-
ence and a focal point for any anti-
American feeling.
As one officer on board the Kitty Hawk
put it, “I don’t think we’ve realised yet
that it probably doesn’t matter how much
blood American sailors give to local blood-
banks or how many parties we throw for
their children, and or how many schools
and hospitals we pay for—there’s just no
guarantee that the port we were welcomed
in last time won’t be running a demon-
stration against us this time.” In fact
their reception in most Asian ports is,
if not always enthusiastic, usually realistic.
For one thing the Seventh Fleet in port
means money for the local economy.
It means more than that. Whatever the
demonstrators might sometimes say in a
country like Japan, its leaders and busi-
ness community know that its booming
economy depends on its continued un-
opposed access to the sea lanes of the Far
East. All the non-Communist countries of
the Western Pacific which border the sea,
from South Korea to New Zealand, are
similarly aware of how dominant a role
in their histories the sea has played and
how much they depend on it today—as
do the Communist States.
Over the seas which matter most to
these countries, across 30 million square
miles, runs the writ of the Seventh Fleet
—yet another country, self-contained and
potentially more destructively powerful
than all of them.


If you’re renting more computer than you need,
it’s like burning money.
NCR's new 500 Series costs less than
other low-cost computer systems. Its
unique building-block design enables
you to start small —then grow as your
needs expand. You never pay for
more than you need or more than you
can use. In addition to being lower
priced, a “500” is faster, too. As a
total system, from preparation of
input data through final reports for
management, nothing in its price
range can touch it for speed of pro-
cessing.
And it’s more flexible. Only the “500”
in the low-price field offers you your
choice of all the computer languages
punched card and tape, mag-
netic ledger, optical print tape.
We could go on and on like this
about the new “500” Series. A call
to your local NCR office and we will.
m
m
m
ĥ
ħ
J
HELPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


Conscription
What are the alternatives?
By ALAN REID
IN answering a series of questions asked
by THE BULLETIN, about possible
alternatives to the Government’s con-
scription policy, the Army Minister, Mr.
Malcolm Fraser, this week provided what
is probably the frankest and fullest
examination of Australian Army figures yet
made.
In the course of the interview, he claimed
that without the use of national servicemen
in Vietnam, Australia could not sustain
a battalion group there, let alone the 4500
commitment it has now undertaken, in
view of other commitments. Without con-
scription Australia would have to reduce its
commitments abroad below the level the
Government believed Australia’s security
demanded. Further, if Australia fell back
on a purely voluntary system of service for
overseas, the turnover would be such that
regulars would be called up for a fresh
tour of duty soon after having served
abroad.
Here is Mr. Fraser’s line of argument:
I first asked him: “Why can’t Australia
supply 4500 combat troops out of its
present strength of 24,000 regulars?”
Mr. Fraser said the 24,000 should not
be regarded as being available at all
times. Forty-four percent of all regular
recruits were under 19 years of age on
enlistment. They were debarred from over-
seas service, as 19 was the minimum age
for operational service. Further, a propor-
tion of regulars might not be medically
fit. While this was temporary, allowance
had to be made.
Similarly, if a man on a three-year
engagement had served for 2J years his
residual service would be insufficient to
allow service overseas. (The tour in Viet-
nam is for a year, and if the Army sent
men due to leave the Army within six
months it would constantly have to replace
personnel in the field.)
“In fact, if the Vietnam force were to
consist of regulars only, we would not
have enough regular infantry soldiers to
sustain the existing battalion group in
Vietnam, and simultaneously honor our
commitment in Malaysia, have people able
to go to New Guinea if they are needed,
and also have personnel to train both
national servicemen and our permanent
recruits and groups. Some 3200 regulars
are already abroad, and of the total 24,000
regulars only 14,500 are in field force units.
The rest are in training units, H.Q., and
support units and the like.”
Reid: Could not those 10,000 be
combed to enlarge the 14,500 permanents
available for field force units?
Fraser: The training and support ele-
ments perform essential tasks. They consist
basically of NCOs and specialists and
their tasks could not be performed by
national servicemen. Maximum integration
t)f civilians is our policy.
The Army has been chronically short of
manpower for its field force. Inspection
teams have been operating for years to
cut the non-field force element to the
bone. But there are limits such as mobility
and other factors to the use the Army
can make of civilians.
At present about 6000 civilians are
employed in Army installations such as
ordnance and on HQ staffs. We use
civilians wherever possible. But as I say
there are limits. Civilian maintenance men
—and we employ civilian maintenance
men —can pack up and leave at a moment’s
notice if they want to. There has to be
a military proportion to keep mainten-
ance going regularly and at all times and
when needed.
Reid: Why is it not possible to employ
CMF members on a short-term basis to
perform the home duties now performed
by permanent officers and other ranks in
the Regular Army.
Fraser: We have a limited number of
CMF on full-time duties. We have not
generally appealed to the CMF to join
the permanent forces or to take on duties
of a full-time nature, because they are
needed in the CMF for emergency or a
general expansion of the forces.
On the other hand, it is useful to have
members of the CMF who have gone into
action in Vietnam go back to their own
units where their experience is invaluable
in training.
Reid: Why is it not possible to send
only volunteer national servicemen to
Vietnam?
Fraser: We have tried to get volunteers
for the Regular Army and have not got
them. In any case, by calling for a
volunteer force from national servicemen,
you get the two army system. Under
the volunteer system some would go
overseas and some would not. This
would obviously produce feeling between
those who were prepared to go and
those who were not. It would not produce
an integrated army. The very real
enthusiasm and respect which members
of the Regular Army now have for national
servicemen would tend to be reduced. At
the moment the regulars know that the
national serviceman is drafted to do a
real job. If they knew national servicemen
were going to stay in Australia, it would
be difficult for instructors to maintain the
enthusiasm they have shown. If you rely
on the voluntary system you cannot plan
effectively because you do not know how
many you would get and therefore don’t
know whether you can meet commitments.
You would also reduce greatly the Army’s
flexibility.
Reid: Could the Army raise a fighting
force of volunteers who enlist only to fight
in Vietnam?
MALCOLM FRASER
“None”
Fraser: Possibly, but it would not pro-
vide a good military solution to the
problem. We must be assured of the avail-
ability of forces to meet our overseas
commitments. This is one of the chief
benefits of the national service scheme.
We cannot rely on the voluntary system
to fill our needs. Even if sufficient volun-
teers came forward, we would still be
faced with a considerable training problem.
It would be nine months before such a
force could be ready for operations. Not
only do we need numbers to send initially
to Vietnam but we also need the reserves
and reinforcements to sustain the force.
Reid: Could you send your national
servicemen to New Guinea, thereby re-
leasing the permanents there.
Fraser: We send regulars to New Guinea
for three years, as it is considered that this
is the minimum effective period of service
in that area. Regulars in New Guinea are
generally officers and senior NCOs and the
requirement is not for rank-and-file
soldiers. National servicemen could not be
usefully employed in that area.
Reid: How about the permanents serv-
ing with the CMF—couldn’t they serve
overseas?
Fraser: We are planning for 1200 per-
manents to be serving with the CMF.
Present actual strength is only about 800.
They could not be considered as a sub-
stantial element in meeting the Vietnam
commitment.
Reid: Why have volunteers for Vietnam
not been sought among the CMF’s 17,768
other ranks?
Fraser': If we appealed to the CMF rank-
and-file to volunteer it would be the experi-
enced privates—who, together with the
officers and NCOs, are the backbone of
the CMF—who would come forward.
These experienced privates are required in
the CMF, because experienced personnel
in all ranks is essential for the functioning
of a unit; It is essential that the general
framework of the CMF not be upset,
because if needed in a general emergency
they have to provide the back-up forces
or extension, which is the job assigned to
the CMF.
Reid: Why is there the necessity to


keep regulars in Malaysia and Borneo?
Could they not be transferred to Vietnam?
Fraser: They are kept there because we
have commitments in the area which we
have to honor. But when they are re-
placed they will be replaced with units
that have a national service component.
Basically it has to be faced that if
national servicemen are not going to be
used where required for Australian
security, then the question had to be asked
what was the use of having the scheme.
If we fall back on a purely voluntary
army of 24,000 we would have to reduce
our commitments abroad well below the
level which we, as a Government, believe
the security of Australia demands. Like-
wise, our capacity to expand at a time of
real emergency would be reduced.
If the scheme is to be effective, those
called up must be under an obligation to
serve overseas, if necessary and to be avail-
able to go with the regular unit in which
they are serving. The present position is
that abandonment of national service would
involve a reduction in our commitments
in a manner that this Government, having
regard for national security, cannot
accept.
The Minister’s Pipe-Dreams
Making N.S.W. drought-proof?
By KEITH CAMPBELL
JACK BEALE
No over-all plan
THE $l2OO million water conservation
. plan announced by the N.S.W. Con-
servation Minister, Mr. J. G. Beale,
last weekend has been heralded on
the one hand as a new plan for the
utilisation of N.S.W. water supplies and
on the other hand as a very significant
step in the direction of drought mitiga-
tion. It is neither.
The N.S.W. Water Conservation and
Irrigation Commission, like any public
irrigation authority of its type in the
world, has continuously to plan its en-
gineering works well into the future.
What Mr. Beale, long an ardent advocate
of greater water conservation,-has done in
essence is to knit together all the facets
of the Commission’s planning activities
extending over many years into one
overall program.
Mr. Beale is claiming altogether too
much for his scheme when he insists that
it will “make the State drought resist-
ant” or, as some would have it, “drought-
proof.” Helpful though increased assur-
ance of the continuity of water supplies
will be to those farmers who have access
to major streams, the scheme will do
little for those in less favored locations.
Those people without river frontages will
only benefit if they are appropriately
situated geographically and financially to
draw on underground supplies or extend
the water-storage facilities on their farms.
Irrigation development will continue to
have a limited role as a drought mitiga-
tion measure until some government is
courageous enough to undertake a redis-
tribution of land along major streams to
ensure that more landholders can have
access to irrigated pastures and crops.
Little, as yet, has been done to integrate
dry-land pastoral activities with nearby
irrigation facilities either through provid-
ing access to irrigation for more dry land
farmers or through wider distribution of
fodder produced on irrigation farms.
We must be realistic: attention to water
utilisation alone will not solve the nation’s
problem of recurrent drought. Stock have
to eat as well as drink and the available
water probably would not go anywhere
near supplying enough fodder from irri-
gated land for the State’s livestock popu-
lation in even a moderate drought. In any
case, there are more economic ways of
providing such fodder.
Perhaps the most significant feature of
the recently announced program is the
fact that large-scale Government-sponsored
irrigation settlements of the Coleambally
type form a small part of the whole. The
emphasis, apart from measures to encour-
age individual landholders to develop
their water resources, is on building a
system of dams and weirs along the major
watercourses to enable private irrigation
• development to proceed and to ensure
greater continuity of supplies to those
already in the irrigation business.
In my view, this is a step in the right
direction, particularly when considered in
association with the metering plan
announced by Mr. Beale at Easter. Under
this latter scheme farmers pumping water
from streams which are regulated by
dams or weirs, will be required as from
July 1 this year to install meters on their
pumps and pay charges ranging from 45
cents to $1.50 per acre-foot for all water
used. Despite the widespread complaints
of farmers about this new measure, it
represents an important step in the direc-
tion of encouraging more efficient use of
water.
Mr. Beale’s blueprint involves a short-
term plan for the next five years as well
as the longer-term 25-year plan. The
latter plan, he says, could be a 50-year
plan rather than a 25-year one if the
Commonwealth Government merely con-
tinues to support water conservation works
in the State at the rate which has pre-
vailed in the recent past. The scheme as
a whole is dependent on the availability
of Federal support to the tune of almost
$5OO million.
This is the nub of the problem. The
Minister’s plan is clearly a pipe-dream
devised by his engineers and is largely
devoid of economic reality. It suffers
from the shortcomings of all plans drawn
up by specialist authorities, whether they
be Lands Departments, Electricity Com-
missions, or Water Commissions. Some-
where either at a Cabinet level or at a
Loan Council level, the inherently con-
flicting and grandiose claims of authorities
with special interests have to be integrated
and trimmed to fit within the bounds of
the possible. Somebody has to adjudicate
on the relative priorities which are to be
accorded hospital construction, road-
building, and dam construction, to men-
tion a few avenues of public investment.
In this context, what counts are not the
pipe-dreams, but the adequacy of argu-
ments produced to show that this particu-
lar scheme or that should be accorded
clear priority over others. This is the great
deficiency in Mr. Beale’s plan. Doubt has
already been expressed about the so-called
“drought-proofing” potential of the
scheme. Mr. Beale has suggested that if
his five-year plans were implemented the
value of N.S.W. agricultural production
would rise ssom. annually and correspond-
ingly more with the 25-year plan. What
would be interesting to know is whether
the same amount of money invested in
other forms of rural development such as
agricultural research would not bring even
greater increments in rural productivity
than this. What is needed in essence is
not a water plan for the State, but an
overall plan for the State’s agricultural
development.
In the absence of a complete evaluation
of the State’s development needs, an
evaluation of the potential costs and bene-
fits of particular projected public works
can give some concrete guidance to those,
say, in the Commonwealth Treasury whose
job it is to weigh conflicting claims. Vari-
ous officials of the N.S.W. Water Con-
servation and Irrigation Commission, like
their counterparts in other States, have ex-
pressed scepticism in recent years about
any procedures of economic evaluation
which might have the effect of curbing the
exuberance of their engineers, but they are
gradually coming to accept the inevitable.
Mr. Beale has suggested that some pre-
liminary cost-benefit analysis has been
made of some of the projects included in
his program, hut no precise details are
given. One cannot help feeling that his
entire plan would have been far more
effective and more usable in negotiating
•Federal support if he had deferred its
publication until the Commission had de-
voted more time to weighing the costs
against the potential benefits.


2
AIR N
- V
m
Best jetway
to
Hong Kong or
Singapore!
The way you like it —that’s how you II find Five Star
Jetline service. The people are friendly and attentive,
the food is truly outstanding. The jets? Giant new
DC-B’s, the world’s most preferred jetliners. From
Sydney at 11.15 a.m. direct to Hong Kong via Darwin
or direct to Singapore. Convenient connections from
most parts of Australia. And at Hong Kong or Singapore,
connections every day to Europe, Japan—everywhere!
Your Travel Agent or Air New Zealand will book you
instantly. Onward travel, inclusive tours, and hotels, too.
AIR HEW OAUHO
-
The Five Star Jetline ★★★★★
in association with QANTAS and BOAC.
General Sales Agents in Australia: Qantas
Air New Zealand offices: Sydney 28.2786 • Melbourne 63.2554 • Brisbane 31.2548
• Canberra 4.7141 • Adelaide 51.0331
AP70.107.855<
12771


ONE MORE
WEEK
Dominance
IT SHOULD COME as a surprise to
no one except sporting officials that the
people of New South Wales have sub-
scribed only $BO.lO of the $20,000 sought
to send teams to Jamaica for the Common-
wealth Games. The expulsion of Dawn
Fraser and three other swimmers after the
1964 Olympic Games is undoubtedly the
chief reason for public coolness.
The Secretary of the N.S.W. Common-
wealth Games Association, Mr. Arthur
Tunstall, has gone on record as saying that
what the public fails to realise is that Aus-
tralia has a great chance of dominating the
Games. “And,” he adds, “this is most neces-
sary to our overseas image, particularly as
the Games this year are being held in a
non-white country for the first time.” If
that is sport’s selling line, team members
might as well begin swimming to Jamaica
right now.
Send for Bond
A RATHER ironic cri du coeur comes
from the Italian film industry, which has
spent the past 20 years trying to counter
effectively the impression given in 40 years
of American films—that all gangsters and
toughs are Italian and all Italians are
gangsters and toughs.
The Italian film industry has been
caught unawares by the neo-unrealism, or
what an Italian film writer calls the
“phenomenology of James Bond.” Italian
directors, he says, working to this “Anglo-
Saxon formula” suffer from a trace of
inferiority complex. Some of them even
conceal themselves behind foreign names,
for fear, he says, that the public will not
take them seriously. He cites “Agente 007
daH’Oriente,” directed by Terence Hata-
way, who is really Italian Sergio Grieco in
Bond-style disguise.
Export action
THERE WAS an echo of recent remarks
by the deputy-director of the Art Gallery
of N.S.W., Mr. Tony Tuckson, about the
“commercialisation” of New Guinea art
in the annual report for the Territory of
New Guinea, tabled in the House of
Representatives by the Minister, Mr.
Barnes. Tucked away on page 44 of the
297-page report is a paragraph which says:
“A group of young men from the Sepik
district are developing a successful business
at Lae as the Sepik Mask and Crocodile
Carvers. During the year they dispatched
their first consignment of carvings overseas
and received $3OO from Guam.”
Not all beard and boredom
“IF NEW YORK doesn’t get you in,
nothing will,” Sidney 'Nolan told us
happily. We met the Australian artist at
a party which followed the showing of his
Gallipoli film at Sydney’s Qantas House.
Nolan is the kind of person who tends to
fade into the crowd at parties, so that it is
only when all the bearded, thoughtful men
have been positively identified as someone
else that you realise he must be the guest-
of-honor.
Art is, of course, Nolan’s cup of tea and
in New York he’d literally wallowed in it.
“There’s this wonderful Warhol thing of
little colored balls that go up and down
all the time,” he told us. “I mean, that’s
it, the whole exhibition. You get this
wonderful feeling of release.”
Artist Elwyn Lynn said he supposed that
with a large number of. warm-blooded
people in the room the balls would slow
down because of atmospheric pressure.
Nolan thought it quite likely.
Yes, Nolan told Lynn, he had seen the
cisterns made nut of vinyl. But there
wasn’t time to ask what exactly they meant
by cisterns before more exciting memories
came flooding back. Had he seen the
Warhol film of the Empire State Building?
No, but he’d seen another one with people
lying in bed smoking cigarettes that went
on for an equally long time. “There’s so
much to see and they keep changing them
every week,” he said, “d’ve seen revolving
paintings and electronic paintings and
animated paintings . . . things we haven’t
dreamt of in Australia, but they’ll come.
Just you wait.”
Unfortunately, he’d only read about Los
Angeles, where another painter, Kienholz,
had assembled a number of scenes with
dressmakers’ dummies, including a repre-
sentation of necking couples in a Dodge
sedan and the interior of a Las Vegas
brothel. Judy Cassab, he believed, had
actually met the man and been terribly
impressed. There was this girl with a
squirrel emerging from her left breast, you
see ...
Clearly Nolan had been having a won-
derful life and it seemed impossible he’d
found any time at all to paint pictures of
his trip to South-East Asia, as the Qantas
public-relations men had said earlier.
Didn’t anyone ever complain about this
sort of art? we asked. “Oh, no,” Nolan
said, smiling through sandy eyelashes.
“Even the most rabid League of Decency
people have realised it only encourages
people to go if they make a fuss about
things.”
Actually, he confided, it was quite a
change to be at ..in ordinary party like this,
where one was not assailed by bouncing
balls and blown-up naked ladies.
At this juncture Nolan was whisked
away to talk about something else. “That’s
the nice thing about Sidney,” said Lynn.
“He’s so interested in things and places.
So many artists are all beard and
boredom.”
Singing is a sometime thing
WHEN “PORGY AND BESS” finished
last month in Adelaide, the company dis-
banded. For the Maoris, it was home to
New Zealand, where most of them have
farms or steady jobs. There was a mild
flurry of publicity when one member of
the cast claimed discrimination on the
train back to Melbourne but for the most
part the tour was a bold, mainly amateur,
venture, which they can look back on in
years to come.
For the negro members of the cast,
things are not so easily resolved and two
of them, Dolores Ivory and Irving Barnes,
are now in Sydney working the clubs
until the tax-man and Immigration become
immediate problems.
“There’s usually a production of ‘Porgy’
going on some place,” baritone Irving
Barnes told us. Barnes has been able to
make a nice living, sometimes with his
wife travelling, too, on the Catfish Row
circuit in 23 countries since 1952, playing
either Jake or Porgy. Appearances in
“Carmen Jones” and “Finian’s Rainbow”
have helped, along with television and
recordings, but for the negro singer,
income is a sometime thing.
Barnes, who preceded Dolores Ivory in
a two-week season at the Tabou nightclub
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
I am embarrassed and I am sure that
Arthur is, too.
Gough Whitlam
Managerial incapacity is the greatest
single cause of business failures in Aus-
tralia.
P. Hackforth-Jones
T . , . , ,
It was rather a cruel portrayal of
j • .i , . r J
someone doing the best they can.
Bob Crosby
Financial success improves people who
are good and debases those who are bad.
Playwright John Osborne
Even though disguised in track or
swimsuits or in other sports clothes
political agents cannot help being recog-
nised as political agents.
Avery Brundage
T ,,,, , , _ ,
. } not heheve we have brought God
into our current military operations.
U.S. Secretary of Defence Robert McNamara
No one is born prejudiced against
others, but everyone is born prejudiced
j n favor of himself.
Dr - D - stafford-ciark
Student lawyers are not taught that it
is professional malpractice to charge
clients too much.
_ T _
Barrister L. C. Gruzman
Today, the obsession with secrecy
which blocks some paths of progress
toward disarmanent is an unfortunate
example of the inability of certain types
of military men to learn anything new
after they have reached the age of 30.
General E. L. Burns, Canadian delegate to
the Geneva disarmament conference
A television commercial is the most
efficient, power-packed capsule of educa-
tion that appears anywhere on television,
_ Dr G L Gray Professor of Television,
Michigan State University


in Kings Cross, admits freely he is here for
the money, until the time when he must
take advantage of the free transportation
provided by the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
back to America. Until then, he is relying
on the usual places on the fringe of show-
business —the Tabou, the Mandarin Club,
Miller’s Hotels, and as few as possible
RSL clubs.
There is also money to be made as a
photographic model, and Barnes will
appear soon in an overseas airline adver-
tisement. The original offer from the
agency was seven dollars, big money if
Barnes had been back in his old job as a
singing waiter in New York but eminently
rejectable in Australia. Two days later
the agency offered 25 dollars, which he
accepted. It seemed hard to believe, con-
sidering the scarcity of the merchandise.
“Hell,” Barnes said, “it’s simply a matter of
watching the nightclub ads. Sooner or
later one of us is bound to turn up.”
When he’s not working, Barnes reads
Patrick White, attends to the washing and
ironing and smiles tactfully when people
ask if he likes Odetta and Bob Dylan.
Dolores Ivory worries about visas. She
intends to become a British citizen soon
because she is going to marry a New
Zealander (Peter Keiha, a Gisborne actor-
farmer she met during “Porgy’s” New
Zealand run). British citizenship will also
be necessary for operatic competitions she
may enter in Australia. “I’m having
lessons twice a week from Madame Mathy
at the Conservatorium,” she said. “I did
one audition for the Trust at the beginning
of April for T 1 T'rovatore’ but I don’t know
what they’re planning to do.” So until the
visa problem comes to a head, she studies,
reads, does her nightly act at the Tabou
and gets up at 5 a.m. once a week to ring
her fiance in New Zealand.
Last year Miss Ivory won the 3000-dollar
John Hay Whitney scholarship for the most
promising young singer in the United
States. This meant she could study
privately in New York for a year, but she
said that in the operatic field the situation
is tough. “The Metropolitan Opera has
one negro man, George Shirley, and four
or five girls,” she said, “but it’s not as good
as it sounds. They put you on the payroll,
give you a few spears to carry, then never
use you again. And you can’t take outside
work.”
But the Metropolitan is a long way from
the Tabou, where she is the fabulous and
exciting Dolores Ivory in a new blue-black
wig and glittering pink dress. Under the
incredible ceiling of undulating wall-to-
wall bamboo matting she belts out Bossa
Novas, a Beatle ballad called “Yesterday,”
and in deference to a table of sentimental
women and sleepy men, “Blowing in the
Wind.”
Her ambition is simply to sing and she
hasn’t seen much of Sydney, except in taxi-
cabs between the Conservatorium and the
club. If she has any fears, it is of the
sailors who roam past her flat in Wylde
Street. “But I don’t mind them as much
as the people who go in for the my-best-
friends routine,” she said. She gave a
knowing shrug. “I mean, how can they say
that? I’ve only seen one aborigine since
I’ve been here.”
IN SYDNEY
"What's the C.S.I.R.O. doing about
wet feet?"
I prefer a broadsheet — it gives a better coverage."
fmwg.
,SMi%
s»
m)W\
"That's the insurance cover — the car is extra."


//-' /fit
&
§
m
wm
H
m
m
m
%
I®
v\«
I
Si
'
' '■>■ Of
" i
: ■■ ■*>?■.
\ X
,x\
m
m \
mmr-
kb
till
m
m
mil
,
W*
m
/
/
/
/
Wv
6 /
A section of Humes Plastiline pipes for the main Adelaide Outfall Sewer at Bolivar
HUMES “Plastiline”
the latest in sewer pipe protection
H2S gas concentration in sewer pipes may lead to the
gradual corrosion of the concrete . . . but it cannot
harm PVC. That’s why we have developed a method
to give our concrete sewer pipes a corrosion-proof
skin of PVC “Plastiline”.
MECHANICALLY INTERLOCKED
The idea is not new of course. There are other
plastic-lined pipes on the market.
But ours are the only concrete sewer pipes with the
keys of the Plastiline sheets mechanically interlocked
with the spun concrete itself. No adhesive, no
mortar. The process is patented.
We claim that our method gives the best results.
Concrete and Plastiline sheet are so rigidly inter-
locked that a test pull of more than 100 lbs. per
lin. inch of keys (that is 40 lbs. per square inch of
sheet), cannot tear them apart.
CIRCUMFERENTIAL KEYS—LIGHTER PIPES
What is more, we run our keys around the circum-
ference of the pipe, NOT along its length.
This means that a HUMES PLASTILINE SEWER
PIPE has thinner walls than a pipe with longitudinal
keys, because its effective wall thickness is practically
unaffected by our method of arranging the Plastiline
keys circumferentially. Result: Our pipes are lighter.
Besides, HUMES PLASTILINE SEWER PIPES
have the shortest escape routes for any moisture
build-up . . . along the multitude of keys to the
bottom of the pipe. No blockage, no strain on the
Plastiline sheeting. It’s the ideal solution.
FOR FURTHER DETAILS please contact the
Humes office in your capital city.
h
ĥ
AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST PIPE-MAKERS
HUMES LIMITED HEAD OFFICE: 185 William Street, Melbourne. 600221. STATE OFFICES: N.S.W.: Park Road, Regents Park. 6442351.
Vic.: 12th Floor, 205 William St., Melb. 600221. OLD.: 189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. 45881. S.A.: 78 West Beach Road, Keswick. 971011.
W.A.: Salvado Road, Subiaco. 872311. TAS.: 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 32741.
HCI232X


MBHBIwii
mm
Bom from
the war of 1746
h
April, 1746. Broken
standards lay on
Culloden’s peat. The
rattle of musketry,
the skirl of war-
pipes had died. And
across the misty hills
fled Prince Charles
Edward Stuart.
From the Isle of Skye, a
Captain Mackinnon rowed
Bonnie Prince Charlie to a
French ship . . . and safety. The
Prince rewarded Mackinnon
with the secret formula of his
personal liqueur "An Dram
Buidheach” . . . Drambuie. Un-
changed in two centuries,
Drambuie’s precious recipe is
still secret . . . traditional ingre-
dients still blended by hand.
Warm-hearted, piquant, nostal-
gic . . . Drambuie rewards you
with a rare experience.
Drambuie
The Scottish liqueur from Bonnie
Prince Charlie’s secret recipe.
The Distillers Agency Ltd., (Inc. in Great Britain)
12642 D 9.73
Who Rules Britain’s Air Waves?
“No man is held a pirate for millions”
From JAMES MURRAY in London
SOMEWHERE on the list of matters
which the British Prime Minister,
Harold Wilson, with a handsome
majority backing him, may feel he can
now tackle are the pirate radio ships, thus
finishing one of the strangest and funniest
episodes in recent British history.
What a British Broadcasting Corpora-
tion report has icily called “The Caroline
Phenomenon” began early in 1964 in the
Irish harbor of Greenore with the crews
of two ships going hell for overtime and
bonuses to be the first to get their floating
radio transmitter ready for sea.
Urging on the conversion of one ship
was 45-year-old Allan Crawford, a former
Australian bomber pilot, turned music
publisher, who claimed to be the orig-
inator of the notion of radio piracy; in
charge of the other was 24-year-old Ronan
O’Rahilly, grandson of a man killed by
the English in the 1916 Easter Rising, who
rebutted Crawford’s claim by saying he
got the idea of pirate radio from a colleen
at a dance and not from Crawford in a
Soho pub.
By luck or by ruse, he was also the
son of the owner of the harbor instal-
lations. O’Rahilly won the race and took
up station off England’s populous south
coast, outside the three-mile limit but
within transmitting range of London. A
chancer in the classic Irish tradition,
O’Rahilly greeted the first broadcast from
his pop ship Radio Caroline on Easter
Saturday, 1964, with the remark: “I feel
I am taking an Easter revenge against the
English authorities.”
The bodies of Irish heroes in Glasnevin
cemetery, Dublin, had hardly stopped
turning at this when Cravyford’s Radio
Atlanta took up station within a cooee
of Radio Caroline, intent upon broadcast-
ing on the same wavelength of 201 metres.
Jocelyn Stevens, Old Etonian editor of
the glossy magazine “Queen,” was called
in to arbitrate between the Australian and
the Irishman. The argument over wave-
lengths was settled.
But for three months Caroline and
Atlanta fought to gain control of the key
London area. There were reports of
sabotage and boarding parties as lubberly
disc jockeys, among them Australians, and
polyglot crews, tried to live up to the
swashbuckling image created for them by
public relations men. Then Crawford and
O’Rahilly, no doubt at the judicious
prompting of their backers who had put
respectively £5tg.250,000 and £stg.lso,ooo
into Caroline and Atlanta, agreed to bury
the rubber cutlass and merge their in-
terests. Caroline remained where she was
off genteel Frinton with the designation
Radio Caroline South while Atlanta sailed
northwards toward the Isle Of Man to
take up station as Radio Caroline North.
By September ’64, the joint venture was
reported to be clearing £stg.9ooo a week.
Others had joined in the effort to cover
Britain with audible wallpaper from dawn
till dark, from Land’s End to John
O’Groats. The most egregious was
Screaming Lord Sutch, who took over a
vacant sea defences fort on Shivering
Sands off the Essex coast and announced
that he would vary his pop music pro-
grams with readings from the unexpur-
gated versions of “Lady Chatterley’s
Lover” and “Fanny Hill.” Sutch’s rival in
picturesqueness was Tom Pepper, a gold-
earringed seafarer who set up a similar
station in a fort on Red Sands, in the
Thames estuary and was subsequently
drowned at sea as he returned from taking
supplies to his station Radio Invicta. Like
Radio Sutch, whose wavelength was taken
over by the Caroline organisation, Pepper’s
old station suffered a sea-change into
Radio 390, which is now most memorable
for the popularity of the Australian serial
“Dr. Paul.”
When they first appeared on the scene,
however, there were hopes that their flam-
boyance might beget a touch of gunboat
diplomacy from the Tory Government
then still in power. These hopes were dis-
appointed. Not only had the Conservative
Party members with strong intellectual
and financial convictions about the need
to break the BBC’s monopoly as its TV
monopoly had been broken, but the
administration itself at the end of a 13-
year-long tether was thinking rather of
girding its shibboleths for a General Elec-
tion than of positive action. Thus the
early pirates broadcast unopposed except
by occasional vague Ministerial threats.
Within six months, Radio Caroline
South was claiming an audience of four
million, disproving the contention of the
1962 Pilkington Committee that there was
no significant demand for an alternative to
BBC radio in Britain. Still the Postmaster-
General’s handwringing did begin to deter
advertisers somewhat. Then the Duke of
Bedford took a paid advertisement for
his stately home, Woburn Abbey. More
important, the giant J. Walter Thompson
organisation took time on behalf of some
of its biggest clients. Since then, the radio
pirates have had no difficulty in selling
time at rates ranging from Radio Caro-
line’s top £stg.9o per 30-second spot to
Radio 390’s £stg.3o.
At one stage, the Postmaster-General,
Reginald Bevins, found himself inveigh-
ing against those who bought advertising
time from the pirates over the sound of
commercials on behalf of the Government-
sponsored Egg Marketing Board.
The latitude allowed the pirates by the
Tory Government gave them sufficient
time to make an impact on listeners. Thus
when Labor came to power in October,
1964, with an overall majority of three,
the situation was such that it could take
no immediate action despite its ranks being
stiff with anti-commercial MPs. The
scholarly Patrick Gordon Walker, Foreign
Secretary designate, demonstrated just how
tricky was the problem. Defeated in
Smethwick, Gordon Walker, a key mem-
ber of Harold Wilson’s cabinet, team, went
on to fight a by-election in Leyton. He
was defeated in a constituency which
Labor had previously held with an 8000
majority. In the post-mortem which fol-
lowed, pundits stressed that Smethwick’s
vicious catchword, “If you want a nigger
for a neighbor, vote Labor” had its ludi-
crous, yet significant counterpart, in Ley-
ton’s, “Don’t vote Labor, they’ll kill
Caroline.”
Ironically, the Labor Government then
gave the pirates one of their biggest fin-
ancial boosts by banning cigarette advert-


ms
_%ij+*QAZ "WSX/ g)RF V£TG B ? YHN &U J
@RFV£TGB?YHN&UJMIK(OL.) P :%Jj%+*QAZ "WSX/EDC@RFV£TGB?YH
IK(OL. )P:% )P:%
B?YHN&UJMIK(OL. )P:% QAZ"WSX/EDC(§>
'' ' o j*#k '■‘y
) P : %_%%+* QAZ " WSX/ EDC@RFV£TG B ?YHN&U JM IK
?:%_kh+*QAZ (OL.)P :%_%**+*QAZ
&UJMIK (OL. )P:% Jjis+
IMfp
■ ■ < m ■
FV£TGB?YHN&UJM 1 IK (OL. )P tWns-7«r.iov/v-Tvanr,-,
) P s%_ijis+*QAZ"WSX/EDC@RFV£Ti
* QAZ "WSX/EDC<|>RFV£TG j|
WSX/ED
, :
m
<#> Business Communications - the art of
turning information and ideas into action
faster, using the 3M combination of more
efficient copying and distribution methods,
and short cut paperwork systems.
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart • Canberra
vjE


Arctic Cherry, random grooved Timbertone walls.
glamour for walls
IP
by TIMBROCK
<«sb>
B UIL DI Ng\/m ATERIALS
X\tHy »|frM \jniU ipefteX
Looks elegant and takes a houseful of hard wear.
The new scratch resistant surface is smooth, durable
and easily wiped clean with a cloth. Choose from
seven attractive timber grainings. Sizes: 6' x 4'
and 9' x 4' in plain or random grooved panels. Fix
to new or existing walls.
A 9' x 4' random grooved pane! costs about $12.48,
(124/10) city price, at leading hardware stores and
timber merchants.
TISSA
ising on TV. Before the ban Radio
Caroline carried cigarette advertising at
the rate of £stg. 15,000 worth a year; after
the ban the figure rose to £stg.6o,ooo a
year.
Not all pirates could count on such in-
advertent kindness. Two nine-year-old
schoolboys who went on the air with
“Radio Lollipop,” using walkie-talkies, felt
the full severity of the law. But in general
the Government’s handling of the matter,
then as now, is summed up in the words
of a pirate DJ introducing a new disc:
“Wow, what a crazy, crazy record.” It
seemed as if the Government were wait-
ing for the ships to sink, due to the cor-
rosive action of the salt-water electrolysis
set up by the strength of their radio sig-
nals. For even with the moral support of
seven other nations within the Council
of Europe and the example of the Dutch,
who landed a platoon of marines by heli-
copter to close down a pirate TV station,
the British Government did nothing.
The fact is that from the beginning
legislation to suppress the pirates was
available if the Government had wished to
use it. Existing laws covering wireless and
telegraphy made it an offence punishable
with a fine up to £stg.so to listen to an
unauthorised broadcast. Apart from this,
there were jurists prepared to state that
because the pirates were anchored to the
continental shelf they could be prosecuted
under legislation created to cover drilling
rigs searching for gas outside the three-
mile limit but on the shelf.
All of the sea-girt operators have re-
cently been at pains to take on the aura
of social experimenters rather than flou-
ters of international laws. The solid citi-
zens are moving in and the pioneers are
moving out. Allan Crawford has left the
Caroline operation, his place as joint
managing director being taken by an econ-
omist. Nevertheless, it was Crawford
himself who said as early as 1964, “We
want to build a reputation for being sober
and responsible people.”
In the classic English tradition, sober
and responsible people form a queue for
the approach of a gravy-train. The
British Local Radio Association, quite a
long queue indeed, has put forward a plan
for 285 radio stations throughout Britain,
costing £stg.so,ooo each. With the example
of his Australian opposite number’s
£stg. 11,500,000 revenue from 111 com-
mercial stations, it might be thought that
the Postmaster-General here would leap
at the opportunity to cut the Government
in on the pie.
On the farcical contrary. Aside from
the obstacles created by the conscience of
his own party (which cannot forget how'
brilliant lobbying by a similar Tory-
flavored pressure group brought commer-
cial TV into existence), there are diffi-
culties raised by the Performing Rights
Society, Phonographic Performance Ltd.,
the Musicians Union, and the National
Union of Journalists.
So confused has the situation become, so
deep in the red is the BBC, that the Post-
master-General has given serious consid-
eration to a scheme for records by tele-
phone, called Dial-a-Pop. A more am-
bitious suggestion is that the BBC should
be responsible for running country-wide
local radio, taking advertising to provide
the necessary finance. The BBC itself
reacts to this notion of advertising much as
one of the sacred white elephants of Siam
might to having its sides plastered with
posters for Nitro-Express Rifles. Frank
Gillard, head of BBC sound radio, who
has brought about a renaissance in the
medium, has his own plan for dividing
the country into nine areas served by non-
commercial BBC. Unfortunately, this
would mean going deeper into the red or
increasing the present joint TV-radio
licence from £stg.s to £stg.6 at least.
It is now clear that the Government
has to deal not with the problem of
suppressing the pirates if they can still
be so called in view of Sir Walter
Raleigh’s dictum, “No man is held a
pirate for millions.” The problem is to
supplant them. The solution most likely is
one entailing the setting up of an auth-
ority, similar to the Independent Tele-
vision Authority, with responsibility for
allocating and supervising commercial
radio franchises. This solution should at
least have reached the stage of embodi-
ment in a White Paper by the end of the
year—just in time to allow the coastwise
operators, who see 1967 as their deadline,
to come ashore to respectability as Hepry
Morgan came ashore to the Governorship
of Jamaica.
The historical analogy cannot, however,
hide the fact that this solution is not a
certainty; reluctance to solve a problem
as simple as the provision of local radio
is another symptom of the country’s de-
cline in status: the self-winding crisis has
become Britain’s symbol as the cuckoo-
clock is Switzerland’s.


imsm
.
A
k
“H
i
Xft*
7o
0/15!
■
ASPiRffSj
Glass bottles? Guess again.
If you make any bottled product, the time
has come to look hard at the advantages
of packing it in something new. Geon rigid
PVC—polyvinyl chloride.
A Geon bottle weighs 80 per cent less,
doesn’t shatter, can be moulded in prac-
tically any size or shape appropriate to its
name or use, comes as transparent as you-
know-what or coloured. Geon also prevents
the oxygen transfer and deterioration per-
mitted by some plastics, it’s proof against
most chemicals which attack other plastics.
More important, a Geon bottle doesn’t have
to be returned.
Rigid Geon vinyl could be the answer to
many of your problems. Wouldn’t it be in-
teresting to find out? Call or write to-
day to B.F. Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty.
Ltd., Department D. (Box P.O. 2538),
G.P.0., Melbourne.
ĥ
A job for vinyl
is a job for Geon
, B.E Goodrich
Polyvinyl chloride resins for industry. B.F. Goodrich-CSR.Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
MS97B


AROUND MELBOURNE
The Wall Street end of Collins Street
DRUMMOND’S, you may say, is
the Tiffany’s of Melbourne. The
salesmen behind the glass-topped
cabinets look anything but salesmen.
Faultlessly dressed, infinitely polite,
they could be directors of the Bank of
England. The brooch for the Queen
came from Drummond’s, as did the
brooch for the Queen Mother. When
Sir sought out gifts to take
abroad on official trips he called at
Drummond’s and so has Harold Holt.
Drummond’s makes the gold Mel-
bourne Cup and it is always nice, come
late October, to see it there in the
window, nestling among some good
sterling silver or with maybe a $3OOO
diamond clasp nearby.
But, alas, Drummond’s has moved
from 344 Collins Street to 386 Bourke
Street. This was a matter of such
moment that I hurried along to see the
manager, Mr. John Maxwell. Condi-
tions were much the same as before,
except there was more space, the air-
conditioning was a little more refined,
and the wall-to-wall carpet was perhaps
just a little more silent underfoot. On
Mr. Maxwell’s desk there was an ash-
tray which had the inscription, “Van
Berchers diamond cutters since
1476.”
“Sir,” I said, “you have been in the
business since 1857. You have moved
four times before, but never have you
left Collins Street. Why have you come
to this somewhat common area?”
“We had to give up a lease,” he said.
“But there was more to it than that.
Bourke Street is the only retail street
left in Melbourne.” And he began to
muse about the old days. Flinders
Street used to be a fine shopping area
right beside the station. There was
Snows, there was Civil Stores, and the
elegant old Mutual Store. All gone.
Round the corner in Elizabeth Street
there was that huge and wonderful
business Craigs. Gone. McEwens, too,
had moved from Elizabeth Street into
Bourke Street. “They’re opposite us,
and I can assure you they have no
regrets about their move.
“But let’s talk about Collins Street,”
he said. “After the First World War,
on the north side walking down from
Queen Street there was the E.S. and A.
Bank, the old Bank of N.S.W., Kil-
patricks the jewellers, Strieff the tobac-
conist, Hicks Atkinson, Drummond’s,
Milton the tailor, Bowen the chemist,
Werners the opticians, the Royal Hotel,
and a couple of shops to the corner
of Equitable Place. They’re all gone
except the banks. Now there’s Henry
Bucks, on the corner of Elizabeth
Street, Hardy Brothers, and hardly
another shop until William Street. On
the other side there’s Whites Shoes, a
chemist, and not another shop until
Queen Street. Collins Street is finished
as a shopping area. The banks and
insurance houses have taken over.”
“But but,” I said. “There are
other good shopping streets in Mel-
bourne. What about Swanston Street?
Look at the passing crowds there.”
“They don’t spend money,” said Mr.
Maxwell, “they’re hurrying too fast
along there to get to Myers in Bourke
Street.”
What Mr. Maxwell did not say is
that, apart from the retail business,
Collins Street also is being ruined
aesthetically. The marvellous old
paving stones that came out as ballast
in the sailing ships are disappearing,
too costly to replace. There are maybe
a dozen of the fine old lamps left,
but they look out of place now with
the jet-age streamlined affairs over the
tramline. The old Victoria Building,
which was one of the nice old Ronald
Searle-type curiosities, has almost been
reduced by Whelan the Wrecker. If
you hurry along this week you will see
it for the last time. The walls are
decorated with plump Victorian ladies
dressed in nighties and carrying harps.
Then way up high, flanked by two
lions, and more solid than Ron Barassi,
is the young Queen Victoria holding
"It was the only way we could get
a Council permit. We had to build
in triplicate.”
orb and sceptre. After more than 80
years of looking down scornfully upon
the Town Hall, she will go next week.
The real charm of the east end of
Collins Street was the residential
flavor of the buildings one or two
still hang out the washing on their
balconies and, of course, the trees.
But the big new buildings are ruining
all this and there is never even a
whimper of protest from our City
Council. The Conzinc Rio Tinto
group at least was gracious enough to
set its lofty prestige emblem back from
the street. But my real gripe is with
the Reserve Bank. This building has 21
floors above and below ground and, on
the corner of Collins and Exhibition
Streets, it is said to be the deepest
building in Melbourne. Selfishly it
takes up the entire site. The saddening
point is, that it doesn’t add a whit to
the commercial life of the street. One
would have thought that the Reserve
Bank could have dominated the coun-
try just as easily from Clayton or
Nunawading. Why ruin our nice
Collins Street? Oh, there are others.
Eighteen Collins Street is another
tower and any minute now work will
start on a 15-storey-all-site-using tower
at 15 Collins Street, over the road.
Perhaps the Lord Mayor should now
make a special request. Don’t call it the
Paris end of Collins Street any more.
Call it the Wall Street end.
The ultimate triumph for Bourke
Street is the news that Hoyts will build
on the old Paynes Bon Marche site a
$4 million “cinema centre.” It will have
three film theatres, 960 seats, 840 seats,
and 800 seats, and with 10 floors of
office space the building will look rather
oriental, very Frank-Lloyd-Wrightish.
This will mean that Bourke Street will
now dominate the entertainment busi-
ness as well as the retail trade. In a
straight line, almost together, we will
have the Palladium Centre, the Cinema
Centre, and the Bercy. Just round the
corner will be the Lido and down across
Russell Street the Esquire, and the
Paris, to say nothing of the Tivoli,
which shortly will open again with
splendid renovations as a film theatre.
The Bercy is a new theatre, the Pal-
ladium Centre has two new theatres, the
Paris is newly reconditioned, so you
could safely say that the motion-picture
business in Bourke Street is doing better
than ever before in its history. You
might say that it is extremely ironic
that while some TV stations here are
having a bad year, even running at a
loss, motion-picture theatres are making
stacks of money. I wonder what one
does with an old TV station. Would it
be any use as a bowling alley?
BATMAN


Toyota Lite Stout
is the tough 1-ton truck
you’ve been looking for
to replace that
’passenger-car’ utility:
V
m
a
Now get your money’s worth with TOYOTA Lite
Stout genuine one ton utility with a real truck
chassis plus the kind of rugged toughness that
no other manufacturer has been able to match:
TOYOTA TOUGHNESS;
COMFORT: EASY HANDLING
Great comfort for three in the big panoramic
view cab. Lite Stout sports a column gear shift and
other passenger car niceties like light steering
and easy handling but underneath there’s a real
truck chassis. It’s all . toughness and no “beg-
pardons.”
MUSCLE : PULLING POWER : 28 M.P.G.
74 horsepower gives you lots of muscle to pull
the big loads easily and a rugged 4-speed truck
gearbox to match it. You’ll get up to 28 miles
to the gallon because there’s no wasted power.
SIMPLE: EASY TO SERVICE : RELIABLE
Lite Stout has the incredible reliability that
comes from simple, no-nonsense design. It’s
built to sound, tried and proven ideas. When
you lift the bonnet you see nothing you haven’t
seen before. It’s easier to work on and service
than any vehicle you’ve known.
BEST YET FOR SPECIAL BODIES
You’re seeing them everywhere! With Lite
Stout’s extra load carrying ability and truck
chassis, it’s the most popular basic unit for
special bodies for many a long day. This tough
one-tonner is being converted to every known
delivery van use for bread, dry cleaning,
removing, department stores, carriers you
name it sofne have even been used for
refrigerated vans. Flat top model is especially
good for conversion to covered milk delivery
trucks.
Pictured here is the Lite Stout all-steel utility.
There’s also a standard drop-side wooden tray
and a flat top wooden tray up to 50 square feet
of carrying space!
SERVICE : SALES : PARTS :
Lite Stout is backed by an efficient network of
dealers throughout Australia. Look for
this authorised Sales & Service Sign—
it’s your guarantee of the service and
parts that have helped to make Toyota
famous.
SERVICE
Go TOYOTA and get your money’s worth!
%/ %/ LSPC.FPB
"SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS AND DISTRIBUTORS. THIESS (SALES) PTY. LIMITED, HAYES ROAD, ROSEBERY, N.S.w'"


THE OTHER SEX
Getting the Knack
of Knickers
KNICKERS are back. An item of news
which should bring joy to the heaits
of lady cellists everywhere. Harp
players and double-bass players, too, 1
shouldn’t wonder, and any other ladies
engaged in playing musical instruments ol
this nature.
1 particularly chose cellists, however,
because I heard of one recently who had
great trouble dressing for the occasions
when she was required, as it were, to go
into action. Or, to be more accurate, she
didn’t care a hoot how she looked, but her
husband, who was more on the looking
end than she, did. He was very rich, so
he approached some Paris designers with
the delicate problem of how to make his
wife look elegant while playing the cello.
It appeared insoluble. None could produce
even half an answer.
But now I detect a glimmer of hope.
Designer Prue Acton has brought back
from abroad the idea of bloomers, useful
not only for cellists, but to misquote one
lady columnist: “. . . our mad young things
who adore arty little parties, serve Turkish
coffee from zingy pots in hand, and who
want a very different look from the house-
wife . . . Believe me, you may thinx
knickers were in fashion before, but you’ve
never seen them as Prue Acton has
designed them . . . green chiffon, worn
with pale green stockings . . .”
These knickers remind me of my days
in the Wrens when part of the uniform —
which misguided civilians thought attrac-
tive, in fact it smelt in the rain and irri-
tated the skin in the sun included a
specialty item called “Blackouts.” They
were nothing like the color of Miss Acton’s
green chiffon ones. In fact, they were made
of navy-blue rayon stockingette, and why
they were called Blackouts is beyond me.
We were all issued with two pairs of
these garments, and I use the plural here
with all accuracy. They were voluminous
to the point of indecency. If the elastic
in the leg ever broke—and anyone who
knows anything about elastic knows it’s
going to break sometime—and the leg fell
down the resultant picture was anything
but pretty. The ribaldry from sailors as
Wrens hobbled through the barracks des-
perately trying to preserve what dignity
they possessed had to be heard to be
believed. I won’t go into what coarse com-
ment was forced on our ears when the
elastic chose to break at the waist.
The extraordinary thing about Blackouts
was authority’s attitude to them. By
authority I mean one’s First Officer or
Chief Officer. Anyway, the girls who were
They used Blackouts as a Guide to
Morality. Well, if not exactly that they
made it pretty clear what might happen if
you chanced your luck and wore any other
kind of knickers.
There were three occasions when Black-
outs had to be worn, and if you didn’t
learn pretty quickly which three occasions
these were you lived to rue the day. The
first occasion when they were worn was
during their initial six weeks’ sprog training
in a place deep in the English countryside
where life, in any case, was made as
uncomfortable as possible. Why they
bothered was a puzzle. We only had one
man on the establishment, a three-badge
stoker, who had clearly seen better days
and had no desire to look back on then:.
The second occasion was when a gale of
force eight or more blew up. But gales
cannot be disciplined any more than elastic,
so that seemed pretty pointless, too.
The third occasion was when Wrens
went aboard a ship. Particularly when they
went aboard big ships. They said it wa a
to preserve decency when going up or
down ship’s ladders. Our private view was
that could better be preserved by issuing
orders that all sailors should avert eyes.
However, the one and only time I wore
Blackouts on board a ship was when an
Australian aircraft-carrier called into
Plymouth. They came for what is amus-
ing called in the Navy “Exercises.” I got
stuck at the top of a ladder with head
and shoulders completely covered with
skirt wedged in a sort of manhole and
my Blackout-covered bottom exposed in
all its glory to those below.
I don’t want to knock Miss Acton’s
green chiffon knickers on the head, nor
do I wish to alarm lady cellists who adopt
this style of dressing, but if someone had
taken the trouble to tell me not to go near
the fresh-air inlet fan that day I would
have been more than grateful.
DAPHNE GUINNESS
The Place
Upstairs
MOST conscientious mods until lately
have found it necessary to spend
every lunch-hour and Saturday
morning gliding up and down escalators in
department stores and inspecting the
arcades without often finding in mass-
produced goods exactly what they had in
mind, or the sort of thing they had seen in
a mod mag.
However, a clutch of shops has recently
opened in the larger cities to cater for
these free-wheeling, free-spending dressers.
In Sydney’s tower of fashion, La Salle, on
one floor two young dress designers sprawl
on plush carpeting before the public gaze
snipping and measuring patterns, while on
another floor a woman has set up her
loom in her lavish window-front.
Now the girls who look for something
different can go a step further—Upstairs.
Upstairs is up two flights of wooden stairs
to a disused clothing factory on the second
floor of a building almost opposite Sydney
University. Here you can shake the hand
which weaves your fabric or chat with a
craftswoman who is crocheting a garment
to your design and color scheme.
Customers buy silk-screen prints, hand-
painted scarves, novel belts, or line up a
young dress designer to make up a tie-dye
woollen for them. They have bought hand-
painted biscuit tins, hand-painted rolling-
pins, hand-made copper utensils, and hand-
made jewellery.
At Upstairs stallholders claim their
prices can be, and are, 100 percent
cheaper, because there is no middleman.
Upstairs has already been visited by
lashion editors and writers and television
personalities, who admire op-art sunglasses,
try on crocheted caps, pay well for antique
watches on chains, or buy clothes off the
peg. There are some customers in their
forties or fifties who, despite chubbiness
and other signs of their years, are
exuberant over op-art night attire, wear
GO-GO and CAD badges, relish the pros-
pect of cufflinks made from playing
marbles for their husbands and painted
ping-pong balls for dangle earrings for an
evening at home.
Upstairs stallholders are mostly women.
They are professional, but not assertively
commercial; original but with nothing
bordering on the makeshift. They are, in
fact, just women who would prefer to work
on a tapestry rather than take in typing.
“We are,” said Fay Bottrell, “merely
bringing industry from the cottages to the
people. This is an exciting venture for all
stallholders, because we taste public
reaction and we receive spontaneous
warmth and gratitude from a satisfied cus-
tomer.” Miss Bottrell, a teacher of interior
design, is a specialist in tie-dyeing.
Her offsider, Dale Black, crochets skirts
to pay for a new car. Crocheting has
always been her favorite pastime, she says,
but there is a limit to the demand for
crocheted rugs for friends’ babies.
The originator of Upstairs is Anthony
Pardoe. “I always wanted to organise an
outlet for creative people,” he said. “When
I found the present site I knew it was
time to start working. With a minimum
number of telephone calls and one news-
paper advertisement we got going in a
matter of weeks. There is now a market
where craftsmen for $lO floorspace—and
we are open Friday nights and all day
Saturday—can sell their wares to the pub-
lic. The major crafts are now represented,
but there is still room for glass mosaics,
leatherwork, pottery, and embroidery, but
these will come.”
MARGERY DAVIS
“I’ve half a mind to leave my brain
to science.”


GRAMP’S
ORLANDO
VINTAGE WINE
RECOMMENDATIONS
Each of the undermentioned
Vintage Wines is commended
by Orlando for special con-
sideration by all wine lovers.
1962 ORLANDO BLUE
RIBBON SPAETLESE
RIESLING.
A fruity, delicate, “late pick-
ing” Riesling with a pro-
nounced Rhine Riesling bou-
quet and sweet, crisp palate.
Made entirely from Rhine
Riesling grapes grown in the
hilly country of the Barossa
Valley in sandy, gravelly loam.
1964 ORLANDO BAROSSA
RIESLING.
Barossa Riesling has won more
awards than any other Aus-
tralian Riesling. This delicate
Riesling is cold and control
fermented immediately after
crushing to ensure a cool,
steady fermentation that pro-
duces the wine’s delicate nose
and clean, crisp, acid palate.
1962 ORLANDO BAROSSA
CABERNET.
This fine blend of Cabernet
Sauvignon and Hermitage is
matured in French oak for 18
months and then bottle aged.
It is a full bodied, red table
wine with a pronounced Caber-
net nose and soft, tannin finish.
ORLANDO 1960
WHITE BURGUNDY
Vintaged from Trebbiano and
Madeira grapes grown in the
Company’s own vineyards at
Rowland Flat in the famed
Barossa Valley, this full-bodied
White Burgundy has a pro-
nounced Trebbiano bouquet
and palate. It was awarded a
Gold Medal at the 1964 Inter-
national Wine Fair, Yugo-
slavia.
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd.,
Orlando Vineyards, Barossa
Valley, South Australia, are
pleased to supply wine makers’
notes on their Vintage Wines
to wine clubs and individual
wine lovers. If you have any
difficulty obtaining any of the
above listed wines please write
or phone the Orlando office
in your Capital City.
1468
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
ON THE MARGIN
The Less Festive Board
ANEW kind of meal called a working
breakfast is becoming an accepted
thing in diplomatic circles. We
heard of it lately when Mr. Paul Has-
luck had a working breakfast in New
York with Mr. Arthur Goldberg, U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations.
For working purposes, breakfast has one
obvious advantage over lunch or dinner:
alcohol is not usually consumed. A working
dinner often degenerates into a party, with
important persons saying: “Lesh make a
night of it, J. 8.” The working lunch is all
right as far as it goes, but in my experience
one falls asleep after it; sometimes during
it. At breakfast one is at least awake and
sober.
Unfortunately, there is something about
the breakfast mood that makes it hard to
discuss serious matters. Even in diplomatic
households it is a hasty meal, marked by
desultory talk and domestic confusion.
In the Press release after Mr. Hasluck’s
working breakfast with Mr. Goldberg, the
subjects of the discussion were not dis-
closed. But my information is that it went
like this:
Mr. Goldberg welcomed Mr. Hasluck
with informal friendliness and they sat
down at the table.
“Would you like Corn Flakes or Rice
Bubbles?” asked the U.S. Ambassador.
“Actually I prefer Weeta Puffs,” said
Mr. Hasluck.
Mrs. Goldberg fetched some Weeta
Puffs. Her husband said: “I can under-
stand you liking Weeta Puffs, Paul. You
don’t mind if I call you Paul? I dare-
say you grow wheat down under. I stick
to the old Corn Flakes myself. Some of
the stuff you read on the packets is very
good. Have you seen this one about
space travel?”
Mr. Hasluck studied the Corn Flakes
packet. Then Mr. Goldberg said: “Well,
I guess we’d better get down to work.
What’s on your mind, Paul?”
“We’ve been wondering about SEATO
and ANZUS.”
Mrs. Goldberg interrupted: “Excuse me,
Mr. Hasluck —will you have boiled eggs
or fried?”
“Fried, please. Not too well done.”
“What were you saying, Paul?” asked
Mr. Goldberg.
“About SEATO and ANZUS. We’d like
to raise one or two points.”
“I’m glad you mentioned that, Paul. Just
a minute, this pop-up toaster doesn’t seem
to be popping up.”
“I don’t think it’s switched on at the
powerpoint.”
“By gosh, you’re right! You Aussies are
practical folk.”
Mrs. Goldberg brought in the eggs and
bacon. She said: “If you don’t mind I’ll
go off now and cut the school lunches.
They’re asking for all sorts of different
sandwiches. I’ll leave you men to your
work.”
“OK, dear. Where were we? Oh, yes,
about SEATO and ANZUS. What exactly
is the problem?”
“Well, their future.”
“I’d say their future was sound, very
sound. Will you have white or black
coffee?”
“White, please.”
“I hope you don’t mind instant coffee.
It’s a lot easier. Our darn percolator
broke down when we had the delegate
from Ecuador to breakfast.”
Mr. Goldberg broke off suddenly.
“Dammit, my watch has stopped!” he
said. “I’ll have to get the time from the
radio.”
He switched on a station that was
playing “These Boots Are Made For
Walkin’.”
“When you want the time from these
breakfast sessions they always give you
music . . . Hell, it’s 8.40! I’ll have to
dash away, I’ve got an appointment with
someone from Zanzibar.”
After gulping his coffee, Mr. Goldberg
said: “Been nice meeting you, Paul. This
has been a very frank exchange of views
55
That night Mrs. Goldberg said to her
husband: “How did the breakfast with
the Australian Minister go?”
“Pretty well. He seems a nice guy. But
I’ll tell you something. I’m sick of these
working breakfasts. Some day I’d like a
breakfast like we used to have. Just the
family quarrelling and eating and looking
for garters and reading the paper. A
playing breakfast.”
ROSS CAMPBELL


WINE OF THE WEEK
LINDEMAN’S
PRIVATE BIN
MOSELLE
BIN 11
VINTAGE
1964
This wine was made
from Riesling grapes
grown in the Hunter
River and Clare
Valleys. It is a well
flavoured, delicate
wine with a crisp,
slightly fruity palate,
and is the perfect
accompaniment to
all types of salads
and other light
dishes. Serve well
chilled for perfect enjoyment
Obtainable from your hotel, club,
restaurant or licensed retailer.
MOST SUCCESSFUL EXHIBITOR
THIRD YEAR IH SUCCESSIOH
AUSTRALIAN
CHAMPIOHSHIP WIHE SHOW
1964 1965 1966
V/OSI V-LV.
lino e
sEI.HC'I HI? V!NT>v G£
PRIVATE
MOSELLE BIN H
WINES PTY LTD. * T , .
lind
email's
AUSTRALIA'S
GREATEST
PRIZE-WINNERS
LW/PB2I
WINES OF THE MONTH
Amore Aroma
The Aromatic Whites
By CELLARMASTER
WINES of the month. Four of them!
Bonus issue. A graphic illustration
of the improved skills of Australian
winemakers is the recent production of
table wines from grapes that were not
originally grown for this purpose. In days
of old they were considered suitable for
blending into ports, sherries, and muscats
and finished up as such. But winemakers
are an inquiring lot, and some of them
have evolved most distinctive white table
wines from other than classic table wine
grapes. And the remarkable thing is that
there is a similarity between these wines,
even though grape types differ and flavors
are not the same. Some wine pedants may
dismiss all this, but I don’t think the true
wine-lover will.
McWilliams’ Lexia is made from the
Gordo Blanco grape, which was often
called Lexia when it was dried for some
other raisin. McWilliams realised its poten-
tial some years ago and, in 1960, made a
small quantity of dry white that was verv
successful. But, contrary to some
opinion, there is not a great deal of
Gordo available in the Riverina dis-
trict, so McWilliams waited while
their new winery at Robinvale (in
Victoria) was completed so that
they could take advantage of the
grapes available in the district.
Nineteen-sixty-three saw the first real vin-
tage with commercial possibilities, and this,
being released in the latter part of last
year, sold out in some five months.’
Nineteen-sixty-four was a failure; the
grapes were unsuitable and none was made.
Nineteen-sixty-five was an outstanding suc-
cess and this is the wine being sold now.
I think it’s better than the ’63, having more
finesse. The dominant thing about Lexia is
its powerful aroma, the strong, full smell
of the grape, yet which has no hint of
coarseness. This carries through on to the
palate, has colossal flavor, and the finish
is fresh and clean.
Not crisp, note: there is insufficient acid
in the grape to achieve this and this is the
big problem. The grapes must be picked
at exactly the right time when there is the
optimum balance between what acidity
there is and the flavor, and consequently
this is done at a lower Bauine, or degree
of natural grape sugar, than you woukl
normally require for fortified wine. After
crushing, the skins are removed from the
must before fermentation, which is then
cooled to a gentle simmer for maximum
delicacy.
The result is well worth trying. If you
want to make comparisons you could liken
this to some wines from the Alsace. If you
want to.
HENSCHKE WINES, at Keyneton, in
South Australia, make a light, dry
white from the Frontignac grape.
Some years ago Cyril Henschke made a
fine dessert wine from this material. But
his interest in table wines encouraged him
to make a dry white which was an im-
mediate success. It is treated the same
way as the above, the grapes being picked
before full ripeness, and this again pro-
duces a wine of considerable distinction
with good flavor and character. It is fairly
soft and full, not as delicate as the Rhine
Riesling from the same maker, for ex-
ample, and again the acid is quite low.
But the more pronounced flavor compen-
sates in part. Enough apparently to win a
Silver (last Show) in Sydney. I’ve always
been impressed with labelling and mer-
chandising, and on the Frontignac bottles,
instead of Royal Reserve or Specially
Selected, there are the words Limited
Edition. No doubt it’s available at all
leading bookshops.
Over in Western Australia Jack Mann
makes Houghtons Verdell. This is made
from the Verdelho or Verdelhao grape,
which in some parts of Australia is
called Madeira, which is the name
of a wine and means timber in Por-
tuguese. (The four grapes of Madeira
wine are Sercial, Verdelhao, Boal,
and Malvasia or Malmsey.) Anyway,
in Australia, it was always used for
dessert wine with the exception of a
little in the Hunter Valley. Jack Mann
is inclined to dismiss his product being
a true Chablisphile, but this is prob-
ably only one of his charming attitudes.
The wine is extremely interesting, having
tremendous flavor and richness and a very
spicy aromatic quality. In fact, it almost
knocks you back initially. Recently I was
at a masked tasting with some quite senior
wine men and their comments on this wine
were very favorable. Most thought it came
from Europe. “A good example of an
Alsatian or Austrian wine,” was a typical
statement. This sort of wine is ideal with
a slice of iced melon with perhaps a little
ham.
Finally. I should like to mention a wine
that is not really in the same category,
but is made from an unusual grape and
is quite distinctive. It’s an ordinary
standard commercial wine with no bin
numbers or medals and is quite inexpen-
sive. And I like it! This is the Reynella
Dry Moselle made from Rhine Riesling,
Semilion, and Gouais. Now, Gouais was
among the original plantings at Reynella
and is still not grown commercially else-
where in Australia. Actually I’ve been able
to find out little about the grape overseas
either other than one brief mention in the
Champagne district, where it isn’t used for
making champagne. It is a fairly green
grape with high acid. This is used to
“bring up” the rounder, fuller Semilion
and to combine to make a fresh, fragrant,
pleasant, clean, white wine with a flavor
somewhere between Rhine Riesling and
Traminer. The winemaker has named this
a Dry Moselle to distinguish it from the
usual fruity, slightly sweet style found
here. And, of course, many of the wines
of Mosel are, or were, very clean, fragrant,
and crisp. The wine was first developed
in 1961, and more and more has been
made until this year, when continued dry-
ness has resulted in a poor vintage as far
as volume goes. So gather ye.
These wines do not have the extreme
delicacy of the Rhine Rieslings, but they
are not copies, anyway.


m
V J v, -
■:
'
■
l : •
SSs
IfS
if
Mi
m
SI
i
■
I?
It
&mm 1
... •*- .>
1 I 1
■
■ v' $. tM'M'SM**. <v
SI?
§?
, "S» I
■ - ,
■
.
.:rv;S.?>
m* - ' '> f '
■■•:■•>,■-■.■.-■ *« * * < <
•
“S. *& ' > '•*
§IH
ass
.
m
.
J:,',; 4 -:-i
PH
Who shot a bullseye
100 times out of 100?
Burroughs
Burroughs computers on the job at Cape Kennedy have
taken part in every U.S. space shot and missile test. The
impressive tally? More than 300 shots with 100% computer
success.
From complex tests such as these, Burroughs scientists,
mathematicians and researchers have developed highly
advanced computer systems for commercial use. Systems
with the same bullseye accuracy. The same ultra-reliability.
For example: Burroughs recently developed an Electronic
Data Processing System that does the job of three com-
puters. Capable of handling simultaneously On-Line work,
Off-Line work and Multiprocessing. But that's only part of
the story about Burroughs Electronic Data Processing
Systems — the B500, the B2500, the B3500, the B5500 and
the B8500. Ask your secretary to call a Burroughs man.
BU228DR


OVERSEAS
Sukarno’s New Guinea
By HENRY J. WARMENHOVEN
APART from the seemingly endless and
prospectless developments in Viet-
nam, it has been the Indonesian coup
and its aftermath of massacre and reshuffle
upon reshuffle that have absorbed the main-
stream of political interest in South-East
Asia during the past six months.
Understandably, little attention has been
given so far to the future position of Irian.
It may, in fact, be far too early to speculate
on a possible novel approach toward or a
new appraisal of the political destiny of
Western New Guinea. When discussing the
position of Irian in terms of what has
come to be styled .as the “plebiscite” with
particular reference to official views that
may crystallise in a post-Sukarno era, some
important limitations have to be kept in
mind.
Firstly, it will be difficult to envisage
a post-Sukarno era before the present
President has indeed been completely
eliminated. While the emerging regime in
Indonesia appears increasingly aware of
this fact, wishful thinking among Western
observers seems inclined to degrade him
to a figurehead serving only to rubber-
stamp the new Government’s decisions.
Sukarno’s record, however, clearly shows
that he will never reconcile himself to a
purely nominal position. It is difficult to
imagine him deprived of all power and in-
fluence, as his very presence on the Indo-
nesian political scene is bound to have
some impact on the line to be taken.
But apart from that he may be expected
to subtly subvert the new structure which
is still basically insecure through the very
absence of an explicit political denomina-
tion and the consequent lack of positive
policy planning. Considering some of the
implications of his office such, as the official
speeches (inter alia the Independence Day
address) which he will still be allowed to
deliver, Sukarno’s figureheadship may
prove far less nominal than some are in-
clined to think.
Public opinion in Indonesia has not
turned against the President, although the
section that considers him “the big one
that got away” may increase in numbers or
become more vocal. On the other hand the
vestigial powers that have been left him,
may prove a starting-point for a slow and
steady come-back. Even while time has
become an important element considering
his age and declining health, the shadow-
play will only come to a stop when Sukarno
is prepared to resign or to go abroad for
an indefinite period.
Another limitation necessary in any
speculation on Irian’s future lies in the
questionable term “plebiscite.” Indeed, it
is certainly surprising that ever since Indo-
nesia assumed administrative control of
Irian the word “plebiscite” and the some-
times indiscriminately used term “refer-
endum” have entered the public debate in
connection with the future political status
of the territory. The UN-sponsored agree-
ment between the Netherlands and Indo-
nesia relating to Irian, however, simply
mentions the wider concepts of “act of self-
determination” and “freedom of choice,”
and while not completely leaving aside
the procedure through which the terri-
tory is to achieve a definite destiny, it
fails to make mention of a plebiscite.
With these important limitations in
mind, the question may be asked: what
changes may be expected in the concep-
tion of the freedom of choice formally
granted to the people of Irian in August,
1962, now! that a new era seems to be
dawning?
One has to realise that the Irian issue
bore Sukarno’s personal stamp far more
so than in the cases of Johnson-Vietnam
or Wilson-Rhodesia. This is not to say
that other Indonesian politicians were
less interested in the idea of getting
Irian “back into the fold,” but it was
Sukarno who created the mass obsession
with his Catonic references to the con-
quest of Irian. It even seems probable
that he deliberately delayed action not
merely to distract public attention from
the sagging economy, but also ad suam
majorem gloriam. It might, for instance,
have been possible to launch a large-
scale attack in the middle ’fifties (prefer-
ably shortly after the Bandung Confer-
ence) when the Netherlands had no
defence to speak of in the area. But he
apparently preferred to ally his image
irrevocably to the Irian issue by deferring
the climax.
''J'IHIS issue has indeed been a major factor
in the spiralling down of the Indonesian
economy, as it proved an enormous drain
on the budget, a feature which Sukarno
tried to conceal from the public eye by
hammering out again and again that
Indonesia could not get on her feet be-
fore the all-embracing problem had been
solved. While the economy dwindled the
message was conveyed “we shall over-
come once Irian has been returned to
us . . .”
The incantation of the “things-go-
better-with-Irian” formula may have con-
siderably lengthened Sukarno’s reign, as
it prevented the public mind from dis-
cerning the real Sukarno: the political
philosopher and highly skilled demagogue
who scorned economic priorities as long
as these did not have political overtones.
So entranced did people in fact become
when the ideal had ultimately been
achieved that no resistance was met when
he had himself appointed to President for
life, a totalitarian move par excellence.
Sukarno’s memory with respect to
the self - determination clause in the
Netherlands-Indonesian Agreement was
remarkably short. Even before the United
Nations Temporary Executive Authority
transferred administrative control to Indo-
nesia, he publicly stated that self-deter-
mination “ . . . could, of course, only mean
internal self-determination; external self-
determination was out of question . . . ”
When visiting Irian upon the transfer he
reiterated that point. In the months to
come, that is to say before the issue lapsed
into oblivion, he demonstrated an increas-
ing dislike for the idea of a plebiscite,
explaining that such was completely un-
necessary, since the Irianese appeared per-
fectly happy in their new setting ...
As a matter of fact the Indonesian
attitude toward Irian since the administra-
tive takeover in 1963 (an attitude that
has been largely shaped and defined by
Sukarno) has been a sustained violation
of the 1962 Agreement.
In the first place one cannot but con-
clude from a variety of measures, among
them the renaming of rivers, mountains
and towns, that Indonesia considers her-
self sovereign over the territory, while the
agreement cautiously avoided any refer-
ence to sovereignty. This was in spite of
the fact that the more than 12-year-long
dispute had mainly centred round the
sovereignty issue and happened simply
because no explicit mention had been made
of sovereignty in the previous agreement
concerning New Guinea’s position.
Then again, no provisions have been
made for a number of United Nations
experts who would be designated to
remain in Irian “ . . . wherever their
duties require their presence.” Lastly,
there have been continuous disavowals on
the part of Indonesia with respect to the
body of the agreement, viz., the facf of
self-determination.
It is true that the Netherlands as well
as the United Nations have considerably
contributed to the recantation of the per-
tinent clauses. At the time of the agree-
ment the Dutch grabbed at what they
considered a “face-saving device” convey-
ing somewhat hypocritically to the Papuans
that their right of self-determination—and
was not that after all the raison d’etre of
the prolonged Dutch administration?—had
been preserved.
But ever since the withdrawal from
Western New Guinea, it has become in-
creasingly clear that Holland is no longer
interested in this once painful Pacific
problem. Public opinion in the Nether-
lands has been diverted to more imme-
diate questions like the Common Market
and the intricacies of European integra-


@1
/A' <'
A
m.
m
x«' :
n
mm . i
I
Wonderfully Warm pure new wool Trousers
Why shop around for Trousers Fletcher Jones has by far the biggest selection of pure
new wool cloths, colours, patterns and styles in your precise fitting, today—and you save
by buying direct from the maker! Warm Worsted Tweeds, from £8.9.6. De luxe Hopsac
Worsteds £8.18.6. Flannel-finish Melange £8.13.6. Other F. J. Trousers
F]
J(
Canberra,
PURE NEW WOOL
from £5/19/6
Fletcher Jones has the world’s most experienced Trousers fitters.
tion. Compared to the loss of the Nether-
lands Indies the abandonment of New
Guinea has played but a minor role in the
Netherlands public mind. Indeed one
may say that the wedding of the Crown
Princess to a former Nazi officer has
rocked Dutch society in a more violent
fashion than the controversy concerning
New Guinea ever did.
The United Nations—on whose behalf
Indonesia administers the territory!—has
also condoned the obvious nonchalance
hitherto displayed by Indonesia with
respect to her pledge, presumably because
most of its members show but a modicum
of interest in the case.
Australia has, on the other hand, fre-
quently displayed anxiety relating to the
possible neglect of the right of self-
determination for Irian. It has at least
been a recurring theme in Australian
Parliament and Press. Significantly, the
Minister for External Affairs, Mr. P. Has-
luck, has observed in the House of Repre-
sentatives that the term “act of ascertain-
ment” would be more appropriate. This
might imply a further departure from what
was originally (i.e., before the agreement
was established) conceived as a plebiscite.
However that may be, surprisingly few
people seem to realise that even if the
exercise of the right of self-determination
would take the shape of a plebiscite—
sponsored and supervised by the U.N. at
that—tfiis could be easily foiled. For one
thing, in a primitive country like Irian the
very presence of Indonesians is bound to
exert a subtle—in the interior, perhaps, not
so subtle—form of intimidation. But apart
from this psychological factor that would
be difficult to exclude, there are a number
of loopholes in the conditions of such a
plebiscite that would render the exercise
of the right of self-determination a fore-
gone conclusion.
One of the major loopholes has been
provided by Article XVIII of the agree-
ment, which includes “those residents who
departed after 1945 and who return to the
territory to resume residence after the
termination of Netherlands administration”
as eligible to exercise the right of self-
determination. As the Dutch registration
was inadequate, if not poor in pre-war
New Guinea and hardly any records have
been kept of the names of residents in
1945, it would not be difficult for Indo-
nesia to import thousands of sympathetic
voters who had never been in Irian before.
Then again the majority of the people


¥
atelier
)NES
ydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
obart, Launceston.
would still be illiterate at the time of “the
freely expressed will of the population.”
This would render a possible plebiscite
dependent on the so-called “whispering
ballot.” No UN supervision of inspec-
tion (which would moreover most prob-
ably include members of the AA bloc)
could ever prevent large-scale frauds.
Lastly there is the absence of alterna-
tives. If a plebiscite would ever be chosen
for ascertaining the freely expressed will
of the population, questions would be
asked “in such a way as to permit the
inhabitants to decide (a) whether they
wish to remain with Indonesia; or (b)
whether they wish to sever their ties with
Indonesia.” This would even make the
emerging elite in Irian choose from (a)
as they would, if not thoroughly indoc-
trinated by visits to Indonesia, all kinds
of courses at the University of Sukarno-
pura (which has an all-Indonesian staff),
realise that the sole alternative would be
impracticable.
I'he reasons for a possible obstruction
are, however, completely different from
what is commonly assumed. Too many
people take it for granted that Indonesia
is in ohe way or another afraid of the
outcome it a plebiscite would be held.
Occasionally this fear has even been re-
lated to a possible chain reaction of simi-
lar demands in other parts of Indonesia
which might thus cause the subsequent
disintegration of the Republic.
In view of the gaps and defects in the
agreement, this seems far-fetched. The
main reason for Indonesia’s extreme reluc-
tance to honor the pledge should be
sought in prestige, or rather in revolution-
ary self-esteem. When Indonesia gained
independence in 1949, she immediately
displayed a strong dislike for the con-
tinued presence of the United Nations
Commission for Indonesia. This dislike
has been related to embarrassment inas-
much as the presence of the UNCI
served as a reminder that independence
had been achieved through the help or
interference or at least the intermediary
of the United Nations. The very thought
was found offensive to the concept of
Indonesian Revolution.
The Irian Anschluss being but an exten-
sion of the Revolution, any form of guid-
ance on the part of the UN in the acqui-
sition of the territory would again be
found embarrassing.
JNDONESIAN revolutionary leaders,
among whom Sukarno is the outstanding
prototype, prefer to regard the achievement
of Independence as the fruit of the efforts
(and this particularly in the sense of
“blood, sweat, and tears”) of the Indo-
nesian people as a whole. This, of course,
is a highly idealised version of the Revo-
lution, for, although it may be true to
some extent, two reservations should be
made. In the first place the Revolution
was initiated and steered by the political
elite, specifically by the nationalists on
Java. Secondly, the early achievement of
independence must to a large extent be
ascribed to diplomatic success produced
by a superb skill in bargaining, in the
framework of Dutch-Indonesian negotia-
tions as well as in the United Nations.
But the concept of self-determination in
a territory which the revolutionary tradi-
tion had always regarded as an integral
part of Indonesia would be contrary to
the Proclamation of Independence and
to the 1945 Constitution. The plebiscite,
or for that matter any other form of
assessment of the wishes of the inhabitants,
thus becomes a humiliation and in a sense
a betrayal of the Revolution.
It is therefore hardly surprising that
Sukarno considers the clauses concerning
the exercise of the right of self-determina-
tion an embarrassing concession on his
part which would be better ignored. In
view of his record of Machiavellism
(again supported by his early disavowal of
the clauses in question), it must be
doubted whether he ever seriously contem-
plated meeting the obligation, such in
spite of the loopholes which would turn
a • plebiscite into an Indonesian success.
The views of the emerging regime,
which appears to be concentrated in the
triumvirate Suharto, Hamengku Buwono,
and Malik, may differ significantly. They
are younger than Sukarno and, having
suffered less at the hands of the Dutch,
might be inclined to be less radical and
intransigent. They lack Sukarno’s vast
political experience and talents, his
oratorical skill, and, above all, his image.
On the other hand, they are bound to
be men of a more practical approach,
resenting perhaps Sukarno’s obsession with
concepts of perpetual revolution, his
nation-making devices and constructions
such as Manipol, Usdek, and the ill-fated
Nasakom, his passion for political and
oratorical brinksmanship which produced
the year “vivere periculoso” and “to Hell
with American aid . .
But it seems unlikely that as long as
he remains somewhere in the background,
radically different views would be adopted,
excepting of course the rejection of Com-
munism in general and association with
China in particular (even so the new
regime announced that it would be leftist,
in character). It seems more probable
that in its quest for a new identity, Indo-
nesia will slowly move toward new atti-
tudes and positions. The newly emerged
Government, while groping for new stand-
points, on the way to a policy of its own,
might blunt the sharp edges of Sukarno’s
ideologies.
A symptom of this transitional pattern
is the emerging attitude toward Malaysia,
where lipservice to the KOGAM (the
“Crush Malaysia” Command) and the
announcement of a more moderate line,
implying a somewhat limited involvement,
appear to compete.
The assertion regarding an early return
to the United Nations may very well be a
similar feature, although it should be
stressed that the withdrawal from this
organisation was never intended to be per-
manent. As such the return could not be
possibly interpreted as a greater willingness
to comply with the UN-sponsored Nether-
lands-Indonesian Agreement.
It will certainly be difficult to predict
what line the new Government will follow
with respect to the inherited Irian commit-
ment. On the one hand the Army, which
constitutes the main following and support
of the triumvirate as long as the latter has
not shaped an identifiable policy, regards
itself as the “Guardian of the Revolution
and Constitution” and the regime might
therefore be inclined to follow the Sukarno
line of ignoring the right of self-
determination altogether, confident that
this will arouse very little sentiment abroad.
On the other hand, the new leaders
might be tempted to comply with a request
from the United Nations—if such a request
were ever conveyed—regarding the imple-
mentation of the self-determination clause,
because in doing so they would in a some-
what oblique fashion demonstrate to the
Indonesian people that Sukarno, the self-
styled Liberator of Irian, far from having
conquered the territory, had not done a
proper job.


MOORS MURDER—I
At the Chester Assizes
From MAURICE RICHARDSON
SATURDAY: Trials, like all historical
processes, have their rhythms though
these are sometimes difficult to plot. The
English weekend habit may seem to in-
terrupt the pulsation; it is really only an
entr’acte.
When the hearing of the Moors case at
Chester was adjourned on Friday the ac-
cused, lan Brady, had been in the wit-
ness-box nearly three and a half hours.
Warm Friday afternoon. The air has,
for various reasons, been getting iincreas-
ingly stuffy of late. There are yawning
choruses all over court, but merely from
oxygen shortage. There is no lack of ten-
sion. Brady’s strong Scots accent with roll-
ing r’s is utterly different from the flat
North Midland of many of the witnesses.
He stands gripping the rail of the witness-
box, flanked by prison officers. In a court
where the acoustics are so poor one is
grateful for his meticulous articulation.
The dock looks empty with only Myra
Hindlev, listening intently to Brady’s evi-
dence, and one woman prison officer in
bright royal blue uniform. They seem to
go in for a lot of color in docks these
days; even the plastic water mug is pink.
You can never foretell precisely how
long any trial will last. They think the
case may be over by Friday but almost
certainly not before. It will be running
neck-and-neck with Chester Race Week,
which starts on Tuesday. The Queen is
staying, privately, with Lord and Lady
Rock Savage at Cholmondeley Castle. She
has seven horses running and the
social scene with the town full of the
trainers, jockeys, stable-girls, northern
racegoers, while the trial continues, calls
for a panoramic novelist.
The trial, during its first five days, has
followed much of the same course as the
committal proceedings at the Magistrate’s
court at Hyde last December. And its
general atmosphere, in spite of some in-
evitably dramatic moments, has been calm
and dispassionate; that aseptic atmosphere
of British justice, with its curious blend of
formality and informality. But Tuesday,
the day they played the tape-recording,
was different. The Attorney-General
squared his shoulders and read the text.
He reads in clear, totally untheatrical
tones as near dead-pan as his normally
rather warm voice can get. Everyone in
court, from the public, some 60 of them,
in their railed-off pen at one end, to the
Judge, under that strange, arched canopy,
which unquestionably does suggest a four-
poster, at the other, seems to have become
preternaturally still.
The accused in the glass-screened dock
sit side by side, quite expressionless; occa-
sionally they make notes. They do not
look any different from last week, except
that Myra Hindley’s hair, the precise silv-
ery-lilac shade of which was a matter of
some controversy, has been redone in the
Risley Remand Centre. It is now indis-
putably blonde.
We break for lunch after the Attorney-
General has finished the reading. Hurry
away from court and up Bridge Street,
with its distinctive local architectural fea-
tures, the rows —double tiers of galleried
shops that look like Elizabethan play-
house stages —to the nearest place where
you can get a sit-down lunch. In fact, you
feel far more inclined for a large brandy
and soda. If the experience of hearing
the transcript read is that shattering, what
will the recording be; when we hear the
reality described in the text as “man’s
voice . . . woman’s voice . . . child’s
voice . . . screams . . .”?
Back in court, packed now, the Judge
warns for complete silence; nobody to
leave their seats. John Weeks, the young
BBC engineer, dark-haired, sturdy, and
one of the coolest, most self-possessed ex-
pert witnesses seen at any trial, is in
charge of playing the tape. For this he sits
with his apparatus just below the Judge
near the jury box in the seat normally
occupied by the shorthand writer. He
switches on and the first thing you hear
is his own voice, announcing very loud
and clear: “Track four.” Then it starts
with a confusion of noises and, quite soon,
a child’s scream.
They play it at full volume and the
sound fills the court. But you can’t, at a
single hearing, make out half the dia-
logue, which was recorded in the tran-
script after patient replaying at slow
speed.
A lot of the space in between the voices
and sounds is silent except for the whir-
ring of the tape record. At the end the
Christmas tunes —“Country Style,” “Jolly
Old St. Nicholas,” and “The Little Drum-
mer Boy”—seem to last rather a long
time, especially those bells.
A lot of the evidence is very compli-
cated and involves detailed study of York-
shire moorland topography in order to
decide whether photographs taken by the
accused do —as alleged by the prosecution
—picture the two children’s graves. On
Thursday evening the court sits late, until
six, so that the Crown shall complete its
case. There is a gasp of dismay when the
last witness, a county surveyor, enters the
box laden with many elaborate, large-
scale plans. However, his evidence is
brief. Out we go into a mild blue and
gold Spring evening. Chester was getting
ready for its annual Race Week.
MOORS MURDER—II
Liberty’s Muddy Fountain
By LUDOVIC KENNEDY
LIKE some hidden but slowly festering
sore, of whose existence we have all
, r .• ,v • j
been aware for some time, the evidence
■ ~ a k c n u i i i
in the Moors case finally broke last week.
ur\ ■ , o ... i ir i
David Smith saw Evans halt-on and
. j-
half-off the couch. Brady was standing as-
„ , .... , • • °
tnde Evans, hitting him with this axe
, i i 7 , ~ ~ T * •
round the head and shoulders. Later, m
an alleged statement by Brady: “After
4.u & i • r fir
that the only noise from Eddie was a
T-i -j j t i j 4.1
gurgling. David and I cleared up the
'■ f . j j
spot and the gurgling stopped and we
cleaned up the body ” Back to the At-
tornev-General: “Then Brady said to
Hindiey, ‘That’s it. It’s the messiest yet’.”
Later the two accused started laughing.
Some or all of these allegations, and
others, have been published fully in all
the national newspapers. We know that
more, much more, is to come.
This means that there will not be a lit-
erate man, woman or child (and what
child, after the age of ten, is not literate
these days?) who will not be given full
access to all the details of what is undoubt-
edly the most macabre murder story in
modern times. The point is whether it is
desirable that such allegations and such
evidence, much of it beyond what any of
us could imagine in fantasy or nightmare,
should be made freely available to the
public at large.
Are there not good grounds for a
Judge to rule in his discretion that the
Press may only report such evidence in
any case as he allows, or even to forbid
them to publish any evidence at all?
In theory, yes. In practice, no. The real
difficulty is in laying down a general rule.
Judges, like the rest of us, differ in their
own sensibilities and in how they feel
, , ~ , A f
that the public should be protected from
r .
the details of the Moors case; others might
c . .?
hnd, say, Christie s necrophiliac activities
,• ’ ” , , . r ,
far more shocking. Where is anybody to
, 0 \ 1
draw the liner With such a rule some
T , , . , v. u *
J ud S a ! soo ? er ,, c>r late . r i and * e b . est
intentions in the world, would be hearing
~ ~ jj r>
all his cases behind closed doors. Press
, ~ , , , ,
and public would become deeply and
• ■ 4.1 • • r t. •
n S h,1 >' SUS P ,C,OUS °f what » as B°"* on '
But what is even more important is the
right of all of us to know what is going
on around us, whatever it may be. Say,
for the sake of argument, that what is
alleged to have happened in the Moors
case is in fact the beginning of a new and
terrible anti-social trend, to be followed
by other, similar cases. If we were to be
protected from any knowledge of this, we
would be in a most dangerous and impo-
tent position. One needs to know the full
details of the situation, and this may in-
elude the full horrors of it, in order to
take action on it. Parents need the know-
ledge of it to keep a closer watch on their
children. Social workers need the know-
ledge of it to investigate its causes. The
police need knowledge of it to prevent it
recurring. This knowledge may distress us
deeply, some more than others, but it is
the price that any society must ultimately
pay for its own good. Knowledge, as Dan-
iel Webster once said, is the fountain of
all liberty; and he drew no distinction be-
tween knowledge good and bad.


FORUM
The Landlord’s Lament
At the heart of the matter 15,000 pensioner tenants
By PETER CLYNE
ANYONE who is neither a landlord
nor a tenant nor a politician would
find the history of tenancy controls
in N.S.W. quite stimulating. The conflicts
involved have all the classical beauty of
a game of chess, marred—one is bound to
add —by the ability and willingness of one
player to rewrite the rules when things
don’t seem to be going too well.
During World War II rent control was
imposed by the Federal Government as
part of the over-all economic controls
required in a time of national emergency.
But in 1948 the High Court held that the
war was legally over. The Commonwealth’s
defence power no longer extended to rent
control, and this would have lapsed if the
State of New South Wales had not taken
it over by enacting the first Landlord and
Tenant (Amendment) Act.
Part of this legislation is simply con-
cerned with preventing the arbitrary evic-
tion of tenants. An owner has to establish
some specific ground for eviction, such as
a wish to live in the property, or the
tenant’s misconduct, or failure to pay rent.
Sometimes he has to offer other accommo-
dation, or convince the magistrate that he
would suffer greater hardship if he were
denied possession than the tenant would
suffer if he had to go elsewhere.
By and large, there is nothing funda-
mentally wrong with all this, except that
the Act is drafted in a slipshod sort of way
and has become too complicated. It is
rightly called an Amendment Act. Amend-
ment has been added to amendment, with
something put in here, and something
taken out there, like the ramshackle
creation of a dozen intoxicated architects.
As a result, we have had a sea of litiga-
tion. Strong, healthy, fierce-looking magis-
trates have been known to grow pale at
the sight of yet another long argument
about tenancy law.
And even in the Supreme Court an
atmosphere of resignation seems to sur-
round tenancy matters, and the view is
often judicially expressed that the law is
like a worn patchwork quilt, or that only
a lunatic could make sense of it.
Still, as far as evictions are concerned,
a kind of balance is preserved, and within
limits the courts are free to do justice.
Some streamlining is certainly overdue,
for complexity and uncertainty make evic-
tions almost as arbitrary and unpredictable
as the ones which the law is supposed to
prevent. Many an attorney’s Cadillac or
Jaguar might still be a little old jalopy if
the law were simpler.
But the real canker lies in the fixation
of rents. For here the courts are powerless
to do justice, and hamstrung by difficulties
and manoeuvres which are as much poli-
tical as legal.
Between 1939, when rent control came
into play, and 1948, when it was taken
over by the State, Fair Rents Boards
worked quite smoothly. They found it
convenient to use this simple formula:
Take the rent which was being paid in
1939. Add the amount by which the
owner’s outgoings have gone up, such as
increased rates, repairs, insurance and so
forth. That way you get the rent which
is now the ‘ fair rent.” Thus, however
much his expenses went up, the owner
got the same net rent as he got in 1939.
Then inflation struck, and the pound
began to lose its purchasing power. Wages,
prices, and pensions rose accordingly.
Rents stood still. A study of the Com-
monwealth Year Book discloses:
That the basic wage for Sydney in Sep-
tember, 1939, was £4/1/- per week. In
July, 1962, it was £l4/15/- per week.
That the average salary paid to N.S.W.
factory employees for 1938-39 was £239
p.a. for males and £lO3 p.a. for females.
That for the years 1959-60 it had gone
up to £1145 p.a. for males, £650 p.a. for
females.
That the maximum pension payable on
September 9, 1937, was £1 per week. On
December 26, 1940, it was still only
£l/1/- per week. But on October 5, 1961,
it was £5/5/- per week.
By 1962 the sense of injustice felt for
some time by N.S.W. property owners
began to crystallise, and their unease
became more vocal.
For if one assumes that the purchasing
power of the £ fell from £1 to 5/-
between 1939 and 1962, and this would
come near the truth, a tenant who paid
out one-quarter of his income for rent in
1939 now paid out only one-sixteenth.
Conversely, a landlord who relied on
rental income to pay a quarter of his bills
now only had enough to pay a sixteenth.
Worse still, if rents were his sole source
of income, and he was able to make ends
meet in 1939, he now only had a quarter
of what was needed to sustain life. And a
surprising number of landlords were and
are little people, not bloated capitalists or
speculators.
Putting it another way, a property
owner who received a net income equal to
four percent of his capital in 1939 now
received a net income of about one percent.
This manifest injustice could not be
rectified politically, for the Labor Govern-
ment simply could not afford to offend
those of its supporters who had the advan-
tage of pegged rents. But in all fairness
the blame did not entirely fall on the
Labor Government. The Landlord and
Tenant Act did not say that rents should
be pegged in this way. The formula which
had been so convenient a servant during
the war years had become the Fair Rents
“Same dressing-gown she wore in last year’s flood.”


Board’s master, and magistrates took the
view that they had no power to depart
from the formula or look at present-day
economic facts.
Their view was finally challenged by a
Mrs. G. T. Rathborne, who owned a semi-
detached cottage at Naremburn. In 1962
she asked the Fair Rents Board to rewrite
her rent in accordance with 1962 values,
not 1939 ones. The Board refused, as it
had refused on innumerable occasions
before, to do this. She appealed to the
N.S.W. Supreme Court, where she lost. But
she persisted, appealed to the High Court,
and won her case.
The High Court held, by a majority of
four to one, that the formula approach
was mistaken and that current values could
be taken into account. Each judgment
arrived at this result in a different way,
but the principle which appears to emerge
from the majority judgments is that the
Fair Rents Boards are not bound by any
kind of formula, that their real function is
to do justice between landlord and tenant,
and that they can hardly achieve this kind
of justice if they close their eyes to what
has happened to the N.S.W. economy, or
at any rate to the value of properties, since
1939.
The property owners’ battle for economic
justice seemed to be won. For the first
time magistrates were free to do whatever,
in each instance, they considered to be
just and right.
Farewell to £lO,OOO
;J£UT the battle was not over. Many mem-
bers of the Labor Party were disposed
to accept the High Court’s judgment. But
an election was looming, and they simply
could not take such a risk. A general
increase of rents at that stage, whatever
caused it, would have been interpreted as
a betrayal by their supporters. Something
had to be done.
It was done hastily. The High Court
gave its decision on. the 4th December,
and within four days of this an executive
decree was run through the printing
presses. This purported to “repeal” the
High Court’s decision and to rewrite the
Act as it had hitherto been interpreted.
Present-day values were to be’ ignored.
Those who dislike government by decree
protested, and the Australian Law Journal
expressed doubts about the legal validily
of such administrative law-making. But it
had the desired stop-gap effect, for magis-
trates accepted its validity and continued
to apply the formula. Rents remained
pegged at 1939 levels.
In due course the offending decree was
challenged, by the writer as it happens,
and the N.S.W. Supreme Court held that
it was in excess of the Government’s
powers. By its decision (Clyne v. Cardiff—
6th May 1965) the Court ruled that the
decree had no legal effect and that the
Rathborne judgment remained unaltered.
Meanwhile, only 14 days before, the
Labor Government had lost the election,
and the new Liberal Government found
itself in an unenviable dilemma. To win
the election, the new Premier had
promised that, at any rate for three years,
the general level of rents would not go
up. Now, within a iortnight, the papers
proclaimed “Huge Rent Increases,” and
his defeated opponents began to work
themselves up into a lather of synthetic
indignation.
Once more, something had to be done.
Otherwise the infant Government, before
it had even taken its first faltering steps,
would be accused of having broken its
word. And so a free-enterprise Govern-
ment found itself in the position of having
to perpetuate, as best it could, an injustice
which struck hardest at its own supporters
and at its own principles. To survive, and
to keep faith, a solution had to be found.
Just before the election, the Labor Gov-
ernment had obtained special leave to
appeal against the Rathborne judgment to
the Privy Council, provided £lO,OOO was
paid into court to secure Mrs. Rathborne’s
costs. It had also received legal advice
that it would probably lose the appeal.
Was at least £lO,OOO to be spent on keep-
ing rents pegged, or on pretending to
try? Labor had shelved this problem,
paid in no money, taken the wise view that
whoever won the election could make this
decision later.
Now the Liberal Government paid the
£lO,OOO into court, and sadly announced
that the appeal would proceed. Fair
rents magistrates were duly informed of
this, and began to mark time. Property-
owners were told that their rents could
not be raised in accordance with the High
Court’s judgment, because that judgment
was under appeal. The formula con-
tinued to reign supreme. Between May
and December, if an owner refused to
accept a formula-increase, he received no
increase at all.
Then, in December, the Government
finally took its counsel’s advice, bid fare-
well to the £lO,OOO, and withdrew the
appeal. But at the same time it amended
the Act, properly this time, not by decree
but by Act of Parliament. In fixing a
fair rent, the amendment said, the Fair
Rents Board must not look at any pro-
perty values except those of 1939!
The wheel had come round full circle.
Owners seemed to have lost the game,
though they felt that their reluctant oppo-
nent had altered the rules a little. After
all, not many litigants are fortunate enough
to be able to pay out £lO,OOO of public
money to get the right to appeal, then
drop the appeal when it has served its
purpose, and finally rewrite the law as if
they had won the appeal.
But, of course, the story is not over.
New litigation looms on the horizon. Does
the amendment really affect the High
Court’s judgment? Can magistrates do
justice now, free of the formula? They
can look only at 1939 property values, but
what about other economic changes since
1939? What about prices? And pensions?
And wages? And the purchasing power ot
the pound? And what a tenant can afford?
Are all these things to be ignored? And
if so, why?
Perhaps none of this will be decided
until the next election. Meanwhile,
property owners get their one percent pit-
tance, and tenants cry all the way to the
bank as they think of the injustice of it
all. Politicians on both sides of the fence,
and even those permanently perched on
it, flinch whenever anyone mentions land-
lords or tenants.
The supreme irony is that no Labor
Government ever pegged rents at 1939
levels. No doubt they meant to. But the
Act . they passed, as the High Court inter-
preted it, did not have this effect at all.
it merely meant that rents should be fair
and just.
The N.S.W. Liberal Government thus
has the dubious distinction of being the
first, more than 20 years after the war
ended, to say in so many words of the
statute book that rents must remain ar
the same basic level as they were in 1939.
In 20 or 30 years, when some of us have
learned to laugh again, this may seem very
amusing.
Meanwhile, other delicate steps are being
taken to deal with the matter. We
promised not to force rents up, says the
Government. We can send them up by
agreement or find tenants somewhere else
to live.
Thus a good deal of persuasion and
even pressure is being brought to bear on
those tenants who can afford to pay more
rent. “Wealthy tenants” are told that they
might lose the protection of the Act if
they don’t agree to pay more. And
although wealth is defined at the absurd
level of £6O a week or more, a letter
from the Minister of Justice often per-
suades those who could afford to pay a
reasonable rent that the writing is begin-
ning to appear on the wall. They tend to
agree to a compromise rent, somewhere
halfway between an open-market rent and
a 1939-pegged rent.
Yet at the very heart of the problem
the Government has to face up to about
10,000 or 15,000 pensioner tenants. They
simply cannot pay more rent. Often they
occupy far more space than they need,
or prevent the development of useful sites
which could provide accommodation for
many families. If their rent is raised,
they will have no home at all. Their
difficulty is genuine, yet it is often abused
for political purposes. They make a con-
venient stick for beating anyone who advo-
cates justice for the property owner.
There are signs that, at long last, this
residual group, too, is being approached as
a problem capable of solution, not as a
hot potato. The Housing Commission has
begun to offer accommodation to pen-
sioner tenants w'ho occupy more space
than they require, and to do so immedi-
ately and without making them wait for
their turn, providing the owner under-
takes not .to exploit the situation by
immediately selling the property or by
letting it at an exorbitant rental. Amend-
ments are foreshadowed which will compel
such tenants to apply for Housing Com-
mission flats if they won’t do so volun-
tarily. And one amendment was already
slipped into the Act in December (Sec.
88B) which only makes sense on the foot-
ing that the Commission’s policy will soon
become official.
Softly, softly may be the Government’s
way of easing this last and nastiest of
N.S.W. post-war headaches. When rent
control finally goes, it may do so with a
whimper and without a bang. Certainly
there will be few to mourn at its funeral.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Making Music in the Capital
By JACK KUNST
WITH the confidence of a man who
has found his destiny, violinist Ernest
Llewellyn, Director of the new Can-
Derra School of Music, said last week:
“I want this school to eventually take
its place among the world’s finest music
schools.” Catching up with the world’s
finest schools—such as Juilliard, the East-
man School, the conservatories of Mon-
treal, Toronto, Prague, Vienna, Leipzig,
Berlin, Geneva, or Brussels may take
some doing. However, the school’s auspic-
ious start, the quality of its nucleus staff,
the enthusiasm and excitement generated
by it and its success generally in Canberra
made Llewellyn’s words sound entirely
plausible.
The Canberra School of Music, which
began officially last February, has been
open for two terms. The professorial
staff, apart from Llewellyn, consists of
Larry Sitsky (piano), William Herbert
(tenor), Laurie Kennedy (cello), and
Vincent Edwards (viola). So far, 80
students have enrolled.
Five years ago, the Department of the
Interior began talking about a music
school for Canberra, but nothing came of
it until last year.
Ernest Llewellyn had resigned his post
of Concert Master with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. This was something
the members of the exclusive band of the
world’s Concert Masters are not prone to
do, but Llewellyn had his reasons. He
said: “We have an inexplicable and
serious situation in Australia as well as
the rest of the world, and that is a dearth
of string players. This is strange in the
light of the fact that good string players
need never be out of work, no matter
where they are, and get very good salaries.
For instance, the Sydney Symphony Or-
chestra is staffed with people who in the
fairly near future are going to retire and
there are not enough replacements for
them. The orchestras in Melbourne, Ade-
laide, Brisbane, Perth, and Hobart are
in precisely the same position.
“Right now we have opportunities for
at least 200 young people to fall into
ready-made jobs with very good salaries.
Other growing fields, such as opera,
ballet, and modern dance, will increas-
ingly demand not only string players but
musicians of all kinds.
“We also have a dearth of teachers in
the education system. At Juilliard and
other schools in the U.S., graduates are
immediately co-opted into the schools at
high salaries. The same urgency and in-
sistence on quality simply don’t exist in
Australia.”
Llewellyn said he felt a strong urge to
teach and bring his ideas into practice.
He bought a farm near Mittagong,
N.S.W., and began teaching at Mitta-
gong’s excellent schools. Llewellyn said
the whole area, right through to Moss
Vale, was interested in music and so
were Goulburn and Wollongong with its
exploding population.
He had almost started teaching in Wol-
longong when the First Secretary of the
Department of the Interior approached
him with the Canberra school plan.
Llewellyn criticised this plan and was
subsequently asked to put in a report on
what he thought should be done. He
did and after some deliberation his blue-
print was accepted and he was asked to
direct the new school.
Money was rather limited, but at least
a start could be made and Llewellyn said
the sudden backing and encouragement
he received were quite unforeseen. Appli-
cations for staff were invited by adver-
LLEWELLYN...Ernest in town,
Ernie in the Southern Tablelands
tisement. Llewellyn had already written
to Larry Sitsky, the talented pianist and
composer at the Brisbane Conservatorium.
He had told him about his plans of
bringing the school’s activities before the
public by giving performances, about
freedom to develop one’s own teaching
methods geared to the pupil, and many
other details. Sitsky was most excited at
the prospect of being able to expand
mentally and to be free from traditional
fetters. He was the first to join the staff.
Next was tenor William Herbert, who
was fired with the same enthusiasm. He
had just returned from England and wrote
from Western Australia offering his vast
experience.
Laurie Kennedy’s case was a little more
unusual. A world figure, he had retired
from music many years before. He was the
favorite of people like Beecham, Tos-
canini, and Barbirolli, and has been asso-
ciated with Kreisler y Heifetz, and many
others. At one stage he was the leader of
the NBC Orchestra for Toscanini, and
there are very few concert platforms in the
world he hasn’t played on.
Kennedy wrote: “If you are stuck for a
cello teacher I’ll come over and help you
out for six months.” He became so excited
that he bought a house in Canberra and is
now planning not six months but many
years ahead.
Vincent Edwards applied and was
accepted on his merits. He began his career
at the Melbourne Conservatorium, where
he won many scholarships. His parents
then sent him to the Juilliard School of
Music in New York. After graduation he
returned to Australia and joined the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra. But with his
restlessness and high qualifications he
didn’t like the idea of sitting in an
orchestra for the rest of his life. The Can-
berra School of Music seemed the answer
to his ideas and ambitions. As the school
grows, more staff has to be attracted.
Llewellyn said he had put in the esti-
mates for this year, which were about four
times the amount the school started with.
He said a top classical guitar teacher would
be starting in a few weeks. Next he wanted
woodwind and brass teachers. He said
had his eyes in many directions, including
that of a harpist.
To keep a balance between teachers and
pupils, the school follows certain pro-
cedures. Instead of throwing the school
open to the public at large, Llewellyn
decided there should be an entrance audi-
tion—not an examination.
For instance, Sitsky wanted to teach only
in the intermediate to advanced field.
Also, Llewellyn has set a limit of five
one-hour students a day to each teacher.
Llewellyn explained he did not want the
teachers to be so tied down by large num-
bers of students that they would not have
time left to think, practise, or perform.
In fact, public performances were an
essential part of the overall drive to create
and stimulate a vigorous musical life in
the community. Last November, a Faculty
Concert was held at the Canberra Theatre
Centre, which gave a taste of things to come.
Available classes are advertised and
students who present themselves enrol after
they have been selected, usually on a six
months’ probationary basis. AMEB
examinations will be held each year, and
Llewellyn hopes that eventually an alliance
will be formed with the Australian
National University, which will smooth
the path of those who want to go for a
degree course.
At present the school is housed in a
former baby centre at Manuka Circle.
Llewellyn said that in two, or at the latest
three, years the school would have a special
building with all the facilities needed. This
would be the first building of that kind
in Australia.
Thinking about the future, Llewellyn


said that with the growth of Australia and
the growth of musical needs the existing
orchestras would not be able to cope.
There would have to be more orchestras
and also greater diversity. He said if Can-
berra eventually succeeded in setting up a
symphonic orchestra it should perform in
much the same way as, for instance, the
Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra. This
orchestra had 120 players and used itself
in symphonic work, in opera, in chamber
music groups, and in special groupings for
presentations such as Mozart.
In contrast, Llewellyn mentioned the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra, which was
only 80 strong, was overloaded, channelled
into only one direction—symphonic music
—and would need another full orchestra of
at least 40 to help it cover other possible
activities.
Finally, Llewellyn said: “I decided to
leave the Sydney Symphony Orchestra to
do something constructive about creating
more string players of a better professional
standard. This idea was half idealistic and
half practical, but it grew from the feeling
that I, with my experience and because I
was well known in Australia, could possibly
attract the best talent and at the same time
earn a living.
“If I can prove this successful, and so
far it has been very successful, I feel I
am doing something worthwhile. We are
at the moment only a small group, but
perhaps we can point the way to an integ-
rated and pleasurable existence musically.”
BALLET
Something for the Men
Australian Ballet: Raymonda. Princess
Theatre, Melbourne.
The choreography of the new “Ray-
monda” is credited to Rudolf Nureyev
(after Petipa) a very long way after, I
would say, and a very good thing, too!
By all accounts the original was a prize
bore, while the current offering is a joy.
“Raymonda” was one of the last steps
in the decline of the Imperial Russian
Ballet which resulted in the breakaway of
the group led by Diaghileff. It contained
all the worst and very little of the best of
“Swan Lake” and “The Sleeping Beauty.”
Therefore, any resemblance between the
original and what the Australian Ballet is
doing can be little more than coincidental.
I would class it as 50 percent Nureyev,
40 percent Russian choreographers un-
known to us, with a sprinkling of Fokine,
Lifar, Balanchine et al., and about ten
percent Petipa. In 1898 old Petipa would
certainly not have condoned the strong
male element which is today exploited so
superbly. (Can any overseas company pro-
duce'i 19 men of the calibre we saw in
one ballet?) Thanks to Nureyev we have
at last a full-length classical ballet which
is all dancing of the highest standard yet
lacks all the elements which .are the usual
objection to ballet as a medium.
There is only a bare skeleton of the
original story (no loss), and most of the
fine Glazounov music (a positive asset)
remains. The costumes are brilliant, and
the decor makes superb use of color,
though I prefer the modernism of Leslie
Hurry to that of Ralph Koltai for this
type of ballet.
But “Raymonda” is a dancer’s ballet.
I saw two different casts on consecutive
evenings, yet the same stars dominated
both: the company of soloists who com-
bined to give a brilliant impression of
what is commonly known as a corps de
ballet. There was absolute overall excel-
lence in the uncounted minor solos, pas de
deux, trois, quatre, etc., right up to seize,
Act One of the Australian Ballet Company’s production of “Raymonda” at the Princess
Theatre, Melbourne. Garth Welch as Jean de Brienne and Marilyn Jones as Raymonda.
not to mention spectacular ensembles fea-
turing the whole company. Most of the
best choreography is given to the general
company. The massed work is magnifi-
cently precise and fully realises Nureyev’s
intentions, and the individual dancers are
so uniformly good that it would be un-
fair- (and impossible) to single out any
one of them.
The two principal roles, unfortunately,
demand more than just good technique.
Fonteyn and Nureyev inevitably padded
their parts with personality. The two male
leads I saw almost achieved the required
flamboyance; the two women, alas, did
not. Marilyn Jones has all the technique
and looks of a ballerina, but she totally
lacks the attack which will add the
precious prima to her title. Elaine Fifield,
on the other hand, has plenty of per-
sonality, but not quite the right kind for
a cold classical role, and her technique,
while strong enough to cope with any
technical problems, is based on soft lines,
which again clash with pure classicism.
In “Swan Lake” these faults could be
fatal, in “Raymonda” they are less im-
portant. Therefore, I would give Fifield a
slight preference over her rival in this
ballet.
Garth Welch and Bryan Lawrence are
two dancers who could demand top billing
anywhere in the world and get it. Both
shine brilliantly in “Raymonda.” Per-
haps Garth Welch “dances” more in the
literal sense, but Bryan Lawrence’s ballon
and precision in finishing make any seri-
ous comparison impossible. For any Aus-
tralian company to have two danseurs
nobles of this standard is a real achieve-
ment, and there is yet another lurking in
the background: Warren de Maria can-
not be judged in the same company until
he takes over a major lead, but his per-
formance as Abderachman, the villain in
the piece, and leading the Grand Pas
Hongrois shows spectacular promise.
Abderachman was danced by Bryan
Lawrence at the premiere, and to follow
Lawrence is no enviable task. De Maria
was good enough and different enough to
be judged on his own merits, and emerged
with flying colors.
Two other casts will take the leads in
later performances. While it seems un-
likely that these will approach the stan-
dard of the two I saw, nothing seems to be
impossible in this company!
JOHN CARGHER
TELEVISION
Helping hand
Australian Playhouse. Channel 2, Sydney.
Recently, on “Fighting Words,” George
Molnar said something new about the
Sydney Opera House, that in its design
the architect had found mastery over
machine production instead of enslavement
to it. His opponent argued that, at this
time, the money would have been better
spent in decentralised “homes” for the
various arts, where a broader and more
genuine interest in them could have been
fostered. As I understood it, his idea was


“let’s learn to walk before we go for the
high jump record,” necessary in several
instances, notably iocal drama.
On television the ABC, after some years
of hopeless attempt to produce occasional
full-length, full-strength drama, has bowed
to the obvious fact that wishful playwrights
could best be encouraged by asking them
to write the short, 30-minute play with a
clear, simple story line. Now the ABC has
plunged headlong into that effort. We are
told that 39 “Playhouse” dramas have been
planned. No one has mentioned the cost.
At a very rough guess it could be anywhere
from $78,000 to double that figure for the
series.
This kind of money is not a fortune in
television if the product is good enough
to entertain viewers and not make them
sigh as they switch to another channel.
Then, as before, it would be money wasted.
So far in “Australian Playhouse” there is
no sign of that. We have been shown three
short dramas of at least workmanlike stan-
dard, not as good as those in the British
“Comedy Playhouse” series, but nothing
to be ashamed of, either, if they are sold
and televised abroad.
The series has one distinct handicap to
overcome. “Playhouse” is being shown at
8 p.m. Mondays in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne, following a deplorable 7.30 p.m.
series called “Camp Runamuck,” a kind
of poor child’s “McHale’s Navy.” I would
hate to think that “Playhouse” is depend-
ing on - the “Runamuck” audience. And at
8 viewers in Melbourne can watch “Honey
West,” “The Saint,” or the beginning of
a movie. In Sydney the 8 p.m. audience
could be halfway- through “U.N.C.L.E.”
or “Amos Burke” or beginning another
movie. The prospects of gaining a Duck-
man ton-type, audience at that time are not
good.
If the “Playhouse” series has encouraged
more than 30 authors (Pat Flower has
written five or six of the plays) it has to
be viewed as a promising nursery school
for playwrights, some of whom will con-
tribute anything from thriller's to comedy
to high drama to the repertoire the Opera
House will need if it is not going to stand
empty most of the year. Equally “Play-
house” means valuable experience for the
numerous actors needed to fill minor and
specific character roles.
This need was demonstrated clearly in
the first of the series “The Pigeon,” which
had a mixture of new talent, experienced
players, and several very shaky ones foi
Eric Tayler to direct. The second episode
and the first of Pat Flower’s several had
only one player in view and a voice on
tape. Both had faults, both were a sight
better than many of the mediocre imported
series shown during the 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
hours. I submit that “Playhouse” dramas
should not be reviewed one by one any
more than any other half-hour series should
be. They are not pretentious enough to
deserve that.
Finally, if previous ABC productions of
Australian drama make you overcautious
about “Playhouse,” the series promises
well, offers the steady encouragement
writers need and frequent practice which
people on the technical side may be able
to use how that the future looks just a
shade brighter.
PRANK ROBERTS
MIDDY’S MUSIC HAll
“A French Affair”
Julie Fullerton
Des Rolfe
Christine Bartlett
Deryck Barnes
Christine Bartlett
John Unicomb and Julie Fullerton


THEATRE
Faithful to Chekov
Three Sisters. Anton Chekov. Old Tote
Theatre, Sydney.
Iphigenia in Aulis. Euripides. Athens Drama
Company. Elizabethan Theatre.
“■WTIASCINATING dramatic studies of
JP ‘Heartbreak House’ ” was how Shaw
described Chekov’s plays. “Heart-
break House,” he said, was “cultured, leis-
ured Europe before the war.” And he
continued: "Our utter enervation and futil-
isation in that overheated drawing-room
atmosphere was delivering the world over
tt> the control of ignorant and soulless,
cunning and energy.”
In “Three Sisters” the Prozorov house
is Heartbreak House, indeed. At the begin-
ning of the play it is an oasis of civilisation
in a provincial town which is a desert of
dullness and mediocrity.. Its inhabitants
the three Prozorov sisters, Olga, Masha,
and Irena, and their brother Andrey are
highly educated and gently bred. But
they are oppressed by boredom, stifled by
the provincial atmosphere and dream only
of going to Moscow, where, they firmly
believe, life will be happy and golden,
where the spring comes earlier, there are
no vulgar people and no mosquitoes.
They do not go to Moscow and, by
the end of the play, vulgar mediocrity has
taken over the house in the person of
Natasha, a local girl whom Andrey has
married. Gradually she breaks the spirit
of the gentle Andrey, moves Irena into
Olga’s room to make way for her baby
son, dims the lights in the house and re-
stricts its hospitality until, finally, the
sisters move out and leave her in full
possession.
There is continuing dispute among lit-
erary people about just how gloomy
Chekov intended “Three Sisters” to be.
In the endless discussions in the Prozorov
drawing-room between the sisters and the
army officers who make up their social
circle, everyone is agreed about the bore-
dom and worthlessness of their lives. But
there is always someone to advance the
view that life will be happier in the
future, when everyone will work and no-
one will be bored. But the events of the
play give no reason for hope. Everything
good and civilised is defeated. The Proz-
orovs are despoiled by Natasha and the
good Baron is killed by the envious, un-
happy Soliony.
Yet, at the end, when they stand bereft,
Olga of her home, Masha of her lover,
and Irena of her husband, each sister
makes a speech in which she affirms that
she must go on living and working and
believing in happiness somewhere in the
future. This is puzzling and seems to con-
tradict the logic of events. Some people
take it as a warrant for cheerfulness.
Robert Quentin, in this production, has
accepted the dramatic logic of the play
and, rightly I think, makes no attempt
to brighten the gloom. Perhaps he extends
it a little by making the sisters so uneasy
and jerky in the early scenes, but that is
a question of interpretation. On the whole,
this carefully thought-out production is
faithful to Chekov, leaving the puzzles
where he put them.
Chekov’s characters are always painted
“warts and all” and, if anything, the
warts are emphasised. Robert Qtnntin
has assembled a fascinating gallei\ of
Dutch portraits. Of the sisters, Irena is
the most complete portrait. Barbara Fraw-
ley develops the character very well from
the radiant girl who looks forward exci-
tedly to starting work, to the exhausted
young woman who decides to marry a
man she does not love. Philippa Baker’s
Olga, thin, stooped, with a perpetual head-
ache, is well done. Lyn Wright’s Masha
is rather passive. Perhaps she should show
more discontent. June Collis is excellent
as the odious Natasha, rampaging through
the house, rearranging everyone's lives into
unhappiness.
On balance, however, the men must be
awarded the acting honors for the even-
ing. Robert McDarra is a diffident, tor-
mented Andrey. James Condon’s Versh-
inin achieves just the right mixture of
awkwardness, battered charm, and in-
effectualness. Stanley Walsh gives a subtle
portrait of the kind, plain, and also in-
effectual Baron Toozenbach. Tom Farley’s
Chebutykin is a beautifully controlled per-
formance of a character which almost in-
vites over-playing. Alister Smart is a
glowering, explosive Soliony, while Wini-
fred Green and Reg Collins give excellent
performances as the two old servants.
But perhaps the most impressive perfor-
mance of the evening is the young actor
David Copping as Koolyghin, Masha’s
pathetic, pedantic husband, in his ill-
fitting schoolmaster’s uniform, strutting
about the stage like a nervous tin soldier.
Ron Reid performs, a miracle with the
Old Tote’s tiny stage by making it seem
at once vast and claustrophobic as a nine-
teenth century Russian drawing-room.
Costis Michaelides’ production of “Iph-
igenia in Aulis” is a strange mixture of
two entirely different styles of acting
one for the main action and one for the
chorus. The work of the chorus (chore-
ography by Rena Kambaladou) is a con-
stant delight and should be seen by any-
one interested in the production of Greek
June Collis (Natasha) and Barbara
Frawley (Irena) in “Three Sisters.”
Old Tote, Sydney.
drama. Nothing could be less like the
usual stiffly grouped, monotonously rhu-
barbing assemblage. The constantly chang-
ing groupings of this chorus are always
harmonious yet subtly unsymmetrical.
By contrast with the precision and grace
of the chorus, the main action is presented
in a stiff and unsubtle manner. The result
is that the chorus of unknown women
seems more deeply concerned for the
sufferings of the great ones than the great
ones themselves, who merely saw the air
with their arms and declaim.
The only explanation I can suggest for
this discrepancy is the modern lack of
sympathy for heroic tragedy. The chorus,
not being heroic figures, escape the awk-
wardness attending the presentation pf
the heroes. If the Athens Drama Company
could take as relaxed an attitude to
“Iphigenia in Aulis” as they do to “Lysis-
trata” they would have a much better
production.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Schmaltz Waltz
The Great Waltz. Directed and choreo-
graphed by George Carden. Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Melbourne.
NONE of Sydney’s brittle glamor for
us. We Melburnians are a senti-
mental lot and like the simple, old-
fashioned things. Like trams, Moomba,
and our ALP executive. Which is why
we roll up in large quantities to see revi-
vals of “The Merry Widow” and “The
Student Prince.” So JCW’s have little
to fear with this latest piece of extravagant
nostalgia.
Arranged by Mr. Edwin Lester, “The
Great Waltz” is a very schmaltzy fairy
story concerning the love lives of the
Johann Strausses. The twelve settings
would sit happily on the most de luxe
chocolate boxes, and the costumes provoke
continuous gasping. (No credits for the
design of either are given in the pro-
gramme, so presumably they came from
JCW’s vast archives.)
The giddying profusion of waltzes is
relieved by one march and a polka, and
Carden’s production is impeccably tradi-
tional. Mercifully, Keith Neilsen sings the
role of Strauss, sen., far better than he
acts it, and big-voiced Joy Mammen twirls
parasols and tosses off tinkly laughs with
great style. Roslyn Dunbar, Phil Jay,
Eric Reiman, and the remaining fifty
cast members earn their every pfennig,
and if I’ve any criticism it’s that Mr.
Carden showed unnecessary restraint in
not staging the whole thing on ice.
PHILLIP ADAMS
FILMS
Indulgent
Darling. Director, John Schlesinger. Em-
bassy Theatre, Sydney.
Samson. Director, Andrzej Wajda. Hub
Theatre, Newtown, Sydney.
THOUGH it shows a considerable tech-
nical advance over his previous films,
John Schlesinger’s “Darling” is in the
final analysis less satisfying. In “A Kind Of
Loving” and “Billy Liar” the watcher was
deeply concerned with the people involved,


only incidentally noting and admiring the
originality of direction; but in “Darling”
it is Schlesinger’s cleverness that catches
the attention—the human, emotional values
are fairly superficial.
This is a comment rather than a criti-
cism—direction of this order is nothing to
be sneezed at, and although the film is
never moving it is constantly entertaining,
witty, and sometimes brilliant.
Diana, the Darling of the title, is today’s
golden girl—rising from Chelsea uncon-
ventionalism to be a top model, film star-
let, finally Italian princess. Schlesinger
tells the story of the self-centred, greedy
girl to the counterpoint of her own dis-
creetly expurgated version of her career as
told to a magazine interviewer. There are
indications that Schlesinger intended a
bitter commentary on the false values of
today, a sort of English “Dolce Vita,” but
this doesn’t come off. He seems seduced
by the charm of Darling herself and the
meretricious glamor of her life into almost
accepting her trivial standards and is often
beguiled into irrelevancies—the television
street-interview sequence, for instance, is
brilliantly funny but has little to do with
the argument of the film. There is a
genuine implied moral comment in the
sequence of careless destructiveness when
Darling and a friend dine drunkenly on
the spoils of a shoplifting expedition to
Fortnum’s, but generally the director views
her with an indulgent smile.
Certainly Diana, in Julie Christie’s
bravura performance, is a disarming
creature, but not one to touch the heart
as Billy Liar did, and the ending of the
film, where Schlesinger seems to be trying
to imply that her triumph has turned to
dust and ashes, falls very far short of
tragedy—Darling seems merely to be suf-
fering a momentary fit of annoyance
because things haven’t turned out exactly
as she wants. But the witty treatment, the
terse, elliptical direction, and the splendid
performances make this a rewarding and
amusing film and confirm Schlesinger as
one of the liveliest and most imaginative
film makers working today.
Lack of feeling is the last criticism that
can be levelled at Wajda, and “Samson”
is a profoundly emotional but never senti-
mental film, the story of a Warsaw Jew
who almost inadvertently escapes from the
wartime ghetto, is safely concealed by a
Gentile friend, but is tortured and emascu-
lated by his guilt at not sharing the suffer-
ings of his people. Wajda perhaps labors
the Biblical parallel with the story of Sam-
son too hard, and the rather melodramatic
ending falls a little too pat. But the inten-
sity of his feeling is deeply moving, his
photography as ever shows a striking feel-
ing for contrasts in textures, and he con-
jures a remarkably sensitive central per-
formance from Serge Merlin. This, the first
offering of Sydney’s new “specialist”
cinema, suffers a little from poor projec-
tion—Wajda’s photography is certainly
dark, but here in one key scene not only
the images but (more important) the essen-
tial subtitles are practically invisible. I
hope and expect that this fault will be
corrected.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
ON TELEVISION
The Most “Covered” War in History
THE American Broadcasting Company,
one of the three big United States
television networks, has its Vietnam
office on the sixth floor of the Caravelle
Hotel in Saigon, one floor below the Aus-
tralian Embassy. To cover the war in
Vietnam, the ABC (theirs, not ours) em-
ploys a production staff of 26 writers,
cameramen, and sound recordists. Among
them are two distinguished Australian
cameramen, Peter Leyden, ex Project ’66
and Four Corners, and, since 1962, Ron
Headford, of GTV9. Both are working for
the biggest television team in Vietnam.
But ABC’s is far from being the only
team there. Not only are the two other
big American networks, CBS and NBC,
there in strength, but many smaller net-
works and agencies from the United States,
Japan, Britain, Germany, France, and
periodically Australia are making it easily
the most televised war in history. There
has been nothing like it in the history of
the mass media, and what effect the cover-
age is having on public opinion, and there-
fore on policy-making, can only be guessed
at.
Of the more than 300 foreign newsmen
in Vietnam close to 100 are associated with
television. Each night as millions of Ameri-
cans sit down to watch the TV news they
see the war in close-up, they hear its
sounds, they become familiar with its faces.
This has been happening in the United
States for at least three years, but it is
now becoming very much part of the
Australian television scene.
While we have not reached the U.S. level
of involvement in the TV medium yet
and are unlikely to most Australian
viewers had an opportunity last week to
drug themselves with some five hours of
television about Vietnam and Australian
involvement in it. While all the channels
involved deserve commendation for treat-
ing the subject seriously and at length,
all the programmes did in greater or lesser
degree reveal the sort of weaknesses which
still leave many viewers dissatisfied when
Australian television tries to tackle some-
thing really big.
Taking them in order, “Four Corners”
began with an attempt to cover the whole
subject from the feel of Saigon to the
morality of conscription. It was a strong
attempt, one of the team’s better efforts,
but it still lacked the sharpness of the
American and British counterpart pro-
grammes with which it must, like it or not,
be compared in the public mind. Because it
was trying to do many things the results
were patchy. But the best thing about it
was its timeliness. It came the day after
the first elements of the Australian Task
Force left for Vietnam and began with
well-edited street interviews of relatives
and bystanders during Sydney’s farewell
to the marching troops. It was for once
an intelligent and moving use of that over-
worked technique the-man-in-the-street
poll.
Another good feature was the use of
reporters to summarise historical and geo-
graphical points about Vietnam instead of
relying on the ABC’s (ours, not theirs)
übiquitous and all too often ponderous
academics. It was good to see that journal-
ists had gone to the trouble of spending
a few hours with some books and some
maps instead of doing the obviously easier
but less satisfying interview with the
“expert” hastily flown in from Canberra
or elsewhere. John Penlington’s report
from Saigon was evocative and started the
programme off at a level of interest which
was not always maintained.
The discussion it was really a series
of statements on conscription and Aus-
tralian policy which concluded the pro-
gramme suffered from its shortness. With
four speakers it could hardly do more than
allow each of them a few minutes to state
views about a complex and confused sub-
ject. This is always a dilemma for a pro-
gramme like “Four Corners,” but while
two-minute spots are acceptable on a news
programme we expect something more
when a programme explores issues “in
depth.”
But do we expect as much as we got
in ATN7’s (and the Channel 7 network)
“White Paper—Conscription”? I hope
not, because two hours of speeches with
only a few minutes for questions depends
very much on the quality of the speeches.
With one or two exceptions the speech-
makers in the programme were pedestrian
and predictable.
Well, judged by this marathon, what
can television do when the combined re-
sources of the University of Sydney, the
Channel 7 Network throughout Australia,
and the “Seven Days” production team
combine? Much better, I would hope. The
opening segment was well handled, but
Richard Croll tended to show up the ama-
teurism of the “reporters” (quite a few
had only reported on camera once or
twice in their lives before) from the other
capital cities.
The most satisfying programme of the
evening, although not without its technical
flaws, was Project ’66 “The Third Genera-
tion,” which in an hour of always interest-
ing film showed us the Australian troops
at Bien Hoa in action and talking about
themselves and the war. John Abbott’s
understated script suited the mood con-
veyed by the Australian soldiers them-
selves laconic, knowledgeable, and pro-
fessionally proud of their skills. For 26-
year-old Sydney cameraman Mike Molloy
and his assistant, 19-year-old Quentin Mas-
ters, the film was something to look back
on with some pride also. Molloy’s camera-
work during the early morning prepara-
tions for a helicopter attack and the heli-
copter take-off sequences were particularly
memorable and the whole team is to be
congratulated and marvelled at for its
ability to keep cameras and tapes rolling
while under fire in an ambush.
SAM LIPSKI


BOOKS
Our Man in Haiti
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Comedians. Graham Greene. Bodley
Head- $2.85.
HAITI: mention of the word releases
a flock of reminiscence: a cathedral
whose walls are decorated with black
Christs, whose Negro Last Supper’s only
white guest is Judas; a palace, once more
sumptuous than Versailles, built in a dazzle
of bragadoccio by a black emperor, its
mirrors bursting open with fungus, its steps
and colonnades pierced by jungle creepers;
huts hung with man-sized dolls pierced to
their cloth hearts with knitting needles,
fruit and vegetables arranged in circles to
keep out the powers of darkness, whole
families tranced and zombie-like inside;
nuns hustling their convent girls into the
hills at dusk, while past them a man in a
leopard-skin leads others dressed as cats
down the winding roads to Port-au-Prince;
and, at midnight, a drive to a priest’s
house, hands clutching at the cab doors
faces pressed like soft, dark moons against
the glass, and, in the sacrificial enclosure,
machetes whirling, blood scattered on the
floor, and down the central pole in the
middle of the peristyle the spirit of Dam-
ballah-Wedo, the serpent-god, descending
like a river of fire to possess the girl
acolyte.
My Haiti: it is not the same as Mr.
Greene’s. His is a Haiti that came after
my stay, an island dominated not so much
by those images of blood, black sacraments
and whirling voodoo figures which haunt
my own memory, as by the sinister secret
police with their dark glasses and plump,
impenetrable scowls, the Tontons Macoute,
and their master, Dr. Duvalier, the Presi-
dent whom Mr. Greene hates. The images
the author gives us re-create in Haitian
terms his familiar world of shabby failures
at the fag-end of civilisation, of a col-
lapsing hotel with only two guests and a
proprietor who used to be a waiter on a
forged reference, of an abortive revolution
in which an anti-hero dies for a hopeless
cause.
The emphasis throughout is political:
Mr. Greene clearly has not forgotten the
irruption of Duvalier’s troops into Mass
at the cathedral, and the reported murder
of worshippers (although one wonders if
he knows just how much of voodoo—that
complex religion so often ignorantly called
black magic—had already invaded the
Catholic ritual there). He concentrates a
fierce dislike on the central images of a
Haiti now plunged, according to his
account, into the night of a police State:
throughout the book, recorded with a level
quietness that makes them all the more
frightening, there are murders, skirmishes,
and a series of appearances by those
bespectacled killers who so obviously hold
an obsessive interest for Mr. Greene.
His narrator is Brown, once a waiter,
later a dealer in art from a trailer, who
inherits a hotel named the Trianon, which
stands, like its namesake, with a kind of
defiant elegance on the edge of revolution
and bloodshed. At the opening he is travel-
ling by ship—Mr. Greene will insist on
Brown calling it a boat—from New York
to Port-au-Prince to take up his asset, left
him by a mother who died rather too
novelistically of exhaustion after enjoying
for a last time her young lover. On board
the Medea are the Smiths; Smith is a
former Presidential candidate who looks
like Robert Frost, a classic do-gooder with
a smile, a lock of white hair standing on
end, a plan to bring vegetarianism to the
cannibalistic Haitians, and a mind of
smooth, impenetrable American innocence
which still wears a grin after undergoing
the horrors of Tennessee.
Along with Brown and Smith—this use
of common names is perhaps rather
strained a device—goes Jones, a crook who
is supposed by his own account to have
served in Burma (Brown carefully checks
the name of the regiment), but who later
turns out to have been with ENSA and
boasts of a brief encounter with Noel
Coward. This is the quintessential Greene
character, destined to be played by John
Mills or Richard Attenborough in a future
film version: apparently seedy and se.f-
inflated, but (as it turns out later) some-
thing of a hero in the last analysis.
At Haiti—the ship’s arrival is charac-
teristically evoked right down to the obli-
gatory legless man at the wharf—Brown,
Jones, and the Smiths (the outsiders, the
ones who have opted out, the comedians
of the world’s tragedy) each react in dif-
ferent ways to the crucial problems of the
island’s plight. Brown rediscovers his for-
mer mistress, Martha Pineda, the wife of a
Latin American ambassador (the republic
is unnamed. Peru?), and escapes or half-
escapes from the terrors around him in
her arms. Their affair is awkwardly, ner-
vously conducted, interrupted by an ironi-
cally named child, Angel (whose appear-
ance on the scene at least in one instance
reduces Brown to impotence), and con-
stantly threatened by exposure. The Smiths
somehow continue unscathed, despite
brushes with the Tontons Macoute, finally
transferring their do-gooder activities to
another republic. Jones dies in an abortive
revolution.
Mr. Greene is a master of irony, of the
sudden banal detail which can puncture
the more hopeful self-inflations of his
characters, or illuminate the hieratic sym-
bols of religion—the sudden honking of a
horn on a hearse, the disclosure of Jones’
work for ENSA, and his absurd boast
about Noel Coward.
'J'HIS emphasis on the weakness of people,
the way they pettily deceive, is very
characteristic: but the book is not all a
sombre lowering account of the flaws in us.
The setpieces are written with a flourish:
the funeral of the murdered revolutionary
Philipot, the visit to a voodoo ceremony
laced with phrases from Catholic ritual.
And there are inspired incidentals: a suite
at the Hotel Trianon named after John
Barrymore, whose liquor bills can still be
inspected by the visitor, souffles Trianon
prepared and ice-creams gobbled while
murder lurks in the hotel gardens; the
Trianon pool used as a setting for love-
making, for the idealist vegetarian Smith
to swim up and down, and for the resting
place of a politician’s corpse.
My only complaint would be that at
times Mr. Greene makes his characters—
and especially his narrator —too intelligent
to be true. Martha Pineda, in particular,
seems to me far too eloquent and Greene-
like, and Smith at times sounds too little
an American, too much an English and
baffled Greene hopeful. The risk run by
Mr. Greene’s kind of guilty Catholic intel-
ligence is that it can infuse to the point
of improbability all its creations with com-
plex, haunted, interlocking thoughts. But I
do not want to underrate Mr. Greene’s
book for its too cerebral characters. It has
a firm moral centre, it is written with a
clean, consistent vigor, and it has a strong
humanist bias. These merits alone make it
virtually unique and desirable in the mid-
’sixties.
Two Poems
We very much regret that “Two Poems,” by Elizabeth Riddell, appeared incorrectly in
our issue of April 23. We reprint it here.
1. ALONE
Locked in this soft cell of flesh I am alone.
I listen to the slow creep of my blood
Along the veins, the tiny chime of bone,
A sibilance of hair, a whisper in the lung.
My eyes are quiet in their lake of tears.
Prisoner and jailer in the soft cell
1 hold my breath
For sounds of love or death.
2 TOGETHER
.
The autumn night moves on your listening
_ ,5 e ,’ . , .
I think you wait for me to give you news
Of a half-recollected, half-imagined place
We shared. But that was summer country,
Tossed with bir'ds and lemon groves,
The pastures shimmered in a colored
dream.
Sunsets like wounds bled on our mutual
sky.
What if I tell you all the signs are down,
The tracks grassed over, the maps
destroyed and I
No longer speak the language?
From silence we came together and now
return
To silence again, each in his lonely skin.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL


TABULA
an essential aid in
Commerce, Industry and
Educational Establishments!
:.ts:
«S !
r
Locally made to suit Australian conditions,
"Tabula" educational boards are featured in
notable installations throughout each State.
"Tabula" is available in an extensive range—
Glass, Hardboard, vertical or horizontal, re-
volving, sliding, magnetic, projection, cork
bulletin boards, flannelgraph, pin-up boards
and many others to suit your exact require-
ments.
We tender realistically and boast a "Unique"
personal service to please you or your client.
For detailed information and/or
demonstration, please write, phone
or call:
UNIQUE HOUSE
SHOWROOMS IN ALL STATES
N.S.W.: 681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt.
Telephone: 56 7313.
A.C.T.: 89 Petrie Street, Canberra.
Telephone: 4 5554.
VIC.: 139 Boundary Road, North Melbourne.
Telephone: 30 1381.
Australians on Communism
By GERALD SEGAL
The Disintegrating Monolith. Edited by
J. D. B. Miller and T. H. Rigby. A.N.U.
Press. $6.
I OFTEN wonder what the average news-
paper reader—and by average I mean
anyone who has not been through a
specialised course on the Soviet political
background—makes of the news reports
from the Communist world which are daily
thrust in front of him.
For years, Khrushchev was presented as
if he were the embodiment of the Soviet
Union. The policy of the country was
what Khrushchev said and did. Overnight
he disappeared. A coup of some kind, and
the man whose grin or frown might
betoken a new space achievement or
another Berlin crisis had become a humble
old codger on a pension.
An accountant friend of mine with
whom I was drinking on the night of
Khrushchev’s fall said to me: “I had begun
to think I had some idea of what was
going on in Russia. But now I’m back to
square one. What is happening?” What
indeed? Khrushchev is replaced not by
one man but by two (Brezhnev and Kosy-
gin). Or three, if you include the Presi-
dent, Podgorny (then Mikoyan), which
some commentators think it proper to do.
The news at the time centred on a
power struggle at the top. But what the
outcome will involve so far as policy is
concerned is never even considered. It is
sufficient, apparently, to play with names.
Phony “inside stories” written by cor-
respondents invariably take the place of
analysis of Soviet affairs. Sometimes the
reporter alleges that his source is a diplo-
matic contact in Moscow, although those
who are really informed know that the
Russians never reveal anything to diplo-
matic contacts there. After Khrushchev’s
fall various names were put up as those
of the real power behind the Kremlin.
First Suslov, then Podgorny, and finally—
last year’s hot tip—Shelepin. This vague
speculation ought not (indeed, one hopes,
cannot) go on. For as far ahead as one
can see our own future is dependent upon
our relations with the Communist countries
and it is vital that we should have a full
and proper understanding of their motiva-
tions and their policies through the medium
of fully informed and accurate sources.
One way of achieving this end is for
scholarship to become more widely dif-
fused in the field of Communist studies,
both at the university level and amongst
the public at large. Luckily, in Augusr,
1964, a Ford Foundation Grant and the
presence as visiting fellow in the A.N.U.
Research School of Pacific studies of Lon-
don University’s Professor Hugh Seton-
Watson provided an opportunity to bring
together all those Australian academics
who are working on Communist affairs.
At the meeting, those present discussed
the changes which have been taking place
both within the Communist States and in
their inter-relations. The papers read have
now been published under the title “The
Disintegrating Monolith.”
This is a book greatly to be welcomed.
Australia has much to contribute to the
elucidation of Communist affairs. Her
geographical position and her political and
historical origin as a Western State now-
confronted directly by Asian Communism
require that she be able knowledgeably to
negotiate her future political course. Addi-
tionally, Australia’s close alliance with the
United States, coupled with her freedom
from a McCarthyite past, may mean that
her politicians and her scholars, untram-
melled by emotive preconceptions, will be
in a position to guide or at least rationally
influence the policies of the Western world.
Some of the difficulties to be faced, and
some possible future contingent policies,
are discussed by Professor J. D. B. Miller
in his important contribution on “Com-
munism and Australian foreign policy.”
Whatever the politicians may do it is
clear that Australian academics are in a
position to play a vital part in probing
and analysing the policies of the Com-
munist states of Asia. I. A. H. Turner, of
the A.N.U., and R. H. Brookes, the Pro-
fessor of Political Science at Wellington,
contribute pioneer articles on the divis-
ions in the Australian and N.Z. Commu-
nist parties arising out of the Sino-Soviet
split. R. A. Longmire’s survey of “Com-
munist International Relations and the
Asian Communist Parties,” J. A. A.
Stockwin’s analysis of the position of the
“Japanese Communist Party in the Sino-
Soviet Dispute,” and P. J. Boyce writing
on the “Communist Movement in Malay-
sia” should be widely read beyond the
confines of Australia and New Zealand.
I personally feel that Longmire under-
estimates the significance of the Tito break
with Stalin. The important point, however,
is that all this work, with I. F. H. Wil-
son’s article -on the Sino-Soviet dispute
and the internal affairs of China, and
E. A. Russell on “The Place of Agri-
culture in the Economic Development of
China” convincingly show that there is
a burgeoning school of thought and ana-
lysis concerned with Communist develop-
ments in Asia which, if properly sup-
ported, the rest of the world will be
able to rely on increasingly in the years
ahead.
It is not only in their international
aspect that the Communist States strive
to be monolithic: it is true also of their
internal affairs. The extent to which the
monolithic structure of the Soviet Union
has broken up in recent years or conceiv-
ably can break up in the future is dis-
cussed in two important articles by Pro-
fessors T. H. Rigby of the A.N.U. and D.
M. McCallum of N.S.W.
Rigby’s purpose is to define a concept-
ual framework within which to appraise
the changes which have taken place since
Stalin’s death. After demolishing the
views of Professors Friedrich and Brze-
zinski of Columbia University, he classi-
fies the post-Stalin changes in terms of
three modes of co-ordinating social action
custom, contract, and command. Contract
includes more than market economic deals
for it means finding agreements in ideas,
values, and even leadership. His con-
clusion is that the processes of decision-
making in the U.S.S.R. are now somewhat
less highly concentrated in the top leader-
ship than they were in 1953, and that this
deconcentration represents a partial shift
from organisation (command) to market
(contractual) relationships in the co-
ordination of activity.
Yet, impressed though I was by his
erudition, I left the article wondering
whether Professor Rigby had really done
anything more than give useful descript-
ive names to trends operative within the
framework of a totalitarian monolithic
State. I could have wished he had pur-
sued his analysis in two further dimen-
sions. First back to Stalin’s time to see
how far these trends were operative in
the manifest dictatorship period and
second beyond the modes of social action
into the causes generating their emergence
and operation.
For surely the crux of the matter is,
using Rigby’s terminology, at what stage


Write
your
way to
success!
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott's renowned
home-study courses:
( ) Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott’s step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
* STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
1 COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss..
ADDRESS
'• AGE
I - understand that no sales representative will
call on me. Bg(,o
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Have your favorite magazines
posted to you and enjoy the
convenience of home delivery. We
can arranges subscription to any
magazinp you require. Write or
phone for our big price lists
featuring all the well-known
magazines, classified under such
subject headings as Pictorials,
Hobbies, Business, etc. If possible,
advise the name of magazine or
subject you are interested in.
JOHN HINTON PTY. LTD.
118 Wiliam Street,
NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: 92-5904 (3 lines)
(When you reply please quote "Dept. 22")
can or will contract or the market totally
displace command within the Communist
States? In brief, can we ever expect politi-
cal arrangements within these States to
be determined by consensus as in the
Western democracies?
This question is tackled in a somewhat
different form by McCallum in this forth-
right article “obstacles to change in a
Communist system.” The obsta c 1 e,
McCallum insists, is coercion: as he puts
it, “There is no evidence that the secret
police has ceased to keep dossiers or that
it has disbanded entirely its extensive net-
work of informers.”
McCallum’s point is easy to exaggerate.
My own experience in Moscow convinced
me that the network of informers was
tightened up in the difficult last two years
of Khrushchev’s office and there was an
attempt to spread the atmosphere of fear
particularly in regard to contacts with
foreigners. But, even so, a degree of per-
missiveness has emerged I. agree with
McCallum that liberalisation is a mislead-
ing term which has to be recognised,
but is hard to categorise. I’m prepared
to accept the remark of a friend who is
an official in one of the Soviet State
committees. When I suggested that Khru-
shchev was a dictator, he replied in angu-
ish, “You don’t know what Khrushchev
has done for Russia. Would I have dared
sit here in this restaurant talking to a
foreigner in Beria’s time?”
'^ r ET there are dangers in taking too opti-
mistic a view. For example, P. R. Ireland
in an interesting and valuable survey of
the problems of Soviet writers ends his
article with the anticipation that the fall
of Khrushchev would result in a new ad-
vance of literary freedom: as it has turned
out two Soviet writers, Daniel and Sin-
yavsky, have been given long terms of
imprisonment and another, Tarsis, has
been deprived of the right to return home.
In recent years it has seemed that the
changes in the economies of the Com-
munist States centring upon the intro-
duction of a profit motive and the delimi-
tation of centralised State planning would,
keeping to Rigby’s terminology, lead a
growth in the area of contract and by
the same measure a restriction of the
command region. New foci of power
might emerge built around the managers
of industry which would cut down, or
perhaps even challenge, the party appara-
tus and in so doing crack the monolithic
State. These aspects of economic develop-
ments are touched upon by H. J. McFar-
lane in his contribution on “Communist
Economic Planning Over the Last
Decade.” I think he is right to make the
point that economic decentralisation has
not coincided (or seemed to coincide)
with periods of looser political control,
but surely he ought to have investigated
the relationship between the functioning
of the economy and its political back-
ground in greater depth.
For example, he tells us that “after
1945 forced industrialisation was pursued
in Eastern Europe on the premise that
there are no fortresses the Bolsheviks
cannot storm.” In fact, the planning ex-
periments of the Communist parties did
not really begin until around 1948 after
the other democratically elected parties
had been removed from the scene; and
even then such well-founded plans as
those for Polish and East German chemi-
cal had to be scrapped in the face of
Stalin’s brutal insistence upon iron and
steel. Moreover, even at that time the
chief Soviet planner, Voznesenski, had
proposed using the law of value —‘ in
effect, capitalist criteria —in the social-
ist economy. He was murdered in 1950.
Further, Liberman’s ideas for using a
profit criterion which have now become
official Soviet policy were first proposed
in 1955 and again in 1956, and not simply
in 1962 as McFarlane describes.
These are minor criticisms of one
article in the collection. But a more gen-
eral criticism may perhaps be allowed.
A brief article on the meaning of mono-
lith in Marxist-Leninist terminology would
have been helpful, for although it may
be viewed as an awesome threat by the
non-Communist it is for the Communist
an ideal to be achieved.
Finally, I could have wished that one
of the contributors had taken a longer
look into the future. What is likely to
happen now that, as Eugene Kamenka
suggests in “Pluralism and Soviet Cul-
ture,” Marxism-Leninism is no longer an
effective justification or basis for totali-
tarian control? In tackling this problem,
the question of what ought to be the
response of the non-Communist world
would merit analysis. Perhaps these could
be issues for discussion at the next meet-
ing, and the results recorded in a second
volume.
Inside Patrick White
By LEONIE KRAMER
Patrick White. R. F. Brissenden. British
Council. 85c.
A CONTRIBUTOR to this series of
monographs deserves admiration for
his courage. Nothing is more difficult
than to compress into less than fifty pages
an account of the life and work of a majoi
writer. It is a task which can appear simple
only to those who have not attempted it,
and the more one knows about an author
the more difficult it becomes to fit one’s
knowledge into a limited space and at the
same time truly represent him and truly
represent one’s own conviction about him.
For Dr - Brissenden the hazards are
increased by the fact that his author is still
productive, and it must be extremely dis-
appointing to him to know that he has
§ ot into print just too late to take mto
C( r?y nt Fat j White s latest novel, Tne
Solid Mandala, to be published heie
later this month.
Dr. Brissenden has approached this chal-
lenging task very well indeed. He strikes


AA2OB
. j
m
%
y
r
ft
*
*
388 y
:•■ ■■• ; :V: >:: ***»:
p^sii«P
, '
i P
SIZE IS NOT THE TRUE
MEASURE OF A GRINDING WHEEL!
You don’t measure a grinding wheel merely by its physical dimensions.
There’s a lot more to it than that. Knowledge, technical experience,
service ... priceless ingredients which only Australian Abrasives can
provide . . . are equally essential considerations in the measurement
of a grinding wheel. A.A. Sales Engineers and their Distributors are
anxious to prove this to you. If you have a grinding or abrasive mach-
ining problem in your plant, send this advertisement to us on your
letterhead. We’ll send a technical expert to you immediately ~. and
his service will cost you nothing.
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
Australian Abrasives Pty. Ltd. 302 Parramatta Rd., Auburn, N.S.W. 648 2361
a nice balance between exposition and
comment, and between information and
criticism. For the reader who is not
familiar with all White’s work the
pamphlet provides an excellent introduc-
tion; for the reader who knows his work
well there are fruitful comparisons and
stimulating judgments. In so far as it is
possible to make a precis of works so com-
plex and in some cases so ambiguous as
those of White, I think Dr. Brissenden
succeeds admirably in pointing out the
essential facts about them—in saying, in a
word, what they mean. This does not
mean that I always agree with his con-
clusions. His judgments, however, are par-
ticularly useful in that they raise by impli-
cation and sometimes directly some of the
questions which need more discussion—
and I do not mean discussion merely at
the level of academic criticism or in the
classroom.
Dr. Brissenden describes “The Aunt’s
Story” as perhaps White’s finest novel.
This is a view which is, I believe, fairly
widely held, but it has not yet received
and does not here receive any real justifi-
cation. I suspect that at least part of the
reason for the currency of the view is that
“The Aunt’s Story” is more compact and
concentrated than the later novels, that it
is more consistent in tone, that it lacks for
the most part the somewhat self-conscious
metaphysics which decorate “The Tree of
Man,” “Voss,” and “Riders in the
Chariot.” It is disappointing that Dr. Bris-
senden, though he has much that is useful
to say about the novel, does not really
tackle the question his opinion assumes —
except to say that White has succeeded in
conveying the uniqueness of personality, a
fact which in itself will not account for the
novel’s superiority, if indeed it is superior.
WITH the account of “The Tree of
Man” and “Voss” I feel less happy. For
Dr. Brissenden “The Tree of Man” remains
in some ways his “most impressive achieve-
ment,” but this is not, I take it, a way of
saying that it is a particularly good novel,
since he describes it a few lines further on
as “flawed and uneven.” “The Tree of
Man” is all that Dr. Brissenden says it is.
It does show that “the lives of even the
most ordinary people can have some
significant shape, structure, and value.”
But this does not make it a great novel,
and certainly does not make it an interest-
ing one. I would not for one moment sug-
gest that one measures an author’s value
by the ease with which one reads him;
but neither does one measure it by the
generalisations one can extract from it.
“The Tree of Man” does not justify its
length; it does not attract the full atten-
tion of even the most devoted reader; in
spite of its “ordinary people” it lacks
interest and drive. It is, I should have
thought, the novel to which it is most
difficult to return with real enjoyment.
On “Voss” Dr. Brissenden writes more
persuasively, and seems to have less diffi-
culty in convincing himself of its merits.
But here he does seem to me to make one
strange error of interpretation. He says
more than once that “Voss” is a historical
novel, whereas I should have thought that
it emphatically is not, and that White him-


self has made this plain enough in his
remarks about the Leichhardt legend. It is
only fair to say that Dr. Brissenden does
not write about “Voss” as though he
accepts his own label. But in the meantime
it might mislead others who are not so
well-informed as he into looking for facts
which are not present in the novel and
into looking for identifications of character
which would be unimportant even if they
were found.
When he comes to “Riders in the
Chariot” Dr. Brissenden writes in a very
different vein, and I have the feeling that
he is here most comfortable. His account
of “Riders in the Chariot” is one of the
best I have read, and I say this not just
because I happen to agree with it. He
points boldly and accurately to some of
the serious flaws in the novel, but in spite
of his severe criticisms never loses sight of
the grandeur of its conception, nor of the
brilliant sections to be found in it.
W ITH his account of the stories and the
plays I am less happy. I have never
been able to understand the praise that has
been heaped upon “Down at the Dump,”
and I’m no further enlightened by being
told yet again that it is “among the finest
things White has written.” Nor can I be
persuaded that there is a sensible compari-
son to be made between Miss Quodling’s
address to her goats in “Night on Bald
Mountain” and Volpone’s address to his
gold: and to be told that this is darkly
comic poetry does not clarify the state-
ment any further.
In general, however, Dr. Brissenden
keeps his head, which is something few
critics of White have managed to do. There
has from the start been a wide gap between
what the so-called intellectuals think of
his work and what the intelligent reader
gets out of him, and the intellectual has
been all too prone in the past to dismiss
with contempt the often-voiced complaint
that White’s novels are difficult to start
and difficult to finish. Dr. Brissenden has
gone some way toward correcting the
balance between praise and blame by
employing a tone of moderate but firm
judgment. A short essay of this kind is
likely to arouse more interest than a score
of learned articles on various aspects of
White’s work. It will be especially valuable
to those who live outside the charmed
circle of literary journals yet need
enlightenment. Upon their interest and
favor, after all, White’s reputation must
in the end rest.
Birthday Dedication
From my grave at the bottom of the year
these are pearls that were my eyes
I love through many-layered healing night
The grain of truth that waited in my pen.
Regrets may taunt me but I must not hear
this was grief that made me wise
So blind and deaf I struggle out to light
To plant my mustard seed in sight of men.
ANDREE DOBSON
WRITING IN
THE SIXTIES
British Americans
By PETER PORTER
THE American revolution lias arrived.
Americans are influencing the young
British poets: The Beats, the Black
Mountain poets, the new York Avant-
garde, together with the theoretician
Charles Olson, have followers all over
Britain. Regionalism in Britain has re-
appeared: it now wears an avant-garde
face.
For example, the most flourishing school
of Concrete poets is Scottish (lan Hamil-
ton Finlay is the leading exponent) and,
however cool and international its style,
its polemic shows a familiar Caledonian
combativeness. Liverpool has the most self-
confident of the regional avant-garde
(Adrian Henri and Brian Patten), New-
castle the most intractable (The Migrant
Press Group with Gael Turnbull and the
sixty-year-old Basil Bunting as dominant
figures), London, as might be expected,
the most esoteric and sophisticated
(prominent names include Bob Cobbing.
Jeff Nuttal, and Dom Sylvestre Houedard).
By the late ’fifties everything American
was “in.” Wallace Stevens was done justice
to for the first time and the Pound industry
moved into full production. The names of
William Carlos Williams and Louis Zukof-
sky reached a larger audience. Charles
Tomlinson, a pioneer phil-American,
became the first young English poet since
Dylan Thomas to acquire a reputation in
the States.
Neo-realism centred on Philip Hobs-
baum, who studied under Dr. Leavis at
Cambridge. All the - neo-realist poets
are to be found in “A Group Antho-
logy,” published by Oxford, and
include George Macßeth, Peter Redgrove,
Martin Bell, Edward Lucie-Smith, and
Zulfikar Ghose. The reviewers, though they
liked individual writers, didn’t care for this
group, preferring to overstate their oppo-
sition to Hobsbaum’s belief that writing is
a social or group activity. Hobsbaum’s
position stemmed more from I. A. Richards
than from group therapy, but his insistence
upon the practical lessons of criticism
brought out all the latent love of
amateurism in his reviewers. The Group
itself included many strong talents who
have always gone their own way and never
attempted to impose any orthodoxy on its
members. Its bias was toward realism and
social analysis, and it was responsible in
part for the popularity of the Brow-
ningesque dramatic monologue. In general,
though, the Group writers gathered
together in friendship, not kinship. Their
hey-day was 1957-1960, and the anthology
published in 1963 was a sort of valedictory.
In 1959, Robert Lowell’s “Life Studies”
was published in Britain. At first the critics
cavilled, but the book quickly picked up a
tremendous following. The “confessional”
style, as M. L. Rosenthal christened it,
was born. Other Americans—W. D. Snod-
grass and Anne Sexton—rode into town on
this new style. It is doubtful whether
America has more neurotics or drunks
among its poets than Britain, but it is an
American tradition to use directly any
experience, however painful or recent. This
is what struck the British poets so sharply.
Sylvia Plath, who died in 1963, raised the
confessional style to its highest level of
originality and power.
But Plath in “Berck Plage” and Lowell
in “Skunk Hour” are both aware of them-
selves as part of the general sickness, and
aware of the sickness as part of themselves.
The “confessional” style at its best is giving
a new life to the old device of pathetic
fallacy. Ironically, this way of writing has
something in common with the continuous
steamy self-revelation of the Beats. How-
ever, it quite lacks the instant hagiography
of Beat Wholly Communion. It is both too
real and too disciplined to live on that
Parnassus.
Here we are, then, in the mid-’sixties,
inheritors and inhabitors of what John
Osborne calls the American Age. Osborne
goes on to say that perhaps our children
will all be American. The children (i.e.,
the poems) of most of the young British
poets today are American. Alabama gets
into their poems more readily than Alder-
maston. You could look at it as a product
of the class war, a battle which is still
alive here. The confident conservatism of
the Oxbridge-educated poet is no longer
in the ascendant. The old universities are
not producing the new poets. The inter-
national style is being employed by the
Provincial and Northern poets as an anti-
Establishment weapon. Looking around,
though, it is hard to see where the poetry
establishment is. The rebels have an
embattled, paranoid sense of it, however,
like men in a fox-hole who won’t come
out even though the enemy has gone. For
instance, the young poets who live in grim
industrial Hartlepool and edit a magazine
with the forensically unaccommodating
name of “Iconolatre” publish only imita-
tion-American and usually include one
violently abusive article about contem-
porary British poetry in each issue. The
recent Albert Hall Poets’ Co-operative and
the Nottingham Poetry Conference
showed the pecking order of contending
avant-garde to be a positively theological
matter. The rebels are, in this, more estab-
lishment minded than anv older establish-
ment. Unfortunately, and this no longer
seems to matter, many of these new poets
are very bad. What is disturbing about
the new poets is their inflexible hostility
to any style but their own. Even Hughes
and Larkin are dismissed by them outright.
Paradoxically, more good poetry is being
written in Britain today than at any time
since the ’thirties, even if it gets drowned
in the new American noise. Like British
intelligence itself, this poetry is tough,
quirky, and various. It has that sense of a
live tradition, a lack of which makes much
American poetry a strain to read.
Peter Porter, author of ‘‘Once Bitten, Twice
Bitten,” is an Australian poet lona resident in
Britain. This is the fourth of a series of articles
on contemporary literature to he contributed by
various critics.


SHORT STORY BY E. A. GOLLSCHEWSKY
OMAGE TO HYMEN
EVER since Ettie had been awakened
at seven to drink her morning cup
of tea she’d been crying her eyes
out. She vowed she’d not shut an eye,
she’d heard the after-pictures traffic; the
stomp crowd breaking up down at the
Junior Citizens’ Hall; then the early ser-
vice churchgoers backing their cars out;
and finally the bells from all directions,
near and far, proclaiming it Sunday
morning.
She believed this. Though he knew
she’d been asleep when he rose at mid-
night to go and stand down the yard.
He preferred to go outside and empty
his bladder, if driven to it at night: the
sky was so vast, the air pure and scented,
the earth under his feet damp and firm.
It gave him a satisfaction he never ex-
perienced in the neat little tiled toilet
where Ettie kept some sort of breathing
deodorant he loathed.
He’d had to shake her in order to wake
her up for tea. But he guessed she
felt as if she’d spent a sleepless night, and
let it ride. He did himself. His dreams
had been disturbing ones, when he did
sleep. Which was unusual for him.
But everything about this Sunday morn-
ing was strange. Painful. Scarcely to be
endured if you stopped to think. But to
be lived through somehow and the other
side of it reached, so better not to think
too much. Get through it, even if not by
familiar ways. He wouldn’t be bathing the
dachshund today, nor changing the indoor
pot-plants for fresh ones from the fernery.
The dead leaves under the azaleas and the
fallen white stars under the clematis
would have to stay until next weekend,
spoiling the garden’s neatness. He usually
went down to the corner store right after
breakfast and collected the morning
papers, a packet of peppermints, and his
week’s supply of pipe tobacco. It wasn’t
to be thought of now. The very idea
of the peppermints seemed a sacrilege.
Still, at the back of his mind it was re-
assuring to know they’d keep the papers
for him and he wouldn’t miss his favorite
sections.
He sat despondently on the back steps
of the split-level house, shoulders humped,
listening to Ettie’s shuffling footsteps (she
walked so briskly, so sturdily, so decidedly,
with a resounding thump of the heels, and
the vehement nose-blowing, the hawking
and sniffing and hiccupping that marked
her progress from room to room. He had
no doubt that through a veil of tears she
would set the house to rights and present
it immaculate, shining, redolent with
polish, when the Farleighs arrived after
lunch. (No scent of flowers inside the
plastic ones were so “real” you couldn’t
tell the difference and saved a lot of work.
Not that Ettie did anything different with
the time saved from picking up fallen
petals, removing the film of yellow dust
scattered by pollen dropping, or scouring
soured vases, but she had more time and
energy for other chores.)
At the bottom of the yard the red
rooster crowed with a peculiarly Sunday
morning bonhomie. It was a sound to be
associated with distant church bells, fresh-
cut grass sending up a green pungency,
and a roast dinner cooking. It sounded
incongruous this morning.
JENNY stepped carefully past him, black
hair tied up in a scarlet ribbon on
top of her pert head, bottom round and
young in old jeans, faded pink in color.
Her feet, in scuffed leather thongs, were
none too clean.
“Mum said I have to go over to Auntie
Carole’s today. Why? And what’s wrong
with Leonie? She’s got the sulks.” Tennis
ball thwacked against the side of the house
and expertly caught.
Thank God she wasn’t old enough for
boys yet! Though these days the young
louts were on to everything before they
left school beer, cigarettes, girls,
gambling . . . why, Joe Adams said at
the School Committee the other night that
in his shop the biggest buyers of those
things (he didn’t even think the words
“french letters”) were high school kids.
Pity that bloody swine of a Farleigh hadn’t
been one of ’em, that’s all he could say?
Though Ettie’d be horrified if he said so;
her principles were higher than his. Her
ideas of right and wrong more clearly
defined. * \
“Has she, now?” answering Jenny, who
was still catching the ball with careless
ease. “Doesn’t sound like Leonie. She’s
no sulker.”
“Well, she’s locked in her room. And
I heard her howling last night. And
Mum’s in a state I thought at first ...”
—bright flick of glass-green eyes—“may-
be somebody related to us had died.”
If only it were a matter of simple,
unashamed death! It didn’t bring down all
the fury of family gossip, condemn your
parents, arouse excited curiosity in your
circle of friends, and bring the shine of
sheer pleasure to the of those you’d
never liked if somebody just up and
died. Which wasn’t to say he didn’t feel
bad about Sam, on his last legs and five
hundred miles away.
“No, love, we haven’t heard any more
about Sam. You get on your bike now
and go over to Auntie Carole’s. We’ll
pick you up later this evening. You had
breakfast?”
“All I want. Cornies and an orange.”
“All right then, off you go. Oh, and
Jenny , if she asks you any questions
anything about Leonie or anything—•
just say straight out you don’t know a
thing. You know her, wants to know
everything.”
“OK, Dad.”
His side would be satisfied about his
when it came out. They’d reckon it ought
to bring Ettie down a peg. Think they
hadn’t seen, all these years, how damned
condescending she’d always been?
Handled right, they’d have clubbed in
and given Leonie a slap-up wedding, load-
ing her with presents which they would
cheerfully add to their already heavy
load of t.p. commitments, cracking off-
color jokes about the situation, but fac-
ing the world united on the girl’s be-
half. Now they’d only gloat.
Jenny wheeled her bicycle out, a thin,
clean-scrubbed girl with the morning sun-
light diamond-bright about her. Ettie
must be preoccupied not to have noticed
those dusty feet! “See you, Mum and
Dad,” she called, mounting, to spin away
down the drive on her glittering new
bicycle. Leonie, too, had been twelve.
Such a short time ago you took your
eyes off them for a minute and they grew
up. But she’d been more studious than
Jenny, quieter, docile, and affectionate
toward her parents so that in yotir mind
and heart you rested easy about Leonie.
She was your first-born, and somehow
closer to you than the brilliant son now
at university or the quicksilver, madcap
Jenny, so like her mother with that flash-
ing brightness, that shrewdness. TTis gentle
Leonie, dove soft, unwilling to hurt any-
thing. How could she bear the hurt she
had inflicted on her parents? He longed
to tell her there was no hurt, no pain.
But she knew better.
Ettie appeared on the back porch. He
couldn’t remember to call it a patio, as
she did. He was shocked at the way her
always immaculate grey hair hung in
drab wisps about her face she hadn’t
as much as put a comb near it. And her
face was bloated from crying.
“Well, the house is straight at last. And
precious little help I’ve had. All right for
others to drop their bundle but some-
body has to keep up.” She sank into a
patio chair of plaited nylex. His own old
squatter’s chair of mildewed canvas and
wooden armrests plastered with cigarette
burns, kids’ scribbling, stains from in-
numerable cups of tea and coffee, spots
of paint, and bits of transfer which had
only partially adhered to the woodwork


had been moved out to the toolshed. He’d
never accepted the new chairs.
Ettie gave her red nose a final blow and
tucked away her handkerchief. “Jenny
gone?”
“Yes. She called out goodbye to you.”
“Well, that’s her out of the way, thank
goodness.”
In the next-door garden somebody
played a spray of water over a bed of
dahlias, dark red. Their astringent scent
seemed to seep heavily into the air,
weighing it. As the quiet and the silent
suffering and Ettie’s weeping had already
done.
“I’ve been talking to her. I said this
will just about kill your father. Men are
funny about their daughters nothing
but the best for their daughters, never
mind the wives. You should have thought
of Dad, I said. How can he ever forgive
you?”
was wrong. He felt no different
toward Leonie, whose flesh and blood
had leaped with life, as his had done. He
only wished, with a secret guilt, that he
could make everything easier for her. For-
giveness didn’t enter into it. He would, if
he could, save her the interview with Ivan’s
parents, her mother’s tears and reproaches,
this public pawing over her secret love,
her most intimate feelings. If most fathers
did feel humiliated and outraged when
their daughters got caught, then he was a
strange and unnatural father.
“I’ll resign from the Ladies’ Auxiliary.
They’ll know why, of course, but I won’t
give them the satisfaction of sympathising
with me. And somebody will have to write
and tell Dennis. We can just say she’s
married, nothing more. The neighbors will
just have to be faced, brazened out. Let
them think what they like. They won’t
say anything.” But her defiant voice
cracked betrayingly.
He smoked in silence, hand curved
over his pipe. Poor Ettie. She who had
said so often, “Well, nobody can point
a finger at ME!” now saw pointing fingers
everywhere she looked.
“When the Farleighs come I want you
to look decent, Dad. Give them no ad-
vantage. Whatever Leonie’s done they’re
not getting a chance to look down on
her family. You know what cane farmers
are—think they own the town.”
“Don’t worry about them, Ett.” Pipe
gone out again. He tapped it against the
step, sending a shower of ash over the
red cemented flagstones below. Ettie
didn’t even notice. “Old Farleigh’s up to
his ears at the bank, everybody knows
that.”
“Still and all.” Her eyes gazed un-
seeingly down the length of the backyard
into the one adjoining it back to back
where a man and a woman were wash-
ing a car. “By next Saturday every
woman at the butcher’s will have heard.
How shall I order the weekend meat with
them all watching me? The tennis club
will be worse . . . they’re such snobs,
and it was a long time before they asked
me to join. It’s not as though we were
rich, or business-people, or owned prop-
erty engine-drivers do all right, but
it’s not what you could call big money.
To think that Leonie—”
He stopped listening. He’d heard all
about the shame, the girl’s heartlessness,
the endless whys of it. He wondered if
it would go hard with Leonie, giving
birth. She was a slight little thing, no
hips at all, thin as a sandpiper. When
you thought of child-bearing women you
pictured stout thighs, wide hips, full
breast, straight back. Not a wisp of a
girl with no chest at all to speak of,
though she was nearly twenty.
Ettie’d been taking long enough. “What
about lunch?”
“I’ll open a tin of soup. Fetch Leonie
while I heat it and put the kettle on.”
He felt clumsy and awkward, an in-
truder, going into his daughter’s room.
He hadn’t seen her since last night, when,
holding tight to young Farleigh’s hand,
she’d stood in the doorway of the lounge
and told them. But she wasn’t lying, an
abandoned heap of misery, on the bed,
as he’d thought to find her. She was sit-
ting by the casement window, her bed
neatly made, her hair softly brushed cut,
dressed in her usual Sunday morning out-
fit; shorts and loose flyaway shirt. She
looked no different that he could see.
“Mum’s got lunch ready, girlie.”
“Yes, Daddy.” Her face still had its
velvety softness, its mauve shadows, its
big brown eyes. Her neck was still fragile
as the stem of a wineglass. Unchanged.
He touched the straight, light thickness
of her hair, feeling for the bony skull
beneath. He wanted to tell her something,
to show his love, to reassure her, but the
serenity of her eyes put him off. Should
a sinner look so innocent, after all?
“Come on, well. You had no breakfast
“I do feel more like eating now,” she
admitted.
He looked rueful. Morning sickness, yet!
“Well, anyway.”
He gave his pants a hitch. “The placket
of your shorts is undone. You should have
told us sooner—surely you knew you’d be
needing new clothes and things?”
“It closes.” She zipped it in a trice.
“We’d better not keep Mum waiting.”
Lunch was a dreary meal. Then it was
cleared away, Leonie unnaturally deferen-
tial to her mother, she silent in a resigned
greyness of the soul. Only later did her
spirit pick ups its skirts, as it were.
“Put on your new blue suit, Leonie,”
she commanded. “And your corselette, of
course. The Farleighs wall be here soon.
And take some pains with your face
you always look so wishy-washy if you
don’t use enough color. Off you go, Dad,
and have a bath. A shave, too, mind.”
When he saw her again she was his
familiar Ettie. Grey hair drawn sleekly
into a false chignon, rose lipstick, the
new striped linen sheath frock that had
been bought for a happier occasion. No
sign of defeat in her straight back. She
was ready for the Farleighs.
Their big car turned out to be dilapi-
dated, after all, dusty and dinted as it
growled into the drive and stopped. But
a late model. Used a lot and driven hard,
he thought, following Ettie out to greet
them. For some obscure reason he was
glad to see old Farleigh’s collar was frayed
and none too clean. The shirt had prob-
ably been worn once already. Somehow
that helped minimise the feeling of sub-
servience he couldn’t help feeling toward
these people, parents of the boy who had
landed them all in this mess.
Farleigh was a big man with red hair,
ruddy complexion, loud voice, and a strong
smell of spirits. He boomed acknowledge-
ment of Leonie’s nervous introductions.
Best place for him was indoors where his
voice wouldn’t carry to the neighbors.
Ivan, they knew already. A tall, thin
young fellow with a residue of pimples
from a late adolescence on forehead and
chin, the white hands of a bank johnny
(Catch him on the land? No, sir!), the
cool, indifferent eyes of modern youth,
and a wide mouth full of white teeth.
Leonie’s father conceded that he “might
develop into something.” At twenty-two
what could you expect?
He saw from the beginning that he
was going to get along best with Mrs.
Farleigh. She was short and plump, over-
painted, her hair rinsed a bright gold
so that it emphasised every contour of
middle age in her face and neck, bust so
tightly constricted, so prominently poised,
that he felt as if she had two pistols con-
cealed there with muzzles pointed at him.
But he saw with what warmth she em-
braced Leonie.
“Well, this is a terrible shock, isn’t it?”
Ettie said in the hall, leading the way to
her temple, her pride, her security in a
world of threatening change: her newly-
done-over lounge.
Mrs. Farleigh paused
beside the big TV lamp with its fibre-
glass shade like w'hite linen, and didn’t
even notice it. “Yes, in one way I sup-
pose it is. Ivan isn’t making much money
yet. However—” her smile, revealing
translucent dentures, embraced them all.
With hope. She hadn’t glanced at the
feature wall which Ettie’s friends all ex-
claimed over.
“Oh, money!” Ettie disclaimed it. “No,
I meant the disgrace. I never dreamt,
I’m sure ...” 1
Ah, yes, you did, Ettie. You feared'it,
day and night it preyed on your mind.
Always at the girl —“Don’t let him touch
you intimately. You know what I mean?
Nor put his hands on you at all. It
cheapens a girl and leads to all sorts of
things. You could get into trouble. A man
isn’t going to pay for what he gets free,
is he? And the wedding ring’s a kind of
payment.” You tried in your own way to
prevent this, Ettie. Because you dreaded
it so.
“It happens often enough.” Mrs. Far-
leigh’s smile was easy as she crossed her
legs. “But you’d think it wouldn’t, with
this pill and everything. I suppose they
never will make a pill to alter human
nature.”
“Not in my family.” Ettie heard only
the first sentence and what she took for
implied criticism. Her hands had clenched
in her lap, hands worn and reddened from
long years of service to her god, The
Home. No, he corrected himself sadly,
The House.
Mrs. Farleigh shrugged, releasing a
scent of carnations in the closed room.


PETER O'SHAUGHNESSY
33 l-3rd RPM BULLETIN RECORD
SPIRIT OF ANZAC
Available for only $1 post-free. The noted Australian
actor presents specially recorded excerpts, evoking the
spirit of soldiering, from the works of William Charles
Wentworth, C. J. Dennis, lan Mudie, A. B. Paterson,
John Manifold, John Masefield and Alan Seymour.
TANNER BUST
OF MENZIES
We have arranged for the casting of a limited number
of life-size plaster copies of Tanner’s bust of Sir
Robert Menzies, which appeared on the cover of the
January 29 issue of The Bulletin. These are available
to readers for $lO (£'s> each, post-free.
BARRY HUMPHRIES 7
45 RPM BULLETIN RECORD
CHUNDER DOWN UNDER
Available for only J 1 post-free. It has two of the
hits from the show “Excuse I”—the surfie’s "The Old
Pacific Sea" and the skier’s "Snow Complications"—
with a new ski song especially composed for this record.
For each record send 51 (a cheque or postal note,
not cash) to "BULLETIN RECORDS," BOX 7052,
G.P.0., SYDNEY, and for each bust 510 (cheque or
postal note, not cash) to “BULLETIN SCULPTURE,"
BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY, together with the coupon
and address label below. Both records and bust may
also be purchased over the counter from the PAPER
SALES DEPARTMENT, sth FLOOR, TELEGRAPH
HOUSE, 168 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY,
Monday to Friday. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN BUST OF MENZIES
BULLETIN ANZAC RECORD
BULLETIN BARRY HUMPHRIES' RECORD
Cross out item(s) not required
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
PLEASE DESPATCH BULLETIN BUST(S)
ANZAC RECORD(S) BARRY
HUMPHRIES’ RECORD(S).
Name of Sender
Address
State
If more than one record or bust is ordered, attach
list giving full name, address. State and, if
overseas, country.
h
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
The smile became a slightly wicked grin.
“You’re lucky,” she said. “We’ve got five
sons. Take a of controlling. If it’s not
one thing, it’s another. Then I was never
one to deny them their wild oats —sowed
some myself, you know.” The slight move-
ment of her body lent the last words a
certain Mae West suggestiveness. He almost
laughed outright before suddenly remem-
bering what a serious occasion it was.
Ettie’s lips tightened. Wild oats indeed!
You could see it plain in her eyes: a pity
he didn’t sow them somewhere else, then.
“Thing is,” boomed Mr. Farleigh, call
me Tom, before Ettie could speak, “does
she want to go through with it?”
“Go through with it?” Ettie stared at
him uncomprehendingly.
“That’s right. Have the little bugger.
These days there’s no cause to make a
helluva fuss—l know a doctor who will
take care of Leonie here as good as if she
was his own daughter. If that’s what she
wants.”
“You mean bring on a miscarriage?”
Outrage in every line of Ettie’s disbelieving
face.
“Abortion, it’s called. I’d pay for it.”
“Mr. Farleigh, what sort of a woman
do you think I am to risk my own
daughter’s life just to save us pain and
disgrace? I wouldn’t dream wouldn’t
dream of it!”
“I was thinking of Leonie,” Mrs. Far-
leigh intervened; giving a distressed, em-
barrassed laugh. “Not us. Or you. There’s
no danger. We wouldn’t suggest it’s not
like the old days with those hole-in-the-
corner dens run by predatory old witches
with filthy hands—”
Ettie put her hands over her ears. Mak-
ing herself look quite absurdly dramatic.
“No, no, your son doesn’t shelve his re-
sponsibilities like that, Mrs. Farleigh. Not
while I have breath and she has a father
to protect her.”
flush empurpling Mrs. Far-
leigh’s cheeks. Anger sparking the
merriment from her eyes. “I’m sure we
didn’t mean—”
“An immediate marriage will be best.”
Ivan nodded eagerly. He and Leonie
had scarcely looked at each other until
now. Nor spoken. Their hands touched,
reassuringly, at last. “That’s what we
came for,” he said, “to arrange every-
thing. I’m not trying to get out of any-
thing. My parents just wanted to be
sure Leonie wasn’t being forced into
anything.”
“Leonie has no choice and you know
it. She’s made her bed.” That seemed
to remind her of something. “Dad and
I have decided to give you a bedroom
suite for a wedding present. So you’ll
have something to start with. She lifted
an inquiring eyebrow at Tom Farleigh.
He coughed. “Yes, yes, of course.
Harrumph. Got a block of flats in town
here they can live in one of them till
they save enough money for their own
home. Broke, myself, unfortunately. But
still own a bit of property. Milk, eggs, a
dressed chook now and then all helps.
They won’t starve. We’ll see to that.”
Ettie was nodding. Fair enough, her
grey chignon said austerely. After all, it’s
your son’s fault.
“Ivan’s a fine boy,” Mrs. Farleigh in-
sisted, interpreting that nod correctly.
“She’ll have a good husband. Some boys
would simply clear off and leave a girl
who hasn’t the sense to look after herself.”
Ettie had got under her easy-going skin
at last.
“The kettle’s boiling,” Leonie an-
nounced. “Shall we have a cup of tea?”
Sight of the tea-table set in the dining-
room plainly, restored Ettie. Wink of sun-
light on silver service; gleam of snowy
napkin peaked above hot scones; sponge
cake tempting with strawberries and
whipped cream; china fine as eggshells;
twinkling cake forks.
“Milk and sugar, Mrs. Farleigh? Ivan?
—” driftwood, and plastic bottlebrush
burning scarlet as a centrepiece. The tiny
cup, ridiculous in Mr. Farleigh’s big
farmer’s hand. This was showing them.
It was settled then. Leonie and Ivan
whispered together, heads close. Ettie was
strict about her religion, the Farleighs
rather vague. Ivan would change. It would
be a quiet wedding. But nice. White satin
for Leonie, dinner at the Royal by way of
a reception.
It didn’t take Ettie long to settle matters.
Privately, he liked the Farleighs.
Especially her. That sharp smell of carna-
tions every time she moved, the concern
in her eyes when she said, “But your
father hasn’t eaten a thing, Leonie,” as
if it really mattered.
The big car with its battered mud-
guards like a prizefighter’s ears was gone
at last. There remained only the smell
of call-me-Tom’s cigar accepted from
a Christmas gift pack the spicy frag-
rance of Mrs. Farleigh’s scent, the echo
of all the words that had remained un-
said.
Ettie surveyed the tea-table. It was
still fairly orderly. No butts in empty
butter dishes, no tea-slops in saucers. Half
the sponge layer gone. A few spots of
tea on the crocheted cloth. The peaked
napkin empty of scones.
Leonie looked tenderly after the dis-
appearing car, leaning against the closed
window. He was there and he’d be back.
They’d be together. Her father thought
that for Leonie the worst was now over.
She’d always wanted just to marry and
have babies.
He sat down and began to unlace his
best shoes.
Ettie was gathering china with careful
hands. “I think it all went off rather
well, don’t you? I think I put them in
their place well and good. They know
now what kind of people we are. Even
if he does own a cane farm, I bet her
house isn’t anything to write home about.
Or her cooking. Didn’t he wolf those
scones, but?”
He didn’t have to answer. She went
on, “I can’t imagine why any man would
want to marry a woman like , that, can
you? Common as a cat’s fur. Pm afraid
our Leonie will have a vulgar mother-in-
law.”
He thought of the laughter bubbling
good-naturedly out of that deep breast;
the scented warmth her flesh exuded, and
the kindly understanding in her eyes when
she looked at Leonie. And he was silent.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Borrowing Abroad
IF the Government is so obsessed with the need for foreign
capital to flow into Australia, then let it borrow abroad itself
and stop pushing the financing of Australia’s national devel-
opment into the hands of foreigners.
That is the simple reality of the mounting debate on foreign
investment. There is plenty of money in Australia to finance
these developments; it is simply being misdirected, largely as a
result of deliberate governmental policies. And this is quite
apart from the cash available from SRDs (Croesus disagrees
about this on page 61 of this issue), and apart even from
the $250 million National Development Corporation that every-
one claims to have thought of (from Dr. Coombs to Mr.
Scambler), but which the Treasury won’t have a bar of.
Largely as a result of unwillingly conscripted contributions,
Australian institutions, life offices, banks, funds, have invested
huge amounts of cash in governmental loans. The life offices
alone at present have about $l,lOO million, or one-third of their
total assets, invested in Government securities due to the 30/20
rule.
But why should the Government allot itself an armchair ride
in the money-raising business while national developers have to
carry the burden of searching for (and paying interest on) over-
seas funds? If we need foreign investment as much as the Govern-
ment and Sir Maurice Mawby say we do, this burden should be
shared, with the Government itself facing up to the problems of
international financing it now so willingly passes off to others.
This should be done by the 30/20 rule becoming a 30/15/5
arrangement to provide development projects with 10 percent
of institutional funds and cutting the Commonwealth’s share to
15 percent and the semi-government’s share to 5 percent.
This would not be designed to replace the foreign capital
in these projects; it is only a fair share that is needed for locals.
Clearly some overseas investment, management skill, and market-
ing associations are vital for the success of these projects. But
so far the Australian financial contributions (and the potential
rewards) have been pathetically small.
To some extent the institutions must carry some blame for this,
as they have been far more interested in investing in booming
office blocks (or electrical appliance retailers) than in risking
money on development—where the returns are uncertain, where
their investment skills are not nearly so developed, and where
the high local interest-rate structure lessens the relative appeal
of these enterprises as an investment aimed at benefiting policy-
holders. It is doing things in the best interests of policyholders,
not the nation as a whole, that is the first care of every manager.
But if the national interest is to be a major factor in their invest-
ment decisions, then the nation must give something in return,
and that means a change in those governmental policies which
so clearly make it unrewarding and risky for institutions to put
up large amounts of cash for developmental projects.
The need for such a change is getting desperate, particularly
in view of the Treasury’s dismissal two weeks ago of the sugges-
tion for creating a $250 million development corporation to help
finance large-scale projects. That figure has a special irony, since
last week the chairman of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia said
that his group’s $250 million developments in iron ore and
aluminium were “far beyond local resources of investment capi-
tal.” Either $250 million is beyond Australian pockets (Mawby)
or quite possible (Scambler), depending on what attitude the
Federal Government takes to the question.
MEN AND MATTERS
THE rumors are still well and truly
around that Sydney’s Chevron Hotel
is all but sold to an overseas buyer—
and not just because Sir Geoffrey Crow-
ther visited it last week. Another British
group, Fortes, is still ranked first on the
list of candidates, and there was keen de-
mand last week for call options in the
market for the company’s listed debentures.
How does all this speculation affect the
hotel itself? Not a bit, according to the
man who has managed it since its doors
opened in September, 1960, and who has
been able to build up its earnings and
reputation despite the financial turmoil
involved in its falling into receivership.
For a man who could have his head on
a block if a purchaser did eventually buy
the Chevron, thirty-nine-year-old former
accountant turned hotelier Mr. Frank
Christie is putting a lot of effort into mak-
ing the hotel attractive as a takeover.
Naturally he’s worried about the im-
pact of the new Qantas Wentworth hotel
when it opens in September, especially
since Qantas now sends him a fair number
of guests. But he thinks that Chevron
should soon be able to recover what it
must inevitably lose to Qantas because of
continued rises in tourist and business de-
mand for accommodation. At present the
hotel has the astoundingly high room
occupancy rate of 81 percent as an annual
average, half the guests being foreign visi-
tors and the other half mainly from inter-
state. At this sort of occupancy, the hotel
can make a modest profit before taking
into account the interest payments that it
is not making on its huge £5 million
borrowing bill. The only way to make the
hotel really pay, Mr. Christie says, is for
at least another 200 bedrooms to be built,
As an accountant (he was the account-
ant at the Melbourne Chevron before
moving up to manage it until the Sydney
j°b), he has an accountant’s enthusiasm
about cutting costs. Evidence of this is in
the fact that the hotel has managed to
increase its earnings substantially in the
past four years, despite substantial cost
rises, while the price of a single bedroom
for the night has increased by only 50
cents from 11.50 to 12 dollars. In spite
of this, the Chevron still has managed to
maintain its impression of opulence, still
has some of the best wine cellars in Aus-
tralia, and its food is good enough for
gourmet societies.
XT is probably more a reflection of
British attitudes than of Australia’s
dullness in an economic news sense that
widely travelled Sir Geoffrey Crowther
had never got around to visiting Australia
while editor of “The Economist.” But
now, in his role as a director of several
companies, he is making a quick visit here
that involves his creating news instead of
filling his old role of reporting and interp-
reting jt.
Which company’s hat is he wearing
here? As a director of Commerical Union
Geoffrey Crowther
Frank Christie
Assurance he has a large interest in Aus-
tralia, but not one that would prompt him
to go up to Sydney’s Chevron Hotel to
have a good look around, or to get the
VIP treatment from the Motels of Aus-
tralia group, which is arranging his trip
(including, by the way, a solid look at
some drought-stricken areas).
It seems that two other of his director-
ships may have had some influence in
these two arenas his chairmanship of
Trust Houses, the British hotel chain, and
his membership of the board of the New
York listed investment company, Inter-
national Utilities Corporation, in which the
übiquitous Power Corporation of Canada
has a sizable interest (and a director on
the board).
That director, by the way, is Mr. M. F.
Strong, the president of Power Corpora-
tion, who was in Australia last month to
have a look at its Australian set-up and
in particular its large investment in
Motels of Australia.


Anger on Ore
THE need for some sort of policy about iron ore exports
seems self-evident. But Western Australians feel pretty cross
about the blunt words of Mr. Fairbairn, Minister for
National Development, who warned the Australia-Japan Business
Co-operation Committee in Canberra that Japan had bid down
the price of iron ore as far as the Commonwealth would allow
it to go.
For its sales to Europe, W.A. can expect only about 12.5
cents per unit free-on-board against 15.5 cents to japan (a unit
is 1 percent of pure iron to the ton; so 12.5 cents per unit for
64 percent Fe. ore would be 12.5 U.S. cents for every ton of
ore). The Western Australian Government bases its royalties on
this f.o.b. price the price the ore can be loaded on to the ship
although it is partly protected by stipulation of a 7-| percent
royalty, with the minimum of 60c a ton for lumpy ore; this antici-
pates a minimum price of about 12 cents per unit.
It is between these levels of 15.5 and 12 cents that Western
Australia is being squeezed from Canberra. Mr. McEwen has
said that he disregards the f.o.b. price so long as the landed price,
c.i.f., is right. Yet Mr. Fairbairn has virtually pegged Japan’s
f.o.b. minimum to current levels.
In normal competitive circumstances, without such Govern-
ment intervention, it might have been expected that European
contracts would have been won . . . naturally bringing down the
f.o.b. price, since the ruling European c.i.f. level is about 19.5
cents per unit and shipping costs are 50-80 percent higher than
to Japan. Then Japan would have said: “If you can do it for
them, why not for us?” Negotiations would probably have settled
the new f.o.b. price to Japan lower than the present level, but
higher than to Europe suiting Western Australia and, it might
have been presumed, Canberra as well.
More Urge to Merge
THERE has been a recognisable trend in Australia towards
industries serving industry, like insurance brokers becoming
associated with (or even subsidiaries of) merchant banking
groups like AUC, Darlings, and DFC. The next step seems to
be for other industries serving industry such as public relations
consultants, to come into the fold.
The current turmoil in the local PR industry, with the leading
company, Eric White Associates, being subjected to increasing
competition from International Public Relations (run by White’s
former Melbourne director, Laurie Kerr), could provide a good
opportunity for merchant bankers here or overseas to move into
an operation that has not (with few exceptions) really been
well-handled here.
Whites already do have a link, even though it appears to be
a personal rather than business one, with DFC. But for other
merchant bankers or financial groups who try to present a pack-
aged deal to a client raising funds, insurance, and a good
Press the lack of a reliable associated PR company could be
unfortunate. This is particularly so in view of the poor quality of
so much of the PR work in Australia.
The merchant banking-insurance broking-public relations sort
of packaged deal appeals to the chairman of one of Britain’s
biggest insurance-broking companies, C. T. Bowring and Co.,
Mr. lan Skimming, who has just spent a few weeks in Australia
reorganising the company’s structure here.
This sort of integration may be only the beginning. The brave
new fully integrated industrial world seems more likely to take
the lead set last week in France, when its largest engineering
works, Schneider, joined with a Belgian group, Empain, and
then dragged into the complex its merchant bank, the Banque
de I’lndochine, and its insurance company, La Paternelle. It looks
as if the urge to merge has hardly even scratched the surface here.
Petrol from Coal
THE big oil refining-distributing groups could soon be falling
over themselves to take over Australian coal companies, if
U.S. experience is repeated here. Following approval by the
U.S. Justice Department of a takeover offer by eighth-ranking
U.S. oil producer Continental Oil for Consolidation Coal, the
second-largest coal miner, other oil companies are rushing into
the coal business. The reason is that the U.S. Department of the
Interior claims to have developed a process of extracting petrol
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy! Sir Maurice Mawby vig-
orously stirred the continuing debate on overseas capital
inflow, suggesting, among other things, that “complete
national independence is a thing of the past.” His own
company, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia, needs $250
million over the next three years for Hamersley,
Weipa, and Gladstone “simply not available in Aus-
tralia,” Sir Maurice stated ... In a London article Sir
lan Potter worried about dependence on capital imports,
yet concluded that so far the advantages have outweighed
the disadvantages . . . The consumer price index rose
only marginally in the March quarter.
For the mcirhets r There’s little need to relate
where the main interest focused on Australian share
markets last week. For much of the time copper issues
tried to take their cue from the day-to-day international
excitement, restrained only by the resolve of local pro-
ducers not to change the domestic price. Naturally, some
reaction became apparent toward the end of the week as
too hopeful and less informed ardors were cooled. A
measure of chill extended to other well-sought mining
stocks, especially after reports from the Barrier. Mean-
while, many industrials were able to join a general, though
fairly mild, firming trend.
London markets themselves could not sustain the brief
fillip given by coppers; here prices fell back after consider-
able profit taking. Industrials stay markedly calm; some
small buyers come in, but the institutions are obviously
waiting on the Budget . . . Calm, on moderate volumes,
is the word for Wall Street. Credit for speculation remains
tight; some sources see a slowing of inflation.
For companies! Even apart from Sir Maurice
Mawby’s forceful individual advocacy, the mining com-
panies appeared determined to lead the news again . . .
Of course, as chairman of Conzinc Riotinto of Australia
it also fell to Sir Maurice to disclose lower base metal
production at Broken Hill in the current year and to
mention that the group’s Bougainville copper prospect
would take considerable time to evaluate . . . On the
dismal side, Broken Hill South believes consolidated net
profit for 1965/66 will drop from $4.76 million to $3.4
million, but keeps interim dividend at 5 cents a share;
Broken Hill’s output has fallen, lead/zinc prices are lower
and Cobar expects a loss . . . North Broken Hill, too,
reported lower sales for nine months to March 31 but a
rising trend in the March quarter ... In the midst of
all the copper flurry, Mount Isa held interim dividend
steady without any more general comment.
As a portent for the motor dealers, York Motors con-
templates better trade in both N.S.W. and Queensland . . .
Melbourne’s Regent Motors changed 1964/65 loss into a
“small trading profit” for the December half-year . . .
But things aren’t moving quickly enough for valve and
axle maker Duly and Hansford, which had to cut dividend
from a 10 to 8 percent annual rate . . . Echoes from the
motor decline meant that financier lAC (Holdings) wrote
less business during the first quarter of 1966 . . . They
continue to spread to Courtaulds, through a depressed
viscose tyre-yarn market; directors wanly predict an
approaching “turning point.”
Any weakness in the appliances field did not restrain
Kelvinator; earnings went up 7 percent to a peak $885,922
in the year to March . . . Simpson Pope did not feel able
to forecast its full-year possibilities . . . Some hopes of
stability among appliances held by General Industries’
chairman, Mr. J. B. Clarkson . . . Cakes and biscuits are
good for George Weston Foods, though bread-baking has
problems . . . Ice-cream does not necessarily prove a
soft-sell for Mr. Whippy: earnings have fallen 31 percent.


h
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
for an international company with a colour-
ful history of more than 50 years successful
operation in Australia in a variety of
enterprises with a promotional emphasis. He
will require the foresight to appreciate
Australia’s development in terms of the
changing habits, values and preferences of
people and the managerial, administrative
and business ability to ensure continuing
profitability and development of his com-
pany. Location: Melbourne. Interstate and
overseas travel.
Salary by negotiation but not less than
$15,000 p.a. Personal negotiation of fringe
benefits.
Candidates must be well educated with a
breadth and perspective which extends
beyond the normal requirements of
management but must also have an excellent
record of business management with up-to-
date knowledge of forecasting, planning,
budgeting, management controls, admipi-
strative systems, capital usage and cost
reduction. Strength in providing or eliciting
promotional ideas and improvements would
be advantageous. Age: about 40-50.
Please send brief information
BULL/ 1015 to Dr. E. P. Kelsall.
quoting reference
MANAGEMENT SELECTION AUSTRALIA
414 Collins Street, Melbourne
No information is disclosed to clients until candi-
dates have given permission after personal discussion
MSA.I47O.BULL
from coal cheaper (at 10J to 13 cents U.S. a gallon) than from
crude oil (at 12J to 14 cents U.S.).
A spokesman for the Joint Coal Board in Sydney said that
such a development would be of long-term significance to the
Australian coal industry. Several processes have been developed
in the past, although they were all uneconomical compared with
petrol from crude oil. But he would be surprised if, on the basis
of work to date, the Americans were within reach of producing
liquid fuel from coal competitively. In any event, coal explora-
tion costs could be large in Australia, despite the size of known
resources.
The JCB says there is a great deal of work to do, proving our
coal reserves. In fact, it is one of the major tasks confronting the
coal industry, as its markets are growing so rapidly.
The coal-mining industry has become so specialised that it
must supply coal to precise specifications not contemplated ten
years ago. Intensive research is necessary on the nature of the
coal reserves and the expected costs of recovery. One of the
problems of coal is that it is an immensely variable substance.
However, the range of coals in Australia is so great that it would
surprise if we did not have the type of coal most suitable for
conversion to liquid fuel.
In the U.S., the Department of the Interior offered SUSIOm.
to Consolidation Coal to construct a pilot coal-to-petrol plant,
and Consolidation was promptly snapped up by Continental Oil
Company. Top men in Continental here pleaded no knowledge
of the process or parent policy, but agreed that “it could happen
here.”
Continental has spent something like £A7.6m. in the search for
oil and gas in Australia and New Guinea, in addition to the
many millions spent by others. Conoco spends more in its explor-
ation and development round the world than it pays in dividends.
Other U.S. oil companies stepping up their coal interests are
Gulf Oil, Atlantic Refining, Kerr-McGhee Oil, and Standard Oil
Ohio. Like the Australian coal mines, the U.S. coal industry
has recently emerged from two decades of losses due to auto-
mation and increased exports.
BUSINESS BOOKS REVIEW.
U.S.A. and the World Economy
BEEN importuned by any American business fireballs lately?
The answer in my case is yes. In fact I find there is one
bustling round most Australian corners these days, as there
apparently is in most parts of the world. Some people object
to this world-wide pervasion, its threat to the nice quiet things
of life, national interests, and all that.
Doses of American technology and business methods can be
pretty terrifying, especially to lotus eaters. But progress must
prevail, and rising standards of living measured in material things
are supposed to be the measure of it. One only has to keep on
remembering that economics is not the be-all-and-end-all of life,
as most Australians do all too frequently in American eyes.
My latest, encounter with a bustling American businessman
brought this home vividly. He’d dropped into Melbourne for a
couple of days to look over the interests of his firm. Poor fellow,
he had reserved a Sunday night for his fact-finding talk (I wasn’t
on his “hurry-up” list) with me at the Southern Cross (the
Melbourne mecca of his breed).
It was a short step from that Sunday night into the pages of
Walter Krause’s new tome, “International Economics,” published
by Constable, because this new book, better than anything I have
come across on America’s economic relations with the rest of the
world, casts the United States in the role of Atlas doomed by
Zeus to carry the world on his shoulders for eternity. Atlas tried
to pass the buck to Hercules, it will be remembered, but the
hero was too quick for him. Seeing it as a necessity, Krause makes
a virtue of the United States’ assumption of the role and maps
both the political and economic arguments with unequalled pre-
cision.
Examining various approaches to how U.S. foreign economic
policy should be shaped, he sees the broad objective to be identical
with U.S. foreign policy —to protect and advance the national
interest of the U.S. At the same time he thinks this must not be
construed narrowly, as simply meaning to offset the Communist
bloc. Adopting the “leading country” approach, the U.S. would
think less in terms of the present power structure. The important
thing would be “to ride the wave of history to exploit it, not to-
resist or to remain oblivious to it.”
But on the international economic, as well as the political,
front, one sees little sign of softening U.S. policies. More
narrowly, economic penetration of U.S. firms for trade and capital
investment gains, is, if anything, more forceful than ever. My
date at the Southern Cross was the living image of it. It is an
annoying image and the Americans should put some salt on its
tail before it is hunted down by resurgent nationalism. Nobody
pretends that American capital will fail to demand its full price
in the end. The dilemma is cruel for underdeveloped countries
like ours and a host of others. The Americans are such nice
From his chair at the State University of lowa, Professor
Krause has been toiling in the field of international economics
these many years. But those familiar with his basic and earlier
work will find much that is fresh in this new treatment of the
massive subject. It is not only the well-argued case for America’s
international economic hegemony that will attract, though this
will be the main justification for capturing the general reader’s
interest. Here is also a full treatment on the most modern lines
of advances in the theory of the complicated subject; it builds,
easily crossed bridges across to the real world.
If the theory of international economics has advanced fastef
than most of us dare to realise, so have the colors and shapes on
the real world canvas changed almost beyond recognition, even
since the war. More than any other nation, the United States,
whose basic course internationally has historically been geared to
the pursuit of multilateralism, has had to take account of the
new kaleidoscope which Krause faces us with.
But Australia also finds itself in the thick of the reorientation*
and changes. This book will assist us in the continuing tasks of
adjustments to our overseas economic relations required by them.
Its searching analyses of subjects like the emergence of regional
trade blocs, trade liberalisation, and the problems of primary
producing countries, for instance, will be read with great profit
here. J.C.H.
(International Economics, by Walter C. Krause. Constable.
Price $10.10.)


NEW ISSUE
NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION
LIMITED
«eP
(Incorporated under the Companies’
Act of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950.)
PA
DEBENTURE
STOCK i
4, 6 or 10
YEARS
ĥ
ħ
The main business of the Corporation is
to make loans on the security of first
mortgages on property and the accep-
tance of selected hire purchase agree-
ments.
h
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in the
Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any branch of: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• The COMPANY’S OFFICES: 249 George Street,
Sydney. Phone 27.8621.
REGISTERS: SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA, NEWCASTLE.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your Prospectus.
NAME.....
ADDRESS.
28298
Cash for Development
Can the S.R.D.s be used?
By CROESUS
SINCE Dr. Coombs raided his S.R.D.s coop a few weeks ago for long-term invest-
ment chickens, THE BULLETIN, among others, has been asking why he can’t
go in again and feed a whole lot moi'e of these deposits to the development maw to
bolster Australian participation in face of the tightening grip of overseas capital on
our resorces.
If the argument is that S.R.D.s are trulv
available for this purpose, there is the
further thought that by this route our
presently slightly dimmed general fixed
investment prospects 'could be brightened.
In the current half year private fixed capi-
tal investment is taking its first downturn
for some years and, according tb the Com-
monwealth Statistician, Australian busi-
nesses anticipate the rate of new building
will be down 1 percent and spending on
new capital equipment by 4 percent, mak-
ing an overall drop of 3 percent.
For good measure it is suggested that
the S.R.D.s could also be used to redirect
the flow of credit more to the liking of the
authorities. Presumably the idea behind
this is that they could use them to cut
some of the ground from under the quasi-
banking institutions and so give the trading
banks the better deal they are always
pining for. “Untie Banks’ Hands” banner-
lined the Melbourne “Herald” on April 23.
A passing comment on this could be that,
if it were feasible to use S.R.D.s to effect
this purpose, which I deny, it would have
been done long ago.
Further to this, it is hardly the answer
to the problem of curbing the lending of
the quasi-banking authorities. (Croesus has
dropped the term “fringe financiers” from
his vocabulary.) It is one thing to dilute
the effect of their operations by opening
wider the lending gates of the banks
proper; it is quite another to restrict the
quantity of their lending, say, by official
requirements as imposed on tbe banks
through the S.R.D. system. Scrapping the
latter for the banks would only exacerbate
the problem now posed by the quasi-banks.
As for the arguments used by the S.R.D.
new dealers for bringing more of these
funds to bear on long-term investment, we
enter an area of half truth developed by-
stealth into resounding whips for the
demolishment of economic realities. Some
of these are better left to rot, as they
surely will. It is better to probe underneath
them. Basically, what the protagonists of a
redirection of S.R.D.s into the suggested
channels have to show is that the present
purposes for keeping them “frozen” are
unnecessary and that the funds are, in fact,
available for the alternative purposes.
The underlying implication is that the
funds in S.R.D.s are lying idle and that, as
these funds represent real resources owned
by Australians, those resources are likewise
being unused in a situation where a solid
wedge of overseas capital is being used in
their stead. Presumably, if the resources
represented by S.R.D.s were used (accord-
ing to the line of thought) and the level
of capital inflow was unaffected, we would
have that amount of capital extra to add
to our supplies—which would be very nice
provided we had the spare labor to match
the additional capital.
The primary purpose of S.R.D.s being
quantitatively to regulate the supply of
trading bank credit, one has to consider
whether the alternative means of regula-
ting the flow would be effective from the
general economic viewpoint (not merely
from the viewpoint of the banks them-
selves). Possibly the same end could be
achieved, say, by a more effective use of
interest rate policy (but this is very much
open to doubt, especially going on the
present neglect of interest rate movements
to speed up business activity) or, say, by
the Reserve Bank strengthening its credit
management- directives to the banks and
exhortations to the quasi ones. In either
case, would this not possibly mean simply
that the banks wouirl have to keep lower
ratios of advances to deposits, with, in
effect, the banks holding the basic layer
of deposits instead of the Reserve Bank?
If this is the alternative, then there is
the further question whether, in the new
determinations, the Reserve Bank would
be satisfied with L.G.S. ratios (which
would then include what is now in
S.R.D.s in addition to their present com-
position) any different from those under
current practice. I doubt very much
whether it would. For, in effect, the
Reserve Bank, looking at the liquidity
ratio of the banking system as a whole,
regards S.R.D.s as at least equally a
basic component of liquidity as the trad-
ing banks’ present L.G.S. assets, the real
point about S.R.D.s being, of course, that
the trading banks cannot use them for
lending purposes.
If this may not satisfy the new dealers,
then perhaps they can demonstrate why
the Reserve Bank should be content to
reduce the liquidity ratio of the banking
system as a whole. I’m afraid I cannot
help them, but, as hinted above, the
limited effectiveness of official control
over credit here adjures the Reserve Bank
to keep the ratio higher than otherwise.
Until some method is devised for bringing
all the credit creation agencies in the
country under official control, this, in my
view, must continue.
In another sense also, it seems to me we
must be very careful in interpreting the
“availability” of S.R.D.s for suggested new
purposes. Without committing the cardinal
sin of marrying up individual items on
either side of the Reserve Bank’s balance-
sheet, it is pretty obvious that to some
extent S.R.D.s on the liabilities side are
represented by gold and foreign exchange
holdings on the other side. Though I
admit that this is not necessarily so, the
implication would be, of course, that, in
the roll up, “availability” must be con-


HOW DO YOU MEASURE IT?
In 20th century Australia, oil is a good indicator of
progress. In 1901 when Shell opened its first small
bulk installations at Gore Bay, New South Wales.
Birkenhead, South Australia, and Williamstown, Vic-
toria, there were barely 100 motor vehicles in Aus-
tralia. Annual usage of petroleum products (mainly
lighting kerosene) was a few thousand tons.
ĥ
Today there are more than 3,500,000 motor vehicles
in Australia and yearly fuel consumption has rocketed
to 15,000,000 tons.
Shell now represents a £150,000,000 capital invest-
ment employing 6,000 people through-
out Australia engaged in exploration,
manufacturing, distribution and market-
ing and supplying the energy needs of
transport, industry, aviation, agriculture.
ħ
Shell in Australia —an organization on the move in a nation taking great strides towards a bigger, better destiny.
PR66/2
sidered in terms of the foreign exchange
position.
The question is, then, whether the
S.R.D.s are partly already foresworn re-
sources available for development and as
such are to be considered as something
not already entering into the general
supply of funds available for financing,
inter alia, imports for development pur-
poses here. If this is the correct reading,
their degree of availability is related to the
overall foreign exchange position and the
consideration whether overseas funds are
being adequately used for capital financing
here. For instance, do the new dealers
believe that the Reserve Bank should let
more of these overseas reserves be used for
capital financing in Australia, say in lieu
of foreign private capital imports or even
in addition to them?
Again, one has no personal answer to
the question, except that Croesus is not
one to tell Grandmother Coombs to suck
eggs. One suspects from the scale of
Treasury borrowings from the Reserve
Bank so far this year (up to the end of
February about $BOO million, as against
$660 million for the same period 1964-65)
that quite a few blank cheques have been
honored by the Reserve Bank for Govern-
ment drawings on overseas funds this
year and that the thought of letting more
of the funds go in the name of freed
S.R.D.s on the lines suggested by the
new dealers would be abhorrent to
Coombs, even now when the reserves out-
look has brightened.
The Fashion Business
Who’s who in the rag trade
By JOAN McCOLL
NOW that some Australian women can wear swing tickets saying “Dressed by the
P.M.’s wife,” the fashion business has never been more fashionable.
But just as most of the really fashionable
clothes are sold in exclusive boutiques like
Mrs. Zara Holt’s rather than in the big
stores, so most of the operators on the
manufacturing side of the business are
small private companies, with only a couple
big enough to be publicly listed on the
stock exchanges.
Investors have never really liked these
companies, many considering women’s
fashions too fickle to provide any security
or steady growth for equity investment, and
that a miscalculation of color or fabric or
styling could be financially disastrous to a
clothing manufacturer.
But it is not just women’s fashion houses
that investors dislike; they are also not
too keen about men’s clothing stocks, either.
Yet these two industries are very different.
While men’s wear is produced basically
by local.firms, many of them public, con-
siderable quantities of women’s wear are
imported. Tariffs are one reason for this.
Existing tariff duties vary for each type
of garment and even according to the fibre.
Reducing tariff complexities to their
simplest terms, items of men’s apparel may
attract very high duties of around 57£
percent, plus 5 percent primage if imported
from outside Commonwealth preference
countries, 22\ percent if within. Women’s
apparel attracts lower duties of around 45
percent from outside Commonwealth
preference countries and 12i percent from
the U.K. and Canada. Without these tariffs
the industry would cease to exist on any
reasonable basis.
In women’s clothing, the glamor is in
haute couture. Yet apart from Germain
Rocher of Sydney and one or two
couturiers in Melbourne, most of the Aus-
tralian clothing industry is geared to dress
the middle-class, with particular accent
now on the growing group of free-spending
young people, who are quick to adapt the
trends set by London (for the “in” group)
and Italy (for virile sportswear). Fashion
need not cost money, as American manu-
facturers demonstrate when they reproduce
a Paris model as faithfully for $3OO as for
$12.50.
Australia’s textile industry importers,
mills, and converters —is controlled by


males, which exasperates people like Miss
Mona Crawford. The men produce the
colors they like and the structure of the
fabric which they think will sell. Miss
Crawford (once fashion director for Mark
Foy’s, now running her own design firm)
asserts that store fashion buyers are afraid;
they are controlled by money, looking for
volume turnover, not fashion. Real fashion
is only provided by boutiques.
The Australian woman is well dressed
but perhaps tends to be conspicuous for her
love of bright colors, falling down on
co-ordinating her fashion ideas because she
is independent minded. As in all countries
in the southern hemisphere, still lagging a
season in new styles, she is more up to the
minute than in years gone by because of
her ability to travel and the growing influ-
ence of the Australian fashion Press.
and garment makers give
credit to the Australian Wool Board for
improving standards. The AWB promotes
wool usage, and encourages the export
trade, too, with annual fashion awards for
woollen textiles, men’s and women’s knit-
wear, and women’s ready-made garments.
From thousands of entries, about 90
awards are given for quality, fashion, and
value. Major award winners for 1966 in-
clude Hueston Fashions Pty. and Renny
Pty., both of Melbourne (heart of the rag
trade), and Trent of New South Wales
Pty., of Sydney. Many of the winners are
small firms whose names mean little to
the buying public, but perhaps are on the
way up.
In women’s fashions there will always
be scope for the individual and small-scale
manufacturer. Norma Tullo, now incor-
porated in a private company, was a trend
setter in the Chelsea mood, with a spec-
tacularly booming business. As in most
business today, however, the advantages
are with the bigger operators. One trend
in the trade is for retailer-subsidised adver-
tising, which minimises distribution and
advertising costs for the manufacturer,
who in turn must offer quantity discounts
to the retailer. Joint national adver-
tisements in the women’s magazines are
the ambition of many makers.
The big stores, of course, often have
their own label (Farmer’s White Collar
Girl, Woolworth’s St. Mark, etc.) on gar-
ments produced under contract by large or
small outside manufacturers.
European couturiers could learn from
Australian sportswear designers. We pro-
duce first-class exportable knitwear (thanks
to migrants’ manufacturing skills), but it
is felt we have a lot to learn in the
coat and suit business. Australian emphasis
on leisure wear gives business to Sports-
craft, Kenneth Pirrie Creations, Moon and
Co. (Monty brand), Stein and Rogers
(Styro), Aristocrat Sportswear, Prince-
ton —all proprietary companies.
Sportscraft is outstanding for its style
and national coverage. Its chief factory is
at Camberwell (Vic.), and satellite ones
include the old La Mode factory at Mor-
wcll. Manufacturing is the main interest,
but there is a retailing subsidiary, Sports-
girl Pty., with a number of specialty stores
in middle- to upper-class suburbs of the
capitals, Sportscraft shops within Farmer’s
and Myer’s major stores, and a largish
semi-department store in Collins Street,
Melbourne, handling 10-15 percent Sports-
craft goods and, for the remainder, brands
of other manufacturers. A Sydney city
store will open shortly.
The departmental stores are the biggest
accounts (David Jones’ is number one in
Sydney). Distribution throughout the
countryside is thorough but not indiscrim-
inate. There are few towns without
Sportscraft representation, yet few with
more than two accounts.
Skirts used to be Sportscraft’s major
business; the firm is proud that a famous
London store considers Sportscraft and
Gorray the top skirtmakers in the world.
(It has a substantial export business in
London and Canada.) Sportscraft has
developed into a fashion house, with slacks,
blouses, and -knitwear, blazers, shorts, play-
wear, classic frocks, and suits, Miss Sports-
craft ranges, and, lately, children’s skirts,
Sportscraft juniors, knitwear, and blouses.
Latest move is into co-ordinated overcoats,
made to match the skirt and knitwear. As
one of the 12 major manufacturers with
a licence from the AWB to promote the
“pure new wool” sign, Sportscraft uses
mainly all-Australian fabrics for winter,
importing Irish linen, American arnel and
so on for the summer range.
The major competitor to. Sportscraft in
the winter range of skirts and slacks is
the St. Leonards (N.S.W.) firm of Prince-
ton. It has no knitwear, some suits and
frocks, and is generally £2 or £3 cheaper
than Sportscraft. Big names in woven
coats and suits are Stell-Ricks, Croyde,
House of Youth, Exmoor and Hall.
High quality women’s fashions in the
medium price range are supplied by Hilton
Bros. (Holdings) Ltd. under the John J.
Hilton brand to major retailers and
boutiques throughout Australia. Hilton
Bros, entered investors’ calculations on
listing last year. It organises operations;
the actual manufacturing processes are
handled by outside contractors. Maiden
public profit was $103,000. The company
has a franchise agreement with a New
Zealand manufacturer and exports to
South-East Asia.
(JATERING for the medium to better end
of the trade in frocks, coats, and suits,
Leroy Manufacturing Co. Ltd. has survived
50 years and more in the fashion field—
a rare achievement in Australia, and
indeed in any part of the world. But its
recent profit history has not been too
happy—a decline from 1961 to 1964, then
a recovery from a profit of $406 to $42,000.
Sales since 1955-56 have been around the
s2m. mark, although last year they fell
short of that by $328,000.
Leroy probably supplies to the trade
around 190,000 garments a year, produced
in Flinders St. workrooms and by outside
manufacturers. Subsidiary interests are
Susan Small casuals (knitted goods from
London), Storksdale maternity wear,
Lerolette junior fittings, Helen Harper
(elegant fashions for the dressy matron),
and Toscana knitwear. Needless to say,
young men, not women, are in charge of
the fashion side of Leroy’s four divisions.
Other well-known names in frocks are
E. Lucas, House of King, Hartnell of Mel-
bourne, Ricki Reed, Sharene Creations,
Gala Gowns, Roville Fashions, Trevola
Robes, Windsmoor Creations (all private
companies), besides David Jones’ Marl-
borough subsidiary. In knitwear, no longer
simply jumpers and cardigans but embrac-
ing frocks, suits and coats, Heathermoor,
John Crundall, and Crestknit have done
well in export fields, while Sportscraft,
Jantzen, Merinda, Hanro, Bromley, Slade,
Shetland, and David Keys are producers
of well-styled goods.


MARKET POINTERS
Now is the Time for All...
When to enter the market
By JASON
TIHE Brisbane broker whose sense of timing was remarked on in last week’s
BULLETIN has again demonstrated his view that it is not what you do that
matters so much as when you do it.
In a circular to clients, Robin Corrie
and Co. has presented a strong case, based
on the chart reproduced below, for inves-
tors getting into the stockmarket right
now. “With share prices still in Zone 3,
this is the time to buy to participate fully
in the next strong upward movement,”
Corries say.
The broker points out that ordinary in-
vestors always, and quite illogically, buy at
the wrong time by rushing into the market
after they have seen the sort of profits
that can be made there; then they get their
fingers burned and stay out of the market
until it has already risen too much the
next time around. In his chart he shows
five popular buying points. From the left
they are:
1. September, 1962— Wrong. The 1962
“bear market” had not yet found its
low point, so this was too early.
2. January, 1963— Right. Technical indi-
cators showed that the bottom had been
reached. This was the time to buy.
3. Late 1963 —Wrong. This is when the
great majority re-enter the market too
late.
4. June, 1965— Wrong. The 1965 bear
market had not yet found its low point.
5. February, 1966— -Right. The low point
of the recent bear market had been
passed. It is true that share prices de-
clined a little in March, 1966, but this
appears likely to be of short duration,
and already greater market strength is
in evidence.
Corries point out that the rewards for
correct timing are substantial. At almost
all times in the past 37 years, Australian
share prices have been doubling in value
every 13 years, but an investor who bought
at the peak in 1951 would have derived
little more, than 50 percent gain in the last
15 years. One who bought at the bottom
in 1952 would have made a 130 percent
gain in 14 years.
THE dismal reports from Dunlop,
Olympic, and others in the tyre
trade and the state of the motor
industry generally were fair warning that
times must also have been tough for
major independent tyre distributor M. S.
McLeod.
However, shareholders were left to do
their own arithmetic on directors’ recent
woolly interim report to see just how
tough. As the board saw it, the December
half-year produced a net profit of $173,274
—but this was before provisions of $40,000
for doubtful debts and an unusually large
one of $24,000 for long-service leave
(largely non-recurring, presumably). So
it looks as if a drop of at least. 30 percent
in earnings is indicated.
Earning rate paints a rather unhappier
picture, principally because of the recently
enlarged preference commitment, indi-
cating an annual return around 11 percent,
compared with last year’s 26 percent and
a five-year average of 27.5 percent.
The McLeod board’s rather casual
interim report barely acknowledged
the reversal of the company’s excel-
lent past record and made little
attempt to discuss it, simply commenting
that competitive conditions in tyres and
domestic appliances together with the
N.S.W. drought and increased costs had
“more than offset” a slight increase in
sales, and that costs had since been re-
duced.
McLeod doesn't pay interim dividends.
SHARE PRICE INDEX {MONTHLY AVERAGE).
Most investors become buyers when prices move into Zone 1. They should buy when
prices are in Zone 3. Moreover, they should buy in Zone 3 only after the low point of
the bear market has been firmly established, not before.
WILD CAT
PAGES
It was consistent with the general tenor
of the report that directors didn’t rate
the question of the full year’s payment
worthy of mention. The report’s final
paragraph, to the effect that further ex-
pansion would be deferred pending a re-
covery in profitability, was the closest
directors came to commenting on present
plans for the share issue forecast at last
year’s annual meeting.
A REVIVAL of noises from bread
manufacturers about the sorry state
of their industry suggests that their
profits are really starting to have the yeast
taken out of them. Last week’s annual re-
port from George Weston (see page 70)
picked out breadmaking as the only thorn
in the company’s side. An interim report
from Melbourne-based Austral Bakeries
spoke of a marked decline in earnings
during the December half-year.
It seems the decline was despite in-
creased sales and a lift in selling prices
last October. Profits were affected by sub-
stantial cost jumps and a growth in the
volume of bread made illegally during
prohibited hours.
To the Victorian consumer’s delight, the
State Government is turning a blind eye
to this technically illegal baking, generally
undertaken by small or weekend-only op-
erators. The fact is that their bread is
proving more popular than the mass-pro-
duced lines, and moreover it can be
bought fresh on Sundays. This is a big
factor in the life of the average Mrs.
Everage, and sooner big combines like
Austral Bakeries in which Allied Mills
has a big interest find some way of meet-
ing this problem the better.
DESPITE a clearly mounting squeeze
on profits in the newspaper industry
and a chance that some newspaper
stocks could fall to cheaper levels
later this year, any downturn should be
short-lived and buying opportunities scarce.
Most groups have seen their profit mar-
gins trimmed by rising costs and a general
slackness in the flow of advertising.
Although overall profits may show in-
creases for the year, many chairmen are
likely to be making bearish statements
about costs, especially in relation to news-
print prices.
Last month the John Fairfax group
spoke of lower profits due to declining
lurnover and increasing costs in the cur-
rent half year.
The recent lifts in London and New
York newsprint prices were substantial
and should be reflected soon in Australian
import prices. An increase in prices for
Australian-made newsprint has already
been announced. Some estimates are put-


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
6i
a
'o
7%
7
%
2§ /o
TWO
YEARS
FIVE
YEARS
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 4 3 A%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 5 3 A%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6 1 /4%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 /a%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7 1 / 4 %
TEN YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectu&and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only-on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
P6QS
ting the. costs of total newsprint use $2
million higher next financial year.
All this adds up to a possible fall in
share prices. However, Australian news-
paper groups do have some scope for
absorbing cost rises through varying ad-
vertising charges and/or selling prices.
There is also the prospect that the de-
pressed condition of the television indus-
try, in which the newspaper groups have
large interests, could be improved next
year as some sort of agreement is believed
to have been reached between the local
channels to stop the bidding-up of prices
for overseas filmed programs.
A FACT as yet unreported in the
volumes of print covering CRA’s
recent balance sheet is the increased
possibility of the group buying a majority
interest in New Broken Hill. Although the
thought was canvassed when New BH was
originally informed by the British Treas-
ury that it could not transfer its head
office to Australia, observers felt that CRA
may not have the ready cash to make a
takeover, especially in view of its volu-
minous capital commitments.
However, the balance sheet shows that
the group has enough ready cash on hand
to execute a takeover and meet other com-
mitments at the same time. It already
holds 32 percent of New BH and requires
only another 19 percent to control it and
transfer head office to Australia, regard-
less of any protestations from the British
Treasury.
CRA’s high liquidity, added to the
fact that it stands to lose some $250,000
annually in dividends, means takeover
must now be considered a definite pos-
sibility for shareholders and potential
shareholders in New BH.
IT seems possible that Woodside may
come under the wing of an overseas
group by the time it starts drilling
off the Victorian coast next to the Esso-
BHP leases later this year. Market sources
have reported big buying by an overseas
group recently. The identity of the buyer
remains unknown, but there is a good
chance it could be the U.S. Continental
Oil group.
Continental is anxious to grow- bigger
on many fronts of the Australian scene and
it is connected with Woodside and its off-
shore permits. Although this is mere spec-
ulation, the fact remains that heavy buying
has been underway on the bourses. So
heavy, in fact, that the shares rose follow-
ing tbe announcement that a five cent
call was to be made. This has never
been normal and must be considered ex-
tremely rare in the light of the present
relatively apathetic market for oils.
Shareholders in g. j. Coles seem
to do better in bad times than in
good. When things were going very
well indeed for G. J. Coles at the time
of its 50th anniversary in September, 1964,
the company came out with a miserly
1-for-10 issue at 50 percent premium, with
non-renounceable rights, by way of a “cele-
bration.” But last month, after a gloomy
statement about the expansion program
being held back because of falling sales
and a retail “recession,” the company
announced a much more generous l-for-5
issue at a similar premium, and this time
with rights that can be traded on the
market.
Although not as good as the 3-for-10 at
par in 1961, more money is being raised
from the shareholders—a total $14.8 mil-
lion this time, compared with $6.7
million in 1964 and $lO million in 1961.
The group came under heavy criticism
in 1964 when it reverted to its 1957 prac-
tice of making rights unrenounceable, so
that shareholders who did not take up
their entitlement had it sold by the com-
pany at the end of the issue and the net
proceeds remitted back to them. The
board is silent on its policy change. The
main arguinent for a non-renounceable
issue is a large saving in costs, and hence
greater profit for shareholders. But some-
one has persuaded the board that these
arguments do not measure up to the main
opposition —the fact that such an issue
takes away the investors’ rights to handle
the fruits of his expertise as he pleases.
This is a principle which is hard to violate
justifiably.


A.MP
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The Balance Sheet in brief
ASSETS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1965
$ $
Freehold and Leasehold Property and Associated Assets 164,159,840
Loans on Mortgage 497,351,606
Other Loans 63,318,158
Investments
Government Securities 383,344,500
Securities of Local Government and
Semi-Governmental Bodies 88,537,318
Debentures of Companies 91,098,832
Secured and Unsecured Notes 46,457,630
Preference Shares 17,044,374
Ordinary Shares 172,132,064
Holdings in Controlled Companies 3,104,438
In Real Property (not wholly owned) 11,552,180
813,271,336
Other Assets 46,836,518
1,584,937,458
THESE ASSETS ARE HELD AS:
Funds belonging to policyholders ...... 1,535,107,666
External liabilities, such as provision for accrued taxation,
outstanding accounts, etc 49,829,792
1*584,937,458
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Chairman
C. G. CRANE
Deputy Chairman
VINCENT C. FAIRFAX, c.m.g.
S. G. ROWE, d.s.o.
G. GORDON RUSSELL
J. D. G. DUNCAN
BYRNE HART, m.c.
J. T. WERTHEIMER, o.b.e.
JAMES A. FORREST
ERNEST LEE-STEERE, c.b.e.
D. G. F. MACKAY
B. B. RILEY, Q.c.
THE HON. SIR ARTHUR, RYMXLL, m.l.c.
K. W. STEEL, General Manager


MINING
Copper and the Drought
B.H. South and Mt. Morgan affected.
DROUGHT will have more impact on
this year’s results of two major Aus-
tralian copper mines than even the
booming copper price, reducing their out-
put at a time when copper producers
around the world are intensifying their
efforts to increase output to meet the
shortage—and benefit from the high prices.
The two drought-affected producers are
Mt. Morgan Ltd., last year the fourth-
largest producer, and Cobar Mines Pty.
Ltd., which, when operating at full
capacity, will rank second only to Mt. Isa.
Cobar Mines, owned 76 2-3rd percent by
Broken Plill South and 23 l-3rd percent by
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd., still
faces a serious water problem.
Mt. Morgan’s drought troubles now
seem to be over, after water shortages be-
tween July and December last year cur-
tailed production by as much as 40 per-
cent. Good rains fell in the area last
December and production is now running
ahead of pre-drought levels. However,
despite the chairman’s assurance last Feb-
ruary that final profit for the year to
June 30 will be “comparable,” it seems
unlikely that the company will overtake
its drought losses this financial year. Pro-
duction of copper concentrates in the 41
weeks to April 10, 1966, at 3408 tons, is
substantially behind the figure of 5120
tons for the corresponding period (40
weeks) last year. At current production
rates, total production of copper concen-
trates will be somewhat over 5000 tons
this year against nearly 7000 tons last
year.
Admittedly, the average price per ton of
blister copper this year is likely to be sub-
stantially above last year’s average price
of approximately SA6B4 realised by the
company under its contract with the Sumi-
tomo Trading Co. of Japan. The con-
tract has been based on the producer price
set by a major Zambian producer, Roan
Selection Trust, which in April abandoned
this basis in favor of the L.M.E. three
months’ forward price. Any adjustment
of Mt. Morgan’s contract to these higher
price levels will be reflected more in next
year’s results.
Broken Hill South may still have the
worst to come at Cobar if drought-
breaking rains do not fall within the next
three or four months. The Cobar area
had only six inches of rain in the nine
months from July, 1965, to March, 1966,
compared with an average rainfall of over
14 inches. Because of the drought situ-
ation, production from the Cobar' mine
could only begin when the water pipeline
from Nyngan to Cobar was completed in
the middle of last July. Although pump-
ing from Nyngan has been continuous
since then, with adequate supplies for the
town and the mine, Nyngan itself has had
a much lower-than-average rainfall and, at
the end of April, existing supplies for the
pipeline were estimated to be adequate for
only 20 weeks.
In addition to these troubles, output has
been restricted due to the delay in bringing
the underground crusher and main loading
station on the 1800 ft. level into production.
The company originally anticipated an
initial production rate of 325,000 tons of
ore in 1965/66, or 10,000 tons of copper
(a grade of over 3 percent), this rate
doubling by mid-1966 with the duplication
of the concentrator. Based on figures for
the first 10 months to April 23, the com-
pany now anticipates that the current year’s
production will be only 235,000 tons of ore
of a lower grade than originally estimated.
In the first three months of operation the
ore assayed 2.13 percent copper.
Although the company expects to incur
a loss during the running-in period—and
there could be added difficulties if the
drought continues—the long-term potential
of the Cobar operation seems to be good,
a factor of vital importance to Souths in
view of the diminishing ore reserves at
Broken Hill. Reserves at Cobar have now
been estimated at considerably above the
original figure of 18 million tons assaying
between 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent cop-
per. In addition, the company has located
extensive lodes of pyritic copper/zinc ore,
which it considers could justify substantial
zinc production at . a later date.
Mount Cleveland Tin
ABERFOYLE HOLDINGS’ decision to
sell its 24 percent interest in Western
Titanium NL to finance its share of
a new company to develop the Mt.
Cleveland tin deposits in north-western
Tasmania is no reflection on prospects for
titanium. There are good world prospects
for both tin and mineral sands, and Wes-
tern Titanium is Australia’s biggest
ilmenite producer. But how good is the Mt.
Cleveland prospect?
Compared with other Australian tin
miners, it seems that only Renison Ltd.
will overshadow the new Mt. Cleveland
mine, with reserves approaching 12 million
tons of ore averaging 0.73 percent tin.
Figures to date from Mt. Cleveland indi-
cate reserves of about 2 million tons
averaging 1 percent tin, sufficient to
justify a large underground mining opera-
tion.
As Mt. Cleveland is not expected to
begin operations until 1967, estimates of
planned production rates of Australian tin
producers by 1970 are more significant for
comparison purposes. In this list Renison
again ranks' first, with estimated annual
production of tin metal around the 1900-
ton mark, followed by Mt. Cleveland with
anticipated production of 1400 tons. Other
companies from the Aberfoyle stable, such
as Ardlethan and Greenbushes, will also be
significant producers. In fact, the Aber-
foyle group will certainly become the
largest tin-producing group in Australia—
another reason for Aberfoyle Holdings to
concentrate on tiff.
Despite this, the outlook for Western
DESPITE the short-term water-short-
age problems facing Broken Hill
South at Cobar, the Melbourne broking
house of Wallace H. Smith and Co. is
recommending investment in the com-
pany for “sound medium- to long-term
capital appreciation.” It says that B. H.
South is, as a- consequence of recent
developments, “entering a new and ex-
citing phase which should bring sub-
stantial benefits to shareholders.”
Its reasons for recommending the
stock are:
• The expectation of substantial re-
turns from Cobar within two years.
This should be so, even if the price of
copper reverts to the level prevailing
prior to the recent upward adjustment.
Broken Hill South had invested in
equity capital just over $10.5 million in
this project by last June. Total ex-
penditure to date on the project and
on works associated with it is in the
vicinity of $24 million.
• The commencement of operations at
Cobar will mean that Electrolytic Re-
fining and Smelting Company of Aus-
tralia Ltd., in which Broken Hill South
has a 60 percent interest, will operate
at full capacity for the first time in a
number of years. Profits rose from
$270,000 to $914,000 in the 1964-65
year and a continuation of this trend
may be expected in the current twelve
months.
• A dividend within the next few years
on the investment of approximately $8
million in Alcoa of Australia Pty. Ltd.
• An active exploration program
both on its own account and in con-
junction with other companies.
• A degree of security is afforded by
the large portfolio of industrial and
mining stocks. In the 1964-65 year
the portfolio generated an income of
about 6 cents per share. The break-up
value of the portfolio (as calculated
below) represents about $1.22 per share
or 48 percent of the current market
price.
• Lead and zinc prices, although fall-
ing, should be maintained at sufficiently
high levels to earn good profits froth
the mine at Broken Hill in the cur-
rent financial year.
Titanium seems very promising. In the
latest year to January 31 ilmenite produc-
tion reached a record level of 171,000
tons and steps are being taken to increase
this to an annual rate of 250,000 tons in
the near future, in view of the satisfactory
forward sales position. Confidence in the
company’s prospects is reflected by the
shareholdings held by two groups experi-
enced in this field—Laporte Industries Ltd.,
of London, and Commonwealth Mining
Investments Ltd., a member of the Con-
solidated Gold Fields group to which Asso-
ciated Minerals and Wyong Minerals also
belong.


COMMODITIES
Bullish Hopes for Nickel
WITH Australia possibly on the verge of becoming an important producer of nickel,
last week’s bullish forecast for the metal by the dominant world source in the
industry is most encouraging.
Henry S. Wingate, chairman of Inter-
national Nickel Co. of Canada Ltd., told
shareholders at the annual meeting that
the “gratifying unprecedented” call for
nickel experienced in the first quarter of
1966 was expected to continue.
Inco holds a 50 percent interest in one
of the recent Western Australian dis-
coveries (and is examining the possibility
of starting a $lOO million smelter), while
Western Mining owns the other and also
sees the possibility of a smelter. The de-
velopment affecting Australia is on New
Caledonia, where Kaiser of the U.S. and
Societe le Nickel of France plan to spend
SU.S.4O m. in expansion.
Inco at present accounts for 60 percent
of non-Communist world capacity in nickel
production. Mr. Wingate said: “As the
year opened, some of us felt that the mar-
ket for nickel would level out at the high
plateau to which it had climbed so rapidly.
It has not.”
Unlike some commodities, nickel has not
been worried by U.S. stockpile sales—“a
significant volume of our deliveries in 1966
. . . will have been made from nickel
acquired from the U.S. Government stock-
pile,” Mr. Wingate said.
The company plans to spend sCan.9o
million in 1966 on expansion. Exploration
activities are “going ahead at a very high
rate.” On nickel’s future: “At the present
level of progress, the need for nickel ten
years from now on a per capita basis will
grow,” especially in those regions now
approaching full-scale industrialisation.
Inco’s dominant position in nickel is
illustrated by 1964 capacity figures: Inco,
440-450 m. lb.; Falconbridge Nickel Mines
(also of Canada), 75-80 m. lb.; Sherritt
Gordon Mines, 30m. lb. In the U.S.,
Hanna Mining Co. (also with Australian
interests in other fields) had 25-30 m. lb.
capacity. New Caledonia’s Societe le Nickel
had 60m. lb. capacity, and Japan’s refining
capacity, from imported ores, was 60m.
lb. Total non-Communist world capacity
was 705-725 m. lb. in 1964.
Stainless steels are by far the largest
users, taking 215 m. lb. in 1964, compared
with 164 m. in 1963. Nickel plating con-
sumed 98m. lb. (91m. previously); high-
nickel alloys, 86m. lb. (76m.); construction
alloy steels, 85m. lb. (71m.); steel castings,
70m. ,Ib. (60m.); copper products, 25m. lb.
(22m.); and all others, 61m. lb. (49m.).
Total 1964 consumption was 640 m. lb.
against 533 m. lb. in 1963.
Lead-Zinc in Balance?
BY the end of last week the behaviour
of lead on the London Metal Ex-
change had begun to take some eyes
off the copper market. At around £stg.9s
a ton the metal reached its lowest since a
brief dip in mid-1965. Before that it was
last at this level in mid-1964, when it was
on the way up after languishing in the
£sos and £6os for several years.
By December, 1964, the LME quote had
hit £stg. 155 a ton and held above £l4O
until a sharp drop in April-May last year.
For the past six months the market moved
between £lOO-110 until the last few days
of April.
Zinc has weakened also to about £3
below the producers’ fixed price at £lO2
a ton—but is still above the £9O target
level, which some consider its safety posi-
tion against substitution by plastics and
aluminium.
On the supply-demand figure, both
metals will continue to lose ground. Zinc
producers, when cutting their selling price
£8 a ton in March, displayed some deter-
mination to hold the new level. RTZ, the
main supporter of the scheme, indicated
that the cut brought prices to a satisfactory-
level. The chairman said last week that
RTZ was working with other producers to
stabilise “at about the £stg.lo2 level.”
Other producers had not been as enthusias-
tic about selling below the market price
from the start.
However, despite this, rumors are again
spreading in London that producers are
cutting the price for some customers.
At present the combined price for the
two metals—the important figure, as they
are mined from the same deposits nor-
mally—is £stg. 197. This is the lowest for
two years, but well above the pre-1964-
£stg. 130 level. It is not a great deal above
the £175 a ton combined price cited last
year as “entirely satisfactory” by New
Broken Hill Consolidated Ltd. (in which
RTZ has a 32 percent holding through
Conzinc Riotinto of Aust.).
What are the producers saying this year
about future prospects? Mr. Val Duncan,
chairman of RTZ, sees lead and zinc con-
sumption increasing sufficiently to maintain
a balance with production, provided “that
supplies from the centrally planned econo-
mies do not increase disproportionately.”
Some Future Trends
Discussions of future trends in
commodity consumption generally
dwell on the vast potential markets
in underdeveloped areas —but the ad-
vanced nations have perhaps even greater
potential.
A study recently completed by Resources
for the Future, Inc., endowed by the Ford
Foundation, concludes that U.S. primary
commodities consumption will grow much
faster than population for the remainder
of the century. The report sees a U.S.
population of 330 million by 2000 (180
million in 1960) and a gross national pro-
duct of more than $U52,000,000 million,
against $600,000 million last year. Con-
sumer spending is expected to rise 100
percent.
But requirements for both energy and
CAT PAGES
metals will triple; and that for farm pro-
ducts double. The report expects that
these vastly increased demands will be
met.
For the base metals, merely to meet
the present annual rises in world consump-
tion, there must be found and developed
each year mines with annual production
capacity equal to two Mt. Isa copper
mines, one New Broken Hill lead-zinc
mine, and deposits with capacity equal to
Australia’s lowest tin consumption.
Reserves of iron, aluminium, phosphate
rocks and coal are virtually inexhaustible.
But known reserves of many other metals
have relatively short-life expectancies—
although exploration will undoubtedly
extend most of these, except perhaps tin,
in the foreseeable future.
Known reserves of tin, lead, zinc,
copper, rutile, tungsten and uranium all
have life expectancies of under 40 years.
Exploration is steadily expanding reserves
of all except tin, but for this metal, even
if much lower grades could economically
be mined (by means of higher prices),
reserves are far from excessive.
Copper Gyrations
THE labor situation in Zambia’s Cop-
perbelt remains delicate. The native
miners are far from happy at the con-
siderably higher wages paid to white work-
ers at the mines. The wage situation is
similar to that in New Guinea, where low
wages don’t attract .skilled whites, and
high wages for all would distort the
country’s economy.
Despite all this, London Metal Exchange
prices dropped rapidly last week, until
Zambian producers, based on the price for
metal for delivery three months ahead,
were receiving less than Chile’s £stg. 496
a ton. Of course, this represents a giant
jump from the previous £136 producer
price.
Evidently Zambian miners felt that
elimination of some of the many price
levels that currently bedevil consumers was
more important than holding their sup-
plies at a low price. Certainly, on past
statements, the companies were well aware
of the dangers of high prices, while gov-
ernment pressure does not appear to have
been a major factor in the rise.
The Chilean Government’s view that
“international pressures” were in force and
that interested parties were forcing down
LME prices may be tjue, but even the
present levels will probably seem high by
the end of this year, assuming the Rhodes-
ian situation results in no major disruption
to Zambian output.
Figures on the switch from copper to
aluminium will be quite common in com-
ing months, and the cable industry is a
good example. Around 80 percent of
Britain’s underground electricity trans-
mission cable will use aluminium in 1966,
with consumption rising by 25-30 percent.


GOT IT
IT'S SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . . .
By installing the Smith-Corona “Typetronic 2215”, you
will introduce automatic operation into your office
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OF SMITH-CORONA MARCHANT INC.
'Distributed by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street. Sydney. 2 2033 • 167 Queen Street, Melbourne. 67 9161
SECURITY ANALYSIS
E.M.I. and the Beatles
An erratic profit record
ALTHOUGH the 1964/65 year of
EMI (Australia) Limited did not
produce the highest recorded profit,
it was certainly very close to the record
1959/60 year. In late October, 1965, the
chairman, while addressing the annual
meeting, said, “Indications are that the
year 1965/66 should be a satisfactory one
for the company, but profits are expected
to be harder to earn than in the year
under review.” Despite this note of caution,
the half-yearly report said that turnover
was up 4 percent and “consolidated net
profit after tax was also slightly higher.”
One might, therefore, expect that earn-
ings in 1965/6 will be about the same as
in 1964/5 —in other words, the earning
rate will again be about 411 percent. The
market was apparently expecting worse,
because during January, on a turnover in
Sydney of 9800 shares, the price was
marked down to 9.2 times earnings. During
February and March it has gradually
recovered, if somewhat hesitantly, to
around 10 times earnings; currently the
last sale took place at $2.13, which is 10.4
times earnings. Furthermore, the dividend
rate for 1965/6 looks like being 16 percent,
so the dividend yield at $2.13 is 3.8 percent,
which is the highest dividend yield that
has been available on EMl’s shares since
1962.
Generally, the trends in profitability over
the past five years seem to have been
erratic, taking the group as a whole. If
we relate the total of net profit before tax
and depreciation to shareholders’ funds at
the beginning of the year we have the
following picture:
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
percentages 31.3 35.8 29.3 26.9 33.3
Some would say that this is a true
cyclical pattern, and those who are more-
pessimistic might say that, in 1964/5,
EMI was saved by the Beatles. However,
with a little closer examination of the
annual reports we can throw a little more
light on the variations.
With a proper desire to keep share-
holders informed on a matter which must
have a great bearing on the profits of any
group engaged in the financing of retailers
of consumer durable goods, EMI has
devoted some space in the directors’ report
to, firstly, the profits and bad debts of
EMI Finance, and, secondly, to the bad
debts of EMI Australia. The figures for
the finance subsidiary, so far as they are
available, might be shown as follows:
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
Net profit after tax . . 42,000 61,982 11,178 23,212
after charging bad
debts w/o n/a 3,098 75,982 54,170
Provision for bad debts 20,000 20,000 nil 20,000
Total 62,000 85,080 87,160 97,382
Approx.
So far as the 1964 write-off was con-
cerned, it was stated that the bulk applied
to earlier years and, while no indication
was given in 1965, it might be expected
that some of these debts were incurred
prior to 1964.
The parent company has made the fol-
lowing provisions and write-offs in respect
of bad debts:
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
Provisions nil 24,000 nil 66,000
Write-offs n/a 28,196 36,982 81,080
Total n/a 52,196 36,982 147,080
Write-off against-
Contingencies provision 77,540
The write-off against the contingencies
provision (not against the provision for
bad debts) was in respect of debts incurred
prior to the 1963/64 year.
So far as the finance subsidiary is con-
cerned, one must wonder whether any
profit at all was made in 1961/62 and
1962/63. The position of the - parent com-
pany seems to be that the existence of
substantial bad debts has been discovered
in the past two years. In 1963 the direc-
tors’ report stated that the Reid Murray
and Inglis Electrix groups were substan-
tial debtors but that the amount was un-
likely to exceed the then amount of the
provision for doubtful debts, which was
$174,000. This provision was increased to
$240,000 in 1964/65 and this brought the
total amount written off or provided for
on account of bad debts in the two years
succeeding the announcement about the
Reid Murray/Inglis Electrix situation to
$261,602.
Without these write-offs, of which at
least $153,500 related to previous years,
earnings would have been (in thousands
of dollars) 881 in 1963/64 and 1214 in
1964/65 —increases of 15 percent and 22
percent respectively over the published
figures.
The fact that consolidated earnings
prior to all write-offs and provisions was
38 percent higher in 1964/65 than in
1963/64 could well be due in some
measure at least to the sales of the Beatles’
records, but it must be remembered that
the second half of 1963/64 also benefited
from this source. It has been suggested
that Beatle record sales totalled $1 million
during that period. Record sales generally
were up about 12 percent with a marked
trend in favor of the 12in. record. Pro-
duction of TV receivers increased by
more than 14 percent and production of
radiograms rose by 24 percent. Although
radio set production was about the same
level, it is fairly clear that most things
seem to have been in EMl’s favor in
1964/65. Even so, net profit before tax
and depreciation was still 13 J percent
below the 1959/60 level.
So there are a number of factors which
raise doubts. It must be remembered that
the home entertainment industry is a
cyclical one. The doubts are: Will the
sales of records continue to increase at
the rate of the past two years? How will
the profits of the finance subsidiary be
replaced and how will its surplus funds
be used? What will happen to the sales
of TV sets and radiograms without finance
for the consumer?
With these questions unanswered, per-
haps a price/earnings multiple of ten is
the maximum, even though dividends have
been increasing at an average compound
rate of 6 percent per annum for the past
eight years and could continue to do so
for another eight at least.
Year to June 30 .. 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (S’000)
Current assets .... 5460 6666 5816 6684 8092
Current liabilities . . 2976 3690 2666 2908 351 A
Working capital 2484 2976 3150 3776 4578
Land and buildings.. 2122 2166 2238 2306 2402
Plant, etc 1466 1300 1190 984 840
Investments 128 290 540 430 373
Total capital 6200 6732 7118 7496 8193
Represented by:
Loan capital 500 488 474 462 456
Ordinary capital . . 2600 2600 2600 2600 2600
Reserves 3100 3644 4044 4434 5137
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (S'000)
Depreciation 374 382 428 450 406
Tax provided 470 682 540 570 857
Earnings 750 976 862 768 1079
Ordinary dividends . . 326 370 370 370 390
Surplus 424 606 492 398 689
Earning rate % .. 28.9 37 6 33 1 29.5 41 5
Dividend rate % . . 12V2 14V4 14% 14V4 ‘ 15
Dividend yield % (a) 3.7 3.3 2 9 2 8 3.3
High price (b) 1.93 2.60 2.85 2.78 2.52
Low price (b) 1.45 1.68 2.10 2.28 2.00
(a) Based on the average of the high and low prices.
(b) Calendar year.


DEBENTURESFOGK
and
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
up to
per
annum j
Interest paid quarterly
CURRENCIES
Debenture
Stock
Unsecured
Deposit
Notes
h
HOWTO INVEST
Applications can only be
accepted on the appropriate form
issued with the
Prospectus now available
from
• Any Branch of the National
Bank of Australasia Limited
• Any Stockbroker
• Any Waltons store or office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, G.P.0.,
Sydney
mil WUKAIIUN LIMIItU *
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
George Weston Slows Down
THE yeast has yet to rise in the books
at George Weston Foods Ltd., the
huge baking group that floated pub-
licly—and perhaps a little prematurely—
last year.
The latest accounts, for the year to
December 31, showed a slowing down in
sales and profits that was not due only to
a reduced rate of takeovers but also a
continued squeeze on margins. Profits rose
10.3 percent after a 10.5 percent sales rise
(compared with the previous year’s 30
percent profit lift and 40 percent increase
in sales, of which about 43 percent was
due to companies being consolidated into
the accounts for the first time in 1964).
Last year the only major newcomers to the
group accounts were Watsons Food Hold-
ings (W.A.’s biggest producer of ham,
bacon, smallgoods, canned meats, butter,
and cheese) and Broadway Foods Ltd. of
N.Z. (Auckland’s leading pie and pastry
maker).
But these steadying profit and sales
figures are even more serious when seen
against a background of last year’s higher
bread prices. This year the company may
get more benefit from these rises (and the
February one built in to the decimal con-
version), but shareholders will want to be
able to depend on more than hopes of
price rises for improving profitability.
It is not only “unrealistic price control”
and rising costs that caused the bakery
companies in the group to fail to match
their higher sales with higher profits; com-
petition is keen and should get even keener
if. and when Nabisco get around to
battling for a slice of the market.
The latest accounts raise many ques-
tions not dealt with in the directors’ report
that shareholders may require answering
at next Friday’s annual meeting. The most
striking is the huge $2.1 million (or two-
thirds) increase in stocks to $5.4 million.
In previous years stocks were turned
over about 20 times a year, which seems
reasonable in a perishable-food producer;
last year it was down to 13 times. The
explanation may be that the company
could have stocked up heavily on flour
because of drought fears, but it has not
said so.
Other striking and unexplained move-
ments in the accounts are a 40 percent
or $2 million jump in trade debtors to
$6.8 million, and a 30 percent or $1 mil-
lion jump in creditors even though sales
rose by only 10 percent. These, along with
such significant movements as a $f mil-
lion rise in overdrafts meant that current
liabilities jumped by one-third during the
year to keep the current ratio in the un-
comfortable-looking negative relationship
of 14.4 of current liabilities to 13.7 of
current assets. To some extent, however,
the goodwill item in the accounts (not
only trade marks but the more important
matter of bread rounds) does distort the
company’s basically sound position. In
fact, the company’s $11.5 million in good-
will has already been half written out of
the books.
The profit and loss account also raises
some questions, such as why the interest
charges payable have gone down by
$156,000 dollars when the company’s
borrowings have, in fact, gone up by
$-| million. It is also worth questioning
why the $2 million in borrowings that is
payable within one year should appear
as a “deferred liability” rather than as a
current one.
December 31 1962 1963 1964 1965
Sales $m 39 2 46 8 65 6 72 6
Gross profit (1) S’ooo 3389 5075 7297 8010
Depreciation s’ooo 1707 1999 2500 2677
Taxation s'ooo 1112 1209 2206 2476
Net profit s'ooo 1502 1867 2591 2857
Earning rate p.c. 7.5 9.2 12.9 14.3
Dividend rate p.c., —.— 7
Earning rate to total
funds p.c 4 8 5 0 7.2 7.4
Current ratio 1.0 10 0.9 09
Fixed assets s’ooo 22,090 28,823 29,303 31,297
Dividend yield (2) 3.7
Price/earnings ratio (2) 15 6
Share prices: High (3) —, 95 96
Share prices: Low (3) —• 82 88
1. Profit before depreciation and tax.
2. End of April, month accounts presented.
3. Year in which accounts presented.
Sebels’ Records
THE building boom has not slowed
down for the “people seating
people,” Sebels (Australia) Ltd.,
who are still doing record business
with their industrial, commercial, club,
and pub customers even though the small
part of their output that goes into pri-
vate homes has probably been affected a
little by the housing downturn.
This year sales are “a little above” the
previous year, and orders on hand are
“still substantial,” so on present indica-
tions 1966 should be a good one, even
though last year’s rate of profit rise may
not be maintained.
All the signposts in the 1965 accounts
of this Sydney furniture manufacturer
pointed in the right direction. Sales,
though not divulged, were a record, as
were profits (up 8-|- percent) at $155,000
to equal 30.9 percent on capital).
The disposition of funds over the year
was also very satisfactory in reducing
overdraft by $46,000,. creditors by $17,000,
and in additional buildings ($18,000) and
plant ($6000). Debtors were up $36,000
as a result of higher turnover, while stocks
were reduced by $45,000 in the effort to
take care of a substantial accumulation
of orders, and are probably now too low.
But there appears to be enough bank
accommodation available to cope with
that problem.
Shareholders have been promised no re-
duction, because of the bonus, from the
15 percent dividends currently being paid.
So the 4.4 percent income yield is assured,
and earnings (adjusted for the bonus) give
a still attractive yield of 8.4 percent.
December 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Gross profit (1) s’ooo 193 212 229 264 291
Ord. s’ooo 70 77 84 105 110
Depreciation s'ooo 17 16 14 16 26
Net profit s’ooo 106 119 131 143 155
Earn. p.c. ord. cap. 22 0 23 7 26 2 28 6 30.9
Dividend p.c. 12V2 12V2 15 15 15
Earn. p.c. total funds 11 5 12 5 13.3 14 7 13 1
Current ratio 27 27 22 2.0 26
Fixed assets s'ooo 582 621 642 692 781
Dividend yield (2) 5.8 4.6 4.5 4 4 4 4
Price/earn. ratio (2) 9 7 11.2 12 8 11 9 11 9
Share prices: High (3) 1.38 1.77 203 1.90 180
Share Low (3) .80 1.25 1.60 1.59 1.75
1. Profit before depreciation and tax.
2. End of following April, month accounts presented.
3. Following calendar year.


Shar*
Par
□ •V
Vear
Week
Fri.
19b6
Turnover
Yield %
Value
certs
ago
ago
close
High |Low
Syd.
[ Melb.
DiV.iEarn.
METALS
AND OILS
Abrtloylc
SO
2
1 83
2 20
2
25
2 3?
40
7.300
16,050
2.2001
Ampa 1 L>p
.30
—
1 101
I 02
1
20
1 20
85
13.300
Assoc *A>n.
30
13
3 75
S
15
5 52
-
.80
2,100
2.600
A O.G.
50
—
2 73
2.40
2 53
2 60
25
10,200
4.000
B H Soutn
50
12
2 25
2 60
2 37
2.90
24
32.300
44,300
5 3
8.1
C R A.
50
8
3 48
■1 55
4 82
4 82
97
19,660
19.300
1.7
4.4
C'wKh. M.n
1 GO
7
1.74
2 30
2
30
2 40
1
.90
700
1,500
3.5
5 9
K !. ScHeel
50
10
1.33
2 10
2
14
3 25
:
45
4,300
5.400
Moan*. Ha
50
5
3 41
4.34
4
26
4 55
‘
.14
37,800
28,800
1 2
1,6
Ml. Morgan
1.00
12
1 70
2 29
2 40
2 40
:
90
10.500
12.100
5 2
9 9
ML Lyell
.25
2
.90
1 36
1.35
1 46
:
76
10.900
13.700
1.9
4.1
New B.M
50
22
6 70
5.05
4
90
5 28
4
60
9O0
900
6.3
8.9
Oil Search
50
—
.19
. 14
14
.19
l?
7.400
2.300
Reruson
.50
10
5 30
7 16
7
27
7 50
5
90
500
1 .400
Sartos
.25
2 10
2 /0
2
56
2 85
1
40
8,550
1.500
West. M*n.
.50
10
2.35
i 4b
3.66
3 69
2
43
24.400
44,400
2 7
3.0
Wo&dside
.50
—
.32
.56
62
63
.24
11.700
19.100
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50
4 25]
99
1 05
2 42
1
08
1 12
~00i 7,3501 26.600
3.8 13.3
Aaans, W.
1.00
12 3
2.9C
2.46
7.89,
.26
2001 200
t.l
12 3
Adel Steam
50
4 25
.67
65
68
80
64
4,000
1,500
6 1
8 0
Advertiser
.50
5
2 17
2 17
1 40
2 14
2 EO
14
—
2 3
l 5
A'leo, S.
Allied Mills
1.00
10
l 75
1
90
2 10
I
75
100
5 3
7 8
.50
6
1 75
1./2
1
76
1.76
1.67
16,500
4.800
3 4
a 2
Ama.'g. Chem.
50
5 51
1 03
.851
14
1.50
SO
11,500
4.400
6.7
10 0
A .W. A.
.50
8
2 40
2 22
2
18 2 42
05
7,900. 1.100
3 7
6 6
Ampoi
.50
7
1.04
0V
90
1 02
8?
34.150
19.200
7.8
9.3
Antut!
50
3
68
.73
74
83
. >3
33.150 3B.OOO
6.8
12 9
A.F.C.M,
50
5
1 55
1
64
1 64
1 45
2.7100
2,700
3.0
4 5
Assoc. Pulp
1.00
4
2.90
1 54
1
50
1 74
'
.74
5,550
5.200
6 0
7 3
A.N.Z. l»«nk
2 30
30
4.95
t 20
6.20
6.23
i
65
2 9
5 4
A.K. Cement
50
>
1.30
1 30
1.35
1.62
:
.20
7,900
10,000
3 7
7.2
Aun. Chem.
1.00
10
2 63
1 85
1
90
2 35
3
85
4.050
900
5 3
7 3
A. C i lv
2 00
20
5 25
a 92
5
•IB
6 02
5 40
7.350; 9.550
3 3
6 4
Aust. Pert.
2 OO
20
5 OC
6 00
4
90
5 02
10
400
3 3
58
A.G.C.
.50
7.3
1 49
1 43
1.39
1.43
:
7?
44.650; 14.300
5.4
10.1
A P. M.
1 oc
8 75
2 98
1 76
1
77
1 87
.
65
12,800
34,600
4.9
8.1
A. Newsprint
2 OO
?0
J.3C
J 70
3.20
3.45
15
300
6 3
6 6
A.U.C.
1.00
10
5 DO
4 Of)
4.
00
4.00
.
75
200
2-5
6.1
Bank Adel.
1 00
10
2 53
2 45
2 43
2 45
2
15
600
4 1
6 9
Bark N 3.W
2 CO
20
5 93
5 24
5
22
5 68
5 02
12.729
4.750
3 0
7 3
Oci iambi
.50
5
1 71
2 70
?
15
2 44
00
700
2 3
7.8
Ber'u
1 00
15
2 70
3 23
3
25
3.30
2
.03
1,300
19.350
4.6
9.9
B.M.!.
50
7.5
1 61
1 66
1
65
1 87
1 65
3.800
4 5
6 7
Bonds Ind
.50
5
1 00
1 15
1
15
1 15
98
2.100 —
4 3
8 9
Boral
.50
10
2 45
2 25
2.
28
2.40
;
10
21.300
8.300
4 4
5 9
1 OO
6
2.30
1 8b
1.88
2.05
:
.80
800
3.2
7.9
Brad. Cotton
30
| 3
.72
601
60
69
.56
16,150
900
8 3
11 7
S'.urtii**
50
7.5
1.80
1.74
1 43
1
87
1 82
i
67
12,800
11,600
7.7
10 9
Beit. Tobacco
1 00
11
1 63
1
98
1 99
i
77
15.800
26.000
5 6
9.1
B.H.P
2 00
20.4
5.05
3 46
5
70
5. bZ
‘
54
36.142
115.200
3.2
6 0
Brock MMlg
50
3
.49
.68
14
73
.55
800
2,400
9 2
12 5
Burn* Ph»|p
I 00
10
3 93
3 97
3.95
4 10
3.65
3.650
1.900
2 5
6.7
C.U.B "T-
1 30
13
3 80
3 60
3
3 88
:
60
1.750
8.200
3 6
6.3
Carp., V/.R.
.50
7.5
2 53
2 65
2
66
2 75
2
50
10,650
6.700
2 8
5 8
Carrier Air
50
4
62
.70
69
80
Ml
3.400
1,500
5 8
11.5
C'mmn* Perk
1‘ 00
17
3.60
6 08
6.06
6 40
5
93
1.400
1.350
2 8
5 2
Chamberlain
.50
6 25
1.68
1 20
1
24
1 38
1.23
2.400
6.1
15.2
C<v4e ind.
.50
> 5
1 04
1 02
1.05
1 10
:
0?
7.150
1.600
7.1
11 2
Coal, Aflied
50
5
00
1 35
1
38
1.45
:
26
22,100
200
3 6
10.1
Colas, G J.
50
5 5
1 48
1 30
1
35
1 41
:
20
16.720
87.500
4 1
6.2
C.S.R.
1 00
12 5
2 45
2 84
2
32
3 26
2 80
19.550
16.800
4 4
8 7
CA.C.A.
1 00
10
.89
1 35
1
39
1 65
:
33
4.700
4.300
7 2
11 6
C.B.C.
00
10
2.35
2 56
2
60
2.60
15
9,950
7.900
3 3
6 7
C 6.A
1.00
10
2 25
2 18
2 18
2.22
2 02
4.200
4.500
A 6
6 5
Cam. Union
.50
4 25
1 49
1 321 1
311 1 44
'
30
1,100
2.100
3 2
4 B
C.'I.G.
1.00
11
2.55
2.87
2.
05
3.32
55
2.300
3 900
3.9
9 5
Concrete Ind.
.50
55
33
33
48
.26
20.300
19,200
11 4
13 6
Consol Prats
.50
6 25
3 35
2 70
2 70
3.40
2.70
300
,
3.7
7.4
Coplamars
2.00
16
2.70
2 7C. 2
70
2 75
.53
1.100
900
5.9
9.6
Courtaulds
1 00
5
.87
60
58
75
1.0
7.700
600
8 6
11.7
Crana. G.E.
1 00
12 5
3 88
4 151 4
SO
4 60
<
20
1.600
—
IS
7 9
Cresco
2.00
20
5 40
6 50
6
60
6 66
6 40
—
300
3 0
6.9
Cust. Crod.
50
5
68
73
72
7?
6.3
3.900
2,300
fc 9
11 6
Cyclone
3 00
10
1 63
1.12
i
11
) 48
;
04
700
7.100
9 0
21.4
Dalgety
o.fTc.
2.50
30
5 20
4.70
4 70
5 00
<■
60
100
5.4
10 2
2 00
23
6 50
6 20
6
20
6 55
20
_ •
3 7
7 6
Oruo House*
Ouniop
1 00
10
1 69
1.79
i
75
1 93
:
50
1,500
4.000
5.7
8 2
1.00
8
1.90
1 45
1.34
1 65
:
24
6.700
11.300
5 a
9 5
EM 1.
.50
7 5
2 13
2.13
2.
10
2 15
■
40
2,300
2,500
3 6
8 8
£.?. Ind
1.00
18
2 13
2.22
2
23
2 40
2 12
9,000
16,700
8 1
9 U
Eldars, G. M.
1 00
10
1.99
2 26
2
K
2 35
2 01
11,900
—
4 3
9.7
Electronic "B"
1.00
10
1.06
.91
91
1 04
.91
1.300
6,900
11 0
14 7
.50
3
.70
41
41
51
.39
21,100
4.300
7 3
7 b
E.S.A.
2.30
23
4 60
5.54
5.54
5 70
20
—
—
2 7
7 a
Evans Dnakln
.50
b 23
1 25
1.30
1
30
1 40
70
l.bOC
4.8
8 1
.50
8 3
2 48
2.22
2.25
2 80
;
22
13.100
500
5 8
5 1
1.00
12
2 05
1. 70
1
70
2.10
:
.70
2,200
3 5
—
Felt Text.
.50
5
■ 78
.58
51
70
5b
19.400
32.000
8 6
12 2
50
6
1 68
1 30
1
M)
1 40
\
23
1.950
3.400
4 6
(5 3
Fielding. J.
1 00
17.5
4.2C
3 45
55
3.501 3,72
3.43
3.8501 —
5.01 7.2
50
4
55
55
■ 601
50
2.4-jO
6.500
6,100
7 3
9 5
2 00
12
1.18
1-20
1
25
1 25
.95
1.400
9 6
19 4
Galiln
.50
4.3
85
7C
1
73
88
70
1,000
700
6 2
12.2
.30
10
2 50
2 39, 2
45i 2.70
2.23
1.000
1,700
4.1
6.7
Grata Bros.
.30
6 25
1 66
1 88
1
85
1 90
1 69
25.500
1,100
3 4
6.4
Marola. J.
1.001 10
5 30]
4 90
4 68
5 06
50
90O| —
2 0
6 1
SHARE PRICE INDEXES
YIELDS
(
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
2TR.TI SHARC.K
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
last
Latest
324.47
327.60
104.25
105.10
SYDNEY
108.B7
110.20
Average
172.20
172.16
112.52
112.76
MELBOURNE
5 35
499.07
497.92
70.53
70.89
dividend
Pastoral . .
221.74
224.40
114 97
116.1a
earnings
8.51
475 27
482.0?
95.86
96.50
LONDON 1 F.T.)
Ratoli* 1 Merchants)
347.74
353.67
99.40
ICO.55
dividend
5.41
Services
—
—
44.52
44.34
ea/nings .
7 37
Foods
167.15
167.36
102.32
102.51
MEW YORK fS fl,
PI
TaatHas
190.43
108.41
79.68
79.63
3.07
CBomftaia
347 54
343.79
98.42
89.02
5.67
Electrical . .
442.20
444.31
b>l 47
65,63
Papor
—
—
306.54
1CS.J7
Bu.id.'nQ . ,
Fuel, power
Automotive
636.31
60S.95
92
.73
93.4b
187.65
765. B9
184.25
783.93
63.27
83703
CTWEALTH
RONDS
Stoo» (eng.)
Non-Ferrous
437.16
L171.45
451-44
1172.62
111.28
195.76
114.58
195.32
Weak
OIL
1
SUGAR
Bffora Friday
Week
ago
1 Friday
1 i*»t
Week
ago
Friday
1 last
5hor-
Medum
Long
•h
. .. 4.99
S 13
'fc
4.98
5.13
101.61
106.62
5
.25
5.25
Or ton ns
126,74
133.24
124.34
1Z4-05
Sha/e Par
| DU.
Year
Week
Fri.
1966
Turnover
Y eld %
Valuel cants
age
ago
close
High
Low i
Syd.
Me'li.
Div.
E,,rn.
Mealing. A G, .50
1
.65
.41
39
.58
351
7.400
10,300
10 3
21 8
Hera d W. T. 50
12 5
4 78
4 7t
4 80
5 221 4.
73
1.000
10,800
2.6
3 r.
Honker, L. J 50
—
.35
24
J«
36
24
21,900
2.700;
4.200
14 1
Hur.ee 1 00
12.5
3 03
2 44
2 48
? 901 2
48
200
5 0
8 2
Huttons 50
S
.90
.97
94
1.00
94
2,500
2.000
5 3
10 J
I.A.C. 50
6
.85
.64
87
8/
■/
4.150
.5,900
6.7
112
'.C.I.A.N.Z 2.00
3 5
4 35
4 Ob
4.10
4 32
3
60
3.750
4.900
1 7
5.1
inter. Resist. 50
6 25
1 35
1 071
1 18
1 45
1
17
1,700
2001
5 3
6 9
Jonas, David 50
6 75
1 51
1 52
1 48
1 b3
1
44
10.B5C
5,700
4.6
8 1
Jones, Henry 1 00
10
3 00
3 68
3.60
4.30
3.50
80C
200
2.8
B O
Kaun .50
2
45
24
74
2b
.23
3.700
3,500
12.7
KeJvinator .50
7.5
2 10
1.95
1
1.95
2 08
1
92
9,7001
3.300
3 8
3 1
Ko ,tak. .50
12.5
. 1 10
1 24
ia
1 20
1 30
1.20,
700
41.200
10 4
13 5
Lend Lease 50
5
93
1 20
l 10
1
n
1.200
4.2
7 5
Life Savers .50
8
2 58
2 60
2 50
2 51
2
?4
4,500
300
3.2
4 6
Lysaghl, J. 1.00
11
2 70
2.25
7 30
2 63
2
15
3,800
2,000
4 8
8 0
M.L.C. 2 00
31 10
9 55
8 20
8 32
8.32
7
66
4.175
1.7CO
3 8
S.4
-MacRobertsoo 1 00
ft
1.90
l 25
1 47
1.55
1.
20)
200
*) 6
6 3
Marrlckv'lle 50
7.5
l 33
1 31
1.35
1.55
1
22
10,500
1.600
5 6
t *
Mauri Bros .50
1.43
2 00
1.97
2 08
1 361
17.400
12.000
2 5
5.4
M. Nickless 1 00
12 5
3.25
86
2 90
3 20
2.
13
400
4.BOO
A 3
6 2
■Mclllwralth. J. .50
7 5
1.63
3.28
1 25
1 50
1.24
1,100
13.2DD
6 0
10 ’J
McPhersons 2.00
14 6
4.00
1 60
3 61
4 08
1
40
1,000
4,100
4 6
10 4
Millaquin 1.00
20
3 40
i.05
S 06
3 .IB
2.
90
300
1.100
6 5
7 5
Miller, R. W. ) 00
>0
1 64
761
1 71
Z 07
1.
75
23,200
8.400
5.7
14.3
Minster 1 00
20
3 04
85
J 70
5 68
3.
70
300
9.700
5 4
11 b
Morns, Philip 2 00
Moulded Prod. .50
24
5.10
’.00
7 00
7 36
6.
20
400
300
3.4
11 9
5
1.33
5b
70
.60
61
1,000
Cl. BOO
7.1
B. 9
Myer 50
0 75
2.96
28
>27
3 56
3.
10
8.500
29.800
2.7
b. 2
Myttons 50
6
1 4B
l 63
1 M
1.63
i.
42
700
4,900
3.8
8.2
N.Z. Forest 1.25
10
2.03
2.91
2 92
2 92
0
6(1
350
1.900
2 3
6.0
Nat. Bank 1.00
10
2 20,
2.00
2 01
2.10
i
93
10.150
5.200
5 0
5 5
Nat. Consol. 50
10
2.551
36
2 38
2 40
2 27
1,150
12.000
4. 2
8 1
Nat. Dairy 2 60
103 5
42 00
40 00
40 00
42.00
38.
50
1 4
3.0
News .50
5
1 30
1.65
1 18
1 82
1
70
1,000
400
3.2
6.6
N.Z. Ins. 1.25
13 4
3 03
60
2.80
2.82
2.
70
A 6
6 1
Olympic 50
3
.95
72
75
80
X
4.700
8,900
6 7
13 i
15
4.59
1.45
4 50
4.70
4 10
3,250
600
3.3
c.6
Overseas .50
5 5
1 10
1.14
1 1>
1.16
1.
OP
63,000
2.600
4 9
ID O
PG H. .50
8
1 85
58
1 58
1.50
2_
33
3.050
5 1
b.4
Peko .50
8
1.43'
2 .13
2 07
2 13
i.
05
24,6CO
6,500
3. 6
6 2
Penfolds .50
6 25
1.40
.70
1 64
2.03
1
64
1,400
3 a
Perp. Trustee 2 00
17
3 SO
/ 4
3.75
3 80
3
55
100
100
4 8
Poteisvllle .20
Peters, W. A. .50
2 5
6 25
.53
1.79'
63
. 73
62
1 73
.64
1 9?
I.
55
73
23.700
41,800
4 0
3 6
5.9
Pioneer Cone. 50
6 25
1.45
1.58
1 60
1 60
i.
42
50,250
62.600
3.9
7 4
Provincial T. .50
5
5
1 29
1 20
90
15
90
1 IB
1.05
1.30
.90
1 00
3,800
100
6.9
4 7
17.8
10.2
Pye . 50
5
2 01
. 20
1 20
1.55
1
20
BOO
100
4 2
14 9
©'land Can 50
5
1.12
.01
1 02
1.13
1
OO
3.200
4 9
& 9
0'land Cement 2.00
6 80
J?
7 12
7 70
7
00
2 8
6.0
©land Ins. 1 00
12.5
3.53
15
4 20
4.50
4 00
B00
3 0
O’land Press 1.00
16
5 55
5.201
5 08
5 45
5
05
2.150
3 1
5. b
Reeds .50
7
2 00
1.55
1 50
1 74
1
50
3,200
4 7
7.8-
Repco .30
7 .5
2 03
III
2 23
2 23
1
88
22.750
38.9001
3 4
5. b
Rods .50
1
20
1.90
BO
1 901 2.141 1.78,
600
4,900'
3.71 6.4
Rothmans 1 00
3.33
3 00
3 00
3.15
2.
63
6.100
6.7
13 o
5.A Rubber 50
5 62
1 40
1.05
1 05
1 25
i.
00
450
1,700
5 3
13 4
5.T.P. Hold. .50
6.25
88
.93
93
1 00
.90
500
1,500
b 7
.55
Schwvppes 60
5.75
1 .60
. 65
1 63
1 85
i
63
300
500
3 1
5 2
Shelleys 50
7 5
2.28
2 45
2 50
2.50
2
30
100
3 0
8.3
Simpsort Pope .50
1
47
.28
.31
.4b
27
4,700
15.800
3.2
9 8
Sleigh, H. C .50
5
.74
.63
6?
.72
61
21.750
34.6001
8 l
11.1
Smith. How. 2 00
24
4 75
4 93
5 00
J 15l 4.
871
2,980|
1.150
4 0
6 9
Softwood 1.00
10
3.00
2.90
2 90
3 23
2
72
400!
4.01 13.5
Sth. Brit, Ins. 1.25
16.87
3 65
3.30
3 70
3 85
2 061
SB
500
3.0
7.1
Steamships .50
6.66
1.15
.93
97
1 05
9.900
1.100
6 9
n !
Stedman, J. .50
5vran Brew. .50
7.3
1 83
L.76
1 72
1.86
1.
63
1,700
4 4
8 1
3 38
2 28
2.40
2 45
2 50
2
?1
4,350
4,600
2-7
3 2
Tarax .50
6
.85
L .15.
1.14
1.22! 1
30
200
2.700
5 3
8.9
Taubmanj .50
3
1 43
1 0U|
1 05
1 18
1
35
3.400
200
7 6
fl 8
TV Corp. 1 00
20
2 95
2 >5
2 3.5
2 40
2.
3G
400
200
8 5
8 f.
Thless 50
—
.39
70
73
.76
.66
9.550
8 8
Tooheys 50
■125
.99
L 17
1 IS
1.21
1
10
19 700
8.35o!
» 6
5.6
Tofrth 1.00
15
4 68
5.07
5 04
5 36
4
TO
18.475
3 1
4 3
Union Carb. 1.00
10
2 98
3 31
3 40
3 65
3 28
1.300
500
2.9
b.Q
U.E. Box .63
6.3
1 33
1.35
1.38
1 48
1
35
600
500
6 i
10.3
Walker F J. 1 OO
12 5
1 78
1.33
1 38
1.63
1
30
1.300
100
9 1
9.3
Wa lions .50
6.5
1.01
L OS
1.10
1 10
.B5|
o
o
CO
rn
30,600
5 7
9.1
Webster, A. G. .50
8
1.20
t 37
1.37
1 37
1 25
200
5 5
11.1
WiH'ms, F. W. 1.00
10
3.25
3.50
3 50
4 00
3
45
12.900
2 9
5.4
Woolworths .50
6
1.49
1.39
1 43
1 43
1.
30
47.021
40,300
4.2
5.7
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year
Ago
Month Ago
Week Ago
Thi
Week
Aluminium, ton
Copper, wire bars,
Gold. ax.
£ 196
£ 146
£ 196
£ 196
£480
£730
£ 6771
£575
£ 12/10/9%
£ 1197a
1 12/11/
7
£ 12/11/
£ 12/11/6
Lead, cash, ton
£105%
4 100%
£ 97%
Silver, troy, os.
111%
d.
lll%d.
m%d.
111%
d.
Tin, cash, ton
£ 1453V?
£ 1359
£ 1366%
£ 1363
Wolfram, unit, c.I.f.
£ 9%
• £ 9%
£ 16%- C )7%
114%- £
15%
£ 14% -
f 15
7.«nc. cash, ton
£ 1137a
£ 103
£ 101%
£ 981
a
Wheat. Australian, ton
£ 25
£ 26%
£ 26 V
£ 26
-e
Linseed Oil, ton
1 97%
i 83V
£ U
Cocoa, 50 kilo*
Coffeo. cwt,
123/9
180/
198/6
198/9
186/
252/
withdrawn
withdrawn
Cotton. American middling,
23.5d
lb ....
23
7d.
23.33d
23.50.
ton
£ 157
t 137%
£ 137%
£ 137%
22%l
30 %d.
19 li-16d
20 5-i6d
£
£3%
E 20%
£ 19%
£ 20%
Tea, quality, lb.
Wool Tops, Ms. IP.
4/6-6/1
ioed.
4/4-5/10
120d.
4/5-6/8
117d.
117d
(Ail
figures
In sterling)
OVERSEAS INDEXES
London
New
York
Tokyo
1
'Financial Times*'
! Dow
Jones
D. Jones
Inds. 1 Secs. 1
Gold
| Irds
Rails
Jan. 3. 1966 .. . .
1966 high
338
7 1 78.74!
61.3
965 54
247 38
1430 13
374
0 77.43
65.2
995 15
271.72
158P- 73
337
3 76 93|
58 6
911 06
243 60
1412 98
Mth. ago
345
345
8 | 77.27|
B 1 77.43
63.3
53.6
931 29
954 73
251 66
265 92
1588.73
1502 60
L«te»t* g,?
349.1 | T7.43I
59
.4
933.68
253 68
1553.68
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
1
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
IINDUSTRIALI MINING
|INOUSTRIAL|
MINING
Sales 1 Value
Sales 1 Value
Sales | Value
Vol.
1
S
Vol
1 3
Vol. |
S
Vol
1
S
[ 1000
| 1000
1000 | 1000
1000 | 10CO
1050 1 1000
Week to Friday
12332.613448 9
1355
.11 960.
>1
1811 | 2901
331
837
Week Before
i3162.8i4608.6
1398
6| 807.3 7242 1 >3bl
321
779
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS


Here’s proof!
You’ll save S2OO to S5OO
on every fork lift truck with
[PHILLIPS,
r 0
SV9II Hd
i 1
■
~JB2
JF?
.
wmi
e*m ir-i
Fork lift and other industrial truck engines give
more hours of work time per truck . . . and last up
to 3 times longer with Philgas. Why? Because there
are no carburettor or fuel pump problems, no car-
bon, sludge, sticky valves or rings—spark plugs
last several times longer . . . because Philgas is
today’s cleanest-burning fuel. As you lower main-
tenance costs you increase efficiency with Philgas.
No irritating fumes
Your trucks can be worked safely in the most con-
fined areas because there are no dangerous, irritating
fumes with Philgas. Switch your trucks to Philgas
now, specify Philgas for your new trucks —and start
saving money!
[ PHILLIPS/
ĥ
From the world’s largest l.p. gas company
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY!
For full details on how you can save money on your
fork lift trucks with Philgas, mail this coupon to:
Phillips Oil Products Ltd., Philgas Division,
235 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
PG33R


lease it?
Leasing means new machinery to-
day. Leasing means modern equip-
ment without capital outlay. Leas-
ing can mean a lot to you. Write for
our free booklet, “Lease Plan".
Learn all about the advantages of
leasing from our years of experience.
ħ
GENERAL
CREDITS
LIMITED
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
210 Alinga Street, Canberra. Ph.: 4 4231
Branch offices throughout Australia.
6850/C
Damning the Ord
The case against development
ALTHOUGH twelve years of experimental work preceded the construction of the Ord
River dam in 1959-61, the decision to commence building the diversion dam was
made without any economic assessment of the scheme as a whole. At this time it was
known that rice, safflower, cotton, linseed, and sugar could be produced in the region,
but the relative profitability of all of these crops was completely unknown.
The diversion dam was erected to irri-
gate 30,000 acres of land which were to
act as a pilot scheme for the main dam,
capable of supplying sufficient water to
irrigate 150,000 acres of land. The con-
struction of the large dam was only to
be proceeded with if the pilot scheme
proved successful.
Preliminary economic estimates in 1963,
based on the results obtained in experi-
ments, suggested that farming in the
area would only be profitable if it were
heavily subsidised. In spite of this warn-
ing the Western Australian Government
asked the Commonwealth Government for
a grant to build the main dam before the
results of the first year’s cropping were
known. A further petition for a grant to
commence the large dam was made in
1965 and is still being considered by the
Commonwealth Government.
As commercial farming has been car-
ried out for two years on the Ord River,
it is now possible to calculate whether
the Commonwealth Government is justi-
fied in proceeding with the scheme on
economic grounds.
The first five farmers on the Ord River
commenced operations in 1964. They were
assured by the Western Australian Gov-
ernment that safflower and cotton could
be produced profitably at the existing
subsidised prices. In the dry season of
that year all five farmers attempted to
produce safflower. Although experimental
yields of one ton per acre had been ob-
tained, commercial yields averaged less
than half a ton per acre. All five farmers
lost money producing safflower and the
crop is no longer recommended.
In the 1964-65 wet season the first
commercial crop of cotton was harvested
and an average yield of 4481 b. of raw
cotton was obtained. Farmers received
49.6 pence per lb. of raw cotton, including
a subsidy of 16.125 pence per lb. During
1965-66 twenty farmers planted cotton and
obtained an average yield of 6361 b. of raw
cotton which was sold for the same price
as in the previous year. Farmers obtained
satisfactory profits from both crops of
cotton.
There is little doubt that this crop can
be profitably grown in the area providing
the existing subsidy is paid to farmers.
The average subsidy paid during the first
two years of cropping was £10,134 per
farm or £36 per acre, excluding interest
on capital works constructed by the State.
At this level of subsidy it would be
cheaper to pay farmers and farm labourers
£2OOO each per annum to live in the
area and do nothing, and to import cotton
from overseas.
During the same period it has been
demonstrated that cotton can be produced
at a much lower cost in northern N.S.W.,
and almost as cheaply on the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area, although yields
in the latter area are not high. Australia’s
existing cotton imports could be produced
on 100,000 acres of irrigated land; there is
little doubt that this amount of cotton
could be produced in southern Queens-
land or northern N.S.W. at a lower cost
than on the Ord River.
As the existing cotton subsidy is limited
to £2 million per annum, the present
subsidy per lb. of lint paid to farmers
will decline when cotton production in
Australia exceeds 50 million lbs. of lint.
Given the expected yields at Narrabri and
on the Ord, the decline in prices received
by farmers will commence in 1966. As
this process continues, the low cost areas
in the eastern States will be the only areas
able to produce profitably unless the
remaining areas, including the Ord River,
can produce cotton profitably at export
prices.
The Ord River Scheme is in
jeopardy. Prospects of the Federal
Government providing the $64 million
to build the main dam are now fading
as Federal Ministers such as Mr. J. D.
Anthony have been expressing in pub-
lic their “second thoughts” about the
cotton-growing project.
Last week the Faculty of Agricultural
Economics of the University of New
England warned against the scheme,
saying it was not economically justifi-
able and that the subsidy required
would bring retaliatory action from
Australia’s present, suppliers of cotton,
particularly the U.S. and Mexico.
But supporters of the Ord scheme
claim that the anti-Ord campaign is
being engineered by N.S.W. cotton
growers. The most vocal spokesman
against the Ord scheme has been DR.
BRUCE DAVIDSON, of the Univer-
sity of Sydney. In this article he outlines
his position.
It has been suggested that this conclu-
sion is invalid because irrigation areas in
the southern States will change to more
profitable crops as the price of cotton
declines, leaving the Ord River as the
principal supplier of Australia’s cotton.
This suggestion ignores the fact that
profitable alternative crops do not exist.
Under these circumstances the Ord
scheme should only be proceeded with if


•Tin
O
ao°
WZs.
S«o
i*»2mSR
°OBO
S 2»
00®^
ItWys
*ofK
oao°
sir,
lUg
gOg
OtllM
35
£7/3^
SS9
Pd
000
Of®
M
r.<.
a#
D&Si
NS
Soften#
'a&SS I
Ks>
8 s?
<?>
S o9?o«
(S*
r'/ftf
afe
Sp^T
/7Ma
Where’s the best office space for you?
Ask Jones, Lang, Wootton, they are “making room”
every day for Australia’s largest (and smallest)
businesses and companies.
You can view office space with an experienced
member of our staff without obligation. We invite
your enquiries which will receive our immediate
attention... 67 8821.
JONES LANG WOOTTON
AUSTRALIAN PROGRESS THROUGH REAL ESTATE
116 Queen Street, Melbourne. Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Scottish Amicable House 140 Queen Street, 460 Bourke Street,
BP House and 437 St. Kilda Road, a few of the buildings in which
space is currently available in Melbourne.
G 4
cotton can be exported profitably. At
existing freight rates and prices the most
that farmers could expect for exported
cotton is 20.0 pence per lb. of lint. This
figure should be compared with the aver-
age costs of producing cotton in the area.
In 1964-65, which was an average season,
the cost was 35.6 pence per lb. of lint.
In 1965-66, an extremely favorable sea-
son, the average cost of production was
29.6 pence per lb. of lint. At these costs
and prices farming could only be main-
tained on the Ord if an export subsidy
of approximately £BOOO per farm was
paid. If interest on the £2O million
invested in headworks is charged at 5
percent, the total subsidy would increase
to £12,000 for each 600-acre farm, or £3
million for the whole scheme.
In a recent investigation Dr. Rex Pat-
terson suggested that farm profits could
be increased by £5OOO per farm per
annum by growing 300 acres of sorghum
on each farm, if the crop yielded 67201 b.
from two harvests. This estimation is
based on a yield of 80001 b. obtained in
experimental crops from an unstated num-
ber of harvests. It is difficult to see why
average yields of more than two-thirds of
experimental yields (the normal farm
experimental yield ratio) should be
obtained under commercial conditions.
This would reduce the average yield from
6720 to 53331 b. of grain sorghum and
the expected profit from the crop from
£5OOO to £3600 from 300 acres of sorg-
hum.
JF sorghum is grown successfully in con-
junction with exported cotton it would
still be necessary to subsidise Ord River
farmers to the extent of £5400 per annum,
excluding the cost of any capital works
provided by the State.
All of these calculations assume that
the existing world prices of tropical crops
will be maintained. The Food and Agri-
cultural Organisation of the United
Nations and other authorities consider
that the price paid for tropical crops will
decline in relation to other products. The
recent decision by the United States
Government to sell surplus cotton on the
world market will certainly reduce the
price of cotton in the immediate future.
Two years of commercial farming on
the Ord River lead to a conclusion which
is little different to that drawn using the
published experimental data available in
1962.
Farming on the Ord River could only
be maintained if it were heavily sub-
sidised. Under these circumstances it
would be unwise for the Commonwealth
Government to proceed with the scheme,
when other agricultural projects such as
the development of the brigalow and
spear grass areas for beef raising would
return satisfactory profits without annual
subsidies.
Under these circumstances it would be
better to limit the Ord River scheme to
the 30,000 acres which can be irrigated
from the diversion dam, until it is demon-
strated that this region can export crops
without any form of subsidy.


m
VSS6&>
mmm
••• •-■■•.•••■■
x>s
Cinzano Vermouth is a great party drink; fashionable, and
not expensive. Superb in cocktails, it's utterly enjoyable
straight and very cold, “on-the-rocks,” or with a little
soda. Add a professional touch by serving*—
CINZANO SWEET (red) with a lemon peel
CINZANO EXTRA DRY with an olive
CINZANO BIANCO (sweet white) with a cherry
CINZANO AMARO (pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
CINZANO
House Founded 1757
Write to Cinzano. Birmingham Street. Alexandria. N.S.W., lor
"Have a Cinzano Party" folder.
MAN ON THE LAND
Funds for the Shires
Tax the non-ratepayer
IF the N.S.W. Royal Commission on Local Government Finance is able to clearly define
the problem it is investigating, it will be a remarkable achievement. If it is able to
reach a solution, satisfactory to all, it will be a miraculous achievement.
It is possible to discern how we arrived
at our system of rates and taxes. Plow to
find a way out of the maze is a challenge
to the imagination.
The N.S.W. Graziers’ Association, along
with some other farm groups, believes it
may have the answer. This would be to
tax non-ratepaying residents of shires and
municipalities.
To property owners, and property
owners predominate in the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association (an understatement,
actually), this is an appealing proposition.
Why should the property owner pay for
the roads, kindergartens, swimming-pools,
reception halls, and so on which every shire
and municipality aspires to in the affluent
society.
The trouble is that such a proposition
is easily labelled a “poll tax.” There have
been many “poll taxes” in history and
they had one thing in common —politically
they were dynamite.
A non-ratepaying resident of a shire or
a municipality is someone who does not
own property. If he pays a “poll tax,” then
it is difficult to convince him that he is
not entitled to have a vote in the election
of the council which taxes him. If he is
denied a vote, or if he has only a limited
vote, then he is encouraged to fight for
what he considers his right. The lesson of
history is that, usually, he ends up winning.
The character of the council, or assembly
or what have you, changes and the boot
is on the other foot.
'J'HOSE who applied the “poll tax” are,
under the new regime, taxed far more
heavily than they were when they were in
control. The only exceptions to this general
rule would appear to be situations in which
the controllers have an army to enforce
the “poll tax” without fear of challenge,
or when a long-established class system is
so entrenched that it performs much the
same function. Neither method is part of
the Australian tradition and can be dis-
missed without further discussion.
However, in passing, it is interesting to
note that the U.S. Supreme Court only a
few weeks ago ruled that the “poll tax” in
certain southern States was unconstitu-
tional. In these regions the tax had served
for many generations to keep the negro
either a reluctant or complaisant voter. A
different kind of “poll tax” to be sure; but
like any kind, abhorrent, eventually, in a
democratic society.
Coming back to Australia, another aspect
of such a tax must be considered —and
seems not to have been by the N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association. Can it be really
claimed that the non-ratepayer does not
already contribute his share of municipal
funds?
Unless he lives in a tent and has no
money at all, he is likely to pay some
kind of rent. Are not rates taken into
account in the fixing of rent for homes or
business properties? Of course they are.
Even if the non-ratepayer is a short-
term resident —staying one night in a hotel,
for instance—he pays a rent of a kind and
rates have a bearing on the charge.
Presumably the N.S.W. Graziers do not
mean that all non-ratepaying residents
should be taxed for municipal purposes.
We do not think that anyone could seri-
ously suggest that wives and children, per
head, should be taxed. This would be
inconceivable and, probably, illegal also.
We cannot be too certain about the legal
aspect because Australian courts, over the
years, have handed down some strange
judgments indeed in the area of taxation.
In criminal law, for example, there are
firmly rooted guidelines. In matters re-
lating to taxation the direct, and indirect,
influence of the political party in power
over the courts is apparent. The passing
into law of the wool levy and the CEMA
egg levy are two fairly recent happenings


%
X
Portrait of a well-dressed man not
wearing one of your suits
Dear
Anthony Squires:
It’s time you met
Alan Pascoe
He owns a thriving business in an outer
suburb. He’s a nice chap who’s comfortably off and
doesn’t have to watch his pennies. He bought
4 suits last year. But none of them were yours.
There’s something over V 2 a million men
living within the Sydney and Melbourne viewing
areas, and they buy a lot of suits. How many
of them buy yours? Not enough? Then here’s
something to keep in mind.
The two “Nines” put your name before the largest
captive audience in this country . . . seven
nights a week. And they’re all potential buyers
—wide open to the potent selling skills
of the two “Nines,” which are always at your
service. Interested?
Channel §H§
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
8525
TCN-9 SALES — Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street. 61-9931.
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.
GTV-9 SALES — Melbourne: 22 Bendigo Street. 42-0201.
__________ Sydney: 54 Park Street. 61-9931.


fly
' ' "3 —|
"HOW CAN I SERVE
THIS BUSINESSMAN
BETTER THAN HE’S
EVER BEEN SERVED
BEFORE?"
: W
mmm
■ ;
ws a
$
THINKING CAP
Here are some of the ways Ansett-ANA people think of your needs before
you've thought of them yourself. Pleasant people giving you pleasant service.
■ They will book you on the most convenient flight
■ Arrange an Avis Rent-A-Car to be waiting when you arrive
■ Reserve accommodation for you alone, or a full convention group
■ Arrange for secretarial service ■ Organise your press conferences
■ Plan special sightseeing tours ■ Getyourtheatretickets.
No wonder most Australian businessmen who fly regularly insist on Ansett-
ANA-. Shouldn’t everyone?
ANSETT-ANA
SYSTEM OF THE GOLDEN JETS
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
2395
which are worthy of study in the purely
legal domain.
It seems a pity that the N.S.W. inquiry
into local government finances is not
better publicised—especially in. Victoria,
where a number of shires and municipali-
ties are locked in bitter controversy over
the respective merits of the NAV system
and the UCV system of rating. The
cynical view is that it does not matter
much: either way the property owner gets
slugged.
Certainly proponents of both systems
are wont to make extravagant claims for
both these hobby-horses. Until the N.S.W.
inquiry is ended, a moratorium on these
rating disputes would appear in order.
N.S.W., having had UCV for 50 years,
escapes these clashes, but has had plenty
of its own to worry about.. There’s room
for disputes on end in the rating sphere,
regardless of the particular system in use.
ONE of the more perplexing aspects of
all rating issues is that often the
strongest voice comes from those people
who oppose private ownership of property.
Logically this would seem to negate their
arguments. Apparently they do not think
so. They are most vocal. Most Australians
build their lives around what is, not what
might be. Most Australians also should ask
themselves whether we treat symptoms
instead of causes in dealing with rating
issues.
Deakin and Syme, in retrospect, are the
archetype Australian figures of public life
—one the idealist, one the opportunist.
Australia adopted federation with an
ominous admixture of idealism and oppor-
tunism; now the chickens are coming
home to roost.
There will never be a satisfactory sys-
tem of local taxes until the basic flaws
of our system of federalism are corrected.
There should be either more federalism,
or less, and it must be for the people to
decide, if they can.
Behind the politicians is what is
generally termed the public sector all
the departments, semi-departments, sub-
sidised institutions, and so on, right down
to the shire council where it all begins.
The comical side of it all is that you can
have the most bitter local divisions, with
hatred, malice, and design all apparent,
yet overall it can count for nothing.
We have built for ourselves layers of
public administration and we are all pay-
ing for it one way or another.
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change
their addresses are ashed to notify “The
Bulletin” Subscription Department well
in advance in order to avoid a break
in the continuity of service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former
address,' to the Subscription Depart-
ment.


\
LOOK
THE ARD 52-
CROSSBAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted —no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
Features: Any extension can be nominated as “operator”
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other • Outside calls dialled direct by
extension • Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
mm I
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD, FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
ft
FLY TO SWITZERLAND
VIA THE EAST
h
SWISSCARE -h WORLDWIDE
AGRISEARCH
Milk for Choosy Children
Chance to expand school consumption
A DEPARTMENT of Health study in
Tasmania indicates that the school
milk scheme instituted in 1954 has
done well by the kids and dairy farmers
alike, but could do better. Except in the
most remote areas, every school gets a
daily delivery of free milk at the rate
of one-third of a pint for each eligible
drinker. However, about 10 percent of
the children in the autumn and spring
terms, and at least 15 percent during the
winter term, fail to avail themselves of
the opportunity. Some of these just don’t
like plain milk, while the rest are put
off because they can’t stand the cream
layer or “plug” that forms in the neck
of the small bottle provided for each
child.
The figures obtained during the study
were rather cautiously compiled, and in
most States the latest statistics at hand
were three years old. Since then the
number of schoolchildren has increased,
so the figures would tend to under-
estimate the present real situation. Prob-
ably, therefore, if every child in the
Commonwealth consumed his quota an
extra 15,000 gallons of milk would be
needed each school day. Over the school
year this would amount to at least
$2,000,000 of milk—a dividend well worth
the industry’s while to attempt to win.
And the Tasmanian study, which in-
cluded a pilot trial, has shown how balk-
ing children can be induced to imbibe.
Abstainers who don’t like ordinary milk
will almost all drink flavored milk, while
none of the ordinary milk drinkers turn
away from “chocolate” or “strawberry”
milk; the cream-haters are seduced by
homogenised milk. In this process the fat
globules are subdivided by squirting the
milk under high pressure through tiny
holes. When reduced sufficiently small,
the globules lose buoyancy and remain
in suspension in the milk for several days.
Hence the development of the charac-
teristic cream layer is postponed.
Homogenised milk is said to taste
fresher, and certainly it is more readily
digestible than ordinary milk. The pro-
cess also makes flavoring much more
successful, as the flavoring substance, like
the cream, remains evenly distributed.
Syrup added to normal milk soon sinks
to the bottom while the cream rises to
the top, giving a bottle an unappetising
appearance. Before homogenisation was
tried ordinary milk with flavoring added
was offered in two schools. In one it was
presented in clear glass bottles which, after
the novelty wore off, was refused by the
children. In the other it was served in car-
tons and has retained its popularity to this
day.
The pilot trial was very successful.
Homogenised plain and flavored. milk was
first offered to schools in northern Tas-
mania in May, 1964. Consumption rose
immediately by 10 percent and remained
up during the winter, when usually there is
at least a 5 percent decline in these schools.
Moreover the consumption rate has con-
tinued at the same high level ever since.
As a result, the dairy supplying this area
has recognised that homogenisation was
profitable and has bought and installed the
necessary equipment. Other dairies in
southern Tasmania have since done like-
wise, and homogenised plain and flavored
milk is now available in most schools on
the island. In one of the schools, only
75 percent of the eligible children had been
regular milk-drinkers, but now 99.7 percent
of them are. Tasmania contains about
4 percent of Australia’s primary school-
children, so the mainland is where the
new milk must be pushed.
Of course, as in any marketing situa-
tion, mere alteration of the nature of the
product did not of itself win the increased
consumption in Tasmania’s schools. An
effective promotion campaign was also
mounted, though not along the lines gener-
ally adopted by the ad. agencies. The
Departments of Health, Education and
Agriculture gave the scheme their official
backing. Additional thrust was volunteered
by the dental profession, mothers’ clubs,
the classroom teachers themselves, tele-
vision, radio, the Press, and even the
parents. The publicity campaign stressed
that the new milk was simply intended
to bring the benefits of milk-drinking to
children who don’t happen to like plain
milk. This honest appeal for a good
cause gained the ready co-operation of all
interests, whether they were financial,
professional, or ideological.
No brain-washing or other high-
pressure tactics were used. So it would
seem that homogenised milk could be
equally successfully introduced in the
mainland schools. State-wide dietary sur-
veys have on several occasions shown that
the “at home” milk consumption of chil-
dren is, lamentably, often far below the
quantity recommended by nutritionists.
Some ten-year-olds, for example,’get less
than half a cup of milk a day at home.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To GEORGE LESLIE WRAY
TAKE NOTICE that MADGE WRAY has
filed Petition No. 3963 of 1965 for divorce
on the grounds of drunkenness and cruelty
and seeks orders for Custody, Maintenance,
Settlement and Costs. If you wish to
defend, you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 31st day of May, 1966, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. lan Duncan, Knud-
sen & Co., Solicitors, 403 George Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To WILLIAM CHARLES BEACH
TAKE NOTICE that JOAN BEACH has
filed Petition No. 871 of 1966, for divorce
on the ground of Drunkenness and geeks
orders for Custody, Maintenance and
Costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 7th June,
1966. You may obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs.
JOHN D. NORTON RICKARD & SYM-
O'NDS, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, the city agents for Bruce O’Sulli-
van, Solicitor of Newcastle. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
To DAPHNE AGNES BALDRY late of
North Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that JOHN HORACE
BALDRY has filed a Petition for divorce
No. 4629 of 1965 on the ground of deser-
tion and seeks an order for custody. If
you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 2nd June, 1966, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS & CO.,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney. C.
A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To JOHN MARSHALL BAINBRIDGE
TAKE NOTICE that JUDITH ELLEN
BAINBRIDGE has filed Petition No. 455
of 1966, for divorce on the ground of
Desertion and seeks orders for Custody,
Maintenance, and Costs. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before 7th June, 1966. You may obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs. JOHN D. NORTON RICK-
ARD & SYMONDS, Solicitors, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney, the City Agents for
BRUCE O’SULLIVAN, Solicitor, New-
castle. C. A. HARMS, Registrar.
In these circumstances the Commonwealth
Free School Milk Scheme makes an im-
portant contribution to our children’s
physical welfare.
The Department of Health certainly
would not begrudge another $2 million
trickling from its coffers into dairy-
farmers’ pockets if they can persuade every
primary school child to drink his share of
milk. It is probable, too, that tastes well
formed at this level will persist in senior
school children and even into adulthood,
so that milk consumption in the commu-
nity at large would eventually increase.
American grown-ups are notorious milk-
bibbers. But they have long had the
attractions of flavored, homogenised milk.
Locust Control
JTNTOMOLOGISTS at the University
of Sheffield, northern England, claim
that egg production in grasshoppers is
controlled by two glands in the insects’
heads. One stimulates the manufacture
of the yolk for the eggs while the other
regulates the transfer of the raw material
from the blood into the eggs. This gland,
called the corpus allatum, switches on
and off as required during egg develop-
ment. The hope is that a chemical can be
found which will be able to keep this gland
permanently switched off.
Control by this means could be highly
effective and easier to apply than the
control measures now usually practised.
The Anti-Locust Research Centre in
London, which co-ordinates research
throughout the world, is giving this new
development strong support. The Centre
sent three experienced scientists out here
recently to discuss possibilities and plan
co-operative research with the CSIRO’s
Division of Entomology. They spent
some three months here visiting outbreak
areas in western New South Wales and
south-western Queensland.
Although more precise methods of
attacking locusts have been devised since
the war and more lethal sprays found,
great difficulties remain, nevertheless, in
applying the current control measures. The
time interval between the first premoni-
tion of an outbreak and swarming is short.
Yet this is when spraying ought to be
carried out. Moreover, great volumes of
spray are needed to contain just one large
potential outbreak. This necessitates stock-
piling spray, but lindane, the most suitable
chemical, has a short storage life.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 897
ACROSS
1. A ceremony for the lamented to leave dreamland.
(4) .
3. A fairy-tale hero is not the dauphin though. (4, 6)
9. Top of the hit parade, biblically speaking. (4, 2,5)
11. Low mooring is unmarried. (3)
12. Invalid earnings? (3-6, 5)
14. Pass away some old master’s experts on intake. (10)
16. His French offspring. (3)
18. Creature which is left uninitiated. (3)
19. Dressing as I annoy me dreadfully. (10)
23. They’re imperfect moments at the works. (7, 7)
26. Oval to divine rum. (3)
27. Yugoslav empty around on
some compass-point leer. (11)
28. One who’s up in farm financ-
ing keeps a King George duck
fogless. (10)
29. The knotted tie may hide this
breeding ground. (4)
DOWN
1. Fast-bowler Hall can wreck
a side where he most often
plays. (4, 6)
2. Broken leg is knit, being most
majestic. (9)
4. Again put into type trees
when wrecked. (5)
5. Reformed Clara’s reprobate.
(6)
6. But the ladies will not be
barred by this name. (15)
7. Cupid aggrieved when upset.
(4)
8. Petrol additive I associated
with a flowering shrub. (7)
10. Cloth to be found in no inn.
(5) .
13. Lacking instruction unless Id.
is available. (10)
15. A specific American state or
no particular one. (3)
16. What’s a bowler like Benaud
to the French and the ara-
chnid organ ? (9)
17. He gives chances to him who
keeps a giggle. (7)
20, Professional seen in an item
of protective apparel. (5)
21. They shut up and their obser-
vations, though very few, are
among Tolstoy’s tersest. (7)
22. Part of a flower prayer’s end
is under way. (6)
24. It may have protected when
Noah, after the Flood, urged
him and his mate to go forth
and multiply. (5)
25. Fish having a musical tail-
piece. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 896


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail—26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight: v ,
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg,
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
AMERICA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks „ 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 Issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address 0..................
j j Renewal. j | New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
Legal Notice
L. T. PITMAN BIRTH CERTIFICATE
(No. 20514) has not sent any proxy inter-
state or overseas in the past 10 years. All
business deals have to be concluded by
left thumb printed signature on last docu-
ment at least. L. T. PITMAN (1953 Pass-
port E 44658). See press notices Sydney
Morning Herald, The News, Adelaide,
South Australia, etc. Signed L. T. Pitman,
25/3/66.
SPECULATORS DIARY
The Great Law of Averages
Don’t rely on one year’s earnings
COMPANY directors are often said to be the worst judges of their own companies’
share prices. But at times they must be bewildered at the way the market runs their
shares up and down.
Take Gibson and Howes, for example.
Back in 1963, when sugar was gold (or
should I say copper?), G. and H.’s shares
got all the way up to 87s. 6d. (if you’ll
forgive me for lapsing back into £sd).
Even the directors temporarily lost their
heads, bought a property or two, de-
dared a l-for-3 bonus, and wished every-
one the compliments of the season. Now,
just a bare two years later, the company
suffers a loss and the shares (since split
into dollar units) are getting down to-
ward par at $1.30 or so.
Eric White, the public relations people,
is another case in point. Up went the shares
to 295. in 1964, soon after Stock Exchange
listing. Now two years and a half-year
loss later they are down to 60 cents.
Admittedly these two are extreme cases,
but much the same sort of thing is hap-
pening all the time. The reason, I suspect,
is that far too many analysts value a
share on one year’s earnings only. What
the enthusiasts of one year’s earnings for-
get is that past successes are not always
repeated regularly year after year in the
future. The law of averages seems to
attend to that.
Not that this has much to do with my
own portfolio, except that it came to
mind when I was thinking of buying
Pioneer Sugar after it announced a lower
profit last week. Buy on bad news, they
say. I’d been furtively planning this little
move for some time, but had expected
Pioneer’s profit to be down a good deal
more than 30 percent. When this was all
the fall turned out to be the shares rose
instead of falling, so I did nothing,
Instead, I took one of my rare plunges
i n the oil market. What I know about oil
shares could, of course, be written on the
back of the old postage stamp. Yet ex-
pertise seems to be the last thing needed
in the oil market and elsewhere, too,
I’m beginning to think. To get back to
the point, however. My broker rang me
breathlessly to tell me that Woodside was
making a call and what a wonderful thing
it would be for someone in my tax posi-
tion. I hastened to assure him that taxa-
tion was no longer the problem to me
that it used to be. Not that I’ve become
philosophical about taxation, or so eager
to contribute to our defence commitment
i n Vietnam that I’m paying it happily;
given the choice I’d prefer to spend the
money on the Save the Children Fund,
It’s just that my income has regrettably
adjusted itself downward, and somewhat
abruptly at that. The law of averages at
work again, no doubt. A great law, that,
However, the thought occurred to me
that not everyone’s income had suffered
the same abysmal fate as mine. Here it
was April: tax time for those on lush
incomes. And very few, if any, oil calls
so far this financial year for those who
rely on such devices to get their tax
down. I also had some vague idea that
Woodside had leases down Gippsland
way, somewhere near the Esso-BHP terri-
tory. To a novice oil speculator like my-
self all this sounded pretty good. So I
made my broker’s call worth his while and
told him to get me 2000 of the five-cent
paids. This he did, very promptly, at 13
cents. By Tuesday they were up to 18
cents. A rise of nearly 50 percent! I should
have sold. I didn’t.
My other purchase this week was 100
A. G. Campbell $1 shares at $2.84. A. G.
Campbell operates a network of nine
wholesale grocery stores, all in the Sydney
area, serving that noble band of grocers,
the “independents.” Faced with increasing
competition from Woolworths, Coles, and
others, these grocers have either had to
close up or turn to someone like Camp-
bells to give them the advantages of bulk
buying and the consequent discounts.
The extent of A. G. Campbell’s success
is best illustrated by its profits, which
have trebled since 1961, when the shares
were first listed on the Exchange. Not
only have profits risen steadily but so
also has the earning rate, which last year
was almost 40 percent to capital. In fact,
the record is every bit as good as that of
Philip Morris, Hanimex, and other star
performers of recent years. Dividend, how-
ever, has remained steady at 12£ percent
all along. Which made me think the time
must be near for a higher dividend or
may be a cash issue. Because there are not
many shares about, the company is not
very well known, so an issue could help
to make this first-class little stock more
popular.
Details of the week’s two purchases
were:
BOUGHT
2000 Woodside ctg., 13c, $266.
100 A. G. Campbell, $2.84, $290.
Still no need to sell anything, as last
week’s credit balance of $506 got me
through all but $50 of the above. But I’ll
have to face up to some overdue selling
decisions next week.
Meanwhile the portfolio is:
Cost
No. of Name of Date Per Price
Shares Company Bought Share 27/4/66
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 $1.10 $1.10
200 VAM 28/9/65 0.50 0.47
400 B. J. Ball 2/2/66 0.88 0.80
400 Riverina TV 13/2/66 0.74 0.73
400 West Titanium ctg. 13/2/66 1.15 1.04
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.73
400 Coal and Allied 24/2/66 1.36 1.38
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.38
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.15
200 Fowlers Vacola 13/3/66 0.45 0.46
200 W. R. Carpenter 24/3/66 2.58 2.68
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.22
100 Tyree 30/3/66 1.62 1.68
200 Cottees 5/4/66 2.96 2.92
400 Nattall 5/4/66 0.70 0.70
500 Consol. Rutile 13/4/66 0.89 1.00
100 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 2.02 2.05
2000 Woodride ctg. 22/4/66 0.13 0.16
100 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.84 2.84


the cities of the world
and their secrets
colour studies of
entire continents,
the natural wealth
of the world
and where it is found
ĥ
ħ
h
SOUTH
fsf; ■ O
MimU BB§K 3
AMERICA | ™{“» £
tw eaumig sratt.auauL-**^ — !
PICTURE
KTt »<*
EUROPE
SV’U.S.S.R- t
:\Lil f\ Kjffi
pif.tURF
' ftf:
AUSTRALIA |
SSSffls^l
* **““ *** 1
MWtt MW. ***« ******* * :
mms
Ba<**
«****•*'
"v-
-<v,
charts! maps! hundreds
of glorious colour pages
where there are children there is a need for knowledge
2 GREAT SERIES DEAL FOR YOUNGSTERS
ĥ
?
M
If there are young
children in your home
. . . children who ask questions . . . whose curi-
osity about the world around them is unbounded
—then The Golden Book Encyclopaedia and
Golden Book Picture Atlas Set will bring a
world of joy and of knowledge into their lives
(and to yours as you see them learn!).
GOLDEN BOOK
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
The most readable, usable and tempting reference
books ever published for young people. Designed to
make reading and learning an exciting and enjoyable
experience. Contains all the richness of illustration
and educational merit that has endeared “Little'
Golden Books” to millions of children and parents
throughout the world. Sixteen lavishly produced vol-
umes. Over 6,000 illustrations in full colour . . .
500,000 words in clear, simple text . . . 9,000 references
in 1,400 easy-to-read articles on vital topics . . .
printed in large, clear type.
THIS IS AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST BOOK VALUE . . . DON’T MISS OUT!
GOLDEN BOOK
PICTURE ATLAS
OF THE WORLD
The Picture Atlas will transport your children to those
distant and exotic lands they learn about in school . . . help
them with their studies . . . give them new knowledge of the
entire world. The magic of colour and pictures makes
Geography inviting and unforgettable. Designed as com-
panion set to the Golden Encyclopaedia. Ideally suited to
school and home needs. Six colourful volumes—one for
each continent. Over 1,000 maps, charts, photos in glorious
full colour . . . 576 exciting pages . . . complete index . . .
extra-tough binding and paper. Each volume is
10Jd>" x 754" x thick.
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS DUAL OFFER . , .
MAIL THIS NO-OBLIGATION COUPON NOWI
Don't delay! Mail coupon now!
I would like to have, without obligation, details
of “Golden Book Encyclopaedia’’ and “Golden
Book Picture Atlas’’ TOGETHER WITH ANY
ONE OP THE SERIES OP FABULOUS GOLDEN
BOOKS now available from National Literary
Association. SEND FOR YOURS TODAY . .
FREE AND OBLIGATION-FREE! (Offer not
applicable in W.A. or outside Aus’t.)
National literary association
INC. PTY. LTD.,
10 Dowling Street, Potts Point, N.S.W.
Signature
NAME iplease print)
ADDRESS
B l
STATE.


J
m\
mm
.
t mw-
m
<pew»
W. WM
/
if
v-«
I
vt
%
\
-
& \
»,*
V
if
in
k «9
V i
«t % •
W*
Jsaf
Hennessy is the Greatest Name in Cognac Because...
for two centuries the Hennessy family through seven MRNNESSY
generations have built up the largest and finest reserves of RRA . arup
Cognac in the world. That’s why the standard of a
excellence never changes. The high quality is guaranteed. CwvJINAE
In this Distinctive Bottle.
N.S.W. Agents: Gollin & Co. Ltd., Harbottle, Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd. All other States: Gollin & Co. Ltd.
