

The Bulletin
• ADELAIDE S FOURTH FESTIVAL
MARCH 26. 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
PICTURE BY JACK KUNST
DROUGHT
Registered in Australia for transmission by post os a newspaper,
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


*fes®
f*f&*»*s*£i&sk
i ' 1
POPE ELECTRIC MOTORS
from % h.p. to 125 h.p.
Whatever your electric motor require-
ments, POPE’S superior manufacture
guarantees you the utmost efficiency
and performance.
The POPE Electric Motor Develop-
ment and Test Laboratory is part of
an immense manufacturing and sales
organisation of 103 acres and over
3,500 employees. Here, senior staff
technicians make sure that all motors
perform to the highest possible degree
of efficiency and economy, and that
they conform in all respects to the
rigid specifications dictated by all
British and Australian standards.
The result? Many of Australia's largest
electric motor users find that year
after year it pays them to install
POPE motors. The wide range of POPE
motors —from Va h.p. to 125 h.p.—
means there is the exact power and
type of motor for your job.
Why not get the facts from POPE?
Phone or write your nearest Branch.
fMSL
Manufactured by Simpson Pope Ltd. Branches at
□ N.S.W.: 68-72 Kingsgrove Road, Belmore. 78-0111
□ W.A.: Walter Road, Morley. 76-1411
□ VIC.: 128 Wellington St., Collingwood. 41-0291
□ S.A.: Pope Street, Beverley. 4-5027
□ TAS.: 75-77 Hopkins Street, Moonah. 8-4621
□ QLD.: 31 College St., Whinstanes, Brisbane. 68-202
POPE
ELECTRIC MOTORS


A A. s
COONAWARRA ESTATE
HERMITAGE
PRIDE
aS
m
u 3
.
mm
m
; si:
p : p"
COONAWARRA ESTATE
RIESLING
OF PLACE
-Jlj
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CABERNET
The fine wines of the world have always been associated with specific places
and no wines are more specific about, or prouder of, their origin than
COONAWARRA estate. Coonawarra is located (refer to the map, on the back
label) in the south-east corner of South Australia, remote from other wine-
growing areas hence its exclusive character and strong touch of personality.
You will find Coonawarra ESTATE worthy the pride of place on your table.
tmua
<OO\A*V.\RBA
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra estate.
There are two Coonawarra
ESTATE Clarets.
hermitage 1962 Vintage
cabernet 1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
1965 Vintage
A new Riesling wine-lovers will
welcome.
AN S. WYNN & CO. ESTATE
C4B
The Bulletin
Established 1880
MARCH 26, 1966
VOL. 88, No. 4490
DROUGHT
“It may bring us all to our senses” 18
ON OUR SELECTION
“We always get good February rain” 22
SYDNEY OR THE BUSH 25
INDONESIA’S STUDENT
COUP 31
GENERALS AND
BUDDHISTS 33
TANNER .... 13 LETTERS .... 36
BATMAN 27
THIS AUSTRALIA
Vietnam: Who are the demonstrators? 12
Politics: Cal well’s Week 15
The Pacific: Tahiti Shadow 17
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
The Tree of Innocence 40
ADELAIDE FESTIVAL,
THEATRE: The Royal Hunt of
the Sun; The Three Sisters 42
ADELAIDE FESTIVAL, ART:
Exhibitions 42
TELEVISION: Side-kick 44
FILMS: Boys’ Own 45
THEATRE: War and Peace 46
Time Remembered .... 47
ON TELEVISION: The BBC and
“The War Game" 47
BOOKS: Ellis on The Australian
Dictionary of Biography,
Vol. I 48
The Defence Debate ........ 49
Penguin Private Eye 51
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Drought in the Market 55
Meat Companies and the Drought 58
What Good is Partnership? 64
MAN ON THE LAND
Overdeveloping the North? 65
'editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4038. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4083. Phone; 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


j^ r * >
II
5
mm.
mmmmm
Mat
pip.
w»
■
BS3
"■ •*
Ml
I
SS3SS®
wmm&
Amoco fires Comalco furnaces
Amoco Furnace Oils cut costs
in a big Australian aluminium mill!
Joe Bosworth is Lubrication and Furnace Engineer at Comalco’s big
aluminium rolling mill at Yennora, N.S.W. It’s part of his job to keep
Comalco’s eighteen furnaces running efficiently and economically. Joe, an
American, knows Amoco Furnace Oils from his experience in the States.
Says Joe: “Amoco Furnace Oils give us the kind of performance we want.
We’re using a number of different grades to meet the varying process
requirements. We’ve made big savings in fuel and maintenance costs
using Amoco fuels. The Amoco Marketing Technical Service has been a
big help in determining the right fuel for each job.’’
The quality and price of furnace oils can vary greatly according to your
needs. The right advice from your furnace oil supplier can mean a big
difference in the overall price you pay. If you use furnace oils in any
quantity, it will pay you to give the Amoco man a hearing when he calls—
it could mean a big saving on your furnace oil budget. Phone Amoco now
at any of the addresses below:
Ask for the Industrial Sales Manager in your State
BRISBANE: Administration Building, Bulwer Island Phone 604151
SYDNEY: 102/106 Arthur Street, North Sydney Phone 82-0842
MELBOURNE: 34 Queen’s Road Phone 264043
ADELAIDE: 38/40 Currie Street Phone 51-2692
I
■ X
:>: X.
Keith Cooke, Amoco Sales Engineer, and Joe Bos-
worth, Comalco Furnace and Lubrication Engineer,
discuss a lubrication problem on a new re-melt
furnace recently installed in the Comalco plant.
Amoco supplies Cbmalco with many kinds of oils
and greases for their manufacturing operations.
AMOCO
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
AFC.FP.fi


GQOD/YMR
vm-t&si* .... - . ...» -
' & 4
■ v 'jtg
L,--L
m
; . ■ ■; -
mWk
WlmmSk
-
.
■'
r\.
■. . ■
ISHI
' -
...... #£F 4
m
: !v
' ' •-'••• ’ V /■ - ■- - r ■ • -- ;
HOW GOODYEAR HOSE
USES WATER TO PULL WEALTH
OUT OF THE SEA
When Associated Minerals set up their mining operation
at Cudgen, N.S.W., they planned to extract the valuable
rutile that lies deep in the nearby mineral-rich shoreline.
They needed a really tough hose to do this job. Goodyear
Material Conducting Hose was the natural choice.
This is just one example of the many ways industry is
using Goodyear Hose. You name your job—Goodyear
have the right hose to fit it! Whether it’s unloading oil
or petrol, siphoning up slurry, feeding air to a jack-
hammer, or delivering steam under pressure, Goodyear
have the right hose for the right job.
That’s because each Goodyear Hose is specially built for
a particular job—to withstand corrosion, abrasion and
Associated Minerals used 25" diameter Material Con-
ducting Hose with %" tube gauge. It sends rutile-rich
slurry to the separation plant at Cudgen. This Goodyear
Hose is reinforced with high tensile heavy gauge round
steel wire with a weather-proof and abrasion-resistant
outer cover. Added strength is supplied by built-in
integral flanges
heavy-duty wear. Time and again, it's been shown where
inferior hoses have worn out, Goodyear Hose has stayed
on for more . . . and more again!
It pays to pick your hose from the biggest line of quality
hose in the industry—Goodyear.
In every phase of mining — every type of mine —
Goodyear rubber engineering has the answer. Goodyear
makes over 1,000 types of hose —each one designed for
outstanding service on the job it's made for. Call your
Goodyear Technical man at the Goodyear Branch in
your State.
good/year
S232


How do you hold a board meeting
41,000 feet above New York City?
Illil!
Ifigg;:
:■ o" i
’ '
fitfe : . ' •* i
High over New York City an HS 125 cruises at 500 m.p.h. Owned by The
American Management Association, built by Hawker Siddeley Aviation,
this is one of over 100 HS 125 twin-engined business jets sold throughout
the world —including over 60 in the USA and Canada. ,
Hawker Siddeley know how.
Hawker Siddeley know about airborne boardrooms.
They build them. Call them HS 125 twin-engined
business jets. Sell them right around the world.
The lIS 125 is just one aircraft in the Hawker
Siddeley line. And aviation is just one of the tech-
nological fields in which this world-size industrial
group is active. t s
Look around you. '
Hawker Siddeley products go down on the farm—
haul trains—steer and power ships—probe space— ■
equip power stations —roll roads—store heat —trans-
form electricity—pack food—fuel aircraft. And main-
tain a daily turnover of £i million.
The HS 125 is part of this turnover. But only
part. That’s what makes Hawker Siddeley a group.
With group power.
tfm
HAWKER
SIDDELEY
18ST. JAMES’S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I
Represented in Australia by: Aviation: Hawker de Havilland Australia Ptv.
Ltd., New South Wales. Industrial: Hawker Siddeley Brush Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service
,NTiB 5 4


u
Steelbilt
designs masterpieces
with logic that comes through
loud and clear
The handsome look of Steelbilt furniture is only half of the design story. The other
half is rock-solid, down-to-earth logic . . . the kind of logic upon which you’ve built
your own business sense. Steelbilt is designed to lead a practical life, to provide
comfort and work convenience that promotes efficiency ... a combination of artistry
and engineering that gives you custom design appearance at production line prices.
Ilf
mm
*****
mm.
■**«
Siliii
lilli»
V"' : • : '*■'%
|g|gli
illlSi::!
•;• v:i- ••’ : . ".■ ": • ’ : .•"■ ■ . • "• ': •''
1
Ik j
>>
'*?***:/
.
iESII
'
liiiiiliiiliii
Steelbilt makes fine furniture
for every area, executive suite,
boardroom, reception and
general office. For complete
information, call your nearest
Steelbilt office.
WB
WB
STEELBILT
{ Q/itmt of furniture
A
WQRMALD BROTHERS
INDUSTRY
5810.95
SYDNEY # NEWCASTLE # MELBOURNE 0 ADELAIDE 0 BRISBANE 0 TOWNSVILLE # HOBART


.
m
2000
w:
*-i
TIRED OF THIS VIEW?
Why settle for a fast-disappparing rear
view of the Rover 2000? Come on in—
the viewing’s fine from the inside looking
out. No matter whether you’re ready to
buy just yet. Even if you only want to feel
like a millionaire for a few minutes, come
and seat yourself in luxury. Your Rover
dealer won't mind a scrap—he knows
that people suddenly develop the ability
to save like crazy, once they fall under
the spell of a ‘2ooo’. This ’spell’ is com-
pounded of many things: The subtle lux-
ury of African Walnut panelling. The im-
mensely satisfying smell of real leather.
The out-of-this-world comfort of Rover’s
anatomically perfect bucket seats (your
rear passengers get buckets, tool). The
inch-thick foam padding on the dash, at
your knees, on the backs of the front
seats, everywhere. The thick carpets.
The column-less steering wheel that ad-
justs up and down. The aircraft-style
instrument panel with its 19 switches and
mf-x t.M
mm
TRY THIS ONE!
toggles. And, above all, the rock-steady
ride at speeds up to and over the “ton”,
the magnificent feeling of confidence
that this car engenders more than any
other. Sample ail this —and more—and
you could find yourself asking a ques-
tion: “Who. says I can’t afford one?”
Well, for a start, petrol consumption is
lower. Maintenance is lower. The body
panels are individually removable so you
can leave one at the panel beaters and
drive the car home.* In actual fact, if
you’re prepared to keep a Rover 2000 a
Jittle longer than has been your custom
(and you’ll find that no hardship!) it could
cost you very little more than run-of-the-
mill motoring. Have you ever thought
about that? Really thought about it?
ROVER AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
('This is the same principle that lets you have
your pants pressed without leaving your body at
the cleaners.)
R 10398


ONE MORE
WEEK
Vacant possession
TO BE PRACTICAL about things like
opera, all you need is a theatre with
enough seats to enable you to get a fair
proportion of your money back at the
box-office, good acoustics and backstage
facilities, proximity to public transport
and a large parking-station, preferably
covered, close by. And by an exquisite
irony, one such theatre the Tivoli —-
fell vacant in Sydney a few days ago.
Paving the way
AN HONORARY Doctor of Laws degree
from the ANU is not the only university
honor Sir Robert Menzies is likely to
receive this year. It has already been
rumored that he is likely to be installed
as Chancellor of Melbourne University.
This might have been done already but
for a provision in the University Act that
chancellors must come from University
Council. Now it appears that the Vic-
torian Government will be happy to
amend the Act when asked by the
Council, which should be soon.
Monopoly
THE ABC is setting up a training
orchestra in Sydney. This, rhubarbed
the general manager, Talbot Duckmati-
ton, will give young Australian players
opportunities of first-class orchestral
training . . . was part of a long-range
plan to develop orchestral players . . .
would have an important role to play in
the advancement of Australian music .. .
would relieve the present acute shortage
of orchestral players.
All splendid aims, but if there weren’t
a simple idea in the official mind and
the public purse that ABC equals music,
then someone might ask why the new
orchestra should come under the bustle
of dear old Auntie ABC, which already
controls the six State orchestras. Now
that it has secured advance training you
can be sure that when Sydney and Mel-
bourne get their needed second orches-
tras they will again be ABC offshoots.
It’s all very well, except for those
musicians who don’t find ABC methods
or pressures to their liking.
High living
FOR THE FIRST NIGHT of the Ryan
and Walker trial in Melbourne the jury
stayed at a hotel at the direction of Mr
Justice Starke. This was because there
was a leak in the roof of the jury quar-
ters. But soon they were back at the place
which was to be their home for many
days. The Melburnian jury lock-up is
above the library and under the dome of
the Law Courts. To get there you climb
64 bare stone steps. There are two dor-
mitories, a living-room and one bath-
room. But the beds are not bad, new
innerspring mattresses went up recently.
The ceiling is as high as a church and
even the windows are 15 feet up. There
are gas heaters, radio and one TV set.
This is the first decision the jury has to
make what to watch on TV. They get
all their meals at the Cecil Hotel around
the corner. They can get beer, but
only at night.
If they wish they can be taken out for
drives at night and during the weekend.
They get the newspapers but, by the time
all reference to the Ryan and Walker
case is cut out, there’s not much left
but the social pages. As for the pay it
is somewhat less than exciting, five dol-
lars a day with a rise to 10 dollars on
the sixth day.
Cosiness
ADELAIDE was deep in its Sunday
torpor. In King William Street cascades
of greenery flowed from the windows
of banks and public buildings. Here and
there a lonely tourist clicked a shutter
on a street corner, or searched in vain
for an open milkbar. But by three
o'clock North Terrace was seething with
people, and there on the steps of the
University was Mr Angus Wilson, pink-
faced in a foreign sun, opening Writers’
Week at the Adelaide Festival and ad-
dressing a neat crowd of literary people
on the dangers of old-fashioned inter-
nationalism.
The idea today, he said, was for writers
to come together to examine their differ-
ences, not to unite in some vague, mystic
brotherhood. We must talk and listen
to each other, preferably in small groups,
rather than gang up to congratulate each
other.
Whatever we did, said Wilson, we
must not let the Festival degenerate into
cosiness. Mr Yevtushenko had told him,
he said, and he agreed, that established
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
You call them conscripts. I would say
they are responding to the call of this
parliament for a requisite commitment of
the defence force of this country to pro-
vide the most effective fighting force on
a limited scale in this way.
—Prime Minister Holt, replying to Mr Calwell
I am answerable only to God and the
Indonesian Provisional People's Consulta-
tive Congress.
—Sukarno
Look at the opera house! Isn't it
magnificent?
—Joern Utzon
Sir Robert Menzies has liked to refer
to himself as being "British to the boot-
heels". This is probably because the
Menzies clan, being southern lowlanders,
subsisted by raiding cattle from the
British.
—Mr A. A. Calwell
I have managed to work my way up
to become leader of the peasants.
—Country Party Leader McEwen
It is better to be an American satellite
than a Chinese one. After all, we can
eventually chase out the Americans but
getting rid of the Chinese would not be
so easy.
—South Vietnamese student in Paris
It is no use having a most wonderful
intelligence and a first-class honors
degree and being a Balliol scholar it you
are basically stupid.
—Sebastian de Ferranti
I must confess that I am interested in
leisure in the same way that a poor man
is interested in money.
—The Duke of Edinburgh


ft
c
i
f
-
Fiesta of Five Flags, Pensacola, Florida.
More reasons than ever
to see the USA in '66.
Exciting celebrations
are only part of the fun.
■a
a
-■
il
rawi
Indian Exposition, Anadarko, Oklahoma
FE/STIME
This year get to know the fascinating new
world across the sea. In May, June and
July, Festival Year is in full swing. You’ll
find Indians and treasure hunts, cotton queens
and lumberjacks featured in celebrations to
highlight your adventure.
Merrymaking in the South
Try to spend mid-May in Memphis, Tennes-
see, to cruise on a riverboat, visit the famous
Cotton Exchange and see the Memphis Cotton
Carnival (May 10-14) with its lavish parades,
fashion shows and jazz.
Go farther south to the white beaches of
semi-tropical Florida. Choose Pensacola for
the Fiesta of Five Flags (June 5-12) and
hunt for $2,500 in buried treasure. Then to
the Miami area’s superb hotels for fabulous
entertainment.
Indian Country and the Great Northwest
For the Wild West and Indian country, plan
a visit to Oklahoma and the American Indian
Exposition in Anadarko (July 11-16). Here
3,000 Indians gather in full regalia for tribal
dances, sports and horse racing.
To the northwest lies Oregon with its
majestic Columbia River Gorge. At the
thrilling Timber Carnival in Albany (July
2-4) watch lumberjacks race up 200-foot
spruces, stage balancing duels on floating logs.
Music West, Jazz East
In Colorado’s Rocky Mountains you can take
a wilderness trip on horseback, and fish in
dancing waters. Or listen to classical music
in a spectacular mountain setting at the Aspen
Music Festival (June 29-August 28).
At the Newport Jazz Festival in Rhode
Island (July 1-4) hear the best in modern
music. Then travel along the lovely Con-
necticut shore with its quaint harbors. Roam
an 18th century village at Mystic Seaport.
Visit Yale University. Climax your excursion
in New York with its exciting skyline, night-
life, shops and restaurants.
Special 1966 Travel Bargains!
Many major airlines each offer reduced rates
from 30 to 90 days. Bus travel costs $87.94
for 99 days. A late-model American car
:
, ’
wm
f
I
'
m
3
Cotton Carnival, Memphis* Tennessee.
$87.94 a week with unlimited mileage and
a free tank of gas. Overseas groups of 15 or
more can travel on eastern railroads at a
25 % reduction. For full information and for
a visit to an American home in any of 52
cities, see your travel agent or United States
Travel Service office.
Prices quoted Australian dollars.
United States Travel Service b
82 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, N.S.W
Please send me free general information
about visiting the United States.
Name
Street
City State
If for a school project, please check. ( )
fljjtMWa—:
Travel a new world
see the U.S.A.


writers must be prepared every so often
to shed a sizeable percentage of readers
if they were not to plod on in an assured
rut, saying the same old thing. Even
Tennessee Williams, he said, had develop-
ed his own brand of cosiness sordid
cosiness but still predictable.
Urging us to rebellion, Mr Wilson
made way for the Russians who talked
about peace and friendship, and insisted
that writers were basically workers, which
was the very thing Mr Wilson had warn-
ed us against.
But there was more to come, and while
Wilson sat, legs outstretched and white
hair rebelling in the breeze, it was our
turn. Roland Robinson, a pink carnation
in. his buttonhole, tieless and Byron-
haired, recited poems about emus and
Aborigines; David Campbell about broken
fences, and a Queensland poet, Bill
Scott, sang three unaccompanied ballads,
the Bullocky’s Song and the Canecutters’
and Sheepwashers’ Laments.
Midway through the Writers’ Week,
Angus Wilson remained as fit and arti-
culate as ever, a source of delight to any-
one who could battle their way through
the informal gathering, or the vast red-
carpeted Festival Club, to speak to him.
“You just start him off and he’ll go
on for hours,” said a delighted television
man who had just done an interview with
Wilson at the Australia Hotel, and set-
ting off across the parklands for the in-
formal gathering, Mr Wilson did just
that. He loved Sydney, was disappointed
with “that woman’s thing” on television
(he meant Mavis Bramston), paused
aghast to stare at two uniformed school-
girls “all this Victorian middle-class-
genteel business, it went out ages ago
in England” marvelled at the number
of knights’ wives he’d met in flowered
hats, patted a small child on the head,
and touched succinctly on the matter of
university students and birth-control.
At the door of the Royal Admiral
Hotel he prepared himself for a further
onslaught “Last time 1 was here a
woman came up and said the most ex-
traordinary thing. ‘I haven’t got much
time for reading,’ she told me, ‘so which
of your novels should I start on first?’
Quite incredible, but then the same thing
happens in England. Oh, yes. At my
place in East Anglia I meet a lot of bluff
county farmer types, you know. ‘Any-
thing on the stocks at the moment,
Wilson?’ they’ll say.”
Not in focus
WHILE Adelaide is still working itself
gamely through its biennial culture feast,
Perth, at the end of its annual festival,
seems to be suffering severe indigestion.
As in previous years, the verdict is: too
much going on too long. But it seems
rather unfair that Perth citizens, having
scurried about conscientiously for six
weeks, taking everything in, should now
be told that their festival lacks “focus”.
This was the word from the artistic
director of the Elizabethan, Stefan Haag,
making a rather belated appearance.
The focus Perth needs may be no
further away than across the University
grounds from the Festival office in the
New Fortune theatre, the brave, original
concept which has been drowned in the
deep pool of Australian apathy. The
reproduction of an Elizabethan theatre
an open-air court with huge stage,
three tiers of balconies and a remarkably
intimate atmosphere was quietly
added to the plans of the new Arts
block and was stone and mortar almost
before Perth knew of it, yet in Britain
it was considered an important theatrical
event. This combination of local under-
sell and overseas oversell has shattered
the dreams of its sponsors, and when
Sir Tyrone Guthrie saw the theatre last
year and did not rave, high hopes went
tumbling.
Yet all should not yet be lost. Perth
people would need to be persuaded to
take the New Fortune to their bosom,
and then there is the practical problem
of the season being restricted by mem-
bers of the Arts faculty wanting to work
back at night in their nearby offices.
On the Margin
MR ROSS CAMPBELL is on sick leave.
His “On the Margin” will resume when
he returns.
RUSHTON’S AUSTRALIANS... 6


THIS AUSTRALIA
VIETNAM
Who are the Demonstrators?
As he paraded along Martin Place last week carrying his poster Mr Laurie
Aarons, general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia had good reason to
be pleased. For with the large crowd of more than 2000 demonstrators who had
turned out for the first stage of “Project Vietnam” his party had brought off that
most difficult of all manoeuvres creating a “broad front” organisation and watching
it carry on of its own volition and momentum, the classic front within a front.
Here in the crowd of trade unionists,
students, women, and church groups, Mr
Aarons was not the controller of a party
advocating surrender to the Vietcong
and the abandonment of everything that
Australian, American, South Vietnamese
and South Koreans were dying for, but
just another demonstrator against war
and for negotiations.
Last week’s demonstration, followed
by the burning of National Service re-
gistration cards in Hyde Park and the
three public meetings, was, in publicity
terms, undoubtedly the biggest and most
successful that the Vietnam protesters
have staged. It was the culmination of
months of planning and it was by no
means the last of its kind. The plan is
for bigger demonstrations, more demon-
strations, and publicity—above all, pub-
licity.
For there is increasing evidence that
in the field of public awareness, initiative
on Australia’s policies towards Vietnam,
crucial in terms of national security and
survival though they are, has been gra-
dually taken away from the Government
and its supporters, and is now swing-
ing to the demonstrators and their sup-
porters.
How did this happen? Who are the
demonstrators and just what is the role
of the Communist Party in the organised
opposition to Australia’s involvement in
the Vietnam war?
The Communists themselves make no
secret of how they see their role. In “The
Communist Review” of January, 1966,
articles by leading party members R.
Gibson and W. J. Brown are quite clear.
Writes Gibson, “The Communist Party
, . . has been a driving force in the
whole struggle (i.e. Vietnam protests)”.
Brown comments on “the unity of action
around the common points in ALP,
Communist Party and ACTU policy on
Vietnam” and declares that “at all stages
in broad organisations or more ad-
vanced forms of action against the Viet-
nam war the Communist Party publicly
took its stand on the principle of helping
and participating in the broad move-
ment ...”
The international origins of the Com-
munist Party’s opposition to Australian
and American involvement in Vietnam
go back as far as December, 1961, when
the sth World Trade Union Congress
held in Moscow called on the “workers
of the world ... to struggle against the
American imperialist and Ngo Dinh Diem
in order to achieve the peaceful unifi-
cation of Vietnam”. By January 1963
the call had become more specific and
the “International Trade Union Com-
mittee of Solidarity with the Workers
and People of South Vietnam” (ITUC)
was formed. Later that year the ITUC
announced its aims as organising
“maximum moral and material solid-
arity” and the “promotion of the broad-
est unity of action among trade unions”.
In 1964 the Communist-dominated
World Federation of Trade Unions
spelled out the need for a mass movement
and the need for national committees
in support of the “workers and people
of South Vietnam”.
In particular the WFTU called for
campaigns demanding that the American
Government apply the Geneva Agree-
ments, withdraw its troops and leave
the South Vietnamese to settle their own
problems. The CPA was quick to get
the message.
After its 20th Congress the party
formed the “Committee for the Imple-
mentation of the Geneva Agreement
(Vietnam)”. By September, 1964, the
committee was known as the “Committee
for Peace in Vietnam” and had the sup-
port of at least 28 trade unions. It look-
ed as if the CPA was on its way with a
classic front organisation which would
head the campaign against intervention
in Vietnam. But this was the early stage
of Australia’s involvement and the com-
mittee overplayed its hand. The Com-
mittee President, Rex Rickard, Secretary
of the Milk and Ice Carters’ Union of
New South Wales, accompanied Alex-
ander McDonald, Secretary of the
Queensland Trades and Labor Council
and a member of the CPA Central Com-
mittee, to Hanoi and the “International
Conference for Solidarity with the
people of Vietnam against United States
Imperialist Aggression and for the De-
fence of Peace”.
Aglow with their reception in Hanoi
MacDonald and Rickard returned to
Australia and boasted, “We were very
proud to have been delegates to this
conference and allowed to vigorously and ij
unquestionably present to the conference jj
the unbiased and true feeling and views j;
of the organisations and Australian ||
people that we were very proud and pri-
vileged to represent.” But what did they;'
tell their hosts in Hanoi? “We are all;;
aware of the sufferings of our comrades
in South Vietnam brought about by the
unwarranted criminal atrocities of the
US imperialists and their puppet agents
by the dirty undeclared war in South
Vietnam . . . Our Committee for Peace
in Vietnam has organised combined mass
demonstrations . . .”
This, understandably, went over well
at the Day Street headquarters of the
CPA in Sydney but the NSW branch
of the ALP reacted less kindly. In Janu-
ary, 1965, the NSW Central Executive cf
the ALP considered the report of Mc-
donald and Rickard and decided that
the policy of the Committee for Peace in
Vietnam was “incompatible with that of
the ALP”. It gave any ALP members
14 days to renounce their membership of
the committee or forfeit their membership
of the ALP.
Planning the fronts
ALP’s action was a blow to the
JL Communist strategy, but only a tem-
porary one. Although they had lost a tac-
tical advantage they did not abandon the
fundamental strategy that in order
to get the maximum effect out of the
Vietnam operation the party had to work
through a “clean” group, where the
Communists were in the background or
watched from the sidelines. In their
enthusiasm Rickard and McDonald had
sabotaged the first front; it took barely
a month to find a substitute.
The substitute proved a much more ef-
fective successor. It was the NSW Peace
Committee for International Co-opera-
tion and Disarmament, which came to
the rescue by helping to form the NSW
Association for International Co-opera-
tion and Disarmament, an organisation
which played, and is still playing, a lead-
ing role in the campaign but now prefers
to leave the main thrust in demonstrating
to more recently created groups, who
are even “cleaner”.
At the inaugural meeting of the AICD
in 1965 Bishop Moyes and publisher
Francis James were elected members of
the council in company with two mem
bers of the Central Committee of the
CPA, W. E. Gollan and W. Parkinson.
The secretary of the AICD is Geoffrey
Anderson, a full-time non-Communist
organiser who has been one of the
driving forces behind many of the Viet-
nam demonstrations the recent anti-


Vice-President Humphrey spectacle in
Canberra was one of his carefully stage-
managed undertakings.
In 1965 the new committee laid the
foundations for much of the present
agitation which now continues without
much nudging from them. First came
the Bishop Moy6s letter to the Anglican
bishops of Australia seeking their sig-
natures for a letter to the Prime Minister.
While Bishop Moyes worked on the
churchmen Anderson worked on the aca-
demics and was instrumental in arrang-
ing for the petition signed by 250 uni-
versity teachers throughout Australia,
which protested against American policy
describing mibtary measures against the
North as futile, and expressing concern
about reports of brutality “in which
we are implicated by association with
the USA and the South Vietnamese
army”.
By mid-1965 the operation was well
under way and the CPA could have
relaxed, having pointed the campaign in
the right direction and invested it with
enough impetus. Although the Commit-
tee for Peace in Vietnam had expired,
trade-union support was assured because
the AICD had its own trade-union sub-
committee. But the CPA did not relax
because as Australia’s involvement deep-
ened so did the opportunity for exploiting
public confusion about th* issues »row.
So while the AICD could be left to
handle the broad anti-Government, anti-
American campaign there were some spe-
cific objectives like those arising out of
the Government’s decision on National
Service which had to be tackled.
Hence the creation of “Save our Sons”
and the “Youth Campaign Against Con-
scription”, known as the “Youth Against
Conscription” organisation in some
States. Here the lines of Communist in-
fluence become blurred. While the SOS
was the direct product of the Union of
Australian Women, a well-established
Communist front, the executive members
of the SOS are not members of the CPA
and where members of the party have
participated in the work of SOS they
have, under instruction from the party,
remained in the background deliberately
avoiding publicity. Similarly, the NSW-
based Youth Campaign Against Conscrip-
tion, while it is selectively opposed to
conscription for the Vietnam war, is
organised by Barry Robinson who is
not a member of the CPA.
Tanner
"I hear the Viet Cong are lousy lovers."


PILKINGTONS
lead the world in glassmaking
m
4J
mm
4-
i
m
There’s no more searching test of a
glass than to make it into a mirror, and
reflect an object in it again and again.
There's no doubt which glass makes to-
day’s finest, truest mirrors Float glass,
invented and developed by Pilkingtons.
;
!
I
I
5
Pilkington glasses made or processed
in up-to-date plants in nine countries,
and behind every product are the vast
resources of some of the glass industrys’
largest laboratories, working on quality
control, and on research and development.
Pilkington research and development
produced Float glass which, with its new
clarity and brilliance, outdates Plate
glass in modern building, for mirror
making and for toughening into
safety glass.
For the finest glass specify Pilkingtons.
Pilkingtons’ Agent in Australia ...
Pilkingtons’ service in Australia is
provided by Mr. C. Rogers who can help
you in any problem concerning the use
of glass. Just write to Mr. C. Rogers,
4 Bridge Street (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney,
N.S.W. Pilkingtons’ glass is available
from glass merchants throughout
Australia. Head Office: Pilkington
Brothers Limited, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England.
FOR MODERN BUILDING SPECIFY GLASS BY PILKINGTONS- INVENTORS OF FLOII
*K1502/65


Late in 1965 a new organisation devel-
oped as the major co-ordinating body
for the campaign in NSW, the “Vietnam
Action Committee”. It was responsible
for the two large demonstrations in Syd-
ney in October and December, 1965, and
is now planning a week of protest on a
national scale for the week following
Easter, 1966. This, according to the VAG
newsletter, will be the Committee’s “own
special contribution to the ‘lnternational
Month of Protest against the Vietnam
War’ ” which starts on March 24. This,
like previous solidarity campaigns of this
sort, the “days of protest” (or weeks and
months) originated in Hanoi.
A lthough it started out as a small and
ineffective body, the VAC has been
reorganised and reshaped. While it has a
large executive committee only one man
is a member of the CPA and he holds
a relatively minor position on the com-
mittee. The VAC was one of the main
bodies behind last week’s “Protest Viet-
nam” demonstrations in Sydney. Its
newsletter of 10 roneoed pages includes
reprint extracts from similar groups in
the United States attacking the Johnson
Administration for alleged chemical
warfare in Vietnam, and other pro-
paganda material such as pamphlets
distributed to US Army personnel aimed
at demoralising them (“As far as the
Vietnamese are concerned we are fight-
ing on the side of Hitlerism and they
hope we lose”) with suggestions that
similar material would be appropriate
reading for Australian troops to be sent
to Vietnam.
There is by now a confusing list of
organisations active in the Vietnam cam-
paign. Some are organisations in name
only, some have the same membership.
But since March, 1965, in all States they
have organised some 80 demonstrations,
vigils, strikes, folk-concerts, sit-downs or
marches, all protesting against the Aus-
tralian Government’s policies. Some
have been scratching for an attendance of
more than a dozen others have had
attendances in hundreds and in some
cases thousands.
Very few of these organisations have
members of the Communist Party active
in their membership but in every “broad
front” demonstration or protest the Com-
munists either have their work done
for them or can where necessary mani-
pulate one of the associated groups. No
“broad front” demonstration has yet
been held where at least one of the key
organisations taking part is not open to
direct Communist control. Yet the Com-
munists have not had to actively inter-
vene on very many occasions since they
provided the focal points of organisation
and control during 1964 and 1965 and
set the campaign going.
A number of developments during the
last year have been used by the Com-
munists and are now basic to the whole
campaign. The most significant was the
opportunity given to them to turn the
issue into one to be fought on moral
and far wider grounds than just Viet-
nam. As in the United States much of
the teach-in activity at the universities
was not notable for how much light it
shed on what was happening in Vietnam
and what the Australian Governments
policies ought to be. While it partially
filled the vacuum created by a Govern-
ment seemingly unwilling to inform the
public on the issues it also generated
emotional and often incoherently irra-
J
tional arguments.
w „ ,
Many of the opponents of Australian
po Kites gave up arguing a out t e spe-
cmc problems of Vietnam and raised the
~r , .
general issue of whether it was justifiable
f . . . A , 3 nc . t
to intervene in any country s affairs at
.. , ... . J .
any time tor political reasons. This view
/. , . r . .„
achieved its most passionate, if most
~. r , ,
contused, expression in the speech of
writer Morris West at the Australian
National University in July. 1965.
Preached West, “Have you confronted
a fundamental question of the 20th cen-
tury; whether any individual nation has
the right to adopt the Marxist system
without armed intervention by a neigh-
bor which has adopted our democratic
one?” Other speakers made similar
points and the CPA was not slow to
seize the opportunity provided by the
confusion in the public mind on the
one hand and the failure of Canberra
to see what was happening in the other.
Writing in the “Communist Review”
of November, 1965, Endel Niit laid
down the principles which have guided
CPA propaganda since and which have
been further reinforced by the co**-
scription issue. Niit wrote about the
anti-Government campaign in the follow-
ing terms:
“Qf the slogans and placards displayed,
hardly two ever convey a similar thought
or reason for the protest. Very seldom are
they framed to convey the protest in
the most vital and fundamental terms,
that what the Governments of Australia
and t he USA are doing in Vietnam is
wrong because it is morally wrong ...”
“The seeds of victory lie in the solu-
fion of the moral question.”
T ~ .
Last weeks posters in Martin Place
, , K
showed the changed emphasis. The over-
whe,ming majority of them read on|y
“Conscription means Vietnam" or “No
c ~. . „ ~
Conscripts for Vietnam. Together with
~ f ■ ?. ...
the specific issue of conscription, which
X . . ■ . ,
the Communists are using increasingly,
~ , . , . ,
the emphasis on moral issues surrounds
. ... , . , ,
the campaign with an aura which makes
. A ° . , ,
■ appealing to those clergy and academics
alread >' oppoSed ,0 Go '' e ™ ment
Whatever advantages this general
development bestows on the Communists
the conscription issue is even more po-
tentially useful particularly in Australia,
There is a strong tradition of active and
public opposition to conscription of any
kind but especially for overseas service,
Unlike the United States the Australian
public is not convincedly anti-Com-
munist at home and even less aware of
Communism internationally. As Alan
Reid points out on this page the Govern-
ment faces a major national debate on
the conscription issue for which it
seems unable to prepare the public ade-
quately.
POLITICS
Calwell’s Week
An ageing but still indomitable political warhorse, Opposition Leader Arthur
Augustus Calwell, 69, last week scented the possibilities in old familiar territory.
With understandable savagery, he
concentrated his attacks on the Govern-
ment on something he had fought against
in two world wars—compulsory call-up
of young men for military service over-
seas.
„ , .. , , ,
Calwell must have seized upon this
. .if
,ss U e with considerable personal relief.
‘ lU t so T th ' n « to . fl Sh for
*n which he P believed, without
reservation and without external com-
pulsion. It represented something he
had always believed in, for he had fought
against compulsory recruitment for
overseas military service in the 1914-
18 war, and again when his own Prime
Minister, the late John Curtin, then
Australia’s wartime leader, introduced
it in a geographically limited form (no
compulsory service north of the equator)
in the 1939-45 war.
As well as being something that con-
formed with his personal beliefs, the
opportunity to oppose the Government s
decision meant for Calwell a chance
firstly to paper over the cracks apparent
. , ? F F c .. c \ „
in his own party over South-East Asian
seC ondly, to minim ise publicly
P ’ ossible a(]verse e|ectora , e|fect of
ant j. Unite d Slates nature of the
enforced upQn Wm „ y , he ,^ ft .
win g_d o mi nat ed ALP Federal Executive
and thirdly> per haps to unite, on an
emotional issue around which clung the
aura of old-time Labor traditions, a party
clearly and publicly diyided on the ex-
tent of the threat to Australia of Com-
munist expansion in Asia,
In the Parliament last week, Calwell


4^
At the beginning of the centuiy,
Carrier went to work on theories
for controlling temperature
and humidity.
Now
practically every air conditioning
system in the world is based
on his original ideas.
'
This means that when you install
Carrier, you receive the benefits of
soundly engineered and
designed equipment, descended in
direct line from
Willis Carrier’s original concept
plus the technical backing of
the world’s foremost authority
on air conditioning.
Carrier have led the world
in air conditioning...
ever since they invented it!
Carrier Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth Distributors Sandovers O’Connor, au/«A
obeyed the edict of the Federal ALP
Executive. He made the anti-United
States statements he had been ordered to
make and to which his deputy, Mr
-Whitlam, referred in his document
replying to charges of disloyalty, found
proved against Whitlam by the ALP
Federal Executive.
“The West has no standards and ap-
parently no scruples,” Calwell told the
Parliament, referring to the United
States’ role in South Vietnam. This was
not only the most damaging criticism
yet made by any Western leader against
American policy in Vietnam, implying
as it does that the policy is not merely
mistaken but the product of political
amorality. It was also a paraphrase of
the viewpoint put by the Communist-
influenced Victorian ALP Executive at
the February ALP Federal Executive
meeting -which Calwell agreed to put —
in substance—in a Parliamentary speech.
This condemnation by Calwell of
American policy on what must be the
gravest of all charges in democratic
eyes —morality—shows where the real
control over ALP policy now lies. For
on February 19 last year, the Federal
Parliamentary Labor Party had said al-
most the opposite, declaring that “Ameri-
can actions of recent days, as based on
the aim of shortening the war and
achieving a peaceful, negotiated settle-
ment, which would establish and main-
tain the rights of the South Vietnamese
people, deserves sympathetic Australian
understanding”.
On the compulsory call-up issue,
however, Calwell obviously felt himself
back on tried, familiar ground, and he
was consequently happier. Clearly he
wanted attention focused on this issue
rather than on the wider one of South-
East Asian policy generally, and he had
the advantage that he was not facing his
old-time foe, Sir Robert Menzies, across
the centre table in the House of Repre-
sentatives.
Last week’s events clearly revealed
that the new man, Harold Holt, has not
yet established his dominance over the
House of Representatives. Question
time—that three-quarters of an hour be-
fore the House moves on to formal busi-
ness—is testing time both for a Prime
Minister and ministers. In these ex-
changes last week Calwell clearly finished
on top. He is now developing a habit
of interjecting across the table while
Holt is replying to a question. Holt has
not yet acquired the crispness and
authority that a Prime Minister has to
have if he is to retain control of the
House’s moods and attitudes. He is too
wordy, too diffuse.
Additionally, he is a very courteous
man and has a personal affection for
Calwell. Consequently when Calwell


SYDNEY’S OPERA HOUSE
Next week’s cover story in THE BULLE-
TIN will be a full report on "The $50
Million Experiment” by Michael Bourne.
interjects, he pauses to listen and to reply.
The result has been a cross-table dia-
logue in which Calwell has had the ad-
vantage and which has tended to steer
House attention in the direction Cal-
well wants it steered—away from the
correctness or otherwise of Australia’s
South-East Asian policy and on to the
compulsory call-up of national - service-
men for military service overseas.
Menzies, like Holt, was a courteous man
with a personal affection for Calwell.
But Menzies never allowed either cour-
tesy or personal affection to come be-
tween him and his political advantage.
The Holt Government realised that it
was taking a political risk in deciding
to underpin its trebled commitment in
Vietnam with national servicemen. But it
is missing Menzies, his superb gift for
explaining issues and problems in simple
understandable terms, and this Calwell
also appreciates and is exploiting.
ALAN REID
THE PACIFIC
Tahiti Shadow
The shadow of France’s H-bomb lies
heavy over Tahiti. Only a few years ago
Papeete was a sleepy, dovvn-at-heel port.
Now it is going through an orgy of re-
construction and the girl-watchers in
waterfront cafes can hardly hear them-
selves compare vital statistics for the
rumble of heavy military lorries. A cor-
respondent writes:
French pop music blares from every
jukebox In the nightclubs sailors and
Legionnaires twist to modern jazz, while
on the steps of the post office, in the
hot, humid nights, whole families squat
to watch television.
But not a single Tahitian I have talked
to approves of President de Gaulle’s bid
to become the fourth member of the
thermonuclear club. Political leaders like
John Teariki, who represents French
Polynesia and its 85,000 people in the
National Assembly in Paris, are pro-
foundly resentful of the way de Gaulle
has ridden roughshod over their protests.
Officials here won’t say when the first
hydrogen bomb will be exploded at the
now evacuated atolls of Mururoa and
Fangataafa, 775 miles south-east of
Papeete, although the “coconut radio”
says the first test will be in July.
Defence Minister Pierre Messmer was
here in late February to inspect the test
sites and installations of the euphemistic-
ally named “> Centre d’Experimentation
du Pacifique”.
No islander, he promised, would be
exposed to danger, and fallout would be
held to a safe level. He said the CEP
opened a new “path to progress” for the
people. The statement provoked bitter
laughter from Teariki. a thin, brown,
dignified man of .'l, who said he thought
the H-bomb test series was “purely for
de Gaulle’s glory”.
From Canberra John Webb reports:
First sign of uneasiness here last week
was a question by the Deputy Opposition
Leader, Mr Gough Whitlam, seeking an
assurance that the French nuclear tests
would not cause radioactive fallout
harmful to humans in Australia. Mr
Whitlam caustically referred to “further
contamination of the world’s atmosphere
for the sake of Gallic glory.”
In reply, the External Affairs Minister,
Mr Paul Hasluck, said he had received
at second hand an oral report from the
Australian National University’s Profes-
sor E. W. Titterton, who attended Paris
meetings to discuss precautions for the
Pacific tests. “The general effect of that
report was to allay completely any im-
mediate anxiety that harmful effects are
likely to accrue to the Australian popu-
lation or to any form of life in Aus-
tralia, as a result of these tests,” he said.
These reassuring words from Mr Has-
luck were followed up next day with a
statement from Prime Minister Holt.
Mr Holt tabled in the House of Repre-
sentatives a report from the National
Radiation Advisory Committee, a body
which advises the Commonwealth on the
effects of ionising radiation on the Aus-
tralian community. The Conimittee, said
Mr Holt, had evaluated the possible
effects of the French tests on health in
Australia and was “satisfied that the
proposed weapons tests are unlikely to
lead to a significant health hazard in
Australia”.
While the Prime Minister was accu-
rately quoting the Committee a closer
examination of its report was far less
reassuring. A few lines below the Com-
mittee’s statement tha. it is satisfied the
French tests are “unlikely” to lead to
a significant biological hazard in this
country, there is a review of a substantial
body of information on the effects on
man’s health of exposure to high radia-
tion doses. But the Committee goes on
to say, “However, because ot the ex-
tremely low frequency of their occur-
rence and difficulty of detection, little is
known of any adverse effect from low
doses. Hence, with present scientific
knowledge, gross errors may arise. In
any detailed quantitative prediction of
possible effects on the population of the
low levels of radiation to which it is
most likely to be exposed”.
Briefly ...
Australia shipped the first
26,000 tons of its vast iron ore
deposits to Japan. In Canberra, Mr
McEwen said he would like to see the
ore, expected to add $l4O million to
export income by 1970, carried by ships
of a joint Australian-Japanese line. Perth
began a long-range through-city freeway,
and Brisbane aldermen saw a new lottery
as one possible way to finance a costly
plan to untangle city traffic. In traffic-
choked Sydney one cross-city street was
to be widened. Sir Eric Bastyan said
Adelaide should have a Festival Centre.
Tivoli Circuit announced the closure of
the Sydney and Melbourne Tivolis. Mr
Whitlam was elected to an ALP standing
committee on education, chaired by Mr
Chamberlain.
•k
A Victorian bank reported the disap-
pearance of $500,000, while in Brisbane
two men held up a bank a second time
in six weeks, for an $BOOO total. Five
passengers were injured when the Kal-
goorlie to Perth express caught fire.
Weekend prospectors Ted and Ken
Holman won 2900 ozs of gold worth
$90,000 fro. a 16 tons of ore in their
mine near Kalgoorlie. Sydney Opera
House designer Utzon agreed to hand
over all documents and sketches, and
lodged a $1.2 million bill. A beached
750-pound German mine made Surfer’s
less than paradise for nearly three days,
until it was towed to Southport Spit and
exploded. Rain fell on many NSW
drought areas, and in southern Queens-
land and South Australia. The Japanese
Customs seized and declared obscene
two Aboriginal art carvings of women.
★
Statistics showed that 872 Australian
firms had British or US ties. A Perth
TV station manager was awarded
$5OOO damages for an article by a tele-
vision critic. The Communist Party lost
a $21,000 bequest in the Queensland
Supreme Court The Perth, Adelaide,
Auckland and Christchurch Festivals
agreed to combine in bringing suitable
festival presentations to Australia. Vic-
toria’s Anglesea Golf Course, where tame
’roos roam, may be declared a wildlife
sanctuary. Thirty Bathurst Island Abo-
rigines chartered five aircraft to fly them
to Darwin for a football grand final, but
they are returning by lugger. Australian
actors Keith Michell and Alan White
returned briefly to join an ABC-BBC
production of “Kain”.


DROUGHT
BY THE MAN ON THE LAND
If 1965 and / 966 are merely the
beginning of another lengthy
drought ? some good may come
out of it. It may bring us all to
our senses.
At the very time irrigation water was
being restricted along the Lachlan
in New South Wales, a group of
students at Monash University in Vic-
toria was indulging in a “showerathon”.
The winner, so we were told, lasted
three days under the shower. The water
wasted by the students would not, of
course, have kept many sheep alive.
Yet the students’ stunt at least served
to illustrate the widening gulf between
urban and rural Australian attitudes.
The drought exists. Of that there is no
doubt. What also exists, unhappily, is a
determination on the part of Australian
farmers, through their organisations, to
use drought as a lever to obtain those
things which they believe are theirs by
right.
Farmers, and there are only some
250,000 of them (or 2\ per cent out of
the population) in the whole of Aus-
tralia, are elemental men the world over.
Rarely, if ever, do they question their
own motives. What they want, they try
to get. If they want something, it is
right simply because they want it. If
this resolve needs strengthening (which
it does not), actions like those of the
Monash students can readily be found.
When farmers waver, it is on subjects
over which they disagree. In the case of
drought there is no disagreement.
What they want is Government (i.e.,
taxpayer) help to see them through. This
drought will be unlike any in the past in
that it will not be the great leveller. The
resolve is that no farmer will be forced
to walk off his property, a broken man,
to be replaced by a newcomer. This,
always, was the story the great
droughts of the past. The first wave of
squatters was wiped out, almost to a
man, in the droughts running from about
1837 until 1845. Despite a popular be-
lief to the contrary, family properties in
Australia tracing back to the first squat-
ting era are virtually non-existent. They
could be counted, probably, on one hand.
The years from 1895 until 1903 were,
because of drought, the death knell of
another generation of squatters. By that
time, also, there were farmers in num-
bers, as distinct from sheep squatters,
and they too suffered. The next run of
drought years, from about 1911 until
1920, saw the first entry of Government
as an alleviating factor, although the
actual help was slight. It was better in
the bad run of years from 1938 until
1945. This drought coincided with
World War 11. They were hard years for
everyone. Nevertheless, the Govern-
ment’s role as a defender of the farmer,
now a factor in the national economy and
not just an individual, became clearly
established.
Not that all farmers relished the war-
time controls which kept many of them
from going bankrupt. Drought or no
drought, there were many who resisted
the whole concept of Government inter-
ference very strongly. Since World War
11, however, the farmer has accepted the
role of Government. The Country Party-
Liberal Party coalition is built on the
understanding that the Government’s
duty is to protect the farmer on terms,
if possible, framed by the farmer.
The years of the big droughts cannot
be defined exactly, for the simple reason
that Australia is a big country (nearly
as big as the United States of America).
Rarely, if ever, is drought bad over the
whole continent at the same time. One
district gets a bad spell, then another.
Rain falls in one part of the country and
not in others. Rarely is there no rain at
all. There is rain, but not as much as in
good years. Is it correct to regard the
lush years as normal? Or are the dry
years closer to what is normal in Aus-
tralia? It seems obvious that the farmers,
in 1966, are taking the good years as
normal and are basing claims for drought
aid on what applies in good years.
A month ago, representatives of all
farmer organisations met with Federal
Ministers in Canberra. They produced
figures to show that last year’s drought
in NSW and Queensland killed at least
15 million sheep and 1,360,000 cattle.
The Woolgrowers’ and Graziers’ Council,
most powerful of the pastoral organisa-
tions, demanded three things:
• Long-term finance, up to 15 or 20
years, at “reasonable” rates of interest
(three per cent has been mentioned)
to permit a rapid stock build-up.
• Better credit facilities for rural pro-
duction.
• Taxation incentives for primary pro-
ducers.
Most farmer organisations supported
these claims and the National Farmers’
Union even put in a new one taxation
incentives for farm workers. This, the
NFU said (probably correctly), would
encourage workers to seek employment
in the labor-starved rural industries and
help reduce production costs. There were
many other suggestions, including tariff
deductions on items needed in farming
and erection of wheat storages to hold
reserves of stockfeed for future drought
years. Not unnaturally, many of these
same points were made by Country
Party leader, Mr John McEwen, at the
party’s annual conference at Broadbeach
(in Queensland) in February.
The Government has now met the
demands relating to long-term finance
and rural credit. The new Prime Minister,
Mr Holt, has announced that $5O million
will be made available as long-term
loans to aid restocking. Minimum re-
payment periods and interest rates are
yet to be decided, pending consultations
with the Reserve Bank and the trading
banks. We can assume 15 years and
three per cent will be not too far off the
mark. These are certainly more favorable
terms than those obtained by the urban
Australian building a home. In addition,
existing term loan funds available to
farmers will be boosted by $2O million.
Critics of Mr Holt were of two kinds:
those who considered the drought loan
programme too generous and those who
were disappointed that it did not go far
enough. The former were able to point
to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics
statistics, which indicate “no cause for
pessimism”. The Bureau (a.section of
the Department of Primary Industry, by
the way) contends that, despite the set-
back, the 1965/66 volume of rural pro-
duction has been exceeded only in the
previous three particularly good years.
Gross value of farm production is placed
at $3039 million, or only 10 per cent
lower than in 1964/65.
Among these critics was ACTU advo-
cate, Mr R. J. Hawke, who, before the
Arbitration Commission, said: “There is
nothing the Commission can do about
the drought. The Government cannot
make it rain, but it can shower blessings
of another sort in the form of assistance
to those afflicted.”
The second group of critics, believing


Mr Holt had not gone far enough, con-
tained some of the academics who might
loosely be categorised as “planners”. Not
all' agricultural (and associated) aca-
demics in Australian universities belong
to this group, yet a good many do. To
these thinkers, drought aid is synony-
mous with research establishments
offering secure jobs for more and more
academics. Some of their criticisms
smack of the small boy robbed of a
lolly stick.
The construction of wheat storages is
an unresolved item. Of course, it would
be good to have them. Who should pay
for them? As the marketing of all wheat
in Australia is, by legislation, the sole
right of the Wheat Board, it would seem
that the construction of these storages is
the duty of the same Board. The wheat
would not be given away. It would be
sold. The Australian taxpayer is already
subsidising the Australian wheatgrower,
so it seems unrealistic to expect the tax-
payer to foot the bill for storages. That
is exactly what the farmers want.
The criticisms of Mr HoltYioan pro-
gramme ignore two points:
• It could, possibly, turn out to be a
master stroke in that, having granted
long-term finance, he will be able to
withstand the further demands ema-
nating from farm sources.
• Prior to the granting of long-term
credit the Government's record in
helping drought-stricken farmers was
good. No Government in the past has
done so much.
Mr Holt may be able to show that if
farmers are not satisfied with this then
they will not be satisfied with anything.
It is not clear how long the long-term
credit programme will run. No one ex-
pects it to be of short duration. Mr
T. B. C. Walker, Woolgrowers’ and
Graziers’ Council president, has used the
word “indefinitely”. We are not going
to argue on that. If Mr Walker says
“indefinitely”, then that, we suspect, is
what will eventuate. The loans will be
available long after drought has passed
from many a rural district in Australia.
This is still, from Mr Holt’s point of
view, a bargain if it diminishes farmer
demands for more taxation benefits
(most liberal as they stand); more
money for costly irrigation projects (such
as the Ord and the new one mooted for
Queensland's Darling Downs); increases
in the Government (i.e. taxpayer) con-
tribution to the wheat subsidy, the dairy
subsidy, the egg subsidy (CEMA), which
was supposedly temporary, wool promo-
tion, the brigalow clearing scheme, and
so on.
All of these things (or some of them)
are worthwhile if we can afford them.
But the Prime Minister must be aware
that there is growing resentment in urban
Australia, and in the young middle class
(the “Young Turks” of the Liberal Party)
over the benefits which Australia’s
250,000 farmers accept as their right.
One of the reasons capital for invest-
ment is limited in Australia is the taxa-
tion system, containing the vast hidden
subsidy to farming and the resultant in-
flation of land values. BHP was floated
on Australian capital. Could it happen
today? We doubt it.
Drought or no drought, there is a
limit to what farmers can expect by way
of Government paternalism. The com-
monsense way would be to list all those
things that appear to have merit and to
do those things which we can afford,
and which benefit Australians. Two
statistics may not be irrelevant. The
total number of babies born in Australia
last year amounted to only 260,000, the
lowest in many years. (When the total
number of farmers in a nation roughly
approximates the total births then we
are really headed for trouble.) The
national average bank deposit is about
$450. The farmer average is $4500.
One unfortunate aspect of the evalua-
tion of the drought has been the empha-
sis placed on what is termed the Western
THE COST
BY MICHAEL BAUME
This drought is on (as well as
in) the “never-never”. We are having it now, but we will be
paying the $800 million or so bill (equal to one year’s defence
vote) later. Only a relatively small deposit has been put down so
far, as the only people really affected have been the farmers and
some of their suppliers.
The impact has been mainly on farm production. This is
estimated to fall by about 10 per cent or $357m. in 1965-66,
resulting in a $200m. fall in rural exports (largely in wheat, wool
and meat), a $60m. drop in the value of shares in public
companies associated with the x rural sector, a $10m. loss by the
NSW Railways, large and growing loans from banks and wool-
brokers to their rural clients, falling production and employment
figures in the agricultural equipment industry, and personal and
business disasters in the drought areas. These are mainly in west
and north-west NSW (where two-thirds of the cattle and one-
third of the sheep population have been wiped out) and south-
west Queensland.
Apart from shortages and higher prices of a few primary
products, the drought has not yet really affected the economy
as a whole to any measurable degree. But it will, even if the
extent and duration of the impact is not yet known. This year’s
fall in export income is likely to be followed by another poor
year whether next season is a good one or not. For it is going
to take time to build up the meat trade, particularly in exports,
and the lower sheep numbers (down about 10 per cent or 16J
million) might keep the wool clip down. Offsetting these a little,
but not entirely, there could be a bumper wheat harvest (if we
get the right seasonal conditions and if the Wheat Board can
sell the stuff overseas) as farmers will be putting in wheat in an
attempt to get a quick cash crop to help pay off debts and
finance restocking. In addition, surviving flocks may carry better
clips this year if the feed and water position improve. But overall,
it seems that for balance-of-payment reasons, the Government
may have to keep the economy in slow gear.
The economy will also suffer from the facts that drought-
affected farmers will not be spending money on capital equipment
for some time; meat, stock agent and transport companies and
makers of animal products can expect fewer beasts at higher
prices coming forward for some years (it took seven years to
restore stock numbers after the last drought) once drought-
enforced sales cease and farmers build up their animals in
numbers as well as in condition; and banks can look forward to
even greater demands for money from thg rural sector, since
regeneration costs far more than survival.
Although the drought’s slashing of rural production and
incomes had not really hit the rest of the economy by early
1966, it could do so later in the year. The Government will have
to be skilful in its economic management to parry the blow.


Be sure
the next uniform you buy
is wearing this tag '
it means you will be wearing
the best uniform ...
made from the new, soft, silky,
miracle fabric called
CESARELLA—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Toraii 9
TETORON 65^
FIBRE
\ and Viscose
CTB33
Division of NSW. This is where the
drought is worst. And it is bad. But the
Western Division, until recent years, was
always regarded as a marginal area. It
still carries only about the same number
of sheep, or slightly less, than it did
prior to the !890 drought. Elsewhere in
Australia numbers have increased
dramatically. It may be a duty of Govern-
ment to alleviate drought conditions
wherever possible. It can hardly be
termed a duty to convert genuinely
marginal areas into something they are
not. Dams where there is enough proven
rain to fill them seems, a commonsense
working axiom. Local sentiment favors
a different attitude.
This Government, even apart from
the long-term credit, has done much. It
has provided rail and- road concessions
for taking stock to and from agistment.
It has provided advances for fodder
purchases by dairy farmers. It has pro-
vided backing for State programmes. In
NSW there is a transport subsidy scheme
for fodder in the Western Division which
amounts to five cents on each ton of
fodder for every mile it is transported
beyond 50 miles.
Transport is where this drought is
different from others in the past. The
stock transport trucks have revolutionised
farming. Previously stock either walked
out or died. If the State Railways
authorities could be persuaded to drop
their quite definite antagonism to private
road hauliers, it could well be that the
permanent lifting of all restrictions on
road hauliers would prove of immense
benefit to rural Australia. It might cost
the taxpayers something, although not
as much as acceding to each and every
request put up by the farmers.
"Oaradoxes abound throughout- the
A drought situation —farmers in desper-
ate straits inspecting their dwindling
flocks from aeroplanes costing $20,000;
pictures of sheep in proclaimed drought
areas frisking in front of stockmen
mounted on horses so fat they appear in
danger of foundering, and, a good one
this, the highest price ever paid for a
property in South Gippsland ($141,407
for 995 acres) on March 2, 1966. Yet
the drought does exist. Rivers are drying
up. Stock are perishing.
Thoroughly practical steps which are
being taken include (in NSW) the search
for underground water; encouragement
of more on-farm dam construction; im-
proved meteorological services to give
adequate warning of impending drought,
and continuing work in evaluating river
flows in Australia. Not so practical appear
to be theories about expensive research
aimed at discovering allegedly drought-
resistant sheep and cattle. They all must
have water or they will die. There is
the idea for a drought insurance fund
to which farmers could contribute in
years of plenty.
Cloud-seeding, by aircraft, is obvious-
ly an aid, but just as obviously not an
answer, Farm fodder conservation, a
popular nostrum, is not so easy. On
some properties it could never pay. On
some it should be a must.
Regardless of the shortcomings, the
fact remains that never has so much
concentrated effort been put into trying
to find a way to beat drought. It may be
a trite observation, yet one worth bear-
ing in mind, that drought presents itself
in a different way, and in different cir-
cumstances, on each and every property
that it strikes. Each and every farmer
experiences his own special drought.
The Holt loan plan therefore does ob-
serve the principle that the responsibility
for on-the-property action lies where it
should with the property owner. This
is infinitely better than some form of
massive Government handout which
would permit a proliferation of plans
and planners.


liiip
m
■Vw
warnm
mmmm
m
, ::
iiiilii
m
' " ■ . ■' :
!i' 1 ■ |
m
don’t say another word
about order invoicing
Until you’ve seen how 3M Systems Products eliminate re-writing
. . . re-typing . . . re-correcting . . . re-sorting. 3M machines take
all the repetition out of order invoicing. Go to the 3M Business
Communications Centre and see for yourself.
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Adelaide 51-5971
Perth 28-4651 • Hobart 3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109
COfTIPANY
3M2/1728/65


On Our Selection
BY JOSEPHINE BELL
WE had just purchased a Western
Lands Lease. The bank manager
shook our hands. “I wish I was
your age with your opportunity,” he
remarked. Certainly we had a big debt,
but our vendor was generous in his
terms, the woolbrokers would back us
for buying stock on a wool lien and
stock mortgage and the future was
ours.
We arrived full of faith and hope. The
place, of course, needed a lot of things
doing to it. Had the improvements been
ideal, we could not have afforded to
buy. Anyway, who wants a place where
everything has already been done?
Therein lay the challenge.
The country looked good after a few
lucky early summer storms. The sheep
we had bought with the place were pretty
rough, but we could take our time and
breed up something better. We thoroughly
believe that you are always better off
breeding quality sheep and wool.
It is elementary that inferior stock
requires just as much food and
attention, for lesser returns.
We took over at the end of
November, 1963. In another
month we had decided to keep
a small nucleus of the flock on
the property and cull the re-
mainder. We sold these at $7O,
with three weeks to lift. During
that first month we were nearly daunted
at times by the heat and lack of amenities.
Between Christmas and the New Year
the mercury rose to over 110 degrees
each day, and one day reached an in-
credible (to me) 119 degrees. We were
without a house water-supply, except
for very limited and very precious rain-
water, so the men were busy installing
plumbing from the bore-drain a quarter-
mile away.
One morning in early January we
awoke to steady rain. It had rained all
night and we measured six inches. On
the beautiful rich black plain ihis meant
flood, a flood which kept us housebound
for at least a fortnight. We knew stock
were bogged, but no man, let alone a
horse or vehicle, could get out to them.
In any case there was nothing that
could be done. They could not walk, nor
was there high ground to which they
might walk. Flying over a few days after
the rain showed a grim scene of sheep
bogged all over the district. The miracle
was that so few perished. After being
bogged to their bellies for a week or ten
days, these amazing animals (or a great
many of them) staggered out of the crust-
ing mud and made their way to any
high patches.
The soaking, of course, brought on a
tremendous growth of feed. Everyone
wanted to buy sheep to make an extra
pound on this bounty in a land of un-
certain seasons. Sheep prices soared.
Wether weaners, three months old, were
being sold for $l9O. We still had not
given delivery of those sold for $7O, yet
we had to buy on this inflated market.
Naturally, the terrific demand put really
well-bred sheep out of our price range
(who would want to sell good breeders
with an assured season We
looked further afield and eventually
bought sheep from the softer “inside”
country. A costly mistake, and we
learnt Lesson One the hard way. Sheep
need to be bred for this country. These
“inside” sheep we really battled with; we
drenched and coddled them but they
were never happy in exile. By May it
was realised that the season had not
lived up to expectations. There had been
no follow-up of the flood rain; this had
been confidently expected in February.
(“We always get good February rain,”
we were told.) In 1964 we had none.
The slime left by the flood hardened
into a crust broken only by huge cracks.
Our “inside” sheep were sent back home,
first on agistment, and then sold.
The year wore on. Everyone felt
worried, looking to the spring and early
summer which generally bring thunder-
storms. Spring and summer 1964 were
remarkably deficient in these; those that
fell didn't come our way. Rainwater was
an increasing problem. One of our first
moves had been to erect big house-tanks
for rainwater. Since the beginning of
the year there had been no rain to re-
plenish the supply.
In December we decided to put 2000
of the ewes on the road, to walk down
south-east, where the seasons were kinder
and the breeders of first-cross lambs,
now that they were done with their
harvesting, would be looking for good,
well-grown ewes. We bought Border
Leicester rams and mated them on the
road, looking forward to recouping some
of our losses on these. Why, they were
just the sort of mob we loved when we
had been breeding crossbreds down there.
Six months’ wool, already in lamb.
Nothing to do but sit back and wait for
the return. Lambs in May, and wool in
June. We conservatively (we thought)
reckoned their worth at about $8 a head.
They started on the road between Christ-
mas and New Year.
The year (1965) was not many weeks
old before things really started to go
bad. The area where we were expecting
to sell the sheep had troubles of its own
with drought. With no summer storms,
conditions at home rapidly deteriorated.
There seemed no future in bringing the
sheep back: we would keep walking them
where things were not yet bad. Those
sheep, with many thousands of others,
toured the slightly better-off areas
of the north-west, following the
thunderstorms. Even here there
was no market.
Everywhere graziers were
worried by the lack of general
rain; everywhere graziers wanted
to unload. Sheep that at the same
time the previous year had sold
for $BO and $lOO were bringing
$4 and $5. We were not going to
accept that after all the money which
had gone into them. It must rain soon —
then they would be rushed.
So we unally learnt Lesson Two: Cut
Your Losses. After five months the
stock routes were not only eaten out,
but water was gone. What best to do?
Bring them home to the drought (again
in 1965 there was no February rain) or
cut our losses? We sold them. Ewes close
to lambing and with nearly 12 months’
wool were bought by the meatworks for
a fraction of what should have been
their value.
Another decision had to be made:
whether or not to mate the ewes. Some
in our district did not. Optimists still,
we couldn’t believe in February that it
would remain dry another five months.
We badly needed some return and so we
joined the rams.
By June things were getting fairly
desperate. Ground tanks were either dry
or nearly dry and very boggy. Feed had
run out or had no nourishment. Weak
ewes were close to lambing. On the ad-
vice of the Department of Agriculture
“The skies are brass and the plains are bare,
Death and ruin are everywhere
And all that is left of the last years flood
Is a sickly stream on the grey-black mud . .
HENRY LAWSON


Chevron Hotel
Cocktail Bar
Theatre Restaurant
mm
m
Top Catering
View from Suite
A vis Rent A Car
For the best
EXPERIENCE
in Australia ...
CHEVRON ... in the heart of fascinating King’s Cross —minutes Troro
sporting facilities and business houses. Where experience and new
concepts of luxury satisfy the world’s most discriminating people.
ACCOMMODATION ... all rooms and suites fully air-conditioned—own
bath, toilet, TV, radio and phone—overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT with an excellent cellar. Golden Grill-
breakfast or dining by candlelight with soft music.
Silver Spade—unequalled cuisine, international artists and dancing
nightly.
CONVENTIONS, RECEPTIONS, EXHIBITIONS . . . Ask for Chevron’s
booklets, “Planning Made Easy’’ and “Entertaining Made Easy.’’
When entertaining or staying at Chevron it will be your best experience
ever.
RESERVATIONS: CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Phone: 35-0433. Cables: “Chevron Sydney”
MELBOURNE: 51-1281 or any Travel Agent
AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED
Send for illustrated brochure
RENT A CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more tun when you drive a sparkling
new AVIS car. The car of your choice will be waiting for you al
the airport, railway station, shipside, or will be delivered to Chevron Hotel as part of the
Chevron/Avis service. And remember, you and the car are protected by proper insurance.
". .. We always get
good February rain”
we bought high protein nuts (a sheep
food with which we had had little
previous experience), also urea blocks
and molasses. We were being educated
slowly and painfully. The sheep tended
either to ignore the nuts or gorge on them,
and so continued to die. The urea blocks
had dangers of their own crows
flocked around the feeding areas and
picked the eyes of sheep that were weak
or down lan.bing.
We tried to save some of the lambs
at least. At one stage forty-four lambs
were eating out of the garden that had
been painfully established. Then supplies
of powdered milk became temporarily
unprocurable, so they all perished.
(Needless to say, there had been no
fresh milk for anyone for months; the
cows were battling for existence them-
selves.) Pet lambs, though a joy to the
children, are at best of very doubtful
return. Mating the ewes had been a
mistake. Many died lambing, and of the
lambs only a minute number survived.
So it goes on, on and on. Nerves are
frayed. Nobody seems able to think be-
yond the drought and its implications.
Every day the sky is scanned a dozen
times, looking for signs of a “change”.
Banks and wool firms have tried to be
generous; naturally, there is a limit to
their patronage. Costs must still be met.
The days of pulling in your belt and
living off the land are gone. Rates, rent,
interest, bills and employees must be
paid. Boarding school fees cannot be
ignored. Stock feed must be bought.
It’s not just the cost of hand-feeding
that is lost. The country has lost a gen-
eration of lambs; enormous numbers of
breeding stock have gone to the slaughter
houses; millions more have perished
from hunger. Wool clips on the surviv-
ing sheep will be well down (sheep do
not grow much wool when they’re
hungry); the quality of the wool will be
poor. Practically no one has been able
to afford any developmental work or
even the usual maintenance costs. It
will be a long time before lost ground
is regained. Cattle stocks are down to
the barest minimum of breeders. The
banks and wool-brokers have lent out so
much money that cannot be repaid for
a long time credit will remain short.
The future? I don’t know. They say
it will take five years for people to re-
cover from a drought like this (which
is still not broken). This refers mainly
to those who were on their feet before
the drought. There are many of us to
whom the future is frightening.


(MAS
&ONLYI
OANTASJ
10 JETS A HHK TO THE U SA
Every day of the week (and twice on Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday) Qantas
V-Jets fly to the U.S.A. No other airline offers this convenient choice of flights
(and only Qantas offers direct flights across the U.S.A. to London). Worth remem
bering when you talk travel with your Qantas Travel Agent or Qantas.
v:: - - - - •' , . % . . ..... . .... . ....... ... .*
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.AA., Qantos House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney. Q 84.107.36
'Phone 2-0369; Canberra, 4-4381; Melbourne, 62-3501; Brisbane, 31-2141; Adelaide, 51-5961; Perth, 23-1564/5/6; Hobart, 2-7271; Darwin, 3350/1.


Pick, ft, pouchy
AMPHORA
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
gcntlr
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
SAI7S/1
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there i$
one to suit you. AmpiKt i
is an imported tobacco!
iSEh
* moaci of ooimt tsotois 10m factories, otucjit, noun!
Sydney or The Bush
By PATRICIA ROLFE
On a recent visit to the north-west of
NSW for the pre-Royal Show Shell
journalists’ tour, it seemed hardly
tactful to point out that when you were
last there four years ago the problem
was flood mitigation and that that, at
least, is one problem which in drought
has found a temporary solution.
Nor is it tactful to go out of an air-
conditioned city office to assure afflicted
farmers that it isn’t really so bad, and
point out, as five minutes with the Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia would enable you
to do, that the drought of 1902 halved
Australia’s sheep flocks and it was 1925
before they got above the 100-million
mark again.
It is hard for anyone, no matter how
intelligent, to look through the kitchen-
window and see rising dust and still take
the long view. But it still seems depressing
that so few farmers and, of course,
so few politicians, equating drought-hand-
outs with votes —see drought in relation
to anything that has gone before or
might follow.
Although we may learn little about
nature, we can be fairly sure she does
not change. But people do. Drought seems
to sharpen the immemorial differences
between city and country, which grow
stronger as fewer city people have even a
remote dependence on rural industry and
as more of them can live their lives
hardly seeing food or clothing in its raw
state. This indifference (as great, one
supposes, as farmers’ indifference to
fluctuations in employment in secondary
industry) still seems to infuriate the rank-
and-file farmer. They can take a tele-
vision forecast of fine weather for surfing
as evidence of ill-will.
Remarkably, city people often ex-
change everyday indifference for senti-
mentality when they get down to thinking
about the land as a “way of life”. (Coun-
try people are rarely sentimental; they
describe their lot with great vividness,
yet this is just part of belonging to a
very effective pressure group. They like
living on the land, but this is bedded in
snobbery as often as in the soil.)
The western division of NSW has late-
ly been visited by plagues of city jour-
nalists. These bash away at their type-
writers under what they invariably call
“pitiless blue skies” and wear down what
remains of herbage in their hunt for
human-interest stories.
The gulf between city and country
grows wider, but so does the gap between
the farmers and country towns, particu-
larly in the closer settled areas. As the
towns grow, so does their economic in-
dependence of their surroundings, al-
though in some cases independence seems
mainly grounded in money going through
poker machines.
The city may breed indifference. It
also breeds the smart salesman. But who
is really to blame if there are farmers
along the NSW inland rivers who have
$30,000 literally sunk in pumping mach-
inery which they cannot use now because
of restrictions on the use of water?
A nice illustration of the sort of ex-
pensive toys the city sells, and country
people buy, was at the annual Walcha
show. The show-ring was bare of grass
and lunch-time was the time chosen to
demonstrate a helicopter. The helicopter
took off and remained enveloped in
clouds of rising dust. The dust settled,
mainly on the picnic lunches of the people
parked around the ring. Helicopters, con-
siderably more expensive than light air-
craft, are mainly for hire, but if sales
can be made they will be, even in the
middle of a drought. “Going to buy one
of these things?” a farmer asked another.
“Might. Might help to shift the dust on
my place.”
Most research seems directed at solving
problems which should have been solved
two generations ago. However, New Eng-
land is one area where the modest amount
of research at the University of New
England and the CSIRO station at Uralla
is being undertaken roughly within the
basic concept of total environment, so
that, even if things are not getting very
far very fast, the team-members at least
feel the mild exhilaration of believing
they are going in the right direction.
The Dean of the Faculty of Rural
Science, Professor G. L. McClymont,
said that the research in his department,
and in Agricultural Economics hard by,
followed the general pattern of univer-
sity or CSIRO research going on almost
totally independent of any worry of
getting the message through to the farmer.
The University and CSIRO rely on the
State Agriculture Departments to filter
information through to the farmer. Farm
management consultants were “the big
breakthrough”, Professor McClymont
said, although he had misgivings about
recent graduates without practical ex-
perience being snapped up for this work.
However, Professor McClymont said
that although it was difficult even with
these avenues of communication to get
information down the line to the farmer
quickly and effectively, it was an equal
problem getting news up the line.


A new approach to dictating
the IBM Executary 224
Ready for work . . . whenever you are . . . wherever you are.
What a day! A long business session with a tough drive on top of it. Now you’re in
your motel room, thoughts still race through your mind; notes on today’s meeting,
ideas, things you couldn’t get to before you left the office. Use your handy IBM
Dictation Equipment, and as easy as making a phone call, they’re off your mind.
On the road, in the office, at a conference or even at home, this portable dictation
unit is ready to help you pin down loads of details or put your ideas to work.
The new 224 is the most portable dictating machine you can buy and the easiest
to use. Like to try it in action? A call to your nearest IBM branch will start things
moving. Weighs 28 ozs. Size 6" x 4%" x I W'. Cordless.
IBM
AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
take it anywhere
\ rt
m
* 4
iX, V
ai
•:••;• m
I
•V<:
L:';
If
■
0.
m
y%l
u
I
■x-:
m
m
■ ;• ..« ---
*
II
#
it
■
mm.
£
■
■;v x
,
WS&
MWi
S %
* <2t;-
< 5
s
ir
' iW i
iZ....z «
18M63.108.855c


W.
- i
;; M
Bulletin
BUST OF
MENZIES
We have arranged for the casting of a
limited number of life-size plaster copies
of Tanner's bust of Sir Robert Menzies,
which appeared on the cover of the Jan-
uary 29 issue of The Bulletin. These are
available to readers for $lO (£5) each,
post free.
Send $lO (a cheque or postal note, not cash,
please) to "Bulletin Sculpture", Box 7052, G.P.0.,
Sydney, together with the coupon and address
label below. (Busts may also be purchased over
the counter from the Paper Sales Department,
sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street; Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
SCULPTURE
BUST ONLY
Name ............
Address „
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
order BULLETIN SCULPTURE
FORM Box 7052, G.P.O. Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BUST(S). price $lO a bust
(post tree). I enclose $lO cheque/postal
note.
Name ol sender...
Address
State A
If more than one. bust is ordered
attach list giving full name, address.
State and, if overseas, country.
AROUND MELBOURNE
A 900,000 Beer-can
Mardi Gras
Waving palms on the Yarra hanks
It has to be admitted that in the
midst of Moomba the Adelaide Fes-
tival of Arts always gives us such
a terrible feeling of inferiority. I mean
they keep asking out such clever
people like Yevgeny Yevtushenko and
Dame Judith Anderson. Why, Dame
Judith is even going to Wangaratta, of
all places, for a one night stand on
March 22. One of the TV men,
aghast at this, asked her: “But why
aren’t you going to Melbourne and
Sydney?” “They didn’t ask me,” she
replied.
Yet even if Moomba didn’t always
rise to the supreme heights of Adelaide
culture, this 11th Moomba really took
off, and at last it began to look like
a genuine Mardi Gras. We must apolo-
gise that we do this sort of thing
during the third week of Lent but
it is important to get the right weather.
There were a number of improve-
ments. For example, we had a Tahi-
tian restaurant in a marquee down by
the river. The decor was fish nets and
a thousand banana leaves.
The decorations all over the city
were infinitely better. We had some
magnificent large candy-stripe balls
hanging from 19ft high poles. Reg-
rettably half of them were pinched on
the first day. Everywhere we had
baskets filled with white and red
plastic roses and in Collins Street we
had superb flower beds of real flowers.
You can’t have plastic flowers every-
where they’re too expensive.
And, by heavens, night after night
at Moomba this year there were the
greatest crowds your correspondent
has ever seen anywhere, and nearly
all the entertainment was free from
the Australian Ballet and Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra through to the
Fiji Military Band.
You may well dispute some of the
crowd figures, particularly when
people don’t have to pay. They were
big all right. There is a great Aus-
tralian custom. As soon as one emp-
ties a beer or a soft drink can, it is
virtually a point of honor that he
should discard it precisely where he
is at that moment. Every night right
along the rather lovely Yarra bank
and across the Alexandra Gardens
there was a carpet of empty cans and
cartons. Talking as one who has wit-
nessed many a 100,000 MCG Grand
Final mess, the Moomba mess had a
distinct edge.
But the biggest crowd was on the
Monday for the Moomba procession.
The official crowd estimate was
900,000. According to the Batman
C an Index, not quite that many were
there, but it was indeed astonishing,
The push was so i id from Q uee nsberry
St, Carlton, all the way down Swanston
St> down St Kilda Rd almost the
Shrine and then around the river.
They filled the trees, sat on the tops
G f traffic lights and were even up
among the railway signals. Apart from
the floats there were some very strong
crowd pullers. We had Herb Elliott
on a float accompanied by a very
curvy blonde and brunette doing that
ballpoint TV ad. We had Zig and
Zag. We had all our beloved foot-
bailers like Ron Barassi and Verdun
Howell riding along on the tops of
Volkswagens. And we had Graham
Kennedy of GTV-9.
In case you haven’t heard, the latest
Kennedy gimmick on In Melbourne
Tonight is an electric-powered desk
which he drives on to the set. Well,
Mr Kennedy decided to drive his
desk, complete with jug and glass of
water, in the Moomba parade. What’s
more he had his microphone and
two-way transmitter so that he could
talk direct on TV when the GTV-9
cameras caught him in the parade.
No do ubt all would have gone well
but at the corner of Bourke and Swans-
ton Streets there was an anti-Vietnam
demonstration which held up the pro-
cession for nearly 10 minutes. It also
held up Gray, right outside the Carl-
ton Brewery. University and Technical
School students deserted their floats
and descended on him. They sprinkled
him with flour and water and chanted
“Let’s send Gray to Vietnam”,
Gray was very wise. Had he made
one gesture of annoyance they would
have tipped over his desk, right there
in Swanston St. However he managed
to maintain a somewhat forced smile,
It is important to look as if you are
getting together and having fun at
Moomba.
BATMAN


c tjwUu^m'
l
WAoid
Duiß if
*PWiAm
jljjot'
m
/) <
£im\W


Tanner at the Adelaide Festival
Writers' Week is one of the more lively segments of
the Adelaide Festival. One session of poetry on the lawn was,
when it rained, transformed into poetry in the Museum. Some
of those there may have felt that that was where it should
have been in the first place.


nwßTr
t Wi
w r i
■
m
■m
mm
11
m
m
■ i
&xBm
wr
it
mam
K
§Blll
IS®
■ .
r
up*
m
H
1
>V
Why do so many
businessmen fly TAA?
Businessmen in a free enterprise
economy appreciate the benefits of
competition.
They know that their best guarantee
of good service lies in having organi-
sations competing for their business.
This is the position in the Australian
Airline Industry.
IN OPEN COMPETITION
TAA enjoys no special privileges
over its competitors. It is subject to
income tax, payroll tax, sales tax, etc.,
normally met by other commercial
enterprises, and is required to pay a
dividend to the Federal Treasury out
of profits.
TAA has no exclusive rights to any
airline traffic, and must compete
openly for every passenger and pound
of air cargo,
BUSINESS EFFICIENCY
The fact that TAA gains the greater
overall share of the competitive pas-
senger market is indicative of TAA’s
business efficiency.
The continued business success of
TAA helps ensure the competition
vital to a healthy airline industry.
BENEFITS OF COMPETITION
This competition guarantees that
every Australian will continue to
enjoy the right to choose by which
airline he will fly, or consign air cargo.
Supporters of free enterprise, in
placing business with TAA, are pre-
serving for themselves these benefits of
business competition in the airline
industry.
This is one reason why so many
businessmen fly with us. Another is
that they simply prefer to fly TAA.
F % ■ 4
the Friendly Way
TAA is in business for your business
TAA99B7/66


Truth about
the
CATHOLIC
CHURCH
The Catholic Enquiry
Centre offers a free cor-
respondence course of 20
weekly lessons on the
Catholic Faith to all non-
Catholics requesting it.
The sole purpose of this
offer is to give interested
enquirers an easy and
anonymous way of learn-
ing what Catholics
believe and why.
POST COUPON FOR DETAILS
Ali correspondence is
strictly confidential and
posted in plain, sealed
envelopes. No one calls.
•FREE and IN CONFIDENCE'
Please send brochure in
plain, sealed envelope.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
(Block letters, please)
Address .
.-State
CATHOLIC
ENQUIRY CENTRE
P.O.Box 63, Maroubra, N.S.W.
Indonesia’s Student Coup
Crush the PKI
by GAVIN YOUNG
the world waits to see what
Indonesia’s generals, holding
their new - found power in
Djakarta, are going to do with it, it is
possible to make some cautious predic-
tions, based on what non-Communists
have vehemently been saying they would
like to see.
In a series of long conversations with
Indonesian students and non-Communist
leaders of a variety of political com-
plexions I had in Djakarta not long ago,
certain firm intentions emerged. They
are interesting because it was, after all,
the bold perseverance of the students in
pursuit of their aims that finally forced
In Djakarta—signs of the times. The
poster reads “Subandrio—Peking Dog” and
is one of many similar ones students paint-
ed on the walls of Djakarta streets during
the last three weeks of demonstrations and
protests.
President Sukarno to abandon his recent
efforts to heave Indonesia back on to the
rails of Left-wing extremism, after the
Communists had badly buckled them last
September by taking the political corner
to Communist domination too fast.
The first universal desire I found was
for some kind of joint administration
drawn from the ranks of various anti-
Communist parties—Muslim, Nationalist,
Socialist and from the Army. This
would operate under the shadow of Presi-
dent Sukarno, who, though he has lost
much respect, still retains as “Father of
the Revolution” a fair mystique. National
policies would be firmly wedded to the
concept of Par.tjasila or government
based on nationalism, socialism and
religion and General Suhdrto has already
announced that this is his aim.
In this scheme of things there would
be no place, the students were adamant,
for Communism in any form. It is sig-
nificant, however, that many students
who bitterly harried the shattered hulk of
the Communist Party after the Septem-
ber coup and attacked the Left-wing
Foreign Minister, Dr Subandrio, were
far from being Rightists. On the con-
trary, they were strongly critical of some
aspects of Western capitalism and were
plainly shocked when somebody jokingly
told them that Lenin was “old hat”. For
the rest, the students seemed to be no
further to the Right or Left in their view
of the world than, say, moderate Egyptian
or Indian students.
On Afro-Asian matters, nearly all the
students I talked to felt that Indonesia
had unwisely strayed from the orthodox
Afro-Asian path and had suffered a loss
of national prestige in the eyes of the
leaders of the neutral bloc. They bitterly
criticised recent tendencies of Indonesian
delegations to imitate slavishly the belli-
cose attitudes of Chinese bloc delegations
at international conferences. This was
blamed on Dr Subandrio for having
deliberately selected Communist delegates
to represent Indonesia abroad.
While few Indonesians seemed to have
made their minds up about a return to
the United Nations, the general desire
was undoubtedly for a return to moderate
anti-colonialist non-alignment. A return,
in fact, to the original Bandung principles
which they deemed Subandrio respon-
sible for having distorted at China’s be-
hest.
Anti-Chinese feeling was universal and
rampant. It seemed unbounded by any
ideological consideration. Much of it was
fear and outrage that the Chinese of Indo-
nesia, Communist or not, controlled so
much of the nation’s commerce. The
feeling colored many students’ thoughts
on Singapore’s moderate Socialist Gov-
ernment and Prime Minister Lee Kuan
Yew. “They’re Chinese, and we can’t
trust them,” students said. They gave as
reasons, first that Lee is anyway an
“imperialist puppet” and secondly, since
he is Chinese he must be in cahoots with
Peking as well as with the Chinese in
Djakarta. Muddled though these thoughts
may have been—and the students at that
time had plenty to think about concern-
ing the PKI rather than Lee Kuan Yew
—the belief in a world-wide Chinese free-
masonry inimical to Indonesian nation-
alist and racial identity seemed very
strong. Some students, while professing
mistrust of American “imperialism” in
South-East Asia, even welcomed the IM
Seventh Fleet as a barrier to possible
Peking military expansion towards Indo*
nesia.
The views of “confrontation” with
Malaysia and the British are equally con-
fusing. Many students obviously thought
that the British posed no real aggressive
military threat, and that confrontation
was proving too expensive. Still others
angrily repeated to me Sukarno’s slogans.
“Malaysia will be crushed. Just wait and
see,” they said, and clearly Sukarno’s
ideas on imperialism have gone deep.
In general, the first view seemed to
prevail.
As for Sukarno’s announced ambitions
to make Indonesia a nuclear power,
despite having signed the Nuclear Test
Ban Treaty, students virtually without
exception told me: “We have to scrap
those plans. We’ve got to be able to
eat first.” One detected a distinct unease
that relations with the US had deterior-
ated so far and a desire for an improve-
ment. It was felt that for harsh economic
reasons good Indonesian-American rela-


r%c
m
m
XXi
m
I
rt
; •
saps
e?*
>
r
evri*
-*4
P
capability
CAPABILITY in an industry as complex and progressive as ELECTRONICS demands more than a
knowledge of production and distribution. It requires the inspiration of dedicated engineering skills, the
support of world-wide technical resources and precision manufacturing processes and to be maintained
in service by competent know-how. Of such is the substance of AWA—an all-Australian-owned enterprise
and the nation's largest manufacturer of radio communication equipment. AWA not only serves the
nation's needs but has, over the years, built a reputation of dependable performance for equipment here
and abroad.
AWA capability embraces development, manufacture and installation—having supplied two-thirds of
the broadcasting stations in Australasia * over 75 television transmitters in Australia * broadcasting
stations in Pakistan, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Ceylon * telecommunications stations in Egypt,
Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa * television transmitters in Singapore * test equipment in India,
Libya ★ two-way radio-telephones in South Africa, Philippines, Hong Kong, East Africa, Mauritius *
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston,
Wellington, N.Z., London, New York, Kuala Lumpur.
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio ampli-
fying systems: electronic components: testing
instruments: telephones: programme recordings:
television and broadcast receivers: data trans-
mission systems: and training in radio technology.
4768


■ F
Off 1 ?*r e nc qo
BELIS
•coy. scotch whiskies
OlSflltfOAND BLENDED
. IN SCOTLAND
Fillers p**™ SCOTLAND
PRODUCT Of SCOTIAN
9
the
largest-selling
Scotch in
Scotland
A custom all good
Scotsmen know.
A spot of Bell’s
'(fimyega
Arthur Bell & Son, Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
An Independent Company
8W10.65N
tions would prove essential. But the more
thoughtful student and political leaders
warned against a too-precipitate rap-
prochement as politically unwise
“Sukarno and Subandrio have so con-
ditioned the people against Americans.
There can be no hurry”.
Today the generals have the ball at
their feet but they have made no sign
of what they intend to do with it. One
of their major problems is clear. There
has soon to be an administration to
cope without delay with the day-to-day
affairs of the nation notably the
economic crisis, which cannot be allowed
to hang fire for very long, with food
prices, to take only one aspect, at the
sky-high level they are. A new Cabinet
must soon be announced the students
were talking about a Cabinet of techno-
crats, partially composed of experts in
the universities trained abroad, many in
America.
It is not yet clear whether Sukarno’s
former 108-man Cabinet has been dis-
solved or not. It was certainly under
bitter attack by demonstrating students,
who demanded the immediate purge of
some 30 Communists or near-Com-
munists. And naturally of Dr Subandrio,
to whom, now that D. N. Aidit, chair-
man of Indonesia’s banned Communist
Party, is probably dead, the students
ascribe major responsibility for the
nation’s tribulations.
Yet Subandrio still seems to be with
Sukarno who is still a formidable
political force —in his country palace at
Bogor. As long as Subandrio is still free
to come and go it is hard to feel at all
certain that the new dispensation of
generals could not run into some
unexpected opposition, organised oy
Subandrio supporters with Sukarno’s
blessing. The influence and guile of the
wily Dr Subandrio and the authority
and mystique of Sukarno, can hardly oe
overstressed as a forceful combination
in Indonesian politics.
The generals seem to have managed
things very neatly. They did not move
to overthrow Sukarno when he dismissed
the army chief, General Nasution, in
February, although they must have been
tempted to do so. Instead they left the
students to demonstrate, shifted troops
around'in a significant manner and then
persuaded Sukarno to hand over power
passively and in complete legality. Thus,
the generals cannot in the future —ns
they have no doubt calculated ■— be
accused of having behaved illegally. They
have launched a non-military coup.
Everything has been constitutionally
above board. There has been no killing,
and General Suharto is not a traitor.
This, to Indonesia, and above all to the
army, which has always regarded itself
as “Guardian of the Revolution and
Constitution”, is very important.
Generals and Buddhists
from DON SIMMONS
(ABC Correspondent in Saigon)
The military leaders of South Viet-
nam have quietly removed from
office a man who could have been
South Vietnam’s next Prime Minister.
He was General Nguyen Chan Thi,
the general in charge of the five northern-
most provinces of South Vietnam, and
who ruled there with a firm but iron
hand. Thi has a long history of rebellion.
He was a paratrooper who served with
the French, rose to the rank of Colonel
and remained ir South Vietnam when
the Indo-China war ended in 1954 as
an army officer.
In 1960 lie led a coup against the
Prime Minister Ngo Dinh Diem, and
fled to neighboring Cambodia when it
failed. He returned to Vietnam when
Diem finally was overthrown in 1963
and later was involved in the coup that
ousted General Khanh from power. He
threw in his lot with the present Prime
Minister, Nguyen Cao Ky, after the
armed forces had chosen Ky from the
ranks to head the present Government.
He was an ardent nationalist though
some of his harsher critics, who disliked
his liaison with Buddhist leaders, said it
was a mask for neutralism. He had a
flamboyant air, he was capable and had
his own ideas about how the war in
Vietnam should be conducted. In his
own area he did things his way, and dis-
regarded orders and instructions of the
Armed Forces Council, which rules Viet-
nam, and of which he is a member. This
of course was the basic charge against
him. Add to this the suspicion that he
was biding his time to seize power, and
there was no alternative but to remove
him from office. So the plans were skil-
fully laid ar.d the whole affair handled
with smoothness and aplomb.
He was called to Saigon for a meeting


OVER 550
(Carrie?)
MODEL 36QR6 FAN COIL
AIR CONDITIONING UNITS
'
s
■Sk
Supplied to
THE RESERVE BANK, SYDNEY
To meet the rigid specifications laid down by the Common-
wealth Department of Works, in association with D. Rudd
"and Partners, Carrier Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., as
successful sub-contractors, selected GMF Consul motors
for use in their whisper-quiet 36QR6 fan coil units, in-
stalled throughout the Reserve Bank, Martin Place, Sydney.
GMF Consul Motors have been specially designed for air-
conditioning applications and are used in a wide range of
equipment in this field.
Built by
CARRIER AIR CONDITIONING PTY. LTD.
incorporating
m
WHISPER-QUIET
FAN DRIVE MOTORS
G.M.F. ELECTRIC MOTORS PTY. LTD.
(A Division of Electrical Equipment of Australia Ltd.)
BONAR STREET, ARNCLIFFE, N.S.W. Tel. *59 0211
Telegrams and Cables: "Convertor,” Sydney.


GO
s
The ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
R.A.S. SHOWGROUND, SYDNEY
1-12 APRIL, 1966
* Sensational New Attractions!
M HUMAN CANNON BALLS
BAND OF THE FIJI MILITARY FORCES
Sponsored by British Tobacco Co. (Australia) Ltd.
. Flown to Australia by QANTAS
* WORLD CHAMPION TREE CLIMBER
Flown to Australia by QANTAS
* GRAEME BELL & HIS ALL STARS
10 DAYS & 8 NIGHTS
★ *
m
of the Armed Forces Council, rnd within
a few hours he was out of a job. The
voting against him by the ten-man junta
was nine to nil. Just who abstained from
voting is uncertain. Perhaps it was Thi
himself. Few men vote for their own
dismissal. Rumor has it that it was Prime
Minister Ky. This is possible, for Ky
always has had a great personal regard
for Thi.
While the meeting was going on tanks
moved into key areas of the city. And
at Saigon’s Tan Son Nhut airport armed
Skyraiders of the Vietnamese Air Force
circled the airfield, and Saigon itself. The
airport was closed to commercial air-
craft, and there was a tenseness in the
city that Saigon has not known for better
than a year. Vietnamese troops were on
stand-by ready for hasty action, and
police guards in the city were increased.
At this stage Thi must have realised that
he had no real friends in the military’s
higher echelon. And he must have real-
ised that he had only three avenues from
which to seek support.
The first, and most likely, was to re-
turn to his own corps and make a stand
there. It’s believed he tried to do just
that. But, he was told that the Prime
Minister’s air force couldn't find a seat
for him on a north-bound plane. So,
Thi was stranded in Saigon better than
300 miles from his troops.
The second avenue was to get Budd-
hist support. However, his former
friend, Thic Tri Quang, the Buddhist
leader, was in hospital. It seemed that
Tri Quang, who himself is an able and
wily politician, had been warned in ad-
vance of the government’s plans. It
seemed that he had agreed to keep the
Buddhists in check, in return for certain
favors.
The third hope was that Buddhist
students at Hue and Danang would sup-
port him, and would attempt to stage
anti-government demonstrations. The
demonstrations did in fact begin the
following day. At both Danang and Hue
there were small rallies. But they were
followed by larger and larger ones. The
biggest was at Danang, and it involved
three thousand civilians and one thousand
soldiers. All the demonstrations were
peaceful. As a further act of protest a
one-day strike was called in Danang.
At this stage the Buddhists, who pre-
viously had disregarded Thi’s dismissal,
came back into the picture. Tri Quang
called at the Prime Minister’s office and
made further demands in return for
Buddhist support. These demands are
believed to have been for greater repre-
sentation in the already predominantly
Buddhist government. The demands
obviously were 'ot met, and the bonzes,
seeing a chance to force the government’s
hand, called a Press conference.
A communique issued at the confer-
ence said the political atmosphere in
Vietnam had deteriorated, ana that Viet-
nam had reached a critical period in its
history. The statement said that the
Vietnamese nation, since the revolution
of November 1, 1963, had not secured
effective institutions which commanded
respect within the Republic or abroad.
Nor had it been able to solve the prob-
lems of Vietnam. It said the military
situation had worsened, there was dis-
unity in the armed forces, and that the
Republic was in economic chaos. The
communique called for a reinstatement
of generals whom the new regime had
sacked for the eventual return of power
to a civilian government.
The Buddhist allegations had no real
basis in truth. For, civil mil tary and
economic affairs under the Ky govern-
ment have been better organised, and
have made more progress under difficult
circumstances than ever before. Never-
theless the Buddhists had to make the
charges if they were to put pressure on
the Government. That night reporters
called at General Thi’s home in Saigcn.
He said he had asked to be relieved
of his command in first corps for health
reasons, and that the armed forces
council had agreed to his request. He
said he would seek treatment for a sinus
complaint in the United States, and
would be abroad for about four months.
Meanwhile General Nguyen Van Chuan,
of the First ARVN division has been
appointed to Thi’s old post. Chaun, too,
comes from First Corps, is a Buddhist
and was born in Central Vietnam. He
too commands a lot of loyalty in First
Corps, and his appointment could quell
a lot of criticism of the Government.
So far the hard support for Thi seems
to be confined to First Corps. And un-
rest there cannot bring about the fall of
the Government. The Buddhist inten-
tion is the imponderable in the whole
situation. But, it seems at present that
the Buddhists are using Thi as a pawn
in a far greater game. The whole affair
at this stage should be viewed as a major
test of strength. If the Government sur-
vives it could bring Vietnam greater
stability than it ever has known before.


Business travel
gets a new lift
this way
Send your export figures UP by
a little on-the-spot investigating in
South Africa on your next round-
world trip! South Africa is prosperous
-—expanding —a rich potential market
for many Australian products. And
further along the route, more new,
undeveloped export markets abound.
Flying to U.K./Europe via South
Africa is rich in travel enjoyment, too.
Spend a few days seeing the big game
in Kruger National Park, marvel at
the scenery, the peoples, fabled cities
such as Johannesburg, Capetown,
Pretoria.
Stopover if you wish at Lisbon,
Madrid and other great European
capitals at little or no extra air fare.
The cost? Flying this way, from
a mere £15.10.0 extra in air fares,
depending on your departure point.
Rewarding in many ways, this
way. See your travel agent.
LONDON^
ATHENS^
FRANKFURT/'
\ \\\ n /
V \ \\\ \ /
' \ \ ■ZURICH
Iv V /
s
L \ iiZURIch
V / /
V/ilPAßisr
1 / j /
I /Mi MAD RIP
iin^oN/
i a
i
i
/ /
//
/
//
//
n
l!U
•111
111
LUANDA
SALISBURY
JOHANNESBURG
MAURITIUS
V PERTH
*
56
Two services weekly to South
Africa, with daily connections
at Johannesburg for U.K. and
Europe. Operated by S.A.A.,
in association with Qantas,
8.0.A.C., and C.A.A.
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
TO U.K./EUROPE VIA THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
LETTERS
Higham’s Culture
SIR.—I have given up trying to explain
to the large numbers of people in Ade-
laide, still reeling from the fiery impact
of Yevtushenko’s first poetry reading, that
my old friend Charles Higham is really
a very cultured man. “The Dullness of
Yevtushenko” (8., March 19.). Wow!!
We now await articles on “The Ugliness
of Greta Garbo’ and “The Dim-Witted-
ness of Jean-Paul Sartre”.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
Kapunda (SA ).
SlR.—Charles Higham’s well-deserved re-
putation for intelligent comment will
gain little from his confused remarks
about Yevtushenko. One is aghast when
a responsible critic utters judgments
about the poetic qualities (even rhythm!)
of verse he has read only in translation.
As for content, imagery and allusion, her-
appreciation demands some effort u
know and understand the world of the
poet’s audience. Mr Higham's lack of re-
sponse to the passage he quotes suggests
an unwillingness to make even elementary
efforts in this- direction. This passage
speaks powerfully of the awakening to
reality and responsibility of a generation
whose coming-of-age coincided with the
shattering of the icons of Stalinism.
Both Soviet and Western critics of
Russian literature vary widely in their
evaluations of Yevtushenko’s poetic
talents. There are a number of out-
standing poets at work in Russia today,
and if Yevtushenko is the best known of
them this is of course because his verse
poses and explores some of the acutest
problems troubling the mind and con-
science of his contemporaries. Again
there may be (and are) sharp disagree-
ments among educated and honorable
men (in Russia and the West) about the
way Yevtushenko deals with these pro-
blems. But how can one write of his
verse as if this whole dimension of his
reputation were irrelevant? Mr Higham
might well have queried whether it is
worth reading translations of poetry,
whether these particular poems were
worth translating, or whether they have
been translated well. If instead he chose
to mix up these questions and throw in
others which could not legitimately be
discussed on the evidence available to
him, it is no wonder his answers came
out muddled.
Speaking more broadly, one hopes that
Mr Higham would not wish to identify
himself with that complacent Western
parochialism which refuses to take Rus-


m
PETER O'SHAUGKNESSY
33 RPM BULLETIN RECORD
SPIRIT
OF ANZAC
The noted Australian actor presents
specially recorded excerpts, evoking the
spirit of soldiering, from the works of
William Charles Wentworth, C. J. Dennis,
lan Mudie, A. B. Paterson, John Manifold,
John Masefield and Alan Seymour.
Send $1 (cheque or postal note, not cash) to
"Bulletin Records" Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney,
with the coupon and address label below.
Records may also be bought over the counter
from Paoer Sales Department, sth Floor,
Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh Street, Monday
to Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN ANZAC
RECORD
RECORD ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEI
Name .
Address
I State
I Sender
| If undelivered ulorsp return to
! Box 7052. G.P.0.. S>d nr y
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN ANZAC RECORD
Box 7052, G P 0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S) price SI each (post
free). I enclose cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address
State - „ A.
if more than one record is ordered, attach
list givina fulj name ad tress. State and. if
overseas, country
sian intellectual life seriously, despite
the profound impact of the Russian mind
and spirit on the world today. Surely
there is something significant in a litera-
ture which, after half a century of
“materialism” in a “totalitarian” system,
• has become a mass force and the nearest
thing to a conscience of the nation.
T. H. RIGBY, A. D. HOPE,
R. F. BRISSENDEN, MANNING
Clark, David Campbell.
Canberra (ACT).
Charles Higham replies: Arc the sig-
natories of the letter suggesting that no
person not speaking Russian should have
reviewed the Penguin edition I com-
mented on? I made it clear in my article
that I was dependent on translation, like,
presumably, the majority of signatories to
the letter and Messrs Geoffrey Dutton
and Max Harris, whose enthusiasm for
this poet is so well-known. Their own
ignorance of Russian has not prevented
them from expressing an approval equal
to my own dislike. Social significance is
not, and can never be, the sole yard-
stick of the merit of poetry. A Keats is
long after the Victorian
poets of sociology are forgotten. Any dis-
cussion of Russian intellectual life was
entirely outside the scope of my article.
Fairbairn Not Affronted
SIR. —Mr Randolph Stow’s enchantingly
silly note requires an answer for one
particular reason: he is a very dis-
tinguished writer indeed and therefore—
however delightfully .flippantly —he is
not entitled to misrepresent what a mere
“local journalist” has written.
I was not in the least “affronted” by
citizens protesting against Australian in-
volvement in Vietnam; I was amazed
at such a group of citizens having
attributed to them some kind of expert
status. I believe I made this point quite
clearly.
Mr Stow is foolish to indulge in sneers
about “overnighting in Saigon”: I have
been trying to understand and to write
honestly about Vietnam since 1953. I do
not regard the absence of democracy in
South Vietnam “with complacency”; 1
just happen to know that democracy is
impossible in conditions of insurgency—
as it was impossible in Madrid in 1937
in the case of another beleaguered govern-
ment which I hoped would win out
nevertheless.
GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Canberra (ACT).
Berkeley’s Soviets
SIR. The yahoo character of Mr
Netteibeck’s letter (8., March 12) and
the fact that he gives a Berkeley address
tend to confirm my worst fears about
that afflicted institution. My own evalua-
tion of the situation there is based
entirely on articles of people whom 1
trust and whose reports display good
sense and internal consistency, namely
Professors Feuer, Glazer, Hook, Lippset
and Petersen. I myself have not been at
Berkeley. I shall now deal with Dr
Nettelbeck’s “factual” points in turn.
(1) The term “Soviet” in relation to f he
Free Speech Movement was used for the
first time by Professor Feuer in his
celebrated New Leader article. Other
(entirely justified) epithets used for the
Berkeley revolutionaries in that arti le
were “forlorn crackpots”, “limpniks” and
“lumpenbeatniks”.
It is obvious that Dr Nettelbeck does
not know the meaning of the term
“soviet”. If he did, he would have had to
notice that both Feuer and I used the
term not in its current usage but in its
original 1917 meaning. The 1917 Soviets
were by no means mere fronts of the
Bolshevik Party but mass-organisations
of counter-government in a disintegrating
society, within which many other bodies,
apart from the Bolshevik Party were
struggling for influence.
(2) 1 did not imply that the FSM was
at any stage controlled by the official
Communist Party. 1 made it quite clear
that it was, at least in its initial stages,
representative of moderate groups as
well, and that when it fell into the hands
of the extremists, the flatter were not
official Communists but “a coalition of
loosely-defined Castroites, Trotskyites.
Maoists, Moscow-line Communists and
ordinary crackpots . . .”. A charge to
that effect was made repeatedly by Presi-
dent Kerr. A good characterisation of
the extremists is contained in Petersen’s
chapter. I'he fact that leading campus
operators at Berkeley tend to be crack-
pots. Maoists and Castroites rather than
old-time Communist apparatchiks is not
much of a comfort But then 1 may
have a truncated vision of man.
Dr Nettelbeck is "ight in finding me
“outdated”. Frankly, I must confess
that 1 prefer the campus Communists and
Trotskyites of the 'thirties to the present
generation of pseudo-radical bums whose
petty and almost entirelv safe delinquen-
cies are paraded as manifestations of a
revolutionary spirit. Their only “achieve-
ment” seems to be to embarrass the
serious Negro leadership of the Civil
Rights movement and to provide the
Radical Right with political ammunition.
Yet Dr Nettelbeck was wrong in clearing
me of dishonesty I was not entirelv
frank in my article, since 1 did not reveal
the following proposal: The best solution


STEEL PIPE
EORrIjHE
BUILDING
INDUSTRY
li
%
In any major building project today there
are miles of steel pipe and fittings. Pipes
for water, gas, heating, steel tubes for
scaffolding, balustrades, roof trusses,
stanchions. All are obtainable from
Stewarts and Lloyds who for more than
a century have been handling steel tube.
The large number of Tubular steel struc-
tures and installations built and building
all over Australia also shows the growing
popularity of steel tube as a structural
medium. There is a Stewarts and Lloyds
branch in all capital cities ready to advise
or service you.
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin, Alice Springs, Launceston. AGENCIES; Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
5PG.4363
of the Berkeley crisis would be to
negotiate an exchange agreement w'ith
Castro. The Berkeley “Castroites” should
be despatched to Havana in exchange
for Cuban students and intellectuals now
languishing in Cuban jails and concentra-
tion camps.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
East Melbourne ( Vic.).
Mushrooms
SIR. I wish to lodge a protest in
regard to “No Mushroom Cloud” (8.,
March 5). The writer of the article has
made in his final paragraph a scathing
attack on the “Australian mushroom
growers” without checking on his facts.
As a growers’ representative I was present
at all conferences with the Department
of Trade and finally, a member of the
delegation that interviewed the Minister
of Trade, Mr McEwen. At no time was
the importation of dried mushrooms
mentioned. Our only concern was the
flooding of the Australian market with
cheap imports from Taiwan of canned
mushrooms produced by coolie labor.
Our application to the Department of
Trade had the support both of the Euro-
pean and American growers w'ho have
suffered disastrously from Formosan im-
ports. Unlike the Taiwan mushroom
industry that was started by American
aid, is strictly controlled by the Govern-
ment and has the benefit of extensive
research facilities, our local industry has
received no Government aid either in the
form of a subsidy or research assistance.
M. LAWSON
Managing Director,
Lilydale Mushrooms Pty Ltd
Helensburgh •1 IS fV).
Recruitment and Pensions
SIR. Why is recruitment to the armed
forces a problem? Last year the Prime
Minister, the Rt. Hon. Harold Holt,
MP, who was then the Federal Treasurer,
provided the following information in
the House of Representatives: Of the
persons discharged from the permanent
armed forces since 1948, no less than
2143 persons, having had less than 20
years’ service, were categorised as Class
“C” medical disabilities under the Defence
Forces Retirement Benefits (DFRB) Act.
Only three of these, who had initially
contributed under the Superannuation
Act, had received a pension. Many of
these cases are already known to the
writer. Where are the rest of the 2140
men without pensions to whom the
Treasurer referred? The DFRB Board
has no record of the present conditions
of their disabilities because they are no
longer annually medically examined.
The Regular Defence Forces Welfare
-Association holds that the possibility of
serving for a period long enough to
qualify for a pension is an important
factor in recruiting. The rational assump-
tion is that each man will want to con-
tinue to serve for a pension until he
indicates his decision not so to do. It
follows that, as in the Public Service, if
a man is discharged as medically unfit,
then he should receive a pension. More-
over, at least a part of this pension should
be inviolate: that part which is, in effect,
compensation for loss of health during
service.
In spite of the lottery call-up, the
maintenance of the flow of good quality
volunteers for service in the armed forces
presents a continuing problem. In any
country, probably the best supply of
volunteers comes as a result of com-
mendation by retired and discharged
former regular or permanent service-
men who are satisfied with the con-
ditions of service and with their pensions.
H. N. BOYLE, COLONEL
(Ret’d List)
Chairman, Federal Executive,
RDFWA
Melbourne {Vic.).


m
:
m
Fresh as a daisy .. . Freshness is Frigrite’s stock-in-trade. In air condition-
ing, for instance. And in food, with refrigerated plant in supermarkets, delicatessens
and cold stores.
In hotels, clubs and restaurants, beer is chilled and served fresh with Frigrite equip-
ment. The ice that freshens your Scotch is made with a Frigrite ice-maker. And that
fresh cup of coffee probably came from a Frigrite coffee machine.
Frigrite help keep the land fresh, too, by developing new irrigation and spraying tech-
niques through their agricultural division, Dangar, Gedye and Malloch.
Here at Frigrite, we’ve got a lot of fresh ideas for the future.
AIR CONDITIONING
REFRIGERATION
AGRICULTURE
INDUSTRY
CREATING THE CLIMATE FOR PROGRESS


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
The Tree of Innocence
Hans Heysen and the “real” Australia
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
Australians have gone through
some strange swings of love and
hate in their attitudes towards the
gum-tree. The name itself is misleading.
No one cares anything about the gum,
about those shining fat globules that ooze
secretly from the smooth white bole or
from the clefts in the shaggy bark, look-
ing like delicious toffee but bitterly
disappointing the child that licks them.
And what is a gum-tree? There are over
500 different species. The anthropomor-
phic Greeks would have been thrown
into ecstasies of desire at the sight of a
lemon-scented gum, like a dryad stand-
ing on her head with every sensual
variation of flank and thigh innocently
offered to the air. The slender, straight
saplings of the Victorian hills, the huge
old-man red gums of the southern rivers
throwing out white clouds of cockatoos,
the dazzling ghost gums of the dry red
northern creeks, the surly ironbarks, the
white gums of the Adelaide hills, straight
strokes of light, the neck-cricking, cloud-
brushing Victorian mountain ash, the
sombre vastness of the karri, the spotted
leopard-gum of Queensland crouched in
its own shade ... no tree in the world
offers such variety, or holds on to so
much of the earth through so many
extremes of drought and swamp, snow
and desert.
Yet this is the tree our gardening
ancestors slaughtered as if it had a curse
on it. Those British exiles cleared the
lovely slopes crackling with bark, spiky
with native orchids and erica, and were
not happy till the scrappy shade of those
shining leaves was replaced with the dark-
ness of pine, the luxuriant coolness of
oak and elm and poplar (not to mention'
the suckers), and the correctness of
cypress.
But, oddly enough, these same people,
about sixty years ago, began to buy
more and more paintings of the very
gum-trees they were busy chopping down.
Davies, McCubbin, Streeton, Roberts,
and, above all, from 1908 to the present
day, Hans Heysen. In the tomb-dark
gloom of the Australian home Heysen’s
sun-showered gums glowed like frustra-
ted ghosts behind the glass of their
thickly-encrusted gold prisons. Delicate
watercolors struggled against frames
that would have crushed Rubens, while
in the garden outside the lace-shrouded
windows hydrangeas had to be screened
from the fierce sun.
Then, suddenly, architects, landscape
gardeners and town planners discovered
the gum-tree. That maltreated genius
Burley Griffin realised as soon as he
landed in Australia that the gum-tree
was a precious and irreplaceable part of
the Australian landscape. He horrified
official taste by bringing gum-trees into
his designs; of course he was far ahead,
but at least some of his ideals have been
realised.
In the garden the gum-tree was “in”,
but on the wall the gum-tree was a
disaster. Australian artists were busy dis-
covering all sorts of other things in
Australia, if they were not already paint-
ing abstracts. A. D. Hope compared the
monotonous average of Australian life
to the national tree, “drab green and
desolate grey”. Elegant, split-level wives
watered their flowering gums, bottle-
brush and tea-tree and then came inside
to drink espresso coffee under the
starving gaze of a Dickerson child. To
escape from the cliches of the littoral,
thousands of people began to travel
thousands of miles to the harsh red and
bare blue of the Flinders Ranges in
northern South Australia. Thirty years
or so before, in 1927, a 50-year-old
artist, Hans Heysen, hitched a ride with
the mailman through the Flinders and
was so shattered by the new (or incred-
ibly old) landscape that he was unable
to paint it until after another visit a year
later. Heysen was the first Australian
artist, apart from S. T. Gill, to paint the
far outback, which now, after Drysdale
and Nolan, is often thought of as the
“real” Australia.
The nadir of official Australian taste
was probably reached when Sir Robert
Menzies, passing over a selection of
work by the finest Australian painters
specially assembled for the occasion,
presented Princess Alexandra with a
Robert Johnson painting of a group of
gum-trees. Heysen, of course, an infi-
nitely superior painter to Johnson, had
become the safe official artist, whose
gum-trees hung in board-rooms and
embassies. By this time no subject
appeared less suitable for an adventurous
artist, although around the avant-garde
houses the gum-trees had had time to
grow thirty feet high.
Then suddenly the gum-tree was “in”
again. Fred Williams, Sidney Nolan and
Albert Tucker cleared out the white ants
and put the hardy old timber back into
business again. (Arthur Boyd had quietly
been painting gum-trees all along, some-
times as part of a friendly landscape,
sometimes in a menacing, twisty forest
oppressing haunted lovers and beasts.)
Confronting the cliche”, Tucker called
it, and to prove he was no piker even
tackled sunsets through the gum-tips.
The gum-trees stripping bark that Judith
Wright had written about were now
allowed to become the centre of a new
movement of very successful painting.
It was astonishing that Tucker, who had
painted image, of modern evil, murderers
in the destructive city should have dis-
covered a radical innocence in the bush
a few miles from Melbourne. Nolan
was really only developing a style and
a part of his sensibility already well
cultivated, but his great riverbend series
of gums by a muddy river, exhibited in
Sydney in 1965, is one of the peaks of
modern Australian painting.
Through all these fluctuations of taste
Hans Heysen never wavered in his love
of the gum-tree, or in his pleasure in
painting it. Like Norman Lindsay with
his eel-pond of naked nymphs, he is
happy to continue painting and drawing
gum-trees to the end of his life. For
Heysen (as for Tucker and probably
Nolan), the gum-tree is the-tree of inno-
cence. The bush, even the dry creeks of
the drought-hard Flinders Ranges, is
neither menacing nor strange nor melan-
choly. It is joyful and nature is all-
healing. It is impossible to hurry a gum-
tree, although easy enough to destroy it.
Hans Heysen says that almost every one
of the gum-trees he used to paint around
his home in the Adelaide hills been
destroyed by fire or white ants, but
usually by axe or saw. But as nature
itself is incapable of bitterness, there is
no bitterness or regret in his painting.
Like the great rocks of this northern
landscape, the unshakeable foundation
of Heysen’s work is his tremendous
solidity as a draughtsman. His drawing
is the solid architecture of his work and,
although his techniques of handling paint
have varied, his classical draughtsman-
ship has remained the same for sixty-
five years. The crowded wet-country
slim gums of the charcoal “Mystic Morn”
(1904) are as rounded by light and
ranked by distance as the drawings of
the last few years.
This most Australian artist was born
in Hamburg, Germany, on October 8,
1877, and came to Adelaide when he
was six years old. Apprenticed to a
hardware dealer for five shillings for a
63-hour week, he later went to art
school, studying under James Ashton
and H. P. Gill, and was beginning to
attract a little notice when four Adelaide
businessmen subscribed $BOO to send him
to Europe, in return for which he would
send them his paintings. (It would be


interesting to work out just how many
Australian painters got their start in
this way; perhaps Australian businessmen
are not such philistines after all.) In
Paris in 1901 he was painting little im-
pressionist scenes worthy of the French
masters. Almost unknown in Australia,
these paintings, and later exquisite oils
such as one of two figures in a boat on
the shores of Lake Narrabeen (1907),
are some of Heysen’s finest work, and
they demonstrate how drastic was his
deliberate restriction of subject-matter
later on.
Heysen says that th a intensity of the
Australian light was what struck him
most when he returned home to Ade-
laide, but for a while he was not always
successful in letting it through to his
work. Since 1908 he has lived in the
soft but strong landscape of the hills
near Hahndo r f, about 20 miles from
Adelaide. He moved to his present house
about 1913 where, until her recent death,
his wife Selma used to preside over a
wonderfully run househo'd. the speciality
of which (or one of mem) was the
majestic spread of the German afternoon
teas. Heysen built himself a great, solid
studio out amongst the trees, near the
sound of the pines and the white glow
of the gum-trunks, where he has painted
almost every day since.
Thanks to Heysen more than any
other painter, the “real” Australia has
until recent years been thought of as a
high-rainfall, dairying or sheep country,
timbered with huge red gums or white
gums. What is more, wnen Heysen began
to paint there were large areas of such
country right in the heart of Melbourne
or Adelaide.
Australian landscape painters have
been extraordinarily unadventurous and
lazy. Drysdale was the first o suffer the
wrongs of the drought country, and then
to go right out to the red rocks and
baobabs of the far north and west. Nolan
flew over Central Australia and later
travelled widely through the interior; no
other Australian landscape painter can
match his variety. But the image of the
gum-tree in art continued to be that of
a large, white-trunked tree. No one
painted the mallee, the ironbark, or the
karri. Then Namatjira and his assembly-
line of followers made the ghost gum
popular, and later the primitive Henri
Bastin painted leopard gums and coola-
bahs with precisely detailed care, and
Ray Crooke revealed the dark-narked
trees of his northern Queensland. But
Australians have remained sentimentally
loyal to Heysen’s white and red gums,
though at the same time doing their
best to make them extinct.
Heysen himself seems as permanent
as the trees that have survived. Although
he pioneered vast new tracts of subject-
matter when he penetrated in 1927 to
the bare, stripped Australia of the Flin-
ders, he made no changes of style to
cope with the new material. He has re-
mained firmly in an existing tradition. He
has scarcely ever moved away from home
yet he has the scrubbed fresh look and
rosy cheeks of a sea-captain. The mild
eccentricity of his dress (he favors knick-
erbockers even for the grandest occa-
sions) is accompanied by a courteous
manner, a soft voice and easy conver-
sation. He has a tremendous presence,
although his bushy eyebrows do not
scowl, and his broad-fingered working
hands are gentle. Approaching 90, his
mind is quick and his opinions are not
hide-bound. He has defended abstract
art against stuffier members of Ade-
laide’s National Gallery board.
He is, in fact, a walking example of
his belief that nature will give you
health and balance of mind if you give
it your trust ,and do not disturb its
balance. In the corruption and violence
of the present world it seems too simple
a belief. Yet it is still possible to hold
it in Australia. The gum-tree, all 500
kinds of it, may have made a few
gallows in its day, but no jackboots
have thumped beneath it, and no con-
quering armies, no brothers fighting
brothers, ever hung their captives from
its boughs. Whether nature itself be hos-
tile or friendly, the gum-tree is the tree
of innocence.
Tanner at the writers ' informal gathering, Adelaide Festival


ADELAIDE FESTIVAL. THEATRE
The Best of Everything
By TERRY STAPLETON
The Royal Hunt of the Sun. Peter Shaffer,
Bonython Hall, Adelaide.
The Three Sisters. Chekhov, Sheridan,
Adelaide.
Advance publicity for “The Royal
Hunt” (overseas and local) was
plentiful, colorful and provocative. Any-
thing less than a really first-rate pro-
duction for the Australian premiere
would have been disastrously anti-climac-
tic. This performance by the SA Theatre
Company/Elizabethan Theatre Trust is
no. anti-climax. By now everyone knows
that the play concerns the 16th-century
conquest of Peru by 167 Spaniards.
Ultimately, it also concerns the appalling
consequences of greed and the unbridge-
able gap between two civilisations, two
ideologies, two religions two men:
Pizarro, the Spaniard whose conquest
becomes a personal defeat; Atahuallpa,
the Incan Sun-God, whose defeat be-
comes a dignified triumph.
Peter Shaffer attempts to present the
best of both worlds in two areas: the
raw, greedy, grumbling, lustful Spaniards
and the uncomplicated, contented, exotic
Peruvians; the roar and blast and sweep
of a theatrical spectacular and the harsh,
human, intimate clash between the two
leaders. The biggest tribute to Shaffer is
in acknowledging how close he came to
the best of everything. Other large
tributes should be paid to director John
Tasker, designer Wendy Dickson and
movement director Margaret Barr.
Act One is by far the better: Pizarro
selecting his motley crew; the mimed
rigors of their incredible journey (the
crossing of the Andes is elaborately
staged but disappointing; more selective
lighting could have eliminated many of
the illusion-shattering distractions
either that, or 16 Marcel Marceaus);
and Atahuallpa’s first appearance. Giant
doors open high in the back of the set
as if revealing an enormous, oval taber-
nacle, fringed with the sun symbol. In
the black tabernacle, motionless and
eerily regal, stands Atahuallpa, glittering
and blinding in costumed majesty. The
Act One curtain is climaxed by the
slaughtering of 3000 unarmed Peruvians.
A huge red drape cascades from the
dark mouth of the tabernacle and shrouds
the stage like a massive vomiting of
blood. Magnificently conceived and exe-
cuted and, as they used to say in
vaudeville, “How do you follow that ?”
Shaffer didn’t quite know, and Act
Two drags somewhat in consequence.
Ron Graham as Pizarro is full of
strength and authority and reluctant
humanity. A big, exhausting part and a
big, satisfying performance. Allan Lander
as Atahuallpa is always firmly, convin-
cingly in charge of an equally demanding,
sometimes more difficult, role. Narrators’
parts are usually unrewarding and
Alexander Archdale works hard for little
impact as Martin Ruiz; his younger self
is played personably by Allen Bickford.
The tragedy of it all is that this had to
be endured in Bonython Hall. A vast,
echoing monstrosity with a sky-high
ceiling, rock-hard seats and an atmos-
phere like a phone booth in summer.
Much of the play was missed, muffled
or masked as a result. Research (and
screams and snatches of dialogue) indi-
cates that there was a rape scene and
an eating scene. Since these were played
with actors kneeling or prostrated
(thereby invisible to any number of the
audience less than eleven feet tall), only
God and/or Atahuallpa knows what
really happened.
The considerable visual skill with
which “The Three Sisters” is presented
not only fails to conceal some very bad
acting; it emphasises it. Time after time,
producer Colin Ballantyne gets a scene
with infinite care and taste: a candle is
lighted, bathes a face in flickering warmth
and finds reflections in the furniture
and crystal; the wind moans, subdued
and forlorn; the wistful ca r ess of a
guitar adds its sadness. Other figures
appear, often in immaculate groupings.
It all looks so good. And then someone
speaks. As the gag goes, if only they
would just stand there and not do some-
thing.
Murray Rule’s decor and costumes
and Colin Ballantyne’s conception sug-
gest polished, even dedicated, profes-
sionalism. Too often the cast suggests
Amateur Night.
When it does, Judith Dick is usually
responsible. As Masha - enduring a
tedious marriage, grasping briefly at a
doomed relationship with a passing
colonel she has many good moments.
Her long scenes with Colonel Vershinin
were unfortunate. Her reactions were
well done but, since Alan Walden is far
from ready to play Vershinin, there was
seldom anything to react to. This, sadly,
created one of the evening’s worst acting
imbalances. The parries were clever but
we didn’t see any thrust.
Masha’s sister Olga sad, ageing,
schoolmarmish, at a point in life when
there is time only for regret receives
a smooth, standard Barbara West treat-
ment: little to criticise or remember.
Lee Pascoe as Irina, the youngest sister,
looks fine but her acting is disappoint-
ingly hollow. Natasha is briskly and
efficiently played by Dawn Langman.
Her performance effectively underlines
Chekhov’s awful study in thoughtless,
aggressive, domestic femininity.
The Sheridan Theatre is not renowned
for its comfort or its ventilation. During
“The Three Sisters” there is only one
interval, which occurs after 110 minutes.
This is too long to go without inhalina
either fresh air or a cigarette.
ADELAIDE FESTIVAL, ART
Free for All
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
Art Exhibitions. Adelaide Festival of Arts,
1966.
In spite of Adelaide’s name as a con-
servative, establishment city, its Fes-
tivals of Arts are almost excessively
free-for-all in organisation. There is no
particular plan or direction, especially
in painting or sculpture, where anyone
with hanging space puts on a show and
every sort of offering is laid out before
the panting populace. No one could catch
up with it all. In some ways this is a
good thing. For a few weeks Adelaide
takes on the diversity of a major capital,
where everything from stodgy to new
can be seen if one has the patience. But
the sweep of history will always be miss-
ing, as we are denied great historical
collections.
Given these circumstances, the most
important artistic events at the Adelaide
Festivals are always the retrospective
exhibitions. That of Arthur Boyd, at the
National Gallery in 1964, gave him a
national status he had never quite en-
joyed before. At the same time Drys-
dale’s, at John Martin’s, was an outstand-
ing success. This year Lawrence Daws at
the National Gallery, and Hans Heysen
at John Martin’s, dominate the Festival,
albeit for slightly different audiences.
At first sight it seemed a risky propo-
sition for the National Gallery to honor
an artist as young as Lawrence Daws
(he is still in his thirties) with a retro-
spective exhibition. John Martin’s seemed
on much safer ground with Hans Heysen,
who is 87. But the four large rooms
splendidly hung with Daws’ paintings
triumphantly justify the Gallery's choice.
Here is an artist who commands the
space he is given, who has the vital tech-
nical ability, intellect and capacity to
make a fresh start without losing the
ground already covered. Daws’ training
as an engineer, surveyor and architect


One of the five 50-ton Haulpaks with special side dump bodies used for iron ore haulage at Cockatoo Island, W.A. 1
s '• > y .
ants
%
-■■■, .. A v v '*»' i, 4
W, ■■; >■■ >? ■ v ■ v
will
m
U •»6 m M feAir- W ViT i»AHQUSg
rli
.
ill
. & fpfe. . v : ; rA. '''•' I,' ' ' -*, * *sp, ..
• A ygfiitZ liPl§ WrihcA rW'ri-A--., A 3
... ./ X.' : -v** > A . fx- ... .- x lA..'l' l.|i>A ■■ I'-' 1 v ■ ■■..'l • r '■'. ij
11l It MIGHT Of
LW
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, QLD. ■ BAUXITE MINING, OLD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
m
E for EXPORT
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINGHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW249.1Q6


.
s~ How did
he do it?
He arrived in Melbourne
at 9.00 a.m,
He made six calls in
different suburbs,
He drove across town to
head office.
He went out to the new plant.
He detoured to visit friends—
Still made it to the hotel by
7.00 p.m, for dinner!
Avis was
waiting _J
for him!
Going interstate? Arrange for Avis to
meet you with a new Ford Falcon.
Within moments of your arrival, you’re on
your way in a sleek, solid Avis Falcon. It’s
yours to use as your own, for as long as
you like. And you and the car are always
protected by proper insurance. Repeat —•
proper insurance. Book your Avis car with
your travel ticket, or ask your air hostess
in flight, your train conductor, or enquire
at the reception desk on arrival . . .
For a day, a week, or all the time.
1
2
3
4
5
6
AVIS
RENTA CAR
may have helped to give him that profes-
sional precision which characterises his
work. Although he broke away from the
strict geometrical framework of his earlier
paintings, he retained, even in his freest
compositions, a powerful control of line
and space which gives his work the dis-
tinction that impeccable draughtsmanship
(of the more obvious kind) gives to more
traditional painting.
The exhibition of 84 paintings and
sketches gives a very good cross-section
of the artist's development, right up to
the present day. The only period lightly
represented is that following his studies
in Italy in 1957, which produced some
outstanding work. But it is very exciting
to see how his seductively painted man-
dalas and geometrical shapes in vast dis-
tances and empty skies have given way,
in his latest work, to an intense develop-
ment of his use of the figure and of
symbols. It is good that that lively
English critic, Robert Melville, awarded
Daws the Wardle Prize at the Perth Fes-
tival. He is not only painting exception-
ally well at the moment, but gives every
sign of entering on the most profound
and accomplished phase of his career.
The other major exhibition at the
National Gallery is devoted to the work
of one collector, the American Harold
Mertz. Within a very short time (and
with some expert guidance), Mr Mertz
has amassed a formidable collection of
modern Australian painting, and it is
altogether admirable that he intends to
take it on tour around the United States.
It would be hard to ask for a better
selection, although it is well known that
Mr Mertz had a considerable tussle to
buy works by certain major painters such
as Leonard French; it is a pity that art-
dealer politics should have entered into
the acquisition of such an important
collection. The selection of 98 paintings
from a total of some 145 has been made
with a bias toward the better-known and
more conservative names. For the sake
of the Festival, this is a pity.
The National Gallery is also showing
primitive Melanesian art lent, oddly
enough, by the British Museum; three
selections of that British art which seems
obligatory for any exhibition organised
by the South Australian National Gallery;
sculpture by the Italian Emilio Greco;
and the rather undistinguished offerings
for the Helena Rubinstein scholarship.
At John Martin's the large retrospec-
tive of Hans Heysen is drawing large
crowds of older generations, for whom
the paintings and drawings are as familiar
as the Australian landscape itself. But
Heysen’s superb draughtsmanship and
knowledge of the Australian light are for
everyone, though certainly not everyone
knows of those lovely little landscapes he
painted in France at the beginning of
the century. Rigby’s here marked the
retrospective by publishing “The Art of
Hans Heysen”, with an introduction by
David Dridan.
Albert Tucker is also cheerfully paint-
ing gum-trees at the Bonython Gallery,
although where Heysen favored cows and
sheep Tucker prefers parrots. Over the
last few years the angst has peeled off
Tucker like bark from a gum-tree, re-
vealing a solid, sunny contentment with
the good possibilities of life that few
could have suspected in his early work.
There is a fresh evocation of the bush
in some of these paintings as vivid as the
parrots that flash through the trees. But
Tucker is also a man of complex and
formidable intelligence, and here and
there he is amusing himself sending up his
antipodean head, making it sprout horns
or suspending ropy veins from it, as
Bottom grew ass’s ears.
It is good to see a generous exhibition
of the painting of Margarita Stipnieks
at the North Adelaide Galleries. She is a
modest painter who deserves to be far
more widely known then she is with a
strength in her use of color that never
loses touch with the basic dignity and
simplicity of her compositions. Her
studies of girls, and of the classic mother
and child, are haunting but never senti-
mental. At the same gallery there is a
selection of very accomplished pottery by
the Sydney designer Peter Travis, all of
which has a solidity of construction and
an earthiness of texture that far remove
it from the tricksiness of much modern
pottery, especially the asymmetrical
variety.
TELEVISION
Side-kick
The Ray Taylor Show. Channel 10, Sydney.
O. K. Crackerby. Channel 9, Sydney.
The Mavis Bramston Show. Channel 7,
Sydney.
T>ay Taylor still begins his programmes
. with one or two weak jokes, delivered
self-consciously towards the sidelines, a
practice which must lose him many
viewers before the show is under way.
That is a pity because often it is worth
viewing. Reviewers have suggested he
ask his guests questions with more bite
in them, because some overrun him,
Vietnam-style.
Thanks to Taylor’s intelligence and
solid assistance from Melbourne journal
ist Pat Tennison, he rarely asks fatuous
questions which make viewers groan with
embarrassment, or resorts to the com-
pere’s gambit, “Tell me I know
nothing about your subject—”. In this
area of show business, where much of


mm
mi
v.
A
% : -:
1 ■
0
X
m
£
i: n
6
i
m
One heater isn’t whole house heating.
But Gilbarco Ducted Heating is!
Ask an expert and he'll tell you a heater in one location, no matter how good and how
expensive, won’t warm a whole house. Warm air must be distributed through ducts,
individually into each room, for even house heating.
This is just what Gilbarco Central Heating does. And at a reasonable cost. It’s oil-fired
and thermostatically controlled for economy and gives you warmed filtered air distributed
through outlets into every room of your house. In summer it converts to assist ventilation
throughout the house.
If you’ve decided on whole-house heating, get it. Go to Gilbarco!
%
GILBERT & BARKER
Mfg. Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Huntley Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AT BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, TOWNSVILLE, NEWCASTLE?,
HOBART, AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH
Please send me further information on Gilbarco Ducted Central Heating.
NAME .
ADDRESS
GB:P3B9
the material touches on public affairs, a
Tennison is of much more help than the
usual side-men, who are “show biz” too.
Bob Crosby, for one, could do with a
“tootor”, O. K. Crackerby-style.
That series shows how easily an ap-
parently good idea can go wrong. One
of the originators of “O. K. Crackerby”
was Cleveland Amory, an expert on
American social conventions, and
snobbery. Burl Ives, as O. K., is the
richest roughneck in the USA, who
began by purchasing any hotel which did
not welcome him and his whittlin’ habits.
So far his inverse snobbery has been
appalling.
It reminds me of the delighted whin-
nying of many reviewers over the “old”
Bramston Show, when it managed to
disgust me, and their various ways of
ignoring its existence, now that it is a
different and much better show. A recent
comment on the Sydney Opera House
hubbub, sung by Ronnie Stevens to the
tune of “Figaro”, was clever satire and
worthy of some kind of award for the
writing. My only fear for the Bramston
Show is that it may be progressing too
quickly for its audience.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
Boys’ Own
The Heroes of Telemark. Director, Anthony
Mann. Barclay Theatre, Sydney.
Rapture. Director, John Guillermin. Town
Theatre, Sydney.
Lilith. Director, Robert Rossen. Union
Theatre, Sydney.
JTere are three films, all strikingly
handsome visually but otherwise un-
satisfactory. “The Heroes Of Telemark”
is certainly the most successful since its
aims are not so high, it doesn’t fall short
with such a thud. In fact, it’s a jolly,
rousing adventure story in the “Boys’
Own Paper” tradition. But there’s
always the uneasy realisation that this
story of the destruction of the Nazis’
heavy water plant is actually true, that
real people suffered and died, so that
Anthony Mann’s frankly fictional treat-
ment seems shallow and trivial. Still,
there is excitement in the movie, with
some expertly generated suspense, and
Kirk Douglas and Richard Harris are a
fine, rough-hewn pair of patriots, even
if you never really believe in them for a
second.
Wild, romantic scenery (on the French
coast this time) is a feature, too, of
Rapture”, a wild, romantic and rather
silly film surprisingly directed by John
Guillermin, whose direction of “Guns
at Batasi” seemed to identify him as a
capable, intelligent, no-nonsense film-
maker. Certainly he’s been handed an
odd script to work with the story of
an eccentric retired lawyer, an obsessed


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE,
AVIS
RENTACAR
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
Wi
f
FLY AND DRIVE It’s time-saving . , . money-saving . . .
worry free! There’s no waiting with Avis. Step out of the plane, into
your car and off! Drive one of the great new Falcons or other fine cars
of the Avis fleet. It’s the jet age way to travel. Book your Avis car
when you book your flight. Avis honours Ansett-ANA credit cards.
ANSETT-AMA
RENT-A-CAR
t396/83/65
recluse who lives on a remote farm with
his slightly nutty daughter and a lusty
servant who whiles away her leisure time
with the local garage mechanic.
Into this dishevelled household stum-
bles the standard escaping convict. The
trio welcome him the servant as a
new lover, the lawyer as an audience for
his notions on justice he’s under-
standably bored all the locals into avoid-
ing him like the plague and the nutty
daughter as the incarnation of her
dreams. Admittedly the performances are
of a very high order, with Melvyn Doug-
las and Patricia Gozzi, in particular,
almost managing to give validity to this
nonsense.
Robert Rossen is far too heavy-handed
to convey the strangely convincing mood
of Salamanca’s eerie novel “Lilith”; the,
slam-bang, heavily underlined style that
was appropriate enough to “All the King’s
Men” or “The Hustler” is quite unsuit-
able to the elusive beauty of this story of
the mutually destructive love of an occu-
pational therapist and one of his insane
patients.
Rossen’s slow-motion direction and his
own pompous, flatulent film script are
not helped by the sadly inadequate central
performances. Warren Beatty slouches
through the film and Jean Seberg, brisk,
pretty and healthy, never gives a hint
of the magic and mystery of the schizo-
phrene wrapt in her elaborate delusions.
Peter Fonda’s performance as another
of her destroyer-victims is the only one
who ever convinces the mind or touches
the heart.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
Tolstoy’s Debate
War and Peace. Leo Tolstoy. Adapted by
Erwin Piscator, Alfred Neumann and
Guntram Prufer. Union Theatre Reper-
tory Company, Russell St, Melbourne.
ITGr years the inanities and/or pro-
fundities echoing from Nihilist dust-
bins and fermenting Confederate man-
sions have formed the mainstream of our
serious theatre. But in this year’s Union
Rep. season the home comforts of
hysteria and perversion have yielded to
the outside world of historical pageantry.
“The Representative”, “War and Peace”
and “Royal Hunt of the Sun” make a
welcome change.
Like “The Representative”, “War and
Peace” contrasts dramatic with political
scenes, as Tolstoy’s debate on destiny
versus chance is tossed from Besukhov
to Napoleon and oack again. While the
youthful Hochhuth’s anger and political
commitment prevented him achieving
anything like Tolstoy’s lofty synthesis,
“War and Peace” lacks the immediate
impact of “The Representative”. Yet
slowly but surely the play builds in
intensity, and the third act has such
power that the audience is left extremely
vulnerable to the narrator’s blunt closing
sermon on one’s personal responsibility
for the horrors of war.
It is hard to believe that this is the
same company who played “The Rep-
resentative”. All unevenness and in-
consistencies of style have gone. The
finest acting came from Dennis Miller
who, while over-emphasing the bumpkin
quality of the agonised Besukhov, felt
his role so deeply that he forced aware-
ness on his audience. Brian James
turned in a virtuoso performance as Old
Prince Bolkonski, and Jan Leeming was
a fine Natasha. George Ogilvie’s direc-
tion was sensible and effective, and the
production was enhanced considerably
by Kristian Fredrikson’s sombre and
flexible set.
But it’s thumbs down on the Russell
St Theatre’s damnable acoustics. Words


The Bulletin Index for 1964 is
now available. It may be bought for
75c at the Australian Consolidated
Press Library, 54 Park St., Sydney,
or ordered for $1.10 including postage
from the same Library, Box 4088,
G.P.O., Sydney. A few copies of the
1963 Index are also still available.
richochet off the bleak walls until the
dialogue develops the twangy, metallic
echo beloved of rock ’n’ roll bands.
Drapes would help.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Plebeian Present
Time Remembered. Jean Anouilh. Gen-
esian Theatre. Sydney.
For two years Prince Albert has
mourned the beautiful and aristocratic
Leocadia, with whom he fell in love
three days before she died, of “an ex-
travagant gesture”. His devoted aunt,
the Duchess of Pont-Au-Bronc, has col-
lected and installed in her private park
all the souvenirs of their brief love-
affair: the taxi-driver and his taxi, now
overgrown with ivy, the ice-cream man
and his cart, “The Blue Danube” night-
club where they drank champagne and
the inn they visited called “The Chime
of Bells”.
But the Duchess’ latest memento, who
arrives as the play begins, is not just a
nostalgic prop. The story of the little
milliner’s victory over the ghost whom
she resembles in her battle for the
Prince’s love, is an allegory of the
triumph of the plebeian present over the
aristocratic past.
This belated accomplishment of the
aims of the French Revolution takes
place in arcadian settings (by Bernard
Hides) amid gentle sub-Shavian para-
doxes and aristocratic eccentricities.
Douglas Hedge’s production has the
right mixture of formality and gentle
humor, but it seems odd to put the
Duchess into period costume.
Perhaps because we have no heredi-
tary aristocracy to serve as models,
Jeannette Loy’s Duchess is more school-
marmish than aristocratic in her im-
periousness, while Charles Zara as her
brother is entirely a creature of the
property box. Leon Tanner’s Albert
seems more like a poet than a prince.
But Mary Pusey needs no exotic models
for her lively performance as the dear-
ies, suntanned and straightforward little
democrat.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
ON TELEVISION
The BBC and “The War Game”
VI/'hen the director of BBC Television,
Mr Kenneth Adam, first saw Peter
Watkins’ anti-nuclear war film, “The War
Game”, he was absolutely shattered. For
half an hour afterwards he sat stunned
in his office. And then he decided that
BBC television would not show the film.
But Mr Adam is also a governor of the
British Film Institute and in that capacity
is helping to ensure that the film has wide
distribution throughout Britain. What he
decided was unfit for television he is
now helping to promote for the cinema.
In fact, he thinks the film is a “near-
masterpiece” even if the scenes of vio-
lence in it are “frightening”. These in-
clude violent and horrible deaths, mass
suffering, especially of children, and com-
plete demoralisation of the English popu-
lation in a nuclear attack.
At first it would seem from all this that
Mr Adam is not defending an ordinary
case of banning a film because it might
offend or shock or even lead to some anti-
social reaction by those who see it. His
case seems to be based rather narrowly
on the nature of the television medium.
Here on a brief visit last week at the
invitation of the ABC’s general man-
ager, Mr T. Duckmanton, Mr Adam
explained his point of view.
“We couldn’t take the risk of showing
the film to an unknown mass audience.
Even if only one neurotic undergraduate
or one poor old lady had suicided after
seeing this film it would have been our
responsibility. We just could not take the
risk.”
In short, Mr Adam is saying that a
film on television is likely to have a
different impact on the small screen at
home than it does on the large screen at
the cinema. This sounds axiomatic and
hardly a point worth making.
Yet in our present state of knowledge
about the effects of television viewing
it is a very arbitrary point to make. There
is, for instance, very little sound experi-
mental evidence in the literature of audi-
ence research either to support or negate
Mr Adam’s point of view.
The banning of the film made news
everywhere as has much of the BBC's
television programming in the last few
years. For this Kenneth Adam would
have to take much of the credit or
blame. He has been one of the people
responsible for the BBC’s rehabilitation
which began in the ’fifties. When he
took over as Controller of Television in
1957 the BBC share of the viewing audi-
ence had dropped to 28 per cent because
of the inroads made by the bustling
commercial newcomer. As Mr Adam ad-
mitted, this meant that the whole licence
system was in jeopardy. After all, if most
people rarely watched the BBC why
should they have to pay licence fees to
maintain it? (Does anyone ask that ques-
tion in Australia?)
So he went after ratings and he is still
going after them. At first he got the sort
of arguments from the commercial net-
works which sound familiar in Australia
such as “the BBC is abandoning its res-
ponsibilities”. But the BBC now has a
45 per cent share of the audience and
Mr Adam regards anything less than 40
per cent as “dangerous”.
Mr Adam's techniques for building up
his audience were, in theory, simple
enough. First he programmed carefully
following the well-established patterns in
television viewing which television plan-
ners in commercial or national networks
ignore at their own risk. For instance the
BBC put on its highest rating comedy
programme at 7.30, following with “Pano-
rama”, a public affairs programme at
8 p.m. Audiences stayed, reluctant to
switch to another channel, and built up.
The second thing to do was to get com-
petitive programmes, and this meant, as
it does everywhere, getting good writers.
In the last few years Mr Adam feels that
in television drama writers have moved
away from the staginess of the early
period.
The BBC also uses good writers for
its documentary and public affairs pro-
grammes, taking them from journalism,
the universities, and from among estab-
lished novelists. Generally Mr Adam pre-
fers to hire writers from outside the BBC.
They are hired on contract for specific
projects which Mr Adam feels is a better
scheme than relying on staff writers. The
outside writer may be hired for longer
periods of two or three years and in those
cases the best of them will be paid as
much as £12,000 to £15,000 sterling a
year. A writer like Malcolm Mugger-
idge would get £lOOO for a documen-
tary which would take him abroad.
There are exciting developments
ahead for British television. Color is
coming at the end of 1967 and if the
Labor Government is returned to power
the University of the Air project will be
widely introduced. It will enable students
to get credit for subjects presented on
television at university level.
SAM LIPSKI


BOOKS
Disaster in Australian Research
By M. H. ELLIS
The Australian Dictionary of Biography,
Volume I: Letters A-H,
Editors A. G. l. Shaw and C. H. M. Clark.
Melbourne Uni'ersity Press. $l2.
Tn 1954 I suggested to the Australian
•*" National University that it should
lay the foundation for a Dictionary of
Australian National Biography which
would consist of several volumes of biog-
raphies written by leading authorities or
people with known literary talent on the
lines of the British Dictionary, a monu-
mental work which can be read by stud-
ents with profit and by general readers
with pleasure.
The University’s historical authorities
agreed that it was needed and expressed
great enthusiasm. In 1957, it was decided
to make a start.
In 1959, when they were still only
talking, I went to Canberra, drew up
a scheme of organisation and put it on
paper: a plan for the Dictionary which
envisaged complete volumes dealing
with the periods 1788, and before, to
1825, 1826-1856, with one or two sub-
sequent chronological volumes, the
whole eventually to be turned into an
alphabetical work. The divisions were
adopted so as to give specialists in the
early periods research tools as quickly
as possible. The Canadians followed the
same plan. I drew up a complete list
of names 485, to fill a volume of 500
pages for Volume I. I still have Pro-
fessor Hancock’s letters expressing
approval of or “excitement” at this pro-
gress. Professor Manning Clark and I
were appointed joint editors of Volumes
I and 11.
In August, 1961, Professor Hancock
told the National Committee that Volume
II would be published in 1963 and that
the Editorial Board believed that Volume
I could come out contemporaneously.
This was done against my advice by
then I was sole editor of Volume I.
A month or two later, I told the
Editorial Board that “we have reached
the position in which the NSW Working
Committee is recommending to me (as
editor) a list of names which (with a
few unimportant exceptions) I compiled
myself (two years before) in 1959” and
that the Committee “took its decisions
by guess or by God and changed them as
often as a lady changes her hats”. And
having failed to “be assured that I would
have proper and knowledgeable support”
(the only biographies written up to that
time had been written by me) I proposed
to withdraw from the project.
I withdrew, and Mr Shaw and Profes-
sor Clark became editors of Volumes I
and II which they presently amalgamated,
presumably because nobody concerned
knew enough to say whether the justifi-
cation for many biographies lay before
or after 1825. A General Editor was ap-
pointed: naturally, someone whose
speciality was South Australian history,
which didn’t come into Volume I at all
and only in a very limited way into
Volume 11.
The 1963 publication delusion persisted
awhile, but it was not until March,
1966, that the mountain of the Austra-
lian Universities gave birth to a mouse,
or half a mouse: a volume containing
biographies and alleged biographies of
just over 500 persons concerned with
Australia 1788-1850 whose names begin
with the letters A to H.
This is unfortunate, in view of the
fact that most important Australians of
the period had names beginning with
the letters after “H” Macquarie, Mac-
arthur, Leichhardt, Sturt, Marsden, Lang,
Mitchell, Wentworth, Johnston and so
forth. When their half of the rather bat-
tered mouse will appear from the womb
of Canberra nobody seems sure, but the
accoucheurs hope at the end of this year.
In the meantime, the birth of the first
half appears to have been painful. A
large number of competent, potential con-
tributors have thrown up the sponge.
The job has largely been done either by
the pooled efforts of a headquarters staff
or by anybody who could be found to
write. Some of these have no expert
knowledge of the period they write
about or apparently even of their
subjects. Of the whole, only the contribu-
tions of Professors Ward (Grey and Fitz-
roy), Auchmuty (Hunter), Dr Currey,
who has some excellent articles on legal
personalities, Cable (Bishop Broughton)
and a few by Professor Crowley, Mr
B. H. Fletcher, Professor Davidson, Mr
J. M. Bennett and some others are of a
standard that one might expect from a
combined effort by the history depart-
ments of all the Australian universities.
Many of the minor figures I included
in the list of 1959 (which has not been
added to) are notable for one particular
point of interest. This as often as not
has been missed. Dr Joseph Arnold, a
surgeon who paid two short visits to Aus-
tralia as a ship’s surgeon, I put in because
he wrote the only particularised descrip-
tion of Bligh on the rampage in Austra-
lia. No reference is made to this.
The criticisms I would make of the
volume are: (1) Many of the biographies
are shockingly poor and the biblio-
graphies added to enable students to ex-
pand their knowledge are lamentably
sparse and exhibit the writer’s lack of
original research. For instance, in the un-
satisfactory and almost bowdlerised bi-
ography of Bligh there is no biographical
reference to the huge mass of original
Bligh documents in the Mitchell Library,
or to Sir John Barrows’ authoritative
work or to the journals of members of
the crew, the contents of which make
nonsense of many of the author’s verdicts
and statements. There is no reference to
any of the numerous original logs and
documents relating to Cook.
(2) No qualifications of writers are set
out. Some work is unsigned. The
article on Cook is unsigned; one would
have expected the services of the great
New Zealand authority Dr Beaglehole to
have been invoked. (3) Many of the
biographies have been entrusted to direct
descendants of the subjects: a Hume to
a Hume, a Dutton to a Dutton, a Cox
to a Cox, an Antill to an Antill, with
disastrous results in some cases.
Geoffrey Dutton was admittedly a safe
bet for the Duttons. But the biography
of William Cox and that of H. C. Antill
are utterly unsatisfactory. Neither has
received full justice. I do not blame
unknowledgeable relatives who were
asked to write. It is the two learned
professors who picked them out and who
edited their work who are to blame. One
would have expected them to have re-
jected the biographies as they were or
amended them to make them satisfactory.
(4) The whole work is absurdly un-
balanced. One has only to attach the
word “radical” to somebody, apparently,
and he becomes of first importance. For
instance, a man who was sent out to
make some salt, didn’t do anything much
but promote mutiny on the ship he came
out on and get into a legal action because
somebody shot his trespassing pig has his
deeds fully catalogued. He was a revo-
lutionist and got “full treatment” like
others, while Cook and historic figures
did not.
Captain Cook gets only 20 anonymous
inches, only five inches or 250 words
of which deal with his experiences on
and exploration of the Australian coast.
But a petty adventurer named Bishop
trading the world in small ships and in
whom the only real historic interest lies
in the fact that he was Bass’s trading
partner when the latter left Sydney on
a tragic voyage and disappeared, has a
laudatory article by a writer who puts
forward such bunkum as that “few
before him could have exploited the
wealth of Africa, America, Australia and


IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including. ..
The Persian Room —Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque, too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations—Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392.
HESS ORIENTAL
l MELBOURNE * J
RHIB7
leumici
i
L
hi
ro»toßßors
in
opmoDiirs.
ROME MOVIES I
InEumig’s
superb Mark S Bmm.
projector. For Ulus-
J trated literature con-
tact: ft. Gunz
Pty. Ltd.,
24 Wentworth
Are.,
Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
Oceania” and limns his fate in the un-
forgettable words: “The degeneration of
his affectionate disposition set his life in
a tragic key, and marked the excruciating
strain which he had to endure.” (He spent
a great part of his brief stay in Australia
in the “loony bin” at Castle Hill.)
Baudin, a casual French sojourner on
our coasts in 1801-3, is given more
space than Cook and a copious biblio-
graphy.
To take another example, an American
geologist named Dana who spent three
months here in 1839 with the American
Wilkes Expedition and saw a bit of the
country under the aegis of Australia’s
great geologist Rev. W. B. Clarke, the
man who established the existence of
gold-bearing formations in the Bathurst
district long before 1851 and who was
tfie father of Australian coal geology,
gets a couple of columns, chiefly about
his career outside Australia. Though he
did his main basic work before 1850
(when he was 52), Clarke's own bibli-
ography is omitted.
But the best and most amazing example,
among many, of the slapdash, hit-or-miss
way in which the volume has been com-
piled is to be seen in the entry concerning
Earl Bathurst. Perhaps he is lucky to be
mentioned at all, because others like
“Kangaroo” Cocke are not, though their
handling of Colonial Office business was
very germane indeed to early Australian
history.
Bathurst was Colonial Secretary from
1812 to 1827. During that period he was
as closely connected with Australian his-
tory as anybody. Under his hand and
authority, every governor in that period
was appointed or removed. The explora-
tions of the west and the expansion of a
convict camp into a colony with a
thriving export trade in wool was achiev-
ed under his personal authority. The first
town west of the Blue Mountains was
named after him. He progressively
changed military law into an advanced
stage of civil legal administration with
proper courts and judges and a bar; and
every change of policy was achieved
under his hand; a legislative council, the
first step to responsible government, free-
dom of the Press, a taxation system, the
embryo of a jury system, systems of land
and education and a departmentalised
civil service were created during his ad-
ministration. And finally, the name Aus-
tralia was officially attached (1826) to
a continent and its adjacent Tasmania
which had been separated from NSW in
administration under his regime.
Yet what does the Australian Dictionary
of Biography say about this man who
probably had more influence in giving
Australia permanence and setting us on
the road to nationhood than any other
British official? It certainly does not treat
him as Professor Ward treated a later
British Minister, Earl Grey. It gives him
a shabby paragraph of seven anonymous
inches, about the same space as is allotted
to a convict carpenter whose main claim
to notice was that he went aboard the
wrecked Sirius in a bay at Norfolk Island
and this without any bibliography.
All of note that it could find out about
Bathurst’s Australian connections that
the editors could discover was that in
1817 he was “worried” that transportation
to NSW was becoming neither an object
of apprehension to criminals nor a means
of their reformation and that the reports
of the Bigge Commission which he
initiated persuaded him to continue
transportation and order changes in ad-
ministration and land policy.
The Defence Debate
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Aspects of Australia’s Defence. Edited by
Max Teichmann. The Political Studies
Association. Monash University. $1.25.
J>oughly speaking, Australian com-
mentators on defence and foreign
policy may be divided into three
groups: the realist-defenders, the Leftist-
isolationists, and the analyst-professionals.
In recent years the realist-defenders,
whether men of the Government such as
Paul Hasluck, outriders of the ALP like
Kim Beazley, or pump-primers of the
DLP like B. A. Santamaria, have been
concerned to strengthen our links with
the USA, multiply our defence expendi-
ture, prevent the further expansion of
Asian Communism, and forge alliances
with non-Communist Asian States. Loom-,
ing ever closer in the foreground of their
thinking is the possible need for Aus-
tralia to acquire her own nuclear
deterrent. It would be reasonable to in-
clude in this group most members of the
following: the Liberal Party, the Country
Party, the DLP, the RSL, the Catholic
hierarchy, socialist magazines like “Parti-
san” and, of course, The Bulletin.
The isolationists of the Left, on the
other hand, believe that dependence on
and alliance with Washington is militar-
ily dangerous and politically disastrous;
that if “Asian people chose Commun-
ism” that is none of our business; that
alliance with non-Communist Asian
governments is morally unworthy (be-
cause they are usually reactionary) and
strategically foolish (because they will
probably be overthrown by revolutionary
movements). This group usually advances
the cause of a stronger military build-up
so that we can remove ourselves from
any need for Western protective um-


PENGUIN BOOKS
wish to clarify a statement made in the circular issued on the 18th
February, 1966, with reference to the withdrawal from publication
of THE ART OF AUSTRALIA by Robert Hughes.
Penguin Books wish, through this announcement to the Aus-
tralian and overseas Press, to make clear that the standards
referred to were and remain primarily the publisher's and not
the printer's responsibility. Penguin Books state that no reflection
whatever was intended on the printers and they very much regret
if any such reflection on the printers has wrongly been read into
their notice withdrawing the present edition,
(Signed) SIR ALLEN LANE, Chairman,
Penguin Books Pty Ltd, Australia
and Penguin Books Ltd, England.
brellas. It promotes policies of non-
alignment, armed neutrality, and strongly
opposes with both moral and military
arguments any suggestion of a need for
an Australian nuclear force.
As sharing these assumptions and
attitudes I would number most of these:
the ALP Federal Executive and Con-
ference, and most ALP members left in
Victoria, Queensland and Western Aus-
tralia; members of the Peace Council
and the ANZ Peace Congress; members
of University Labor Clubs, editorial
staff and subscribers to “Outlook”,
“Arena”, “Melbourne Partisan”, (not to
be confused with “Partisan”) “Overland”
and (probably) “Nation”, and most poli-
tically vocal Australian academics.
A welcome new band to this whole
spectrum is the newly-emerging profes-
sional analysts who, removed from the
immediate arena of tactical propaganda
battles and possessing the intellectual
virtue to look hard at their own preju-
dices, will play an increasingly impor-
tant part in the formation of Australian
defence policies. Among them are T. B.
Millar, Professor E. W. Titterton and
Arthur Burns. The latter, a reader in
Political Science at the ANU, provides
the outstanding essay in the book under
review.
Summarising Burns is not easy. In our
whole nuclear-free zone his must be the
brain most like a computer. The course
of his article runs something like this:
Basically there are five policies open
to Australia over the next 40 years: (1) *
unarmed neutrality; (2) armed neutral-
ity; (3) alliance with non-Communist
countries of our region only; (4)
alliance with the USA; (5) alliance
with the USA and the UK.
The first alternative is out in the fore-
seeable future because, among other rea-
sons, no party advocating such a policy
would win an election. Armed neutrality,
although a more realistic alternative
under certain circumstances if our de-
pendence on the USA became absolute,
is unlikely to be adopted because of the
huge expense necessary and the dan-
gerous time lag involved in deciding on
such a policy and actually establishing
sufficient independent armed forces.
Now that the United States and
Britain have clearly indicated by their
commitments in Vietnam and Malaysia
that they intend to stay in Asia for some
time, the question of basing our foreign
and defence policies on regional alli-
ances with Asian countries does not
arise. Nor should it ever have been
given much importance, since it is based
on the false and irrelevant notion of
progressivists that “regional bonds” are
somehow stronger and worthier than
others.
Granted our alliance with the USA,
and her remaining presence in Asia, our
greatest physical danger, in Burns’s cal-
culation, will be a thermonuclear strike
on our cities by the Soviet Union, China,
or some newly-emerging nuclear power,
in reprisal against some nuclear ally of
ours whom the avenger could not risk
striking directly.
At this point Burns makes a strong
case for deepening our military, politi-
cal and economic bonds with Britain, so
that we can maintain an effective alliance
with her and keep her in the Western
Pacific and Indian Oceans. Otherwise our
dependence on America would be almost
total and we would be ideal victims for in-
direct retaliation against America.
Top priority for Burns, granted US
presence in the Western Pacific, is the
keeping of Britain in the area, too. He
suggests a number of practical policies
which would lead towards this end. In
the process he is scornful of both Labor
and Liberal “Progressives” (amongst
the latter he includes the British pro-
Marketeers, President Kennedy and the
New Frontier, “The Manchester Guar-
dian”, “The Australian”, which, he
alleges, would be happy to see Britain
clear out of Asia altogether, and in a
fantastic lapse, no doubt, of the pro-
gramming of the computer-mind, he also
includes The Bulletin in this set!)
This essay, despite the above and a
couple of other minor errors is an im-
portant contribution to the meagre vol-
ume of professional literature on Aus-
tralian defence alternatives and should
be read in conjunction with the author’s
contribution to last year’s “Nuclear Dis-
persal in Asia and the Indo-Pacific
Region”.
The other contributions to “Aspects of
Australia’s Defence” include two long
and factually impressive pieces from the
school of the realist-defenders: one by
Malcolm Fraser, Minister for the Army,
which is largely devoted to the Govern-
ment’s case for defending Vietnam (this
is probably the best presentation of the
Government’s case so far made); the
other by Lt-Col F. L. Skinner, which is
concerned with the tactics of Communist
subversion and how to counter them.
The other two lengthy pieces, the first
on “non-alignment” by Max Teichmann
of the Monash Politics Department, the
second on “Armed Neutrality” by the
novelist David Martin, belong to the
school of the isolationist-Left. Mr
Teichmann, commendably, is opposed to
war, pessimism, indifference, and he
doesn’t agree with Burns or Skinner
about fifth columns (“unless they are
columns of materialism, cynicism and
callousness”). He has a lot of the
milk of human kindness, but some of it
has moved from the cardiac to the cere-
bral regions. David Martin’s kindly
thoughts about the (most improbable)
results of a policy of neutrality are not
without a certain lactic quality either.
By the way, Sweden is the favorite mili-
tary model for the Australian isolation-
ists, these days. We are going to hear
a lot about Sweden.


Write
your
way to
success!
II
II
I
I I
In
In
• li
*■ll
In
•ill
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
{ ) Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing { ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott’s step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
ADDRESS
AGE
i understand that no sales will
call on me. .
Private Eyewash
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Penguin Private Eye. Penguin. 75c.
Qued by Randolph Churchill and Lord
Russell of Liverpool, banned in
Australia, “Private Eye” is yet another
publication which has benefited by the
right kind of publicity, and has become
far more famous than it deserves to be.
In the ’sixties, the PR machine has
reached its highest point of refinement:
the grubbiest satires can be sold to the
public and anyone daring to attack
them can instantly be disposed of: he is
puritanical, a prude, a wowser.
In a period as intellectually flabby as
this, those who pursue a firm line in
aesthetics, who believe in a moral and
artistic balance in literature, are apt to
be derided: “conservative” is, I believe,
the harshest term- of abuse these days.
Only the very old, a few lady novelists
writing in the country, the “Sunday
Times” critics, and the faded provincial
academic poets of a generation now
already becoming middle-aged, seem in
England today to preserve qualities of
order and cleanliness, of purity of style:
luckily in America the situation is better.
If we can here shake off a lingering
amateurishness and make a stronger
move towards professionalism and in-
dependence of judgment, we may be able
to make a similar boast. And we are
lucky in having poets like James
McAuley and novelists like Patrick White
in our midst to maintain a firm centre,
to uphold the traditional virtues of
stylistic polish and purity of vision.
“Private Eye”, like Terry Southern’s
“Candy” in America, its own imitator
“Oz” in Australia and the films of
Godard in France, seizes with immature
relish on the absurdities of the period we
are living in George Grosz in the
’twenties, the cartoonists of “Simplicis-
' simus”. Low at his best, and above all
the dazzling, short-lived early “Mad’
magazine of Harvey Kurtzman (perhaps
the supreme genius of modern satirical
drawing): these have focused to brilliant
effect on the ugly venality of politicians,
the prancings of society leaders, the
horse-loving empty-headedness of royalty.
Behind their criticism has lain an
absolutely firm moral attitude: they are
not —not even Kurtzman —nihilistic or
merely spotty merchants of graffiti. When
Kurtzman, on the best of all “Mad”
covers, showed the Queen of England
swimming helplessly in a sea of current
celebrities, or parodied Hollywood con-
ventions in his ruthless comic-strip
version of the James Mason-Judy Gar-
land “A Star is Born”, he was seeing
British royalty and Hollywood from the
point of view of a fully-fledged sophisti-
cate who seized precisely on the pre-
posterous symbols most people dote on.
The new humorists, unfortunately, are
coarse and jejune, as pimply and soft-
centred as what they are deriding.
Penguin’s “Private Eye” mercifully
omits the humorless ramblings of
Christopher Logue and some of the uglier
cartoons of Steadman (whose influence
is so clearly reflected in the Australian
work of Gary Shead); printed on neat,
white pages,, it looks spruce and brushed-
up compared with the hideous offset mess
in which it has been coming out. The
editors were together at Shrewsbury, and
came up through the Oxbridge world,
working on undergraduate magazines:
no doubt their attacks on the Establish-
ment which educated them would not
have been taken so seriously if they had
been products of grammar schools and
had come up from the clerical classes.
I recall seeing a picture of them in
“Newsweek” once, jammed together in
a tiny office over a strip joint in Soho,
like the furtive figures in a German film
of the ’twenties.
The appearance of the magazine was
always amateurish; it came after “Beyond
the Fringe”, that catty and callow send-
up programme which displayed the
extreme immaturity and lack of sophisti-
cation to which British humor had sunk.
The “old boy” air of this show 1 found
insufferable; and in the anthology
Penguin has published it seems to me
no less feeble and repellent: imitation
graffiti in lower-form spelling sprinkle
the book, their splotchy ink announcing
the ugliness of political leaders as
though they were hated schoolmasters:
the level scarcely ever gets higher than
this. There is a crime report on Harold
Wilson, which with leaden obviousness
outlines a career supposedly run on
racketeering lines: this is sadly witless.
(“This time it was a walkover. The
cunning Northern Stoat was in at last.”)
Later, there is a picture of Miss Whip-
lash, receiving a letter from “a Mr
Brown, thanking us for keeping our
prices down”. Douglas-Home is shown
as a skull, and much of the visual humor
is on this crudest of burlesque levels:
instead of seizing on some aspect of a
face which can show its owner’s per-
sonality with naked sharpness, the
“Private Eye” people simply exaggerate
its physical particularity to the most
violent extreme: all their cartoon of
Douglas-Home shows is that he is pain-
fully thin (so what?). And the drawing
of LBJ is no less inexpressive.
“Private Eye” purports to attack the
ugly, the mean, the vicious and perverted
in modern English life. But it in fact
laps it all up with a soft, easy comfortable
relish. It is a genial magazine, and that
is unforgivable. The more disgusting
aspects of the ’sixties in England, from
the Profumo business on, demand far
more piercing satirists than this seedy
little magazine can provide; in the con-
text, the “Barry McKenzie” cartoon,
showing a lantern-jawed drongo loose in
London, appears almost sparkling, and in
it one can seize at a single straw: amid
all the familiar bedroom farce situations
(the anthologized example is the classic
one of an ardent male virgin trying hard
and unsuccessfully to get into bed with
a whore: “Rattle of a Simple Man" with
a London-Australian accent) there is a
witty and precise use of Australian idiom
by the strip’s author, Barry Humphries.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Working in the Dark
"EWERYBODY knows that drought costs money, but nobody really knows how
much. It is astounding that in such a drought-prone country as Australia there
has been hardly any research into the impact of drought through the economy.
Not only are the measuring sticks cf
drought losses on farmers themselves
crude and inaccurate, but there is no
understanding yet of the secondary im-
pact of these losses on the rest of the
community.
What of the secondary effects? Apart
from a comment by Professor Heinz
Arndt some years ago that a fall in
farmers' incomes did not appear to have
such an effect on consumption expendi-
ture as a comparable fall in metropolitan
incomes, the academics have not con-
concerned themselves overmuch with
this problem. The Reserve Bank, with
its detailed studies of money flows, is
believed to have looked into the question
of the accelerator in the rural sector,
but no one outside the Reserve Bank’s
marble monster is in on the secret.
It is against a background of ignor-
ance of the effects of drought and their
duration, of the sectors most hurt and
the extent of that hurt, that everyone
is talking about drought relief.
In these circumstances, how can the
problem of recovery from drought be
solved? It just needs money? That, of
course, is nonsense, and the more intelli-
gent of the farming pressure groups are
prepared to admit it if only in private.
In a situation where farmers have lost
their breeding stock, for example, it is
ridiculous to hand them some money
and say “go buy yourself some
breeders ’. Breeding stock does not grow
on trees; when the drought is finally
broken there is going to be a shortage
of breeders, and giving farmers money
to buy then will do nothing to increase
the supply; it will simply put up their
price.
It is not good enough to answer this
point by the traditional market-place
view that if the price goes up so, even-
tually, will the supply, as more people
seek to benefit from the high prices by
breeding more stock instead of, say,
selling them to slaughterhouses. But the
slaughterhouses play the same game,
too; their answer will simply be to raise
their buying prices accordingly, so that
the people who end up losing are the
consumers who have to pay more for
their meat, along with exporters who are
trying to hold overseas markets and
all as a result of farmers being lent too
much in the first place.
Yet, if there is no point in simply
pouring cash into the rural sector to
hasten the recovery (apart from paying
existing bills), what should be done?
Direct aid for pasture improvement, for
better stock control, or for capital
works? Who knows? At least the Govern-
ment’s $7O million rural finance plans
are over a long term, and pre-
sumably the direct drought relief that
farmers are to get will have some
element of control over how and where
they will be spent provided the
authorities themselves have any sensible
ideas on the subject.
If the lack of knowledge about the
impact of drought makes it difficult to
plan a reasoned programme of rural
recovery, how much more serious is that
lack of knowledge in the general field
of economic policy itself? Presumably,
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: The Federal Government
continues to handle the economic situation quite coolly.
On external matters it is perhaps fortified by opinions
like the National Bank’s that the setback experienced
over the last year or so in the balance of payments
will be fairly rapidly overcome. Internally the drought,
and farmers, have been dignified by the creation of a
$5O million Farm Loan Fund, partly to be released
from the trading banks’ statutory reserve deposits and
to cover reasonably cheap loans of about 15 years’
currency. Home-building also gets a $l5 million
fillip from Federal funds to the State Housing Com-
missions . . . Four months of easing in employment
was halted in February, when unemployed registrants
fell by 12.343, to total 65,965 and represent 1.4 per
cent of the work force; job vacancies dropped back
by 9641 to 49,219 . . . Trading bank deposits jumped
by a very strong $ 174.1 million in February to reach
a record $5222.8 million; the increase, against the
previous February’s $125.2 million, is largely ascribed
to technical reasons stemming from the decimal
changeover. Bank advances fell by $23.2 million to
$2642.7 million, much in line with seasonal trends
. . . February’s hire-purchase debts retreated by $10.9
million to $1075 million; the last two months reverse
a four-year upward movement . . . Eight months of
the 1965-66 wool season saw receipts down 8.4 per
cent to $466,657,31 1.
For the markets: There could be little doubt on
what would determine at least a day or two’s behavior
of Australian stock markets last week. Hedged as it
was, announcement of BHP-Esso’s oil find at Gipps-
land No. 4 off-shore well proved sufficient to give the
markets a mild flurry. BHP itself went well ahead to
finish the week at $5.12, its best price this year. In-
terest spread as well to the purely oil stocks with other
off-shore leases. The markets as a whole tried to draw
some consolation from better rains and managed a
briefly firmer tone of some width. Yet carefulness
crept in by the closing sessions, so the end-of-week
advance was achieved on much muter trading ... In
spite of the election uncertainties, to continue until
March 31, London has found a moderate cessation of
selling drift as institutions, and even small buyers,
return over a tolerably wide range. January’s static
industrial output had no undue influence, although
there’s a sneaking respect being paid to sterling’s
position, which is still wavering as central bankers
interpret election trends . . . Wall Street manages its
occasional technical spurts at the same time as it is
overcast by credit fears and tighter money. Interest
rates are high and suggestions of tax increases in the
offing. Inflation does not bring its customary market
ebullience. v
For companies: BHP must certainly head the
week with Gippsland No. 4. Yet it is well to heed
Esso geologists’ emphasis that several months may pass
before a proper flow analysis will be available .
The prolonged Amalgamated Chemicals’ affair touched
some sort of a climax with the withdrawal of Dow


DEBENTURESTOCK
and
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
up to
per
annum
{ Interest paid Quarterly
CURRENCIES
Debenture
Stock
Unsecured j
Deposit |
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be
accepted on the appropriate form
issued with the
Prospectus now available
from
• Any Branch of the National
Bank of Australasia Limited
• Any Stockbroker
• Any Waltons store or office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, G.P.0.,
Sydney
X7ZJSIZZ&
CREDIT CORPORATION LUTED
it means that the Government just does
not know how much its economic
management is being disrupted by the
drought. Its only way of finding out is
to wait and see and then do some-
thing to correct whatever blunder it has
made, after the event. This might have
done in the bad old days (the Treasury
thought it would do in 1961). Surely,
however, we have some people in Can-
berra who can try to do better than that.
Hard cases . . .
TI/'ith so much discussion going on
about whether one or two Australian
companies already in receivership should
be put into liquidation as well, a recent
decision by the English Chancery
Division has brought to light an unsus-
pected weakness in the structure of our
company law. The weakness would apply
in all States and calls for correction.
The Chancery case is Re Othery Con-
structions Ltd i October 26, 1965
reported 1966, 1 All England Law
Reports, p. 145).
Othery invited the public to invest in
a new kind of “package deal”. “You
pay us $6OO deposit,” they said. “We’ll
find you a site suitable for the erection
of a car-washing machine. We’ll buy
the site for you, and finance it for
you, and even throw in the machine.
Easy money for life, for lucky old you!”
A new variant on a very old theme,
certain to succeed as long as one is born
every minute. Readers will learn without
surprise that the company never “found”
a single suitable site, but collected quite
a few deposits which speedily found
their way into “directors’ fees” and
“travelling expenses”.
What distinguished this case from the
usual run of cases was that the company
had a conscientious shareholder, who
only held a few paid-up shares but didn’t
want to be associated with such an enter-
prise. So the shareholder filed a petition
to have the company wound up, on the
ground that the company was insolvent
and couldn’t pay its debts, and that in
any event it was just and right that it
should be wound up.
The petition disclosed the facts and
also showed that the company had sub-
stantial debts and no assets worth
mentioning. But when the matter came
to court the directors took an unusual
paint: “Your petition shows that the
company has no assets. Therefore, if
it's wound up, there will be no surplus
for distribution to shareholders. There-
fore you, the shareholder, have no legiti-
mate right to have the company wound
up, for you stand to gain nothing if it is
wound up.”
With some - reluctance, Mr Justice
Chemicals’ takeover offer, leaving the field to Con-
tinental Oil. This solution followed rumors of com-
promise talks between the two bidders and came with
only four directors, out of nine, actually left on the
Amalgamated Chemicals’ board . . . Conzinc Riotinto
apparently did not have all its own way in the lead
and zinc markets: that could not prevent a peak 1965
profit and a dividend up from 15 to 16 per cent . . .
Electrical, television and radio manufacturers all speak
of higher costs and fluctuating consumer demand, but
Amalgamated Wireless sees 1965-66 earnings compar-
able with 1964-65; interim dividend has been held . . .
Svdnev BMC dealer York Motors however, had to
cut a 5 per cent bonus element from its final dividend,
leaving it at 25 per cent; Holden dealer Stack and Co.
COLIN GOODCHILD
Managing director,
Dow (Australia)
SIR LIONEL HOOKE
Chairman, AWA
hasn’t paid any dividend since 1963-64 and again suf-
fered losses in the December half-year . . . Good
vintages in more ways than one pour from Lindeman
(Holdings); the interim payment goes from 74 to 8 p.c.
and suggests another 8 p.c. final ... In a ticklish time,
hardware and appliance maker General Industries is
also able to lift 1965 dividend from 5 to 6 p.c. after a
2.9 p.c. rise in group profit; earning rate reaches 10.9
p.c. . . . “No grounds for pessimism beyond the short
term” are seen by merchant A.J. Chown; “in sympathy
with these judgments” dividend goes from 124 to
14 p.c. . . . Even in North Queensland optimism can
prevail, so hotel-keeper and merchant Samuel Allen
makes a one-for-four par issue to cover expansion, par-
ticularly in Townsville.


:
LI
.Jd f
i v
//.
fe&l
v/i ih\M
=3
l( =j
m
cSJ
m
Q
§
H INCLUDE SINGAPORE - THE HON CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modern, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here If million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side - here you will
find the Orient’s most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and cultures - Stopover
- You'll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
Further north - no more than an hour by air - lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You’ve read about
it in books • now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur - Federal Capital of Malaysia - See beautiful
Penang - the Pearl of Orient - Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
HSERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia - throughout South East Asia
from Singapore - you’ll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways’
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you'll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -9|
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG»3j
j JESSELTON/ HONGKONG ■ 2
j PENANG/BANGKOK -4
KUALA LUMPUR/BAIMGKOK-3
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK -7
d&b
MALAYSIAN
AIRWAYS
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
Buckiey felt constrained by previous
authority to uoho'd this objection, and
to dismiss the petition. A shareholder,
he held, cannot petition to have his
company wound up unless he has a
financial stake in the outcome. In other
words, he must show that there will be
a surplus available for distribution to
shareholders, or at least that the investi-
gation involved will probably disclose a
surplus. “It is no part oT'ifie business of
a paid shareholder,” the court ruled, “to
present himself to the court, either as an
amicus curiae (friend of the courtf or
as the friend of creditors of the com-
pany in order to suggest the company
ought to be wound up to protect the
interests of those creditors.”
What is a shareholder to do, then, if
he has reason to believe his company
is being used to fleece the public and
does not want to be associated with its
activities? Is he to say to himself: “Oh
well, the creditors can take care of them-
selves”? Sometimes they can, but often
they can’t, especially if they are little
people who lack the knowledge, the
means and the stamina to take action.
Yet surely they are the ones most in
need of protection, if a conscientious
shareholder knows (and they don’t)
just what is being done to them.
It is suggested that a shareholder who
suspects that this sort of thing is going
on is acting both reasonably and morally
in approaching the court. He has a moral
stake in having the company investigated
or wound up. And if the law denies his
right to do this, then the law urgently
requires amendment.
On the Shelf
JTPhere is a certain amount of anguish
in high places in Collins Street
amongst those companies which gave
scarcely more than a passing glance to
BHP's 1963 call for tenders for drilling
in the sea off Gippsland. The Queensland
oil discoveries had directed energies in-
land. BHP were only too pleased to
receive one substantial tender from
Esso.
After the initial excitement, BHP and
Esso have settled into a post-Moomba
caution: “Several months at least before
we, etc., etc.”. But the general opinion
in the trade is that the Gippsland off-
shore finds are far and away the most
encouraging Australia has seen.
Esso will probably have to move its
successful Glornar 111 floating rig (the
only rig working on the continental
shelf at present) back to Tasmanian
waters soon to meet the terms of per-
mits given to BHP by the Tasmanian
Government. Further testing off Gipps-
land will be done from platforms until
the floating rig returns.
Meanwhile the pace of the whole
continental shelf oil search, with Shell
in the lead, quickens. The best prospects
now lie in the young sedimentary basins
under Victorian waters. Four off-shore
drilling rigs are to be imported this year
to get the search off the ground.
Arms and the Man
do stockbrokers have up their
sleeves? Only in the privacy of their
offices, or at home, can an investor find
out. For everyone on the trading floor
of the two main Stock Exchanges must
wear a long-sleeved shirt; gentlemen’s
(but not ladies’) elbows are among the
things covered up by the Exchanges.
The Stock Exchange Committee’s
regulations lay down a code of conduct,
and there is an inflexible rule that all
persons appearing on the trading floor,
in view of the public, should not wear
multi - colored sweaters, short - sleeved
shirts, pointed shoes or tapered trousers.
It is not what happens on the trading
floor that matters so much as the way
the chap is dressed who is doing it.


FOR
YEARS
OR 6 YEARS
VO
cr-
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from —•
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in N.S.W.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F, Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.,
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest &■ Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
Phones
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 31 1861
Perth 21 6273
mm
'(jc-'l 'Flvuu'ia’s
Drought in the Market
Wide-ranging effects on companies
rj%E drought has hit the stockmarket.
Not only has it knocked about $6O
million off the market value of shares
in three industries directly affected
pastoral and woolbroking companies,
agricultural equipment makers and meat
traders; it has also had far wider effects
in Collins and O’Connell Streets.
In the first place it has removed a lot
of Australia’s wealthy investors, farmers,
from the market at a time when there
has been such a lack of buyers—a situa-
tion that has maintained since the British
and the US began to suffer from balance-
of-payments-itis.
In addition, there are many industries
whose fortunes are associated with rural
prosperity, and which will be feeling
some impact of this drought. Chemical
and fertiliser companies, retail stores,
motor manufacturers and banks are in-
volved in the drought directly, apart
from the indirect effects felt through
the economy.
Probably the best way to establish
just what companies stand to suffer is
to see what the drought actually involves
in the first place. In the first place, there
has not been a drought over the whole
continent; where there has been drought,
its intensity has varied considerably. The
worst hit areas have been the far south-
west of Queensland, the western and
north-western areas of NSW. But most
districts of NSW have had well below
their average rainfall in the last 12
months, with only the southern and
south-western (including the Riverina)
agricultural regions of the State show-
ing any increase in sheep numbers at all
for the year and they were slight.
Even though the Australia-wide stock
losses were only about 10 p.c. of the
total, some regions bore the brunt of this;
in the western and north-western areas
of NSW, one third of the sheep and two
thirds of the cattle either died or were
slaughtered because of the drought. The
drought has killed 13m. sheep in NSW
and 34m. in Queensland, and lm. head
of cattle in NSW and 360,000 in Queens-
land, the president of the Australian
Woolgrowers and Graziers’ Council says.
“There is no doubt that the drought
conditions experienced in north-west
NSW are the worst since rainfall records
were accurately established on our
properties some 63 years ago,” accord-
ing to the recent report from L. J.
Hooker Investment Corporation.
Last month the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics estimated that the drought
would cause a $357 million fall (or about
10 p.c.) in farm production in the current
financial year. It is clear that this cannot
be entirely recouped next year. The
BAE said that more than half the total
drop in farm production of about s2oom.
would be due to the fail in the wheat
crop, as a result of poor growing con-
ditions and a 7 p.c. reduction in the
area sown. This should not affect flour
millers, however, except to a marginal
extent on their export sales or transport
costs if they were obliged to draw on
wheat from farther afield to mill. But
prices were stable.
Wheat and flour exports could fall by
s44im. or 13 p.c. in 1965-66, but should
rise sharply this year. The BAE thinks
beef and veal exports may fall by s3sm.
or 17| p.c. as a result of an 8 p.c. drop
in meat production. The value of wool
exports will probably fall by about
s62m. or 7 p.c., following a 9 p.c. drop
in production.
The bureau thinks sugar exports
should fall by s22im. or 20 p.c., even
though the sugar crop was expected to
increase —if only slightly, despite the
huge increases in acreage.
The BAE said butter exports could" fall
by sBm. or 12 p.c., but that dairy pro-
duction overall was expected to show a
moderate rise as the fall in drought-
affected areas would be offset by produc-
tion increases elsewhere.
On top of all these direct effects, there
are the immeasurable consequences of a
lack of funds in the rural sector and the
directing of cash in the community away
from other activities (or from SRD’s) to
farmers. This is a trend that will con-
tinue, yet already there has been a
massive increase in rural indebtedness.
The rural sector is using more of its over-
draft limits, with 78.2 p.c. drawn by last
December compared with 71 p.c. a year
previously (the community as a whole
used only 59 p.c. of its overdrafts, which
was nevertheless a rise from the previous
55 p.c.). From January to December last
year, bank advances to the rural' sector
jumped 18 p.c., or s9lm:, to $604m.,


ALL PART OF THE SERVICE
M
Constant hot water is an essential part of the service a first
class hotel offers its guests. And, thanks to copper, The Southern
Cross Hotel, Melbourne, hardly needs to give hot water service a
second thought. At the hotel’s planning stage, heavily insulated
solid copper hot water tanks were specified. Incidentally, it takes
a bank of four cylinders with a total capacity of 5,400 gallons
to fulfil The Southern Cross Hotel’s needs.
You, too, can be sure of a reliable hot water service in your home
When you insist on copper. Copper tanks and pipes are easy to
install, cut maintenance costs and most important of all
Copper is for Keeps
I
-v:
You can find out more about the unique qualities of copper by writing to the
9 COPPER AND BRASS INFORMATION CENTRE
Northgate House, 321 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CB94a
and deposits from rural sources dropped
by about 9 p.c., or s7Bm., to sBl4m. —•
a turnaround of almost $170m., which
is significant indeed.
The listed pastoral companies have
not done well in the drought and may
take some time to recover, although
they may have more access to funds for
restocking than smaller operators.
In the year to December 31, Newstead
South’s profit fell away to almost nothing
from its properties at Inverell, Narrabri
and Moree. Marra Development’s pro-
perties were mostly subject to severe
drought. Profit fell heavily in the last
June year and in the five months to
November, the chief loss being in re-
duction of lambs and calves. Whale In-
dustries was unable to sow wheat and
linseed crops at Gurley Station because
of the drought.
Co far the only listed pastoral company
to come out with a heavy loss has
been Squatting Investments, the Mel-
bourne-based company, with properties in
western NSW and Queensland, that last
year merged with Western Queensland
Pastoral Co. The company’s recent
balance sheet for 1965 shows that the
combined profit of $362,708 has been
turned into a combined loss of about
$lOO,OOO. Squatting’s reasons were that
the wool clip and its proceeds were
both drastically reduced (by about one
quarter); stock losses were serious
(33,311 sheep and 2422 cattle), and
returns from livestock sales decreased to
only a quarter of 1964’s level. Lamb
markings, because of inability to join
ewes, decreased by a quarter and the
cost of providing fodder by hand feeding
increased enormously (by $154,797).
The wool brokers have not been so
seriously affected, largely because of their
geographical spread and their ability to
make up on the swings (of stock sales
last year) what they lost on the round-
abouts (of the wool clip).
Elder Smith-Goldsbrough Mort earned
slightly less in the December half-year.
Trading was satisfactory, despite the
anticipated adverse influences. (The
greater part of the company’s pastoral
business is conducted in drought-free
areas of SA, Victoria and WA.)
Dalgety-New Zealand Loan profit fell
24 p.c., although turnover was only
down 4 p.c. in the December half-year,
affected both by lower wool and live-
stock sales. Profits in the second half
may not be so badly affected as in the
first half, directors indicated.
Winchcombe Carson experienced
greatly reduced sales of wool and live-
stock, so profit was correspondingly re-
duced in the December half. Pitt Sons
and Badgery’s profit was down 20 p.c.
in the same period.


PH
TRUCKS
TRAXCAVATORS
COMPRESSORS
i
1
m
»-
EXCAVATORS
CRANES
brambles
EXPERIENCED OPERATORS
Hire all the equipment and the
operators in one package
GO ONE-STOP-SHOPPING
AT BRAMBLES
CIVIL CONTRACTING
DIVISION
Rock Excavations • Earthmoving • Reclamations
• De-watering • Plant hire
CRANE HIRE DIVISION
Crane hire • Concrete pouring • Steel erection
• Machinery moving • Heavy and high lifts
NoisiAia Moruu. uaddii
Hourly hire or contract work • Suppliers of sand,
ashes, metal, gravel and filling
BIS B
BRAMBLES
lvmisnaNi
CNR. TOD MAN AVE. & DOWLING ST., WATERLOO. 663 0A65
Victorian and Tasmanian companies,
Younghusband, Dennys, Lascelles, and
4. G. Webster, were untroubled by
seasonal conditions but were somewhat
concerned by low wool values.
The drought has hit the booming agri-
cultural equipment trade hard at a time
when it had rapidly increased its
capacity to cope with 1964-65’s big rise
in demand; In the three months to Sep-
tember last year, not only did sales of
tractors fall almost one quarter from the
same period of 1964, but stock rose by
45 p.c. to total 2 2" times the quarter’s
sales compared with the usual proportion
of- about one third.
David Shearer and John Shearer (in
South Australia) have both reported sig-
nificantly lower profits in the December
half-year.
Sales by agricultural disc maker Ralph
McKay Ltd fell 6.5 p.c. and pre-tax profit
11.9 p.c. in the December six months,
owing to poor seasonal conditions. Sales
and profits fell away for implement
maker Horwood Bagshaw, which claimed,
however, a reasonable share of the
diminished market. But interim dividend
was cut from 5 to 4 p.c.
manufacturer Chamberlain
Industries’ interim announced turn-
over within 7 p.c. of that for the previous
corresponding period, and directors were
hopeful of better conditions in the
second half. Bowra Holdings, WA
engineer, reported “continued growth”,
colored a little perhaps by its call for
fresh capital. Connor Shea, the Victorian
farm equipment maker and engineer,
said sales in the June, 1965, quarter were
considerably affected by drought.
The irony of the drought for three
companies is that they had diversified into
agriculture and pastoral activities to give
some stability to the problems they ex-
pected to face in their main operations.
But now the real estate firm of L. J.
Hooker Investment Corporation finds
that, but for its pastoral properties, it
would be making handsome profits;
British Tobacco is losing money on the
land but making it hand over fist out cf
cigarettes, and Project Development is
getting by on its contracting but not on
its grazing.
Chemical companies—particularly the
distributors of agricultural chemicals like
Amalgamated Chemicals, or fertiliser
makers—are in the drought club. Amal-
gamated has cut its dividend because of
lower earnings.
Retail stores with large country in-
terests could suffer, although the surpris-
ingly bright report from John Meagher
and the good news from Samuel Allen
suggests that merchants can still do well
despite the drought.


MEAT
COMPANY SHARE
MOVEMENTS
1966
range
Present
cents
price
% below
Div.
Earn
High Low
cents
1965 peak
Yield
Yield
Huttons
100
95
96
-4
5.2
10.1
T. A. Field
63
56
58
-5
6.9
12.0
F. J. Walker
163
140
142
-33
8.8
9.0
Anderson
68
58
63
-26
7.9
20.6
Amagraze
40
35
38
-10
nil
25.7
Tancred
158
126
127
-43
5.9
12.7
Allied Meat
205
168
175
+3
3.4
7.3
Conkey
130
120
130
-14
4.2
11.4
Berrima
95
“80
90
-25
4.4
15.2
Richardsons
45
40
39
-22
5.0
10.6
MARKETING
MANAGER for
AUSTRALASIA
The Australian subsidiary of a large international company
requires an experienced, competent and ambitious Marketing
Manager. The Marketing Manager will be responsible directly to
the Managing Director for all marketing activities of the Company.
The Company has retail outlets throughout Australia and New
Zealand and operates principally in the consumer products field.
The head office is in Sydney.
The position offered is a top executive appointment and accord'
ingly considerable previous marketing and administrative experi-
ence is required.
A liberal salary commensurate with past experience and potential
will be paid together with the usual executive benefits.
Apply in writing to:
"MARKETING MANAGER,"
C/o PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO„
82 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Meat Companies and the Drought
Buying for the good long-term future
TI/here has drought left the meat companies? The stock
market has marked share prices of all but one of them
down from last year’s best levels and some of them very
sharply, indeed so that their market capitalisation has
slumped by about $5.6 million overall, or about 18 per cent.
But the generally cheerful interim reports issued by meat
companies in the last month or so have shown that the
drought has not had any uniform impact on the meat trade;
far from it. Most of the companies have reported steady
profits. Some have even come out with substantial rises.
Of the 11 listed public companies specifically in the
meat trade, only one has reported a real profit fall and one
has indicated a slight downward trend. Two other companies
(in real estate and construction) with meat interests have also
sad stories to tell, mainly because of pastoral losses. Do these
good interims mean that the market is wrong? Or do they
suggest that even if the meat companies have not yet suffered,
they soon will?
The facts are that things are going to get worse for the
meat trade before they get better. The facts also suggest that
the meat trade has staggering growth potential, in the long
run, particularly in the export trade. With foreign owners
already large in the meat export business, prospects for
increased overseas participation in this industry, through take-
overs, should always be taken into consideration in pricing
meat shares, drought or no drought.
Whether or not the drought ends next month or next year
(or the year after), the meat companies have yet to feel the
worst of it. So far this year, most meat companies have been
able to keep up their turnover by killing a large amount of
breeding stock farmers have had to unload. When rain comes,
farmers will be so keen to restock and recondition their herds
that there will be little coming forward*to kill. Prices the
meat companies have to pay will probably get even higher than
they are now.
If it does not rain for a while yet, this will simply make
the meat companies’ problems worse when the rains eventually
do come.
How long will recovery take? It all depends on when the
rains come in relation to lambing or calving times. And then
it could be years before stock prices settle down. It took
seven years before sheep numbers built up to their 1944
level after the 1945 drought. It should not take so long this
time: In the cattle business the growing importance
of tropical Queensland could bring supplies and prices back
to normal in only a couple of seasons, particularly for the
vital export trade.
It is good luck that the biggest developments in cattle are
in tropical areas which are still getting their share of rain
and that so much of the export demand is for the manu-
facturing quality meat predominating in these areas.
None the less, the drought must cut severely into Australia’s
overseas meat trade. Meat prices are high in the US; Europe
is currently taking about 20 p.c. of our exports (notably Italy);
there are increasing opportunities in Japan. Yet if the quantity
and quality of stock available is seriously reduced, those
export opportunities can be lost for a long time and possibly
for ever.
The companies that stand to suffer most are those with large
operations in the worst drought-affected areas; but this
can be misleading. Investors worried about Tancred
Bros, for instance, appear to have looked at the closing of
its Bourke works without considering that its new Pentland
operation near Charters Towers could offset some of the
apparent loss when it gets into high gear shortly. In any
event, it is not enough to look simply at the area in which
companies have their own abattoirs. Meat companies generally
spread their activities much wider than that and use council
abattoirs to kill their livestock purchases over a wide area,
or even buy from or use the services of rival groups or
co-operatives.
Yet it is clear that a company like Huttons appears to be
in a better position to withstand the problems than others
because of its geographical spread and also because the
swine fever situation it faced a couple of years ago now seems
to have been settled. Nevertheless, all companies, no matter
where they are, face the stock shortage problem, as those in bad
areas “pirate” stock from good areas. Even Richardson’s Meat
in Tasmania is complaining that mainland companies have
been buying up so much Tasmanian stock that there is not
enough left for fully economic production in its export works.
The drought had begun to have an impact even in 1964-65
on the profits of a few companies, particularly Tancred and


Invest in
%
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNUM
FIRST SERIES DERENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your ’stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney » 2 0324
ASK THE ’WALES' FOR DETAILS
ND.I6.M.
Berrima, but most appeared un-
affected. Roughly the same pattern has
emerged in the interim reports covering
the first half of the current financial year.
Amagraze and Berrima have not yet
filed interim reports, but they should not
have fared too badly. Anderson reported
a slight downward trend and Tancred a
decided profit fall. Conkey and F. J.
Walker in effect said “no change” and
were both cautious. Huttons reported
a lift and Allied Meat a substantial im-
provement.
The most reliable profit earner and the
largest in terms of capital and profits in
the meat trade is Huttons, famous for
its Pineapple brand hams and bacon.
Meatworks at Oxley (Brisbane), Preston
(Melbourne), Launceston (Tas.) and El-
tham (NZ) give Huttons nice geographi-
cal spread. Large capital expenditure by
Huttons in recent years has produced
greater efficiency; in 1964-65 profits rose
21 p.c., and profit in the December six
months showed steady improvement.
Despite Queensland drought conditions,
supplies of livestock have been reason-
ably good overall.
T. A. Field has just come to light
with its interim report covering the
December half-year. As would be ex-
pected, profits were lower, yet the com-
pany held its dividend payment in line
with 1964-65’s increased rate. Directors
were able to say that the volume of
livestock treated had been fully main-
tained. Seasonal conditions (a modest
phrase!) and running-in costs of the
new Fitzroy River (Rockhampton)
abattoir reduced the period’s earnings.
The company had earlier mentioned a
shortage of livestock for the export
trade. It runs other abattoirs at Dinmore
(Brisbane) and Orange (NSW).
F. J. Walker was cautious with its
interim, reporting trading results in the
December half-year as substantially the
same as the year before and profit since
December as “satisfactory”. Weather
conditions will be the determining factor
in the group matching 1964-65 results.
The drought continued to affect the sub-
sidiaries operating in the Hunter Valley.
Walkers have meatworks at Aberdeen in
NSW.
The point was made by F. J. Walker
last October that the rate of recovery of
livestock from the present drought could
be much quicker than from earlier
droughts because of improved techniques,
better lambing and calving percentages,
and increased productivity of pastures.
Anderson Meat Industries reported
slightly lower profit for the December,
1965, half year, but interim dividend of
5 p.c. continued last year’s improved
rate of 10 p.c. per annum. Anderson has
three abattoirs, all of export standard, at
Roma, Wallangarra on the Queensland-
NSW border (drawing from the Darling
Downs and northern NSW areas) and
Byron Bay. The last has had an ex-
cellent season; with much of Queensland
having recovered from the drought, con-
ditions at Roma have been fairly healthy.
There’s been no relief from the drought
in the far western areas of NSW, but
these are not Anderson’s main operating
areas. New works are being con-
structed at Shepparton (Vic.) which will
be leased by Anderson and could lift
turnover by one-third. They will be
open in September-October and will draw
from reliable rainfall (and irrigated) areas
of the Goulburn district and as far away
as the Riverina. This will give Anderson
greater stability and flexibility.
The yo-yo behavior of Amagraze
trading (three losses in six years) has not
done anything to improve investors’ con-
fidence. Even last year’s 19.5 p.c. earning
rate has failed to put the 50c shares
above par, one factor possibly being that
no dividend was paid. Amagraze has
abattoirs at Cairns and Biloela (central
Queensland), and has a cattle station,
“Yelvertoft”, near Mount Isa.
There was takeover talk with Huttons
in 1963 and Anderson in 1965. If there
is to be any consolidation, it might be
more fruitful with Provincial Traders,
which distributes Amagraze ham, bacon
and smallgoods. Amagraze should be one
of the most interesting meat companies
to watch. It’s worth remembering that
Sir William Gunn is on the board. The
financial year has been altered from June
to September, so results for the March
half-year will not be available for a while
yet. As the areas this company serves
have not been really hard hit by the
LISTED COMPANIES' EAST COAST ABATTOIRS
drought, it is a fair gamble that the half-
year’s results will be quite respectable.
Tailored Bros, with abattoirs at Beau-
desert, Pentland and Bourke (closed by
the drought since last year), handled 15
p.c. higher turnover in 1964-65 by
slaughtering drought-stricken stock. In
the first half of 1965-66 higher livestock
values reduced profit margins and direc-


GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
6i
TWO
YEARS
0/
/(]
0
FIVE
YEARS
io,
7
2'°
TEN -
YEARS
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
f Hobart, Canberra i
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to it* and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
PGOB
tors see no improvement until the
drought is over. They thought the
diminishing number of breeders and fat-
tening-age stock caused by the prolonged
drought would have a serious long-term
effect on the industry. Within a couple
of weeks, additions are to be opened
at Pentland (60 miles from Charters
Towers). The drought has not been bad
here, but these will be very seasonal
works and will not compare in size with
Beaudesert.
Allied Meat recently lifted interim
dividend from 64 p.c. to 74 p.c., as the
44 p.c. rise in turnover produced a sub-
stantial increase in profit. Last year the
full dividend was 15 p.c. Directors said
recently they hoped to increase the final
dividend if current trading levels were
maintained. The 1964-65 profit was the
best ever recorded. The secret of Allied’s
recent success, compared with most other
meat companies, is its location in Vic-
toria, where it wholesales and retails
meat and smallgoods.
Coakey managed fully to maintain
turnover and profit in the December half-
year. Dividend was raised from 5 to 54
p.c., which could suggest a higher final
dividend but may only indicate a con-
tinuation of last year’s steady 11 p.c.
To date the drought in Conkey’s part
of the State (Cootamundra) has not ad-
versely affected activities, the company
recently reported. Last year, however,
the meat trading department profit fell
from $65,600 to $4BOO as livestock
prices rose to unprecedented levels.
Berrima District Meats has not yet
reported on its first half of 1965-66. Last
year the drought caused anxiety and a
profit reduction. The shortage of fodder
led to heavy slaughtering and quality
was affected. The Moss Vale and South
Coast areas served by the company have
had fair rains, so current results should
be reasonable.
The experience of two companies not
solely involved in the meat trade are
interesting. The operations of Project
Development’s North-West division re-
sulted in an excess of $150,000 in 1965,
on an investment of $2.4m. The division
runs the meatworks at Broome (WA).
Better results may be achieved in 1965-
66 if there are good seasonal conditions
in the West Kimberleys and depending
on competition from the new Derby
meatworks.
L. J. Hooker derived a $68,000 divi-
dend from its holding in the Katherine
(NT) meatworks in the December six
months, although pastoral activities in-
curred an overall loss. It expects the
worst financial consequences of the
drought will emerge in the current half-
year and produce a very heavy pastoral
loss for the second half of the year.
(The corporation has cattle properties in
the Northern Territory and cattle and
sheep properties in northern Queensland
and north-eastern NSW.)
The table on page 58 hows the
companies exclusively in meat, in ap-
proximate descending order of size. For
good value, Huttons looks the tops, even
though prices are only 5 p.c. down on
last year’s peak. Anderson could merit
genuine investment, and Amagraze could
prove a profitable spec. Allied looks
expensive; Tancred should not be allowed
to fall much lower.
The meat trade is a cyclical in-
dustry. Those who are bold should be
seriously considering the timing of a
large scale entry into meat now that share
prices are so low for so many companies
because of the drought. However, prices
could fall a little more as the impact of
the drought makes its belated appearance
—and recovery may take some time. Yet
for those who are not concerned about
picking the bottom and who are more
interested in the undoubted long-term
future of the meat trade, there are good
buying opportunities already.


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
FOR 5 YEARS
7% . 4 YEARS
6}% 3 YEARS
61% 2 YEARS
O
51% 12 MONTHS
Prospectus and application form available from:
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
epplication attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
9001 Members of the Stock Exchange , Melbourne
What Future for Shale Oil?
Australia's small, but quality resources
rpHERE is an irony about the mag-
nificent off-shore oil discoveries that
have followed the already significant
natural gas finds by Esso in the BHP
areas off Gippsland. For the more oil
and gas that is found in readily accessible
areas (rather than in the remote regions
of Australia), the less likelihood there is
that something might be done about
exploiting Australia’s shale oil resources.
It is not any longer considered silly
and old-fashioned to talk about shale as
a source of oil. This month the chair-
man of the big US refining company,
Humble Oil, Mr C. E. Restle, told the
American Institute of Mining: “Techno-
logy has now progressed to the stage
where we may hope to produce and
process oil from shale at a cost closely
competitive with crude oil.”
Shale oil refining has been more ex-
pensive than for crude oil because shale
has more impurities and does not yield
so many end-products. However, a new
process developed by Shale Oil Corpora-
tion (TOSCO) gives eventual prospect of
producing oil for as little as SUSI.2S a
barrel, which is well below the landed
cost of crude oil in most importing coun-
tries and less than half the average posted
price of crude oil in the US.
This is particularly significant to the
US, where new crude oil discoveries have
not kept pace with demand and where
there are shale oil deposits spread over
vast areas of Utah and Wyoming, and in
Colorado alone the oil content of
shale deposits is estimated as high as
1.500.000 m. barrels.
Mr Restle envisaged a mining and re-
torting process; a recent issue of the
“Science Journal” talked of research work
confirming the possibility of producing
substantial quantities of low-boiling
hydrocarbons from shale oil in a single
high-temperature, high-pressure hydrogen
process. Other research is aimed at in situ
combustion of shale by the injection of
air. So" there is plenty of work going on
to try to make shale an economic source
of oil.
Australia has the world’s richest shale
oil deposits. The trouble is they are not
big enough and there are not enough of
them. Not even the extensive drilling
and surveying work that has gone into
the search for oil in the last decade has
come up with any new shale deposits to
add to those that have been known
practically since the turn of the century.
Shale oil deposits are known to exist in
all States except South Australia. Only
those in NSW and Tasmania have ever
been worked commercially and are of
any size or quality.
Known reserves in these two States
total only about 60 million tons, from
which less than two years’ demand of
crude oil for Australia could be met.
Shale oil deposits were worked in
Australia 100 years ago, at Hartley Vale,
80 miles west of Sydney. The NSW oil
shale beds (associated often with coal
seams) were and probably still are the
richest tested anywhere in the world,
yielding upwards of 150 gallons a ton.
Tasmania’s yielded about 86 gallons per
ton, which is still very high in the world
context. Between 1865 and 1900 there
were i 1 companies formed to work the
NSW deposits located along a line 150
miles long running roughly north-south
about 80 miles west of Sydney, according
to the “Petroleum Gazette”.
During that time these deposits pro-
duced about one million tons of shale,
about a third of which came from Hart-
ley Vale and another third from Joadja,
near Mittagong. But the biggest develop-
ments were in the Newnes area, with the
Newnes project beginning in 1911, stop-
ping four months later, and recommenc-
ing in 1913 to last until the seams were
virtually exhausted in 1922. Shale oil
production was resumed nearby at Glen
Davis in 1937 and during the war Glen


Leasing means new machinery to
day. Leasing means modern equip-
ment without capital outlay. Leas-
ing can mean a lot to you. Write for
our free booklet, “Lease Plan".
Learn all about the advantages of
leasing from our years of experience.
GENERAL
CREDITS
• LIMITED
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
39& Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
210 Alinga Street, Canberra. Ph.: 4-4231
Branch offices throughout Australia.
6853VC
IF YOU HAVE AN
L M ERICSSON
TELEPHONE ANSWERER
as m
WHEN YOU
ARE OUT
For Complete Information Contact :—
Wm
S4S
1257 SYDNEY ROAD FAWNER. f?h PHONE 359 3544
182 SLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 921147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hcbart. 2 2911
GLO. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B'bane. 2 3201
S*A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide*. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (tS'59) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
FLY JO
THE MIDDLE EAST
l=MM=fel
SWISSCARE WORLDWIDE
Davis produced about 3 p.c. of Aus-
tralian petrol requirements.
Its greatest output in any one year was
about four million gallons. This was not
a big enough through-put to make the
operation economic. In 1952 Glen
Davis closed down after producing a
total of 26 million gallons of motor
spirit.
Despite its very high oil content, the
“Petroleum Gazette” does not expect
NSW shale oil to be worked again, one
reason being the high cost of mining.
For at their best, the shale seams are
only about five feet thick and they trail
away to thin edges.
the other hand, the big Colorado
deposits are in solid cliffs that are
ideal for open-cut mining —an important
consideration where the actual mining
cost is generally as high as 50 per cent
of the total in producing shale oil.
The “Petroleum Gazette” sees no pros-
pect of resuscitating the Tasmanian
shale oil industry, which operated inter-
mittently with Government help from
1910 to 1934 to produce a total of
357,000 gallons of oil, but which faded
out despite the estimated oil shale
reserves of 31 million tons.
AOG recently took out its first licence
to prospect for coal and oil shale, at
Maitland. There was no intention by
AOG to revive the once-flourishing in-
dustry of producing motor spirit and
heavy oils from shale, the company
announced.
Only Russia and China (producing
two-thirds of her 61m ton requirements,
of which one-third is shale oil) have a
viable shale oil industry now. World
production so far of 400 m. barrels is
only one-fiftieth of one per cent of
world resources of organic rich shale.
It is estimated that world oil shale
deposits hold a vast potential equal to
18.000 times present annual world
energy consumption. South America has
26 p.c. of world deposits. Europe 10 p.c.,
Asia 10 p.c. and Africa 5 p.c.; Australia
is a poor relation with very small re-
serves indeed.
With a world oversupply of petroleum,
shale oil has been little exploited, yet
for countries like Brazil, the chief source
in South America, shale oil could be of
tremendous importance. The Russians
are giving technical help there. Outside
the iron and bamboo curtains (with the
exception of USA and Brazil) there now
seems little chance of developing existing
proved shale oil resources. Superior pros-
pects are seen in extracting oil from
huge tar sands in northern Alberta
(Canada) and from coal, with which Aus-
tralia is so well endowed.


BALANCE
SHEET SUMMARIES ($000)
Year to June 30
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
1928
2180
2534
3452
3394
Current liabilities
802
940
1654
2606
3292
Working Capita!
1126
1240
880
846
102
Land & buildings
1714
754
1064
1954
2584
Plant, etc.
1108
1176
1224
1732
Investments
166
166
170
588
736
Intangibles
370
370
762
892
1138
Total capital
Represented by:
3376
3638
4052
5504
6292
Loan capital
—
—
—
—
298
Minority interests
2
2
12
12
18
Ordinary capital
972
972
1032
1550
1628
Reserves
2402
2664
3008
3942
4348
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES ($000)
Interest on loans
21
Depreciation
154
162
232
266
310
Tax provided
228
138
136
226
196
Earnings
348
228
300
332
364
Ordinary dividends
194
194
206
212
228
Surplus
154
34
94
120
136
Earning rate %
35.8
23.5
29.1
26.6
22.4
Dividend rate %
20.0
20.0
20.0
17.0
14.0
Dividend yield %
(a) 3.7
4.1
4.1
3.1
3.4
High price (b)
2.95
2.70
2.80
3.65
2.42
Low price (b)
2.40
2.20
2.08
2.10
1.72
(a) based on the average of the high and
in the calendar year.
(b) Calendar year.
low
prices
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Propensity for Takeovers
Yet Reed Paper’s profitability lags
Tn the article on Fibre Containers pub-
fished last week, reference was made
to a bid made for that company by
Reed Paper Products (Holdings) Ltd.
This bid was made in December, 1961,
only six months after Reed Paper had
become a fisted public company. It was
suggested at the time that this activity
(taking over other companies) would be
an important part of Reed Paper’s
development.
Although the bid for Fibre Containers
failed, Reed Paper certainly has carried
out that prophecy. E. C. Blackwood of
South Melbourne was first acquired,
followed by E. E. Sturgess and Sons of
West Melbourne. Later, Priest Bros of
Sydney was acquired during 1963/64 and
Cardbox Holdings in November, 1964.
Recently, Reed Paper has sent a Tormal
takeover offer to Colin Martyn Hold-
ings and this offer has been recommended
by that company’s directors.
This latest takeover offer, if success-
ful, would give Reed Paper an interest
in the field of plastic and film packaging
and this would be a new activity so far as
Reed Paper is concerned. However, it
has become well established throughout
Australia in the field of corrugated and
solid fibre containers and paper bags.
All States with the exception of Western
Australia are served by the group as now
constituted.
The shares originally offered to the
public cost 245. plus charges and there
has been a one-for-two bonus issue since.
50 those shares might be regarded as
having been placed at $1.60. At the
time of writing the last sale took place
at exactly the same price. The peak
prices of 1964 and 1965 ($2.42) were
51 p.c. greater than this. We thus have
a fair indication of the extent to which
the share price has been depressed in
recent times. Nevertheless, the dividend
yield is only 4.4 p.c. against Fibre Con-
tainers’ current dividend yield of 6.1
p.c. (Fibre Containers’ price has now
slipped further to $1.24 from $1.30.)
Taken over the last ten years, the
record of unadjusted earning rates is
not very impressive.
1956 1957 1958 1959 1960
Percentages 28.3 26.2 28.8 24.7 24 8
Index 100 93 102 87 88
1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Percentages 23.8 15.3 23.3 26.6 22.4
index 84 54 82 94 79
(An adjustment has been made in
respect of the l-for-2 bonus issue of
1964.)
These figures certainly do not suggest
a growth stock and the record of dividend
increases is hardly more encouraging.
Although the bonus issue was on the
basis of one-for-two, so far as dividends
were concerned it was only a l-for-20
issue, because the dividend income from
a constant holding before and after the
issue only increased by 5 p.c. A holding
of, say, 200 ordinary 50c shares w 7 ould
have received a dividend of $2O per
annum prior to the bonus issue. After
the one-for-two issue the holding would
have become 300 ordinary 50c shares,
but the current dividend rate of 14 p.c.
would only give a dividend income of
$2l to that holding.
When the consolidated balance sheets
are studied, it is noticeable that, despite
the number of companies acquired,
ordinary capital has only increased by
quite a modest amount (when the bonus
issue is eliminated). In post-bonus issue
terms the increase seems to be of the
order of $168,000. However, fixed assets
(at cost or 1962 valuation, i.e., eliminat-
ing the April 30, 1964 revaluation) plus
goodwill on consolidation have increased
over the same period by $2,680,000.
While there can be no doubt that good
use has been made of the share premium
which the company’s shares have en-
joyed on the market the last acquis-
tion of Cardbox Holdings Pty. Ltd in-
volved the issue of Reed Paper Products’
shares at a price of $2.20 per share
finance for the acquisitions must have
come from other sources than share-
holders’ funds.
An examination of the group’s liabili-
ties shows that, from June 30, 1961,
to June 30, 1965, there has been a sub-
stantial increase in the items described in
the balance sheet as “bank overdrafts less
credit balances” and “inter-company loan
account at call”. In addition, the 1965
balance sheet includes for the first time a
long-term liability, although the source of
this borrowing is not given. Over the last
five years the total amounts appearing
under these headings in the balance sheets
have been as follows:
As at June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1964
s'ooo 214 164 668 1544 2362
A rough calculation shows that the
increase in these items ($2,148,000)
plus the value of shares issued
($642,000) only exceeds the increase in
fixed assets by $llO,OOO.
It is difficult to make any calculations
regarding the profitability of the group
as a result of the acquisitions which
have been made, because of the prob-
lems associated with the investment of
capital in “going concerns”. However,
it does seem likely that the ratio of pre-
tax cash flow to long-term funds, after
taking a severe drop from 1960/1 to
1961/2, has shown a tendency to increase
slightly. Too much should not be made
of this assumption because, firsts this
increasing tendency is not confirmed by
other profitability ratios and, secondly,
it is quite apparent that profitability
since July 1, 1961, has been running at
levels well below those applying from
1955/6 to 1960/1 inclusive. But the
associated companies, Fibreboard Con-
tainers of South Australia and Tasman-
ian Containers, seem to have done well
since 1962, as the dividend paid by them
was doubled in 1962/3 and ha 3 remained
at that level.
It seems clear that the prospects have
not turned out as expected at the time of
the issue of the Memorandum of Sale in
April, 1961. The current offer for Colin
Martyn Holdings will involve the issue
of about 500,000 shares in Reed Paper
Products and this means that equity
capital will increase by about 151 p.c.
Perhaps this new field of activity will
help to boost flagging profitability in the
fibre container field.
In the meantime, the shares seem to be
fully priced at around $1.60, for the past
record does not justify an earning yield
as low as 6.8 p.c.


I
I
mm !< ’*■*« •>«« **
Aboard a sleek “White Empress" you’ll find
enjoyment and comfort to highlight your
journey to Europe. Staterooms, crystal-clear
pools, club room, shops, starlit terrace, dancing
and the world-famous Canadian Pacific service
and superb cuisine. Ask your Travel Agent for
illustrated literature and details.
anGhjdfiic
(incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited) Ships/
Trains /Planes/Trucks/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s
most complete transportation system.
MARKET POINTERS
What Good is Partnership
By JASON
SO who wants to be a partner with the
Americans, anyhow?
The collapse in price of Amalgamated
Chemicals shares from $1.50 to 88 cents
when the rival bidders, Dow and Con-
tinental Oil, stopped their solid buying on
the stock market shows what investors
think of Amalgamated’s prospects now
that Continental is assured of success by
Dow’s withdrawal. And investors may
still be pricing the shares too high, at that,
Earlier this year they were as low as 80
cents; last year they went as low as 60
cents. And now the drought is really
hitting into the company’s operations.
What can the Americans do to
smarten up Amalgamated’s falling profits
and dividends? Who can be certain that
Continental really wants to, anyway? A
dangerous consequence of buying shares
in subsidiaries of overseas companies is
that it is often hard to tell just where the
parent wants to make its best profit.
There is always the nagging thought that
perhaps heavy licence fees or raw
material prices or management costs may
be the best way for the parent to make
its profit out of a local subsidiary rather
than in dividends, and that really there
may be little scope for real profit or
dividend growth locally.
There is little in the record of other
locally listed companies in which US
interests have acquired dominant hold-
ings to bring much confidence to hopes
of early benefits from Amalgamated.
And the same goes for companies in
which British companies have acquired
dominant interests, too. In most of these
cases, the minority shareholdings still in
Australian hands are now worth less than
the acquisition price.
The preliminary bcu. to the Amal-
gamated dog-fight was the Adelaide
Chemical - Wallaroo - Esso versus W. R.
Grace bidding match for Cresco
Fertilizers, which resulted in Grace pay-
ing $9 cash for just under 90 p.c. of the
Cresco shares. Now the heat is out of
the battle, Cresco shares are back below
$7, and it may take a long time for them
to rise above that.
In December, 1964, the US Hercules
Powder Co. paid the equivalent of $2.50
cash for 50 to 60 p c. of the $1 shares
of Australian Chemical Holdings. Any-
one can now buy the rest for $2.28 each.
E. W. Bliss Co. of USA paid 70c for
50 p.c. of the 50c shares in Welded
Products in April, 1964. These Bliss
Welded shares now bring only 58c.
Courtaulds of the UK bought 25 p.c.
of individual shareholdings in Courtaulds
(Aust.) at par in October, 1964, to give
the parent over 50 p.c. control. On the
local market the shares are now 30 p.c.
below par.
Alumasc Ltd of UK, member of the
Consolidated Gold Fields group, bought
half the issued capital of R. H. Lawren-'
son in December, 1961, for $1.05 per
50c share. These Lawrenson Alumasc
shares now sell for 36c.
Perhaps Australians should stop nag-
ging for a slice of the equity whenever
an American group sets up a subsidiary
here, or takes over a local company.
Perhaps we would do better by getting
a share of the real profits by seeking
shares in US parent companies and
having these shares listed locally.


RETIRING?
Perhaps you are contemplating retiring from active
participation in business affairs and wondering how
you can enjoy retirement without being worried with
the business details!
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Company Limited
can act for you as Agent, with or without a Power
of Attorney.
The Company will attend to the collection of all
income, the payment of recurring accounts, the super-
vision of investments and regular distribution to you
of the net income.
All the necessary records will be kept and be avail-
able for the preparation and lodgement of income
tax and other returns.
You are invited to call and discuss this aspect with
us, without obligation.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
48 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone: 2-0552
Associate Companies:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Company (Canberra) Ltd.
Winchcombe Carson Executors & Agency (Queensland)
Pty. Ltd
8D26/3
Post this coupon for free brochure to:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Co. Ltd.
48 Bridge Street, Sydney
Please forward me your free brochure.
Nam e ~
Add ress.:— — —- -
MAN ON THE LAND
Overdeveloping the North?
By CLIFF CALDER
TJYPNQTISED by the glamor of Dr Rex Patterson’s battle with the Federal Govern-
ment and his resignation to contest a parliamentary seat in his home territory,
none of his opponents thought of opposing his arguments that the north has been
neglected.
Now it is all coming out, from the
Prime Minister and from Queensland
Premier Frank Nicklin. The north is not
being neglected. There are currently
$2OOO million worth of developmental
projects under way north of Capricorn.
No city in Australia is growing faster
than Townsville, unless Mount Isa is.
Cairns has grown from 16,644 people
in 1947 to currently about 26,000,
Mackay from 15,635 to 22,000. On the
Atherton Tablelands, both Atherton and
Mareeba have almost doubled in the
same period, with about 8000 people
living on the Tablelands.
Many parts of Victoria and New
South Wales have lesser rural power
development than coastal Queensland
has in the north, while tariffs for power
are very favorable in comparison with
southern rural rates. There is a lot of
complaint about the remoteness of the
north from industries in the south and
the consequent huge freight costs making
the cost of living higher. When this is
examined closely the price differences
are not freight at all on consumer items.
The merchants charge what the people
will pay, the same as everywhere else.
Townsville, Cairns and Mackay are all
ports and have tremendous freight ad-
vantages over such southern centres as
Mildura, Albury, Wagga or Armidale,
where the freight component of prices
is just as high or even higher. The
petrol price equalisation scheme removed
the real price iniquity of the north. Now
it needs a similar scheme for all fuels.
In recent years there have been the
opening of a cement factory and a
copper refinery in Townsville, the de-
velopment of a bulk sugar shipping plan
from Mackay to Cairns that cost millions,
port expansions at all northern ports,
$40,000,000 worth of work on the
Townsville-Mount Isa railway line, and
a $40,000,000 expansion at Mount Isa
mine. A.s a background to this activity
there has been the harnessing of the
Tully River at Kareeya for hydro-
electric purposes, of the Barron River
by the huge Tinaroo Falls dam and the
Barron Gorge project, the development
of the Mareeba-Dimbulah irrigation
scheme, and the start of the Eungella
Dam near Mackay to provide a flow of
water in the Broken River for the
Collinsville coal electricity station. Weipa
is under way for full exploitation of
the bauxite deposits.
The beef-roads scheme is so far
developed that this year it is proposed
to achieve year-round killing of cattle
in Townsville for the first time. There
has been talk of Dr Patterson being the
author of the beef-roads scheme. He
may have planned it, but it was born
in the minds of men like Eric Ballard
of Longreach, the Wright brothers of
Mount Isa, and other transport men
who showed years ago that cattle could
be transported cheaply and swiftly by
road train. They used the most primitive
of roads and developed their road trains
in defiance of regulations.
So the People the North Movement
really emerges as a political force ready
to change the fate of governments and
politicians in search of a nebulous goal.
It claims that there has been no survey
made of the north to establish its re-
sources. The CSIRO has been working
on land research and regional survey in
tropical Australia for nearly 20 years;
the huge development of tropical
pastures in north Queensland in recent
years stems from co-ordination of years
of work by CSIRO in Queensland, the
Northern Territory and the Ord River.
The Bureau of Mineral Resources has
a tremendous file of information on the
minerals of tropical Australia and much
of the huge mineral development of
Western Australia and the Northern
Territory stems from these surveys.
The Queensland Government has been
systematically gauging the rivers of


Dear
Mr. Tooth:
it’s time you met
Bill Mason
Bill’s a construction worker. When he
and his mates knock off work they always
cool down with a few beers. But they
don’t drink your brew.
There are thousands of men like Bill in the
TCN-9 viewing area, and maybe a
lot of them are your customers . . . but
it’s on the cards, that with a little
friendly persuasion, a lot more thirsty
throats could learn to say: “Tooth’s, please.”
TCN-9 puts your name
before the largest captive audience
in the country . . . seven nights a week.
And they’re all potential buyers
—wide open to the potent selling skills of
TCN-9 Television. Interested?
What’s wrong with this beer?
It’s not yours
:
•: f
Channel
9
%
SYDNEY
TCN 9 Sales—Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph
House, Park Street. 61 9931. Melbourne;
247 Collins Street. 63 8336.
8519


9S>
s
'O wonderful, wonderful, and most
wonderful!
And yet again wonderful, and after
that, out of all whooping!"
( Wm. Shakespeare)
Enthusiasm! Such as one must always fee! for
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Oc).
Queensland for years and knows the
water resources.
Now Dr Patterson announces that he
will attack the problem of drought in
the north. Over the last 100 years the
people of the northern sheep and cattle
lands have learned how to cope with
drought as far as the water supply is
concerned. They have not yet learned
to cope with the financial consequences
of drought. There is no evidence what-
ever to show that water storages could
do much to mitigate the drought prob-
lems of inland Queensland, any more
than they have mitigated drought in
New South Wales and Victoria. In the
latter State every major waterway except
the Mitta River has been harnessed. In
New South Wales only the Tumut River
remains of the Murray-Darling system to
be dammed. Yet New South Wales is
suffering still from the effects of drought.
If the Hume Weir, Burrinjuck Dam,
Glenbawn, Menindie Lakes, the Snowy
Scheme, Keepit, Wyangala and all the
other storages of New South Wales can-
not mitigate drought in that State, how
much must the doctor spend to do so in
Queensland?
He now proposes that the imaginative
and successful brigalow scheme be cut
back for a programme of water storages
in sheep and cattle country. The brigalow
scheme has actually developed newly
productive land from otherwise useless
land. Water storages in the west are
extremely expensive, technically diffi-
cult to manage because of seepage and
evaporation, difficult to locate because
of the lack of good dam sites, and of
limited availability to a lot of people.
It seems that People the North has
found an ally in the dream of plentiful
people in a land of plenty. It has only
one more problem. It must demonstrate
now that the return from a dollar in-
vested in people in the north will be
greater over the/ years than if invested
in the south. The Murray Valley will
hold another million people. What case
is there for priority for that million to
be settled in the tropics?
Even if the People the North publicists
do not have a good answer, there can be
no doubt that they have found the answer
to the question of how to run a campaign.
The strength and comfort a despairing
Labor Party has drawn from its offbeat
win in the Dawson by-election is as
nothing to the joy it has brought a group
of predominantly anti-Labor forces in
North Queensland. Only an unusual poli-
tical climate could have made it possible
even for a man of Dr Rex Patterson’s
calibre to win the blue ribbon seat of
Dawson from the Country Party. That
climate was created by the People the
North Movement, which now realises
that it has achieved the political power
it set out after in 1962. The 1960 s could
in future years be termed the decade
of the area promotional groups in Aus-
tralia. These organisations now stretch
from Portland in western Victoria around
the coast and through the inland to
Cairns in the north. They draw their
sustenance from local government and
from chambers of commerce, with dona-
tions from companies and individuals.
Mo one of them had more instant suc-
cess than People the North, with its
sole aim of bringing about the settlement
of people and capital north of the Tropic
of Capricorn. The movement has man-
aged to submerge the multitude of paro-
chial frictions that characterise promo-
tional organisations. It has achieved un-
animity of political purpose in that it
can hit, and hurt, any political party in
order to achieve its purposes. And though
the great majority of supporters of People
the North are blue-ribbon Liberal or
Country Party supporters, the movement
has now twice humbled the reigning
Liberal-Country Party coalition. Before
it even left the womb, the trends ,x>f
thought created by the embryo in 1960
brought defeat to the Government in
Herbert and Capricornia, and almost
pushed Arthur Calwell into the Prime
Ministership.
The leader of the People the North
Movement is Harry Hopkins, a third-
generation merchant prince of Towns-
ville, a big man in person, big in the life
of his native city and big in his vision for
the North. Just where he and his move-
ment are going no one knows, not even
Harry. He and his allies, strung out in the
business communities and councils from
Sarina to Cairns, have now achieved a
political power that commands attention.
They have created a political climate in
which it was possible to reverse age-old
political traditions in Dawson, Capricornia
and Herbert. As success feeds on success
they will bring even greater pressure to
bear, for the electorates they can sway
can make or break a Federal Govern-
ment. One of the successes claimed by the
movement was the establishment of the
Division of Northern Development that
Dr Patterson headed. Without doubt the
division was a political sop to the north,
yet it failed to quieten the cries there.
Nor did the establishment of an Army
battle group at Townsville, a $12,000,000
a year bonanza for the northern capital,
stifle the cries one whit. These emanate
from able journalist Larry Foley, news
officer to the People the North Move-
ment, who has given the north its em-
barrassingly loud voice. The propaganda
flowing from Foley’s typewriter has
stirred up a lot of interest in northern
development in the populous south,
though not always in the way the nor-
therners would like it. Academics like
Dr Davidson have looked over the pro-
positions in the light of known economi-
cal and technical data and found such
arguments against development that they
have written books on the subject.
Davidson’s book, “The Myth of Nor-
thern Development”, is one of the horns
of the dilemma on which Harry Hopkins
has spiked the Federal Government. The
other is the Australian Constitution.
Logically there is little case for doing
much more in the way of development
than is being done. Practically, the Fed-
eral Government has little power to act
without the full consent and transfer of
authority by the State Government. The
place to spend any developmental project
money that will settle a significant popula-
tion is North Queensland. The only place
the Federal Government can spend it
unfettered by State interests is the Nor-
thern Territory. In the final analysis, what
right has northern Australia to any greater
share of developmental money than Tas-
mania, the Murray Valley, or the south-
ern portion of Western Australia?


AGRISEARCH
Pay-off from Rural Research
Light on benefit-cost ratios
T est regular readers of this column
have come to think that it consists
of just one damned new thing after an-
other, some general remarks on the total
economic effect of agricultural research
may be timely. Occasional mention has
been made, en passant, of the estimated
value of new things or the cost of pests
and diseases. For instance, it has been
noted in these columns that a new wheat
variety is expected to bring Victorian
farmers alone nearly $2 million yearly;
myxomatosis was said to have allowed
the wool cheque to swell by $lOO million
the very first year after its release; in-
sect pests are thought to cost primary
production at least $250 million per
annum, and so on. What, in short, does
agricultural research contribute to pri-
mary production and national economic
growth?
Australian systems of record-keeping
do not yield the type of statistics that
lend themselves to the calculation of a
simple comprehensive figure. However,
the Americans have always been keen
collectors of figures. They are able to
derive estimates which, though crude,
may, nevertheless, indicate the order of
value that we obtain from our total
agricultural research effort. US Govern-
ment planners accept that the benefit-
cost ratio is two on investment in farm
technology. Unofficial estimates of rates
of return on research funds generally
range much higher, i.e., beyond 100
per cent. It is hard to envisage any use
of public funds, or private funds for that
matter, which would yield so well. The
humbler figure has not been seriously
challenged by anyone and has so im-
pressed the Federal Congress that it con-
tinues to pour money in ever-increasing
amounts into farm research. Moreover,
the contribution made by private indus-
try has kept in step with the US Gov-
ernment's support.
According to the Statistical Abstract
of the United States (1964), published
by the US Department of Commerce,
total funds for agricultural research and
development amounted to $1520 million
in 1945. By 1963 this sum had climbed
to $16,420 million. Throughout this
period the Federal Government’s con-
tribution has run at about two-thirds;
private industry has supplied most of
the remaining third, with universities and
other non-profit organisations subscribing
about 3 per cent to the total.
Because of the declining importance
of agriculture in the US economy, the
Americans were surprised to find that
the benefit-cost ratio continues to improve
as the years go by. Even more surprising
is the favorable comparison between this
ratio for farm and non-farm research.
Since people engaged in non-agricul-
tural production in the US have incomes
roughly twice as high as farmers, it had
seemed natural that industrial research
would return the bigger dividends. Con-
sequently, there had been some pressure
to encourage more industrial science at
the expense of farm science. Yet the
supporters of this view have been unable
to marshal convincing evidence that the
country would be better off as a result
of such a policy.
In the US, agriculture now contributes
less than 4 per cent of the gross national
product, whereas, in Australia, primary
industry still provides more than half of
our national income. Assuming that our
science is as effective as theirs, and this
may be a pretty big assumption, agri-
cultural research ought to generate a
much greater return in Australia than in
the USA. American farm research has
always tended to be more practical-
minded than ours, so it could be that the
American taxpayer gets more for his
dollar tham does his Australian counter-
part. Curiously, however, a strong ten-
dency is now afoot in the US for scientific
programmes to be made more funda-
mental.
Australian Governments might well
ponder these facts. Their enthusiasm for
agricultural science has waned in recent
years, as a glance at the budgets of
State Departments of Agriculture,
CSIRO, and other important institutions
concerned with promoting primary pro-
duction in this country, will show. The
sums made available by the Treasuries
have kept pace with rising wages-and
operating costs, but that is about all. On
the other hand, our primary industries
have become more conscious lately of
the value of research and have organised
some novel schemes to provide financial
support for science. Largely as a result
of this development the Government de-
partments have been able to appoint some
new staff and expand modestly some
fields of research.
It should be noted that the American
figures include funds for agricultural ex-
tension and the practical development of
laboratory findings. Recently, Canberra
has announced its intention of furnishing
some $5 million a year for the next five
years for extension. This is several times
the amount of money being spent on
efforts to get research results into use.
Hence this new grant should have a great
impact on agricultural productivity and
the benefit-cost ratio of research invest-
ment in this country.
Of course, detailed records and com-
plex arithmetical calculations are un-
necessary in order to show the value of
agricultural research. Clearly, agricul-
tural productivity depends on rather more
than the traditional inputs of land, labor,
and capital. Again, the American scene
illustrates this with compelling simplicity.
There, each of these three inputs has
diminished since the war, yet the harvests
of food and fibre have increased by nearly
50 per cent. Non-conventional inputs
account for this. They are research and
general education. The latter, in par-
ticular, has made farmers better man-
agers, better informed, and more ready
to adopt and adapt new technologies.
The same processes are at work here,
though they are not so obvious. Our
farmers have always had a more business-
like attitude towards farming. Besides,
there has been a slight increase in the
input of land and a fairly considerable
increase in the amount of capital put
into Australian farming since 1945,
though the quantity of labor used has
fallen markedly.
These days, it is now evident, a far-
mer’s greatest input, or asset, is his brain.
Before seeking money or land, or streng-
thening his back, he ought first seek
general education, which provides the
foundation on which he can build man-
agerial skills and the matrix on which
he can mobilise new knowledge and in-
formation as it comes along. A research
result in itself has no monetary or prac-
tical value whatsoever. It only assumes
importance when a farmer is aware of
it, can see its application on his particular
farm, and has the ability to integrate it
into his farming programme. This is why
extension, or adult education for farmers,
is paramount. And this is why the new
Commonwealth grant for extension has
generated great expectations. It will be a
tragedy if the prevailing circumstances of
administration and institutional forces
negate the potential of the grant.


Legal Notices
A Divorce Petition has been filed against
DAVID JOHN BURKE, late of 6 Denning
Street, South Coogee, New South Wales, Aus-
tralia, who may apply to the Divorce Registry,
Somerset House, London, W.C.2, England, for
a copy of the petition. If within 77 days he
has not communicated with the Registry, the
Court may hear the case in his absence.
COMPTON MILLER, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: EILEEN CAROLINE PRIDH, late of
Darlinghurst, in the State of New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that BENOT ERIC
FRIDH has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
600 of 1966 on the ground of adultery and/or
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer at the Divorce Office, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 28th day of April,
1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition and
Notice of Petition without charge from
MESSRS ADRIAN TWIG& & CO., Solicitors,
of No. 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. If you
do not wish to file an Answer but wish to
receive a copy of each document filed in the
proceedings you should file a Notice of
Address for service. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ADAM HOULISTON MARSHALL, late of
Bexley North, in the State of New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE AGNES
MARSHALL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 516 of 1966 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Office, on or before the 20th
day of April, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition and notice of Petition without charge
from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, of No. 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. If you do not wish to file an Answer
but wish to receive a copy of each document
filed in the proceedings you should file a
Notice of Address for service. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: CLAUDE WILLIAM DEAN KIL WORTH,
late of 182 Rochford Street, Erskineville.
TAKE NOTICE that BARBARA ELLEN KIL-
WORTH has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
631 of 1966 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 28th
day of April, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition and Notice of Petition without charge
from GREGG MILNE & CO., Solicitors, 4
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: KARLHEINZ MINDER JAHN. TAKE
NOTICE that SOFIA MINDERJAHN has filed
a Petition No. 3728 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of separation notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in a dis-
cretion statement filed by her. If you wish
to defend you should file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
12th May, 1966. You may obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from K. J.
KOENIG, Solicitor, of 71 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Public Notice
Would any person who witnessed an accident
in Cleveland Street, Redfern, near Riley Street,
Redfern, at about 11.40 p.m. on 3rd September,
1965, in which a car came out of a garage
on the corner of Marriott and Cleveland
Streets, Redfern, and forced a 1964 Falcon
Station Sedan, registered number DFS 544 to
come into collision with a 1963 Holden Utility,
registered number CWB 648, please contact
MESSRS W. C. TAYLOR & SCOTT, Solicitors,
of 126 Phillip Street, Sydney. Telephone:
28 4485.
leumiq
THE IET AGE
WITH VIENNETTE
... world's most
advanced B mm. movie
camera. For
literature contact: l
R. Cum Pty. Ltd., \
24 Wentworth /~\
Ave., /J" a }
Sydney. /
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 891
ACROSS
I—A visit from the baker to check attendance. (4-4)
s—Weird5 —Weird officer commanding a system of belief and
behavior. (6)
9—Nasty little kid in French biographies trembles. (8)
10—The law may take the form of this boiler. (6)
12—Allow Henry to be deadly. (6)
14 —A man of importance in the theatre enters in a
quite improper way. (6)
16—You need a way of assent. (3)
18—Attack the grain with the venerable doorstep. (9)
20—Give fifties to love for a sculptor. (9)
21—Former Japanese base to Aus-
tralia’s north causes a lot of
irritating talk. (3)
23 Marine converted other ser-
vice personnel. (6)
24 Russian address becomes an
essay on poetry. (6)
27 A road vehicle is for the
quick-witted, vigilant and
shrewd. (6)
28— I am favorite, and I leave,
being rash. (8)
30— The Gaekwar’s area is abroad
for a change. (6)
31— Women are inclined to keep
the last part the first part in
medieval times. (4, 4)
DOWN
1— Tending to divulge a politician
on the spree. (10)
2 Politician joining a politician
of his own kind with regard
to a ceremonial drink. (8>
3 Tea. (3)
4 Wasn’t straight music for
singing. (4)
6 Mean it's ready to punch?
(5-6)
7 Airborne compassion is over-
weening. (6)
8— Weed rate adjustment for the
unloaded weight of a vehicle.
(4)
11 —Wise and careful piano has
turned all over the place. (7)
13—Swore this is the beast of
burden whom the first lady
scolded. (11)
15—They uphold the right leave
before love passes away. (7)
17—Mouthless as the love-apple
on us. (10)
19—Reddening when producing a
chain reaction. (8)
22—Tense alternative taken by a
clerical worker. (6)
25 Essayist which made Mary’s
schoolmates laugh and play.
(4)
26 Novel introducing them to
mother. (4)
29—Deer. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 890


No. of
Name of
Date
Cost
Per
Cur-
rent
Shares
Company
Bought
Share
Price
400
Pongrass '
15/9/65
$1.10
$1.10
200
VAM
28/9/65
0.50
0.50
400
Associated Pulp
5/1/66
1.50
1.60
500
Petersville
13/1/66
0.55
0.60
200
Mt Morgan
13/1/66
2.08
2.15
400
B. J. Ball
2/2/66
0.88
0.90
200
Western Mining
9/2/66
2.60
2,75
400
Riverina TV
13/2/66
0.74
0 75
400
West Titanium ctg
13/2/66
1.15
1.20
1000
Fire Fighting
24/2/66
0.72
0.72
400
Coal and Allied
24/2/66
1.36
1.33
500
Amal. Cherrt, put
option
3/3/66
1.35
1.28
500
Anderson Seeds rts
8/3/66
0.20
0.18
1000
Westralian
8/3/66
035
0.35
500
Comeng
10/3/66
1.11
in
200
Fowlers Vacola
13/3/66
1.20
1.20
AUSTRALIAN VOLUNTEERS ABROAD
Vacancies for teachers, graduates, tradesmen, nurses in Asia, Africa,
New Guinea and Pacific Islands.
One and two-year terms. Small allowances, insurance and
fares provided.
Apply now to—
AUSTRALIAN VOLUNTEERS ABROAD
124 Jollimont Road,, East Melbourne, Victoria.
(63 8496)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $3.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight;
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITISH ISLES
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/ Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/ Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
AMERICA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar,equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —V
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
A Shamrock for the Irish
And oil for Grandaddy BHP
TNVEBTORS are to be excused if their judgment is influenced slightly by sentiment.
After all, investing is still a very inexact science and sentiment sometimes proves a
better guide than supposed fact.
It follows then that an Irishman run-
ning his eyes over the share lists is
expected to pause at Shamrock Brewery.
His pause would be all the longer if it
was St Patrick’s Day. As it turned out,
Shamrock Brewery received special at-
tention on that day, with the share price
rising sc. If there is a moral in this
introduction, it is to buy Shamrock
Brewery before St Patrick’s Day!
Shamrock Brewery is not the only
share to move up recently. BHP was sud-
denly stirred into life with the announce-
ment of the oil flow off the Gippsland
coast. Who ever thought that the share
price of this grandaddy would ever be
influenced by oil fever? In view of the
cautious interim report only a few weeks
ago, it’s being optimistic to expect the
share price of $5.10 to be maintained.
Coinciding with the announcement of
the oil flow was the heavy rain in most
parts of NSW. While some farmers
continued to complain afterwards, it has
brought a genuine hope of a good wheat
season ahead. Follow-up rains should
tilt the scales towards a revival in the
economy. Include the prospect o 4 lower
interest rates, a higher basic wage decid-
ed by the Arbitration Commission and
lower taxes decided by our newlywed
Treasurer in his first Budget this August,
and at last you have the makings of a
good stock market.
What then is the portfolio doing with
a $999 credit? To partly alter this state
of affairs, a further 500 Fire Fighting
have been added to the existing holding.
Like my previous purchase of this stock,
the present purchase is based on my ad-
miration of the excellent recovery in
profits in recent years and the prospect
of further substantial rises in profits in
the future.
What a contrast to the other purchase
in the week Fowlers Vacola. In the
last two years this company’s losses have
totalled $200,000. And all that can be
said about the current year’s trading is
that the loss will be less than last year.
This trading history may seem dismal,
yet it has not deterred directors from
maintaining a 5 p.c. dividend.
Nevertheless, Fowlers Vacola does
have the distinction of being one of the
few listed companies to make a decent
return of capital. With a return of 75c
for each $1 share now being made, the
market price should adjust itself from
$1.20 to 45c.
In relation to its new par value, the
share would appear much more expensive
than it was previously. In fact this is
not so. The company has rid itself of
its unprofitable canning operations so it
can once again concentrate on the manu-
facture of home bottling outfits. Con-
sequently, the capital return should not
mean any loss to the potential earning
capacity. If, therefore, dividend payout
can be maintained, the yield on the new
shares will be a phenomenal 12 p.c. I
managed to scrape 200 shares into the
portfolio just before the books closed.
Transactions for the week were:
BOUGHT _
500 Fire Fighting, 71c .... $363
200 Fowlers Vacola, $1.20 $245
The account shows a credit balance of
$391. One of the most significant moves
in the portfolio was the fall in Amalgam-
ated Chemicals. This occurred even
before Continental Oil’s victory was
assured by the withdrawal of its rival,
Don Chemicals. Consequently, it would
appear that the best course now for an
Amalgamated Chemical shareholder is
to accept the Continental offer. Otherwise
the partial bid may be here and gone.
The portfolio now consists of:


<s
\
Omega Ladjmatic, requires no winding. The faceted watch glass is cut from a man-made sapphire. In 14 ct. yellow gold. $l3O {£6s)
With one flick of your wrist, your Cinema Ladvinatie
comes to life . . .
From the moment you slip the Ladymatic on your wrist, its self-winding
movement starts developing its own power.
This Omega Ladvmatic is based on a
brilliant new idea. It is that a woman’s
watch can be strikingly fashionable and
practical at the same time. This Omega
Ladymatic is perfect for the style-
conscious woman who depends on her
watch in her day-to-day life.
Like many men’s watches sold today,
it is self-winding. It draws its power
from every natural movement of vour
wrist, frees you from worries of over-
winding, under-winding. Take it oft at
night and it still works perfectly in the
morning. And the Ladymatic is even
more reliable than hand-wound watches.
Your every-day wrist movements supply
its mainspring with a gentle How of
the power that pays oft' in enhanced
precision.
Your Omega jeweller will show you the
full range of Ladymatics. In fact, it is
the largest collection of self-winding
watches in the world.
Slip one on your wrist and see how
elegant a self-winding watch can be.
OMEGA
0M65 96
Omega Ladyn/atic actual si^e


[irGREATETHER'ITAGE THAN KNOWLEDGE ... FOR KNOWLEDGE OPENS THE DOORS OF THE WOROTTb Vtfjj
HERE IT IS! . . . THE MOST
RICELESS FUND OF KNOWLEDGE . ..
UP-TO-DATE AND COMPREHENSIVE
FOR ALL YOUR FAMILY
/ 7 / U U
mm- * —:? ..s»sfe
jgBCJS'v, 2 ag*'*-'-'-- v js&iSw' •' - i «s£“S*r*
Sfes=s;: : ■ «K£ - SE&sf
Mtfc& iBWRjsAi mwL mm* mm
mckic woo* isaa
"T
. -*SSS . iwc ,j$
'»x ■
ENCYCLOPAEDIA SETS
6 VOLUMES DESIGNED FDR All AGES PLUS 16 VOLUMES ESPECIALLY FOR CHILDREN
32 VOLUMES
FOR LESS THAN HALF THE COST OF
INY COMPARABLE REFERENCE MATERIAL!
■ i
“WfSSALWORU)
GOiOEN BOOK
HE GREATEST ENCYCLOPAEDIA VALUE
:VER OFFERED IN AUSTRALIA! v
dentist Prof. Harry Messei: “The Universal Efteydo;
sedia is for the whole family—of this there is no doubt,
io family, with or without growing children, sHottld
nthout a good encyclopaedia. It should form the basis
f any home library " V
ritic Mr. Kenneth Slessor: “The new edition of the
Imversal World Reference Encyclopaedia is sumptuously
roduced, clearly printed, easy to consult and read and
s up-to-the-minute as a newspaper. The strongest feature
f the whole encyclopaedia is its pictorial side , . plates
re clear, modern and beautifully reproduced.”
ducationalist Or. G. Mackaness: “For students, the new
ncyclopaedia has particular value. It will assist pupils
i preparing for their examinations, will improve their
eading skills and extend their knowledge in an infinite
umber of fields of human activity.” , n , r -
SPECIAL OFFER IS AVAILABLE ON A LOW DEPOSIT
WITH EASY, MONTHLY NO INTEREST SUBSCRIP-
TIONS, HURRY! OFFER IS LIMITED SO MAIL
Money simply cannot measure tire heritage of knowledge which this superbly compiled 32-
,volume library offers you. Providing your children with the gift of knowledge will bring the
riches - and. rewards of the world closer to you.
GOLDE->.-eOOK JUNIOR WORLD ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Millions of parents throughout the world
acclaim the high standards of "Little Golden
Books’’ each year—-here again in 16 fascina-
ting, lavishly illustrated volumes specially
written for young people, learning comes
alive, reading becomes a pleasure for children
of all ages giving them an insight into the
world’s wonders, filling the gaps which even
the best school curriculum must leave.
Over 6.000 colour illustrations. 500.000 words
in simple text in large, clear tvoe
UNIVERSAL WORLD REFERENCE ENCYCLOPAEt?’’"
Instant information on virtually every subject
within the scope of human knowledge . . ■
1966 edition: 16 volumes: magnificently bound
contains over 5,000 illustrations, 6,000 pages,
inch complete Australian coverage. Clear type,
each volume appro?,
10" x 634" x 1 1 / 2 "
thick. Special
follow-up service at
no extra cost!
... to everyone who sends in this
coupon . . . one of the series of
fabulous Golden Books , , . ABSO-
LUTELY FREE—No OBLIGATION!
(Offer not applicable in W.A.J
NATIONAL LITERARY ASSOCIATION INC. PTY. LTD., 10 Dowling Street, Potts Point, N.S.W.
I would like to have, without obligation, details of your special 32-volume offer, including particulars of
the special follow-up services which are free to subscribe'-' TOGETHER WITH MY GOLDEN BOOK . •
FREE AND OBLIGATION FREE! (Offer not applicable in W.A. or outside Australia.)
Signature
NAME (please print)
ADDRESS B '
