

The Bulletin
FEBRUARY 12, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
& r - H. S. Wyndhom of
Cjjpmorne Girls' High School
flft ■ B jtk ' 'll ||[ JHk ■ Jflßk
B m I
Will the Wyndham Plan Work?
' e S'stered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/- (20c.), New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


- ■ a*
A
/' : I
0
i 1
I*l
■
A V ’
in
mr,iM
>'
T : 'i
o
'
ST'.
f ;
WY* '
ff.,.
. II
A
* 4 '— 5
r?
SUSP*
X.:
■
J
■■; . * I
3WBSSJS
.... i
<* f,
POPE ELECTRIC MOTORS
from V 4 h.p. to 125 h.p.
Whatever your electric motor require-
ments, POPE’S superior manufacture
guarantees you the utmost efficiency
and performance.
The POPE Electric Motor Develop-
ment and Test Laboratory is part of
an immense manufacturing and sales
organisation of 103 acres and over
3,500 employees. Here, senior staff
technicians make sure that all motors
perform to the highest possible degree
of efficiency and economy, and that
they conform in all respects to the
rigid specifications dictated by all
British and Australian standards.
The result? Many of Australia’s largest
electric motor users find that year
after year it pays them to install
POPE motors. The wide range of POPE
motors —from Va h.p. to 125 h.p.—
means there is the exact power and
type of motor for your job.
Why not get the facts from POPE?
Phone or write your nearest Branch.
Manufactured by Simpson Pope Ltd. Branches at;
□ N.S.W.: 68-72 Kingsgrove Road, Belmore. 78-0111
□ W.A.: Walter Road, Morley. 76-1411
□ VIC.: 128 Wellington St., Collingwood. 41-0291
□ S.A.: Pope Street, Beverley. 4-5027
□ TAS.: 75-77 Hopkins Street, Moonah. 8-4621
□ QLD.: 31 College St., Whinstanes, Brisbane. 68-2021
POPE
ELECTRIC MOTORS


x: • ••
Automatic
Automatic pilot takes the work out of course-
keeping. You set the course: George keeps to it,
regardless. Gives peace of mind. Frees the skipper
for other duties. Like when a convention is to be
arranged. The team of experts at Chevron Hotel,
backed by the colossal resources of this great
hotel, pilot the planners through all the shoals.
Experience tells. If you are to convene a conven-
tion, write to or talk it over with the Chevron Hotel
management: No further worries.
Package deals tailored to your requirements cover
every little detail. And at a very fair price.
Get with it . . . with us.
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
The Bulletin
Established 1880
FEBRUARY 12, 1966.
VOL. 88, No. 4484
HEALEY, HOLT AND ANZUS
Defence Conference 10
back to school—for
WHAT?
10 Years Compulsory 16
the battle for
PRINCE CHARLES
Take Your Camouflage 22
AUSTRALIAN TV DRAMA
The Five-Year Plan 41
DECIMALISATION
The Cost to the Consumer 53
OVERSEAS
Two Dominoes: Thailand and Cam-
bodia 30
TANNER 13 LETTERS .... 35
CELLARMASTER 28
THIS AUSTRALIA
Paying Out for Defence 11
How Useful is ANZUS? 12
Rylah’s Black Tuesday 15
On Parole 15
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
New Directions in Musical Education 38
OPERA: II Seraglio 42
TELEVISION: Lean Meat 44
BOOKS: Goebbels and National
Socialist Propaganda 45
Halifax, by the Earl of Birkenhead 47
Some Recent Poetry 48
novel by James Agee and short
stories by Elizabeth Bowen 49
BUSINESS & FINANCE
bangers With the Dollar 53
Which Tobacco Stock to Buy 60
The Greeting Card Industry 62.
Man ON THE LAND
Private Selling of Wool 55
Editorial Office: Parle House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


■
;*mm
■
:
'
mmmmm
/
*ft
,l
imw
m
JM
/->, v '?■■■■■: J<
IlllSfllftftl
H
ft
V•/ s 3 S ' > ftr, ■’•- ft <. -C "Y'&.* ~~
.ft.
ft.
;v/Wi/,/w>~»iw.~:
' •
All packed and ready to fly
Take away costly packaging
with Qantas Air Cargo
Scientific packaging is one of the many ways you save
substantially with air freight— sometimes it is not
required at all! For example, you can look through
windscreens cargo’d with Qantas, even in transit. Many
other automotive parts go without costly packaging.
When packaging is required it’s minimal—always pro-
tective, functional. And Qantas handling care and
round-the-clock security safeguard your goods against
damage, pilferage and loss. This in turn means lower
insurance rates —up to 90% lower. So you see, one
good saving leads to another.
So many other ways to save! Take cargo rates. Many
regular consignments qualify for special low cargo rates
from Qantas. Savings range between 30% and 70%.
What else? Take availability. When unpredicted heavy
demands cause your customers to run out of stock, you
can replenish supplies with daily Qantas flights. Yes,
you can certainly save with air freight. Save more
money-serve more markets with Qantas.
Have you really gone into the many advantages of
exporting by air? Whatever your products - animal,
vegetable or mineral-there’s increased profit potential
for you in the world trend to jet-age cargo with Qantas.
Send for this free booklet now! Please send me, post
free, this informative booklet called ‘Eight Ways to
Profit with Qantas Air Cargo’ for the full picture on
the many benefits of air freight.
Address coupon to: Export Consultant Service, Qantas
Empire Airways Limited, 70 Hunter St., Sydney.
8
WAYS
TO
PROFIT
NAME
ADDRESS...
INDUSTRY.
Daily flights to the export markets of the world
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 125 weekly flights
to and from Australia.
45 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
omj mv mm mm jhw
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with Air India, Air New Zealand, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.
QANTAS AIR CARGO: Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney. 'Phone 2-0369.
A 28.107.85


BEING PRACTICAL
IN YOUR PURCHASE
OF A PRESTIGE CAR
WAS NEVER MORE
REWARDING!
w ~ y ... i
• $
•; C 5 »
; > <>
.
. •> • ,
R«
•"itiiffiffr - '
j:;;
As your personal prestige car, a Dodge Phoenix
is a practical, business-like choice. This car is so
far ahead in its field you could well think that
1966 standards are here today. . . . And higher,
longer lasting value is only one of your rewards.
You also enjoy V-8 performance that makes you
master of the roads. TorqueFlite, the best of all
automatics . . . Unmatched safety and handling
ease with Power Brakes, Power Steering . . .
Greater stability on the road . . . And, inside and
out, Dodge Phoenix is furnished and equipped
with an air of expensive fineness far exceeding
the practical price you pay for it. If you are looking
for a car with a built-in future . . . look at Dodge
Phoenix now. Price £2,775 including tax.
Dodge
Phoenix
V 8 AUTOMATIC WITH CO-AXIAL
POWER STEERING AND POWER BRAKES
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.


4
w
mmm
wmm
$
~,
pa
:
*. - :
Bfe
::?S:
1
X>V
Maybe you can’t take the day off
Sx/Sfci! '&&
,vawaw.vXC4 '.
0> i xcccvcox^ccii^
>:&&&&%&
~$ v ~ - *
x^ •;
x x:^-;-^x<<<i>>>j^>:;-v<< % :
**"*s& • •••->••:• v.x.>:. : .v4 < -• • •••••-.' >- - hms**?>:■>:« :: :«co •:• -:...>.5.»:.:.x.>...
*«|l
You can work in cool comfort every day!
Having a Kelvinator Air Conditioner in your office
or rooms enables you to work efficiently no matter
how high the mercury rises. Because it is a refrig-
erated unit, a Kelvinator Air Conditioner not only
cools, but banishes humidity the greatest cause
of summer discomfort.
Completely automatic, it ventilates, exhausts stale
air and smoke, circulates and filters fresh air and
provides the most economical method of winter
heating, too.
Smart, new style Kelvinator units are available
from only £199.10.0 each. Choose from 5 models—
one just right for your needs.
If you can’t take the day off take a moment to
contact the Kelvinator Branch in your capital city
for complete details.
REFRIGERATES AIR CONDITIONERS
KL72SR


Sydney
mm
MS«t»
If it’s worth shipping 9,692 miles, it’s worth Farrell Lines Care.
What is Farrell Lines Care?
It’s space. Dry cargo spaces. Refrigerated space.,
Deep tank space. The right space for your product, whether
it’s big, cold, liquid, dry-grown, manufactured, or mined.
It’s experience. Experience in long voyages that goes
back almost 40 years. Experience in handling tobacco, tea,
coffee, fruit, meat, rock lobsters, wool, machinery, ores and
minerals. Experience in helping world trade grow.
But put Farrell Lines Care to the test yourself. We’re
prepared to pass it... with flying colors.
ship via Farrell Lines
An American Flag Line Serving
Growing World Markets
FARRELL LINES INTERNATIONAL—LINER HOUSE. BRIDGE ST.. SYDNEY
AGENTS: Wilh Wilhelmsen Agency Pty. Ltd. Linar House. 1315 Bridge Street. Sydney. Australia,
Datgsty and New Zealand Loan Lifmted, P.O. Box 953, Auckland, New Zealand.


o read a cork
your
Tonight, when you coax the stopper
from a bottle of your favourite wine,
spare a few moments and consider
the cork.
It may seem an insignificant object,
dull and mundane, but it has an
interesting story to tell.
It started its life as a tiny part of the
craggy bark covering a majestic tree
in Portugal. Tonight, it will have com-
pleted its task, and have nothing
before it but an ignominious trip to
the dust bin.
What was this task? A vital one in the
maturing and ageing of your wine. It
created a seal that was not a seal. ..
a barrier that prevented the wine from
escaping, but at the same time
allowed just the right amount of air
to enter the bottle and mature the
wine correctly.
You could say that the relationship
between air and wine is much the
same as between salt and food. Too
much can spoil the final result
too little leaves the best flavour
unrealised.
You see, cork is porous. It is naturally
honeycombed with thousands of
minute air passages that allow the
wine to reach through to the air it
needs to “age" properly. Air (or
rather the oxygen in the air) gives the
wine its chance to reach adulthood
and develop the full character you
expect from yoUr wine.
If you look closely you can see the
tiny holes. As a matter of fact, if the
wine you’re serving happens to be a
red this will be easier, because the
natural tannins of the red wine will
have stained the cork showing you
where the wine has been.
So how do you read a cork? If it's too
moist the wine might be “pricked" or
sour tasting. If there’s a web-like
substance inside the cork it has prob-
ably been attacked by the cork moth.
If the cork is too dry, the wine has
been improperly stored it has been
left standing upright and the wine has
not had a chance to reach through
the cork for its ration of air.
Actually, you don’t have to worry
about the cork if the wine comes from
Penfolds. Every Penfolds cork is care-
fully selected and inspected many
times before it reaches your bottle
department or liquor store.
Tonight, give the cork its due consid-
eration. Judge it to see that it has
done its Then dispose
of it kindly. (Some people even keep
a collection.)
The wines that need particular atten-
tion to corking —■ and uncorking
are the classic table wines (such as
Penfolds famous Dalwood or Eden
Vailey wines). Choose them carefully,
store them carefully, draw the cork
carefully. Your attention is rewarded
by the wine itself particularly if it is
Penfolds.
BE WINE WISE, CHOOSE
WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844
PWIOS4


ONE MORE
WEEK
Survival
“IF A FISH isn’t interested in its
waters, it won’t survive,” Mrs Denis
Healey declared. Mrs Healey was only
talking about politicians and their en-
vironment, but as her husband, Britain’s
Defence Minister, was here discussing
which waters Britain would survive in,
she might perhaps have chosen another
metaphor.
Jingoism
THE ANTI-VIETNAM demonstrators
have been at it around Sydney for so
long now that the police probably can
recognise every pimply face among them.
And the faces don’t grow any more
numerous. However, last week’s Super-
ama concert at the Sydney Stadium allied
the feeble efforts of the picketers with
extraordinary efforts by entertainers
Wayne Newton, Don Lane and Bobby
Limb to whip the crowd inside into a
frenzy of jingoism. The concert, organised
to raise funds to provide entertainment
for troops in Vietnam, began with a
brass band playing “Waltzing Matilda”
and “From the Halls of Montezuma”.
From then on it was a perfect bath of
emotion. Every time Vietnam was men-
tioned there was a hushed silence.
Mention of the troops there brought tre-
mendous cheering and cries more intense
than those which greeted the entertainers.
We can’t really believe that it is necessary
to work people into a lather of patriotism
to support Australian soldiers in Viet-
nam. What went on inside the Stadium
seemed just as silly as the picketing out-
side.
Platitudes
A COMPANION VOLUME to “The
Wit of Prince Philip” could be
“Platitudes Uttered by Members of the
Public, Overcome by the Proximity of
Royalty”. The presence of Prince Charles
•n Australia summoned up the usual
fatuities, among which we would give
fhe prize of a copy of “The Wit of
Prince Philip” to the fellow-passenger
on the aircraft which brought Charles
tare, who declared: “The world would
ta a better place if there were more like
bim.” This judgment was on the basis
°f Watching a mute Charles eat a couple
°f airline meals, sleep a little, change in
out of airline slippers, occasionally
°°R out of the window, and, we suppose,
°nce or twice lurch along the corridor.
But what did the oracle want more of?
Seventeen-year-old schoolboys? Princes
of the Blood Royal? Or just more people
who eat airline meals without complain-
ing?
Waiting for it
IT BECOMES CLEARER daily that
the benefits of decimal currency, if any,
will be deferred. Theatres and restaurants
are currently having a very lean time.
This they put down to the large num-
bers of young people in offices and shops
who are working back every night, re-
ticketing goods in preparation for the
changeover.
Pure learning
IF YOU REALLY want to know how
Australians value education a recent
Taxation Board of Review decision, given
in “The Taxpayers’ Bulletin”, can tell
you. The position is that if you under-
take study to keep up with developments
in your profession or job, the costs are
tax-deductible, but if you learn for
learning’s sake (or even to get a better
job) then you pay for the privilege.
The case in point was that of an en-
gineer, employed in the radio transmis-
sion division of a Sydney company, who-
began an economics degree course. The
Board of Review held that the econo-
mics degree appeared to be “an under-
taking of much too great a magnitude to
be an incident of the taxpayer’s employ-
ment as an engineer, or, to put it another
way, to be undertaken in the course of
gaining or producing the taxpayer’s
income”. “We think,” the judgment says
later, “that the taxpayer desired to ob-
tain some special qualifications or ad-
vantage which the other engineers in the
"How much will we ask them to
spare for a feed in decimal
currency?"
radio transmission division, with whom
he would be likely to compete for pro-
motion, did not have.” Claim disallowed.
Supply and demand
THE APPOINTMENT of Australians
as State Governors and now as Gov-
ernor-General has been taken as one of
the small evidences that we are at last
cutting the umbilical cord. However, it
seems that the supply of Englishmen ran
out at about the same time as the demand.
Lord Wakehurst, from 1937 to 1945
Governor of NSW, is at present visiting
Sydney. He put the lordly British view:
“It would be hard to get people to take
on these jobs now. In the past, English-
men could go away for five or 10 years
and then return home to their country
estates. Now, people have modern
careers and find it difficult to spare the
time.”
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Britain has no intention of ratting on any
of its existing commitments.
—British Defence Minister Healey
Only the situation in Vietnam prevents
us from establishing really good relations
with America.
—President of the Soviet Union,
Nicolai Podgorny
Contrary to modern ideas about religion,
the Christian should know more sleepless
nights than anyone else in the community.
—Rev. Ted Noffs
I am a religious maniac without a religion.
—Malcolm Muggeridge
All the Vietcong want is peace and the
Americans out.
—Francis James
If the American Press was as good as the
British Press, there would be no place for
"Time", "Newsweek" and similar weekly
magazines.
—Cecil King
"Surprises!"
—National serviceman arriving
at Singleton camp
James Bond is an American, financially.
—Lord Moynihan
The graduates are going into the criminal
profession at the moment. We have got to
have some of the brains on the other side
as well.
—British MP Peter Thorneycroft
Lawyers are terribly self-righteous and
they have an excessive idea of the importance
of the service they perform and are truly
unconscious of their unpopularity.
—Lord Goodman
Ireland has always been the country of
goodbyes. Perhaps the real foreignness of
Ireland is created by its emptiness, a spa-
ciousness tragically made by all those good-
byes.
—V. S. Pritchett


THIS AUSTRALIA
DEFENCE I
The Dazzling Mr Healey
The wheel had turned full-circle. For a week before the arrival of Britain’s Defence
Minister, Mr Denis Healey, the defence writers and political correspondents in
Canberra concentrated their attention on Mr Harold Holt’s tough, with-it, and
clearly expressed philosophy about the priorities of national development and immigra-
tion over defence.
Then came the articulate Mr Healey
and took all the headlines away from
Mr Holt. As our report of Mr Healey’s
address to the National Press Club points
out, Mr Holt’s argument lends itself to
being stood on its head.
At the end of the talks Mr Holt was
quick to call a Press conference “having
regard to the amount of space that has
been devoted to what has been said by
Mr Healey”. From the emphasis in his
statements it was clear that Mr Holt had
become less wedded to his priorities of
development and immigration. He an-
nounced a review of present and future
local defence facilities which might be
useful to Britain, spoke about the pos-
sibility of the much-discussed Australian
replacement for Singapore, and empha-
sised that Australia had not reached the
limits of its defence spending. There were
suggestions, too, of talks With Japan and
India as possible long-term partners in
regional defence arrangements.
All this was not Mr Healey’s doing
alone. But the message he brought to
Mr Holt of a Britain prepared to stay
East of Suez, but not forever and not
at such a continuingly high cost, cer-
tainly helped. The message was spelt out
in some detail at a National Press Club
luncheon in Canberra.
Foreign ministers, Mr Healey observed
philosophically, are able to be very light
on their feet, not having to fix priorities
and aiming to be friends with everybody
who is prepared to be friends with them.
But Defence ministers have the odious
task of looking decades ahead, guessing
what will happen to weapons technology
and who their enemies will be.
Looking like a younger Menzies, with
bristling black eyebrows, a rather red
face and double chin and dressed in a
baggy dark suit, the British Defence
Minister treated his audience at the
National Press Club in Canberra to a
dazzling display of first-rate, modern
political advocacy. He spoke fluently and
always humorously, his only notes being
on a rather scruffy piece of brownish
paper which he balanced precariously on
his half-empty wine glass.
Senior public servants, diplomats and
politicians had joined journalists to hear
him at his only public appearance of his
visit. He started by having some cracks
at the Press over the intense speculation
which has surrounded his visit, but he
did it in such a good-natured way that
no one could possibly take offence.
He wasn’t able, he said, to convey
to the Press the provisional conclusions
of his defence review because he hadn’t
even told his own Cabinet yet. Even if
he was exaggerating somewhat, there did
seem some point to his claim that the
present negotiations were unique in
British diplomatic history, because he was
consulting allies before going to Cabinet.
Even without specific details, he did let
us in on the trend of British defence
thinking and the likely attitude of Brit-
ish Governments towards future defence
co-operation.
Starting with mock seriousness, he
said: “I can tell you in total honesty
that we have had full and frank and
friendly discussions. But talking seriously,
what I think our meeting has revealed is
that we do basically face the same type of
problems with the same basic aspirations.
We have after all been fighting together
for a very long time.
“Another thing we have in common
is that neither Britain nor Australia take
a narrow view of our national interest
and obligations. That is why today you
are fighting in Vietnam and we are scat-
tered all over the world, carrying out
military operations, basically because we
believe we have a national interest in
the peace not only of the part of the
world where we live but to the world
as a whole.” Mr Whitlam, across the
table, looked a little worried.
Mr Healey went on: “We have got
troops in British Guiana preventing a
racial war and possibly a new Cuba. We
sent troops to East Africa two years ago
and we may have prevented' a third of
a continent from being plunged into the
sort of violence and anarchy we saw in
the Congo, and I think the presence of
our forces in Zambia today is perform-
ing a similar role in preventing the
whole of southern Africa from becoming
a cockpit of the cold war.”
He listed the extent of British com-
mitments in this world-wide peace-keep-
ing role. Then suddenly he turned on
Mr Holt’s argument that Australia can-
not do more because it might hamper
our migration and development policies
and that these are our best defence. Turn-
ing the argument right around, he said:
“We feel, very much like Australia,
that our first defence is a healthy econ-
omy.” Britain, he said, had been spend-
ing too large a proportion of its re-
sources on defence for its economic
health: 7.1 per cent of its GNP. America
spent 7.7 per cent. And with just the
slightest hint of insincerity in his voice
he said he couldn’t quite remember the
Australian figure, which of course is 3.5
per cent. Very diplomatically later he
reinsured himself against any possible
charge of actually having criticised us by
this dose of unstinted praise: “The Aus-
tralian record in recent years in revising
its attitude to the problems of national
defence and, in the course of that, enor-
mously increasing its defence expen-
diture is a record unequalled in peace-
time by any country I know.” But he
did turn again closer to the theme of a
“fair sharing of the burdens”.
“We have no intention whatever of
ratting on any of our existing commit-
ments. We intend to remain and shall re-
main fully capable of carrying out all
the commitments we have at present, in-
cluding those in the Far East like the
commitments to Malaysia and Singapore
and those we have in the Middle East,
Africa and other parts of the world. We
do intend to remain in the military sense
a world power.
“On the other hand we have no
illusions about the extent of our indepen-
dent military power in the next 10, 20 or
30 years. So far as our national survival
is concerned we decided in 1949 that
that absolutely depended on working to-
gether with our allies in NATO and the
conclusion we have come to in the
course of this defence review is that so
far as any major military operations are
concerned outside Europe we can only
plan to undertake them as part of a col-
lective force.”
And, of course, who in their right
minds would say that we are at present
part of a collective force? We have 4200
men in Asia beside about 80,000 British
and 450,000 Americans. A little arith-
metic shows that we have a mere 350
servicemen in Asia per million of our
population while Britain has 1600 and
the US 2000. Our force is only of token
strength. Mr Healey put the alternatives
we face most bluntly when questioned
about the future of the Singapore base.
“It wouldn’t make any military sense
at all for use to leave Singapore unless
we had to, and from every point of view
I think it is in our interests to stay i n
that part of the world with our present


mm
>
• • -Ifgr
V
m
Bulletin Bust of Menzies
In response to numerous inquiries about Tanner's bust of
Sir Robert Menzies on the cover of the January 29 issue of
"The Bulletin", we have arranged for the casting of a limited
number of life-size plaster copies of the bust. These are
available to readers for £5 each, post-free.
Send £5 (a cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to "Bulletin
Sculpture", Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the coupon and address
label below. (Busts may also be purchased over the counter from the Paper
Sales Department, sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
ORDER FORM BULLETIN SCULPTURE
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH j
BULLETIN BUST(S), price £5 a bust (post free). I enclose cheque/postal note. J
Name of sender j
Address I
State A. j
If more than one bust is ordered, attach list giving full name, address, State and, if •
overseas, country.
facilities as long as we can do so with the
consent of the local peoples. There can
be differing views about how long that
consent will be given but if, when that
consent is withdrawn, there is nowhere
else to go, we’d go home.”
He was saying in effect that if we want
Britain to stay in this part of the world
then we had better be prepared to help
in the building of a base and contribute
our “fair share” of the burdens of a col-
lective force.
DEFENCE II
Paying Out
Mr Healey’s proposition that an Allied
base be established on our northern
coastline has the attraction that it would
help to speed economic development in
that area and in the economy as a
whole. Singapore’s economic loss would
be our gain. Apart from the additional
employment it would provide we could
expect it to provide a steady and sub-
stantial flow of orders for Australian
goods and services.
If it attracted new industries to the
north so much the better, though one
cannot be certain that it would do so
on any significant scale. It would seem
to be much more likely that its main
advantage for us would be in giving
industrial centres already established
elsewhere on the continent a new dim-
ension to demand. Being nearest by sea
to the most feasible sites for a new base
one would expect the industrial benefits
to be felt most in Western Australia and
Queensland. The former is now in full
stride of “take-off” in industrial develop-
ment, but Queensland has been dragging
its feet industrially for a long time and
needs just this sort of spur to get it
moving.
An impetus to industrial progress in
Western Australia has already been
given by the construction' of the US
communications base at Exmouth Gulf,
although the main spur there has come
from intensive minerals development.
Nothing tangible appears to have
come out of the Healey talks to en-
courage industry here to expect a bigger
flow of orders for Allied defence supplies
an d equipment in the near future, but
one would expect the new Defence Min-
ister, Mr Fairhall, to probe the possibili-
more keenly than his predecessor.
When Minister for Supply he showed
Sl gns of getting things moving.
The question of increasing Australia’s
Participation in Allied defence orders has
, een s ide-stepped too long. In part, in-
ustry has itself to blame for not press-
lnB its claims hard enough on the Gov-
ttnment, which in turn should have been


more alert to the scope in Australia for
providing a bigger share of Allied sup-
plies in the South-East Asian operations
theatre.
With industry fully employed in this
country mainly on non-defence work,
most industrialists have not needed to
worry the Defence and Supply depart-
ments for orders. In fact, at the annual
dinner of the Australian Metal Trades
Federation last year Mr Holt was told
that it was just as well Australia was
ordering so much defence equipment
(more than 700 million dollars worth)
from the United States because our local
metal industries were over-stretched
(presumably on non-defence work) and
could not possibly have made it here.
That line of talk was hardly calculated
to stimulate Mr Holt’s interest in the
scope for providing direct defence needs
from Australian firms, although it must
certainly have forcibly brought home to
him that in the use of limited resources
economic development was taking pre-
cedence over direct defence, not that on
recent showings this is unacceptable to
him.
J. C. HORSFALL
DEFENCE III
How Useful is ANZUS?
The questioning and re-thinking about Australia’s defence now going on in
Canberra following Mir Healey’s visit must concern itself not only with Britain’s
future commitments East of Suez. More importantly there remains the key relation-
ship with the United States.
The Bulletin asked Dr H. S. Albin-
ski, Associate Professor of Political
Science at Pennsylvania State University,
for an American view of the state of the
US-Australia alliance. Dr Albinski
writes :
When Sir Robert Menzies resigned
from the Prime Ministership he mention-
ed that Australia’s relations with the
United States had improved enormously,
and that “the best single step that has
been taken in the time of my Govern-
ment was, I think, the ANZUS treaty”.
Australians can, however, be excused
if they pause to wonder whether the
relationship between America and Aus-
tralia evinces as much enthusiasm and
support from the American as from the
Australian side. Only last November, it
will be recalled, Senator William Ful-
brighl, chairman of the Senate Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, expressed
himself on Australia’s Vietnamese effort
in a manner best described as denigrating.
Yet it is certain relations between the
two nations have been close and cordial,
and Australia’s standing in Washing-
ton is high. It is also certain that the
ANZUS Council (Foreign Ministers’) and
other civilian and service meetings have,
proved to be a useful forum for the ex-
change of ideas, clarification of positions,
and possibly even the setting for some
hard but intimately conducted negoti-
ations. In this vein, ANZUS has been an
asset all the way round, and Austral-
American relations have to that degree
benefited.
The meaning of ANZUS, and of the
Austral-American tie, must nevertheless
be judged by wider criteria than simply
whether accessibility and dialogue are in
working order. Since ANZUS lacks
such trappings as a standing military
force, a permanent secretariat, or a co-
ordinated overseas assistance programme,
most of its impact must be gauged by
essentially diplomatic indices.
This promptly raises a delicately
balanced question: Is it legitimate to give
ANZUS, as a formal treaty arrangement
per se endowed with various pro-
visions for consultation, co-ordination,
and mutual help, the lion’s share of the
credit for the spirit and content of US-
Australian relations since 1951? By and
large, Mr J G. Starke, in his new
book “The ANZUS Treaty Alliance”
seems to think so. My own view is that
just because many issues have been
broached in an ANZUS context, or
agreement on them has been affirmed in
communiques issued under its aegis, or
have been linked to ANZUS in political
discussion, it does not follow that there-
fore ANZUS qua ANZUS deserves credit
for the results.
As Mr Starke himself points out, there
are several concrete reasons why the
US has a stake in maintaining Aus-
tralia’s territorial integrity, political inde-
pendence, and security. It is a convenient
potential base, a military-scientific testing
and monitoring ground, a setting for
communications centres such as at Ex-
mouth Gulf, and a source of varied and
sophisticated human and material re-
sources. These American interests would
seem to prevail quite apart from the fact
of the ANZUS connections. For that
matter, so do America’s wishes to har-
monise the Australian as well as other
governments’ policies on such salient
issues as Vietnam and the diplomatic
treatment of China. What really is in
point—and Mr Starke does take notice
of it—is that such American interests
and objectives prompt her to make a
strong effort to keep Australia as well
disposed toward the US as possible.
One of the consequences may be that
when Australia has a special grievance or
objective in mind, so long as risk and
investment are not excessive, America
would be more rather than less apt to
listen attentively, and respond accord-
ingly. For instance, the public declara-
tion that the US would defend Eastern
New Guinea was, even as a statement of
intention, welcomed by Australia. It
should not be forgotten, however, that
America’s Australian-pleasing policies are
not purely, or even chiefly, designed to
ingratiate Canberra.
In 1963, Australian representations
were instrumental in convincing Washing-
ton that Indonesia’s confrontation against
Malaysia was wrong and dangerous, and
therefore that a large-scale American
economic assistance scheme for Indonesia
should be suspended in the hope that
Soekarno might be stirred into recon-
sidering his behavior. But the American
step was also taken because, inde-
pendently, the US Administration was
fearful of the consequences for America’s
defined interests in South-East Asia
should Malaysia in fact be “crushed”.
Similarly, when in 1964 Sir Garfield
Barwick insisted that ANZUS could be
invoked under certain conditions sur-
rounding an Australian-indonesian clash
in North Borneo, he did so with at least
tacit American approval—but in the last
resort, should confrontation escalate
seriously, Washington will weigh all the
pros and cons of the type of action
desirable. The American response might
be announced as falling under ANZUS’s
terms, but wider considerations, diplo-
matic or military, will be crucial; an
Australian appeal for aid, or an exegetic
legal study of how far the “Pacific area”
or “armed attack” language of ANZUS
can in good conscience be stretched, will
count, but not conclusively.
As the junior partner in the relation-
ship, Australia understands that there are
times and places to reason and argue
with America, and circumstances in
which to proceed no further. Australia
was, and probably still is, restless about
the incendiary implications of the
Chinese Nationalist occupation of the
off-shore islands, and during the late
’fifties tried to persuade Washington to
arrange an evacuation of the garrisons at
a suitable time. The goodwill enjoyed
by Australia enabled her, through
ANZUS channels and otherwise, to re-
ceive an attentive hearing by the
Americans. But in the end the advice
was rejected, and the off-shore islands
still remain in Nationalist hands. After
several years of discussion, Australia
pretty much dropped the issue, parity
because she did not wish to induce
American annoyance, especially as more
directly Australian concerned problems*
first in West Irian and then in Malaysia


required diplomatic influence to be
exerted vis-a-vis the US.
The conclusion which needs to be
drawn is that American-Australian rela-
tions, although conducted on a highly
intimate and constructive basis, are not
protected and nourished because of any
formal and solemnly undertaken pledges
su ch as are found in the ANZUS
Treaty. ANZUS does facilitate and en-
hance dialogue and co-ordination, en-
abling all parties better to understand
und appreciate their agreements and dif-
erences, to allow for an additional
av cnue for persuasion, and to give them
comfort from the symbolism of Austral-
fraternity which is enshrined
m The mere fact of ANZUS.
The specifications of the Treaty on
how, when, and where aid will be
rendered help to clarify the already co-
ordinate, even inter-dependent character
of American and Australian security in-
terests in the region. They can serve to
place outside parties on notice, at least
in hortatory terms, of the broad in-
tentions of the allied parties.
In the final judgment, however,
America and Australia interact and co-
operate because it is in their mutual in-
terest to do so. When they decide to
influence one another, or to synchronise
their diplomatic postures, or to pool and/
or share their material resources, they
do so because, independently, they rea-
son as other governments do—i.e., be-
cause it is in their personal and national
interest to do so. Neither side need be
embarrassed to play the game of quid pro
quo diplomacy. It is a necessary and
rational component of international life,
even where the warmest of friends are
concerned.
Menzies’ remark about the value of
ANZUS for Austral-American relations
was a gracious one, but probably over-
stated. Fulbright’s remark, with its im-
plication of “What have you been doing
for us lately?”, was not especially
gracious, but at bottom probably reflected
more accurately the state of affairs be-
tween the two nations. Neither senti-
ment nor a string of treaty definitions is
a substitute for soberly calculated, self-
interest-dictated diplomacy.
Tames
"That really takes guts—there are heavy penalties for lighting fires in the open."


■■■
lilt
lips
i, :■ .V .
1
STS H ¥*Wk'
: :
MpgS
Pll
fcA
:
' ■" ' : ; i»5 S|;i?
I I
©
igigiiiif^Mil
■
ilili
■ ; -■ . ■ .
,|
# Business Communications - the art of
turning information and ideas into action
faster, using the 3M combination of more
efficient copying and distribution methods,
and short cut paperwork systems.
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart • Canberra
3m


VICTORIANA
Rylah’s Black Tuesday
“Black Tuesday” the Reverend Sir Irving Benson called it. But for Chief Secretary
Mr Rylah, the former Liquor Commissioner Mr P. D. Phillips (I’m a 12 to 14
beers a day man and a moderate drinker”), and to the bulk of the State’s soft, medium,
and hard drinkers it was a day of social revolution.
Back in 1916 the Victorian govern-
ment introduced 6 o’clock closing as a
wartime measure to demonstrate to the
boys at the front line that economic and
moral sacrifices were being made for
them around distant home-fires. The
ordinance of self-denial persisted through
nearly two more generations of war and
peace, and no government could raise
the courage to confront the entente
cordiale of churches, temperance unions,
local option alliances, and wowsers dug
in around the State’s most degrading
social phenomenon, the six o’clock swill.
All honor to the present government
and Mr Rylah, who, after failing to win
a referendum on late closing, decided
to legislate and be damned. Contumely
has been abundantly heaped on their
heads by the anti-liquor Establishment
but there is little doubt that in the suc-
ceeding days of the gentle 10 o’clock
mardi gras whatever the government
loses on the swings, it will more than
pick up on the roundabouts. Moreover,
as one Liberal Party official said: “The
wowsers are all born Liberal or Country
Party voters anyway.”
The abuse has a hollow, unreal, ring
about it lately; as if its proponents are
fighting mostly from memory. It brings
to mind the famous insight of Lord
Macaulay: “The puritan hated bear-
baiting, not because it gave pain to the
bear, but because it gave pleasure to the
spectators.”
Apart from changing the former 9
am. to 6 p.m hotel bar trading hours
to 10 am to 10 pm, the new enactment
allows licensed restaurants to serve
liquor until 11.30, permits “live”
theatres to serve liquor between 7 and
11 p.m. on performance nights, and
gives night clubs leave to serve liquor
'vhh refreshments and entertainment
from 8.30 p.m. until 3 a.m. Hotels are
also able to apply for a variation in
their shifts tor special reasons, such as
proximity to markets of wharves. It is
likely that some market hotels will get
a 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. licence.
Of course, the dire consequences pre-
dicted for the State and nation have not
yet befallen Outer suburban and bay-
side hotels which offer entertainment
have been well patronised, but the size
°t bar crowds diminishes almost in dir-
ratio to proximity to the city. The
number of drunks around city and sub-
S aS rema ' nec l stable, according to
e police department, which described
itself as “pleased” with the public’s re-
sponse to its new liberties.
Eighteen city hotels have closed in the
past five years, the latest of them being
the House of Commons, in Elizabeth
Street, and the move to suburban drink-
ing is bound to force more to surrender
their ground to rather less exciting in-
stitutions such as banks and insurance
offices. City restaurants expect better
business now that their licences have
been extended from 10 to 11.30 plus
half an hour’s “drinking-up” time.
Amidst the general celebrations it
seemed a pity that no one appeared to
pause a moment to share the sorrow of
a small old man, grey-haired, red-faced,
and representative of a dying and dis-
appointed race. At 9.25 a.m. on the
historic Tuesday morning he struggled
up to Young and Jackson’s and pushed,
as he had always pushed, against the
public bar door. No result. He tried
some more doors but they were all
locked. He returned to the first and beat
on it with his hands. He put his mouth
to the crack of the door and called in
vain to the empty bar. No answer and
the doors remained shut. He stood back,
pushed his hat forward a little, and
then slowly moved off, muttering: “But
I always have one at half past nine. I’vq
done it for forty years.” Ten o’clock
closing had claimed its first victim.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
CRIME
On Parole
Among the sweeping changes in the parole system which the New South Wales
Premier, Mr R. Askin, announced last week the least publicised innovation was the
most important.
The new legislation to be introduced
early this year will provide for a research
organisation “to determine whether pre-
sent rehabilitation measures are succeed-
ing”. If this is implemented it will be
the biggest step forward since Governor
Phillip instituted the first parole system
in the world the “ticket-of leave”
in New South Wales, 175 years ago.
As for the rest of the legislation re-
commended to him by the Minister of
Justice, Mr J. Maddison, the Premier
had this to say about its objectives.
“Sentences, sometimes very heavy ones,
are imposed on offenders with the triple
purpose of expressing the community’s
disapproval, attempting to deter the off-
ender and other possible offenders, and
in the hope of turning the offender into
a better citizen. It is to this last pur-
pose rehabilitation,” he added,
“that parole is related.”
It is, however, by no means easy to see
how the best publicised of the pro-
posed changes is related to this last
purpose. Headlines like “GAOL PAR-
OLE SYSTEM TO BE TIGHTENED”
and “STATE MOVES TO END PAR-
OLE CRIMES” suggest that other con-
siderations were involved. A number of
reports significantly contained detailed
references to the case of commercial
artist Leonard Keith Lawson who, in
1961, whilst on parole after serving part
of a 14-year sentence for rape, strangled
a 16-year-old girl and shot and killed a
schoolgirl. And the most loudly adver-
tised of the new provisions is in fact said
to be designed “to prevent a repetition of
the 1961 Lawson murders”.
The provision in question is an amend-
ment to the Prisons Act requiring Courts
when passing sentence to fix a minimum
period that must be served before parole
can be granted. The law as it now stands
provides only for maximum sentences.
The change will mean that a prisoner
cannot be released on parole until he
has served the minimum term. For
the minimum term under the proposed
changes will, it is said, be irreducible.
This will no doubt be popular; although
not with all prisoners. But it would be
extremely sanguine to anticipate that it
will result in any considerable increase
in the number of offenders who are turn-
ed into better citizens. It would be inter-
esting to know, moreover, how judges
at the time of trial are expected to deter-
mine the point in the future at which a
prisoner will be fit for parole.
Some of the other proposals never-
theless are unexceptionable. A number
of them were specifically recommended
in these columns over two and a half
years ago (8., July 9, 1963). In
particular it was then suggested that the
Parole Board should be reconstituted and
its membership enlarged; that the Board
should be placed under the chairmanship
of a Supreme Court Judge rather than a
District Court Judge as at present; and
that the Board should be empowered to
revoke parole and order a prisoner to
return to prison. All these suggestions
have been adopted.
GORDON HAWKINS


10 Years Compulsory
Back to school for what?
By BILL HANNAN
Reforms in secondary education, such as the Wyndham plan in New South Wales,
often meet with surprising opposition. Most surprising of all are the criticisms which
seem to assume that a valuable tradition is being sacrificed. In fact, tradition is what
secondary education most notably lacks. General secondary education is typically a
product of this century, and is still probably less than halfway along its evolutionary
track.
This evolution has been a rapid one,
from elite institutions to popular ones.
It is still going on: today, though schools
are theoretically open to all, the majority
of students do not get more than half-
way. The significant fact, however, is
that the number staying on is growing
steadily. Whereas, for example, in New
South Wales in 1948 only 9 per cent of
pupils completed four years’ high school,
last year 42.5 per cent lasted the distance.
Whether this development has des-
troyed “standards” is a matter of opinion
for which there seems to be no satis-
factory evidence. At times, it nas come
close to destroying the system itself,
which has survived in an attenuated form
despite chronic and drastic shortages of
teachers and materials. But the most im-
portant result is that secondary schools
are no longer for “the sons of parents
in the middle and higher ranks of
society”, as Sydney’s King’s School
believed they should be last century, nor
are they academically select high
schools. The typical Australian secondary
school now admits anyone in its zone
after six or seven years’ primary school-
ing, keeps them for at least the remain-
ing two or three years of compulsory
schooling and in increasing numbers
for the full five or six-year cycle.
This simple fact causes a host of
problems, but depressingly few solutions.
One such problem, which is not debated
very much, is why secondary schools
are separated from primary schools at all.
Six to sixteen is becoming the typical
school life, and it would seem more
efficient to treat it as a whole. The change
at twelve or thirteen is often unsettling—
new subjects arbitrarily appear, teachers
come and go with subjects, examinations
begin to dominate life. Moreover, the
primary school sometimes runs out of
curriculum in its final year and marks
time; and the high school goes on mark-
ing time in its first year while it finds
out what the students are like.
But the chief problem of the secon-
dary school is how to cope with the very
different abilities and interests of students
once they are established. In terms of
ambition there are at least three distinct
groups: those who take only whatever
junior course is offered; those who com-
plete a full secondary education as an
end in itself; and those who will go on
to tertiary education.
To complicate matters, these are noth-
ing like homogenous groups, especially
at this age. Ability, for instance, is not
uniform in all subjects. Interests are
certainly not uniform. Many who aspire
only to the most junior certificate do not
have the capacity to succeed for many
reasons, of which “intelligence may be
only a minor one.” Those who will con-
tinue to tertiary institutions may have
their sights on anything from university
doctorates to short-term professional
courses like teacher-training. Most im-
portantly, many don’t know what they
want until they’ve tried. One is involved,
in short, in a hodge-podge of basic
education, liberal education, remedial
education, vocational training, academic
preparation and mass social education,
all of which far too many people believe
can be wrapped up in a handful of passes
and fails at a couple of public
examinations.
Up till about ten years ago, a quite
common solution to the problems created
by this diversity was to maintain sepa-
rate schools, known variously as “selec-
tive”, “grammar”, “high”, “technical”,
“boys”, “girls”, “modem”, etc. The
necessary assumption was that at around
the age of twelve, students could be
identified as academically inclined, tech-
nically inclined, or dull. The usual
selector was some kind of general intel-
ligence and achievement test based on
English and Arithmetic, with some
weighting to account for parents’ wishes
and the primary school’s assessment of
the child. These divisions seem to be
dying now, but since they have their
vociferous mourners, they deserve
attention.
The selective versus comprehensive
argument can raise much wind and
passion. In New South Wales, Dr Wynd-
ham has been roundly denounced for his
plot to destroy “standards”, for either
ideological or administrative reasons. Ad-
mittedly, if the argument was simply
about the convenience of zoning or even
about the more interesting issue of
social and intellectual levelling, the pas-
sion would be understandable. The real
argument, however, is one of educational
efficiency, and the Wyndham Report
"Have you considered a life of
crime?"
confines itself to this. Can pupils be satis-
factorily selected at the age of twelve?
Available evidence offers little hope for
efficient selection. At the extremes of
ability, very bright and very dull, selec-
tion seems possible; but one still has to
decide that it is desirable to separate
completely the very-bright from the many
others who may be quite close to them,
or, at the other end, that the best
stimulus for the dull is to mix solely with
their fellows. The important thing to
remember, however, is that the larger
the group one tries to select (and in a
three-school system the groups must be
large) the more unreliable the test be-
comes. Too many get into courses they
can't handle, and too many miss out.
The aim of selection is invariably to
isolate the bright and stretch them to
their intellectual limits. This is fine for
the elect, but it also entails a wastage of
talent that the community cannot afford,
To anyone planning a school system, it
seems much more efficient to organise
comprehensive schools which provide
for the range of talent available.
This does not mean of course that
comprehensive schools automatically
solve the problems that selective ones
fail to. Many, because of inflexible or-
ganisation and poor resources, undoubt-
edly drift to a low, common level.
Large classes are a powerful leveller.
Like most cults, examination worship
is a great leveller. Good schools do not
exist by fiat like any other enterprise
they need adequate resources, good lead-
ership and imaginative planning.
Every Australian system has produced
good and bad schools. Still, the system
itself is important. Unfortunately, when
one of the rare reforms of systems takes
place, a lot of criticism fails to distin-
guish the system from the detailed prac-
tice in schools. Talk about using child-
ren as “guinea-pigs”, which some have
accused the “Wyndham scheme” of
doing, is nonsense. The purpose of th e
Wyndham plan is to replace a mam-


festly inefficient and dated school system
with one which makes a systematic
attempt to cater for variation in ability
and interests. Though it may be criticised
on some points for conservatism, it is
still the most massive advance yet made
in Australian secondary education. New
South Wales children are at least not
guinea-pigs for the theory that the old
ways will always work.
Briefly, the Wyndham plan created a
six-year course divided into two segments
marked by major examinations: the
School Certificate at the end of four
years and the Senior School Certificate
at the end of six years. The first four-
year cycle is seen as general secondary
education consisting of a compulsory
“core” of English, Mathematics, Science,
Social Studies, Art, Music, Health and
Physical Education, accompanied by a
gradually increased number of “elec-
tives”, such as foreign languages, com-
merce, advanced “core” subjects and the
like. The final two years are seen mainly
as preparation for tertiary studies and
hence as a time for specialisation.
After the first year, which is largely a
common course for exploratory pur-
poses, each stage is organised into three
levels, known in the junior years as
“advanced”, “credit” and “pass”, and in
senior years as first, second and third.
In principle, every child should be able
to work at whatever level suits him. As
the jargon .puts it, subjects are “set”,
rather than students “streamed” (“stream-
ing” involves grouping into classes on
ability, i.e., Form 3a is the bright one,
3b not so bright and 3e the bane of most
teachers. “Setting”, by contrast, permits
mobility: each subject is time-tabled in
a block in which the student finds his
own level, so that he may be in the top
group for English, the middle one for
Science and the bottom one for Maths).
No one fancies that there are
not serious barriers to the success
of this scheme. Knowledge is expanding
rapidly and interpretations and teaching
methods are becoming increasingly con-
troversial. The only fairly general agree-
ment seems to be that methods of en-
quiry should be learnt rather than de-
tailed facts memorised; but this is by
no means a universal trend and it has
no h in practice, lightened the weight of
facts to be learnt. Senior syllabuses are
usually pretty forbidding documents.
Closely connected to the syllabus and
examination question is the problem of
university domination of school curricula.
In the early days of secondary education
h seemed obvious that the university
should control school standards. Secon-
dary schools existed to prepare students
0r the universities. The final examination
w as, for matriculation, and the name
Persists today, though with a vastly
changed meaning.
No one imagines now that the main
purpose of secondary school is to pre-
pare for university studies. Of every
hundred who start secondary school only
about ten will complete the five or six
years of the full course. Among these
fewer than half go to a university. As
the numbers completing the full course
increase, which they are doing, it is
more likely that other forms of tertiary
education will expand rather than that
universities will accept a greatly increased
proportion. This is the case at the moment
anyway, typified by the Martin Report
and many university statements.
Universities’ stultifying grip
Tn spite of this, the requirements of the
universities have a powerful and stul-
tifying grip on secondary school cur-
ricula. This is not entirely due to ill-will
on the part of universities. Some of it can
be attributed to our persistent examin-
ation complex, which results in a single
senior examination having to serve a host
of different purposes. Perhaps because of
tradition, this single examination seems
inevitably to drift towards satisfying only
one purpose university entrance. To
some extent, too, the blame must fall on
teachers on syllabus committees who fail
to use what powers they have.
Victoria provides a good example of
how university requirements can come
to dominate the other more pressing
needs of students. The six-year course
leads to a single examination which is
used for university entrance. Syllabuses
are published which outline the six stages
to this examination. Although the sylla-
buses can be fairly safely ignored in the
early years, there comes a moment of
truth about halfway: the pace has to
change to meet the final judgment, and
sometimes even the aims and methods
have to be adapted to examination
patterns. Education becomes a process
of progressive weeding out.
On top of syllabuses and examinations
designed for university entrance, there
are sundry prerequisites, mostly of uni-
versity origin, which determine the pattern
of the curriculum. Since the Arts
faculty expects a foreign language, French
will enjoy an unjustifiably long reign.
Only one child in the class may ever
need it, but which one?
One of the points of great interest, and
dispute, in the Wyndham scheme is its
attempt to get out of this bog. It is
claimed for the first four-year cycle that
it is as nearly as possible complete in
itself. Subject committees have been
instructed to design “terminal” courses
which round off a general education, as
well as courses which lead to higher
studies. The School Certificate holder has
completed a balanced “core” which in
principle has been a coherent four years’
study; and he has developed some special
interests through electives which may be
the basis of more specialised studies in
fifth and sixth year. Here, too, the various
levels are supposed to have been designed
with differing aims rather than as varying
degrees of difficulty. First and second
levels lead to university studies. Third
level is meant to be broader and is free
from higher requirements.
If this planning works in practice, an
important advance will have been made.
Unfortunately, there were ominous signs
last year that it might not be given a
chance. Sydney University and the
University of New South Wales an-
"You call this an adventure in exciting textures?"


il
67633
is your
uniform
as neat
as your
nylons?
n
:
UUVII
When it’s made of Cesarella it is! New
Cesarella is woven from Toray Tetoron
and Viscose to make the softest,
silkiest, neatest, smartest uniforms
you’ve ever worn. Lustrous
Cesarella pleats permanently,
resists creasing, drips-dry to-
original stylish beauty. Be
neat and smart all the
time, insist on Cesarella
for all your uniforms —
the fashion’s there
to stay !
CiMmt
the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
TO rail TETORON'CC 0 /
! POLYESTER FIBRE and Viscose
nounced that their entrance require*
ments would be four passes at second
level and one at third level. Since only
five subjects are taken, the margin of
error for most students would be zero.
One slip in his second level subjects
would disqualify him. The practical re-
suit will presumably be that third level
will rarely be chosen better to take
all ©t second level and let the slips work
themselves out. A further effect could
be that, with schools tightly staffed, not
enough students would elect third level
subjects to warrant their being offered,
The non-university entrant, in short,
would go on missing out.
To this, the universities’ defenders
(such as Professor Butler of Sydney) re-
ply that it is a mistake for all sixth year
students to aim at matriculation. No
doubt it is, but schools know that students
are usually not convinced of this until
they have tried and failed. Prediction of
students’ performances is not as easy as
people seem to imagine. If it were, the
examination would be unnecessary except
as a disciplinary measure. UniversitiJ
still have the prestige, and every studeni
who has survived through to sixth ye a j
feels, quite correctly, that he has hall
a chance of getting into one. No one!
can tell him very accurately whether
he will be one of the elect until the,
numbers go up.
There does, in fact, seem to be oo
secure way oat of this dilemma short of
total separation of final school examine
tions from university entrance examine
tions. This may indeed occur as othei
types of tertiary education develop, foi
which a single examination is not suitable,
The examinatioi is, in an'- case, a dubious
predictor of university success, so its dis-
advantages readily outweigh its useful-
ness. I
The Harvard test
Oeveral alternative selection methods
have been suggested. One is that the
universities should accept everyone |
passed by the schools and make its selec-
tion after a year’s university work. This
has the obvious disadvantage (especially
for governments and taxpayers) than
universities would have to be Digger oii
more numerous. The chief advantage
could be that there would be fewer
potential graduates excluded. Another
suggestion is that a general test be used;
which does not presuppose that partial-
lar prescribed syllabuses have been
studied. Harvard University uses such i
test, and in some States, for the last two
years, a similar type of test has been
used to award Commonwealth Second-1
ary Scholarships. A third suggestion,'
based on New Zealand practice, is that
schools recommend students on the
basis of their own assessments. All these 1
suggestions have the notable advantage
of freeing schools from the restrictions j
of artificial _nd inflexible svllabuses ant
examination barriers. r
Generally we need to drop a lot oft
our barriers and diversify our courses
Even a flexible scheme like the Wyndhait
plan requires labels like “general,
“specialist” and “terminal” for notions,
which may be quite illusory. Unless we l
regard secondary education as something
which children as a rule fail (or worst,
still as something which levels everyont
to a mediocre pass) we need to ft
flexible. 5
The excellent notion that a school
should accept a child as he is ani
gradually expand his knowledge amj
talents is set back each time a syllabus
is laid down to be covered in a _ given I
time, and an examination barrier
placed at the end of it., Where there t
one syllabus for all and a comnioo
examination, failure is substantial. Thj
more one’s purpose becomes to prepay
for another institution, the more one t (l
stricts learning. And, of course, the moro


JHI 1 1
HOW GOODYEAR HOSE
USES WATER TO PULL WEALTH
OUT OF THE SEA
When Associated Minerals set up their mining operation
at Cudgen, N.S.W., they planned to extract the valuable
rutile that lies deep in the nearby mineral-rich shoreline.
They needed a really tough hose to do this job. Goodyear
Material Conducting Hose was the natural choice.
This is just one example of the many ways industry is
using Goodyear Hose. You name your job—Goodyear
have the right hose to fit it! Whether it’s unloading oil
or petrol, siphoning up slurry, feeding air to a jack-
hammer, or delivering steam under pressure, Goodyear
have the right hose for the right job.
That’s because each Goodyear Hose is specially built for
a particular job—to withstand corrosion, abrasion and
Associated Minerals used 16" diameter Material Con-
ducting Hose with 34" tube gauge. It sends rutile-rich
slurry to the separation plant at Cudgen. This Goodyear
Hose is reinforced with high tensile heavy gauge round
steel wire with a weather-proof and abrasion-resistant
outer cover. Added strength is supplied by built-in
integral flanges
heavy-duty wear. Time and again, it's been shown where
inferior hoses have worn out, Goodyear Hose has stayed
on for more . . . and more again!
It pays to pick your hose from the biggest line of quality
hose in the industry—Goodyear.
In every phase of mining every type of mine
Goodyear rubber engineering has the answer. Goodyear
makes over 1,000 types of hose —each one designed for
outstanding service on the job it’s made for. Call your
Goodyear Technical man at the Goodyear Branch in
your State.
oood/Vear
5232


parsimonious governments are with
teachers and buildings, the more the
whole machine rusts. Some of this rigi-
dity is unavoidable in a public school
system; but some is enshrined in courses,
levels, certificates and standards. It
seems obvious to say that a school
should serve its pupils first; in practice
it is a platitude reserved for textbooks
and official utterances.
Very often the touchstone of a system
is taken to be the provision it makes for
bright children to race ahead. In this
respect, the concept of an “advanced”
level, recognised from quite an early
stage, is a notable improvement on the
more common practice of having every-
one do the same thing with varying
degrees of success. There is, however,
a harder touchstone to break education-
ists’ heads on: provision for the very
dull.
For the dui-, the term “non-academic”
is often used, and it is a revealing term.
Clearly, the normal course is “academ-
ic”. Those who fail the normal course
(even the multi-level one) are a stand-
ing embarrassment to the school system.
Estimates of their numbers are mostly
guesswork and depend on elusive defini-
tions. If the full five or six-year course
is taken as the standard, then most of
the community is non-academic. If the
three or four-year stage is the criterion
(School Certificate, Intermediate, etc.) a
good sixty per cent are still non-academ-
ic. However, it is likely that many of this
sixty per cent could, and in time will,
complete the junior cycle successfully.
The genuinely “non-academic” are usually
those who, for various reasons, fail con-
sistently from the very beginning of
secondary school (and probably have
also failed in primary school). Most of
them are still in a fairly low grade by the
time they reach school leaving age. A
reasonable estimate of their numbers
seems to be about twenty-five per cent.
The Headmaster of Sydney’s Marsden
High School, Mr Hagan, observed one
year that, throughout seven graded classes,
more than half of the sixth level were fail-
ing and virtually all of the seventh. This
is commonly observed in a school which
accepts every child from its zone.
No one knows much what to do with
the non-academic. He will have a family,
a vote and maybe a job like everyone
else so, presumably, he should be
educated. But almost by definition he
can’t be educated in our schools. What-
ever he is offered in the way of remedial
teaching, “activity” classes, special
courses and the like, he can rarely reach
any of the generally accepted criteria of
educational success. A certificate of
attendance and some remarks about
trustworthiness and amiability are not
much to show for ten year’s compulsory
schooling.
Is the answer that these children can
get nothing from formal schooling even
within a flexible scheme? Often the
causes can be traced to inadequate home
backgrounds and emotional rather than
intellectual deficiencies, so a very inten-
sive campaign of almost individual
guidance and tuition could offer some
hope. Should we recognise non-academic
courses as equal in status to academic
ones? Should we experiment, as some
countries do, with combining work and
school by placing and following children
in jobs?
At all events, the non-academic are
accommodated now by the notion of
failure, which is one of the great fixed
ideas, our educational system. And
the notion of failure is irretrievably tied
to examinations, which are our abiding
obsession. Employers depend on them
for personnel; universities and colleges
depend on them for their undergraduates;
schools depend on them for discipline;
parents judge their children by them; and
children gauge the value of courses by
them. It is, in fact, widely held by teach-
ers that an unexamined course is not
worth teaching.
Professor Connell of Sydney Univer-
sity’s Education Faculty estimates that
high schools spend about 20 per cent
of the school year on examination
business. Both the Wyndham Report and
Victoria's Ramsay Report remark on the
excessive importance examinations have
in Australia. Overseas experts are in-
variably staggered by the dominance
and rigidity of our examination systems.
Not only is the examination a sacred
cow: it is on the rampage.
The arguments produced for large-
scale public examinations are not strong.
The Wyndham Report recommended ex-
ternal examinations “to establish the
status of the School Certificate in the
public mind and to safeguard standards”.
(Dr Wyndham himself would prefer an
internal system, as a footnote in the Re-
port indicates.) It is also often argued
that uniform public examinations are
fairer, and hence necessary for competi-
tive scholarships and selective entrances.
Most of these arguments have already
"You're spoiled I've got a sense
of failure and I don't even sit for
exams.”
been contradicted by experience, par-
ticularly in Victoria where a system of
internal and external examining is used
for awarding the same certificates. Ap-
proved schools can recommend students
for a certificate issued by a central
board, on the basis of their own assess-
ments. There is no sign at all that the
public thinks the internally judged Cer-
tificate inferior to the external one if
anything the reverse is true, since there
is some prestige in being approved.
“Standards” (which are only statistical
affairs anyway) are safeguarded by the
regular inspection of schools which all
our highly centralised systems special-
ise in.
The superstition that public examin-
ations are fairer, or more accurate, than
internal school assessments obliges its ad-
herents to regard a single test as more
reliable than the extensive records which
a school can build up about a pupil’s
work. No one acquainted with examin-
ing would believe this; and probably its
supporters don’t really believe it either.
Behind the idea is usually found a dis-
trust of teachers, which overlooks the
facts that teachers rarely make assess-
ments single-handed, that school records
are regularly inspected and that there
are, if necessary, techniques for stand-
ardising marks among schools. On the
face of it, it is preposterous to trust a
man to teach for years, and then to deny
his competence to do the minor task of
assessing his pupils.
The fear of variety
worst feature of these arguments is
the fear they reveal of variety. The
Wyndham scheme, both in spirit and
practice, has attempted to cultivate
variety; but it still has to resist powerful
pressures which could petrify it. A few
years of School Certificate examinations
and university entrance requirements
could spawn a new orthodoxy. To a
very great extent, the success of the
scheme depends not on its general pat-
tern, but on the opportunities taken by
schools to put the spirit of the scheme
into practice. And standing against that
are the same obstacles that most sys-
tems founder on conservatism bred
by long obedience to a powerful central
authority, a paucity of experimentation
and research, and the shocking shortages
of material resources.
Every educational discussion should
finish by thumping this tub. While
fewer than half the teachers are gradu-
ates, while classes are mass audiences,
while buildings are half finished, while
libraries, laboratories and equipment
exist mainly in the dreams of teachers,
all reforms are doomed to limp along. In
these conditions, children really are
guinea-pigs; and the experimenters are
not the educators, but the electors.


The Last of Pakie’s
“ Happy memories , dear, sweet lady ”
Drawings by Jim Phillips
Pakie’s Push always knew how to
enjoy themselves and the wake at
Pakie’s last week was lively from
the moment the first guests climbed the
stairs in Elizabeth Street, Sydney, for
their last night at the old place.
There was wine and beer on the tables
for the first time in Pakie’s history. This
would have gladdened the hearts of the
bohemian lads who, in the old days,
used to plant their bottles in the roof-
garden pot-plants. It reminded George
Finey, the artist, of Constable Chuck,
who used to visit the old “nighteries”
Madame Pura’s Latin Cafe and Miss
Joseph's dressed as a woman. He
would sit down, order a drink, say thank
you when it came, then seize the bottle
and melodramatically disclose his
identity.
Eric Saunders’ portrait of Pakie stared
down from the wall on much the same
crowd last week Thea Rowe, the still-
lovely actress and singer of Scottish and
Irish songs; cartoonists “Hotpoint”
Lahm and Jock “Gibby” Gibson; sculp-
tor Tom Bass, wbom somebody remem-
bered as “just a gangling young boy,
living on porridge”; Kleber Claux, lead-
er of the nudist and natural health col-
ony, who ran a fruit-and-nut shop in
Liverpool Street. And the night was com-
plete when Dulcie Deamer swept in
wearing satin and an ostrich feather in
her headband. They had all come again
w hen they heard the news Pakie’s
was closing.
Pakie Macdougall, of course, was
gone the lovable woman who gave
encouragement, cups of coffee and food
to the promising, but poor, young men
and women who congregated at her
club. She had worked in the theatre with
her producer-husband in Greenwich
illage, New York, and then in Rowe
beet, Sydney and when she opened
e club in June, 1929, Sydney’s artistic
crowd flocked there. She had been
known to slip a screwed-up 10s. note
into the palm of out-of-pocket custom-
ers. Anybody could get a good meal of
roast beef for a few shillings and her
specialty was a vegetarian macaroni dish
and salad. She was crossing Elizabeth
Street to open the club on VE night
when an army lorry killed her. Her son,
Robin, kept the club going in the years
that followed.
People at Pakie’s were always doing
things writing and performing plays,
reading poetry, exhibiting paintings,
bringing out the club newspaper, “Urge”,
which numbered Xavier Herbert, Lionel
Shave, Frederick Thwaites and Ward
Leopold among its contributors. Artists
Norman Lindsav, Donald Friend, Elaine
Haxton, Rosaleen Norton, all went
there. Dame Mary Gilmore the first
visitor to sign Pakie’s “Book of Words”
dined regularly at the club. Someone at
the party remembered the night “Inky”
Stephensen (an editor of “Urge”) “wiped
the floor” with Eric Baurne in a debate on
fascism, even though Baume was speak-
ing for democracy.
There were those who remember Bea
Miles as an attractive young student
who played the piano at Pakie’s; Mrs
Walter Burley Griffin’s coat of many
colors; the struggle to carry “poor
Rudolph” crippled photographer
Rudolph Buckner up the stairs; the
Christmas night Bernard Hesling roasted
a turkey at the obelisk across the road
in Hyde Park; Carl Devanny recruiting
members for the Workers’ Art Club in
Pitt Street (later the New Theatre) with
the credo: “Art Is a Weapon”.
The guests wandered out to the back
room to get supper and read the tele-
grams. One message read: “Farewell
Pakie’s Happy Memories Dear Sweet
Lady Glorious Bohemian Days Regards
To All”.
Dulcie Deamer
Kleber Claux
Cleo Davies
R. C. Woolacott


AROUND CANBERRA
The Battle for Prince Charles
Bring your camouflage suit
By BATMAN
Royal tour reporters are terribly
unloved by the authorities. Yet
prick them and do they not bleed,
give them typewriters and do they not
type, put cameras in their hands and
do they not take pictures? Your cor-
respondent has grown old trailing
after three generations of royalty and
never has it been so tough to get a
story.
Nobody, particularly the Palace,
quite estimated the curiosity value of
the visit to Australia by Prince
Charles. Even “Paris Match” des-
patched a reporter and a photographer
to Australia to cover the tour. No
doubt the French sensed some sort of
a plot. There had to be other rea-
sons for Charles’ banishment to the
Antipodes: une affaire du coeur, or
with the departure of Sir Robert was
the monarchy in jeopardy? The ar-
rival of Prince Charles was timed per-
fectly to cemsnt Commonwealth rela-
tions with the new Prime Minister,
007 Harold Holt.
The newspapers went all-out with
greater efforts than displayed even for
Prince Philip and the Queen. Two
newspapers even sent men to Nandi,
Fiji, to fly back on the same aero-
plane to Sydney.
But Prince Charles’ guardian, ad-
viser and friend, Squadron-Leader
David Checketts, made sure that the
protection was complete. For other
members of the royal family there
was always the little informal get-
together with the Press so that they
could get to know each other. This
time they were kept utterly apart, not
a word was to be exchanged.
At Canberra the Press was advised
in advance of only one function: the
visit by Prince Charles to the rotunda
at Regatta Point, overlooking Lake
Burley Griffin. This is now a ritual
that has to be done by all members
of visiting royalty; it’s like planting
a tree in the Botanic Gardens. The
Queen and Prince Philip did it, King
Phumiphon and Queen Sirikit did it,
even the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester did it. It was a function
that was all over within three or four
minutes and after that the great Press
corps had to spend the next 48 hours
wondering what the devil Prince
Charles was doing.
An old hand who understood the
rapacity of dedicated royal tour re-
porters would have said: “Look, fel-
lers, the Prince will do this and this
and if you leave us alone we’ll give
you pictures at points A and B.” How-
ever, the message relayed back from
the Squadron-Leader was that no
arrangements had been made. So the
battle was on.
The Press corps, en masse, camped
outside the gates of Government
House, cars pointed the right way,
ready to give chase should the royal
car come out. The more crafty ones
went round to the back of Govern-
ment House and watched with binocu-
lars. There one could gain a prime
view across the swimming pool to the
GH landing stage on Lake Burley
Griffin. In the early afternoon they
were rewarded. They spotted the
young Prince with a girl. Together
they came down to the landing stage,
boarded the Gwen class yacht, Nicque,
and went off sailing.
The Prince handled the Gwen very
nicely, always tacking well away from
the shore, where they wouldn’t be
seen. Nevertheless the royal tour
photographers mounted their big tele-
scopic lenses and they managed to get
some just useable photographs. The
best picture of all was taken by the
enthusiastic gentleman from “Paris
Match”.
Of course nobody out there on the
water knew that the Prince was sail-
ing, but with a pair of binoculars on
the shore it was possible to see some
most interesting things. A Melbourne
reporter spotted a girl lying down in a
boat, on her own, sun-bathing. She
was lying face up and topless, looking
very contented. Suddenly that Gwen
bore down within 20 feet of her.
There was a desperate struggle for a
bra; and the Prince sailed on with
his guard, Inspector Sharpe of the
Commonwealth Police, puffing behind
in a rowboat.
Next day was entirely free, so the
Press corps gathered outside the gate
once more. He would hardly try the
boat lark again, so most of us re-
mained at the front. Only one team
took up position at the very rarely
used rear gate, and that was exactly
where he came out. But the Press
car was facing the wrong way. By
the time they had turned around the
powerful Humber was vanishing into
the distance. As he went past the
Press car Prince Charles turned
around laughing in triumph. Later, by
roving about Canberra, the photo-
graphers tracked him down to the
CSIRO Wild Life Research Station.
In the afternoon they switched to a
direct frontal attack, using surprise.
The Press now had GH thoroughly
cased on three sides and they were
keeping in touch with each other via
a tick-tack system. However, they
came straight out that front gate at
high speed aboard a Triumph 2000.
Nobody was expecting a Triumph and
just that few seconds’ hesitation was
enough. The elderly Holdens, Fal-
cons and VWs that we had were no
match. The Triumph at close on 80
went off into the distance. It was the
chance remark by the wife of a senior
Minister later in the afternoon that
gave us the tip that he was riding, and
the photographers won some excellent
pictures. Furthermore, Prince Charles
was most pleasant and happy to be
photographed. “How did you fellows
'get here so quickly?” he said. Then
we had the first recorded conversation
between Prince Charles and the
Press.
“That’s a fine horse, Prince
Charles,” said the pressman. “Yes,”
he said.
At Timbertop things were better.
The Press, glory be, was treated with
courtesy. Geelong Grammar went
out of its way to plan a programme
that supplied radio, TV, everybody,
with the best material of the tour, and
they are unlikely to be worried again.
But should you have to cover any
future royal tours, could one suggest
the right equipment ... a powerful
telescope, walkie-talkie gear, a camou-
flage suit for creeping through grass,
and an 007-equipped Aston Martin.


ERlf'f
movalist
RE
WMOV
aust
I
1225
SSJJSS-ssSS
■
'M
:
818 LBABIRSIIBIIBH GBEBS!
■am.
mm%m.
pwmm
TOYOTA DYNA 2 TON (top)-TOYOTA 25 1 TON (above)
TWO tough ones. One-ton Toyota 25,
two-ton Toyota Dyna have more practical
reasons why you should buy than any
other light truck on the market today.
Load space for one: More usable carrying
space than trucks anywhere near their
size or price. Toughness, too: Toyota’s
own kind of rugged construction that’s
built to take the year ’round pounding of
hard truck work. Reliability: No fancy
ideas—just sound, proven truck design
to do the job you want and to be rarely
off the road. Plenty of power: Toyota 25
—55 b.h.p. and Toyota Dyna—Bs b.h.p.,
both have enough power to do the job
with ample reserve, but give the kind
of money-saving economy that means
the difference between profit and loss.
And no wasted power either. If you’re
truck buying, give both these Toyotas the
once over at your local Toyota dealer, it’s
money in your pocket all the way.
TOYOTA DYNA is especially suitable for mount-
ing special bodies. Standard model has a long,
wide cargo deck with a loading area of 65
square feet. Vacuum booster brakes for safe,
powerful stopping power with light pedal
pressure, even under full load.
TOYOTA 25. This remarkable forward-control
1-ton truck, with its large body and lov*
loading, meets every transport need in its
field. Steel or wooden tray body. Economically
priced and cheap to operate. 54 square feet
of long, wide cargo deck.
00 TOYOTA audgotyour oioooy's worth!
D25.8.FP


No poems can please
Or live
That are written by water-drinkers.
Horace (65-8 8.C.)
Imagine how even greater would have been his
verse, had he been able to enjoy, as you can, the
distinctive smoothness and mellowness of
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Life and Death in Long Bay
Q. You have just come back to normal
life after a two-year detention in Long
Bay Prison. How did you spend your
time there?
A. I was in a clerical job in the Recep-
tion Room and saw everything connected
with the reception and discharge of every
man who came in during the past two
years. When the police vans come in to
the cage to unload, as many as 25 prison-
ers stumble out to line up for the name
call. Some of the drunks, when received,
are- in such a bad physical state they have
to be assisted out.
Q. How did some come by their bad
physical state?
A. Most by the drinking of large
quantities of wane and methylated spirit.
I have seen men violently trembling
from head to foot—unable to stand
very sick and complete human wrecks.
Others drop like a stone where they stand
in a violent fit, sometimes injuring them-
selves against the wall or paved ground.
Some arrive with their clothing covered
in dried blood having been attacked
or in a fight. Often a mental case arrives.
One man stepped from the van one day
and lined up with the others absolutely
naked. He only possessed trousers and
had removed them before stepping out
of the van. He was quickly bustled in-
side and dressed in prison clothes. Later
he was transferred to an Admission
Centre. A male nurse is there when the
police vans arrive to check on priso-
ners’ physical condition. The nurse orders
some men to the Isolation Section, or to
the Hospital, some to the Observation
Section, according to their condition. A
prisoner with suicidal tendencies, or on
a serious charge which may produce
thoughts of suicide, is sent to the OBS.
This means a padded cell and no oppor-
tunity for taking his life.
Several prisoners died whilst I was
there from the effects of their drinking.
Q. Are any suicide attempts made?
A. Yes, many. Mostly by the cutting
of veins in wrists. Some try the throat.
One made a deep gash in his stomach.
The ordinary issue safety razor blade is
used.
Q. How are these attempts at suicide
usually detected?
A. Usually by the observation of an-
other prisoner in the same cell who
knocks up and calls an officer. In hun-
dreds of cells there are two or three
prisoners living together. In cool weather
this is bad enough but in summer it is
positively inhuman. Fifty years ago, when
the gaol was first built, the size of the
cells was considered a minimum for the
healthy housing of one prisoner. Now it
has to be three in one cell because of the
increased number going to gaol and the
accommodation being insufficient to give
each man a single cell. Excepting for
two wings which are sewered, all other
wings are still using the old original
sanitary bucket. Don’t try to imagine
what this is like in cells where there are
three men. It is positively revolting. I
was fortunate enough to have a cell to
myself because I often did clerical work
at night as part of my job and wanted no
interruptions. A few others are on their
own because they are doing educational
courses.
Q. What happens after the police
vans unload the prisoners?
A. Everybody is marched into the
Reception Room, the male nurse makes
his inspection and I wrote every man’s
name in a “Search Book” which was
later signed by the searching officers. I
also wrote down how long a prisoner
was serving, or whether on remand. On
this information we knew if he had to
be dressed in prison clothes (if sen-
tenced) or left in his own clothes (if on
remand). Men doing six months or over
got a set of new clothing and shoes. If
less than six months, second-hand
clothing is issued. When the shopkeepers
arrived last year because of their refusal
to pay fines for late trading, we had
strict instructions to dress them in
brand new clothes and shoes.
A full description is written down of
every prisoner on arrival. This is done
by prison officers seated at small tables
close together. A score of men could be
crowded around hearing all another
prisoner said about his private affairs.
Some deliberately give false information
because others are listening in. It is a
most primitive arrangement but there is
no space in the reception room for im-
provement until a new one is built.
Q. What happens next, to a new
prisoner?
A. When all are ready, dressed and
descriptions taken, they are marched up
to the cookhouse. Here they are given
a meal and told which wing to go to.
The cookhouse clerk knows how many
beds are vacant and where.
Q. What happens to remand pris-
oners?
A. Three to a cell but their wing is
sewered. Actually they are treated to
worse conditions than sentenced men
being locked up in the cell for a longer
period each day. No work to do just
sit around a yard for five hours per
day. For 19 hours in each 24 they are
locked up. Some are on remand under
these conditions for months before
their case comes into court. If a remand
prisoner’s case is part heard and he has
to be in court again next day, he can
have a hot shower and a shave before
going to the cell to eat. If he is or was
a member of parliament or a policeman
he gets special red-carpet treatment by
being housed in the gaol hospital for the


night. This means a better bed and bet-
ter food. A policeman, whose case was
part heard, some months ago rode out
on the police van seated at the rear
with escorting officers and not herded
with the mob inside the van. I have seen
MPs, policemen, solicitors, accountants,
company executives, mayors and other
aldermen and many other types arrive
and depart. Many were transferred to
other gaols and camps. But all had to
pass through our hands in the recep-
tion room because here is where all
prisoners’ clothing is recorded and
stored. Each article is checked in his
presence when he arrives and checked
out when he is discharged or transferred.
Q. How many sentenced men arrive
in gaol in a year?
A. About 5000 per year went
through the Property Register in 1963-
1964 and 1965. Of these all were serv-
ing anything from eight days to life
sentences, but this figure includes some
who were sent in from other jails for
classification or medical treatment or
for observation.
In addition, almost the same number
is received each year serving seven days
or less. These are mostly the poor old
drunks who are in and out all the
time. Some are veterans of two world
wars. A clean-up and sobering-up
centre in the city is badly needed for
these men, who should not be sent to
A former prisoner in Long Bay gaol,
recently released after a two-year term,
answers questions about life and
death inside New South Wales’ biggest
prison.
gaol at all. Many of them have never
stolen a thing or done a wrong act in
their whole lives —, except get drunk.
Q. What impression of life in prison
has remained with you?
A. There is tragedy out there. Many
convicted men are divorced by their
wives or otherwise disowned by their
families. Most lose everything they pos-
sess car, home, even personal
clothing when they go to gaol. I have
seen grown men and young boys break
down and cry like babies when they
fully realised where they were. I have
seen a boy tearfully beg for permission
to ring his mother, but this is not
allowed. Some people hold the opinion
that the police will send phone messages
before a prisoner goes to gaol. But they,
apparently, rarely have the time or are
uot interested. Many men go to gaol
because they have not enough money
0n them to pay fines. In a lot of cases
a phone call to a relative or friend
would result in their release the same
day. But after the gaol day staff leaves
at 5 p.m. there is no chance of any-
thing being done until next day and
then the prisoner is told to go to his
minister of religion for help. There are
three Churches represented by chaplains
and they do try to help when requested.
But an on-the-spot welfare officer is ur-
gently required for this work. The Gov-
ernment would surely prefer fines to be
paid than have the expense of keeping
a prisoner in gaol. I have heard this ex-
pense to be £7O per prisoner per week.
At Long Bay there are 200 officers on
the staff, plus a large fleet of motor
vehicles, so the cost of running the place
can easily be imagined. Long Bay is not
a manufacturing gaol nor self-supporting
in any way. There are no workshops
making up clothing or shoes or any
other equipment used in the gaol. Every-
thing has to be brought in from Goul-
burn, Bathurst or Maitland or from out-
side suppliers. The production figures of
the only two workshops the mat shop
and the printing shop would be in-
finitesimal as a set-off against adminis-
tration costs of the whole institution.
This lack of workshops means that hun-
dreds of men are living bored and use-
less lives and hundreds of thousands of
man-hours, which could be profitably
employed, are wasted each year. The ad-
verse mental effect on the prisoners
themselves is too great to be calculated
in terms of money.
Q. Are all the prisoners allowed to
mix together?
A. All normal prisoners may associ-
ate. But there is definite segregation for
the “queers”, the “escapees” and the
“appellants”. Some of the “queers” are
most amusing. I saw two “girls” arrive
one Saturday afternoon, smartly dressed
in skirts, pastel-colored jumpers and
high-heeled shoes one wearing long
hair, the other a fashionable wig. Both
had shopping bags full of Saturday
morning purchases. When undressed it
was found that their false “breasts” con-
sisted of small balloons filled with water
and supported in a smartly cut bras-
siere. Both had been fined £5 or ten
days. Their clothing was listed in the
Property Register as a “quantity of
women’s clothing”. Later that day a
girl drove up ir a £2OOO Chev., paid
one’s fine and took “her” away. I think
the other one served “her” time. Many
of these “queers” come in to Long Bay
serving several months. Most of
them are sent away to Cooma gaol, but
just before I came out there were about
40 at the Bay. They are kept strictly
apart from all other prisoners.
Q. What do prisoners do at week-
ends?
A. Many work on Saturdays and
Sundays at essential work, making it a
seven-day week for cooks and wing
sweepers. Most of these men are paid
Is. or 2s. per week. For others there
is a picture show on Saturdays and
holidays. I never saw a show the whole
time I was there as we were open for
any business on Saturdays. There are
Church services on Sundays but basket-
ball for the boys under 23 years has
now been permitted and this game is
becoming popular. Most prisoners spend
the weekends in the yards playing cards,
chess or draughts. Radio is installed in
the cells now but many men switch their
speakers off after the news sessions be-
cause they can’t get the programmes they
prefer. Near-riot conditions were
building up recently because of dis-
satisfaction with the radio broadcasts but
this subsided when complaints filtered
through to the top and more popular
stations were put on. Believe it, or doubt
it, but tuneful melodies are preferred
to the so-called “pop” rubbish.
Q. W hat about visits to prisoners by
their friends?
A. Most primitive. On Saturdays and
holidays a large crowd arrives - as
many as 120 have been put through in
one day and all but eight at a time
have to stand around a barred cage
without shelter and talk to the men
through the bars. But he is not allowed
close to the cage. When the visit is over
I have heard little children tearfully
screaming out: “I want my Daddy.
Come home with us, Daddy,” and the
child is led away by its mother who
is also often in tears. I once saw a boy,
whose visit had expired, turn away from
the cage and then rush back to his girl-
friend to snatch a kiss through the bars.
The boy got a dressing-down from one
of the officers but seemed to think the
kiss was worth it.
Q. What happens in the case of
sickness? Do prisoners get good treat-
ment?
A. Two doctors and male nurses are
in regular attendance. Mild cases are
treated at the gaol hospital but serious
cases requiring an operation are sent out
to Prince Henry Hospital, Little Bay,
where a prisoner is treated just the same
as a civilian patient. I know of this be-
cause I became suddenly ill myself last
year and was rushed to Prince Henry
and operated oft the same night. This
very prompt action by the gaol medical
officer in sending me to Prince Henry
saved my life. The next day would have
been too late.


NCR 500 Series Computers are on their way...
. . . Out of the factory. To points all
over the world.
To commerce, industry, finance
and government.
The NCR 500 Series offers a solu-
tion to data processing and report-
ing for firms of varying size and
with widely divergent needs. Within
a given industry it can handle a tre-
mendous range of assignments. A
modest samplingwould be accounts
receivable, billing, disbursements,
government reports, costs, ac-
counts payable, sales reports, sched-
uling, and inventory. There are lit-
erally scores of applications that
your NCR representative would be
happy to fill you in on.
First announced in January ’65,
NCR 500 systems are setting rec-
ords for enthusiastic acceptance.
Why? Very simple.
NCR 500’s give more input, out-
put and processing capabilities
than any other low-priced computer
system on the market today.
Buyers get NCR’s unique “total
system” advantage . . . everything
from one manufacturer, from data
input through processing to output.
No costly translating operations.
They get NCR’s unique “all lan-
guages” capacity, too. (Input and
output on punch card, punch paper
tape, magnetic ledger card, and op-
tical print.)
And they get a system of un-
equalled flexibility. It works alone
or as a satellite to any other com-
puter systems. Even within the
system itself there’s expandable
flexibility.
So, in organizing the data re-
quired for efficient business opera-
tion, users of the NCR 500 Series
Computer get more than they can
get anywhere else for their money.
No wonder that for businesses of
every kind, NCR 500’s are on their
way .
' , -
' iiiiMl
. ' . - . ■ ■ . • i :
• k " ■ -rmw ■ ■ ■ - ■
' r ’* . • ■ - '“/■ ■ **-V. v ’ •.<*- ..
''' ' r J
' ■ ■. - . . . :
: ■ ■ -■■■ • m:- - - ■ - ■ « : ■ my :
. : • • -v ■ . •
. ■■ •
: ;■ Si
: ■■ ■■■ m ■ s? mmi
• • . y. - .
.-v •■■■'.
- : ' m ■ ■'
■: ■/. ;'■ ■ : si ■' ■ s j
\ m
; v.--
•!.y'
■
wsr£- ; -v.; ■'’■■■
- ■
' '••••■ r '\ -\ ' *y- . - ; ,
• . ■ ; •'' / ' v ; .... ■ ■ ■ v
■
■
%
■ ’•
•*» \
-. \: ■
:
h
Sv S •
•
is
\
%:■
:
' v’ '- i
■- ‘ :
;\- ,■<■■■. 1:.,'-v.
.. '■ . ■ ■ *:sT
. : ........
.
-
.
HELPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER 6O.PTY.LTO.
AM:«


GRAMP’S
ORLANDO
VINTAGE WINE
RECOMMENDATIONS
Each of the undermentioned
Vintage Wines is commended
by Orlando for special con-
sideration by all wine lovers.
1962 ORLANDO BLUE
RIBBON SPAETLESE
RIESLING.
A fruity, delicate, “late pick-
ing” Riesling with a pro-
nounced Rhine Riesling bou-
quet and sweet, crisp palate.
Made entirely from Rhine
Riesling grapes grown in the
hilly country of the Barossa
Valley in sandy, gravelly loam.
1964 ORLANDO BAROSSA
RIESLING.
Barossa Riesling has won more
awards than any other Aus-
tralian Riesling. This delicate
Riesling is cold and control
fermented immediately after
crushing to ensure a cool,
steady fermentation that pro-
duces the wine’s delicate nose
and clean, crisp, acid palate.
1962 ORLANDO BAROSSA
CABERNET.
This fine blend of Cabernet
Sauvignon and Hermitage is
matured in French oak for 18
months and then bottle aged.
It is a full bodied, red table
wine with a pronounced Caber-
net nose and soft, tannin finish.
ORLANDO 1947 VINTAGE
TAWNY PORT.
This superb Tawny is vintaged
from selected Shiraz, Carignan
and Mataro grapes grown in
one of the oldest vineyards in
the Barossa Valley. It is aged
for many years in small oak
casks to develop the rich, vel-
vety characteristics for which
it is renowned. Its predecessor
vintages have won many prizes
both in Australia and overseas.
G. Gramp and Sons Pty. Ltd.,
Orlando Vineyards, Barossa
Valley, South Australia, are
pleased to supply wine makers’
notes on their Vintage Wines
to wine clubs and " individual
wine lovers.
1071
THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
Pink or Blue?
. T the time when I really needed
\ her, of course, I didn’t know. That
i* somewhere in that great multi-
storeyed glass box, at which I used to
gaze from the ferry on my monthly visits
to the obstetrician, there lived a real,
live baby-sexer.
Her existence was revealed a few years
later by enthusiastic girl-friends who
worked with her. “You really ought to
have another one,” they kept saying.
“She’s absolutely
marvellous. You
don’t have to get un-
dressed or anything,
and she’s never
made a mistake yet.”
Still, they were, if
not actually single,
at least nulliparous,
and one tended to
dismiss the thing as just another bit of
office folklore.
For a start it seemed impossible that
she could tell just by looking, or even,
they said, sight unseen, as with certain
wives of executives who never set foot
in the office. According to the best
traditions, it was either done on a kind
of weight distribution theory (high or
low, out front or sideways) or a wedding
ring on the end of a string, the way
water diviners in the country look for
underground springs. Only in these
cases the gadget presumably picked up
chromosomes, and swung merrily clock-
wise or anti-clockwise.
Eventually there came the day when
I met the baby-sexer at an office party.
She was a large, motherly woman in her
fifties, with a kind face, looking quite
real over a gin and tonic, so it seemed
safe to say one had heard of her unique
powers. I had no immediate plans my-
self— unless she could tell about that
sort of thing, too but a friend a few
yards away was expecting her first
baby. What would it
be?
She looked uncom-
fortable. “Well,” she
said. “I know. But I
can’t tell you. You
see, she hasn’t asked,
and it might upset
her if other people
knew first. There’s
a sort of ethical thing about baby-sexing,
you know.”
With 50 successful predictions to her
credit, and no misses in five years, one
was inclined to believe she wasn’t
stalling. But it turned out to be sheer
precognition, or, perhaps, even a good
guess, since she wasn’t guided even by
dreams or extrasensory impulses. “I sup-
pose it is rather strange, considering the
work I do here,” she said later, shoving
aside a stack of consumer preference
statistics to unearth a picture of her four


SHOW WINES
YOU
CAN BUY FROM YOUR
HOTEL, CLUB,
RESTAURANT OR
LICENSED RETAILER.
Lindenian’s Show Record for the
second year in succession Lindeman’s
were awarded the trophy for The
Most Successful Exhibitor at the Aus-
tralian Championship Wine Show
1965 Royal Melbourne Show — 1964
Adelaide Wine Show.
S*f*
:
PRIVATE BIN WINES
PRIVATE BIN MOSELLE BIN It,
VINTAGE 1964
A light, fragrant wine with a soft, fruity,
appealing palate, made from Riesling
grapes grown in the Hunter River and
Clare Valleys. Awarded SILVER MEDAL
1964 Adelaide Championship Wine Show,
BRONZE MEDAL 1965 Sydney Show, in
the Table Dry White Export classes.
PRIVATE BIN CLARET BIN 45,
VINTAGE 1963
This wine was made from Red Hermitage
grapes grown in the Hunter River, Clare
and Goulburn Valleys, and is a product
of Lindeman's "Ben Ean" Cellars where it
was matured in small oak casks. Bin 45 is
a lightish Claret with a strong, attractive
flavour and an easy-to-drink character. It
is an ideal accompaniment to all meat
dishes, and may be safely binned away
for many years.
llndeman's
grandchildren. She has worked for the
last five years as a national superviser
for a big market research firm, and
naturally has no time for optimistic
hunches in working hours.
It started about six years ago when
her daughter was expecting her first
baby. “She wanted a son, you see, and
one day when I was in Coles’ I bought
a rattle. I said blue, please, because it’s
a boy. The friend I was with thought
I was crazy, but I just knew, even then.
“By this stage they were taking bets on
it in the office here, and when it actually
was a boy there was a tremendous rush.
I got a son for the general manager
and a son for another senior manage-
ment man, plenty of both sexes for
office girls and women executives, and
then a girl for my own daughter.”
After her daughter had produced a
girl, it was her son’s turn. “I knew he
wanted a boy, but the odds seemed
against it because his wife came from an
all-girl family,” she said. “He went away
in a kind of stunned disbelief, but I
played my hunch and bought a blue
baby-suit anyway. The word went
around the office like hot cakes. I felt
frightened to death with so many people
depending on me, but it worked.”
Sometimes she could tell with race-
horses, but lately she’d had a run of bad
luck. And with poker machines the
results were pretty patchy. But on the
other hand she could tell with lifts, at
least in her own building.
Whatever it was, she wished it would
fail, because she couldn’t stand the ten-
sion. “I certainly never had the gift, or
whatever it is, until my daughter had
her first baby,” she said. The most
frightening thing of all was to be able
to tell without seeing.
Still, no one had ever been known to
be upset at getting what she’d predicted.
They accepted it quietly. At one time
she’d thought she could tell if people
were pregnant—“it’s something to do
with the look in their eye” but she
didn’t make predictions on that score.
“It’s too risky,” she said, remembering
her statistical training. “At least a baby
stays what it is. It won’t change its sex
just because I say it’s one or the other.
But there are times when I wish it
would.”
As far as she knew, no one in her
family had ever had any kind of occult
powers. She was born in Grafton, came
to Sydney in 1939, and had married
twice. For 15 years she had worked
with the company, sticking to her statis-
tics and objective analysis like any good
market researcher. But there it was—a
genuine psychic gift. She took out a
batch of photographs of her four grand-
children from her wallet and grew en-
thusiastic over them, like any other
doting grandmother. “She’s expecting an-
other boy in February,” she said, in-
dicating her daughter.
Grandmothers have their drawbacks,
but if they can manage to give you the
right-colored rattles five times out of five,
you can forgive them a lot.
JAN SMITH
WINES TO BUY
Kaiser-Stuhl’s Diploma
By CELLARMASTER
lITe are always comparing our wines
with others. Good fun, but what
does it mean? A great Hunter is a
wonderful wine, similar to, yet distinct
from, anything else in the world. If
you’re going to compare, do it the right
way. You have to have a glass in each
hand. And more often than not there
are several lots to compare. Therefore,
comparisons are envious.
The point is that for so long overseas
wines were the standard. And
although the top-vintage first clas-
sification Bordeaux ($ 10-plus a
bottle) and non-stretched vineyard
Bourgognes are still wonderful
wines, times are a-changing!
In 1964 Gramps assaulted the
citadel and exhibited at the Mont-
pellier Show in the South of France
at the Institute of Wine Research and
Oenology. They won seven awards, I
think it was, including a Grand Gold
Medal.
This year, among others, Kaiser-Stuhl
had a go! Now, as I’ve told you before,
this is the trade name of the wines made
at the South Australian Co-operative in
the heart of the Barossa. All the mem-
bers grow their own grapes and then sell
them to their own winery for processing.
George Kolarovich, a charming and
ebullient Slav, does the rest.
The wines are made in large quantities
and from these the Show entries are
drawn. I’ve recommended in earlier
columns the ’62 Claret which won two
local Gold Medals and the ’63 Claret
which gained one. Now, at Montpellier
this year, they’ve both won the highest
award, the Diploma of Honor! Hurrah
for Australia, hurrah for Kaiser-Stuhl,
hurrah for Cellarmaster, and hurrah for
everyone.
In addition, the ’65 Claret got
another Diploma and they secured
six Grand Gold Medals, four Gold
Medals and a Silver. Fourteen
awards out of 34 to Australia, from
a total of 244 awards out of 1000
entries from all over the world.
Incidentally, Gramps, the first
Australian company to enter this
Show, were also awarded Diplomas of
Honor for three fortified wines, the 1947
vintage tawny, and their Gold Medal
liqueur muscat and mature sweet sherry.
Their Cabernet, a round, fruity wine with
very appealing flavor, vintaged in 1962,
got a Grand Gold Medal and they had
several other awards as well. Seppelts also
got Gold Medals for their brandy and
pale dry sherry.
And all the wines are available com-
mercially!


NEW MM OLD Wltil
Pilafi
■”
■ ,v.; "
■
:
■•" .
L '
m
m
H
You’re invited to a tasting at 32,000 feet.
Room temperature ideal. Foods superb. Back-
ground of good music to your personal choos-
ing. Because every detail of a PAL flight East
must be to connoisseur standards. Or we’re
not satisfied. Our sherries are English. Whites
Italian and French. Our liqueur, rum and
cigars, Philippines. Our champagne—vintage
stock! The Australian red we’re adding to our
list is very special, too. We won’t say which,
because the wine list, like our in-flight enter-
tainment, is a discovery in store. On all flights
to the East, and the world. You’re invited any
Tuesday or any Thursday at 0945 precisely.
EUROPE VIA TOKYO
TAIPEI
EUROPE.
HONG
k-KONG
EUROPE
VIA BANGKOK
SAN FRANCISCO
wmmtmm
HONOLULU
SINGAPORE
!■■■■*
EUROPE
• SYDNEY'
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
-*m
For PAL flight schedules, and Philippines tour infor-
mation, see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Cnr. Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane.
140 North Terrace, Adelaide. 98 Williams Street, Perth.
62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra. 178 Liverpool
Street, Hobart, 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NAME
ADDRE55...,....,..,,
MY TRAVEL AGENT,
PHONE,
•9.08


TWO
FROM GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
THAILAND
AT the end of 1964,
Peking announced
the advent of a
“Liberation War” and
a “Liberation Front” in
Thailand. Scarcely
noticed so far in the
Western Press, the cam-
paign has in fact begun.
As General Prapas,
Minister of the Interior,
put it recently: “The
Communists previously
only carried out infiltration and propa-
ganda but now they are fighting the
police, seizing remote villages, ordering
the villagers to work for them, and train-
ing them in the use of firearms.”
To someone who has been visiting
Thailand fairly regularly since 1954 the
situation is eerily exasperating. The
same things are being said confidently
in Bangkok today as were being said,
confidently, in 1953: the Government is
going to assimilate the long-since-Com-
munist-controlled Vietnamese minority
along the Thai bank of the Mekong; the
Government is going to develop the arid,
isolated North East; the Government has
the NE Communist problem under
control.
Some members of the Vietnamese
community are exiles from the ill-fated
Nghe-An Soviet (the first in SE Asia)
of 1930; many took part in the struggle
against the French. The community is
so well organised that it can undercut
Thai contractors for government con-
struction works. As long ago as 1958,
during the change in regime in Bangkok,
it showed its political skills, demonstrat-
ing against the authorities, using screens
of women to surround police stations. It
even conducts its after-school-hours
Vietnamese schools. It is proposed to
erect a barbed-wire fence along the
Mekong bank of this Nongkai area, 144
miles of frontier, which is the granary
for Laos’s troubled capital of Vientiane.
But the enemy is already within.
Besides, there is the long frontier with
Laos running south. Southern Laos is
being used as a training ground by the
Vietminh and Pathet-Lao for operations
in Thailand. The North Easterners of
Thailand are Lao-speakers, resentful of
years of neglect, friendly towards the
glutinous rice-eating “cousins” across the
Mekong. Guns are coming across the
frontier, Chinese and Russian weapons
having already been captured, and en-
tering the heartland of the North East
by a number of different routes. Ele-
ments of the Vietminh Special Force 44
are believed to have crossed from Thak-
hek. The assassination of village officials,
invariable prelude to the slow escalation
of the struggle, is increasingly being
reported.
This is no “spontaneous peasant
rising”. The Communists are working
through the usual front apparatuses, the
“Unionists”, the “Pracheachon (People’s)
Party”, “People’s Mobile Development”
(this last a clear response to the Govern-
ment’s Mobile Development Units),
“Solidarity Movement”, “Mass Develop-
ment Group”, etc. The propaganda
methods are the same as usual: charging
the Government with oppression, criticis-
ing Government taxes, accusing the
Government of being “a slave of the
Americans”, appealing to a regional,
potentially separatist sentiment. As Air
Chief Marshal Dawee said, “Communist
guerrilla warfare has begun on a small,
restricted scale and is at present only
fragmentary in nature.” (It always seems
to be during this phase, though in fact
it would never have reached this stage
unless the political infrastructure had
first been established.) But he admitted
that the Communists were acting pur-
posefully, retreating “strategically”, ac-
cording to Mao. Moreover, there are
ominous signs that the provincial ad-
ministrations are encountering the old
problem of anti-insurgents: the presence
“everywhere and nowhere” of the guer-
rillas based on a superior intelligence
apparatus and local indoctrination, which
provides superior mobility. There are
already complaints that as soon as the
mobile Government information teams
leave a village “the agitators return to
give their answers to the Government’s
message”.
No, it is not a “spontaneous peasant
rising” but there is no doubt whatsoever
that 10 years of neglect have allowed
the Communists to prepare their ground,
as they have been preparing since as far
back as 1955 at least, without let or
hindrance from the social point of view.
The, until recently incorrigibly urban-
orientated educated class (as in Burma
and South Vietnam), have looked upon
service in the country as an awful exile.
The problems of the North East have
endlessly been talked about; but until the
last year disgracefully little has been
done about them.
A great deal of the blame must also
be placed on the SEATO mentality; the
pretty manoeuvres of warships, the
equipping of forces to meet a phase of
the revolutionary guerrilla struggle com-
parable with the bloody, all-out war
being fought in Vietnam today, the big
promises of massive support from “great
and powerful friends”. While the slick
hotels mushroomed in Bangkok and tele-
vision sets proliferated there, it was not
until late 1965 that a 100 kW trans-
mitter was set up to match the Peking,
Hanoi, and the clandestine “Voice of
Thailand” transmitters which up till now
have had the thousands upon thousands
of village transistors to themselyes.
During the last year or so the Govern-
ment’s Mobile Development units have
done good work in civil engineering,
medical pilot projects, hygiene and so on,
The Army has got in on the “civic
action” business. Schools have been
erected. Feeder roads to develop the
backblock economies have been built—
the Australian team has built 150 kilo-
metres —and irrigation dams have been
dug. These are good activities; so was
the workshop recently opened by Mr
Hasluck. But they are activities that
should have been under way 10 years
ago.
It is ominous indeed to hear officials
talking about the “necessity to provide
security for the villagers first” before
their rural society can be properly de-
veloped; it is frightening to encounter
this insouciance late in 1965: “The
Government has become aware of the
Communist danger at this early stage in
its development. In South Vietnam the
danger was recognised too late.” This
is most emphatically not an early stage
in the development of revolutionary guer-
rilla warfare. It is the Government, not
the Communists, who are talking in
terms of Accelerated Rural Development
and “crash programmes”.
It is true that the police are still
regarded as “responsible for security at
the present stage of the development of
the Communist plan for aggression
against Thailand”; that Thai counter-
intelligence has usually been good; and
that the regimental teams of the Third
Division at Udorn and Übol, trained in
counter-insurgency and aided by the air*
bornes at Lopburi, are standing by. This
is all to the good in its way. But one
wonders strongly whether the situation is
not much more serious than is realised
in Bangkok by officialdom, Western as
well as Thai.
Moreover, it is difficult not to have
great reservations about Prime Minister
Thanom Kittikachorn’s speech of Decem-
ber 12, in which, he after frankly admit-
ting that “the subversive aggression
against Thailand has been intensified an
stating that “we have increased the
strength of the administrative officials an
police, the efficiency of the army h fl j
been improved . . .”, he then said t 2
Thailand “has tightened relations vvi
trustworthy allies, and we are satishe


that if open aggression is committed
against us there will be adequate forces
to defend us” and that for indirect
aggression “the unity of the Thai people
will be essential in defeating it”.
All the weaknesses of an inadequate
appreciation of the meaning of revolu-
tionary guerrilla warfare are contained
in that speech. The last-minute increase in
police and administrators, the nudging of
the “great and powerful friends”, and the
fatuous reference to a unity of the Thai
people which Bangkok governments over
more than a decade have done practically
nothing whatsoever to forge. However,
it was pleasant to read that provincial
administrators were being called into
Bangkok for training in electoral pro-
cedures; there has not been an election
for eight years, so they must be a bit
out of practice.
CAMBODIA
HP HE first impression
A upon entering Phnom
Penh after 11 years is
that of amazement at
how effectively Prince
Norodom has trans-
formed the French
small-town meanness of
yesteryear into a sweep-
ing city of wide, im-
maculately clean boule-
vards. Then one notices
the names of the most
recent—Charles de Gaulle, Tito, Mao
Tse-tung, U.S.S.R., Pologne, Tscheeoslo-
wackie (and Nehru, too, but he is dead)
—and a little suspicion begins to enter
the mind: was the revoltingly crude ap-
proaeh-of “Time” and “Newsweek” per-
haps politically understandable?
An exploration of the markets and a
rst glance through the glossy magazine
Kambuja”, of which the Prince is
editorial writer, is scarcely reassuring.
n the markets the stalls are festooned
wdh New Year calendars decorated with
photographs of the Prince in the widest
imaginable ran § e of dress, from soldier
° monk. The issues of “Kambuja”, pro-
yi ed the editorials are not read,
reinforce this impression. There he is,
,^ a ' n ar| d again: in a floppy wide-brim-
i- hat “taking part in harvest work”;
1Q su it inspecting bulls at a show;
in royal regalia “ploughing the sacred
furrow” according to immemorial Hindu
rites; in another floppy hat, knocking a
nail into a prefabricated house; and then
presiding over a Buong ceremony “in
order to end a drought”. A musical
score appears on a page “Seduction”,
by the Prince.
By the time one has taken time off
for a drink at the chief hotel and found
oneself talking with Hanoi’s chief West-
ern propagandist, Wilfred Burchett of
Melbourne, the visitor, conditioned by
the usually malevolent and/or scathing
sections of the Western Press, is ready
to wonder whether, after all, Prince
Norodom may not be a mixture of silly
showoff and sinister “cold war” oper-
ator. But on closer inspection this proves
not to be the case at all. Of course, as
a partly Chinese, dynamically “Western-
ised” leader of a very non-combative
people whom he is trying to lift by their
bootstraps and his own practical ener-
gies, Prince Norodom, one of the hard-
est-working heads of state anywhere, is
something of a one-man band. That he
is this also owes something to his often
overly-sensitive self-confidence; to the
dearth of effective second-rank leaders;
and to a distrust of party-politics which
in the past he saw as “tearing the country
apart”.
But the more one considers his philo-
sophy of action the more fascinating he
becomes. It is not, of course, possible to
separate the man from the leader. When,
for example, he stridently complains
about the Crown Prince of Morocco
having received six New York police
motor-cycle outriders to his four on one
occasion, the identification with his own
headship of state is clearly very per-
sonal indeed. Indeed one of the reasons
for his unhappy relations with the West-
ern Press, is, as a very shrewd observer
pointed out, that he writes to the Press
as a journalist but receives their com-
ments as head of state. This is but part
of the human quality of the Prince,
which is sometimes charming, sometimes
irritating. As another shrewd observer
suggested, he is both Oriental ruler and
cultivated “French” gentleman; and
sometimes it is difficult to decide which
role he is in.
Moreover, he is overly sensitive to
criticism in a fashion that, enchantingly,
is both disarming and flamboyantly
alarming: “I am a Buddhist. But I am
very Khmer, too; that is to say, very
sensitive to injustice and insults. I con-
sciously accept, therefore, for the sake
of preserving my personal honor and
more especially the honor of my coun-
try, to jeopardise my chances of reach-
ing Nirvana, supreme felicity and defini-
tive deliverance.” But his quirks of char-
acter must not be allowed to disguise
the fact that he acts according to cer-
tain intelligible, carefully-thought-out
considerations about Cambodia’s place
in the world.
The first and fundamental point under-
lying Prince Norodom’s attitude to inter-
national affairs is the fact that he heads
a once-powerful imperial race, now six
million strong, but reduced in the nine-
teenth century by Thai and Vietnamese
martial expansion to less than a million.
The urban complex of the Khmer capital
covers something like the area of metro-
politan Paris. He is wedded to ensuring
the physical survival of a people whose
decline has been long.
This vision has certain political con-
sequences. Believing that “it is due to
these nationalist sentiments that Khmer
minorities still survive ethnically still
pure in some uncanny way in South
Vietnam and Thailand” as well as with-
in Cambodia, Sihanouk is a perfervid
nationalist. Concerned at the way such
terms as “Free World” and “Afro-Asian-
ism” have lost any meaningfulness, sin-
cerely arguing that “those who pretend
to have rejected nationalism are, I shall
make bold to say, hypocrites”, believing
in a “law of gravity that confines men
within the allegedly narrow limits of a
native land and a specific race”, Prince
Norodom sees himself as following a
specifically Cambodian line based on
what one might call survivalism and a
principle of reciprocation. Every
foreign country is treated according to
how he believes it is treating Cambodia.
For example, Australia today represents
Cambodian interests in Saigon, despite
the fact that Australian troops are fight-
ing the Vietcong, whom Norodom sup-
ports morally and medically.
Here, obviously, Norodom’s line of
reasoning is challenged in the West on
strictly logical grounds, thus: if Noro-
dom views, as he indisputably does view,
Thailand and Vietnam as Cambodia’s
historic and natural enemies, why then
support an attempt to unify Vietnam? It
seems clear that Norodom, for the time
being, places importance on keeping the
friendship of his enemies’ natural
enemy, Communist China, which means
adopting the stance of morally support-
ing the North Vietnamese-Vietcong
cause without ever involving his
country in the war.
This is becoming a very difficult
manoeuvre to sustain because of the
nature of Cambodia’s long frontier with
South Vietnam. The role of the Cam-
bodian Army, some 20,000 strong now,


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE^
AVIS
RENTA CAR
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
§
FLY AND DRIVE It's time-saving . . . money-saving . . .
worry free! There’s no waiting with Avis. Step out of the plane, into
your car and off! Drive one of the great new Falcons or other fine cars
of the Avis fleet. It's the jet age way to travel. Book your Avis car
when you book your flight. Avis honours Ansett-ANA credit cards.
VNVU3SNV
A VIS RENT A CAR
1 396/83/63
but in receipt of equipment from China
sufficient for 29,000 men and Chinese
arms for 20,000 men, is primarily that
of leaders in “civic construction’’ work,
secondly sport, and only thirdly soldier-
ing. Even with the para-military forces
of larger size, the army could not pos-
sibly seal the frontier. As a result there
have been repeated charges in Saigon
and Bangkok that the Ho Chi-minh trail
is “permitted” to cross N.E. Cambodia;
that its jungle border areas offer sanc-
tuary for North Vietnamese and Viet-
cong forces; and that arms for these
forces are landed at the port of Sihanouk-
viile, whence they are carried into South
Vietnam, possibly along ancient smug-
gling routes.
Certain things must be said about
these charges. None of them has been
proved; some of them almost certainly
could never be proved nor disproved. All
these things could have happened with-
out the connivance of the Cambodian
Government. For the Cambodian Gov-
ernment actively to have assisted such
traffic would have been drastically to
undermine the whole basis of Cam-
bodian neutralism and to risk the
destruction of Cambodia’s dream of
living at peace. And this, after all, is
Norodom’s chief concern.
At this point it is necessary to con.
sider two things: Norodom’s attitude to-
wards warfare and towards the advance
of communism. Though Norodom was
prepared to use force to rid Cambodia
of Vietminh and Vietminh-controlled Lao
Issarak forces in the past —on grounds
of nationalism, not anti-communism
that was as far as he was ever prepared
to go; and given his policy, perfectly
logically. But though he struggled diplo-
matically to free Cambodia from the re-
turning French (from 1946 onwards), he
was throughout determined that this
struggle should not become allied with
the Vietminh.
Now this unwillingness to involve his
people in violence shapes his attitude to-
wards communism; and the two things
taken together explain his bitter dislike
of what he sees as the West’s attempt to
involve Cambodia in the anti-communist
struggle. His attitude to communism is
not in the least based on ignorance: his
description of Vietminh revolutionary
guerrilla tactics in Cambodia in the past
is a masterpiece of clear comprehension.
But' he believes that communism must
win in South-East Asia and so: “What
I am aiming at is to ensure that
my beloved Kampuchea (Cambodia)
is granted the maximum of UN-
TROUBLED years, months and days, be-
fore the advent of communism, and that
my country is able to preserve intact all
achievements, together with all the ad-
vances, made during this lapse of time.”
This belief may prove to be ill-
founded politically; but it can scarcely
be regarded as ignoble. Nor is he
naive about his own future in such cir-
cumstances: “I have never had the
slightest illusion on the fate that awaits
me at the hands of the Communists, as
well as that which is reserved for ‘my’
Government, after having removed from
our region the influence, and especially
the presence, of the ‘free world’, and
the USA in particular . . .”
Prince Norodom not only deserves to
have his policy carefully understood and
his person and those of his family pro-
tected from such vicious attacks as they
have gratuitously had inflicted upon them
in the past; the West should ask itself a
simple question about Cambodia: apart
from the unsolved border question
(where the onus of proof must lie with
those who make the charges), what is
Prince Norodom’s policy doing in a
way significantly to detract from the
effort being made in Vietnam? The
regularly reiterated Western intention of
waging a limited war in Vietnam surely
involves as a corollary exercising the
greatest care to see that it remains
limited elsewhere tor


FREE!
Free time off in
duty-free Hong Kong!
1
*
Wi
Stop to shop
as you jet
BOAC
Who can resist the appeal of
a free port? Especially if it’s
as exotically colourful as
Hong Kong. So many un-
believable bargains! Fly there
by BOAC and stop-off for
the time of your life.
After your shopping spree,
you can choose any one of
BOAC’s daily jet flights to
Europe or Japan. Spacious
Rolls-Royce 707’s whisk you
there in tdtal comfort. What
a wonderful way to do it!
And your Hong Kong stop-
over adds not a penny (or a
cent!) to your air fare.
Talk it over with your Travel
Agent, BOAC Sales Office
or Qantas (BOAC’s General
Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD
BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BOAC
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
with Air India, Qantas and Air New Zealand
11814
A63.AU.107.855c


ysJ&ffSSStSStiX
fill
■
■
1
Pi
pP§ll
smm "■: §
i. i
SHOPKEEPERS! SPACEMEN!
So many people throughout the world rely on Burroughs
78 years ago, William Burroughs invented the first practical
key-driven adding machine. Today, Burroughs produces the
most complete range of adding machines in the world. But that
is only part of the story only part of Burroughs role in
furthering human advancement in business, industry and
space exploration.
Today, Burroughs is a world leader in the electronic computer
field. So much so that in over 285 space or launch vehicle
firings it was a giant complex of Burroughs-created, designed
and operated computers which plotted and controlled their
successful flight through the “key hole” to space.
Burroughs and every manned space flight. Burroughs
and the airborne early warning defence system covering the
Northern American continent. Burroughs and weather fore-
casting. Burroughs and mail handling for the U.S. Postal
Authorities. Burroughs and miniaturised data computers
for the Polaris nuclear submarine programme. Burroughs —•
and you. Your banking. Your pay cheque. So many people
rely on Burroughs. In 125 different countries in the largest
factories and probably, too, at the little shop down at
the corner.
©
Burroughs
8U217


LETTERS
The Lucky Square
SIR. —I am getting sick and tired of
reading in The Bulletin attacks on al-
leged views of mine that are in fact not
views of mine at all. (See letters from
Professor Rigby and Mr Sparkes.)
Peter Coleman now says that “The
Lucky Country” is the classic text for
what he describes as “Shock Therapy”
republicanism. He supports this by
presenting a travesty of what I said
and by attributing to Lucky
Country”— either directly or by exten-
sion—views that are in contradiction to
what is in fact said in that book. There
is not space to go through all this in
detail, but I should like to quote two
passages from “The Lucky Country” to
establish the fact that I am not as nutty
as readers of Coleman’s pieces might
take me to be.
“How Australia will become a repub-
lic, and when, is not predictable. How-
ever, one knows that the older genera-
tions, to whom such a change is un-
thinkable, are going to die, and that in
the younger generations there is likely
to be little interest in preserving Aus-
tralia as a monarchy. ... It will be-
come politically practicable to make this
break; all that is needed is some push
from events, some dramatic reason for
making it. No one can tell what that
push might be, but it will be pushing
against a lightly locked door.”
“Acceptance of the changes of tech-
nology, involvement with Asia, the shock
(when it comes) of declaring Australia a
republic: these possible events could set
things moving again in Australia. Some-
thing else seems needed: accommodation
on top to some of the values of ordinary
Australians.”
It should be pretty obvious from this
that in “The Lucky Country” I did not
say (as Coleman suggests I did) that a
republican movement should be launched
forthwith, thereby dividing the Australian
people and causing a salutary shock of
re-orientation: I suggested a rather con-
servative approach that forces are
evolving in our society that will (some
time) make the constitutional break with
Britain politically practicable and that it
will occur when events make it seem
reasonable. (The kind of events I have
m mind are combinations such as British
entry into the Common Market, the col-
lapse of the Commonwealth, British with-
drawal from South-East Asia, perhaps a
prior republican decision in Canada.) It
18 the shock that would occur at this
time, viz., after Australia becomes a re-
public, that I regard as a “shock of
re-orientation”, not an attempted engin-
eering of a state of crisis right now.
(Although I have no objection to the
latter in some other fields —notably in
attitudes to technology and to Asia.)
And I believe that this shock, combined
with other shocks, will make Australia
a different place, with a greater possi-
bility of awareness of what its “prob-
lems” are. In general, my view has
more to do with Coleman’s category of
Squares than with the category of Shock
Therapists that he invented so that he
could shove me into it.
DONALD HORNE
Double Bay (NSW).
Dr Cairns
SIR. Brian Buckley considers that the
chapter on Indonesia in Dr Cairns’ book,
“Living With Asia”, can only be des-
cribed as “silly” (8., Jan. 15). I cannot
agree. On one problem alone, that of
West Irian, Dr Cairns manages to write
more commonsense in one paragraph (an
able summary of Indonesia’s physical
identity) than I have seen in literally
hundreds of editorials during the last
16 years.
In my opinion Dr Cairns errs some-
what in his assessment of the Com-
munist (Marxist) influence on the In-
donesian independence movement, but
does so towards a conservative line which
is in strange contrast with your re-
viewer’s repetitive abuse of Dr Cairns
as a “victim partly of Marxist ideology
and partly of Communist propaganda”.
The tone of Mr Buckley’s reproaches is
depressingly familiar to anybody who
has ever opposed European attitudes on
problems in Asia or Africa, where
colonialism and contempt are held to be
synonymous. But there is always com-
fort to be derived from the fact that
books with “silly” chapters published
many years ago have now acquired con-
siderable respectability or even fame.
JAN HEKKENBERG
Tahunanui, Nelson ( NZ ).
PAPUA AND THIBET
feuLLetin
80 Years Ago: February 13, 1886
W HEN the German seizure of some ad-
jacent island and a portion of New
Guinea sent our neighbors into hysterics,
our chief regret was that Great Britain
took the trouble to obtain any footing in
Papua. No wilder scheme was ever prom-
ulgated than that of strengthening our
position by annexing distant lands while
at home we had, untrodden by the foot
of white man, an extent of country equal
in area to all the great Powers of Europe,
omitting Russia. A populous, federated,
and independent Australia must become
the dominant power in the Southern
Hemisphere, even if she owned no foot x
of land out of sight of her shores. When
we hear, therefore, of the French inten-
tion to annex the New Hebrides, the news
gives us about as much concern as that
of a Chinese raid on Thibet.
“East Lynne”
SIR. —ln the second paragraph of the
article written by Phillip Adams (8.,
Jan. 22) it is stated that “Philip Stainton
opened a theatre-restaurant and invited
people to throw peanuts at ‘East Lynne’.”
This statement is wrong as it was Mr
George Miller who opened this theatre-
restaurant in Melbourne and presented
“East Lynne”. Philip Stainton was em-
ployed as his producer.
GAY LAWRENCE
George Miller Enterprises Pty Ltd.
Neutral Bay (NSW).
Vietnam’s Impersonal War
Slß.—Bernard Fall is perhaps the
leading American authority on Vietnam,
and is an adviser to the US Government
in this connection. He is neither Left-
wing nor anti-American. The following
are some excerpts from an article he
wrote late last year after first-hand
observation of the character of the war
in Vietnam (“The Vietnam Blitz: A Re-
port on the Impersonal War.” “The New
Republic,” October 9, 1965).
Fall reports: “There are hundreds of
perfectly well-substantiated stories to the
effect that the merciless bombing (within
South Vietnam) hurt thousands of inno-
cent bystanders and that one of the
reasons why few weapons are found in
many cases is that the heaps of dead in
the battle zone include many local vil-
lagers who didn’t get away in time. . . .
. . The usual reply to all this is
that the Communists, too, kill civilians.
They murder local officials (over 400
since January, 1965), bombed the US
Embassy, hit a Saigon restaurant with a
mine which killed and maimed over 20
people, and so on. That is perfectly true.
But their ability to do harm is im-
measurably smaller than that of the
other side, and there is no doubt in
anyone’s mind, and that includes Intelli-
gence specialists in Saigon, that the VC
are deliberately keeping terrorism at a
low level because of its psychologically
adverse effects.”
Mr Hasluck is widely respected as a
man of high moral sensibility. It is
difficult to understand how this sensi-
bility has allowed him to brush off refer-
ences to torture, etc., in Vietnam in the
manner he has so far done. The present


RECORD YEAR
FORTHET.&G.
£101,000.000 NEW BUSINESS
:raOO.MO ASSURANCES IN FORCE
£234.000,000 ASSETS
1965 ANNUAL REPORT
The 89th Annual Report of the T. & G.
Mutual Life Society reveals excellent
results for the Society’s policyholders.
INCREASED BONUSES A surplus of £9,800,762 53
shown in the report. This will provide for
increased bonuses to policyholders
for the 12th successive year.
NEW BUSINESS The Society experienced
its best year ever as £101,320,055 of new
business was written in the Life Departments.
SERVICE TO THE PUBLIC The Society places
the greatest importance on rendering the utmost
service to its members and during the year
£17,015,613 was paid to policyholders
and beneficiaries.
SUPERANNUATION A large number of
industrial and commercial organizations took
advantage of the splendid benefits
and conditions available under T. & G. Staff
Superannuation and Group Assurance Schemes.
fZ lours
J for
tife 1
tAtutual Jl/c Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Ufa
Assurance Society Limited.
(Incorporated in Victoria, 1876)
campaign by President Johnson to ob-
tain peace and/or a better public image
for the war in Vietnam is surely an op-
portune moment for Mr Hasluck to raise
the possibility of a meeting between rep-
resentatives of the US and its allies in
Vietnam to discuss the prevention of tor-
ture and unnecessary brutality. If our
subordinate position does not allow such
an initiative, Mr Hasluck could at least
arrange that we ourselves set some sort
of example by following Bernard Fall’s
proposal and ensuring that our troops,
at least, are fully instructed both in their
rights and in their obligations under the
Geneva Convention,
H. S. BLANKS, A. E. CAREY,
I. FIRTH, A. FISCHER,
I. MORRISON, W. SPARKES.
University of NSW.
Dr Davidson 's North
SIR. In spite of Mr McGrath’s reading
my article twice, I’m afraid I must ask
him to read it once more (8., Dec. 18).
I think he will find that I did not sug-
gest that any Australian rural industry
should be abolished. I simply pointed
out that it was poor economic policy to
expand rural industries which required
subsidies when scarce resources could be
used to expand unsubsidised rural pro-
duction. I might also point out that the
subsidies quoted by me for crops growm
under irrigation do not include any
charge for capital works supplied by the
State.
Mr McWilliam appears to suggest that
rural settlement has been hindered by
academics, and quotes the settlement in
the wheat belt in the 1890£ and early
1900 s as an example. At the same time
he claims that this settlement succeeded
because farmers realised the need few
fallowing and of applying superphosphate
to wheat. The use of superphosphate as
a fertiliser for Australian wheat was first
advocated by Professor Cunstance, of
Roseworthv Agricultural College, before
1870.
If Mr McWilliam is suggesting that
any rural settlement which is attempted
will be successful he is sadly mistaken.
The failure of the Group Settlement
Scheme in Western Australia, and of the
many attempts at closer settlement in the
Northern Territory, including the recent
failure at Humpty Doo, are evidence.
B. R. DAVIDSON
Senior Lecturer in
Agricultural Economics,
University of Sydney.
Sydney (NSW).
SIR. — Amid his strictures on “The
Northern Myth” (8., Jan. 22) Douglas
C. Tilghman calls Dr Davidson a pro-
fessional geographer and makes his book
typify the economic geography taught
at Australia’s major seat of learning.
Since Dr Davidson is well known to be
attached to The University of Sydney,
and since it is improbable that the Uni-
versity offers economic geography out-
side the Geography Department, these
remarks seem intended to cast a slur
on that department. If so, they are
misdirected. Dr Davidson is not a
member of the Geography staff, nor does
he partake in the department’s teaching.
His sole connection with that depart-
ment, of which I am aware, concerns the
generous advice which he supplied to an
honors candidate who, during 1966,
was working in the North.
I wish to emphasise that, in making
this correction, I am not associating my-
self with your correspondent’s adverse
criticism. Not yet having read the book,
or heard it discussed by those who have,
I am in no position to speak. I am,
however, generally aware that in past
years much nonsense has been written
about Northern possibilities; and if this
is what Dr Davidson is challenging, he
deserves all possible support.
G. H. DURY
Professor of Geography,
University of Sydney.
Sydney ( NSW ).


! S.i
r
$
t"" f!
■
■
I
■
FUJI ELECTRIC
Performance Proven Superiority!
Fuji Electric’s research, tech-
nology, and acute awareness of
the demands of progress have
played an important role in the
remarkable development and
industrial growth of Australia. A
complete line of quality Fuji
Electric products, from the giant
water turbine (above) to minute
diode, are exported to Australia
and other modern countries hav-
ing a need for electrical pro-
ducts proven superior by out-
standing performance!
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC COXTDI (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Out of the 19th Century
New directions in musical education
By DAVID SALTER
The problem which faces music
education in this country is basic-
ally the same as that of education
in any of the Arts. Developments at the
frontier of the major forms of expres-
sion—music, literature, painting—nur-
tured by the sophistication and effici-
ency of our systems of communication,
rapidly outstrip the capacity of old edu-
cational programmes to assimilate recent-
ly explored forms and subjects. This
alienation between practice and theory is
a fascinating study, but the uncomforting
conclusion which must be drawn is that
never in the history of art has this dis-
tinction been so damagingly widespread.
The methods and scope of music edu-
cation in Australia were until recently,
and still are in several States, virtually
unaltered replicas of their early 19th-
century British model. (This was, even
then, outmoded.) But such conservatism
and blatant disregard for progress could
not have survived without the active sup-
port of powerful groups, and it is to
these organisations that we must look
for the causes and possible remedy for
the situation.
Undoubtedly, by far the greatest con-
tributor to the lamentable state of music
education is the Australian Musical Ex-
aminations Board. AMEB is the largest
purely musical organisation in Australia,
having considerable facilities and staff in
every State. It is significant to note here
that AMEB is strictly an examining body
and in no way involved with the pro-
cesses of education. Nevertheless,
through their supreme power in the field
of examinations they, in fact, dictate the
courses of study to be followed and,
thus, the manner of instruction.
It is impossible to sit for any of the
Board's nine graded examinations with-
out presenting, in that examination, ex-
actly the repertoire of works and techni-
cal exercises prescribed for instruments
or voices of that grade. Unfortunately,
the set programmes are unbelievably con-
servative and depressingly dull. These
collections of well-worn classics are so
infrequently revised that the Board prints'
them for all courses of study in the more
popular instruments. In an inexpensive
hand-me-down form, these dreary pub-
lications ensure a tightening stranglehold
on the musical awareness of our talented
youngsters. It is possible to reach a
high standard of technical proficiency
within the AMEB series of grades while
possessing only a very limited vocabulary
of composers and styles, and next to no
conception of their historical significance.
The musically illiterate pianist who can
deliver hours of faultless Chopin with
mechanical ease is an all too common
phenomenon in our State conservatoria.
The teaching institutions, through their
commitment to the AMEB series of
examinations, help to perpetuate this
situation. Theory of Music has also
been neatly classified into AMEB grades
so that a knowledge of harmonic, rhyth-
mic and formal principles can be re-
stricted to the conveniently ordered late
classical period. With pupils inevitably
becoming teachers, the system turns full
circle and a new generation of children
who think of music only as a series of
grades soon comes into being. Such
children will never know the music of
Dufay, Palestrina, Monteverdi, Stravin-
sky, Schoenberg or the Australians
Sculthorpe and Meale, unless they choose
to explore beyond the confines of their
examination pieces. Predictably, few
ever develop the necessary spirit of
exploration.
We cannot, however, place the respon-
sibility for the state of music education
fully on the shoulders of the AMEB.
The equally conservative attitudes of
music departments within the various
departments of education have helped
reinforce the 19th-century approach. For
many years, music could not be taken
as an examination subject, its status being
comparable to that ot the weekly physi-
cal education class. Most school passes in
music are still dependent on the results
of an AMEB exam in practical
work if the pupil wishes to pur-
sue the study during his later
school years. The consequences
of this unfortunate partnership are
all too evident. Even with the
coming of a music syllabus in the
Leaving Certificate comparatively
few pupils took the examination.
Despite what seem to be the unfair
restrictions created by this ever-present
examination system, the work which is
now being done in primary and second-
ary schools shows a marked widening of
interest which can only be described as
encouraging.
Immediately noticeable among the
many indications of the quiet revolution
is the emphasis now being placed on the
actual performance of music. Singing,
traditionally, is retained as the core of
any school’s music department, but the
choirs of today enjoy a vastly differing
range of music from that of only 10
years ago. The yellowed pages of
Edwardian song books are no longer the
only ones consulted. Madrigals, modern
and Baroque cantatas, operatic choruses
and even folk music classics mix on the
programmes of singing which have be-
come a vital part of any school’s activi-
ties. There are usually various chamber
groups within each choir and by con-
centrating on a particular facet of vocal
music these groups often attain remark-
ably high standards.
Almost every school boasts an orches-
tra. The standard group of about a
dozen players of bizarre combination is
rapidly disappearing from the assembly
hall. Taking its place in the more ad-
vanced schools are properly disciplined
and competent groups of symphonic pro-
portion, complete with violas (always
hard to get) and a full set of tympani.
There are some schools in the metro-
politan area of Sydney which have suf-
ficient instrumental forces to enable them
to maintain separate orchestras on the
senior, intermediate and junior levels.
The magnitude of this achievement can
be better appreciated if we remember
that Sydney Conservatorium has re-
peatedly failed in its attempts to estab-
lish these levels. Tuition both in orches-
tral discipline and the instruments them-
selves is, with the odd exception, initially
undertaken by the music staff.
The orchestral movement has grown
Pep takes a second
look at our decimal
currency


to such strength that the Department of
Music head office in Glebe, NSW, (which
supplies most of the instruments) has had
to form an orchestra of its own. This
group, the Combined Secondary Schools’
Orchestra, has, by choosing the best
student instrumentalists for its members,
given to school music a prestige com-
parable to that of representative football.
Indicative of this new respect for music
is that the school captain of Fort Street
Boys’ High for 1966 plays trombone in
the orchestra and sings in the choir.
Full-scale operatic productions have
emerged as the most spectacular develop-
ment in school music-making during the
last few years. Gilbert and Sullivan are
enjoying an exceptionally long run and
the chamber operas and cantatas of
Benjamin Britten have been performed
with amazing frequency and skill. As
with the orchestral players, the members
of these opera companies consider them-
selves privileged, often competing
earnestly for even a chorus part. A
Public Schools’ Opera Company, to
match the Schools’ Orchestra, has re-
cently been formed.
In NSW, a consolidating influence on
this burst of general musical activity,
has been the annual music camp, held at
Broken Bay, over a 10-day New Year
holiday period. Here, under the direc-
tion of the Inspector of Schools in
Charge of Music, Mr Terence Hunt, over
200 of the State’s most talented young-
sters gather to relax and make all forms
of music.
But does the secondary school system
equip these new musicians with sufficient
knowledge and experience for a smooth
continuation of their studies at the ter-
tiary level? This jump in both the
manner and content of music education
leads to an examination of the conser-
vatoria and university music depart-
ments. Of course, not each State has
an identically organised system of ter- /
tiary music courses. In Adelaide, Mel-
bourne and recently Hobart, the conser-
vatoria have themselves become part of
the university. They each have a pro-
fessorial chair and the right to confer
degrees in music. The conservatoria of
Sydney, Brisbane and Perth are autono-
mous bodies which function within their
State Departments of Education. Al-
though courses of academic study may
be followed at these institutions, no de-
gree course is offered.
In those States which maintain their
conservatoria as part of the general
education departments, a university may
have its own separate department of
music within the Faculty of Arts. These
departments demand of their intending
first year students various standards of
entrance qualification above that of
matriculation. Until very recently, a
pass at matriculation in music was not
required, but with the growth of uni-
versity population and the advent of
quota limitations, such a pass or a similar
qualification has become a necessity.
Whatever school leaving standards are
demanded and satisfied, the professors
still complain of having to waste valu-
able lecture time on bridging the gap
between the manner of scholarship and
perception required from the school child
and then the university student. The
university is closer to, perhaps even on
the threshold of development and pre-
sents the incoming student with a quality
of investigation and terminology he may
hardly recognise. A failure rate in first
year of between 30 to 50 per cent gives
some indication of the barriers to adjust-
ment and the difficulty some students
find in the re-orientation of their ap-
proach. The rewards to be gained from
a degree course are, however, rich, and
the standard of scholarship and research
in Australian university music depart-
ments has been praised by notable
British and American academics.
Through their emphasis on the prac-
tice of music, the State conservatoria
present far fewer teething troubles to the
new student. Academic studies in the
non-university conservatoria are, for the
most part, disorganised and antiquated,
although the need for drastic and sweep-
ing change has been apparent for
decades. Student groups in these institu-
tions complain openly of the lack of
facilities and the poorness of the general
study course, but the administration, like
its mentor Beethoven, remains unhearing.
Practical work is carried out at a per-
sonal level with the individual teachers
of the conservatorium.
What are the possible paths to reform
in Australian music education? By at-
tacking the problem at its very roots —
the nation-wide system of public exam-
ination—a way could at least be cleared
for the necessary “great leap forward”.
The practical examination repertoire
must be expanded, both in the direction
of Gothic and Renaissance music as
well as in the region of the avant garde.
Theoretical studies could be more fruit-
fully pursued were they freed of their
slavish insistence on an algebraic, arti-
ficial approach to the basic elements of
musical expression.
The six-year syllabus as outlined in
the NSW Department of Education’s
Wyndham scheme represents, perhaps,
the first positive step towards a fusion
of the limits of secondary education and
the beginnings of a tertiary course. Al-
though, through lack of a substitute, this
syllabus still recognises results at certain
AMEB grade examinations, at the ad-
vanced level it includes the performance
and detailed study of nearly all forms
and periods in music as well as the
writing of a full-length thesis. Described
by one of its original architects. Professor
Donald Peart, as “a wonderful voyage of
discovery for pupil and teacher alike”,
this syllabus has the widest scope ever
prescribed for a single high-school
course of study. Let us hope that the
other States are quick to appreciate the
advantages of such a progressively con-
ceived and carefully planned educational
programme.


from
Crane’s copper
many things
are made
Car radiators, hot water services, copper tube, and
many of the roofs of today's modern buildings
come from Crane’s copper. Crane roll it, cut it, coil
it or extrude it to meet the many demands of other
industry. But not only copper. They also semi-
fabricate aluminium and brass. The eyelets in
your shoes may have been formed from Crane
brass strip and the bodies on some of today’s
buses have been fabricated from Crane aluminium.
Not forgetting that Crane themselves make the
largest and most complete range of brassware in
Australia. There’s nothing magical about Crane’s
business, though. It’s based on the learnings of
100 years experience and this same unmatched
experience they are only too anxious to pass on
to all their clients. Contact the Crane Office in
your state. N.S.W., 74 0351: Vic., 35 4316: Q’ld.,
60 4041: S.A., 57 8019: W.A., 23 1441.
MX
v>»
W
■ >.w
*r
r*r
;Vi. v
<*2
o*o*
.**
<3^
safes
,*v*-*-*
CRANE COPPER & ALUMINIUM PTY. LTD. dZIZZI CRANE PRODUCTS
PTY. LTD. CZZ3 G. E. CRANE PTY. LTD. CZ3 CRANE ENFIELD METALS
PTY. LTD. I —I CRANE (VIC.) PTY. LTD. CZZC. O. N. PTY. LTD
WATSON & CRANE PTY. LTD. C=Z=l BRALCO PTY. LTD. F ~~1
G
CRANE
GROUP
CP222


TV Drama: A Happy Ending?
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr David Goddard, formerly of the
BBC, has been top man in tele-
vision drama for the ABC for
about seven months. In that time he
has acquired a suntan and an en-
couraging habit of thinking in terms of
“we” and “us” rather than you. He likes
it here and hopes, or rather intends, to
stay.
Seven months is still, of course, too
short a time to give Mr Goddard credit
or blame for this year’s ABC television
drama programme. And, of course, he
stresses that he is part of a team, which,
he says, gets no end of encouragement
from the management. However, when
we talked to the ABC last year on the
same subject we confronted a committee
of three; this time it was only Mr God-
dard. So some changes have been made.
Mr Goddard has already formulated a
five-year plan. In this he has followed
BBC practice. The BBC works on a five-
year grant, compared with the year-to-
year, hand-to-mouth existence the ABC
lives with the Treasury. At the end of five
years praise or blame can certainly safely
be laid at the door of Mr Goddard for
what, it seems, will be a vastly different
national television drama.
This year’s jewel in the ABC’s diadem
is the already announced “Australian
Playhouse”, a series of thirteen original
half-hour plays to begin next month.
None of these was commissioned but
ABC producers did canvass writers’ or-
ganisations and likely writers. Some of the
writers are new but Mr Goddard seems to
be too old a hand at the game to be over-
come with the idea of moulding raw
talent in the image of himself. Several of
the plays are by Pat Flower. In fact, it
could have been “Flower’s Half-Hour”.
Mrs Flower has, of course, a handful of
novels and a great deal of revue and
script writing at the back of her.
“Australian Playhouse,” modest as it is,
is the first consistent attempt the ABC has
been able to make to work in closely and
regularly with writers. Mrs Flower has
already gone on to write several episodes
“Marcellus Jjones”, a series of stories
with one central, linking character and
s ct in the ’nineties, which will take the
place of the annual serial. Other writers
are doing plays for a series with the
theme of waiting. These will be low-
hudget productions which will give less
experienced producers a chance.
These exercises, Mr Goddard hopes,
will begin to cell him and his colleagues
who are the writers likely to be able to
eonform to the disciplines of formula and
who are those likely to go their own
sweet way. He needs both types but he
needs to know which is which.
From another practical point of view,
“Australian Playhouse” is worth a second
glance as a package deal with sales poten-
tial. Overseas sales are one of the peren-
nial topics in the television industry and
the subject both of a lot of foolish
optimism and foolish pessimism. Mr God-
dard, all of whose programmes for the
BBC were sold abroad, rather takes them
for granted. Overseas sales could make a
lot of financial difference to actors and
writers but not to Mr Goddard’s depart-
ment. Any proceeds would just go back
into consolidated revenue and might be
spent in increasing politicians’ salaries.
However, Mr Goddard does believe that
such sales would lead the Commission to
“look more favorably” on drama.
Mr Goddard points out that half-hour
units have natural market possibilities. He
feels there is world-wide a marked return
to the separate television play, rather than
the series, and points out that since the
ABC has done “Australian Playhouse”
AMAZING reports have been filtering in, mainly by carrier-pigeon (delicious cooked
in invisible ink), from our agent in Hanoi. Cynics who have suggested that our
troops in Vietnam, fighting in steaming jungle, without television or pubs and miles
from the nearest woman, might prefer a few more dancing girls a la Big Pretzel to
the living cavortings of Tommy Hanlon, have apparently missed the point. Australian
Intelligence has not been idle. The visits of Hanlon, Bobby Limb, Don Lane,
Kev Leg, Iron Lung, etc., have been turned to advantage. Whatever the effect
their shows may have had on Australian morale, it bears no comparison to the
effect they have had on the Vietcong’s. Our man in Hanoi reports “consternation”
in North Vietnamese Government circles. The shows have apparently been relayed
into the jungle and whole battalions of Vietcong have been struck down with
“vomiting fits” and “bouts of depression”. The latter are apparently brought on by
the suggestion that, if they lose the war, they will cop Mr Hanlon’s show “It Could
Be You” and no amount of prize kitchen-utensils will cheer their lot. They are a
superstitious people and cannot help feeling, as they listen to the loud-speakers
puking away, that the gods are angry.
An Australian Government spokesman said that these entertainments will be
escalated, and artists may be asked to perform “live” behind enemy lines. “Apart
from Mr Hanlon’s form of attack,” said the spokesman, “Barry Humphries has
been asked to fire his satirical bombs at the guerrillas.” Who knows but that in a
few months whole companies of clowns in Army surplus trousers and red noses may
be parachuted behind the lines.
WILLIAM RUSHTON


Viekoupoudfoofc
AMPHORA
rf /•-■“■
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
% ■
-
H
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatic
in the Blue Pouch
",r ]
gents-?
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC!
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
SAI7S/1
AMPHORA
<jtp
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
6'9
2 o i.
1 PROBUCT IF OOUWE EGBERTS HOTU FACTORIES, UTRECHT, HOUMB
BBC-2 has begun a series of half-hour
plays.
He feels that “Australian” in the title
may be helpful. Thinking probably of
Canada or Britain, with whom looser
arrangements than straight-out sales may
be possible, he feels fhat the idea of Aus-
tralian plays could have a curiosity value
which might outweigh any lack of con-
sistency in writing or production. But for
the moment he is content to get “Aus-
tralian Playhouse” across to its local
audience.
Other projects or ideas include a series,
“Coastline,” each episode dealing with
the people who live on different parts of
Australia’s long coastline and the lives
they lead. Charmian Clift and George
Johnston are working on some of these.
Mr Goddard also has in mind a twice-
weekly “soap opera”; and something
along the lines of a history of classic
drama, not just adaptations of plays for
television but a “television comment” on
major plays. This he sees as “educational,
but painless.”
Still not entirely formulated is a
drama-documentary which will take epi-
sodes in Australian history, rather than
the solid chunks the ABC bit off in the
earlier days of television, and see how
these episodes created the Australia we
know. Colin Free, who has 'oinec the
ABC, will continue working on a comedy
series, based on the characters of his
one-act play, “How Do You Spell Matri-
mony?” shown last year.
It is a fairly extensive programme by
the ABC’s past standards and will, of
course, cost money. Mr Goddard believes
you “don't need a lot of money to do
interesting things”. You can even, of
course, do interesting things with money.
Mr Goddard points out that if you can
do a half-hour play for £lOOO while a
full-length play could cost £3OOO, it may
be better to do three half-hour plays for
the price of one longer one, or to do one
series on a low budget to allow expensive
filmed segments in another.
However, once Mr Goddard has built
up a competent, versatile team of writers,
producers and players, it may seem likely
—although still regrettably remote — that
commercial interests, as commercial
interests so ofter do, will greedily move
in and spirit away the ABC’s hard-
acquired assets.
This possibility may cause Mr God-
dard some short-term annoyance, but
one would think that it would give him
long-term satisfaction.
He feels just as strongly as the next
person that the granting of a commercial
television licence carries obligations be-
yond paying dividends to shareholders.
However, he knows out of his ex-
perience that it could cost a commercial
station about £500,000 to set ap studios
and other facilities for extensive com-
mercial production of drama and that it
would be at least five years before it
began to get anything back.
He sees no point in “quotas or com-
mittees” to force commercial stations to
honor their obligations but he can see
something in the idea of a public-sup-
ported body like the ABC being some-
thing of a training-ground for people in
the whole industry. And the idea of
the non-profit-making ABC showing
commercial stations how to make money-
making programmes would be one with
great appeal for the energetic, enterpris-
ing Mr Goddard.
OPERA
Inspiring
II Seraglio. Mozart. Leonard Spira Opera
Company. Mackenzie Theatre, Mel-
bourne.
prodigies are not uncommon, but
opera in Australia (if there be such
a thing) has discovered a man prodigy
in the form of Leonard Spira, who seems
able to put on complete productions of
professional standards in what time is
left him after putting in a full day’s work
in whatever office is the scene of Austra-
lia’s most frightful waste of musical talent.
Not only did Spira produce this delight-
ful, short season of Mozart’s Seraglio but
he, as usual, trained an orchestra of
standard second only to the big ABC
ensembles, and whipped it into a smooth
entity with a group of almost equally
good singers.
Leonard Spira’s spectacular achieve-
ments without any kind of public sub-
sidy, using only artists ignored by
professional managements, are the
brightest, one might say the only spark
on the local musical horizon which
might well flare into full flame.
No doubt, the singers in these prod-
ductions (who are presumably unpaid)
will also reap some reward if their con-
ductor is recognised. John Pringle is not
only a first-class baritone (if not the bass
he should have been as Osmin) but a
fine actor who would not be out of place
at Glyndebourne. Brian Clough negotia-
ted Mozart’s difficult tenor phrasing with
ease, a feat not common among tenors
abroad, but was so terribly British in
manner that a major Melbourne music
critic inadvertently described Belmonte,
the son of the Spanish commandant at
Oran, as “the dignified English gentle-
man”. Janice Taylor and Graeme Ewer
were excellent as the secondary lovers
and Margaret Haggart sang her big aria
magnificently.
JOHN CARCHER


%
mi
v
m
if 1
Sfe
0
-u
■M
Lively Las Vegas—less than an hour (by domestic airline) from Los Angeles.
No one can show Australians
more West Coast USA.
than we can.
And Hawaifs part of the bargain.
Nobody else flies to four U.S.A. West Coast Gateways
—San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland and Seattle.
What’s more, going and coming we fly by way of Hawaii.
This is the trip you’ve been searching for. A ride
on a cable car. A few turns at the green gaming tables
of Las Vegas. A ramble through the Rockies.
A gambol through swinging Hollywood. A sample of
California surfing. And remember, just an hour or so
away by air lie the mysteries of Mexico and the
wonder of the Grand Canyon.
Cast your hesitation aside. Fly away with us to the
U.S.A. We’ve got bargains waiting for you wherever you
go. A three-day stay in Los Angeles for just
$23.00 (£11.10.0) or in San Francisco for just $20.80
(£10.8.0) —including hotel room and sight-seeing.
Other cities for as little as $lB.BO (£9.8.0.)!
If you've got the time we can arrange 21 days of air
travel anywhere in the U.S.A. for just $134.00
(£67). Or 99 days of cross-country bus travel for
just $90.00 (£45).
Don’t forget: Coming or going, you can 101 l around as
long as you like in Hawaii’s endless sunshine.
And it won’t add a penny to your fare.
Call your Pan Am Travel Agent. Or call Pan Am.
Find out why so many Australians are stealing away
with us. You’ll have a good feeling flying with
the very best.
World's most experienced airline
fffiSf ON THE PACIFIC FIRST ON THE ATLANTIC FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA riRST’ROUNO THE WORLD
SYDNEY: 82 ELIZABETH STREET. 28-2621 • MELBOURNE: 133 EXHIBITION STREET. 63-9077
PA.4BBBR


WATER IS COSTING
MONEY IN
YOUR BUSINESS
(WHEN IT COULD
BE EARNING IT)
That’s why a Westinghouse
Water Cooler is the Blue Chip
Investment
Some time today every member of your staff will
need a drink of water. How and where they get it,
and how long they take getting it, will cost you
money.
A Westinghouse Water Cooler strategically
located on your premises—significantly reduces
this cost so that it more than pays for itself.
But, since the Westinghouse water is chilled to
the right temperature to provide maximum refresh-
ment it also increases staff efficiency. This shows
up on the profit side of your ledger only
marginally each day, of course—but in significant
amounts over the year.
There’s a Westinghouse Water Cooler to suit every
application—3 distinct models, plus a range of
capacities—so you pay only for what you need.
A total of nearly 1,000,000 Westinghouse Water
Coolers have been made over the last 35 years
. . . proof of Westinghouse leadership in the field
of Water Coolers.
m
/
m
Westinghouse®
WATER COOLERS
a fine product from EMAIL
TO: EMAIL LIMITED COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
Please send:
□ further information.
292/4 Parramatta Road, Auburn, N.S.W. Phone 648 0177.
Please Address to
Company Name
Position
Address
State
8UL.2A.66
TELEVISION
Lean Meat
PT>his is the month when the television
channels bombard us with advertise-
ments for their new shows, all guaranteed
to be “the greatest”. Who is anyone to
deride .Cassius Clay? However, there is
something new, at least in Sydney. New
shows similar to established ones used
to be placed, or in the jargon “slotted”,
at different times, on other nights. This
year they are in direct competition with
one another. We have the choice of “The
Man from UNCLE” or “Amos Burke,
Secret Agent”, and “The Wild Wild West”
or the taste of “Honey West”. These all
have the overripe flavor of fantasy-melo-
drama, and it is too bad for viewers who
prefer lean meat to blood-red strawberry
marshmallow.
Before too many more wonders dazzle
us at night I would like to recommend
one lean, red meat series which seems to
have escaped the high pressure publicists’
notice, possibly because it has been
placed outside the glamor hours of tele-
vision’s prime time, when viewers are
offered funnies and fantasies, when the
children are up and can be exposed to
the karate chop and the knife in the
back, but never the bloody business of
naval warfare during the last century.
I refer to a new BBC series on Chan-
nel 7, based on C. S. Forester’s “Horn-
blower” stories, which follow the naval
career of a man who might have been
similar to Nelson. “Swashbuckling”, used
in the programme notes, would be the
last word to describe Hornblower, who
was delineated by his creator as a man
of great determination, foresight, bravery
and compassion. And so he appears on
television in the person of David Buck,
who seems made for the part.
The notable thing about “Hornblower”
is its production scale. The 50-minute
episodes, screened mostly at Elstree, de-
pict naval actions, ship against ship, and
inshore raids involving the port batteries.
This brings television into the area of
grand action which has belonged solely
to the movies with motion picture pro-
duction’s equally grand budgets.
Even then, one of the motion picture
arts is simulation, in which the part can
appear to be the whole. Allowing that
most of the sets of Hornblower’s ship
will be used many times, and that Forest-
er’s name will be a powerful selling med-
ium for the series abroad, particularly M
the USA, the BBC would have had to
work on a television budget, necessarily
far below a motion picture one. There
are visible miracles in simulation o
large-scale events, wonders in television
technique, and economy in “Horn-
blower”.'
FRANK ROBERTS


BOOKS
The Goebbels Myth
By DONALD HORNE
Goebbels and National Socialist Propaganda,
m 9 a n 5 n I9 s7 S ‘ EmeS ' Branlsted - Heine ‘
A man ’ r ,, , .
lthough Goebbels is still considered
the archetype of 20th-cen!ury
totalitarian propagandists he was, in fact,
not typical. This is partly because Nan
propaganda was not typical. It had only
the most general of world views; ideo-
logically, despite all the bombast, ,t was
just a few bits and pieces, blown up big,
but not very complicated.
On the whole it made itself up as it
went along. Intellectually, it was a series
of loud bangs. The I azis glorified power
itself, without arguing all that much about
'*•
They demanded total allegiance with-
out offering many reasons why. Germans
were expected to surrender their person-
alities in a self-sacrifice of unreasoned
faith. This gave Goebbels much more
manoeuvrability as a propagandist than
those who wish to indoctrinate into every-
one a whole complex system of belief,
from which action is then supposed to
er * ve -
As Dr Bramsted points out, in com-
munist terms Goebbels was an agitator
rather than a propagandist. For the
communists “agitation has the task of
influencing the minds and the moods of
the masses through ideas and slogans,
while propaganda serves to spread the
communist ideology”. As they staggered
r°m one excitement to the next the
Nazis effective tactical concern was sim-
ply to condition the people to like what
Z, B< V
This is not to say that there was not
strong belief among the Nazi leaders.
boebbels really believed, for example, in
the extermination of the Jews; he ap-
plauded “the final solution”, although he
md not attempt to condition his public to
such extreme barbarism. The view that
Hitler and Goebbels did not really be-
Heve their own anti-Semitism, that it was
simply a political embodiment, seems
q u j te f alse
Goebbels was different from other
tota | itarian propagandists in another .
he both initiated u and a|so
, ed the propaganda machines that carried
it out . He had to face some cton e
from riva|s (Dr Bramsted docunlents th E is
interestingly) but his treble control of
the Reich Ministr of p le - s Enli hten .
menl and Propaganda> the Cemra ? Pro .
paganda office of , he Par(y an(J
Reieh Chamber of Culture meant that,
with a few exceptionS; what Goebbe | s
wanted was immediately executed in
newspapers, magazines, radio and films,
Even Hitler interfered little and the
others were usually pushed out of the
way. As Hitler became completely ab-
sorbed in the disasters of th& war, losing
interest in the German people, it was
Goebbels and his court who decided the
“image” that Hitler should present to
the world. The image of Hitler had in
any case been Goebbels’ propaganda
creation. (By analysing Goebbels’ suc-
cessive birthday messages to the Fuhrer,
Dr Bramsted shows how Goebbels shun-
ted the Hitler “image” around to suit the
problems of the day.) But in the final
episodes it was Goebbels who manufac-
tured Hitler’s continued public existence,
E ven at the time o( the attenlpted as .
sassination Goebbels held up Hitler's
announcement of , he event for severa ,
hours whi|e he and hjs cour , thought
about it and re-wrote it; it was only re-
leased to the radio stations when Hitler
rang up and ordered him to do so at
once. (Goebbels, although himself re-
sponsible for the delay, promptly blamed
the head of the Radio Division for
“sabotage of orders”.)
It was also distinctive of Goebbels as
JOSEF GOEBBELS
a propagandist that not only did he create
the*Fuhrer myth, but he also created the
Goebbels myth. He initiated propaganda,
executed it (increasingly despising those
who carried his orders out), and used it
to push himself forward as the second
greatest German. He reserved for him-
self some of the biggest headlines in his
own newspapers.
By this means he compensated for his
lack of power in fields other than pro-
paganda. He wanted to run Germany.
The other Party chieftains kept him dut
of the way. So he presented himself in
his own propaganda as if he had fulfilled
his ambitions.
Indeed as one reads through Dr Bram-
sted’s documentation of Goebbels’ drivel
one has an increasing feeling of fantasy.
This is child's play (although none the
less murderous for it) exploited for
consciously and cynically defined (if
changing) purposes. We want new terri-
tories. Let’s say we’re encircled. We want
Czechoslovakia. Let’s say the Czechs are
murderers. We want Poland. Let’s pre-
tend the Russians are our old friends. We
want Russia. Let’s pretend the British
and Russians are all part of the inter-
national Jewish conspiracy.
And then it becomes more and more
purely compensatory fantasy. Ninety
thousand of our men surrendered at Sta-
lingrad, so we'll pretend they died to the
last man. We are losing the war, so we’ll
pretend our enemies will fall apart. Hitler
is becoming useless, so we’ll pretend he’s
Frederick the Great. We will all die, so
we’ll pretend we'll live on forever as
glorious heroes in history. Hitler shot
himself, so we'll pretend he died in battle.
Dr Bramsted's book is less valuable as
a biography of Goebbels than as an ex-
amination of his propaganda and his
propaganda apparatus. This is what it
is meant to be. He does not really pro-
ject the puzzles of Goebbels. But this is
because he has done such a thorough job
in chronicling what Goebbels did.
The Pouch
What we wanted was someone
who would permit us to change
and grow, explore, experiment
while they remained changeless
happy to provide home,
cave-mouth, bolt-hole, womb
for us to scurry back to ... a pouch
under her warm belly into which
we could tumble head first
and recover our courage,
one long bony leg sticking out.
Oh we would willingly settle
for one who demanded little,
who was happy to fuss
and fret and be anxious
always in the one place.
That would be creativity
enough for her!
Permit us our ridiculous masculinity,
Oh archetypal Mother!
W. HART-SMITH


CAREER PIPE
(HUME-S-LON)
Watch this pipe . . . it’s going places.
The rocket-like career of Hume-S-Lon PVC pipe has
toppled old-established domains of other pipe materials
right, left and centre.
Because Hume-S-Lon doesn’t rust or corrode (it’s made
of unplasticised PVC) ... is light (one man can carry
200 ft. of 2" pipes) ... is easy to lay (20 ft. lengths of
Hume-S-Lon are taper-socket jointed with solvent cement
above ground, lowered into a ditch or laid by mole-plough).
Hume-S-Lon retains its mirror finish ... is non-toxic . ..
not attacked by termites . . . self-extinguishing . . . comes
in diameters from ¥ to 16", standard 20 ft. lengths, pro-
duced to close tolerances, connects to other pipe systems.
MOST IMPORTANT - Hume-S-Lon FITTINGS are of the
same indestructable material unplasticised PVC (elimi-
nating the weakness of other plastic pipe systems).
HUME-S-LON is the ideal pipe for water supply pressure
lines • Natural Gas Lines • Irrigation Piping • Chemical
Plant Piping • Ventilation or Drain Piping e Sewer
linings • Salt Water Piping and many other uses.
Bring yourself up-to-date on this modern multi-purpose
pipe. Ring or write for literature.
-m
' f
200 ft. of 2" HUME-S-LON
pipes carried by one man.
wm
Taper-socket jointing with
solvent cement.
Nothing can rust or corrode
—pipes and fittings are PVC.
4W
MARKETED BY
HUMES LIMITED
Head Office: 185 William St., Melbourne, C.l, Victoria, Australia. Phone 600221
STATE OFFICES:
H.S.W.: Park Road, Regents Park. Phone 6442351 S.A.:
VIC.: 12th Floor. 205 William St.. Me!b. Phone 60 0221 W.A.:
QLD.: 189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. Phone 4 5881 TAS.:
78 West Beach Road, Keswick. Phone 971011
Saivado Road, Subiaco. Phone 872311
76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. Phone 3 2741
THERE IS A HUMES OFFICE IN YOUR CAPITAL CITY.
ilSm
>■:■ ■
flSv'W'
m;
mm
fIPMWp
llWiB
■■' ■:
11
I,
-■
HSLB4OX


The Guilty Ambassador
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
Halifax. The Earl of Birkenhead. Hamish
Hamilton. $7.35.
He has been dead only six years and
already it involves an effort to recall
him to memory. What exactly did Lord
Halifax do to justify this ponderous,
pious and platitudinous 600-page
biography? The illustrations refresh our
recollection of his appearance the
long, bony face with high-domed fore-
head and deep-set eyes, the ascetic, rather
forbidding, expression. Photographs re-
veal him garbed in vice-regal splendor
in India with a boy maharajah holding
up the end of his robe, behind his desk
at the Foreign Office amid Cecil Beaton’s
artfully lit mahogany, in his office at
the Embassy in Washington. How did
he get there to India, into the seat of
Castlereagh and Palmerston, to the most
important ambassadorial post in the
world? Was it by some sort of divine
right as a great Whig magnate whose
opinions happened to conform so com-
fortably to those of the latter-day Wal-
poles, Baldwin and Chamberlain? Or did
he have some special qualifications, un-
perceived by ordinary people at the time
and still undisclosed?
Lord Birkenhead, his biographer, does
not answer these questions, except by
implication. It seems to him quite
natural that a man from such a back-
ground should move decorously through
the high offices of State (as such men
had done ever since the Glorious Revolu-
tion of 1688) until Churchill shunted
him off to Washington to lend patrician
dignity to the ambassador’s post while
Prime Minister and President conducted
the real business of wartime diplomacy
over his head
I suppose Halifax is now chiefly re-
membered as one of the so-called Guilty
Men of the immediate pre-war years.
He certainlv supported the Munich
Agreement and, even in the bleak dis-
illusionment that followed, he never
wavered in his conviction that the un-
armed Britain of 1938 had had no
option but to come to terms with Hitler.
But the implication that the British Gov-
ernment entered into the Munich Agree-
ment only because the country was un-
prepared for war is ingenuous, to say
dre least. Baldwin, Chamberlain, Halifax
and the others were not spineless crea-
tures dragged along, willy-nilly in the
w ake of the dictators. Halifax was
Proud of his streak of tough Yorkshire
Practicality”. Like his closest political
riends, Baldwin and Chamberlain, he
politics, foreign and domestic, as a
Same °f hard bargaining ending in
°mpromise arrangements honorably ob-
served. This was not necessarily an ig-
noble view. The trouble is that “prac-
tical” men are more often the dupes of
romantics than the other way round. It
took a fellow-romantic, Winston Church-
ill, to realise intuitively what Hitler was
up to when Chamberlain came back
from Berchtesgaden triumphantly waving
his worthless scrap of paper. Halifax
believed that Munich represented the
victory of reason over force. The price,
of course, had been heavy. It had been
a difficult and undignified task to bully
the Czechs into accepting it, but the
structure of Europe was intact and
Britain and France had Hitler’s word
that the dogs of war were now securely
kennelled. To men like Halifax the
alternative to Munich was even more
LORD HALIFAX
terrible almost certain war, with the
prospect of Soviet Russia as an ally.
Halifax was in charge of the Foreign
Office during the crucial period from
early in 1938 but it was the Prime Min-
ister who did the negotiating with Hit-
ler. Chamberlain was convinced that
only he could tackle the dictator face to
face, and Halifax appears to have
accepted this view without question. He
was a safe and loyal man to have in
the Foreign Office after the “alarmist”
Eden. He was not expected to con-
tribute to the shaping of British policy.
His role was to justify it, and this he
did with earnest and doubtlessly com-
pletely honest sententiousness.
I think this sympathy with the pre-
vailing mood of the Conservative Party
goes far to explain Halifax’s appoint-
ment as Viceroy of India in 1926. Lord
Irwin (as he was then) approached his
office in a manner very different from
that of his predecessor, Lord Reading,
to say nothing of the magnificent pro-
consular Curzon. Not the shadow of
imperial pomps but the substance of
British economic interests was what con-
cerned Baldwin and the Tories’ indus-
trial backers. To Churchill, Gandhi was
a “naked fakir” and the Viceroy degrad-
ed the majesty of Britain by talking to
him. However, Gandhi represented the
awakening Indian national forces with
whom it would one day be necessary to
reach agreement if British interests were
to survive. Halifax saw this as clearly
as any city businessman. The long dis-
cussions with the Congress leaders dur-
ing Halifax’s regime got nowhere in the
end, but they set in motion an irrever-
sible train of events and paved the way
for the more-or-less peaceful dissolution
of British rule only 20 years later. That
this was not the Government’s intention
is beside the point. Appeasement at
Delhi proved a far more rational policy
than appeasement at Munich.
When Churchill came to power in
1940 his choice of Halifax as successor
to the popular and extrovert Lord
Lothian in the Washington Embassy
appeared understandably odd to many
observers. In those dark days Britain’s
survival seemed to depend very largely
on how much aid she could extract from
President Roosevelt and his cautious
Congress. Halifax aloof, tremendously
conscious of his patrician dignity,
notably lacking in bonhomie and de-
voted to ritualistic Anglo-Catholic
religious tenets was, on the face of
it, a figure most unlikely to endear the
cause of Britain and democracy to the
Americans. But Churchill knew what he
was doing. After a few rather roughish
encounters with politicians and Press-
men, Halifax won the respect, if not the
affection, of Americans of all shades of
opinion. He even captivated, and was
captivated by, the ebullient Harry Hop-
kins, whose influence with Roosevelt
was immeasureable. As Churchill had
guessed, Americans at that time prefer-
red a fine English gentleman to a pro-
fessional statesman. In the meantime the
Former Naval Person and the President
could get on with their lend-lease
horse-trading without much reference to
the titular occupant of the British Em-
bassy.
No amount of special pleading by
Lord Birkenhead can disguise the fact
that Halifax really contributed nothing
significant to English political life. He
seems scarcely to have had an original
idea about any of the problems he en-
countered in his various offices. Twice
he was President of the Board of
Education and his indifference to the
subject was notorious among his staff;
whenever possible he fled from Whitehall
to the hunting field at Garrowby. He in-
herited from his father the lay leadership
of Anglo-Catholics who earnestly desired
a reunion with Rome. It is improbable
that British cabinets will accommodate
his like again.


•T"::.7r: \
GOT IT TAPED
• •• •• •
rr
.
m
IT'S SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . ..
By installing the Smith-Corona “Typetronic 2215”, you
will introduce automatic operation into your office -
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OF SMITH-CORONA MAR CHANT INC.
Distributed by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 2033 • 167 Queen Street, Melbourne. 67 9161
The Empty Room
By VIVIAN SMITH
The Room and Other Poems. C. Day Lewis.
$3.05.
Nonsequences. Christopher Middleton.
Longmans. Price not available.
The Ilex Tree. Les A. Murray and Geoffrey
Lehmann. Australian National University.
$2.10.
The Cantbeworried Tales. David Swain.
Ure Smith. 75c.
A t present C. Day Lewis is the most
of the 1930 s poets —
and the most prolific. He is gifted with an
astonishing facility; his poems have con-
tinued to grow blander, while his ability
to handle a variety of verse forms is now
almost Swinburnian. Much of his recent
poetry shows the influence of Leish-
mann's Rilke translations (the “nothing
remains so true/As the outgoingness” of
“Saint Anthony’s Shirt”, for instance)
while the too urbane, too smooth surface
and texture of the verse consistently fail
to grip the mind. He seems to take his liv-
ing too coolly for granted instead of rum-
maging into it; consequently he rarely
fetches out “those images that hurt and
connect”.
Christopher Middleton is one of the
most rewarding poets at present writing
in English. Hard, elliptical, symbolist,
yet always lucid and rational, his poems
are written with a steel-like incisiveness
and verbal precision that is likely to re-
mind one of the American poets (such
as Donald Hall) with whom he has so
much in common, and the Swiss and
German writers he has so frequently
translated. Particularly brilliant are the
“Penny Pastorals in Texas”, “The Child
at the Piano”, “Difficulties of a Revision-
ist”, about being interrupted while
writing a poem, and “For a Junior
School Poetry Book”.
“The Ilex Tree”, beautifully produced
by the ANU Press, Canberra, is the
best first book of poems by really
young writers to have appeared in Aus-
tralia for a considerable time. Both
Murray and Lehmann are poets of
variety. Both draw their most important
strengths from personal sources: Mur-
ray from his childhood, Lehmann from
his family history. Murray is the more
direct of the two; his subjects range from
the sawmill towns to the aboriginal
settlement, to love and the seasons. He
is at his best, I think, in strict forms.
Some of his longer, looser poems
“Noonday Axemen”, “The Away-
Bound Train”, are marred by impre-
cisions of language and portentous
Eliotic statements. But these are the
faults of a young and developing poet
and it is better to write poetry which
has unassimilated and untransformed
material than to write predigested verse.
Murray is a poet of exciting possibilities.
Geoffrey Lehmann is a better-known
poet than Murray, especially for his long
'“historical” monologues which have
won him a number of local literary
prizes. But poems like the “Meditation
of Marcus Furius Camillus” lack the
dramatic intensity of a highly individ-
ualised voice; the real bent of Lehmann’s
talent seems to be in the direction of his
family poems and his more concentrated
lyrics. His great strength is an eye for
living detail, as in the amiable and
amusing “Pieces for my father” and that
extraordinary poem “The Pigs”, which
is about a child’s growing knowledge of
death.
“Decorative” is a taboo word with
some literary critics these days, though
this fails to take into account that
Tennyson and Wallace Stevens are both
in a certain sense decorative poets. It is
certainly the word to apply to many of
the best of Lehmann’s poems: “An
Image”, “Summer Night”, the delicate
“Lines for a Chinese Tear-jar”, for in-
stance. Particularly attractive in Leh-
mann’s work is its unashamed delight in
surfaces and masks as well as its youth-
ful freshness and directness of tone and
approach. He and Murray belong to the
small group of Australian poets under
thirty whose development one will
watch with the keenest interest.
Bulletin readers will be familiar
with David Swain’s Chaucerwise views of
social types, now gathered under the
title “Cantbeworried Tales”, and illus-
trated by the author. Full of un-
mistakable figures and worthwhile tar-
gets, this book has the moral weight of
good light verse and genuine funniness
as well.
The Lion Skin
The old man with a yellow flower on his
coat
Came to my office, climbing twenty-eight
steps,
With a strong smell of death about his
person
From the caves of the underworld.
The receptionist was troubled by his
breath
Understandably.
Not every morning tea break
Does Baron Saturday visit his parishioners
Walking stiffly, strutting almost,
With a cigar in his teeth she might have
remembered
Lying awake as if nailed by a spear
Two nights ago, with the void of her life
Glassed in a black window but suitably
enough
She preferred to forget it.
I welcomed him
And poured him a glass of cherry brandy,
Talked with him for half an hour or so,
Having need of his strength, the skin of a
dead lion,
In the town whose ladders are made of
coffin wood.
The flower on his coat blazed like a dark
sun.
JAMES K. BAXTER


Write
your
way to
success!
a
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( ) Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott's step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
» STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
■ COLLEGE
* 157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
» Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
* Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
* send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
ADDRESS
AGE
I understand that no sales representative will
call on me. BJG66 /
You Can’t Go Home Again
By MAURICE SHADBOLT
A Death in the Family. James Agee.
Peter Owen. $5.15.
A Day in the Dark. Elizabeth Bowen. Jona-
than Cape. $2.65.
James Agee has been dead 10 years,
but his legend goes marching on. By
no w the outlines are clear. There was
Agee the film critic, who wrote very
different reviews of the same films for
“Time” and “The Nation”. There was
Agee the screenwriter, who had less than
half a chance to show what he could
do. And there was Agee the journalist
and writer, whose creative substance was,
supposedly, taken from him within the
Luce organisation. All told, it has come
to add up to something like the biggest
literary hard-luck story of the century.
As a critic of rare intelligence he re-
viewed films that were seldom worthy of
him; the golden age of post-war cinema
came later. As screenwriter he wrote
the attractive but essentially routine “The
African Queen” for John Huston, but
missed his chance with “Moby Dick”.
As a writer submerged in hack work, he
left his one full-length novel unfinished
when he died at the age of 45. According
to his friend Dwight Macdonald, Agee
talked too much, drank too much, read
too much and loved too much. A large
personality, Macdonald says, equating the
Agee cult with the actor James Dean’s:
Agee’s life and personality, like Dean’s,
were “at once a symbolic expression of
our time and a tragic protest against
it . . . their vitality betrayed them”.
Now this is all very well; one’s sym-
pathy is won for the man. But without
too much trouble, one could name a
small army of writers who have driven
themselves into earlier graves than Agee
through excess of self-devouring energy.
The difference in every case is that some-
thing substantial was left behind. His
criticism aside, Agee left very little. This
must be the first time in literature that
non-creation—and frustrated expectation
—have been enshrined. But a myth, even
°ne that is a response to some need of
our time, must have something on which
to feed. Thus, unless memory tricks me,
tms is the second recent hardback Eng-
'sh edition of Agee’s unfinished novel.
(I am sure it appeared under the Gol-
ancz imprint about 1959.) Unfinished,
ou gh Agee appeared to work on it for
upwards of fifteen years. When all allow-
ances have been made, the question is
whether all that hack work, for Luce or
uston or anyone else, can really be
amed. (Other writers survive it be-
cause they are determined men and see
’ as a means to an end; they have an
1 mg and not a fidgety set of values.)
me question is also whether the hack
0r > which Agee apparently enjoyed,
wasn’t an evasion for a talent only fitfully
and slenderly creative. It never occurs
to Dwight Macdonald, blinded by friend-
ship, to consider this. He remains con-
vinced that Agee was up to doing major
work.
“A Death in the Family” really offers
no evidence one way or the other. It
could be made to, perhaps, if a critic
were determined enough, but judgment—
at least adverse judgment—is undercut
by the fact that the book is unfinished.
One cannot presume a knowledge of
Agee’s working habits; he might have
needed another 10 years and finished up
with another book entirely. All I can
say is I would like to like “A Death in
the Family”, for it is at times a very
likeable and impressive book in intention.
There is no story to speak of. A father,
a gentle and good family man, dies in an
accident and is mourned and buried; the
substance is barely enough for a short
story. The event is as commonplace as
the lives involved: middle-class, small-
town American lives in the year 1915.
Clearly an extraordinary challenge for a
novelist. In gently and lovingly unfurl-
ing the subtle colors of apparently
colorless lives, Agee is at times wonder-
fully successful. But so much is grandly
over-written, in a demented chase for one
word or image which will satisfy.
Agee tries to squeeze the dubious sig-
nificance of fidelity from everything; it
can take a couple of pages of onomato-
poeia for a car to start. But if every-
thing is significant, then nothing is. The
fallacy is that of naturalism (deriving,
Gore Vidal has suggested, from a corrupt
idea of democracy) and the really sur-
prising thing is that Agee, a critic of
intelligence as well as a poet trying to
do something in the novel, should have
fallen into so obvious and well-marked
a trap. But here again the critic is dis-
armed. Given more time, Agee might
have been more intensive in his selection
(though he appeared to have time
enough, by the standards of even the
most sluggish writers). I think I see
what Agee was trying to do, but it is
no use mistaking the will for the deed.
There are two kinds of writers:
those content to describe experience,
those determined to use language to re-
create it. Only in Part 111 of “A Death
in the Family”, which could almost stand
by itself, does this insight seem to be at
work within Agee the novelist; here
events are seen entirely through the eyes
of the child Rufus. (Apparently Agee
himself, as a five-year-old.) The episode
where Rufus accosts strangers and play-
mates to boast about his father’s death
is as piercing as anything I have read
about childhood. But the innocent eye
demands a certain illusion of embodiment
from language, anyway. When it comes
to adults Agee is often restlessly and in-
effectually wordy.
I can't help seeing “A Death in the
Family” as something as much a creative
evasion as all that hack work.
Frank O’Connor has said that the
saddest thing about the short story is
the eagerness with which those who write
it best try to escape from it. Elizabeth
Bowen is a rather triumphant exception;
if she ever tried to escape the short story,
she has never tried very hard, and we
have reason to be grateful. No living
English writer (though the Irish must
have their claim, too) has used the form
with such skill, care and potency. “A
Day in the Dark” is an overdue selection
of what she considers her best stories.
They range over 36 years of her writing
life—the earliest coming from her first
little book, “Encounters”, published in
1923—and she contributes a characteris-
tically and frustratingly brief preface.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Banking on the Yanks?
HTHE Americans are not fooling about. The banking invasion of Australia has now
reached significant proportions without one new bank actually opening up for
normal banking business.
There are now two major US banks
with non-banking offices here the
Bank of America and the First National
City Bank of New York. And the signifi-
cant thing about last week’s news of the
opening of the First National’s Austra-
lian representative office was that it is
being run by one of the bank’s more
senior and experienced top executives.
This bank, the largest in New York,
is probably the world’s biggest in inter-
national commercial banking. The man
representing it in Australia is the vice-
president who was in charge of the
bank’s extensive operations in the Far
East, which covered Australia and New
Zealand as well. But if the selection of
Mr Louis D. Cullings as its Australian
representative were not clear enough
evidence of the importance the First
National (Rockefeller’s bank) places
on Australia, next week’s visit by the
bank’s president, Mr George S. Moore,
should provide it. During a visit timed
to coincide with the opening of his
bank’s local office next week, Mr Moore
will spend some time in Canberra with
the US Ambassador and will “call on
Federal ministers and Government
officials”.
Even if the subject is raised, there
seems no prospect that his bank or
any other foreign bank will be given
a banking licence to open its doors to
across-the-counter trade. The business
he is after is far bigger, anyway.
US banks have already taken some
large positions in financing the huge
developmental projects at present under
way in Australia, and no doubt will be
providing more funds as time goes by.
And the many subsidiary companies of
US parents now operating here could
find it useful to have their local bank
man here.
It is significant that the First National
City Bank owns subsidiary banks in
Canada and Monrovia and has a 40 p.c
interest in the Banque Internationale
pour I’Afrique Occidentale. And there
is a bank licence lying idle in Australia
right now.
In any event, there have been some
strong moves into the “fringe-banking”
fields here by UK banks and recently
Lloyds Bank bid to acquire the National
Bank of New Zealand, which looks
pretty close to home.
A side issue to the First National City
Bank’s opening here is its role in the
credit card business, as in New York
it operates the “Carte Blanche” card.
This credit card does not have such
wide use as a Diners Club card but
it is significant that the US Diners Club
is now owned by the Chase Manhattan
Bank; that the UK Diners Club is joint-
ly owned by the Chase Manhattan and
the Westminster Bank; that Barclays
Bank has introduced a credit card,
which reciprocates with the Bank of
America’s BankAmericard, and that the
credit card business which overseas
banks are scrambling to get into has not
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: The preamble to the Federal
Treasury’s latest quarterly Information Bulletin speaks
some soothing words: “Growth appears to be proceeding
at about the rate our general resources situation makes
feasible”. This viewpoint is aided and abetted by
Mr H. P. Brown, an economist at the Australian
National University, who comfortably considers “All
the elements in the internal economy therefore suggest
that the transition from recovery to stability has been
accomplished” . . . Right on top of these happy ideas,
overseas trade statistics for January showed imports
ahead of exports by £17.3 million, bringing the adverse
trade balance so far in the financial year to £112.5 mil-
lion . . . Internationa] reserve figures published by the
Reserve Bank still suggest a high measure of capital
inflow . . . Wool exports for the December half-year
fell by £12.4 million against the corresponding 1964
period, although 50 million lb more wool was sent
abroad . . . The Commonwealth’s first cash loan in
dollars opens for one week from February 18 and pre-
serves the same interest rates as the three previous
loans.
For the markets: Good industrials assumed a much
better face on Australian stock exchanges last week,
some of their improvement being ascribed to pre-C-day
canniness. Although industrial volumes went up
distinctly, metal issues continue a magnetic attraction,
perhaps now a trifle more selectively. Selection will
probably be more a keynote of coming dealings . . .
London has taken a hammering and several suspensions
with great aplomb, coped with the Hull by-election, and
is in process of absorbing fresh credit squeeze tactics
and tighter corporation laws. Scrip shortages help the
repeated advances; few brokers or jobbers are dealing
short . . . Wall Street is finding it difficult to believe
that company results can possibly £>e as brilliant this
year as last; the President assures the country they
will be. Investors worry about inflation and their
worries produce a rather muddled market.
For companies: Competition, the motivating core
of “the system”, has almost grown into a chorus of
complaint among the interim reports, together with
serious mutterings about rising costs . . . Tension in
tyres was, as widely expected, suffered by Dunlop
Rubber from both local and overseas sources; higher
sales could not halt a 23 p.c. profit drop ... Drought and
consequent poor water supply gave Mount Morgan a
loss for the first half of 1965-66, but the company will
catch up on output in the second half, bringing earnings
to 1964-65 levels . . . Cheerfulness keeps breaking in
through the finance houses, for Finance Corporation of
Australia earned 19 p.c. more on barely higher out-
standings; its obviously strong liquid position clearly
betokens a need for more business ... A
number of fertiliser companies, led by Australian
Fertilizers and ACF and Shirleys, give every
evidence of having seen the worst of the drought . . .
Which tobacco stock to buy leads to differences of
opinion between a security analyst and a chartist on
pages 60 and 61 of this issue; the markets were in
little doubt about Philip Morris (Australia) after its 39
p.c. profit acceleration and a previously announced high-
er dividend.


&
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March. 1950.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
~/
n/n
O'O
4,6 or 10 YEARS
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in, the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
B 810
NAME
ADDRESS
21828
yet been touched by the cautious Aus-
tralian banking system.
Now that two US banks, experts in
this field, have opened their doors here,
and now that some of the local banks
have the sort of computer installations
necessary to make this sort of venture a
success, there could be some interesting
developments.
Just Passing By
TI/Ir Frits Philips assured Pressmen in
Sydney last week that he was just
dropping by, after holidaying a month in
New Zealand. But as president of Philips
of the Netherlands, the sixth biggest com-
pany outside USA, he is unlikely to
have wasted any opportunities for
business.
He did pay a call to Canberra early
in his week’s stay, whether to pay his
respects to the new PM or to coincide
with defence discussions on Mr Healey’s
visit was not divulged.
For supplying electronic equipment to
defence forces means money these days,
even though specialist defence work at
Philips is not a big item—perhaps only
15,000 out of 250,000 on the group pay-
roll are at it. The president says he is
not particularly anxious to get more
deeply involved in defence supplies, as it
is difficult to get continuity of produc-
tion.
Philips’ big public image is in its con-
sumer goods (including TV, records and
lighting), but its big business is in
electronics for industry.
Twelve months ago. Philips bought a
62 p.c. interest in publicly-listed H.
Pettiford Holdings Ltd (wire and steel
products), presumably as a vehicle for
further acquisitions by share exchange
rather than as a vehicle for public listing
by Philips. (Since 1961 Philips and
Pettiford have jointly owned Wing Hold-
ings of Melbourne, making telecom-
munications, radio frequency, heating and
other equipment.)
Brave Attempt
Cyclone Co. of Australia Ltd
ahead of its time with the revolu-
tionary continuous casting steel plant,
of its Melbourne Steels subsidiary, or
unequal to the task of making it pay?
After five years’ battle to iron out
technical and marketing problems, Cyc-
lone is opting out. It intends to sell the
steel mill as a going concern and is
making contacts overseas with this in
view. Failing a successful sale, it may
sell the plant and machinery as a package
deal to other interested parties, probably
overseas, or sell off the assets individually
to pay the liabilities.
The steelworks (the only major one in
Melbourne) produced carbon and alloy
steels in ingots, billets and special sec-
tions from scrap and BHP pig iron. Its
continuous casting plant, feeding the rol-
ling mills, was erected in October, 1962.
This was an operation completely new
to Australia; teething problem, were at-
tended to by experts from the Concast
organisation in Europe and officers of
the BHP.
Imports and a greater availability of
local products are now troubling the
company, the Cyclone group profits have
been depressed by Melbourne Steels’
losses for five years, and so Cyclone is
getting out, even if this involves a capital
loss which should be largely allowable
for tax purposes.
But Cyclone’s problems with con-
tinuous casting have not put the wind up
BHP. whose big new development at
Newcastle is the introduction of a con-
tinuous casting plant on a substantial
scale. It describes continuous casting as a
technique only recently brought to full-
scale commercial use and one which
should yield useful economies.
Undoubtedly BHP will succeed. But
the buyer of Melbourne Steels may in-
herit Cyclone’s problems, including the
high cost of electricity from the SEC.
Oil Search Tragedy
\ few years ago, when on various
occasions oil search shares were
down but not quite out, one could con-
fidently recommend investors buying
across the board. Those who cook such
advice, and had the sense to get out
when the going later got very good,
managed to line their pockets very nicely
In a way, also, this was helpful to many
of the floats which have appealed suc-
cessfully for oil search funds in the inter-
vening years.
Times have changed. With tragically
few exceptions, oil search companies are
scraping the bottom of the barrel for
money to keep in the search. Investors
are disillusioned Although you can now
buy across the oil search board for a
song, nobody would recommend anything
but a highly selective approach. The
other side of the penny is that it is now
virtually impossible to raise funds on the
stock exchange for oil search, except for
a very limited selection of successful
companies.
Even companies like those in the As-
sociated group, which have bravely at-
tempted to keep an undiluted Australian
interest in the search and, indeed, have
made promising discoveries even if only
of gas (which they plan to exploit), are
finding investors’ interest at rock bottom.
In some cases, such as the Alliance
group, the effort has been made to stiffen
reports to shareholders with gilded hopes,
in an effort to keep their interest in what,
if faithfully and realistically appraised,
are ventures fighting for survival.
Nothing could be more pathetic in this
whole business, except perhaps what hap-


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
vss^
I Debenture
(Second Series)
UP TO
7f
m
L 5-10 YEARS . J
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog-
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
IL. Underwriters: lan Potter & Co. A
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A
exporters!
IS FINANCE YOUR PROBLEM?
A policyholder* writes—
“My Company has a competitive product and considerable experience
in overseas trading but our capacity to expand turnover was limited
by finance. For this reason we had, in fact, lost a lot of good business
by insisting on cash terms of payment.
“The security value of our E.P.I.C. Policy has changed all this. With
the assignment of the Policy to our bank, the additional finance pro-
vided has enabled us to substantially increase our export turnover and
both the bank and ourselves are protected against loss."
SAFE!
If this is your problem, you, too, may be able to
overcome it by using our services.
Export Payments Insurance Corporation
(Commonwealth Govt. Guaranteed)
*The writer must remain anonymous. E.P.I.C. is pledged to respect the
business confidence of its clients.
EP1.43.105
pened in Melbourne last week when
Amalgamated Petroleum attempted to sell
on the open market 4,035,000 ss. shares
paid to Is. 3d. which shareholders had
forfeited because they were unwilling to
pay a 3d. call on them as demanded by
the company late last year. The total
issue of 9,750,000 shares was made
(8,750,000 to shareholders) only just over
a year ago. Investors have sunk their
funds to no purpose and nearly half of
them refuse to throw more good money
after bad.
It was but poor consolation for Amal-
gamated and none at all for former
holders that at least it found buyers (at
3d each) for 142,200 out of 232,250 ss.
shares paid to 3s. 9d. at the auction.
Former holders will get nothing after
the 3d. call is collected (this incidentally
is tax deductible for buyers).
Art is long . . .
JQeep inside every businessman there’s
an artist or some sort waiting to
burst out especially if he can be
budged by an architect, or an adver-
tising man. The efflorescence of abstract
paintings within the new glass and con-
crete city buildings is surely part proof
of these hidden depths.
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
Co. (3M) has gone one step further in
all this raiding of abstract modernity.
Its entire packaging design will now be
baSed upon concepts introduced by the
Dutch painter Piet Mondrian, who died
in 1944. Mondrian’s pictures are wholly
made up of solid squares and rectangles;
all their lines must go either straight up-
and-down or across.
The 3M executives soberly explain
that their modular designs were reached
in a search to give 35,000 group pro-
ducts a “corporate look” and that
“through lack of corporate connection,
many sale-making opportunities were
lost to competitors”. A three-block
modular rectangle on each package will
first identify the product (the largest
block), then show the division making
the product and, finally, a third panel
will display the 3M company emblem.
Back of all its selling ambitions 3M
may be recalling, and appreciating, one
critic’s view of Mondrian’s work:
“ . . . the pulse beat of the big city
its flashing neon signs, its stop-and-go
traffic along precisely laid-out patterns
... a picture of the kind of life modern
man has created for himself”.
So far as Australia is concerned, the
packaging assault is to be supported by
a £1.5 million capital expansion pro-
gramme. 3M Australia ranks sixth
among 42 overseas subsidiaries and ex-
pects to double sales figures in the next
five years.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures accepted only on the form
referred to in and attached to the printed prospectus
which is available from:
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
BRANCHES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
MA.226. NSW
The Cost of Decimals
Dangers with the dollar
By CROESUS
FOR all the smoother personal and national accounting and resultant economies
expected to flow from dollar decimalisation when it gets fully into stride, the
dangers of the economy moving more rapidly than it otherwise would to a higher
prices platform cannot be dismissed lightly.
Of the dollar prices so far announced,
most represent a faithful straight con-
version of the old currency into the new.
Understandably, though, most firms have
taken the benefit of the doubt in levelling
off cent fractions in their own favor, that
is, upwards to the next whole cent. Yet
quite a lot of others have shown them-
selves a little too anxious to establish a
rosier position in the prices spectrum.
To prevent an unhealthy and needless
acceleration in consumer prices, firms
(and whole industries) should consider
their repricing into dollar currency in
national economic terms, not in blandly
opportunist ones. The unavoidable
rounding off of fractions into whole cents
in itself will lift the consumer-price index,
but not so much to worry about. The
real danger to prices lies in the area of
firms writing into dollar prices big addi-
tions to costs they declare to have oc-
curred and to have soaked up profit
margins since prices were last increased.
At a time of lulled economic activity,
the scope for putting un prices is thank-
fully narrower than it was when the econ-
omy was burgeoning this time last year;
in current conditions of dampened de-
mand it could be that some firms which
have raised their prices may be in for a
rude shock from declining turnovers
under dollars. Those which have taken
advantage of the changeover seem to be
mainly in sheltered industries, where
competition from imports has little in-
fluence on the situation.
Another mitigating factor in the situ-
ation is that (Mr Snedden to the con-
trary), even where locally-produced
goods dominate or monopolise the home
market, competition between the various
competing firms in most of the industries
is pretty keen without the presence of
importers to hot it up. Again, it is prob-
ably true that psychological—consumer
resistance—barriers will prevent big per-
centage increases in prices on conversion
into dollars and cents in all but small
ticket items (though it is the latter which
dominate the consumer-price index) and
in total, of course, such items represent,
a sizeable part of the ordinary man’s
budget. Added up, a cent here and a
cent there put on their old prices could
have a big impact on the consumer-price
index.
At any rate quite enough examples of
liberal interpretations of the dollar con-
version process are to hand to suggest
that considerable problems of incomes
adjustment lie ahead. Doubtless, in the
coming weeks, we will be treated to an
expert discourse on them by Mr Hawke
in the Arbitration Commission. Already
there have been considerable stirrings
around the Melbourne Trades Hall on
the question. It wouldn’t be at all sur-
prising if export circles and industries
suffering most from imports competition
soon joined the chorus of hate against the
more sheltered members of the commer-
cial community.
Although there will have been con-
siderable variations in costs experience
between particular firms and industries,
one is not disputing that, over the whole
of the economy, costs have risen in the
last two years or even that the increases
have been bigger than those in consumer
prices. For one thing average weekly
wage earnings have risen appreciably
more than consumer prices. In fact,
between September, 1963, and Septem-
ber last year they rose by just over 7 per
cent a year—the index moved up from
151.5 to 171.5 between these two quart-
ers. "
Also over these two years, prices of
basic materials and foodstuffs, as mea-
sured by the index of wholesale prices,
have increased by about 3i per cent a
year on average. Thanks to falls in prices
of home-produced goods and steadiness
in those of imported goods, this index
came back 12 points to 364 in the last
four months of 1965 (this drop strength-
ened one’s impression that easing demand
might yet be reflected in a slowing of
consumer-price increases).
Going on the 4 per cent average annual
rate of increase in the consumer-price
index in the last two years, a swell in
prices took hold after the price stability
of the two previous years. Admittedly
the slightly lessened pressure from de-
mand in the final quarter of 1965 might
have been expected to weaken it and,
indeed, that probably happened. The
effect was disguised. The index moved
up at rather more than the established
4 per cent annual rate of increase in the
quarter, largely because the full effects
of the Budget tax increases had, missed
the September quarter’s figures and were
written into prices in the following one.
Given the current lull in economic
activity many observers were entertain-
ing the idea that the effects of generally
subdued demand might show up in more
positive fashion in the consumer-price
index for the current quarter. Coming
at a critical time in the deliberations of


AA2C3
M
1
m
%
w
J
-**C*^ :
*
F
#
•»
*
*
SIZE IS NOT THE TRUE
MEASURE OF A GRINDING WHEEL!
You don’t measure a grinding wheel merely by its physical dimensions.
There's a lot more to it than that. Knowledge, technical experience,
service ... priceless ingredients which only Australian Abrasives can
provide ... are equally essential considerations, in the measurement
of a grinding wheel. A.A. Sales Engineers and their Distributors are
anxious to prove this to you. If you have a grinding or abrasive mach-
ining problem in your plant, send this advertisement to us on your
letterhead. We’ll send a technical expert to you immediately ... and
his service will cost you nothing.
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
Australian Abrasives Pty. Ltd. 302 Parramatta Rd., Auburn, N.S.W. 648 2361
the Arbitration Commission on the
unions’ wages claims, an announcement,
say at end-April, that the index had
steadied would have induced a moderat-
ing influence on Commissioners who, in
the name of broader economic considera-
tions have flung propositions that cost
of living adjustments should be made to
award wages back to the unions’ camp
in recent judgments.
Now the possibility is looming, and
quite rapidly, that decimalisation is going
to produce a crop of increases in con-
sumer prices to shatter the hopes of sta-
bc lity returning. A phrase should be coin-
ed for this side effect of decimalisation,
something like opportunity price-push.
At any rate it is something Mr McMahon
can’t shut his eyes to. Nor, for that
matter, must it escape the attention of
the Arbitration Commission, for it lies
altogether outside the neat productivity-
capacity-to-pay arguments the employers
have successfully thrust upon it.
will be differences of opinion
among economists on the rights and
wrongs of this price-pushing. Some will
say that it is the reflection of bottled-up
inflation and the sooner the underlying
pressure is released the better for the
long-run health of the economy—always
conceded, of course that if, as it is bound
to do, it leads to a higher general wages
and prices -structure, the possible corol-
lary of exchange devaluation is accept-
ed, too. On the other hand, it would
take a mountain to move the authorities
off the perch of a fixed exchange rate
at the current level. This being so, op-
portunity price-pushing must be mini-
mised in the interest of maintaining a
viable equilibrium or balance (as Mr
Holt would prefer it) between national
priorities, of which first place has long
been and will continue to be to strengthen
our ability to pay our way on external
account —which brings us back to export
competitiveness.
The Government has made this new
bed of decimals and will have to lie on
it, strewn though it seems very likely to
be with thorns put there by opportunity
price-pushers For the time being, as I
see it, if he is to get the necessary adjust-
ments made to incomes and keep econ-
omic activity topped up Mr McMahon
will have to turn a blind eye to any bal-
ance of payments clouds he may see on
the horizon and keep his fingers crossed
that they stay away. Fortunately we are
taking the plunge at a time when balance
of payments considerations need not deter
him unduly in making the necessary inter-
nal adjustments to incomes, provided that
these are relatively small and the strains
on exports competitiveness can be mini-
mised.


»£RS
ovm
■fM •
I /ts’cwZ)*#*™™
A v
*&s
f m ‘'MV P v '
‘ sractes s&S
:-
!
FOR
YOUR
PROTECTION
It pays to put all your
‘insurance eggs’
in one basket
FOR YOUR PROTECTION and FINANCIAL BENEFIT it could pay you hand*
somely to consult us now on all your insurance requirements. Simply
complete and post the coupon below or call us and we will be pleased
to provide you with full information without obligation.
<&►
THE AUTOMOBILE FIRE & GENERAL INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Founded 1422)
Branch Offices: Melbourne 678531; Sydney 211 4099; Brisbane 54726; Perth 232148; Hobart 26403
Sub-Branches at Geelong, Canberra,. Albury, Wagga, Goulburn, Newcastle, Townsville.
PROMPT SETTLEMENT
A.F.G. * COMPETITIVE RATES
* LIBERAL POLICIES.
Post today:— A.F.G., P.O. Box 1625 M, Melbourne.
Please supply me with further information regarding your special
benefits and services available to me.
I am especially interested
IN INSURANCE
NAME ADDRESS
PHONE
MAN ON THE LAND
Private Selling of Wool
Manufacturers offer contracts
TF a woolgrower really wants stability in wool prices, for himself, then it appears
" that he may soon be able to obtain it. He will be able to grow wool, on contract,
for direct sale to overseas manufacturers.
There is a proviso, and a most impor-
tant one. He will have to be efficient
enough, as a flock manager, to provide
wool of a consistently high quality.
The growth of private wool-selling, on
a contract basis, is being freely pre-
dicted in the industry at present. It exists
already in a small but increasing way
in the eastern States and in a large way
in Western Australia. The orthodox, or
established, view is that this is a bad
thing. It is supposed to be an undermining
of the free auction system and of the
industry at large.
It must be stressed that this is the
orthodox view. Subscribing to it would be
most of the producer organisations, the
Wool Board, and the majority of pas-
toralist broking houses (especially the
larger ones). Spilling over into the poli-
tical sphere, it would also be the view
held by the Country Party, or, to be
more precise, the majority of Country
Party politicians.
Yet logic demands that the orthodox
view be examined. If private treaty wool
sales are such a bad thing, how is it
that an increasing number of wool-
growers dispose of their wool by this
method? We can ignore the frequently
heard jibe that growers use this method
to avoid taxation. This theory is bandied
around without the slightest proof.
Logically, the reason woolgrowers
sell wool privately is that it suits them—
and is better than sending it to auction.
If it were worse, in terms of financial
return, then they would not sell wool
privately.
If the free auction system was con-
sistently better, in terms of financial
return to the grower, then private selling
could not survive, let alone increase.
The figures available on private wool-
selling are those of the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics and the Wool
Board. These are the same thing, vir-
tually, and once again it must be stressed
that these figures reflect the orthodox
view. They are as accurate, probably,
as could be expected, yet they may, in
fact, understate the volume of wool being
sold privately. According to these figures,
30 p.c. of the wool in Western Aus-
tralia is sold privately.
It is said that the private buyers con-
centrate on the better class wool. They
take about 60 p.c. of the better wool.
But Western Australia is a long way from
the major sheep State, New South Wales,
and the major mixed-farming State, Vic-
toria. The position in NSW seems to be
that the free auction system, buttressed
by the Sydney futures market, is very
strong. The reasons are manifold. The
traditional broker-woolgrower relation-
ship is particularly evident. Big all-sheep
properties, relatively unstable climatic
factors over much of the State, and a
genuine belief in the auction system as
such contribute.
Stability, if that is a paramount desire,
can be obtained through using the futures
market. While it is true that few wool-
growers use this method, more NSW
growers use futures than growers


'•
l'; )
1111
//
/
B SINGAPORE
■ INCLUDE SINGAPORE • THE LION CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modern, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here If- million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side - here you will
find the Orient's most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and cultures - Stopover
- You’ll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
Further north - no more than an hour by air * lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You’ve read about
it in books - now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur - Federal Capital of Malaysia - See beautiful
Penang - the Pearl of Orient - Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
■ SERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia - throughout South East Asia
from Singapore • you’ll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways'
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you’ll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
Jest
MALAYSIAN
AIRWAYS
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
in other States. Sydney, after all, has the
only futures market.
A psychological factor, by no means
irrelevant, is that any woolgrower likes,
if possible, to see his wool sold. If he is a
mixed farmer he cannot “take off” as
readily as the wool man pure and simple.
The private buyer calls at his farm,
pays him in cash, and the transaction
is completed rapidly. He can get on with
the ploughing or whatever it is that
prevents him heading for Melbourne or
Geelong to see the wool sold. It is not
a large point, probably, but it is a point.
A matter of far larger scope is the
different financial position generally of
the mixed farmer as compared with the
specialised sheep farmer. The mixed
farmer, relying perhaps on wheat prim-
arily, may not need to go to the pas-
toralist broker for financial assistance,
and selling wool privately is, to him, a
mark of independence.
Naturally if you are being looked
after by a broker you sell your wool
through him. The brokers repeatedly
imply that private buyers offer less money
than is obtainable by putting the wool
through auction. Wool cannot be in two
places at once. There is no way, really,
of knowing if this contention is true.
It does seem logical, however, that if pri-
vate buyers consistently offered less
money, improvable as this contention is,
then fewer, rather than more, wool-
growers would avail themselves of the
private buyer.
The orthodox view also implies that
private wool-buyers put wool into the
hands of speculators. For that matter, so
can the auction system. The old * style
private buyer possibly did encourage
speculation which could be said to have
a depressing effect on auction prices. The
private buyer offering contracts, on be-
half of overseas manufacturers, is a
somewhat different operator.
/Contract farming, as has been pointed
out many times in these columns, is
the farming development of the 1960 s in
Australia. It is here, and increasing, in
poultry, peas, beans, potatoes, oats, bar-
ley, tomatoes, pig meats, and other items.
It may well spread to wool and beef.
It cannot spread to wheat, because
wheat is entirely under the control of the
Australian Wheat Board. It cannot spread
to the dairy industry. Yet, significantly,
the dairy industry practices a form of
contract farming itself by the issue of
Milk Board whole-milk contracts. The
only difference, really, is that it is under
producer board control. Only difference?
For the ultimate good of the farmer,
and the community, the difference may
be immense. That is something no one
really knows. The next ten years will tell.
It is highly significant that the people
interested in putting woolgrowers on
contract are specially interested in the
better quality wools. Italian manufac-
turers, for example, who buy top lines
at auction in the eastern States, have a
list of all the individual growers supplying
these wools; it would be a simple matter
to seek them out and offer contracts.
If the contract system favors the
highly efficient producer, can it be really
said it is a bad thing?
Clearly reflecting concern over the
trend, there comes a suggestion that
one farm group in Victoria will press for
a State Wool Marketing Board. Frankly,
one cannot see it getting very far. Twenty
years ago this would have been a new,
exciting development. Today it is not the
kind of thing the bright young men in
the wool industry, whether on farms or
at the distribution end, are talking about.
Nor is it strong in the universities. If in
doubt, read the Vernon Report.


Radio-controlled
nursemaid •
■
.
f m
m
■M
at your service when you hire
Cork lift trucks from CHEP
ft.
mm
Let’s face it. We are number one.
We got that way by having top class
materials handling equipment
always ready for immediate delivery.
Takes a lot of doing to stay at the top of the tree.
Take our service policy for instance. We cover you
(and ourselves) by operating a fleet of radio-
controlled workshops.
You are assured of fast response to your call for
service. Our mobile workshops carry everything from
a split pin to a replacement motor. Saves you costly
down time. Lets you get maximum usage out of the
equipment. When you hire from Chep all service and
repairs are guaranteed.
Chep . . . the people who can put your materials
handling on to a profitable footing.
(§)
CHEP Minogue Crescent,
Glebe, N.S.W., 68 4211.
CHEP Sandgate Road, Albion,
Brisbane, Queensland, 6 2181.
CHEP 205 Hanson Road, Athol Park,
Adelaide, 45 7922.
CHA
AGRISEARCH
A New Phalaris
“£iro Seedmaster” is the registered
name of a new variety of phalaris
that will lower the cost of pasture estab-
lishment. Seedmaster phalaris retains
most of its seed and so can be harvested
like wheat in a single, swift operation
when the heads are fully ripe. It was
bred by Dr J. R. McWilliam, of the
CSIRO Division of Plant Industry, at
Canberra. Small parcels of the seed
were distributed to State Departments of
Agriculture and to some other selected
seed-growers last year for the production
of “mother grade” seed stocks.
The trouble with Australia’s present
variety of Phalaris tuberosa is that it is
a bad shatterer. Its seed ripens progres-
sively from the apex to the base of the
inflorescence over a period of several
days, depending on the weather and the
amount of moisture in the soil. As a
result, ripe seed falls from the top of the
head while the seed further down to-
wards the base may be still quite green
and immature. In attempting to save
this shatter loss, phalaris seed-growers
have had to resort to complicated harvest-
ing systems such as cutting and stooking,
trough harvesting, and cutting and pick-
ing up. Even so, much of the seed is lost
and much of that which is gathered is of
low quality.
Comparative figures obtained by Dr
McWilliam tell just how superior the new
variety is. From identical plots, each
containing the same number of plants,
he was able to harvest 405 pounds of
seed per acre from the Seedmaster pha-
laris, but only 145 pounds from the
standard commercial variety. Extensive
comparisons of the vegetative yield,
seedling vigor, time of flowering,
digestibility, and other agronomic char-
acteristics of the new and old varieties
have also been made. It has been proved
that none of these features was changed
during the breeding and selection pro-
gramme. In every way, except, of course,
in the detailed structure of the flower
head, the two varieties are indistinguish-
able.
The new variety was bred from strains
introduced from Argentina. Actually—
and this accounts for the general simi-
larity of Seedmaster and present com-
mercial phalaris—the Argentine phalaris
was grown from seed sent there from
Australia some years ago. Only three
generations of selection were required to
produce the new phalaris. This is because
the seed retention character is mainly
genetic and is not influenced by the en-
vironment to any significant extent. Ac-
cordingly, Siro Seedmaster can be re-
lied upon to retain its seed wherever it
is grown in Australia.


Tec-Felt can ease costs and
increase plant product efficiency
fhe questions are simply where and
how much will Tec-Felt save you?
Tec-Felt has thousands of applications
and yet the industrial felt specialists at
Felt and Textiles are constantly finding
new uses for felt and new felt for uses.
They will develop a felt for your needs.
For instance, of the almost 1,000 types,
grades and colours of Tec-Felt only
about 200 are standard.
Tec-Felt can be manufactured to con-
form to a specific thickness, a specific
resilience, a specific shape, absorption
and density. It can be brought to almost
any consistency of softness or hardness.
It can be proofed against moths, flame,
water, fungi and corrosion. Write for
that free book today.
ft—rr ft
This heavy roil grinder, in the John Lysaght (Australia) Ltd. mill at Port Kembla, is
cushioned on a hidden layer of Laminated Vibrasorb Anti-vibration Tec-Felt. The
grinder is completely isolated from the rest of the building.
Tec-Felt Filter in this Hoover protects
mechanism from dirt. The Hoover polisher
uses Tec-Felt polishing pads.
Polishers from tiny polishing discs
for precious stone? to large buffing
wheels are available in Tec-Felt.
Vibrations in this metal stamping press
at Gadsden-Hughes Ltd., Five Dock,
NSW., are isolated by Vibrasorb Blue
Line Tec-Felt. The pads bond to machine
and floor anchor bolts are eliminated.
**!
Tec-Felt
The Industrial Felt Sales Division of Felt and Textiles is the
developer and producer of Industrial Felts in Australia
FREE BOOK
Write on your
Company stationery:
Industrial Felt
Sales, 791 Botany
Road, Waterloo,
N.S.W.
Phone MU 2451
FF697


MARKET POINTERS
Right Time for the Leaders
By JASON
PROBABLY the best speculations on the market at present are the leading stocks.
Even “Speculator” seems to be swinging around to this opinion; last week he bought
some Union Carbide in an unaccustomed sortie into the “quality” end of the market.
For these biggest and best stocks are
the ones most likely to be among the
front-runners during 1966, as there seems
every chance that they were written down
too sharply in the last 18 months.
Not that there is any need to rush into
the market. Most shares could be a bit
cheaper in the next couple of months,
unless the Government is very clever in-
deed about keeping up the flow of money
in the economy against the seasonal trend.
But which leading stocks should a
market “punter” back? There are many
factors to be taken into account in
judging which of the leaders will do best
when the forecast market rise eventually
comes —probably towards the end of this
year. Some tipsters are looking very
closely at top quality shares that may be
unusually depressed because of recent
new issues which forced many holders to
sell in a market not really flush with
buyers.
An even more useful measuring stick
may be the market’s past attitude to a
stock. If the market has been prepared
in the past to run a well-loved stock up
to dizzy heights, on the basis of pros-
pects, rather than performance, the
chances are that it might do the same
again—unless the stock itself has
seriously let the market down, rather
than the other way about.
There is no doubt that in terms of
dividend yields (is there a better guide?)
most of the market heavyweights are now
selling far below their 1960 boom levels
—and it may be just as well. However,
if they are to gain even a part of their
lost lustre, some idea of the scope for
that gain ~a > be gauged from a look
at the list of those leaders that have
fallen most (by gaining most in dividend
yield terms) from the 1960 boom.
The exercise is an illuminating one.
Out of the many stocks that the market
has reassessed since 1960 (or that have
reassessed themselves), I have collected
14 in the leader or near-leader class
whose dividend yields have increased by
more than half in the last 5i years. The
ma jn reason for these moves has been
solid falls in price. In some instances
Prices have been cut in half; in others,
lower prices have been accompanied by
higher dividends.
Not all the 14 have the remarkable
Potential of G. E. Crane, Union Car-
hide, BHP, or even BMI, for rapid re-
covery during 1966. Others would be
good buying provided investors could
be a little more certain about timing a
purchase. For example, Dalgety, National
Consolidated, AWA, CSR and EZ In-
dustries look to be bargains at present
prices, but they could go cheaper, be-
cause of special considerations in their
industries, before the eventual rise comes.
AWA is the only one on the list whose
yield—exactly doubled, as the price has
fallen 50 p.c. —is directly comparable
with 1960, for among the many things
it has not done since then is make a
new issue to shareholders.
The yield comparison for Ampol is
complicated by a premium issue, a de-
ferred share issue and heavy note con-
versions. Yet on the basis that the
market takes everything into account,
the fact remains that Ampol’s market
image is sorely dented by the severe
competition in the petrol retailing busi-
ness and by some initial problems with
its Brisbane refinery.
The more than doubled dividend yield
now available from Lend Lease reflects
the change in the basic approach at the
company from one-off development pro-
fits to holding more of its projects as
income earners; the different market
situation brought about by the com-
pany’s premium issue during this period
was hardly a factor in its changed status.
On the surface, one of the best-looking
buys amongst the stocks in this list is
National Consolidated —but only provid-
ed it can hold its profits up while things
stay so tough in the motor trade.
Union Carbide, like most stocks rated
below 2. p.c. yields in 1960, was un-
doubtedly over-priced. Its yield has now
blown out to 2.9 p.c., which is still low
but could easily get lower. The market
has made allowance for two one-for-10
bonuses in September, 1964, and 1965,
which went a long way to erasing the
memory of the 1962 trading shock,
when profit failed to cover dividend.
Dividend increases have contributed to
the improvement in yields obtainable
from BHP, CSR, Dalgety, David Jones,
DFC, EZ, BMI, CIG and G. E. Crane.
BHP’S per-share dividend has been
enlarged slightly from 8f to 9.16 p.c.;
capital has been increased by a one-for-
two bonus late in 1960 and two smallish
par issues. The end of its steel monopoly
may be in sight, but it is still the key-
stone of Australian heavy industry, and
is still expanding at a rapid rate.
CSR’s dividend has been enlarged
from 9 to 12F p.c. since 1960, but two
premium issues blur comparisons. A
long-term view of the sugar market
should ease apprehensiveness about world
prices. CSR’s future now embraces con-
crete, bauxite and iron ore, in addition
to the long-standing but moderately per-
forming building materials and chemicals
operations.
The dividend return obtainable on
David Jones shares is now an extra three-
quarters as high as in 1960, partly be-
cause of a dividend rise from 12i to
13J p.c., but mainly due to a changed
market approach following the big rise
in capital from £6.3 million to £ll mil-
lion by takeovers, big notes conversions
and a premium issue. In addition, DJ’s
has not yet given enough evidence of
being back on the growth train in earn-
ing rate terms despite last year’s profit
rise. This is a tough trade, and Grace
Bros seems to have taken over the front-
running. If DJ’s regains its dynamisrp,
the 4.2 dividend yield at present avail-
able may prove a bargain rate.
The DFC mystique has suffered a
severe dent, not only on the basis of its
1.5 p.c. dividend yield in 1960, before
the dividend rose from 6i p.c. to 8i p.c.,
but also the market has considered it
needed more from DFC than the fur-
ther dividend lift to 111 p.c. and no
share issues in the past 5i years. If its
official money market operator does well
this year, as interest rates give every
promise of falling, and if its unit trust
operations are stimulated a bit by a
healthier market situation, investors may
give the stock better marks than last
year.
EZ was unpopular in the 1960 market,
but today’s price of 225. is only 10id.
higher, despite a dividend increase from
10 to 18 p.c. As profits have lifted from
£2.5m. to £4m. on unchanged capital,
EZ offers an exceptionally high return.
G. E. Crane is still one of the lowest
yielding stocks on the lists at 2.9 p.c.,
despite a big increase in yield from only
1.7 p.c. in 1960. So it should be. And
if anything, it is a better proposition now
than it was then.
Yield p.c.
Aug., • Jan.,
1960 1966
AWA 1.7 3.4
Ampol 3.7 7.5
Lend Lease 2.2 4.7
National Consolidated .... 2.7 4.3
Union Carbide 1-8 2.9
BHP L 9 3.8
CSR 2.2 4.0
CIG L 8 3.6
Dalgety 3.1 5.2
DFC L 5 3.6
EZ :.... 5.0 8.2
David Jones 2.4 4.2
BMI 2.5 4.4
G. E. Crane 1.7 2.9


%
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNULS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
SIIVI3Q UOdl .S3IVM. 3HI MSV
ND.I6.N.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Which Tobacco Stock to Buy
T BELIEVE that both Philip Morris and Rothmans can be bought with confidence at
current prices but I would like to see whether British Tobacco’s diversification is
going to pay off —or at least show real signs of paying off before investing at
current prices.
As I write this summary article, the
prices of the three listed tobacco
companies’ shares all seem to have
moved up since the beginning of 1966.
In the case of British Tobacco and Philip
Morris, the lift in the dividend rate
must be regarded as being the major
factor. Even at today’s prices, the shares
are still priced as “income stocks”, as
the following table shows:
Last Sale Dividend Yield from
Price per share Div. Earn.
$ cents percentages
British Tobacco 3.85 22 5.7 8.0
Philip Morris 7.30 24 3.3 11.4
Rothmans 3.07 20 6.5 12.6
Those who might suggest that a share
showing a dividend yield of 3.8 p.c. is
not priced as an income stock might
care to ponder on Philip Morris’ earn-
ings yield of 13.3 p.c. which is surely
not that of a growth stock.
Before comparing the performances
of these three companies, it will be as
well to take a look at the industry
trends. As mentioned in the article on
Rothmans, there is a tendency for the
rate of growth in the consumption of
“tailor-made” cigarettes to slow down.
This rate was in excess of 9 p.c. per
annum compound during the five-year
period ending June 30, 1960, but it is
fairly clear that this rate has fallen
quite dramatically. In the four-year
period to June 30, 1964, the average
annual compound rate was just about
4 p.c. per annum. However, it is not the
decrease in the rate that is surprising,
but its high level, considering the strong
campaign against cigarette smoking
which has been going on for the whole
of this latter period. No doubt the rate
of increase will level off so that it does
not exceed the rate of growth in the
smoking population; if this is taken as
approximating to the rate of growth of
the work force, then a 3 p.c. per annum
rate seems a possibility.
It is quite impossible to foresee the
future so far as the “lung cancer” cam-
paign is concerned. It will, perhaps, be
possible to make some judgment after
a year or two, when the effect of the
restrictions on advertising in the UK
and of the enforced warnings in the
USA has been observed. If the findings
of the last group of researchers are
fully confirmed and cigarette smoking is
again proved to be dangerous by the re-
search being conducted by the industry
itself, it would still probably take a gen-
eration before smoking died out. At the
nPius week The Bulletin introduces
a new service. In addition to the
usual analysis, The Bulletin will in-
elude a chartist’s view of the stocks
discussed on this page. Charting share
price movements, and making buying
recommendations on the basis of these
trends, is an investment technique that
has some popularity, particularly
overseas.
However, readers will readily see
that the fundamental approach of
The Bulletin’s security analyst and
the trends suggested by these. charts
do not necessarily result in the same
conclusions.
present, there is still always a possibility
that it will be found that lung cancer
is caused by other factors and this could
bring about a revival in smoking.
Those who, as investors, are con-
cerned about the lung cancer scare so
far as their investments in the tobacco
industry are concerned, may care to
take note that the master statisticians,
the actuaries of the life offices, do not
yet appear to be convinced. Life offices
today do not impose any extra premium
for smokers or allow any reduction for
non-smokers, yet many years ago it was
quite customary for these offices to
allow a premium reduction for non-
drinkers. We have forgotten the anti-
drink publicity at the end of the nine-
teenth century and the brewery com-
panies are now “growth” stocks.
So much for the qualitative factors
which could affect the future revenues
of the tobacco companies. There are
also factors which could affect the
profits of the companies; perhaps the
one which is likely to have the greatest
impact is the prospect of some changes
in the present scheme to promote
tobacco growing in Australia. While
this scheme might perhaps be an in-
creased cost factor so far as the com-
panies’ raw materials are concerned
since local quality leaf sells at much
higher prices than the imported leaf
another substantial cost arises from the
need to finance the purchases of the
local leaf. If any revision of the scheme
incorporates some arrangements to re-
lieve the manufacturers of this financing
cost, some material increase in per-
share earnings could result. For
example, if Rothmans could have re-
paid all its loan capital at the beginning
of 1964/5, per-share earnings for that
year would have been increased by
about 15 p.c.
However, the extent to which each
company has relied on borrowed money
has varied (Rothmans has certainly
seemed to be the largest user) so, to
make a worthwhile comparison, the
ratio of net profit before tax, depreci-


ation and interest to the total of share-
holders’ funds plus loan capital seems
a suitable measure. The following table
shows the trend in this ratio for the
three companies:
Yeor ended in 1962 1963 1964 1965
British Tobacco 100 111 116 n.a.
Philip Morris 100 132 165 191
Rothmans 100 66 70 80
These indices compare with the per-
share earnings indices to the same base
year (1962 = 100) as follows:
Year ended in 1962 1963 1964 1965
British Tobacco 100 110 119 n.a.
Philip Morris 100 138 188 265
Rothmans 100 106 111 132
It is to be expected that the first ratio
will not increase at the same rate as the
second. If a company makes use of
borrowed money, it must surely make
quite certain that these funds are in-
vested to show a return in excess of
the interest charge. The rather dramatic
fall in the first ratio in the 1962/3 year
so far as Rothmans is concerned seems
to be due to the fact that there was a
very substantial increase in loan money
during the preceding year which did
not produce any comparable increase in
net operating revenue during the 1962/3
year. One suspects that there were
rather special circumstances, for it is
noticeable that the loan interest-charge
in 1962/3 was 52i p.c. greater than it
was in 1964/5.
llThile the statistics regarding market
" shares are rather dubious, since they
are based on samples derived from cig-
arette machines, it seems likely that
Rothmans’ share has declined since
1962 while Philip Morris’ share has in-
creased substantially. British Tobacco’s
share has changed little but may also
have tended slightly downwards.
One has to be very courageous to
predict the long-term future when it is
apparent that growth rates are already
slowing down, for it is not possible to
say whether the growth will merely
level out or whether it will start to de-
cline. In the case of the tobacco com-
panies, I believe that it will level out
and will not decline. For this reason, I
am inclined to take the optimistic
approach that a 4 p.c. rate of growth
in sales can be expected and on the
basis of performance over the last four
years. I consider that this could sustain
an earnings growth at the rate of 12 p.c.
per annum. The question is: “What will
happen to market shares in the next
four years?” If it is believed that Philip
Morris can raise its share from 10 p.c.
to 15 p.c., then it might be practical to
expect earnings to increase at an annual
rate of about 40 p.c. per annum. How-
ever, despite the apparently high share
Price, the market is not expecting this
for, if it did, the earnings yield would
surely not be 13.3. p.c.
In terms of dividends per share and
current prices, Rothmans is the cheap-
est of the three companies. In terms of
earnings per share, Philip Morris is the
cheapest. Because of the problems re-
lating to depreciation, I suggest that it
might be a good idea to compare yet
another ratio to the market price
net profit before tax and depreciation
per share, frequently referred to in the
USA as “pre-tax cash flow” per share,
In terms of this ratio, Rothmans is the
cheapest.
The Chartist Disagrees
HTHE charts say “no” to the security analyst’s recommendations. The trend of stock-
market prices for the three tobacco stocks suggests that the right buying decisions
would be exactly the opposite to the analyst’s advice.
A study of price trends, completely
ignoring any other considerations, since
1960 produces the following recommen-
dations:
British Tobacco has the most appeal.
This stock has been in a rising 10 p.c.
primary uptrend since 1962 and has
recently broken out of a congestion area
with a sharp move which should con-
tinue to about 405., where further con-
solidation would be expected. The base
consolidation allows for a continuation of
further long-term growth at possibly
a higher rate of appreciation than the
preceding 10 p.c. and it is quite likely
that this stock could be entering a new
growth phase. A further move to about
48s. would be possible in the longer term.
Philip Morris has followed a 30 p.c.
broad overall uptrend and the major trend
line has been tested five times since 1961.
Obviously, this stock is still in a growth
phase and a likely projection for the
short term is about 68s. However, it
does appear that the rate of growth
could be about to slow down from the
consolidation evident for the 1964/5
period. The stock could be safely held
until the base trend line is penetrated.
Rothmans gives every appearance of
recessive tendencies. This is not a stock
where immediate further capital growth
could be expected. The present time is
a critical one and its future direction
should be determined within the next
few months, possibly weeks. At this
stage, it appears that it could recede to
about 245. in the short term and this
would be likely once a strong support
level at 295. is penetrated. The situation
would call for reassessment should the
stock move above 405., which appears
unlikely at present. It is quite obviously
past its growth phase and is now moving
in a broadening top situation.
The solid line in the graph movements between 1960 and 1965 represents weekly price changes;
the fragmented lines from 1965 onwards show weekly price ranges.


A Card for All Seasons
To Esme, with love ...
By MICHAEL BAUME
T'O most people, next Monday means C-day; to a very few it means St Valentine’s
-*■ Day. This year only a few manufacturers wHI even bother to put out a
Valentine’s Day card and no one is trying any more to give the day the same appeal
as in the US.
Valentine’s Day is one of the few
major flops in the remarkable success
story of the Australian greeting card
industry.
Australians now spend about £ll mil-
lion a year on greeting cards, or just
under £1 a head. In the last eight years,
each Australian has trebled his greeting
card buying, to bring boom times to a
business that was just struggling along
a decade ago.
The major reason for the industry’s
huge success is that it no longer depends
just on Christmas. Christmas cards now
make up only about a fifth of total
sales. Energetic promotion of other spe-
cial days and every-day-of-the-year cards
has given the industry most of its big
sales fillip in recent times.
Another factor is that the big card-
makers are losing out on quite a bit of
the Christmas card business, as a fair
proportion is hived off by small printers,
who put out large runs of cheaply pro-
duced designs in a one-hit operation and
who do not go after the day-to-day sales.
Nevertheless, Christmas is the biggest
single card-selling season. Other big
special days are: New Year (for those
you have forgotten at Christmas), Easter
(of growing importance), Mother’s Day
(the second Sunday in May), Father’s
Day (first Sunday in September, and the
white hope of the industry), and lastly
Valentine’s Day (February 14, symbolis-
ing gallantry and fond sentiments). This,
incidentally, is commemorated more in
North Queensland than anywhere else in
Australia, a legacy from the American
“invasion” during the war.
In between times, Australians follow
the American trend, buying birthday
cards specially printed for mothers,
sisters, daughters, males, grand-daughters
and 2lsts; cards for engagements, wed-
dings, wedding anniversaries, arrival of
babies, sympathy; thank you cards; get
well cards (fast rising in popularity); bon
voyage cards, and cards with a check list
covering almost every possible occasion.
Few cards sold here are designed com-
pletely by Australians; the industry pays
substantially to US producers for the
great bulk of its raw material. Yet there
is far more to the greeting cards business
than just getting a good US franchise and
running off copies.
To stay on top, a card-maker has to
keep up with the latest trends. One major
local maker failed to do this with “funny”
cards, which have now become a per-
manent feature of the field, and so cut
himself out of eight to 10 per cent of the
total card market. He is now slowly try-
ing to make up some of that lost ground.
Women buy about 90 per cent of the
industry’s output, according to one trade
source, which helps explain the need to
keep fashionable.
It is still a difficult business to be in.
One company, W. J. Cryer Ltd, has
pulled right out of cards in the last two
years as the pace got too hot and another
has been coping with some serious pro-
blems that still look far from solved. The
main battle in the card business is get-
ting the cards on display so the public can
see them. Originally, getting on the shel-
ves meant for the most part in news-
agencies, where the bulk of the business
was done. This still is the nub of the
trade; the struggle to get as , many
“pockets” displaying each company’s
product is a keen one.
This is where the energetic marketing
approach of Valentines, under managing
director Mr X. Vogt, is now giving it a
slight edge over its rivals.
The importance of getting more than
your share of display pockets is that it
costs the same to deliver and service
each newsagent anyway; companies that
sell from 50 pockets in a display have
servicing costs no greater than those who
come to fill only 10, But the first battle
is to get into the newsagencies them-
selves. Some card manufacturers claim
they have been excluded by what they
assert to be the restrictive trade practices
of the Greeting Card Publishers Associa-
tion.
One non-member maker got around
this by taking over a member brand; an-
other decided to fight by swinging its
major sales effort into encouraging
chemist’s shops to carry cards. This was
a failure. But the company, Regency, is
now pulling itself up from the floor by
dealing in increasing quantities with the
big retail stores.
After making some heavy losses in its
early years, Regency (a subsidiary of
can-maker Containers Ltd) is believed to
be at last getting out of the red, having
been able to get rid of its backlog of slow-
moving stock (slow because of marketing
mistakes rather than poor quality design).
It is ceasing to deal with outlets that are
regarded by the newsagents as improper,
such as chemists, and so the violence of
opposition to Regency in the trade is
slowly dying.
It was G. N. Raymond Ltd., whose
Fairfield card was not in the association,
that took over Trinity House and so be-
came an association member and con-
sequently got onto newsagency shelves.
Some companies appeared to have
built up good links with retailers. For
example, Specialty Press’ Hallmark cards
seemed to have a good run with Coles’
stores, but lately Valentine’s Norcross
cards have been strongly in evidence in
both the Coles’ and Woolworths chains.
Valentine executives say that these are
standard cards at standard prices.
The key to the greeting card business


Dear
Man from the Prudential:
It’s time you met
John Edward Kelly
Only nine months old, and already he’s
not one of your customers
Johnny lives near Blacktown. He’s one
of the thousands of babies born last
year within the TCN viewing area. His
dad’s just taken out a whopping packet of
insurance for him. But it wasn’t one of your
policies.
Australians are great buyers of insurance. They
paid £36,000,000 in premiums last year in N.S.W. alone,
and an estimated £28,000,000 of this came from the TCN viewing area. There’ll be more babies
than ever next year, so . . . but we needn’t drive a tack in with a sledge hammer —you’ve got the
message. TCN-9 Television puts your name before the
largest captive audience in the country . . . seven
nights a week. And they’re all potential buyers
• . . wide open to the potent selling skills
of TCN-9 Television. Interested?
Channel
9
SYDNEY
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Road,
Willoughby. 43-0444. Sales —Sydney: Bth
Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street.
61-9931. Melbourne: 247 Collins Street.
63-8336.
A 619


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
/
2
O
(SECOND SERIES)
7% 4 YEARS
6i% 3 YEARS
6£% 2 YEARS
•
5J% 12 MONTHS
SUV3A SUOJ
Prospectus and application form available from*
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
POSITION VACANT
TEACHER: Tudor House, The King's
School, Moss Vole, N.S.W. Tudor House is
a boys' preparatory school. Applicants,
preferably married, must be graduates or
trained teachers. Successful applicant to
start at the beginning of second term.
Position involves teaching of English,
History and general subjects up to Ist
Form standard, and housemastership, with
modern, self-contained flat provided. Ex-
cellent superannuation scheme, to which
transfers can be made. Interest in extra-
school activities essential. Apply to
HEADMASTER.
tf you care about the future of Australia
read GOOD GOVERNMENT (monthly).
$2 a year, posted anywhere.
Published
265 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
is that not only must the card have the
right design and express the right senti-
ments it must also be displayed. This
explains why there are occasional ex-
ceptions to the rule that the Australian
company with the most successful US
associate for the year should do best in
the local market, since it is getting the
proven and most popular designs.
This year it is not so, as local energy,
expertise and use of franchises from other
countries all play a part in resisting the
trend to slavish following of the US
pattern of success. For example, last
year in the US the order of popularity
went something like this: first Hallmark
(made here by Specialty Press in Mel-
bourne); second American Greeting Cards
(made here by John Sands in Sydney);
third Trinity Gibson (G. N. Raymond
in Melbourne); fourth Rust-craft (Natio-
nal Consolidated-Murfett in Melbourne);
fifth Norcross (Valentine in Melbourne)
and sixth Buzza Cardozo (Containers-
Regency in Melbourne).
In Australia few would deny that the
company making the running at present
is Valentines, with its Norcross range of
cards that can do no better than come
fifth in the US. The order of the other
brands in Australia seems to be Hall-
mark and AGC, then Rust-craft to make
up the “big four”, followed quite a way
back by Trinity and with Buzza Cardozo
coming well and truly last.
Valentines, which only came on the
stock exchange lists late last year, are
bounding along at a great rate. The com-
pany will no doubt report an improved
profit for the first half of the current
financial year. It is the maverick of the
industry. The company presents itself
not as Valentines, handling the Norcross
range, but as Norcross Australia. Its
whole energies seem to be directed
towards associating itself with the Nor-
cross image it even has a huge “N”
stuck up outside its Melbourne factory,
despite the fact that it still handles the
Valentine range of Scottish cards on
which it founded this business about 50
years ago. Norcross cards are in about
400,000 pockets around Australia.
Specialty Press, which has the Hall-
mark franchise, has been a leader in the
local card industry almost since it enter-
ed the field only 11 years ago. Cards now
make up a large proportion of the com-
pany’s business.
A lthough most of its customers are in
NSW, the greeting card industry is cen-
tred in Victoria, and for a very sensible
reason. Victorian card-makers have the
advantage of being able to import trans-
parencies of US cards for reproduction in
Australia at a small licence fee of about
10 per cent. In NSW, union regulations
insist that Australian artists should copy
these designs, which adds about £BO a
design to the cost of producing a card.
The biggest card-maker in NSW is John
Sands, but greeting cards are only a
small proportion of its printing and
stationery business. It was John Sands
which published Australia’s first greeting
card in 1881, depicting a little girl offer-
ing a Christmas pudding to a swagman.
For those who can stick it, who
have the right overseas (which really
means US) franchises tied up for many
years ahead, and who can match the
energetic merchandising of what is a
tough trade, the profits are good and will
rise. For the demand for cards keeps
rising. It is paradoxical that with today’s
higher educational standards, people
write less and less, and are losing the
art of expressing their sentiments by the
written word.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO' MAXWELL MCDONALD. TAKE NOTICE
th at SHIRLEY FAY MCDONALD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3574 of 1965 on the
grounds of cruelty and drunkenness. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney on or before the 28th
day of March, 1966 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES A.
MORGAN & CO., Solicitors of 77 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ANTHONY PAUL DALY late of Latrobe
and Gladstone Streets Paddington, Queens-
land. TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA DONALD-
SON DALY has filed a Petition No. 3034 of
1965 for Dissolution of Marriage on the ground
of Desertion notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances as set out in a Discretion
Statement filed by her. If you wish to defend
or be served with further process you may
file an Answer or Notice of Address in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney on or before the 21st day
of March 1966 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ROBERT
LLOYD & SONS, Solicitors, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
(Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction)
No. M.C. 207 of 1965
Between VALERIE RILLIS RANDALL petition-
er and JAMES MAXWELL RANDALL respon-
dent. TO: JAMES MAXWELL RANDALL, form-
erly of Penguin in Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE
that VALERIE RILLIS RANDALL has filed a
divorce petition against you on the ground
of desertion. Included in the petition are
claims for custody, maintenance and costs.
AND TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the Petition you must file an Answer
DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANBERRA
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
(£4430 actual)
Duties. Responsible for the formulation and implementation of policy in respect of
Australian external aid programmes administered by the Department of External Affairs.
Qualifications: Proven administrative and management ability at a senior level.
Academic qualifications to be stated.
Applications should be forwarded to:
The Secretary,
Department of External Affairs,
Canberra.
Applications close 24th February, 1966.
HEADMASTER - BALLARAT COLLEGE
The College Council invites applications for the Headmastership which
becomes vacant at the start of Term Three, 1966, following the appoint-
ment of Mr A. D. P. Dyer to the Headmastership of Camberwell Grammar
School. Closing date for applications: March 19, 1966. Full details from:
The Secretary, College Council, Ballarat College,
Sturt Street, Ballarat, Victoria.
within 28 days of the publication of this
Notice at the Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart from
which address further information can be
obtained otherwise the Court may hear and
determine the proceedings in your absence.
DATED this 13th day of December 1965. Soli-
citors PAGE SEAGER DOYLE & BETHUNE
of 119 Macquarie Street, Hobart as agents
for CRISP HUDSON & MANN of 41 Cattley
Street, Burnie. S. G. BRETTINGHAM-
MOORE, Registrar.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 885
ACROSS
I—Not smart relative to vermin left by Ginger Meggs’
girl. (8)
4—See, the husband is rather fat. (6)
B—Charles is supported by these motor registers. (8)
10—Board them on some seagoing vessel. (6)
12—Unsexed tripe, (anagram) (12)
14— Italian’s very donkey with an ego. (5)
15— He’ll become a bounder. (4)
16— Klemperer to back to the Italian VIII. (4)
18—A frame for oxen heartens you with approval. (4)
20— A rhythmical song till revised.
(4)
21— Mirth nipped custom. (5)
24—A table melon’s served for
dance fans. (12)
26 The two of us wicked a pest.
(6)
27 Tragedienne in favor of the
present? (8)
28— The most merry heart is an
affirmative. (6)
29 A time for celebrating the
swineherd with contradiction
for no damaged mahogany.
(8)
DOWN
1— Any article replaces the Queen
in 1-across for Chekhov’s
work. (5, 5)
2 They stop some beauties. (7)
3 Dining on legs and shoulders
in restaurants. (6, 6)
5 Insect which drones to give
others the runaround. (6)
6 Most valiant items of cloth-
ing. (7)
7 Compared with 18-across, I
must be good for nothing in
blue. (4)
9—Spoil a fairy melody. (6)
11—Timothy, an underwater
worker, starts a ballet inter-
lude. (12)
13—Scrutinise in a commonplace
way though sorry in manner.
(10)
17—To be suspended in the
middle of a prisoner-of-war
camp. (6)
19—Cayenne on a very roguish
kind of behavior. (7)
22 Graduate’s shortly seen with
a music-maker. (7)
23 Steppes rested in the post-
script. (6)
25—The bluey. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 884


the pattern of life today
news
personalities
!books
politics
finance
arts
world events
SUBSCRIPTIONS
26 weeks £2/12/* Aust.
£2/2/* Sfg and N.Z.
52 weeks £4/4/- Aust.
£3/7/* Stg. and N.Z.
Send dollar equivalent
to New York office.
Air Mail New Guinea
£7/5/* 12 months. £4/2/6
6 months.
Malaysian air - freighted
edition: 26 dollars 26
issues, 52 dollars, 52
issues.
The Bulletin
Australia's
leading journal
of fact
and
opinion
NAME
ADDRESS.
Please tick y/ whichever is appropriate:
(s this a new subscription? j~j or
□
A renewal subscription?
Post this coupon to THE BULLETIN, Box 4088, G.P.0., Syd-
ney; OR Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.), Ltd. P.O. Box 1595 Wei-
linton C. 1., N.Z., OR Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London; OR Australian Consolidated Press
Ltd., 229 West 43rd Street, New York N.Y., OR Wool-
worths (Malaysia) Ltd., 10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
New Zealand readers may receive the Air Freighted edition
at £2/12/- New Zealand for 26 issues. £4/4/- New Zealand
tor 52 issues.
well informed people
■ ; : ; -
read
The
SPECULATORS DIARY
Maximum Security Rating
With some tips for Prince Charles
T’VE been singing merrily as I swing back into my normal routine after an invigora-
ting week at Armidale. Things seem to be going my way on the bourse.
In a separate article in last week’s
Bulletin I’d gone into some detail about
cash flow, this being one of the first
subjects discussed at the Armidale course.
However, as the week progressed, cash
flow fell rapidly into the background. Of
the many interesting investment discus-
sions later to arise, one that particularly
appealed to me was that on portfolio
diversification. Provided a purely random
selection was used it was proved that
maximum practical safety was reached
with a portfolio of only fourteen stocks.
In other words, the degree of stability is
much the same whether you have four-
teen stocks or four hundred stocks in
your portfolio.
At the moment there are thirteen stocks
in my portfolio. Thus I almost rate max-
imum security.
It therefore seems an appropriate port-
folio for Prince Charles. If it’s good
enough for Sir Robert to consider in-
vestment it’s good enough for Charles.
To bring the portfolio up to date for
the young Prince, I have added two
stocks and removed one. Firstly, in view
of my success with Associated Pulp
(purchased against the advice of one of
Melbourne’s oldest brokers), I moved into
another paper stock, B. J. Ball. The reader
may remember that it was the enthusiasm
of B. J. Ball’s chairman at his annual
general meeting that initiated my interest
in one of its major suppliers, Associated
Pulp. Little did I suspect the announce-
ment that profits had doubled in the first
half of the year and that dividend had
been raised would be made so shortly
afterwards.
Can B. J. Ball match this performance?
Perhaps not a profit increase of such size,
but a bonus dividend is certainly not out
of the question. B. J. Ball could be ap-
proaching a period of prosperity similar
to that of the early 1950 s when earning
rate was consistently over 30 p.c. The
capital now is very much larger; so also
is the size of operations. After rising
to 9s. 3d. early last month the shares have
eased back to Bs. 9d. —hardly yet an in-
flated price. My order was 400.
Likewise the share price of Comeng
Holdings is still within buying range. At
10s. 7d. it shows a dividend yield of
6 p.c. and an earnings yield of 11 p.c.
Directors of Comeng have been anxious
to point out that the rolling stock indus-
try is a cyclical one. Be that as it may,
profits this year should substantially ex-
ceed last year’s record profit.
To appreciate Comeng one should go
straight to the major subsidiary, Union
Carriage and Wagon Co. Pty Ltd, which
operates in South Africa. Judging by the
figures shown for outside shareholders
in the profit and loss account, this sub-
sidiary provides the bulk of group profits,
So much for the purchases for this
week. The only sale was Tableland Tin
at 455. and for this I must thank a buyer
in Brisbane. A very quick profit of £l6
resulted.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
100 Tableland Tin 45/- £221
BOUGHT
400 B. J. Ball 8/9 £lBl
400 Comeng Hldgs 10/7 £213
Still managing to keep in credit, the
final balance being £25.
The portfolio now comprises:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Pongrass ll- 11/9
200 VAM 23/9/65 5/- 5/6
400 Kolotex 24/11/65 12/6 12/3
1000 L. J. Hooker 24/11/65 3/1 3/6
400 Peko Wallsend 6/12/65 17/6 19/9
400 Kathleen Inv. new 14/12/65 18/- 22/-
200 Associated Pulp 5/1/66 30/- 34/6
500 Petersville 13/1/66 5/6 5/9
200 Mt Morgan 13/1/66 20/9 24/-
400 Tennyson Textile 20/1/66 7/- 7/6
300 Canberra TV 21/1/66 12/9 13/-
50 Union Carbide 26/1/66 70/- 71/-
400 8. J. Ball 2/2/66 8/9 8/9
400 Com. Engineering 3/2/66 10/7 10/7


WHY THE EXCLUSIVE STC CALLBACK BUTTON
IS IMPORTANT TO BUSY EXECUTIVES
STC Australian Pentaconta
Crossbar PABX provides you
with a remarkably simple solu-
tion to your communications
bottlenecks. And it’s so fast,
efficientand convenient it makes
other systems obsolete. Here’s
how it works.
When a call comes in and
requires transfer to another ex-
tension, it’s simply a matter of
pressing the callback button and
dialling the other number. The
connection is made automati-
cally without assistance from
the telephonist. Imagine the
savings in time alone!
Calls can be transferred back
and forth an unlimited number of
times to an unlimited number of
extensions. Callback buttons
can be fitted to any number of
extensions you require within
the Pentaconta system.
This is merely one of
the many outstanding
features of the STC Australian
Pentaconta Crossbar PABX.
For further information contact:
Standard Telephones and
Cables Pty. Limited, 252
Botany Rd., Alexandria, Sydney.
Phone: 69 0444. Melbourne:
44 5161. Canberra: 9 1043.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe&Sons,
Pty. Ltd. Brisbane, 4 1771. S.A. : Unbe-
haun & Johnstone Pty. Ltd., Adelaide
51 3731. W.A. : M. J. Bateman Pty. Ltd.,
Perth 21 6461. TAS. : W. & G. Genders
Pty. Ltd., Launceston 2 2231. Hobart,
Burnie, Devonport.
:
AN
ITT
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
UIC6A


4
Omega self-winding Seamaster: the world's favourite sports watch. Winds itself automatically. Hermetically sealed against water.
As illustrated: Gold-filled $96. Also stainless steel $7B.
This self-winding Omega Seamaster
is as tough as the sportsmen who will wear it.
Its accuracy and long life are assured by waterproof tests in a special simulator, unique to Omega.
Designed for a long, tough life.
The Seamaster is a sports watch. It has
been built to take the rough-and-
tumble of water skiing, motor racing,
power golf —and still give you pre-
cision timekeeping.
What makes the Omega Seamaster
a great watch?
Certain components of the Omega
Seamaster are machined to an accuracy
of 2/000th millimeter (1 /9th the dia-
meter of a hair). In watchmaking this
is the difference between greatness and
mediocrity, between accuracy and
poor timekeeping.
More accurate because you never
wind it.
The mainspring of a stemwound
watch releases much of its power
immediately after winding. It then
weakens progressively. As the main-
spring uncoils, the accuracy of the
watch is compromised. The mainspring
of the Omega Seamaster reaches peak
tension shortly after you slip on the
watch. Thereafter, every flick of your
wrist winds the movement. The result:
a steady flow of power, i.e. enhanced
accuracy.
Waterproof to a depth of 200 feet.
When Omega say a watch is water-
proof they really mean it. Every Sea-
master has been put through the
unique Omega “diveproofing” test. In
45 minutes the watch is shot through
17 different pressure changes. It’s like
plunging a watch 200 feet below the
sea, then catapulting it to the top of
Mount Everest. Your Omega Sea-
master is therefore ready to accompany
you skindiving, solo-flying or moun-
tain climbing.
The world-famous Omega name.
Like all Omegas, the Seamaster has
been precision-engineered, lavished
with infinite care. It is styled on the
lines of classic elegance that Omega
is famous for. It is unconditionally
guaranteed for a year against any
possible mishap except loss, fire or
theft. All through its long life it will
receive the backing of the Omega
World Service Organization spread
over 156 countries. No wonder Omega
Seamaster is the most sought after
precision sports watch in the world.
You will find the Seamaster at the best
Jewellers only. They were appointed by
Omega because they merit y° ur
confidence.
0M6587
Q
OMEGA
