

The Bulletin
FILMING
THE WEIRD MOB
after U B, SHASTR!
JANUARY 22, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
By John O’Grady
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2/- (20c.), New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


mm
mm
m
mmm
Wf ■ m
w . mfMM
ii IIIIMSII
mm
WMx
(PB '■
Mi -\W* % s
, m&M. (M,
■■■ ■ mmsu
SHr
*&■
Just add water .. ■ln Australia’s great lonely deserts lies some of the best soil
in the world. Unused. For most of the year, unproductive. Then along come the
rains, and the whole country erupts in a blaze of colour as dormant seeds burst into
life, grass grows again, and the wild-life returns to a lush land.
In the future this land must be used. All it takes is water. The water that Frigrite is
now bringing to more accessible drought areas with the oldest agricultural technique
of all . . . irrigation, but with the world’s most advanced, efficient equipment, Ames.
Frigrite, through their agricultural division, Dangar, Gedye & Malloch, are in the
forefront of the battle against drought.
AIR CONDITIONING • REFRIGERATION © AGRICULTURE • INDUSTRY
CREATING THE CLIMATE FOR PROGRESS


Avery
Armorcote
labels
don’t need
protection!
These Avery self-adhesive labels are tough. Otherwise they
wouldn’t be called ‘Armorcote’. They have an exclusive pro-
tective covering capable of withstanding immeasurable pun-
ishment from steam, oil, dirt, smoke, rain, heat, rubbing. A
wipe clean with a damp cloth is the only care an Armorcote
label needs.
You can buy Avery Armorcote labels for temporary or per-
manent adhesion. In almost any colour, shape or size.
Still not convinced? A ’phone call will prove it, and Avery
will pay for it. Ring Avery right now about “ARMORCOTE”
self-adhesive labels. It could well solve your tough, tricky
labelling problems.
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 Union Street, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 560-7177
30 Cotham Road, Kew, Victoria 86-7911
131 Elizabeth St., Brisbane, Qld. 2-8259
A
Please send me free samples and free information on
Avery Perma-Grip and/or Kum Kleen Armorcote labels.
COMPANY
NAME
ADDRESS
W. J. CRYER & CO. LTD.
75 Union Street, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 560-7177
30 Cotham Road, Kew, Victoria. 86-7911
131 Elizabeth St., Brisbane, Qld. 2-8259 B-22-1-66
The Bulletin
Established 1880
JANUARY 22, 1966.
VOL. 88, No. 4481
RUSHTON at the tests
A private eye view 6
filming the weird mob
By Nino Culotta 10
after shastri what?
Kamaraj the king-maker without a
king > a. 20
MARRIAGES IN LINGERIE
New trends in synthetics 42
TANNER 9 LETTERS 25
ON THE MARGIN 18
THIS AUSTRALIA
Policing the police 7
Education: Sir Henry’s diploma .... 7
Law reform: the Attorney-General’s
defence 8
OVERSEAS
Vietnam: Two fag ends of war .... 22
Mr Do 24
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
At Screaming Point 27
Oases in a cultural desert ;.. 27
THEATRE: Lady Audley’s Secret.... 29
RECORDS: Schoenberg’s Gurre-
Lieder 29
BOOKS: Under Pressure 30
Kennedy 31
This Time of Morning .... 32
BUSINESS & FINANCE
A hard road to The Lodge 36
Meaningless Joan results 37
Speculator’s Diary 46
man on the land
Orderly marketing once more 39
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. -Box 4088. Phone; 2 0566,
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


%
>
:|gpBB*SB?SBSBSS
sra
K
M
©
7
#
mm
m
o
*r>
|Oo£:,
®_ ©
©r®
rif
mass** 8 **
C3>
3t
i : m
i
. ..;^-
THESE TRAINS
MEAN BUSINESS
From the Gulf to Derwent River . . . from the shores of Sydney Harbour to
the Darling Ranges in the West ... the freight trains of Australian Railways
are constantly at work on a never ending collection and distribution of the
nation’s wealth. Much of it concerns the great primaries from which we draw
our daily sustenance, as well as export wealth the bounty of our pastures,
the fruit of our orchards, our great mineral resources.
These trains mean business .. •In the
field of land-based transportation, nothing
matches rail over medium or long distance
hauls. No other land transport agency on
a ton-mile basis carries freight at such low
cost or so speedily.
Support for the Railways of Australia is
something more than just good business.
In a country of great distances, where
transport costs are higher than in most
other countries, the government-controllers
rate structure of Australian Railways is a
sound and basic common denominator, one
which works as it has done for over a
century —for the betterment and benefit
of all Australians.
p
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by Authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth and State Railway Systems of Australia.


ONE MORE
WEEK
Ironies
OUR DOLLAR NOTES may show
Australians are developing a greater
sense of history but, with both Lawson
and Greenway there, they hardly show
we are achieving a keener sense of irony.
The currency most often in Lawson’s
hand was the 2s. lOU. Greenway was
paid 3s. a day by Macquarie and the
Colonial Office refused to raise it to ss.
However, the Governor of the Reserve
Bank, Dr H. C. Coombs, certainly saw
some point in releasing on the same day
the dollar notes and the text of his ad-
dress to the Australian Citizenship Con-
vention on “The Arts in Australia”. Dr
Coombs called for more money from
business corporations, universities and
governments for the arts. He said an
effective link must be forged between the
arts and mass media “To fail to do this
means increasingly that our cultural
standards will be debased to the level of
second-hand products of alien societies
chosen in pursuit of the lowest common
denominator,” he said.
Quick quid
THIS WEEK we picked up (with
tongs, we’ll admit) David Bailey’s “Box
of Pin-Ups”. Bailey is a London photo-
grapher and his box of pin-ups is a
collection of 33 large prints. They come
loose, so you can shuffle them as you
please.
MR P. J. PROBY, WITH ARMPITS.
The pictures aren’t in many cases even
original. Proby is, of course, a direct
copy from Richard Avedon’s “Nothing
Personal”. Avedon’s Christ-like, or St
Sebastian-like, figure was Allen Ginsberg,
rather hairier but not notably more
spiritual than Proby.
Francis Wyndham, who has contri-
buted rather dirty thumbnail biographies,
says Bailey chose his subjects as “the
people who in England seemed glamor-
ous to him”. “Many of them,” Wynd-
ham writes, “have gone all out for the
immediate rewards of success: quick
money, quick fame, quick sex a very
brave thing to do.”
“So, of course,” replied Malcolm Mug-
geridge, getting into one of his fine Bibli-
cal wraths for the London “Observer”,
“has every pimp, ponce, financier, whore,
lecher, gambler and crook from the be-
ginning of time.”
The publishers, Weidenfeld and Nicol-
son, have estimated the Australian mar-
ket at three copies.
Telegrams and taxis
CLIFFORD HOCKING as a child
decided to become an impresario after
gaining the impression from his father
that impresarios spent all their time send-
ing telegrams and riding in taxis. In the
past few months of getting entertainer
Barry Humphries around Australia,
Hocking has possibly learnt that there
is more to being an impresario than tele-
grams and taxis.
Hocking, who works from Melbourne
as Arco Concert Management, has been
mostly concerned with Indian musicians.
He has brought sarode players Ali
Akbar Khan and Sharan Rani and
drummer Chatur Lai here. Last year
he brought Carl Dolmetsch and Joseph
Saxby from England. Arco is one of the
gratifying number of smaller manage-
ments now filling the gaps left by the
ABC, with whom Hocking maintains
peaceful co-existence.
Hocking brought Humphries back in
1962 for a short tour when Humphries
was a minor cult. On Humphries’ re-
cord sales, Hocking was prepared to book
him for four weeks in both Sydney and
MY LIPS
ARE SEALED
Melbourne but was deterred by wise
old J. C. Williamson’s. Humphries’ three
weeks in Sydney have now been followed
by a two-week return season, already
extended for a further week.
Diversification
WE ARE USED to tobacco manufac-
turers diversifying but S. T. Leigh, a sub-
sidiary of British Tobacco, has now gone
as far afield as art printing. Most of
S. T. Leigh’s printing work comes closer
to pop art —cigarette packets, toothpaste
cartons and other general packaging
lines. Now they have printed John Hen-
shaw’s book on artist Godfrey Miller,
which will be published on May 1 by
the Darlinghurst Galleries.
The cost of the book is being borne by
the beneficiaries of Miller’s will. There
are three main beneficiaries and the
estate was valued at £114,721. However,
it is unlikely that the art-book project
will break even. The book will be 14
inches by 10 with 96 pages, 126 illus-
trations and 16 pages in color, and. ac-
cording to Darlinghurst Galleries, Leigh’s
have done a “magnificent job”"
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
I think it's good to have an ex-convict on
one of the new bank-notes.
—Dr H. C. Coombs, Governor
of the Reserve Bank
Most professors, because of their appear-
ance, are disqualified from becoming film
stars.
Vice chancellor of Latrobe, Dr David Myers.
I would like to see immigration between
Japan and Australia.
Ambassador-Designate Ko Chiba.
They can keep the bloody thing. I won't
wear it.
Australian private in Vietnam,
oh the BGS medal.
After all, we are ladies.
Terry Lea, Secretary of the
Amalgamated Strippers' Union.
If it wasn't for the war it would be
like a resort.
Journalist Jillian Robertson
in a despatch from Da Nang.
The name of the British Government must
be made to stink in the nostrils of the
world.
—William Harper, Rhodesian
Minister, of Internal Affairs.
Shakespeare was a filthy writer.
—Actor Harold Lang.
Art should never be for art's sake. It
should teach and inspire men and keep
pace with science.
Erling Roberts.


THIS AUSTRALIA
William Rushton
at the Tests
Will Rushton, the famous English clown, mimic,
comic actor, and artist veteran of “That Was The
Week That Was”, “Private Eye”, and unsuccessful
candidate in a by election against Sir Alec Douglas
Home —is visiting Australia for the Tests. His re-
actions to Australia will be appearing regularly in
The Bulletin in the coming weeks.
The Commentator
I’ve been sitting up here on The Hill for
a little over 27 years with occasional breaks
for winter. I am one of the celebrated wits
of The Hill. My amazing bons mots have
been a constant source of pleasure to
player and spectator for as long as I can
recall. I have been compared favorably
to Noel Coward. It was I who, rather
satirically I fancy, called Jardine a “Pommy
bastard” in the notorious Bodyline series
and it is my voice you hear with the
extremely humorous aphorism “Give Wally
Grout a bowl”. This, of course, was equally
pithy in the days of Don Tallon and, indeed,
Bert Oldfield. I am frequently quoted in
the Press and heard on television. Excuse
me, but I feel the Muse at work.
GO ON, BOYCOTT, HAVE A GO!
You didn’t get that sort of thing from
that pooftah Oscar Wilde.
The Statistician
By my reckoning, David Brown has a 32-yard run —he walks
back 45 yards or so from mid-pitch prior to bowling. Therefore,
in the course of an over he travels 615 yards in a little over five
minutes. He is therefore travelling at a rate of approximately 1.07
miles an hour (or 2.87 kilometres under the new decimal system).
The ball, however, is travelling at its maximum velocity at a speed
of 87.3 m.p.h., so it would seem, by my reckoning, to be a waste
of time and effort. Christ, he’s bowled Lawry!


LAW
Policing the Police
“ASKIN”, said the posters, “ACTS ON POLICE”. But if the NSW Premier
was acting, he was not talking. He admitted that some changes were under con-
sideration but as yet no decision had been reached. Furthermore, until the matter
had been discussed by Cabinet, he was not in a position to make a statement.
“Government sources”, however, were
in a more garrulous mood. It appeared
that the Government was considering
setting up an “independent tribunal” to
examine reports of complaints against
the police, and to decide whether criminal
proceedings should be taken against the
police. The proposed tribunal would
consist of “a retired judge or some other
qualified person”, who would act as a
Commissioner of Rights.
The process is known as kite-flying.
Run it up on the flagstaff and see if any-
body shoots at it. Indeed almost every-
body did; headed by the Leader of the
State Opposition. “RENSHAW AT-
TACKS ASKIN OVER POLICE TRI-
BUNAL” was followed by stiff editorials
under such heads as “A COSTLY
BUCK-PASS”, and “GOVERNMENT
POLICE PLAN LACKS TEETH”. Pre-
dictably, the executive committee of the
NSW Council for Civil Liberties also
found the plan edentated and saicf that
“it would go no distance at all to solve
the basic problem”.
If this reception is not a happy augury
for the future it is undoubtedly a reliable
one. For although Robin Askin is an
astute and able politician he is no genius.
And nothing less than genius is required
to reconcile so many irreconcilable
demands; and to provide an answer to
Juvenal’s two thousand-year-old question,
Quis custodiet ipsos custodies? (in
effect: “Who shall police the police?”).
An independent tribunal has been
demanded. Clearly it will need to be
independent of the Premier who, as the
ministerial head of the police force, is
obviously an interested party. If such a
tribunal is established, how can the
charge that ministerial responsibility is
being avoided be met? As Mr Renshaw
said: “A minister is subject to questions
in Parliament. A tribunal such as that
proposed would be insulated and
isolated.”
Again, a tribunal consisting of “a
retired judge, or some other qualified
person”, is obviously not going to satisfy
the prominent Liberal Party official who
has specifically demanded that any such
tribunal should be “composed of laymen
—and especially no lawyers and police-
men”. It is difficult to conceive of a
“qualified person” who would be accept-
able. What is required, apparently, is
some person, or persons, without any
qualifications whatever. Then critics
have pointed out that the new plan
Jeaves the main task of investigating
complaints against the police in the
hands of the police themselves. This is
said to be “inherently bad” and a “re-
pugnant practice”. Not that any reflec-
tion is intended “upon the honesty or
capacity of any police who might be
called upon to do the investigating”.
No; the system “cannot expect to have
the confidence of the public” because “it
is the principle that is wrong”.
What principle are we talking about?
After all, the public does not appear
to object to lawyers investigating lawyers
and very effectively, too, as recent
events in NSW have shown although
lawyers are notoriously the object of
public distrust. It does not object to
doctors investigating doctors, or to
Education Departments investigating
complaints against teachers. It has
accepted with equanimity soldiers, sailors
and airmen being investigated and tried
by soldiers, sailors and airmen for a
very long time indeed.
Presumably the principle involved is
expressed in the maxim that no man
shall be a judge in his own cause, or a
cause in which he has an interest. But
can it seriously be maintained that it is
in the interest of the Commissioner of
Police to cover up, and thus tacitly en-
courage perjury, intimidation, violence,
corruption and general indiscipline? Or
is the suggestion that the senior officers,
charged with the duty of internal in-
vestigations, will be partial to their own
colleagues? This is a possibility about
which some of those who have recently
resigned from the Force (and may well
face prosecution) must be feeling grimly
sardonic. In either case, if this is not a
reflection on the honesty and integrity
of the police (rather than a matter of
principle), it is difficult to see what it is.
GORDON HAWKINS
EDUCATION
Sir Henry’s
Diploma
Following Sir Henry Bolte’s Honorary
Doctorate for “services to education”,
Victoria is to become the scene of yet
another interesting education develop-
ment. Unknown to the public (or most
educationists), plans have been drawn
up for a new Diploma in Humanities,
which is to be a kind of poor man’s BA.
The diploma is the latest
development in Doctor Sir Henry Bolte’s
policy of channelling the overflow from
Victoria’s costly universities into less-
costly tertiary technical colleges. These
colleges (four in Melbourne, three in the
provinces) already conduct diploma
courses in Commerce and Applied
Science, extending four years beyond
Leaving (Victorian fifth-form) level, or
three years beyond Matriculation. A
Humanities diploma was foreshadowed
by Sir Henry in election speeches two
years ago, but since then there has been
no further mention of it.
The Bulletin is now in a position
to report:
• A blueprint for a Humanities
Diploma course has been drawn up
during recent months at the Royal Mel-
bourne Institute of Technology, Victoria’s
biggest technical college, where it is


already being referred to as “the present
diploma”.
• The Education Department, which
controls the pursestrings, is interested
in the course as a possible means of
educating some of its older primary
teachers, who are unable to get into a
university quota but who need tertiary
education in order to gain promotion.
• As older primary teachers often
have nothing higher than a Leaving
Certificate, pressure is being exerted to
make the entry pre-requisite Leaving Cer-
tificate (like the Commerce and Applied
Science diplomas), or even lower, rather
than Matriculation.
• There is no indication that ad-
ditional Government funds will be avail-
able to RMIT to engage suitable new
Humanities staff, or to expand its library
or classrooms.
• The proposed diploma will be con-
ducted by RMIT’s existing Humanities
staff of about 17 who are at present
fully occupied in providing service
courses for students majoring in Com-
merce or Applied Science.
When the Humanities blueprint is
finally made public, it will certainly be
subjected to widespread criticism
especially from universities, even from
technical college Humanities staffs. Most
people concerned with education accept
the existing “cheap” diploma courses in
Commerce and Applied Science because
these have been going for decades and
no new principle is involved. Until now,
however, Australian tertiary qualifica-
tions in Literature, History and the
Social Sciences have been awarded only
by adequately staffed and equipped uni-
versities.
A Humanities lecturer from a
suburban technical college told The
Bulletin: “There is indeed a good case
for letting less able students overflow
from universities into diploma-colleges.
But if these colleges are to take on more
and more university-type work (especially
-in the frail and intangible Humanities),
the colleges should be financed like
universities rather than like secondary
schools as they are at present. If
diplomas are to gain any standing in
the community, the colleges must first
achieve university standards in buildings,
equipment, libraries, students’ amenities,
research facilities, staff salaries and study
leave.”
BRIAN BUCKLEY
MOTOR ACCIDENTS
The Attorney-General’s Defence
When the NSW Attorney-General, Mr K. C. McCaw, introduced his Bill last
December to abolish jury trials in motor accidents, he claimed that under (he
Bill judges would be able to relieve accident victims of worries by making interim
awards.
The Bulletin pointed out (Dec. 11),
however, that the Bill contained no such
provision. Mr McCaw has now written
to The Bulletin to discuss this and
other complaints about the Bill. Its main
provisions, in particular the abolition of
jury trials, were substantially defeated in
the Upper House. Mr McCaw writes:
“I refer to your article ‘The Mis-
sing Reform’ (8., Dec. 11). Permit
me to point out that ‘The Missing Re-
form’ the benefit of being able to
secure an interim award quickly did
not require specific reference in the
Bill. A judge authorised to sit without a
jury does not need specific legislative
authority to enter upon the hearing of
evidence and, when liability has been
established, to make an interim award
and adjourn the hearing for such period
as may be necessary to enable full con-
sideration of the question of damages
and the making of a final award, i.e.,
when the plaintiff has reached the
maximum point of recovery in the case
of a claim arising out of personal
injuries. Because of this inherent power
in the Judiciary, no specific reference to
this aspect was needed or included in
the Bill, and I would also invite atten-
tion to Order XXVI, Rule 3, of the
Supreme Court Rules as having relevance
in this behalf.
“The desirable object of interim awards
cannot be achieved where a jury as well
as a judge is involved. Hence I pointed
out to Parliament and the public that
this would be one of the advantages to
flow from dispensing with juries in road
accident cases. You will agree that the
quicker an injured plaintiff can be
rehabilitated the better, both for the
plaintiff and for the community. You
will also, I am sure, agree with all
lawyers and medical practitioners ex-
perienced in this type of work, and with
the unfortunate litigants involved in it,
that the anxiety of pending litigation
slows down the process of rehabilitation.
“You say: ‘There is no apparent reason
why those who want or need it should
not have the right to seek an interim
award from a judge, while the rest
retain the right to wait for a jury trial’.
May I here interpolate that your very
apt choice of the words ‘wait for’ gives
proper emphasis to the very situation
which the Government sought to over-
come. To give effect to your statement,
however, those who want or need an
interim award must be given the right,
over any protest by the defendant, to
have trial by judge alone. Conversely
the rest who wish to wait for trial by
jury are to have that right, presumably
over any protest by the plaintiff. With
respect, the rights which you espouse
appear contradictory unless it is intended
that the plaintiff alone should have the
right to set the mode of trial. Under the
1965 Act, the plaintiff cannot ensure
trial by judge alone. This only occurs
where neither party applies for a jury
within the specified time. Under the Gov-
ernment’s proposals (rejected in the
Legislative Council), the judge could
order trial by jury on application of a
plaintiff or a defendant, and where both
parties requested a jury, trial by jury was
available as of right. If anything, there-
fore, (he Government’s Bill, as intro-
duced into Parliament, would have gone
far to meet your wishes.
“Your opinion that the standard of the
English Bar has declined is at least
arguable. It is still true that the English
Bar possesses many of the greatest ad-
vocates in the world today. You have
also overlooked in your article the fact
that juries in civil cases were long age
abolished in all other Australian States
except Victoria, and for a vast number
of civil cases in Canada and the United
States without impairing, as far as I have
been able to observe or ascertain, the
quality or standard of the Bar in any of
those places.
“As you know, the Bill was amended
by the Labor majority in the Upper
House so that instead of abolishing juries
(to the limited extent and with the excep-
tions the Government proposed as
earlier indicated) the position now is that
juries are available in the Supreme
Court for the hearing of road accident
cases not, as hitherto, by compulsion ofl
law but only where either party applies]
for a jury within twenty-one days of the
setting down of the case for hearing. I
have said, and would here repeat, that ifj
this option, now substituted for the forj
mer compulsion, is exercised by the legal
and insurance worlds with discretion,
there may be no need for the Govern-
ment, even w'hen it has the numbers in
the Legislative Council, to approach
this question again.”
★ ★ ★
The Bulletin is grateful to the Attor-
ney-General for the points he has taken,,
but other certain points remain unan-
swered.
1. The Attorney-General claims that J
judge has inherent power, that is
power not specifically conferred, to
make interim awards. Most lawyers,
however, are of opinion that the in*


herent power of a judge to make an
interim award of a lump sum is at
least doubtful, and that an inherent
power to order periodical payments
pending final assessment is simply
not supportable.
If this is so, or even if there is
serious doubt, why were the powers
not specifically conferred and thereby
placed beyond the reach of legal ar-
gument? After all, the Bill was first
mooted in June and not brought
down until December.
2. The Attorney-General suggests that,
under the new Act, the choice of the
plaintiff to have trial by judge will be
thwarted if the defendant objects.
But in 90 per cent of road accident
cases the real defendant in control of
the proceedings is the Government
Insurance Office. Surely the Govern-
ment can give instructions that, when
a plaintiff elects to have trial by
judge, the GIO is not to obstruct
Government policy by asking for a
jury?
3. This seems an appropriate moment to
mention a new development: the
Attorney-General has always rightly
complained about delays in bringing
road accident cases to trial. This is
a social evil. But in the last few
months of 1965 the GIO has adopt-
ed a new policy of settling substanti-
ally fewer cases. No doubt business
reasons justify the view that if an
injured person has to wait an addi-
tional year or two the GIO s' trad-
ing figures will improve. If the
plaintiff holds out, the money will be
retained longer; if he does not, he
will be inclined to settle for a re-
duced figure. But the result of the
new policy can be seen from the
official figures. In the past few years
the period of delay in personal in-
jury cases has been 12 to 18
months; 12,000 cases have been
commenced each year, but a serious
backlog was avoided because 95 per
cent of the cases were settled and
less than 500 each year went to
trial and verdict. In future, however,
there must be a serious backlog and
an extended period of delay. The
increased delay will affect all cases
whether heard by a judge or a jury.
Tanner
"Here's Britain's contribution to the defence of South Vietnam one of our lovely medals."


Filming the WeirdMob
“This will be better than the book”
By JOHN O’GRADY
46 npiHEY’RE a Weird Mob” was written
I mainly as entertainment for Aus-
tralians, depicting the impact of
a small group, not necessarily representa-
tive, on a newcomer to the country. It
was not written for overseas readers.
Nor was it written with a possible film
in mind. Films require plots, story lines.
As Danny Kaye says, they require “a
beginning, und a mittle, und an end”.
At least, film producers say that this is
necessary.
Consequently, when Gregory Peck
bought an option on the book in 1958,
I thought he was out of his cotton-pickin’
mind. Overseas sales were negligible—-
they still are —and it was hard to see
how, or where, he would get back his
production costs. He said he visualised
“a kind of off-beat comedy, something
like ‘Passport to Pimlico’, or ‘The Laven-
der Hill Mob’ ”. He said he would aim
at winning a medal at the Cannes Film
Festival.
I wrote him a screenplay, and posted
it to him from the Panama Canal Zone,
when on the way to Europe in 1959. He
said he “admired the spirit of amateur-
ism”. But he was not impressed with
the result. His associates in the United
States were hard to convince that an
Australian comedy would do any good.
And their opinions were confirmed when
“The Summer of the 17th Doll” flopped
on Broadway.
Peck eventually dropped his option.
Michael Powell, who liked the book,
negotiated a five-year option for himself,
through Ure Smith’s London associates.
I was not at all happy about this, having
seen some pathetic English attempts to
portray Australians on the screen.
Powell came to Australia and we had
many yarns. He is a likeable bloke. He
went away to write a screenplay. When
he’d written it, he didn’t like it. He got
somebody else to write one. It was a
shocker. I wrote one. It was not much
better. It seemed obvious that the book
could not be adapted for the screen, and
I was happy to forget the whole thing.
A couple of years later I was up on
South Molle Island, working as a deck-
hand on the cruise ship Crest, studying
for my “ticket”, and getting material for
a future story. By radio-telephone came
a message that Powell was in Sydney,
that he had a screenplay, and that Wil-
liamson-Powell International Films (UK)
Pty Ltd were about to start work.
The contract provided for me to be
technical adviser, if and when shooting
commenced. This provision had been
inserted to give me some say in ensuring
that settings would be authentic, and that
the Australian characters would not be
permitted to speak like Cockneys.
I gTabbed the first plane south, pre-
pared to do battle. Powell was at the
airport. The screenplay was in his
briefcase. He gave me a copy. We
talked, had a night-cap, and I said I’d
read the thing in the morning. A man
can’t fight well when he’s tired, and this
screenplay would be no better than the
others. It was written by a Hungarian-
Englishman. What would he know of this
country and its people? And since I
had no power of veto, what would be
the best line of argument to adopt? Read
it first, and then think about it.
There was nothing to think about.
Emeric Pressburger writing under the
name of Richard Imrie had done the
impossible. He had retained all the
warmth, all the human strengths and
weaknesses, all the mateship, all the
comedy—the whole atmosphere—of the
book, and transferred these things from
the world of imagination to the uncom-
promising medium of visual fact. He’d
done this by taking whole slabs of the
book, and linking diem with a strong,
credible, and completely in-character
plot. '
I had a large breakfast, and ’phoned
Michael Powell. Together, we went over
the script line by line, correcting
anomalies in Australian vernacular, re-
writing a couple of scenes, staying with
each point until we had reached com-
plete agreement. Powell was not obliged
to do this. It was a courteous con-
cession, very much appreciated.
In two days the script was ready for
the printers, and Powell was ready to
begin casting. He had already cast
Walter Chiari as Nino. Chiari had been
bis choice from the time when he first
picked up the option from Peck.
Now it is undoubtedly true that
authors can be complete pains in the
neck to producer-directors. And authors
have no rights other than those, if any,
embodied in contracts. In this case, cast-
ing was Powell’s sole prerogative. If he’d
wished, he could have told me to go and
bury my head, while he selected a cast
of nits, nongs and no-hopers, who
couldn’t act for nuts. I decided to stay
out of his hair figuratively speaking,
because he has no hair and keep my
fingers crossed.
He appointed Gloria Payten as cast-
ing director, and she lined up an im-
pressive list of Australian actors and
actresses for him. And then again, with-
out obligation, he drew me into the
picture, discussing his final choices.
As far as Walter Chiari was con-
cerned, I had never met him, and had
only once seen him perform. But his
reputation in Europe as a comedian
stands very high indeed. And the fact
that he speaks fluent English, although
heavily accented, was in his favor.
What was not in his favor was his


the
Black, .
Dolphin
motel
Princes Highway,
Merimbula
’phone
Merimbula
For overnight
_ accommodation or a
relaxing holiday, it’s wonderful in winter, superb
in summer—Merimbula, located on the coastal
Princes Highway (between Sydney and Mel-
bourne), is famous as a year-round holiday
resort. It’s a fishing paradise, located right on
the lake with nearby surf beaches, and in
winter Merimbula is famous for its oysters and
its climate warmed by tropical currents. A
motel of distinction, the Black Dolphin has the
usual licensed restaurant, guests’ lounge, air-
conditioning, swimming pool, private jetty and
superb cuisine.
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
Offices in all Capital Cities, or direct to
The Black Dolphin Motel, Merimbula. Phone 326
A MEMBER COMPANY Of ANSCTT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMIT CO
'ATI.7II
slim physique. Nino, to me, was a big,
blond, blue-eyed, easy-going character,
slow to anger, but when angered, a
powerful thumper of heads. Chiari is
six feet tall but slenderly built. His hair
is dark, his eyes a sort of smoky grey.
Physically, he is extremely fit and well-
muscled. He comes from Verona, in
northern Italy.
When I met him at the airport, I was
disappointed that he - was not bigger.
That initial disappointment did not last
long. Powell was right. Chiari is a
natural for Nino - a born comedian,
intelligent and sensitive, inventive and
considerate, with a superb technique.
He’s also a gregarious and friendly
bloke, completely free of pretensions and
“ They’re a Weird Mob” ~ shot
entirely on Sydney locations be-
tween October and December, 1965
- was directed by Michael Powell,
English director of “The Red
Shoes” and “Black Narcissus”,
photographed by Arthur Grant,
previously a specialist in Hammer
horror movies, and edited by
Gerald Turney-Smith, a British
craftsman now working in Aus-
tralia. The script was written by
Powell’s former partner, Emeric
Pressburger. Here, John O’Grady
(“Nino Culotta”), author of the
novel, gives his own account of the
film’s conception and execution. Its
release is expected at Easter.
delusions of grandeur. He plays Nino
larger than the original, and when this
film is released will undoubtedly endear
himself to the English-speaking world. I
don’t know anybody else who could have
played the role half so well.
The two most difficult roles to cast
were Kay and Pat. Pressburger had
enlarged the female content of the story,
and had brought Kay in early. She is
much more important to the film than
she was to the book. As are all the
women. And I know nothing about
women. But Powell claims some know-
ledge, and is a man who takes infinite
pains with rehearsals—a man for whom
near enough” is never good enough.
Clare Dunne and Judith Arthy—as Kay
a nd Dixie eating spaghetti; Doreen
Warburton’s performance as Edie; Gloria
Dawn’s little gem of a cleaning woman,
will stay in the memory.
But the hardest to find was Pat. He
had to be a tall, lean, laconic ex-service-
man, capable of wielding a mattock and
shovel, and looking as though he’d
wielded them for years. He had to be
a man with a “pushed-in” face; a capable
actor; a fine comedian.
From the pub and club circuit, Gloria
Payten finally produced Slim de Grey.
He’d never been in a film in his life.
He’s in one now. And his performance
is one to be remembered.
Dennis a round-faced, self-assured,
semi-intellectual, argumentative “moody
bastard” was easy. John Meillon is
Dennis. As Ed Devereaux is Joe. Ed’s
performance in “My Brother' Jack”; his
natural, easy, unactorlike manner; his
sturdy physique; his unaffected voice,
won him the job.
These three Joe, Dennis and Pat,
with Charles Little as Jimmy—are the
“Weird Mob” core. When they were
cast, I uncrossed my fingers. All of
them are as Australian as kookaburras;
all are actors capable of rising to heights
under a first-class director. Powell also
selected a fine array of talent for the
“cameo ’ roles cops, taxi - driver,
drunk, bar-fly, reception clerks, brick-
carter, foreman. Kay’s father and mother
dozens of them.
There is a wealth of talent in this
country, waiting to be put to work. If
the “Weird Mob” lays the foundation for
a film industry in Australia and I feel
sure it will executives will not have
to look far for actresses, actors and
technicians. They are all here, and they
are all good at their jobs.
With casting completed, and tests
made for color and makeup, Powell was
ready to start shooting. His complex
organisation, resembling a Brigade HQ,
was functioning, and the technical mob
ready for action.
Their “baptism of fire” at Adams’
Marble Bar tested their abilities to the
limit. The bar was kept open for busi-
ness. And by the end of the day most
of the business had gone down the
throats of the crowd. And the more
they drank, the more critical they be-
came. There were, that day, directors,
actors and cameramen in hundreds, all
of them far more competent than those
who were doing the job.
The Australian bystander is invariably
an expert. He is a hard man to please.
And this is a good thing. It keeps those
who are trying to please him on their
toes. A critical audience is far more
stimulating to a creative artist than an
apathetic one. And Powell is a creative
artist. He makes the best use of a
location, of his actors, and of his
material, by inventing as he goes along.
He had me providing “instant
dialogue” for his extensions to written
scenes. In this he was competing with
Ghiari, another inventive character, who
never hesitates to speak up when he can
see the possibility of extracting another
laugh by adding to the action. He is a
master of mime, and his timing is a
delight. One of my happiest memories
is of his off-the-set Laurel and Hardy act,
performed unrehearsed with John Meil-
lon, on a building location at Green-
acre, to an audience of millions of dis-
interested bush flies. It brightened im-
measurably a hot and irritating day.
What does a writer learn by acting as
technical adviser to people making a
film out of one of his books? The first
thing he learns is that technical advisers
are very seldom asked to advise. They
have to butt in. If they are self-elected
watch-dogs, representing twelve million
people who have been made goats of by
foreign film producers far too often, they
have to watch all the time. Watch and
listen.
And if they are deaf in one ear, as
this writer is, they have to get so close
to the action that they burn their calves
on electrical equipment; get trodden on
by electricians, gaffers, grips and other
heavy-footed exoticae; get their toes
crushed by the tripods of heavy carbon-
arc lights; geLknocked into the paspalum
by flying clapper-board operators hurtling
downhill with camera re-loads; get told
to “stand aside please” by leather-lunged
assistant directors; get urinated on by
dogs, ear-bashed by actors, and smiled
at by gentle-natured cameramen.
Cameramen listen to directors, keep
their opinions of directors to themselves,
take “readings”, peer through range-
finders, have themselves wheeled up and


■
fm:
. V
m
1
m
m
■ \
*• #?-
iT
il
■ ,s t"
H
MS
•-£;
■fi*
FUJI ELECTRIC
Performance Proven Superiority!
Fuji Electric's research, tech-
nology, and acute awareness of
the demands of progress have
played an important role in the
remarkable development and
industrial growth of Australia. A
complete line of quality Fuji
Electric products, from the giant
water turbine (above) to minute
diode, are exported to Australia
and other modern countries hav-
ing a need for electrical pro-;
ducts proven superior by out-
standing performance!
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL. OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CO.,LTD. (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi,Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo, Japan CabIe:DENKIFUJI TOKYO


m
S
m
%
\i
. ;
</
«*■
\i
/ :: ;
■ '
m
-a-
-frie*wUforlJfe*
Friends’ Provident the name to remember when you’re thinking of
assurance the Office with the personal approach, who have advised
on Life Assurance for more than 130 years.
Group Funds Exceed £200,000,000
FRIENDS’ PROVIDENT
AND CENTURY LIFE OFFICE
Head Office For Australia: “Century House” 70 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
N.S.W. Country Branches at Newcastle, Orange and Wagga Wagga.
Chairman: Lieut-General Sir John Northcott, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O-, C.B.
Deputy Chairman: Major-General Sir Denzii Macarthur-Onslow, C.8.E.. D. 5.0., E.D.
F.P.IC
down along “tracks”, lie on their backs
having their hair parted by mattocks
and their faces sprayed with dirt, bump
around in helicopters, get half-drowned
sitting on bosuns’ chairs slung over the
side of Army DUKWs ploughing out
through heavy surf, say nothing, smile
at everybody, and drink beer at the end
of the day just like normal people.
Another thing a writer-become-tech-
nical-adviser learns is never to give
advice to sound-men. They can’t hear
him. They sit well away from the action,
tied to it by yards and yards of flex,
with huge earphones on their heads. And
they manipulate knobs and dials and
things, and occasionally say “fine”. And
then they go into a huddle with the
boom-operator.
The boom-operator is a character who
holds a long-handled nulla nulla over the
heads of actors, spreads wires all over
the place and buries them, and sticks
microphones in bags of cement, heaps of
sand,__ behind bushes and chairs, and
sometimes in flowerpots.
How to get ulcers
technical advisers, when
there is a rehearsal conference on,
must keep their good ears focused on the
argument. Otherwise, when it comes
time to butt in, they won’t know what
they’re butting in about. This means
that the crook ear is receiving the ques-
tions and comments of the expert by-
standers.
And something else is learnt. If you
answer yes or no, you will be wrong
fifty per cent of the time. If you say
anything else, it will have nothing to do
with what was said to you, and you will
be regarded as an idiot. On the other
hand, if you don’t say anything, you will
be regarded as a stuck-up writer with
a swollen head. And if you tell the
expert bystanders that you are deaf in
one ear, they will shout at you, and
the first assistant director will roar
“quiet, please”, and you will get the
blame for it. You learn that you can’t
win. '
Of course, you could buy a hearing
aid. Then you’d hear all the things
that it is better for you not to hear,
and would get ulcers from worrying
about them. Such as:
It won’t be as good as the book.”
“That’s not Nino Nino was a big fat
bloke.”
“It won’t be as good as the book.”
Why’s he lettin’ the Poms make the
picture? Why doesn’t he make it
’imself?”
Is Clare Dunne gunna be here to-
day? Why isn’t she?”
Which one’s that Walter Chari? He
doesn’t look like Walter Chari.”
Who does that feller think he is,
tell in’ us to move? It’s a public
street, isn’it?”
“It won’t be as good as the book.”
Hearing things like that, you’d get the
impression that we were a nation of
“knockers”.
Well, I’m going to stick my neck out.
I think this film will be better than the
book. If I had the chance to write the
book again, I would write it along Press-
burger’s lines. I think this film "is easily
the best to have been made in Aus-
tralia. It is a comedy of top international
quality, written by a master screen-
writer, and put together by the best
craftsmen in the business.
Shelley once wrote:
We look before and after,
And sigh for what is not,
And our sincerest laughter
With deepest pain is fraught.
Charlie Chaplin exploited this theory.
Walter Chiari, without the use of slap-
stick, and with a fine array of Australian
talent to support him, exploits it again
in wide-screen Eastmancolor.
And the credit for it, given Press-
burger’s fine screenplay, must go to
Michael Powell. The difficulties he had
to overcome were enormous. But over
the years he fought and battled, and
never once lost sight of his objective.
His single-minded perseverance and de-
termination, allied to his creative genius,
have at last produced a great Australian
film.
My own part in it has been very, very
small. It is not easy for an Irish-Aus-
tralian to pay tribute to a Pom. But
“I dips me lid”.


mam
* •
<■
m
mm
’ * *
■ V
H
tv.
now!!!!!!
maximum
security
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
**" *
Ai. A 2,
~r
' A 3
MK-A
A 5.
A 3.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to. the Master-Key.
H
GMK
mm
tamm
: IR MK-C
I -I I . '
At. V 2. A 3. 81. 82. 83. Cl. C 2. C 3.
C».@
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. Limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention. manufactured in Australia by
LOCK UP
WITH
t&e/u&o&d
N.Z. Agent: G. D- LITTLE LTD.
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F. RADKE
AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569 0611 • Sydney:
56 3191, 56 3114, 56 3166, 56 3186
Brisbane: 7 3047 • Canberra:
4 4098 • Adelaide: 8 2153
Perth: 23 2214 • Hobart: 3 3141
Launceston: 2 1441
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.


A Travelling Man
Angus Wilson for Adelaide
From CHARLES OSBORNE in London
1 first met Angus Wilson some years
ago when we appeared on the same
TV programme. I was immediately
charmed by his apparently unshy, un-
forced friendliness, and his ability to
converse so easily and fluently with a
complete stranger. But these, after all,
are qualities shared by various amiable
chatterboxes: Angus’s incisive intel-
ligence and disarming honesty are much
rarer assets. He is now in his early
fifties, but his tempo is brisk: he moves
and talks and thinks far more rapidly
than many men half his age. My own
conviction is that he was born a young
fifty and has simply stayed that way.
He is of no more than medium height,
his face round and relaxed and framed
by masses of wavy grey-white hair. And
he possesses the gaiety and witty malice
of those baroque putti he can, on occa-
sion, resemble.
Angus Wilson, who will visit Adelaide
next March for the Festival of Arts at
the Festival’s invitation, was born in
Bexhill, an English south coast seaside
resort, in 1913. His father was English,
his mother South African. He was still
a child when he went, with his parents,
to South Africa to see his mother’s
relatives shortly after the First World
War. This visit provided the back-
ground material for one of his early
stories, “Union Reunion”. Wilson still
retains vivid childhood memories of
South Africa. His early schooling was
somewhat erratic, due to the fact that
his parents moved house frequently. At
14, he entered Westminster School, Lon-
don, and it was at about this time that he
became acquainted with the works of
Lytton Strachey, Aldous Huxley and
Evelyn Waugh. He was fortunate in his
masters at Westminster, one of whom
encouraged him to read such extra-
curricular names as Spengler and Freud,
and actually introduced him to such
people as Harold Nicolson, Gandhi,
John Betjeman and Alfred Douglas!
At Merton College, Oxford, he stu-
died mediaeval history, but had no clear
idea of what profession he would adopt.
He appears, even in adolescence, to have
had a healthy lack of interest in organis-
ed religion his historical training ten-
ded to incline him towards Marxism
ar *d his most serious hobby at Oxford
was acting, which he seriously consider-
ed as a career. But when he left Oxford,
during the depression years, he drifted
first into a succession of dead-end jobs
before reaching the British Museum’s
Department of Printed Books.
That was in 1936. Securely ensconced
in a comfortable job, Angus Wilson, like
most of his liberal contemporaries, dab-
bled in Left-wing political activity. The
war came, and he worked for the
Foreign Office, on something very secret.
He underwent a nervous collapse, but
managed to pull himself through, and at
the end of the war went back to the Bri-
tish Museum. It was then that he began
seriously to write, by trying his hand at
short stories. Cyril Connolly published
two of them in “Horizon”, and a year or
two later Seeker & Warburg published a
collection of them, “The Wrong Set”.
ANGUS WILSON
The book was successful, and was follow-
ed a year later by a second collection,
“Such Darling Dodos”.
The amusing satirist bf the stories then
revealed himself as a literary critic of
discernment and style in a full-length
study of Emile Zola, and in the same
year (1952) produced his first novel,
“Hemlock and After”. I have the feel-
ing that Angus Wilson, looking back on
it now, finds it a trifle raw: I retain a
great affection for it, a curiously
Gideian work.
His career in the last ten years is too
well-known to be recounted in any detail
here. In 1955 he finally gave up the
British Museum job to devote all his time
to writing. There have been no more
stories since the volume “A Bit off the
Map” in 1957, but the novels appear re-
gularly. He has written only one stage
play, “The Mulberry Bush” which was
unfortunate enough to be one of the
other plays of that 1956 repertory season
at the Royal Court Theatre in which
Look Back in Anger” was first produced.
When he came to my flat for
lunch recently, Wilson had just arrived
back from Czechoslovakia. An indefatig-
able lecturer, he is continually being
invited abroad to Scandinavia, to
Germany, to Russia, to the United
States. We compared notes on the
beauties of Prague and of Czech baro-
que, argued about the Germans and the
Austrians, and agreed in the flippancy
of our attitude to modern cinema. We
talked of his own work. “I sometimes
think I m too modest about my novels,”
he said. “Anyway, Charles, if you’re
writing about me, you must say I’m more
important than ... ”, naming a pom-
pous and absurdly over-esteemed nov-
elist than whom he is undoubtedly more
considerable in every way.
He greatly admires Patrick White, and
although they may seem to be passing
each other going in opposite directions,
he feels in some way close to White as
a novelist. When I mentioned that per-
haps my favorite among his novels was
“Hemlock and After”, he surmised that
I was attracted by a quality of violence
in it, lacking in the more recent work.
That he plans his books most meticulous-
ly but takes fewer pains with the actual
writing is suggested by his saying to me,
of one of the novels, “I wish now that
I’d taken rather more care with the
writing of it”. This tells one as much
about his intentions as a writer, as about
his methods.
He thinks that, in England today at
any rate, the theatre is considerably more
alive than the novel: an opinion with
which I find it difficult to disagree. One
of his close friends is the playwright
John Osborne for whose work, too, he
retains an immense affection. We talked
about “A Patriot For Me”. “He’s so mar-
vellous at bedroom scenes,” said Wil-
son, “whether hetero or homo.”
Angus Wilson adores visiting new
countries, so is looking forward to his
visit to Australia with his customary
eagerness and curiosity.
Though invited to the Adelaide Festi-
val, he intends to see some of the other
cities as well. Did I think he would
like Australia? I mentioned a few of
the people I thought he’d like, and said
something about the scenery. “I hate
mountains,” said Angus. “What I really
like is flat, marshy land.” “We cater for
all tastes,” I assured him.


YOUR WILL!
Is your Will of recent date? If not, then
perhaps revision could well be considered
along with the appointment of your Executor
and Trustee.
The responsibilities of an Executor and Trustee
are not always welcomed by a relative or
friend.
Wincheombe Carson Trustee Company
Limited will act as your Executor and Trustee;
competent officers providing the specialised,
personal attention required to ensure that your
wishes are faithfully carried out.
A senior officer is available for discussion,
without obligation, and a brochure giving more
particulars of the services available will be
forwarded on request.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
48 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone 2-0552
Associate Companies:
Wincheombe Carson Trustee Company (Canberra) Ltd.
Wincheombe Carson Executors & Agency (Queensland)
Pty. Ltd.
Post this coupon for free brochure to:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Co. Ltd.
48 Bridge Street, Sydney
Please forward me your free brochure.
Nam * !_
Address I—:
hB 22/1.
That Was William
Rushton That Was
Keeping a gleam in “Private Eye”
By JUDITH RICH
William Rushton is a difficult man
to categorise. He came before
the British public with his artful
mimicry of Harold Macmillan in the
now defunct BBC programme “That
Was The Week That Was”. His cartoons
and black and white art have titillated
the readers of “Private Eye” since that
magazine began in 1961. He won more
dubious renown as a parliamentary can-
didate standing against Sir Alec Douglas-
Home at a by-election in 1963. Two
weeks ago the generously endowed
figure of William Rushton, dressed in
red socks, red silk tie and a broad-brim-
med straw hat, hurtled into Sydney for
the Tests.
“I played Macmillan almost every
week in TW3 he was quite big at the
time. The part came naturally I think
we have practically the same teeth,”
Rushton said. “‘Private Eye’ started on
my bedroom floor. Christopher Booker,
Richard Ingrams and I decided to pro-
duce a paper out of the mashed pulp of
our rejection slips. Apart from ‘Punch’,
there wasn’t a humorous magazine in
Britain. We came out with four pages
on terrible, yellow quarto-size paper and
it just caught on. The circulation went
up to 100,000 when we broke the
Profumo story three months before any-
one else, without using names. Smith’s,
the big monopoly newsagency in London,
won’t handle ‘Private Eye’.”
Twenty-eight-year-old Rushton’s anti-
Home election effort grew out of a bar-
room jest. He campaigned in “a very
hairy part of Scotland” (Kinross divi-
sion), winning 45 votes to Home’s
16,000. Another cheerful assault on the
Establishment was Rushton’s first and
only painting a picture showing a
cardinal, a general and a judge poring
over a nude book called “Crispy Pix”.
The RoyaL Academy awarded it Picture
of the Year and an Oxford college
bought it for £lOO.
“I had a poove Uncle Ernest
who wrote songs of the ‘Come in-
to the Garden, Maud’ vintage,”
Rushton said. “He was the only
member of my family who dabbled in
the arts. When I came out of the army,
I did one year of law in a solicitor’s
office and left when the exams came
around. I was a freelance cartoonist
and illustrated children’s books for a
while. I was fired after a week as a
cartoonist on ‘The Observer’ and joined
the ‘Liberal News’. That’s where I met
Booker, who had gone to school with
me.”
PThre “Private Eye” magazine people,
headed by the owner, Peter Cook (of
“Beyond The Fringe” repute), have
made an LP called “Private Eye’s Blue
Record”, with Rushton in the cast. Wil-
liam Rushton’s “Dirty Book” is a collec-
tion of his cartoons from “Private Eye”
and of others never published. Malcolm
Muggeridge writes in the Foreword: “No
one ever used Rabelais to assist mastur-
bation, and I warmly recommend Rush-
ton’s ‘Dirty Book’ to all anxious school-
masters as a capital anti-aphrodisiac.”
“ ‘Private Eye’ still doesn’t make money,
so a year ago we decided to try some-
thing else as well,” Rushton said. “We
started marketing things T-shirts, ties
arid mugs with slogans; records; car
stickers. We started a shop at Knights-
bridge, right next door to Harrods we
were trying desperately to put Harrods
out of business. A sandwich-board man
used to walk around outside Harrods,
saying: ‘Shop at Private Eye’.”
Rushton is booked for a West End
show in June, with Barry Humphries,
which he describes as “a jolly, sophistic-
ated knockabout” and not satire. “Sati-
rist is a dirty word in England,” he said.
“I have ‘cartoonist’ on my passport. I’m
too old now to have ‘student’ that’s
the best for riots. The French telly
programme called me a ‘chansonier’,
which I thought was very nice a sort
of musical layabout.”


9S*3
m
.
'' - :
festival
EJSA-’Oe
U.B. *29.90*
See the sights...
share the fun...
enjoy a festival holiday
in 1966!
Plan now to include sports
spectacles, pageants, Indian
dances, outdoor concerts,
and thrilling rodeos.
Every USA region will be one fun-
filled festival after another all this
year. For example, during National
Cherry Blossom Festival (April 12-
17), Washington, D.C., turns into
a pink and white wonderland. But
even the most dedicated nature-
lover will want to take time to tour
the White House, Capitol, Smith-
sonian Institution, and National
Gallery of Art. These attractions,
like most others in the nation’s
capital, are free.
Thoroughbreds and Beethoven
Racing fans will gather at Louis-
ville for the 92nd Kentucky Derby
(May 7). Come sooner for folk
parades, steamboat races, and
traditional mint julep sipping.
If you prefer music, New
England’s Berkshire Festival in
Lenox, Massachusetts, brings you
Beethoven, Bach, and Bartok.
Erich Leinsdorf conducts the Bos-
ton Symphony Orchestra (July 1-
Aug. 21) in a breathtaking out-
door setting.
Square dances, regattas,
and Indians
At the Mountain Music and Folk
Festival (Aug. 5-7) in Asheville,
North Carolina, balladeers, square
dancers, and fiddlers will regale
you with toe-tapping mountain
rhythms. Go West to Seattle’s Sea-
fair (July 29-Aug. 7) for regattas,
water spectaculars, and torchlight
parades, “pirate invasions,” and the
Hydroplane Race. If you’re in the
Northwest earlier, be sure to see
the pageantry of the Rose Festival
in Portland, Oregon (June 3-12).
Sample the Wild West at the
Inter-Tribal Ceremonial in Gallup,
New Mexico, (Aug. 11-14) for
Indian dances, chants, and rodeos.
While there, take a detour to tha
800-year-old Taos pueblo, or fly
to Cedar City, Utah, for bus tours
of pink-cliffed Bryce Canyon and
Zion National Park’s vast amphi-
theater of upthrust stone.
More travel bargains than everl
This year eastern railroads reduce
round-trip tickets 25% to over-
seas groups of 15 or more. Bus
travel is $99 for 99 days. Several
major airlines offer 30 days a(
reduced prices. Via 13 regional
airlines to 550 cities, 3 weeks for
slso*. Rent a late-model American
car for $99 a week (included free,
your first tank of gas and
unlimited mileage).
For full information, see your
travel adviser or United States
Travel Service office. They can
also give you telephone numbers
to call to arrange visits to an
American home in any of 48
cities.
During Festival USA-’66 reser-
vations will go fast. Plan now for
a happy holiday.
*Subject to CAB approval after
Dec. 31, 1965.
United States Travel Service si
82 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me free general infor-
mation about visiting the United
States.
N ame
Street
City State
If for a school project, please
check. ( )
Travel a new world
See the USA


By Popular Demand
45 R.P.M. EXT. PLAY
BULLETIN RECORD
Chunder
Down Under
with BARRY
HUMPHRIES
is still available for only 10s.
post-free. It has two of the hits
from the show "Excuse I" the
surfie's "The Old Pacific Sea"
and the skier's "Snow Complica-
tions" with a new ski song
especially composed for this
record.
Send 10s. (a cheque or postal note, not
cash, please) to "Bulletin Records", Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the
coupon and address label below. (Records
may also be purchased over the counter
from the Paper Sales Department, sth
floor. Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
RECORD
RECORD ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name
Address
State.
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
ORDER bulletin record
FORM Box 7052, G.P.O. Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price 10s. a copy
(post free). I enclose 10s. cheque/postal
note.
Name of sender
Address
State B
If more than one record is ordered,
attach list giving full name, address,
State and, if overseas, country.
ON THE MARGIN
On Not Doing It Yourself
/"|n Sunday morning I saw a disturbing
sight in a suburban street. A man had
a new Mercedes-Benz 300 parked out-
side his house, and he was washing it.
To some this may not sound unusual.
Sunday is, after all, a day held sacred to
car-washing. But this was not an ordin-
ary car. It was a splendid, gleaming status
carriage, with fuel injection and every-
thing else. At the sight of it my natural
impulse was to respect and defer to the
owner as a person of higher social stand-
ing. Yet there he was in shirt-sleeves and
old khaki shorts, washing the car him-
self as if it were a Holden. By doing so
he had lowered himself to the ordinary
level. The spectacle was troubling and
confusing. I feh like one of those rats
that scientists have trained to go through
a door and find a piece of cheese, when
one day it gets an electric shock instead.
The man’s behavior irritated, too, by
its sheer foolishness. After going to all
the expense of acquiring a Mercedes
300, to ruin the effect by washing it him-
self—and in public. In America, where
these things are better understood, Cadil-
lac owners go to great trouble to avoid
being seen washing their cars. Some of
them get up and do it in the middle of
the night.
Status is a complex and tricky matter.
It is easy enough to master the elemen-
tary points which consist mainly of not
doing certain things. For instance, you
should not wear an old army greatcoat,
or pick up newspapers to read from tins
labelled Keep Your City Clean. You
should not carry a cut lunch in a paper
bag, or show your braces (best not to use
them at all), or wear a plastic raincoat,
or have “Mother” tattooed on your arm.
By observing these taboos I think I can
claim to have established a certain
modest position in society. I buy news-
papers rather than pick them out of bins,
I obtain my lunch sandwiches from bars
in town, or, if I carry a cut lunch, hide
it in my so-called briefcase (in which I
have never carried a brief or briefs); and
I have no tattooing on my person. Yet
negative precautions of this kind take one
only so far in the status quest. Further
progress is hampered for me by the in-
contestable fact that I do too many things
myself. In particular I wash the car, mow
the lawn, and paint the house, without
any assistance other than what I obtain
at sweated rates from my 15-year-old son.
The present time is often called a do-
it-yourself era. What has been less noticed
is the importance of not doing it your-
self. or, as some prefer to say, letting
George do it. I believe this to be the
most important determinant of status
today.
The critical or test activity is house-
painting, this being the most laborious
and time-consuming of all self-service
chores. I speak with feeling on the matter
as I have spent much of my leisure for
the past eight months in a snail-like pro-
gress over the outside of my house, first
with wire brushes, then with white all-
purpose undercoat, and finally with the
Warm Dawn shade of Glorygloss. For
anyone who has been through it, this
traumatic experience affects his whole
outlook on society. He comes to believe
that there is only one elite group of
people today. It is composed of those who
hire George to paint their houses.
Even a man who has his car cleaned
regularly at the Kwikshine 3-minute Car
Wash and Polish loses most of his pres-
tige if he is seen applying a coat of Glory-
gloss. I have become a somewhat naive
painting snob. When introduced to a man
I look for the tell-tale paint marks around
the roots of his fingernails, or the specks
of undercoat on his hair. If these signs
are present I can place him as one of the
do-it-yourself crowd. He may be a decent
enough fellow, but he cannot possibly
have the leisure to acquire the gracious-
ness and sophistication that are within
the reach of those who let George do it.
Cutting across this system of social
gradings are, of course, various anomal-
ies, like the man who washes his Mer-
cedes 300. I have heard of a Bentley
owner with “Mother” tattooed on his
arm. A case was reported of a man with
a private aeroplane who painted his own
house. These oddities do not alter the
fact that the world esteems the man who
does not do it himself. The feeling, more-
over, has a sound social basis. It was well
expounded by the poet Harry Graham
in his memorable lines:
Lord Frederick tried to fix the electric
light.
He got a fatal shock, and serve him
right.
It is the duty of the wealthy man
To give employment to the artisan.
ROSS CAMPBELL


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
Beating the
Meat Bandits
The Sydney meat-eater’s mecca is a
place of pastoral calm off Parra-
matta Road, at Homebush. There
you can beat the striped-apron ban-
dits — the secret society of the expen-
sive butcher.
My cheap meat method works, Is
legal and enormously smart. It seeded
one twilight while I was sucking a hog-
get bone that has made more appear-
ances in our stew than Jacqueline Kott
in “Who’s Afraid of Edward Albee?”
Now I set down my experiences and
expertise. I confronted Homebush Abat-
toirs as a tyro. You can walk in know-
ledge among the carcasses.
Drive to the abattoirs —an unpleas-
ant experience, regardless of approach.
Pull up outside the country meat hall
(I’ve always found this best), just op-
posite the grass and palms. Walk across
as though you’ve come to collect the
rent.
You should be equipped with suit-
ably large bags for your loot. Laws for-
bid lugging around uncovered meat.
Also, they are liable to think you are
flogging it, and will say so. Kitbags,
large plastic bags or meat stockings are
“gear”. Newspapers are out, as slaugh-
termen will socially downgrade you.
But don’t be furtive. It isn’t like buying
second-hand clothes.
A Lithuanian friend was horrified
when I mentioned buying meat at the
abattoirs. He thought customers picked
an animal, leapt into the bullring, bull-
dogged the beast to the deck, slaugh-
tered it themselves and paid money
according to size. This he accepted, but it
was hauling the beast to his Belmore
cottage for skinning and cleaning that
upset his sensitivities.
The carcasses are dressed. You can
buy whole or half-beasts, and some
agents sell major sections. Size of family
and refrigerator are determining factors.
When buying, team with a neighbor and
take several half-beasts. This gives
variety. Pork, veal and lamb are most
convenient. Offal is an optional extra.
Perfect beast selection needs experi-
ence. Here are some pointers: Don’t be
arrogant with the staff or pretend en-
cyclopedic knowledge. They start early
and are busy. To women they are court-
eous, efficient and pleasant. With men
they are mostly gruff and cannot do too
little.
If it's pig for next week’s feast, here’s
how to select one after you’ve got the
salesman on side. Nominate a weight
range for half; about forty pounds is
recommended. Walk among the carcasses
and be guided by the salesman, but if
he offers something that may look too
fatty, here’s how you check for yourself.
Stick your index finger in the pig’s back-
side. If it feels greasy, say no.
The second test is to check flap and
hind-quarter fat. Test three: run a rigid
thumb down the pig’s back. If you feel
spinal bumps the beast is a lean one.
Give fatty pigs a miss. A large blue spot
on the pig indicates bruising.
With lamb and veal be guided by the
salesman, but to test whether it is a
young beast look at the rib bones. If
there is blood in the bone it is a young
animal and should be tender. White
bones indicate an older beast. About
the best buying weight, for a whole
carcass this time, is forty pounds. If buy-
ing a full beast ask for it to be halved.
This makes butchering easier.
The meat is weighed and you pay.
I have been paying 3s. to 3s. 6d. a pound
for pork, from Is. 4d. to 2s. 6d. for veal
and 2s. to 3s. 6d. for lamb. The 3s. 6d.
was in the height of the drought. Regard-
less of how much money you take, al-
ways make certain you have plenty of
change. There are not many cash sales
and cashiers carry little money.
Wrap the carcass, swing it on to your
shoulder and walk to your car, gloating
over your meat coup; that is, if you
aren't flattened by the weight. This
deflating experience can be avoided.
Charm the men into taking your burden.
They help women. As observed, men
are treated differently. Once I injured
my foot on a vacuum cleaner left in the
centre of a darkened room. The resulting
limp was accentuated by my desire for
sympathy. At the abattoirs I did an
Olivier to a stony audience. Disgruntled,
I swung the carcass to shoulder (too
heftily) and was propelled toward a pile
of heavy meat-hooks. They resisted. With
screaming foot and pain-stained mien I
lurched, agony’s child, to the car.
But women are not quite so low on
guile and should do well. The first time
I took my wife to the abattoirs, nothing
was a bother. Lift, carry, talk, polite
the men were all over us like top-
dressing.
However, if you are shrewish and
scrawny you may need to know how to
swing and carry. Stand before the beast
and move the hind portion away from
you. Move forward until it rests com-
fortably on your back. Swiftly lift,
remove the hook from the overhead rail,
walk forward, wrestle the hook from the
beast’s ankle and walk bravely to a new
world of meat.
Butchering is a problem at first. Cook
books have a guide to cuts. Alternatively,
you can take a peep at the local butcher’s
charts. This is a question of private
morality, which can only be resolved by
problems confronted.
A small saw and a large, sharp knife
make butchering easier and neater. A
chopper is not necessary, although some
schools plump for them.
When the carcass is in cuts, store in
the freezer. More advice: try to stack in
order of intended use.
For a day’s outing the abattoirs is
recommended above the holiday movie
fare and there are big savings. Although
you may not want to eat like an eight-
eenth-century English lord, you can
afford to at Homebush prices. Intelligent
women can now organise their own
Undercut Group to beat the meat
bandits.
PAUL COOMBES


After Shastri What?
Kamaraj the king-maker without an obvious king
Y. B. CHAVAN
M. DESAI
MRS I. GANDHI
G. NANDA
K. KAMARAJ
From CYRIL DUNN in New Delhi
India’s new leader will be elected this
week when the Congress parliamen-
tary party is to meet, ostensibly for
this purpose. But before Wednesday’s
meeting there will be an intense and con-
tinuous struggle for power in the Party’s
hierarchy.
Kamaraj, the Congress Party presi-
dent, is trying to create “a consensus”, as
he did so brilliantly eighteen months ago
when he hoisted the supposedly light-
weight Shastri on to Nehru’s splendid
throne. However, there’s a feeling that
this time Kamaraj may fail either to
cajole or to intimidate the Party bosses
into accepting a unanimous choice. In
that event, it will go to a vote by India’s
humble MPs, though this may only
widen and confuse the Kamaraj method,
since almost every member is committed
to one power group or another.
Kamaraj himself seems to have lost
some of his enormous glamor, though he
still visibly embodies the strengths and
splendors of South India. The well-
known deadening effects of his office
have evidently subdued even his immense
vitality. Compared with those numbing
days just after Nehru’s death, there’s also
less reluctance among the Party leaders
to take the job on. Only the obligation to
honor the Tashkent agreement on peace
with Pakistan a document of highly
uncertain popularity on both sides of
the frontier may encourage another
stop-gap choice, expendable before the
1967 election.
Nor is there now one obvious con-
tender designed, as it were, by nature for
the needs of the hour, as Shastri was
before. The needs are anyway more com-
plex, desperate and immediate and no-
body in the old familiar list has all the
required attributes, though each of them
has some.
If Famine Year in fact lies ahead of
us, nobody is in many ways better quali-
fied to rally the nation than Mrs Indira
Gandhi, Nehru’s daughter. On the nat-
ional effort and unity theme she makes
better speeches than anyone and plainly
has the right ideas. As the drama of the
late war unfolded itself she regularly
toured the battlefront, engaged on tasks
which seemed unconnected with the hum-
drum functions of her Information
Ministry. But she is vastly photogenic, has
become steadily more beautiful and in
every war-torn setting seemed to enlarge
its significance. She has, however, inheri-
ted her father’s air of profound tragedy
which scarcely encourages hope.
An iron will is named by Nanda’s
friends as his most reverent quality. He
is 67, was born on the 4th of July. Be-
hind him lies a lifetime of earnest and
painstaking endeavor. He gave up fair
prospects of wealth to organise the work-
ers behind the national movement and
stuck to his job in a provincial textile
union, which others might have found
intolerably boring, for fourteen years.
He used to organise strikes but soon
swung round to Gandhi’s view of labor
relations.
Nanda, who is tall and thin and looks
more melancholy than he is, is a devout
Hindu who would like to see a revival
of religious feeling in the nation. Political
Hindus have noted with satisfaction that
on public occasions he touches the feet
of the high priests. He eats sparely and
does Yogi exercises; he stands on his
head, v as Nehru used to. He believes in
astrology but only as a science.
If Nanda gets the job India will cer-
tainly be more socialist. It is unlikely,
however, that under his regime the spirit
of liberalism will flourish. Nanda hates
all forms of disloyalty to the State and
has imprisoned without trial many
Indians he reckons guilty of it. News
of his election might well send a tremor
of anxiety through Indian non-confor-
mists.
Morarji Desai is in many ways re-
markably like him. Both, as it happens,
look sensationally like schoolmasters of
the kind who strike terror into small and
idle boys. Morarji'is 70 at the end of next
month in fact he was a leap year child
and this must be his last bid for power,
though he has kept uncommonly fit on
an austere Hindu regimen. His bid can
have little directly tc do with the' chal-
lenge of the times. Somewhat embittered
by his failure to break the Kamaraj grip
on events in 1964 and to win the suc-
cession for himself, Morarji has been
preparing patiently for a comeback. He
helped with the writing of a biography
heralding his return as the salvation of
India. He also published a series of
articles about himself, chiefly in rebuttal
of popular criticism setting him out as
rigid, obstinate, in love with his own
Hindu rectitude, enslaved by astrology
(he says it’s a science), and pro-American.
If Morarji were elected, India would
move towards the middle, be subjected
to discipline and might get an adminis-
tration less cluttered and slothful than the
one it has now. His choice would send a
tremor of anxiety through Indian drink-
ers for Morarji believes passionately in
prohibition and has publicly predicted
the ruination of India because, he says,
some Congress Ministers are hitting the
bottle.
/Yther likely contenders include the
Defence Minister, Y. B. Chavan. Peo-
ple are saying “the Army is behind him”,
implying a new and on the whole un-
likely upsurge of military interest in
politics since the Punjab. Chavan is in
every sense a big ham from the Bombay
side and has, so far as may be discovered,
no trace of Gandhian gentleness or
deviousness. He looks exactly like the
landlord of an Irish pub—that’s to say>


;w : ;:sr ■:-:
of the five SO -ton Hsufpaks 'withspecial side dump bodies used for iron ore haulage at Cockatoo tsiend, W.A
One
m
m
wm
mr
m
1
jji!
HI
m*
■y~i»
wmm
'• -: x - ; •
Nil 1 HIM IF
LW
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, GILD. ■ BAUXITE MINING, OLD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
£ for EXPORT
r;rst earthmov!n| equipment manufacturer to receive t»« Aw»r#
for OutiWnmn* fcxport Achievement.
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINuHOUSEPTUTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW249.106


'<>*
Mggg&g >*
Aboard a sleek "White Empress" you’ll find
enjoyment and comfort to highlight your
journey to Europe. Staterooms, crystal-clear
pools, club room, shops, starlit terrace, dancing
and the world-famous Canadian Pacific service
and superb cuisine. Ask your Travel Agent for
illustrated literature and details.
1,000 MILES LESS OCEAN
ON THE SHELTERED, SCENIC
ST. LAWRENCE ROUTE.
Canadian (Pacific
(incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited) Ships/
Trains/Planes/Trucks/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s
most complete transportation system.
outwardly genial and tolerant, but not in
fact one with whom liberties may be
taken. Although he can claim lots of
credit for India’s recent military success
he is not openly as bellicose as some
other and less substantial Congress
leaders. He is laconic—just this side of
total silence. He is 51, which makes him
a bit young for leadership in India.
From this point downwards, popular
prediction becomes a mere string of
names, as if people were losing the
thread. There’s Sajiva Reddy (steel and
mines), once a hammer of the Reds in
Andhra Pradesh, once named as the
Congress Party’s young hopeful, though
the hopes then faded. Some say what
about Kamaraj himself, if the contenders
get locked in battle? There are faint
murmurs of others.
It may well be Mrs Gandhi’s part at
this hour to influence the choice. She
swings the vote of the Hindu-speaking
northern States.
Two Fag Ends
Of War
From GAVIN YOUNG
in Saigon
For reasons obscure but certainly
not conducive to confidence between
American and the Western allies,
non-Americans in Vietnam have not been
granted free access to the Vietcong and
Vietnamese prisoners. Despite the infil-
tration of Vietnamese regular troops into
the South, Mr Heath’s fleeting visit to a
small prison compound early last week
provided the first opportunity for British
diplomats here to catch sight of the
North Vietnamese. Later in the week I
was able to talk at length to two North
Vietnamese soldiers.
They were Bui Van Dan, 19, a private
of the Ninth Battalion. Sixty-sixth Regi-
ment of Regular “People’s Army of
North Vietnam”; and Nong Van Thuong,
35, Lieutenant of Signals and member
of the Communist Party of North Viet-
nam. Both were captured by Vietnam-
ese troops at the end of 1965. Both had
been infiltrated during the last years of
the Vietcong buildup.
I spoke to them in a small office in a
Saigon military camp. The shutters,Avere
drawn and a military policeman sat in
the corner. A Vietnamese captain
translated.
Dan, stocky, pale-faced, in baggy fati-
gues, had a red scar around his right
eye. He answered questions slowly in a
strong voice. He said: “I was called for
military service in the People’s Regular
Army in February 19. My widowed
mother looks after our rice-patch with
my brother who escaped military ser-
vice because he has only got one hand.
“Our hamlets are called Hoanh Bo in
the Hai Duong province near Hanoi.
My battalion began moving down into
South Vietnam in early August by the
road from Thanh Hoa province, then by
the-mountain track. We had had some
training in the ambush technique. We
were about five hundred, mostly about
the same age except for the officers and
we didn’t know we were going to fight
until we had reached our first staging
post inside South Vietnam.
“I know we passed through Laos for
a short time because we were told so
at another staging post and I had heard
people speaking another language. We
travelled all the way on foot—no bicycles
or anything. It took us three months
to reach the jungle near Pleiku. Quite
a lot of us caught malaria on the way,
perhaps a quarter of us.
“We slept in hammocks and picked
up rice and dried fish at the staging
posts. I carried a Chinese semi-auto-
matic rifle and a hundred rounds of


ANSETT
TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
£1,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
#>/*%
10 YEARS
7 YEARS
%
YEARS
5
UNDERWRITERS
• lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
• AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LTD.
Applications can be accepted only on the
printed form attached to the Prospectus, which can
be obtained from any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or any office of Ansett Transport
Industries Ltd. or its subsidiaries, or from any
branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd.
or the Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
or the Joint Underwriters, lan Potter & Co.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
44 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Alinga St., CANBERRA, A.C.T.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LTD.
489 Swanston Street, Melbourne. C.l
(P.O. Box 1629 M) Phone 34-0401
Please send me a copy of your B|% Prospectus.
NAME ADDRESS
STATE VIS9I/24N/R
ammunition. But we had bigger stuff,
eighty-two millimetre mortars and re-
coilless rifles. It was quite tough.
“When ihe battalion got to the Pleiku
area we bivouacked for the night. Next
day a recce plane came over and must
have spotted us. Helicopters and jets
began shooting us up and dropping
bombs. Battalion headquarters was hit.
I saw trees falling and everyone began
to scatter. Then I was hit in the leg
and face and fell down. Some of our
people came and took my rifle away from
me they do this when we are hit. Then
I was picked up by Vietnamese soldiers.
“What had I been told I was to do in
South Vietnam? Well I was told I would
fight Americans, American invaders.
They said the (Vietnamese) puppet sol-
diers were exhausted, finished and that
three-quarters of South Vietnam was al-
ready ours.
“We didn’t expect to have to do much
fighting, if any. We were there just to
complete the victory. It would help
make a better future for our children
and grandchildren.
“What is Communism? I don’t know
that. I have heard those names you
mention, Lenin and Stalin, but I have
forgotten what they told me about them.
I am afraid I don’t know the name of
the Prime Minister of South Vietnam,
but Johnson is leader of the Americans,
isn’t he? All I know of America is that
it is the place where Americans come
from. It is far away. Nguyen Cao Ky?
I have never heard that name.”
Van Thuong, the signals lieuten-
ant, is a thoughtful-looking man with
a shaven head. He stared at the floor and
his adam’s apple jerked convulsively
when he talked. He was captured far
in the South, on the edge of Cambodia.
“We came in through Cambodia I think,
because our liaison officer told us ‘this
is Cambodia’ and we must move only
at night. I trained radio operators in
a South Vietnamese village camp. The
villagers I met seemed of two kinds.
Those who had not been bombed very
much were quite friendly; if they had
been badly bombed they were not
friendly and often put the blame on us
for being there.
“No, we didn’t live in tunnels where
I was. Our officers told us if there was
serious trouble we could go across the
Cambodian border and we would be
safe. Yes, I joined the Party in North
Vietnam. I know about the differences
between Russia and China; Russia
thinks we can live parallel lives with
the capitalists, don’t they? Well I feel
that too, and so do many officers, I
think. We don’t talk about that kind
of thing, though, except to very intimate
friends. I think Russia, after all, was
the first socialist country and we must
respect and learn from them. Also,
Russia is so rich and has so much tech-
nical skill. Perhaps we can reach Com-
munisrn in a hundred years. It is good
in theory, a long-range dream that may
bring good to our children and grand-
children. From what I have seen, it is
not much. I think South Vietnam is
better off than I was told—in the vil-
lages I have seen.
“What now? I am lost. I want a
normal citizen’s life but if I go back to
the North they would never employ me
again after this. If this Government
helped me to make a new life here, I
would be all alone and it might be diffi-
cult with people knowing I have served
in the North Vietnam Army and I have
got none of my old confidence left. Are
you surprised? For me any regime will
do. Let the South conquer the North
or the North take over the South. I
don’t mind any more. All I want is a
normal life. Just a normal life.”
Saying goodbye, he managed a small
smile and raised his eyes for the first
time. His hand was wet with sweat,
Then both prisoners shambled out
into the sun. Two fag ends of the war.


STOP!
1* -H
JSk
* ?
SINGAPORE
■INCLUDE SINGAPORE - THE LION CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modern, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here If million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side - here you will
find the Orient’s most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and cultures - Stopover
- You'll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
Further north - no more than an hour by air - lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You’ve read about
it in books • now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur - Federal Capital' of Malaysia - See beautiful
Penang • the Pearl of Orient - Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
■ SERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia - throughout South East Asia
from Singapore - you’ll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways'
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you’ll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
SINGAPORE/HONGKONG -9
KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG-3
JESSELTON/HONGKONG ■ 2
PENANG/BANGKOK -4
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-3
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK »7
Jest
MALAYSIAN
AIRWAYS
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
Mr Do
N o peace without prior
withdrawal
From GAVIN YOUNG in
Saigon
The American Government has given
the South Vietnamese Govern-
ment a firm undertaking not to
negotiate peace terms with Hanoi until
all North Vietnamese and Vietcong
troops have been withdrawn above the
17th parallel. The Vietnamese Foreign
Minister, Tran Van Do, told me this last
week just before the arrival of Mr Rusk
and Mr Harriman.
He gave me what amounts to a defi-
nitive account of Saigon’s viewpoint as
peace efforts reach a climax. He said
he doubted whether anything short of
very heavy bombing of North Vietnam
would bring Hanoi to the peace table.
This clarification of Saigon’s tough
stance, motivated by overriding Vietnam-
ese determination not to become bogged
down in negotiations exploitable by the
Communists, such as those at Pan-
munjom which ended the Korean War,
seems certain tc lead to deep embarrass-
ment for President Johnson. It was al-
most certainly a delicate central point in
discussions between Johnson’s envoys
and the Vietnamese leaders in Saigon
now.
Do was careful to stress that Saigon
would be prepared for “dialogue” in
general terms with Hanoi at any time
but not to negotiate a final solution until
the withdrawal. Hanoi’s alternative, he
made clear, is self-destruction. “If the
North Vietnamese refuse this condition
they must be made to pay a very
high price.” He continued: “Of course,
withdrawal would probably be too great
a humiliation for the Communists. But
we are adamant: no negotiations before
complete withdrawal. That is certain.”
Speaking firmly and deliberately, Do told
me: “You wait and see. If there is no
favorable response from Hanoi to the
American peace initiative and it may
be a very private response in two
weeks’ time, after our lunar year holidays,
you are going to see far greater destruc-
tion in the North. Frankly, I am in favor
of much heavier bombing and so are my
colleagues.”
He commented on a adver-
tisement in the London “Times” of
December 23, in which 39 prominent
Britons, including A. J. Ayer, Graham
Greene and Michael Redgrave, called for
three moves to demonstrate American de-
sire for peace. He said, “Let’s take three
things. Well, one: ‘Cessation of raids in
North Vietnam’. As everyone can see
we have had a long bombing pause now.
Two: ‘Recognition of the Liberation
Front as a member of discussion’. We
and the Americans have already said
that if it comes to negotiations the Front
may sit with the North Vietnam delega-
tion. Three: ‘Acceptance of the Geneva
Agreement of 1954 as a legal, moral
and practical basis for peace’. As for
that reunification, elections, and so on
how can there be any question of
that at this time? In Laos they insisted
on coalitions, etc. Three years later the
whole country is widely infiltrated by
Pathet Lao and Vietcong.”
Mr Do’s remarks highlight the critical
stage in Vietnamese-American relations
that the peace efforts have induced.
Saigon is jealously clutching its sove-
reignty, like a tiger its cubs, against pos-
sible American temptations to tamper
with it as Washington’s peace urge
grows. There has never seemed much
future in the present “peace offensive”
viewed from Saigon.


BRAMBLES
NEWS
BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL
SERVICES
SYDNEY GROWS UP
TO THE SKY
Australian Owned — Australia Wide
Vol. 3, No. 1
January 22, 1966
As a city matures it grows in stature and Sycm^'
toda,y—new buildings, impressive architecture; an inter-
national city. And Brambles is there; for nine out of every
ten major building projects during the past ten years has
seen Brambles Industrial Services among the contractors.


BRAMBLES
INDUSTRIAL
SERVICES
A PINCH OF SALT
A Brambles Industrial Services crane, called to the
wharves to unload salt from a ship, found the job
entailed a little more than a pinch of salt —in fact the
entire cargo was salt, tons of it, but this unusual job
presented no great difficulties.
THE INSIDE STOREY...
BEFORE —The new
building which
houses the Ameri-
can National Club
straddles the old
Club premises.
BUILDING FROM THE TOP DOWN
The American Club in Sydney’s Macquarie Street
occupied a quaint old Victorian building, but it was
old and a new, modern building was planned. The
problem was to continue service to members while
the new building was erected. The answer was to
build around the old building, then demolish it and
fill in the gap in the centre.
Brambles Industrial Services excavated on either
side of the old building and a modern skyscraper
grew up around it. Then the demolishers moved in,
while the club moved to quarters in the completed
section of the new building. Brambles have now
completed the excavation of the second stage of the
project and soon the gap will be filled.
AFTER — A Brambles
bulldozer at work in
the gap, left after
demolition of the
old building.


A MISSING LINK
A new high-level bridge is being built over
Middle Harbour at Roseville as another vital
link in the overall plan to reduce the congestion
on Sydney’s main traffic routes. The new bridge
towers above the old road and this all-concrete
structure is being built by John Holland Con-
structions. Brambles played their part in the
project with cranes hired to the contractors. A
Koehring crawler crane can be seen at work in
the foreground, while a 15 ton truck-mounted
crane is at work high up on the roadway of the
bridge.
TURNING WATER INTO TARMAC... AT MASCOT
The main runway at Sydney’s Kingsford Smith Airport is being extended into Botany Bay to allow faster and heavier
jets to use the airport in all weathers. From the early stages of the project, Brambles equipment has played a
prominent part. Cranes, shovels, compressors, tippers and other units have been at work to keep the project on
schedule. After demolishing the first culvert and excavating for the permanent structure, Brambles units are shown
below breaking up the second culvert to finish this stage of the project.
Another stage of the runway extension into Botany Bay is the diversion of General Holmes Drive through a tunnel
beneath the runway itself. The excavation is unusual because it is below water level, but equipment from Brambles
Industrial Services is on the site assisting with the work.
Brambles units breaking up
the second culvert


THE TIPPERS
On many construction projects
around Sydney a familiar sight
are the busy and efficient trucks of
Brambles Industrial Services' new
tipper fleet. Decked out in the
well-known “Brambles Red,” the
vehicles are an added service to
the civil contracting division of
B.I.S. Mr. W. (Bill) Loughman
has been apointed Tipper Super-
intendent of the new branch. They
offer cartage of excavated mater-
ials, supply of filling, sand, soil,
blue metal, and the disposal of
industrial wastes. The new tipper
fleet will be active in the filling of
low-lying land and the reclamation
of swamp and water-covered areas.
The new tipper branch offers its
services to outside industry and
contractors, with the supply of
trucks and filling and the cartage
of materials.
Trucks of the new tipper division on the Warringah Expressway
site, handling the disposal of all excavated material. The rock
face behind the vehicles shows the high standard of “batter
drilling” attained by the skilled drillers and equipment on the
project.
RECENT STAFF PROMOTIONS
Mr. M. (Mark) Marsham to the position of Site
Manager—Excavation of Highway Constructions Pty.
Ltd., the company jointly owned by Reed & Stuart
Pty. Ltd. and Brambles Industries Limited, which is
excavating Stage One of the Warringah Expressway
at North Sydney.
Mr. W. (Bill) Skelton to the position of Contracts
Officer, and Mr. D. M. (Max) Singh, Estimator of the
Planning and Estimating Branch of B.I.S., Sydney.
STAFF APPOINTMENT
Mr. R. K. (Ray) Deane has been appointed Sales
Manager of the Crane Division, B.I.S., Sydney.
During the final stages of construction, a Brambles
Transport low loader with a double-articulated rig on
the Tarban Creek Bridge, which links the Glades-
ville and Fig Tree Bridges and provides a super-
highway to Lane Cove.
B.I.S. mobile cranes were also at work on the site,
handling steelwork for the concrete trusses.


LETTERS
The Literary Cat’s Tail
SIR. Professor Leonie Kramer has, on
several occasions, been most generous
in her comments on “Summer’s Tales 1”,
issued almost at the same time as her
collection, “Coast To Coast, 1963-64”.
In courtesy, her criticisms of “Summer’s
Tales 2” require a reasoned explanation
from me. The truth of much of what
she writes (8., Jan. 15) is known to
no one better than to myself. I was
asked to edit “Summer’s Tales 2” on
March 9, 1965, and my selection of the
492 stories sent me by May 15 had, for
publishing purposes, to be complete by
June 15.
Perhaps the most important point is
that 492 stories were submitted in those
weeks. They were representative in that
they came from every part of Australia,
the Pacific and New Zealand. As I made
clear in my Foreword, I was seeking a
collection of the “longer” kind of story.
If I had to reject many which, in their
genre, would have been favored by Dr
Kramer and kindred readers, it was
because they were simply not good
enough. A good “realist” or factual
account was, in my opinion, to be pre-
ferred to an unsuccessful “cerebral” or
“literary” story.
If the collection contained fewer of
the latter kind than Dr Kramer would
have wished to see, whose is the ultimate
responsibility? I believe it lies with those
journals which, while professing to
admire such work, have failed to
develop it. I would cite, first, The
Bulletin, once the nursery of Aus-
tralian writing, but which, possibly by
imposing standards too high, has pub-
lished probably no more than four
stories in the last 52 issues. Of the
journals subsidised by the Common-
wealth Literary Fund, to promote Aus-
tralian writing, not literary criticism,
“Southerly” published three stories in
1965; “Quadrant” three in its six issues;
“Overland” and “Australian Letters” two
each in the one issue printed. “Meanjin”
(11 stories) and “Westerly” (seven in the
issues to hand) would appear to me, as
an ordinary reader, creditably to have
satisfied the terms upon which they,
with the others, received grants.
As for the “popular magazines” of
which Dr Kramer writes, they simply do
not exist as short story mediums, here,
°r even overseas now to any degree. The
fiction editor of Australia’s best-selling
Women’s paper judged only one story in
Summer’s Tales 2” as being of
women’s fiction level”, but mentioned
fiiat of 112 magazines from which she
could once make a selection, only 12
now published short stories.
“Summer’s Tales” is the only profit-
able market, on a major size, for Aus-
tralian short story writers. Two of the
tales in the first volume have earned their
authors more than the average novel
returns in royalties. Unlike “Coast To
Coast”, it seeks unpublished material
only, but if either of these collections,
so valuable to the Australian writer, is
to survive, journals which profess to
develop Australian writing must en-
courage authors by printing their work,
rather than by filling their covers with
literary criticism repeated on the same
subjects ad nauseam.
This is where I fundamentally differ
from Dr Kramer. I believe, from a long
practical experience with writers, that
they develop only by seeing their work in
print. For that reason, I would mention
with approval two small journals of
widely different opinions, “Realist” and
“Twentieth Century”.
Dr Kramer will excuse me if I claim
that the “citizens” are really behind
“Summer’s Tales 2” tc the extent that
overseas orders are already double what
they were this time for the first volume.
Is it possible that sometimes in Australia
we tend to chase the literary cat’s tail,
and the traditional Australian crisp
writing is now more appreciated in
Europe and America than the “cerebral”
style? It is an interesting proposition.
KYLIE TENNANT
Hunters Hill {NSW).
[The Bulletin has published 10 short
stories over the past 52 issues our
usual average. This does not include
border-line writing such as sketches and
memoirs.— Editor.]
THE NEWSBOYS' PICNIC
80 Years Ago: January 23, 1886
'J'HE S.M. Herald, ever prostrate at the
toes of "those who rule over us", says
re the Sydney newsboys' picnic: "It
should also be mentioned that the Hon.
Lady Carrington forwarded a Christmas
plum-pudding, which formed a most im-
portant item of the feast, and made the
boys happy because her Ladyship had
bestowed so much attention upon them."
Bosh! The newsboys were made happy
not by sentiment but by plum-duff. They
would have been just as pleased had the
pudding been made out of the same mater-
ials by the matron of the Benevolent
Asylum. Lady Carrington is a very charm-
ing woman, and we all adore vice-royalty,
but, for Heaven's sake. Granny, give us
less slimy grovel, and stop trying to pump
evidences of loyalty out of little bingies
full of currants and suet. Appetite doesn't
mean Imperialism, even if Hunger does
mean Revolution.
Police Interrogation
SIR. Many of your readers will not
share the views expressed by Gordon
Hawkins in his article “The Police
Scandal Syndrome” (8., Jan. 8) that “the
current agitation seems to consist very
largely of thoughtless and irresponsible
cant”. Instances under current review,
including one in which it was made
clear by a judge that the defendant could
not have made the statement attributed
to him owing to some physical defect,
and one in which injuries were stated
possibly to have been caused by a “20-
stone policeman falling on the prisoner”,
fill the thoughtful citizen with a feeling
of unease.
Even the language of newspaper
reports is disturbing. They constantly
refer to suspects being “taken to the
police station for questioning”, when it
is a firm principle of British law that
no person may be taken anywhere for
questioning or for any other purpose by
the police, or by any other person, unless
he has first been arrested. The writer
once advanced to a learned Crown
Prosecutor the view now very generally
held that no person should be questioned
by police except in the presence of his
solicitor or of an independent observer
such as a JP, or unless there is a com-
plete mechanically produced record of
the interview, and was surprised when
the Prosecutor said: “If that course were
adopted your person and goods would
never be safe.”
This is tantamount to an admission
that irregular methods are not in-
frequently adopted by police to obtain
admissions. To one brought up on the
tenets of Dicey in relation to personal
liberty this is abhorrent. If it is desirable
that suspects be questioned, some system
resembling the French examination by
a juge d’ instruction might possibly
be employed—but in any case what is
abundantly clear is that no change from
the established principles which we
properly regard as our treasured heritage
should be effected surreptitiously and
without legislative sanction.
BASIL A. HELMORE
Newcastle {NSW).
SIR. Suggestions have been made that
the police organisations, particularly in
Victoria and NSW, are such that the
only way a complaint can be properly
dealt with is through an independent
tribunal.
As one who was unnecessarily arrested
by a Victorian senior constable two years
ago, and who subsequently laid an
official complaint with the Commissioner,
I would point out that my own experi-
ence proves otherwise.
I felt my complaint fell initially on
unsympathetic ears; but the presence of
a police inspector at the Petty Sessions


case which followed proved that the
Commissioner was interested. The con-
viction of the senior constable, which
resulted from the Disciplinary Board
hearing, the subsequent dismissal of the
appeal, the thoroughness with which the
matter was investigated, and the courtesy
which I received at all times by investi-
gating officers, proved to me that the
Victorian Police are deserving of the
highest of respect to probably 99 per
cent of its members.
DON McCOLL
Gladstone (Qld).
Vietnam Diary
SIR. —I have just read Geoffrey Fair-
bairn’s “Diary”, Two Faces of Courage
(8., Jan 8). It was never the intention,
surely, of these “stridently arguing aca-
demic protesters” to cast doubts on the
bravery of the Australian troops, Mr
Fairbairn appears to be trying to cloud
the issue by implying that critics of
Government policy in Vietnam are critics
of the fighting qualities of the Australian
contingent. It is good for Australians to
know of the valor of Australian troops
and to know that they are regarded
highly. It is also good to know that we
have people in the community who are
concerned enough not only to protest,
but discuss whether this valor is being
dispensed in a right cause.
The fact that Mr Fairbairn was brave
enough to go on patrols in Vietnam does
not, I believe, give him any greater in-
sight into the issues.
H. M. HENRY
New Lambton Heights (NSW).
Anglicans and Racism
SIR. Mr Butler is impertinent when
he accuses me (8., Jan. 8) of “bearing
false witness against his fellow Chris-
tians”. It is my moral duty as a priest in
the Church of England to combat those
who try to foment religious, racial and
ethnic hatred in our community. Mr
Butler and his associates stand condemned
for doing this.
Mr Davies states that the views I
attributed to him about “African native
people, Rev Martin Luther King, Mr
Isi Leibler, Mr Santamaria ancP the
DLP” are “inaccurate and misleading”.
After Mr Davies left my home I noted
some of his more outrageous statements.
In my letter to The Bulletin I chose
my words carefully. I would therefore
challenge Mr Davies to produce a
statutory declaration indicating specific-
ally any inaccuracy in his conversation
as referred to by me in my letter.
Mr Rock is being downright absurd
if he is suggesting that the Archbishop
of Melbourne has any affinity or
sympathy with the League of Rights.
When Mr Butler protested regarding my
comments concerning the League of
Rights, the Archbishop pointed out to
Mr Butler that if he had any supporters
at the Synod they had every oppor-
tunity of defending him. Not one dele-
gate spoke in his favor. No one suggests
that any individual speeches at the
Synod are automatically to be “con-
sidered as the opinion of the Synod”.
However, my motions regarding anti-
Semitism were unanimously passed and,
as my colleague the Rev. J. P. Stevenson
pointed out, my comments regarding the
League were warmly applauded by the
overwhelming majority of the Synod.
Mr Butler’s persistent efforts to suggest
that the seconder of my motion on anti-
Semitism was not in agreement with
my evaluation of the League’s racist and
anti-Semitic record is nonsense.
Finally, Mr Butler states that the
Australian League of Rights “neither
produced, authorised nor distributed”
the “monstrous” racist and anti-Semitic
leaflet “Our White Australia” which bore
the signature of the Australian League
of Rights. I have a copy of the original
leaflet and have compared it with other
roneod material distributed by the
League. I am prepared to submit this
to any qualified expert. I challenge Mr
Butler to deny that the typewriter used
to produce “Our White Australia” is
not the same as the one used to produce
other League of Rights material at about
the same time.
REV. DAVID J. POPE
Vicar, Saint Matthias’ Parish Church
Richmond (Vic.).
Brett Whiteley
SIR. I would like to express my very
great appreciation of Robert Hughes’
article on the paintings by Mr Brett
Whiteley (8., Dec. 18). Even in the past
few weeks Christie’s crimes have been
surpassed by the Murders on the Moors
of which it seems a tape recording has
been made so that inspiration is pro-
vided not only for painters but musicians
and students of grand opera.
AJAMIR SHAHSADA
Willunga (SA).
Dr Davidson's Myths
SIR. I buy every new book on North
Australia as it comes out. So I auto-
matically purchased Dr Davidson’s “The
Northern Myth”. The author is a
professional geographer, engaged in
teaching, and one expects a text book
written by him to be accurate in its facts,
even if one differs from him in the in-
terpretation of those facts.
What do we find in “The Northern
Myth”? On page 136 he talks about the
St George River. I assume he means
the Batonne. There never has been a
river called the St George in S-W
Queensland. On page 254 he speaks of
the Finniss and Daly Rivers flowing into
the Joseph Bonaparte Gulf. The last time
I saw the Daly it was flowing into Anson
Bay, and the last I saw the Finniss it
flowed into an unnamed bay about 80
miles north of Anson Bay.
On page 255 Dr Davidson tells us
that experimental crops of rice were first
planted at Humpty Doo in 1952-53. Had
Dr Davidson taken the trouble to consult
the reports from the Government
Resident in Darwin during the period
1885-1895, he would have found that
the Northern Territory grew all its own
rice needs from 1885 on and up to about
1905.
On page 64 he states: “A further
attempt was made to establish farmers
in 1864, using Darwin as a centre of
settlement.” It wasn’t. The 1864 attempt
was made at the mouth of the Adelaide
River, a long, long way from Darwin.
It was abandoned, and a settlement
made at Darwin in 1870. On page 65
he speaks of the attempt made to induce
Japanese settlement in the Northern
Territory in 1876. The attempt was a
failure, simply because the Japanese
Government did not want its nationals
to become second-class citizens, as they
would have been had the terms- been
adhered to. And there was already a
strong prejudice in Australia to Asiatic
immigration. The Chinese had found this
out. I suggest to those interested that they
check data given on the following pages
of “The Northern Myth”: 3,5, 22, 66, 67,
71, 88, 102. This they can by consulting
(a) the reports from the Government
Residents in Darwin and (b) Common-
wealth Year Books. I am not sorry I
purchased “The Northern Myth”, for it
opened my eyes to what is being taught
as economic geography at Australia’s
major seat of learning.
DOUGLAS C. TILGHMAN
Berry (NSW).
“A Visit to Sir Osbert”
SIR. I must ask you to correct an
impression given by Charles Higham in
his article, “A Visit from Sir Osbert”
(8., Jan. 8), that I could not be bothered
to meet a sick and aged man and dis-
tinguished writer. In September I
received a letter from John Gielgud
telling me Osbert Sitwell would arrive
in Sydney in the Oriana on December
28. It was only when somebody pro-
duced an article in “The Australian” that
I realised Sir Osbert was in the Orsova,
already in Sydney. In the circumstances
I was only able to visit him for an hour
before he left. If I had not been mis-
informed, I had planned to bring him,
wheelchair and all, up to my densely
populated ivory tower.
PATRICK WHITE
Centennial Park {NSW).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
At Screaming Point
By JUDITH RICH
Paul Stockman leant across the
desk. “Whatever you do,” he said,
'‘don’t leave your windows open at
night. A vampire’s power is strongest if
it can find someone who is thinking about
it.” We had been discussing vampires,
bats, werewolves and the horror classic,
“Dracula”, which Stockman, recently
arrived in Australia, is producing and
starring in at the Elizabethan Theatre,
Sydney.
Dracula is Paul Stockman’s signature-
role. He says that it “comes naturally”.
He has staged and played the Bram
Stoker chiller extensively in and around
England since 1960. “There are some
very frightening parts in the play,” he
said. “People fainted at every perfor-
mance just as they did when the play
first ran to packed houses in -the 19305.
The atmosphere is terribly tense. It can
engulf people completely that’s what
is horrifying.”
The 32-year-old Scotsman set out
from drama school aiming to be another
swashbuckling Errol Flynn-style hero. In
repertory he was typed as the stock vil-
lain, because of his black hair (“The
hero was always blond”), and “Dracula”
led to his first film role “Konga”, a
150 ft tall gorilla who went berserk.
Since then Stockman has portrayed a
goodly number of ghouls, notably Frank-
enstein and Jekyll and Hyde, but he re-
gards Dracula as indisputably the
master-ghoul.
“Dracula is the king of the vampires,”
said Stockman, gazing steadily at me with
heavy-lidded, dark brown eyes. “I tried
to think what a man would be like who
had lived for 500 years; who had come
back to life and lived on other people’s
blood. Count Dracula was a warlord
who actually did live. He was a very
fearsome person, but essentially he was
a gentleman. In the play he wears tails
and an opera cloak and turns into a bat.
Dracula is really the ultimate in villainy.
The Frankenstein monster was a pathetic
creature handkerchiefs used to come
out all over the theatre. But Dracula is
pure horror he is quite sure of him-
self and completely domineering.
“Dracula is true theatre because it is
pure entertainment and it is larger than
life. People enjoy things that appeal to
their emotions and fear is one of the
great emotions. The play has quite a last-
mg effect. Six months later, when they
see a curtain moving in a dark corner,
they remember...”
Stockman is an awesome 6ft 3 ins and
his reserved manner holds a hint of
amusement. “The loneliest time in my
life was when I made the film ‘Dr Blood’s
Coffin’ in 1962,” he recalled. “I played
a man, killed in a car crash, who came
back to life. Not. only was he badly
mangled in the car crash but he had
begun to rot away in the grave. The
make-up was very fearsome —like green,
mouldering cheese. I was barred from
having lunch in the studio canteen and
had to sit alone in a dressing-room.”
It was. during the making of this film
that Stockman felt he arrived, as a
horror. “I was sitting in a corner of the
studio, covered in that green make-up,
and some friends from my last film
came on to the set. They walked straight
over to me and said: ‘Hi, Paul’.”
Last year Stockman had the part of a
Dracula-type detective who appears in
a nightmare in “The Skull” a film
which he expects will be banned here.
Stockman said that the star, Peter Cush-
ing, never quite got over the shock of
Stockman beckoning him to a game of
Russian roulette.
“I used to get offended when people
found my face frightening, but I quickly
got over it. Now I take it as a compli-
ment,” he said. What Stockman finds
difficult is living up to his reputation. He
enjoys reading Poe, but prefers light
novels for a night-cap. He has always
found Boris Karloff movies intriguing,
but his idols are Laurel and Hardy.
“I think I’ve been forced to acquire a
taste for bizarre objects people give
me skulls, skeletons, shrunken heads and
weird paintings. I have bought myself
masks and a paii of deformed monster’s
feet from trick shops, and I love ram-
bling old houses,” he said. “I’ll get
married one day if I can find anyone who
would marry a monster. Vampires are
usually quite charming, you know.”
Oases in a
Cultural Desert
By TERRY STAPLETON
For nearly ten years, the largely
migrant population of Elizabeth
in South Australia (now 40,000)
survived without any theatre. The local
repertory group presented its standard
village fare in a school hall. Other enter-
tainments included TV, a drive-in and
Friday night shopping. Anyone with a
more serious thirst for drama or music
had to quench it 20 miles away in Ade-
laide.
There were few complaints. The Eliza-
bethans primarily working-class UK
migrants were busy surviving the
spiralling pressures of low incomes, young
families, no baby-sitters and teetering
piles of hire-purchase commitments.
But the Playford Government seemed
vaguely conscience-stricken that its favor-
ite offspring was receiving an unbalanced
education. The policy of all-industry
and no-plays was making Elizabeth a dull
girl. There was a chilling lack of com-
munity spirit. Families continued to ob-
serve each other distantly and with
guarded suspicion. The migrants seemed
not so much to have left “the old coun-
try” as to have brought it with them.
Would a community centre help this
unhappy breed? After two local polls the
answer was an uncertain yes.
The SA Housing Trust handed archi-
tect Geoff Shedley the assignment: “to
design a community complex with the
greatest practical social use”. While the
Council fretted over the budget (a prob-
able £250,000) and a confusion of local
considerations, Shedley put some globe-
trotting to good use. Stimulated by such
international examples as Massachusetts’
Kresge Theatre and England’s Chiches-
ter, he returned to Adelaide.
After a period of appropriate frustra-
tion and experiment Shedley eventually
licked the problem while bedded with
raging ’flu. Suddenly, all the doubts,
complexities and tentative plans shook
down into one reassuringly clear possi-
bility. He reached for a black-felt pen
and sketched the plan for Elizabeth’s
own Gemini project: the twin theatre


complex now known as the Octagon and
the Shedley.
In 1965, explorers of the Arts wander-
ing through Elizabeth’s cultural desert
were cheered by the sight of the two
mouth-watering oases. The Octagon, a
vast (14,000 sq. ft, capacity 1422) eight-
sided stadium would accommodate any-
thing from a symphony concert to basket-
ball. The more intimate Shedley (capacity
412) promised a lively future of dramatic
and comedic endeavor,
The Council needed a director to run
the theatres and to stimulate the lazy local
appetites for entertainment. Obviously, he
would be a dynamic young man of im-
pressive background, imagination, enter-
prise and diplomacy. The Council’s
choice: Marcus White, a middle-ageing
music conductor. At the time of his
resignation the project was deep in a
morass of confusion and unpopularity
from which it will not quickly recover.
After White’s resignation, the board
of management, relieved but desperate,
sought temporary refuge in the appoint-
ment of a new manager: a 42-year-old
ex-UK airlines executive Bob Porter.
Porter is busily assessing the local
appetite. One place he isn’t looking: the
kitchen sink. Elizabethans, he feels, are
more likely to be provoked into laughter
than thought. He suggests that, for most
of them, migration had induced a serious
enough reappraisal of lives and destinies
without suffering further soul-searching
in their entertainment.
During Elizabeth's lOth-birthday cele-
brations in November the most-remem-
bered event was the live presentation at
the Octagon of “Tonight with Taylor”—
a TV variety show which appeals to all
ages between 8 and 9 (the evening’s
highlight: Buster Fiddess in Spanish drag
clowning a flamenco, a rose clamped be-
tween fright-teeth. Denouement: he re-
moved the rose, the teeth came away with
it). Other birthday attractions at the new
theatres: the SA Police Band, a Twisto-
rama and a police lecture on road safety.
Thus far the movement is obviously
vulnerable and easy prey for facile cyni-
cism. But both theatres have won wide
praise from TV and theatre men. Colin
Ballantyne enthusiastically asserts that the
Shedley is the best theatre in the State —
“a fantastically beautiful little theatre”—
and the immense versatility of the com-
plex should ensure its future as a thriving
centre of art and display rather than the
“white elephantism” predicted by some
gloomy forecasters.
John Tasker took his SA Theatre Com-
pany production of “The Representative”
to the Shedley and played to encouraging
houses. During the 1966’s Festival of
Arts, Harold Lang will open there with
Christopher Fry’s “A Sleep of Prisoners”.
Later in the Festival, the University
Theatre Guild’s “Jemmy Green in Aus-
tralia” will move in.
Simple and Significant
TTgliness is a blight that creeps upon
us unawares. Strange though it
may seem, the extent of the evil does
not make analysis easier. Generally,
the available examples are too com-
plex to use for demonstration. What
we need is a case at the same time
simple and significant; and such a one
has recently come our way.
Facing St Kilda Road, Melbourne,
a building fence conceals the site on
which the National Art Gallery and
Cultural Centre is being erected. Un-
obtrusive, in perfect harmony with
the surroundings, it is surmounted by
a builder’s notice whose Antiqua letter
form is admirably fitted to convey the
idea of what a cultural centre might
be.
But if we owe a debt of gratitude
to those who designed and executed
the original structure, not so to those
who have been responsible for the
additions which have been made over
a period of two years or so.
The sign which is placed above the
architect’s information is much less
satisfactory. That the length of this
commercial notice protrudes four
inches over the lower board may be
just accidental (though it is a discord-
ance that jars), but it is no accident
that this sign has been left unbacked,
crude and ugly on the north side
where it will not be seen by motorists
and will therefore yield no profit to
the advertiser. More important is the
deterioration in the letter form.
Although there is an apparent hanker-
ing after style, performance falls short.
The law cannot easily be mimed by
those whose aspirations are not really
to achieve good expression.
With the abandonment of law, de-
generation of taste follows a predic-
table course, and so this first departure
from good form led to a second.
There is now attached to the lower
part of the fence a colorful notice
which defies analysis. Discordant
rhythms, inconsistency of style and
overcrowding of subject matter show
no other concern than to attract atten-
tion at any cost.
GERARD HERBST


THEATRE
Exhausted
Lady Audley’s Secret. St. Martin’s Theatre,
Melbourne.
VTostalgia is “in”, particularly with
T' those too young to remember. The
new decor for the brightest young things
is great-grandmother’s bric-a-brac the
briccier the better. They search Oppor-
tunity Shops for feather boas and other
families’ old photos, and delight in the
current cycle of neo-silent films like
“Magnificent Men” and “Mad World”.
The first hiss-the-villain revival was in
Melbourne six years ago, when veteran
actor Philip Stainton opened a theatre-
restaurant and invited people to throw
peanuts at “East Lynne”. His cast paro-
died their theatrical forebears with the
energy and over-statement of children
playing mothers and fathers, and this
style has become mandatory.
Then all that remains for a successful
season is to acquire a script in which the
family name and a lady’s honor is
threatened by skulduggery, only to be
saved by a steadfast hero. If the goings-
on can be augmented by some heart-
warming music hall songs like “Good-
bye Little Yellow Bird” and “Silver
Threads Amongst the Gold” you have
“Lady Audley’s Secret”. Barry Creyton’s
plot (inspiration would be too strong a
word) came from a novel by Mrs Brad-
don, and his songs from the repertoire of
Miss Marie Lloyd.
Lady Audley, an ex-governess, has a
doddering but adoring husband in Sir
Michael, a dutiful step-daughter and a
mansion next to Government House. But
her blemished past catches up with her
in the detestable form of George Talboy
Jr, whom she has the presence of a tem-
porarily unbalanced mind to toss into a
well. Unfortunately the rascally boy-
friend of her devoted maid sees all, and
blackmails her. The aforegoing, with its
subsequent complications, is interspersed
with a singalong. Inhibited, despite my
excellent baritone, I would rather die
than join in any form of community
singing. But to my amazement and dis-
may the St Martinis massed their voices
willingly and sang the entire Edwardian
Top 40.
I can’t share their enthusiasm for what
seemed to me an utterly witless example
of an exhausted theatrical form. (One
can hardly call such a money-spinner
bankrupt.) But it is only fair to acknow-
ledge that once again St Martin’s have
given a script a vastly better production
than it deserved. George Fairfax and de-
signer Paul Kathner did their excellent
best on this adult panto, and the cast was
almost entirely satisfactory. Jan Hollister
Was splendid as the Maid, as was Geral-
dene Morrow as Alice Audley and John
Rickard as Cousin Robert. David Spur-
ling stole his scenes as Sir Michael, and
Evan Dunstan was rotten-to-the-core as
Talboy. Joan Harris and Terry Norris
provided the good-natured music hall
interludes. As Lady Audley, Joan Cor-
bett had a megaphonic contralto, but her
acting struck a very sour note.
Now we know Lady A’s secret and
the Mystery jf the Hansom Cab and so
forth, it might be interesting to stage a
Victorian play authentically. The BBC
did a whole series was run on the
ABC i recently. Without the grotesque
over-statement, they were powerful,
three-dimensional and entertaining. They
were also particularly humane, a quality
fairly rare in the contemporary product,
which eschews the full emotional range
as determinedly as “East Lynne” em-
ployed it.
PHILLIP ADAMS
RECORDS
Gigantic Tasks
Schoenberg: Gurre-Lieder. Herbert Schacht-
schneider, Inge Borkh, Hertha Toepper,
Kieth Engen, Lorenz Fehenberger, Choir
and Orchestra of Bavarian Radio, con-
ducted by Rafael Kubelik. DGG SLPM
138 984/5.
Berg: Wozzek. Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau,
Evelyn Lear, Fritz Wunderlich, Gerhard
Stolze, etc. German Opera Co., Berlin,
conducted by Karl Boehm. DGG SLPM
138 991/2.
Schoenberg’s Gurre-Lieder is (are?) a
work which would undoubtedly be
popular with great numbers of music
lovers but for one thing: the musical
resources necessary for their presentation
are so large as to prohibit their appear-
ance in most musical countries, let alone
Australia. Even the gramophone has
only been able to attempt this gigantic
task twice in past years, each time with
only qualified success; Stokowski failed
on sonic and Leibowitz on musical
grounds. Recently Deutsche Grarno-
phon staged a live performance in
Munich and recorded it. The result
could well prove the turning point for
what can only be described as the
ultimate in musical diversification by
conventional methods.
The young Schoenberg was brought
up in the times of Wagner, Mahler and
Strauss who sought ever larger orchestral
resources. And the man who only a few
short years later was to found the 12-
tone school of meagre sounds clearly
shows his complete mastery of massive
romantic music in this one great work.
The Gurre - Lieder offer everything
imaginable in orchestral and vocal re-
sources and fall into no known musical
classification. One might call them a
form of concert-opera with a romantic-
metaphysical theme involving the love-
death wish so dear to 19th-century Ger-
mans. The music is totally original,
though echoes of other major composers
may be heard at will. It’s almost as
though Schoenberg had brought to a
logical conclusion all the ideas of the
greats he tried so hard to demolish later
on.
The performance under Kubelik is
that of a virtuoso. Only a musican of
genius could produce this kind of excel-
lence live without the re-takes commonly
used in recording much simpler works.
The soloists are perhaps not quite out
of the top drawer which is a pity since
another few hundred pounds would
surely not have hurt the already huge
cost of the venture. Herbert Schacht-
schneider is excellent on the whole, but
not quite steady in sustained passages.
The same criticism applies to Inge
Borkh, Hertha Toepper and Lorenz
Fehenberger, and Miss Borkh’s diction
leaves much to be desired. For once I
felt myself actually longing for the
übiquitous Fischer-Dieskau.
That gentleman reappears in the title
role of Alban Berg’s masterpiece,
“Wozzek”, with his usual infernal fault-
lessness. For once the perfection of his
art is not an asset for it is hard to
visualise the dumb brute he is supposed
to be playing. On stage his acting ability,
no doubt, overcomes this handicap.
“Wozzek” is in many ways a perfect
opera, though it will fail to please the
ears of many. No conventional composer
could have made this kitchen-sink drama
(written more than a hundred years
before kitchen sinks became fashion-
able) into a cohesive whole. Georg
Buechner’s original shapeless mass of
unconnected scenes out of the life of a
misfit relies totally on Berg’s assimilation
of text and music into one. Unless you
are a lover of the Berg-Schoenberg
atonalities only a good understanding of
German can bring full satisfaction from
this recording. “Wozzek” must be under-
stood to be appreciated and is a strong
argument in favor of the opera-in-English
faction. Un-understood it can hold
interest only to serious music students.
Fortunately, DGG supply elaborately laid
out musical plans and a libretto in three
languages. These may prove the salva-
tion for Australians who are unlikely to
see a live performance without going
to Europe.
Performance and recording are as
good as we are ever likely to hear. Apart
from Dieskau’s unnecessary perfection,
Evelyn Lear’s Marie is excellent and
Fritz Wunderlich, one of the best Mozart
tenors of the century, sings and acts
magnificently as Andres. Smaller parts
are equally good.
JOHN CARC-HER


BOOKS
Both Sides of the Curtain
By JAMES McAULEY
Under Pressure. A. Alvarez. Penguin Books
ss. 6d.
PFhis book consists of a set of BBC
features, made up from tape-recorded
interviews of (a) East European writers,
(b) American writers.
A. Alvarez was well suited to the task,
because he is an absolutely predictable
British literary-intellectual with normal
whiggish responses. He had in addition
the extra qualification that he knew
practically nothing about the East Euro-
pean countries he was to visit.
So when he reached Budapest he was
surprised in 1962! to discover some
relaxation of the sterile tyranny. He has
the effrontery to blame “the efficiency of
our propaganda” for his surprise, though
even a reading of “Time” magazine alone
could have saved him from astonishment
not to mention the homework on
serious sources which anybody but a
literary-intellectual might have been
expected to do, instead of flying into a
strange country with a tape-recorder and
an empty head.
A. Alvarez has, indeed, an obsessive
fantasy about what he calls “our propa-
ganda machine”, which is supposed to
propagate all kinds of neanderthal
notions from which he can smugly separ-
ate himself. Thus he solemnly bids us
disbelieve the idea (which this “machine”
is supposed to be putting about) “that
the Hungarian population wants to put
the clock back on the social revolution”.
I don't know what propaganda machine
A. Alvarez has in mind. I can recall no
significant volume of suggestion from
anywhere that Hungarians want to put
the clock back to before 1945. But I can
recall many opinions being expressed
that most Hungarians would like to put
the clock back to the period 1945-7,
when they had momentarily achieved
democracy and land reform, both of
which were then destroyed by the Com-
munist seizure of power. What does
A. Alvarez mean? That Hungarians don’t
want democracy and land reform?
Actually he doesn’t mean anything at
all; he just has a normal literary-intellec-
tual’s need to make rather spiteful and
pettish anti-anti-Communist noises, with-
out its occurring to him that he should
know what he is talking about. Every-
thing becomes shallow, without back-
ground, trivialised, by the time it has
passed through his mind. So we are told:
“It is possible that bad cooking was as
potent a cause of the ’56 uprising as
police brutality.” And of course there is
nothing fundamentally wrong with those
squalid satellite regimes: people would
be quite content under them if only some
superficial annoyances were removed,
such as “tiresome official meddling in
private affairs”, and official “stupidity”
which causes “endless minor irritations”,
like not being able to get the “New
Statesman” through the mails. I’m not
making the last bit up.
If A. Alvarez is not very good at
modern history he certainly has a remark-
able flair for estimating moral progress
in society. Hungarian public standards of
social morality he found rather “prim”,
because they had been allowed to “lag
behind” industrial development. But in
Czechoslovakia he was pleased to find
that within the system “they try to
arrange life well”. So what is the good of
life, as AA sees it? “They have the best
beer in Europe, legalised abortions, no
laws against homosexuality, and divorce
costs £10.” Nothing too tiresome about
that, eh, mate?
In the second half of the book the
noise level rises appreciably as we are
thrust into what might be an endless
cocktail-party symposium, in which well-
known Americans chatter with immedi-
ately forgettable brilliance about WHAT
KENNEDY MEANT TO ME, and THE
ARCHETYPAL AMERICAN EXPERI-
ENCE (which is anything from birth-
trauma to shooting redskins) and HOW
CAN I REMAIN ALIENATED WHEN
THEY PAY ME FOR IT?
AA doesn’t mind what Americans he
records, so long as they alt say the same
sort of thing, and are currently well
known. So even Murray Kempton be-
comes a significant intellectual, and
comes up with the following deep
thought: “Assassination is a democratic
SAUL BELLOW
act”. AA was tremendously struck by
this deep thought: “This, I think, is one
of the central and most appalling para-
doxes that thinking people in the United
States have had to face since Kennedy’s
death”. (What kind of people did you
say?) It goes on and on like this for page
after page, as Mailer follows Schlesinger
and Baldwin follows Lowell, und so
welter.
After all this deep sociological stuff,
AA gets in pretty deep himself, by sug-
gesting why East European writers don’t
retreat from external reality to interior
obsessions as much as American writers
do. “In a country like Poland,” he bland-
ly assures us, “you can more or less
ignore your private troubles because the
environment itself is so drably and ines-
capably in need.” By contrast, in affluent
America you have to make a big thing of
your private troubles. See?
AA then describes the subjectivism of
the American writer and artist. “Extrem-
ism in the arts the cultivation of break-
down and all the diverse facets of schizo-
phrenia ends not so much in anarchy
as in a kind of internal fascism, by which
the artist, to relieve his own boredom,
becomes both torturer and tortured.”
(The idea seems to be that the East Euro-
pean writers are lucky, they have a
slummy police state around them to
provide situations of nausea and dread;
the American writer has been deprived
of this advantage and has to create his
own fantasy substitute.) The American
writer’s attitude to himself and his work
is described as “ruthless, destructive,
deeply self-involved, wildly self-gratify-
ing. Even the cult of the Absurd, for
example, is simply a charming and
objective way of rephrasing this internal
nihilism”.
Now, if you didn’t know about literary-
intellectualism you might think that AA
is deploring the American writer's
acceptance of the role of self-indulgent
moral nihilist. But not at all. This role is
“healthy and necessary”, as a reaction to
“general American bonhomie, together-
For Nelson Mandela
On Robben Island
Table Mountain, old sentinel, friend,
Watcher now over a shame-filled city
And the prison island in your bay,
My farewells were made to sidestep
Sabotage and rebellion, twin inevitability
Aimed at me by the warriors of apartheid.
Safe across seas I comment, Black Man,
Mandela: the old mountain sees you
On Robben Island spinning your seven
years.
Statesman, hero in your lonely courage,
You, who were boy and kaffir to the baas;
The mountain waits and watches: you will
come back.
WILHELM HIENER


ness and wealthy self-satisfaction”. (Note
the passive determinism always implied
in such assessments: the artist can only
react in a sociologically predictable way
to his environment no doubt that is
why he is called “creative”.) And of
course there is no need for alarm about
the artist’s internal nihilism: “This may
in no way affect his political enlighten-
ment or general libel stance”.
Yes, unfortunately, we know that.
These people can be relied upon almost
without exception to join AA in being
amorphously anti-anti-Communist; and
most of them will cry “Peace, peace”
when pressed in the right place.
One American writer, Saul Bellow,
breaks the uniformity of this revolting
babble by refusing the role of irrespon-
sible sick nihilist. He had to be recorded,
since he is suddenly the big name in
American fiction; and he goes so far as to
say: “I don’t believe in a kind of apoca-
lypse that calls for the demolition and
knocking down of everything that stood
before.” AA immediately gives him a
pretty stiff lecture about that.
But Bellow isn’t really so much out of
line. None of these people really believes
in such an apocalypse either. It is all
words and phrases and petty delinquency.
The most useful thing in the whole book
is the idea that seeps through in the
American section, that deep down the
American writers themselves “begin to
doubt the reality of their experience”,
and are not sure that what they are doing
is really significant. That is a pretty im-
portant idea, if only it could be discussed
without becoming just another part of the
excited but lifeless jargon of the cocktail
hour and the literary magazines.
Kennedy’s Heroic Legend
By CORAL BELL
Kennedy. Theodore C. Sorenson. Hodder
and Stoughton. 89s.
Aurs is a time sceptical df heroes.
” Literary taste is for the downhill
odysseys of the disoriented, the self-
indictment on inadmissible evidence.
The child of fortune tends to seem a
suspect, even an anachronistic figure. It
was a factor that Kennedy had often to
take account of in his political life.
Ironically, death has exempted him from
it. There is a terrifying symbolism in
the last act of his story: the hopeful life
perishing at the hands of the blighted
one, the child of misfortune revenging
himself on the world in the person of the
beloved authority-figure, the heart of
darkness made visible in the chromium-
plated wilderness of Dallas.
This alone was enough to enshrine
Kennedy in an heroic legend. Will he, as
a political figure, survive the enquiries
of the scholarly investigators of his patch
of history? On Mr. Sorensen’s showing,
he should do so. The book is not a full-
scale biography of Kennedy. It deals
only with the 11 years from the author’s
being hired by the new young Senator
Kennedy in 1953 to the day of the
assassination. It is confessedly the book
°f a partisan: Sorensen says frankly that
since he formed a strong attachment to
Kennedy, he cannot now claim to be
detached, and that he has set out to
Wr ite the kind of account of Kennedy’s
tenure of office that the man himself
toight have written had he survived to
retire, buy a newspaper as he thought
°f doing, and settle down to his memoirs,
ft is therefore history as seen by the
hero of the story through the eyes of
his alter ego. Yet this origin as a labor,
literally, of love is probably a source of
firength rather than of weakness to the
“ oo k. It no doubt accounts for its some-
what daunting length (758 pages of
Sorensen’s solid prose) and its occasional
tendency to decline into a sort of affec-
tionate family gossip. But the tone of
the book is not at all saccharine or
marked by undue obituary piety.
Sorensen, like his hero, is a man of
agreeably astringent mind, perhaps more
genuinely an intellectual than Kennedy
himself, and by no means one of nature’s
courtiers. Where he feels that Kennedy’s
conduct of events was wrong, as in the
Bay of Pigs disaster, he can draw up as
stern a list of errors as
any opponent. He has
clearly interpreted the
project of writing the
book that Kennedy was
denied the time for to
include making the sort
of criticisms that Ken-
nedy would have made
of his own policies.
Nevertheless, loyalty ob-
viously imposes a higher
level of discretion than
Kennedy himself need
have observed. Sorensen
does not, for instance,
include the accounts of
Kennedy’s assessment of
Rusk as Secretary of
State, or the mode in which Johnson was
offered the Vice-Presidency which Sch-
lesinger (who was not nearly so close
to Kennedy personally) has felt at liberty
to use.
The intellectual relationship that
emerges from between the lines of the
book is a fascinating one and will doubt-
less in due course be the subject of many
a Ph.D. thesis. Sorensen used often to
be called Kennedy’s “intellectual blood-
bank”, with the implication of a degree
of parasitism on the latter’s part. That
implication is not borne out here. Soren-
sen s influence as an “ideas man” was
undoubtedly great, but rather in the sense
that Kennedy was a man in the process
of growth, and Sorensen as an adjutant
in that process. The choice of Sorensen
as his closest intellectual collaborator is
in fact itself an illustration of Kennedy’s
native political instinct, for Sorensen’s
value as an alter ego lay not in his being
like the candidate but in his being so
unlike as to provide a complement,
supplying the sort of life-experience that
Kennedy could not obtain at first-hand.
On the surface they made an unlikely
working partnership: a rather earnest
mid-Western Unitarian of Scandinavian
extraction and “prairie radical” back-
ground, recently out of law school in
the workaday University of Nebraska,
and the rich young Catholic Bostonian,
with a background of parental privilege
and the parental high hand with out-
siders, the Ivy League, the London
Embassy, princes of the Church as
familiars, and an adventurous war.
The young Kennedy emerges unex-
pectedly as a figure from Scott Fitz-
gerald’s America, for instance, in the
report of Galbraith, one of his Harvard
lecturers, noting him as “gay, charming,
irreverent and far from diligent”. This
is the young man who might be re-
garded as having entered politics almost
by accident or family drift, after con-
sidering various other careers—journal-
ism or the foreign service—or as having
simply taken the place of his dead elder
brother in his father’s driving ambition
JOHN F. KENNEDY
to have a President in
the family.
But Kennedy was ess-
entially a man who rose
[above his advantages. It
is the chief merit of Sor-
ensen’s close and affec-
tionate scrutiny over the
years that it makes this
process vivid and absorb-
ing to the reader. The
somewhat absentee young
Congressman and slightly
dilettante young Senator
became the Presidential
nominee who drove him-
self almost beyond en-
durance. The Massa-
chusetts politician who
prudently avoided combat with Mc-
Carthy became the President who, des-
pite the thinness of his existing and pros-
pective margins, offered jobs and honors
to almost every target of the “hate
groups”—Oppenheimer, Arthur Miller,
Bowles, Stevenson, Acheson, Galbraith,
Schlesinger, Kennan, Murrow, Mennen,
Williams.
The man whose fledgling speeches on
foreign policy were routine exercises in
Cold War militancy became the President


CANADIAN PACIFIC FLIES
A 3rd ROUTE TO EUROPE!
NOW! TWICE-WEEKLY DC-8
JET SERVICES-MONTREAL
TO AMSTERDAM!
Canadian Pacific opens a third route to Europe! Now, there are Super DC-8
from Vancouver, Canada’s gateway to North America, via the Polar Route to Europe!
You can fly DC-8 to Lisbon and Madrid from Montreal. And now, Canadian Pacific
introduces a third route, from Montreal to Amsterdam. There are two new Super DC-8
services-weekly! Want more details? Then cal! your travel agent.
Offices: Sydney, Melbourne, and around the world. Contact Ansett-ANA (General Sale*
Agents) or your travel agent. Air cargo carried on all flights.
Canadian (Pacific airlines
Incorporated in Canada, liability of members limited. Planes/Trains/Ships/Trucks/
Hotels/Telecommunications. World's most complete transportation system.
mmstoi
.... .7
' \ a '
Si
:.. v::%;
~ \ V
mm
liilliii
mm
mm
mm
m
who was prepared to risk his chances of
re-election in 1968 for the sake of the
nuclear test-ban treaty, and who moved
the contest with Russia further from its
original groove than is yet fully appreci-
ated The man originally rather detached
about civil rights became the originator
of the most transforming legislation in
this field since Lincoln’s Emancipation
Proclamation.
As Kennedy himself remarked, he
“came late to liberalism”. This kind of
pilgrim’s progress quality to his life
accounts in part for the poignancy of his
death: the journey was barely under
way when it was so arbitrarily ended.
Inside New Delhi
By KHUSHWANT SINGH
This Time of Morning. Nayantara Sahgal.
Gollancz. 265. 6d.
VTayantara has genuine talent. Her
command of the English language is
greater than that of any Indian novelist;
she has wit and the right amount of
malice; she has a felicitous turn of
phrase. The only thing she does not have
—and there lies the rub—she does not
have anything important to say. This is
amply borne out by her work. Her auto-
biographical writing is interesting because
there one meets people like Gandhi and
Nehru and many other eminent person-
alities who befriended her parents. Her
fiction, on the other hand, is contrived
and her skill fails to rescue it from
triteness.
In “This Time of Morning’’ Nayantara
Sahgal displays both her prowess with
her pen and her poverty as a writer of
creative fiction. She has chosen to write
about the Indian foreign service circles
in New Delhi. To the New-Delhiwala its
chief fascination lies in trying to spot
the characters of whom not one is really
fictitious. There is the all-too-familiar
Krishna Menot gaunt, Mephisto-
phelean, and as prickly as a hedge of
cactus. There is the semi-divine Pandit
Nehru. There is the author’s mother in
a thinly veiled masculine garb. There are
a host of bureaucrats who can be identi-
fied by their physical description, man-
nerisms or amors; or failing those, by
the clandestine carryings-on of their
womenfolk. There is Nayantara herself,
sometimes draped in the sari of one
character, sometimes in that of another.
All this is great fun for those who know
New Delhi and are au fait with local
gossip. But those who do not know the
Indian capital will find it difficult to keep
track of the innumerable characters Mrs
Sahgal introduces into her story or find
their goings-on either interesting or
significant. Good writing fails to redeem
“This Time of Morning” from being
inconsequential.
Inland
Inland the ponds stagnate. They gleam
so far within me I can barely see
or breathe for heat-haze. Walking between
black attics full of children’s sleep
and row after row of sunlit fields
has left me stunned. Who are these
dead women, plump with child, who smile
from behind blind windows? Who the men,
frowning from old photographs, who stretch
long arms through nursery walls? Rooms
freeze with absence while, outside, the sun
chews round still spilling sheaves. Above
the sleeping children those black attics reek
of moons and apples such clean sheets
sweetened by that ancient scent! In
this still place the trees age down
to pools of dark roots, widening out . . .
The candles are all made of lead.
PETER BLAND


WRITING
IN THE
SIXTIES
The Concrete and the Squares
By CHARLES HIGHAM
T ate last year, three special issues of
“The Times Literary Supplement”
appeared on world writing: these have
only recently become available here,
although the first of them on the
Commonwealth was reviewed in these
pages some months ago by Leonie
Kramer. The second issue third in a
series the “TLS” is doing on “Sounding
the ’Sixties” is entitled .“Outside Eng-
lish”: it provides a focal point that no
other magazine could so authoritatively
give, on precisely what is happening in
the foreign novel, poetry, and belles-
lettres.
The appearance of this special issue
indicates how isolated we are here from
the developments and shifts that occur
internationally in writing. The “TLS”
discusses concrete poetry perhaps the
most striking development in writing in
the last five years—and the “new, novel”:
how much have we read about these here?
Concrete poetry reminds one most
firmly of the experimental writing of the
’twenties, and indeed the whole period we
are living in suggesfs that decade: the
desperate, short-lived theatrical fashions,
the smartyboots films with their irra-
tional, amateurish images, the obsession
for free verse and for ideograms, calli-
graphs and symboliste confections, all
accompanying an increasingly urgent in-
crease of pace in life, an abandonment of
moral principles, and a self-conscious
dragging out of words and ideas not
formerly permitted into print. It is an
exciting and dynamic period—no matter
what the fuddy-duddies tell us —but it has
appalling lacks: most notably, the pres-
ence on the scene of (Malcolm Mugger-
idge is one of the few journalistic excep-
tions) detached, ironic iconoclasts who
can explode the more blatant preten-
sions and affectations. It is all too easy
for a modern satirist or critic of “the
scene” to look more and more like an
out-of-touch square, frowningly obser-
ving culture from the sidelines.
The “TLS”, perhaps in keeping with
lts august reputation, here strikes an on
the whole sympathetic middle course.
One would have welcomed a careful
taking to pieces of the excesses of, say, a
Gisela Eisner, spending ten pages on the
configurations of her big toe. But I think
that the editors and critics were right to
avoid a rigorous puritanism in discussing
the experiments of today; one would
c ertainly welcome some such signs of. an
want-garde here in the drama, in priv-
ately made amateur films, in poetry: its
absence is painfully lacking.
Certain major figures emerge from the
“TLS’s” energetic explorations of a
dozen literatures. In France, Alain
Robbe-Grillet has made clear his belief
(shared by Fellini, Antonioni and God-
ard in the cinema) that the modern world,
fragmented and devoid of rigid struc-
tures of belief as it is, cannot be correctly
approached through the strictly logical
structure of the older artistic forms. Like
these other artists and like the chief
exponents of concrete poetry Robbe-
Grillet reflects in the disordered kaleido-
scope of his prose the world’s muddle;
against him, one might argue that art has
always been confronted with disorder,
and that its purpose is to organise the
confused, not mirror it: but at least
Robbe-Grillet’s experiments enable one
to re-examine the whole question of what
a novel should be.
In Germany, by contrast, the really
major figure of the present Gunter
Grass writes a conventional and
weighty prose, his work based, as the
author of the special article “Keeping Off
the Grass” clearly states, on the tradi-
tional German novella form. Yet below
the level of Grass, there has been a
This is the first of a series of articles on
contemporary literature, to he contributed by
various critics.
striking upsurge in experiment in German
writing. Peter Bichsel, Jurgen Becker and
others share with many of the new
French writers a desire to dispose of the
whole formal structure of novelistic
narrative, to focus instead on isolated
experiences, in order to evoke in com-
pressed form the precise feeling of what
it was to be alive and intelligent at a
certain time and at a certain place.
The linking devices of the old novel
have gone; the constant flow of conver-
sation which can extend one’s view of a
character or situation have been aban-
doned. Stripped of the old pattern, the
old structure, the novel begins to look
very much like a method of fixing tele-
scopic sights on those brief moments
which sometimes can speak more
eloquently than the observation of whole
lifetimes. An examination of the
Formentor prize - winners and of the
anguished reactions of publications like
“The New Yorker” make clear that there
are no concessions in the new novel to
the average or even the sophisticated
reader’s requirements.
Free verse, long in the discard in
England but recently on the way back
there via the “TLS” itself and “The Lon-
don Magazine”, flourishes elsewhere, as
the careful “TLS” selection of “Poems of
the Sixties shows. Vittorio Sereni In
Italy is working most brilliantly in this
area, and Hans Magnus Enzensberger,
Walter Hollerer, Gunter Kunert and—
not represented here —de Mandiargues
and the Latin Americans have all been
more widely noticed since the change
from emphasis on conventional forms
which England (and, to a lesser extent,
America) had insisted on since 1950.
Perhaps the most significant occurrence
in recent months has been the “Between
Poetry and Painting” exhibition at the
Institute of Contemporary Arts in Lon-
don, following as it does on a far greater
emphasis internationally on huge public
poetry readings, from the rough and
ready Albert Hall gathering of 1965 to—
at a rather higher level of sophistication
the International Poetry Biennials at
Knokke-Het Zoute in Belgium, also a
centre for experimental film showings.
At the Institute of Contemporary Arts
there was a remarkable range of experi-
mental literature, arranged in bizarre
typographical distortion, from the
mouse’s tail poem in “Alice in Wonder-
land” that most avant-garde of Vic-
torian novels to Man Ray’s arrange-
ments of blacked-out words on the page,
Claus Bremer’s rearrangements of syl-
lables, lan Hamilton Finlay’s photograph
of words on paper folded into attractive
visual shapes, Pedro Xisto’s verbal equa-
tions and so on. What this exhibition,
fully particularised in a special pro-
gramme from the ICA, firmly indicated
was that many poets were dissatisfied
with poetry as such, that they wanted it
to cross the border into a realm so much
more stimulatingly occupied at present by
the visual arts. The attempt was worth
making, but one can’t help feeling the
converse effort should have been made:
to import the vitality of the cinema and
painting into the imagery and texture of
verse.
Restlessness with the conventional, a
passion for visual excitement, for new
fireworks displays of words and image:
all this is probably preferable to the
drably regular British poetry of the ’fif-
ties, the American “pale-face” group,
and the half-hearted unconventionality
of an Ingeborg Bachmann. But the
trouble is that, as in the ’twenties, the
field is wide open now to the charlatans
and the practical jokers; there is a
great deal of valuable shattering of ar-
tistic forms being done, but these forms
have yet to be replaced by the “new
art” for which everyone seems to have
been looking, and which has far too
often been prematurely announced.


MUTUAL •
ACCEPTANCE
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS &
7-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures accepted only on the form
referred to in and attached to the printed prospectus
which is available from:
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
BRANCHES
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt St., Sydney
Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
MA. 226. NSW
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
After the Good Shepherd
JF 1965 was the year of the Shepherd, this looks like being the year of the sheep.
There seems every prospect of shareholders, either organised or unorganised,
following the lead set last year by Mr Albert Shepherd’s assault on the holiest of
corporate holies, the board of BHP.
For the Shepherd attack was stirring
stuff. It was not just an undernourished
Oliver Twist asking for a little more; it
was a complaint from a part-owner that
his company was being too nice to its
customers and too conscious of its public
responsibilities.
% Right or wrong, the Shepherd
approach established quite clearly that
there were many other leading Australian
companies that have been far less gen-
erous than BHP in recent years. If
BHP was vulnerable to attack, how
much more open are so many Australian
companies!
Thus, on the score of shareholder dis-
content, this year promises to hold more
stormy shareholders’ meetings, more
lengthy exchanges of correspondence in
the Press, more proxy battles and
more attempts by management to keep
shareholders quiet, if not entirely happy,
than even last year.
But is Mr Shepherd showing the way
for unsatisfied part-owners of companies
on a crusade to right a wrong; or is he
really the bell wether leading the flock
to slaughter?
On the major issue of disclosure, or
lack of it, in BHP’s accounts, there can
be no denying that Mr Shepherd is a
force for good. There is no need even to
argue the case, and the sooner auditors
stop allowing company directors to tell
lies in their balance sheets, the better.
But on the vital question of wanting
more (a cry that will be baaa’d around
the continent in 1966), the Shepherd
movement is on dangerous ground.
Those who demand more are quite
justified, of course. They have bought
their shares because they want to make
money, to do the best they can for them-
selves. They do not buy shares because
they feel it is important that a particular
industry should exist in Australia, or
because they wish to satisfy a raging
ambition to create a business in which
they can identify themselves, or for the
other reasons that prompt men to start
businesses.
In other words, none of the considera-
tions that have softened the vicious
management techniques of the early in-
dustrial revolution into the paternal cor-
porate structures of today have seeped
through to their new owners, the public
shareholders. The sudden awareness that
they own powerful companies is having
the same effects on shareholders in the
1960 s under “peoples’ capitalism”, as
it had on the corporate bosses of the 19th
century.
The basis of most complaints about
managerial parsimony is a mixture of
fear and greed, which together make up
the major motivating factors in stock
exchange activity. The professional
managers, who have taken over the con-
trol function formerly exercised by
owners, have different objectives from
those of their shareholders their
theoretical bosses. They are functions of
the company. Their aim is directed in
most instances more towards making the
company strong than the shareholders
rich, and T the one leads to the other
it is not the main objective.
None of this is to deny that some
managements are mean; that they cover
up their own inability to earn reasonable
profits on the assets they control by pre-
tending to shareholders that these assets
are not so valuable and then getting
an auditor to sign his name to a falsified
balance sheet.
It all simply indicates that some stand-
ards of who gets what must be found;
that the rules of playing the company
game have not yet caught up with the
changes in the way it is being played,
and in the players themselves.
|Tow much of a company’s profit
should be due to the shareholders,
and how much to the company itself
to strengthen its reserves?
In West Germany, sweeping new (and
long overdue) improvements to the com-
pany law have set this figure by statute
at 50-50. Along with requiring companies
to consolidate subsidiary figures into their
accounts (quite some time after Australia
did so), the West German Government
has also stated that half a disclosed profit
is to be dealt with as shareholders deter-
mine at a general meeting, and that the
board has control of the other half.
This does not necessarily limit com-
pany dividends to half the net profit;
directors could pay out as much of the
company’s share as they wished.
In Australia, shareholders have the
power at meeting, to accept or reject
dividend recommendations made by the
board covering the whole of the profit,
or more.
Rejection is most unusual. And even
under the new German system, a board’s
recommendation would no doubt carry
such weight that it would mean no change
in practice from the present arrange-
ments.
But the German 50-50 concept at
least sets a target at which Herr Albert
von Shepherd, a most dissatisfied share-
holder in Krupps, can aim.


Invest in
□
G
a
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNUM
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any A6C branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
ND.I6.N.
A Copper Scrap
TJard words now passing between non-
ferrous metal merchants and the
non-ferrous manufacturers can only be
resolved by the Federal Government,
which fanned the flames of old disputes
when it reimposed a ban on the export
of scrap copper on December 20 last. In
the present condition of world copper
markets undersupply, possible disrup-
tion of mine output from major producers
Chile and Zambia, and high prices a
solution satisfactory to both Australian
disputants is essential.
The copper-alloy scrap dealers natural-
ly wish to retain their traditional over-
seas customers and also be allowed to
seize new opportunities, particularly in
Japan, the UK and Europe. The Gov-
ernment, together with the manufactu-
rers, still feels it urgent to conserve sup-
plies, in spite of Mount Isa’s fine recov-
ery from the strike and in spite of a
large new metal source like Cobar.
It has not been too difficult, for the
merchants to show, from the very state-
ments of the local copper pool man-
agers, that there is now a healthy surplus
of copper in Australia. Their principal
charge, through the chairman of their
trade association, Mr R. J. Lye, is that
the manufacturers have lobbied for a
ban “to achieve control of copper prices”
and “to depress prices as part of a policy
to force merchants out of business”.
Each side is apparently willing to ac-
cept quota control of exports of copper
and copper-alloy scrap in accord with the
dictates of national interest. The Gov-
ernment could therefore well proceed
with the formation of its suggested Non-
Ferrous Export Committee, on which the
Department of Trade would hold the
balance between manufacturers, the cop-
per pool and merchants.
The merchants will certainly have no-
thing of the manufacturers’ proposed
Scrap Corporation Pty Ltd, where manu-
facturer domination is obvious.
Memorable Myer
poR those who read the omens, 1966
promises to be a memorable one
for Melbourne’s monolithic Myer group.
Not for 37 years has Myers made a new
share issue to shareholders. It has fin-
anced its trebling in size in the last seven
years by share exchange takeovers and
from internal funds.
But the latest round of retail shopping
centre development the Myer group has
in mind for Melbourne —with its North-
land and Southland and, possibly,
Eastland projects means that Myers
will need money; the last accounts al-
ready showed Myers had to find £6 mil-
lion even before all these developments
got into full swing.
But it is Myers’ offer to buy out the
public shareholders in Myer, SA, not
just the obvious need for money, that
suggests Myers will make a share issue
rather than a borrower be in 1966. For,
apart from tidying up the company’s
structure, the cash part of the Myer,
SA, offer means that those shareholders
in the SA company who also own Myer
shares, and who wish to take up their
rights to any prospective new issue, will
be able to use their Myer, SA, money
to pay for their Myer shares.
The current share exchange or cash
offer by the Myer parent company
to acquire the remaining publicly held
shares in Myer, SA, is not only a most
generous one in immediate terms; it also
gives SA shareholders the opportunity
to participate in Myers’ expected new
share issue.
The accompanying chart shows that
Myer, SA, profits have been growing at
a far slower rate than those revealed by
the Myer group as a whole in recent
years. The auditors have now streng-
thened that impression by indicating that
the group has in fact understated its pro-
fits by about £i million in the last four
years.
When Myer floated off the South Aus-
tralian company ten years ago, it felt
the need to avoid the “interstate invader*
atmosphere by allowing South Aus-
tralians to have a direct holding. This
sort of thing does not matter any more.
The South Australians (and Queens-
landers) may dislike interstate interests,
but still like their shops.
Boral’s Bonanza
TGVrly last week the cynics were say-
ing that the presence of two Boral
directors on the City Mutual Life Assur-
ance Co’s board was a great help to
Boral in getting its £4 million debenture
issue off the ground, for the City Mutual
took up £1 million the day it opened.
But when the issue closed almost
double subscribed (no oversubscriptions
will be the cynics were say-
ing how useful for the City Mutual to
have two directors on Boral, as this
association appears to have given this
alert assurance company an inside run
to purchase a first-rate industrial deben-
ture yielding a remarkably high 7f p.c.
There is not much fixed interest paper
of this quality available at these rates,
although institutional investors have been
getting a large number of private de-
benture issues from big companies, many
of which have yet even to tell their
shareholders. Boral’s gesture in offering
the debenture issue in the first instance
to shareholders only is one that should
be standard practice.


959 N
Invest in
Associated
Securities
Limited
Debenture Stock
(10 year term )
For
Unsecured Notes
(5 year term)
Applications can be accepted only on the printed form
attached to the Prospectus available from
Any Member of i recognised Stock Exchange in Australia,
Any Branch of the Bank of New South Wales,
All Branches of Associated Securities Limited.
Brokers:
Ord, Minnett, T. J. Thompson & Partners
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
A Hard Road to The Lodge
Stepping off the Treasury treadmill
By CROESUS
journalists will welcome the transition of Mr Harold Holt to the
box seat. We know him as somebody who takes criticism kindly and goodness
knows we’ve levelled enough at him from time to time over the last seven years.
More than that. Unlike his pre-
decessor, Sir Arthur Fadden, Holt
actually took infinite pains, in a most
un-Bagehot-like manner, to master the
subject of his office.
We never heard from him the likes of
Sir Arthur’s riposte of “b— awful” to
a London journalist’s question, at a
Savoy Hotel Press conference in 1952,
on how the Australian economy was
going. One of my clearest recollections
of Holt on his feet talking about the
economy was a masterly performance to
businessmen in Melbourne when things
were at their worst in the 1961-62 reces-
sion (unfortunately he was not always
as convincing, especially when talking to
a Treasury official’s brief).
Looking back on his Treasurership, as
Mr McMahon prepares to take over the
job, few would probabh complain about
his performance in the last three years,
when the economic fortunes of Australia
have been at the flood. However, taking
his seven years’ stewardship as a whole,
I wouldn't consider him to have been
as outstanding a Treasurer as, say, Ben
Chifley, because, frankly, he was too
often caught on the wrong foot in his
first four years in the post and failed
at critical points in that period. His early
mistakes seem to outweigh his subsequent
successes. We can and should applaud
the latter. But his growing-pains made
history. They stick in the memory like
glue.
In retrospect his most signal, but not
his most spectacular, blunder was his
failure (shared by the Reserve Bank) to
adjust fiscal and monetary policies to
offset the complex of forces which built
up to the 1960 boom. Only very late
in the day, in February, 1960, when
these forces were well on their way to
having their head, did he remonstrate
in Cabinet for a battening-down of the
hatches. Yet he failed to carry his col-
leagues, including Mr McMahon, with
him. Cabinet preferred to follow Mr
McEwen’s lead at the time by freeing
imports of restrictions as its main line
of attack. Ironically, it was this move
which led Mr Holt to a point of despera-
tion and to the opening or his Pandora’s
Box in November, 1960. Undoubtedly
the abandonment of import restrictions
early in 1960 hastened the possibility
that ultimately action to avert a balance
of payments crisis would have to be
superimposed on measures to stifle
speculative excesses and inflation in the
economy.
If, in November, 1960, the boom
called for shock treatment (there will
always be differences of opinion about
that because many consider the boom
was on the ebb at that time), a con-
sidered judgment must be that such ill-
advised measures as the tax-on-interest
smacked of a panic psychology at the
helm of the Treasury. Mr Holt’s in-
experience and his failure to test business
opinion might have been to blame for
his blind acceptance of such advice
from Treasury officers grasping at any
straw of an idea to put stoppers on
speculation and fringe finance and to
stiffen the ranks of captive subscribers
to Government loans.
The Press was quite justified in its
tirades against the Treasurer. It was not
simply a case of “Rupert and Warwick”
being anti “Bob and Harold”, as Sir
Roland Wilson put it to me the morning
after in a passing chat in Martin Place.
Events subsequently bore witness that
both Sir Roland and his political boss
had slipped up badly.
Maybe a Treasurer can only be as
good as the advice of his officials.
Neither Fadden nor Holt have been as
good as Sir Roland though Chifley was
certainly a good deal better than Sir
Norman Watt. At any rate, running
against the tide of popular and political
opinion for the next two years, Mr Holt
paid scant recognition to the idea of
giving a stimulus to the economy from
fiscal and monetary policy. It was as if
he was seeing something salutary in the
process of adjustment from the boom
and dared not interfere with it.
Some economists think he was quite
right in giving the economy a decent
period to digest the growth of the ’fifties
and get rid of the dead wood and the
fluff. (There was certainly a job to be
done on these, as the long series of
company failures subsequently testified.)
If this was his design, which I seriously
doubt but in principle would agree with,
one wonders how much longer he would
have persisted with it had he not been
brought abruptly from his long under-
water sojourn to the political surface
by the Government’s near defeat at
the end of 1962 and the popular clamor
for a more positive recognition by the
authorities that resources were going to
waste as a result of the Government’s
failure to give the right degree of
stimulus to the economy.
Only since this belated surfacing has
Mr Holt really been seeing daylight as
Federal Treasurer. Most people would
agree that for the last three years he
has been giving taxpayers a good run for
their money in keeping fiscal policy well


■u
im
“I didn’t know you were going to INDIA’#
“I’m not.”
“Then why are you flying air-indiaT $
“You surprise me!
AIR-INDIA flies tO
PARIS,
LONDON,
NEW YORK*
TOKYO,
NAIROBI,
DELHI,
GENEVA,
BANGKOK,
SINGAPORE,
rome ~, enough?"
“Keep lalking,”
“FIJI,
HONG KONG,
BEIRUT,
FRANKFURT
MOSCOW.'*
“MOSCOW?"
“Certainly.”
“How about Kuwait?”
“Only on Sundays.
Look here, you’d better se§
your travel agent. He know 9
all about Air-lndia’s
international Air Services, H
A/R/ND/A
The airline that treats you like a Maharajah w
In association with BOAC and Qantas
9174 A 149102
adjusted to the requirements. However,
he would probably be the first to admit
that the task in this period had been
made infinitely easier for the Treasurer
by the astoundingly good performance
of exports (which his own tax concession
policies have assisted). This, coupled
with a steady inflow of overseas capital
(for which the Treasurer must be given
a meed of praise because he has con-
sistently encouraged it, sometimes against
the voices of doubting Thomases among
Cabinet Ministers), has worked the oracle
for Mr Holt these last three years.
While any Treasurer blessed with three
years free of balance of payments
worries can be deemed very fortunate,
Mr Holt has been more blessed than
most on this score. Even now, when his
term is nearly over, our international
reserves are still very adequate and at
least high enough to give his successor
a solid backstop for any stimulus he
may decide is needed to top up economic
activity.
Perhaps we shall look back on these
last few years of Holt’s reign at the
Treasury as mainly a period when the
co-ordination of fiscal and monetary
policy achieved its first real successes.
The main success, of course, was that,
in conditions of over-full employment,
speculation was contained and prices kept
reasonably stable. Any Treasurer who
managed over a long period to keep
employment full (over-full most of the
time), speculation at bay and, at the
same time, maintain a fairly steady price
level and a fixed exchange rate is at
least worthy of respect, even in Australia.
He would be worth his weight in gold
in South America or Indonesia, say.
Meaningless Loan Results
Cooking the conversion statistics
By MICHAEL BAUME
THE most important feature of the latest excellent-looking Commonwealth loan
conversion figures is that they mean absolutely nothing.
The statistics are cooked. They do
not mean what they say. Like all Gov-
ernment loan results, they have become
simply part of the armory of psycho-
logical weapons used in keeping the
economy in order.
This end may, of course, justify the
means. But if investors in public share
issues are upset about the refusal of
most underwriters to reveal the true
result of their flotations, investors in
Commonwealth borrowings should be
shouting the house down. So, too, should
those sections of the money markets in
Australia that look to loan results as
a guide to the supply and demand for
money, and to the health and strength of
interest rates.
For Commonwealth loans are the
biggest money raisings in Australia.
Their results should be the most im-
portant guide to people wondering what
to do next about raising or lending
money.
They are no guide at all to the real
demand and supply situations; the only
hint they do give is on the question of
the likely trend in official interest rates.
And these movements can be quite un-
related to the real pressures in the money
markets, despite the elaborate farce of
•he Government rigging the bond market
to make changes in the official rate look
'ike a natural consequence of market
forces.
For example, the “success” of the cash
ontent of the November loan (a success
to the extent that the quaintly low target
figure was heavily oversubscribed) was a
hint that official interest rates may have
hit their peak, no matter what the trend
may be in company borrowing rates.
But the just-announced figures for the
conversion element of that loan—show-
ing that £123 million of the £lBl mil-
lion falling due was converted into the
new loan and only £5B million was re-
deemed—have no value as indicators of
anything to anybody The biggest holder
of the bonds that matured in November
was the Reserve Bank of Australia. Its
holding could have been around £5O
million, give or take £2O million or so.
There is no prize for guessing that the
Government’s big conversion figure was
helped along more than somewhat by the
Reserve Bank deciding to convert into
the new series.
The Reserve Bank had been soaking
up November-maturity bonds like a dry
sponge during the liquidity shortages of
1965 particularly from the official
money market operators, as the level of
funds in the short-term money market
fell at one stage by about £4O million. In
any event, operators tend to sell their
bonds in the last few weeks before
maturity, for strictly commercial reasons,
so many of the November bonds that had
survived the rigors of the first 10 months
of 1965 may have ended up in the arms
of the Reserve Bank by maturity day.
If this is true of the November con-
version, it is far more so of the coming


Absolute Security
for every investor!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
Si^o
For 10 or 15 Years
Vo
For 7 Years
Principal and Half-Yearly Interest Payments are
Unconditionally Guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government
Cash Applications will be
accepted.
Conversion. Holders in Loans
Nos. 143 (4f%) and 290 (5|%)
—both maturing Ist February,
1966 —and 60 (3J%), maturing
Ist March, 1966, are invited to
convert to the new Loan.
Taxation Concessions. The
Loan is an approved security for
Trustees of Pension and Super-
annuation Funds entitled to
qualify for Taxation Concessions.
Trustee Security. An Author-
ised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
Invest or Convert Today at
any office of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited;
Bank of New South Wales; Com-
mercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited; English, Scot-
tish and Australian Bank Limi-
ted; Rural Bank of New South
Wales; through your Stock-
broker; or at the Board’s offices.
Underwritten by A. C. GOODE & CO., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
29.722
maturity in May this year, when £164
million of short Term bonds issued in
1963 fall due. These bonds were issued
to the professionals in the first place;
there would be no widows-and-orphans
content as in the lon£-term loans that
fell due last November. This being so,
it is likely that on conversion day an
ever higher proportion will have already
been bought up by the Reserve Bank.
For the seasonal liquidity rundown that
takes place in the three months to May,
as taxes are paid and export income
eases, will flush a large slab of those
bonds still publicly held out into the
market.
The Reserve Bank will have to buy
them if only to prevent a slide in. their
price, provided, of course, that official
monetary policy is still aimed (as it
appears) at holding interest rates at least
steady and at most fractionally down.
So the next loan—Mr McMahon’s first
will also have a nice big conversion
result, like Mr Holt’s last one, and this
will mean nothing, too.
TTowever, there is one bright feature
of the Reserve Bank’s bond-buying
operations. They mean that the Bank is
gathering an even larger bond portfolio,
which may give it a much-needed greater
flexibility in its bond market selling
operations than it has had in the past.
One of the greatest limits on the Bank’s
efficient management of the bond mar-
ket has been a lack of room to
manoeuvre, simply because it did not
have enough bonds to play with.
This portfolio shortage at the Reserve
Bank has meant that to influence the
bond market, the Reserve Bank has, in
effect, gone close to destroying it. The
public market in Commonwealth bonds
is a joke; like the top of the iceberg, it
represents only a tiny fraction of the
dealings in bonds that go on beneath the
surface. So the “open market” reflects
nothing like the real supply and demand
pressures for bonds.
The way to solve it, of course, is
simple. It is to appoint a Government
broker in bonds and have all the business
go through the market-place, so that this
vital part of the money market should
be in public, where it belongs, for all to
see—and make their judgments on.
Thus the only message in the bond con-
version figures is that at least the Reserve
Bank may be getting capable of taking
a stronger market position in bonds.
This is the only message for the
public in the latest conversion
figures. Why the Government should be
secretive about the real position of bond
conversions by the public and by the
Reserve Bank is beyond me. It is most
important information. What we need
is an Australian Bondholders’ Associa-
tion to kick up a fuss!


6
is
m
INVEST &
RELAX
NO NEED to be concerned
over what 'the market' will be
or whether you should have
to dispose of part or all of your investment for
other purposes.
Join the growing number of folk who find that
the St. George & Cronulla Permanent offers
6% p.a. net (current rate) paid twice yearly,
with your Investment plus dividend readily avail-
able for withdrawal. There are NO brokerage
or other deductions.
Assets exceed £7 million. Write for brochure.
ST. GEORGE & GRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
S ADDRESS
MAN ON THE LAND
Orderly Marketing Once More
The wind that shakes the barley
II7HAT a remarkable coincidence that the latest primary producer onslaught against
" Section 92 of the Constitution should break almost on the same day that the Prime
Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, attended what could be one of his last Cabinet meetings.
If the PM does retire, as freely con-
jectured, and if he does write his
memoirs, likewise conjectured, it is to
be hoped that he devotes at least a
chapter to the now somewhat hazy 1937
referendum on Section 92. He was very
much involved in it and less than six
months ago, in reply to a question in the
House, he reminded his fellow parliamen-
tarians of that fact.
The 1937 referendum was one of the
more important ones in the history of
this country. It resulted in resounding
defeat for those who would do away
with Section 92.
It is all very well to assert that it is
always difficult to get any referendum,
on anything, carried in Australia. It is
patronising to assert that referendums
are never carried because people do not
understand what they are supposed to
be voting on. People are not fools and
to think that they are has been the down-
fall of many opportunists who believe,
often sincerely, that they know what is
best for their neighbors.
However annoying it may be to the
planners of “orderly marketing” for
primary produce, two facts should be
remembered:
• Section 92 is Section 92 of the Con-
stitution.
• Section 92 has withstood a nation-
wide referendum.
The latest attack on Section 92 comes
from a farm group which is asserting
that half Victoria’s barley crop is being
sold “illegally” on a thriving interstate
“black market”. (The italics are ours.)
They are there because these sales of
barley may well be considered “illegal”,
and on a “black market”, by 50 p.c. of
barley-growers only.
Those growers who are selling direct,
for cash, may have a totally different
conception of what is “illegal”. They may
well feel they are exercising their rights
as free citizens. Buyers who, allegedly,
take the barley interstate may share this
view.
We do not propose to take sides in
this matter, but we do intend to point
out some home truths to the “orderly
marketing” proponents. The great mo-
jority of “orderly marketing” enactments
have been put through .State or Federal
Parliaments with no reference to the
wishes of the people of Australia. Section
92, allegedly the stumbling block of
“orderly marketing”, stands because the
people of Australia showed clearly that
they wanted it to stand.
The most recent “orderly marketing”
enactment to get the blessing of Federal
Parliament was the CEMA plan for eggs.
There is good reason to doubt whether
a referendum of poultry-farmers them-
selves would have given approval to
CEMA. There is more reason to believe
that a referendum of the people of Aus-
tralia would have rejected it overwhelm-
ingly.
The allegations being bandied about
concerning barley seem to be more
opinion than proven fact. It is alleged
that growers selling barley for cash in
the paddock are doing so to evade taxa-
tion. Some primary producers try to
evade taxation. In this they are no difu
ferent to any other section of the com-
munity. But the suggestion that the
growers of 50 p.c. of the barley in
Victoria are evading taxation by selling
direct to agents is hard to have.
Primary producers get such largesse in


©
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March, 1950.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7
/0
4,6 or 10 YEARS
Application* can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in, the Prospectus,
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
746 B
NAME
ADDRESS
21828
the form of taxation benefits (quite
legal) that to risk a severe penalty would
appear foolhardy. You might get 5 p.c.,
or even 10 p.c., who would be foolhardy.
Fifty p.c.? No!
The difficulty in this, and any dis-
cussion of “orderly marketing”, is that
a generation of farmers grew up be-
lieving that the marketing system stem-
ming from the depression and the war
years would set all things to right.
“Orderly marketing”, to these men, is
an article of faith. It can never be
wrong. What they fail to realise is that
nothing is ever the complete answer.
All primary producers, certainly the
newer generation, do not necessarily
share their faith.
Men sincerely believe they can set the
world right. What they really do is set
it right for themselves and their friends.
The “orderly marketing” generation
does not see, because it cares not to, the
development of contract farming gen-
erally and vertical integration. The old
brigade should take time off to visit
Roselands in Sydney, or Chadstone in
Melbourne. The supermarket has revo-
lutionised American farm produce
marketing methods, is currently revo-
lutionising European methods and in the
next 10 to 15 years may well change the
entire system in Australia.
It may be asked what supermarkets
have to do with barley. Supermarkets are
the big outlet for deep-frozen chickens.
With meat very dear, because of the
drought, chicken sales are on the up and
up. The great bulk of chickens is now
raised on the contract system. Pellet
manufacturers and chicken processors
are often closely linked. Barley goes into
pellets for the contract chicken raisers.
The processing of pellets and other
stockfeeds is increasing dramatically and
is tied to contract farming.
Barley is also used by the malt houses
which, largely, are owned by the brew-
eries which distribute beer through
brewery-owned hotels. Beer had a form
of vertical integration long before the
supermarkets and the phrase vertical
integration were ever conceived. Barley
is also bought by farmers as unprocessed
stockfeed and some is exported.
The people who allege a “black mar-
ket” in barley exists do not say clearly
who is buying on the “black”. For it to
be a “black market”, somebody would
have to be doing the buying. All right,
who?
“Orderly marketing”, like most grand
plans to remove all shortcomings, would
work so much better if new generations
of men did not arrive on the scene pos-
sessed of ambition just like their fore-
bears. Because “orderly marketing” suits
some, it does not necessarily suit others.
The old guard attitude, that anyone who
disagrees is a criminal, will not get us
anywhere.
In the case of barley, a closer look at
the real position is overdue. The Aus-
tralian Barley Board, despite its name,
functions only in Victoria and South
Australia. It is law in each of these States.
So is Section 92 part of the Constitu-
tion and ratified by referendum.
There is always a danger inherent in
accepting the view of this or that
primary producer organisation as the sole
view of all primary producers. The recent
wool referendum indicated that many
organisations bestow upon themselves the
right to speak with far greater authority
than they actually possess.
It would be all so much simpler for
the “orderly marketing” proponents if
they could get Section 92 repealed.
Would that be enough? Probably not.
There would always be something else.
If they got Section 92 repealed, what
would they do? Put the (alleged) growers
of 50 p.c. of the barley in Victoria in
gaol?
Something more realistic, surely, is
needed. A closer investigation into the
unplanned effects of “orderly marketing”,
the inflated value of farm land and the
inevitable encouragement of contract
farming would be a good beginning. The
contract system of farming, whether it be
raising chickens or growing barley, may
not be the best thing in the long run for
farmers. In fact, to this observer, it seems
fraught with dangers. Yet if, as alleged,
50 p.c. of barley-growers decide to op-
erate outside the “orderly marketing”
system, then it seems at least a pos-
sibility that the system itself is disordered.
AGRISEARCH
Better Paspalum on the Way
Four superior species under test
HHen superior species of paspalum have
been recognised. Four, in particular,
appear to be outstanding and one or
other of them could eventually supplant
our naturalised species, P. dilatatum, in
extensive areas of Australia, including
especially south-east Queensland. This
view is based on a comparison of seven-
teen introduced species of paspalum and
the current commercial species. The
experiment was carried out on the
CSIRO Pasture Research Station at Sam-
ford, near Brisbane, by scientists of the
CSIRO’s Division of Tropical Pastures,
The best of the introduced grasses was
P. yaguaronense, but two varieties of
P. notatum produced nearly as well and
P. plicatulum was not far behind. These


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
7k
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
7k
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
6r»
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
5k
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
712
PER ANNUM 9 AND 10 YEARS
sft
PERANNUM 9 MONTHS
4!%
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form referred
to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier,
NIN.2
names may well be destined to enter the
vocabulary of people concerned with
farming in the tropics and sub-tropics.
P. yaguaronense was brought from Para-
guay in 1948. One of the notatums was
collected there also at the same time and
the other came rfom the USA. P. plica-
tulum was found in Guatemala.
Our common species, P. dilatatum,
was introduced to Victoria by Aus-
tralia’s famous pioneer botanist, Baron
von Mueller, in 1881. He rightly
reckoned that it would make a valuable
contribution to animal production in
this country and distributed the seed
widely. The species found its best
habitat, towards the end of the last
century, on the North Coast of New
South Wales, where farmer Morton
Williams promoted it. At that time he
wrote: “I have concluded that Paspalum
dilatatum is the very best grass for the
farmer to rely on as a permanent pasture.
It is carrying a beast to the acre all the
year round with me. Its qualities for
dairying are undoubted and every cow
is kept in good condition.”
Since those days the swards of pas-
palum have deteriorated. Weed invasion
is partly responsible. One of the impor-
tant advantages exhibited by the promis-
ing new introductions during the Sam-
ford trial was their ability to keep weeds
out of the pasture. By the end of the
experiment, weed yield in the plots of
P. dilatatum was almost three times the
grass yield! Another serious weakness of
this species is that, although it is frost
tolerant, it does not yield well in winter.
Some of the newcomers, while not so
cold-hardy, nevertheless made better
growth during winter. Again the old
species produces luxuriantly in spring,
but its summer and autumn yields were
considerably lower than those of several
of the introduced species during these
critical seasons.
/The experimental plots were provided
with adequate water and fertilisers,
t and overall yields were extraordinarily
high. They pretty well equalled the best
figures recorded for grasses anywhere in
the world. Thus, the four top producers
manufactured more than 17,000 lb. of
dry matter per acre per year, even
though all the while being cut at six-
weekly intervals. This is further evidence
of the high production potential of
pastures in north-eastern Australia and
points to the day when our northern
pastures will carry more stock than the
best of today’s temperate zone pastures.
There are, of course, several tests
other than yield which these new grasses
will have to pass before they can be
recommended for commercial growing.
They will have to be tried, for instance,
under conditions where water and
nutrients are not in such abundant supply
as they were in the trial plots. Their
relative nutritive value has still to
be properly assessed, although some
measurements of nitrogen content
suggest that over the year they would
afford the grazing animal as much
protein as does the common paspalum.
Their ability to withstand grazing must
also be proved. However, three of the
four are known overseas to flourish
while under constant heavy grazing. The
fourth, P. yaguanonense, is acceptable to
stock and local experience has already
shown that it will withstand at least
heavy intermittent grazing. Unfortu-
nately, the particular variety of this
species brought to Australia is almost
completely sterile. For the present it
has to be propagated vegetatively. There
is no reason why this difficulty cannot be
overcome eventually by breeding. After
more than 50 years of neglect it now
seems that the paspalum group of grasses
will once again command the respect of
canry farmers such as Morton Williams.


SACRED HEART COLLEGE
Chevalier, Bowral
requires MATHS/SCIENCE TEACHER and
GENERAL SECONDARY TEACHER, begin-
ning term one, 1966. Salary scales at
State Department level; accommodation
for single man. For details, apply the
RECTOR.
Marriages in Lingerie
Courtaulds-Kayser give a lead
By JOAN McCOLL
TJy gentlemanly use of the “marriage-
rather - than - rape” takeover tech-
nique, Courtaulds has bought itself a
moderately large slice of the Australian
women’s underwear and stockings busi-
ness. This month’s submission by
British-owned lingerie and hosiery maker
Kayser Bondor to the desires of synthetic
yarn-maker Courtaulds (after a slight
disagreement over price rather than
principle) looks like the prelude to a
lot of company marriages or rapes
in this industry.
By acquiring Kayser, Courtaulds is
the first of the world’s major yarn pro-
ducers to take over completely one of
the big users of yarn in Australia. In
addition, of course, the Kayser group has
a large, but unprofitable, overseas opera-
tion. Kayser Pty Ltd (the Australian
subsidiary) earned around £92,000 in
1963-64, while overseas losses reduced
the group’s total profit to a mere £2000;
this was probably the situation in 1965,
too. ’
The parent has some eight factories
in the UK making stockings, lingerie,
foundation garments, housecoats and
dressing-gowns, and is believed to have
valuable outlets as well. So Australia
is not the only jewel in the Kayser crown
from the point of view of a yarn maker
wanting to sell his product. Kayser in
Australia has a plant at Richmond (Vic.)
making both lingerie and hosiery, but
lingerie is the bigger business. Estimates
of its share of the hosiery market vary
from 10 p.c. to only 3 p.c. It is said
to be strongest in Queensland and Tas-
mania.
Other Australian yarn users, like
STP and Tennyson Textiles, have yarn
makers such as ICI, Courtaulds and
Toyo Rayon as shareholders but not in
control. Yet if the Kayser takeover
means that Australia is starting to follow
the pattern set in Britain, the local
clothing textile trade is now facing a
revolutionary change in its ownership
and control, whether it likes it or not.
In Australia there are probably even
more reasons for such a revolution than
there were in Britain. Up to now there
has been only one big producer of
synthetic yarn for underwear and hosiery
in Australia —the ICI-owned Fibremakers
factory at Bayswater in Victoria. Gar-
ments made from its nylon 66 yarns and
fibres are marketed under the well-known
name Bri-nylon. But soon there will be
at least two, and possibly three, local
makers competing for the business which
now goes entirely to Fibremakers or to
imports.
Allied Chemicals of the US is to open
its fine denier nylon plant at Penrith
later this year. The odds are also in
favor of Courtaulds starting up this sort
of operation soon at the Newcastle plant
of its Australian subsidiary to take
advantage of the increasing local interest
in its imported yarns. When this happens,
how are these rivals going to make sure
the many local underwear and stocking
manufacturers buy their yarns?
But the takeover pressure from local
yarn makers will not be the only factor
in this power game: overseas yarn
makers like the giant Japanese Toyo
Rayon group export a lot of yarn to
Australia. All will be keen to hold or
increase their share of the market. If
they can only do this by takeovers,
rather than supply arrangements or
secret discount deals, then takeovers
there will be.
What are the local yarn users, the
makers of underwear and stockings (and
other clothing), doing about this prospect?
Publicly they deny there is any threat.
Privately, there have beep some fascinat-
ing discussions between some of the
bigger yarn users to find ways of meeting
the likely challenge to their indepen-
dence. The prospect of mergers or at
least close associations between some
of the big users of yarn has been raised
in the industry.
Ouch defensive moves would have the
advantage not only of increasing the
users’ buying power against the yarn
makers but also make it more important
for a yarn maker to get control of them
and so be prepared to pay more in
any takeover than if he swallowed them
separately. The yarn makers are trying
to counter these defensive gambits by
keeping the clothing industry as frag-
mented as possible not a difficult task
in the “schmates” business, which is
dominated by very independently minded
and largely Continental-trained business-
men.
Ranged against the mighty Courtaulds
and ICI groups, no individual Australian
fibre consumer has much bargaining
power. Nevertheless, there are some
bigger groups emerging in lingerie and
hosiery, through mergers and natural
growth, whose yarn usage would make
them a most tempting takeover prospect
for a yarn maker. The most important
are the Prestige-Holeproof group and the
STP-Sekers group, with Osti in lingerie
and Melba as a general knitter also
rating high.
The Prestige-Holeproof group is the
largest producer of hosiery in Australia,
followed by Kolotex, with 20 p.c. of in-
dustry output. Then, according to one
analysis, come Hilton, Anderson Hosiery
Mills Pty (Nightingale), Beau Monde,
and Kayser. (Imports are a negligible
proportion of Australian supply, account-
ing for perhaps 6 p.c. of hosiery sales.)
Lingerie makers use far more nylon
fibre than the hosiery trade, but this
market is very fragmented. Osti is
ranked by one observer as the largest
lingerie maker in Australia (16 p.c.), fol-
lowed by Prestige, Lucas, Hilton, and
three Victorian proprietary companies,
Dominant, Texwear and Diamond Cut.
So Kayser seems a smallish base for
Courtaulds to start on in Australia,
although it does have a fair slice of
the local lingerie market, and this would
be handy to Courtaulds in terms of
assured nylon usage if and when it does
start up local nylon yarn production.
There is no doubt that Courtaulds is
keen to develop the clothing end of its
synthetic yarn operations. In its latest
annual report, Courtaulds (Aust.) Ltd’s
directors said that, while sales of its
major product, tyre fabric, were down,
acetate textile yarn sales were an all-
time record and this division would
contribute materially to overall profit-
ability. The accent in future growth
should thus be on textiles.
The recent acquisition of 25 p.c. of
individual shareholdings in Courtaulds
(Aust.) by the UK parent gave perpetual
right to the Australian company to obtain
free “any know-how or technical in-
formation relating to any man-made
fibres, or indeed any field of textiles in
which the Courtaulds group is engaged”.
The Australian management said it was
“continuously examining ways and means
of exploiting to the best advantage these
valuable new rights” This seems to mean
that its future operations here in textiles
will not be limited to its current activities
of producing rayon yarn, although it
promotes and markets Courtelle acrylic
fibre. In the UK, Courtaulds is interested
in nylon 6 (“Celon”) and the local com-
pany should follow this up now that the
bonds with ICI in British Nylon Spinners
are cut.
With the local Courtaulds company
taking such a growing interest in textiles,
it seems likely that the local Kayser
company may come under its control


Invest in
WDUSTRUl ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION IMD
A
DEBENTURE STOCK
1
2
FOR 5 YEARS
V
Prospectus and application form available fromt
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
9001 Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
rather than be run from headquarters in
Britain.
There are very great benefits to be
derived from integration in the capital-
intensive textile industry, particularly for
our small market. By concentrating pur-
chases with one supplier, the yarn user
can get better service and attention, per-
haps production of special articles ex-
clusively to the consumer’s purpose, tech-
nical assistance and free access to the
fibre producer’s research, participation
in joint promotions, and financial con-
tributions in loans or shares. These
benefits may, of course, be obtained by
offering the fibre producer a share invest-
ment.
PFhe trend towards amalgamation in
the UK textiles industry is prompted
also by competition from low-cost pro-
ducers in less “advanced” countries, and
the need for fibre producers to cater more
directly to customers’ real requirements
now there is such a multiplicity of fibres
available.
Synthetics’ share of world fibre out-
put has grown from 18 to 28 p.c. in
the decade 1954 to 1964; world usage
of synthetic fibres has grown in the last
seven years by 25 p.c. per annum. New
processes, new properties, and falling
prices with growing supplies have en-
couraged this change. The very great
strides made in technical processes
(crimping, fpambacking, laminating of
two fibres, quilting without sewing, per-
manent creasing and so on) have all
enhanced the characteristics of synthetics
and widened their usage.
Australian hosiery and knitting mills
have almost doubled their usage of
synthetic fibres in five years, from
6,717,000 lbs in 1959-60 to 12,480,000
lbs in 1963-64. Obviously synthetic
fibres possess a dynamic market, with
few equals in industry today. This could
all be supplied by the existing local
maker, Fibremakers Ltd, whose total
productive capacity at Bayswater (Vic.)
is 30m. lbs a year of fine and heavy
nylon (polyamide) and 7m. lbs of the
more sophisticated synthetic fibre tery-
lene (polyester). The nylon plant was
established in 1958 and the terylene plant
went into operation in 1965. Fibremakers
aimed to supply Australia’s total need
for apparel and industrial deniers of
nylon.
Significant quantities of lower-priced
imported yarns were coming into the
country in 1965 and Fibremakers was
granted emergency tariff protection on
both raw and processed nylon yarns.
There is increasing official (Government)
recognition of the import replacement
value of textiles, as well as the contri-
butions made by the textile industry to
decentralisation and employment.
Allied Chemicals will set out to rock
the Fibremakers’ boat with its nylon 6,
which, although probably indistinguish-
able in the final product from nylon 66
and generally conceded to be inter-
changeable, is claimed by Allied to link
more readily with dyestuffs. Its colors
are brighter, its whites whiter (no more
grey nylon undies) and it is softer to
handle, Allied asserts. (Nylon 66 on the
other hand is said by consumers to have
superior shrink resistance.) From a pro-
duction viewpoint, nylon 6 is more easily
made in the chemical processing, and
any wastage can be reconverted and used
again. Because of the US anti-trust laws,
Allied is unlikely to make a defensive
move here to tie up outlets. The cor-
porate mind moves slowly. But Allied
did integrate vertically part of the way
in the US by moving into nylon 6 yarn
production in 1954 in competition with
nylon 66, which had been made by
Dupont since 1938, using Allied’s basic
chemical.
The initial scale of Allied’s operations
here is small compared with Fibremakers
and about one-twentieth of the size of
the US parent’s operation. But Allied
is spending a great deal of money here.
Although it does not expect to overthrow
Fibremakers, Allied hopes to get a fair
proportion of a growing market, expand-
ing capacity as warranted.
With all these developments, the
lingerie and hosiery business is in a
tricky state. For the lingerie makers,
amalgamation may be the stitch in time
that saves them from takeovers by the
yarn producers. And for the hosiery
trade, the ladder of vertical integration
may be even more important than the
ladders that ensure continuing demand
for its stockings.


CASH
for
DEBENTURES
BONDS
or other
HARD TO SELL
SECURITIES.
Write
FINANCIER
P.O. Box 56
Albert Pork.
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North
J. H. Valder
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle
SECURITY ANALYSIS
First Look at Tobacco Companies
Rothmans and a king-size depreciation
4 lthough many people in Australia
are now convinced that cigarette
smoking is injurious to health, it seems
that the time is still some way off when
the advertising by cigarette manufac-
turers will be restricted or cigarette
packets required to bear some warning
notice. The United Kingdom has insti-
tuted a restriction on advertising and, in
the USA, cigarette packets must now
carry the warning that smoking may be
dangerous to health.
The “lung cancer scare” seems to have
started in a big way about 1962, but the
possible linkage between smoking and
lung cancer had been debated in medical
circles for some time prior to that
certainly since the end of the Second
World War. In 1962, Rothmans’ chair-
man’s statement devoted some space to
the subject of “Smoking and Health”;
this was followed by a further quite
lengthy paragraph in the 1964 directors’
report. As we now have figures for the
three years following the commencement
of the anti-smoking campaign, it should
be of interest to examine the records of
the three tobacco companies whose ordin-
ary shares are listed on the Stock
Exchanges. British Tobacco will be left
until last as it seems to be the one com-
pany which has pursued a programme of
substantial diversification in recent years.
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Australia)
Ltd entered the Australian market about
1955. While there is little doubt that the
timing of that entry was somewhat fortu-
nate (and this could also have been due
to keen perception by Rothmans), the
company’s success in obtaining over fifty
per cent of the local market in a period
of five years must have been due, in no
small measure, to the energy and enthu-
siasm of the local management. Further-
more, the new type of cigarette (so far
as Australia was concerned) which the
company set out to market completely
revolutionised local smoking habits, for
there can be no doubt that the “king-
sized filter” now dominates the Austra-
lian cigarette, market. This can only be
regarded as a major achievement. Cer-
tainly it was not achieved by the cigarette
manufacturers which were established in
Australia prior to Rothmans’ entry; it
seems highly unlikely that it can be
achieved by subsequent entrants.
fortunate element in the timing of
the entry rests on the now historical
fact that, during the five years from 1955
to 1960, Australian cigarette consumption
—■ that is, consumption of “tailor
made” cigarettes increased by more
than 54 p.c. As the total consumption of
tobacco products increased by only 1£
p.c. during this same period, it is fairly
obvious that a fair proportion of the in-
crease in cigarette smoking occurred at
the expense of other forms of tobacco,
mainly, perhaps, at the expense of “roll-
your-own” cigarettes.
Strangely enough, the “tailor made”
cigarette continues to gain at the expense
of other forms of tobacco, for cigarette
consumption from 1960 to 1964 in-
creased by 17 p.c. So, although there
might have been a decline in the total
consumption of tobacco per capita since
the lung cancer scare started, it would
seem as though the per capita consump-
tion of cigarettes has continued to
increase.
It is now perhaps appropriate to look
more closely at Rothmans’ results over
the 1961-65 period. Firstly, it is interest-
ing to note that, while cigarette consump-
tion only seems to have increased by
17 p.c., Rothmans’ profit from trading
before charging depreciation, amortisa-
tion, loan interest, directors’ fees, audit-
ors’ fees and taxation, has increased by
55 p.c. The figures are as follows:
£'ooo
Year to
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Trading profit 2728 3366 3640 3816 4221
Depreciation 324 454 522 619 746
Interest 324 642 717 558 470
Directors and
auditors 20 77 77 87 92
Pre-tax profit/ 2060 2193 2324 2552 29T3
From these figures, it becomes appar-
ent that pre-tax profit increased by only
41 p.c. during this period. The fact that
this is a slower rate of growth than figure
for trading profit is due almost entirely
to the substantial increase that has
occurred in the provision for deprecia-
tion. This item has increased by 130 p.c.!
To a large extent this increase has been
due to the new provision for the deprecia-
tion of land and buildings made for the
first time in the 1964/5 profit and loss
account, but it would also seem-that the
depreciation charge for other items has
been increased. As at June 30, 1962,
leasehold properties and plant and equip-
’ ment at cost totalled just over £4 million,
and at June 30, 1965, just under £5
million. The increase in the total cost
value over this period was 23 p.c. Even
after eliminating the depreciation charged
against freehold property, the deprecia-
tion provision increased by more than
35 p.c. during this same period. While
there can be no doubt that the amount to
be charged for depreciation must be a
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£ million)
Year to
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 11.4 14.7 14.0 16.2 17.1
Current
liabilities 6.8 3.6 3.8 6.6 69
Working
capital (a) 4.6 11.1 10.2 9.6 10.2
Fixed assets 4.7 5.2 5.9 5.9 '* 5 6
Investments 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Intangibles 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Total capital 10.0 16.6 16.4 15.8 16.1
Represented by:
Loan
capital (a) 5.2 105 9.6 8.2 7.0
Ord. capital 2.5 3.8 3.8 3.8 4.6
Reserves 2.3 2.3 3.0 3.8 4.5
(a) Short term deposits have been included in
"Loan capital" and consequently the Working
capital is distorted. The intention is to give
some idea of the total borrowings under "Loan
capital".
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Interest on fixed
term loans 324 642 716 558 470
Depreciation 324 454 522 619 746
Tax provided 856 911 861 1032 1362
Earnings 1179 1 258 1 466 1 525 1555
Ord. dividends 506 664 759 759 79 7
Surplus 673 594 707 766 758
Earning rate p.c. 48.4 33.1 38.7 40.2 39.0
Div. rate p.c. 20.0 17.5 20.0 20.0 20.0
Div. yield p.c. (b) 4.1 4.5 5.4 5.5 57
High price (c) 57/6 47/3 41/- 40/- 40/6
Low price (c) 39/1 31/3 32/6 32/9 29/6
(b) Based on the average of the year's high and
low prices.
(c) Calendar year.


SALES ENGINEER
A Representative for a well-known Engineering Merchant
based in Sydney
DUTIES: Promotional work to improve demand for the Company's products
and to supervise operation of existing local distributors.
QUALIFICATIONS: Mechanical-Electrical Engineering background would
be essential. Also Sales experience in Engineering would be necessary.
Knowledge of abrasives, power transmission and/or electric motors
would be most appropriate.
AGE: 25 to 40.
CONDITIONS: Commencing salary £l5OO per annum plus incentives. Car
provided. Prospects exceptionally good. To commence duties as soon
as possible.
Applications confidential. Please apply by letter giving full
relevant details to:—
L. D. BESTON (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
387 Kent Street, SYDNEY
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO; JEAN YVONNE YEE late of 5 McLachlan
Avenue, Rushcutter Bay. TAKE NOTICE that
YEE MAN WING in the Marriage Certificate
called Man Wing Lee also known as Warwick
Yee has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3219 of
1965 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the Tenth day of
March, 1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition
and Notice of Petition without charge from
WARRINGTON CONNOLLY & CO„ Solicitors,
of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: HENRY JONES CLARK formerly of 10
Veron Street, Wentworthville. TAKE NOTICE
that JANETTE WORKMAN CLARK has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4197 of 1965 on the
ground of cruelty. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 20th day of
February, 1966, and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion and Notice of Petition without charge
from MESSRS K. B. MORGAN & CO., Solici-
tors, 46 Darcy Street, Parramatta, or their City
Agents, MESSRS C. A. MORGAN & CO., 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
management decision, it is nevertheless
interesting to see what the earnings
might have been in 1964/5 if the depre-
ciation charge had remained at the same
percentage of the cost value of depreci-
able assets as in 1962. I consider that
total earnings would have increased by
over 35 p.c. during the five year period
and the 1964/5 earning rate would have
been nearly 45 p.c. instead of 39 p.c.
Of course, there are a number of
adjustments that a security analyst can
make to the published figures of a com-
pany before arriving at a series for pec
share earnings. The tables below show
the indices for per share earnings and
dividends, after adjustments have been
made for over and under provisions of
tax, the “bonus content” of cash issues
and the depreciation adjustment above:
1960 = too
Year to
June 30 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Earnings 100 ! 98 104 109 131
Dividends 100 120 138 138 142 157(a)
(a) Assuming the 20 p.c. dividend rate is main-
tained.
It does seem rather surprising to find
that today Rothmans’ shares are selling
at about 31s. 6d. to show a dividend
yield of 6.4 p.c Furthermore, on my
adjusted basis, the earnings yield would
be 13 p.c. It seems unreasonable to price
the shares on a basis which ignores future
growth when, even with the “lung cancer
scare”, growth has continued over the
last three years.
“The Bulletin” Crossword No. 882
ACROSS
I—Soliciting material for a tent chant. (10)
6—The best marbles backed a sultanate strike. (4)
9—A silver diet, (anagram) (11)
12— Baby glass. (3)
1 3— Give rounds of the kitchen to airborne trimming.
14— A sort of gluttony in harmony. (6)
16— Reversal for the town tuck. (4)
17— Alternative to a right angle of the mouth. (4)
18— Sex appeal displayed by bird islands. (5)
21— Where camels are refreshed
relative to some love article.
(5)
22 Surfeit with eats. (4)
23 Bobby but not of the police
branch. (4)
25—The identical Diana appearing
during Saturday in France.
(6)
27—It’s sane enough for the
swell in the column. (7)
29 A keynote commotion. (3)
30— Windy exposure in the dark
songster. (11)
32 Little one, didn’t you know
I have it in me? (4)
33 Cupid has a place for duel-
ling with people who are in-
different to the usual ethical
codes. (10)
DOWN
1— Miser mongrel having very
dirty water on George North.
GO)
2 Brawls in service colours.
(4, 5)
3 Like some salver off the
track. (6)
4 Sarah, as a lecturer, mixed
oil with vinegar. (5, 8)
5 Veer to the offside. (3)
7 He chases the joker with a
willow twig in white. (5)
8— So long and thanks a lot.
(2-2)
10— Cicatrice allowed some land-
lord novel of Hawthorne.
(7, 6)
11— Most dreadful stride is taken
badly. (6)
15—Flora following Elia among
the castigaters. (10)
19— The chief supports the cor-
seted parent. (9)
20— As a seabird to the ship’s
rear. (6)
24—How’s serial music in an alto
arrangement? (6)
26—Capone frequently up above
in an attic. (5)
28—Mum, L.B.’s cripple!
31—Aid is enough for a Gil-
bertian feminist. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 881


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
r
r Debenture Stork *
(Second Series)
UP TO
71
M
L 5-10 YEARS J
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog*
mzed stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS -
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co.
6846
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
Theories of “Safe” Investment
Where doubtfuls often come good
ANYONE who works in the investment world is being continually requested to
recommend “safe” investments. And those making the requests shudder with
fright if anything other than the likes of BHP or CSR are suggested.
Experience shows that the investment
industry is full of paradoxes—buying on
bad news, selling when a strike is settled,
and so on. To the list could be addec that
the safest stocks often result in the great-
est losses. Just ask all the investors who
bought BH? in 1962, 1963 and 1964.
To me a safe investment just now
would be L. J. Hooker or Concrete
Industries, rather than, for example, CSR.
From the heights of glory in 1960, both
L. J. Hooker and Concrete Industries
have slumped below par. While such falls
might be agonising to the existing share-
holders, they have now provided a very
cheap entry into each respective com-
pany, especially as each appears to have
passed the moment of crisis.
Let me furthe r illustrate this policy of
“safe” investment. A few years ago, a
friend of mine wanted to invest her
limited resources. She thought she would
split the funds between a safe listed fixed
interest investment, Marcus Clark, and
several lesser known and somewhat sus-
piciously regarded ordinary shares. Mar-
cus Clark debentures have been on sale
for several months at £BO, so a substan-
tial loss here is inevitable. On the other
hand, the “doubtful” shares have be-
haved well and their overall appreciation
more than offsets the fall in Marcus
Clark debentures. '
Mount Morgan could well have been
one of the suspicious shares in my
friend’s portfolio. After all, the lack of
rain at Mount Morgan had seriously
affected ore production: investors had
naturally become concerned about the
prospects. In one short month the whole
picture has changed. Not only have rains
come, but the producer price of copper
has been increased another £4O to £435.
It is the marginal copper producers which
benefit most from these copper price
increases.
Of course the company is also a sub*
stantial producer of gold and silver.
' Recently it has oeen stepping-up its pro-
duction of coal at the Dawson Valley
colliery. The latest major move has been
joining with the W. R. Grace organisa-
tion in the fo/tnation of a new company,
Mount Morgan Grace Pty Ltd, which
will produce fertilisers. W. R. Grace has
only recently figured in these columns,
edging its way into the fertiliser industry
in South Australia and Victoria.
Now that Mount Morgan’s share price
has risen 45., I’ve decided to buy 200
shares. I hope it’s a case of “better late
than never”.
In recent months, the mining market
has greatly outperformed the industrial
market. Yet within the industrial market
there have been and continue to be some
distinct possibilities.
One is Petersville. Struck down by a
substantial loss on food consignments in
1964, earning rate barely exceeded the
reduced dividend rate of 12i p.c. As
suddenly as profits had fallen one year, so
did they rise the following year (1965),
when pre-tax profits showed an increase
of 60 p.c.
Petersville is strongly entrenched in
the food industry, producing a multitude
of foodstuffs in Victoria, NSW and Tas-
mania. Sales extend into all other parts
of Australia, as well as to 84 other
countries. Now that operations have been
streamlined, the company should be
entering a phase of prosperity similar to
the late ’fifties.
While the trading recovery is now
an established fact, the share price is still
languishing around the ss. mark. Admit-
tedly the price did rise to 6s. a week or
so ago but has since eased back to ss.
6d. At this price 500 shares were added
to the portfolio.
The only sale this week was the 200
Hotel Metropole The profit of £l7 is as
good as I’d ever hoped for on the stock.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
200 Hotel Metropole, 20/- £196
BOUGHT
200 Mt Morgan, 20/9 £213
500 Petersville, 5/6 £l4l
Back into that old familiar state of
debit this time an amount of £5l.
The portfolio now comprises:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per r ® nf
Shares Company Bought Share P fice
500 NAUC " 28/6/65 7/- 7/9
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 11/- 10/°
200 VAM 28/9/65 5/- 5/3
200 Tyree 27/10/65 19/- W*
300 Stocks & Holdings 17/11/65 12/6 W*
200 Malleys 18/11/65 28/- 28/6
400 Kolotex 24/11/65 12/6 12A
1000 L. J. Hooker 24/11/65 3/1 3/6
400 Peko Wallsend 6/12/65 17/6 W?
200 Aust. Bacon 14/12/65 12/3 13/°
400 Kathleen Inv. rts 14/12/65 8/-
200 Associated Pulp 5/1/66 30/- 30/6
500 Petersville 13/1/66 5/6 5/?
200 Mt Morgan 13/1/66 20/9 20/7


. ■ ..JM
wmmm
iiS
i mm
sr-
:: :
; IS . t'i:
'mmmm
I
il
r <
-
IS;
. ■
mHII
en
■■
::,S:
S
Wmmmm
All packed and ready to fly
Take away costly packaging
with Qantas Air Caigo
Scientific packaging is one of the many ways you save
substantially with air freight— sometimes it is not
required at all! For example, you can look through
windscreens cargo’d with Qantas, even in transit. Many
other automotive parts go without costly packaging.
When packaging is required it’s minimal—always pro-
tective, functional. And Qantas handling care and
round-the-clock security safeguard your goods against
damage, pilferage and loss. This in turn means lower
insurance rates —up to 90% lower. So you see, one
good saving leads to another.
So many other ways to save! Take cargo rates. Many
regular consignments qualify for special low cargo rates
from Qantas. Savings range between 30% and 70%.
What else? Take availability. When unpredicted heavy
demands cause your customers to run out of stock, you
can replenish supplies with daily Qantas flights. Yes,
you can certainly save with air freight. Save more
money-serve more markets with Qantas.
Have you really gone into the many advantages of
exporting by air? Whatever your products - animal,
vegetable or mineral-there’s increased profit potential
for you in the world trend to jet-age cargo with Qantas.
Send for this free booklet now! Please send me, post
free, this informative booklet called ‘Eight Ways to
Profit with Qantas Air Cargo’ for the full picture on
the many benefits of air freight.
Address coupon to: Export Consultant Service, Qantas
Empire Airways Limited, 70 Elunter St., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
INDUSTRY
8
WAYS
TO
PROFIT
Daily flights to the export markets of the world
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 125 weekly flights
to and from Australia.
45 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
■■
a o
warn mm air mo
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with Air India, Air New Zealand, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.
QANTAS AIR CARGO: Qantas House, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney. 'Phone 2-0369.
A 28.107.85


For people
who are not ashamed
of haying brains.
r 25 R “- .T
S_> . H
wwa* as wwas as as w
4
Here is the most superb home library ever assembled Great Books
IT may not be popular to admit it, but all
people aren’t created equal. Not with equal
intelligence, anyway. And the longer they live
(and learn), the less equal they get.
You were probably born with a bigger share of
intelligence than most of your fellow men . . .
and taught how to use it.
Chances are, the records you own play a more
sophisticated brand of music. The books in your
library offer more nourishment. The home you
live in is equipped for a more gracious way of
living.
Most of all you appreciate the difference.
Certainly, you are not ashamed of having brains. You enjoy
using them.
For this reason alone, Great Books belong in your home.
These are the writings of Plato, Homer, Cervantes, Tolstoy,
Dostoevsky, Freud, Rabelais, Aristotle, Shakespeare and many,
many more. They contain just about every important thought
of Western man for the past 3,000 years! The Great Books
were published in collaboration with the University of Chicago,
by Encyclopaedia Britannica. A set of 54
beautifully bound volumes containing 443
masterpieces by 74 of the greatest geniuses
who ever lived. A library you couldn’t
duplicate at any price.
The $1,000,000 Syntopicon included
With the Great Books (and available only
with Great Books) is a unique reference
work called the Syntopicon. An amazing
index that required 8 years and cost more
than $1,000,000 just to write.
Unlike a dictionary that indexes words,
or an encyclopaedia that indexes facts, the
a
Syntopicon indexes ideas
every one of the thousands of
, topics and subtopics within the
Great Books.
In minutes, the Syntopicon
enables you to look up any idea
in the Great Books and find
what each of the great thinkers
thought about it.
Also included with the Great
Books are the handsome 10-
volume reading plans. And you
may also get a remarkable
10-volume set called Gateway to the Great Books as well.
Simply fill in and
mail the coupon to-
day . . . without
cost or obligation
our beautiful new
booklet plus, FREE,
a Decimal Currency
Pocket Computer.
However, to avoid
disappoint m e n t,
please mail the
coupon today, be-
fore it slips your
mind.
G*ww«f Q*te**j
W tJse to tfe
Gr«s*t £Jr##t
&!>7U riooi*
tivrwry '..larm
to the to the '
Gr**i Qitut,
GREAT BOOKS
WRITE GREAT BOOKS OF THE WESTERN WORLD, 300 CASTLEREAGH ST„ SYDNEY.
#mz ]
r.REAT-
books
Mail Coupon Now
for
FREE BOOKLET
*PLUS
FREE DECIMAL
CURRENCY POCKET
COMPUTER
Great Books of the Western World GB(G43)
300 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and without obligation your colourful Preview
Booklet which pictures and describes the latest edition of GREAT
BOOKS OF THE WESTERN WORLD—also a free decimal curency pocket
computer; and complete information on how I may obtain this mag-
nificent set, direct from the publisher.
Name
Address
(please print)
City State
In New Zealand, write E. 8., Post Office Box 751, Auckland.
