

The Bulletin
THE ELECTIONS
DECEMBER 3, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIA I ■ ■ I ByIES
THESIS
STATE J
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper. Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


Planning a pleasure trip?
Plan to fly a quick & quiet jet:
Douglas DC-8 or DC-9
If you’re taking a trip just for the fun
of it —fly away with a Douglas jet.
Take advantage of the extra comfort
and smooth, silent dependability
that’s designed into every Douglas
DC-8 or DC-9.
1966 has become the year of the
DC-9 in a big way. More and more
travelers are discovering this magnif-
icent new entry in the world of jet
travel. More and more airlines are
offering DC-9 service on short flights
and to smaller cities—flights that were
once served only by propeller air-
planes. Everybody likes the Douglas
DC-9; people like its comfort, pilots
like the way it handles, airlines like
its efficiency and dependability.
You’ll like it, too.
In the world of giant jets, we pre-
sent the great Douglas DC-Bs. The
DC-8 is smoother and faster —more
comfortable and quiet because it’s
designed and built that way. Specify a
DC-8 next time you fly and discover
the Douglas difference in design.
Look for quick, quiet Douglas jets on the
following 51 airlines: Aeronaves de
Mexico * Air A frique • Air Canada •
Airlift International • Air New Zealand •
Alitalia •Allegheny • Ansett-ANA • Avensa
• Bonanza • Canadian Pacific • Capitol •
Caribair • Continental • Delta • Eastern •
Garuda Indonesian • Hawaiian • Iberia •
Japan • KLM • Korean • Lloyd Inter-
national • Middle East • National • North
Central • Northeast • Overseas National •
Ozark • Pacific Southwest • Pan American
• Panagra • Philippine • S/fS • Saturn •
Saudi Arabian • Seaboard World • Southern
• Standard • Siidflug • Swissair • •
Trans-Australia • Trans Caribbean •
Trans International • Trans-Texas • C/7M
• United • Fang • Viasa • fFest Coast
DAIO7R
The Douglas Royal Family of Jets


only two vermouths
can compare
with Noilly Prat dry
I 1111
mmmmm
Noilly
Prat
sweet
QILLY P
Bartenders the world over know: Noilly Prat sets the standard
for all vermouths. Very dry . . . sweet red . . . aiid now, sweet
bianco. You may prefer them on the rocks—or in a long glass
with a shush ,0f soda. And Noilly Prat makes cocktails come
alive. Never mix. without it. Sole agents: Swift & Moore Pty. Ltd.
LETTERS
Spurious Vietnam Survey
Sir,
The Left-wing academics have again
perpetrated a confidence trick and
look like getting away with it. The
daily Press recently reported the re-
sults of a “survey of 1937 academics
in ten universities,” saying that 54 per
cent of academics oppose the Vietnam
war, while only 30 percent support it.
And following with other figures aimed
at showing that a significant propor-
tion of senior as well as junior mem-
bers of staff are against the present
Government policv.
Some distance down the report was
the statement, “Every academic, from
lecturer up, was questioned at the uni-
versities polled.” This appeared pretty
conclusive evidence until one read
the next tiny sentence, “Only 36 per-
cent replied.”
The facts of this quite spurious
“survey” are these:
A small group of lecturers from two
universities came together to consider,
as a possible course of action, the sub-
mission to the Government of a
petition. So it is evident that the group
consisted of people unsympathetic to
the Government’s Vietnam policy.
However, through discussion, they de-
cided on the alternative of establishing
the pattern of opinion among uni-
versity staffs and of making this infor-
mation public.
They devised a “questionnaire”
comprising three statements. Each
questionee was invited to subscribe to
one of the three. The first, taking up
nearly half a foolscap page, began: “I
am in substantial disagreement with
the Vietnam policy of our Govern-
ment; and of the Government of the
U.S.A., in that I incline to the view
that:” Then followed six clauses
dressed in emotional phrases such as “no
right, moral or otherwise, to attempt
to impose a military solution on what
is essentially a political problem.” Ex-
cellent stuff to which any Left-winger
would be delighted to sign his name.
The second statement began: “I am
in substantial agreement with our Viet-
nam policy, etc.,” and also contained six
clauses with emotional phrases. Re-
grettably, these also had a Left-wing
flavor, as for example, “the methods
of warfare adopted by American and
CONTENTS
The Elections 14
The 51st State? 23
Neo-Nazis in Bavaria 30
One More Week 36
Batman 40
Cellarmaster 43
The New Muggeridge Book .... 57
Business and Finance 62
Man on the Land 80
Chess Bulletin 85
Speculator’s Diary 86


m*
What’s so great about the only
3.00 p.m. flight departure
from Sydney to the U.S.A?
Come fly with us and discover the delightful all-the-way difference!
departure from Sydney, every
A short hop and then a
A*
Wednesday atid Friday. So
brief stop in Auckland.
Afternoon
convenient.
Up and away
to Honolulu.
at 9.00 p.m., a gourmet dinner and then an uninterrupted sleep-right-through
/
* 4?
Awake to a breakfast-time (7.20 a.m.) welcome in
morning. At DC-8 Five Star jet speed (and comfort)
Hawaii in the cool of the
you’re in Los Angeles
to live it up in the
before 5.00 p.m.
manner to which
the same afternoon—ready
Air New Zealand has accustomed you. Immediate
connections from Los Angeles
to all parts
V
of
the U.S.A., to London
j
and Europe. See you soon! See your Travel Agent or
Air New Zealand.
Phone: Sydney 28-2786; Melbourne 63-2554; Brisbane 31-2548; Adelaide 51-0331; Perth
23-1564; Canberra 47-147.
1
AIR HEW ZEALAND
★ ★★★★ The Five Star Jetline
Hong Kong • Singapore • Sydney • Melbourne* • Brisbane • Auckland • Wellington* • Christchurch • Samoa* • Fiji • Hawaii • Los Angeles
in association with Qantas and BO AC.
*lnternational Electra Services
APA.76a.107


mm
M' *rsi»s
;
mm
a $
:
Old concepts are coming down, t 00...
. . . because the Frigrite group of companies
are creating new ones. In air-conditioning,
refrigeration, agriculture and industry . . .
tomorrow’s concepts are limited only by
man’s imagination. And we’ve got a lot of
imaginative people at Frigrite.
Fx'igx'i'be
CREATING THE CLIMATE FOR PROGRESS
South Vietnamese troops, while regret-
table, are justified if they are necessary
. . .” Few supporters of the Govern-
ment would be prepared to sign their
names to palpably slanted statements of
that kind.
So, non-Left-wingers were left with
the third statement, of two lines, read-
ing “I am not in substantial agree-
ment with either of the above state-
ments, or I decline to indicate my
views. My reasons are as follows:”
The covering letter, however, said that
it would not be possible to analyse
the data adequately if the written
clauses were modified in any way!
These three statements were the only
form of “questioning” and it is
fairly obvious why only a few people
responded.
Thus, the whole report, filling nearly
a full double-column, was grossly mis-
leading unless one applied the caution
“Only 36 percent replied” to every set
of figures quoted. Jn fact, it was not
54 percent of academics at ten uni-
versities who opposed the Government,
but less than 20 percent. The remain-
ing 80 percent were either willing to
support the Government despite the
highly colored words used, or were so
disgusted with the whole exercise that
they threw the questionnaire in the
waste-paper basket.
I feel very strongly that academics
should not be used as a kind of specially
intelligent expert body whose opinion
on matters of war and politics must
have great value! As Henry Fairlie
put it in THE BULLETIN of October
22, an academic outside his particular
field is in no sense an expert and all
too often can be induced to pontificate
on matters about which he knows very
little. Agreed that every academic
should make up his mind as a citizen.
But let us remember that, if he is do-
ing his own job adequately, he does
not have very much time to inform
himself properly on what the Govern-
ment is doing and should not be quoted
as having knowledge and judgement
superior to any other citizen.
PROFESSOR JOYCE ACKROYD
Department of Japanese Language
and Literature.
St. Lucia ( Qld.)
The Value of Canungra
Sir,
It was most gratifying to read in
Peter Samuel’s article, “Canungra”
(8., Oct. 15), an appreciation of the
work of Colonel A. B. (“Bandy”) Mac-
donald, who founded Canungra early
in 1942.
But he did far more than found
Canungra. When the Japs came south
early in that year, we who had the
responsibility of commanding Aus-
tralian infantrymen searched the usual
textbooks for advice upon the waging
of war in jungle. We found a total of
four pages, consisting of delightfully
vague generalities, on the strength of
which information we took our boys
into action at Milne Bay or on the
Kokoda Trail. It is true that Lieut.-
General Gordon Bennett wrote a short
pamphlet dealing with the campaign
in Malaya, and there were certainly
lessons to be learned from that disaster,
but it seems fair to say that the pam-
phlet overestimated the ability of the
Jap as a jungle fighter, and in our
initial fighting against him we were
inclined to credit him with being more
skilled than was the case.
This attitude was, of course, soon
remedied, but was expensive to the
Seventh Division in New Guinea in
1942.
Colonel Macdonald, upon founding
Canungra, quickly adapted the
external principles of war to the de-
mands made upon the soldier in
jungle, put them down in black and
white (roneoed the Government
apparently couldn’t afford to have them
printed), confirmed his conclusions by
training tens of thousands of Australian
infantrymen in the practice of those
principles, and sent them out from
Canungra with a confidence in their
hearts and minds that was sadly lack-
ing at that earlier date when the Japs
landed at Buna.
By 1944 infantry officers were com-
ing to Canungra from almost every
Allied army there to learn Mac-
donald’s methods of training.
They came from the American Army,
the British Army in India, the Dutch
Army, the Philippines, Canada, and
even from China.
The 1943 graduates from the Royal
Military College at Duntroon arrived in
a body during 1944, and from their
ranks came many of those commanding
men in our Regular Army units in
the field today in Vietnam. Naturally,
Colonel Macdonald’s systems have been
enlarged, and perhaps improved upon,
but it is at least satisfying to find your
magazine giving some credit to the
man whose recognition is long over-
due.
J. G. DOBBS
Lieut.-Col., 2nd AIF.
Mt. Lofty (S.A.)
The Riverina Clergy
Sir,
THE BULLETIN is to be congratu-
lated on the article “The Year After
Vatican II” (Nov. 12), and also on
the earlier article dealing with the un-
fortunate lack of co-ordination amongst


£> *
Cv\
Office space by courtesy of Associated Securities Ltd. and Richardson & Wrench Ltd.
We can supply everything and help with the rent*
So you're about to open a new office. Expand
your existing one. Or just toying with the idea
of modernising. Then save yourself money
and traumas. We're serious.
You see, even our competitors admit we
are the world's largest business equipment
organisation. And that we can supply you
with everything from a simple paper clip to
a bank of Lektriever Automated Records
Retrieval Systems. Correct. But that's not all.
Should you need advice or floor plans on
the actual placing of equipment to ensure
rapid work flow, staff-movement conserva-
tion. minimal distance between work-points
our Time-and-Motion men skilled in
ergonomics are at your service.
Whatever your office set-up—small or mas-
sive, simple or complex you can be certain
of receiving our complete concentration.
But don't take our word for it here. Ask our
clients. Or give us a ring. No obligation.
(*What you'll save in operational costs of
your Remington equipment alone will help
towards your office rent.)
Remington Rand World's Largest Business Equipment Organisation
TYPEWRITERS • ADDING MACHINES • ACCOUNTING MACHINES • CALCULATING MACHINES . ADP EQUIPMENT • OFFICE SYSTEMS • FILING EQUIPMENT . DUPLICATORS • OFFSET PRINTING MACHINES
OFFICE SUPPLIES • POSTAL FRANKING MACHINES . ADDRESSER PRINTERS • LETTER OPENING & SEALING MACHINES • FOLDING & INSERTING MACHINES • COUNTING & IMPRINTING MACHINES
SZSHH


021/92/66
MANY and VARIED
are the special-purpose cameras for
different assignments that can be
made from just one Exakta Varex.
Lenses, lens accessories, viewfinder
accessories, all can be interchanged
without limitation to suit each
particular requirement.
This makes the Exakta Varex an
outstandingly versatile camera for macro
and micro-photography, reproduction,
the specialized field of medical
photography, amateur black-and-white
or color and for stereo photography.
As a recording instrument for
architectural applications, for candid
photography, for high-speed
photography of sports and animals,
in fact, for any photographic task,
the Exakta Varex can be made to
meet the exact requirements.
Models from $119.00 with
automatic lens/pentaprism and case
exakta
cvroc
made by
IHAGEE KAMERAWERK DRESDEN
distributed by
H. LEVINSON PTY. LTD.
N.S.W. bishops on education. The
articles are informed, factual, and bal-
anced. They are guideposts to those
who are conscious of the need of
guarding the Australian Church from
the tragedy of the French; the gulf be-
tween the masses and the clergy.
Your readers may be interested to
know that in the Riverina there has
been for two years now a Diocesan
Educational Advisory Council consist-
ing of clergy, teaching nuns, brothers
and lay teachers, and laymen. Many
of the laymen are elected. Below the
Diocesan Council there are Regional
Councils representing groups of
parishioners. Until he recently left the
Wagga diocese, the chairman of one
of the Regional Councils was a Protest-
ant, and he had a seat on the Diocesan
Council as well. Oddly enough, he was
more conservative than other members
of Irish descent.
Discussion in these councils is free
but constructive, and despite differences
of views, and sometimes these are
strong, each member has a deep respect
for the integrity and bona fides of his
fellows. The fact that all this can come
about is also part of the Irish legacy,
both to the Church and to Australia.
Your last article refers only to one side
of this legacy. There is, however,
another side of magnificent service,
generosity, and sheer hard work which
shines in the pages of “Around the
Boree Log.” I refer your readers in par-
ticular to the poem “Vale, Father Pat.”
There have been many Father Pats.
The first was Father Therry, who,
walking in the streets of Cork one day,
saw a cartload of convicts under escort
proceeding to the docks and Botany
Bay. He followed them across the seas
to the other end of the earth, leaving
for ever the security, comfort, and posi-
tion of respect he held in his home-
land.
He was followed by many others,
whose toil and selflessness and achieve-
ments have left a strong strain of affec-
tion in many Catholics who live to
work in the era of Vatican 11. We are
conscious of our debt to all the Father
Pats, and through them to Ireland,
whose generosity gave them to us.
Amongst these men we have good rea-
son to recall many infantry chaplains
of the AIF. Typical also were the big-
hearted men who formed the Griffith
parish and to a quiet little man known
to many as an astronomer but to
generations of boys and men as a con-
fessor according to the order of the
Cure of Ars.
CHARLES OLLIFFE
Griffith (N.S.W.)
Killing Adult Education?
Sir,
I am consumed with admiration for
Mr. Derek Whitelock (B. Nov. 11).
He has dealt decisively with the
opinions he says I hold, and demon-
strated clearly that the policies he
attributes to me will lead to disaster.
Could you now persuade him to dis-
cuss my actual views and my own sug-
gestions as to policy in the matter of


FOR PROFESSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
AND AMATEUR DESIRES!
ispiiW
*
t i
«r
■R IS
MODEL, X- 355
This is the highest quality Japanese tape recorder on the market. We created this 4-track, 3 speed stereo tape
recorder for professional audio use. The X-355’s solid state amplifier produces 50 watts of music power. (Attach
a tuner and this amplifier doubles as an excellent FM AM radio). This tape recorder features the famous Akai
Cross Field Head, which records from 30 to 24,000 cycles at plus separate playback and erase heads.
You can take sound-on-sound and sound-with-sound, as well as enjoy an echo chamber effect, if you wish. The
dial found at the top is the automatic reverse, repeat and shut-off control. Other important features include the
10 Yi" reel and the remote control capability. If you wish to own a 62.7 lb sound studio, have an Akai dealer show
you our remarkable model X-355.
M-8
MODEL
►
\ '
/-
MODEL X-300
N.S.W. : Magnecord Australiasia Pty., Ltd.
210 Clarence St., Sydney
Victoria : Maurice Chapman & Co., Pty.,
Ltd. P.O. Box 7, North Balwyn
MODEL M-8 CROSS-FIELD HEAD PULS
VERTICAL STEREO
4 track stereo/monaural record and
playback * 4 speeds (I A, 3%, 7A and
15 ips) Frequency response —3O to
25,000 cps at 7A ips
MODEL X-300 10 A" REEL STUDIO
TYPE STEREO TAPE RECORDER
Cross-field head plus 50 watts solid
state amplifier 4 track stereo/mon-
aural record and playback * Frequency
response-30 to 24,000 cps at 7 A. ips
MODEL X-IV SOLID STATE PLUS CROSS-
FIELD HEAD PORTABLE TAPE RE-
CORDER
4 track stereo/monaural record and
playback 4 speeds , IA, 3A" and
7A", per sec.) Frequency response—
-40 to 25,000 cps at 7A ips
MODEL 1710 PORTABLE AND LIGHT
WEIGHT PLUS HIGH QUALITY
4 track stereo/monaural record and
playback 3 speeds {l%, 3% and 7 A
ips) and 15 ips optional * Frequency
response —4O to 18,000 cps at 7A ips
AKAI
TAPE RECORDER
AKAI ELECTRIC CO., LTD.
HIGASHIKOJIYACHO OHTA-KU TOKYO JAPAN
MODEL X-l'J
S 3
1710
MQDBL
Queensland: Chandlers Pty., Ltd.
399 Montague Rd., West'End, Brisbane
S.A. : Nell Muller Pty., Ltd.
8 Arther St., Unley
W.A. : Tedco Pty., Ltd.
579 Murray St., Perth


a great moment
for all
whisky
drinkers
Connoisseurs are aware of the vital part grain plays in pro-
ducing a fine, smooth whisky. Australian barley, grown
under ideal climatic conditions, has reached such high
quality that it is now recognised internationally for its
superb whisky-producing qualities. This is important for
Australia; it is important for the entire Australian Whisky
industry. For the first time our modern distilleries, with
their highly skilled blenders and strict quality controls, are
now able to create smooth, matured whiskies of truly
unique character.
This is the era when Australian Whisky has achieved full
international recognition—so much so that it is being
sought in increasing quantities by overseas countries.
Connoisseurs are already celebrating this new era. Why
not join in and enjoy a nip or two tonight? You’ll be
pleasantly surprised.
adult education? This might prove to
be very valuable.
The Australian Universities Commis-
sion recommended, in effect, to the
Commonwealth Government that no
further funds should be given to the
universities to support their adult edu-
cation activities. The grounds for this
recommendation are quite clear. The
AUC says it thinks that universities
should not offer sub-university standard
courses these should be undertaken
by other and more appropriate bodies.
I agree with this recommendation,
and have said so publicly. If Mr. White-
lock does not agree, will he tell us
why? It must be either (1) that he
thinks universities should offer sub-
standard courses or (2) that he thinks
the adult education courses offered by
the universities are at university level.
Or is there some other reason?
I did go a little further than this. I
expressed the hope that before the uni-
versities stop providing adult education,
the Commonwealth Government might
be induced to institute some sort of
inquiry into the whole matter and to
try to get at the facts upon which a
national policy and program for adult
education might be based. This seems
to me quite a sensible suggestion. But
Mr. Whitelock hasn’t said a word about
it. If he doesn’t agree, would he tell us
why?
C. R. BADGER
Director,
Council of Adult Education.
Melbourne (Vic.)
Protest from Singapore
Sir,
In a 32-page supplement on Aus-
tralia published in our “Straits Times”
last week Donald Horne writes “it
may be the destiny of Australia to be-
come the first really successful society
of multi-racial origin, relatively homo-
geneous in social character, but indiffer-
ent to the color of skin or the shape
of noses.”
The first? It’s hard to take this in
Singapore. Here in my Department of
History I have Singapore people of
English, Bulgarian, Arab, Pakistan,
Indian, Jewish, Malay, Ceylonese,
Indonesian, Eurasian, Chinese, Philip-
pine, and Japanese origin. Unusual?
No, merely a microcosm of Singapore.
Had Mr. Horne forgotten his Singa-
pore audience when he wrote that
statement?
K. G. TREGONNING
Raffles Professor of History,
Singapore University.
Singapore
Not in the Catalogue
Sir,
In his review of the Transfield
Sculpture Prize Exhibition, entitled
“Sculpture Saturation,” in THE
BULLETIN on November 19, Mr.
Elwyn Lynn makes two references to
my introduction to the catalogue. In
the first he says that the introduction
“suggests that the latest experiment in
kinetic sculpture and assemblage of
vulgar, plastic materials will not stand
the test of bronze, aluminium, and
steel.” The introduction actually says
of “works that move, use optical illu-
sion, show bright colors, enlarge popu-
lar images, borrow cut-outs or even use
more violent means of visual confron-
tation” that they “will, in the long run,
be tested against the achievements of
sculptors such as those exhibiting here,
and other artists in the broader range
of plastic arts.” The introduction does
not comment on the result of compari-
son nor does it contrast plastic and
metal sculpture.
In the second he follows up his com-
ment on the plastic statue called
“Sacrifice,” made by Vincas Jomantas,
with the statement, “Sacrifice, says the
catalogue introduction, is what sculp-
tors make as well as sculpture.” The
word sacrifice is not used in the intro-
duction, and the conception is not in-
directly used. The main sentence in
the section which may be referred to
reads, “The investment cost for the
sculptor in space, tools, and materials


ANSETTANA
o #od harxfc
CREDIT CARD
ON ACCOUNT
OF
ADDRESS..
1111111
CARDHOLDER.
s*
..T*
40 i
Card Holder's Signature
Signature of Authorising Officer
ANSETT*ANA is authorised to debit the above account with ail charges incurred by the card
holder, or on the authority of the card holder, in connection with passenger travel and the
carriage of freight on its services and the services of associated ANSETT AIRLINES. This card
remains the property of ANSETT-ANA and must be returned on demand.
Little card
big help
The biggest thing about an Ansett-AN A Credit Card (it only meas-
ures 3|" x 2|"!) is the way it helps do a speedy, efficient job for the
businessmen in a hurry. With an Ansett-ANA Credit Card in your
wallet you can: Charge travel in Australia and Papua-New Guinea by
Ansett-ANA or other airlines, air cargo, air express, holidays, tours,
bus or rail travel, hotel accommodation deposits, overnight bags,
excess luggage and Avis Rent-a-Cars.
Enjoy immediate credit rating with a wide variety of other services
throughout Australia and Papua-New Guinea. Simplify paperwork
for yourself,, your accountant and your company because your
Ansett-ANA Credit Card charges are made on fully-itemised monthly
statements.
When you get your Ansett-ANA Credit Card just read the small
print on the back: “The holder. . . will be extended every courtesy
and attention by company personnel”.
It's a big claim for such a little card but that’s just what happens
every time you fly on an Ansett-ANA Credit Account.
Obtain your credit card from Ansett-ANA now!
System of the Golden Jets
ANSETT-ANA
A DIVISION OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES
AA/6665
was demonstrated by the accidental
destruction earlier this year of Flugel-
man’s studio at Oyster Bay, Sydney,
which was the only private studio cap-
able of handling cast iron.” There is
nothing in the reference to the efforts
of sculptors in general or Flugelman in
particular that should remind viewers
of the experience symbolised in Joman-
tas’ “Sacrifice,” or “sacrifice.”
Mr. Lynn also uses the mistake in
the subscription of the catalogue. I
actually signed myself as I do on this
letter,
H. D. NICOLSON
Sydney (N.S.W.)
"RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION"
"^Bulletin
86 Years Ago: December 4, 1880.
'JVHE “S.M. Herald” has let the cat
out of the bag. The Education
Act was never meant, it now trans-
pires, to mete out equal justice to
all. It was devised, and is to be
maintained, as a new Act of Uni-
formity. With its assistance all the
rising generation are to be indoc-
trinated with just so much dogma
as suffices to turn out an orthodox
Protestant dissenter on the Congre-
gationalist model. The children are
to be taught no more religion in the
State schools, but they are to be
taught no less. The Act provides
nominally for secular education, but
secular education is interpreted as
meaning “general religious teaching.”
What on earth, then, IS general
religious teaching? Is it an ollapo-
drida of isms, from Mohammedanism
to Mormonism ? The phrase is
absolutely incapable of exact defini-
tion, and can only be interpreted by
the voice of authority. But we thought
that we had been struggling all this
time, with the “Herald” as standard-
bearer, to shake off once and for all
from this free colony the power of
authority in matters of religion. It
appears that we have shaken off the
influence of Pope and Prelate, the
intrusion of Missal and Bible in our
schools, merely to submit ourselves
to High Priest Parkes and the gospel
according to the . “Herald.” Jew,
Rationalist, and Papist are enjoined
to bow down before the new Head
of the Faith, and to gorge the freshly
revised Gospel according to the in-
spired series of Irish National School
Books, without malcontent murmurs.
The Jew is to share in the “equal
rights” and “no offence to any,”
about which so many handsome lies
have been written.
The Instruction Act, as it stands,
embodies a fraud perpetrated upon
all men of liberal sentiment who
helped in the struggle for universal,
free, and secular instruction which
should be fair to all. The Instruc-
tion Act must be purged of the de-
ceit which has been insinuated into
its provisions, and purified till State
education becomes what honest sup-
porters meant it to be—Fair, Free,
and SECULAR but not indepen-
dent.


A
All over the world,on six continents
120 countries and on more than 90 a
is to Rothmans King Size - the w
most wanted - King Size Virgi
hard to find: Rothmans ex
“Puro-Thresh” tobacco th
give you that coole
taste. Rothm
f
Qt
.
KING SIZE
Aij ST|
*lia.
All over the world,on six continents, in over
120 countries and on more than 90 airlines the swing
is to Rothmans King Size - the world’s largest-selling -
most wanted - King Size Virginia. The reason is not
hard to find: Rothmans extra length,finer filter and
“Puro-Thresh” tobacco - the best tobacco money can buy
give you that cooler, smoother, more satisfying
taste. Rothmans King Size really satisfies.
Australia’s
largest-selling
export cigarette.
WORLD COPYRIGHT FK2.AUS.


System/360
is for you
if you always buy
on price
Look at System/360 the way you look at a new
lathe, truck or a materials handling system.
To judge value, you must look at more than
basic equipment price.
You must first measure total work done.
Then measure total dollars spent for that work.
We designed System/360 to cut costs by
increasing total work done per dollar.
System/360, and the programming systems
that come with it, let you handle more than one
job at a time. These programming systems take
over much of the work of scheduling and
routing data through the system.
That speeds programming and simplifies
operation. It cuts the time it takes to go from a
manager with a problem to a computer and back
to the manager with a solution to the problem.
Here’s another way Systeml36o keeps down your costs.-
It comes in your size. If you are small, the
system is small. If you’re big, the system is big.
You can tailor it to fit. You don’t have to limp
along with a system that’s not quite big enough
or fast enough.
You'll never be saddled with a system that’s
more powerful than you need for existing
problems. Not now. Nor next year. Nor five
years from now.
The programming, the central processor, the
printers, files, communications terminals
everything fits like a glove. A stretchable glove.
You see, System/360 grows as your needs
grow. Just as quickly. Just as slowly. It ex-
pands without major reprogramming expense.
It helps you grow. It helps you make a profit
to grow with. Wouldn’t you like
a computer like that?
System/360—the computer with a future.
IBM
IBM AUSTRALIA LIMITED
18M.58.108


Face of the Week
The Federal elections were con-
ducted by 39,000 officials in 10,000
polling booths; and during the week
other statistics showed 3,707,000 in
the work force, and that two com-
ponents of the economy, the wool
cheque and housing figures, were
rising. Most of Australia had a pre-
summer heat wave, with tempera-
tures in the 90s and 100 s. Nearly ten
people had drowned in boating mis-
haps by the end of the week. Two
racing car drivers were killed at Oran
Park in N.S.W.; that State’s road
toll had risen above 1000 for the
year. In Wangaratta, Victoria, a
Supreme Court jury discharged a
driver whose tourist bus had crashed
into a semi-trailer last June, killing
five. The RAAF banned most pub-
lic flying displays, because of their
high cost. Miss Margaret Rohan,
of S.A., became Miss Australia 1967.
★
After a week of negotiations, 440
Qantas pilots decided to go on strike,
and nine airliners were immediately
grounded in seven overseas countries.
The Papua-New Guinea Administra-
tion said it would negotiate for sub-
stantial share holdings in any big
future enterprise in the Territory.
The House of Assembly decided on a
5 percent mining royalties payment
to landowners, rather than to Gov-
ernment; favored an income tax;
and increased M.P.s’ salaries to
$2500 a year. Tennis champion Roy
Emerson refused an offer of
$50,000 to become a professional.
Victorian cricketer lan Meckiff sued
Australia’s captain Bob Simpson, now
on tour in South Africa, for unspeci-
fied damages for libel.
★
Civil Aviation Minister Swartz
ordered an inquiry for early 1967
into the September airliner crash
near Winton (Qld.). Qantas said it
would build a jet airliner base at Tul-
lamarine in Victoria, but Sydney
airport would continue as its main
base. The Firemen and Deckhands
Union tied up the movement of oil
tankers on the Australian coast in
protest against lack of cargoes for
R. Miller taijkers, one of which was
sold to a Philippines shipping com-
pany. The Secretary of Immigra-
tion, Mr. Heydon, predicted that
18,000 of Australia’s present
migrants would leave next year. A
fire destroyed a $1 million textile
mill at Moe, in Victoria. The AJC
lifted its 1961 ten-year ban on jockey
Mel Schumacher. The N.S.W.
police were given $152-$450 annual
wage increases. English swimmer
Linda Ludgrove decided to migrate
to Australia.
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4526
DECEMBER 3, 1966
Time for a Change
A FTER his handsome victory
last Saturday Mr. Holt can
go ahead now with complete con-
fidence that the Australian people
support him in the general orien-
tation of his policies. But it could
be disastrous if he mistook this
general support for a complete en-
dorsement of his record and that
of his Ministers. Reforms are
urgently needed in the Government
parties as well as in the so-called
Opposition.
To begin with, Mr. Holt should
completely reconstruct his Minis-
try. The biggest change needed is
a new Minister for External
Affairs, a man who will raise the
low morale of the Department and
enter into an educative dialogue
with the public on the issues we
face in our foreign relations. Mr.
Fairhall is the obvious man for the
job. He has handled Defence ad-
ministration with competence and
debated defence policy energetic-
ally and effectively. His present
position could well be filled by
Senator Gorton, and the oppor-
tunity taken to prune back unnec-
essary positions by abandoning the
Service Ministries. Mr. Cheyney
and Mr. Howson would be no loss
and Mr. Fraser has done so well
in the Army portfolio that he de-
serves promotion. Mr. Hasluck, in
turn, being the scholarly type,
would make a good Minister for
Education. Mr. Edward St. John
must go straight into the Ministry,
and Immigration and Territories
are departments which could do
with a man of his sensitivity and
capacity. Neither Mr. Opperman
nor Mr. Barnes has shown these
qualities. Mr. Fairbairn has not
impressed in National Develop-
ment, which should be given im-
mediately to the indefatigable Mr.
W. G. Wentworth. Mr. McEwen
must soon retire and the Depart-
ment of Trade and Industry must
go to a man with some economic
expertise which spells Mr. Bury.
South Australia’s Mr. Kelly would
be a good Minister for Labor and
National Service. Mr. W. Aston
and Mr. H. B. Turner are others
who must be used in ministerial
positions.
As for Labor, its problems are
grim ones of basic survival. Many
Labor people will try to make Mr.
Calwell their scapegoat. But he
faithfully reflected the aspirations
of the predominant bases of the
Party, narrow and mistaken and
odious though these may be.
Things will not be suddenly differ-
ent without him, although the
choices will be clearer. At the time
of writing it is not clear whether
Mr. Allan Fraser has lost his seat
but it will be very fitting if he has,
for he represents that section of
once moderate Labor which has in
the last 18 months capitulated to
the Left in foreign policy while
remaining flexible and opportunist
on domestic matters. Without Mr.
Fraser there is a clear choice be-
tween Mr. Whitlam and Dr.
Cairns.
A Labor Party headed by Whit-
lam would be a shambles unless
he quickly purged the Party of the
pro - Communists. Reunification
with the DLP would logically
follow. But all this may be beyond
the imagination and capacity of
Mr. Whitlam and the Labor Party
may prefer to go with Dr.
Cairns. He will lead them into
lonely isolated places but those of
them that remain will get fulsome
psychic satisfaction from their grim
adherence to strange principles.


THIS AUSTRALIA
No Slide Rules in the Albert
From PETER SAMUEL
in. Canberra
There was no sophistication needed by commentators last Saturday night in the
tally room in Canberra’s Albert Hall. Slide rules and calculating machines could be
left unused, so obvious was the trend on voting.
The dimensions of the landslide to
the Government were so great that the
assembled journalists spent most of their
time examining their surprise as one
result after another was posted on the
boards around the room.
On the right of the room at the back
were the Liberal Party officials. Federal
Secretary . Willoughby was excitedly
sucking on his cigar and downing the
occasional scotch in between long series
of phone calls to organisers and exuber-
ant interviews with Press and radio
men. On the left of the Hall Labor
Party Secretary Cyril Wyndham looked
predictably dejected and nervy. Only
big Jim Fraser, the local ALP candi-
date, looked happy and he had every
reason to. With Bill Harding and Rex
Patterson, he was one of the very few
Labor Party men who consolidated their
position.
Conversation in the Hall centred not
on the outcome as usual, but on the
reasons for the big swing. Labor sup-
porters tend to sum it up with the
phrase “Orrible Arthur,” blaming the
defeat on the personal performance of
the Federal leader. Others agreed that
he had not helped the Labor cause but
claimed that he was not the main fac-
tor in the defeat. General dissension
and lack of purpose had exacerbated
Labor’s bad image but undoubtedly the
Government now had massive public
support on foreign policy and Vietnam.
There was not much talk about
Labor, beyond the comment that almost
everyone of the Labor men to lose their
seats was a Whitlam supporter. On the
other hand the election could not be
interpreted as anything but a rebuff for
Cairns-type policies. The victory of Sam
Benson, the ALP rebel, was one of the
great surprises for most commentators.
Having in rnind the. reluctance of more
than a few thousand voters usually to
support an independent, and his lack of
campaign funds, they had written him
off as a serious proposition. His victory
was taken as symbolic of the larger
rejection of Labor’s equivocation about
the country’s defence.
In conclusion we should report that
Malcolm McKerras, a Liberal Party
Research Officer, is up for 70 beers.
Reflecting the Liberal Party Secre-
tariat’s general cautiousness about the
result, he had offered a beer to each
member of the Press Gallery if the
Government majority was greater than
29 or smaller than 23.
Labor’s Backroom Victory
From ALAN REID
The Australian voter is determined to maintain the Australia-United States
Alliance, and the ALP is a party of aging members.
Put those two factors together—and
superimpose on them frightening, ugly
and organised violence of the Rockdale
meeting where for the first time in Aus-
tralian political history an Australian
Prime Minister was physically assaulted
in a public street —and, in my view,
you have the ingredients for the Labor-
smashing Holt victory at last weekend’s
Federal poll.
If this judgment is accepted, then
the ALP’s Left Wing carries a heavy
responsibility for Labor’s pathetic vote.
It was the Left Wing of the ALP that
wanted this election fought on foreign
policy and laid down the kind of anti-
U.S. foreign policy it was going to be.
The Left Wing did not mind losing. For
a long time now the only significant
power points remaining in Labor not
under Left Wing control have been the
N.S.W. ALP State branch and the
Federal Parliamentary Labor Party.
The Left Wingers cynically worked out
that if Labor lost the elections, it would
be the pro-American Right Wingers who
would vanish from the Parliament. If
a sufficient number of Right Wingers
went, the Left would control the Federal
Parliamentary Labor Party leadership
and from that vantage point be able
to turn the N.S.W. ALP from its Right
Wing loyalties into a Left Wing appen-
dage of the already Left Wing-controlled
Federal ALP machine.
The Left Wingers realise that, as a
completely Left Wing grouping, the ALP
would have little electoral appeal. But
they hold firmly to the opinion that
the Liberal-Country Party coalition
which has governed Australia federally
for the past 17 years has within itself
the seeds of its own destruction. To
some extent they are justified in this
belief. There are always strains in a
coalition government. (The strains
manifested themselves during the present
election, with the Liberals avidly try-
ing to win two CP-held seats in West-
ern Australia and the Country Party
Leader John McEwen feuding openly
with Transport Minister Gordon Freeth
and sections of the Liberal machine.)
They have only to sit back and wait.
Sooner or later, the Liberal-Country
Party coalition will disintegrate. When
that happens there will be a political
vacuum. They will represent the only
available alternative government. They
will fill the vacuum and take over the
government of Australia.
Where the Left Wing may have mis-
calculated is that in purging the Labor
Party of its Right Wing elements they
may not simply be reducing the Party
to a highly controlled and controllable
Left Wing grouping. They may be
destroying the Party. When there is a
vacuum, caused by a disintegration of
the Liberal-CP coalition, they may not
be the ones called upon to fill the
vacuum. By then other forces may have
emerged.
For Labor is undoubtedly heading
toward the funeral parlours. Its aging,
dedicated and mostly depression-
bred supporters are dying out, and
they are not being replaced by youth-
ful recruits. It is the Liberals (and to
some extent the Democratic Labor
Party) that are attracting the young.
The young do not live back in 1917
and the period between 1941 and 1949
when the late John Curtin and the late
Ben Chifley (neither of whom, though
radical, could be described as left-
wingers) were Labor Prime Ministers.
Significantly, Dr. Rex Patterson, Labor
MHR for Dawson in Queensland,
represents a viewpoint that is accept-
able to the younger voter. His views
on Vietnam are much closer to those
of the Holt Government than they are
to the ALP’s Left Wing. He survived in
Dawson, though it has been a Country
Party stronghold for years, while Right
Wingers who, afraid of the Left Wing’s
vengeance, meekly accepted the Left
Wing’s anti-U.S. policies, have been
beaten.
Another one who survived despite
the avalanche against Labor was
Voting in Sydney’s Bondi


George Grey in Capricornia. He also
supports the defence programme and
the U.S. alliance. During the elections,
he and his supporters in Capicornia did
not mention Labor’s Vietnam policy.
Even before the campaign, when Grey
was asked if he proposed to follow the
guidance of Federal ALP President
Jim Keeffe, Q., and demonstrate
against the Government’s Vietnam
policies, he said bluntly “No.” He has
a son, a sergeant with the permanent
military forces, in Vietnam.
Grey and Patterson survived. But
the slaughter in Labor’s ranks was
among rightwingers—Sexton, Reynolds,
Galvin, Coutts.
Now the Left Wing clearly has the
ascendancy. At this stage, it is hard
to see how Labor is going to solve its
difficulties. There are really two parties
operating utider the common label of
ALP. They differ as widely on quite
fundamental issues as Labor differs
from the Liberals. If Opposition Leader
Arthur Calwell resigns, as he has under-
taken to do, and he is replaced by his
present deputy Gough Whitlam, that
will probably solve nothing. The Left
Wing which is in a position to decide
who shall succeed Calwell may decide
to give Whitlam the job in order that
the Party has a respectable front. But he
will have to pay a price. That price
will be that he becomes the Left Wing’s
creature, obeying their edicts.
Tanner
"The vote reflected my growing moturity of judgment. What about you?"
Whitlam v. Daly
What is going to happen to Labor after its seventh consecutive Federal electoral
defeat?
In the struggle for the post-Calwell
leadership, discussion is usually about
Mr. Whitlam or Dr. Cairns (assuming
Mr. Allan Fraser has lost Eden-
Monaro), but Whitlam may also meet
a determined challenge from Fred
Daly, of New South Wales. Whitlam’s
weakness is that while he commands
respect he does not always command
loyalty. He has never displayed much
political talent for looking after his
mates, or, indeed, for consulting them.
Daly, who is rather like the old-style
Catholic Tammany Hall moderate in
political principles, and always ready to
do a deal for the numbers, is likely to
get a fair measure of support from the
Caucus Left Wing. At present the Left
seem resigned to the fact that Cairns
has little chance against Whitlam in a
straight contest and are inclined to the
view that Daly is a much better bet for
their cause than Whitlam. Daly is most
unlikely to work for important changes
in the Party structure or to take radi-
cal action against the Victorian and
Queensland branches.
The Trade Union Defence Commit-
tee, which runs the Victorian Labor
Party, claims it has received a firm tip
that Whitlam’s first major act if he wins
leadership will be to deliver an ulti-
matum that the TUDC go into liquida-
tion, unity tickets between Communists
and ALP members cease, and the Vic-
torian ALP executive become much
more representative of the Party as a
whole. This information seems accurate,
as does the further report that if Vic-
toria does not mend its ways Whitlam
will try to have the branch declared
bogus and set up a new executive to
run the Party in the State. Names which
figure prominently in discussions about
a new executive include those of Mick
Jordan, secretary of the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council, “Barney” Wil-
liams, secretary of the Australian Coun-
cil of Salaried and Professional Associa-
tions, and Bob Hawke, industrial advo-
cate for the ACTU.
Whitlam looms as a huge threat to
the interests of the Left, which has so
much influence in Victoria, Queensland,
and, to a declining degree, Western
Australia, and his ambition to capture
the Treasury benches for the Party and
the Prime Ministership for himself will
drive him to take radical action against
his intra-Party opponents. The Left


“We would like
to show you what makes a
the
Patek Philippe
ost costly wrist watch
you can 0wn...0r give
Says George Proud
Managing Director of Prouds, Australia’s National Jewellers
99
George Proud,
second-generation
head of Prouds,
talks about
Switzerland’s
finest watch.
“There is indeed a watch with a starting price of $425. Its
name is Patek Philippe. It has been the traditional choice of
monarchs and heads of state since 1839. still ls •
“And as you’d expect, it is also the precision leader among
Swiss watches. Eight times during the past ten years, Patek
Philippe took first place in the annual accuracy contest of the
Geneva Observatory.
“We are the only jewellers in Australia to carry this distin-
guished watch. Not only do we regard Patek Philippe as the
finest watch made in Switzerland; we also know that a Patek
Philippe always represents demonstrably fair value.
“ I therefore invite you personally to visit a Prouds store in
order to wind a Patek Philippe. (You can actually feel the
difference.)
“Or to compare the movement of a Patek Philippe with that
of a series-produced watch. (You can readily see the difference.)
“Or to let us tell you about the significance of the Geneva
Seal on the movement of a Patek Philippe. (This distinction is
reserved for about one watch in ten thousand.)
“You will then appreciate that, as the owner of a Patek Philippe,
you will have acquired a rare and precious possession which a
grandchild may still be wearing in another day and age.”
Prouds will be pleased to send you the latest catalogue of Patek Philippe
horological creations.
1
£E=lsE
Patek Philippe Model 3 514/4. Winds itself while you wear it. The calendar advances automatically . Waterproof.
Case and bracelet in solid 18 ct. yellow gold: $1,510. In white gold: $1,625.
SYDNEY
Corner King & Pitt Streets
Hotel Australia, Castlereagh Street
BRISBANE
Corner Adelaide & Edward Streets
P 9-t
iroiids
MELBOURNE
319-321 Bourke Street
T. Gaunt & Co., 337-339 Bourke Street
ADELAIDE
66 Rundle Street


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
Paid up capital
$23,350,000
NEW ISSUE-DEBENTURE STOCK
O
6%-12 MONTHS
7-10 YEARS
Other rates and terms available see Prospectus for full
details Prospectus and application form available from:
• BROKERS lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z. BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
1116
seems prepared to back Daly, Frank
Crean, or Allan Fraser against him.
A Daly-Cairns ticket would suit the
Left best, but the doubt about fear of
Cairns driving votes toward Whitlam
makes a Daly-Crean ticket more likely
at present. Such a combination of New
South Wales and Victorian interests
could give Whitlam a hard fight. There
must be little comfort for many Labor
supporters in the thought that Harold
Holt would have no doubts about where
to cast his vote if a Caucus gave him
one.
Brand’s Image
Premier David Brand is ending this
parliamentary session stripped of much
of the confidence that might he ex-
pected of a man who has held power
in Western Australia longer than Lord
Forrest’s record term.
At times over the past few weeks his
disappointment at what he has con-
sidered to be personal failures has been
deep, lasting for days. He has spoken to
several people of resigning.
The reason is plain. In all the
internal failures, the Premier has
omitted to seek a consensus, and in the
manner of those who no longer h^ ve
to strive for success he has looked in-
wardly, seeking advice on key issues
within the Government. Opposition
from pro-Government groups, then, has
shocked him.
The exception has been one of his
more bitter disappointments . . . the
decision by Canberra not to go ahead
with financing the Ord’s second stage.
But, in an upset that hurt Mr. Brand
even more than this, he put his head
on the block over retention of the
Old Barracks archway, and had it lop-
ped by a stinging vote, against his
wishes, by his own Government Mem-
bers.
More typical has been the latest con-
flict over the Motor Vehicle Insurance
Bill, where the Premier faces the dilem-
ma either of backing down or an-
tagonising his own Party. This Bill sets
up a Government tribunal to settle
third-party claims, taking this preroga-
tive from the Supreme Court and with
it the traditional right of appeal.
The Law Society and the RAC op-
posed the idea bitterly after it was put
up as an alternative to the Country
Party call last year for a Royal Com-
mission into the motor vehicle in-
surance scheme in' which the State
Government Insurance Office plays a
key role. In the Party rooms the scheme
had only marginal support and, by
going ahead last week, Brand defied his
own Party. His defiance rebounded
when Liberal Lower House rebels
amended the Bill to retain a right of
appeal to the courts, destroying the
Tribunal’s exclusive control of awards.
The Bill may even be thrown out in the
Upper House.
As he was fighting this battle, the
Premier had another on his hands as
the Government put up a Bill to with-
draw from civil servants their hallowed
right of appeal against new appoint-
ments, and to establish a civil service
arbiter to take over, from the Public
Service Commissioner, disputes on
salary claims when agreement between
Premier Brand and wife.
employer and employee cannot be
reached.
The 7000-strong Civil Service Asso-
ciation uncharacteristically came close
to striking over this (it would have
been their second strike in 50 years)
when 1000 members turned out to pro-
test. The Bill has not been withdrawn
but many of its teeth have been pulled
and review has been promised next
year, significantly only a few weeks
before the State elections.
Civil servants who protested were
still smarting over the Government
taking from the Industrial Commission
the right to determine quarterly cost-
of-living wage adjustments. The State
basic wage had galloped $1.85 ahead
of the Federal basic wage, and the
Treasury people were upset, calling
for a halt to this inflationary trend.
But it was using a sledgehammer to
kill a gnat, for the move affected
190,000 workers, and presumably
alienated a number of them, although
88 percent of- these are not civil ser-
vants; the freeze had not been sought
from private employers’ representatives.
There are other examples of people
traditionally on-side with the Govern-
ment not being consulted on issues
affecting them. A measure to give the
State owned Rural and Industries Bank
the right to use Government money
to build homes was introduced as a Bill
before the Master Builders’ Association
heard about it. Amendments had to be
accepted in the Upper House from
a Government Member.
The Government had to withdraw a
proposal to give longer hours to second-
hand car dealers, when the dealers
themselves protested. A Local Govern-
ment Act Amendment Bill exempting
the bulk grain people, Cooperative Bulk
Handling, from rates was being given a
particularly rough passage before de-
bate was adjourned.
For the public at. large, the Govern-
ment has raised practically every con-
ceivable charge, making talk of State
prosperity sound rather sick since the
high wages have been operating mainly
in the north, and most wage-earners
simply reap the backlash. Then there
are such hotly disputed issues as fluori-
dation pushed through.
If Mr. Brand were to go to the polls
tomorrow, it is doubtful if his Govern-
ment would be returned, even allowing
for the weak Opposition. But this
lapse of leadership and the disappoint-
ments and controversial Bills of the
past few months have come in an off-
election year. The real danger would
come if the holes cannot be caulked
before the next session of Parliament.


This is a conventional storage system
. . .
: V
• M
■v
This is Brownbuilt COMPACTUS
m
nn®sg _
This is
the space saved
The Brownbuilt Compactus Mobile Stor-
age system has the same storage capa-
city, but the conventional static storage
system illustrated needs four access
aisles Compactus needs only one.
But it's “movable”. And that’s the space-
saving, money-saving difference. The
Brownbuilt Compactus system turns
wasted aisle space into hard-working
storage space, by making just one “mov-
able” aisle do the work. This means Com-
pactus can give you the same storage
capacity in only half the floor area. Or
twice as much in the same floor area.
Compactus systems, manual or power
operated, range from office file and stor-
age units to 500 ton heavy duty installa-
tions. Compactus could help you, give us
a call now!
Brownbuilt
LIMITED
STEEL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
MELBOURNE: 48 0311 • SYDNEY: 27 7821
BRISBANE: 47 4077 • ADELAIDE: 76 5111
CANBERRA: 9 4824 • HOBART: 2 6571
LAUNCESTON: 2 5584 • PERTH: 50 1241 OR 21 5967
1292
Police PR
Last week’s Press photographs of
objector William White’s arrest were
probably the worst PR the police forces
in Australia have had in many years,
and came at a time when, according to
a recent Canberra survey, respect for
the police is at an ebb.
The Canberra survey was only a
pilot study, in which the research team
was refused permission to even approach
A.C.T. policemen for interviews, but
questioning the public revealed that
fewer Canberra people (60 percent)
said they had greater respect for the
police than was the case in Britain
during a similar but more general in-
quiry, when 83 percent felt “great
respect.”
To follow up, Sydney University’s
Institute of Criminology is planning an
Australia-wide survey of relations be-
tween the police and the public. So far,
the South Australian Police Force has
offered co-operation and assistance, and
eventually the researchers hope to make
similar surveys in all States and possibly
in New Zealand.
A widespread belief that the police
“no longer enjoyed the undivided sup-
port and confidence of the public” led
to the United Kingdom Royal Commis-
sion on the Police, which began in 1960.
The researchers came from the British
Government’s Social Survey organisa-
tion and their aim was to establish just
what the British public thought about
the police, and vice versa.
Contrary to the belief of many police
critics, the researchers found that re-
lations were, on the whole, very good.
The marked exceptions were young
people and motorists. Social Survey
reported: “The relations between these
two groups and the police appear to be
a matter of concern (and) suggest that
the situation will deteriorate unless
some means can be found to reduce the
difficulties that appear to exist between
them.”
The Canberra survey, however
limited in scope, indicated that this may
be more so in Australia.
Of the 250 Canberra residents inter-
viewed, only 25 percent of these in the
17-20 age group said they had respect
for the police; in the 21-30 group the
percentage rose to 51 and continued
increasing as the age groups did.
Among motorists, 56 percent had re-
spect; among non-motorists, 75 percent;


mm
T’t
r*ws<
*#s**s?;
- :
• s»
m
xvzaat*
'<■■■ i-
mm
Si-irS.
Cinzano Vermouth is a great party drink; fashionable, and
not expensive. Superb in cocktails, it's utterly enjoyable
straight and very cold, "on-the-rocks,” or with a little
soda. Add a professional touch by serving—
CINZANO SWEET (red) with a lemon peel
CINZANO EXTRA DRY with an olive
CINZANO BIANCO (sweet white) with a cherry
CINZANO AMARO (pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
CINZANO
-"■■■v.v-'l
House Founded 1757
Write to Cinzano. Birmingham Street. Alexandria. N.S.W., lor
"Have a Cinzano Party" folder.
figures “broadly akin to those in the
United Kingdom survey.”
Similarly, both in the U.K. and
Canberra, while most people thought it
unlikely the police took bribes or used
unnecessary force in making arrests, 40
percent thought the police occasionally
twisted evidence to win a case, or (46
percent) thought they used unfair meth-
ods to obtain information. If anything,
the proportions of British people who
had these fears were smaller.
If similar figures emerge in the Aus-
tralia-wide surveys, this is information
the Police Forces should have. At least
it would enable them to select more
photogenic officers for tasks such as
the White arrest, where wide publicity
would guarantee Press coverage.
Melbourne’s
Archbishop
The failing health of Melbourne’s
Roman Catholic Archbishop, Dr. Justin
Simonds, has increased speculation in
his Archdiocese that he may be about
to retire.
After many long years as an un-
prominent deputy to Dr. Mannix, Dr.
Dr. Justin Simonds
Simonds became Archbishop of Mel-
bourne in 1963 at the age of 73. He has
since been plagued by poor health and
recently suffered a stroke.
Catholic officials in Melbourne last
week denied that the retirement of
Archbishop Simonds was imminent, but
there is no doubt that the administrative
problems raised by Dr. Simonds’
inability to carry out his duties are
mounting.
A number of names are being men-
tioned in speculation in clerical circles
about the likely successor to the See.
The favorites are Bishop Fox, of Mel-
bourne, and Archbishop Young, of
Hobart.
Bishop Fox, who had been quiet for
a couple of years, crashed back into
the headlines recently when he made
a public statement attacking the ALP
for quoting the Pope out of context.
He said, “Pope Paul pointed out very
clearly that it was not peace at any
price, but a just peace he was advocat-
ing . . . His Holiness said, ‘This peace
must rest on justice and the liberty of
mankind and take into account the
rights of individuals and communities.
Otherwise, it will be shifting and un-
stable.’ ”
At present Bishop Fox is Auxiliary
Bishop of Melbourne, and his appoint-
ment would be applauded by supporters
of the DLP, but not by Liberal Catho-
lies such as those in the new Catholic
Peace Group and on the “Catholic
Worker.” Bishop Fox has always been
a strong supporter of the opinions of
Mr. Santamaria and the National Civic
Council. As a reference to Croatia in
his recent statement shows, he is a
determined, though unsubtle, anti-
Communist.
Archbishop Young is also a defender
of the work of the National Civic
Council, but he would be more accept-
able to Melbourne Catholic intellec-
tuals, lay and clerical, because of his
liberal attitudes on most public issues,
and because of his reputation as an
outstanding pastor. He is generally re-
garded as one of the finest bishops
in Australian history, but it is possible
that his work in Hobart has been so
successful that he may not feel inclined
to move.
Bishop Thomas, of Western Australia,
and Bishop Brennan, of Queensland, are
also regarded as being in the running
for the Melbourne Archbishopric. If
Bishop Fox is thought to be too politic -
ally controversial, and Archbishop
Young chooses to remain in Tasmania,
they may become the leading con-
tenders. The disheartening thing for
some Melbourne Catholics is that, apart
from Archbishop Young, the likely
candidates are close to 60 or older.


THE 51st STATE?
The Case for U.S. Investment in Australia
By PETER SAMUEL
PERHAPS he was too concerned to
get through his long list of
election offers. In any case, Mr.
Calwell hardly mentioned foreign in-
vestment in his election policy speech
the other week. Yet the question, old
as it is, and the debate, sterile though
it has been, is bound to remain alive
in the years ahead.
Strangely, foreign investment is
identified with American investment.
British investment is older, assimilated.
It is more in banks, broking, insur-
ance, the inconspicuous parts of busi-
ness; much of it is hidden in joint ven-
tures behind a facade of Australian
equity. Most important, it isn’t grow-
ing very fast. American investment, on
the other hand, is newer, more con-
spicuous, more successful, and expand-
ing most rapidly.
Before World Ward 11, U.S. invest-
ment was negligible and even through
the decade after the war it did not
average more than ssom. a year. It
has only been since 1958 that it has
become large, averaging s2oom.
fluctuating between sl43m. in the 1961-
62 recession year and about s3oom.
last year. It seems likely to be about
s2som. this year. At this level it is
financing about one-tenth of all capital
expenditure by private business in
Australia. . It is no more than half
our annual expenditure on roads and
hot so much greater than the amount
spent on school and university build-
ings. So it is not an extraordinarily
large amount of money. And yet, of
course, it is a very controversial
amount.
reasons are partly in the field of
economics, where it is extremely
difficult to measure the value of current
benefits being gained and to put a
figure on the long-term costs which will
eventually have to be set against these.
But a lot of antipathy comes from out-
side economics, from nationalist pre-
judice in particular. This is expressed
in the question: “Why should these
foreigners be-allowed to control and ex-
ploit our resources?” An even more
extreme proposition is that the con-
tinuance of U.S. investment will soon
lead us into a position of subjugation
to the U.S., making us, in a phrase, the
“51st State.” A crude tract called
“The Highest Bidder,” published just
last year, characterises American in-
vestment as a Trojan horse.
It is difficult to find much substance
to these objections when they are
examined calmly. Foreign firms, like
domestic ones, have no absolute con-
trol over resources. They bargain, buy,
and tender for the opportunity to work
here in competition with others and
are limited within the same framework
of laws. They have no absolute prop-
erty rights, no guarantee against ex-
propriation, hot even any guarantee
that they will always be able to repat-
riate their profits or capital. And, when
all is said and done, the structures they
create their factories, office build-
ings, oil refineries, and cattle ranches
—are not easily transported back to the
U.S. We have got them here and at
any time it is up to the Australian
Government to decide how they shall
be deployed.
Foreign control does not seem to
matter unless it is exercised in a man-
ner demonstrably detrimental to Aus-
tralian interests. Intuitively, some
people seem to think that foreigners
operating here will be less well moti-
vated than nationals, believing implic-
itly that nationals are inspired by some
particularly benevolent desire to
“develop Australia.” In their more
altruistic or propagandist moments,
local businessmen do, of course, express
these sentiments, but in all important
decisions they are surely moved by the
profit motive and the desire to
strengthen the financial viability of
their concern. Everything else hazy
concepts of the national interest, or
the interests of consumers or employees
is quite secondary. So local business-
men are no different in their objectives
from the managers of foreign-owned
companies. The common justification
for their activity is that in seeking profit
they also in consequence help serve the
interests of others, through deploying
resources efficiently and producing the
things which people want. This is an
economic point which even Communist
societies are conceding, but which many
people in supposedly “capitalist”
countries do not appreciate. Both
Christian puritanism and Marxist
prejudices against the profitmaker as
a social parasite persist, and they are
usually directed with greater ferocity
at the foreign businessman than the
local. After all, the local doesn’t quite
fit the old caricature of the disgustingly
fat, bow-tied cigar-smoker. He is not
so different from the rest of us, where-
as the unknown foreigner might, in
fact, possess some of these contempt-
ible characteristics.
I T is hard to see how the so-called
Americanisation of culture is related
to American investment. After all, look
at the country with the most distinct
and deep-rooted cultures of its own
and the country which is supposed to
have been most quickly seduced
Japan. It lost its cultural virginity
despite being protected by governments
which rigorously excluded American
businessmen and their money.
The fear that we will ultimately be-
come a state of the U.S. Union, shed
of its rhetoric, can only mean that one
day American investment will be so
large that it will put us in a position
of political subservience to Washington.
The cry that in Vietnam the Govern-
ment is selling “Diggers for Dollars”
implies, of course, that we are almost
there now. But whether these thoughts
are expressed by the Left-winger sub-
scribing to bits of Marxist-Leninist
theory, or the Tory who smugly says
from the corner of his mouth that
“money talks,” it is difficult to find
any plausible explanation of just how
such control could be exercised. E. L.
Wheelwright and Brian Fitzpatrick in
their “Trojan horse” theory say that
American business is now part of the
Australian political scene, lobbying,
financing political parties, influencing
our foreign policy, and making sure
of a free go.
The trouble with this sort of con-
spiratorial proposition is that there
isn’t such a thing as American busi-
ness in Australia. There are several
hundred diverse American and part-
American businesses which, like other
organisations in this country, exert
political pressures in a haphazard, unco-
ordinated, diffuse way. They have few


SEE THE WORLD IN A BETTER LIGHT I
with ZEISS UMBRAL LENSES
■
m
...
R
C
I
I
O
N
CARL
ZEISS
THE SIGN OF WORLD-FAMOUS OPTICS
Zeiss Umbral-Lens Sunglasses
In thirty years, the unique chemical composition which made Zeiss Umbral
lenses world-famous has not changed. Zeiss Umbral lenses are still unique
still world-famous.
All harmful ultra-violet and infra-red rays are gently filtered through the
characteristic Umbral sherry tint, keeping your colour values pure. Choose
the Zeiss Umbral 85% tint if your e'yes are particularly sensitive, or if vou’ll
be where reflection is unusually powerful (on water or snow). Under normal
circumstances, the Zeiss Umbral 65% tint is adequate for full protection.
Distinctive Zeiss Frames
As well as anyone, Zeiss know that optically
correct lenses alone do not make popular
sunglasses these days. Frame shapes and
colours are most important. Now you can
choose from three types of Zeiss frames,
each covering a wide range of styles. For
men and women, Zeiss 'SUNCASTLE' frames,
or imported Zeiss ‘MARWITZ’ and ‘METZ-
LER’ frames.
CARL ZEISS PTY. LTD. • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Distributors throughout Australia
In N.S.W. in conjunction with ALBERT P. BARNCASTLE PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
interests in common, not even, as
Wheelwright and Fitzpatrick naively
assume, a common interest in a free go
for foreign investment. It would be most
convenient for many existing Ameri-
can firms here to be protected from
the competition of rival nationals by a
policy of discouraging further U.S.
investment. About the only subject on
which they might be presumed to
think as one is the suggestion that
their profit remittances be controlled.
But, even if a Labor Party were to
suggest such a direct attack on their
interests, it is just as likely that
American companies would give the
Labor Party money to try to buy it off
as help the Liberals in order to keep
Labor out of office. Practical politicians
know well that to threaten is often
more profitable than to promise.
The Left has no monopoly of im-
perialist myths. Members of the Liberal
Party occasionally argue that it is
good to get American business deeply
committed in Australia, because this
will ensure that when we are attacked
the American Government will come
to our defence, at Wall Street’s call.
Malaysia, so the argument goes, only
received military support against Indo-
nesia because of British commercial
investments in rubber, tin, and the
rest of the colonial economy. This, of
course, ignores the fact that Western
democracies have frequently acted con-
trary to the interests of their own
businessmen, because money is not the
only thing which talks. But also, more
brutally, it ignores simple monetary
consideration. The cost of modern
military operations is so immense that,
even if Western governments were so
motivated, they would rarely find it
worthwhile to go to war to protect
their nationals’ commercial assets. It
has been estimated that, financially,
Britain would have done better to have
let the Indonesians take over all British
assets in Malaysia rather than mount
the relatively small defensive effort
against the Confrontation. To sustain
the Vietnam War effort the Americans
spend the equivalent of the total value
of all U.S. investment in Australian
manufacturing each month. So, if the
manipulators of Wall Street were to do
their sums, in the case of an attack on
us they would quickly decide that
commercial criteria dictated that we be
immediately written off. The cost-price
squeeze of modern military technology
has destroyed any rationale for im-
perialist war-making.
So it is difficult to find any logical
substance to arguments for or against
American investment in these political,
military, or cultural matters. The eco-
nomics of foreign investment is more
difficult to deal with properly, though
recent publications have provided wel-
come doses of information to bring
closer to the ground arguments which
before have been mainly at the airy
level of hypothesis and prejudice. With-
out doubt the anti-interventionists have
come out of recent encounters the
strongest.
Their first argument was provoked
by projections and recommendations of
the so-called Vernon Committee of
Economic Enquiry. The committee, on
the basis of projections of the earnings
and remittances of foreign companies,
painted a picture of very alarming
implications should foreign investment
continue unchecked. From its base year
of 1959-60, it estimated that annual
obligations on account of foreign capi-
tal would rise at nine percent a year,
going up from $286 million in the base
year to $792 million in 1975. And this
estimate assumed constant prices. The
committee said, therefore, that Aus-
tralia was “on the tiger’s back” because
of these spiralling costs. The commit-
tee also projected a sharp increase in
the degree of foreign ownership of
Australian business from an assumed
25 percent in the base year to 46 per-
cent in 1975. Control would increase
even faster than ownership.
It was necessary, the Committee
concluded, to restrict foreign invest-
ment to recent levels merely in order
to ensure that these figures were not
exceeded. It was soon clear to every-
one prepared to consider the Report
critically that these conclusions were


TAA- a profitable
business enterprise
with a record
of dependability
TAA earned a profit, after tax, of $1,202,357
in financial, year 1965-66 continuing a
fine record of profitability. A fine record
of dependability and service too. More
passengers choose TAA than any other
single Australian airline.
TAA pays taxes and returns a dividend. Like a
public company, TAA is subject to income tax,
payroll tax, sales tax, etc. Plus route charges and tax
on fuel. TAA will pay j\°/ 0 dividend to the Com-
monwealth Treasury, amounting to $1,125,000 in the
1965-66 financial year.
99/6891 YVJ.
1%
TAA must compete for all business. Every
passenger and pound of cargo that TAA carries must
be won in open business competition. In placing
business with TAA, supporters of free enterprise
are helping to preserve the right of every Australian
to choose by which airline he will fly, or consign
air cargo.
Operating results —1965-66
Number of passengers carried . . 1,841,270
Air Express, cargo, mail carried (lbs.).** 68,481,833
Total revenue $56,817,754
Total expenses and taxes .... $55,615,397
Net Profit $1,202,357
Dividend 7i% $1,125,000
1967 —The year of the T-Jet Fleet. TAA will
bring more pure jet travel to more places next
year, when the Airline introduces DC9 Whispering
T-Jets to supplement 727 services. TAA’s jet-age
leadership in service and dependability calls for the
spending of millions of dollars in projects like these:—
computer-controlled reservation system; palletised
cargo handling; 727 and DC9 flight simulators for
crew training, costing $2,000,000; new and improved
passenger and cargo terminals.
Built on an ideal of service 20 years ago, TAA now
has world ranking in size and reputation, and will
continue to provide the highest possible standards
of “friendly way” service to travellers in Australia
and Papua/New Guinea.
TAA
the Friendly Way
*
r


Siamese
Skittert
Her dance is 700 years old . . . but her
attitude isn’t. She’s a mixture of ancienl
traditions and brand-new ideas
like the new Siam Inter Continental
Hotel in Bangkok. It sprawls
luxuriously through the gardens
of the Srapatum Palace air
conditioned, lavish, chic and
modern . . . and very friendly,
like the Siamese. It’s all in the
capable hands of Manager
Warner Gilmore who’s very
friendly, too. Call your travel
agent or Inter Continental
for reservations Melbourne 63 7219,j
Sydney 28 8025, Perth 21 6825. 1
HOTEL
am.
1 NTERr CONTI NENTAL-BANG KOK
One of 36 incomparable Inter. Continentals around the world.
»
VMii
■<Jr
>
MSS9O
grossly erroneous. Dr. J. O. N. Per-
kins, of Melbourne University, des-
cribed the Committee’s anxieties as
“the figment of an imagination fed by
an error of statistical manipulation,”
and Professor H. Lydall described the
statistical exercise as, “theoretically
questionable and factually inadequate,”
tending “to weaken rather than
strengthen the force of their recom-
mendations.”
So great was the array of mistakes,
and so consistent the way in which they
happened to contribute to alarmist con-
clusions, that many people in Can-
berra thought they must have been
deliberately rigged: a case of misusing
economic analysis to “prove” a pre-
conceived policy recommendation
against foreign investment. In any
case, the falseness of the projections as
predictors has already been shown by
the sharp divergence between the pre-
sumed and the actual growth of our
liabilities on account of foreign capi-
tal. According to the Committee’s pro-
jections the last three financial years
should have seen income payable rise
this way: $384m., $424m., $472m. In
actual fact they have moved thus:
$274m., $279m., $256m.!
S°. there is no foundation whatsoever
for the Vernon Committee’s prophe-
cies of doom. One of the more con-
structive things which the committee
did manage was to drag the Common-
wealth Treasury from its ivory tower,
to provide an argued defence of its
non-interventionist policies. An appen-
dix to the 1965 annual statement on
the economy and two detailed bulletins
running to about 50,000 words were
at least partly provoked by the Vernon
Committee’s statistics-mongering. They
provide a very powerful case in favor
of. a free flow of foreign investment.
Since 1960, the abolition of import
restrictions, and a lower rate of price
increase, the profitability of American
companies here has fallen to a level
not much above that of local business.
The outflow of money, far from
rising inexorably by large amounts, has
fluctuated on an upward trend, no
steeper than the graphs drawn out by
many other sectors of the economy.
Most informative of all the contri-
butions to the debate is a book pub-
lished just six weeks ago by a former
scholar at the ANU, Donald Brash.
(“American Investment in Australian
Industry.” Jacaranda. $5.40.) It
should be required reading for every-
one who feels inclined to have his
say on American investment, for it is
the only source of gutsy information
about U.S. firms here, and how they
tick. Brash set out to make a detailed
survey of every one of the 200-odd
American firms manufacturing in Aus-
tralia, and he did succeed with over a
half, who happen to employ 76 percent
of the total. So the survey is about as
complete in coverage as could be
hoped.
The results provide a great deal o{
ammunition for the anti-intervention-
ists and very little for the regulators.
44 There is no foundation what-
soever for the Vernon Commit-
tee’s prophecies of doom.”
They showed first of all that the
management of American firms here
is mostly Australian, only about a tenth
of the senior executive positions being
filled by Americans. Although major
capital expenditure plans and the intro-
duction of new products was rarely
done without reference to the parent
company, there seems to be a remark-
ably large area of independence even
for wholly owned subsidiaries. Produc-
tion planning, advertising, labor rela-
tions, pricing, and wages policies were
left substantially to the discretion of
local management. Many firms said
they had greatly benefited by assist-
ance from their parent companies in
budgeting and cost accounting as well
as in technical training and quality
control.
About a half had derived what they
described as very substantial benefit
from the adoption of management tech-
niques evolved by American parents.
Clear majority said that American
technical know-how was vital to their
whole operation, and most of them re-
ceived assistance through provision of
detailed designs, blueprints, patents,
formulae, work method manuals and
training of personnel. Brash concludes
that the greatest advantage that Ameri-
can firms here have over their Aus-
tralian counterparts is this assistance
and the fact that it is provided very
cheaply. However, he does not find that
they do less research and design of their
own than Australian firms; if anything
they do a little more.
Brash’s survey confirms the popular
view that the wages and other benefits
paid by American firms are generally
greater than those paid by Australian-
owned firms. And it is clear, too, that
the establishment of foreign firms has
made possible the absorption of a
rapidly increasing workforce in pro-
ductive jobs. American firms pay some-
thing like sloom. a year in Australian
company tax, and they provide a range
of other benefits besides —in stimulating
the expansion of their numerous sup-
pliers and distributors, and helping
them attain higher standards of produc-
tivity. GMH, Brash says, has had a
particularly good record in this. The
entry of American firms has also made
Australian business generally more
competitive, often breaking down
monopolies and setting the pace in
innovation and product improvement.
Brash concludes that export controls
by parent companies are not an im-
portant factor inhibiting export per-
formance, but that Australia’s generally
high costs and fragmentary tariff poli-
cies are a much greater barrier.
Generally there is no problem of Ameri-


mpujiLLmm’s
Prize Winning
Private Bin
Show Wines
u
WnWn
I
0
For a number of years McWilliam's
Wines have enjoyed unparalleled
successes at wine shows and
exhibitions throughout Australia and
overseas. Due to public demand
larger stocks of show wines have
been laid down in recent years and
are now available from your Hotel,
Licensed Grocer, Club or Restaurant.
McWILLIAM’S Private Bin 56
1965 Lexia
This is a light, dry, white table wine made
from the grape variety known as Lexia,
and was produced at McWilliam’s Robin-
vale Winery in Victoria. During fermen-
tation the temperature was maintained
below 55° F., and this has helped to retain
in the wine a very powerful aroma of the
grape, as well as a tremendous volume of
flavour. An ideal accompaniment to most
foods, particularly seasoned fish dishes,
white meats and poultry. It was awarded
a Gold Medal at the 1966 International
Wine Fair held at Ljubljana, Yugoslavia.
MCWILLIAM’S Private Bin 35
1963 Claret
The Hermitage grapes used to produce
this wine were picked exclusively from
our Hanwood Vineyards in the Riverina
district of New South Wales. Here, con-
trolled irrigation, accompanied by special
pruning techniques, helps to produce
grapes which give a “claret style,” light
and delicate, but at the same time full
of flavour of the fruit and with a firm
tannin finish.
It was awarded a Silver Medal in the
International Wine Fair at Ljubljana,
Yugoslavia, in 1966.
MCWILLIAM’S Private Bin 66
1965 Moselle
With its fragrant aroma and its delicate
fruity flavour, both enhanced by a slight
effervescence, this wine has the charac-
teristic qualities expected in a good
Moselle. These qualities make it most
suitable for serving with fish, salads and
all light dishes.
In the Queensland Royal National Show
of 1966, it was awarded a Bronze Medal
in the Vintage 1965 Medium Dry White,
Moselle Class.
McWILLIAM’S Private Bin 14
1963 Burgundy
Made from a blend of Hermitage and
Grenache grapes grown in the Riverina
District of N.S.W., this wine has the deli-
cate aroma of the fruit, is full-bodied and
has a soft, round palate.
It is an ideal accompaniment with meat
dishes and cheese.
In the Queensland Royal National Show
of 1966 it was awarded a Bronze Medal
in the Dry Red Table (Export) Class.
can firms here attempting to avoid Aus-
tralian tax by overpricing imported
materials. Oil companies which buy
their oil from low-tax countries are an
exception to this general rule, but the
taxation authorities are rapidly catching
up with them.
In the face of this' it seems difficult
to see the sense in proposals of the
Labor Party and the Country Party
that foreign investment should be sub-
ject to general controls. Given gener-
ally accepted shortage of international
liquidity and capital reflected in
American and British restraints on
capital outflow there must be a
general presumption that we are, if any-
thing, getting less rather than more
foreign money than can be employed
here to the mutual advantage of our-
selves and foreign investors. There
seems no case for a general ceiling on
the annual inflow we might accept.
What of controls of specific kinds?
There have often been objections to
the takeover of local firms by Ameri-
can companies, and suggestions that
these be restricted. But it is almost al-
ways possible to see advantages in
takeovers. Some of our most impressive
industrial concerns GMH, Mt. Isa
Mines, Comalco, for instance are
the result of weak and failing local
concerns being saved from financial
collapse and expanded into far bigger
and more efficient units. Takeovers are
often a means of avoiding or minimis-
ing surplus capacity and generally
rationalising production patterns. They
often stimulate new inflows of capital
and enable Australian financial re-
sources to be employed where they
are more competitive.
Another frequent suggestion is that
there should be a compulsory Austra-
lian equity in foreign firms. The con-
ventional objections to this are that
it would simply reduce total capital
inflow and tend to increase the propor-
tion of our resources at the disposal of
American management, and therefore
increase the degree of foreign control.
Brash provides fresh arguments against
these objections. He argues that joint
ventures do not benefit, to anything like
the same degree as wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries, from a free flow of technical
information and training. If there is
an Australian equity, the parent com-
pany charges heavily for these services,
and its pricing policies for imported
parts and capital equipment will
usually be less favorable. Australian
shareholders generally want quick
dividends, whereas American share-
holders are often prepared to go for
ten years without any return, and this
is a big potential source of conflict and
a deterrent to American participation
in joint ventures.
It seems only sensible to echo
Brash’s conclusion that the important
question to be asked is not “Does
American investment benefit Aus-
tralia?” but “Are we maximising the
benefits we get?” Most important of all,
we need to look at the effect which
our tariff policies are having on the
pattern of foreign investment, spread-
ing it thinly over every area of pro-
duction, and installing many small-
scale and uneconomic plants which are
hopelessly uncompetitive in the inter-
national market. Such policies de-
prive Australian industry of cheap
raw materials and employ Aus-
tralian labor most unproductively.
Through hindering the export effort
they also make it more difficult for us
to find the international exchange re-
quired to cover the profit remittances,
which are the main cost of foreign
investment generally.
There is also much to be done in
developing the Australian capital mar-
ket, so that Australian concerns can
compete better with foreign firms.
Stricter company law and meaningful
reporting and auditing would make the
Australian public far more prepared to
“They’re selling: our birthright.”
invest their savings in local ventures.
American or Japanese banking tech-
niques might prove beneficial. It is also
time we realised that every time gov-
ernments force the banks to provide
cheap money for housing and force in-
surance companies to invest a propor-
tion of their cash in government securi-
ties they are reducing the flow and
increasing the cost of capital to Aus-
tralian business.
There is more progress to be had in
examining positive measures of this
sort than in indulging in the negativism
of calling for controls for which the
need is not proven. Much of the
opposition to American investment
should be dismissed as nationalist
bigotry, an anachronism in a world
growing more international.


i 4l
jno
Joe Foster likes to do everything for himself.
Carries all his own interstate freight. Parcels.
Bulk liquids. Cash. Local cartage. Refrig-
erated goods too. With due deference to Joe,
we can do it better Faster. More econo-
mically. Always on schedule —By road,
rail, sea or air. Anything, anywhere that’s
Mayne Nickless. We also have an export
shipping division and plenty of telephones.
Ring now. Joe won’t mind.
•9/801/im
MAYNE NICKLESS GETS THINGS MOVING IN SO MANY WAYS.
fflTr


WW&
'v
1I& V
m. >.
WM
\
•' i H
y»
i*ki i -»/ iHh
K
•<
S 3
4
m
u
m
-
n
u
Y
mM : n:
\ Jr -
'-■■■■rr,.
m
Vmb;
HI
:*■■
m
** ,.
Copyright by Rand McNally & Company
An idea for Australian business:
Emery Air Freight
can spotlight your shipment
across the globe
The minute your international shipment leaves, the
ground from an overseas point, the Emery offices here
in Australia are alerted electronically. You are
notified by telephone the minute it arrives.
Specify Emery Air Freight when ordering from:
U.S.A. • Canada • United Kingdom • Continental Europe
Sydney, Kingsford Smith Airport—Phone 67-0381
Melbourne, Essendon Airport—Phone 379-5449
EMERY'AIR FREIGHT
n


The Case of Comrade Mortimer (cont.)
Is the Liberal Honeymoon over?
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
THE Communist Party of Australia
is in the middle of its triennial
crisis. The last, in 1963, mirrored
the Sino-Soviet uncoupling and saw
Mr. Ted Hill and his small chapel of
fundamentalists leave the Communist
Party of Australia to form the Com-
munist Party of Australia (Marxist-
Leninist). The crisis before that, in
1960, was provoked by the CPA’s
political committee when it decided
unanimously to support the Chinese
line.
The present crisis is one of quasi-
liberalism. A fierce struggle is being
waged by what may be termed the Rex
Mortimer faction in the white corner
and a faction led by the firmly pro-
Soviet and non-liberal Eric Aarons in
the red. Both men are members of the
Communist Party Central Committee
and get most of their support from
Victoria and New South Wales respec-
tively.
Mortimer is regarded as Australia’s
leading Italian-line Communist. He
has been strongly influenced by the
attitudes of Togliatti and Gramsci, and
is suspicious of, even hostile to, Com-
munist subservience to the doctrines
and directives of Peking or Moscow.
Even though influenced by Italian ideas,
he does not publicly promote the image
of the Italian Communist Party, either,
and seems clearly to regard that party
as partly crippled by its own bureau-
cracy: what he does claim is that there
is much to be learnt from Italian Com-
munist intellectuals who have revolted
against dogmatism.
He is fond of quoting from the so-
called “Togliatti Memorandum,” a
document published shortly after that
Communist leader’s death. Among the
“liberal” statements made by Togliatti,
the following are representative:
“We believe that Communists and
Catholics as well as other democratic
forces can get together and co-operate
not only to solve today’s problems but
also to define and establish the Italian
road to socialism . . . with a multi-
party system, full observance of consti-
tutional guarantees, and freedom of
religion and culture”.
“Conditions- differ greatly in the dif-
ferent countries. Consequently each
Party must learn to act independently.
The autonomy of the Parties, a point
we must determinedly champion, is not
only the inner necessity of our move-
ment but also an essential requisite
for our progress . . . For that reason
we are against all proposals to rein-
state a centralised international organ-
isation.”
The Memorandum of Togliatti
caused a stir amongst Australian Com-
munist intellectuals and their political
associates. One of the first signs that
his words had taken flesh was the estab-
lishment of the magazine “Arena” in
1963 by a group of Communists,
fellow-travellers, and Marxist aca-
demics. “Arena” immediately displayed
in competence and tone a superiority
to its two closest competitors, the dog-
matically arid “Communist Review”
and “Outlook,” which is pro-Com-
munist not so much out of love of
Communist achievement as out of
neurotic disaffection for Western
society.
Six months after the first “Arena”
came the first substantial exposition of
the theoretical position of the new
Communist “liberals.” A close associ-
ate of Mortimer, Bernard Taft, wrote
an article in the “Guardian” (then
edited by Mortimer) entitled “Breaking
Down the Barriers.” Taft raised the
problem to his comrades that many
people had great doubts about putting
Communists into power because they
feared the power would be abused:
“They fear they will be pushed around,
told where to work, where to live, and
so forth. They are not sure they will
be able to say what they like when
they like.” i
He continued by pointing out that
these were big barriers to Communists
achieving office, and proposed that the
Party “consider what sort of guarantees
we can give and should give now to
the Australian people about their demo-
cratic rights and liberties wheil we are
entrusted with the Government of the
country ... It is true, but it is not
enough to tell them that when they
own the means of production they will
have real fundamental liberties. They
want to know what will happen about
those other not so basic but very
important liberties . . .”
This was heady stuff for some of
the older Stalinist cadres who had
worked with glory, even if without
much power, in unions, front organisa-
tions, and propaganda machines almost
since Daniel and Sinyavsky were boys;
Palmiro Togliatti
but stronger doses of liberalism were to
follow. The Communist Party in 1964
began negotiations with Mr. Isi Leib-
ler, chairman of the Standing Com-
mittee of Public Relations of the Execu-
tive Council of Australian Jewry, on
the question of anti-Semitism in the
Soviet Union.
The Party was concerned at the bad
publicity the Soviet Union was receiv-
ing from the charges made by Leibler,
but Party conservatives knew a few
months later that it had been a serious
error of judgment to have Mortimer
and Taft represent their cause. Late
in 1964 the Melbourne “Jewish Herald”
published statements by Taft and Mor-
timer which did not deny any of the
evidence of Soviet anti-Semitism. (This
in itself was an important concession.)
Taft admitted that Soviet Jewry was
confronted by “certain problems and
difficulties,” and Mortimer went further
in declaring that “constructive criticism
of negative features of Soviet life assist
rather than harm the causes of peace
and socialism. The question of Sovjet
Jewry falls into this category.”
A couple of months later Mortimer
wrote to Leibler “. . . I am convinced
that the massive documentation you
have assembled poses a substantial and
disturbing problem for Marxists and
people of the Left everywhere, even
though they may challenge your inter-
pretation at various {joints ... we can-
not rest satisfied while there is any
cause for questioning whether Jewish
citizens of the Soviet Union have fully
the same rights and security as any
other nationality . . .”
The willingness to question the
Soviet Union and the emerging
liberalism on other issues of the group
represented by the views of Mortimer
caused a reaction amongst Stalinists
and others suspicious of the Italian
line. Eric Aarons of the Central Com-
mittee and aspiring cultural commissar
Judah Waten were two of the fore-
most.
In a thinly disguised attack on
Mortimer’s acceptance of the fact of
Soviet anti-Semitism, Judah Waten,
himself a Jew, recently wrote in
“Labor Monthly” that, “It would seem
that only in the Soviet Union has Yid-
dish literature a better chance of sur-
vival than anywhere else. This is not
only because it has deeper roots in the
Soviet Union, but also because it has
adapted itself to the new life . . .
Another factor is the possibility of in-
creased official support which has been
suggested in a recent Tass announce-
ment.”
Waten’s bland ignoring of the
evidence produced by his fellow-Jews
that Yiddish culture and much else in
Jewish life exist under the most severe
restrictions in the Soviet has caused a


- •
'
. '
■
■ V,,
■ • ■ -•
:::
.
: : .
* ~r
Y-r
iiiiiait
You don't have to be BIG to go in for
telephone automation: Just progressive
Many of Australia's biggest enterprises have
switched to the automated efficiency of STC
Pentaconta Pushbutton PABX. But so, also,
have many up-and-coming forward-thinking
companies. For good reason. It's the most
advanced business telephone system there
is. It saves money. And it's a system which
can start small and be expanded as a
business grows.
What immediate advantages does Penta-
conta bring? Simplified pushbutton switch-
board operation (which often means staff
savings) plus a big speed-up in internal and
external communications. Time and tempers
are saved. (Which often means orders and
profits are saved !) And the smooth, swift
efficiency with which calls are handled
makes a big impression on every caller.
Pentaconta is the automatic telephone
exchange to meet the needs of the
growing business. Installations are available
from a small, 20-line unit to a system
to suit any business and its potential.
For further information, contact Standard
Telephones and Cables Pty. Limited, 252
Botany Road, Alexandria. Sydney. Phone:
69 0444. Melbourne 44 5161. Canberra
9 1043.
Distributors: QLD.: Fred Hoe & Sons Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane47-43115.A.: Unbehaun & Johnstone Pty.
Ltd., Adelaide 51 3731. W.A.: M. J. Bateman Pty.
Ltd., Perth 21 6461. TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.
Ltd., Launceston 2 2231. Hobart. Burnie, Devonport.
AN
ITT
ASSOCIATE
worldwide telecommunications and electronics
<3%
■RT7


strong reaction amongst the more liberal
elements of the Australian Communist
Party.
More significant for the new Com-
munist “liberals” has been the opposi-
tion of Eric Aarons and the faction he
influences in New South Wales. He has
been a constant opponent of Mortimer
and Taft and of the promotion of the
so-called “dialogue” approach to the
class enemy. At least until recently
Mortimer has been able to out-
manoeuvre Eric Aarons on the Party’s
Intellectuals Committee, and Eric’s
brother, Laurie, who is General Secre-
tary of the CPA, has been persuaded
to support a number of steps for
liberalising discussion and policy mak-
ing inside the Party.
Examples of the more liberal line
are the changing of the name and, to
some degree, the style of the old “Com-
munist Review” to the “Australian Left
Review.” The most significant articles
in the three issues of the “Australian
Left Review” have been a series on
liberty and the Communist Party and
the problem of factions. The debate
was begun by John Sendy, President of
the Victorian Communist Party, in an
article entitled “Democracy in the
Communist Party.” His major points
were taken up and extended by Rex
Mortimer in “ALR” No. 2.
Mortimer argufed that there was
nothing necessarily unwholesome about
factions in the Communist Party con-
tending together in open debate and
supported his argument against a mono-
lithic Party with the arguments that
factions were not outlawed by the
Soviet Communist Party until 1921;
that Lenin himself was very lenient to-
ward factions in his own Party; that
outlawing factions in a orie-Party State
assisted in the rise of Stalinism and
the cult of the that in Aus-
tralia the struggle against the Hill
Peking faction had stimulated the
Party.
In the . context of the history of the
Australian CPA, which has always been
one of the Western world’s most
authoritarian and bureaucratic Com-
munist machines, this kind of talk is
revolutionary. The more authoritarian
elements of the Party linked it with t
reports of attitudes which Mortimer is
supposed to have taken in private con-
versations at Monash University, where
he is studying for an MA. Mortimer is
alleged to have come out with state-
ments suggesting that, with all of its
faults, Western society is more bearable
than Soviet dictatorship, that the Aus-
tralian Party is weighed down by dog-
matists and half-witted bureaucrats,
that American policy in Vietnam has
certainly caused the Sino-Soviet split to
widen, and has lowered China’s pres-
tige in the Communist world, that the
leaders of the Victorian Central Execu-
tive of the ALP were living in a dream
world in which there was no corres-
pondence between their plans and their
power to implement them, and a num-
ber of other things which Communists
are not supposed to think or say.
The alarming thing for Party tradi-
Laurie Aarons
tionalists is that Mortimer and sup-
porters, presumably such men as-Bern-
ard Taft, John Sendy, and Doug White,
have been working on draft papers for
the 1967 Communist Party Congress
where they are likely .to propose con-
stitutional alterations so that positive
democratic organisational procedures
are built into the Party structure.
Disturbed more than ever by these
developments, Eric Aarons attacked
some of Mortimer’s propositions in the
latest “A.L. Review.” He replied point
by point to Mortimer’s arguments and
denounced factions as “a party within
a party, a group having its own
organisation and discipline, its own
loyalties, through the ‘objective logic’
of which it comes to put these things
above loyalty to the Party, its plat-
form, its organisation, and loyalties.”
AARONS’ attack is directed at
Mortimer and his supporters as such
and not just at their opinions. His
article has been interpreted as a
declaration of war against Mortimer
and the “liberal” faction, a war in
which Aarons will have some advan-
tages. The first is that he is assistant
editor of the “A.L. Review,” the
second, that the Brisbane and Mel-
bourne Communist papers, both called
“Guardian,” are both closing and the
Sydney “Tribune” will be the Com-
munist national paper.
In the past few weeks the issue of
Soviet anti-Semitism has blown up
again-, and the Aarons faction seems
likely to use, it in an attempt to destroy
Mortimer and his influence.
In a statement released about two
weeks ago Mortimer said: “One of
the most inexcusable things is the con-
tinued circulation of various anti-
Semitic publications and the failure on
the part of the Soviet authorities to
prosecute those who have written and
distributed such anti-Semitic material.”
Mortimer concluded: “In many ways
the status of Jews in the Soviet Union,
like that of Negroes in the United
States, is a barometer of the health of
the society.”
This statement was almost entirely
Judah Waten
ignored by the Australian Press, but it
caused uproar in the offices of the
Communist Party. In Sydney, Eric
Aarons was able to use the statement
as an example of how the “liberal”
approach led to the destruction of
Party discipline, and it is strongly
rumored that he has persuaded General
Secretary Laurie Aarons and nearly all
of the other Sydney Communist leaders
who were willing to give the new
liberal image a try to abandon the
Mortimer line and to crush proposals
for democratic reform of the Party.
In Melbourne last week the Com-
munist Party headquarters released a
statement which indicates the growing
hardening of attitude.
Referring to Mortimer’s views on
Soviet Jewry, the statement says: “Mr.
Mortimer simply expressed his personal
opinion and could not speak for the
Party in making his statement.”
The public statement against the
views of Mortimer is mild compared
with the private campaign of defama-
tion being run against him. In Mel-
bourne Left-wing circles Mortimer has
been called a “nut,” a “rat,” a “weak
revisionist,” and a “security pimp.” He
has even been accused of being in
league with THE BULLETIN!
Such attacks are always the prelude
to strong disciplinary moves inside the
Party, and my guess is that Mortimer
is in for a torrid time over the next
few months. It is almost certain that
strong attempts will be made to call
for his expulsion.
The vision splendid of a united
Party of Communists, pro-Communists>
and anti-American socialists building
itself into a major political party and,
in time, an alternative Government
(Mortimer once said that he would be
happy to see Dr. Cairns leading such
a party) is fast shimmering into a
mirage.
Mortimer may have gone too far too
fast, his plans are too liberal for the
bureaucracy, and his voice too readily
anti-Soviet. After the present explosion,
“dialogue” may become a dirty word
in the CPA, and the Italian line will
not be worth a pizza pie.


Face of the World
Asia: The Bank of Asia at its in-
augural meeting elected Mr. Wat-
anabe of Japan as first president.
The USSR first asked Indonesia to
liquidate its debt of $lO7O million,
then offered time to pay. Groups
of Indonesian students, for and
against Sukarno, continued fighting
among themselves and with the
Army; and one skirmish in Sumatra
was almost a battle. China’s Red
Guards fought factory workers for
15 hours in Peking, and continued
to persecute intellectuals, driving
three musicians to suicide. In the
U.N., moves to seat both Chinas
seemed abortive. India’s request for
U.S. wheat was referred to a Foreign
Aid mission checking on how much
would go to whom when famine
became a fact.
The Americas: President John-
son, recovered from his minor
surgery, • began writing his 1967
State of the Union message. The
third anniversary of President Ken-
nedy’s assassination was marked by
remembrance ceremonies and new
theories about his death. The
American Roman Catholic Bishops
said they supported present Ameri-
can policy in Vietnam, and advised
46 million Catholics they could eat
meat on most Fridays. In Holly-
wood, Walt Disney was recovering
from a lung operation.
Europe: Germany’s neo - Nazi
NPD Party emerged from its second
provincial election with 15 seats won
in Bavaria, after eight wins in
Hesse; small gains but significant.
Meanwhile, Germany tried to form
a new coalition government among
Democrats of other hues. Denmark
also had elections, with People’s
Socialist Party gains, and a new
minority government in power. Hol-
land had a “caretaker” government.
Switzerland decided not to give
women the vote. Spain’s General
Franco offered his country a
measure of democracy. Israel was
condemned in the U.N. for raids
on Jordan, which called up all men
18 to 40. Britain’s unemployed had
risen beyond 500,000.
Africa: British Commonwe all h
Secretary Bowden flew to Rhodesia
because the Governor, Sir Humph-
rey Gibbs, wants to resign and this
might lead Mr. lan Smith to de-
clare Rhodesia a Republic. Only
a few days remained before Britain
was committed to take the Rhodesian
issue to the United Nations. Mean-
while, the Rhodesian High Court
had sentenced four African terrorists
to death for attempted murder.
OVERSEAS
The Bavarian Nazis
By EMERY BARCS
A few days before the Bavarian State elections on November 20, Gunther
Grass, the author, was asked at a mass meeting of the Liberal Students’ Federa-
tion in Munich whether a 23-year-old German would be wise to vote for the
Rightist radical National Democratic Party (NPD). “At the age of 70 such a fool
would still curse and try to suppress this blot in his biography,” warned Grass.
Blot or no blot, on November 20
some 780,000 Bavarians almost eight
percent of those who cared to go to
the polling booths voted for the
NPD and sent 15 members to the 204-
strong State legislature. A fortnight
earlier in the State of Hesse almost the
same proportion of voters (they num-
bered 224,000) opted for the National
Democrats and elected eight deputies
to the Landtag of 96. These two results
seem to justify the claim of NPD leader
Fritz Thielen, a 49-year-old cement
manufacturer from Bremen, that if
elections were held in the other seven
States of the Federal Republic the
outcome would be very similar: the
NPD woud gain votes everywhere. For,
while Bavaria has always been a citadel
of radical nationalism (Nazism was born
there), Hesse has been overwhelmingly
moderate Red with a Social Democratic
State government during the whole
postwar period. If one takes
the Rightist-radical eight per-
cent as typical for the whole
of West Germany, then the
extreme Right may have some
2.6 million backers in the
Federal Republic (33.4 mil-
lion people voted at the Octo-
ber, 1965, Federal elections).
So Herft Thielen and his
second-in-command, Adolf von
Thadden, 45, a journalist and
now a full-time politician,
have every reason to feel con-
fident about the future of the
NPD. As a matter of fact, the
party following may even
considerably increase in the future
if the analysis of Erwin Scheuch, the
noted Cologne sociologist, is correct.
His research into political trends in
the Federal Republic since the end of
World War II showed that since 1945
between 10 and 15 percent of West Ger-
mans have been “constantly accessible”
to radical nationalist ideas. Last
March the Federal Ministry of the In-
terior reported that in 1965 the mem-
bership of the 112 extreme Rightist
organisations had increased by 6100 to
a total of 28,600, of which 16,000 be-
longed to the NPD. This year the Nat-
ional Democratic camp has grown by
about 1000 new dues-paying members
monthly and the party has now an esti-
mated membership of 26,000. It seems
that the NPD founded only two
Fritz Thielen.
years ago —■ has managed to polarise
the scattered radical Right in the Fed-
eral Republic.
One can —• and probably ought to
look at these figures from another
angle and argue that 92 percent of
West Germans are still backing demo-
cratic forces and that even if Scheuch’s
estimates reached their maximum, the
democratic parties would still have a
following of 85 percent of the people.
One could also mention that the Right-
ists have scored some success in the
Federal Republic later than in other
parts of the West. After all, France had
the Poujadists during the Fourth
Republic, Italy has had neo-Fascists in
parliament during the whole post-war
period, and America has its Birchers.
Admittedly, if memories of the Nazi
past with its industrialisation of death
did not haunt the world then the re-
emergence of successfully organised
Rightist radicalism would look
much less ominous in a coun-
try with a long and ardent
nationalistic record. As it is,
however, the world remembers
that the Nazis had grown from
a handful of followers in 1919
to a membership of almost a
million on the eve of Hitler’s
rise to power in January,
1933, and to nearly four mil-
lion six years later.
But is the NPD merely a
camouflage for the revival of
the National Socialist Party
(NSDAP), which is outlawed
in the Federal Republic?
Many West Germans themselves believe
that it is. The NPD leadership denies
this. “We are not neo-Nazis, and we
will not allow ourselves to be pushed
into a brown corner,” asserted von
Thadden indignantly. Yet last March
it was estimated that about 10 percent
of the dues-paying membership of the
NPD were ex-Nazis and no fewer than
12 of the 18 members of the party
executive had been card-carrying mem-
bers of the NSDAP. Thielen, von
Thadden, and their colleagues never-
theless insist that the NPD is “basic-
ally” a democratic party which wants
“to put an end to the suffering for
national ideals,” and which fights for
the restoration of German prestige and
against the “political corruption” in
Bonn.
More specifically, the NPD is
against foreign guest-workers, the


learn
to write stories
that sell
Stott’s can train you to write for
magazines, newspapers, television
and radio. Stott’s is Australia’s most
famous and respected Correspon-
dence College. You will learn the
techniques of professional freelance
writing under expert, personal
tuition from successful authors.
Enrol now. Mail the coupon for free
particulars of these high quality
home-study courses: Short story
writing, Freelance journalism, TV
script writing, Radio script writing;
Verse writing.
Stotts
TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE ‘COLLEGE
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 383
George St., Sydney. 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. 45 Gilles St., Adelaide. 1130
Hay St., Perth.
FILL IN THIS COUPON & POST NOW
Please send me free and without obligation
your Prospectus on the following course/s:
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
Age
I understand that no Sales Rep. will call.
B2ofeb „
A
LAW
ECONOMICS
ART
WORLD HISTORY
and other MAIN branches
of knowledge
• Basic study-reading courses AT
HOME in response to a deeply felt
need in adults who wish to learn.
The fully detailed curriculum will
be posted on application to
ADULT TUTORS
Box 205, P. 0.,
Frankston, VICTORIA.
CHEVALIER COLLEGE
BOWRAL, N.S.W.
GENERAL
SCIENCE TEACHER
with qualifications in
BIOLOGY
Appointment to commence Ist Feb-
ruary, 1967. Applications are invited
for this position and should be for-
warded to:
THE RECTOR,
CHEVALIER COLLEGE,
BOWRAL, NjS.W.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ANTIQUE COLLECTOR
QUARTERLY MAGAZINE
2nd edition of Ist number is now
reprinted, copies are available
Booksellers, Antique Shops, and
selected newsagents 75c or annual
subscription $3 post free.
Enquiries—
SUBSCRIPTION or ADVERTISING,
Box 1, P. 0., RANDWICK.
alleged alienation of German industry
by foreign capital, the paying of contri-
butions toward the costs of British and
American forces in Germany, the pay-
ing of foreign economic aid, and the
“sexualisation of German life by
fashions, movies, and the Press.” It
is for the creation of a “healthy,
national spirit,” the building of West
Germany into a bulwark against Com-
munism, and for “putting a full stop to
the past” meaning no more Nazi
trials, restitution payments to the vie-
tims of Hitlerism, or admission of war
guilt.
The Party claims that about one-
third of its membership is under 30
years of age. A large proportion of
NPD dues-paying members are women
(millions of German women went mad
about Hitler), disgruntled small
traders, merchants, white-collar workers,
and peasants who resent the deal meted
out to them by the Common Mark* :
Obviously the NPD is as much a
Spiessburger- based Party as the NSDAP
used to be at its beginnings. The
Spiessburger, the narrow - minded,
politically and religiously bigoted
petit bourgeois is outwardly a peaceful
animal who carries, however, big loads
of envies and resentments. And when
these are unleashed they can transform
their carriers into monsters. Hitler did
the trick and now the world includ-
ing the majority of Germans is wor-
ried lest Messrs. Thielen, von Thadden,
and Co. manage to repeat the feat.
Santamaria’s Vietnam
Fifty-one-year-old publicist, commentator, political organiser, president of the
National Civic Council, the strongest force on (although not actually in) the DLP,
full of disciplined energy still, Mr. B. A. Santamaria recently returned from a trip
to South-East Asia, including his first visit to Vietnam. He was interviewed on his
return to Melbourne by Brian Buckley.
Q.: Did you meet many people in
Saigon who were not officials of the
Ky regime?
Santamaria: I met a number of in-
tellectuals, teachers, Catholic clergy,
and Buddhist leaders. I was impressed
by the resolution of most of them that
the war against the Communists had to
be won to save the South from greater
evils than even those of the present
war.
Q.: But you were not impressed with
others?
Santamaria: There were a few
Frenchmen and French-educated Viet-
namese who had scant respect for Ky,
none for the Americans, and seemed
to hope that somehow the war would
just stop and the trees in the boule-
vards would bloom again.
Q.: You seem to have developed a
strong animus against the French in
Saigon?
Santamaria: Well, against French
policy toward Asia and against French
influence as I saw it. And, after all,
if the French had not been such un-
enlightened colonialists they would not
have left Vietnam in such a mess.
But, forgetting the past, it seemed to
me that the French in Saigon play
on the materialism and status-seeking
of the local bourgeoisie, qualities which
the South could well do without in
the present emergency; and they put
over G'aullist disengagement theory and
anti - Americanism without much
thought for the evils that may follow.
Q.: Was there much hope for the
future among the intelligentsia ?
Santamaria: More than I had been
led to believe from reports in some of
the Western Press. Everybody in
Saigon seemed to agree that there was
growing unity and amity among
Buddhist, Catholic, and secular leaders
of opinion. Growing hatred of the
Communists and their methods is one
of the cementing factors.
Q.: The belief that the war is being
won is now strong throughout Vietnam?
Santamaria: The Army commanders,
American, South Vietnamese, and Aus-
tralian, say the big battles will be over
inside three years and word has radiated
out from them.
Q.: A Buddhist monk recently
brought to. Australia by groups opposing
our Vietnam commitment said the war
was unwinnable?
Santamaria: South Vietnamese lea-
ders explained to me that Buddhist
monks ranged in opinion from militant
anti-Communists to Viet Cong agents,
from Ky supporters to convinced paci-
fists. In general the Buddhist monks
are overrated in terms of their politi-
cal influence.
Q.: The objection that some Budd-
hists and French observers in Saigon
have raised is that the evils of the war
outweigh the evils which may be com-
mitted by the Communists if they take
over?
Santamaria: If the West pulls out
there will be no if about the war
economy and the military machine of
the North taking over the South, and
no one I met was in any doubt about
the brutality of the Communists and
the havoc they would wreak if they
were free to take over the South and
destroy anti-Communists and non-
Communists, political and military.
Q.: Was it the view of the Australian
military officers to whom you spoke
that American strategy took too many
risks with civilian lives?
Santamaria: It did seem to be agreed
by both Americans and Australians that
earlier they had been sometimes fooled
by the Viet Cong into attacking wrong
targets, but the Australian officers were
convinced that every precaution was
being taken to shield civilians. Mistakes
are still sometimes made, as in any
war, but the Allied intelligence system


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
IQ
TWO
YEARS
7%
FIVE
YEARS
1 o
2 0
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 4%%
90-179 DAYS 51/4%
180-269 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
270-360 DAYS 53/ 4 %
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6Va%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7 1 / 4 %
TEN YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
X 607
is good enough to keep the attack
focused on unmistakably Communist
targets.
Q.: What was your impression of
the morale of the Australian troops?
Santamaria: I was not just surprised
but amazed by their spirit. None of
them pretend that they like being
there, of course, but they seemed to be
convinced that they should be there.
Q.: Did they have much notion that
there was more than a military task
involved?
Santamaria: The Australians, per-
haps more than any others, seemed
aware of the need for social and civic
work and the need to win the confi-
dence of the people in their area of
operation. But they also insist that civic,
social, educational, and economic aid
programs are useless without providing
military security. And providing mili-
tary security means clearing Viet Cong
agents out of the villages first.
Q.: What mistakes do men like
Serong think have been or are being
made by the West in Vietnam?
Santamaria: Most of the military
officers were convinced that the West
made a grave error and brought much
of the present trouble on its head when
the Communists were permitted to take
a major part of Laos. This gave them
a base from which to operate in South
Vietnam and Thailand.
They also believe that the Western
forces should have decided on large-
scale military assistance in 1962, when
the North was not finally committed to
a policy of full military invasion of
the South. A big American build-up
in the South at that stage may have
frightened Hanoi from stepping up the
pace.
Q.: Is there detectable bitterness
among Army leaders at these alleged
failures of Western policy?
Santamaria: Not really, there is more
worry about the future, that the
patience and will of the West may run
out before the job has been properly
completed. The major part of the war
will no doubt be over in a few years,
but the task of pacification, reclama-
tion, of economic and social improve-
ment backed by military security will
take more time. The Army knows this,
and its men are prepared to pay the
price demanded, but there is always the
worry that civilian patience may run
out, especially when it is under attack
from pro-Communists and vacillating
Leftists.
Q.: For the sake of armchair
theorists, I had better ask you what
you thought was the opinion of Aus-
tralian Army leaders about the so-
called domino theory?
Santamaria: For them it does not
have the luxury of being a theory. It
is a reality. So far as they are con-
cerned, the capturing of the post-war
Vietnamese independence movement by
the Indo-Chinese Communist Party, the
Communist control of more than half
of Laos, the guerilla insurgency and
the full-scale Northern attack on the
South, and the Communist insurgency
now mounting in Thailand, are all
linked and interdependent.
Q.: What was the opinion of the
Army officers about the effects of the
bombing of North Vietnam?
Santamaria: They do not say that
in the short run it will destroy morale
in the North. After all, the bombing is
directed away from civilian targets.
What they do say is that the Northern
war machine must be directly attacked
and their military factories and bases,
lines of communication, and supply
depots put out of action. Our mili-
tary officers are in no doubt, but they
do not, on the other hand, look for
miracles overnight. Selective bombing
makes it much harder for the North
to continue the invasion.
Q.: Were Army leaders in favor of
a full-scale invasion of the North?
Santamaria: Opinions on this varied
in many ways, but more important to
most of the Army was the defeat of
the five divisions or so of the North
Vietnamese Army, which at present lies
in the so-called demilitarised zone.


Where Can
FUJI Electric Help?
Looking at the ambitious develop-
ment programs being carried out in
Australia, we keep asking this ques-
tion. And the answer keeps coming
back in the form of orders—from
government, from industry, and
from a multitude of private citizens.
It seems that they’ve all discovered
that where electricity needs to be
generated, transmitted, distributed
or put to work, Fuji Electric usually
has a more economical, more ef-
ficient way to do it.
The man in the street and his wife
are probably most familiar with
Fuji’s fine line of home appliances
which have made their daily lives
so much more pleasant, healthy
and efficient. Washing machines and
vacuum cleaners take the drudgery
out of cleaning, while TV sets, stereo
equipment and transistor radios give
new sparkle and vigor to recreation.
Our proudest accomplishment has
been showing thousands of fam-
ilies how fresh-squeezed fruit and
vegetable juices can set the founda-
tion for true health and stamina . . .
especially when the juices are scien-
tifically extracted with a Fuji Juicer.
But leaders in government and
industry know how Fuji Electric can
help and has helped in many ways
that are fundamental to Australia's
long-term development. The first
contribution was made in the 950
KW Pelton-type turbine and genera-
tor which was delivered to the Snowy
Mountains Authority in 1964. Other
important projects to which Fuji has
contributed, or will contribute, in-
clude the Para Substation, the
Lemonthyme Power Station, and the
Wilmot Power Station.
Where can Fuji Electric help?
In components, in appliances, in
equipment, in complete systems
for the generation, transmission and
utilization of electricity.
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CO.LTH (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


A New Kennedy Theory
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
ILONG ago got left behind by the
stupendous outpouring of words
about the murder of President
Kennedy in Dallas, Texas, and have no
intention of ever trying to catch up.
The conundrums presented by the
seemingly conflicting evidence, and by
the confused, if not deliberately mis-
leading, handling of the case, are un-
likely ever to be wholly resolved. After
all, books still come out about Lincoln’s
in some respects oddly similar murder
by the actor Booth. A century hence
they will assuredly likewise be coming
out about Kennedy’s murder, arguing
ingeniously that Lyndon Johnson was
responsible, or General de Gaulle, or
Mao Tse-tung. The only two writers
on the subject who give me a feeling
of complete confidence are Dwight
MacDonald and Edward Jay Epstein.
From the former I accept the conclu-
sion that Oswald was indubitably the
assassin; from the latter’s book, “In-
quest,” that the Warren Commission
Report was carelessly produced, and
leaves gaps and ambiguities in its re-
construction of the crime for
instance, as to whether or not Oswald
might have had an accomplice.
Curiously enough, despite this
very desultory and indeterminate
acquaintance with a large and complex
subject, I have all along had an inner
certainty about how Oswald came to
do what he did; almost as though I had
seen it all happen in one of those vivid
dreams which stay with one longer
and more clearly than actual waking
happenings.
rpHUS, for instance, when on the day
following Kennedy’s murder I was
telephoned to for comment by some ob-
scure news agency man (he must, poor
fellow, have tried pretty well every-
one, imaginable and unimaginable), I
heard myself saying in a matter-of-fact
voice: “Oswald’s bound to be killed,
like Booth” —a prognostication which
was fulfilled almost as I was speaking.
In the same sort of way, I feel abso-
lutely certain that Oswald was a double
agent, entrusted first with a vague mis-
sion by Soviet Intelligence, then turned
round by the FBI, and finally reduced
to a condition of bemusedness and lost
identity which led him, in a trance-
like state, to murder the President, as
van der Lubbe, in a similarly trance-
like state, set fire to the Reichstag.
Lest this should seem far-fetched, let
me recall that at one point the old
Tsarist Political Police, the Okhrana,
found themselves, without being aware
of it, through their system of spies,
agents provocateurs, and double agents,
actually engaged in plotting the assassi-
nation of the Tsar. They were able to
pull themselves up just in time, but it
might easily have happened.
Anyone who knew the U.S.S.R. in the
early ’thirties, as I did, will be familiar
with the sort of foreign artisan or
proletarian who, in relatively large
numbers, came to Moscow with a view
to taking Soviet nationality and settling
in the country. For the most part, they
were soon disillusioned, finding that
they were not important or privileged,
besides being treated with a certain
amount of hostility, suspicion, and
derision by their Soviet fellow-workers.
Oswald seems to have been a typical
case, except that after three years he
was permitted to return to America
with his Russian wife — a rare privi-
lege often denied to perfectly respect-
Oswald had to die.
able diplomatic personnel, let alone a
disgruntled proletarian like Oswald,
who had actually taken Soviet nation-
ality. His treatment, it seems to me,
points clearly to a mission. That
Oswald was, evidently, quite unsuitable
for anything of the sort is neither here
nor there. As the Gouzenko, Petrov, and
other such cases indicate, the Soviet
Intelligence has all the imbecile atti-
tudes and fatuous practices of MI6, the
FBI, and the Deuxieme Bureau, and is
just as prone as they are to launch
unsuitable agents on unprofitable enter-
prises.
Back in America, Oswald’s instruc-
tions must have been to live quietly and
modestly until a Contact gets in touch
with him and tells him what to do.
Inevitably, the FBI pick him up, a
target not even they can miss. One
sees the poor fellow subjected to relays
of grey-faced men with gleaming spec-
tacles; indistinguishable from the ones
who in Moscow briefed him and sent
him on his way. From the FBl’s point
of view, Oswald is a great catch: if
they manipulate him properly, and
watch him closely enough, sooner or
later the Contact will emerge from the
shadows, and a great new Intelligence
saga open up before them.
Now the question of Oswald’s Cover
arises. (Ah, Cover, what things are
done in thy name!) One imagines the
interminable conferences, the fat Most
Secret reports considering the relative
merits of Oswald’s being a porno book-
seller in Brooklyn, a waiter in Third
Avenue, or an aging college student at
Columbia. Finally it is decided that he
had best be a casual employee in
Texas, where he is to establish pro-
gressive credentials. Thus we find him
acquiring, and in a desultory way dis-
tributing, Hands Off Cuba leaflets;
joining a pro-Castro organisation
doubtless set up, financed, and largely
recruited by the FBI. He even a
masterstroke, that makes some sort
of application for a return visa to thp
U.S.S.R., going into Mexico without let
or hindrance for the purpose.
JTNALLY, there is the attempt on
General Walker, a phantasmagoric
figure from the extreme Right.
Oswald, a competent marksman,
capable subsequently of hitting a dis-
tant moving target with remarkable
precision, puts his gun through the
window of General Walker’s study
when the general is seated at his desk,
and misses him. Only, surely, a high-
grade Intelligence organisation would
be capable of putting Oswald in so
preposterous a situation, and then, to
make matters worse, ensuring that no
convincing police investigation takes
place afterwards.
Now try to imagine the state of mind
of Oswald. What is really expected of
him, he asks himself. Whose side is he
on, if any? For that matter, who is he,
if anyone? If it was so easy to point a
gun at General Walker and pull the
trigger, why not at someone more im-
portant? And hitting instead of miss-
ing. What about the President, for in-
stance? So Oswald stations himself at
the window, munches his cold chicken
while he waits, then points his gun 'and
this time scores a hit. On whose behalf?
No one’s, anyone’s. I know—he kills
Kennedy for Intelligence’s own sake;
the perfect I-murder. Perhaps in recog-
nition of this, the Soviet authorities did
an unprecedented thing; they handed
over their dossier on Oswald to the
FBI. For once the two services had a
common interest —the maintenance of
a common fantasy. In the context of
the cold war, it was like those occasions
in the 1914-18 war when at Christmas-
time the two sides suspended hostilities
and fraternised, sharing their Christmas
pudding and sausages and brandy-
butter.
Of course, Oswald had to die in case
he should come to and become a per-
son again. Ruby was standing by to
kill him. No need to prod him on or
persuade him. He was there, on the
spot, with his gun in his pocket, and
ready to do the deed on television,
before millions of spectators, “for
Jackie.”
I see it differently as a Kennedy
and an Oswald, alike projections of the
underlying conflict, the collective
schizophrenia of our time, mutually
destroying one another; two Bond
readers colliding like atoms to create
a mighty and far-reaching explosion.


Pig
■
*■ , ■ ' a "*"?j{».-W fc ,*,v
> -~ -c. ~Jr‘
&*£* *% ci ~'- ***' I JIIK/iTgl
gPPI!
.. .... 5
**it4S
’--- -^SC^
'
sp>*»s
Even the experts were saying this only 13 years ago. But Ampol’s initiative and
persistence were finally rewarded when oil was first discovered in Western
Australia in 1953.
Ampol gets things done! Ampol, the Australian Company has its stake in this
country alone. That’s why it pioneered the search for Australian oil and has
contributed to our national development in so many other ways.
It is only with your help that Ampol can continue these achievements.
SUPPORT
STRALIAN
AU
OWNED
THE AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
,AP:PII4


ONE MORE
WEEK
Quiet, Please
AN ADVERTISEMENT for power-
boats carries the slogan, “She’s beauti-
ful even when quiet.” A large number
of foreshore dwellers might like to
make that “She’s beautiful only when
quiet.”
One Voice
SYDNEY’S Communist paper,
“Tribune,” giving details of the
decision to close down the Brisbane
and Melbourne Communist papers,
both the “Guardian,” and have only
one paper, coming from Sydney, give
as a reason for the change the efficiency
of the “Tribune’s” new printing-press.
Or it could be the efficiency with which
one group can bring others into line.
Book Notes
ON THE MATTER of Christmas
books, we note:
• Cellarmaster’s “Guide to Australian
Wines” is rapidly selling out its first
edition and is being reprinted. If you
want your copies in good time for
Christmas, fill out the coupon on page
40 of this issue of THE BULLETIN as
soon as possible.
• Will Rushton’s “I Didn’t Know My
Way to King’s Cross When I First
Came Here, and Look at Me Now,”
which was supposed to be on the book-
stalls a fortnight after commission, is
out this week, a full three weeks after
first discussions. Smarten up, there,
Rushton.
• Sun Books have half a dozen new
Australian paperbacks out this week.
Among them: “An Ornament of
Grace,” first novel by former BUL-
LETIN contributor Jan Smith, and
“The Nature of Love,” the first collec-
tion of short stories by Judith Wright.
Twelve out of the 14 stories first
appeared in THE BULLETIN.
Also, a chess column appears on page
85 in this issue. This will be a weekly
feature of THE BULLETIN.
The Seating Man
A QUIET AMERICAN, unconcerned
with the politics and the ups and downs
of the Sydney Opera House, has been
in Australia for the past few weeks as
a consultant to advise on the interiors
of the four auditoriums.
He is Ben Schlanger, a realist with
twenty years of experience consulting
on similar buildings, which include such
notable structures as the United Nations
General Assembly, the Metropolitan
Opera House, Lincoln Centre, the Los
Angeles Music Centre, the John F.
Kennedy Performing Arts Centre, Mon-
treal’s new cultural Place des Artes,
the Ottawa Cultural Centre, the
National Theatre in Nicaragua, and a
complete opera house for the University
of Indiana, which is perhaps the lead-
ing music school in America.
He has also been connected with the
new Madison Square Garden and the
Basketball Arena for the University of
Illinois, both of which have identical
seating capacities of 18,000. He has
worked in Bogota, Lima, Panama, and
Cuba, where he left a big theatre be-
hind for the Castro regime. He has
helped India develop her cultural pro-
jects by correspondence. And he has
written a new building code for places
of assembly in New York.
In fact, his work on cultural centres
around the globe in the past ten years
prompts him to suggest that anyone
with a voice should start training for
opera, as at the present rate opera
houses are going up faster than opera
companies are forming.
He feels that Sydney’s Opera House
is misnamed. It is a complex and
should have the title of Sydney Arts
Centre and take full credit for what
it is, an arts complex. Despite the
gloomy predictions, Schlanger has
found no insurmountable problems, and
more useful activity areas than were
expected.
“Sydney people may benefit more
than they hoped,” he said. “There
is room for concerts, opera, ballet,
drama, even a cinema if it is wanted.”
A graduate of Columbia University,
a two-time grantee of the Ford Foun-
dation for the study of theatre, Ben
Schlanger has, perhaps more by acci-
dent than design, limited his archi-
tectural work to places of assembly.
He began by designing cinemas and
brought many innovations into this
particular field, including the building
of twin theatres (capacity 500) show-
ing the same film. This provides arm-
chair comfort for the moviegoer, who
never gets a distorted view of the screen.
The comfort of people is his ultimate
object—“l’m interested in the techni-
cal aspects of the building—the ticket
office, the availability of the toilets, and
the closeness of the cloak-room. I
arrange the spaces that the architects
have enclosed. In fact, I make these
buildings work. And this one will work
very well. There will be surprises in
the foyer area, where some of the
exciting exterior character of the build-
ing will be incorporated. It should
be very beautiful. My job is to make
the interval, be it seven or fourteen
minutes long, when people are in this
foyer, really useful. I take into con-
sideration that someone may need a
telephone, that people want to buy a
drink or a cup of coffee, that they want
to be seen, they want to talk, or go
to the washroom. They must be able
to move freely and they should be
able to find everything without too
much asking.”
JJE is also concerned with pedestrian
traffic, psychological behaviour,
public safety, and making sure that
everyone will be able to see and hear.
Also in Sydney at the present time
is acoustical consultant Dr. Vilhelm
L. Jordan, of Denmark, with whom
Schlanger has worked on many
occasions. “This is a team thing, get-
ting a building to function well,"
Schlanger said. “His work will go right
on until the moment someone begins
to perform on the stage. Mine will
taper off, though I will be involved
until its completion now.”
He is at the moment involved with
many other projects, including the St.
Louis Symphony Hall, several univer-
sity' theatres, the University Opera
House at Indiana, which will be as
elaborate as the Metropolitan, the
Theme Buildings for Canada’s Expo
67, an auditorium in Saskatchewan
and there are several new projects as
yet untouched.
He feels he may have to leave some
of them untouched since the Sydney
Opera House has provided him with
more items of work than he originally
suspected. He feels that despite its
sculptural approach, “there seems to
have been enough foresight in spaces
allotted to allow for the units to
operate in a practical and useful
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Even if the Prime Minister or the
Leader of the Opposition were killed
today, we would be breaking the law
if we told you about it on television.
—J. Cruthers. Managing Director TVW7, on
the law prohibiting elections stories on
TV and radio for three days before
the close of the poll.
It is in the more chaotic parts of
the universities where we find ex-
cellence combined with originality.
—Dr. Thomas Balogh.
The so-called divorce reformer can
equally be called a marriage breaker.
—Lady Summerskill.
When the end came, the rented
mink had to go hack to the furrier
and I was left with nothing except
experience.
■—Actress Jill Ireland.
There are no real differences in
the Labor Party on anything.
—Arthur Calwell.
If I had my way I would give
North Vietnam a basinful of bombs
tomorrow morning.
—New Zealand Minister
of Defence Dean Eyre.
Just as science has made war too
dangerous to be left to the generals,
science, when it unlocks the arcana
of thought and life, will either have
made science too dangerous to be
left to the scientists, or will have
made government too dangerous to
be left to the governed.
—U.S. Secretary of Labor W. W. Wlrtz.
I do not propose to read such
blasphemous nonsense.
—Canon John Pearce-Higgins, London, on
the passages in the Bible about Jezebel.


fashion.” He certainly won’t be fitting
mini-seats though some people have
been asking him how small the seats
will be. “No smaller than anywhere
else,” he promises.
Though he has not had much time
to look at Sydney and was rather trans-
fixed by the Opera House itself as he
flew in he thinks the city has a unique
atmosphere. “There is a flavor of
San Francisco, something of England,
a touch of colonialism, and something
that is just Sydney.” Despite the fact
that the skyline is rising, he hopes that
we won’t tear down all the lovely old
buildings, and wonders if we shouldn’t
have something like New York’s Land-
marks Committee, which legally pre-
serves the best of their old buildings.
Of the embattled Opera House he
says quietly: “It is good to see a bit
of bravery. For whatever reasons these
things were tried, they were not done
just to be unusual. Perhaps with more
experience there would have been more
caution, but it will eventually be the
most exciting building of its type in
the world, and it is very nice to see
how the original concept is being re-
spected by the present architects.”
Long Term
WITH THE BEATLES breaking up
and Normie Rowe in London spending
more and singing less, RCA of Aus-
tralia have just signed young singer
Gita Rivera to a five-year contract. At
this, something of a sigh of relief went
up around the company.
The relief is partly because the com-
pany feels it has found an artist worth
long-term promotion. In popular music
five years is very long term. For some
months RCA has had a master-plan,
involving specially commissioned songs,
personal appearances, television tie-ups,
and interstate tours. The difficulty was
to find a young performer who would
make all this effort worth while.
However, greater relief may have
been felt all round RCA because the
end of singing groups, mostly male,
seems in sight. The past few years, in
retrospect, must seem to local recording
companies something of a nightmare
of one group of untrained, often un-
talented young people after another.
Few of them had any musical training.
Many did not know how to read music.
Most were convinced not that they
were profiting by a passing fad but
that they were launched on a career for
life. (RCA publicity officer in Sydney,
Iris Moxley, remembers one boy who,
it was found, was only 11 years old.) All
suggestions that they should finish school
or learn a trade were brushed aside.
But young people would buy their
records in quantity for a short time, so
the record companies plunged in.
“Most of the groups we had made only
one recording and were heard no
more,” Miss Moxley said. “I have no
idea where they are now.”
Gita Rivera is a vastly different
proposition. Eighteen years old, she has
been in this country from Yugoslavia
for five years. She came with her
mother and two brothers to join her
maternal grandmother, and leaving
behind her father, since remarried, who
is director of a music school. The
family came via two years in a refugee
camp (“pasta asciutta one day, mine-
strone the next, for two years”).
Miss Rivera, who appeared in
“They’re a Weird Mob,” has no diffi-
culty in brushing aside the suggestion
that giving up boys and the beach is
any sacrifice. Her young life at the
moment is taken up with learning the
guitar, tightening her singing grip on
seven languages, learning ballet, prac-
tising yoga the relentless self-
improvement round of the dedicated,
Next year she plans to study drama,
RCA hope to launch Miss Rivera
eventually as an international artist,
and languages help here. The company’s
only local performer who sells regu-
larly overseas is trumpeter John Rob-
ertson. For the time being, though, they
may be satisfied to establish her as an
Australian artist. It is a matter of some
puzzlement to some American principals
of the company that Australian popu-
lar musicians often have a following in
only one State. In America fame
spreads easily across the whole country,
but here it often stops at the border.
The Tetters of Trevor Goosehoot
(Intercepted by Will Rushton)
Dear Mother,
Your most recent letter was undoubtedly the worst yet. It can only be a rumor
that Mr. Wilson is going to scatter Peerages amongst our colored brothers in the
next Honors List to demonstrate his passionate liberalism. Not that I would
complain in the least were Knighthoods, Orders of the Garter, and other festive
decorations heaped upon those who by some unhappy quirk of pigmentation are
not as us. (Shouts of “New Zealanders are not as Us. They are Orientals. Apart
from anything else, they are not as US as us.”)
Not that again, and this is written before the results of the election are pub-
lished, should Mr. Holt make it, and he doubtless will, particularly after his
Rockdale Dallas (strangely enough on the very Anniversary of the Event), peer-
ages will be whistling about over here and not only to placate our White
Brothers. (Echoes of Lloyd George.)
What I found extraordinary about this election was that it was an exact
parallel of the British election of 1964. In that case a Grand Old Pro, Harold
Macmillan (or Sir Robert Menzies, as he is over here), made way for a younger,
more innocuous and even toothier successor, Sir Alec Douglas-Home (or Harold
Holt as we know him). The country was eager for change after years of
flaccid conservative rule. Up stepped young, dynamic socialist Wilson and boom!
Alas, history has not quite repeated itself. Poor old Arthur failed to realise his
name began with a “C” and not a “W.” Had it only been Whitlam. You know,
Mother, if you work at this sort of thing long enough you can almost believe
in it.
Yours ever,
Trevor.


Enterprising Mr. Deacock
A Simple Idea for a Complex Age
By KIT DENTON
Warwick deacock is an
“ex” kind of man . . . ex-Royal
Marines, ex-Middlesex Regiment,
ex-French Foreign Legion, ex-
Parachute Regiment, ex-Special Air
Service Regiment. He has commanded
troops in Far East anti-opium patrols,
in the Indo-Chinese War, in Malaya,
Oman, and in Ski and Moun-
tain Warfare Schools in Austria. He
has taken part in expeditions to Alaska,
Arctic Lapland, the Himalayas, the
Karakorums, and Heard Island. And,
left at that, you probably get some
sort of picture of a type the British
Adventurer, the Man of the Mountains,
a character drawn by John Buchan
after a sketch by Kipling and embel-
lished by John Masters and to some
extent it is true.
It doesn’t fall into proper perspec-
tive, though, till you also recognise
that Deacock is a botanist, a photog-
rapher, a writer, a geographer, and
a film-maker. It is likely that even
Warwick Deacock, at 40, doesn’t know
what else he is in any detail, and his
life seems to be a determined attempt
to find out. Certainly he is an egotist,
if it is possible to divorce true selfish-
ness from the meaning of this word.
He is a man who uses himself exten-
sively as a commodity, who promotes
himself as a useful article, who sells
himself and believes he is worth a good
price . , . and this because he is con-
vinced his ideas are right.
This attitude has a whole long list of
inherent dangers. There are dema-
gogues and industrialists and journal-
ists and statesmen and a million nut
cases who are all convinced that their
ideas are right. In the light of Dea-
cock’s capacities for leadership and
organisation, it is perhaps fortunate
that he allies his professed paganism
with a deeply romantic vein, an under-
standing of the futility of one-man
political campaigns and a fundamental
belief in the goodness of people. In
the quiet, rather high voice which
comes just a little oddly out of a big,
solid man, he says, “I don’t believe
that anyone is basically bad. I do be-
lieve that the greatest wastage in our
democracies is the wasted potential of
the individual.’’
It is easy to dismiss this sort of
thing as a surface platitude it is
almost fashionable but behind the
simple philosophy is the fact that Dea-
cock is doing anything but waste his
potential. To hundreds of people he is
known only, or best, as the first warden
of the Australian Outward Bound
School, which he ran from 1959 to
1962, establishing the rigorous pattern
of Mens sana in corpore sano already
familiar in the parent schools in
Britain.
These days he is reluctant to talk
about the movement beyond suggesting
that there was a great lack of public
support for it, and he insists that as
the first warden here he was only an
innovator who passed on when the
need for innovation was no longer felt.
Behind this it is possible to sense a
deeper motive, a belief that the Out-
ward Bound pattern was too inflexible,
too little prepared to adapt to Aus-
tralian community needs.
Because of his association with the
movement, because of his lectures to
children and his trips with them in the
years since then, Deacock is accus-
tomed to being taken as a Kiddie
Camp director accustomed to it,
but never happy about it. Although he
was for a season manager of Australia’s
first major commercial holiday camp,
boarding up to 250 children each week,
Warwick Deacock
he says now, “I can’t understand kids.
Fifteen is the earliest age I can talk
to them,” and this, one gathers, even
extends to his own children.
For a man who “can’t understand
kids,” he has an extraordinary ability
for handling their needs or what
he sees as their needs. I remember
how, on the Hawkesbury River island
where Outward Bound was set up, teen-
age boys from schools and farms and
factories learned to do things of which
they had never believed themselves
capable, things which Deacock had
established they were to do.
He says two things about this. “The
trick is to organise the camp, then
get someone who really -understands
kids to run it for you.” And, with some-
thing like anguish, “D’you know, one
of the instructors took a crowd of lads
down to the jetty and said, ‘Follow
me,’ and jumped off into the water. It
was bloody cold but they all fol-
lowed him in! I heard two or three of
them afterwards grumbling about it
and I asked them why, if they were
against the idea, they’d gone in. And
they said they didn’t want to refuse
didn’t want to be different!” You
can hear the feeling against conform-
ism as he tells you about it, the feel-
ing that this rigidity of thought has
got to be countered. His counter is
Ausventure.
“Venture” is a word Deacock likes
to use, not so much in its sense of
speculation as in its aspects of chal-
lenge. In one of his articles he has
written of part of the Heard Island
expedition, “Our venture included the
amassing of £20,000 and sailing in a
small yacht over 10,000 miles in some
of the worst seas in the world. With
me were men from Australia, New
Zealand, and Great Britain scien-
tists, artists, teachers, and doctors. On
the return trip our philosophies were
aired in the galley and the next adven-
ture took shape what was needed
was surely a research centre. We would
build a centre and invite others to
work out their ideas and ideals. How
to pay? We must start a company and
invite those who believed with us to
invest capital in the idea and they
have!”
They have to the extent of setting
up Camp Chakola in Kangaroo Valley,
N.S.W. A studio-cum-workshop deep
in the bush. The only requirements laid
down were that it must be safe, volun-
tary and sympathetically supervised,
and these things were stuck to by the
manager, a typical Deacock follower
an ex-naval radio operator with
artistic talent and some years of youth
work. Camp Chakola; Castle Venture
for people over 15 who want a fort-
night of camping and climbing with
experts; Yeti Venture as an introduc-
tion to snow camping and ski touring;
arts tours to Central Australia; Explora-
tion Patrols; Sherpa Venture for moun-
tain trailing; Junior Ventures; Outback
Patrols all these have stemmed from
that conversation in the galley of the
yacht Patanela on the way back from
Heard Island.
Superficially there are strong over-
tones of muscular Christianity about it
all, of Scouting, or organised play, but
these aspects are superficial. At a
deeper level is Deacock’s continual de-
sire for experimentation, for laboratory
work in the fields of endeavor and
achievement, conditioned by his belief
that people are good and useful. Give
them the chance to show this, he con-
tends, and they will produce good and
useful results.
He stresses that the man who spends
40 hours a week at a die-stamping
press doesn’t have- to do only that
give him a chance to explore the width
and depth of his mind and he will
develop for his own satisfaction and
everyone else’s benefit. To this extent
there’s a degree of similarity with Out-
ward Bound perhaps, but Deacock’s
Ausventure holidays place no emphasis
on rigid rules.
At Chakola . . . “The older children
initially suspected the claim that activi-
ties would be voluntary. Where was
the catch? They looked in vain. The
campers owned the camp and treated
it with the respect due to their own pre-
cious possessions. Freedom bestowed


SAVING
AS WELL AS SELLING
OVERSEAS is vital to Australia
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills does both, and this
Australian-owned company is a large contributor to the economy and
prosperity of Australia.
In 1938, for the first time in the world, printing and writing
papers were produced at Burnie from short-fibred Eucalypt pulp.
Today, more than 3,000 people are producing some
100,000 tons annually to supply most of Australia’s requirements
in fine papers. There are “Burnie” and “Ballarat” papers
for personal stationery, Government usage, school exercise and
text books, printing, publishing and special wrapping.
This local production effects a very substantial saving in imports
and so conserves Australian overseas funds. To further assist
the nation’s trade balance, large tonnages of “Burnie” and
“Ballarat” papers are exported to South East Asia and other
foreign markets.
Constant quality control, intensive product research and the skill
of Australian workers ensure that the “Burnie” and “Ballarat” brands
rank as world-quality papers.
ASSOCIATED PULP AND PAPER MILLS LIMITED
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
O


HERE
are the
answers
to all
YOUR
GIFT
problems
$1.50
Harm aster s
GUIDE TO,
AUSTRALIAN
WINES
% I
The collected wisdom of
THE BULLETIN'S CELLAR-
MASTER in an attractive
Guide to Australian Wines.
Give your friends BULLETIN
presents this year. Order any or
all of these attractive gifts on
the form below.
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN BOOK ($5.75) . . . . □
CELLARMASTER BOOK ($1.50) . □
ANZAC RECORD ($1.00) .. .. □
HUMPHRIES' RECORD ($1.00) .. □
BOTH RECORDS ($1.75) □
MENZIES BUST ($10.00) .... □
State number required. Send, with cheque
or postal order to Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
YOUR NAME
ADDRESS
4
4
I
I
I
4
I
4
I
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
&
pi
•Mi
A collection from the 1960s r
$5.75 THE BULLETIN BOOK in-
cludes short stories, cartoons,
profiles, features, and art portfolios.
Bulletin Record
BARRY HUMPHRIES
CHUNDER DOWN UNDER
Bulletin Record
PETER ffSHAUGHNESSY
SPIRIT OF ANZAC
$l.OO
CHUNDER DOWN
UNDER
The popular Barry
Humphries'
45 r.p.m. 7" disc.
$l.OO
SPIRIT OF
ANZAC—
Peter
O'Shaughnessy
reads prose
and poetry on a
33 r.p.m. 7" disc.
SPECIAL OFFER
These two records together
for only $1.75
★
Or give Les Tanner's striking bust
of Sir Robert Menzies. $lO.OO.
ADDRESS LABEL
PRINTED MATTER
RECORD ONLY
NAME
ADDRESS
State
SENDER
SEND ADDITIONAL ADDRESSES ON PLAIN PAPER
responsibility. Chakola to the neat mind
was a shambles, a chaos of ideas, a
melting pot and a test tube. Paste and
paper everywhere . . . children wholly
absorbed in the occupation of the
moment ... Why is? . . . What are?
. . . How do you? . . . our motto is
‘Venturing to learn and learning to ven-
ture.’ ” •
At a deeper level again, he is work-
ing toward an aim which he himself
doesn’t yet see clearly, but which keeps
jutting out of his conversation . . . the
need to face an age in which people
may expect more and more leisure
time, but for which they have no edu-
cation in the use of that leisure. The
impetus to get up and do has slowed
almost to a stop, and it is Deacock’s
feeling that it needs to be urged into
action again. A recent survey tour of
Australia has resulted in a report in
which he shows himself as being far
from the Kiddie Camp director and
much closer to the industrial human
relations researcher.
“In industry we see the growing need
for a new idea of training, a reserva-
tion about qualification for its own
sake and a realisation of the individual
potential, often undeveloped,” he said.
“We see also the problems inherent in
the shorter working week, the need for
retraining in a fast-changing techno-
logical world. Education must be linked
to these needs. We must still assess
whether the old ideas of personal in-
dependence and leadership are suited
to the needs of great organisations and
tough competition, and whether the
dogmatic moralities can still be fitted
where research and knowledge are the
tools of success, where for the ethics
of the system we shall have to depend
upon the social maturity of the indi-
vidual. The meaningfulness of that in-
dividual may depend upon his ability
to learn constructive and fulfilling
means of employing leisure to offset
what may be dull employment.”
he is more than a man alone
with a set of ideas; he’s Warwick
Deacock Enterprises Pty. Ltd. When the
company was registered his wife asked
him, “What are we going to do?” and
his answer was, “Be enterprising, I sup-
pose.” He still regards himself as an
innovator . . . “The company aims
embrace all age groups; the reason for
starting with juniors is that this was
the most easily recognisable way of
testing our attitudes, and since these
have paid off we shall slowly widen
our scope. Our greatest drawback apart
from money for promotion is the Aus-
tralian Victoriana —• protestant and
puritanical attitudes to the cost of plea-
sure holidays for children and basic
lack of interest in the business com-
munity as a whole in the value of the
individual. In other words, we are once
again innovating, with all the loneli-
ness and chaos that goes with that
operation.”
That’s Warwick Deacock innova-
tor and non-conformist, pagan and
idealist, venturer and businessman a
complex man trying to fit a simple
idea into a complex age.


ADVANCE
AUSTRALIA
I
iiiiiiMiiiMMMiM
lißiiiil
i®*
* - .
.v*.
■ iEt;
m
n
'■ -
Today Australia is experiencing one of its
most dramatic progressions in advanced
communications, not only within the conti-
nent, but internationally as well.
Since 1960, Collins Radio Co. (A/asia) Pty.
Ltd. has played a major role in this develop-
ment: with the supply and installation of
complex electronic equipment and svstems ot
Australia’s Defence Departments, other
Government Departments, and Commercial
Airlines.
With the recently-completed Space Tracking
Station by Collins in the Orroral Valley,
Australian installation technicians now join
Collins in the vanguard of modern com-
munications with the most advanced elec-
tronic equipment in the world.
V
wm
I ; “
r ■ ■ 'CMH
•LlUil.r -
.....
v ' "«•'
«*
Jf
m
Q11C3.1 i »*
□HQ*
’ S IS
...
CM
w»
i ,
&*»**< |
f * *-;>
f * s>, :
M » t » w-'i
t‘i m • » £ -
g» « » £•• *
g - * ; *§
■ % -■■■■■ 4- •
...... Jr
t J
Australian communication technicians, trained in the United States, assist in the check-out
of the central control of the Orroral Valley Space Tracking Station’s complex electronic
functions.
COLLINS RADIO CO. (A/asia) PTY. LTD., 327 Collins St., Melbourne. Tel. 61 2626
COMMUNICATION/COMPUTATION/CONTROL
COLLINS
COLLINS RADIO COMPANY/DALLAS, TEXAS • CEDAR RAPIDS, lOWA • NEWPORT BEACH, CALIFORNIA • TORONTO, ONTARIO.
Bangkok, Beirut, Frankfurt. Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Los Angeles, London, Melbourne, Mexico City, New York, Paris, Rome, Washington, Wellington.


3%;
25 OVERSEAS
AWARDS TO
GRAMP’S
ORLANDO
WINES
Twenty-five Orlando Wines entries in
the 1966 International Wine Fair at
Ljubljana, Yugoslavia, have achieved 25
medals 14 gold and 11 silver. We
have listed some of these wines below,
and commend them for special con-
sideration by all wine lovers.
1961 BAROSSA
WHITE BURGUNDY
This wine is produced mainly from the
Trebbiano grape, which Orlando planted
extensively in 1954 after prolonged ex-
periments on a smaller scale. The Treb-
biano grape has a very strong bouquet,
and to achieve a perfect balance it is
blended with the more delicate Madeira
grape during vintage. The 1963 vintage
of this wine achieved a Silver Medal at
Ljubljana. The 1961 vintage which we
now recommend for immediate enjoy-
ment, has also been a prize winner in
Australia. It was matured in 500 gallon
oak casks for 18 months, and then
bottled.
ORLANDO
MIAMBA CLARET
A medium to full Claret with a pleasing
bouquet and fruity palate, balanced with
a soft and appealing Tannin finish.
Miamba Claret, which was awarded a
Gold Medal, is vintaged from Hermitage
and Cabernet Sauvignon grapes grown at
Orlando’s famous Miamba Vineyard in
South Australia’s fertile Lyndoch Valley.
The delightful colour, bouquet and astrin-
gency is obtained by careful control of
the fermentation on the grape skins.
Immediately after fermentation, the wine
is aged in imported French Oak Casks to
develop its finest qualities.
ORLANDO BLUE RIBBON
SPAETLESE RIESLING
In 1956 Orlando became .the first Aus-
tralian wine company to produce a true
Spaetlese, or “late picking” Riesling.
This unique white wine from the Barossa
Valley is vintaged only from the last and
ripest Rhine Riesling grapes picked in
any vintage year. Fermentation is cold
and pressure controlled to enable a steady
transformation of the natural grape juice
into a quintessence of Rhine Riesling.
Blue Ribbon Spaetlese Riesling’s superb
fruity freshness makes it the perfect
wine to enjoy with all sweeter foods,
particularly desserts. It has been
awarded a Gold Medal overseas every
year it has been shown, and the 1962
vintage is particularly commended.
1965 ORLANDO
BAROSSA RIESLING
Since its introduction in 1953, Orlando
Barossa Riesling has won more awards
than any other Riesling produced in
Australia. It achieved a Silver Medal
at Ljubljana this year.
The Rhine Riesling grapes are gathered
early to obtain the desirable natural
acidity. The juice, separated im-
mediately after crushing, is then cold
and controlled fermented to ensure cool,
steady fermentation.
The result is a wine with a pronounced,
yet delicate, Riesling grape fragrance
and a clean, crisp acid palate.
Younger vintages of Barossa Riesling are
in green bottles, and older vintages which
have acquired the special characteristics
of bottle age, are in amber bottles.
WINEMAKERS NOTES
Write to the Orlando office in your
State for a copy of Orlando’s Wine-
makers notes on vintage wines.
B/2058
Sending Out an SOS
By DAPHNE GUINNESS
SLUTS of Australia unite! There is
hope for us yet. We are about to
become fashionable. Katharine
Whitehorn, columnist on the London
“Observer” and a self-confessed slut
herself, includes, some thoughts on the
subject in her book of collected
columns, “Only on Sundays.”*
Usually when Miss Whitehorn writes
on unmentionable topics, which she fre-
quently does, they become mentionable.
She once did an article for the “Spec-
tator” on menstruation. Within weeks
every publication was writing forthright
pieces on the curse of women, and not
only publications: the BBC referred to
it in their Women’s Hour radio pro-
gram.
Now sluthood, via Miss Whitehorn’s
book, has reached these puritanical
shores, and I would like her to know,
should this piece pass her way, that
sluthood in Australia is quite different
from sluthood in England. Though I
agree with her that one is either born
a slut or not, there is much more in-
centive here to practise one’s talents to
the full.
The climate, for a start, makes light
of several of Miss Whitehorn’s or, to
avoid libel, the English slut’s problems.
Here, if our suspender bobble goes, we
do not ponder whether to keep our
stockings up with coins or headache
pills. We take them off. Most of us
don’t wear stockings in the first place,
it is far too hot. Gloves don’t concern
us, for the same reason, neither do
hair and make-up. We have been on
the beach all day, of course our hair is
messy, and we hide our unmade-up eyes
and bald eyebrows with large dark
glasses. Leather-stacked shoes may be
the answer for English sluts on the
grounds that they (the shoes) last
longer. We Sydney sluts pad around
barefoot.
But if the climate cancels out half
the English sluts’ problems, it doubles
the scope for performance in this
country. Before leaving London, some-
one quoted her sister in Brisbane as
saying “no one bothers with housework
in Australia,” and I remember feeling
pretty righteous that foul November
day because the washing-up had been
done before coming out. Now, r.f
course, I know what she meant. Com-
pared with London, there is no dirt
at all and what is left of daylight by
the time one’s husband returns never
reveals any dust that may have accumu-
lated. The girl who says if her dust-
ing is not done on Monday it’s not
done at all has, to my mind, the right
attitude to this time-wasting chore.
If ever there was no incentive to
shop, it is here. Sluts who think it a
waste of time, and we all do, lift the
telephone and have it delivered. At
my local store, they toil along the road
to the chemist and greengrocer as well,
for no extra charge. And every good
slut has a deep-freeze stuffed with food
for the next six months. Why do I
bother with the local store? Well,
someone’s got to cart home the Sorbent
lavatory paper and the sliced white
Cobbity, and it is not going to be me.
“A slut who baths when she has time
never baths at all. Her only hope is to
get up into one every morning,” writes
Miss Whitehorn. A-ha! One friend says
a swim at Bondi is good enough. Fail-
ing that, a chum’s swimming-pool. As
for cooking, well even non-sluts don’t
do it. Their husbands barbecue the
steak and everyone eats off throwaway
plates. Some sluts use throwaway knives
and forks, too. The pleasure of eating
out on the patio is now obvious. It is
part of the garden, and that is hus-
band territory. Therefore, one less room
to Hoover. Or, rather, one less room
to leave not Hoovered.
defined sluttishness as lazi-
ness, but Miss Whitehorn and I both
know that is untrue. Sluthood, in fact,
creates work. Not refilling the ice-tray
at the right time entails a desperate
dash up the road for a bag of the stuff,
which, being a slut, I leave on the kit-
chen table, forget, and then have to
mop up, two hours later, the resultant
flooded floor. You can try short-cut
washing of lettuce, but that put another
slut to no end of inconvenience, not to
say expense, when her husband swal-
lowed a foreign body and took to his
bed for a week.
However, like Miss Whitehorn, I
wish there could be something we
might do to help matters. Not to make
us un-slutty so much, as to think of
further ways of perfecting our way of
life. She actually does put forward
some constructive suggestions, such as
bulk-buying of food, etc. (in my case
Sorbent and Cobbity), so that one does
not run out of it so often, and safety-
pins for fallen hems. But they wouldn’t
work for me. Bulk-buying presupposes
you have enough space to put it in.
All my cupboards are crammed with
things that should be parked elsewhere.
And if a bikini hem falls, it is probably
to the good anyway.
Well, what can we sluts in Australia
do? I would suggest for a start that
we might form ourselves into a
Society of Sluts, thus giving ourselves
the appropriate- short form SOS, and
pool our resources to dumbfound even
more our critical non-slut, pious, goody-
goody friends.
But setting that up would be an
awful grind. And, really, life is too
short for taking on more work. We
sluts have enough to get out of as it
is.
* Published by Methuen. Price, $4.25.


V
"iC
WINES FOR THE CONNOISSEUR
BIN 2760 RESERVE RIESLING, VINTAGE 1965
HUNTER RIVER VALLEY
Made from Riesling grapes grown at Lindeman’s Sunshine Vineyard, Hunter
River Valley. A light, clean, refreshing Riesling with a strong bouquet and
flavour, and typical Hunter River character.
GOLD MEDAL 1965 ADELAIDE SHOW, EXPORT HOCK CLASS
SILVER MEDAL 1965 BRISBANE SHOW, EXPORT HOCK CLASS
SILVER MEDAL 1965 BRISBANE SHOW, EXPORT HOCK CLASS
BIN 2990 RESERVE SPATLESE MOSELLE, VINTAGE 1966
CLARE VALLEY, S.A.
Made from Rhine Riesling grapes grown at Clare, South Australia. A very
rich, fruity, sun-ripened Moselle with a crisp, clean finish on the palate.
SILVER MEDAL 1966 ADELAIDE SHOW
MEDIUM DRY WHITE TABLE WINE CLASS, 1966 VINTAGE
JVIADE BY
Lindeman's
ORDER THROUGH YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
WINE OF THE MONTH
Horses for Courses
CHRIS T M A S
bonus.
WINES of
the Month. Two
of them and
both from the
same maker! In
fact, an each-way
bet on two favor-
ites from the same
stable assessing
horses for courses, curcrnt form, and
weight-for-age. Result a photo finish
and deadheat.
For the two wines, though from the
same patch of land, are a different
kettle of birds of a different color alto-
gether. So different, in fact, that you
could be excused from thinking they
were different areas. The clue is that
they are of different years, and therein
lies some of the endless fascination of
wine.
I had intended, initially, to seek a
celebration wine an occasion wine.
But what could I suggest? I had done
champagnes, covered a number of the
royal reds, inspected the subtleties of
hue of most of the delicate whites,
and was at the end of my dither.
Inviting myself to a distinguished
tasting, I found a laying-down wine, a
wine of the future, of great promise
and riches in store, virginal, expectant,
waiting. And as one of the distinguished
tasters said, “It’s not even fit for bloody
drinking!”
I immediately decided to revoke my
Christmas-cliched thought and pursue
the paths of cellarbrated righteousness.
In fact, to recommend a wine to buy!
But right next door was a wine of con-
siderable distinction, a wine of full
flavor and rich quality, a wine that
could be consumed with full appreci-
ation now.
S 0 took the easy way out and now
bet odds on both. The First Wine of
the Month is McWilliams Mount Pleas-
ant Hermitage Vintage 1964, their
standard vineyard blend. Some of the
names of the Mount Pleasant wines are
difficult to follow. From time to time
you see the Stephen, Frederick, Charles,
Robert, Richard, Old Paddock, and
Old Hill Hermitages. Some of these are
vineyard wines, and sometimes they
are the best, or most distinctive, casks
of wine from a particular vineyard
area.
This practice was started by Maurice
O’Shea when he owned the Mount
Pleasant vineyards and has provided
Australia with some of its most desired
wines.
But the standard workmanlike gal-
loper year after year has been the
straight Hermitage, a blend of wines
from the Mount Pleasant paddocks,
from the famous Rosehill vineyards,
and about. These wines have been con-
sistently good and have been sold at
surprisingly low prices. However, since
1957, with the possible exception of
1959, these wines have been light, clean,
and rather slight. For the Hunter does
have vintage years and is susceptible to
climatic changes.
We know that ’64 was the first really
good year for reds for some time. (Fol-
lowed by the excellent season in ’65
and the “magnificent” season in ’66.)
But the wine, on tasting, was still a
surprise.
There is simply more of everything.
More color —a rich ruby-cherry hue
of quite strong intensity. (Two things
go into the color of a wine—the hue,
the actual shade of color, and the in-
tensity, or how much there is of it!)
More body—full yet undeveloped, with
the flavor strong but still dormant.
More tannin and acid—both quite ap-
parent on the finish of the wine. These
qualities are so apparent that the wine
is almost un-Hunter-like. It is as if
we have forgotten what these young
wines were like years ago when the
sun was hot and consistent. But when
this does occur there is a higher beaume
level often a slight grape dehydra-
tion which results in more color ex-
traction for less juice.
In fact, it is quite drinkable, but I
always get this feeling of plunder and
rape with these good young wines (as
I’m drinking them, not after). There
is so much quality there, and you
simply have to wait for it.
Then right in the next stall a new
release in limited quantity only
the 1963 Pinot Hermitage. The
color markedly older less dense and
of a brick hue with the familiar onion-
color edges. A very strong nose, in
aroma, bouquet, and volume (Aroma —
the character of the grapes. Bouquet—
the development of same, the evidence
of maturation and bottle age. Volume
the sheer strength of both!) A rich,
full earthy flavor and a soft finish
in which both acid and tannin were
evident but decidely unobtrusive.
Yet this wine is not a typical Pinot
Hermitage being somehow richer
and softer. The reasons for this are
interesting.
Nineteen sixty-three was a split vin-
tage there wasn’t a great deal of
rain for the most part of the ripening
period, and then it poured! But the
Pinot (together with the Traminer)
ripens early and in this case was picked
before the rain. The resultant wine was
of high color and considerable body.
Most of the Hunter Pinots lack these
qualities and this is why they are
blended the decided flavor augment-
ing the perhaps lesser Hermitage flavor
quality. But in this case the body and
color helped, for the Hermitage picked
after the rain was soft and rather light.
S° the result is a Pinot dominant
wine of early development and ex-
tremely pleasant character. Whether
it will live indefinitely is another mat-
ter. It probably won’t get the chance.
McWilliams are at a most interest-
ing cross-roads with these Mount
Pleasant reds. It is fairly obvious that,
though they are planting and have had
good seasons, they will not be able to
keep up with the increasing demand.
Five years ago we bought four-year-old
wine; two years ago it was three years
old; today it is just over two. Are they
to disregard the “name” reds and
concentrate on the one blend, the “good
familiar creature” (and’eventually be
short, anyway)? Or are they to stick
to the particular vineyards (and there-
fore “names”), raise the price (and
perhaps limit the consumption) in
order to be able to produce distinctive
Australian regional wines regardless of
popular clamor?
Frankly, I prefer the latter.
They’re worth it.
CELLA RMASTER


AROUND MELBOURNE
One Must Take a Stand
ONCE upon a time the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground was,
perhaps, the most beautiful
cricket ground on earth. When Mr.
H. H. Stephenson, of Surrey,
brought out the first International
XI in 1862, each member of his
team planted an elm and those elms
appear in all the old prints of the
MCG. But, alas, from then on things
began to deteriorate. For example,
Dr. W. G. Grace, when he re-
turned for the second time in 1891,
said: “Where are the grapevines
which climbed over the wall of the
wooden pavilion, provided the
players with luscious grapes . . . and
where is that famous well into
which a bucket was lowered and
players drank copious draughts of
icy cold water after practice?”
Yes, the MCG was building like
mad even then. And what happened
to the lovely elms? One suspects
that all XI were chopped before
the erection of the Wardill Stand
in the outer in 1911. That was the
first year the MCG began to take on
the look of the Colosseum, a place
for the devouring of footballers and
Englishmen. We have built many
times since then, and now we are
building again, a new stand which
will lift the capacity of our Colos-
seum to 122,000. At the moment
Whelan the Wrecker is in action,
tearing down the Grey Smith Stand.
If only Neville Cardus had been
there to describe the quality of the
play by Mr. Whelan, the beauty of
his back swing, the glorious
authority of his follow through, and
the evenness of his scoring rate. But
don’t think we are not sad about
the old Grey Smith Stand. The
changing rooms were there, the
Visitors on the left and the Austra-
lians on the right. Think of the
people they housed, Hobbs, Rhodes,
Hendren, Trumper, Kippax, the
great W. W. Armstrong, and all the
rest.
Then, just the other day, we saw
the Snake Pit come down. The
Snake Pit was the bar just beside
the changing rooms. Many a good
Test match has been . . . ah . . .
watched, from in there. One says
“watched,” because anyone with a
subtle ear for crowd noises can fol-
low the progress of play very well
indeed. The Snake Pit was also the
favorite bar for cricketers and foot-
ballers and it is said that many more
first-class centuries were scored there
than out in the middle.
The Grey Smith Stand was built
in honor of Frank Grey Smith, a
great president of the MCC and
grandfather of Ross Grey Smith,
present president of the VRC. Pre-
mier Thomas Bent laid the founda-
tion stone in February, 1906, and as
soon as it was built it was reported
in the “Argus” that gentlemen had
been seen smoking there. It was
felt that this was very distasteful to
the ladies and the committee ordered
that “no smoking” signs be put up
at once. The old stand saw a little
bit of history.
When the Americans moved into
the MCG in 1942 and it became
Camp Ransford, terrible things hap-
pened. The changing rooms, where
Woodfull’s men once anxiously
watched Larwood in action, became
a storehouse for machine-guns,
rifles, and carbines. The Snake Pit
was a canteen, and the old Mem-
bers’ tea-room was the American
PX. In 1942 this was the best shop
in Melbourne. An American who
would bring one a gift from the PX
was someone to know. It sold beauti-
ful white towels, shirts, watches,
tinned foods, Bowie knives, choco-
late, nuts, raincoats, Camels, Ches-
terfields, Lucky Strikes.
But enough of this snivelling. The
new stand will be a three-tier affair,
very handsome, and it will hold
31,000 spectators. The public will
get two-thirds of the space, the
members the rest, and there will be
dining-rooms, lounges, bars, and
squash courts. The cost will be $2.5
million. The public section, at least,
will be open for next year’s foot-
ball grand final.
All this has taken much longer to
“Another fine stand ended, by
a fast ball from Whelan
the Wrecker...”
come about than was anticipated.
The architects were working on the
new stand back in 1961. What
caused the delay was the announce-
ment by the VFL of their new foot-
ball palace at Waverley with an
eventual capacity of 166,000. The
first sod was turned on January 5
this year, and it was made clear
that the MCG’s football contract for
the final series ran only until 1971.
If the MCG committee didn’t take
fright, then the bankers did. There
wasn’t much talk about a new stand
any more. But since then a number
of things have happened. The MCG
gentlemen have come to realise that
no sporting ground in the world has
such a central position with such
superb transport facilities. The
Waverley ground is 15 miles out of
town, with only the promise of a
freeway.
And, besides, just lately old Camp
Ransford has been doing very nicely.
There’s no question that of all
grounds people prefer to watch sport
there. Richmond’s fortunes have
changed utterly since the club
moved in to join Melbourne two
years ago. Last season, Melbourne
(second last) and Richmond (fifth)
drew 274 percent of all League foot-
ball attendances to the MCG.
So the Melbourne Cricket Club
and its backers must be mighty con-
fident despite the Waverley threat,
for their club is now over $1 mil-
lion in debt, and this will raise the
redness to $3,700,000. What’s more,
the president, Mr. Bert Chadwick,
is already talking of Stage Three
for the MCG, when they will put
another deck on the southern stand
and give a capacity of 150,000. It
will be downright interesting to see
who gets there first. The first stage
of Waverley, due to be completed
in 1968, will hold 80,000.
How do we rank on the world
market? There’s a much bigger
ground in Prague. The ground in
Glasgow holds 150,000, and the
Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro
has held 220,000. But, as Mr. Chad-
wick says, the crowd there is much
farther away from the play and you
need binoculars to see anything.
What’s more, around the arena there
is a moat ten feet wide and five
feet deep to stop the spectators from
bestowing loving affection upon
umpire and players.
So far, that has never been neces-
sary at our Colosseum, but while
they are building the new stand, I
wonder if the secretary, Mr. John-
son, will give consideration to a well
and a row of grapevines?
BATMAN


181LSVJ
■■
.
mmm-'
■plli
■
CAN MOVE
30.000 TONS OF
COAL A DAY!
A5BO/7
At Morwell Victoria, the longest single-flight,
high-speed conveyor system in Australia is
carrying brown coal from the open cut to Hazel-
wpod Power Station, 1f miles away. Plans for the
conveyor system were adopted by the State
Electricity Commission Victoria after a thorough
investigation of all means of transporting coal
over such a distance.
Built to exacting specifications by Goodyear
Tyre and Rubber Co. (Australia) Ltd., the two
steel cable conveyors operate at a speed of 1050
feet a minute carrying 2000 tons of coal an hour.
The belts are 7244 feet and 8560 feet long, 48
inches wide, approximately f inch thick and con-
sist entirely of rubber and 500 miles of steel
cables. Minimum breaking strength is 423,000
pounds. The structure of the belt allows the cable
maximum lateral movement. There is no tearing
under impact!
The seven miles of Goodyear belting used on
the two mainlines for Hazelwood is another
example of the numerous advantages of steel
cable belting. It has an extremely high tensile
strength. Its design makes it trough perfectly and
have the best impact resistance of any belt con-
struction. Stretching and elongation is negligible
so short take up lengths are possible.
If you have a project where you need conveyor
belting remember Goodyear conveyor belting. It’s
the best. Contact the Goodyear technical man at
the Goodyear branch i n y° ur state.
GOOD/YEAR


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Picking the Flowers
By APRIL HERSEY
AT the end of the final 1966 offer-
ing from the ABC’s “Australian
Playhouse” series, Director of
Drama David Goddard was tempted
to have a moving pencil write a
McGooleyish “with thanks to the
people of Australia” as the credits
faded out for in an experimental
series such as this the audience may
have had the most to bear.
New writers, new producers, actors
unskilled in the medium, and techni-
cians without the specialised knowledge
of long years in the television drama
field were thrown together in a low-
budget situation. The critics had a
field day, which was to be expected,
but the Playhouse people were flat-
tered to be measured up so relentlessly
against the cream of overseas produc-
tions. Though it did look at times as
though the critics were determined to
suppress indigenous television.
Most criticised, and also the most
prolific of the new writers, mystery-
Pat Flower
novelist Pat Flower wrote nine of the
thirty plays produced and shown. But
she also had the most rejects. Though
accused of having friends in court
(surely an impossibility in the cross-
currents of the ABC) Pat Flower was
simply an enthusiast. The first two
plays accepted, “Easy Terms” and
“The Lace Counter,” were written for
Robin Lovejoy’s lunchtime theatre,
which folded before he worked his way
through a huge pile of scripts and
found them. Because he liked them so
much when he did read them he
proposed them to the ABC as possible
half-hour material. They were accepted
and the author, when informed, flew
into a frenzy of creative enthusiasm
and wrote “Done Away With” in a
weekend.
She had no idea how to write a
television play, and now realises she
broke all the rules. However, this was
also accepted. Later it was entered for
the Italia Prize and has now been
bought by the BBC.
At this point, like literally hundreds
of other would-be writers, she was in-
vited by the drama department of the
ABC to a talk about television writing.
Here she learned “all the dreary stuff”
about production costs and having only
a few characters and keeping every-
thing to a minimum.
Suitably subdued, she went home and
wrote “The Tape Recorder,” which
had only one actress, who didn’t speak
at all, and one male voice on the
recorder.
Pat Flower still misses her monthly
cheque from advertising agency George
Patterson’s which she gave up in 1963
to concentrate on creative writing. In
the sale of her nine plays, each for
$230, she does not consider she has
really made money. The amount of
work involved in most of them over
the year should have netted her some-
thing better than a lower-than-basic-
wage return. She feels the payment is
not likely to excite established writers
to write for television. This $230 is
the minimum amount hammered out by
the ABC with the Australian Writers’
Guild and the Australian Society of
Authors, and it is standard, though
David Goddard claims that it is a
negotiable field.
“Writers have to negotiate for
money everywhere in the world,” he
said. “Why not here? If they have a
really good play it is worth bartering
about. It’s going to be better for them
as competition increases. There will be
a boom for writers when the commer-
cial channels have to find scripts, too.
But at the moment, as far as the ABC
is concerned, it is a simple matter of
economics.”
Goddard could not estimate what
the series had cost, because “experi-
ence can’t be measured,” though in his
pamphlet on “writing for television,”
each play is estimated to cost the price
of a new car. Assuming this to be a
medium-priced family car, the series
must have cost upwards of $150,000.
Not all the Playhouse series was
shown. Eight or nine of them were
bought, produced, and then buried in
the archives of the ABC as part of the
hard-bought experience. Some will be
shown next year, for it is certainly not
the end. Production is still going on.
Plays are needed for the coming year,
and are even now before the cameras.
Among next year’s “slightly more in-
digestible” fare will be more plays from
Pat Flower. A compulsive writer, she
cannot resist the lure of television.
Next year she hopes to do a series, and
will concentrate on some hour-long
efforts (fee $460) all this despite
the fact that she is nine months late
for her eighth novel deadline.
She has always been interested in
the theatre, and thinks this is basically
the attraction. She regrets the long
years she spent writing advertising copy
and “terrible sonnets,” anr keeps wait-
ing for one of her detrac. rs to head
a review “late blooming Flower.”
No one could be more critical than
she is herself. Though she feels that
technically the series improved steadily,
she would dearly like to rewrite all
her plays, now that she is not writing
in the dark, and knows what they will
look like when produced.
“That’s the healthiest thing about
our first year,” David Goddard com-
mented. “Everyone wants to rewrite,
reproduce, and re-enact the whole
thing. The standards have risen in every
department. That’s why it has been,
despite the critics, a very successful
series.”
ART
Cataract of Color
David Aspden. Watters Gallery, Sydney.
Joseph Szabo. Central Street Gallery,
Sydney.
DAVID ASPDEN’S seven radiant
paintings, velvety, without a sign
of slick gloss, and seemingly as
simple as blazons, raise questions about
minimal art and sharpen one’s appreci-
ation of lyrical intensity.
The principal problem is how, with
such simplicity of formal repetition, he
makes these vertically striped, heraldic
works glow, pulsate gently, or shiver
with a cataract of shrill color. The
vertical bands, which could be meas-
ured precisely in most cases, reject,
by their lambent lyricism, mathematical
descriptions. He makes a minimal art
of basic structure and, while some
pare away the flesh to reveal the struc-
tural bone, Aspden makes the glowing
surface his basic form. No metaphysi-
cal, he does not probe for the bone
beneath the skin.
The works, all about six by five feet,
consist of twin bands of color, broad
at the sides and narrow in the centre,
which is a single ribbon of color, with
crisp or feathered edges, and not re-
peated elsewhere in the painting. One
magnificent piece, “Dyhana,” which is
of international quality and for that
reason alone justifies the adoption of
international modes, illustrates his
methods. A crimson-pink vertical is
bordered on each side by parallel bands
of rain-washed green; parallel
to these are two wide bands of sump-
tuous purple. The purple rests on a
ginger-brown that produces an almost
imperceptible mottling. Where the
purple meets the green a thin margin


of brown appears as neutraliser and
stabiliser.
The mood is of opulent lyricism, but
other paintings are shrill in their com-
binations of blue, brown, and orange,
or of orange, crimson, and green. The
visual effects are hypnotic, but by no
means depend upon the now-familiar
optical effects of flicker, after-images,
and illusions. For Aspden’s sharpness
and clarity of color one would turn to
nineteenth-century Japanese wood-
block prints rather than to text books
on perception.
Two works reveal his complete un-
concern for op art’s routine effects:
one is in fugitive verticals of cool
lemon-yellow and another has a large
pale cream ground divided by a white
vertical, which has hardly discernible
shadowy grey stripes on each side. Both
have a mirage-like deception and in-
tangibility quite unrelated to op art.
As Aspden is an important painter,
we ought to be clear about what he is
at. He is no hard-edger: he doesn’t deal
in uniform areas that press against
their razor-sharp contours. His areas
stay contentedly at home. He is not
concerned, as are a lot of new, young
English abstractionists, with rhythms
that involve their immediate environ-
ment; only in “Shakti” doek his bright,
central vertical want to slide out of
the frame. Aspden is an icon-abstrac-
tionist whose glowing images are self-
sufficient, single presences.
He wants to show that symmetry
doesn’t have to mean severity and that
when mass and line become one they
don’t have to charge tumultuously as
in a de Kooning or Rapotec or take
up immovable positions as in a Nolan,
Vasarely, Kelly, or Joe Szabo. He is
closer to the floating impalpable color
of Rothko and Louis. Rothko tranquil-
lises with cloudy rectangles of vaporish
color on subdued grounds, while Louis
sends long strips of vivid color slightly
shimmying down the centres of other-
wise untouched canvases. While Aspden
uses a similar hovering color and unites
form and color (that is, he doesn’t deal
in colored forms) his paintings elude
penetration in that they seem to ad-
vance on the viewer.
Joe Szabo reduces his forms to a
simple optical geometry and then multi-
plies the basic forms as though sheer
accumulation will dazzle, but the
method is so relentlessly severe and
everything so equally emphasised that
pause and climax are obliterated. His
forms, in bright, harsh, and sour
colors, are imposed and are not the
product, as in the best op art, of the
encounter of hues.
What he is about is not clear: he has
a cube outlined in red on green; if this
is done in black and white, optical illu-
sion switches back to front and vice
versa, but here the red locks the cube
to the green. The optical effects look
imprisoned and most of his work has
a dazzle that doesn’t begin to flicker.
One of green squares, sliced by varied
diagonals, on red does work as an
optical maze, but the lively, poetic un-
predictability of his work at the Bare-
foot Gallery a year ago has ended in
rigor mortis. It is Aspden who reani-
mates the art of minimal forms.
ELWYN LYNN
FILMS
Slow Motion
Cheyenne Autumn. Director, John Ford.
IT is always sad to see a once-great
craftsman becoming repetitious and
dull; those who die at the peak of
their powers are the fortunate ones. Not
that I actually want John Ford to die
(magnanimous old me); but if “Chey-
enne Autumn” is the best he can do
nowadays I wish he’d shut up.
Ford was one of the first to lift the
Western out of the Saturday-matinee
class and win appreciative considera-
tion from highbrow critics. Certainly
his original “Stagecoach” and, more
recently, “The Man Who Shot Liberty
Valance” are splendid cinema from any
viewpoint. Until now he has managed
to keep the romanticism of his vision
of the Old West within acceptable
bounds. In this movie, however, he
parts company completely with realism,
even plausibility.
Based on a discreditable incident of
American history, the film tells how the
remnants of the proud Cheyenne race,
weary of waiting for the U.S. Govern-
ment to fulfil its promises, embark on a
hopeless trek to their former home,
plagued by hunger, the U.S. Army, and
internal strife. This could have made a
stirring, lively Western of the normal
length, but Ford’s film is so full of
morals and significance that it loses all
contact with life and with entertain-
ment and also loses all sympathy for
the Indians, who are depicted as such
statuesque symbols of the Noble Savage
that they’d be more at home in front
of a cigar store.
The white people are depicted almost
without exception as venal, brutal, and
selfish, apart from a good-guy Army
Captain and a pretty Quaker who
accompanies the Indians wearing well-
cut gowns and a padded bra, and acres
of snowy petticoats that come in very
handy for bandaging wounds inflicted
on innocent children by the naughty
U.S. Cavalry.
Ford’s love of picturesque groupings
of people (preferably silhouetted
against the skyline) has become a posi-
tive obsession, and much of the film is
taken up with these static, though
occasionally handsome, pictures. The
Indians, in particular, are given to
standing about in a monolithic, long-
suffering way which, I’m afraid, merely
made me long to shake them out of
their stoical composure.
In between times there is action, of-
course —incomprehensible battles and
an irrelevant and desperately unamus-
ing slapstick sequence that seems to
have strayed in from some other movie.
The cast list reads impressively, Rich-
ard Widmark, Edward G. Robinson,
James Stewart, Arthur Kennedy, but
the players don’t appear to be even
trying to bring this prosy, sermonising
script to life.
Incidentally, the delay in the film’s
release in Sydney was bad luck for
United Artists. In retrospect “The
Hallelujah Trail” seems a good deal
funnier, since it is obvious now that
while it was a spoof of big, solemn
Westerns in general it had very
particular digs at “Cheyenne Autumn.”
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
Anonymity
ONE reads frequently of TV awards
said to have been made or judged
by “the critics.” Names are never
stated, nor even the publications repre-
sented. The most recent “critics’ award”
was a minor prize in “Showcase ’66.”
This might be a good time to mention
that here is one “critic” who in five
or six years has not been guilty of hav-
ing any part in the judging of any of
the many awards for television per-
formances.
That is not a complaint. In the
“Showcase ’66” instance I agreed with
the judges, in print, about Michael
Kruger’s worth if not with the
anonymous “critics” or the viewers who
voted for their choice, in carefully un-
stated numbers. Roughly, there are two
daily newspaper TV reviewers in Aus-
tralia, and about eight more weekly
reviewers, including one TV gossip
columnist. I doubt that all are ever
polled when “the critics” are said to
have taken part in judging.
On the matter of awards, I think
that in any industry which really only
takes notice of viewer ratings, awards of
merit by any other persons are a
farce, especially when, as at present,
there are getting to be so many that
almost any local production can claim
to be “award winning.” That defeats
any idea of gaining quality by making
awards. However, if there were a special
prize for devaluing a show at the last
moment by presenting the year’s wind-
up in the manner of a suburban
theatre trying to end some local talent
quest of yesteryear on a note of glory,
that prize would certainly have gone
to the incredibly tasteless “big deal”
finale of “Showcase ’66.”
Equally incredible is the ABC’s in-
sistence on programming its best drama
offerings between the hours of 10 p.m.
and midnight. Last week ABC chan-
nels began a trilogy of BBC plays on
a theme, “Women in Crisis.” The first,
called “Husband and Wife,” was cer-
tainly adult in that the acting was first
class, the script was literate, and that
the play examined the savage, pecking
relationships of an adult, intelligent
family in microscopic detail. There
were no scenes to which, to use Mr.


If a celebration
is worth celebrating
it deserves
the best
Minchinbury makes it memorable!
When we say "deserves the best",
you must naturally assume that there
are Not-Quite-Best and Not-Best-
At-AII Champagnes. And this is
true. Champagne made the tradi-
tional way (as Minchinbury is), is
the only wine worthy of your cele-
bration. So if it's worth celebrating
it does deserve the best. And that
means Minchinbury. Marvellous
party wine specially a party just
for two. Minchinbury White Seal
Champagne the most famous of
Australian Champagnes. Minchin-
bury Brut Champagne very dry,
superb quality. Minchinbury Spark-
ling Burgundy light in character
and ruby red in colour. Minchinbury
Sparkling Moselle a light, sweet
sparkling wine. Find a reason to
enjoy a Minchinbury sparkling wine
tonight. You may simply want to
celebrate the fact that you like
champagne!
Be wine-wise, choose Minchinbury.
After all, 122 years experience
makes a difference you can taste.
PENFOLDS
PW1274


Rylah’s censorial standards, you could
not have exposed your teenage
daughter. Is the ABC afraid that show-
ing drama of a higher standard to a
larger audience at, say, 8 p.m. will
show too many people what adult drama
should be and show up the witlessness
of many of its other offerings?
Thought-provoking drama ending at
midnight, as thi? did, is not conducive
to instant sleep. Most of us need eight
hours of that, and cannot afford to
watch such late programs. So what does
the ABC hope to achieve?
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
A Successful
Launching
Halloran’s Little Boat. Thomas Keneally.
Jane Street Theatre, Sydney.
HALLORAN’S Little Boat,” com-
missioned for $lOOO by the Uni-
versity of New South Wales
Drama Foundation, provided an excit-
ing climax to the Jane Street season.
Although he is an established novelist,
Mr. Keneally, like the other Jane Street
playwrights, is a new dramatist. He
reveals himself as a master of dialogue,
with a strong theatrical flair.
The action takes place in the 17905,
in a British penal colony in the South
Seas. Corporal Phelim Halloran
dreams of “a little boat” which will take
him, and his beloved Ann Rush, home
to County Wexford, Ireland, where they
can be married by a priest. Ann, a
former convict, is now a servant in the
house of Mr. Blythe, controller of the
colony’s stores. But Halloran and his
“secret bride” find their way not to
Ireland but to the gallows, betrayed by
their Judas-friend, Private Terry Byrne.
Halloran is seduced from his purpose
in a hilltop temptation scene by the
sinister Robert Hearn. This particular
Satan is a highly melodramatic figure—■
a kind of atheist-ex-machina—who sud-
denly pops up surrealistically at the
end of Act 1. By some sort of moral
blackmail, which is not made very clear,
he forces Halloran to abet him in rob-
bing the stores so that he can escape to
France and help achieve the aims of
the Revolution.
The play has some splendidly
theatrical scenes and sweeps along on a
tide of eloquence which is realistically
possible because four of the six char-
acters have Irish tongues in their heads.
Designed to present moral issues, it
is rich in themes and conflicts, Jsut
many are not fully realised dramatically.
It seems an iceberg of a play of which
much of the motivation and background
of action is submerged. This might be
explained by the fact that Mr. Keneally
took the material for the play from a
novel he is writing.
The stage, most attractively set by
David Copping, is divided between the
kitchen and parlor of the Blythe house.
On the lower level, in the kitchen,
Halloran and Ann grapple with the
Martin Harris as Halloran, the soldier, and Anthony Thurbon as Robert Hearn, the
revolutionary. “Halloran’s Little Boat” at Jane Street, Sydney.
PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WALKER
moral and theological problems of their
love. Up in the parlor, black-clad Mrs.
Blythe, seemingly helpless in her chair,
dominates the household with her
powerful will. Mr. Blythe, drunkard
and philanderer, she subjects with the
vicious lash of her tongue. Halloran,
she tries unsuccessfully to net in the
mesh of her Protestant values.
Alexander Hay’s direction of the
hard-working, versatile, and skilful
young company . has resulted in a
polished production of this colorful
play. All six performances are of a
high standard. Martin Harris gives a
thoughtful portrait of Halloran, a dif-
ficult character who remained some-
thing .of an enigma to me. Kerry
McGuire is delightful as the lovely
Irish girl. Anne Bannon is the strong
and wicked Mrs. Blythe, Peter Whit-
ford the weak but not wicked Mr.
Blythe, Helmut Bakaitis the Judas who
betrays thiough weakness, and Anthony
Ihuibon the intense revolutionary.
_
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Automated Comedy
Cactus Flower. Abe Burrows. Comedy,
Melbourne.
SITTING through this Broadway
comedy, I was reminded of the
scene in “Modern Times” where
Chaplin was force-fed by a machine.
His appetite or lack of it was irrele-
vant. The machine revolved before its
pinioned victim, relentlessly dispensing
its compulsory nourishment.
“Cactus Flower” entertains with the
same mechanical efficiency. One
piously wishes to be watching some
Brecht, Becket, or lonesco. One be-
moans commercial theatre’s remorse-
less frivolity. But, all in vain. In a few
minutes, to your eternal shame, you’re
laughing. And you continue to do so
for the entire fifteen scenes.
Abe Burrows, who built this auto-
mated comedy, is very experienced on
the Broadway production line. He co-
authored “Guys and Dolls,” “Gan
Can,” “Silk Stockings,” and “How to
Succeed.” And he’s directed more
American musicals than you can shake
a fist at. Apparently “Cactus” was
originally a French play, and some
vestiges of Parisian farce are still
visible. But Mr. Burrows has obviously
increased the horse-power for Ameri-
can consumption, and added a lot of
chromium trim.
The plot defies precis, but it’s all
about a dentist, his teenage lover, and
a dental nurse, who play grown-up
musical chairs. The basic “Cactus” joke
goes as follows . . . “Hey, you’re really
quite sexy! In your nurse’s uniform you
looked like a giant band-aid.”
The dentist is played by Terry
McDermott (likably), the nurse by
Darlene Johnson (skilfully), and the
teenager by Carmen Duncan (shrilly).
Allen Bickford, Tom Oliver, and Lynne
Flanagan are the most effective sup-
porting players.
Mr. Burrows’. machine was re-
assembled in Australia by a well-prac-
tised American mechanic, Fred Hebert.
But, as usual, the Australian packag-
ing wasn’t up to much. The J.C.W.
sets —all four of them—were miserable
efforts, painted in Brown Windsor
Soup.
PHILLIP ADAMS


%
■ ,»»iw#««s«wse^
_3i
We fired two people from a cannon to remind you
of the necessity for seat belts.
You can’t see what this has to do with seat belts?
Think again. In a collision, the car stops instantly
but its occupants keep going at the car’s
original speed.
And there are no safety nets to save you.
But a safety belt can. By holding you secure.
You stop with the car. Stay in the car.
And greatly improve your chances of staying alive.
So fit seat belts soon. And use them always.
Join the Circle of Safety with
M@bil


GOLDEN BROWN VIRGINIA TOBACCO
PLU M CAKE
BA^
A
lP
2 a
<8
ft
%
&
m
Mac Baren s
FINEST PIPE
TOBACCOS
BARBm s
MILO COOL
HARMONY
O'
HIGH CLASS SMOKING TOBACCO
Specutl 3Xe>vc(
m
MIXTURE
NAVY FLAKE
Mac Baren’s PLUMCAKE a superb blend dominated by Virginia Tobacco, 89c.
BLEND is mid-sweet aromatic blend of Burley and Virginia, 75c. HARMONY is a
smoking tobacco, 76c. VIRGINIA No. 1 is a mild and mellow Virginia, 73c. NAVY
traditional flake, a slow and pleasant smoke, 89c. MIXTURE' is an Old Scottish
fine tobaccos, 79c.
- ,
GOLDEN
very cool
FLAKE
blend of
5A243
ON FILM
Canada’s Blueprint for Success
THE activities of the Canadian
National Film Board have long
been an object of envy in Aus-
tralia. From its foundation by John
Grierson in 1939 under the enlightened
eye of MacKenzie King, the Board has
maintained a reputation for freedom
and creativeness, the creative flow of
work highlighted by the brilliant docu-
mentaries of Colin Low, Wolf Koenig,
and Roman Kroitor.
Last week, Grant McLean, acting
Canadian Government Film Commis-
sioner, was in Sydney at the invitation
of Stanley Hawes, of the Common-
wealth Film Unit, together with W. R.
Jack, vice-chairman of the Board of
Governors of the CNFB, to attend a
conference on distribution of non-
theatrical film. I asked Mr. McLean
what had struck him most firmly about
the contrast between his own organisa-
tion and the Commonwealth Film Unit.
“There is one significant difference.
The Canadian Film Board is more
independent and autonomous a body.
The Commonwealth Film Unit is under
the News and Information Bureau.
This is restricting. We are public ser-
vants in Canada but not civil servants.
That is an important difference.”
Mr. McLean said that he had sensed
a certain constraint and creative frus-
tration among the directors and produc-
ers he had talked with here. He felt
that the system should be reconstructed
and the Unit released from the Bureau.
rfHE striking collaboration between
the CBC and the Board had pro-
duced a brilliant succession of close-ups
on the Canadian scene, combining the
techniques of television and documen-
tary film. Most notable were Wolf
Koenig’s fiercely penetrating study of
Paul Anka, “Lonely Boy,” and Roman
Kroitor’s “The Living Machine.” Out
of these shorter subjects had flowed a
new trend of feature-film making that
can only shame us here.
Mr. McLean was very excited by a
huge hew project of the Board’s for
Expo 67 in Montreal. For three years,
on a massive grant, Colin Low and
Roman Kroitor had been working on
“Labyrinth,” an entirely new and evi-
dently astonishing experience in film.
A special pavilion is divided into three
chambers. In the first, there is to be
a horizontal screen of epic proportions
over which the audience on three sus-
pended horseshoe tiers will look down
from above seeing impressionist visions
of an approach to the planet earth shot
by helicopter. The image will be inter-
cut with another special flanking up-
right panavision screen. The second
chamber contains a cruciform screen
made out of five separate screens.
Walter Lassally, Oscar-winning camera
man of “Zorba the Greek,” is doing
the photography for this.
The third chamber consists of 15- to
20-foot semi-silvered mirrors and a
few hundred light bulbs no bigger than
the head of a match; together with
other devices this will evoke the trip
through the galaxies and human cells.
The mirrors will give visitors the illu-
sion of sharing the room with almost
the entire population of the world
hundreds of millions of people.
Mr. McLean said that currently
feature film finance legislation sug-
gested by the Canadian Government
had its first reading in Parliament. This
would involve the partial underwriting
of costs of films based on specific pro-
posals. The lessons for Australia are
obvious. First of all, the Government
must increase its present grant to the
Commonwealth Film Unit from its
present $A760,000 a year to something
closer to the Canadian $7 million, with
a call on revenue up to $l3 or $l4
million as in Canada (these last figures
are in Canadian dollars). Second,
the ABC must collaborate 50-50 with
the Film Unit on short and feature
production. Third, the Commonwealth
Film Unit must be reconstructed so
that, it is no longer under the News
and Information Bureau but is an in-
dependent body: the kind of free criti-
cism of Canada found in Canadian
films is not possible here now.
Fourth, schemes presented to the
Government for film financing must not
merely be “suggestions,” whereby
certain people ask to be underwritten
for years while they prepare projects,
but must be based on concrete pack-
age suggestions in which the name of
an interested star, workable script
(preferably based on an already suc-
cessful novel), and a named director
and unit are promised provided that
the below-line costs are met. At present
the vagueness of our would-be film-
makers in approaching the Government,
combined with a lack of independence
in the official film-making body, makes
a contrast with Canada that I need
not again stress.
CHARLES HIGHAM


I
W
lIL,
thi
41
i/
Hi
Happy people.. Capable people.. Responsible people
HAVE AN INTEREST IN SAVING MONEY
AND YOU GAN HOPIMIt!
The National Savings Plan provides a
simple and inexpensive means of encourag-
ing and ’facilitating savings by wage and
salary earners.
The Plan operates through a system of
voluntary and regular deductions from an
employee’s pay, which are credited to a nomi-
nated savings bank of his or her choice, at
three-monthly intervals.
Many thousands of employers operate this
Savings Plan. It provides a simple and useful
staff amenity. Experience shows that the
employee with savings behind him is a
sounder citizen and a better employee. He
is self reliant and has confidence in him-
self and the future. Inquire today about
this staff amenity.
A National Savings Organisation officer will
be pleased to call and discuss the savings
plan with you and your staff.
High productivity and happy people go together!
The
NATIONAL SAVINGS ORGANISATION
SYDNEY: 2-0248 • MELBOURNE: 63-1941 • BRISBANE: 31-0101 • ADELAIDE: 23-2891 • PERTH: 21-3113 • HOBART: 34-3957
Authorised by Commonwealth Treasury.
TSGE6B.FP.IO6


Don Quixote’s Ghost
In Modern Spain
By ELIZABETH DURACK
WHERE can I buy a roll of
film?” “In the Cathedral—”
Now, wake up, Yank, where else
would one expect? This is Spain in the
tourist season.
Since the war no country in Europe
has done more than Spain to attract
foreign visitors to its shores. Racked
for so many years by internal strife and
locked in the morose introspection fol-
lowing its decline as a world power,
modern Spain is undergoing a virtual
renaissance. Not only is the outside
world rediscovering Spain Spain is
rediscovering itself. The tourist industry
ranks second on the national income list
and is on the way to oust agriculture
from first place. Next year an
estimated 7,000,000 people will pour
through its cities and villages, will lug
baskets stuffed with souvenirs through
the lobbies of countless hotels, will fill
the apartment houses spreading like a
huge cement tide up and down the
length of the Costa Brava. Tourism is
big business everywhere today, but
nowhere more than in Spain is it more
cunningly contrived and organised to
extract less painlessly the last possible
peseta from the recesses of the visitor’s
purse. And Spain has “more to offer
the tourist” than anywhere else. Sud-
denly past glories, past sorrows, past
disappointments, previously hugged and
held to its private bosom, have become
tourist cop. The freshness of this sur-
prise still rests upon the new industry,
so that, though the world has plenty
of good guides, none is quite as good as
the Spanish guides. They are dedicated
men —speak at least three languages
and retain such an
air of host rather
than employee that
you will hesitate to tip. You needn’t.
He will thank you and then toss it non-
chalantly on the sill of the bus to be
split with the driver at the end of the
day tour.
“We allow five minutes, Senor, for
the purchase of film, rosary beads, post-
cards in the courtyard of the cathedral,
but we ask you, please, not to take
photographs while Mass is in pro-
gress.”
One with a big party of tourists, I
am standing in the square of the
ancient city of Toledo.
How ancient? God knows. The bigger
the spade the longer the span. Deeper
than Roman relics lie Greek, Carth-
aginian, and Phoenician. Deeper again
scraps and chips of human life con-
temporary with its first stirrings on the
banks of the Nile.
We have made the forty-mile run
from Madrid in bright sunshine, down
busy streets and over the Tagus, through
suburbs where the great cubes of re-
housing projects stand in solemn pro-
test to the squalor of remaining slums.
A curious anomaly is Madrid’s rubbish-
collection system. While street? are
swept by uniformed men employed by
the City Council, donkey-carts driven
by old women weave their way amid
car-congested thoroughfares, piled high
with refuse. We pass groups of black-
shawled figures rooting through a dump
—like crows around a killer-yard on
an outback station.
Into open country spring-green
crops and red poppies—in the distance
the geographical centre of Spain—a
hill surmounted by a cross.
And suddenly the ancient capital of
Toledo—the old, old walls, the trees
newly spring-decked and enchantment
that will not leave me now —or ever.
I am looking straight into the face
of an old man in a black cloth-
cap. His eyes, crescent slits, are tell-
ing me, not without good humor, the
foreigner I am. I feel big—too clean,
too soft. He is small and dry and his
skin is like leather.
It is a curious
moment of self-
discovery.
But there is no time for introspection.
In the courtyard of the Cathedral
(yes, film for sale, together with post-
cards, leaflets, books, color-slides,
rosaries, saints’ statues, relics, models
of the Cathedral . . .) we are split
up into language groups—S’il vous plait
—Francais ici, please English here,
Italian, German, Dutch, Swedish.
Our guide braces himself.
“I am Louis. Please try to keep
up to me. If you get lost in the
Cathedral call Louis and I shall try
to find you. Please do not stray from
your group in the streets of Toledo.
It is very easy to get lost in Toledo.
I may never find you. If you get too
tired return to the bus in the square,
our bus number is 39096. But I hope
you do not tire. I consider I have
failed if you do. No one should tire
in Toledo. It is the most interesting
city in all Spain. Toledo is a sum-
mary of the whole of Spanish history\”'
We are off —and at a breakneck speed
that will not let up till evening. This
Cathedral, reared on the ruins of the
Arab mosque, is recognised as the most
beautiful, though not the biggest,
example of Gothic architecture in
Europe.
Above us, as though thrown by some
reckless or inspired magician, soar loop
upon loop of petrified rope, interlocking
in clusters of splashing stars, gathering
together in erratic galaxies, splaying
apart upon eccentric orbits. Here
parabolas intertwine, there arabesques
sail away and fade into darkness only
to re-emerge and assemble themselves
all over again, repeating patterns with
variations so cunning as to dispel any
doubt of the magician’s power to re-
create a universe in stone infinite
but bounded seemingly careless yet
impeccably contrived.
The flood of information that pours
forth from Louis breaks the spell. Note
this stone choir built by the Moors who
stayed on under Christian rule. And
this main chapel Gothic, Transition,
and Renaissance interblended. Filled,
the forty-eight chapels will accommo-
date 70,000 faithful. The choir in wood
is the work of German craftsmen. The
right to place Cardinal Mindofa’s stone
tomb in this privileged position was
given in a dream to Queen Isabella by
an angel. Through to the Chapter Halls
with ceilings still brilliant in golden
patterns, part Moorish, part Christian.
Yet another altar to the Virgin of
the Good Milk, an addition after com-
pletion of the main building because
the sculptor thought his masterpiece
insufficiently lit. We lift our eyes to
his daring solution high, high above
a round window pierces the soaring
columns and star-splashed intertwinings.
A shaft of light falls on the bosom of
the Virgin and a rotund Christ Child.
For four hundred years the morning
sun has fallen so and the risky fenestra-
tion survived the ravages of the Civil
War that destroyed most of the 700
stained-glass Flemish windows.
In the sacristy, adorned with El
Grecos and Caravaggios, a young altar
boy is laying out the vestments for the


TEACHERS, qualified secondary for
1967. Christian Brothers,
Aquinas College, Ringwood.
Write Headmaster. Phone
870*3122. Vic. Ed. Dept, salary
scale.
THE PENINSULA SCHOOL
MOUNT ELIZA
Due to expansion
Requires new secondary
staff for 1967:
1. Master to teach French and
some English.
2. Master to teach Mathematics.
Apply to the Headmaster.
Cooma’s most
modern Motel
/pI3.LOIAI
m
• *
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia's leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals.
An MFA Motel
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or direct to Motel • Cooma 21133
or any recognised Travel Agent.
A MEMBER COMPANV OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ATI .708
next Mass. He does not know whether
to smile or frown at the intrusion.
We form single file into the Cathedral
Treasury, crusty with golden vessels and
miniature golden cathedrals. Made
from the first gold that Columbus
brought back from the New World, a
huge Monstrance stands in pride of
place. On the Feast Day of Corpus
Christi it is carried through the town.
The sword and crown of Roman IV,
the sword and crown of the King of
Castille, the sword and crown of the
first King of United Christian Spain,
the sword and crown of . . . the eye
cannot take in a fraction of the
dazzling treasures, let alone the mind
retain moreover, we are hard-
pressed by the French and German
parties impatient for their turn. Out
into the open through the little
twisted streets of the town into a
chapel—here the El Greco “Burial of
the Count of Orgaz”—a true burial,
Louis assures us, for the bones of the
good priest lie under the painting itself
that was flattened on to the floor dur-
ing the Civil War and packed with
sandbags. It survived intact, and when
requested by America for loan to the
New York World Fair no insurance
company could be found to underwrite
it.
Through the streets again to the
Synagogue of Our Lady of the Transi-
tion financed by Jewish money, built
by the Moors by order of Christian
Peter I in a vain attempt to stem the
tide of anti-Semitism sweeping Spain
in the 14th century. Many historians
date the decline of Spain as a world
leader not from Utrecht but from the
expulsion of the Jewish people in 1366.
A great number of them fled to Eng-
land . . .
But there is no time for historical
conjecture we have still to see El
Greco’s House. It is a reconstruction,
for of El Greco the man no relic
remains. After 1561, when the capital
was moved to Madrid, Toledo, along
with its great artist, fell asleep. Only
in comparatively recent years has the
importance of both become recognised.
Today the whole city of Toledo has
been entrusted to the Fine Arts and
Cultural Department. Not a stone of
it can be touched without permission
and millions of pesetas are being spent
upon its restoration.
The sun has swung past meridian and
my head is spinning. We are watching
craftsmen engaged on the ancient
Moorish art of gold-inlay. Into a
beautiful little modern museum, show-
cases, lined with red, display a thousand
mini tokens of the past for the tourists
of the present. Swords tiny and
large, shields large and small,
daggers full size and miniature
knives, fans, handbags, ashtrays, scis-
sors, thimbles, powder-compacts, lip-
stick-cases, mirrors, earrings, bracelets,
belts, plates, trays, forks, penknives, nail-
files, rings, crowns, swords and more
swords ... A man from Manila buys
a big one that will rattle in the luggage
rack all the way back to Madrid.
Spoons, rings, fans, bracelets are stuffed
into handbags. A glossy-haired assistant
passes around glasses of red wine with
all the air of a hostess who is giving,
not selling, the objects fancied by her
guests.
A lunch-break and then into the old
Santa Cruz hospital lately restored
and converted to a museum. We are
on the run now and Louis is out of
breath see the plan in the shape
of a Greek Cross the altar in the
centre from this balcony the mobile
sick attended Mass see the Renais-
sance ceiling and in these show-
cases the work seal of Charles V
Pissarro’s letters from the New World
Cortez’s portrait and, behind the
altar, the huge faded triangle of blue
velvet embossed with a frayed Cruci-
fixion flew in the wind of victory at
the Battle of Lepanto . . . Through
the streets again and we are in the
ancient Arab Fortress of Alcazar
the name that rang around the world
during the Civil War.
Here Louis drops all pretence of
being a professional guide and becomes
a Spaniard reliving the 168-day siege
and General Moscardo’s epic defence.
We are now in the office, scene of
the famous telephone conversation. It
hangs, translated into a hundred lan-
guages, around the walls. Although his
son was held hostage under threat of
execution by the besieging army, Mos-
cardo tells him: “Prepare yourself for
death, my dear son, and tell the Com-
mander not to waste money on an ex-
tension of this call. God rest your
soul I shall never surrender Alcazar!”
As we pass the portrait of the
martyred boy, painted like a saint with
a ray of light around his head, Louis is
wiping his eyes. In July, 1936, when
this drama took place, he would not
have been born and just as likely his
father was among the besiegers.
'J'HIS is of absolutely no significance
to a Spaniard. It is the IDEAL it-
self that is important. Any tension that
can create the milieu for a grand single
act of heroism is welcomed. In this way
Spaniards are bound mystically to the
Crucifixion less to the Christian
message. All through Spain I found
that memory concerning the Civil War
had become strangely blurred, but
isolated acts of heroism, on whichever
side they occurred, remain crystal clear.
Thus the metamorphosis that is
occurring in Spain today does not rest
comfortably upon this essentially
quixotic people.
The conscientious day-by-day build-
ing of “a stable economy and a poli-
tical system of reform and renewal
so that this society may live in peace-
ful co-existence and achieve a standard
of living in keeping with the demands
of the modern world” (to quote at ran-
dom from the thousands of books being
published on Modern Spain) carries
with it a burden of lethargy, boredom,
and nostalgia.
Excluded from the Common Market
and, because of their neutrality, from
immediate post-war reconstruction
funds, they got their Green Light for
Go via U.S. military bases that estab-
lished a bargaining point for the intro-
duction of American capital and World
Bank loans. The suburbs of all the
big cities are strewn with factories bear-
ing familiar names. Bitterly remem-
bered and resented is Russia’s appro-
priation of their gold bullion that would
have given Spain greater equity on
the current gold market and stronger
bargaining power. As it was, ravaged


mmu
ST’ •
* ll
S
i
sr I _
m.
■ : ' v "
. :
Y«W-J;
4i j
'■ •;*■•
m
We invented this for the conquest of
the highest mountains in the world
We created this for the man who has
conquered Everests of his own
This one has a bit of both and a substantial
character of its own
The 'Day-date' combines the rug-
gedness of the 'Explorer' (the watch
Sir John Hunt chose for his assault
on Mt. Everest) with the undeniable
elegance of the Benvenuto Cellini
collection (a limited edition of men’s
watches ... inspired by the works of
Cellini . . . very expensive). And the
‘Day-date’ has distinctive features of its
own.
The Geneva-made Oyster case is hewn
from a solid block of gold or platinum. The
bracelet, also in solid gold or platinum, is
tv
«**n&&*x
bSv2»:*«*
designed specially for ihe case. The
movement has won the highest distinc-
tion for precision and quality a Chrono-
meter can normally obtain.
A calendar shows the date and the day
of the week spelt out in full.
The 'Day-date' is available only in gold or
platinum and is quite possibly the most
brilliant timepiece in the world today. Wear it
and you can take it diving oft Punta del Este,
ski at St. Moritz or address the United Nations.
With a Rolex on your wrist, you have entire
worlds in your hands.
When a man has a world in his hands, you expect to find a Rolex on his wrist
•#
ROLEX
GENEVA
Aden Auckland Bandung Bangkok Bombay Brussels Buenos Aires Cologne Dublin Havana HondKong Johannesburg London Madrid Melbourne Mexico Cily Milan New York Paris S3o Paulo Singapore Sydney Tokyo Toronto


liiCT
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England) '
Assets exceed $A500,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
YOUR
VOICE
IS IN
WHEN YOU
ARE OUT
IF YOU HAVE AN
L M ERICSSON
TELEPHONE ANSWERER
For Complete Information Contact : —
mm
mm
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
134 BARCOM AVE . RUSHCUTTERS BAY. PHONE 31 0941
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., ,163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
CLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
and debilitated by years of war, she
had little option other than to play
along with internationally directed
offers of reconstruction. Almost before
she had time to weigh the implications
and contradictions of the situation, she
was spinning around willy-nilly on the
modern merry-go-round. A slipped
stitch for nearly four hundred years,
today, Spain is intertwined inexorably
in the web and woof of the 20th cen-
tury.
Divergence of opinion from current
political policies are being firmly, often
ruthlessly, dealt with. Prison popula-
tions increase and rumblings of dissent
and dissatisfaction grow louder, par-
ticularly within academic and intel-
lectual circles, who feel suffocated by
the present state of affairs that ham-
strings free function of the Beau Geste
or the Beau Ideal.
JTRANCO wields tremendous power.
Cast in the role of architect of
modern Spain, without doubt he be-
lieves in the new design. Without doubt,
too, he is playing and praying des-
perately for time his own and his
country’s. Great store is being placed
on the emergence of a contented con-
sumer-goods-conscious middle-class. It
is hoped that a new Spaniard may be
created—an easy-going sort of a cove
who will look twice at his refrigerator
and his television set and his stainless-
steel sink before reshouldering his
bandoleer and taking off for the stony
gullies and chilly heights of lost causes
and refound ideoprax.
It is said that if Franco sneezes in
Madrid it is heard not only in Lisbon,
where the King for whom he deputises
also waits and watches, but in a hun-
dred prisons, banks, monasteries, and
factories throughout the land.
Meanwhile bullfighting ever in-
creases in popularity. Almost as though
this were the only safe medium in
which the Spaniards can find freedom
to express their ultra ego, the grand-
stands of every city and village are full
to bursting point each Sunday after-
noon. Tourists are warned to attend
only Bureau - approved bullfights,
the bloody romp, and slaughter of
“unapproved” fights being reckoned too
much for the imported stomach. For
a crowd electric with excitement, the
spectacle of a lonely man pitting him-
self in single combat against the full
fury of the blind brute force of fate, as
epitomised by his bovine adversary,
units the crowd in exultation and
ecstasy. At the final moment of victory
it rises to its feet, as one Spaniard,
throwing into the ring the money from
its pocket, the flowers from its bosom,
the hats from its head, and the coat
from off its back.
The Bulletin Index for 1965 is
now available. Copies may be ordered
for $2.46, including postage, from the
Australian Consolidated Press Library,
54 Park Street, Sydney, or Box 4088,
G.P.0., Sydney.


BOOKS
Flight of the Gadfly
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Tread Softly For You Tread On My
Jokes. Malcolm Muggeridge. Collins.
$3.85.
THE slightly wistful Yeatsian title
of Mr. Muggeridge’s book of
articles and essays, collected from
20 years of journajism, evokes a rather
different persona from the whizzing
trapped gadfly of the goggle-box. Re-
membering his sharp interviews with
Santamaria and Connolly, his TV pro-
gram on revisiting India, his witty
account of the American lecture cir-
cuit (in which he was remarkably un-
grateful to his hosts), one is surprised
to find that the tone of this book is
a mixture of nostalgia, melting senti-
ment, sweetness, and regret.
From his introduction on, Mr.
Muggeridge discloses himself as an
old-fashioned stylist experiencing a
series of pained liberal frissons at the
horrors of the contemporary world. He
laughs at it from behind an elegant
hand, but he is deeply appalled.
Appalled, too, at the fact that he has
written millions of words about that
world, that journalism has kept his
nose pressed firmly to the contents of
the sty. And yet he hasn’t got very
close to the world at all. With a
quality of detachment, of remoteness
that is peculiarly English, he has seen it
all war after war, revolution after
revolution, rise after fall and fall after
rise like a man watching a display
of exotic insects through glass.
He almost seems to have a liking
for impermanence and brittleness. At
the very outset of his introductions he
dismisses two men more considerable
than he is Rowse and Leavis —as
“ridiculous dons”: it looks as though
he is appalled by their seriousness, the
fact that they have (in the latter case,
successfully) made bids for perman-
ence. He feels that the journalist is
saner and more wholesome than the
scholar, just as he apparently finds a
figure like Randolph Churchill more
attractive than his father. He has
fallen foul, in fact, of the Blue Bugloss
that Cyril Connolly spoke of in his list
of “Enemies of Promise”: “By degrees
the flippancy of journalism will become
a habit and the pleasure of being paid
on the nail, and more especially of
being praised on the nail, grow indis-
pensable.” And, one might add,
journalism has led Mr. Muggeridge to
a mistrust of literature and of great
men, for the looseness and intimacy
of journalism are of their nature
opposed to the compact power of per-
manent writing, and journalists, scep-
I tical levellers all, have never had time
,to acknowledge the aristocracy of
genius.
Mr. Muggeridge has a charming
talent, but to see him posed against
Connolly on television was to see a
mind essentially frail and unworldly—
for all its sophisticated glitter con-
trasted with one that was really wise.
In choosing deliberately to go for the
small gesture, for the impermanent
bright sally, Mr. Muggeridge has with-
drawn deliberately from literature. His
“literary” mode is, indeed, his least
fortunate one: he talks of “sublime
achievements of human endeavor,” “a
feeling of infinite melancholy” afflicts
him at one stage, and he is fond of
words like “rapture” and “eternity.”
He is at his best when, cool and exact,
he hits off less ambitious phrases.
His enthusiasms are for mavericks,
people like himself who have deliber-
ately chosen a minor role or who have
stood outside the history of their
generation altogether: Dwight Mac-
donald, P. G. Wodehouse, Randolph
Churchill, Evelyn Waugh, and—rather
grudgingly Beerbohm. Anyone more
major he tends to reduce to miniature
size: Lenin, for instance, becomes “a
little bearded man wearing a cap.”
Churchill the elder is treated with
malice, shown as a quivering old man
(“he was rather horrible”); the man’s
rhetoric, now a permanent part of Eng-
lish literature, is torn to pieces. Lenin
and Churchill went out for the full
gesture, the total expression of per-
sonality through politics which ensured
them immortality. It is not so much
that Mr. Muggeridge is jealous of them
he has no love of power but that
he finds it slightly ridiculous that they
committed themselves to eternity in an
impermanent and futile world. Even
Kennedy, or more particularly the
Kennedy myth, does not escape him,
and Schlesinger’s warm-hearted account
is savagely attacked as an example of
sycophancy. The idea that any human
being could genuinely worship another
one, and place him among the im-
mortals, is abhorrent to Mr. Mug-
geridge.
Even the Queen has come in a
notorious episode under Mug-
geridge’s fire. And not so much for
herself, one feels, as for the fact that
she represents an Institution, one of the
last solid, permanent things left in the
world. It is because of this that Mr.
Muggeridge has no time for her; once
again the link can be seen in a feeling
for literature that excludes Leavis but
includes Wodehouse.
Institutions may be Mr. Muggeridge’s
pet hates, but he also dislikes pop cul-
ture with venom in excess even of
Dwight Macdonald’s. But if he seems
slightly beneath the task of attacking
the Big Subjects great people and
royalty he also seems slightly above
Malcolm Muggeridge
and beyond the reality of the public’s
arts. His picture of the bodgies and
widgies of Melbourne is peculiarly bad,
because he really doesn’t have the
slightest idea what they are thinking
and feeling, and his picture of modern
civilisation as crystallised in Racine,
Wisconsin, has an incredibly dated
ring: “And now it had all ended in
this sordid display of printed matter;
not in Sodom or Gomorrah, but in
Racine, Wisconsin; not in Byzantine
scenes of debauchery, but in a drug
store; no vine leaves in the hair, but
only hamburgers and ice-cream sundaes
to swallow, no nymphs and satyrs, but
only cheesecake.”
Here is the voice, tricked out with
fancier language, of. a spinster hissing
across the breakfast table in an East-
bourne boarding-house. And yet, only
a few pages later, Mr. Muggeridge can
be engagingly witty at the expense of
Dr. Albert Ellis, author of “Sex and
the Single Man,” for Ellis’ recommen-
dation of masturbation as the best form
of sex.
The curious mixture of old-fashioned
withdrawal and sharp-tongued en-
gagement conceals or sometimes dis-
closes Mr. Muggeridge’s central charac-
teristic: his puritanism. He finds Lon-
don shabbier and dirtier on each new
visit, yet in a recent piece in “The
New Statesman,” not reprinted here, he
has raved about the cool, green fields
of the south of England. He has also
written with enthusiasm of sitting in
the Australian outback, feeling wonder-
fully clean of history in a place where
nothing has happened. His ectomorph
make-up compels him to privacy, eva-
sion of rough experience, self-protection,
and cleanliness. Like so many ecto-
morphs, he is happiest in old age, all
passion spent, the lusts of the flesh
stilled, a book at his side, a wife and a
cottage simple and bright.
Although I find Mr. Muggeridge’s
iconoclasm irritating and his failure to
come to grips with the life of the young
in the mid-sixties angering, I still think
he remains an engaging figure. His
television interviews show him at his
best, I think: there his agile mind,
ideally suited to the impermanent bril-
liance of the Goldfish Bowl, can flourish
unhindered by his weakness for written
rhetoric. In this book he is strikingly
effective on the subject of anglicised


Indians. Excellent, too, on the subject
of William Shawn and “The New
Yorker”: his description of Shawn as
a “minimomaniac” is funny and true.
And entertaining on his sojourn at
“Punch,” although he is all wrong
about the lack of a sense of humor'
among the English.
But, finally, while taking his qualities
into account, one is left feeling a little
sorry about Mr. Muggeridge. His dis-
like of a fullness of gesture, of setting
things down for keeps, and his sus-
picion of greatness have led him to re-
fuse the one act for which one could
finally honor him: the creation of a
single good work of literature. One is
finally reminded again of Connolly: “A
journalist has to accept the fact that
his work, by its very todayness, is ex-
cluded from any share in tomorrow
... a writer abandons the slow tempo
of literature for a faster one, and the
change will do him harm.” Mr. Mug-
geridge’s work is unlikely to outlive
him, but wistfully, charmingly, and with
melting sadness he doesn’t, one feels,
really care.
There’s Culture Here
By RODNEY HALL
Modern Australian Writing. Edited by
Geoffrey Dutton. The Fontana Library.
$1.45.
LONG before this book went into
print, it became a cause celebre.
Penguin rejected an earlier ver-
sion, whereupon Max Harris, in a
notorious article in “The Australian,”
printed, and commented on, the
reader’s report. The anthology passed
over to Collins, was substantially recast,
and now appears under the Fontana
imprint.
Mr. Dutton . makes a creditable
attempt to present a cross-section of
work: there are poems, short stories,
and extracts from novels. As a whole
the result is vital but extremely patchy.
This is not necessarily a criticism of
the editing; it might well be taken as
indicative of the present literary scene.
There are several superb poems and a
few fine stories but just as many
failures. The disturbing thing about
these failures is that they seem to have
been written with International Stand-
ards in mind (those mythical infalli-
bilities!), in a desperate attempt to live
up to them. Anything rather than be
labelled naive. There is a straining for
sophistication that results, instead, in a
grotesque suggestion of collusion with
the reader, as if nudging him in the ribs
as a constant reminder that “We’ve
got culture down here, too.”
rfHE average quality of the prose is
rather higher than that of the
poetry. The longest of the stories, in
many ways the most impressive, is
“Down at the Dump,” by Patrick White.
The best of his collection “The Burnt
Ones,” it is a work relatively free of
“sick” preoccupations, those obsessions
which are so closely akin to Swift’s.
Another satirical attack on suburbia
is contained in “The Letter Writer” of
Hal Porter. This is more straight-
forward and much funnier than “Down
at the Dump.” It is concerned less
with understanding than with exposing
Dreaded Mum. The story is enriched
with dozens of hilarious, cruel, memor-
able comments. (“She ungums her eyes
to look at the clock which has been
knitting away at her shroud all night”
. . . “He was a hive of indolence.”)
The climax, the moment of understand-
ing, is revealed at the end when, by a
shift of focus, we. are shown the pathos
that underlies this woman’s behaviour.
The laughter is not lost, but the heart
is touched as well.
Judith Wright (in “The Lame
Duck”) and Peter Cowan (in “The
Tractor”) also tackle the horrors of
suburban attitudes and of progress.
Using a similar approach, they concen-
trate on clarity, revealing plot and
psychological commentary from the
standpoint of a central character. “The
Tractor” is magnificently turned in the
last lines a classic short story tech-
nique so that the reader realises, in
retrospect, that the would-be saviour
of a hunted man was in fact the instru-
ment of his destruction.
John Morrison has not been so kindly
treated in having “Bushfire” selected
for this book. To my mind he is un-
questionably the finest short-story
writer in Australia today, and I can
think of no one White and Porter
included who can match his best
pieces, such as “Morning Glory.” In
James Murray’s “Waltzing to the
Duchess” the reader is served with de-
termined effort to be funny at all costs.
The style spreads like a shallow bog
to trap the innocent pleasure seeker.
One’s attention is dragged to a stand-
still by an accumulation of parentheses
in brackets within parentheses in
dashes within parentheses in commas,
and finally suffocated by 80-word sen-
tences. It was when reading such pieces
that I found myself wondering what-
ever happened to James Aldridge and
Alan Marshall? Even a pin-prick choice
from “Gold and Sand” or “How’s
Andy Going?” must have produced
contributions immeasurably superior to
this.
The extracts from novels suffer,
despite their quality, from being out
of context. The characters are seldom
full enough and too many of them are
introduced in too short a space (on the
reasonable assumption that some will
be familiar from earlier chapters).
Even the strongest of the extracts, “The
Waterfront,” suffers this disadvantage.
Where it occurs in George Johnston’s
novel ,“My Brother Jack” it has a
rhapsodic flavor, operating as an ex-
quisite variation of pace and a deepen-
George Johnston
ing of feeling. On its own, much of
this quality does survive, but much is
also lost—chiefly because the people
now seem too shadowy.
The poetry in “Modern Australian
Writing” is less consistent than the
prose. Set against the occasional
heights reached by Francis Webb, R. D.
Fifzgerald, and others, there are Max
Harris’ dreary verses and James
McAuley’s perfection in the technique
of blending water with water. Happily,
a hard core of fine work is provided
by Rosemary Dobson, David Campbell,
Thomas Shapcott, and Bruce Dawe.
Vincent Buckley and Charles Higham
are given strong representation. But
some people, Douglas Stewart, for in-
stance, seem to be ill-served by the
poems chosen. And what of Bruce
Beaver and R. A. Simpson? Curiously
enough, they are not included at all.
The poetic high-watermarks of
“Modern Australian Writing” are
reached by women. Judith Wright’s
“The Harp and the King” explores
the concept of time as a passionate
dilemma —on one hand the fear of
death, and, on the other, the fear of
eternity. It ~ ends with the Harp
(David) advising King Saul:
Wounded we cross the desert’s empti-
ness
And must he false to what would
make us whole.
For only change and distance shape
for us
Some new tremendous symbol for the
soul.
In Gwen Harwood’s “New Music”
there is a totally different kind of in-
sight at work, but the achievement is
no less compelling. She opens with a
vigorous attack on the Establishment.
Secure among their tower junk
the wise and powerful congregate
fitting old shapes to new ideas,
and goes on to say that nothing will
change without:
a new imperative to summon
a world out of unmeasured darkness
pierced by a brilliant nerve of sound.
Whatever the shortcomings of this
collection, the best pieces are out-
standingly good, and Fhitton deserves
credit for the breadth of his taste.


A Journey into Ruin
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
The Embezzler. Louis Auchincloss.
Gollancz. $3.15.
LOUIS AUCHINCLOSS in his
latest novel has produced a
mature and memorable work,
palatial in its sweep, but also
pungently written and compact. This
book is immensely readable and grip-
ping. The author has an old-fashioned
concern for lucidity, and his prose style
has much more in common with Flau-
bert than with Joyce. At the right
moment he can produce the telling
phrase, the magisterial paradox, but
mostly he is concerned with the busi-
ness of telling his story. He is not
overwhelmed by a lot of sensual de-
tail, bric-a-brac thrown up by the
unconscious. If he is overwhelmed by
anything, he is overwhelmed by the
events of his plot, by the force of his
own characters; but Louis Auchincloss
is never really overwhelmed by any
experience. He remains, pen in hand,
calmly recording the detonations which
he has set in motion.
Guy Prime is the product of a well-
established New York family whose
chief claim to fame is that its male
members have always married rich
women. In 1960 Guy decides to write
an apology for his life for the delec-
tation of his grandchildren. The narra-
tive which he writes deals with his
career from before World War I to
his financial collapse in the nineteen-
thirties, by which time he had become
one of Wall Street’s most respected
brokers. The earlier part covers his
friendship with Rex Greer. Rex is an
earnest, diligent student with consider-
able talent who has come from a
humble, puritan background. He would
appear to have little in common with
flamboyant, gregarious Guy.
QUY gains Rex’s grudging admiration
and friendship by wangling a
scholarship for Rex by quite honest
means to ensure that Rex may stay on
at Harvard.
Guy introduces Rex to champagne
and parties, so that Rex is broadened
while never quite losing his basic
puritanism. Guy quite openly acknow-
ledges his motives in striking up a;
friendship with Rex. While he was the
acquaintance of many people, the
blond idol of smitten young women,
he had no close friends and he was a
Dayid needing a Jonathan. Rex was
an ideal foil.
Rex falls in love with Alix Prime,
one of Guy’s cousins, and eventually
gets the cold shoulder. A shadow falls
between the two friends. Rex marries
the girl from his hometown who lived
next door. Guy goes to Europe to widen
his experience and strikes up a friend-
ship with Mrs. Hyde, who introduces
him to her daughter, Angelica. He falls
in love with Angelica because of her
raven-haired aloofness, and Mrs. Hyde
asks Guy to come on a cruise of the
Mediterranean with herself and daugh-
ter, during the course of which
Guy proposes to Angelica. However,
Angelica seems only to tolerate him
and is sullen and withdrawn. Then one
night the door of Guy’s cabin suddenly
opens and Angelica is there, shivering
in a white nightgown looking like
Ophelia. She confesses to Guy that she
has been a bitch and will not marry
him, but will atone for her behaviour
by giving herself to him. Guy’s reaction
is typical of his kind of shrewdness.
“I kept hold of her hands and leaned
my head against her trembling knees
as I thought. Men can think at such
moments. Oh, yes, they can. I could
see with perfect clarity the role of the
young man as the romantic code of
the day, or perhaps yesterday, would
have conceived it. I would have drawn
Angelica to her feet, led her to the
door, implanted a chaste kiss on her
brow and told her: ‘No, my dearest, if
you will not be mine, freely, of your
own will and forever, let us part. I
cannot take advantage of a mood that,
however generous, is misguided.’
“And she would have gone weeping
to her cabin and told me in a week’s
time that she would be my wife.
“But would she?
“I knew rather more about women
than most of my contemporaries of
my own milieu . . . Angelica was still
a virgin . . . She had come to me out
of desire, but she still had enough of
the prudery of her generation to wish
to mask it to herself as the discharge
of a moral debt. She expected to lie
inert on the altar of Venus, a passive
penitent, a prim Iphigenia. She never
imagined that she would participate
lustily in her own sacrifice.”
So Guy takes Angelica, makes her
his bride, and returns to the United
States to set up his New York stock-
broking firm. However, he becomes a
compulsive philanderer and only regains
his interest in his wife when she has
an affair with Rex Greer, whose own
wife has become an arthritic. Guy’s
business affairs go bad, he overtaxes
his resources and embezzles trust funds
to keep his firm afloat, and his house of
cards collapses when his embezzlements
are made public. He is sent to jail,
and his fall heralds the end of an era
of laissez faire on Wall Street when
Roosevelt’s New Deal imposes stricter
controls on stockbrokers because of
Guy’s embezzlements. Guy draws a
parallel between himself and the ’twen-
ties. He sees that period as being his
era, when he was a golden boy who
founded a successful stockbroking firm,
created a large country club, and rode
in on the tide.
He sees the ’thirties as being RexV
era, when all of Rex’s careful invest-
ments paid off, and the cold wind of
the Depression did not affect the
accumulation of wealth which Rex’s
puritan diligence has stored up.
The next section of the novel is
written by Rex. Guy’s memoirs have
been posthumously handed on to Rex
with instructions that they are to be
handed on to Rex’s and Guy’s mutual
grandchildren. (Guy’s daughter has
married Rex’s son.) Rex relates the
same sequence of events from his point
of view and corrects certain errors of
fact which he feels Guy has made. He
feels that Guy had maliciously tried to
involve him in Guy’s financial collapse.
Angelica then writes her comments
on both Guy’s and Rex’s memoirs and
adds further reminiscences of her own.
She suggests that after her affair with
Rex, her husband’s revived interest in
her stemmed as much from Guy’s com-
pulsive gregariousness as from jealousy,
from his desire to associate with the
woman who had been the mistress of
his best friend. By going back to
Angelica, Guy is able to get closer to
Rex, whose brain he feels is much
superior to his own.
JOYCE CARY used the device of
three characters reworking the same
sequence of events in his famous series
which includes “The Horse’s Mouth.”
Durrell also used it in his Alexandria
Quartet, which he described as a novel
of sliding panels. In “The Embezzler,”
Auchincloss tightens the device and
avoids unnecessary repetition of material
by having the characters read the
others’ memoirs before writing their
own. The device is slightly artificial and
sometimes jars, but it provides a handy
framework for the narrative, and when
Auchincloss plunges into his narrative
he is very good indeed.
Auchincloss has a very good eye
for detail and drama. Guy’s firm, for
instance, occupies the top storey of a
Manhattan skyscraper. Guy gives his
junior partners the more obvious views
of the harbor and retains for himself
a “noble chamber in the centre of
the floor, forty feet by twenty, possessed
of no window but entirely covered by a
great skylight.” The walls are covered
by nineteenth-century canvases of roll-
ing American landscape giving one the
sensation of transcontinental flight.
Many novelists when they get into the
thickets of the world of finance get a
bit woolly around the edges, as though
money is a thing which is a conjurer’s
trick. But Auchincloss writes with
authority and understanding on such
matters. He no doubt salts his own
royalties away with the thoroughness
of an enlightened conservative.
However, this novel is chiefly memor-
able for the beautifully and carefully
constructed characterisation of Guy
Prime, who remains singularly cool-
headed and engaging as the last golden
curtain crashes around him.
The Bulletin Index for 1965 is
now available. Copies may be ordered
for $2.46, including postage, from
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.


Handsome FJ Lightweights!
\4O.
'~''y
m
m
m
to
NEW STYLES ,
NEW CLOTHS,
NEW COLOURS!
in wonderfully comfortable cool
trousers and shorts all Wool,
Woolblends, and crisp Wash’n Wear.
Personally fitted Trousers from
£5.19.6, Walk Shorts from £5.4.6.
Fletcher
JONES
Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, Launceston.
FJ226
THE
AUSTRALIAN
PUB
by J. M. FREELAND
The first authoritative
social and architectural
history. 300 pages,
105 plates. $7 (25c.)
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Headless
Man
By JOHN BAXTER
Choice Cuts. Thomas Boileau and Pierre
Narcejac. Arthur Barker. $2.65.
ALL thriller novelists write about
death, but few of them care much
for the philosophical considera-
tions of such an event. An exception
is the team of Boileau and Narcejac,
which, over a period of ten years and
in ten novels, including the originals
for Hitchcock’s “Vertigo” and Clou-
zot’s “The Fiends,” has managed fairly
effectively to chart the somewhat con-
fused area that exists, mentally and
physically, between the end of life and
the beginning of death. “Choice Cuts,”
like all their other novels, is about the
problems of establishing what death
really is, and whether the dead can, in
some form or other, live on.
Rene Myrtil is apparently a man of
vision, despite his record of larceny and
murder; he offers his body to science,
to be used in any way convenient after
he has been decapitated. The offer is
taken up by Dr. Anton Marek as the
basis of his newly developed project,
code-named Lernaean Hydra. Having
discovered how to graft organs and
limbs from one person to another, he
decides to use up a whole body in
operations of this kind. All through one
night the accident victims of Paris are
brought to his clinic, and in the morn-
ing Myrtil has ceased to exist, his
entire body, head included, distributed
among seven injured people. The
grafts take, the patients recover—but
one by one they commit suicide, in each
case because the spirit of Myrtil seems
to live on in the severed parts. The
story, incredibly enough, is resolved
logically at the end, but only after one
of the oddest denouements ever put on
paper.
This book won the 12th Annual
Prize for Black Humor, an award not
to be wondered at in view of its grisly
cynicism. There are some richly
comic scenes the ex-patients, all
incorporating one part or another of
Myrtil’s body, assembling at the
funeral of the first suicide, then re-
spectfully shaking the hand of Myrtil’s
mistress, now “bereaved,” at least to
the extent of an arm. Then there is
the priest who, given the murderer’s
right hand, discovers that it has an
alarming tendency to dive inside his
coat after a non-existent gun every
time he hears a loud noise, not to men-
tion Simone, the unfortunate lady who,
due to the exigencies of the situation,
ends up with Myrtil’s hairy left leg, a
fact which immediately makes her the
object of the affections of the man
who has the right. Sick, no doubt, but
very funny.


::
1-*v.
m
m
M
success story:
Victa and GTV9 began their success
stories in Australia at about the same
time. It was in 1956 that GTV9 began
transmitting and the Victa became
Australia’s top-selling mower.
Today GTV9 is one of Australia’s
highest-rating Television stations and
Victa is still Australia’s market leader.
In June this year Grahapri Kennedy
appeared in a special Victa commercial
on hisGTV “In Melbourne Tonight”
show featuring the one Millionth Victa
motor mower. It was onb of the many
Victa commercials that will run on GTV
this year. \
Victa has been one of GTVts most
consistent advertisers, vjbta is one of
Australia’s most successful companies.
All makes you think doesn’t it?
9
if m
49.168


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
No Time to Relax
NOW that they are back in the saddle, let us fervently
hope that Mr. Holt and his Treasurer, Mr. McMahon,
have not begun to believe their own election proga-
ganda. With Christmas not far off the new Government
will be tempted to sit back and relax, and there are, of
course, some problems which can validly be left over until
about February next year. But there is one on which there
should be immediate action. That is the current level of
economic activity.
Government Ministers have understandably been saying
all is fine in the economy. Understandably, because to have
said anything else would be to have given the Labor Party
high explosive ammunition for its election campaign. But
every commentator now concedes that the Budget was not
expansionary enough, if it was expansionary at all. The
way in which tax revenues in the first four months of this
financial year are lagging badly on the Budget estimates
show that the economy is not advancing at anything like
the rate that Treasury predicted.
The Government obviously overestimated the extent to
which the recovery from the drought would help spending
generally. And consumer spending has not been noticeably
boosted by the rise in the basic wage. The obviously import-
ant motor vehicle industry is still in the doldrums, and
looks like staying there until 1968, when GMH introduces
major changes in its cars. Housebuilding is likely to main-
tain its present level, but the frighteningly bearish element on
the 1967 economic scene is business expenditure on plant and
buildings. The only way in which this depressing influence
can be dispelled is by a quick and dramatic assurance to
business that consumer spending will soon grow again.
The only way in which this can be done is to make an
announcement of measures to stimulate spending. There is
no reason whatsoever why income tax should not be dropped
2.5 percent and several small increases in social services
made. The actual amount of these could be left in the air
until February, so that economic conditions then can be
clearly determined. But it is most important that businessmen
should go off for their summer break happy in the convic-
tion that at last the Government is going to do something
about the current drift. A quick implementation of the
Government’s few election promises would also be desirable
for the economy. We want none of the dilly-dallying fol-
lowing the 1963 elections, when the implementation was
delayed for almost 18 months, just until the economy was
least able to take a boost to demand.
Beyond such budgetary measures, the Government will
have to take early steps to get the machinery of the trade
practices’ legislation operating efficiently. Conservative ele-
ments have already delayed things too long. With Mr.
McEwen’s retirement likely quite soon, the Government will
have a welcome chance to rethink its range of policies to-
ward secondary industry and trade. Indiscriminate tariff
protection and ever-increasing subsidies of various kinds are
no way to build a competitive, lively, growing economy.
Already the diffusion of our scarce capital resources over
the whole range of industrial production has hindered
national growth. If continued much longer it will seriously
jeopardise our development and let other countries overtake
our standard of living. Western Europe’s recent growth has
enabled several countries to do this already, and as a result
Australia is far less attractive for migrants. Only Britain’s
MEN AND MATTERS
IF the shrouds of secrecy over Daniel
K. Ludwig’s operation in Western
Australia through his Sentinel
Mining Co. are beginning to be stripped
away, they remain over the man him-
self. He is a dark and handsome Ameri-
can millionaire. His personal fortune
was estimated by “Fortune” magazine
several years ago to be more than
$450 million. Apart from Sentinel he
has Australian mining interests in the
Burragorang Valley through Clutha
Coal Mining Co., as well as half a mil-
lion acres of Venezuelan ranch, a 70,000
barrel-a-day oil refinery in Panama,
and many other landlubber connections.
But, most important, he owns more
than 3 million tons deadweight of
shipping, and in 1960 took over from '
Stavros Niarchos the title of the world’s
biggest individual ship-owner. His
companies include Universe Tank-
ships, Seatankers Inc., and National
Bulk Carriers, which has on order half
a dozen king-sized Japanese carriers,
deadweight a staggering 276,000 tons
apiece.
Naturally with such a publicity-shy
man, stories of how he became a mil-
lionaire are many. But starting beyond
tales of his nine-year-old financial
wizardry, he trained as a marine engine
mechanic in his teens, and at 27 bought
a surplus oil tanker, plying America’s
East Coast.
Ludwig was looking over an iron-ore
venture in India at the time he came
to Australia last
year, visiting pro-
perties in the north
owned by his
U.S. next - door
neighbor Art Link-
letter.
He was picked up
on a station and
taken west by the
West’s iron-ore
pioneer, Lang Han-
cock, who flew him
over leases he later
took up manganese and high-grade
ore. Hancock has nothing but praise for
his publicity-shy flying companion and
business associate. The picture on this
page, one of the very few taken of him,
is a snap from this W.A. trip, complete
with red baseball cap. Hancock also
throws light on a fascinating aspect of
the Ludwig mystery: what will happen
to all that money when the 68-year-old
tycoon dies? It will all go, says Han-
cock, to an irrevocable trust to be used
for cancer research.
THE appointment of Mr. E. K. Sin-
clair as a director of Australian
Paper Manufacturers is not the first
time a newspaper man has sat in
APM’s boardroom. The late Sir Hugh
Denison, of the old Associated News-
papers group, was chairman of APM
E. K. Sinclair
Lang Hancock
D. K. Ludwig
for some years, and his son, Mr. R. E.
Denison, is a director.
Keith Sinclair’s sudden resignation
last month from the prestigious job of
editor of the Melbourne “Age” at 51,
after seven years in it, has been followed
by some striking changes in the news-
paper’s appearance under the new
editorial team of Mr. C. R. MacDonald
as acting editor-in-chief, Mr. E. G.
Perkin as editor, and the former
associate editor, Mr. H. J. Austin, as
day editor.
Awarded the CMG in the New Year’s
Honors List this year, and having taken
a controversial position in the Tait
hanging case in Victoria some years
ago, Keith Sinclair started in journalism
as a cadet on the “Age” 37 years ago,
and served in all its editorial depart-
ments.


continuing economic difficulties enable us to sustain our
overall migration intake. And one day even the British
might get out of trouble, through entering the Common
Market, for instance. We will need to re-examine a range
of policies bearing on our growth rate if immigration is to
continue.
Early Boost Needed
THE facts of the continued drift in the economy were
outlined last week in the September quarterly national
accounts. These showed how small an impact had been
made on economic activity by the biggest expansionary influ-
ence of the quarter —the rise of $l2O million in wages and
salaries as a result of the basic wage increase. At least half
of this increase was saved, and so consumer spending rose
by a mere $5O million. Spending on motor vehicles dropped
almost $2O million and the market for household durables
weakened. The amount going on new housing rose a modest
$5 million, but this was more than offset by a $l5 million
fall in business capital expenditure—and the third successive
quarter in which this item has dropped back.
The biggest deflationary element was the rundown of
stock, which appears to have been about $BO million. But
since there was also an extraordinary fall in imports this
may have been a temporary depressive, to be reversed some-
what now that the final effects of the British shipping strike
are over.
Yet once again the only really strong item of domestic
expenditure was the Government sector. Extraordinarily
difficult to seasonally adjust, because of budgetary juggling,
it looks as if it was up by around $lOO million in the
September quarter. Government revenues were very slack,
so overall they constituted an increased stimulus (or
diminished drag) on the economy in relation to the June
quarter.
Exports, of course, boomed, rising to a new record rate of
$3500 million in annual terms, compared with the $3lOO
million and $3200 million in the previous two quarters. The
last quarter saw the biggest current account surplus in our
history, though before we get too excited about this fact
it is worth pointing out that it was based to an extent on a
rundown of stocks of export products. All the same it also
reflects high prices and the beginning of our earnings on
minerals. Nevertheless, there are growing fears in high
places that the balance of payments could fall into deficit
next year despite the low level of domestic activity, which
suggests that the authorities may want to see more evidence
of increased export income to replace the lower capital
inflow before jogging the economy along much.
The failure of GNP as a whole to move up in September
quarter results from the fact that the rise in wage and salary
incomes was offset by a fall in profits and farm income. The
accounts underline the need for an early boost to the economy,
for all the advance indicators show that the general drift is
continuing into the December quarter.
What about India ?
WELL, the election campaign was characterised by bitter
disputes about the nation’s defence and extraordinary
appeals to the electors’ self interest. It would have
been a warming gesture if one of the parties had been able
to bring itself to promising to do something about India’s
food problem.
There is now not the slightest shadow of doubt that our
wheat crop will be a record. Estimates of 370 million bushels
made only six weeks ago now look certain to be surpassed and
there is speculation that the harvest may be as much as 425
million bushels, double last year’s; We could now well afford
the magnanimous gesture of offering a million tons to India
(about 45 million bushels, or a bit over $5O million
worth). Such a gift would go about a tenth of the way to
bridging the expected shortfall resulting from drought in the
north of the subcontinent.
It would be of immense relieving value to 80,000,000
hungry people, and help take a democratic nation back from
the brink of anarchy.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy S The September quarter’s
national income statistics are already furnishing plenty
of ground for debate and are provoking demands for a
lowering of interest rates especially. Gross national
spending 'showed a rise of only 0.7 percent after adjust-
ing for price increases (in money terms the published
figure was 3.4 percent ahead of the previous September
quarter). Consumer spending went up only 2.5 percent
in real terms and, most importantly, private fixed-
capital spending retreated 2.5 percent. The gross
national product rose by 3.6 percent, principally reflect-
ing wages and salary increases.
October’s savings bank deposits added $57 million to
reach $5448.5 million; the rise in October, 1965, had
been $40.2 million. The banks’ housing loans were lifted
by $10.3 million (previously $9.4 million) to a peak
$1409.3 million . . . Housing approvals in the three
months to October totalled 33,365, compared with 30,073
in 1965’s corresponding period and 33,900 in 1964 . . .
The latest production statistics continue to reveal
continued growth among heavy industries, much lower
output of motor vehicles, and general slowness else-
where.
For the marhets: The elections could not
prevent Australian share markets repeating their recent
Friday pattern, so up they went at the close. Never-
theless, the all ordinaries index again drifted on the
week and what kick exists proceeds largely from the
healthy base metals. Second-liners are carefully combed.
Industrials in London are giving a variegated perform-
ance, much influenced by ICl’s sizable profit downturn.
Rhodesia, high interest rates, and unemployment provide
further brakes . . . Surprisingly, Wall Street made some
gains among motor issues and a post-holiday advance.
For companies! Twenty-seven years of steady
history were gleefully changed when Henry Jones (TXT,)
brought its ordinary dividend from 10 to 12% percent . . .
Six successive years at 14 percent had to go by the
board as Ampol Petroleum’s earnings dropped from
$5,860,226 to $5,044,111, despite $2.5 million less tax
as a result of investment allowances. The year’s payout
is taken back to 10 percent by a final 3 percent. Ampol
faces a 75 percent increase in ordinary capital during
the current year . . . Notorious Marrickville Holdings
(margarine maker and food processor) saw group profits
gain 20 percent to touch $1,205,257 and held 15 percent.
Paper closes the fighting ranks by Reed Consolidated
Industries taking over Paper Associates Pty. and Arthur
G. Wilson Pty., both formerly under the aegis of the
British Reed Group. The consideration, 4,760,000 RCI
shares, increases Reed Group’s equity in RCI from 58
to 82 percent . . . Colonial Sugar Refining and Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills join their respective building
board activities in Hardboards Australia Ltd.
Mass media were financially prominent . . . Television
Corporation sent profit up nearly 15 percent to $894,949,
earning rate from 20.1 to 23.1 percent and assured its
steady 20 percent with a current 10 percent interim . . .
TV-troubled Ansett believes ATV Channel 0, Melbourne,
could reacll break-even point in 1967-68, but would
take “several years” to reach dividend status; Channel 0,
Brisbane, could take “about- ten years” to attain divi-
dends . . . Newspaper, television, and radio combine
Herald and Weekly Times earned $4,841,473, a 6.8 per-
cent gain; its dividend is now 30 percent.
The miners were not quite so ebullient as usual . . .
However, Western Mining Corporation is confidently
studying the possibility of extending its nickel extrac-
tion into actual production of the metal by eventually
erecting a Smelter. Output of concentrates from
Kambalda should start about the middle of 1967.
. . . Both gold and copper production from Mount
Morgan for 20 weeks are significantly ahead of last


this is the
Australian way of
making steer
You tear the heart
from a mountain
And you do it with skill and with
care. Before the blasting there’s
test-drilling to be done, and
samples to be taken. Raw
materials mining is a demanding
task, and for the making of
steel in Australia, BHP handles it
all. Below is shown a BHP
quarryman preparing to blast at
Iron Monarch, South Australia,
one of several sources of iron o.re
serving all of the Company’s
fully integrated steel plants in
Australia.
You bring to bear 50 years
of steelmaking know-how
Basic oxygen steelmaking,
continuous casting, spectrographic
analysis, vacuum degassing;
these are the techniques
of today’s modern BHP plant.
And another technique is present,
too . . . that of handling the
complex job with the accumulated
experience of 50 years of
steelmaking in Australia. Below-.
8.0.5. furnace at Newcastle,
N.S.W.
And then you check,
and check again
Instruments do much of the
watching in a modern BHP
plant, but it also requires skilled
men to watch the watchers.
BHP’s high standards of quality
control are maintained by
qualified technical personnel
constantly watching, adjusting,
and checking, at every stage
of the steelmaking progress.
* Australia's BHP
is one of the world’s
great steelmakers
***
Sm
%
v*'
fiUf..
w
m
w>
THE BROKEN HXIX PROPRIETARY CO. LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES
8HP333


New Issue
/VOC
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNUM
DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes accepted only on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ‘WALES’ FOR DETAILS
ND.2O.N.
, , .
y ar s corresponding period, despite
f™, drops M over * he lat< ; st j£, u 5
. . . Mount Isa treated 23.5
wppkT h llfn cr °L 1 d v- eSt rl f ° ur
weeks, having lost six working days.
Some retailers still look rather
drab ... A fifth successive loss came
to Anthony Hordern and Son, in the
amount of $399,894 and certainly an .
improvement on 1964-65’s $1,158,204.
Directors had been more optimistic
early on and were forced at the end
to plead “economic sluggishness.”
The y f eel the group has no. “major
financial difficulties” . . . Hardware
specialist Nock and Kirby held close
to t h e previous year’s profit and earn-
ing rate— s23s,ls3 ($229,690) and
10.5 percent (10.0 percent); sales
made a 5 percent advance to a new
record.
Drought raised its head again to
bring losses to Associated Rural Indus-
tries ($81,027 against 1964-65’s
$29,114 profit) and Marra Develop-
ment ($259,265 against a $120,604
profit previously); dividends were
passed ... Yet Australian Fertilizers
proudly “beat the drought,” advanc-
ing by $368,164 to- $1,292,016; nearly
$3.7 million capital spending cut the
tax . . . A.C.F. and Shirleys Fertilisers
also added to turnover, earning;
$1,186,948 for 19 months.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Less Flag-waving for Oil
THE way academics write you’d often
think they didn’t want to be read.
They seem so often to go to enor-
mous lengths to drive off the interested
reader by starting their article with a
whole heap of unnecessary and mud-
dled verbal garbage. The good oil, if
any, is hidden away in the back. So it’s
a good principle to tackle such treati-
ses from the end, and work gradually
to the front, not worrying if lack of
mental stamina causes you to throw it
in halfway along your backwards walk.
Alex Hunter’s important article in
the latest “Economic Record” is an
excellent case in point. Reading back-
wards, he starts with the proposition
that in divising our oil search policies
we in Australia should do a lot more
thinking and a lot less flag-waving. He
demonstrates powerfully that the
Government has so far been more
nationalist than sensible and calculat-
ing.
The defence arguments for vigorous
oil search are unconvincing because the
sorts of war we are likely to be engaged
in are of the limited, guerilla variety,
in which our shipping is unlikely to be
blockaded. None of our likely adver-
saries have powerful navies anyway.
And in a nuclear war it wouldn’t
matter much whether we had our own
oil or not. So oil search should be
approached solely as a matter of
national economics, of trying to get the
most value with the least effort.
iA L L this is rather conventional advice.
Even if the Department of Trade and
Industry’s energetic mercantilism means
that it cannot be repeated too often or
too insistently. What this means in
practical terms is that there is no sense
in encouraging industries which require
more than average protection.
The crucial point is that our inter-
national competitive disadvantage is not
likely to disappear. Imported crudes
are landed in Australia at a lower price
than in most parts of the industrial
world—at a lower price than in West-
ern Europe or the east coast of the
U.S. Only the west coast of the U.S.
and Japan share our cheap and ad-
vantageous access to the great deposits
of the Middle East and Indonesia.
There is immense surplus capacity in
these areas and, in consequence, prices
are certain to drift downwards. And
four-fifths of our sedimentary, oil-
potential areas are over 300 miles from
the capital cities, which suggests that
transport costs will generally be high.
Moonie oil, for instance, costs half as
much again to transport to Melbourne
as Kuwait oil.
Finding costs of oil in Australia seem
extiaoidinarily high: about $1.90 per
ane compared with the $1.50 of
Ameiica, the 50c to 60c common in
Latm Ameiica and Canada, and the
15c for the Middle East. This is partly
b-ause out dulling costs are high
$26 per foot against the Americans
$l3 - but also a reflection of the
extraoi dinary lightness of Australian
oil-gas deposits. They seem to be very
gassy and shoit of the liquids.
Hunter calculates on the basis of
results so far we will have to have an
eightfold increase in drilling and the
expenditure of $5OO million a year by
1970 if we are to obtain self-sufficiency
in oil by 1980. All that to make avail-
able oil at perhaps twice the cost of
present foreign supplies, and to save
an import bill of $3OO million or $4OO
million. We have, and look like con-
tinuing to have, access to (and these
are Hunter’s phrases) “veritable seas
of cheap oil,” and so there is little
sense in fnassive efforts at developing
“the relatively unpromising sediments”
of Australia.
The possibility of discovering natural
gas as a by-product provides no argu-
ment for an indiscriminate support of
oil search.
Hunter suggests that all effective
tariff protection for local oil should be
abandoned. This is perhaps going too
far. It should be enough to reduce this
to 15 or 20 percent, the average rate
D f protection, to ensure that local oil
production is not artificially expanded
relative to other industries. He also sug-
gests that the search subsidy be ter-
minated outside areas where transport
costs to the main markets are greater
than transport costs from overseas
(beyond 300 miles for inland areas and
1300 miles for off-shore areas). Though
it might be administratively more diffi-
cult, surely a better scheme would be
to devise a sliding scale, so that very
high subsidy rates would be paid for
drilling close to the big markets, tail-
ing off as you moved further away.


Australian Institute of Political Science
Summer School
COMMUNISM IN ASIA
A Threat to Australia?
To be held at the Canberra Theatre, Civic Square, Canberra,
over Australia Day week-end 28-30 January 1967.
PROGRAMME
THE NATURE OF COMMUNIST REGIMES IN ASIA
by Professor Robert A. Scalapino, Professor of
Political Science at the University of California.
THE NATURE AND APPEALS OF COMMUNISM IN
NON-COMMUNIST ASIAN COUNTRIES by Dr. Gob
Keng Swee, Minister of Defence and of the Interior,
Singapore.
COMMUNIST CHINA'S FOREIGN POLICY by Pro-
fessor J. D. B. Miller, Research School of Pacific
Studies, Australian National University.
DOES ASIAN COMMUNISM CONSTITUTE A
THREAT TO AUSTRALIA? by Mr. Owen Harries.
Department of Political Science, University of New
South Wales, and Mr. Gregory Clark, of the Research
School of Pacific Studies, Australian National University.
AUSTRALIA'S POLICY TOWARDS ASIA - THE
CHOICES by Professor Zelman . Cowen, Vice-
Chancellor of the University of New England, Armidale.
For details and bookings please contact:
The Secretary, The Australian Institute of Political Science,
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 28 9544
MICHAEL BAUME'S SYDNEY
Landmark for Chairmen
IT promises to be one of the most
entertaining productions yet put
on at Sydney’s St. James Play-
house in Phillip Street. For one per-
formance only, on Friday of this week,
Landmark Corporation Ltd. is present-
ing its annual meeting, complete with
two deposed chairmen, accusations of
mismanagement, a struggle for control
of the board, an incorrect profit state-
ment, a fusillade of letters, and set
of accounts that a director has refused
to endorse.
Although Professor Harry Messel will
not be at this year’s meeting (he re-
signed during the year because of pres-
sure of work), his Executive Assistant
at the Department of Physics at Syd-
ney University will replace him in the
act. And there is every chance that
Mr. Robert Blackburn, who represents
the N.Z. Brierley interests in Australia
and who was beaten by Landmark in
a takeover bid for Hawkesbury
Developments, may have a few words
to say in a sort of off-stage chorus.
The plot in Friday’s performance is
that the Hon. Alex Armstrong, who was
chairman of Landmark Development
Corporation until his fellow directors
sacked him last month, is now attempt-
ing to return the compliment to his
managing director, Mr. Andrew Barton,
who led the anti-Armstrong campaign.
At present, apart from Mr. Armstrong
and Mr. Barton, the board of Land-
mark consists of Mr. John Bovill, the
chairman, who had to step down last
week because he did not hold enough
shares for a director’s qualification,
and Mr. A. J. S. Cotter, who appears
to represent interests remaining from
the old Cullen days of Landmark, be-
fore it changed its name from Palgrave.
Mr. Armstrong is attempting to
counter the 3-to-l majority against him
by nominating three more candidates
to make a seven-man board.
They are Mr. W. S. Beale, the poli-
tician’s brother, former Edgell’s execu-
tive, engineer, and, coincidentally, a
director of Talcott Factors, a surviv-
ing competitor of Mr. Armstrong’s now-
demised Australian Factors; Mr. A. P.
Hoggett, who was appointed general
manager of Landmark by Mr. Barton
and sacked three weeks later (after he
had bought 26,000 shares in the com-
pany) and who now has legal actions
pending over the matter; and Mr. O.
A. Guth, the Austrian-born former
journalist who handles Professor Mes-
sel’s strikingly successful public rela-
tions (and whose appointment on the
other side of a dispute with Hungarian-
born Mr. Barton
would reflect some
historic a 1 ten-
sions).
Mr. Armstrong
has written to
shareholders
claiming that he
returned from
abroad on Octo-
ber 15 and, after
scrutinising the
Land mark ac-
counts, he insisted
on certain amend-
A. E. Armstrong
ments to make them reflect the true
position, and added, “In my opinion
the management of the company is
inefficient.”
So far the board has given share-
holders two versions of the company’s
profit for the year; an unaudited pre-
liminary statement of $212,278 was
later reduced to $158,481. But accord-
ing to the proper accountancy pro-
cedures used by the Stock Exchange,
the company’s profit was really only
$107,572 and that is before deduct-
ing $76,496 interest paid during the
year that directors say should be
charged against future income.
These bookkeeping questions have
an ironic twist to them; Mr. Barton,
who ran a septic tank business before
coming to Landmark a few years ago,
had changed his name from Buchhalter,
which in German means bookkeeper.


WILD CAT
PAGES
Can Ampol Do It?
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEET'S
By JASON
INVESTORS need be in no rush to
back Ampol’s chances of increas-
ing its pre-tax profit by the 60 per-
cent or so necessary within two years
to meet the new and lower $5.9 million
dividend requirement when all its de-
ferred shares and convertible notes have
been turned into dividend-ranking
capital.
Last week’s 1965-66 result was far
worse than the 14 percent fall in net
profit indicated. The pre-tax profit had
in fact fallen by more than 60 percent,
as allowances were claimed on the
heavy capital investment in the new
$43 million Lytton refinery, so helping
to reduce tax by more than s2£ million
to a nominal $80,370. In addition, the
unstated initial losses on operations at
Lytton were capitalised instead of
appearing in the profit and loss
account.
One popular view is that the market
now knows the worst from Ampol, and
that the tiew, reduced 10 percent divi-
dend rate is an indication of what the
board expects to pay after all this
year’s capital conversions increase its
capital by 75 percent (without giving
it any additional funds). But simply to
cover the new 10 percent dividend on
this capital would require a $3.3 mil-
lion rise on last year’s pre-tax profit
of $5.1 million (calculated on tax at
the 30 percent average of recent years).
There is the optimistic way of look-
ing at the problem that all Ampol
needs to do to cover this 10 percent is
to recover to 1964-65’s net profit rate,
A million reduction in convertible
note interest would provide some help
toward this goal. In addition, a half
cent rise in the price of petrol would
bring Ampol an extra $l.B million a
year in revenue, and there are pressures
mounting for a rise,
Presumably Lytton should provide
some return on its huge investment; a
5 percent return would yield a gross
$2.1 million a year. And then there
are all its other things, such as the
investment in the 25 percent holding in
Australian Lubricating Oil 'Refinery,
which returned a dividend this year
and B. F. Goodrich, which did not
abides through
its 67 percent subsidiary, Ampol Ex-
pl.°rati°n’ have Ifped Ampol’s tax. and
r", 1 Tfu °r. gI " S
f, ° m lts ®, a f rt T Isl f n fi ?‘ d ( .“ ° W ™
?" e . se t venth )’ Am P ol Exploration will
t ° ll ? et royalties (to a maximum
° f , $7 ” ,lllon °™ r ,» ,e , hfe of th ( e field >’
Then there is the likely return from the
sa e lts Balmain freehold which
could ease some of its high borrowing
costs - And an expected return to a
more reasonable growth rate in sales
of motor spirit (sales rose by only a
tiny fraction in June quarter), although
some motor vehicle makers expect the
new car market to remain dull for
another 18 months or so.
But Ampol’s real test will probably
not be felt in the current year, when
it will still have some initial deprecia-
tion allowances to carry over and when
only a relatively small part of its extra
capital will rank for dividend. If
everything goes well, pre-tax profit
seems to be in for a rise, at best, of
about $5 million or 100 percent over
the next two years, giving a cover of
$1.7 million over the dividend require-
ment. That may not turn out to be so
comfortable a margin for error as it
looks.
The manner of Ampol’s dividend cut
from last year’s 14 percent to only 10-
percent by chopping back on the final
payment suggests some sort of direc-
torial miscalculation. The steady 7
percent interim was presumably more
than an unnecessary (and misleading)
gesture of defiance to the commenta-
tors who were so widely canvassing
the likelihood of a fall, particularly in
view of the H. C. Sleigh experience;
it seems likely that directors had hoped
to be able to keep the dividend up.
Shareholders may well wonder about
the prospects of the new . rate in the
circumstances.
Shareholders in Associated
Pulp and CSR would be unwise
to expect too much of their com-
panies’ merger of their hardboard in-
terests into a Hardboards Australia
Ltd., with sales of $2O million. This
market is being solidly hit by the
growth of particle-board produced by
the APM-CSR operation, which is
going along splendidly while Austra-
lian hardboard production has been
falling.
One of the best features of the
merger for CSR is that its unimpres-
sive hardboard group which makes
Masonite, Timbrock, and Cane-ite will
no longer have to be consolidated in
CSR’s accounts. Its earnings record
as a subsidiary has not been impressive.
DESPITE the flap going on in its
British parent company (local
boss Mr. Peter Threlfall is now
in the U.K. to see what’s up), despite
the tough times in the local appliance
scene, and despite the slackness in de-
mand for its motor vehicle com-
ponents, Pye shares look good buying
at 90 cents: •
Last month’s unwilling departure of
Mr. John Stanley, . son of the former
diairman Mr. C.- O. Stanley, from
the British board at the hectic annual
meeting (which was punctuated with
The Chartist says:
THE consolidation pattern formed by the price movements of AMAL-
GAMATED HOLDINGS over the last two years appeared promising for a
further rise until June of this year, when prices rose to $1.45. However, no
volume accompanied the rise, and prices have since receded to $l.lO, which would
be regarded as a decisive break in the 10 percent broad primary up-trend channel
held since 1960. Although some short-time reaction might be expected to the recent
fall, a downside objective of between 75c and 80c would be a distinct possibility
for the longer term. Support would be strong about the $1 level and also about
75c. Undoubtedly the general market tone will influence this stock’s movements in
the short term, and investors should be mindful of the overall bearishness. Last
sale price on November 25, 1966 $l.ll.


Finance
Corporation
of Australia
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
71
0,
0
PER ANNUM 8 AND 10 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Tk
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
0
PER ANNUM 3 YEARS
51:
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
Qk
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
s&i
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
6:
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
4fz
PER ANNUM 3 MONTHS
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted
only on the printed form referred to
in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and
forms of application should be obtained from:
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co.,
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
NDN. 2
This
Week’s
Year
week
change
ago
Aluminium, ton
£ 196
—
£ 196
Copper, w.b., ton
£ 458V2
-£ 7
£ 5261/4
Gold, oz.
252/01/4
4- 01/4 d
250/53/4
Lead, ton
£ 81 9-16
4- £ 1 1-16
£ 1063/4
Silver, oz.
lll%d
—
1113/ad
Tin ton
£ 12053/4
4- £11/4
£ 14033/4
Wolfram, unit
300/-
- 1/3
252/6
Zinc, ton
Wheat, Aust., ton
£ IO31/4
- £43/4
£ 107 15-16
£ 27
—
£ 26
Linseed oil, ton
£ 82
—
£ 851/2
Cocoa, 50 kilos
181/3
4- 4/6
155/-
Cotton, Am., 'lb.
21.95d
—
23.35d
Rubber, lb.
18 7-16d
—
2OV4 d
Sugar, ton
£ 141/4
—
£ 19%
Wool tops,
64s lb.
113d
—
115d
shouts of “belt up” and “rubbish,” slow
hand-clapping, and a mixture of
applause and boos) has been followed
by renewed takeover interest in the
stock, not only from the rejected
suitor, Philips, but also from Thorn
Electric. If either of these come off,
the Australian company would pre-
sumably come out of the affair quite
well, as both would be keen to main-
tain an Australian appliance business.
Indeed, a Philips success could bring
some useful integration here. If neither
succeed, it is true that the present
Pye board’s unhappiness with its UK
. appliance business (it has already stop-
ped television receiver production at
its Southend factory in an attempt to
halt the “massive” losses in this
division) could mean the end of Pye
Australia’s useful technical links with
Britain in this area. But Pye locally
could manage very well in this field on
its own, as it already handles most of
its own TV technology and is believed
to be doing fairly well with its tele-
vision receiver sales in the circum-
stances of a depressed local market.
Pye’s profit this year will probably
once again reflect the severe competi-
tion that brought last year’s 41 percent
earnings slump, but defence orders and
telecommunications equipment sales
should be better. The twice covered
10 percent dividend, which yields 5.6
percent, looks safe enough whatever
happens.
THERE is no doubt about the “new
look” at Penfolds. Last week’s
appointment of Mr. Jeffrey Pen-
fold Hyland as chairman, the arrival
two years ago of Mr. Alan Benson as
general manager and last year’s addi-
tion of Mr. Rowan Waddy as sales
manager gives a younger and more
energetic look to the company. And
despite denials by South Australian
grape growers the big N.S.W. develop-
ments should ultimately bring in sign-
ificant rewards to Penfolds.
In a lengthy booklet on the com-
pany, a Sydney stock broker fore-
casts an earnings growth at the rate of
10 percent dr better as a “reasonable
yearly prospect” for some time to come.
THE recent news that Lindeman
(Holdings) Ltd. may invite stock-
holders to make short-term de-
posits with the company underlines the
point made in “Behind the Balance
Sheets” that the company had sharply
run down its cash position during its
rapid expansion program.
Although it is disappointing that
directors did not give any indication of
sales levels for the first four months of
the year at the annual meeting, they
did say that prospects of increased
earnings appeared to be “reasonably
bright.” In view of the time it takes
for new vines to come into production
and the expenses involved in their
establishment, this year could be more
a year of consolidation than of rapid
development; but the long-term out-
look is full of growth.
Ludwig's Sentinel
WITH the Mount Newman deal
out o? the way and Cliffs seeking
a six-month extension to con-
clude their negotiations, Daniel K. Lud-
wig’s Sentinel Mining become the new
group in the spotlight in the fast-
moving Western Australia iron-ore
business.
This company has spent $2 million
surveying a deepwater port 120 miles
up the coast from Port Hedland at
Portsite Three, and plans to run a
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES


■
Cl
u
WINE?
urn emus??
(You con lough. French wine-makers
are laughing 100. All Ihe way to the bank.)
And here’s the proof. Breaking through traditional conservatism,
six leading French producers sold 140,000,000 rigid PVC bottles
of red wine in 1964 alone! Geon rigid PYC —polyvinyl chloride
—unlike other plastics, prevents the oxygen transfer that leads to
souring. Geon PVC does not shatter, weighs up to 80% less than
glass, and can be moulded in practically any shape or size,
transparent or coloured. Geon bottles are non-returnable, too —
an important point if you bottle in flagons. Rigid Geon vinyl
could be the answer to your packaging problems. Find out by
calling or writing to us today. -
A job for vinyl
is a job for Geon
polyvinyl chloride resins for industry
CSR Chemicals Pty. Ltd., Dept. F, P.O. Box 2538, G.P.O. Melbourne. 65 8221
______ MSS44A
50-mile line from the relatively small
iron deposit at Nimingarra to this port,
where the kind of super-carriers owner
Ludwig runs would be able to fill up.
There is also a further lease farther
south at Mount Nicholas, near Mount
Newman, and another 130 miles of
railway is believed to be part of the
bargain on this. This could head north-
ward through Portsite Three, or west-
ward which would open up many
possibilities for further rationalisation
of the Pilbara’s iron consortia.
Ludwig’s program is to have the
survey finished by iMarch, to start ex-
porting within three years, and pro-
cessing his ferro-manganese within
seven. But negotiations have bogged
down on the amount of processing
likely to be done a delicate point
in view of Hamersley’s hint that they
may prefer to set up a pellet plant in
Japan. With his tremendous leverage
over the Japanese buyers because of
the tonnage of shipping he builds in
Japan, Ludwig is not the kind of de-
veloper Western Australia will let slip.
He has already offered to share his
port facilities with capital-hungry
Mount Newman, whose costs have more
than doubled mainly because of the
rising port costs. (The answer to this
will probably be to bring in Japanese
equity; Mitsui and C. Itoh and Co.
are investigating putting up $U.5.24
million, or pne-tenth of the total outlay,
and other Japanese financiers are re-
ported to be looking at joining within
this 10 percent.)
]\JEANWHILE, Cliffs enter the final
stages of their scheme, despite the
six-month extension their vice-president,
Mr. Bill Dohnal, will be seeking in
Tokyo over the next few days. He will
have some hard bargaining to ensure
that the Japanese steel mills’ hunger
for Cliffs pellets will stop the delay
from bringing about a retreat from the
relatively high price of 19.1 cents per
unit contracted for the pellets.
He will have strong arguments:
Cliffs have access to $75 million from
U.S. banks as soon as they get the
green light; they have had good
results from the $400,000 operation to
get “samples” to their specially built
$1.5 million test plant in Ishpeming,
Michigan; and they have an assured
contract.
They will need, over the next few
weeks, to rationalise costs in some way
linking up with Hamersley through
Dampier, linking with Sentinel, or
bringing in one of the industrial or
mining concerns Cleveland Cliffs has
joined in U.S. mining ventures (these
include Ford, International Harvester,
and steelmakers Bethlehem and Repub-
lic). Whatever way the scheme pans
out, it is likely to mean capacity for
secondary production in the Pilbara
increasing far beyond the original plant.


INVEST NOW IN THIS NEW ISSUE
FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Providing finance facilities for short term
mortgages together with Consumer,
Industrial and Commercial Credit.
DEBENTURE
STOCK AT m
PER ANNUM FOB
5 CIO YEARS
A
h
BENEFICIAL
A
Applications will proceed only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus obtainable from
STOCK EXCHANGE MEMBERS
throughout Australia
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia, all branches
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
in New South Wales and A.C.T.
S.A. FARMERS' CO-OP. UNION LTD.
in South Australia,
or the Underwriters
lAN POTTER ir CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
GAVIN F. GARDNER ft CO.
Members Of The Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
BENEFICIAL BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Sydney 29 5244 Melbourne 62 1432
Brtabene 31 1861 Adelaide 51 6661 Perth 21 6273
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
A Larke Descending?
LIKE all motor stocks, it is right out
of fashion. The future of the
motor industry is uncertain for at
least the next couple of years; the cur-
rent year s profit could fall below
1965-66 s (which was the lowest for
four years); its diversification out of
motors has not yet begun to pay off
and its dividend could be in danger.
And, being the producer of Australia s
best annual report, it has little to hide.
But for all that, Larke Consolidated
Industries Ltd. is of more than passing
interest. If its 15 percent dividend is
maintained (and last years earning
rate of 21.8 percent covered it almost
2 tj l6 r s^r^ s wou §_ lv . e . a
dividend yield of 10.3 percent; if it is
cut to>l2* percent the yield would drop
to 8.6 percent and a 10 percent divi-
dend would yield 6.8 percent. The
current price of only 73 cents for the
50 cent shares seems to indicate the
market fears a 10 percent rate.
How sensible is that? There is no
doubt that things are difficult. The
chairman told last month’s annual meet-
ing that the present year had jaot
started well, with results for the first
three months being disappointing and
m bein further down from th „
same ter o( th( _ depressed 1965 _ 66
due to continue J s i ackness in
motor vehicle buildi and distribudon .
Its “diversifications” began the year
well.
While profit for the is “ difficu i t
to forecast,” the company expects the
second six months of 1966-67 to be
considerably better than the first, par-
ticularly after Pressed Metal begins
building the Datsun Bluebird for Nissan
of j apan in reas onable volume (the
first one ro p ed o ff the assembly line
i as t week). There should be later
benefits from the recently announced
s2m. contract to build 232 bus bodies
for the N.S.W. Department of Gov-
ernment Transport over the next two
years.
Optimists hoping for a steady divi-
dend even if profit fell further this
year could be cheered by the fact that
when its earning rate fell to only 10.2
percent in 1962 the company still paid
a barely covered 10 percent.
In the current year there may be a
greater unwillingness to pay out so
much of its earnings; the latest balance
sheet showed a sharp (even though
temporary) increase in short-term
borrowings. But these are expected to
fall, particularly following the cash
sale of the assets of its N.S.W. Fiat
distributor, Turin Distributors, after
the end of the financial year, and the
company’s properties with book values
of $3.4 million are hardly encumbered
at all, so that cash should not be a
real problem, particularly as it had
capital commitments of only $118,939
at balance date suggesting a slowing
rate of capital expenditure from last
year’s $714,505 (split evenly between
motors and diversifications) and on
which the company appears to have
claimed no tax relief.
JQESPITE the swing to engineering
and industry services, the bulk of
the company’s sales and profits still
come from the motor trade—and the
return on funds invested in motors is
far ahead of that from its diversifica-
tions. Its net profit from the motor
industry even in such a depressed year
was at the rate of 6.7 percent on funds,
while the other sections brought in
returns at only 5.3 percent (although
these should do better after the recent
sudden expansion is digested).
And while it is true that, in volume
terms, the main cause of the 28.8 per-
cent drop in group profits (despite a
3.3 percent sales rise) was a 31 percent
fall in motor profits and only a 10.4
percent fall in “others,” the fact that
its investment of shareholders’ funds
in motors fell by 5 percent during the
year but increased by 22.6 percent in
its “diversifications” indicates that the
company’s moves outside motors were
far from successful last year.
For all that, it seems that the diver-
sifications should soon begin to do
better, that the Government’s local con-
tent requirements should eventually
bring considerable benefits to Larke’s
vehicle building operations, and that
the likely improvement in motor
vehicle registrations in a couple of years
should help its distribution side. Things
could get a bit worse before they get
better. But in the long run Larke’s
prospects look good.
June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Sales sm. 16 0 20.9 22.7 23.8 24.5
Working profit 747 1404 1603 1516 1150
Depreciation 224 250 253 263 305
Taxation 208 547 689 591 374
Net profit 315 607 661 662 471
Earning rate 14 6 28 1 30 6 30 7 21 8
Dividend rate 10 12y 2 15 15 15
Earning rate on total
funds 4.9 9.0 9.3 8.7 6.3
Current assets ratio 2.4 2.3 2.1 1.8 1.6
Fixed assets sm. 35.3 34.1 36.7 45.0 48.5
Dividend yield (a) 7.0 5.5 5.8 7.9 10.6
Price earnings ratio (a) 10 0 8 0 8 6 6.2 15.4
High price (b) .80 1.22 1.50 1.45 1.00
Low price (b) .52 .72 1.18 .85 .68
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1966 to date.


Coni puny Advertisement
Highlights of Western Mining
Corporation Limited's 33rd
Annual Meeting
HELD IN MELBOURNE,
NOVEMBER 21, 1966
The Chairman, Mr. G. Lindesay Clark, in
his report stated:—
FINANCIAL RESULTS. The 1965 financial
period covered 15 months instead of the
usual 12 and this should be taken into
account in comparing the results with
those of previous years.
The dividend rate was unchanged at the
yearly rate of 10 cents per old fully paid
share. Because of the extended period of
the accounts, three dividends, each of 5
cents, were declared in the 15 months to
June 30,1966. The 1964 New Issue shares are
eligible for dividends as from July, 1967.
The reduction in dividend rate by Central
Norseman, although of significance, will
not materially affect the Corporation’s
future dividend-paying capacity now that
profits are accruing from iron ore, and are
also expected from nickel operations. As the
Corporation had a balance of over $2,000,000
unappropriated tax-free profits, distribution
of dividends from funds generated from iron
ore operations and other taxable sources
could be made by appropriation of the tax-
free balance and would be exempt from Aus-
tralian tax in the hands of shareholders.
It is expected that some exempt dividends
will be continued, as in addition to
continuing gold mining dividends income,
20% of the profit from nickel operations
'will be exempt from tax and would be
[distributed tax-free to shareholders.
NEW SHARE ISSUE. The funds raised by
the recent share issue were approximately
$7,500,000 and would be used for the
establishment of the Kambalda nickel
project, for prospecting and exploration
for copper in the Warburton Range, for
investigating and for developing other
properties, and for working capital.
KAMBALDA NICKEL. Drilling of the East
Kambalda area, which was the site of the
discovery of high grade nickel-bearing sul-
phides early this year, had established ore
■eserves totalling 1,900,000 tons at 4.16%
nickel. The ore occurs in a structure which
plunges flatly south. To date the ore had
peen followed by drilling for 2,500 feet
down the plunge of this structure and is
continuing. The contact zone in the favour-
jble structure had been mapped for 13
niles. Geophysical and geochemical sur-
veys along this contact zone had outlined
i number of other areas believed favour-
ible for nickel sulphide mineralisation
ind drilling would extend into these areas
n the near future. It is expected that pro-
luction of nickel concentrates will com-
nence about the middle of 1967.
drilling proceeded, it became evident
hat a larger and better equipped mill than
iriginally proposed was warranted. Accord-
ngly the mill design had been reviewed and
>rovision made for extension. This will in-
:rease the cost of bringing the mine into
>roduction froman estimated $4.5m.t0 ss.Bm.
'echnical reports are now being prepared on
he capital and working costs, and returns
ikely to be obtained by extending the metal-
urgy towards production of nickel metal.
An option to purchase the freehold (which
includes the mining rights) of about 14
square miles of ground to the north of the
Kambalda discovery has been negotiated
with Hampton Gold Mining Areas Ltd.
KOOLANOOKA HILLS IRON ORE. Ship-
ments to date of iron ore from the Koola-
nooka Hills deposit total 330,000 dry tons,
representing eight months’ production. The
contract requires delivery of 500,000 tons in
the first year, increasing progressively to
700,000 tons per year by the fifth year of pro-
duction. The delivery schedule, plus addi-
tional spot sales of 23,000 tons in July, 1966,
and 20,000 tons for delivery in December, 1966,
calls for a total of 570,000 dry tons to be
delivered from April, 1966, to March, 1967.
Capital expenditure, operating costs and
revenue are in close agreement with the
estimates.
GOLD EXPLORATION. The company is
continuing its gold exploration programme.
Recent drilling at Clunes, Victoria, has
indicated beneath basalt cover, the con-
tinuation of the Clunes anticline north-
wards. Intersections have shown quartz reefs
with some gold but not of payable grade.
In the Kalgoorlie Southern Drilling the
more northerly hole had been completed.
It confirmed the presence of a wide de-
velopment of favourable dolerite country
rock in a structure comparable to that
which contained the Golden Mile minera-
lisation, but no significant intersections of
gold mineralisation were made. In the sec-
ond hole, drilling has intersected favour-
able dolerite country rock. No major inter-
section has yet been made but there have
been frequent narrow intersections of low
grade gold mineralisation.
COPPER EXPLORATION
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. At Moonta-Wallaroo,
mineralisation was intersected frequently
in diamond drilling. In one area two high
grade intersections were made, namely 6 feet
at 10.6% copper and 5 feet at 12% copper,
but further drilling failed to prove sufficient
length to warrant early development. Other
areas of interest have still to be tested.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA. An exploration
camp, including a mobile geochemical ana-
lytical laboratory, has recently been estab-
lished on the Corporation’s concession in
the Warburton Range native reserve.
The concession covers a series of copper-
bearing lavas in which a number of small
showings of chalcocite ore had been dis-
covered. The favourable rocks had a strike
length of seventy miles. The majority of
copper showings found to date occur on
cross fractures within the lavas. Although
appreciable tonnages of ore might be
discovered on these fractures, bedded min-
eralised horizons offer the best prospects
of large tonnages of ore. Several potential
bedded ore horizons have already been
located.
GOLD MINING CENTRAL NORSEMAN
GOLD CORPORATION N.L. Production dur-
ing the 15 months was 123,430 ozs. of gold
from 235,261 tons of ore treated, the re-
covered grade being 10.49 dwts. per ton.
The cost of production per ton of ore in-
creased from $10.27 to $10.86.
Ore reserves were marginally lower at
634,000 tons at 10.5 dwts. per ton, compared
with 675,000 tons at 10.5 dwts. per ton.
GOLD MINES OF KALGOORLIE (AUST.)
LIMITED. Production during the 15 months
was 198,191 ozs. from 987,957 tons of ore
treated. The recovered grade was 4.01
dwts. per ton compared with 4.11 dwts.
per ton for the previous year.
The drilled grade between the No. 5 and
No. 7 level is 3.27 dwts. per ton, an im-
provement of 0.37 dwts. on the grade
between the No. 3 and 5 levels and this
trend is continuing. To date 56% of the
orebody below the No. 9 level has been
drilled, the grade being 4.35 dwts.
The orebody is also increasing in size with
depth.
THREE SPRINGS TALC. Since its forma-
tion in 1960, Three Springs Talc Proprietary
Limited had been operating at a small
profit. Following a substantial increase in
sales, profits had improved and it was
expected that the company will be able
to begin dividend payments.
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA. Alcoa of Australia
Proprietary Limited which is 20% owned
by W.M.C. had enlarged its participation
in the markets for aluminium both in Aus-
tralia and overseas. In 1965 Alcoa disposed
of all available metal output and orders
were already in hand for the sale of all
1966 production. The first shipment of
alumina for American Metal Climax Inc.,
had been made in July this year and the
second in November. Western Aluminium
N.L., a subsidiary of Alcoa of Australia has a
long term contract to supply AMAX with
200,000 tons of alumina annually. In addi-
tion to the arrangement with AMAX, alumina
had been shipped to Japan, and to the
company’s aluminium smelter at Pt. Henry,
Victoria.
MINING TOWNS. With the increasing scale
of mining in Australia more people would
be needed to work the mines and therefore
to live in the mining districts. It was
becoming increasingly difficult to attract
people and the situation was sufficiently
serious for Governments to give attention
to means for increasing the attractiveness
of the mining towns. In general mining
companies did more in providing housing
and public services and amenities than
did industries placed in more favoured
localities where such facilities are pro-
vided, mostly by Governments, as a matter
of course. More, however, needed to be
done. One facility in particular which, in
relation to the other investment in mining
did not involve large sums, was television.
This would be greatly welcomed in the
mining towns such as Kalgoorlie. It was
hoped that the Federal Government would
be able to make provision in budgets in
the near future.
IS/6740.


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25*,
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
300 Orchard Road, Singapore, 9.
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London,
surface mail:
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
KNOW?
has a wonderful Motel in
CANBERRA
Phone Melbourne 94-0761 or your nearest
Commodore Motel for confirmation of your
booking by telex while you wait.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Bypass the Chemicals
THE current prices, dividend yields,
and price/earnings multiples are
as follows:
Last Dividend Price/ea rn.
Company Sale Yield % multiple
Amalgamated Chemicals .71 7.0 9 2
Aust. Chemical Hldgs. 1.77 5 6 28.1
Chemical Materials 1.05 7.1 9.7
ICIANZ 3 48 4 3 16 7
Taubmans Industries .87 9.2 10.7
There are, of course, other companies
which could well have been included
in this review, and probably the best
known would be Union Carbide. Some
others would have been ACF &
Shirleys, Jordan Chemicals, Moulded
Products, and Wattyl. Similar figures
for these five companies are as fol-
lows:
'Last Dividend Price/earn.
Company Sale Yield % multiple
ACF & Shirleys 3 50 4 6 23 6
Jordan Chemicals .75 8.3 6 8
Moulded Products .67 7.5 12.2
Union Carbide 4 00 3.0 14 4
Wattyl 1.84 4.3 7.8
It is very clear that the market is
uncertain about its pricing of this type
of stock today, and there are very wide
variations in price/earnings multiples.
Equally, it is also apparent that the
comparisons are not entirely valid. The
paint and surface-coating companies
can hardly be compared with the basic
chemical manufacturers, yet they will
perhaps have similar fortunes. For to-
day, with the new synthetic paints and
other coatings, these companies are
more dependent on the chemical manu-
facturer than they have been in the
past, when organic materials were used
in paint.
Perhaps it is sufficient to say that
the market has completely written
down the prospects of these companies.
Wattyl, whose earnings have increased
from 20.8 percent in 1960-61 to 47.4
percent in 1965-66 in a steady progres-
sion suggesting that the average annual
growth rate of about 18 percent per
annum could continue for a while yet,
is selling at only 7.8 times earnings! I
would say that it should be worth at
least ten times earnings, even if one
considers that the growth has now
ceased, so there would seem to be some
prospect of a price rise here.
Taubmans must be a matter of wait-
ing for the year’s result and hoping that
it will not be as gloomy as the market
seems to expect. If the dividend rate
is reduced to 15 percent the yield will
still be a high 8.6 percent. Probably
a return to the percent rate of the
1960 s is expected, but even then the
yield would be 7.2 percent.
It seems to me that two situations
exist in the surface-coating business,
one for capital appreciation and one
for a relatively secure high income.
The position of the other companies
is much more difficult to assess. The
recent increase in tariffs on certain
chemicals lends some force to the argu-
ment that the manufacture of basic
chemicals is likely to remain a per-
manent “infant” industry. In other
words, there is little likelihood that the
local industry will be able to operate
profitably without substantial protec-
tion. However, ICIANZ has varied in-
terests, and one that appears to have
become quite important in recent
years is the production of fertilisers.
ACF & Shirleys is to all intents and
purposes a subsidiary of ICIANZ and,
surprisingly enough, is selling at the
moment at a much higher price/earn-
ings multiple than its parent.
The other companies, Amalgamated
Chemicals, Australian Chemical Hold-
ings, and Chemical Materials, are
mainly formulators and merchandisers
rather than manufacturers. It is un-
likely that the new tariffs will have any
material effect on their businesses, for
the range of different chemicals is so
vast that there will still be many that
can be imported without a marked
price disadvantage. One would suspect
that over the past few years the im-
porter and merchandiser of some
chemicals would have had a fairly
profitable time, so the following table
showing the trends in earnings per
share from the base year 1961-62 is
quite interesting:
Company 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Amalgamated Chemicals 100 91 81 79 64
Australian Chemical 100 146 164 170 77
Chemical Materials 100 119 114 98 128
ICIANZ 100 99 99 82 79
ACF 8c Shirleys (1964=100) 100 84 50
Jordan Chemicals 100 127 127 142 159
Moulded Products 100 nil 208 330 275
Union Carbide 100 213 279 370 450
Again there is no uniformity, and
Union Carbide, which is a manufac-
turer, has shown the most dramatic
growth. Admittedly, the 1961-62 year
was j a particularly bad year for the
company, so the growth rate is rather
exaggerated, but even when the pre-
ceding year is selected for the base
year the series would show a figure of
187 for 1965-66.
return to the five companies
which have been covered in separate
articles over the past five weeks, it is
very difficult to suggest, on the basis
of their records of the past five years,
that any show marked growth poten-
tial in the short to medium term.
On the other hand, three of them do
have some prospects based on affilia-
tions that have been entered into in
recent times or based on substantial
capital investment. Amalgamated
Chemicals and Australian Chemical
Holdings fall into the first category
and ICIANZ into the second.
ICIANZ has been making substantial
investments in a number of areas, and
its control of Australian Fertilisers and
ACF & Shirleys makes it a major force
in the superphosphate industry in the
eastern States. The results of these fer-
tiliser companies have undoubtedly
been affected to some extent by the
widespread drought, so it is difficult
to assess their future potential from
the results of recent years.
There does not seem to be any bar-
gains in these five companies at the
moment, and although the general level
of share prices is depressed at the
present I think that the opportunities
lie in other industries.


THE CHARTIST SAYS:
No Reason to Buy
IT would be hard to associate the word “growth” with the
chemical group of stocks, as long-term investors since 1960
would not have received any capital appreciation, and,
indeed, there are several instances where there would have
been severe erosion of capital, as in the case of Australian
Chemical Holdings. This would also apply to investors who
entered Amalgamated Chemicals and Taubmans during the
top formations of 1962/63. There is certainly no technical
reason to buy any of these stocks at present, although
some of them could be nearing the end of their downtrends.
Investors who wait for the actual break in the downtrend
would be taking a safer course of action in view of the
absence of support levels back to at least 1960 in the present
trading areas. Support and resistance plays an important
part of trend development, and a situation is more volatile
to sharp declines and “panic phases” where there is little
or no support in the trading range over recent years.
AMALGAMATED CHEMICALS: The share price move-
ments of this stock could be classified as somewhat spec-
tacular since 1960. A 25 percent uptrend was followed until
early 1964, and a clear selling signal was indicated when
prices fell to $1.65 and a sharp decline followed to a low
of $1.22 about the middle of the year. A sideways consoli-
dation pattern subsequently formed with “bullish” implica-
tions, but this failed in the early months of 1965, and the
fall accelerated in a panic phase, which took prices to a
low of 60c toward the end of the year. This would be a
good illustration of the market performance of a stock with-
out recent support levels. A type of head and shoulders
reversal pattern followed and prices rose sharply to $1.60
on very high volume at the time of the “takeover” in March,
1966. Qnce again the decline renewed and prices have been
as low as 65c recently. It would be quite possible for this
stock to fall to about 55c in the short term, and there
would be nothing to recommend purchase on technical
grounds at present.
AUSTRALIAN CHEMICAL HOLDINGS: This chart
must be a depressing sight to those investors who hopefully
bought the stock expecting further capital growth near the
top price of $4.65 in 1960. The base formation which com-
menced late 1962 and continued until the latter part of
1964 suggested a target of approximately $3.80, but this was
not achieved, although the situation did appear promising
when prices rose to a high point of $2.70 in 1965. How-
ever, the ensuing sideways movement suggested that the
stock was deteriorating technically, and it would have been
dangerous to hold it once sales fell below $2.40. A sharp
decline took prices down to a low point of $1.50 for the
year recently and the present trend could be considered
neutral. The consolidation pattern to date does not give any
clear indication as to any probable short-term movement,
and the stock should be avoided at present. Should prices
penetrate the $1.50 support level it would be quite likely
for the decline to continue possibly to about $l.lO. Once
again, a dangerous technical situation exists where no sup-
port levels are evident to at least 1959.
CHEMICAL MATERIALS is yet another stock which
has been in an overall downtrend since 1960, with some-
what cyclical tendencies, although investors would not have
suffered the same degree of capital loss as some of the other
chemical stocks. However, the short-term technical outlook
does not appear promising, as a support level at $l.lO was
recently broken with a fall to $1.05. It would be possible for
prices to fall to about 95 c in the short term, and, once again,
investors should be mindful of the fact that a downtrend
exists and prices are in an area where there are no visible
support levels back to 1960.
ICI has shown no capital growth over recent years, and
trendwise could be likened to Chemical Materials. It is still
well within a downtrend which could continue to about the
$3.20 level and could well be avoided at present.
TAUBMAN’S INDUSTRIES appears unlikely to repeat
the spectacular performance which commenced late 1962
and where a trend rate of 80 percent appreciation per annum
was achieved until penetration early 1964. Although prices
rose fractionally higher prior to the 1-for-10 bonus issue in
August, 1964, investors who sold on the break in trend
about $1.50 would have avoided considerable erosion of
capital since the commencement of the downtrend early
1965 after the top formation of 1963-64. Prices have already
fallen to a low point of 76c, where support would be
expected from the range of trading of the base formation
of 1961-62. It could well be possible for prices to fall to
about the 65 c level in the short term, and the stock should
not be purchased until there is some evidence of a break
in the downtrend and the commencement of a base con-
solidation pattern.


Share
Par
Div.
Year
Week
Fri.
1966
T urnover
Yield %
Value
cents
ago
ago
close
High
Low 1
Syd.
| Melb.
Div.
Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
2 03
1 84
1 83
2 60
1.83
3,000
2,900
Ampol Exp.
.50
1.10
.98
.95
22
.12
4,800
3,100
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
4.90
5.46
5 44
5.56
4 70
100
100
A.O.G.
.50
2 83
1.92
1 80
2.81
1 80
■6,800
3,600
B. H. South
.50
11
2 67
3.02
3 01
3.25
2 24
17,800
24,500
3.7
4.4
C.R.A.
.50
8
4.00
6 00
6.36
6.42
3.90
20,575
21,255
1.3'
3.3
C'wlth Min.
1.00
7 ■
1.83
2.22
2 . 25
2 85
1.90
2,400
1,500
4.0
6.5
K. 1. Scheel.
.50
10
1 85
2 32
2 32
2.98
1 80
2,600
4,800
Mount Isa
.50
10
4 10
4 18
4.15
4.85
3 88
41,450
25,900
2.4
4 4
Mt. Morgan
1.00
15
1 83
2 84
2/96
3.02
1.85
13,650
6,100
5.1
11.9
Mt. Lyell
.25
4.5 1
1.20
1 32
1.34
1.58
1.25
1,500
6,900
3.4
10.7
New B.H.
.62
38
4 73
4.10
4 05
5.50
3 99
1,500
3,700
11.1
13.3
North B. H.
1.00 1
25
3.73
3.76
3 85
3.88
2.35
13,400
22,400
6.5
10.9
OH Search
.50
.15
.11
.11
.24
.10
33,850
2.700
Renison
.50
15
5.80
6.70
6 90
7 80
5.90
800
2,200
Woodside
.50 '
.30
.93
P-7
1 otr
.20
4,500
7,300
Santos
.25
1.60
1.78
1 58
3 00
1.40
3,500
1,000
'
West Min.
.50
10
2.25
6.34
6.54
6.96
2.44
■9,075
6,600
1.5
1.3
INDUSTRIALS
Adams, W.
1.00
12.5
3.05
2.03
2 051 2.901 1.93
5,700
6.11 9.8
Adel. Steam.
.50
4.00
.74
.68
. 6E
1 . 8C
.59
70C
6,500
5.9
6.9
Advertiser
.50
5
2 13
1 51
1 4E
2 50
1.15
3.4
5.2
Allen, S.
1.00
10
2.0E
2.0C
2 001 2.12
1.56
5.0
7.3
Allied Mills
.50
6
1.7E
1.74
1.72 1.95
1.6C
5,500
3.5
8.1
Amalg. Chem.
.50
5.00
.75
.70
.69
1.60
.65
2,150
1,000
7.2
11.8
Ampol
.50
7
.89
.63
.59
1.02
.57
37,850
35,200
8 5
12.3
Ansett
.50
5
.73
.62
.61
.83
.58
28,650
29,700
8.2
15.5
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.48
1 23
1 20
1.70
1.20
3,550
2,700
4.2
8 0
A.R.C.
.50
4.35
1.03
1 01
. 9E
1.12
.91
7,200
14,500
4 4
11.4
Assoc. Pulp
1.00
9.5
1.41
1.28
1 30
1.75
1.28
5,950
16,800
7 3
11.1
A.N.Z. Bank
2.50
17.62
5.55
5 86
5.80
6.30
5.40
2,175
5.2
6.7
A. K. Cement
.50
5
1 46
1.07
1 06
1.62
1.00
4,700
14,800
4.7
8.3
Aust. Chem.
1.00
10
2.55
1.75
1.75
2 55
1.50
2,400
2,000
5.7
3.7
A.C.I.
1.00
10
2.78
2 80
2 80
3.06
2.69
35,400
9,300
3.6
7.0
Aust. Fert.
2.00
16
4.30
3.90
3.85
5 20
3.75
100
600
4.2
8.6
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1.18
1.53
1 56
1.57
1.21
4,100
900
4 8
9.3
A.P.M.
1.00
9.0
1.55
1.49
1.53
1 87
1.45
19,350
26,300
5 9
8.2
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3 10
3.70
3 70
3.70
3.15
600
5.4
6 1
A.U.C.
1 00
10
3 98
3 90
3.12
4.00
3 12
200
500
3 2
8.7
Bank Adel.
1.00
10
2.33
2.06
2 06
2 46
1.10
7,200
600
4.9
6.4
Bank N.S.W.
2 00
20
5 85
5 00
4.94
5 68
4 82
20,140
10,150
4 0
7.3
Belambi
.50
5 '
2.18
1.78
1 80
2.44
1 55
1,500
2.8
5.1
Berlei
1.00
15
2 85
2 50
2.55
3 30
2 25
1,000
5.9
12.7
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.68
1.44
1.43
1.87
1.38
9,900
3,800
5 2
7.4
Bonds Ind.
.50
6
.98
1.00
1 09
1 18
.96
2,600
5.5
12.2
Boral
.50
10
2.23
1.81
1 85
2.40
1.59
18,900
25,200
5.4
6 0
Borg Warner
1.00
1.85
1 55
1.60
2.05
1.35
2,000
9.3
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
.65
.58
.59
.69
.56
5,800'
2,200
8 5
11.9
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.73
1.37
1.35
1 82
1 34
8,650
2,700
5.6
8.2
Brit. Tobacco
1.00
12
1.68'
2 08
2.07
2 46
1.75
20,500
8,300
5 8
8 7
B.H.P.
2.00
18.4
4.80
5 86
5.88
6 54
4.45
39,121
35,750
3.1
5 2
Bruck Mills
.50
6.25'
.57
.74
.74
.75
.55
600
11,000
8.4
17.8
Burns Philp
1.00
10
3.68
3.70
3.60
4.20
3.44
8,950
500
2.8
8.3
C.U.B. “Z”
1.00
13
3.85
3.02
3 00
3.90
2.95
6,600'
6,200
4.3
7.4
Carp., W. R.
.50
7.5
2.49
2.25
2.22
2.75
2.10
27,250
13,000
3.4
7.3
Carrier Air
.50
4.5
.69
.58
.58
.80
.51
1,600
1,500
7.8
13.6
C'maine Per.
1.00
17
5.90
5.93
5 82
6.50'
5 82
600
1,050
3.1
5.7
Chamberlain
.50
6.25
1.35
1 44
1.50
1.53
1.23
15,100
4.2
9.6
Clyde Ind.
.50
7.5
1.00
.94
90
1.10
.90'
5,700
1,200
8 3
13.1
Coal Allied
.50
5
1 28
1 57
1 57
1.73
1.261 19,100
16,400
3 2
12 2
Coles, G. J.
.50
5 5
1 38
1 12
1.12
1 42
1.05
29,460
28,100
4 9
7 5
C.S.R.
1 00
12.5 '
2.85
2.83
2 77
3 26
2.61
34,954
7,600
4 5
8 3
C.A.G.A.
1 00
10
.69
1.34
1.32
1 65
1.15
8 600
5,100
7.6
10.8
C.B.C.
1.00
10
2 53
2 02
2.08
2.75
1.93
12,150
4 8
8 6
C.B.A.
1.00
10
2.25
1 88
1.88
2 27
1.83
4.250
5,300
5.3
7.9
Com. Union
.50
4.5
1.28
1.35
1.35
1.36
1.02
1,500
1,400
3.3
6.3
C.I.G.
1.00 1
11
3.45
2 30
2.35
3.30
2.25
3,200
4,300
4.7
11.5
Concrete Ind.
.50
.40
.35
.35
.52
.25
21,450
4,200
12.3
Consol. Press
.50
10
3.50
2 30
2 25
3.40
2 25
1,600
4 4
11 0
Containers
1.00
8
1.28
1.52
1.54
1.54
1.28
7001 1,900
5 2
9 5
Courtaulds
1.00
4
1.50
.48
.46
.75
.42
1.250T 1,500
8.7
14 8
1.00
12.5
4.25
4 75
4 80
5.22
4 10
1,900
2.9
7.5
Cresco
2 00
20
4.35
4.70
4 62
6 25
4 56
.
3.5
7.4
.50
5
.651 .76
.74
.86
.61
1,600
10,800
6.8
13.6
Cyclone
1.00
10
1 43
1.25
1 35
1 48
1 04
8 5501 16,900
7.4
10 2
2.50 ■
25.5
4 53
4 70
4 68
5.10
4 40
1,350
300
6.4
8.9
n f r
2.00 '
23
6.40
6 00
6.00
6 55
6 00
4 0
9.1
Drug Houses
1.00
10
1.66
1 59
1 65
1.93
1.55
5,250
4,500
6 1
9 2
Dunlop
1.00
8
1 58
1.25
1.20
1 65
1.14
11,900
16,900
6 7
6 8
E.M.I.
.50
8
2.13
2.08
2.00
2.15
1.75
2,700
4.0
10.3
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
18 '
2.34
2 48
2 45
2 74
2 00
20,050
20,200
7.3
8.7
1.00
10 '
2 05
2 47
2.46
2 53
2.01
8,850
4,300
4.1
9.0
1.00
7
1.07
.38
.43
1.00
.36
6,600
16,000
16.3
20.2
Email
.50
3
.40
.41
.40
.51
.36
21,500
4,600
7.5
7.8
E.S.A.
2 50
14 69
5 25
5 20
5.20
6 00
5.10
3,100
4 8
9.7
Evans Deakin
.50
6.25
1 25
1 18
1.18
1.40
1.05
400
5.3
6.1
Fairfax, J.
.50 '
8.5
2 53
2 30
2 25
2.80
2 07
4,950
3 1
4 5
Fairymead
1 00
6
1.55
1 45
1.42
2 10
1.36
650
4 2
Felt Tex.
.50
5
.65
.49
50
m
.4/
6,350
20,900
10.0
11.3
Fibre Cont.
.50
6
1 43
1 50
1.47
1 50
1 20
2,400
17,500
4 1
6.0
Fielding. J.
1 00
17 5
3 35
3 62
3 60
3.72
2 42
350
4 9
7 8
50
4
.55
.55
.57
.61
.40
1,600
5,700
7 0
10.5
2 00
12
.94
1.26
1 28
1 38
.94
10,000
2,400
9 4
18.9
.50
10
2 55
2.20
2 18
2 70
2 00
1,650
2,500
4.6
6 3
.50
4 5
.78
.68
.68
.88
.67
200
1,000
6.6
12 .-r
.50
6.25
1.70
1 50
1 50
1.91
1.28
12,950
100
4.2
7.1
1.00 1
10
5.00
4.72
4.70
5.10
4 40
2,000
1,100
2.1
8.1
.50
.59
.20
.19
.58
.16
57,800
37,400
Herald, W. T.
.50
12.5
4.45
4.30
4.23
5.23
3.80
4,700
15,200
3.5
4.1
.50
.31
.33
.32
.39
.29
19,160
5,300
10.9
1.00
12.5 ■
2 68
2 54
2.40
2 90
2.10
800
6,300
2 1
.50
5 1
.90
.82
.85
1.71
.81
500
700
5.9
14.6
l.A.C.
.50
6.0
.78
.83
.86
.94
.75
10,900
8,300
7.0
11 3
I.C.I. A.N.Z.
2.00
15
4.13
3.47
3.47
4.32
3.40
9,550
3,300
4.3
6 0
.50
6.25
1.35
.82
.85
1.45
.82
4,400
3,400
7.4
9.0
.50
6.75
1.56
1.26
1.28
1 63
1.19
14,200
3,900
5.3
9.1
1.00 1
10
4.05
3.55
3.65
4.31
3.40
5,850
3,000
3.3
7.9
.50
.40
.17
.15
.38
.13
900
18,000
.50
7.5
1.78
1.88
1.90
2.08
1.85
4,500
2,400
3.9
8.9
.50
12.5
1.15
1.45
1.40
1.48
1.15
100
8.9
9.8
.50
5 '
1.03
.76
.80
1.25
.70
10,850
6.3
11.5
.50
8 1
2.20
2.50
2 50
2.70
2.24
13,500
2,200
3.2
7.2
1.00
11
2.75
2 42
2.41
2.63
2.14
300
2,100
4.6
7.6
M.L.C.
2.00
31.6
7.10
7.98
8 00
8.40
7.66
2,675
710
4.0
4.0
1.00
8
1.38
1.16
1 20
1.60
1.10
600
400
6.7
7.3
.50 •
7.5
1.47
1.08
1.04
1.55
.95
7,400
4,400
7.2
8 2
.50 •
5
1 84
2 02
1.97
2.09
1.82
18,050
4,700
2 5
5.6
M. Nicklesrs
1 00
12.5
3 00
2 38
2 50| 3.20
2 22| 3,850| 3,6001 5 0| 66
Share
Par
1 Div.
Year
Week
Fri.
1966
Turnover
1 Yield %
Value
cents
1 ago
ago
close
High | Low
Syd.
| Melb.
| Div.|Earn.
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7.5
1.48| 1.20
1.111 1 50
.99
100
3,300
4.3
8.1
McPherson
2 00
16.6
4.151 3 30
3.30
4 08
3 30
100
12,300
5.0
8.8
M illaquin
1 00
14
2.4C
2.74
2 72
3 18
2 52
2,800
300
5.1
6.5
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.85
1 59
1.57
2 07
1 43
19,700
11,200
6 4
13.9
Minster
1 00
20
2 75
2.43
2 5C
2 5C
2.15
1,300
lO.OOO 1
8.0
13.7
Morris, Philip
2.00
24
5.65
6 80
6 8C
7.60
6.20
100
400
3.5
17.5
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.70
.67
.'66
.80
.59
2,750
11,400
7.6
9.5
Myer
.50
8.75
3.24
2 82
2 85
3.56
2.77
4,700
17,400
3.1
6.5
Myttons
.50
6
1.52
1.32
1.34
1.63
1 30
1,550
1,600
4 5
7.8
N.Z. Forest
1 25
9.56
2 68
2 46
2 62
3 03
2 06
1,250
1,000
3 6
9.8
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
2 03
1.92
1.91
2.19
1.75
16,000
8,700
5 2
6.9
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2 41
2 17
2.19
2 45
2 17
2,100
11,700
4.6
8.9
Nat. Dairy
2.25
26.7
38 50
35.00
35 00142 0C
32.0C
3.2
6.1
News
.50
5
1.55
1 40
1 42; 1 82
1.36
600
1,100
3.5
7.8
N.Z. Ins.
1.25
11.5
2.90
2.75
2 831 2 95
.60
3,650
5.2
7.6
Olympic
.50
5
.78
.65
65( .'80
.61
5,750
27,700
7.7
11 8
Optical
1.00
15
4 65
4.32
4 351 4.70
4 11
1,000
3 4
7.3
Overseas
.50
6 0
1.08
1.08
i oa
1.16
.98
1,400
10,200
5 6
10 8
P.G.H.
.50
8
1 58
1 07
1 11
1 60
1 05
2,250
7.2
9.7
Penfolds
.50
6 25
1.75
1 90
1.90
2 03
1.50
5,150
3 3
5.0
Peko
50
8
1 87
1.99
1.981 2 60
1.85
23,800
9,600
4 0
8 3
Perp. Trustee
2.00
18
3 55
3.65
3.66
3.90
3 53
2,100
4 9
5.7
Petersville
.20
2 5
.51
.52
.481 .66
.47
15,775
48,400
5 2
8.0
Peters, W.A.
.50
6 25
1.64
1.63
1 56
1.83
1 50
323
4 0
7.7
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6 25
1 41
1.17
1.17
1.621 1.14
24,250
12,600
5 3
10.3
Prestige
.50
6 25
1.08
.77
.75
1 051 .75
500
1,700
7,100
8 3
16.3
Provincial Td.
.50
5.5
1.08
.91
.92
1.14
.90
6.0
10.1
Pye
.50
5
1.40
1 00
.901 1 55
.90
4,000
500
5 6
10.6
Q'land Can
.50
5
1 101 91
.921 1.131 .87
1,400
5 4
8.7
Q’land Cement
2.00
20
7.30
7.70
7 65
7.95
7 00
2 9
5.7
Q’land Ins.
1.00
12.5
3 80
4 10
4.25
4 501 4 00
2,850
2 9
7.0
Q’land Press
1.00
16
5 55
4.65
4.55
,5.45
4 55
600
3 3
6.6
Reeds
.50
7
1 83
1 57
1.57
1.74
1.45
2,600
4 5
8 0
Repco
.50
7.5
1.80
2.07
2.08
2 24
.95
5,500
15,800
3.6
5.8
Rocla
.50
7
2.08
1.77
1.771 2.14
1.71
6,700
4.0
5.9
Rothmans
1.00
20
2.95
2 45
2.47
3.15
2.38
1,900
200
8.1
13.6
S.A. Rubber
.50
5 62
1 28
.90
.90
1.25
.89
4,500
2,600
6 2
8.1
S.T.P. Hold.
.50
6 25
.88
.80
.80
1 00
.80
1,000
500
1,400
7 8
16.4
Schweppes
.60
5 5
1.68
1 68
1 .63
1 85
1 45
3 4
6 1
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2.25
2 53,
2.53
2.55
2.30
3.0
8.2
Simpson Pope
.50
.39
.28
.28
.46
.20
1.700
3,700
1.6
Sleigh, H. C.
.50
5
.65
.59
60
.72
.55
35,950
29,500
8 3
9.0
Smith, How.
1 00. ‘
10
4.75
2 57
2 57
2.78
2 38
2,900
3,600
3.9
6.7
Softwood
1.00 '
10
2.90
2 45
2.38
3 25
2 07
400
4 2
14.0
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.25 '
14.16
3.68
3 63
3.60
3.85
2.41
5,000
4.6
8 0
Steamships
.50
6.66
.89
1.08
.98
1.11
.88
6,800
3,200
6 8
10 4
Stedmans, J.
.50
9
2 00
1.80
1.80
2.20
1.60
1,500
4.2
6.7
Swan Brew.
.50
6 5
2.50
2 38
2.37
2.75
2 21
8,600
5,700
2 7
3.7
Tarax
.50
6
.98
1.12,
1 10
1.35
1.00
1,000
2,200
5.5
10.0
T aubmans
.50 ‘
8
1 19
87
.90
1.13
.76
4,500
1,200
8.9
10.3
TV Corp.
1.00
20
2.25
3 00
2 90
3.18
2 08
200
200
6.9
8.0
Thiess
.50 '
8
.64
1 OO,
1.05
1.11
.63
12,250
27,400
4.6
20.2
Tooheys
.50
4 35
1.07
99'
.99
1.21
.96
4.4
6.7
Tooth
1 00
15.8
4 85
4 98,
4 92
5.70
4 90
12,950
3,000
3 2
4 6
Union Carb.
1.00
12
3.40
4 00,
4.05
4.15
3 38
2,700
500
3.0
7.1
U. E. Box
.63
5.84
1 53
1.18;
1.23
1 48
1 05
1,700
1,100
4 7
11.3
Walker, F. J.
1.00
12.5
1 44
1 34
1 41
1.73j
1 20
2,800
8.9
11.5
Waltons
.50
6.25
.85
.88|
.86
1 23
.84
12,700
8,300
7.3
10 5
Webster, A. G.
.50
7 5
1 25
1 28!
4.05
1.28
1 50
1 20
5 9
12.0
Williams, F.W.
1.00 ;
10
3 70
4 08
4.20
2 95
7,500
2.5
0.9
Woolworths
.50
6
1.37
1.20
1.22
1.441
1.16
41,250|
9,500
4 9
6.7
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
1 ago
last
ago
Jast
All ordinaries . .
312.58
312.61
100.47
101.13
50 leaders . . .
105.68
106.41
Banks
160.34
160.07
102.99
103.97
Other finance . .
488.49
490.96
67.01
67.24
Pastoral ....
233.95 ■
232.99
125.66
126.10
Transport ....
429.13
429.87
88.91
87.49
Retail, merchants .
315.22
314.46
86.78
87.33
Services ....
46.01
45.46
Foods
163.62
160.94
97.13
97.29
Textiles ....
164.60
167.30
69.33
69.75
Chemicals ....
307.16 ■
308.77
76.77
77.19
Electricals ....
393.58
392.49
59.38
58.64
Paper
100.36
100.93
Building ....
618.17
613.11
85.94
86.11
Automotive . . .
714.05
721.19
72.47
71.80
Fuel power . . .
161.29
160.02
Steel, engineering
457.34
457.46
115.68
115.97
Non-ferrous . . .|1262.81
1283.22
213.30
218.73
OIL
SUGAR
| Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
last
Br'sbane ....
131.94
128.08
99.56
101.55
Melbourne ....
113.98 ]
111.18
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
!
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ji N D USTR1A L|
MINING
11 N D USTRI AL|
MINING
1 Sales 1
| Vol. 1
| 1000 |
Value I
5 1
1000 |
Sales
Vol.
1000
| Value
1 $
1 1000
| Sales 1 Value |
| Vol. I S |
| 1000 | 1000 |
Sales I
Vol. |
1000
Value
S
1 1000
Week before 1 2697 1
Week to Friday | 2902 |
3161 1
3509 1
760
698
I 752
■1 909
1 2549 | 3092 1
j 2838 | 3370 ]
720 1
592 1
898
860
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
i
London
New York | Tokyo
| "Financial Times” ]
Dow Jones |D. Jones
| Inds.
| Secs. |
Gold |
Inds. | Rails | Avge.
| 78.74!
'61.3 •!
965.5411 247.3811430.13
1 79.43|
65.2 1
995.15! 271.7211588.73
1966 low
1 286.7
1 72.771
49.3 |
744.321 184.3411405 58
294.9
1 76.951
52.3 |
807 961 199.5111430.04
295.5
1 77.43|
50.1 |
808.401 203.7711427.23
Latest
| 299 8 j
76 69|
49.3 |
803.341 203.44|1405.58
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
Staid and highly selective markets can do little for most
industrials, including, last week, the leaders. Yet the keenness
could not be halted on CRA’s approaching bonus, so the shares
climbed a further 36 cents to a fresh peak of $6.36. On higher
output, Mount Morgan gained 12 cents to $2.96. High
volume special sales, 285,000 in all, were made in Swan
Brewery at $2.20 and $2.25, both below the prevailing market.
After its meeting, Ansett slipped only 1 cent to 61 cents; Ampol
Petroleum’s results meant a 4 cent loss to 63 cents. Minster
progressed with a 7 cent advance to $2.50.
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend .. 6.55
MELBOURNE
dividend 5.71
earnings 8.81
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend . . . . . . 6 27
earnings 8.31
NEW YORK (S 8< P)
dividend 3.56
earnings 7.11
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short 4 80 4 76
Medium .... 5 08 5.04
Long 5 25 5.25


The University
of Adelaide
DEPARTMENT OF
ADULT EDUCATION
SUMMER SCHOOLS
1966-67
PAINTING, Sculpture and Wood-
cuts— December 27, 1966, to
January 7, 1967, at Goolwa.
TUTORS: Robert Grieve, Murray
Walker, Voitre Marek. Fee: $l7,
plus residence, $3l.
DRAMA—January 9 to 21, 1967, at
Sheridan Theatre, North Adelaide.
TUTORS: Colin and Gwenneth Bal-
lantyne and Professor Wal Cherry.
Fee: $2O.
MUSlC—January 21 to 29, at Elder
Conservatorium, University of
Adelaide.
TUTORS: Professor D. Galliver,
Robert Cooper, David Cubbin,
James Govenlock, Cecily Wood,
David Rumsey, Enid Conley-
Williams, David Swale, and Robert
Illing. Fee: $2O. '
Enrolments should reach the above
address as follows: Art —December 5;
Drama—January 2; Music —December
MINING
Oppenheimer Next?
WILL Oppenheimer be next? Now
that Consolidated Gold Fields
of South Africa has floated its
extensive Australian operations, what
are the chances of seeing a local off-
shoot of Mr. Harry Oppenheimer’s
giant fellow South African mining
group, Anglo American, on Australian
stockmarkets?
Provided the company’s current ex-
tensive exploration program turns out
the way it hopes, the chances are very
good indeed. The company has moun-
ted an extensive minerals search pro-
gram both on its own and in con-
junction with other groups, some of
them Australian and some from over-
seas. If these programs prove success-
ful—and the company would not be
spending the considerable sums in-
volved if it did not consider there were
good prospects of success—its officers
say that the Australian public would
be offered a stake in the operation.
It now has about nine geologists en-
gaged full time on field work. “Geolo-
gists’ reports to this stage have been
encouraging,” Mr. Oppenheimer said
when in Australia last April. At that
time he became convinced that there
were “vast deposits of untouched
mineral wealth” in Australia.
The Oppenheimer organisation has
enough faith in its own exploration pro-
gram to dismiss suggestions that it
might get into the Australian mining
industry through takeovers, although its
friendly associations with some groups
could raise interesting suggestions. At
present this program is proceeding
slowly and steadily, but the pace is
likely to increase over the next few
years, as the company’s South African
growth may well slow down toward
the end of the present decade and Aus-
tralia could well replace it as the
dynamic growth area.
Anglo Australian’s interests here are
not only in its traditional gold mining
but also in other commodities like
heavy minerals, tin, phosphate, and
base metals. Its links with Western
Mining are in searching for gold
through Victoria Gold in the old field
near Ballarat (close by the Planet
areas) and through Kalgoorlie Southern
in W.A., and in the Fraser Range. A
third partner in these programs is
Newmont, the U.S. mining group.
Anglo Australian is also conducting
an offshore search for tin in conjunc-
tion with Electrolytic Zinc around Tas-
mania. It is participating in a base
metals search in the Pilbara region of
W.A., in partnership with Westfield
Minerals of Canada (which is now pro-
ceeding with a drilling program) and
the Freeport Sulphur Company. The
company also thinks it has some good
nickel prospects, and has some hopes
on phosphate.
As chairman of the Anglo American
Corporation of
South Africa
and De Beers
Conso 1 i d a t e d
Mines, Mr.
Harry Oppen-
heimer heads a
complex of 221
companies, pro-
ducing, among
other things,
about a quarter
of the world’s
gold, about a
fifth of its dia-
monds, ten per-
cent of its cop-
per, more than
half of South Africa’s uranium, and
about a third of South Africa’s coal.
Moreover,, his selling organisation in
London markets about 80 percent of
the world’s diamonds.
Mr. Oppenheimer, then aged 49, in-
herited his father’s empire on Sir
Ernest’s death in 1957. He also in-
herited the need to diversify beyond
mining and beyond southern Africa.
South African gold production is ex-
pected to peak out about 1970. Mean-
while, the jelling of black and white
nationalism in southern Africa has left
Mr. Oppenheimer uncomfortably
straddling the two with one foot in
white South Africa and Rhodesia and
the other in black Zambia.
Yet his company’s shift to industry
and into other parts of the world
(North America, Malaysia, Australia)
has been relatively modest as yet and
difficulties remain. Capital controls in
South Africa and London impede re-
investment elsewhere. The South Afri-
can economy, no matter how fast it
develops, is not big enough to absorb
easily the large capital that will in-
creasingly require fresh outlets as op-
portunities for investing in gold mining
diminish.
No one knows the size of Mr. Oppen-
heimer’s personal stake in his com-
panies. The family’s interests are held
through E. Oppenheimer and Sons
(Proprietary) Ltd., a private company
that does not publish accounts. It is
equally impossible to define exactly
the scope of Mr. Oppenheimer’s oper-
ations, because of extensive cross-
shareholding between numerous com-
panies in which he has direct and in-
direct interests.
Anglo American is the key company
in the complex. It is a traditional min-
ing finance company providing capital
and a pool of managerial and technical
expertise for a host of other companies
as well as a spread for the investor.
Its investments (£2lO million at 1965
market values) are in 221 companies,
just over half of which it manages.
Besides gold, diamond, copper, and coal
mines, there is platinum and uranium,
various property companies, and in-
All figures in sterling
From “The Economist"
dustrial enterprises from steelworks to
prawn fisheries.
The largest companies in . which
Anglo has a stake are De Beers Con-
solidated, Rand Selection Corporation,
and Charter Consolidated Limited.
Each of these in turn owns shares in
Anglo. De Beers (founded in 1888 by
Cecil Rhodes, taken over in 1917 by
Sir Ernest Oppenheimer) owns a half
share in the world’s biggest explosives
factory alongside its huge diamond
interests. Rand Selection is a mining
finance company with wide interests in
South African gold and uranium mines.


1
SS!
Is it worth
maturing
Mount Rufus
Tawny Port*
for 15 years?
We’re sure you’ll
agree it is...
Seppelt Mount
Rufus Tawny Port
is a smooth
mellow port... aged
in big wood at
Seppeltsfield in the
Barossa Valley.
Winner of a Diploma <T Honneur at
the Montpellier Wine Fair in
France in 1965.
B. Seppelt & Sons Pty. Ltd.
Adelaide • Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Perth
mm
C 556
Charter Consolidated was formed last
year by the merger of three London-
based mining finance companies and it
is mainly through Charter that the
Anglo group hopes to diversify into
other parts of the world.
Mr. Oppenheimer’s personality is
stamped firmly on his farflung opera-
tions. But the style at the group’s
Johannesburg headquarters has changed
very greatly since Sir Ernest instructed
the architects in 1936 to build “some-
thing between a bank and a cathedral.”
Sir Ernest relied heavily on intuition
and a trusted handful of operational ex-
perts. His son prefers carefully detailed
analysis of business problems and has
surrounded himself with a brainstrust
including some 20 Rhodes scholars.
Their approach to business suggests
Cambridge, Mass., rather than Ox-
bridge. To this extent, at least, they
ANGLO’S EARNERS
Contribution
to Total
Investments Income
% %
Gold 42 41
Diamonds 22 18
Copper 7 17
Industry 15 10
Coal 6 6
Other 8 8
resemble the Stellenbosch graduates who
have been spearheading the postwar
wave of Afrikaners into business.
Now that Afrikaners themselves
have moved into big business, the
Oppenheimer complex is no longer
quite the unrivalled colossus it once
was. Nor is capitalism itself the old
hate symbol which Afrikaans newspaper
cartoonists used to portray as a top-
hatted figure labelled “Hoggenheimer.”
Socially, at any rate, life has become
less contentious for Anglo American.
Politically, Mr. Oppenheimer’s attitude
seems to be that his operations must
try to survive, wherever they may be,
on the economic contributions they can
make to their host countries
In the past decade, Anglo’s profits,
shares, and dividends have risen
sharply. Its investments at book value
have gone up from £35 million to £B5
million since 1956. They have risen
three-fold to £2lO million at market
value, helped by South Africa’s post-
Sharpeville share boom, as well as the
special boom in gold shares, the cur-
rency hedge of individuals in America,
Britain, and South Africa who are not
allowed to buy bullion. During the
decade the newer Free State mines have
been coming into production. Diamond
sales have risen partly on an intensive
international advertising campaign. The
big jump in copper prices in the last
two years has more than offset higher
royalties now payable to Zambia.
Alongside its diversification into
other spheres, the Anglo group still
opened 27 new gold mines in the past
decade. Many of the group’s mines will
be working at full maturity for about
another decade. But some uncertainty
does hang over the group’s performance
once there has been greater diversifica-
tion into other fields. As yet the thrust
beyond mining has been modest in spite
of impressive projects like the £5O mib
lion Highveld Steel and Vanadium
plant and the huge Carlton property
development in Johannesburg. Although
Anglo has increased its industrial invest-
ments three-fold since 1956, they still
represent a mere 15 percent of the
group’s total investment.
The catch is that South African in-
dustrial investment tends to return far
less than gold mining logically since
a mine is a dying asset. South African
investors commonly expect 15 to 20
percent return after tax on gold mines;
they often receive something like 7
percent on industrial investment. So
far, Anglo’s industrial investments have
proved its least profitable, though some
are still at take-off. Thus the Mozam-
bique prawn fisheries, to name one ex-
ample, has been running at an actual
loss during its initial teething stage,
though there is every reason to think
it will eventually make profits. Inevit-
ably, some of Anglo’s other new ven-
tures will also go through early dif-
ficulties.
As yet, there is no end in sight for
diamond, uranium, coal, and copper
mining. On the contrary, copper prices
are likely to remain high on sustained
world demand and the Western world’s
prosperity is likely to go on contribut-
ing to demand for diamonds. More-
over, some of Anglo’s gold mines will
still be producing at their peak even
after South African gold production as
a whole has begun to level off. But
will Mr. Oppenheimer’s new steel mills,
banks, and fisheries ever be as profit-
able as the gold mines they are begin-
ning to replace?
COMMODITIES
Iron Ore Markets
IRON ore markets in Britain,
Western Europe, and Japan will
probably become more competitive
in future. Mr. C. J. Gauvin, writing in
a Canadian Department of Mines pub-
lication, points to the large sources in
many areas beginning or increasing pro-
duction.
Probably the most significant move
during 1965 from the point of view of
long-range developments in world iron
ore trade was the continuing opening
of large high-grade deposits in Aus-
tralia. Other points of significance
were export of Russian concentrates
going to the U.K.; the building of West
African capacity to more than 31 mil-
lion tons of iron ore a year; plans to
lift Brazil’s capacity to about 20 mil-
lion tons; and plans for increased out-
put in several areas, including Sweden,
Peru, and India.
Canadian exports in 1965 rose


m
i&y' V
Le tourneau-westinghouse
Contractor K. H. Reid of Mt. Garnet, Queensland, has proved the
outstanding worth of Le Tourneau-Westinghouse equipment which
is why he now owns a fleet of LW machines.
His LW 20 cu. yard “C" Fullpaks are each worked 15 to 18 loads
per hour on two 11-hour shifts per day for 28 days without a break!
Built in Australia with the backing and specialised technical
services of the international Le Tourneau-Westinghouse organisa-
tion, LW 32, 20 and 9 cu. yard Fullpaks are the world's most
advanced and field-proven scrapers.
These are a few of the many projects on which Australian-made
LW “C” Fullpaks are operating;
Road construction, open-cut mining and subdivision work—N.S.W.,
railway formation and overburden stripping—Vic. and S.A., road
construction—Malaysia, irrigation development—Ceylon, lignite
mining—Thailand, rural development—Brunei.
IfIfABCO
Le tourneau-westinghouse pty. ltd.
a subsidiary of Westinghouse Air Brake Co.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
SPECIALISED SALES, SERVICE AND PARTS FACILITIES IN ALL STATES
£ lor EXPORT
LW292.106


Jif®
.r......... ji
■
m mm
msm
m
R*
■
MSB
■;■■■.
u
u
PAPER FOR PROGRESS No. 9 IN A SERIES
WE PLANT A TREE FOR YOU EVERY YEAR
Every year foresters of A.P.M. plant about 7
million trees one for every adult Australian
to help meet this country’s future paper
requirements. The 7 million trees planted by
the company in 1966 will be harvested in about
1985 to provide wood and wood products.
Since 1950 A.P.M.’s forestry company, A.P.M.
Forests Pty. Ltd., has planted about 48 million
trees on 69,000 acres of tree farms in Victoria,
Queensland and N.S.W. We are continuing to
plant ‘paper’ trees at a rate many times greater
than Australia’s growth in population.
&
AJXM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate,
South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals.
1924-9x7-8!)


**
I was a
cad!
ff
46
It took me two long hot
summers to realise it.”
“Those hot sticky summer days never
worried me. I was working in an air-
conditioned office. One day it sud-
denly dawned on me how miserable
it must be at home for my family dur-
ing the day the house was even
hot when I arrived home at night.
We soon put everything right though
with a Kelvinator Refrigerated
Room Air Conditioner in the house.”
It costs so little to relieve the misery
of summer heatwaves for your family.
(And you benefit, too a nice cool
house to go home to at night.) A
Kelvinator Room Air Conditioner not
only cools but banishes humidity, be-
cause it is a refrigerated unit. Com-
pletely automatic it also ventilates,
exhausts stale air and smoke, circu-
lates and filters fresh air and
provides the most economical method
of winter heating, too. All for just a
few cents a day!
If you work in air-conditioned com-
fort, remember the family at home
call your Kelvinator Branch or mail
the coupon below for complete details,
without obligation.
- '
«.t 1 jfc
REFRIGERATED ROOM AIR CONDITIONING
To: KELVINATOR AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
P.O. Box 1347, G.P.0., Adelaide, S.A.
Please
□ forward me illustrated literature.
□ carry out obligation-free survey.
□ quote for Air Conditioning my
premises.
Name
Address
State •
6. 3-12-66
slightly to 30.8 million tons, of which
the U.S. took 67 percent. The U.K.
took 2.9 million, Japan 1.8 million,
and Western Europe the remainder.
Mr. Gauvin points out that at pres-
ent about 90 percent of U.S. and
Canadian steel mills’ ore needs came
from mines tied financially to the mills.
On the other hand, nearly all ore con-
sumed in Western Europe, the U.K.,
and Japan was obtained from merchant
ore companies but this position
was slowly changing. (Japanese mills
have led this move into raw materials,
taking interests in ore developments
in Australia, South America, and
Africa.)
Pellets, which travel better and im-
prove blast furnace performance, con-
tinued to gain in popularity last year.
Pellet capacity in Canada and the U.S.
provided 48 million tons of the world
total 56 million tons. An extra 20 mil-
lion tons capacity was under construc-
tion in North America in 1965, while
seven million was under way or
planned elsewhere.
TUNGSTEN ore prices have levelled
out at 290/- to 310/- stg. a long
ton unit, and are not likely to move
significantly higher in the next few
months. At present the market is about
midway between the 370/- level reached
earlier this year and the 250/-
plateau reached after U.S. stockpile
releases were liberalised.
The results of negotiations at the
Canton Trade Fair are now the focus
of attention. No drastic change of
policy by China, largest world supplier
of the material, is expected.
Similarly, at preesnt no change is
expected in U.S. stockpile policy, but
quotas for 1967 have not yet been set,
and could be a market influence when
announced. In the meantime the market
is mainly affected by the somewhat
bearish influence of the weak trend in
ferro-alloy production after the boom
of the past year or two.
WHEN the Rhodesian rebellion
and the Vietnam war finally
ease their pressure on the
copper market (one on production, the
other on supply), producers will again
need to protect themselves from falling
prices.
With overproduction likely to be
the main influence on the market in
coming years, Zambia and Chile, as
the world’s largest exporters of the
metal, are moving toward joint policy
on pricing, marketing, and production.
President Kaunda, of Zambia, plans to
visit Chile this month.
The President is believed to have
shown interest in Chile’s program in-
volving doubled copper production to
100,000 tons a year by 1970, and pur-
chase of a controlling interest in the
foreign-owned miners.


BEES
eV
y* 9°'
BELLS
**i£S
iii
WtfM4&e£P*donjJh’
Fillers scotu* d
i»'
ii»’.,ii
* .I*'
V
GIFT-PACKED
FOR
CHRISTMAS
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
An Independent Company
8W9.65N
MAN ON THE LAND
Cattle Selling by Weight
THERE is never any shortage of
ideas in farming, many of them
put forward by non-farmers, of
course. This is doubtless explained, in
part, by the fact that the non-farming
man is inclined to look upon the far-
mer as a fellow who gets plenty of
sunshine, regular meals, honest toil
(good for the soul as well as the body),
and who, on top of all this, actually
has the nerve to expect to be paid for
it. As the city walls close in, urban
man yearns for the green pastures
where contented cows graze and sheep
fr°^ c -
Actually, farming is just as lousy a
business as any other. It has its ups
and downs and its good and bad.
Likewise, not all good ideas in farming
get off the ground, whereas some poor
ideas do. We will not here discuss the
poor ideas. We will look at two good
ideas, note the strange contrast, and
try to decide why one is a goer and
one isn’t,
Extension is the goer. Mr. Holt has
promised to increase the Federal con-
tribution, and whether he, or some-
body else, is Prime Minister will not
alter the fact that around $5 million
will be provided for extension,
Apart from a few dissenters, labelled
reactionaries, everyone seems to think
that extension is a wonderful idea,
From extension will flow not only im-
proved advice on scientific methods to
the farmer but careers with status, de-
tailed investigations, symposiums, and
many other things which, if you are a
believer in the public sector, are good
and necessary. If you are a disbeliever
you would have to concede that you are
perhaps swimming against the. tide and
that they might turn out good things
in the long run. They will, probably,
because they seem to be what most
people want. We have discussed exten-
sion much in the past, and will do so
presumably in the future. So we will
leave it for now.
The other good idea, which presents
an alarming contrast, is the selling of
live cattle by weight. This idea has
been around longer than extension.
Its trouble, as an idea, is that it is
just too simple. It has been in operation
in the U.K., United States, France,
Sweden, Denmark, Argentina, and just
about every Western country for years.
There have been many reports and
investigations into it in Australia. No
one seems to be really against it.
It is generally considered to be good
for buyer, seller, and the public, which
ultimately consumes the meat.
Some cynics hold that buyers really
are against weighing scales and would
not like to see them brought in. But
every buyer we have talked to on the
subject appears genuinely open-minded
or entirely in support of scales. Buyers
these days find it hard to judge an
animal by eye on the hoof. It was
easier years ago, before pasture im-
provement and early-maturing stock.
Dealers, that is, buyers who take stock
and hold them for resale, might pos-
sibly lose if scales became widely used,
but here again it is very difficult to
see how. Dealers misjudge the market
sometimes, too.
The cost of scales is, compared with
the cost of some other items which
come under the general heading of
agricultural improvement, trifling. A
medium-sized suspension-type weighing
floor, suitable for a country saleyards,
costs around $lOOO. Scales at New-
market or Homebush would cost more,
but it would still be a relatively
trifling figure. It might not even be
necessary for the Government (fax-
payer) to meet the cost. A small levy,
a matter of cents, on each beast sold
would pay for weighing scales.
QF course, installation of scales would
merely improve marketing of cattle.
There would be no careers created, no
status, and no political party could ever
hope to gain votes by promising weigh-
ing scales. Not even the people who
make scales would get that much out
of it. It is assumed that well-constructed
scales would be purchased and that,
once installed, they would last for
years. We cannot really see how
obsolescence could be planned into the
manufacture of weighing scales. It is
not that kind of a business.
No extra labor, either, would be re-
quired at saleyards, for scales are per-
manent fixtures and the cattle would
be driven into them and off by the
same stockmen required now to move
cattle around the pens. If there are
any solid arguments against scales, we
have yet to hear them, and if anyone
has strong objections it would be
interesting to know what they are.
We would point out that overseas
visitors to Australia, if they know the
cattle business, invariably react with


The man
who leaves no will
may be
leaving trouble
How many people think about making a Will? Almost everyone,
at one time or another. And how many die intestate? Their
assets are sold up, often on an unfavourable market, and the
proceeds distributed to a regulation set of beneficiaries as
laid down by the Laws of Intestacy . . . often with unpleasant
results. Is this what you would want for your family?
It’s so easy to give your family the final protection of a
Will. Don’t hesitate—call the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company.
They’ll help you to plan your Estate, and then have a Will
drawn up by your Solicitor that precisely expresses your
wishes.
But—why a Trustee Company? Because if you appoint
the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company to be your executor, you
have the services of a friendly, experienced, reliable adminis-
trator. Union-Fidelity gives you what no individual can . . .
security and continuity of service.
Call Union-Fidelity right away. Or send this coupon for
free booklet, “When Making a Will”.
UNION-FIDELITY
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
UTSO.IQ2N
11214
disbelief when they discover we do not
have them. Judging by eye went out
with the six-shooter in America.
So far we have discussed liveweight
selling of cattle as it might apply to
the open auction system. There are
some moves in both Victoria and
N.S.W., and possibly in other States,
to introduce a form of live weighing
in direct, or contract, sales to meat
processors. The meat business is en-
tirely free (one of the few that is) and
the cattle raiser has the choice of sell-
ing at auction, direct or to a dealer. If
one method does not suit him he can
try another, and can try all simultan-
eously if he chooses and has enough
cattle.
In the direct selling method the sys-
tem is usually weight and grade. This
means the consigner is paid on the
weight of the beast after it is slaught-
ered and the meat assessed. At least
one firm in this business has had recent
meetings with farmers and, if the farm-
ers are prepared to meet part of the
cost, scales will be installed at four
centres initially, and more later. But
these would be private scales and, as we
understand it, they would be available
only to farmers consigning to the par-
ticular firm concerned.
at open auction centres in
Australia are not entirely unknown,
even though the system is ignored.
Cobram, in Victoria, is building a new
saleyard which incorporates scales. It
is expected that it will cost about five
cents to weigh a beast.
Although sale by weight is common
in overseas countries, the methods differ
slight 1 j and, if Australia is to ever
adopt the system, some uniformity
would seem desirable. In the northern
part of the U.S. the usual method is
to weigh the cattle before sale, and
they are then put up for auction at so
much per pound weight In Texas,
other southern States, and in Canada
the bidding is so much per 1001 b. The
cattle are weighed after the bidding has
ended. There is still some need for the
ability to judge by eye. Bidding for a
beautifully presented pen of cattle is
more spirited than for a scrubby lot.
Good meat brings more than poor
meat.
But there is nothing like the varia-
tions which occur under the Australian
system. Often the variations in price
for cattle in Australian yards appear
to have no reality whatsoever.
We hear much about the future
potential for beef in Australia. The
world, we know, is hungry for meat.
This does not alter the basic economics
of cattle raising in Australia, and in
too many areas, capable of carrying
many more cattle, the economic truth
is that cattle can be a trap. Properties
running beef cattle only are compara-
tively few and far between, except in
northern areas, where no other form of
livestock raising or agriculture is pos-
sible. While much emphasis is placed
on northern beef development, it is
likely that the south has far greater
attributes.


BRADFORD
Cotton
Mills
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: “BRADMILL HOUSE”, CNR. MISSENDEN & PARRAMATTA ROADS, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Speech of Sir Robert Webster
(Chairman) to Stockholders at
the Thirty-Ninth Annual Meet-
ing of Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited, held on Friday, 28th
Oct., 1966, at 12 noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
You have received a copy of the
Thirty-ninth Annual Report of the
Directors and the printed accounts
and financial statements for the year
ended 30th June, 1966. You will have
seen that the profit after tax for the
year $1,235,570 compares with a nett
profit after tax of $1,231,598 for the
previous vear.
This is a very satisfactory result as
it was achieved despite a modest de-
cline in sales from the record figure of
1965 and in a period when costs con-
tinued to rise.
I regard the results as noteworthy
as the textile industry, of which we
are a part, is not a static activity, but
is constantly changing its pattern of
performance to meet demand in line
with technological changes, fashion
trends and customers’ changed re-
quirements.
Bradford Cotton Mills Limited is
moving forward in a very interesting
and challenging era. More and more
do we find interchangeability of fab-
rics. That is to say, cloth produced in-
itially for one purpose, finds a market
in another field. Examples of this
trend are seen in menswear fabrics,
cotton drills for example are now be-
ing used for womenswear. Cotton fur-
nishing fabrics developed originally
for soft furnishings, find a ready mar-
ket for the manufacture of beach
shorts for men. We have been able to
share in business of this kind because
of the flexibility both of our plants and
our marketing organisation.
Turning now to the printed ac-
counts, which deal quite fully with the
results, I propose briefly to comment
on some of the more important fig-
ures. If you will look at the consoli-
dated funds statement for the year
ended 30th June, 1966, on page 8 of
the printed accounts, you will see that
despite the high volume of both pro-
duction and sales, we have been able
to reduce the value of stocks on hand
by $260,487. While the amount itself
is not very great, it is important that
we have succeeded in avoiding stock
increases which might have occurred
under circumstances of constant
change.
The statement shows that in the
year, additions to fixeck assets total
$1,157,701. Together with a costly but
planned maintenance programme, this
ensures our plant being kept in first
class order whilst at the same time we
take advantage of the availability of
new and better textile machinery as it
becomes available. This has contri-
buted materially to our ability to
maintain productivity at levels which
to some degree offset the effect of ris-
ing costs, while at the same time it
enables us to market new products
and new finishes.
Compared to the previous year, sun-
dry debtors have increased by
$464,227. There has been for some
time a sustained request for extended
credit by our customers, a condition
which seems to have become much of
a pattern in the community generally.
We have succeeded in holding the
position reasonably well, and in the
current year, we are looking for a
worthwhile reduction in the average
amount of money which we have to
use in financing our customers. In
recent years we have had to face
a position where we have virtually
been the bankers for some of our cus-
tomers. We find that they look to us
for assistance when Trading Banks
tighten up on the limits of funds
available for manufacturing, whole-
saling and retailing activities.
UNSECURED NOTES
At the last meeting of stockholders,
I made reference to the forthcoming
issue of unsecured notes to the value
of $2,000,000. The subscription, which
was opened in mid November, 1965,
was oversubscribed. The issue was
underwritten by J. B. Were & Son.
PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT
During the year we have continued
to supply the market with a wide
range of woven cotton and woven
man-made fibre piecegoods. Addition-
ally, we are manufacturers of a worth-
while volume of double-knit jersey
fabrics. We sell substantial quantities
of cotton yarn. Our Mill at Kotara
which produces fine counts of cotton
yarn for the knitting trade, is the
only independent producer of this
yarn. That is to say, we spin yarn for
non-spinner knitters we are not en-
gaged in the production of knitted cot-
ton fabrics ourselves.
During the year we have continued
to widen our range of designs, types
and colours, in both the cotton fabric
area and the man-made fibre field.
Important additions to our products
include Proban treated fire retardant
cotton piecegoods and KAdron sail-
cloth of woven man-made fibres. These
sailcloths have been developed especi-
ally for the yachts which will contest
the America’s Cup sailing races but
there is also a valuable general busi-
ness in this field. /
We have during the year, in asso-
ciation with De Witte Lietaer, of
Lauwe, Belgium, completed arrange-
ments which will enable us to engage
in a substantial way in the manufac-
ture of high class bed tickings. The
nature of our plant is such that we
have been able to do this at relatively
small cost.
MARKETING
In an economy such as we have in
Australia, where such socially accep-
table features as the 40 hour week,
minimum award rates of pay, long
service leave, worker’s compensation
and the like exist, it is inevitable that
in the textile industry in particular,
the Australian manufacturer needs
Tariff protection to enable him to hold
at least a share of the market against
overseas manufacturers, including
those located in countries where pro-
duction, pricing and distribution is
State controlled.
As the result of Tariff protection,
Companies such as Bradford Cotton
Mills Limited have been enabled to
play a big part in the decentralisation
of industry and to provide worthwhile
jobs and opportunities in country
towns where otherwise there would
still be many unemployed. You will
see at balance date the number of
employees of Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited was 3,782. Spread as they are
through mills in each of the three
eastern States of the Commonwealth
Queensland, New South Wales and
Victoria, they demonstrate that textile
companies such as Bradford Cotton
Mills Limited are of some significance.
The Company has a great asset in
the combined skills and experience of
its employees and their well being
calls for an adequate share of the
Australian market for the textiles we
produce. This share of the market is
determined by the levels of duty pre-


scribed by the Government following
recommendations by the Common-
wealth Tariff Board.
In the year under review, new
duties were prescribed by the Com-
monwealth Government in both the
cotton and man-made fibre areas.
Flowing from this there were some
gains and some losses.
With those fabrics which we have
been making for years but where pro-
tection is now inadequate, we found
it necessary to move away to some
extent from our traditional markets
with, it seems to me, little or no ad-
vantage to anyone and with added
costs of production. On the other hand
we have found wider and profitable
fields for other fabrics, most of which
were new business.
The Tariff Board’s Annual Report
which was released recently infers
that by the introduction of techniques
of planned tariff rates, manufacturers
should be able to isolate not only the
economic areas of production but
thocc which are profitable. In spite
of our flexibility there are serious
limitations to this sort of thing.
Many earnest people are spending
a lot of time in efforts to devise a
tariff structure, still working on con-
ventional forms of protection which
will ensure that duties will be kept at
an absolute minimum and yet at the
same time will be reasonably protec-
tive. I do not believe it is possible to
find any scheme where protective
duties can be regulated by fractions of
an ounce in weight or fractions of a
cent in value. The plain truth of the
matter is that in the textile cotton
industry, and to a lesser extent in tex-
tiles altogether, the big manufacturing
nations of the world have found it im-
possible to protect these industries by
conventional tariffs. Almost every
country has adopted protective poli-
cies which amount to prohibition be-
yond certain allocated quotas.
It is meaningless to compare the
rates of duty on imports imposed by
the leading manufacturing nations in
the world with the duties operating in
Australia. There is no point, from a
protective point of view, in having
low rates of duty on any particular
fabric if there exists side by side with
these duties prohibitions which re-
strict the rate of imports to a set
quota. This is what is being done by
some 20 (twenty) countries headed by
the United States, Great Britain and
the common market countries. Cutting
the duties by 50% has no .meaning in
these circumstances.
THE FUTURE
We believe our Company is soundly
based and will continue to benefit
from existing business opportunities.
As additional modern manufacturing
equipment is installed and operated,
we will move further afield in the dir-
ection of profitable business in the
Australian market. While it would be
wrong to suppose that the year ahead
of us will be free from difficulties of
one kind or another, current levels of
trading and business available to us in
the foreseeable future, suggest that
the steady profitability enjoyed by
the Company, particularly in the last
two financial years, will continue
through this one.
Let us turn now to the first three
months of the current year. Here we
find an interesting and satisfactory
position developing. Sales and pro-
fit after tax are ahead of the corres-
ponding period last year and are
ahead of budget. The pleasing feature
is that it is the later periods which
are showing the most satisfactory
figures September being ahead of
both July and August. Orders are
being well maintained, being approxi-
mately equivalent or perhaps a little
better than at this date last year when
they were regarded as being very
satisfactory.
THE EXPORT DRIVE
There is a reference to the export-
ing of textiles by Bradford Cotton
Mills in the printed report.
We are at the present time, endeav-
ouring to enlarge our activities in this
field and the Department of Trade is
organising and sponsoring the Los
Angeles Trade Display, which runs
from October 31 to November 4.
We have accepted their invitation to
join other Australian companies who
are displaying their products at this
exhibition in an endeavour to pene-
trate the markets on the West Coast
of America. Twenty-five percent of
the 168 Australian exhibitors repre-
sent the Textile Industry (mostly
garment makers). This is the most
concentrated effort ever made by the
Department to penetrate any one
market.
Our Marketing Manager is person-
ally attending the Trade Display.
AUSTRALIAN
RAW COTTON
During the current year, Australian
raw cotton has been used in all our
spinning mill mixings and although
some minor difficulties have been ex-
perienced, because of the shortage of
certain grades and staple lengths, we
have managed to get through by im-
provisation and substitution.
The latest information received
from Australian cotton growers indi-
cates that the 1966 crop will be ap-
proximately 92,500 bales.
Of this crop, Bradford Cotton Mills
will purchase substantial quantities
and to date has purchased approxi-
mately 30,000 bales representing about
32% of the total crop.
The major cotton growing area in
Australia is in the Namoi Valley. It
is extremely difficult to forecast next
year’s crop owing to the uncertainty
of the water supply for this area.
Growers generally are planning in-
creased acreages and by 1968, if their
plans are successful, we expect that
there will be sufficient Australian
cotton available to cover 85% of the
local spinners’ requirements.
The balance of the industry require-
ments is speciality types of cottons
which are not available from the Aus-
tralian cotton crop and will continue
to be imported.
THE LATE
SIR ALFRED N. ARMSTRONG
It is with regret that I refer to the
death during the year of Sir Alfred N.
Armstrong. He was a personal friend
of mine of some 40 years’ standing.
He had only recently joined the
Board dnd he brought to it very wide
experience which would have been of
great benefit to the Company.
ORGANISATION
Mr. Norman H. Routley, C.8.E., was
recently appointed a Director of this
Company. Mr. Routley is a Director of
a number of prominent Australian
companies and his wide experience
will undoubtedly make a valuable
contribution to the endeavours of the
Board.
The basic functions of marketing,
manufacturing and finance have con-
tinued to work satisfactorily.
Our Mill employees, our manage-
ment staff, our sales organisation and
the executives of the Company have
given efficient and loyal service
throughout the year. I extend to them
the thanks of the Board of Directors
for the contribution they have made
in their respective spheres to the
successful outcome of the year’s
operations.
I now wish to formally move that
the Directors’ Report and the accounts
of the Company for the year ended
30th June, 1966, be adopted and I will
thank somebody to second the resolu-
tion so that the matters may then be
opened for discussion and I will be
pleased to answer any questions re-
lated to the matters therein.
R. J. WEBSTER
Chairman of Directors
BRADFORD
COTTON MILLS LIMITED
Camperdown,
Friday,
28th October, 1966.
BG2I


They’re
◦II brand
new
at Kays
for you
to drive
NOW!
VALIANTS, FALCONS, HOLDENS,
VW’s,MORRIS 1100’s, CORTINAS
and many more.
Here’s your chance to drive the
latest model car of your choice-
at Australia’s lowest rates. Rent
from Kays, and enjoy yourself.
Phone or call at Kays right away.
KAYS
RENTACAR
Throughout Australia
*Book early for the Christmas Holiday Period!
AGRISEARCH
Hamstrung on Soil Testing
TO coin a corny phrase, the man
behind the man behind the farm-
ing gun has prepared some
ammunition of real potential value to
agriculture. Unfortunately the gunners,
being mainly the State Departments of
Agriculture, have not yet zeroed in on
the target. Probably this is not alto-
gether their fault, so long as they are
hamstrung in both legs by the double
lacks of suitably trained staff and ade-
quate finance.
About three years ago a backroom
man, Dr. J. D. Colwell, of CSIRO,
published a simple laboratory method
of testing the wheat soils of southern
New South Wales to indicate how
much superphosphate each paddock
needed to yield the maximum economic
return. Then, with agronomists from
the New South Wales Department of
Agriculture collaborating, it was shown
that his method could also be applied
to the much different soils of the north-
west. Naturally only a relatively small
number of paddocks were tested during
these preliminary investigations, but
more than enough to substantiate the
validity of the laboratory test and to
prove that generally the farmers were
not applying sufficient super.
Had they put out the ideal amount
as deduced from Colwell’s soil test,
these wheatgrowers could have increas-
ed their net return by as much as
$l6 per acre. Last June, with hind-
sight, the New South Wales Depart-
ment announced that, if the 1964 crop
in the Moree-Narrabri districts had
been correctly fertilised as indicated by
soil tests and local field trials, an extra
six million bushels would have been
harvested from this area alone. These
additional bushels would have put
about $8 million in the north-west
farmers’ pockets.
Clearly, when such profits can be
made in just one small corner of the
wheatbelt, big money hangs on reliable
soil testing. If meaningful soil tests like
Colwell’s can be applied throughout
not merely the remaining wheatlands
but also on pastures and all crops
including horticulture, Australian prim-
ary production would move up to an
entirely new level of efficiency. Realis-
ing this, the Australian Society of Soil
Science appointed an expert sub-
committee to look into the whole busi-
ness of soil testing in Australia.
J[TS report has now been tabled. And
a thorough job it is, though its criti-
cisms and recommendations are spelled
out in such genteel language that their
significance might easily escape atten-
tion. It must, of course, be remembered
that the men who formed the commit-
tee are employees of Government
instrumentalities first and foremost and
members of the Soil Science Society
second. They would, presumably, have
had to keep the eye with clearest vision
on the boss and the other on the feel-
ings of their fraternal colleagues. The
opportunities for employment for soil
scientists in this country are terribly
limited. A man just can’t afford to
offend anyone. Unhappily, the soil
people are not alone in this predica-
ment, for the same state of affairs
applies more or less throughout the
entire profession.
At the risk, then, of being too plain
spoken, it would appear that several
State Departments of Agriculture have
fallen down on the job of providing
farmers with a good, reliable soil-testing
service, and the committee considers
that they ought to get cracking. Pri-
vate firms, usually with an interest in
selling fertiliser, have stepped into the
gap. But they, not surprisingly, have
often been overly zealous in making
recommendations from their laboratory
analyses, and the committee implies
that they ought to leave soil testing
to the departments. It is significant
that the commercial firms are rapidly
increasing their soil-testing activities.
The big problem about soil testing
has always been in correlating the
laboratory findings with what actually
happens in the field when a crop is
provided with different amounts of fer-
tiliser. The departments plead in de-
fence of their relative inertia that, be-
cause good correlations are usually un-
available, there is little value in per-
forming the laboratory analyses. Col-
well, however, has shown that where
a sufficient number of field experi-
ments have been done to determine the
actual responses obtained from phos-
phate fertiliser on wheat the correla-
tions can be established.
r pHE departments, with the exception
of New South Wales, have simply
not got around to carrying out enough
of the complementary field trials. Vic-
toria has done some of these field
experiments, but has failed to find
the correlates connecting the predictions
made from Colwell’s laboratory test
with actual wheat yields in the Malee
and Wimmera. Such a serious break-
down in what would seem to be a
routine copy job of work already done
a few hundred miles over the border
is surely extraordinary. A full-scale
effort to resolve the difficulty is war-
ranted. Delay means millions of dollars
probably more than enough to pay
for all the rest of Victoria’s research
program. Meanwhile, Western Aus-
tralia, with financial support from the
wheatgrowers, has started to look for
the correlates. It is to be hoped that
that State will have better luck.
The Tasmanian department has re-
cently acquired adequate facilities.
South Australia is attempting to de-
velop a soil test for pasture land. New
South Wales, as already inferred, has
appreciated the potential value of soil
testing for some time and has made
commendable progress. So has Queens-
land, especially with respect to the
sugar industry.
The committee considered that, since
farmers gladly pay the commercial
firms for soil testing, the departments
should charge a fee also. This would
help them develop and provide a
worthwhile service not only for estimat-
ing phosphorus requirements but also
for predicting the amounts of nitrogen,
potassium, and other nutrients needed
to achieve the most desirable yields
from pastures and crops.


Chess Bulletin
By JOHN HARVEY
YAROSLAV SHEWCHYK
The element of luck in chess is so
slight that it is unusual for a real
upset to occur in a major tournament.
When it does happen, an unknown
“dark horse” is usually responsible.
In the recent 1966 New South Wales
Championship, Yaroslav Shewchyk, the
winner, was considered one of the out-
siders. He is not a weak player (he was
champion of N.S.W. in 1959), but in
the past two years he had not reached
his former standard and his rating had
dropped considerably.
A strange feature of Shewchyk’s per-
formance was that, apart from his loss
to Lloyd Fell, former N.S.W. and Syd-
ney champion, his only points dropped
were to Henk Jens and Victor Liuga,
who both finished near the tailend of
the field.
The two hot favorites for the title,
defending champion Max Fuller and
former champion Fred Flatow, both
played solid chess, but had to be con-
tent with sharing second and third
places, one point behind the winner.
Final Scores: Y. Shewchvk, 10i; M.
Fuller and A. Flatow 91; L. Fell, 9; K.
Madjaric and S. Bubinraut, 71; C. J. S.
Purdy and G. Niess, 7; A. Hidas, 5; V.
Liuga, 41 (1 adjourned); H. Jens, 41;
P. Lay, 4; W. Attard, 31 (1 adjourned);
B. Lukursky, 1.
The following was one of Shewchyk’s
more interesting games from the cham-
pionship against one of his most for-
midable opponents. The picture at left
(taken by Gina Loja) shows Shewchyk
completing his ninth move.
White: A. Flatow.
Black: Y. Shewchyk.
Opening: Reti System.
1. N-KB3.
The first record of N-KB3 being con-
sidered as an opening move for White
was in 1851 by the famous Spanish
expert Ruy Lopez. The first known
game in which it occurred was in 1845,
when Zukertort started fiddling with
it in actual tournament play. It was
Reti, however, who gave this opening
the full treatment and was directly
responsible for establishing its popu-
larity in modern chess.
1. ... P-Q4; 2. P-84, P-Q5; 3. P-
QN4, P-KN 3; 4. P-Q3, B-N2; 5. P-
KN3.
Fred Flatow has never professed an
academic knowledge of opening theory.
However, he has such an uncanny
instinct for finding the right move in
any department of the game that one
would be playing with fire when criti-
cising a Flatow move that wasn’t
“book.”
5. ... P-K4; 6. B-QN2, N-K2; 7. B-
KN2, 0-0; 8. 0-0, P-QB3; 9. QN-Q2,
B-B4; 10. N-N3.
Preparing for a Q-side onslaught
with the Knight but still retaining a
grip on the centre “just in case.”
10. ... Q-Q3; 11. P-QB4, N-Q2; 12.
P-R5, QB-81.
Shewchyk is too old in the head to
be tempted into grabbing a pawn for
nothing. If 12 ... QxP; 13. B-R3, Q-
B 6; 14. R-Bl and the Queen has
nowhere to go. If 13 ... Q-R5 her
demise is even more sudden.
13. Q-Q2, P-KR3; 14. N-85, P-N3;
15. N-N7, Q-K3; 16. P-K3, R-Nl; 17.
P-R6, PxP.
This is an unusual game featuring a
battle of tactics. Even though the game
is half over, this is the first capture by
either player. So much for the famine,
now for the feast.
18. PxP, BxP.
Flatow is caught napping. The new
champion is smashing through in spec-
tacular fashion. He not only gains a
valuable central pawn, but also creates
havoc in the enemy position.
19. Qxß, P-K5; 20. N-Q4, PxQ; 21.
NxQ, PxN; 22. Bxß, Kxß; 23. B-K4,
N-K4; 24. Bxß, BxB; 25. P-85, P-
QN4; 26. B-Ql, N-Q4; Black doesn’t
let up his attack; 27. BxQP, NxKP;
28. B-Kl, N-B6ch; 29. K-82, Nxßch;
30. KxN (K 3), R-B6ch; 31. K-K2,
BxB; 32. KxN, B-B6; 33. N-QB,
BxBP.
Flatow knows at this point that he
has lost the game. What he didn’t
know, however, was that this loss had
also cost him the title.
34. NxPch, K-B3; 35. Resigns.
PROBLEM No. 1
By William Meredith
(BLACK)
. (WHITE)
White to play and mate in two moves.
(Solution next week)
"The Bulletin" Crossword
NUMBER 927
ACROSS
1. Whereby the submariners see there’s plenty
of tricky persuasion of breakdown haulers.
(7, 6)
8. They’re much of a kind of poultry almost
perfectly plucked. (5, 2,1, 7)
10. Luxuriant character given to grogging. (4)
11. The choir Uncle misconducted is slow to
anger. (10)
12. Bury to be found down
Albury way electorally. (6)
15. Let it stand against some metal
German city. (7)
18. Silly leg is a Greek shipping
magnate. (7)
19. You and I as the Spanish
animal. (6)
22. Sing about Hume’s travelling
companion engaged in earth-
moving. (10)
23. Maid hiding in the centre. (4)
26. The engine of a railway engine
and a cab taken with a reason
for being very crook. (9, 6)
27. Can’t catch a condition un-
likely with Mrs. Jones. (13)
DOWN
1. Pertaining to some explosive
mineral business on sea. (8)
2. Spoilsports causing a distur-
bance in the ranks. (5)
3. Sail into Miss Konrads, the
swimmer. (4)
4. Cuts and cover-drives, etc.,
don’t hit the target. (3, 5)
5. Shoulder decoration he short-
ened with Miss Goddard. (9)
6. Horses dip into such solid
figures. (9)
7. Part of Eastern Europe in-
volved in the car smash. (6)
9. Punishment is super. (4)
13. Fergus Hume made a mystery
of it. (6, 3)
14. Give the wrong name to the
husband of Mrs. M. (7)
16. French girl who finds the tote
evil. (8)
17. Miss Moncrieff behaves teas-
ingly in party attire. (4, 4)
20. Wagnerian that is just about
vended. (6)
21. Place famed for those seeking
divorce is upset, this being
single already. (4)
24. Slapsy ex-boxer film actor sees
me about a cricket team. (5)
25. Knock another silly, but it’s
silly to be upset. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 926


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WINIFRED ANN BARLOW of
New South Wales TAKE NOTICE that
ERNEST ALFRED BARLOW has filed
a petition for divorce No. 3895 of 1966
on the ground of separation notwith-
standing the facts and circumstances
set out in a discretion statement filed
herein. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
3rd day of January 1967 and you may
obtain Without charge a copy of the
petition from E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS,
28 Martin Place, Sydney. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GEORGE CLIVE DODSON late of
Bourke TAKE NOTICE that NANCYE
DODSON has filed a petition No. 4066
of 1966 for divorce on the ground of
Desertion and seeks orders for main-
tenance custody and costs. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Syd-
ney, on or before the 3rd day of
January, 1967. You may obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
Gregg Milne & Co., Solicitors, 4 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
No. 4093 of 1966
TO: ROSS EDWARD HOWELL, late
of 79 Nicholson Parade, Cronulla.
TAKE NOTICE that DAWNE ROBIN
HOWELL has filed a petition for
divorce No. 4093 of 1966 on the ground
of cruelty and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance and costs. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before
11th January, 1967, and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
Messrs. Conway, Maccallum & Co.,
Solicitors, 17 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: CHARLES HENRY SMITH.
TAKE NOTICE that Bridget Teresa
Smith has filed a Petition No. 2644_0f
1964 for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion and separation and seeks
orders for maintenance and costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the Seventh day of January,
1967. You may obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Lindsay
J. Moore, Solicitor, 17 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
J. & J. NORTH
Established. 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North,
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,.
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: PETER JAMES SHERIDAN. TAKE
NOTICE that Norma Mary Sheridan
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3886 of 1966 on the grounds of cruelty,
desertion and separation notwithstand-
ing the facts and circumstances set out
in the Discretion Statement filed by her
and seeks orders for custody, mainten-
ance and costs. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 3rd January, 1967. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. Marsh, Harvey &
Cropper, Solicitors, 53 Martin Place,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SPECULATORS DIARY
Food and Drink Gaiety
SOME companies treat their annual general meetings as a product promotion
exercise. Conversely, one or two of the shareholders of these companies regard
the meetings as a warm-up to the pre-Christmas party era.
Understandably, it’s mainly the food
~..! . . / . ,
and drink companies that fit into the
above category. So we have the beer
flowing freely at R. W. Miller, after-
noon tea marking the climax of the
Cahills meeting, and unlimited quan-
tities of sweets being distributed at the
Life Savers gathering
And what a turnout we had at this
, . T i , . , , ,
last meeting! I used to think that the
irwerse dLcSTn to Te “ “
company. This theory was exploded
address by the chairman that was fol-
lowed up by a one-hour break for re-
freshments So that one can always
have something on the calendar for this
time of the year I suggest buying one
share in R. W. Miller, Cahills, and Life
Savers. Corny as it all sounds, I say
goo uc to tis soit of piactice.
These bouts of gaiety only tempor-
arily relieve the boredom and frustra-
tion of our dull market. Last week I
used asset backing to lllustiate the de-
pressed state of this market. This week
111 employ a different tack on the
same subject, to arrive at the same
rnnrliKinn
LUiICIUMOII.
History has shown that interest rates
tend to dictate (sooner or later) the
movements of the stock market. Being
.r n •
more specific, a rise or fall in the
short-term bond rate ultimately causes
a corresponding rise or fall in the aver-
a S e dividend yield in the market.
Now down to some actual figures. In
J une > 1960, the short-term bond rate
was 4 - 3 percent and the average divi-
dend yield was 5 P ercent The squeeze
at the end of 1960 caused a sharp rise
in the short . term bond yield £ 5 . 6
P ercent and a similar rlse *° 6 ' 5 P““"*
,he short-term bond yield to 4.5 percent
b January, 1965, was the warning sig-
nal that the a e dividend !el | w | s
about tQ be s arked off In fact b
j i 96 5, th( T dividend ield ha d in-
creased tQ 60 nt an ' d since
k has
risen still further to 6.7 percent.
Q n tbe odier hand, the short-term bond
yield has stayed steady at 5 percent
over the past year.
There would seem tQ be tWQ per _
tinent observations in the present posi-
tion. One is that the short-term bond
rate at tb j s p G i n t | s more likely to fall
rather than rise. The other is that the
* 1 j / ii • j \ •
yield gap (now unusually Wide) IS
likely to narrow. The effect of a fall
in the bond rate to 4.5 percent and a
narrowing in the yield gap to 1 per-
cent would mean a dividend yield of
5.5 percent, which in turn is equal to
an 18 percent rise in the share market.
Wishful thinking, and I’m afraid
mainly of interest to long-term in-
vestors.
In the short term I’ll settle on Ansett
at 58 cents. Television establishment
problems and the approaching elections
have caused some panic selling. A
saner approach, which should take into
consideration the asset backing of 70
cents, could lead to a reasonably smart
reaction.
To straighten the portfolio up for
the annual review next week I sold
both the A. G. Campbell and Peters-
ville. With the 15-cent dividend thrown
in I cleared $l6 on the A. G. Camp-
bell. The best I could do with Peters-
ville was 50 cents and 8 cents for the
rights. The result was a $49 loss. Also
leaving the portfolio was half the hold-
ing of G. J. Coles rts.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
500 Petersville 50c, $254.
100 Petersville rts. Bc, $B.
200 A. G. Campbell $2.85, $294.
1000 G. J. Coles rts. 32c, $314.
BOUGHT
500 Ansett 58c, $298.
I end this financial year with a credit
of $533.
Cost
No. Name of Date per
shares Company Bouqht Share Price
400 GMK 10/8/66 1 20 1.15
200 Borg Warner 15/8/66 1.70 1.55
500 'Eglo 13/9/66 .87 .82
500 Whale Ind. 19/9/66 .43 .49
2000 L. J. Hooker 4/10/66 .35 .32
1000 Buckinghams 11/10/66 .13 .14
1000 G. J. Coles new 12/10/66 1.09 1.09
1000 H. C. Sleigh 19/10/66 .62 .60
200 Peko Wallsend 25/10/66 2.06 2.00
1000 United Uranium 25/10/66 .56 60
200 B. H. South 2/11/66 300 3.00
400 Mt. Morgan 9/11/66 2.83 2.96
500 Woodside 45c pd. 14/11/66 .76 .82
500 Ansett 23/11/66 .58 .58


V
J.
\
li
*
'f -UiM
ze * *
fl
.
\ ,
i •
sm.
<
2Wm
AW:
k\ «
%
.7/
7 A
n
HENNESSr
/
b#
ggsfe.
I * MMMwBHI
gk •
i
*«3te
Zf.)
jfe^-
AmA
KWUO lIHDER COMMOUWEfIITH SU
FWSUCE OF FnANCE
W CONTENTS 1 fINT 6 HUM OtSjKB
jj&jjf M
'sMr - Jmi
_L
Hennessy is the Greatest Name in Cognac Because.
for two centuries the Hennessy family through seven
generations have built up the largest and finest reserves of
Cognac in the world. That’s why the standard of
excellence never changes. The high quality is guaranteed.
HENNESSY
BRAS ARME
COGNAC
In this Distinctive Bottle.
N.S.W. Agents: Gollin & Co. Ltd., Harbottle, Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd. All other States: Gollin & Co. Ltd.


tJ
m
M
Lv
■
(actual size)
jT I •**» \'j
j, ■
v:
i ,
OMEGA
World leader in watch accuracy
fyll member of the Diamonds-
International Academy
Some day... someone who cherishes you...
will give you the most wonderful watch in the world
No one but you can know the whole story of your diamond watch. For, most
often, it is an intimate, deeply personal story. It tells of love and tenderness and
gratitude. And of you. These things are yours and yours alone to know.
That much, however, will be apparent to all, if your diamond watch is an Omega:
the ageless beauty of its classic styling; the superb quality of its choice gems;
and perhaps a certain far-away look in your eyes whenever you consult its little dial.
You are a fortunate woman indeed to share so fully in a man’s success.
Diamond Omega 18 ct. white gold with diamond set bracelet, $1750. Other diamond models from $195.
