

The
Bulletin
• A WITH BARR ¥ HUMPHRIES
JANUARY 15, 1966
QANTAS.,.
IS THE SKY
THE LIMIT?
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
SIR HUDSON FYSH
BY WILLIAM DOBELL


w
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W,
26 weeks . 52:/- 52 weeks ... 84/-
(New Guinea Air M0i1—2.6 weeks,, 82/6; 52 weeks, 145/-)
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O, Box 1595. Wellington, C. 1., MZ.
weeks 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks 67/-
-26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks, 84/-
/
Woojworths (Maloysio Lfd ,
10 Coliyer Quay, Singapore.
52 weeks
BRITISH ISL.ES
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd
IQ7 Fleet Street, London..
surface moil:
26 weeks 42/- Stg,
52
(87 /-• S*g.
Air rates m application.)
T'
0
*
k
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mas!- send dollar equivalent of Australian rates.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
Bringing the world to Australia,
presenting Australia to the world
The
Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Name
Address
] Renewal. [ j New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for


9
*
» .
.
:■ • MMWSWiiSg^-
mmm
♦ «
i]
af
mr-'*--
m
m
I
si
COOL CUSTOMERS
are regular customers. This is why Carrier packaged air conditioning units
find their way into so many shops, offices, restaurants and work rooms.
Here's why!
A Carrier packaged unit is big enough to control temperature and humidity
in places too large for a small air conditioner. Yet it’s compact so you
can tuck it discreetly away in a corner, standing on its own base. One of
the Carrier range of packaged units the 50K8, 50K10, the new 50K14 or
the 50K16 is exactly right for your premises. It will run so quietly
you’ll never know it’s there. And in winter it looks after heating too . . .
warms your business area to comfort level. Call Carrier. Ask about
“Weathermaker” packaged air conditioning units.
Carrier Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.
Sydney * Brisbane • Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth: Distributors Sandovers O'Connor
1834/65
The Bulletin
Established 188 Q
JANUARY 15, 1966.
VOL. 83, No. 4480
COLONEL SERONC’S WAR
From Geoffrey Fairbairn in Saigon 10
the qantas story
Those magnificent men 15
WILL SUCCESS SPOIL
BARRY HUMPHRIES?
Going to Vietnam 19
ELIZABETH O’CONNER
SHORT STORY
The Visit 38
SHEAB 13 LETTERS .... 28
THIS AUSTRALIA
Vietnam: Wallaby Flight 406 10
Crime: Man-hunt 11
New Guinea: Ripe for PKI 12
Defy UN? 12
OVERSEAS
New York Newsletter 25
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Keeping the flag flying in the North 31
THEATRE: The Magic Circle Club 32
TELEVISION: Who’s Who? 33
The Trial 33
FILIVIS: Marriage Italian Style .... 33
BOOKS: Power in the Liberal Party 34
Living with Asia 35
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Australian trade injured by under-
valued yen 42
Economics back o’ Bourke 43
Randerson on the Reserve Bank .... 50
MAN ON THE LANO
The Wool Reserve Plan Now 45
Editorial Office: Park House. 54-53 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4033. Phone: 2 0566,
Advertising:- 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4033. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


%
*
We’d be making more profit if we’d
insulated the roof with Fibreglass
Why Fibreglass? Because Fibre-
glass is the best cost/performance
insulation in the world.
Fibreglass saves capital costs, saves
operating costs, and needs no maintenance.
Fibreglass saves an extra 6% on heat loss
compared with the same thickness of any
similar insulation material.
Fibreglass gives greater efficiency with
less weight, saving roof construction cost.
Fibreglass saves on heating and cooling
equipment because its greater efficiency
allows the use of smaller units in heating
and cooling systems.
And you save on maintenance because
Fibreglass won’t warp, rot, shrink or sag.
It is non-corrosive, mould-proof, moisture
resistant and will not burn. Fibreglass lasts
forever and never loses its insulation value.
Fibreglass Wool Insulation is made in several
forms to meet every need of the architect,
engineer or property owner Roll Blankets ,
“Friction Fit Batts ”, Sub-Deck and Roof
Insulation.
For full details —data sheets —application specifications —write or
phone your State sales office of Australian Fibre Glass Pty. Limited.
A.C.I. Fibreglass ...
The Wonder Fibre with
35,000 different uses. Here
are its major applications:
• Fibreglass Yarns
make insect
screens, fireproof
curtains.
• Fibreglass Wool
provides the best
heat and sound
insulation for
homes, factories,
office buildings.
There is only one pink, clean ..,
. WOOL INSULATION
a product of
ACI


n i
M
i 2
m
1 T; J ~' * v •
?. . > J 9
'lx«/.yAw>A\y-;-v-'-’>.'»»v-: vwiv/X
;
. ■■ • ■ --- -■■■. - -:■ ■'■
•> v**"
1%,,
gi
~-v
*Mjj
\
Miy
■
when young Bobby
has his own business ..
. . . chances are he’il be using Phil-
gas from Phillips 66, world’s
largest producers and marketers of
L.P. Gas. Clean-burning Philgas is
ideal for flame cutting, drying tun-
nels and ovens, aerosol propellants,
saltbath heating. In fact, wherever
and whenever heat is required in
industry or the home Philgas is the
efficient, low-cost answer. Philgas
also offers tremendous savings as
fuel for fork lift trucks, other indus-
trial trucks and stationary engines.
Phiigas brings to Australia a wealth
of experience and know-how in L.P.
Gas that will benefit homemakers,
commerce and every industry today
and all the young "Bobbys”,
businessmen of the future.
PH I LG AS
From the world's largest LP. Gas Company


One of the five SO'too Haulpaks with special side dump bodies used tor iron ore haulage at Cockatoo island, W.A. 1
<v
?■ ' .
M
->*£■ vx« V 'X-.- v •**V > *
u. mmm mu? wmvsmmmim
Wk
ti i m
* *
m
WITH HIE MU IF
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, QLD. ■ BAUXITE MINING, GILD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
for EXPORT
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINCHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Safes, Service and Parts facilities irr all States.
LW249.106


CHEVRON
51998
I- d
i
--.s
m : 1 :■
-' ' ■
* .5?
MM
*S <*S
I
JjWWKWO!*
as?*.*
»»
swf
§#SSS»
i: * . , t ’. ' '\s
' .
» 9.
•— -*r: 22 ? «f*/» *r» ** * **
« ? W 5 « % *u
HIBW
EXPERIENCE
'Australia’
where the SERVICE continuously embraces you with true HOSPITALITY.
ACCOMMODATION ... in the heart of fascinating King’s Cross. All rooms and suites fully air-conditioned-
own bath, toilet, TV, radio and phone—overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT, with an excellent cellar. Golden Grill —breakfast or dining by candlelight with
soft music. Silver Spade—unequalled cuisine, international artists and dancing nightly. Oasis Lounge—•
Smorgasbord. Light entertainment and dancing nightly for the young in heart.
CONVENTIONS, RECEPTIONS, EXHIBITIONS. Ask for Chevron’s booklets, “Planning Made Easy” and
“Entertaining Made Easy.” When entertaining or staying at Chevron it will be your best experience ever.
SYDNEY
RESERVATIONS: CHEVRON HOTEL, MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Phone: 35-0433. Cables: "Chevron Sydney.” MELBOURNE: 51-1281, or any Travel Agent
AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED
Send for illustrated brochure. Special FAMILY RATES on application. CAR PARKING facilities
AVIS
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun
when you drive a sparkling new AVIS
car. The car of your choice will be
waiting for you at the airport, railway
station, shipside, or will be delivered to
Chevron Hotel as part of the CHEV-
RON/AVIS service. And remember, you
and the car are protected by proper,
repeat proper, insurance.
14 H H 1M
m mm
14
wwm m
Vntiif mr*
f
\% «*rri i
\i\XW-i f t *
Uftmirii
\; *'*« IMS


Only Qantas flies these 4 spectacular
jetways around the world
There’s the Honolulu - U.S.A. way...
'Tv
I
and the Hong Kong-Orient way...
■ -
V-S, '
■ ■ : ' ' : ■ ' : ■
Mv:s|#”x| - ¥ v i. : ■'
.
m
and the Singapore-Bangkok way...
tr , Jt
m.
W
mm
and the Tahiti-Mexico way...
Qantas wears a lot of hats
Qantas like to be all things to all people. Travel is
like that—the wider the range of choice, the happier
a traveller will be. Qantas is one of the few round-
world airlines. The mighty fleet of Qantas V-Jets flies
along four of the most spectacular routes in the world
. . . through the U.S.A. or Mexico, Singapore or Hong
Kong. Only Qantas offers these choices. And wherever
in the world you fly with Qantas you’ll feel at home
with Qantas’ unique Australian blend of friendliness and
efficiency. Start discus-
sing your travel plans
today with your local
Qantas Travel Agent or
Qantas.
Australia's Round-World Airline
45 years of dependable service
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED , with AIR INDIA. AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.
Q 2.105.168


ONE MORE
WEEK
Noteworthy
WE HAD INTENDED to accept the
invitation of the Governor of the Re-
serve Bank, Dr H. C. Coombs, to attend
the unveiling of the new decimal cur-
rency notes, designed by Gordon
Andrews. We were, at the Governor’s
suggestion, to be flanked by our Finan-
cial Editor and our Art Critic (when the
Reserve Bank puts on a turn, it really
puts one on) and accompanied by a
photographer who would be allowed to
photograph the notes but not to repro-
duce them in actual size.
However, we felt we could not really
afford to give all these people a trip to
the Bank in one of Mr Askin’s gold-
plated, decimal-converted buses.
G
INCIDENTALLY, following the ad-
justment in NSW bus-fares, we would
nominate “adjustment” as the word most
likely to be used and reused in 1966 and
“and all that” as the phrase most likely
to become tired and tattered early in
the year.
Feelings of horror
THE PRODUCTION of “Dracula”
beginning at the Elizabethan on January
20 will be for real. Scottish actor Paul
Stockman, who is producing and play-
ing the lead and who has played /in
“Dracula” for lengthy runs in Britain
with roles in horror films to take his
mind off his work, says that if people
laugh at his production it is a failure.
However, Australian Talent Associ-
ates, which will present the old horror
play, just got the rights ahead of the
Music Hall, which had intended to do a
send-up, as Frank Thring did in Mel-
bourne a year or two ago.
There were some feelings of horror
around the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
when “Dracula” was booked into the
theatre. However, in March the Trust’s
lease on the shabby white elephant is up
so after that no one will worry. Except,
perhaps, the people who donated sums
of money in return for having their
names engraved on plates on seats in the
theatre. In those far-off, hopeful days,
the donors certainly didn’t have “Drac-
ula” in mind.
Caught
LAST THURSDAY “The Australian”
on page 1 had Victorian prison escapees
Ryan and Walker caught in Sydney and
on page 3 had the police net closing in
on them in Melbourne. You might say
this could happen to any newspaper but
it doesn’t, and it Certainly doesn't hap-
pen to “The Australian’s” sister-paper,
the “Daily Mirror”.
Wherefore art thou?
HOW WOULD Romeo and Juliet get
on in this unromantic age? Not very
well, to judge by the experience of
actress Rosemary Gerrette and actor
Peter Rowley, who are to play the leads
in the Perth Festival production of
Shakespeare’s play. The Festival booked
them from Sydney on the same plane a
few days ago but they arrived in Perth
still unacquainted. Rowley picked Rose-
mary out among the passengers but was
too diffident to speak to her. Rosemary
admitted she had studied him around a
pillar at Adelaide Airport but “got no
reaction” so decided he. wasn’t her
Romeo.
Reeling
MANY AUSTRALIANS feel strong-
ly that there should be a local film in-
dustry, although there may not be a
great deal of unanimity about how it
could be made to work artistically and
financially. From recent reading we have
learnt that Tommy Hanlon Junior is
making a film, “The Girl in the White
Bikini”; that Normie Rowe is to star in
a film to be called “Shakin’ All Over”,
as, according to Rowe, a “tribute to my
first really big national hit record”; and
of another film, as yet uncast, about an
“older” woman who is painting the por-
trait of a pop singer and gradually falls
in love with him. Speaking for ourselves,
this isn’t quite the film industry we had
in mind.
Bond
WALKING through a shop in Dixon
Street recently we had our rice noodles
knocked out of our hand by eager
Chinese rushing to buy lan Fleming, in
Chinese. We also picked up the inform-
ation that Bond is now known to the
Peking Chinese as the Iron Gold Strong
Man the epitome of all things Western
and bad.
On the way out
WE WERE REALLY rather relieved
to hear from one authority that the dis-
cotheque fad is on the way out,
although we had not yet learnt clearly
what it was all about. The authority is
Mr Ferdinand Nemeth, who, with Lee
Gordon, started Sydney’s Sound Lounge
four years ago. “I give it six to 12
months longer,” Nemeth said. “But
what shape the new form of entertain-
ment will take nobody knows. It will be
a much steadier, smoother type of enter-
tainment. And it will involve audience
participation. People want to join in
what’s happening. They don’t want to
sit and watch.”
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
We should have known better than to
try and beat the Sydney coppers.
Ronald Ryan.
I’ve often wondered if it is the real
object of the MCC to win in Australia or
to select a bunch of cricketers who will
get on well together and spread the
gospel of cricket.
Sir Leonard Hutton.
Australia is still in the "kindergarten
class" of psychological warfare.
Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes.
Princess Margaret's dressing is a re-
vival of Charlie’s Aunt with a rock 'n'
roll beat.
American designer Richard Blackwell.
We live like pigs.
Alexander Plunket Green, husband of
dress designer Mary Quant.
The danger is not that some power will
impose some brave new world upon us,
but that we shall impose it on ourselves—
—Dr Martin 8. Loeb, University of
Wisconsin, addressing the American
Assn for the Advancement of Science.
The fact that no member of the Royal
family was at Richard Dimbleby's funeral
is a scurvy return from the symbols he
served; it is, perhaps, fitting that with his
death they seem to vanish from the scene.
Nancy Banks-Smith.
First I'd like to make enough money
to buy a new set of teeth. I lost mine
opening bottles.
Fred Lennon (father of
Beatle John Lennon).
Jean Shrimpton is now a person of
major historical importance in Australia.
British reporter Jonathan Aitken.


THIS AUSTRALIA
VIETNAM
Colonel Serong’s War
From GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN in Saigon
It is easy today to lose sight of the long war pacification, rural construction,
the rebuilding of rural Vietnamese society and the destruction of the Communist
infrastructure which is a condition of its rebuilding amongst the more spectacular
events involved in repulsing the attempt of General Giap’s Northern regulars and
Vietcong mainforce units to destroy the morale of the Americans and Vietnamese
regulars (ARVINS) in bloody battles.
But the two kinds of struggle cannot
really be separated. The Communists are
waging total politico-military war against
South Vietnam; and so the response in-
volves a total effort too.
Foremost amongst experts pngaged in
this task is Colonel F. P. Serong, now
working with the Vietnamese and Ameri-
cans, the man who made Canungra
Jungle Warfare Training School perhaps
the best in the world, former adviser to
the Burmese Army on counter-insur-
gency, a man who has made great
personal sacrifices in order to address
himself to the greatest political problem
of the time: revolutionary Communist
guerrilla warfare. One day he will rank
with T. E. Lawrence, Orde Wingate,
and other military “eccentrics”—though
he is quite without their sometimes irri-
tating flamboyances as a man who
understood things beyond the confines of
ordinary military thinking. Colonel
Serong’s present specialty is para-mili-
tary operations, which in the context of
South Vietnam involve everything from
basic infantry tactics to hygiene.
The task of the para-military is funda-
mentally no less than that of rebuilding
society; protecting it when the ARVINS
have cleared out Vietcong mainforce
units; destroying the remaining Vietcong
infrastructure, preventing the movement
of guerrilla resources, maintaining in
being the rebuilt government administra-
tion. But much more than this: helping
re-establish village schools and medical
centres (always the first targets of Viet-
cong terrorism), injecting confidence
amongst villagers, even modernising vil-
lage society through superior habits, par-
ticularly in the matter of hygiene
Colonel Serong requires of his trainees
that he should be able to eat his meals
off their lavatory pans, which is no mean
requirement to exact from men unused
to any kind of lavatory when they come
in for training.
At Dalat in the Central Highlands and
at Pleiku further north two camps have
been established the former to train
Vietnamese, the latter to train mbntag-
nards in the methods of maintaining
security in areas that have been evacua-
ted by the ARVIN mopping-up forces
and yet have not been sufficiently paci-
fied to allow the national police to take
over. In fact the area of operation of this
Police Field Force overlaps both areas;
it operates at the rear of the thrusting-
out ARVINS and in the front zone of
the spreading-out national police.
This is to be a very carefully phased
operation, as carefully phased as Mao’s
of Giap’s phasing is at the heart of
successful guerrilla or counter-insurgent
activity. The Police Field Force (PFF)
operates as but part of a total pacifica-
tion movement, involving not only them-
selves and ARVINS but the Regional
and Popular (village militia) Forces.
However, the overall rate of pacification
is determined by the PFF's ability to
play its role alone. If that means a slow
rate of ARVIN advance, it is just too
bad: the great mistake made during Ngo
Dinh Diem’s regime was to push the
pacification programme too quickly,
allowing re-penetration of areas around
the “strategic hamlets” to be effected by
the Vietcong. This is not a war of quick
thrusts by armed forces; it is a war
between different kinds of societies each
slowly trying totally to overwhelm the
other and permanently establish its own
administrative apparatus and indeed way
of life in the countryside.
The PFF therefore is concerned with
police activity but of a kind new to the
area: above all mobile, omnipresent and
yet disguised as to its exact position at
any given time. The PFF platoons will
always bivouac, never claim billets; will
always be on the move, never offer itself
up as a static target; will always feed
itself, never batten on the villagers; and
members of platoons will visit their
families when the platoon is bivouaced
near their home hamlet, in order to
inspire confidence. The French had a
saying about the Vietminh (as they were
then called): “partout et nulle partout”,
“everywhere and nowhere” —the PFFs
will be regarded similarly. But they will
also be known for their work in initiating
or taking part in civic actions designed to
better the lives of the villagers within
their area of operations, which is the
village complex of which they are native
sons.
It has been a most heartening ex-
perience to watch the training of these
men: they are trained in field craft and
in using a properly balanced diet, in light
weapons and in making neat bamboo-
plait medical centre buildings, in Intelli-
gence gathering and in learning a craft
ir. a workshop, in police work and in
hygiene. They are to be the citizen-
guardians of a hotter society. In the last
analysis, this is what this kind of war
is all about.
Ultimately, the only way in which the
South Vietnamese can be dissuaded from
falling for Communist lies about the
“land question” or falling to the bullets
of Communist terrorists is for them, first,
to be protected against the Communist
infrastructure and, secondly, to be taught
that a far, far better life is being offered
them. This the PFF, together with
civilian agencies, backed by Western aid,
can most certainly do; and will do if
Colonel F. P. Serong and his Vietnamese
and American colleagues are given the
opportunity to implement their hard-
headedly humane plans for the future.
VIETNAM II
Wallaby Flight 406
Saigon airport is by day the busiest airport in the world. On the Transport
Command section of the airport long lines of supplies stand by, resembling the
preparations for an invasion but in fact part of the huge daily airlift necessary to
keep up-country garrisons and beleaguered centres of provincial authority in being.
Often it is airpower alone that keeps administrative points alive.
Amongst the transport planes stands
an RAAF Caribou, a hopping kangaroo
emblazoned on its body, one of six
planes belonging to the 73-man RAAFV
(RAAF Transport Flight, Vietnam) based
at nearby Vung Tau. Flying long hours,
Squadron-Leader Guthrie and his 12
pilots daily give logistical support to the
war effort, not only from Saigon but
from Nhatrang and Danang in the north
where they support Special Forces
officered or advised by Australian WOs.
This morning Flight-Lieutenant George
Godfrey and Flying-Officer John Vander-


steege are moving chiefly personnel and
mail. But sometimes the load is livestock.
The plane has recently been washed out.
Two aircraftmen, “Stickey” Glew and
Mercer, the plane’s loadmasters, care-
fully check the mailbags and estimate
the number of passengers to be carried.
We take off at about 9 a.m. expecting to
return at about 3 p.m. John Vander-
steege has given me the itinerary: Cao
Lanh, Duong Dong, Camau, Haiyen,
Camau, Bac Lieu, Tra Vinh, Saigon.
This is the “milk run” south of Saigon;
another one is made to the north.
Heavily loaded, we cruise along at
120 knots over the neat fields, varying
shades of green and yellow, farming
strips resembling illustrations of Domes-
day England, exquisite patches of lush
growth parcelled out by generations of
tillers of the soil: the great plain of the
Mekong delta rolling away behind us.
We land at Cao Lanh, disgorge some
soldiers and some mail, and are off
again all within three minutes according
to my watch. At 10.25 we put down
at Duong Dong on the island of Phu
Quoc, an area that is still being con-
tested. Recently the plane was asked
to wait there half an hour to evacuate
two wounded. One died before reaching
the ’plane. Tall, sunburnt Americans
wearing the green beret and yellow flash
of the Special Forces quickly unload
their mail.
In a few minutes we are off to Camau,
centre of a troubled region. All transit
personnel were off-loaded, as were the
loading rollers and anything else that
was unnecessary. Next stop was Haiyen,
a broken-up landing strip only 1100
feet long. But we carried passengers in-
cluding a group of local civilians carry-
ing a load of paraphernalia ranging
from shiny prams to plaited baskets of
food, which nearly taxed the patience of
Loadmaster Mercer. The civilians were
the wives and children of ARVIN
soldiers en route to Haiyen. They
seemed unconcerned about the landing
strip. Perhaps they knew nothing about
it. The only ruffled person—except for
myself when Mercer donned his crash
helmet for the first time during the trip
—was a young ARVIN soldier whose
fresh French-style breadloaves kept drop-
ping out of his bedroll.
The aircraft stood in front of the
entrance to the village inhabited by about
3000 people, ARVIN soldiers, and men
of the Special Forces. A moat ran
around it. Behind the moat was a dense
barbed wire fence. Behind it stood small
squat blockhouses. This was a fortified
village, a garrison town, something
reminiscent of the USA’s Indian wars: a
lonely place now to be visited only by
helicopters: an enclosed rectangle of
security in the middle of a damp, cover-
infested plain. More soldiers came
aboard bringing with them a manacled
young man in jungle greens. He had an
extraordinarily sensitive, fine-boned face
which he turned to the window as we
roared off down the short airstrip. He
never altered his position until he was
hustled off the ’plane back at Camau.
No one could or would explain what he
had done. Perhaps it was imagination,
but he seemed to carry the bleak atmo-
sphere of death with him. I have never
seen such a lonely human face.
And so the day passed with nothing
untoward happening. The RAAF crews
do this at least four times every week;
they fly six days a week in exceedingly
difficult conditions (not that they said
so, soldiers up there did) during their
stints out from Danang and Nhatrang;
and the “milk run” itself often involves
sudden descents to small strips through
ground fire. It must be a long year’s
service they put in this way; but this way
a country is kept fed and supplied.
CRIME
Man-hunt
If gaol-breakers Ronald Ryan and Peter Walker had bothered to check with
wardens before plotting their escape they would have been discouraged to learn that,
during the 114 years in which the bluestone piles of Pentridge have guarded Victorian
criminals, only one prisoner has escaped and never been found. That was back in 1901.
Local TV stations were anxious to give
the police every assistance and broad-
cast frequent bulletins on the escapees,
appealing to the citizens of Melbourne
to report to Russell Street police head-
quarters any circumstances in their
neighborhood which looked suspicious:
“The police think that the criminals may
be holding an innocent family hostage,
so if there is anything unusual happening
in the house next door, no matter how
small and insignificant you may think it
is, please report it to Russell Street at
once.”
The police were swamped with calls
from earnest and suspicious citizens, and
many an innocent citizen found his house
suddenly surrounded by armed police
checking out a report that Ryan and
Walker might have been hiding in his
laundry. The suspicions of a dutiful
suburbia, once aroused, are not easily
quelled and the number of leads supplied
left the police force almost exhausted
beyond its tremendous endurance, but,
unfortunately, gave no clues to the
whereabout of the escapees.
The State Government then offered
a £5OOO reward for information leading
SWAINSVILLE
/LOVE MY WORK.
/T IS WORTHWHILE.
/ AM SERVING A USEFUL PURPOSE.
MY EFFORTS ARE APPRECIATED.
I HAVE A SENSE OF FULFILMENT.
/ DO LOVE MY WORK.
It !$ wor thwh/le


THE UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE
Department of Adult Education
Third Writers' School
March 20-26, 1966
at the University of Adelaide
BIOGRAPHY Tutors: Pro-
fessor Douglas Pike (Editor, Aus-
tralian Dictionary of Biography)
and Mary. Durack. WRITING
FOR CHILDREN— Tutors:
Barbara Ker Wilson (Children's
Book Editor for Angus & Robert-
son and author of 15 books for
children) and Olive Jones (Child-
ren's book Editor for Methuen).
Fee: £7 accommodation avail-
able for extra charge.
For further information write
to the
DEPARTMENT OF ADULT
EDUCATION
The University of Adelaide,
Adelaide.
to capture in the hope that this would
tempt the underworld, and the shrewd
Inspector Holland began to use some
psychological warfare by having the
papers report him saying that he thought
that one of the phone calls he had re-
ceived might have been from Walker,
who, tired of being hunted by the police
and bullied by Ryan, wanted to give him-
self up.
But any faint chance of either of the
escapees surrendering disappeared with
the words of the Chief Secretary, Mr
Rylah, who was featured in the Press
as declaring: “The shooting of Warder
Hodson is the worst crime Victoria has
known. The killer has to be caught, pre-
sented to Petty Sessions, and tried in the
Supreme Court. If he is sentenced to
death the matter will be placed before
the State Executive Council. The Coun-
cil will consider all aspects of the killing,
reports from the Police Department,
and the judge's comments. The Hanging
Act is still in force in Victoria
Or, in other words, as one senior
policeman remarked, “You might as well
shoot it out to the bitter end, fellers, be-
cause we’ll hang you if you’re caught.”
Every policeman in the State knew that
the chance of taking Ryan and Walker
alive was small and the chances of police-
men being killed in the attempt were
high. The eventual capture in Sydney
was a superb piece of police work which
sent a wave of relief rippling through the
families of the Victorian police.
The trial will begin soon and sus-
pended over the proceedings will be the
words of the Chief Secretary: “The
Hanging Act is still in force in this
State”. Public outcry prevented the
Government carrying out the last hang-
ing scheduled in Victoria, but in that
case there was definite evidence of in-
sanity. Walker and Ryan will not com-
mand the same sympathy as poor Robert
Peter Tait.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
NEW GUINEA I
Ripe for PKI
As Djakarta proceeds with the suppression of Indonesia’s Communist Party
(PKI), the question arises to what extent the Indonesian Communists will be able
to exploit anti-Djakarta sentiment among Indonesia’s minorities, especially the West
Irian Papuans.
The most recent Papuan revolt against
the central Indonesian Government be-
gan in July, 1965. Anti-Indonesian senti-
ment had been fostered by the deteriora-
tion of the economy, and by the appar-
ent determination of the Indonesian
Government to refuse to honor its agree-
ment, in 1962, to hold a plebiscite in
1969, in West Irian, to permit the people
to decide whether or hot they desired to
sever ties with Indonesia. A local “Free
Papua Movement” had grown up in West
Irian, as well as an “Overseas Committee
for the Independence of West Papua”
based in The Netherlands.
The revolt flared up in the town of
Manokwari, on the northern coast of
the Vogelkop (Bird’s Head), where mem-
bers of the “Free Papua Movement”,
aided by tribesmen, launched a sharp
attack on police and military posts.
During August similar outbreaks oc-
curred on Biak Island (West Irian’s main
naval and air base); in the capital, Sukar-
napura; and in the town of Sorong. The
outbreaks were becoming general and
showed signs of having been organised.
Indonesian police and military action
dispersed the insurgents into the jungles,
but September saw further uprisings at
Kebar, west of Manokwari, and on
Noemfoor Island, near Biak Island, while
there were further reports of clashes in
the Central Highlands and elsewhere
where Indonesian migrants, mostly from
the Moluccas, are being established on
the land.
Although a number of American mis-
sionaries were arrested as “spies” being
used by the US Government to sponsor
“subversion”, it is clear that a strong
body of local opposition to the Indo-
nesian control of West Irian exists in that
territory. The Indonesian Government
will clearly have to take it into considera-
tion in its plans to develop and govern
the country if only to counter the
future activities of the PKI.
The current grievances and aspirations
of the Papuan nationalists are ready-
made for use by the PKI against the new
Indonesian Government which it accuses
of being extreme Right-wing and militar-
ist in nature and allied with foreign im-
perialist and anti-Indonesian powers.
Such a development in West Irian would
be of great significance for Australia
where the local CPA naturally supports
the PKI and also has a revolutionary
programme of action for Eastern New
Guinea.
NEW GUINEA II
Defy UN?
Australia’s responsibility to New
Guinea is one which should be carried
out to the full, even in defiance of deci-
sions of the Trusteeship Council and the
United Nations Assembly according
to Mr Norman Cowper, chairman of
the Council on New Guinea Affairs,
in an article published in the latest issue
of the magazine “New Guinea”.
In his article Mr Cowper says Aus-
tralia has the responsibility to control
New Guinea, t< develop it until it is
ready to govern itself, and then to abdi-
cate. This responsibility is one which
corresponds with Australia’s interests, for
New Guinea has, and will be, an outpost
of defence and its economy is already
complementary to the products of Aus-
tralian primary and secondary industries.
“Nevertheless”, writes Mr Cowper,
“the discorda ice between the realities of
New Guinea’s needs and Australia’s
responsibility on the one hand, and an
ill-informed, impatient, dogma-ridden
‘world opinion’ on the other, places Aus-
tralia in a situation of extreme difficulty.”
Mr Cowper feels Australia will be re-
creant to its trust and fail in its duty if
it yields to pressures and allows the


Territory to drift into premature and
jeopardous independence. Australia will
be equally unfaithful if it does not push
on with the utmost possible speed to
create the conditions of a successful
independence.
As Mr Cowper sees it, these conditions
are.:
• A nucleus amounting to at least
some thousands of educated New
Guineans, capable of leadership
and used to responsibility. Part of
this nucleus would come from the
Local Government Councils and
. Co-operatives, part from the Ad-
ministration and its services, part
from the House of Assembly.
• A trained and competent Bar of
native lawyers.
• A police force officered even in
highest posts by New Guineans of
education and character.
• A legislature the members of which
have learned to determine priorities
on grounds of national needs and
not of sectional pressures and local
clamor.
• A far wider and stronger base of
development in primary, secondary
and tertiary industries than exists
at present.
• A lively, well-informed discussion
of public issues extending down to
the educated masses of the people.
Mr Cowper believes that to bring into
existence within 10 or 20 years the con-
ditions he has outlined would be a re-
markable achievement. But he feels the
most important single piece of equip-
ment for bringing into existence the con-
ditions of successful self-government is
the University of Papua and New
Guinea.
While many academics, liberals and
others have been highly critical of the
Minister for Territories, Mr C. E. Barnes,
Mr Cowper says the Minister’s short
term has seen more far-reaching and pro-
gressive steps taken than in any similar
period. There was just criticism of the
delay in adopting the report of the
Currie Commission on Tertiary Educa-
tion, he writes, but Mr Barnes came
down belatedly in favor of it, and the
greatly needed University is being pro-
ceeded with.
GUEST CARTOONIST, SHEAD
“Remember, Harold, the stonewaller stays longest at the crease."


PILKINGTONS
lead the world in glassmaking
5/
•••
1
k-...
4
K
i* H
There’s no more searching test of a
glass than to make it into a mirror, and
reflect an object in it again and again.
There’s no doubt which glass makes to-
day’s finest, truest mirrors Float glass,
invented and developed by Pilkingtons.
r
Pilkington glasses made or processed
in up-to-date plants in nine countries*
and behind every product are the vast
resources of some of the glass industrys’
largest laboratories, working on quality
control, and on research and development.
Pilkington research and development
produced Float glass which, with its new
clarity and brilliance, outdates Plate
glass in modern building, for mirror
making and for toughening into
safety glass.
For the finest glass specify Pilkingtons.
Pilkingtons’ Agent in Australia . ..
Pilkingtons’ service in Australia is
provided by Mr. C. Rogers who can help
you in any problem concerning the use
of glass. Just write to Mr. C. Rogers,
4 Bridge Street (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney,
N.S.W. Pilkingtons’ glass is available
from glass merchants throughout
Australia. Head Office: Pilkington
Brothers Limited, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England.
FOR MODERN BUILDING SPECIFY GLASS BY PILKINGTONS-IKYENTORS OF FLOAT
»K 1 502/65


The Qantas Story
Those magnificent men in their flying machines
C. O. TURNER
SIR ROLAND WILSON
By MICHAEL BAUME
IN the romantic early days of aviation,
all that an airline seemed to need
was pilots and aeroplanes. But not
any more. Neither planes nor pilots have
featured in the big news about Qantas,
Australia’s Government-owned overseas
airline, in recent months. The battle
for succession at the top when Sir Hud-
son Fysh retires, the new Qantas hotel
to open this year, the planned £lO
million head office block to be built on
the site of the Wentworth Hotel, the
proposed £2.3 million Qantas training
centre at Mascot, and the introduction
of a huge computer these have kept
Qantas in the news.
The only thing newsworthy about
pilots has been the lack of them and
the fact that when Sir Hudson Fysh
retires there will no longer be a former
Qantas pilot on the board of the com-
pany. It is probably a hangover from
the past and an indication of Qantas’
remarkably rapid growth in recent times
that despite the lack of pilots at the very
top, there are still more in high manage-
ment' jobs in Qantas than in most other
international airlines. This has not been
the reason for Qantas’ better-than-
average results. Pilots generally make
bad businessmen.
Nowadays, airlines are too important
to be left in the hands of pilots.
Accountants are in control, as making
a profit has become at least as important
making a name. Unlike many other
international airlines, Qantas has man-
aged to do both. So the biggest battle
ahead of Qantas is not just the struggle
to remain a good, profitable airline; it
is a battle to remain better than most
of its rivals.
By almost every measuring stick it is
better: it earns proportionately more
profit, uses its aircraft better, serves its
customers better, has proportionately
more of them, and does not crash.
Qantas’ 58 per cent revenue-seat factor
and 54.8 per cent revenue-load factor
(when the breakeven is a bit below 50
per cent) is far better than the industry
average This load factor figure is of
major importance. A move of one per
cent represents a change of £i million
in the company’s profits. Qantas’ seat
utilisation is about three percentage
points better than the world average. In
1964 its profit rate of about 10 per cent
on shareholders’ funds was at least five
times the average for the international
airline industry. And Qantas’ profit for
the 12 months to March 31 this year is
certain to be much bigger than last year’s
£2 million.
During the 1965-66 year Qantas will
probably carry at least 25 per cent more
passengers and at least as much more
freight, so the profit rise seems likely
to be a big one. This means Qantas is
maintaining the astounding growth of
the last decade, ir, which profits have
jumped by five times, revenue by 3!
times, capacity ton-miles flown by 41
times, and passenger-miles flown by the
same amount.
Can Qantas’ profits keep rising? Will
the big battles it faces bring some halt
to the pace of Qantas’ remarkable growtli
of the last 10 years? Is Qantas becoming
too big to get the best out of being
small, but not big enough to get most out
of being big?
The answers are vitally important.
There are £7O million worth of assets at
book value probably worth something
near £IOO million in real terms tied
up in Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. And
the public owns it. Its board of directors,
a gathering of respected men whose
qualifications for running an airline are
not strikingly apparent, is appointed by
the, Federal Government. Apart from
Sir Hudson Fysh, who is to retire in
June, this board does not have one pro-
fessional airline man as a member. For
the Federal Government seems to have
decided that, like the banks, Qantas
should be controlled by a board quite
devoid of men with practical experience
in its field of operations. This means,,
once again as with the banks, that the
hand of top management inside the com-
pany is strengthened, that the chief
executive in fact becomes the real boss.
How can a board of part-timers disagree
effectively with a tough general manager?
So at Qantas there has never been any
doubt about the fact that “the boss”
means the general manager, Mr C. O.
Turner; he is the CO in every sense.
It may be some indication of the order


of priorities at Qantas that the names
of directors do not appear until page 33
of its annual report—-a long way back
from the inside front cover position that
most public company board members
occupy. However, there can be no dis-
counting the importance of the Qantas
board. It makes the final decisions.
Thus the appointment of long-stand-
ing Qantas board member Sir Roland
Wilson, Secretary to the Treasury, to
replace 71-year-old Sir Hudson Fysh as
chairman is of major significance. The
appointment was well received in Qantas,
and not simply because it represented a
defeat for Melbourne interests which
are reported to have supported the
deputy chairman, Mr R. R. Law-Smith,
for the job. Nor is it significant simply
because it suggests continuation of the
close and apparently friendly relations
between Qantas and the source of Gov-
ernment funds (these have flowed freely
to Qantas in the past decade as its capital
has jumped 2? times). Most important of
all, Wilson’s appointment appears to
strengthen the hand of the existing
management which, under Mr C. O.
Turner, has made Qantas one of Aus-
tralia’s best-run companies.
If Sir Hudson was largely responsible
for the growth of Qantas from its very
humble beginnings into a profitable but
still small airline, it has been Mr Turner,
who joined as the accountant 32 years
ago, who has made it one of the world’s
top 12 international services. This is
not to decry the remarkable contribution
made to Australian aviation history
and the development of Qantas in his
46 years with the company —by Sir
Hudson Fysh, a contribution that is
modestly outlined in his recent auto-
biography, “Qantas Rising”.
Fysh emerges from his solid book
of reminiscences as an unexcitable man
whose stubbornness was exactly what was
needed to hold, in check the madmen
who seemed to abound in aviation in the
1920 s and ’3os. A man who did not
do well at school, being a “late
developer”, he managed to emerge un-
scathed through the many board dis-
putes back in the 1920 s when he was
one of the founders of Qantas.
Bold, risky measures
HThe most striking thing about the book
A is the revelation that Qantas started
out in 1920 with a prospectus that was
clearly reckless —and naturally failed to
ilive up to its promises. It made astound-
ing claims that are excused in visionaries,
but which are just as wrong and bring
about the same sort of losses as any
other wrong claims. For example: “As
the Government will provide and pay
for all landing grounds along the route,
risks of accidents will be practically
eliminated.” It then had 20 crashes in
the next 10 years, an average of one
every six months.
The prospectus went on: “Directors,
all of whom have an intimate know-
ledge of the districts in which the com-
pany will operate, have carefully ex-
amined estimates of the revenue and
expenditure. They consider that the net
earnings will suffice for the payment of
liberal dividends on the capital invested.”
In its first three years of operations,
the company lost £6s93—more than its
original paid-up capital. It was only the
Government subsidy on airmail that
saved the company, with the Government
paying 4s. per contract route-mile flown.
This subsidy made up more than 80
per cent of the airline’s revenue in 1924;
even by 1934 the subsidy still accounted
for 58 per cent. Now, of course, there is
no subsidy; there has not been one for
many years. Instead, the Government
gets a healthy 6i per cent dividend,
totalling £1.2 million, on its £17.7 mil-
lion capital investment in Qantas. In the
early years, though, it meant that the
Government was paying out about £1 a
letter to Qantas for its airmail services.
Nevertheless. Qantas had the ability to
survive as the old Queensland and North-
ern Territory Aerial Services Ltd, while
all the other pioneers failed.
In the midst of all this excitement
came one of the “greatest events” in Hud-
son Fysh’s life —getting two guineas in
1919 for an article, “Buffalo Hunting on
Foot”, printed in The Bulletin
There are big problems ahead of
Qantas. Bold, even risky, measures are
being taken to meet them. The coming
re-equipment races, particularly into
supersonics, add to the existing problems
of mounting competition on Qantas’
best routes and the prospect that the end
may be in sight for some of the special
reasons for part of Qantas’ past successes.
Qantas’ main advantage in recent times
has been in being able to tailor its air-
craft to its needs; Qantas probably did
better than any other airline at getting
just the right size Boeing when the jet
revolution came at the end of the 19505.
For Qantas chose the smallest available
model of the Boeing jet, and then
shortened it some more. As Boeing were
making the smaller ones before the
bigger versions, this meant that Qantas
had jets across the Pacific a year before
rival PAA got delivery of its bigger
Boeings. The public did not know the
difference between the two jets and did
not care; they took the same time to
get there and were just as comfortable,
which was all that mattered. Its early
start, however, brought Qantas a boom
in customers and profitability that has
carried the company through the prob-
lems of the early 1960 s without a dent
to its profit record.
In fact, if the jet had not come along,
Qantas would not have had the physical
resources to cope with current passenger
traffic, which would be the equivalent of
50 Super Constellation aircraft, com-
pared with the 15 operated before the
jets came in 1959. Whether there will
be scope for this sort of management
decision in the next re-equipment round
is uncertain, as some proposed aircraft
types might suit the bigger operators
more than Qantas. Yet there is no doubt
that Qantas looks confident. It has com-
mitted itself to huge expenditure in
coming years on jets and supersonic air-
craft. To some extent, this re-equipment
has already started, with Qantas in the
process of adding nine big Boeings, with
40 per cent more capacity, to the 13
smaller 100-passenger Boeings in the
fleet—and with the prospect of a further
two being ordered.
Re-equipment problems
Tn the 18 months to the end of last
year, Qantas more than doubled its
carrying capacity, at a cost of 65 million
dollars, by lifting its jet fleet from 11 to
19 including six of the biggest Boeing
jets. This growth has meant that in the
last decade Qantas has borrowed £6O
million to buy 24 aircraft worth £BO
million, and had paid back £24 million
by March of last year. Yet not even
this sou of expenditure has meant that
Qantas is a drain on Australia’s foreign
reserves For last year Qantas earned
£5.4 million more in overseas currencies
than it spent. By 1970 this amount is
expected to rise to £ll million, despite
continued purchases of very expensive
aircraft. In terms of the foreign ex-
change that would have been spent on
foreign operators had Qantas not existed,
Qantas considers that it saved the
country about £l9 million last year and
will save it £44 million by 1970.
By the end of the current decade,
Qantas will probably be running 30 jets
compared with its current 22; its cap-
acity will have doubled from last year’s
384 million ton-miles: its staff will have
risen from its current 9000 by 1200 a
year, even before it goes into super-
sonics. By then its turnover should have
reached £IOO million.
One of the re-equipment problems. is
what to buy next while waiting for the
supersonics, which are not due for an-
other seven years or so. The aircraft
manufacturers are presently trying to in-
terest world airlines with bigger, stretched
versions of their existing aircraft or else
commercial versions of huge military
machines that have payloads more than
double the biggest existing jets. If any-
thing, it looks as if the move into “flying
buses”, with their 300 passenger-plus
capacity, will work solely to the benefit
of the big airlines on the most intensive
routes. As the latest I AT A annual re-
port said: “The thought of fantastically


low potential operating costs offered by
the stretched jets and big air buses is
offset by the fact that they would be
limited to suitable high density routes
and would need to be operated at reason-
ably high utilisation to provide their
operating costs.” If this becomes the
cheap way to travel, Qantas could find
itself losing out if it decides against the
“flying bus” concept and goes for the
half-way house of bigger jets, but not
massive ones.
Qantas’ decision will be closely re-
lated to the cargo potential of these air-
craft, as it needs a freight-carrying pas-
senger aircraft to handle its freight prob-
lems rather than using all freighters as
most other big airlines do. For air
freight to Australia is too much a “one-
way” operation into the country to make
it pay for freighters. So is everything.
Perhaps in five years’ time Qantas may
be able to justify an all-cargo flight,
although not even the New Zealand trade
merits it at present.
Freight is a fast-growing activity, with
last year’s increase in revenue totalling
more than 25 per cent. One reason why
Qantas expects the freight business to ex-
pand at a faster rate than the 15 per
cent a year forecast for passengers is
that the growing use of costly equip-
ment, particularly in electronics and
computers, should bring more air freight
business. For it may cost far less to air-
freight such items than to meet the in-
terest charges involved as they take time
to travel by ship.
Supersonics also present a real prob-
lem to Qantas. There is also little
room for manoeuvre in ordering super-
sonics to suit Qantas’ special require-
ments, although their projected size
(about the same as the small Boeing)
seems to suit the Qantas flight pattern,
at least initially. With luck, Qantas will
be first on the Pacific route with them,
just as it was first with the jets.
The sonic boom is a worry for super-
sonic operators, but it would not cause
Qantas too many problems on its Pacific
services, which do not fly over many
populated areas. Qantas is on the
order list for four UK-French Concorde
supersonic aircraft and for six of the
yet undecided US plane. The Con-
corde will certainly not be plain sailing
for Qantas, as it will have only half the
range of the big Boeing, will not have
any cargo space and little for mail, and
will cost more to run. As, however, it
will be twice the speed of present air-
craft, it can carry much more in the
same time. Qantas is not resting with
the Concorde. Its “reservation” for six
US supersonics, which are planned to
fly at least 400 miles an hour faster than
the Concorde and to be far bigger, is
there to protect its order position.
The cost of these aircraft is terrific.
The Concorde will cost about sls mil-
lion (US) each, or about £6i million.
The US plane will probably be around
the $3O to $4O million range. It seems
most unlikely that Qantas would want
to run these two aircraft at the same
time, as its policy has been to concen-
trate on one type, or at least one
engine type, on main routes so that
servicing is so much easier. This is a
problem it has to solve. After super-
sonics come, Qantas could still be
operating three basic aircraft types —
smaller subsonic jets in the current
Boeing range, a larger subsonic jet up to
double the capacity of the Boeings, and
supersonics. There may be different fare
regimens on each.
The passenger is king
Tt seems possible that the bigger air
traffic gets, the more vulnerable it
might be to swings in the economy. If an
economic downturn should coincide
with the big re-equipment campaign of
the early 19705, then the results could
be serious indeed, as they were for so
many airlines in 1962. Even without
such a prospect, it will not be all plaip
sailing for Qantas. Most of the estimates
within the company are for its share of
world traffic to fall, although its volume
of traffic should continue to rise very
sharply. There was no sign of any fall-
ing proportion in last year’s results,
when Qantas’ passenger traffic increased
by 21 per cent against the industry’s 18
per cent and its freight went up 25 per
cent against the industry total of 18 per
cent. The reason Qantas is budgeting for
a fall in its proportion of the business
done is not just because of problems of
traffic rights into other countries, but
even more because of the pilot shortage
and competition. The drop in proportion-
ate share seems inevitable in view of the
increase in other airlines wanting to do
business in Australia and which
Australia must bargain with.
Qantas has the advantage that a large
proportion of its customers, almost half,
are Australians, and so are not likely to
be taken away from it if airline nation-
alism gets any madder. Excluding the
New Zealand trade, which makes up
almost half the total number of air trav-
ellers leaving Australia, Qantas accounts
for about two-thirds of air departures
from Australia. This provides a solid
base for Qantas’ operations, although in
its further-flung stages, the Australian
passenger content falls to quite small
proportions. It does mean that Qantas
avoids one of the main problems that hit
KLM (which carries a very small pro-
portion of Dutch passengers) when
national airlines began to flourish and
demand reciprocal rights to services
with KLM. The way the international
airlines are organised, it is hard for Qan-
tas to get decent loadings on some seg-
ments of its routes, particularly those
parts that link two foreign countries.
Yet the other side of this coin suits Qan-
tas, for the international air transport
rules leading to this also work very
strongly to Qantas’ advantage in keep-
ing other countries out of Australia.
Airmail means more to Qantas than
to any other airline. Last year airmail
earned 13 i per cent of Qantas’ total
revenue of £5O million, more than all
its other freight activities. Most of this
came from the Britain-Australia mail.
Rival airlines have been trying hard to
break into this £l2 million business that
Qantas shares with BOAC in its “pool”.
Another reason Qantas does so well on
mail is that most of it is carried at the
full international postal rate and not at
the lower intra-Europe or internal rates.
But the passenger is still king, pro-
viding more than two-thirds of Qantas*
receipts from flying operations. The
trend has been to cheaper travel, with 82
per cent of last year’s passengers being
on economy rates. The proportion seems
to have steadied at around this level,
which gives a higher ratio of first-class
passengers than most other airlines,
presumably because many Qantas cus-
tomers are not paying their own bills
and are travelling long distances. These
long distances are another advantage
Qantas has over most rivals, as it costs
the airline less to operate per mile than
if it had to face the expense of landing
at far more frequent intervals.
There is a clear swing away from the
very competitive London route, through


FLY
An sett-AN A
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
53
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
FLY AND DRIVE _ 110 Avis Stations throughout Australia are
ready to give you instant service. Drive one of the great new Falcons
or other fine cars . . . proper insurance protects you and frees you
from care. Avis honours Ansett-ANA and all nationally-recognised
credit cards. Book your Avis car when you book your flight.
ANSETT-ANA
A VIS RENT-A-CAR
the Middle East, to the Qantas-domin-
ated Pacific trip, coinciding with a re-
markable increase in tourist traffic in
this area. This dominance will soon be
whittled away by increasing competition,
particularly from BOAC if its gets a
route.
If Qantas has its special advantages,
it also has some special disadvantages.
It carries much more into Australia than
out of it, particularly in the European
winter. So it faces difficulties in making
a two-way service well utilised on
average. In addition, Qantas’ smaller size
means that it gets nowhere near the
revenue per employee that comes from
economies of scale to companies like
PA A and TWA.
The major factor worrying Qantas
now is staff, with the pilot shortage being
so acute that some services have had to
be limited. It takes about six crews to
keep an aircraft fully occupied. But
pilots are not the company’s only staff
problem. There is an admitted lack of
depth in the company’s management
structure, due to the impact of the war.
There is only a narrow gap between the
average age of the top management
group and the sub-managerial group that
will succeed them. So when the top man-
agement is replaced, its successors will
also be close to retirement, without a
solid enough core of replacements pre-
pared for the job. With Qantas forecast-
ing its need for senior management over
the next 15 years at 350, this will mean
a large and sudden change in the age
level of people managing Qantas in the
19705.
Qantas also faces severe shortages of
skilled tradesmen and is trying to
solve its problem by spreading its main-
tenance operations into other Australian
ports than Sydney. The whole staff prob-
lem exists around the world. Another
problem is trying to reduce the biggest
cost Qantas faces —in getting passengers
into its aircraft. In a recent study of its
Pacific route costs, Qantas discovered
that commissions, selling and advertising
costs came out at 21 per cent of the total
cost of running the service. One reason
for the big selling costs is that about 70
per cent of Qantas bookings come
through agents. The next most expensive
item was maintenance and overhaul,
which took 18 per cent. Fuel and oil
took 11 per cent, crew costs 10 per cent,
depreciation 9 per cent, station and
ground expenses 9 per cent, administra-
tion 6.5 per cent, interest charges and
development cost write-offs 3.4 per cent,
landing fees 3.3 per cent, and insurance
1.6 per cent.
One big event facing Qantas this
year will be the opening of its hotel, next
door to its present head office, which
will be vacated (all but the ground floor
booking hall) and sold when the new
£lO million, 40-storey head office is
built on the Wentworth site. Qantas is
also a big property owner in other than
hotels. Its real estate, spread around the
world, is worth many millions
although it appears in the balance sheet
at a quaintly low valuation of only £lO
million. Qantas will soon add further
to its real estate with a £2.3 million
training centre to be built at Mascot.
The real estate operations are aimed
solely at saving high rents; at present
the company is paying dearly for the
fact that its head office is too small and
staff are spread over other office blocks.
So, if Qantas continues to make the
right decisions about equipment, if it
can keep up its standards despite its
rapid growth, if it can solve its staffing
problems, and if the Australian economy
(and world trade) keep going ahead,
then Qantas has a bright future. “I don’t
see any frightening problems ahead,”
says Mr C. O. Turner.


There’s no end
Lift SAVERS NEW FACTORY'!
mm^i
fipj:
■■ ■'<■
Wfflmi
y
to the applications
Air Conditioning
by
CHRYSLER
8
PHONE YOUR STATE AIRTEMP DISTRIBUTOR
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 349
Montague Road, West End. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W ,; Stratafio Pty. Ltd., 100 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown. Phone 51 6645.
A.C.T.: Stratafio (A.C.) Pty. Ltd,, 4 Ipswich
Street, Fyshwick. Phone 9 0705.
VIC .! Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray
Street, South Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A.: Airtemp Operations, Chrysler Australia Ltd.,
Ninth Avenue, Finsbury. Phone 45 3661.
W.A. t Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray Street,
Perth. Phone 23 2214.
AIRTEMP OPERATIONS
&
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
CM 72
Will Success Spoil
Barry Humphries?
“I'd quite like to go to Vietnam "
By PETER COLEMAN
64 A CTORS are a rather innocent
/A race,” Barry Humphries said.
“I’m politically somewhat ignor-
ant. I have a sense of indignation without
being able to argue it through. But I
think I tend to be rather more to the
right than to the left.”
We were discussing what Barry Hum-
phries had meant when he had called
himself in a London interview a “human-
ist fascist”. He had just returned to
Sydney from his triumphal tour of Aus-
tralian capitals and only a slight darkness
around his jade-green, slightly pop-eyes
suggested the tiredness he must have felt.
“I'm also a bit snobbish. I imagine
that’s what I meant.”
Snobbish? “Well, about the people I
like to talk to. I find theatre talk rather
jading. ‘Have you heard
the latest story about
Vivien Leigh?’ That
sort of thing. So many
actors are rather unedu-
cated and a bit not
mystical, that would be
to put too high a brow
on it superstitious. You know, rabbit’s
feet in the pocket, dolls on the table,
not quoting Macbeth backstage, not
swearing in dressing-rooms, sentimen-
tality about weddings. I’m not supersti-
tious, although I occasionally find myself
walking under ladders a little too
defiantly.
“But I believe in astrology. As a mat-
ter of fact I came on this tour because
my astrologer in London suggested this
would be an opportune time for a tour.”
He was obviously right! “It’s a she.
But that’s not superstition. She’s a sort
of amiable psychiatrist. It’s the mathe-
matical side, the ritual, that rather puts
people off astrology, isn’t it? I consult
her because I agree with Sir Osbert Sit-
well that any attempt at divining the
future is better than if none at all were
made. I gave her the place, day and hour
of my birth and she does certain calcula-
tions. She keeps a file on me and all her
clients. She's intuitive.”
Getting back to conversation, whom
did he like to talk to? “I’m very fond of
the company of women, although I’ve
been accused of not understanding the
feminine mind. I like women; their tri-
vial conversation is much more enjoy-
able than the small talk of men. I’m
interested in fashion and not the Teast
bit interested in sport. I have an antip-
athy to physical exercises, although I
imagine I’ll have to do some if I’m still
on the boards when I’m 40. I simply like
the feminine ambiance.
“I also quite enjoy the company of
homosexuals if they’re witty and wearing
trousers. Of course they all rather think
they are the wittiest people in the world,
although most are not. But I enjoy the
element of outrageousness and detach-
ment in the wit of the really witty ones.
I also like some of the homosexual novel-
ists Firbank, Proust, Kafka.”
Which brought us to his anthology,
“Bizafre”. How did he explain the hostile
reaction of some of the critics? “A lot
of it is the old cry of ‘Sick’ and ‘Why
don’t you get your hair cut?’ In one or
two of the critics I see
something beyond
frank, honest, hostile
criticism. I see some
personal malice. I
wouldn’t argue that the
book has profound
literary merit. It does
not include my favorite prose, it’s simply
a personal expression of my nether
tastes. On stage I’m a social realist,
but wrestlers are allowed to collect
butterflies and I’ve always been inter-
ested in the post-romantic ‘Yellow Book’
authors as a book-collector, a biblio-
maniac. And I’ve been incidentally in-
terested in their contents, too. I don’t
read funny books Thurber or Perel-
man but I like to read unintentionally
funny writers like M. P. Shiel. So a pub-
lisher gave me a set of the French maga-
zine ‘Bizarre’ and asked me to select an
anthology. Some people say ‘Fancy nice
Mrs Everage writing that book’ which
strikes me as a bit muddled, like finding
that Sir Laurence Olivier, who has re-
cently played Othello, uses Palmolive.”
Apart from the “Bizarre” writers
whom did he like? “Nabokov, Mann and
Kafka I enjoy the irony of Neil
Singleton, referring to him. I don't read
many contemporary writers. I prefer the
older mannered writers. I find reading
and writing highly artificial language
rather liberating.”
Australian writers? “Patrick White and
Manning Clark. I found Clark’s history
wonderful and passionately written. I’d
never been able to face any history of


By Popular Demand
Bulletin Record
(45 R.P.M. EXT. PLAY)
Chunder
Down
Under
WITH
sr\
BARRY HUMPHRIES
is still available for only 10s. post-free. It has two
of the hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie's
"The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications"—with a new ski song especially
composed for this record.
Send 10s. (a cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to
"Bulletin Records", Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together
with the coupon and address label below. (Records may
also be purchased over the counter from the Paper Sales
Department, sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 am. to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN RECORD RECORD ONLY
Name
Address
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
. ...State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box <052, G.P.0.. Sydney.
ORDER FORM BULLETIN RECORD
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price 70s. a copy (post tree). I enclose 10s. cheque/postal note.
Name of sender ;....,
Address
State .... B.
If more than one record is ordered, attach list giving full name, address, State and,
if overseas, country.
Australia before. It had been associated
with hot, fly-blown afternoons and ugly,
badly produced books. One is so often
awakened to things through artists. After
Patrick White’s 'Voss’, Nolan, and
Moorehead, I find myself quite interested
in the explorers. Anzac Day seems im-
portant to me now. It seems to have an
emotional I won’t say validity, that’s
a Neil Singleton word truth. I’ve quite
a collection of Australian paintings, too.
The gum tree school. I’ve bought about
30 Streeton, Roberts, Sidney Long,
Heysen, Lambert. I’ll have to find a new
house to find space for them. My walls
are already covered to the ceilings.”
European painters? “I rather prefer
minor painters. I went to see the Rem-
brandts in Amsterdam and felt as you
do when listening to Beethoven or Shake-
speare: they were so reputable, so estab-
lished, so familiar that I couldn’t get any-
thing from them. I got more pleasure
from minor mannered painters, like the
16th century Italians, Romano or Pon-
tormo. They leave one a bit puzzled. I
can’t stand tachism. It’s too easy. It
interprets such a small aspect of sensu-
ousnCss texture and color. I’m think-
ing of holding a retrospective exhibition
of my dada paintings to show I was a
precursor only funnier.”
And the future? “Major Richardson
approached me in Canberra to suggest I
do a tour to entertain the troops in Viet-
nam. I’d be quite interested. Major
Richardson > said the Army would give
me an honorary colonelship. I said I’d
do it for a permanent lieutenant-colonel-
ship. Then my wife would get a pension
if my hotel were bombed. Yes, I’d be
quite interested. Risking life and Bobby
Limb.”
And after that? “I’d quite like to write
a musical comedy about Australia.
An American wants to make a Barry
McKenzie film and I’d quite like to
make a documentary, ‘The World of Mrs.
Everage’. I also want to do more writ-
ing. I have the notes for a semi-
autobiographical novel. It will be in
classic English, not mannered. But I
rather like the unexpectedness of my
career to date and have no real plans.”
Will he return to London? “Probably.
One’s intimate involvement in Australia,
its persuasive character, makes it too
painful to live close to for too long.
“I would quite like to be Jewish,” he
went on. “They are a gifted people, many
of them, and one admires their exclusive-
ness, their solidarity within a minority
and they always seem more colorful than
Methodists or Baptists. My father looks
Jewish.”
Is he? “No. But, as Sandy says, shake


m
'\r\
r
.....
If you can’t afford to buy
a computer, buy part of one.
It works just as well.
Try it. Chip in with other firms in your area and buy an
NCR computer. You can all use it. It’s being done by many
banks and other businesses, all over the world, that need
the speed, accuracy and efficiency of electronic computa-
tion. Or rent time on an NCR-owned computer at your local
NCR data processing centre. Either way, you’ll get the
benefits of NCR’s unmatched systems and service. Your
local NCR man will help you make either arrangement.
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD.


Behind all Industry
there’s a Bank!
if-a
fm
mm
m
.
m
X*&SWi
&S:i
The C.B.C. serves almost every type of business
and Industry: Its modern banking services
have helped Australia for more than 130 years.
Perhaps the C.B.C. can help you, too!
<33>
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
any family tree and one’s bound to fall
out. My family’s origins were in North
Wales and my ancestors were Methodist
preachers in Lancashire. I should add
that I’m very pleased all denominations
seem to enjoy my show.”
Will he Continue performing with his
present gallery of characters? “I don’t
know. I’m quite emotional about them.
Sandy Stone upsets me a great deal and
I’m more and more aware of compassion
for Neil Singleton. I feel more and more
the gulf between people, between genera-
tions, between oneself and one’s children.
There is so little communication, so much
loneliness. You know, a friend made a
profound remark in a letter to my wife
thanking her for a cut-lunch she’d pre-
pared for him on his train trip. He said:
‘cut lunches always make me cry’. You
remember how upset you were when at
school you saw someone’s sandwiches
chucked over the playground, defiled.
The cut lunch represents five minutes of
one’s mother, it represents home in the
desolation of school. It is a repository of
childhood sadness, loneliness.
“I’m quite given to the waterworks.
I wept on New Year’s Eve. Too much
champagne, I imagine, and the eighth
anniversary of meeting my wife. One
weeps out of inability to recapture the
past; one’s children are on an island to
which we have no access. Do we drink
in spite of New Year’s Eve rather than
because of it?”
I did not know, so I asked him if he
might leave the stage. Has success
finished Barry Humphries as an actor?
He paused and said: “I’m not basically
drawn to the theatre as a life-time career
and since I don’t see many plays and
consider my usual excuse, lack of time,
as somewhat implausible, I assume there-
fore that I am not all that keen.”
That seemed more like a fine, man-
nered sentence to end with, so we stop-
ped talking and sat admiring it.
From “Bizarre”


Doctor at the Tests
" I’m not a literary gent, I’m an entertainer”
By JUDITH RICH
Englishman Dr Gordon Ostlere
better known as Richard Gordon,
author of the “Doctor” books- —is
pretty unassuming for a writer of best-
sellers. He can never quite find time to
finish “Anna Karenina” and his conver-
sation inevitably turns to cricket. It was
Tolstoy’s novel and not one of his
own that he was clutching when the
Press fronted him at Melbourne airport;
and it was the Tests that lured him to
Australia, rather than any promotion for
his latest and last “Doctor” book
“Love and Sir Lancelot”. Being a level-
headed fellow, he got fed up with the
“Doctor” series after writing 12. “Better
me, than the readers,” he said in a Syd-
ney hotel room last week. His first book,
“Doctor in the House”, written in 1950;
sold half a million copies and since then
the series has sold close to five million
and been translated into 15 languages.
“I was a very bad doctor,” he began.
“I didn’t like patients. I didn’t get on with
patients. I became an anaesthetist because
all your patient-, are asleep. The next
step, I suppose, was to become a path-
ologist, because they would all be dead
then. After seven years practice, I re-
tired from medicine in 1952. I think I’ve
saved a good many lives by giving it up.”
Gordon wrote the first book while
serving as ship’s surgeon aboard a cargo
boat sailing Australia. His professional
duties consisted mainly of drinking gin
with the chief engineer and exchanging
stories about Glasgow. “There have never
been any funny books about medicine,”
he said. “People love medical things.
You’ve only got to look at the speed a
crowd gathers around a really satisfactory
accident.”
The doctor’s literary career actually
started when he was writing obituaries
for a medical weekly. “I used to look at
the pages of ‘The Times’ and collect the
dead doctors,” he said. “Once I put a
report of a chief surgeon’s death in
Sport by mistake. There’s nothing like
writing obits to get to know how to write
fiction.”
Gordon claimed that most of his.
medical colleagues share his disrespect
for the profession. “You’ve got to put on
a< terrific front to impress the patients.
I never take notice of what doctors say,”
he said; But he admitted that he sends,
for a doctor if anything is wrong with
his family.
He confessed that the question of
whether he based characters in the
‘Doctor” books on actual people was
a bit dodgy”, but said he’d never had; a
writ for libel. Simon Sparrow was an
idealised doctor and not really the writer
himself. “Only people who are ill read
my books,” he said. “They are given in
hospital. Very morbid really.”
“A Baby in the House”, written in
collaboration with his anaesthetist wife,
Mary (also retired), will be published in
England in March by Heinemann and be
available in Australia in May. Although
it’s all about bringing up their own four
children, Gordon stressed that there
would be no Dr Spock humorlessness..
“Most child-care manuals overlook
that the parents are human, as well as the
child,” he said. “The two principles of
motherhood are really (1) Whatever you
do is probably wrong, and (2) It doesn’t
matter anyway.”
Here is a typical piece of advice given
in the book . . . “Toilet Training: What
is. your object? To have a baby who wees
and defaecates by himself, in the right
place,, day and night. Clearly this is going
"The Developers have ottered me a lousy £5,800,000... Why, the
land alone is worth that!"
to Be achieved some time before his
twenty-first birthday. Though from the
behavior and anguish of some mothers
you would never imagine so”.
Gordon and his wife are currently
collaborating on a marriage guidance
book, called “A Spouse in the House”,
which will get away from the conven-
tional works abounding in line drawings
of anatomy. After that Gordon is plan-
ning a humorous story about plastic
surgery, using his wartime experiences
in St Albans, England, as a member of
a plastic surgery unit.
Publicity gimmicks, such as autograph-
ing copies of his work in bookshops, are
not in Gordon’s line. Nor are high liter-
ary aspirations. “Leave that to Tolstoy.
I’m all for plot. I’m not a literary gent,.
I’m an entertainer. You wouldn’t pick
an opera singer to join the Beatles.”
He finds writing difficult and usually
works from nine to five o’clock during
the English winter taking long walks
to do his thinking. When he gets, home
to the London suburb of Bickley, he will
have a lot of work to catch up, on. But
meanwhile, that very normal popular
fiction man, Richard Gordon, is going
fishing in New Zealand.


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
The Good Loo Guide
Asa result of my encounter with the
Bijou Lavatory, a kind friend has
sent a copy of a pocket-sized book by
Jonathan Routh entitled “The Good Loo
Guide” or “Where to Go in London”.
This public spirited booklet gives a
brief description of the facilities avail-
able to the needy in London and
quite splendid they often are grades
them one star (good), two stars
(unbeatable value), three (worth travel-
ling out of your way to experience), and
suggests that as soon as possible a Good
Loo-keeping Seal should be established
and the public should be advised not to
visit those places which are unable to
display this seal.
It emerges in the course of the guide
that, as usual, ladies are less well served
publicly than gentlemen. Not only are
they seldom provided with after-shave
lotions, hair creams and plugs for their
electric razors: there are no public loos
open for ladies at night in London.
The most fetching loos examined by
Mr Routh are —-
The British Museum 100 “turn left
inside main entrance until you reach
Assyrian sculptures, turn right into
Egypt, proceed past the Rosetta Stone,
past a tiny pyramid, and right again just
before you come to a figure marked
‘Colossal green granite beetle, 550 BC’.”
Dr Johnson’s 100 “on the second
floor hallway we discovered, in full view
of passers-by, a window-seat which has
a hinged lid and inside is lead-lined with
a tap and waste-pipe. Out of reach of
this, there is, behind the front door in
the ground floor hall, a chain some four
feet long and of great weight. A type-
written notice informs one that ‘The
Great Chain was made by the women
chain makers of Edgbaston, who worked
naked except for a leather skirt and
apron. On Friday nights they went
roistering into Birmingham in all their
finery, became drunk on gin and beer
and slept in a stable. Incapable of work-
ing on Saturday, they walked back to
Edgbaston on Sunday and went to
chapel’.”
The Buckingham Palace 100 “The
best time to go is 11 a.m. when it opens
(and at present the service seems to be
confined to gents only). Then, if you
present yourself at the entranceway to
the Queen’s Gallery (a side entrance to
the Palace in Buckingham Palace Road)
an iron gateway will be opened for you
by a personage wearing a red, gold and
black morning suit. Follow him down a
passageway, at the end of which hand
him a half-crown and make your request
of him. He will obtain from another
similarly dressed personage a key which
he will use to unlock another doorway.
He will usher you through this, and down
a staircase, and show you to the room
you wish and wait with you while you
transact your business. Nothing very
unusual about the room, no monogram
on the paper, not even the word
‘commoners’ on the door just one
seat and one basin. But while you could
visit 30 other establishments for the
price, none of them could supply you
with the ceremony that accompanies a
visit to this one.”
And St Pancras Mainline Station
Gents which “resembles a vast ecclesias-
tical ballroom with comfortable space
for at least 400 dancers.”
I did think briefly of suggesting a
similar booklet to the NSW Government
Tourist Bureau, but a quick recollection
of Central Railway Women, Manly
Wharf Ladies and Martin Place Gents
(from the outside) told me that our cul-
ture is not yet rich enough to provide
anything that would qualify for a single
star, let alone be worth travelling out of
your way to experience.
The Younger
Woman
How do you think of teenagers?
Irresponsible? Frivolous? Selfish?
Silly? Destructive? Extravagant?
Immoral?
I have just read a book that shows an-
other side. It was written by an English-
man who had charge of a group of
day-release students at a North London
College of Further Education. Day-re-
lease students are young people who
have left school at 15 or so and who
come from their factories and offices
during a part of the week for further
education.
The first group of girls of this kind
that the book deals with were “difficult”:
they arranged their make-up behind
huge handbags on their desks, they wrote
letters to their boy-friends, they talked,
they made scenes, they wanted to get
back to the cigarette factory where they
could earn more money.
Their teacher, W. R. Page, trying to
find some means of teaching them, hit
o% the idea of a magazine not the
conventional college magazine, but one
that really catered for their interests and
that they wrote themselves; a magazine
with stories and advice and sections on
the world around them. The idea met
with great enthusiasm. They called it
“The Younger Woman”. And the book
talks about the 21 issues that the girls
wrote over 8 years.
During that time the membership of
the group changed considerably. How
did the girls reveal themselves?
As generous and responsive to others.
They gave money and affection enthusi-
astically to refugees, the world’s hungry,
animals, children and old people. They
were angered by slums and tried actively
to help people round them in North Lon-
don once they became aware of the
personal misery involved. They wrote
sympathetic but hard-headed advice to
the rejected and lovelorn among them-
selves.
Work? The girls did not want high
wages first. They wanted interesting
work and nice people to work with. At
the same time, they had much of the
traditional working-class attitude that
the less you do for your money (within
reason) the better. But this hangover
from hard times isn’t found in young
people only. They also had a fairly lax
attitude to “scrounging” from people
you don’t know and from institutions,
but that isn’t confined to the young,
either.
Were the girls in revolt against their
parents? Very rarely (and then often
with reason). The Mums set the moral
standard, most of the girls accepted this
and then set themselves high standards,
too. Promiscuity seemed to be rare and
the extreme romanticism of many of
their attitudes seemed to guard against
this.
As one of the girls wrote, “The papers
are always on at the young people
making them look terrible, and some
of the papers actually believe they are
right rotters, and that is why I think
there is so much dishonesty in young
people. They want to try to live up to
their name. The only trouble is that some
of them never grow out of it . . .”
It’s not quite the conventional picture,
is it?
CLARISSA BLACK


Hong Kong is the magic
island of the East.
. And nowhere is the enchantment
greater than in the fairy-tale
Mandarin Hotel, with a
standard of service
and hospitality thatj
is sheer wizardry! M
rooftop pool 300 J
feet above Victoria \
Harbour... a s
choice of 4 gourmet
restaurants...
regal bedrooms,
each with its own
private balcony.. M
a private junk to ~
take you moonlight
Hv * ♦
ilium
SrjjdOl
cruising. There’soneshoppingcenter
right in the hotel—and another just
across a covered bridge—together
they make the colony’s most exciting
treasure trove of bargains.
Come and enjoy life at The
Mandarin—where a courteous staff
is ready to grant your every wish,
member of
Intercontinental
k. Hotels i
. IX
THE MANDARIN — Anthony Ross, General
Manager. Member of the 31 incomparable
Intercontinental Hotels. Call your Travel Agent,
Airline or Intercontinental Offices in
Sydney —2B 8025, Melbourne —63 0221
NEW YORK NEWSLETTER
Mike Quill’s Walk
" Who told you that you were essential?”
From GEORGE McGANN
Mew Mayor, John Lindsay, has had a
lot of us males standing in front of
our shaving mirrors each morning ask-
ing, “Am I essential?” Should the
answer be negative—and I have yet to
meet a male who made that admission
—one is entitled to go back to bed and
forget about getting to work. Should the
answer be positive, or even tentative,
then one is faced with the dreadful facts
of life in the great city.
As of the past week, the facts have
included the bleak reality of a strike by
the Transport Workers’ Union of sub-
way and bus drivers which has dragged
the tempo of New York life down to a
miserable crawl, the bleak uncertainty
of an early end to the impasse between
the Union and the transport authority:
And the bleakest fact of all—how to get
to work each day through impassable
vehicular roads leading to bottlenecks
of bridges and tunnels debouching into
an island frozen almost solid with
bumper-to-bumper traffic.
But to get back to that mirror-fighting
bit. Mike Quill, a professional Irishman
who rules his 34,000 unionists with the
help of a blackthorn stick and a brogue
which he renews through yearly visits to
his native peat bog, struck the city of
"Open up, O'Callagan, or we'll huff and well puff."
New York over the New Year’s weekend
with a transit tie-up of truly paralysing
dimensions.
On Monday, the first working day
after New Year’s, John Lindsay (who
had been sworn in at City Hall on New
Year’s Eve) took to television to beg his
fellow citizens to remain at home: “It’s
very difficult for a man, when he’s
shaving in the morning, to look at him-
self and say, ‘l’m not really essential to
my job’. Most people prefer not to do
that. Most people have great pride and
think that they’re essential to their job.
And they are.” The words, the attitude
and the very look of Lindsay reminded
us of John Kennedy and his inaugural
address, and the immortal exhortation:
“Ask not what America can do for you,
but what you can do for America”,
Mayor Lindsay then urged everyone
who regarded himself (or herself) as non-
essential to remain at home, presumably
for the duration of the strike. Bosses
whose employees failed to show up that
day or next were quick to take exception
to the mayoral exhortations, however,
decreeing, in effect, “No show, no
dough”. And in mid-town cocktail’ bars
the standard quip was: “Who told you
that you were essential?” The new mayor


TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project.
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication,
see Wardrope and Carroll first!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O’Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
m
ILJ
X
V
It
may live or die politically by the out-
come of his current duel with Mike Quill
and the TWU, but he got quick credit
for ending crime in the subway from
every television comedian.
Behind the current crisis—and remem-
ber that we New Yorkers have endured
a desperate water shortage, a frustrating
newspaper strike and a frightening power
blackout in recent months lurks the
bigger question of what kind of future
this city faces. We know all too well
that taxes and death are not only inevit-
able but seem to be catching up with us
at every step of the daily rat race._ The
transit workers will get some fraction of
their ridiculous demands (a 30-hour
week and an astronomical wage boost)
and the local citizen will receive another
jolting rise in taxes.
Crime in the streets, pollution in the
atmosphere, paralysing traffic jams and
all the other urban ills that afflict the
world’s cities seem to be festering rapidly
in this one. No wonder the woes of
New York are front-page news in Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney and even Moscow,
The citizens of those distant parts realise
full well that New York and its prob-
lems are but grim harbingers of the
afflictions sure to come to similar
agglomerations of humanity in due time,
The so-called “American way of life”
as exemplified in this metropolis is noth-
ing more than the world’s way of life
when it reaches the same peak of
prosperity and over-population,
In the short-range view, we are just
hoping from hour to hour for some
relief. People who haven’t walked farther
than from their front doors to the nearest
subway station—or their garages—are
suddenly hiking miles to work, bicycling
over bridges and even roller-skating to
their offices. The commercial community
of this city reports at least 100 million
dollars daily in lost business. Macy’s
and Gimbel’s departmental stores admit
“business stinks”. Broadway theatrical
productions are closing their doors for
lack of customers. Nightclubs are white
table-clothed disaster areas.
The TV camera has never ceased its
unblinking stare at the strike news from
the moment the last subway wheel rolled
to a stop. The round-the-clock labor
negotiations in the hotels of the Rococo
Americana Hotel have been distorted by
TV and the newspapers into a man-to-
man confrontation between our elegantly
Ivy-League Mayor and the uncouthly
immigrant Mike Quill. (Asked if he
agreed that the conflict was one between
an intransigent Irish rebel and his
English conqueror, Lindsay replied,
“That’s a terrible question to ask of a
Scot.”)
Quill’s arrest on camera for his union’s
violation of a State law forbidding
strikes by Public Service employees
“The Judge can drop dead in his black
robes” his incarceration in the city’s
comparatively plush alimony gaol “I’ll
rot in gaol but the strike will go on”
and his melodramatic heart seizure two
hours later and removal by shrieking
ambulance to Bellevue Hospital all
added up to a day of melodrama un-
matched in the usual daytime soap opera
which the news events pre-empted on
every television station.
But what showed on the surface was
only an iceberg-like segment of the
realities beneath the surface in the labor-
management picture, specifically as it
related to the bright, new political image
of Liberal-Republican John Lindsay. His
predecessors of the past 20-odd years
have all been Labor-oriented—Democrats
all and all beholden in great degree to
the solid votes of the great Labor unions.
Mike Quill threatened a strike as regu-
larly as clockwork every two years at
midnight of the New Year—but never
had to plunge over the precipice because
his old pal Bob Wagner always came
through at the last moment. But this
year Bob ran off to Acapulco with his
bride the day before New Year’s Eve
and left handsome young Mayor-elect
Lindsay holding the bag—an empty bag.
as it turned out, since the city’s Treasun
is as empty as a politician’s promises.
Mayor Lindsay is now faced with a
test of strength, not only with the Trans-
port Workers’ Union but with all the
other unions which are backing the
strike, determined to hold the place of
preference they have gained over a
generation. Meanwhile, we hapless New
Yorkers are trying to muddle through,
praying our feet hold out.


4
■
v :
WMmm
'*s&■
■x..:
S
■:?■
Maybe you can’t take the day off—hut...
wvvuwvvvwuwjTniyij u u
»>>*>>»:& #*Z&2iSiSik&, > xittgaW* , »:••:*:*»«•;:» ... iK**s* ....... •■ .
&&&&&:
. jMv/X'i-XvWwSt> ;• •:v:'X':w/>w»jj: ;->x%«>XvCCvcccii«j:’^
S':v.w,vXvp; . V MCvKsvx<oc« •. .-iMowoMbMtfMir* ~,-.•. •. -xriUvCMttoiMOM w:c^cocc^.^xoci
>*' . . : .vw/m^>. : >x»>^xow^>xc^
You can work in cool comfort every day!
Having a Kelvinator Air Conditioner in your office
or rooms enables you to work efficiently no matter
how high the mercury rises. Because it is a refrig-
erated unit, a Kelvinator Air Conditioner not only
cools, but banishes humidity the greatest cause
of summer discomfort.
Completely automatic, it ventilates, exhausts stale
air and smoke, circulates and filters fresh air and
provides the most economical method of winter
heating, too.
Smart, new style Kelvinator units are available
from only £199.10.0 each. Choose from 5 models—
one just right for your needs.
If you can’t take the day off take a moment to
contact the Kelvinator Branch in your capital city
for complete details.
REFRIGERATED AIR CONDITIONERS


LETTERS
Dr Davidson s Myths
SIR. —The article by Bruce Davidson on
agriculture and official policy (8., Dec.
18) is so full of inconsistencies and mis-
statements that they warrant an immedi-
ate reply. I do not claim to be a Senior
Lecturer in Agriculture nor a writer of
myths as Dr Davidson designates him-
self, but I have been associated with
land settlement in NSW since joining the
Lands Department in 1898. At that time
the pressure for the opening of the vast
areas of pastoral lands held under lease
in the Western Division of the State and
much of the Central Division was becom-
ing intense, due in large measure to the
migration of Victorian and South Austra-
lian wheat growers into NSW. This
demand was resisted by every means
possible and backed up by a lot of
alleged scientific ballyhoo. However,
the pressure became irresistible and
hence the tremendous extension of our
wheat-growing areas, mainly due to the
use of superphosphates and the system
of fallowing, which the new settlers from
the south introduced.
It was not the scientist that brought
about this expansion of the wheat areas,
it was the “know-how” and sound com-
mon sense of the farmers. With this ex-
perience to guide us, we are now told
the same negative story by Dr Davidson
that bedevilled the attempts of the
settlers 60 years ago to get a footing in
what are now amongst our best wheat-
growing areas.
The Doctor seems unduly worried
about subsidies and says the most obvious
way not to employ labor and capital is
in producing cotton, sugar and rice, all
requiring subsidies to support them. The
sugar subsidy, he says, costs approxi-
mately £14.000.000 a year, but on the
other side of the balance sheet are the
vast sums received by the Common-
wealth and States by way of income tax
(over £600.000 from the sugar com-
panies alone) received from the pros-
perous traders of the sugar towns of New
South Wales and from towns like
Townsville, Cairns, Innisfail, Mackay
and Bundaberg in Queensland. These
prosperous districts contribute far more
to the national economy than the cost
of the subsidy.
It should also be noted that these
subsidies have been made essential due
to the increasing labor costs created by
the industrial set-up in our cities.
H. R. McWILLIAM
Moruya (NSW).
Dr K.
SIR. —In an assessment of the general
validity of Dr Knopfelmacher’s “Twen-
tieth Century” article, one would at least
expect Mr Brian Buckley (8., Dec.ll) to
refer more fully to the criticisms of it
already published, and to quote them
correctly.
For instance, in his own article in the
Spring, 1964, “Twentieth Century”, he
mentions Dr K’s “periodic abusive out-
bursts”, finds his assessment of Commu-
nist influence at Melbourne University
“far too crude” and “too partial a des-
cription”, and calls his outline of the
counter-attack of the Left “a clever piece
of theorizing, but, , . . based on largely
circumstantial evidence”, he detects “mis-
understandings” in the rest of the remarks
on Catholics, and says of Dr K. himself
that “one is not always confident that his
habit, when in doubt, is to give the in-
dividual the benefit of that doubt”. At the
level simply of ideas, it is difficult to
reconcile this rather tactful attempt at
dissociation from Dr K’s article with
Mr Buckley’s more recent enthusiasm.
Mr Buckley might also have men-
tioned:
1. Mr K. G. Armstrong's letter in the
same issue of “Twentieth Century”.
This demonstrates the inherent absurdity
of what Dr. K. has to say about Catho-
lics at the University by translating his
jargon into plain English, then goes on
to expose the pseudo-scholarly apparatus
of Dr K’s footnotes.
2. My friend James Griffin’s article
(“Catholic Worker”, May, ’65) which
also points out the inherent absurdity of
Dr K’s analysis.
3. The reply by Father J. Golden,
S.J., University Catholic chaplain
(“Twentieth Century”, Winter, ’64),
which corrects Dr K’s ideas on role
of the Newman Society.
It is therefore adopting the enemy’s
standards to attempt to confuse K b
whose genuinely scholarly publications,
experience and lecturing ability were
deemed by the Selection Committee to
fit him for the Sydney post, with K 2, the
political manipulator who has so over-
reached himself in his intemperateness
of language, coupled incongruously with
a susceptibility to imagined insult, that
he is unlikely to get an unbiased hearing
even when he may happen to be talking
sense.
C. B. THORNTON-SMITH
Balwyn ( Vic.).
THE LAW AND THE GOSPEL
feulLetin
80 Years Ago: January 16, 1886
T HE contest between Joseph Symes, the
leader of the Melbourne Secularists,
and the Victorian Government is one of
the most interesting fights which have
come off in these colonies for many a long
year. Symes, as a staunch believer in
Secularism, attacked the Gospel with ridi-
cule, at the same time proffering an open
platform to whomsoever would come for-
ward to defend it. One or two shepherds of
the flock ventured to debate with the
heretic, but their success was not over-
whelming not sufficiently encouraging
to induce a rush of new champions. There-
upon the Government was entreated
nay, commanded - by a section of the
clergy and their followers and Press
organs to prosecute, and, if possible, sup-
press. A musty Act was dug out of the
depths of old-world tyranny, and Symes
was committed to take his trial as a crimi-
nal charged With keeping a "disorderly
house". He defended himself, no jury could
be persuaded to convict, and when he
presented himself to be tried a third time,
he was informed that the Government had
given in. His platform was free. Meantime
Symes' newspaper, the "Liberator", has
been made the best advertised paper in
Australasia.
NZ Journalism
SIR. ln one particular will I agree
with Mr Shadbolt (8., Dec. 11). I am
angry.
He now says he aimed at the NZ Press,
not journalists. Imprecise expression is
still a journalistic crime Mr Shadbolt.
And what of those paragraphs in your
article which dwelt, with considerable
scorn, on our lack of artistic knowledge
and perception? In my simplicity I con-
sidered these aimed at journalists. I did
not consider them aimed at our em-
ployers as well as or exclusive of our-
selves.
If Mr Shadbolt had cared to consult
the files of the New Zealand Journalists’
Association’s monthly magazine, “The
Journalist”, he would not have bothered
to ask his question about laziness and
complacence. Nor would he have quite
misstated our attitude toward Lord
Thomson, or Mr Murdoch, or indeed any
overseas investor in our Press. The
NZJA, which spoke for all journalists
then as now, clearly stated its attitude
two years ago when Lord Thomson
began his ill-fated and badly organised
attempt to take over the “Dominion”. The
NZJA then said, and reiterates still, that
in principle it has no objection to over-
seas investors who have, in their own
countries, records of fair treatment of
their journalistic staffs.
Mr Shadbolt has undoubtedly heard
journalists say that they were prepared
to welcome Lord Thomson, or rather
his organisation, as a- fresh breeze. But
does that make the existing Press “de-
structive of journalism as a profession”?
So to my earlier charges of sloppy
writing and carelessness with facts I must
now add extravagant and redundant


il
: 1
*•
Dinner for two
•««
a
k V
!' 1
11 _IT
au
N»> *•>
or a sumptuous banquet
Whatever your taste in food from the
simple to the sumptuous Menzies can
cater for it. Right in the centre of
Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
controlled air-conditioning, genuine 24-
hour room service, and free in-hotel
parking for your car. Menzies widlfl
range of restaurants brings you food
from the four corners of the world!
Emperor Room Nightclub features gourmet
menu with floor show nightly at 9.30.
Single rooms from 5 gns. Doubles from
£6.15.0. (Special rates for children.)
B_B" , »fl_eiiJUL-Jin nn nn
fi tr-fi n mm rr nr rn
nja_ii.r_Bn rr nr rr nr
e_fl_b.b .rn rn rn rr kb
fin nn..nn nn nn nn kb
nn rn nn nr nn nn nr
i n
&
Menzies
fS|J Sydney
M Hotel
I*2l/34
14 CARRINGTON ST. TELEPHONE 2-0232 CABLES “mENZOTEI” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: VICTORIA— Menzies, MELBOURNE; Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE;
Hotel Federal. MELBOURNE. QUEENSLAND-Lennons, BRISBANE; Lennons. TOOWOOMBA; Lennons. GOLD COAST.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— HoteI Australia. NORTH ADELAIDE. TASMANIA— Wrest Point Riviera. HOBART.
verbiage. It seems Mr ShadboTt has, as
I said in my first letter, been too long
away from the sub-editor’s pencil
(actually they use Japanese felt pens
and ball-point pens now).
P. B. DALY
Lower Hutt ( NZ ).
Queensland University
SIR. —I would like to congratulate your
magazine for its fine analytical article
concerning the recently rushed-through
legislation, the University of Queensland
Act (8., Dec. 18).
However, I have been asked by the
Queensland executive of the Australian
Council for Religious Rights to clarify
two points in Dennis Pryor’s article which
are misleading. To begin with, the 7-
member executive and 5-member legal
committee did not go on a “hunger
strike”, but a self-imposed fast of 48
hours duration, similar to that used by
Gandhi. Before the fast ended, the num-
ber of people participating had reached
a total of just over 50.
You are correct when you say the
ACRR is “an obscure body”, but at the
moment, we have only a total member-
ship of 4000, comprising members from
all non-Christian faiths. As our numbers
grow, so will our militancy and with it
will go our obscurity.
MUHAMMED HARPER
Brisbane ( Qld ).
Spanish Civil War
SIR. —Mr Martin Haley in his com-
ments (8., Dec. 25) on my review of
Vincent Brome’s book, “The Inter-
national Brigades”, makes some strange
claims. He denies that it is “almost a
misnomer” to describe the 1936-39 war
in Spain as a civil war. Well, what was
it, if not an international war? Three
Italian divisions participated on Franco’s
side, Mussolini’s submarines sank ships
carrying supplies to the Republic and
Hitler’s Condor Legion became the
backbone of the Burgos junta’s air force.
Every specialist agrees that without these
formations, opposed on the loyalist side
by up to 40,000 International Brigaders,
there would have been no victory.
What right, asks your correspondent,
have I to dub Franco’s victory as
“Fascism”? the answer is: the right
derived from facts. The Franco regime
is an authoritarian one-party system with
a personal dictator, the caudillo, at its
head. It enshrines the ideals of the
corporate State on the Italian fascist
model, outlawing political opposition and
substituting State-controlled syndicates
for democratic trade unions and Labor
organisations.
DAVID MARTIN
Melbourne (Vic.).


postal bookings are open for
the fourth adelaide festiva
of arts/march 10-261966
Be sure of seats: post your order now
Full programmes and booking forms available
from all Airlines and Travel Agents or from
The South Australian Government Tourist Bureau
390 George Street, Sydney, 8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne,
18 King William Street, Adelaide, or from
the Festival Office, Box 1960, G.P.0., Adelaid®
book now!
London Symphony Orchestra
Louis Kentner/ The Australian Ballet
Athens Drama Company
Modern Jazz Quartet / Porgy and Bess
Dame Judith Anderson
Berlioz’s Requiem Mass
“The Royal Hunt of the Sun”
Die Kammermusiker of Zurich
Kalakshetra of Madras / The Tintookies
and many other exciting attractions
The Q in Wagga
SIR. I am sick and tired of the
sniggering of professional actors over
the blunders made in designing Wagga’s
Civic Theatre 8., Dec. 18). Mr Walter
Sullivan is at great pains to point out its
inadequacies. One would have thought
an actor would have been pleased to
comment on the positive sides.
The most valuable service that this
theatre, and its sister theatre in Albury,
is doing for the community is, however,
not providing a show-place for travelling
professional companies but a real theatre
in which amateur groups can gain -experi-
ence on a fully equipped stage. Each
year Wagga stages a drama festival.
The general standard is such that it is
debatable whether any of the plays pre-
sented by the Q would have figured in
the awards.
A. C. NICOL
Agricultural College,
Wagga {NSW).
Motor Murder
SIR. —It is with regret that 1 see from
your editorial writing that the staff of
The Bulletin has joined the non-think-
ers on the subject of road casualties.
The supervision of motoring should
not be in the hands of criminal law en-
forcement agencies. The training of
drivers should be handed over to the
Education departments.
Two other departmental organisations
are required: a Road Patrol organisation
and a Road Engineering Liaison section.
The duties of the Road Engineering
Liaison section should be to ensure that
State and Municipal road - making
authorities adopt standard practices
based on the best information.
The activities of the Road Patrol
should be based on the principle that
every citizen has a right to drive a
motor vehicle unless in the course of his
education as a driver or his subsequent
career as a motorist it is shown by
evidence to a competent authority that
he is mentally or physically incapable
to drive. The only proceedings against
a motorist which can result in a gaol
sentence or fine should be intentional
assault with a motor vehicle, driving
when having been forbidden to do so
by a competent authority, and failing to
halt a motor vehicle when ordered to
do so by a member of the Road Patrol.
Through access to suitable tribunals, and
‘'on-the-spot tickets” for minor matters,
the Road Patrol should have wide
powers for obtaining education, re-
education, and re-examination of drivers.
Action as above is in line with action
of the more enlightened States of the
United States. In one State, for ex-
ample, driver education is a high school
subject. The good standard of driving in
that State amazes Australian visitors.
D. COWEY
Mt Waverley {Vic.).
Exports to China
SIR. The ban on the export of copper
announced by Trade Minister McEwen
and National Development Minister
Mr Fairbairn contrasts very strongly
with the unrestrained export of rutile,
iron and steel, wheat and wool to Red
China and other Communist countries.
The Australian Year Book No. 39,
1953, on page 461, specifically states
that:
“. . . powers for the normal measures
of control or supervision over exports
are conferred by Section 112 (i) of the
Customs Act, and they provide for
prohibition of their export of . . . any
goods—
(a) the export of which would be
harmful to the Commonwealth.”
Why the ban on copper and not on
rutile and other materials which are
already strategic in character?
R. J. JUDGE
General Secretary,
Queensland Labor Party
Brisbane ( Qld ).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Keeping the Flag Flying
in the North
By JAN SMITH
The pride and joy of Queensland art
followers is the Johnstone Gallery,
down behind Cloudland in Cintra
Road. It’s on legs, but the oiled wood
verandah, shaded by lush umbrella trees
and tropical greenery, is very Queens-
land contemporary. No, said Johnstone,
there wasn’t really an architect.- They’d
done it themselves, and it had more or
less grown. A South Australian' with the
usual wry charm, Johnstone holds his
openings on Sunday mornings, avoiding
the frantic rush that accompanies Syd-
ney’s five o’clock showings. People stand
around on the flagstones in the garden,
shooing children off the reclining stone
nudes, or gather at the bar under the
house where saucers of Moon Tiger coils
keep mosquitoes at bay.
In his grass-matted cubbyhole upstairs,
Johnstone couldn’t resist observing that
Sydney, despite its bigger population and
passion for art, had not yet acquired a
really nice gallery. Sydney was, he sus-
pected, still in the Late-Terrace-House
era, and for some people, newly awakened
to culture, there was probably a big thrill
in slumming around on ricketty stair-
cases with a glass of bad claret.
“I suppose it's fairly true to say we
haven't got the big money you have in
Sydney and Melbourne the nouveau
riche class who buy up paintings for
status or investment. Queensland still has
what you might call an Establishment,
and although you can’t ever expect much
from the landed part of it, the barristers
and doctors and architects are a steady
market, and take a real interest in paint-
ing. But a few retired pork butchers with
money to fling around wouldn’t be turned
away exactly.”
But despite his gallery’s charm and
financial success there is only one
other commercial gallery Johnstone
admitted there were a few snags. “Edu-
cation is what you really should write
about,” he said. “In Brisbane’s top public
school for boys I believe there isn’t a
single book on art in the library, and
not one period in the timetable set aside
for art or creative work.”
In many cases, it is the wives who
keep the flame of art alive, steadily ex-
posing their philistine husbands to gallery
openings and tiny purchases until they
will quietly hand over big money for an
original painting.
But even with the wives, education
may have left its mark. “You’ve no idea
how many of them tell me they were
‘not artistic at school’, and then proceed to
make quite pleasing things,” said Milton
Moon, who has just won a Churchill
Scholarship to study pottery teaching
abroad. “Somehow, through bad art
teaching, they emerge with the idea that
they're hopeless at creating anything, and
just never get the confidence to go near
an exhibition.”
One of the six Queenslanders to share
the 48 awards, Moon is the only potter
and one of the few artistic people to get
a Churchill grant. He is 39, “you can
call me a maturing young potter”, and
since 1950 has been potting seriously. He
leaves, he hopes, with his wife and son,
in April for six months in America and
Europe.
Why is potting in? Moon thinks it’s
part of a general trend, originating in
America, to get back to the basic things
in life —the good earth and clay. “We
like to sneer at Americans,” he said, “but
a lot of them are smart enough to rea-
lise a two-car home and conspicuous con-
sumption leaves a bit of a hollow ache
somewhere. All this home weaving and
baking their own bread is part of the
picture, just as it is with potting and
ceramics and guitars.”
A healthy climate for art needs more
than education in school and home. “I’d
say the most urgent thing is to educate
Brisbane's cab-drivers,” quipped Laurie
Thomas, over a beer at the City View
Hotel. When he arrived in Brisbane four
years ago to be director of the Queens-
land Art Gallery, the position had been
even worse than it was now, and he had
undertaken a one-man campaign to con-
vince drivers that the large, fussy red-
brick edifice by Bowen Bridge contained
an art gallery as well as a museum. *TP
suppose,” he mused, “that we’ll have to
get a bigger sign.” v
Mr Thomas arranged a recent exhibi-
tion of models for the new art gallery.
They were wild and wonderful buildings,
one circular (the winner), many split
level, and one distinctly Assyrian, but,
unfortunately, the location that had been
in mind, across George Street from the
Bellevue Hotel, has been withdrawn to
make way for a new bridge.
“All our problems about getting a new
gallery go back to the Centenary Year
in 1959,” said Mr Thomas. “They'd been
talking for years about a new gallery
and that year we had a Centenary Fin-
ance Committee, with the State Govern-
ment promising a pound-for-pound
subsidy. But I'm afraid this is where the
fun really started because the whole thing
got out of hand. In no time at all the
fund had been stretched to include a
whole series of buildings, Halls of In-
dustry, Halls of Science, a Pioneer Hall,
all that sort of caper, of which the gallery
would simply have been a minor part.
A decent gallery would have cost a mil-
lion at least, and with all these other
things there simply wasn't a chance of
getting it.”
The “decent gallery” envisaged by Mr
Thomas could include a theatre, for films
on art and guest productions by Brisbane
repertory groups. “We haven't got a
proper theatre now Her Majesty's has
gone over to ‘My Fair Lady’,” he ex-
plained, “and the Festival Hall is used
mainly for boxing matches and kids’
ballet recitals.” It would also contain an
art school, a restaurant, and possibly a
creche to accommodate gallery-goers’
children.
But the old Queensland problem of
money was still the real snag. “The
Government keeps pleading the drought
and Mount Isa,” Laurie Thomas said,
“and it looks like being years. That was
the reason Robert Haines resigned you
know. All these committees and big plans
that don't come off.”
In his 41 years at the Gallery, Laurie
Thomas thinks there has been at least
some heartening progress. “When I came


here there was practically no contem-
porary stuff, just a few Dobells andi Dryse
dales and a Godfrey Milter, so I tried;
to rectify it, and get some sort of balance.
The early Australian stuff was very good,
and there was some nice sculpture and
early 1900 British paintings, but the
Trustees were very wary about new Aus-
tralian stuff. Now we have Olsen, Bill
Rose, Hessing, Gleghorn, Coburn and
even Fairweather’s ‘Epiphany’.”
The only people in Queensland who
don't complain about the depressed
state of culture are the painters them-
selves. Admittedly, Molvig and Fair-
weather, the two best known, .may be
seething with protest, but Molvig has been
ill in hospital and Fairweather is safe
on Bribie Island.
The situation would, though, be grim
for anyone who tried to live by painting
alone. There are not many of these. Bron-
wyn Yates has art classes, John Rigby is
with Patterson’s advertising agency, Mar-
garet Olley has an antique shop and Gor-
don Shepherdson works at the abattoirs.
Until recently Neville Matthews was a
part-time window dresser for David
Jones-Finneys, and Andrew Sibley, one
of Queensland’s best-known painters, has
settled in Melbourne.
“The really best painters are the ones
who work in seclusion,” said Contempor-
ary Art Society president Roy Churcher.
He was speaking about Molvig and Fair-
weather, but, after a few thoughtful sucks
on his pipe, thought it could well apply
in other fields. “Australia is the most
vulgar and tasteless country in the world,”
said Churcher, a London boy, “and,
naturally, you get the more sensitive
characters withdrawing, either as recluses
or into groups. But even a group becomes
vulgar in time . .
Churcher admires Molvig for his dedi-
cation, but there are a few others who
are not so sure, and feel that a lifetime
of not winning the Archibald is hardly
going to give confidence.
Churcher is now teaching full-time at
Tech., “to support my three and a third
children,” and is one of the four or five
painters who teach at the life class on
Mondays in the basement of St Mary’s
Church Hall at Kangaroo Point. The St
Mary’s life class is an institution that
stretches back into the mists of time, and
was already a landmark on the art scene
when Molvig took it over from John
Rigby who inherited it from Margaret
Olley in the early ’fifties.
It is a low-ceilinged room with a con-
crete floor, cluttered with the usual empty
turps bottles and old rags, and to it come
students from all walks of life. Teen-
agers, housewives and public service
clerks draw endless nudes, the silence
broken only by the swish of fresh draw-
ing paper and the unseen people in the
hall upstairs rehearsing. No one is too
sure what it is they are rehearsing but
it has sounded the same for the last ten
years.
Still, Queensland’s painters find the
money rolling steadily in and their repu-
tation bright, but it is too often southern
money and opinion that keeps them at the
top. And much as Queensland’s art
leaders may complain about a farmers’
Government, prurient dentists, and a lack
of big money, the root cause is probably
right where Brian Johnstone says —in
the schools.
THEATRE
Span of Attention
The Magic Circle Club, Tivoli Theatre,
Melbourne.
Pinocchio. Comedy Theatre, Melbourne.
Mumba Jumba and The Bunyip. St. Martin’s
Theatre, Melbourne.
The Tintookies. Princess Theatre, Mel-
bourne.
man in a bear costume waddles across
stage, and the children shout in
delight. A moment later a score of
characters form a singing, dancing
kaleidoscope and the children shift
restlessly in their seats and whisper.
Easily pleased and quickly bored, they
like funny walks, chases and yelling at
villains, but seem supremely uninterested
in songs and spectacle.
This year’s crop of panto-goers, hav-
ing been born to TV, gave their most
enthusiastic response to The Magic
Circle Club. TV’s most ambitious and
successful children’s session has borrowed
heavily from traditional panto, so made
the return trip easily. The children were
wildly excited to see their beloved Nancy,
Fredd Bear, Old Mother Hubbard and
Co. in the flesh, in color, and in a re-
markably lavish production. Producer
Godfrey Phillip skilfully integrated TV
kinescopes, wide-screen color film and
ultra-violet effects with first-class settings
by Brian Thompson. Ted Dunn (who so
skilfully animates the bear suit) provided
the most opulent costumes we've seen
since “Camelot”. But John Howson’s
script in which the unspeakably evil
Sir Jasper steals a clown’s smile was
too complex and slow to keep the audi-
ence absorbed.
It's a different story in more ways than
one at the Comedy, where Walt Disney’s
version of “Pinocchio” is given a low-
budget and unimaginative production by
Betty Pounder. Once again, Mr Howson
is responsible for the script, which, like
the sets and costumes, was adapted from
the Disney original. While the kids found
the simpler story line easier to follow,
the pace was again too slow. But at least
promoter Noel Ferrier had the good
sense to hire a batch of thoroughly pro-
fessional principals. Frederick Parslow
was a charming Gepetto, Judy Banks
shimmered appropriately as the Blue
Fairy and John Gregg was the most
sinuous and unscrupulous of scoundrels.
Mavis Bramston’s diminutive James
Kenney played Jiminy Cricket so con-
vincingly he may well be Jiminy
Cricket; and Dale Adams made a good
job of his half of the alternating title
role.
Peter O’Shaughnessy and Barry Hum-
phries pooled talents to write “Mumba
Jumba and the Bunyip”, a play with
music at St Martin’s. (A previous and
superior bunyip play is kept off stage by
an injunction taken out by an annoyed
co-author.) And, despite some ill-advised
talk of bogey-men and things that go
bump in the night, it’s as fine a piece of
antipodean whimsy as you’ll find this
side of the black stump. Surrounded by
some very promising youngsters playing
frogs, platypuses, etc., Neville Thurgood
is a substantial Koala and Paul Karo a
bonzer Bunyip. The sets and costumes,
might have been designed by Arthur
Boyd, but were, in fact, the commend-
able work of Paul Kathner.
The Tintookies are back in Melbourne
after an interval of five years. Peter
Scriven’s five puppeteers manipulate an
astonishing 110 characters on the Prim
cess stage, to a musical score by Kurt
Herweg. Scriven’s story has his little
people losing their belief in magic
but the little people in the audience
certainly hadn’t lost theirs, TV notwith-
standing.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Wider World
The Ugly Duckling. Alan Kitson. Eliza-
bethan, Sydney.
Robin Hood. Stanley Willis-Croft. Tivoli,
Sydney.
Cinderella. Rodgers and Hammerstein.
Royal, Sydney.
Santa’s Christmas Party. William Qrr.
Phillip, Sydney.
summer-holiday season is by fairly
recent tradition the time of the year
when “ageing” pop stars, with an anxious
eye on the future, try themselves out in
the wider world of the full-scale stage
production and when good, hard-work-
ing actors take up the slack caused by the
television and radio shut-down. This
arrangement hardly makes for consistent
casting. Competent players in small parts
seem almost physically to carry the inex-
perienced “names” through the show.
One of the “ageing” pop stars is Little
Pattie in “The Ugly Duckling”. We were
forcefully informed by our copy boy that
Little Pattie, at 161, had “had it”. How-
ever, Little Pattie, despite the horrors of
amplified music issuing from an under-
populated stage and echoing across the
cavernous Elizabethan, made a pleasant
stage debut. She is pretty and graceful—
too much so, of course, for an ugly
duckling—with a good speaking voice
and a natural stage presence. However,
it could not be denied that she has a long
way to go, as, indeed, have Australian


Talent Associates, the corporate body
behind the Joy Boys, which more or less
threw “The Ugly Duckling” together.
The Tivoli is such an old hand at
panto that you could almost believe
that someone waved a magic wand and
there was “Robin Hood”. It is entirely
traditional and from the point of view of
children appeared entirely satisfactory.
Noeleen Batley’s singing voice is pleasing
enough, but her speaking voice is a
disaster. Johnny Lockwood is wonder-
ful old hand as the Dame and good
support comes from Doug Kingsman,
Alton Harvey and Michael Boddy.
“Cinderella” has a great many just
average Rodgers and Hammerstein
songs, many of which seemed to bore
the young members of the audience more
than a little. Roslyn Dunbar was an
appealing Cinderella, in both voice and
appearance. Gwen Plumb and John
Meillon worked themselves into the
ground to keep things moving. One of
the things they couldn’t keep moving was
Dig Richards’ voice, which neither goes
up nor down, nor often hits a note.
P.R.
The colorful assortment of nursery 1
rhyme characters who people the Phillip
Theatre’s pantomime keep the young-
sters in the audience vitally involved in
“Santa’s Christmas Party”. The children
are recruited on to the stage to make up
Old King Cole’s band of musicians. Noel
Brophy, as Santa, moves around the
audience with a “how do you do and
shake hands” greeting. Cries of recog-
nition go up from the children as a fast-
moving procession of story-book charac-
ters sing, dance and clown their way
through the show with zest and obvious
enjoyment.
J. R.
TELEVISION
Who’s Who?
Who, now appearing six times a
week on ABC television and drawing
good houses at picture theatres, is one
of the phenomena of the time. The
good Doctor and his granddaughter
arrived from a place unknown more
than a year ago in the space-time ship
Tardis, which lay concealed in a London
junk yard disguised as a telephone booth
while the girl attended school, though
heaven knows why because she knew
more than her teachers. This led two of
them to follow her home one night,
through the junk yard, into the telephone
booth, and thence into time and space
at the petulant whim of Dr Who, an
aged gentleman with long white hair
and an obvious habit of forgetting his
lines.
Since then the four have sided with
the remnants of a human race against the
Daleks, furry little fellows who get
about in mechanised robot suits. Al-
though the devilish Daleks are as in-
human as space villains come, they seem
to have gripped the juvenile imagination
as no one of their ilk has before. Their
first showing on the BBC created a Dalek
toy industry, and the British film indus-
try created “Dr Who and the Daleks”
for the holiday trade. Meanwhile, ABC
Television is repeating the adventures in
Marco Polo’s time, daily, and showing
the latest series, with Daleks, once
weekly. They are getting more exposure
than Shintaro.
The odd thing about “Dr Who” on
television is that the good Doctor, with
his degree from Planet X, must be a
major contributor to the success of the
show. And yet the old gentleman is an
actor of the Sir Henry Irving school,
which, I understand, was a wild one in
gesture and intonation. So we have the
paradox of a generation usually prefer-
ring understatement happily accepting
an elder who overdoes everything.
DALE MILLER
Rather a Trial
The Trial. Director, Orson Welles. Channel
2, Sydney.
Qrson Welles was, tragically, a direc-
tor who needed Hollywood; unfor-
tunately Hollywood didn’t need him. He.
needed its incomparable financial re-
sources, its cameramen of genius, its
editors and its composers; but he was
unable to satisfy Hollywood’s only test
of quality: ability to make money at the
box-office.
Despite the fact that his American
films, after “Citizen Kane”, were butch-
ered by the studios it didn’t prevent
them from forming a still richly reward-
ing group. Unfortunately, Welles’s Euro-
pean career has been far less satisfactory.
“Confidential Report” was an unmitigated
disaster. “Othello” had some interesting
passages, but squandered reel after reel
on tricky camera effects. “The Trial”
seems to me little better.
The main trouble with this film
shown by Channel 2 last week following
a Sydney theatrical season is its out-
rageous amateurism. Without the aid of
Hollywood technicians, Welles flounders
about as helplessy as a Jean-Luc Godard.
The camera rushes about in a kind of
mad parody of the New Wave, conver-
sations are atrociously post-synchronised,
the lighting is dim, and the actors no
less so: many of them were dubbed by
Welles himself.
Anthony Perkins substitutes for the
agonised tensions of Kafka’s central fig-
ure a definitive display of the fidgety,
effeminate mannerisms Hitchcock so
cunningly used in “Psycho”. Completely
unfelt, this performance is all on the
surface, and directed with an appropri-
ate superficiality.
Kafka's novel conveys, with unsparing
clarity, the predicament of the underdog
in an impersonal and ruthless bureau-
cratic society. Welles’s version is sim-
ply the story of a disorganised freak let
loose in a converted railway station made
to look like a “B” picture art director’s
rehash of King Vidor’s office decor in
“The Crowd”. One can only look for-
ward to Welles’s next film, “Chimes at
Midnight”, with a despairing apprehen-
sion.
CHARLES HIGHAM
FILMS
Poor Relation
Marriage Italian Style. Director, Vittorio
de Sica. Lido and Savoy Theatres,
Sydney.
The Great Race. Director, Blake Edwards.
Forum Theatre, Sydney.
the deliberate reference of the
title, Vittorio de Sica’s film has little
in common with Germi’s “Divorce
Italian Style” except for Marcello Mas-
troianni, the male star of both. There is
none of Germi’s wit or barbed social
comment. This is, in fact, a film of quite
startling sentimentality.
It does have a certain surface realism
which leads to its being identified as
“earthy” and “lusty”; which when you
boil it down means that the man and
woman involved are not only Italians
but Neapolitans (earthy and lusty by
definition), also they’re not married, the
woman has earned her living by prosti-
tution and has illegitimate children. I’ve
heard that this sort of thing is actually
known in frigid Anglo-Saxon colonies.
Anyway, leaving aside the lustiness and
so on (which in this film seems mainly
to consist of shouting), the story tells of
the efforts of a former prostitute and
long-time mistress of a seedy business-
man to force her lover to marry her. She
accomplishes it by a trick, her lover is
furious, but in the end guess what?
That’s right, true love! It is a remarkable
tribute to Sophia Loren and Marcello
Mastroiarmi that their talent and warmth
really lend some value to this Peg’s
Paper nonsense.
Blake Edwards must surely be the
most uninventive and repetitious comedy
director in the business, and when let
loose on a three-hour film sets himself
happily to repeat all jokes fifteen times
instead of his usual five. This noisy, in-
terminable tale of an early long-distance
motor race has none of the humor or
the good- humor of “Those Magnificent
Men”, nor, despite the sparkling good
looks of Tony Curtis and Natalie Wood,
is it anything like as attractive to watch.
It’s sad to see Jack Lemmon's comedy
style coarsening to this extent; and
though “The Great Race” does produce
some laughs, they’re mostly to the credit
of Peter Falk, whose prankish perform-
ance as the villain’s assistant is admir-
ably restrained.
BEVERLY TIVEY


BOOKS
Liberal Intrigues
By HENRY MAYER
Power in the Liberal Party. Katharine West.
Cheshire. 525.
Liberal stalwarts feel that Aus-
tralian political scientists are over-
whelmingly pro-Labor, and are engaged
in a conspiracy, if not of misrepresenta-
tion, then of silence, against their party.
For these Liberals 1949 stands for a
genuine break. They see their party as
in the vanguard ofi change, as the party
of the young, the educated, the technolo-
gists. They claim that academics ignore
its achievements and fasten old labels:—
possibly applicable to the Nationalists, and
UAP —on to the Liberals: “negative”,
“big business”. And if they do not treat
the Liberals as merely another anti-Labor
party, they are accused of giving luck
and the DLP all credit for its survival.
In truth, it was in the early fifties, that
political science began its autonomous
career here on any large scale. It was
then that most academics lost interest in
parties. Their heroic age had gone, one
could only talk of convergence towards
a mish-mash centrism. Many academics
have a suppressed romantic urge and love
to take sides. Some of them do so in the
field of our foreign policy where com-
mitment is still respectable and where
they can talk the maximum amount of
waffle without ever affecting events.
Others seek simplicity, spontaneity and
moral fervor in ballads or the early Labor
movement.
The fact is that if you want a book on
any of the parties which is up to date,
deals with both state and federal levels,
and embraces organisation and policy
there is none except for the Country
Party. But these are by Ulrich Ellis, its
one-man brains trust for years.
This book is not about the Liberal
Party as such, but claims to be about
power relations within and between its
parliamentary and extra-parliamentary
wings and the impact of the Country
Party on them.
Mrs West can claim a number of firsts.:
She deals with the party in all states, and;
with its federal level, more impressive on
paper than in reality. She has been very
enterprising in getting access to a great
deal of confidential information, especial-
ly for Victoria. There is a considerable
amount of new material on finance and
on various deals.
The author provides in part a post-
war chronicle of faction and personality
clashes in the party, but she also brings
out the variations in tactics strongly in-
fluenced by the electorial system in each
state and relations with the Country
Party.
She makes it very clear that the usual
way of dividing our parties into Labor
vs. non-Labor/is often of little use. In
areas where it does not contest seats, the
Country Party often makes direct or in-
direct deals with the ALP. In WA she
claims it has even helped to establish
Labor branches “in exchange for assis-
tance in fighting its coalition ‘partner’
elsewhere.”
This is a book which anyone at all in-
terested in Australian politics must own,
even though it is hard to read, theoreti-
cally muddled and in many ways irrita-
ting.
One cannot be very happy about Mrs
West’s methods, though she might with
some justice argue that these were the
only ones open to her. Clearly, she has
received a great deal of “inside dope”
from some Liberals. Unfortunately she
presents much of this with a kind of arch
wink and does not make it clear that
much of her story is only one of many
“inside” versions. She is, and rightly so,
proud of her confidential material. But
just because it was hard to get, it does
not follow it is true. How much confi-
dence, for instance, can one have in de-
tails of accounts of negotiations and fric-
tions with the Country Party when the
crucial data comes entirely from Liberal
sources or the daily press?
Mrs West is almost pathologically anti-
theoretical in a rather silly kind of way:
She seems to imagine that because she
rejects highly abstract models she has
KATHARINE WEST
neither need nor use for any other kind
of theoretical framework. But she does,
not then plumb for history either, which
she could have done on the common as-
sumption (not shared by me) that this,
would mean “no theory”. No historian
would, as she does, almost entirely ignore
the pre-1949 period.
She ends up by claiming that power
relations differ from state to state, mainly
because the political culture and the key
people differ. She makes much, on paper,
of the role of individuals in the party.
But if this is so then surely her theme
should have been power as an extension
of people, i.e., a series of political bk>
graphics. But she does not provide this,
either.
The main objection to the book is that
Mrs West seems totally unaware of the
kind of thing she has committed herself
to, that she introduces, at random, the
most various approaches while apparently
having rejected them. For instance, given
her anti-sociological stance, one fails to
see the point of all the material on how
many Liberal parliamentarians are, say,
businessmen or Catholics. It is there, but
she not only does nothing at all with it,
but also seems to imply that it does not
matter. But why then put it in?
Finally, her method of treatment does
not really allow for much about inter-
action between the federal and state
levels of the party. There are some very
interesting and shrewd observations about
Sir Robert Menzies, but the explanation
as to why he has done no better in con-
trolling state party machines is in fact
a theoretical one taken from group theory.
In many ways this book is one of the
clearest instances of the weakness of
sheer eclecticism. However, I hope to
have made it very clear that there is
plenty of raw material here. To what ex-
tent Liberals will feel happy about a
story which very rpuch concentrates on
intrigue and counter-intrigue is another
matter.
Escapade
What has your wife done, or not
done, that she has this to hold:
that you went out last night, right
out?
The four of you, abandoned
to the neon night, waiting for abated
life to start again, with gifts of girls;
and tips of alcohol. You had waited
half the night; the grog was easy (though
tomorrow the business of the house-
keeping),
but the girls?
There were some who took
improper notice of the gentlemen sitting
at another table, tidying up accounts
in easy atmosphere before they got their
night’s . . .
What has your wife done, or not
done, that she has fashioned your retreats?
Is all your life as Real as that?
JOHN CROYSTON


IT
RED?
yiPi
mMM
/T’S SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . . .
By installing the Smith-Corona “Typetronic 2215”, you
will introduce automatic operation into your office
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OF SMITH-CORONA MARCHANT INC.
Distributed by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 2033 © 167 Queen Street, Melbourne. 67 9161
When Will They Ever Learn?
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
Living With Asia. J. F. Cairns. Lansdowne
Press. 395. 6d.
riiHE famous Methodist preacher
George Whitefield is said to have
possessed such power of voice that he
could make men either laugh or cry by
pronouncing the word “Mesopotamia”.
James Ford Cairns, Australia’s fore-
most preacher of the ideology of secular
socialism, aims to do similar things
with the word “revolution”. For Cairns,
and, recent Australian history suggests,
for some of his audience, the word
“revolution” is a mystical thing, with
powers that explain the past, predict the
future, and dissolve the laws of empiric
discourse.
Because the rest of us have not
possessed this talisman, we have been
blindly thinking about Asia as a multi-
tude of tribes and nations, linked and
separated by race, language and religion,
in which the forces of democracy and
authoritarianism, socialism and Com-
munism contend for the right to control
national destinies and the accelerating
impact of a new technology.
But we are wrong. What is really
happening in Asia is “revolution”
“revolution” as in tne following:
“The rise of the Asian people out of
poverty and impotence to national exist-
ence, economic strength, and human
dignity requires a revolution”-,
“Perhaps a revolutionary situation
may develop in Malaya”;
“We >vould be justified in taking
sides in the Asian revolution only if we
had the strongest reasons”;
“The national revolutionary move-
ment in South Vietnam after 1954 faced
overwhelming superiority of arms and
firepower”;
“In the competing qualities of govern-
ment ... in Vietnam, the national revolu-
tionary movement, increasingly led by
the Communists . . .”; and
“Both revolution and war are involved
in revolutionary war, but the main com-
ponent is revolution.”
The word occurs and recurs, and
without analysis or definition: to define
or analyse would be impious and would,
perhaps, lead to the possessor of the
word losing the benefit of its magical
properties.
By negative reference one can see that
one of the marks of the true revolu-
tion is spontaneity. Cairns records that
at the time of the Geneva settlement the
Vietminh gave up the fight and between
90,000 to 140,000 people withdrew to
the North.
He is therefore discomfited by the
fact that, soon after, almost
a million peasants fled from
the Communist North to
the South. But there is an
explanation! “Nearly a mil-
lion peasants and others
were moved (my italics)
from North Vietnam . . .
This was not a spontaneous
movement.” And why not?
Because no less a novelist
than Graham Greene has
written: “I was there at the
time of the exodus. I would
like to know more of what
happened to those Catholic
peasants from the North
who were scared into flight
by their bishops and priests.”
I was not there at the time but I would
like to know more of what happened to
those fourteen- and fifteen - year - old
peasant lads who spontaneously decided
to run off and join the revolution just
as the recruiting Vietcong cadres put
their guns to the heads of their parents;
and more of what happened to the tens
of thousands of North Vietnamese who
were liquidated from 1954 to 1957 in
the name of the revolution.
In a man who has read his Lenin so
well, the simplicity of Cairns’ notions of
spontaneous political processes and
revolutions is surprising. It confuses him
about Europe as well as about Asia. In
Chapter 2, titled “Nuclear Bombs”, he
J. F. CAIRNS
claims (leading with a so characteristic-
ally Marxist phrase):
“There can be no doubt that move-
ment of Soviet power in Europe beyond
the ‘area of influence’ obtained by agree-
ment at the end of the Second World
War depended not upon the use of
nuclear weapons nor upon conventional
invasions but upon political, economic
and social conditions,” and thus in both
East and West:
“Governments which met the needs of
the people emerged,” and, “peaceful co-
existence came into being.”
So much for the Soviet conquest of
its satellite empire, for the senseless
destruction of the economies of East
Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and
Rumania to meet now-abandoned Rus-
sian plans; so much for
the enslavement of the
Baltic States and the cruel
terror of hundreds of
political prisons; so much
for the Berlin Wall as it
rises four-square to “meet
the needs of the people”.
So much for modern his-
tory.
“History” and its off-
spring “destiny” are also
words which Cairns uses a
lot. “History”, so far as I
can tell, means three things:
(i) “the successful paths to
socialism taken by the
Soviet Union China, East-
ern Europe and Cuba; (ii) the present
and past conflicts between monopoly
capital and militant labor which have
led to some improvement in the ordinary
man’s lot in the West; (iii) the successful
fight against colonialism and achievement
of national identity by the “new emerging
forces” of Asia, Africa and South
America.
The ideological approach to revolu-
tion, history and destiny does not
altogether hide the genuine sincerity and
humanity of the man, but it does
force him to adopt wildly inconsistent
positions. The chapter on Indonesia can
be described only as silly. Almost all of
it was written before the recent failure
of the Sukarno-PKI coup, but even that


does not exp’ain why. after arguing
strongly throughout his book that
economic policy is f he key to revolution
in all of the “new emerging forces”,
Cairns claims that “Inconesia has made
little economic progress, but this does
not seem to worry most of her people.
It has been said that ‘they will bear
economic hardship’.”
Victim partly of Marxist ideology and
partly of Communist propaganda, Cairns,
at 50, may live long enough to see the
horrible truth in a remark about the
events of 1789 recorded by Lamartine:
“There is reason to fear that the revolu-
tion, like Saturn, might devour in turn
each of her children.”
Politics and Perversions
By LEONIE KRAMER
The Young Visitors. John Wain. Mac-
Lilian. 265. 6d.
Cork Street. Next to the Hatters. Pamela
Hansford Johnson. Macmillan. 265. 6d.
Summer’s Tales 2. Edited by Kylie Ten-
nant. Macmillan. 255.
Tohn Wain's reputation as a novelist
J has alwavs seemed to me to be in
advance of his achievement, and his
latest novel does nothing to alter my
view'. Its central idea is promising
enough A group of young Russian
students visits Britain, and comes up
against some representatives of English
Communism in the form of a dis-
organised and scruffy group of dedicated
semi-intellectuals One of the Russian
girls proves susceptible to the attractions
of Western man, and becomes the centre
of a situation which is supposed to reveal
the shortcomings of her ideological
training, and the fraudulence of this
variety of English proletarianism. The
whole novel operates at so obvious a
level that I found it mostly tedious. It
is Httle more than a trite and sentimental
essay on rugged British individualism.
. The contrast * n the minds of the Rus-
sians between their purity and upright-
ness and the decadence ° f Western
though no doubt intended as
satirical, turns out in effect to be a
rather feeble joke. , At the end 1 had
the feeling that Mr Wain was saying no
more than that with all her faults we
love dear old England still; and this
really will not do. Neither his attack
upon English revolutionaries, nor upon
the anti-individualism of Russian Com-
munism could succeed with such slender
means. In fact “The Young Visitors” is
little more than a mild adventure story.
Even its title is second hand.
There is more cheerful news about
Pamela Hansford Johnson’s latest novel.
Some reviewers have complained that
here we meet again her trusted types and
characters, and this is true but unim-
portant. Where Wain has chosen only
a mildly interesting situation, Miss Hans-
ford Johnson has created one which is
lively and provocative. (It’s only fair to
say that I was biased in favor of the
novel from the outset by her decision
to attack the currently fashionable sick
theatre, with its violence, perversion and
exhibitionism.) In order to test a theory
about censorship and about where the
line can be drawn between what is per-
missible on the stage and what is not,
her hero writes a play which is so
obscene and disgusting that he is con-
fident it cannot possibly ever be per-
formed. This has to be, of course, a
“Dorian Gray” kind of novel, in that
we cannot be told what the play says
or does, except glancingly and in very
general terms. The facts must inevitably
pale before the monstrous creations of
the imagination. The hero, to his own
horror and disgust, does have his play
performed, and acclaimed by the pro-
ducer, a number of intellectual and arty
freaks and a substantial part of the first-
night audience as a work of genius.
To anyone who takes at all seriously
the current exploitation of the taste for
the perverted, the bizarre, the grotesque
and the obscene, this is a disturbing
book, even though it is also very funny.
(It is worth reading, by the way, for
one scene alone a description of the
poetry reading given by Dorothy Merlin.
This will send a shudder through any-
one who has had to endure the desperate
earnestness of the mediocre. Unlike Mr
Space-Flight
We are buoyant, reborn. In a bubble of
burning steel
Dancing on fountains of wind, we ride
the boundaries
Of dreams, made prisoners so you shall be
free.
The air we breathe has the taste of a
world’s new morning.
Stripped, weighed, arms pinched in rubber,
watches
Checked against beating hearts, the
harness tight
Around our swelling muscles, we climb in
To the globe laboratory, wearing life’s
wounds.
A black storm of wishing. Now with the
quick
Sharp thrust of an era’s desire, our world
is thrown
Up, up, into a white dazzle of noonday.
We feel that icy scimitar, the moon.
Ihe earth tilts like a green bowl, off the
table
Of azure glass that is the summer sky.
Birds in mauve arrows flash our trajectory
Down cloud-caverns, labyrinths of
coiling mist.
Now we are out. The whole drab weight of
wind
Slung off in a rapturous vertigo. Inside
Spinning brains, only the steady axis holds
Its place, that vertical and certain need
For stars. A hunger bathyspheres can’t
quench.
We gasp, flesh floating in its cloth
balloons,
Tight boots, cold helmets, at our sudden
plucking
From that blue zenith to the dancing
night,
Planets whirling like Catherine wheels, or
brilliant
Flowers breaking through black soil, sun
Like a glittering furnace, heart of a
bright jewel,
Piercing the glass, life, eternal diamond.
Behind us now it is gone, that softer place,
Where we had sheltered since, bawling
with pain,
At the first stab of light, we angrily greeted
Those first moons, our mothers’ breasts.
It runs together now, that mad calendar:
Our children’s summer and our own,
meeting
In the same strike of bats, of feet thun-
dering,
Eyes overlapping on maps of moon and
stars.
Of moon and stars! Drunk with longing, we
Gaze ahead, down that everlasting
cavern!
In a complex of panels and controls, seek
To capture forever those shimmering
glow-worms,
Hoping to bring them to our mire, to find
Lanterns out there more bright, more
pitiless
Than our poor minds can be. To light a
darkness
More deep than any that we now
observe,
To see within those craters of the moon
That truth which trees and glades and
seas conceal.
CHARLES HIGHAM


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
For table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/18888
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Have your favourite magazines
posted to you and enjoy the
convenience of home delivery. We
can arrange a subscription to any
magazine you require. Write or
phone for our big price lists
featuring all the well - known
magazines, classified under such
subject headings as Pictorials,
Hobbies, Business, etc. If possible
advise the name of magazine or
subject you are interested in.
JOHN HINTON PTY. LTD.
118 William Street
NORTH SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: 92 5904 (3 lines)
(When you reply please quote "Dept. 22")
Wain, Miss Hansford Johnson has some-
thing to say and the question she can-
vasses about where one draws the line in
censorship, has still not been tackled
satisfactorily by either side in the argu-
ment. Again unlike Mr Wain, she
manages to provoke thought about her
central theme without sacrificing the
comedy. I found this altogether an enter-
taining book, and nonetheless so, I
think, because of the familiarity of some
of her types. They are put to excellent
use. Mr Wain’s novel is no match for
hers in interest, structure or style.
“Summer’s Tales 1” was a good an-
thology, but it was perhaps expecting
too much of any editor that she should
gather together enough material for two
really first-class anthologies in so short
a time. That Kylie Tennant has done
as well in “Summer’s Tales 2” as she has is
a tribute to her editorial persistence and
conscientiousness, but the result is
patchy. Not all these pieces are short
stories; at least two are accounts of
actual happenings. They do not sort very
comfortably with their fictional com-
panions, and in any case they are not
good enough in themselves to deserve
inclusion, so they rather give the im-
pression of being make-weights. The
same is true of several of the stories. I
respect Miss Tennant's desire to bring
into print the work of an unknown
writer. Any anthologist surely hopes to
find new work and looks for potential
and talent which will develop with en-
couragement. But there are stories here
which do not have any special interest
and do not show much promise.
They are conventional little sketches,
predictable in their logic and mediocre
in expression stories which lack the
power of making experience meaningful,
and which instead, like those of the
popular magazines, merely evoke a stock
response. I do not think this point is
met by Miss Tennant’s statement that
“academic magazines have one idea of
a short story and the citizens another”.
She underestimates the citizens, in my
opinion, if she thinks they will be satis-
fied by this collection. Further, I do not
know what is meant by the assertion
that “no more representative gathering
of stories has ever appeared in the South-
ern Hemisphere”. Representative of
what? Not, I fear, of the best —at least
on this occasion. The plain fact is that
Miss Tennant has tried to make a silk
purse out of a sow’s ear (or several of
them) and has not succeeded. There
are a few reasonably good stories—most
of them, incidentally, by the “known”—
but no outstanding ones. And I have
the uneasy feeling that some of the
writers who no doubt were encouraged
by seeing their work in print, might in
the end have benefited more by having
it rejected.
Sydney Out of Focus
By BILL HANNAN
Sydney. Text by Gavin Souter. Photo-
graphs by Quinton Davis. Angus and
Robertson. 755.
Although it has about 50 pages of
text, “Sydney” is mainly a photo-
graphic collection. It is not a good one.
The range of subjects is conventional,
and within that range too many of the
images are flaccid.
Gavin Souter sees Sydney as “Anglo-
Saxon, affluent, carefree”; like its beach
girls, “fair to look upon, but not par-
ticularly cerebral, a good sport, but
inclined to be complacent and self-
indulgent”. Quinton Davis, the photo-
grapher, seems almost to have taken this
as a licence to skim the pleasant surface
of the place, sportingly, complacently
and non-cerebrally.
Yet Gavin Souter has given a camera-
man many mpre leads. Why ignore the
Rockers, the Lord Mayors, the arties, the
art critics, the beach boys, the suburban
boys, the salesmen, the hire-purchase
culture, the festive neon, the vineyards at
the back of Italians’ houses, the oppres-
sive suburbs, the slums, the bordellos,
the jockeys, the strippers, the boozers,
the beach girls—all of whom crowd into
the text? And why be so amiable, even
about objects? Souter, for instance,
blesses the fact that he cannot see the
Baha’i Temple. His photographer gives
a perfectly straight foliage-framed view
of it as though it were an interesting
monument. The least one might have
expected was a glimpse of a cultist.
The collection in short is low on in-
sight, into the city, into the possibilities
of photography and especially into
people. Apart from swimmers, there are
very few images of ordinary life, and
none at all of death or decay. Other than
to cross the street, those people have
no problems and no joys. They are class-
less, sexless and useless indifferent
commuters from one antiseptic building
to the next.
Gavin Souter’s text creates sharper
images. He enters more interiors and
more minds, and consequently unravels
more motives. He has, of course, many
gaps to fill, and, on the inland suburbs
especially, he fills them capably. To an
outsider, his elaborate fixing of his land-
marks and bearings is tedious, and his
coyness about the historical background
surprising. (Watkin Tench, for instance,
gives him a peerless description of the
inland suburbs: “Before us lay the track-
less immeasurable desert, in awful
silence.”) For the most part his studied
description has produced the required
eulogy without flatulence. The photo-
graphs, unfortunately, are too sleek to
provoke anything stronger than mild
euphoria.


The Visit
By
Eligabeth O'Conner
The plan., banked, turning in a sweep-
ing half circle, descending slowly
as it flew ever the city. The engines
no longer held the soothing purr and
pause, purr and pause, that had put Ella
to sleep for a greater part of the journey.
They began a long, cautious pulsing. It
was as though they were saying, “Lower
lower, careful careful.” Ella looked
down at tiled roofs, then tall buildings
thrusting their way out of fog. She caught
a glimpse of leaden water. Leaning across
the aisle she spoke to the children.
“Look! Do look! There's the Harbor
Bridge! Remember all that I have told
you about it? Remember the photo-
graphs?”
They jostled and pushed against the
oval window. Comics slid to the floor.
“I've lost my little bag of sugar!” said
Dick, and dived down feeling underneath
the seat.
“Never mind that now. See, there it is
almost directly beneath us. And there’s
the place where the big ships come in.
Isn't it exciting? Aren’t you both ex-
cited?”
“I've lost my little bag of sugar.”
moaned Dick, still grovelling.
Linda, superior because of her eleven
years, pushed her nose flat against the
thick glass. “I see it! I can see the
Bridge!” then after a thoughtful pause,
“Is this Sydney?”
“Yes, darling, this is Sydney.” Ella had
an impulse to say, “This is Home. This is
my own wonderful city, where I belong.”
But that would sound so foolish and senti-
mental. She must not be emotional.
Children didn't like it. And it was not as
though she had not returned here within
the last twelve years. But this time it was'
different. Ella had brought her two
younger ones for the first time. She
would have the opportunity of showing
them the places she had known in child-
hood. Of seeing them react as she had
reacted so mar,} years ago. She felt a
warm rush of gratitude to her husband
for suggesting that she should bring them
south for the May holiday. For a brief
moment she was little Ella Lambert
again, being taken about by her mother,
or an aunt. Savoring the new, exciting
taste of hotel food. Thrilling at the
thought of a visit to the Zoo, or a picnic
in the gardens. She spoke again to the
children.
At the airport it was cold and the
children, coming with such swiftness from
the languid warmth of North Queens-
land, shivered in their new overcoats.
“It’s cold.” said Linda.
“It’s all grey,” complained Dick “and
I didn’t get my little bag of sugar even
then.”
“Oh don’t go on about it.” Ella was
suddenly irritable. “What a stupid thing
to worry about, when there’s so much
ahead of you, st many things to see and
do.”
In the taxi that took them from the
airport to the city, Linda was silent,
shivering slightly. Dick made aeroplane
noises.
“Don't.” said Ella.
She was grateful for the carpeted
warmth of the big old hotel, into which
she had booked for sentimental reasons.
“I stayed here quite often when I was
a child,” she said happily. “It's hardly
changed at all.”
“It looks very old.” said Linda politely.
Then with a swift glance at her mother.
“It must be.”
“It was old when I was a little girl,”
said Ella stiffly, and wished that Linda
wouldn’t look quite so smug.
She was pleased with their room, which
was large and warm, though dimly lit.
There were three very plump beds cov-
ered in quilts of a subdued, restful green
that matched the curtains.
At once Ella sat at the telephone and
rang her sister, who had an important
job with a firm of publishers, and lived
in a little flai at Darling Point.
“We’re here, Marjory! Actually here!
It’s marvellous! The children are
we-ell, rather overcome I think.” She
glanced furtively at them. Two sober
figures, still in their overcoats, staring out
of the long narrow windows, at the damp
city.
“Yes, yes, we had a good trip, hardly
a bump. We left Townsville at eight
this morning. What will we do, did you
say? Oh, the usual things. The Zoo, a
trip to Manly, that sort of thing. Yes
it is a bit dampish. But it will clear, I
should think. And if not there’s always
the dear old Art Gallery, and the
Museum. I suppose there are some good
shows on? Suitable I mean.”
The children could hear their aunt’s
voice, a thin clacking at the other end of
the wire. Aunt Marjory, who was very
clever, and gooc looking, so they had
been told.
“Clackety clack clackety clack.”
went Aunt Marjory. Their mother leaned
back in her chair flushed and laughing.
“Oh my dear Well, you know what I
mean. Remembei the things we saw when
we were kids?”
“Clackety clack,” answered Aunt
Marjory.
“Mummy seems happy.” said Linda
primly to her brother.
In the afternoon they rested, because,
Ella told them, this was the thing to do.
Always on her first day in Sydney as a
child, she had rested in the afternoon.
She lay back on her plump bed, comfort-
ably wrapped in a warm dressing gown,
and sighed with contentment. “Listen!
Listen to the city, children.”
They listened, and could hear a dull
roar, as though some great beast was im-
prisoned beneath the pavements.
In the morning it was still raining, a
fine drizzle that made the black streets
gleam, and turned the shops into warm,
lighted caverns.
“Oh dear!” said Ella. “Well, never
mind. We’ll have a little jaunt round the
big stores, and a nice lunch somewhere,
and then we'll go to the Art Gallery.
You'll love that. I Could have spent hours
in the Gallery when I was your age.”
The first .hing that they noticed on
their arrival at the Art Gallery were the
naked statue.,. So much nakedness so
blatantly displayed. They giggled explo-
sively behind spread hands.
“It is Art.” Ella explained to them.
“True art. Nothing is shocking in art.
The human form ...”
They wandered off before she had
finished. She followed them, feeling hurt
and annoyed. They really were being
rather difficult.
Then she remembered the picture. The
one that she hac always loved, from the
very first time she had been brought here


by her mother. She hurried forward,
caught up with her children, passed them,
murmuring “It was along here some-
where. It shouio be here.” She had the
strangest feeling, almost amounting to
fear, that it would be gone. What hap-
pened to paintings after a length of time?
Weren’t they sometimes sent on some-
where else? It had possibly been replaced,
perhaps by some modern thing. Some-
thing abstract,” she thought in distaste.
Their footsteps echoed beneath the
arches, her cwr quick and firm, the
children’s sometimes quick, sometimes
lagging. When she came upon it she was
suddenly breathless, and dizzy with happi-
ness! “It’s here! It’s actually still here!”
said Ella so loudly that an eMerly couple
turned to look at her.
When the children caught up with her
she said quietly, reverently, “Circe. The
lovely witch. lust imagine, she’s been
here all these years.”
“She looks like Miss Toms,” said
Linda. “Yes she does look like Miss
Toms,” agreed Dick.
“Who on earth is Miss Toms?”
“She teaches at our school.”
“Oh,” said Ella doubtfully. Could
there possibly be a Circe at the school
they attended i Townsville? She hardly
thought so.
On the following morning Sydney
smiled under clear skies. The harbor was
dark blue, trimmed with white frills.
The ferry boats moved busily back and
forth, as smoothly and swiftly as water
beetles. The shop girls were more cheer-
ful, ready for conversation “You come
from the North? My, you’ll notice the
difference. It’s lovely today, though.
Lovely after the rain.”
They sat or the foredeck of the ferry
that was to take them to the Zoo. Ella
sniffed eagerly at the smells of salt and
tar, listened dreamily to the silken brush
of water against the sides of the boat.
Nostalgia bound Ella, with threads of
memory thar grew stronger and stronger.
Pinchgut. Green lawns sloping to the sea.
Mrs Macquarie’s Chair. The Bridge.
Stone walls, lapped by the tide, dark with
moss and slime.
“Mummy, what’s that?” Linda jerked
at her arm
“Yes!” said Dick, “What is it? What is
it ever!”
Ella dragged herself back along an
avenue of years. “What is what? Must
you jerk at my arm like that, Linda?”
“What’s that big face over there?”
Ella peered across dancing water,
between cool ribbons of steel, and on the
far side of the bridge she saw it. A great
face, leering at her. A monstrosity, with
crazy eyes and flaming hair. “Oh, that,”
she said glancing quickly away again
“It’s Luna Park. A fun fair place.”
“Did you get there when you were a
little girl?”
“We-ell, actually it wasn't there. There
was something of the sort somewhere.
But that sort of thing |ust didn’t appeal
to me, or Aunt Marjory. Switchback rail-
ways, magic tunnels, those things.”
“Can we go?” asked Linda and Dick
together.
“Perhaps. I don’t know. Look! Do
look, there’s the wharf coming closer.
And that stee. read leads straight into the
Zoo. Isn’t it a beautiful spot, looking
right out over the Harbor? I love the
name too. Tarmga.” Ella turned the name
softly over on her tongue. “Taronga, Tar-
onga.” She remembered her eleven-year-
old self running to the pit where the mon-
keys lived. The cne with rock rising out of
the middle. From the rugged edifice the
little monkeys had peered at her like wise
gnomes. There had been sedate, swaying
rides on an elephant. Milk shakes and
buttered scones at the restaurant.
“What,” said Dick loudly, “is a magic
tunnel?”
Distracted, returning again from a
great distance, Ella blinked at her son
“What is what?”
“A magic tunnel. You said ...”
“Oh that” She hoped that they weren’t
going to harp about that wretched place.
“Well, I’m not sure. As I said I never
was in one. Now, we’re almost there.
What would you like to see first? The
monkeys are awfully funny.”
Dick said that he would like to see a
lion. Linda agreed, that a lion would be
about the most exciting thing to see, al-
though she thought it cruel that they
should be caged.
Ella looked at her daughter with
curiosity and a certain respect. Ella Lam-
bert would not have fostered such noble
thoughts.
“Our teacher said it was cruel to keep
animals in cages,” continued Linda, look-
ing at her mother with her sincere grey
gaze.
“Miss Toms?” asked Ella, thinking of
Circe.
“Miss Toms teaches the little ones. My
teacher. Mrs Staples.”
“Oh yes, of course. Well, the animals
here are treated very well. Not really in
cages, Linda.”
When the day was over Ella was
vaguely troubled by a sense of loss, of
disappointment. Nothing that she could
really put her finger on. But there it was.
The children had rushed about, as she
had done so many years ago. But they
had no wish to ride on the elephant. Nor
did they find the monkeys so very funny.
They were no longer kept in the pit that
she remembered. She felt let down by
this. And she was certain that in the
distant past they had performed with
much more verve and clever mimicry.
On Ella’s recommendation they had
all ordered milk-shakes and scones at
the restaurant. But surely in her day the
milk-shakes had been richer, the scones
more palatable.
Crossing the harbor at dusk, tired and
foot-weary, Ella listened to the talk of her
children.
“I liked the old bears. One of them
waved. Did you see?”
“The lions didn’t roar. I wish they
had.” Then came the question she
dreaded. “Will we go to Luna Park to-
morrow?”
“I thought—well, Manly. You’ll love
the trip, and there’s such a lot to see in
Manly. A wonderful beach and probably
a merry-go-round or some such thing.
There’s bound to be some special enter-
tainment for children. There always is
or was, in my day.”
They went to Manly in the morning.
The day was not so kind. A thin layer
of cloud obscured the sun. The sea was
pewter-colored, and ragged with white
wavelets. Between the Heads the ferry
wallowed in a heavy swell. Both children
were apprehensive, and Linda turned a
disturbing parchment shade, and
threatened to be sick.
“This doesn't last.” Ella assured her.
“Dear old Manly,” said Ella, lifting her
head, breathing deeply of sea, and pine
trees, and wet sand.
A spiteful wind, laden with damp,
blew at them as they hurried along the
Corso. “It’s good for you!” declared
Ella, flinging back her shoulders, pulling
off her little hat. “Walk quickly, children,
then you'll get warm.” She kept on talk-
ing. Lifting her voice cheerfully against
the sighing of the pines, the rush and
roar of the surf , and the slap of the wind.
Ella leaned against the wall, looking
along the beach, deserted but for a lone
fisherman in the distance. She stood, a
slim woman browned by the northern
sun, and let the wind lift her dark hair.
Those summer holidays, how clearly it
all came back to her now. One evening at
dusk she had looked at the beach from
a window, and seen a woman in a dres-
sing-gown, her hair tumbling loosely
about her shoulders. The woman had
walked quickly, at the edge of the surf,
the creamy wash touching her feet. Two
men had come and walked on either side
of her, as the dusk deepened to dark.
“Is- she looking for something?” Ella
had asked her mother.
“No darling, she is ill, poor thing. She
comes from the nursing home down the
road. Come away from the window, Ella.”
The boarding-house. She wondered
just where it was. Her eyes searched
the rows of houses facing the sea. There
was one some distance off that could
have been the nursing home.
“Mummy.” Her own children were
tugging at her hand. “Can we go now?”
“Yes.” Ella looked down and saw with
compunction that they were cold and
wretched.
“Come. We’ll find somewhere to eat.


There should be lots of good places.
Well have something hot, to to
make us all feel cheerful again.”
In a small cafe bright with murals,
paved with many colored tiles, they had
hot pies and tea served in little silver
pots. W'armed and fed the children looked
brighter.
“Can we buy some lollies?”
“Yes, of ccuise. We always had a big
jar of fruit oon bons when we came here.
It seemed part of the holiday. Let us
try some, just for fun.”
She bought them and Linda and Dick
sucked and crunched noisily without com-
ment.
“We had these bonbons,” said Ella,
choosing a strawberry flavor for herself
“And comics to read. We were only
allowed them at holiday time ... the
comics.”
“Can we get some comics now?”
“Well . . . really I don’t think so.
You had stacks of the things on the
plane. Expensive rubbish. The comics I
was speaking about were quite different.
‘Tiger Tim’s’ and ‘Rainbow’. They had
stories in them Quite good stories from
what I can remember.”
At last, because of their obvious ennui,
she bought them comics. And as Linda
turned pinched and ill-looking at the very
thought of the ferry, they returned to
the city by w'ay of The Spit, in a double-
decker bus.
At five o’clock Aunt Marjory came,
walking hatless and w'ith grace, into the
dim foyer of the old hotel. She was
dressed in a dark knitted suit. Silver
leaves were clipped neatly against her
ears, and a silver and enamel bracelet
encircled her wrist.
She looked years younger than I do,
thought Ella. But then she had not
lived in the tropics for nineteen years.
She had married towards the end of
the w'ar, and been divorced a few years
later. She had no children.
Marjory kissed her sister quickly, and
smiled at Dick and Linda, speaking to
them without fuss, her manner direct and
not at all patronising. They liked her at
once. While their mother and their aunt
sat down for drinks and a chat, the child-
ren departed to the second floor to watch
TV.
“Well, how goes it?” asked Marjory
briskly, sipping at gin-and-tonic. “You
look well Ella. A bit thin, and as brown
as a berry, but well. Aren’t the children
darlings? Like their father, I should think
. . . sturdier than you ever were.”
“They're healthy,” answered Ella. “And
as bright as buttons. I often think Linda
is like you, Marj.”
“Really? 1 take that as a compliment.
She's a good-looking child. And have you
done the tcwn? Tell me all about it. So
sorry I couldn't see you before this.”
Ella did not reply at once. She gazed
down at the glinting amber fktid in her
glass, then said slowly, “Oh yes, we’ve
been about. The weather’s been against
us, of course. One good day in three. But
Marjory, they don’t seem terribly keen
about anything. What I mean is, I get the
impression that they would be perfectly
happy up there watching TV all day.
And can you imagine, they want to go
to Luna Park!”
“Why on earth not?”
“Well, isn’t there a rather rough crowd
there as a rule? After all, I we, never
went to those places.”
Marjory laughed, tossing back her
charming head. “My dear. Thirty years
ago!”
“Is it that long.” said Ella wistfully.
“Well nearly, since we were the ages
of Dick and Linda.”
“We’ve been to the Art Gallery,” Ella
continued. “Marjory do you know, that
lovely Circe thing is still there!”
“Is it? I wouldn’t remember. You were
the arty one.”
Ella took a long drink and was grate-
ful for the cool sting of it in her throat.
“Then the Zoo They seemed to enjoy
that, in parts. But they haven’t mentioned
it since. And today, Manly That, of
course, was a complete washout. It was
wretchedly cold and Linda was sick on
the ferry. But when 1 tried to get them
interested by telling them how it all was
when we were young, they hardly
listened Remember those holidays,
Marjory?”
“Oh yes. We stayed in a rather dull
boarding-house run by the Misses Finch,
or Swallow or something. We wore
woollen bathing costumes, and were
smeared with carron oil. I can still smell
the stuff.”
“You know,” Ella leaned towards her
sister, “I had the strangest feeling today
while we were there. As though I was
a child again. As though there had never
been anything between then and now.
I saw quite clearly, a woman walking
beside the surf at dusk. She looked un-
happy. I thought she was looking for
something, but Mother said she was
sick. There was a nursing home near that
boarding-house, remember?”
Marjory looked at her sister with the
clear, grey gaze that was so like Linda’s
“Ella, that woman you spoke about, walk-
ing alone on the beach. You’re not in
some queer, roundabout way identifying
her with yourself, are you?”
“Well really!” Ella sat up very straight,
pushed her glass away from her. “What
an extraordinary thing to say. I haven’t
the faintest idea what you mean
Marjory.”
“You said that you thought that the
woman was looking for something. Aren’t
you, well, I might be putting this badly,
but aren’t you in a way looking for little
Ella Lambert?”
“You’ve been reading too many of
these new, mind-searching sort of books,”
snapped Ella. “Please don’t go all psy-
chological about me Marjory.”
“Don’t get uppish, my dear. Supposing
we have another drink?”
“By all means.” Ella looked coolly at
some remote point beyond her sister’s
right shoulder.
A steward hovered, Marjory beckoned,
and having given her order watched the
man’s retreating back. “What dreary
waiters they have here. This place is as
fusty as a museum. You should have
stayed somewhere bright and modern,
Ella.”
Ella was still remote, a slight frown
creasing her brow. "We always stayed
here. 1 like a bit of atmosphere myself.”
Marjory leaned forward and touched
her hand. “It's not a good thing to go
back, Ella. All this reminiscing, it’s bad
for you, and pretty awful for the kids, I
should think. Take them to Luna Park
tomorrow. It’s fun. Wish I could go
myself. And there’s a good musical thing
on. I thought of coming along with you,
one night, perhaps Thursday? None of
this afternoon stuff. They’ll love going
to a show at night, it's so utterly different
and exciting.”
“Thank you.” said Ella flushing. “I
don’t suppose a late night is going to hurt
them once in a while. About Luna Park
. . . I’ll see.” She began to talk with
forced brightness of other things.
When Marjory had gone, before going
in search of the children, she went back
to the dull old lounge, where the rusty
stewards hovered like a group of praying
mantis. Instead of a gin and tonic Ella
ordered a whisky. “A large whisky.” she
said, glaring in defiance at the bleak
attendant.
On the following morning Linda stood
at the long, narrow bedroom window and
clapped her hand with delight. “Look,
Mummy! The sun is out. It’s going to
be a lovely, lovely day.”
“What would you like to do?” asked
Ella.
They turned to look at her, two sturdy,
good looking, lovable children. “We don’t
know. You say.”
Ella took a deep breath as though
about to plunge into icy waters. “How
about Luna Park?”
The response to this was electric.
“Really and truly, can we go?”
For the third time they went bustling
across the harbor. Ella saw the tremen-
dous, leering face, with its flaming hair
and goggling eyes. This fantastic gateway
to fun, the gast of a mouth open wide,
waiting to swallow them up.
She turned her head, to see a distant
shore, green edged and lined with quiet
houses. She spoke a quick, silent farewell
to a thin, tense little girl called Ella
Lambert, then turned to join her children
in this new, bright day.


Invest in
T3gQ
INTEREST
UP TO
%
PER
ANNUM
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE WALES' FOR DETAILS
ND.I6.N.
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Latest Housing Stimulus ,
At High Interest
JTHE extra £l2m. allocated by the Federal Government for housing is regarded as
a shot in the arm for the building industry at a time when new commencements
of private dwellings are flagging. The one complaint which the home buyer is entitled
to voice is that the official stimulus to the building industry is being given when
interest rates are at a high level.
There is talk that interest rates may
fall by next June. Yet the buyer who
commits himself now to a long-term
housing loan could find himself tied to a
high interest rate for 25, 30 or 40 years.
Some amelioration of this high interest
rate could occur, depending on the type
of loan granted. But anyone who thinks
about it—and probably not many do
when they are anxious to get a home —
must realise that a long-term loan is
better negotiated when interest rates are
on the down.
Mr Average-home-buyer could retort
hotly: how in the name of usury could
he expect to know when interest rates
are rising or falling? All he is interested
in doing is putting a roof over his head.
True. Yet it is a point worth making
that, if interest rates are expected to
fall later in the year, some consideration
should be given tc the extra cost involved
by rushing in now
This defeats the purpose of stimulating
the housing industry and, certainly, it
poses a problem of cost rises if everyone
rushes into home building when the time
is considered favorable.
It would be a step forward, therefore,
if home loans could be tied to interest
rates (as they often are overseas), so that
the home buyer gets the benefit of inter-
est rate reductions when they occur, and
the institutions are not so chary of lend-
ing when rates are low and they may
be induced to place funds elsewhere.
This would have another effect as well.
When interest rates rise, the nolder of
the mortgage sometimes is encouraged to
pay off the mortgage quickly so that he
is not penalised too much by extra
charges. The result could be called en-
forced thrift.
Of course the role of credit policy
generally and the level of interest rates
are likely to assume considerable import-
ance during the early months of 1966.
Discussion of lower borrowing rates,
together with tlv availability of money
for the private sector, may well become
quite prominent before June.
The ANZ Bank does not remain alone
in speaking of the still crucial position
of official action, both in timing and
magnitude. It naturally commends the
Reserve Bank’s policy on the release of
statutory reserve deposits.
Looking further ahead, the ANZ’s
most recent Quarterly Survey states: “It
is conceivable that, within a few months,
given the application of appropriate
corrective measures in the economy
generally, corporate credit requirements
will shrink, pressure for import finance
will, at last, respond similarly, and the
expected liquidity crisis will be replaced
by a phase of reflation.”
Less Wheat for Export
US Department of Agriculture’s
annual report emphasises, once again,
that world farm production is failing to
keep pace with population increases, with
foodstuffs production rising by only
1 p.c. in 1965 against a 2 p.c. lift in
population.
Australia has an important stake in
world food demand, particularly as
wheat exports have been such a good
income earner in recent years. With
world grain harvests suffering from
various setbacks, it is another good
export year for wheat. But Australia is
having her own problems and wheat
exports could be down by 40 p.c. this
year.
In fact, latest reports of floods in
Western Australia indicate a further cut-
back. Previously it had been expected
that a good crop in WA would help to
offset some of the drought in eastern
States.
Australia’s carryover of wheat at
November 30 was 24 million bushels. If
the current crop is around an estimated
220 m. bushels, there would be about
244 m. bushels available for local use and
export.
However, it is normal to expect that
73m. bushels would be held for local
consumption, flour, stock feed, etc.,
while 12m. bushels may be kept for seed
and other farm requirements. This would
leave a surplus of 159 m. bushels so, if
the Wheat Board retains a carryover of
around 25m. bushels, the amount avail-
able for export would be in the vicinity
of 134 m. bushels.
All this is supposition, of course, but
it indicates a reduction of around 109 m.
bushels in exports compared with wheat
exports of 243 m. bushels last year (ex-
cluding 22m. bushels of flour and 2m.
bushels of wheat products).
The wheat crop could go higher than
220 m. bushels and so provide a larger
volume for export, but present indica-
tions certainly are less optimistic than
before.


rlck,&pcwicli>o£
AMPHORA
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
In the Brown Pouch
'gent*
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatio
in the Blue Pouch
FOR A
FULL AROMATIC! saus/i
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there i$
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
6'9
2 «.
ft miser if douwe Egberts royal factories, iireciy, iollaii
Japan’s Trading Gains
On Undervalued Yen
Australia suffers disruptive effects
By S. F. FERGUSON
TT is sometimes said that the way to prosperity in the modem world is through
defeat in a world war. Quoted as examples are Japan, Germany and Italy, whose
economies have boomed since 1945. The real reason is not, of course, that they
were defeated, but that they started the post-war period free of the illusion that
some sort of mystical prestige attaches to the exchange value of a national currency.
The defeated nations said, in effect:
“If our competitors permit the under-
valuation of our currency, so much the
better; it makes it that much easier for
us to compete with them everywhere—
even in their own home markets!”
The above view is shared by Professor
Shigetsu Tsuru, an eminent Japanese
economist, who was invited by the Aus-
tralian Institute of International Affairs
to deliver the Dyason Fectures in 1964.
He gave details of the rapid recovery of
Japan’s industry immediately after the
war and the seemingly miraculous ex-
pansion of her gross national product
in the subsequent years. He then stated
categorically that he regarded the ex-
change rate of 360 yen to the dollar,
or 1008 yen to the pound sterling, as
“the most important element in the situa-
tion”. He recognised by implication
that Japan’s unexampled prosperity
could not have been achieved by this
means but for the complacency of other
countries and their willingness to accept
a counter-balancing measure of economic
detriment, unless they simply failed to
appreciate the consequences. For he
went on to say: “If the exchange rate
were adjusted continually, or even inter-
mittently, according as differentials in
cost reduction arise due to changing rates
of productivity progress, international
market equilibrium would not be dis-
turbed. But, of course, no one proposes
such a scheme . . . Japan has not
changed its exchange rate since April,
1949, when the present ratio was estab-
lished.”
Under-valuation of the yen has had
far-reaching disruptive effects on the
pattern of Australian internal and ex-
ternal trade. No Australian manu-
facturer, with “reasonable” tariff pro-
tection, can expect to compete in his
own home market with Japanese pro-
ducers enjoying the triple advantage of
(a) relatively low “real” wages;
(b) economies of scale due to the vast-
ness of their expanded and still-expand-
ing world market; and (c) under-valuation
of the yen, which substantially further
reduces an already low price-level based
on low costs. Consequently those Aus*
tralian industries that have felt the full
onslaught have, of necessity, been
granted tariff rates that appear exorbit-
antly high (e.g., 55 p.c. on textile piece-
goods) but which they claim are still
not high enough for their needs.
A side-effect has been a spate of ill-
informed criticism of Australian in-
dustries in this category, on grounds of
alleged inefficiency. The critics are
probably unaware of the fact that British,
American and Western European manu-
facturers must be regarded as equally
“inefficient” if ability to compete with
the Japanese is to be the sole criterion.
But the governments of other Western
countries, unlike the Australian, have
reserved the right, despite GATT, to
impose discriminatory tariffs or quanti-
tative restrictions upon their imports
from Japan.
Australia’s rigid adherence to the
GATT rule against discrimination pro-
duces some curious and disturbing con-
sequences. For instance, in a hypothetical
case, the Tariff Board may find that an
Australian industry needs tariff pro-
tection of the order of 25 p.c. against
Britain and USA, 40 p.c. against Ger-
many and Italy, and 55 p.c. against
Japan. In such a case the 55 p.c. would
in all probability become the “most-
favored-nation” rate, i.e., the one
applicable to practically all countries
except those subject to the British
preferential rate, which is usually about
71 or 10 p.c. lower. Obviously, in such
circumstances (and cases of this kind
are not uncommon) the preferential
margin is of little consequence, as rates
of the order of 471 p.c. British and
55 p.c. MFN (the actual rates imposed
recently on a very wide range of cotton
and man-made fibre fabrics) are virtually
prohibitive so far as goods from the
West are concerned.
Reference was made earlier to Japan’s
good fortune in being permitted, over a
sixteen-year period of unprecedented
growth and prosperity, to maintain the
same exchange rate as was deemed
appropriate in 1949 when her economy
was down on its knees. Her luck still


fito
us
*
£
3
1
J
x
X
vs
m
£
0
want a
mature
full-bodied
scotch?
Don’t be vague, ask for
Haig
N 4225
holds, for GATT ensures that in Aus-
tralia protective tariffs shall be so
arranged that only goods from countries
with under-valued currencies shall be able
to compete with local production, in
those sectors of trade that are dominated
by Japan and other low-cost countries.
This state of affairs often forces Western
producers to quote specially low prices
for export to Australia so as to get some
crumbs of trade, although Australia’s
anti-dumping legislation usually puts an
early stop to this. (Dumping duties can
seldom be applied to Japanese goods be-
cause the advantage derived from the
under-valued yen is such that there is
no need to export at less than domestic
value in order to compete with the Aus-
tralian manufacturer.)
To say these things is not to accuse
the Australian Government of any errors
of omission or commission. The fault lies
with the constitution of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund. One of the
functions of the Fund should have been
to bring about upward revaluation of
under-valued national currencies as
changing circumstances required such
action from time to time. If the Keynes
Plan had been adopted at the Bretton
Woods conference, instead of the White
(American) Plan, there would have been
more flexibility in exchange rates and
infinitely less distortion of international
equilibrium in the post-war world. Per-
haps some day Keynes may come into
his own posthumously, in this respect.
If so, it will be to Australia’s benefit.
CROESUS
Economics Back o’ Bourke
Problems of a semi-arid terrain
/FRAZIERS back o’ Bourke have long since learned they are dealing with evanescent
resources which “like the rosebuds that smile today, tomorrow may be dying”.
So pained though they be by the losses and hardships as they take stock after another
in the series of intermittent droughts which have plagued their properties about one
year in three in the last hundred years or more, doubtless they are also being
philosophical about them.
It may help them (and those of the
rest of us who spare thoughts for their
plight and its economic consequences for
the nation) to a better understanding of
the practical limitations to the exploita-
tion of their semi-arid terrain in western
NSW and Queensland to read what
R. A. Heathcote has to say about the
country in “Back of Bourke”, recently
published by Melbourne University Press
(655. or $6.50). This unashamedly
scholarly work by the lecturer in geog-
raphy, University College, London, runs
the rule of historical geosophy over the
area since settlement began in the early
1830 s. It seems to have come up with
most of the answers on the most appro-
priate approach to economic develop-
ment there.
This is certainly the most up-to-date
and probably the most authentic and
comprehensive examination of the prob-
Jems of the area we have had. Heathcote
has tackled the subject from all 'angles,
both on the spot and in the libraries and
official archives both here and overseas.
The general finding of this work, is
that, over the years, the exploitive
approach of land use by graziers has
paid off better than officially inspired
plans aimed to develop the areas by the
intensive and conservative use of the
resources. Droughts may come and go
is the theme; man has to swing in with
them. Closer settlement on small hold-
mgs, leased or otherwise, poses too many
problems. Even now, though not achieved
until half-way through this century, its
success is still in doubt in an environment
where low productivity has so held back
investment that hand appraisals are still
largely in terms of rainfall,
Heathcote is inclined to blame the
NSW and Queensland Governments for
having failed to grasp a truth which
graziers appear to'have learned by their
bitter experiences, although one feels he’s
rather too hard on them. Indeed he is at
pains to show that they have been making
a mistake which most of the Western
world, faced with similar semi-arid
country to develop, continues to make.
It is all very well to say that the experi-
ence of successful occupation of semi-
arid environments ridicules a concept
that still pervades the dust clouds of
Kansas and the gullies of Georgia; if the
concepts still persist, particularly in the
US, the early colonial governments here,
as well as later State ones, can surely be
excused their bold experiments. After all,
the world is still crying out for more
intensive development of Australia’s wide
open spaces, not for development on a
hit-and-run basis on which the mobility
of capital is maximised in the form of
flocks waiting to swoop down on the
plains when the grass is green,
The book has, however, a word in
mitigation of the official policies of closer
settlement. Heathcote thinks that judg-
ment on the success or failure of settle-
ment must not be hasty. He faces a
problem of definition. From an individual


9S mt*
r
v
A
Wherever you g 0...
However you g 0...
the WiLES Travel Service
can take care of all details
The Bank of New South Wales, Australia’s
largest travel service, can handle every aspect
of your trip accommodation, bookings, in-
surance, passport, travel finance.
You don’t have to be a Wales customer . . .
the Wales Travel Service is available to everyone.
Before you make any
travel bookings,
consult
the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
WALES
AUSTRALIA'S FIRST BANS.
41251
point of view, successful occupation of
the plains might be associated either with
speculation in the land “speculators
hovered at every subdivision”—-or actual
development for pastoral purposes. Yet,
for the victims of speculation and for the
authorities anxious to establish a popu-
lation on the land, success was judged
only in terms of bona fide occupation.
On the other hand Heathcote says that
unsuccessful settlement could be judged
either as the failure to establish bona fide
occupation or the economic fail art of
such occupation Moreover, “such a
large proportion of the plains remained
under lease from the Crown throughout
the period (since 1850), the authorities
had a double interest in the problem of
successful settlement, having their respon-
sibilities as landlords to add to their
concern for the general welfare of the
population”
Jn truth, taking Heathcote at his word,
A closer settlement policies seem to have
run counter to the motives behind settle-
ment. “Short-term profits seem to have
more attraction than the long-term inter-
ests of the general community; the bona
fide settler seems to have been a rare
species among the birds of passage on the
plains.” In another place he talks of land
pirates and the good old days when bush-
men of western NSW had a regular cycle
of jobs from shearing along the Darling
to fruit picking in Mild-ura, wheat harves-
ting in Central Victoria, and back again.
Whatever the merits of closer settle-
ment, Heathcote finds that more en-
lightened administrations, say in Sydney
or Brisbane, would have eased the prob-
lems greatly had they not always been
asking their pound of flesh from the
graziers by maximising rents .or lease-
holds on a sort of “traffic will bear” basis.
His chapter on the incidence of rents and
official land appraisal is in fact one of
the most brilliant in the book even if one
comes away from it wondering where the
line can be drawn, if, perhaps, taking
the good seasons with the bad, present
methods of assessing rent on a “what
properties would fetch in the market”
basis has more to be said for it than
theoretical alternatives.
The author finds the authorities want-
ing in past pre-drought periods (the
narrative stops at 1956), in their efforts
to ease the problems of drought, though
not in matters of relief after the damage
has been done. Referring to the droughts
of 1911 to 1916 and from 1935 to 1945
(the frequency of droughts since 1880 is
graphed alongside the fluctuations in
sheep numbers on the plains), Heathcote
points the main problem of the graziers
as being one of mobility, but looks
askance on official assistance in that
direction as being a chapter of unfulfilled
promises—a chapter which has been con-
tinued up to the present time.


CLARENCE DEGENHARDT
AND COMPANY
INCORPORATING
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
John W Duncan, Peter Davis,
K. Rothwell, A.8.1.A.
Members of The Sydney Stock
Exchange Limited
A. A. Lakos, A.A.S.A.
H. P. Vains, A.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
BUILDING
117 PUT STREET, SYDNEY
28-1751, 25-1853, 25-3327
MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
Incorporated, in 1935
Paid up Capital £4,000,000
Debenture
Stock
YIELDING UP TO
0
0
P/A
3 yrs. .. 7^%p.a.
4 yrs. .. 714% P-a.
5 yrs. .. 734% p.a.
6 to 10 yrs. 8% p.a.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications
are obtainable from:
• Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand
Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representa-
tive Office, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
N.B. Applications for Debenture Stock will pro-
ceed only on one of the Forms of Application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of
the Prospectus.
The main business of Mercantile Credits Limited
is the provision of finance facilities in various forms
for industrial, commercial or private purposes.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
The Wool Reserve Plan Now
Creating a myth on fluctuations
. , , . .. ... ... .. .. . .
IYE a myth some sort of official seal and the public will swallow it as fact. This
seems to be what is happening in the case of the now defeated reserve price
plan for wool marketing and the fluctuations in wool prices.
The myth is that the reserve price
plan would have removed fluctuations
from wool marketing.
It is not too difficult to see what is
behind the perpetuation of this myth.
The Wool Board is busily trying to regain
the ground lost in the disastrous referen-
dum. All troubles affecting the wool
market now, according to the Wool
Board, can be ascribed to the short view
taken by the opponents of the reserve
plan—principally the Free Market com-
mittee.
It will not stick, though. And the
sooner the myth, that the reserve price
plan would have removed fluctuations, is
knocked on the head the better.
The only people who have been proved
correct in this matter have been the
Free Market committee members. They
said the reserve price plan would not
remove fluctuations. The Wool Board,
talking to woolgrowers, said it would
bring a “degree of stability” to fluctua-
tions. But talking to the popular Press,
and the public at large, the idea was
cleverly conveyed that fluctuations would
be entirely stabilised.
Instead of arguing now about who
said what, it is far more interesting to
observe what is happening in New
Zealand, where a reserve price plan is
in operation. The New Zealand Wool
Board has set up a special study group
to investigate fluctuations. In 1964-65
there was a fall of 23 p.c. in NZ com-
pared with 1963-64. In Australia the
average price was only 17 p.c. below
the previous year.
So it seems that the free auction
system in Australia performed much
better than the reserve price system in
NZ, as far as fluctuations go. Prices
were better in Australia, also, although
the wools are different and this com-
parison is not necessarily relevant.
New Zealand had to buy in some wool
in 1964-65 because buyers were unwill-
ing to bid above the floor price of 35
pence (stg). This also seems to knock
on the head the Australian Wool Board’s
often-expressed view that, under the
reserve plan, no wool would need to be
actually bought in at all, that the
“psychological” effect would be to main-
tain prices above the floor. Despite the
buy-in, the NZ floor price for 1965-66
remains the same. i
The NZ Wool Commission has an-
nounced that it fears for the safety of
the market if it raises the floor price.
In Australia, so we were told, we were


GMA.C
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
0
0
C/D
ec
GO >-
to
0
NINE
YEARS
to
VO
mm
TWELVE
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 53/4%
270-360 DAYS 5%%
ONE YEAR ... 6%
TWO YEARS G I A%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
SIX YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
NINE YEARS 7V 4 %
TWELVE YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contacts
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of ths
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
going to see the floor price gradually
lifted.
Now that the reserve plan has been
lost at referendum, the Wool Board, and
its chairman, Sir William Gunn, would
appear to have a lot of explaining to do.
Yet little explanation is forthcoming.
Instead, Sir William seems to be adopt-
ing the attitude that, as woolgrowers re-
jected the plan, they can now lump it.
• He is scathing of suggestions that
the Wool Industry Conference should
be reconstituted on an electoral col-
lege system.
• He has challenged Free Market men
to come forward with concrete sug-
gestions for improving wool market-
ing, yet has announced that the Wool
Board will not initiate any discus-
sions with the Free Market committee.
• He has said that the Wool Board did
not spend more than £30,000 of wool-
growers’ money in promoting a
scheme the same woolgrowers re-
jected at referendum He has not
provided an audited statement of the
expenditure.
The bewildering part of this attitude
is that it makes not the slightest recog-
nition of even the possibility that wool-
growers rejected the plan because it was
no good. All kinds of excuses are being
made.
Gunn has admitted, since the referen-
dum, that the plan did involve a “form
of acquisition” for one-bale lots. If he
admits it now, why did he not admit it
before the referendum? If this was the
plan for one-bale lots, what of the two-
bale, three-bale, and four-bale lots?
Again, to the general public, this
seems a matter of slight importance. In
actual fact it would be getting close to
half the total clip. It sounds a minor
matter; in reality it is paramount.
It is difficult to escape the conviction
that primary producer factions look
favorably upon any arrangement which,
in order to function, derives great funds
from the pockets of the general taxpay-
ers. Their enthusiasm appears to wane in
direct proportion to the extent to which
their own purses are touched.
Up to a point it can be shown that all
Australians depend on the success of
primary industry. The thing is to decide
that point in fairness to all. There is
much to suggest that the bias is too much
in favor of the farmers.
AGRISEARCH
Aid for Orchards
“ A lar” is the American trade name of
a new chemical that fruit-growers
may hear much more about in the next
year or two. It is a growth retardant that
promises to reduce the need for pruning,
control tree size, smooth out year-to-year
variation in crop yield, and make young
trees bear sooner. In addition, there is
some evidence that this chemical in-
creases the storage life of apples and
perhaps other fruits considerably. A Vic-
torian Department of Agriculture horti-
culturist learned of the compound and
studied some of the American trials of
it during a recent visit to the USA. He
was so impressed by the result that he
has brought some of the material home
to experiment with under local condi-
tions. Preliminary results from applica-
tions made only last spring suggest that
“Alar” will work for us, too.
It is made by the Naugatuck Chemi-
cal Division of the US Rubber Company.
Chemically, “Alar” is N-dimethylamine
succinamic acid. American florists have
been using it for the last several years
to promote blossoming in such orna-
mentals as chrysanthemums, rhododen-
drons and poinsettias. More recently, Dr


All I said was:
“We’ll save money by hiring
Chep Fork lifts and Pallets
■
,
Wm
m
■ :
■ ■ ■■
w
...and they gave me a rise!”
Of course I did some research. I found that Chep have the
largest fleet of materials handling equipment in Australia.
They gave me the benefit of their advisory service. They
quoted me rates and showed me how I could save my
Company money. Now we hire fork lift trucks by the hour
or for long periods, as we need them.
Another thing that helped Chep have a fleet of mobile
radio-controlled workshops . . . Johnny-on-the-spot for
service and repairs. No more costly down-time.
Make your mark, mention Chep, the people who can put
your materials handling on a profitable footing.
CH.B
CHEP Minogue Crescent,
Glebe, N.S.W., 68 4211.
CHEP Sandgate Road, Albion,
Brisbane, Queensland, 6 2181.
CHEP 205 Hanson Road, Athol Park,
Adelaide, 45 7922.
L. P. Batjer, of Wenatchee, sprayed it on
fruit trees at different times of the year
and in different concentrations. He found
that he could make apple trees, for in-
stance, produce from two to twelve
times as many flowers as unsprayed trees.
This increase in blossoming occurs the
season after the spray application. He
also found that higher concentrations of
the spray will delay flowering and reduce
fruit size. The other most obvious effect
of the application of “Alar” is the sup-
pression of stem growth. The internode
length is shortened so that there are
more leaves per fruit unit length of
shoot. No abnormal side effects on the
foliage have been observed. Whether the
greater number of flowers is due to the
greater density of foliage or directly, to
the action of the chemical has still to be
found out.
In the Victorian trials, apple, pear and
cherry trees responded by shortening
their internode growth. Peaches did not,
though Mariposa plums partially re-
sponded. The spray was applied two to
eight weeks after the trees were in full
bloom. It will not be known until next
spring whether the spray is also able to
initiate flowering under Australian con-
ditions. The USA Food and Drug Ad-
ministration is currently carrying out
poison tests on the chemical to see if it
can be used safely on edible crops. The
tip is that it will be given a clean bill.
Vital Time
Tf grapevines in full flower lack a
A plentiful supply of water for even
only three days, the amount of fruit set
will be greatly reduced. A month later
they can tolerate water stress without
serious shedding of berries occurring. In
the past, hot weather at flowering was
believed to cause poor crops.
This finding comes from the CSIRO’s
Horticultural Research Station at Mer-
bein, Victoria. Potted plants that could be
kept under carefully controlled con-
ditions in a glasshouse were used for the
test. Some pots were subjected to water
stress, while others were well watered
but subjected to high temperatures. At
the end of the season the fruit set by
each vine, nearly two hundred in all,
was counted and weighed. The result of
the comparison: only moisture had any
influence on yield In future, grape-
growers not dependent on rainfall will
have only themselves to blame if fruit
set is low. For the two weeks before
flowering and for the next three or four
it will pay them to stick around and keep
the water flowing.


L
GOOD REASONS WHY
TCIM
TOPS THE TV VIEWING POLL!
■ :
1. Sunday Night at the Movies
. mm
■
■ f %V.
■ - \\ ■■
5. The Addams Family
m
2. The Lucy Show
6. Perry Mason
3. News and Weather
\
7. Peyton Place
u
4. Disneyland
s - \
-v-
-na
8. Zorro
9. The Dick Van Dyke Show
f- '>r%
% A '•
20
Sound
Music
Channel
9
m
SYDNEY
THE NATION’S NUMBER ONE STATION


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Picking the Best of the Brewers
All sound investments , though share prices high
rfcvEß the last seven weeks, seven of the
listed breweries have been discussed
(as explained earlier, R. W. Miller was
not included because of the group’s sub-
stantial “other activities” apart from the
production and distribution of alcoholic
liquor). It now seems to be desirable to
try to make some meaningful compari-
sons of these seven companies, with a
view to suggesting which of the seven
seems to be the most attractive invest-
ment at today’s prices. At the time of
writing, the prices and yields are as
follows:
Nominal Div. Earnings
Company Value Price Yield Yield(a)
Castlemaine Perkins 10/- 58/6 2.9, 6.0
Tooth & Company 20/- 101/6 3.0 4.8
Tooheys 5/- 10/11 3.9 6.4
Carlton and
United "Z" 20/- 75/9 3.4 5.8
Cascade Brewery 20/- 58/- 3.4 7.0
South Aust. Brewing 5/- 15/10 3.2 4.9(b)
Swan Brewery 5/- 24/9 2.8 3.9
(a) A>d|usted earning rates have been used.
(b) After making an estimate for the earnings on
the new capital.
From this table it seems apparent that
there is a closer connection between the
share price and dividends than there is
between the share price and earnings.
The arithmetical average of the dividend
yields is 3.2 p.c. and the range is from
22 p.c. above the average to 12i p.c.
below. The arithmetical average of the
earnings yields is 5.5 p.c. and the range
is from 26! p.c. above to 29i p.c. below.
It is also noteworthy that there is some
relationship between the current im-
mediate dividend yield and the past rate
of growth in dividends per share; that
is, the higher the growth rate the lower
the immediate dividend yield. The
indices of dividends per share (1961 =
100) are as follows:
Div.
Company Yield 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Castlemaine 2.9 100 117 117 133 141
Swan 2.8 100 114 137 137 140
Tooth 3.0 100 105 112 119 125
SA Brewing 3.2 100 106 121 121 121
CUB 3.4 100 100 100 104 108
Cascade 3.4 100 100 100 100 100
Tooheys 3.9 100 100 89 89 94
However, this relationship does not
seem to have been taken too far; future
expectations must have intruded quite
substantially so far as the last three com-
panies are concerned, for the future rates
of growth apparently expected from
these companies are quite different from
the performance exhibited during the
last five years. When it is considered
that the index in the case of South Aus-
tralian Brewing has now reached 139
as a result of the “bonus content” of
the last cash issue, it becomes apparent
that the only other company which seems
to be out of line is Tooth. Here, also,
it would seem that the market is expect-
ing the future growth rate to exceed the
past growth rate and, as explained in
the article on this company, it is most
likely that the bonus issue prospects
have already been fully discounted by
the present share price. In other words,
the price has been inflated recently by
the prospects of a bonus issue.
Once we start to examine profitability
and earning rates, we are faced with
the problems of lack of disclosure by
some of the companies prior to the pass-
ing of the Companies Act, 1961. Further-
more, the depreciation charges vary from
company to company both in the re-
lationship between this charge and the
book value of depreciable assets and the
proportion which the depreciation charge
represents of net operating income.
Looking at the latest year, it would seem
that Castlemaine had the highest rate
of return on total capital, while Tooheys
and Cascade had the lowest rates. Un-
fortunately, I do not have sufficient in-
formation to derive a series of per-
centages of net operating income to total
capital; the only guide as to possible
trends is an index of the growth in net
operating income itself. However, even
this figure can only be obtained for six
of the seven companies for the last three
years; the indices are given below merely
as a guide:
Net profit before tax, depreciation and
interest; 1963 = 100
1963 1964 1965
Castlemaine 100 121 135
CUB 100 127 133
Tooheys 100 113 129
Tooth 100 115 119
Swan 100 112 119
Cascade 100 110 118
The trends in adjusted earnings per
share for these companies over the same
period are as follows:
1963 1964 1965
Tooheys 100 114 132
CUB 100 120 127
Castlemaine 100 108 126
Tooth 100 109 116
Swan 100 106 113
Cascade 100 102 106
HPhese figures indicate to me that two of
the three companies which appear to
have achieved the greatest profitability
increases did so under strong competitive
conditions and two of the remaining
three which did not do so well had the
apparent advantage of monopolistic con-
ditions. It could well be that, in this
particular industry, the advantages of a
monopoly are more illusory than real.
The immediate future prospects for
all the brewers will be affected by the
increase in the wholesale price of beer.
The August, 1965, Budget raised the
excise duty on beer and the brewers took
the opportunity to raise their price at the
same time. The depressing effect on the
consumption of beer is likely to be short-
lived (judging by past experience), but
the improved prices to some of the
brewers should give greater profit for
some time into the future. The increases
amounted to roughly one penny per
gallon for bulk beer and twopence per
gallon for packaged beer in New South
Wales and Victoria. South Australia had
a big increase—3.2 pence per gallon on
bulk beer and fourpence per gallon on
packaged. Tasmania had an increase of
about one halfpenny per gallon and
Western Australia only one-third of a
penny on bulk beer. Queensland does
not appear to have any increase in the
brewers’ wholesale price.
So far as can be judged at this stage,
the price increases should have the effect
of increasing Tooth’s earnings by about
9 p.c. and Tooheys’ by about 10 p.c.
Carlton and United’s earnings should be
increased by about 8 p.c. as a result of
the price rise in Victoria, and the com-
pany which has received the major
benefit, South Australian Brewing, should
show an increase of about 22 p.c.
Even when I make some notional
adjustments to the earnings yields on the
basis of these estimated increases in
earnings, I do not find that it changes
my views very much and these views
were formed on the basis of past records.
Tooheys seems to be under-priced in
relation to the others in terms of current
earnings and the rate of growth in per
share earnings over the last five years.
This is offset to some extent by the fall
in dividends per share. Castlemaine
Perkins record seems good in all respects
and is still reasonably priced on an
earnings basis without any “price in-
crease” benefits. If Carlton and United
is going to maintain the dividend in-
creases of the last two years in the future,
then it also seems attractive at current
prices.
All the brewery companies should be
sound investments but their share prices
seem high relative to current dividends
and earnings. For this reason, I would
tend to prefer Tooheys to, say, Swan,
because only a modest rate of growth is
needed to justify Tooheys’ price whereas
Swan’s dividends and earnings need to
grow nearly three times as fast. Still,
one cannot deny the excellent record of
Castlemaine Perkins, which does justify
some confidence that past growth rates
will continue into the future.


Vampire of the Banking System
Where the Reserve Bank gets its huge profits
By ROGER RANDERSON
r\NE must say that the Reserve Bank
of Australia for a central bank
which is not concerned with profit-
making but primarily to keep the pur-
chasing-power of the £A steady out-
classes private businesses in the profit it
takes from its activities.
The Bank holds the palm in this
respect among central banks of the free
world. Can this be the reason why the
London “Economist” recently suggested
that the Governor, Dr Coombs, might
be seconded to take charge of the Bank
of England? Surely not.
Consolidated net profit of the Reserve
Bank (free of income tax, naturally) in-
creased by £4,440,256 (or 23 p.c.) to
£23,407,155 for the year ended June 30,
1965.
Earnings rate on capital rose from
217.6 p.c. in 1963-64 t 0.268.6 p.c.
The Reserve Bank Board (no doubt
fairly well satisfied with the result)
allocated £2,896,753 to reserves, and in-
creased the dividend to 235.4 p.c. from
the 183.4 p.c. it had paid in the
previous year.
But this was not all. The Board (no
doubt after carefully weighing the
position and sensing bright prospects for
further improvement in profit) made a
bonus issue of almost 184 for 100. They
did not need to revalue the Bank’s assets
for the purpose, simply capitalising some
of the Bank’s disclosed reserves.
This year £20,510,402 was the amount
of dividend paid to the trustee for the
shareholders (Commonwealth Treasury),
compared with £15,982,795 last year.
Effects of the bonus issue were to
increase the Reserve Bank’s capital by
£16,000,000 to £24,714,000 and to leave
its reserves at £18,081,197. The aggre-
gate of “shareholders’” funds stood at
£42.795,197 on last year's balancing
date.
It can be accepted that the Reserve
Bank never exaggerates its figures. A
note to the 1965 accounts reveals that
£106,971,883 of inter-departmental ac-
counts had been “offset”. In the previous
year only £51,747,878 of such items had
been left out of the balance sheet.
Further, it can be accepted that unstated
provisions for bad and doubtful debts,
and for contingencies, were at least
ample. Likewise unstated amounts written
off premises, which now appear at a net
figure of £11,192,923, after great ad-
ditions during the building boom.
Patient readers will understand that
all the above figures are accurate and
that I have merely changed the elusive
terminology of the accounts to under-
standable commercial terms.
One apologises to the board of direc-
tors of the Broken Hill Proprietary Com-
pany Limited ( Australia’s largest private
enterprise ) if this article should ever
get into the hands of Mr Sheppard and
similarly unsatisfied shareholders.
How can BHP's directors hold their
heads up when the company in 1964-65
earned only 17 p.c. on its capital (about
16 times less than the Reserve Bank) and
paid a dividend of 8i p.c. (almost 28
times smaller than the Reserve Bank's
dividend) from the use of shareholders’
funds amounting to about £269 million
(more than six times as great as the
Reserve Bank’s)?
My apologies are multiplied if I have
inadvertently encouraged a move by
dissident shareholders to depose Sir
Colin Syme and substitute Dr Coombs
as chairman of the BHP board.
But Australians must not be selfish. If
not the “Old Lady of Threadneedle
Street”, perhaps the British Treasury
needs his profit-making talents far more
than we do.
A s usual, Left-wingers will cry that I
am being unfair because such com-
parisons cut across their theoretical
dogmas.
Certainly, one never wishes to be un-
fair. So to meet the views of my friends
on the Left wing (far from the position
where I stand in the centre), let us turn
to a comparison between the Reserve
Bank and Britain’s central bank, the
Bank of England.
Mother of central banks, the Bank of
England taught its techniques to the
world, including some pre-war Australian
bankers. At present the Bank is re-
sponsible for the welfare of a local popu-
lation almost five times as large as Aus-
tralia’s, besides discharging great inter-
national responsibilities.
The “Old Lady’s” capital amounted
to £5tg14,553,000 on February 27,
1965, and her reserves (“the rest”)
£5tg3,920,156—a total of £5tg18,473,156.
This is equivalent to £A23,091,445.
We see, therefore, that the Reserve
Bank’s capital and reserves are approach-
ing (and it: the current year may even
reach) twice those of the Bank of
England on an equivalent basis of com-
parison— to serve the cause of monetary
stability for a fifth as many people.
Readers of the incessant references to
variable liquidity ratios, slowness of the
banking system to respond, inherent
problems for monetary policy in the well-
tried overdraft system (which emanate
from official sources and are reproduced
in the literature of university economists)
might conclude that the Reserve Bank
needs to be twice as large as the Bank
of England, because Australian bankers
are ten times less co-operative than
British bankers, allowing for the dif-
ference in population.
Nothing could be further from the
truth. The docile men who manage our
private banks today lend about £96 per
head to Australians through their trading
sections. This, in real terms, is no more
than the amount they had lent in 1949.
Our private bankers turn away
businessmen needing finance for produc-
tive purposes. They contentedly let the
Reserve Bank administer the outflow and
inflow of their term loan funds. In this
and all other aspects of their lending
they bow uncomplainingly to official
refusals of what is “non-essential”,
although the appropriate criterion for
peace-time is what promises to be profit-
able and productive, and can be properly
secured.
They switch their facilities and energies
into money-box banking—collecting and
paying out a vast >/olume of little bits
of cash in savings bank subsidiaries.
They leave large sums, by order, on
deposit with the Reserve Bank, buy
bonds and make small housing loans at
sub-market rates. This pleases their
political masters.
On the other hand, our private bankers
concentrate on many side-lines, dabbling
in fields outside of commercial banking.
This does not please their political
masters*quite so much.
Always they hanker after the higher
interest rates in the non-bank market for
finance (forgetting the unsecured risk
premiums there) but have to be content
with a maximum overdraft rate of 71
p.c., with numerous concession rates for
rural and export producers (many of
them supporters of the County Party)
and for other purposes officially declared
to be “essential”.
The Bank of England’s profits? Sorry,
it is so easy to get carried away with the
shortcomings of the Australian banking
system as it is being run at present that
I almost forgot. The Bank of England,
dear readers, made profits of
£5tg1,746,360 and paid them all over to
HM Treasury in the year ended Febru-
ary 28, 1965. This is equivalent to
£A2,182,950.
The Reserve Bank, therefore, is about


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
V 0
VS#
Debenture Stock
(Second Series)
UP TO
L 510 YEARS J
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog-
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
Of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
eleven times as profitable an under-
taking as the Bank of England, when
their profits are placed on a comparable
equivalent basis.
How does the Reserve Bank com-
pare with Bank of New South Wales
the largest Australian trading bank? The
latter’s profit in 1964-65 was £2,639,253
(after appropriately leaving aside divi-
dends of £350,000 from its savings bank
subsidiary and of £498,000 from its in-
vestment in AGC, the hire-purchase com-
pany). So the Reserve Bank is almost
nine times as profitable as the “Wales”,
whose shareholders’ funds after the
coming issue will be greater.
Any European or American observer
familiar with banking systems would
infer from the above comparisons that
the Reserve Bank is a trading bank, and
certainly not a central bank in the
accepted sense. And they would be
right, but only partly right.
The Rural Credits Department within
the Reserve Bank had outstanding ad-
vances totalling £121,534,003 on June
30, 1965. The department’s cash and
“LGS” ratios were nil. Against all the
rules of central banking, the Reserve
Bank each year inflates and deflates the
cash base of the banking system for this
commercial purpose. But. then, profits
from this activity were shown as only
£499,942 in 1964-65. So it is necessary'
to pursue the enquiry further.
By the way, an outside banking expert
would- be surprised to see alongside the
Reserve Bank (with assets totalling
£1258 million) the Commonwealth
Banking Corporation, which had assets
totalling £1740 million on June 30, 1965.
The latter’s capital and reserves amount
to £68,282,365, a large part of which
came directly from the raiding of the
Commonwealth Bank’s reserves and from
its profits before 1959 and from the
Reserve Bank’s dividends to the Treasury
since that date. One of the Corporation’s
components, the Development Bank, is
fed by deposits from the Commonwealth
Savings Bank and other sources, but its
cash and “LGS” ratios are negligible.
The stock official answer is that the
note issue (conducted on behalf of the
Commonwealth Treasury) accounts for
the Reserve Bank’s large profits. Last
year £15,260,402 was shown as coming
from this source, but deft juggling of
assets with the banking department
masks the true position.
Our sophisticated European or Ameri-
can would infer from the official answer
that inflation has raged here far more
than in the outside world. He would be
right, but this is not the real reason. The
consumer price index has about doubled
since 1949. On the other hand, the
United Kingdom’s index has gone up
about three-quarters in the same period.
If the official answer were correct, the
Bank of England’s profit should be six
times as great as the Reserve Bank’s, be-
cause its note issue last February
amounted to £2,650,361,738 compared
with the Reserve Bank’s note issue of
£441,861,820 last June.
No, the essential difference is that the
British Treasury pays for all purchases of
gold and foreign exchange for the
national reserve, whereas the Common-
wealth Treasury merely gets the Reserve
Bank to issue lOUs by crediting the
proceeds to blocked accounts of our
banks (“statutory reserve deposits”, etc.).
When the British Exchequer needs funds
to buy foreign exchange it borrows them
from the money market—and for these
funds it pays the market Treasury bill
rate.
Bank of England acts as agent for
A the Exchange Equalisation Account,
but is not allowed to own the national re-
serve or the earnings from it. Hence the
almost complete absence of gold and
foreign exchange from its balance sheet.
Here the Commonwealth Treasury lets
the Reserve Bank have the use of the
national reserve, with all its earnings,
and directs the Reserve Bank to pay the
banks (which have bought the foreign
exchange from their customers and
handed it over to the national reserve)
the negligible rate of 15s. p.c. per
annum on their blocked balances. This
does not meet the cost of banking
services and interest on deposits of
customers who originally sold the gold
and foreign exchange to the banks, so
that bank charges are forced up to re-
coup the loss of revenue.
By compelling other banks to leave
£564 million in “statutory reserve de-
posits” and term loan accounts (apart
from holding £2B million of their settle-
ment balances), the Reserve Bank was
enabled to retain all its other £684 mil-
lion of earning assets, besides the £649
million of gold and foreign exchange it
had taken over by last June. The Reserve
Bank’s profits would have been more
moderate if it had given assets in ex-
change for the gold and foreign ex-
change, or paid a genuine short-term
money rate for funds borrowed from the
other banks (from which it earns on
counterpart assets here and abroard
several times more interest).
But for the vampire-like absorption
of revenue from the other banks through
these forced loans bearing an arbitrarily
low rate of interest, Australians would be
receiving better banking services at much
lower cost, and the financial system
would be much more stable. That, how-
ever, is another story.


ANSETT
TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
£1,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
sm>
10 YEARS
4%
YEARS
5 YEARS
UNDERWRITERS
• lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Slock Exchange of Melbourne
• AUSTRALIAN UNITED CORPORATION LTD.
Applications can be accepted only on the
printed form attached to the Prospectus, which can
be obtained from any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or any office of Ansett Transport
Industries Ltd. or its subsidiaries, or from any
branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd.
or the Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
or the Joint Underwriters, lan Potter & Co.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
44 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Alinga St., CANBERRA, A.C.T.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY
ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LTD.
489 Swanston Street, Melbourne. C.l
(P.O. Box 1629 M) Phone 34-0401
Please send me a copy of your BJ% Prospectus.
NAME ADDRESS
STATE
vaa9t/2«N/w
BEHIND THEBALANCE SHEETS
Rates, Taxes and Borrowings
Nock and Kirby needs the suburbs
A 13 p.c. sales increase to new records
** brought a 14 p.c. increase in profit
of furniture-and-hardware retailer Nock
and Kirby Ltd, of Sydney, in the year
to August 31, 1965.
Earning rate of 10.3 p.c. is a contrast
to the 1.9 p.c. rate of two years earlier
when Beard Watson, the high-grade
furnishing-and-furniture retailer, made
a considerable loss after heavy stock
write-downs.
Dividend, which was 5 p.c. for two
years, has been lifted to lh p.c., still, of
course, quite modest.
Nock and Kirby began as an iron-
monger in 1906 in George Street,
Sydney. It became a publicly listed com-
pany in 1955, after a placement of 10s.
shares at ss. premium. A one-for-four
par issue in November, 1958, the take-
over of Beard Watson in February, 1959,
a one-for-eight par issue in February,
1960, and the takeover of a small group
of private companies in 1960-61, brought
capital to its present level of £1,119,860.
The Nock and Kirby stores in George
Street (opposite Farmers), at Parramatta,
Seven Hills, Bankstown, Fairfield, West-
field Plaza (Hornsby), Maroubra, Pen-
rith, Dee Why, Liverpool, Campbelltown,
Newcastle, Wollongong and Warrawong
supply hardware and furniture to trades-
men, builders and homemakers.
Beard Watson had been famous for
its “carriage trade” in home furnishings
and furniture at its George Street store.
As an investment it was not exactly high-
grade. Only thrice in 30 years did it pay
dividends as high as 10 p.c. It did, how-
ever, possess valuable property and had
initiated the Sydney suburb of Gordon
as a shopping centre by opening a
suburban branch before Farmers moved
there.
There is now a Beard Watson store at
Dee Why as well.
The Penrith Nock and Kirby store
was remodelled and air-conditioned in
July, 1964; the Liverpool store is to be
air-conditioned next.
In July, 1965, G. T. Greenaway Pty’s
store at Blacktown, with freehold, was
acquired for cash.
So Nock and Kirby has fully recog-
nised the diversion of shoppers from city
to suburbs, and contributed to this trend.
The City of Sydney’s share of NSW retail
sales has fallen from 32.1 p.c. in 1947-48
to 19.2 p.c. in 1961-62 according to
retail census, and to probably something
like 17.5 p.c. in 1964-65 (in the last three
years Sydney city sales have been static,
although NSW sales as a whole have
shown an annual growth rate of 5 to
7 p.c.).
Nock and Kirby’s management has
been concerned for years with the need
to revitalise the city’s heart by co-ordina-
tion between traffic authorities, State and
council housing projects, and public
transport. The single fare within city
limits, instituted by the NSW Liberal
Government, was a step in the right
direction.
Land-tax and rates are a considerable
burden to city property owners. Nock
and Kirby declared last year that these
expenses were equal to an 11 p.c. divi-
dend on the company’s capital, that is,
over £120,000.
Freehold properties were revalued by
£657,628 in 1959-60, bringing revalua-
tion reserve to £BOO,OOO. Their book


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
August 31
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
3209
3356
3327
3495
3638
Less current liabilities
1303
1401
1538
1653
1691
Working capital
1906
1955
1789
1842
1947
Investments
114
230
239
160
152
Fixed assets
2832
2833
2886
2874
2899
4852
5018
4914
4876
4998
Deferred liability
1856
1983
1909
1854
1918
Minority \ interests
18
19
20
20
21
Ordinary capital
1120
1120
1120
1 120
1120
Reserves
1858
1896
1865
1882'
1939
4852
5018
4914
4876
4998
47
Depreciation
58
61
62
60
Tax
52
72
21
44
81
Net profit
84
133
22
100
115
Dividend
56
90
56
56
84
Surplus
28
43
-34
44
31
Earning rate
7.5
11.9
1.9
8.9
10.3
Dividend rate
5
8
5
5
7k
Dividend yield (a)
Price/earnings
3.1
5.8
4.9
5.4
ratio (a)
20.8
11.6
52.7
9.3
High price (b)
22/6
17/6
14/-
12/-
10/-
Low price (b)
14/3
13/6
8/9
8/6
8/-
(a) End of December
(b) Calendar year.
, month accounts
presented.
Public Notice
McGILL ESTATE, Miss Adelaide Rennie.
Will any person knowing the whereabouts of
Laura, Emeline, George or Louisa or any other
children of the late Charles and Alice Jane
Ellen McGill (nee Duncan) or of their next of
kin, please communicate with The Trustees
Executors & Agency Co. Ltd, 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne (Mr Smith). Telephone 62 6481.
Legal Notices
TO GEORGE ARMSTRONG SIMPSON formerly
of Timaru, New Zealand, Yallourn, Victoria
and New Guinea or his wife or issue, a son of
George Simpson Deceased. TAKE NOTICE that
George Simpson late of Timaru in New Zea-
land Driver Deceased, died on or about the
23rd day of January 1947, leaving a will in
which his • son the said George Armstrong
Simpson was a beneficiary AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that unless the said George
Armstrong Simpson or his wife or issue send
in his, her or their claim within three calendar
months of the date this advertisement is
published the Trustee of the estate of the
said George Simpson Deceased intends to
apply to the Supreme Court of New Zealand
pursuant to Section 76 of the Trustee Act
1956 for an Order authorising him to distribute
the share of the said George Armstrong Simp-
son in the Estate of the said George Simpson
Deceased as if the said George Armstrong
Simpson had died before the death of the said
George Simpson Deceased namely the 23rd
day of January 1947 leaving no wife or issue.
All claims made in pursuance of this Notice
must be made to the Trustee of the Estate of
George Simpson Deceased, care of MESSIEURS
CAMPBELL, GREEN. EVATT and McALEER,
Solicitors, George Street, Timaru, New Zea-
land. Friends of the said George Armstrong
Simpson are requested to bring this advertise-
ment to his attention.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: DAPHNE MARIE PATRICK formerly of
Flat 2, 45 Belmore Road. Randwick, in the
State of New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE
that RICHARD HENRY PATRICK has filed
Petition No. 2502 of 1965 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce Regis-
try, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 18th day of
February, 1966,. and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MR JOHN
SIDNEY HEANEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
of 56 Hunter Street, Sydney. If you do not
wish to file an Answer but wish to receive a
copy of each document filed in the proceed-
ings you should file a Notice of Address for
Service within such time. JOHN S. HEANEY
& SON, Solicitors, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
value today totals £2,462,051. These
are subject to mortgages of approxi-
mately £300,000. Other borrowings in-
clude £1,434,000 in debenture stock.
Interest on debentures and loans cost
the company £125,751 in 1964-65.
Debtors rose from £757,876 to
£836,931. They do not mirror the sales
increase, as Nock and Kirby stores trade
chiefly for cash. The company found it
necessary to double the write-off for bad
debts to £93,250 and provide £12,100
(1964, £7300) for doubtful debts.
The company holds a 51 p.c. interest
in Highway Development Pty (a develop-
ment and investment company) and in
The Valor Co. of Australia Pty, which
makes kerosene appliances. It is also
interested in outboard motors for boats,
through a w'holly owned subsidiary,
Sports Craft Outboards Pty, of Ryde,
and a 25 p.c. shareholding in Outboard
Marine Aust. Pty.
Two items putting a stranglehold on
profits are rates and taxes, and interest
on borrowings. Retained profits and
capital profits (1964, £27,000) have not
been sufficient to allow reduction of
borrowings. The key to Nock and
Kirby's future is in its properties. If
these could be sold and leased back (the
Woolworth system) the company might
make a significant break-through in earn-
ings. (Tangible asset-backing is 265. lOd.
per 10s. share.) Otherwise there appears
little scope for profit improvement.
The 10s. shares have ranged from Bs.
to 10s. during 1965 and ex-divi-
dend are at 9s. to return 8.3 p.c. in
income, 11.3 p.c. on earnings. There
is little incentive to go into this stock,
though shareholders (looking at their
assets) are justifiably reluctant to get out.
The Bulletin” Crossword No. 881
ACROSS
I—lt's to be expected of the wise and epic metropolis.
(8)
s—Redskin5 —Redskin epoch of bone giving nothing an element
of seasoning. (5)
10— Towered enough to impart high creative vitality to
another. (7)
11— Rays may be thus part of the cataract in Iceland.
oy
12— Mill equipment to appear menacingly above the
horizon. (4)
13— Lock up the product of shearing an attachment to
one’s pocket. (3-4)
16 — Spinner’s lubricant which is
first to go in wind erosion? (7)
17— Tearing into a thankless per-
sonality. (7)
18— Insects appearing as I grew
disturbed enough to give tou-
pees to the listener. (7)
19— It doesn’t get up the childless
song with latex. (7)
20— Malaria would be one of these
contradictions of Buenos
Ayres. (3, 4)
21— Jenny is an architect. (4)
24 Never in wrecked referring
to the neural organisation.
(7)
25 Way out in the next remedy.
(7)
26 Make up for a sin some time
after midnight. (5)
27 Poisoner stops paving. (8)
DOWN
1 — Maladroit with the vegetables,
but comes clean. (6, 3,5)
2 Appliances for washing the
police of Georgia. (3, 7)
3 If Hood wanted it after busi-
ness. (4)
4 Georgette Heyer’s novel rea-
son for ordering new Vene-
tians? (5, 3,6)
6 Gent is nuts to suggest a
natural feature of even tennis
guts for a change. (7, 3)
7 Cosy reversal in ordnance.
(4)
8— Lawyers may have them
looking at underclothes. (8, 6)
9 Red carpet spilt elsewhere.
(7, 7)
14— Benedictine I land as power
over others. (10)
15— Melbourne suburb giving an
exhortation as to the correct
making of road bends. (10)
22 King George’s given it pluck.
(4)
23 State wherein you raise the
hat! (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 880


The portfolio now comprises:
Cost
Cur-
No. of
Name of
Date
Per
rent
Shares
Company
Bought
Share
Price
500
NAUC
28/6/65
7/-
7/6
400
Pongrass
15/9/65
11/-
10/6
200
VAM
28/9/65
5/-
5/3
200
Hotel Metropole
21/10/65
17/6
19/'
200
Tyree
27/10/65
19/-
19/-
300
Stocks & Holdings
17/11/65
12/6
12/9
200
Malleys
18/11/65
28/-
28/-
400
Kolotex
24/11/65
12/6
12/9
1000
L. J. Hooker
24/11/65
3/1
3/4
400
Peko Wallsend
6/12/65
17/6
18/9
200
Aust. Bacon
14/12/65
12/3
12/3
400
Kathleen Inv. rts.
14/12/65
8/-
8/9
200
Associated Pulp
5/1/66
30/-
30/'
Invest in
INDOSTRIAI ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
2
7% . 4 YEARS
61% 3 YEARS
61% 2 YEARS
•
51% 12 MONTHS
FOR 5 YEARS
Prospectus and application form available fromt
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS —IAN POTTER & CO.
9001 Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
SACRED HEART COLLEGE
Chevalier, Bowral
requires MATHS/SCIENCE TEACHER and
GENERAL SECONDARY TEACHER, begin-
ning term one, 1966. Salary scales at
State Department level; accommodation
for single man. For details, apply the
RECTOR.
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
On the Beach and Richer
Portfolio makes its Christmas gains
BUSY as Father Christmas was, he did not overlook the stock market, So whale
in true Australian style I lay motionless on the beach, I was getting steadily
richer. Mainly through the efforts of R. W. Miller and Peko Wallsend, £lOO was
added to the value of the portfolio in the Christmas break.
Thanks (to some degree) for this
development must also go to the Stock
Exchanges, which kept the market open
between Christmas and New Year. If ever
anyone wanted to create his own market,
this was the time. In the three days
between Christmas and New Year, a
total of 481,00 C industrial shares was
traded (just equal to one normal day’s
trading). Give me the old days when the
market had a well-earned rest at this
time of the year.
The festive season also did not deter
J. W. Grant and Co. from sending out a
sell circular on MLC. The fall in asset
backing is the theme that runs through
the circular. But people don’t buy assets
these days; they buy present and future
income. The circular conveniently over-
looks the qualification that sharenolders
must receive a minimum of 2\ p.c. of
the company’s profits. Instead, it sudden-
ly makes the unsupported statement that
the dividend is in doubt. Mr Grant (if
there is a Mr Grant) could well have the
opposite effect to what he hopes to
achieve.
If Mr Grant had recommended buy-
ing Associated Pulp instead of selling
MLC he may have been more on the
right track.
With “C-Day” only a month away,
stock splits should be coming into vogue.
Associated Pulp is one of several com-
panies splitting its shares into 10s. units.
In another way, too, Associated Pulp
benefits by the decimal currency change-
over. The change has created an ab-
normal demand for fine and coated
paper. The chairman of Associated Pulp
described the profit for the first quarter
as “most satisfactory”. While he thought
there could be some reduction in demand
in the second half, the recently expressed
enthusiasm of one of Associated Pulp’s
major customers, B. J. Ball, should
dispel this doubt.
It seems unlikely that Associated Pulp
can stage the same spectacular recovery
in profits as it did in 1963, when earn-
ings more than doubled. Nevertheless a
pretty healthy jump in , rofits seems
likely, perhaps even a return to the
10 p.c. dividend rate. At 30s., there’s
plenty of room for the shares to move
upwards.
To pay for my first purchase in 1966,
I sold the 300 R. W. Miller at 22s. and
the 600 Jay worth at Is. 8d. Jayworth
was a case of just breaking even, but
R. W. Miller resulted in a handsome
profit of £31.
At the end of the week, I find myself
£108 in credit.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
300 R. W. Miller, 22/- £323
600 Jayworth, 1/8 £49
BOUGHT
200 Associated Pulp, 30/- £307


ldofld an encyclopae^
<3
w
/
.
ai
life
Ufa
.
Lift-out books
each week in
WOMEN’S
WEEKLY
There’s a marvellous "extra” every
week—books planned to help you,
and to entertain you, too; books
about everything from interior
decor to housework, from fashion
to gardening. And lots more!
CP 656


Eryoy fresh, friendly CRAVEN FILTER
s*
St
*6
&
***l
1966
JAN
0
*
■ 'I
%
.
/
r
m
I
Now is the time to make the change, join the
people who have made the change, and you'll enjoy
the better taste of Craven Filter
CRAVEN FILTER
belongs to the world of today
r war*
Z553A-1/66
