

The Bulletin
MEMORIES OF A JEWISH BOYHOOD
JAINU AK T O, I 3UU
INCdRFOR'AJING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
r f m wife §« „ 'MfflL mm m rjjgifc; jjssk
IfHipt. ;• p X‘ i ? ; < * ,*414 % . § p #p J& np
!■ S ?-; |i Bii || 11 4 j 111 P ! I
Bgp Hk Ml- £§| . j®s §m K' gwsm B *** ffS *fm ?Ps 4 K$ §Bj
& 1 '*rf n [k»*- I’A'ff jt pw»" mzWy B KmI ;; ..’:•%-H| §K 9r aElBh
vi W% Wm
m. Wi I ' m I 5 4 v. * f » B I e - II * «
PC 111 R mU I IBv
KdP BJf mJP Ut'l#'
w B p.. ■ wHk%i w w 'BP- Bw- v j *■< ** '** ■*•*» -
Australia 2/- (20c.), New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks 52/- 52 weeks 84/-
(New Guinea Air Mail—26 weeks, 82/6; 52 weeks, 145/-)
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks, 84/- N.Z.)
i
MALAYSIA
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore.
air freight
26 weeks
$26
BRITISH
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
surface mail:
26 weeks 42/- Stg. 52 weeks . 67/- Stg.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
M
f
J§
wt pi m
? *- _ i <■)
r mm
AMERICA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Australian rates.
(Air Mail rates on application.)
Bringing the world to Australia,
presenting Australia to the world
The
Bulletin
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
Name
Address
} Renewal. QJ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for


enjoy
yciney more
stay CHEVRON
' J HOTEL
drive AVIS
It costs no more for the best!
hevron offers you every modern convenience and luxury
at a sensible price. Air-conditioned throughout, every room and suite
overlooks beautiful Sydney harbour. Elegant restaurants, exciting
Cocktail bars and 24 hour per-
sonalised service. Chevron is
conveniently situated for busi-
ness, shopping, all sporting
facilities and only a few paces
from fascinating Kings Cross
night life. Make the most of your
stay, arrange for a sparkling new
Avis car to be waiting when you
reserve your accommodation.
x**: '
:
ilii
I t
m
Book through any travel agent or direct with
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone 35.0433. Cables ‘CHEVRON SYDNEY’
The Bulletin
Established 1830
JANUARY 8, 1966.
VOL. 83, No. 4479
TWO FACES OF COURAGE
Geoffrey Fairbairn’s Vietnam 11
THE BEACH, 1966
Taking your pick at Rosebud 15
In the bikini belt 16
Thousand miles from care 16
A VISIT FROM
SIR OSBERT 20
RHODESIA UNDER
EMBARGO
The real test is yet to come 26
MEMORIES OF A JEWISH
BOYHOOD
Yiddish sounds, Carlton sights 23
THIS AUSTRALIA
Senator Wright’s letter 6
The police scandal syndrome 7
Has luck missed the point 8
Normality in the unions? 8
1066 AND ALL WHAT?
The anniversary to end anniversaries 19
INTELLIGENT WOMAN’S
GUIDE 21
ROSS CAMPBELL 22
LETTERS 28
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Sunshine: Who Needs Theatre? .... 30
A Good, Cheap Night Out 31
THEATRE: Surfaces of Life 33
FILMS: Four In Hand 34
BOOKS: The Life of Dylan Thomas,
Constantine Fitz Gibbon 35
The Leafy Tree, Daryl
Lindsay 36
The Company of Animals.
Ronald McKie 37
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Flights of fancy on exchange rates 39
India’s worst food crisis 40
Trials and troubles of vending 42
MAN ON THE LAND
Thoughts on the dairy subsidy .... 44
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone; 2 0666,
Advertising: 163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
Box 4088. Phone; 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


SELLING GOODS
BY THE TRUCKLOAD
IS NO HEADACHE
WHEN YOU
SELL THROUGH
GTV-9
{’r :
i
RVICE
Pry
t?fi
7" ■?'”
.^swewxw*
:' >
jp”*<
\' -V *
IBH
STRATI
Si*#®
'
• ...
m
******
!** i *
?•* s£s>s&
■' -V ■
/
.
mm
The photograph above shows the biggest ever single order of
ALKA-SELTZER being delivered to the SSW grocery chain ware-
house. □ Miles Laboratories, makers of ALKA-SELTZER, are staunch
believers in the selling power of GTV-9, particularly its famous
“live" feature IMT, and have been using this channel fora longtime
to build their product’s share of a very competitive market. The
results have been very pleasing indeed (refer again to “very pleas-
ing" photograph above). □ If you want to sell BIG, buy time with
Channel 9.
9
Alka-Seltzer
AS2l|


ONE MORE
WEEK
Verse or worse
ITalentine Holdings Ltd, the greet-
ing-card group, has just been listed
on the Melbourne Stock Exchange. It
was a fine debut. The ss. shares, issued
at Bs., had reached 10s. 2d. by the end
of the day. The company has forecast
10 per cent dividends, which one would
like to think will come along with a
suitable card on February 14. But what
if things do not turn out as expected?
How would the annual report be then?
Something like this?
Oh, dear friend, we really meant
To pay you our 10 per cent.
We'll try again in ‘six or seven’
To send receipts as high as heaven.
Until then dear share-man mine
Please, oh please, stay . . . with
Valentine.
Novelty
lAried mango pieces from India were
among the “novelty” foods avail-
able for Australian tables over the holi-
days. It would be nice to feel that Aus-
tralia had reciprocated and provided
some Indian tables with what is daily
becoming more of a novelty for millions
in that country a square meal.
Author
Oat Mackie, prominent figure in last
year’s Mount Isa dispute, has taken
a month off from house-painting to give
the autobiography he is writing a head-
start. He expects the book to be at the
publishers within six months. The book,
he said, would cover the Mount Isa
affair.
Mackie said that his writing chore
fitted in with his plans to stay in New
South Wales until a number of libel
cases come before the Supreme Court,
probably, he thought, by the middle of
the year. After that he had in mind
going to Queensland, at the request of
rank and file AWU members for re-
organisational work through the Council
of Membership Control.
Protest
Jlolidays give us the chance to see
television programmes which in a
Workaday world are denied us. Tuned
to a Canadian folk-music session, we
were entranced to hear the nice, pudding-
faced announcer say, without a glimmer
°f a smile: “So-and-so will now sing a
Protest song, which he himself wrote
when his car broke down and he had
to wait for the repair-man to come out
and fix it.”
Smart move
A BC producer John Power is strongly
tipped to rejoin Four Corners this
year. A year ago Power was sacked
from the production team over a seg-
ment which dealt with the right of a
journalist not to reveal his source of
information.
At the time when three members of
the Four Corners team were dismissed
the ABC claimed it was its right to make
the best use of employees. Since then
Power has been mainly producing non-
controversial and barely topical docu-
mentaries. A recent one was black-and-
white art and he has just returned from
Queensland where he was working on
a feature on the Bush Brothers.
Four Corners has just finished its fifth
and possibly its most undistinguished
year of presentation. Whether the present
safety-first policy will persist into 1966
will be known when it resumes at the
end of the month. If Power does rejoin
the programme it could be one of the
smartest pieces of public relations yet
contrived by general manager Talbot
Duckmanton.
Weapon
/”|ne of the advantages of modern life
which we feel we could do without
is being able to buy our cigarettes at
the chemist while we are buying our anti-
smoking tablets or our bronchitis mix-
ture.
This seems to be a subject on which
neither the AMA nor the pharmacists’
professional association has any views
or active policy. “It just hasn't come
up,” a spokesman for the pharmacists
told us. It was pointed out that chemists
were suffering such sharp competition
from small shopkeepers, now carrying
many lines formerly only chemists sold,
"While you're up, Wayne, get my
plank, will ya?"
that the chemists had to take up any
retaliatory weapon.
We feel from the beach-hats, bathing-
caps, jewellery, cosmetics and bargain
lines in the chemists’ windows that the
chemists are well ahead.
Windfalls
Tt has always seemed remarkable to us
that private galleries generally list
doctors as their most numerous and free-
spending customers. Doctors, as anyone
who has shared their social life knows,
are not noted for cultural breadth.
However, Dennis Colsey, of the Dar-
linghurst Galleries, has given us the
answer. An art dealer has little interest
in anyone on a fixed income. People
spend their windfalls on paintings and
doctors have wider fluctuations in income
than most people. And, as Mr Colsey
added without rancor, art is still a mar-
ginal expenditure for most people.
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Sydney is a most marvellous city. It
is like Venice in 1300.
Sir Osbert Sitwell.
Australian tennis planning is almost
frightening in its intensity and depth.
Laurie Pignon in "Daily Sketch",
London.
The Australian flag is not just a
gimmick.
Sir Norman Martin.
Europe is the past. Australia, Indonesia
and the South Pacific the future.
Peter Sculthorpe, in the
London "Times".
The worker does not get a fair share
of production.
Ronald Ryan, Pentridge escapee.
One's own conscience is not as gullible
as newspapermen.
Paul Hasluck.
The American Secretary of State, Mr
Dean Rusk, knows nothing and under-
stands little.
Signor La Pira, ex-Mayor of Florence.
Only money and incentive stand in the
way of controlling the world's rainfall.
Dr Charles Hosier.
The sheriff's officers were like uncles
to me. They brought me nice tea and
coffee.
Walter Cbiari.
People who teach English should visit
copy-desks of good newspapers and find
out how good writing is accomplished.
—Professor Don Cameron Allen.
Often the Englishman who claims to be
going to Australia for the sake of his
children really means that the wife is
carrying on with the man next door.
John Brunner.


THIS AUSTRALIA
POLITICS
Senator Wright’s Letter
Senator R. Wright (Tas.) has written to “The Bulletin” to complain about Alan
Reid’s article, “The Phoney Crisis”, in the December 18 issue. The Senator says:
“I write now to request (1) a published apology, (2) a withdrawal of the imputations
mentioned, (3) a publication of this letter or the substance of my parliamentary
speeches and votes fairly and accurately stated in the earliest issue with the same
prominence as your article. If these are not forthcoming I shall issue a writ asking
the Courts for a decision as to the justice of your writing.”
Here is the rest of the letter and Alan
Reid’s comment on it follows:
SIR. I have read your publication
of December 18 and your article
“Phoney Crisis”. In the course of that
article you refer to “vaudeville” and
“comical capers” and then make clear
your inference that my vote on the
Income Tax Bill was not genuine but
“phoney”. You say: “But as has be-
come almost normal in any crisis in
which Wright is involved it was a
phoney crisis.” To make the imputation
quite emphatic your article writer says
that he would not accept as serious any
constitutional crisis that revolved around
the personality of Senator Wright until
there was contrary evidence, and added,
“I renewed my vows”.
This follows a completely garbled and
confused statement of the issues in-
volved—issues which in my opinion are
fundamental and affect basic principles.
Your contributor has distorted these
issues and my attitude to them and made
his distorted version a basis upon which
to impute to me vaudeville behavior
and insincere parliamentary voting.
When the Income Tax legislation of
November, 1964, was being considered
I went to some trouble to get an under-
standing of the principles involved. I
was so dismayed by what I considered
were the obnoxious principles that I
moved for the appointment of a Select
Committee. My motion failed. The
Treasurer promised a review of the
legislation after considering various im-
portant representations. He did not make
known his decision until June, 1965,
after Parliament had risen from the
autumn session. I continued my study of
the legislation and made several insistent
claims to my party for review. I made
it clear to my party members that I
believed the legislation was destructive
of fundamental liberal principles; it
took family transactions, trusts, partner-
ships and superannuation funds and im-
posed on certain classes of these trans-
actions a penal tax of 10s. in the £ and
entrusted authority to the Commissioner
in the form of a discretion in relation
to each individual case to exempt it from
the penal tax. His decision was subject
only to review by a Board of Review in
its discretion.
The taxpayer was deprived of his
ordinary right of access to the normal
judicial system for a decision in accord-
ance with a rule of law. This was the
more alarming to me inasmuch as the
new provisions in effect enabled the
Commissioner to decide issues involving
honesty and personal honor.
In addition the new provisions enabled
the Commissioner in relation to super-
annuation funds to decide what benefits
were reasonable for individual tax-
payers enabling him grossly to dis-
criminate between taxpayers. The Com-
missioner’s Public Information Bulletin
had stated that ordinarily he would re-
gard £40,000 as the upper limit of a
lump sum benefit but the Commissioner
has informed us that there were at least
two cases in which he had already
decided that almost double that sum
should be allowed. The Commissioner
is bound to secrecy. He has enormous
power. He is not an appropriate re-
pository for such important discretions
and the whole principle of the legisla-
tion, in my view, is subversive of the
rule of law and the right of an individual
to equal protection before the Courts of
law.
These, briefly stated, are “the em-
bedded principles which are totally un-
acceptable to me and destructive of any
principle I can support in public life or
elsewhere”.
The seriousness of my view was in-
dicated when I took the step of voting
against the second reading of the Rates
Bill—a Bill which the Senate had no
right to amend. I explained that the
budgetary increase of 2i per cent rate
had my support. But as the Bill em-
bodied these other objectionable prin-
ciples and proposed them as law for the
first time I must vote against the Bill. I
repeated my vote later that day, after I
had been asked by the Minister in charge
of the Bill to reconsider my vote.
But when next day the Government
decided to divide the Bill, I would have
been in abuse of the constitutional
authority of the Senate on a Rates Bill,
and recreant to my own judgment as to
the justification for the tax increase of
2i per cent if I had rejected that Bill as
a lever against the then separate Bill
imposing penal rates of 10s. in the £ on
certain trusts, partnerships and super-
annuation funds. I explained this in my
speeches.
Mr Alan Reid has exhibited his super-
ficial understanding of a parliamen-
tarian’s duty in this not for the first
occasion. Previously I have ignored his
views. But, as I made clear in my
speech, my resistance to the above
features is not finished and I do not
therefore accept this complete distortion
of a most important cause. I wish to add
that my view of parliamentary duty is to
vote according to one’s judgment, defer-
ring to a party view but not subordinat-
ing one’s vote to the party.
But at the same time in the Senate the
function is review—the ultimate right of
government belongs to the Government
and the ultimate right of taxation and
appropriation of ordinary annual
revenues belongs to the House of Rep-
resentatives.
It is doubtless beyond the understand-
ing of your correspondent to perceive
in my vote a faithful application of
those principles.
I applied the same principles in the
resistance I made to the Land Tax Bill
in 1950 and the Sales Tax Bill in 1960.
Because then I did not assert final
authority to reject these Bills, your cor-
respondent would say my vote was
phoney. I can only say that the Senate’s
function is “review” the narrow
division in the strength of the parties
requires of one great self-discipline and
a restraint against abusing individual
power— but after the reprimand adminis-
tered to the Government on Land Tax
the whole Federal Land Tax was
abolished in the following year and
after the remonstrance against Sales Tax
increase in November, 1960, the in-
crease was renounced early in 1961.
I have written somewhat fully to re-
new my claim that convictions on funda-
mental principles in the above sense have
never been by me more firmly held. I
regard your comments as to vaudeville
and comical capers and phoney crisis as
rubbishy and irresponsible in the ex-
treme.
This is Alan Reid’s comment on
Senator Wright’s letter:
Of course the constitutional crisis on
the Income Tax Bill (1965) precipitated
by an anti-Government vote in the j
Senate on December 9 was phoney. The
Government knew that it was phoney,
although it had to go through the ritual
of treating it seriously as a direct chal-
lenge by the Senate to the financial


authority of the House of Representa-
tives. Labor knew that it was phoney.
, Both Government and Opposition
knew that the two measures one to
increase income tax by 2+ per cent and
the other dealing with the superannua-
tion issues to which Senator Wright
objected had only to be dealt with
separately and Parliament could placidly
break up for Christmas and the New
Year.
As to the “comical capers” (which I
attributed* to the Senate generally and
not to Senator Wright), Labor opposition
to the Bill was based exclusively on
antagonism to the 21 per cent increase
in income tax (which Senator Wright
described as “sound”). Both Govern-
ment and Opposition anticipated that
Senator Wright would vote with the
Government on that issue. When and
if Senator Wright later moved for the
insertion in the Bill of a request (to the
House of Representatives) to remove
what he considered the objectionable
clauses dealing with superannuation,
Labor would have voted with the Gov-
ernment to defeat Senator Wright’s
request.
Instead of moving his request about
the section of the legislation to which
he objected, Senator Wright —on the
ground that he would not support legis-
lation in which “are embedded principles
unacceptable to me and destructive to
any principle that I can support in
public life or elsewhere”—took the ua-
usual course of supporting Labor’s
general opposition to the Bill, and with
the support of the two Democratic Labor
Party Senators [Gair (Qld) and Mc-
Manus (Vic.)], the legislation was then
rejected.
1 pointed out that on the stand he
took—that he voted against the legisla-
tion because it “embedded principles un-
acceptable to me and destructive to any
principle 1 can support in public life
and elsewhere” Senator Wright could
have justified opposing any of the
measures complementary to the Budget
(which the Income Tax Bill was) as the
Budget had embedded in it the same un-
acceptable principles. As it happened
the Government introduced precisely the
same legislation in two different Bills
and secured exactly the same result as
if Senator Wright has done what earlier
he was expected to do supported the
Government in resisting Labor’s attack
on its proposal to increase income tax
by 21 per cent and then moved un-
successfully his request on the supers
annuation issue.
If Senator Wright does me the
courtesy of re-reading what I wrote he
will see that nowhere do I describe the
views he holds about the Government
handling of the superannuation issue as
phoney. I described the constitutional
crisis as phoney. And so it was. As I
pointed out: “From a great constitutional
crisis it degenerated into a wrangle on
procedure.”
LAW
The Police Scandal Syndrome
Both Victoria and New South Wales are currently exhibiting what an American
criminologist has called the “police scandal syndrome”. Prominent among the
symptoms are such recent headlines as POLICE FORCE ON THE SPOT, SCANDAL
ROCKS POLICE FORCE, STIR OVER POLICE BRUTALITY and POLICE
GRAFT STORY.
The stories under these headings have
been diverse. But they have all been
concerned with the subject of police
discipline and have featured allegations
of misconduct by police. In particular
there has been a good deal of critical
comment on the manner in which com-
plaints against the police are investi-
gated. The inadequacy of the present
arrangements is usually taken to be
plainly evident. Thus, of the New South
Wales Police Commissioner's report on
the Stinvics case, one editor said merely:
“It is against logic and human nature to
expect an unbiased report from such a
source.”
The public in New South Wales is
said to have “no confidence in secret
investigations behind closed doors”. The
public in Victoria seems little better
satisfied with the presently adjourned
public hearing of the Police Discipline
Board in Melbourne, (In this connection
the word “whitewash” has been used
rather freely.) But in both States the
principal question raised has been
“whether the Police Force is the proper
body to investigate accusations against
itself”. And New South Wales Premier
Robin Askin has been told peremptorily
that he “should end without delay the
system under which police investigate
police”.
A popular suggestion as to the form
new and improved arrangements should
take appeared in a letter to the Sydney
papers by M. E. Pile, QC, vice-presi-
dent of the New South Wales Council
for Civil Liberties. “Complaints against
the police,” he wrote, “should be in-
vestigated publicly by an independent
tribunal.” This was subsequently echoed
by a number of leader-writers.
In the circumstances it may be worth-
while to consider the rationale of present
police disciplinary procedure.
In the first place the policeman in our
criminal process is in an invidious
position. The accused is customarily
allowed great latitude in attacking the
police, is rarely if ever charged with
perjury, is bound by no rules and has
nothing to lose. So the policeman is
frequently the object of what an English
Chief Constable has called “interdictory
fire”: an artilleryman’s term used to
describe the allegations (often including
perjury, intimidation and violence)
SWAINSVILLE
/ sucrose, /r's roup
mate- s/cpmcs- concsac/nq -
wouAjt>ep- pp/ae -pay
no. /r's youp host/ss-
/HS/SHT- CONCSAL/NS -
/NS£CUP/TY- PAY.
IT'S PSYCHOI,O5/CAL -
PING- POAJS - PAY,


brought by persons charged with an
offence. It is surely not unreasonable
that in the face of attacks by the
frivolous, the irresponsible, the vexatious,
the ill-disposed and the malicious, the
police should be afforded some protec-
tion. And as the UK Royal Commission
on the Police (1962) said: “This pro-
tection can best be given by their own
superiors, who understand the hazards
of police duties and are in the most
favorable position to sift, the obviously
false allegations from those that appear
credible.”
This raises the second point relating
to the actual investigation of com-
plaints. Here all the rhetoric about
“independent investigators” and “im-
partial tribunals” seems to amount to
a demand that the whole business of
complaints should be placed in the hands
of those without any knowledge or com-
petence whatever in the field of police
affairs. And, as noted above, it is even
suggested that a legal qualification, which
is no less than absolutely indispensable
in this context, should be regarded as
a qualification. Again, despite the
obvious necessity for highly trained in-
vestigators, those with the requisite train-
ing and experience are to be expressly
excluded from participation. Not that
the senior detectives to whom the task
of internal investigations is assigned
would be anything but delighted to
relinquish the job.
Lastly, for reasons which are partly
historical, but largely derive from the
nature of their duties, the police are a
unified disciplinary body. Under the
present system here the responsibility for
control of the police is vested in the
hands of a single chief officer—the Com-
missioner of Police. His administration
of the discipline code is an essential and
major part of his duty. So that if the
investigation of complaints against the
police were to be taken out of his hands
and this function were transferred to
some person or body of persons outside
the force, this would involve a serious
derogation from his authority. But
although his position would be weakened
and his power undermined, it is by no
means clear that any advantages to com-
plainants would accrue.
None of this is intended to suggest
that the present procedure has always
resulted in fully satisfactory handling of
complaints by the police against the
police. Certainly a case could be made
for some reform in disciplinary pro-
cedure, for improvements in the arrange-
ments for dealing with complaints and
for a more effective appellate pro-
cess. But the current agitation seems to
consist very largely of thoughtless and
irresponsible cant.
GORDON HAWKINS
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Hasluck Missed the Point
When the External Affairs Minister, Mr Paul Hasluck, made a public report
on his Asian mission, including his visit to Australian troops in Vietnam, at a Press
conference in Perth last week, he apologised to the Press for his former refusal to
see them to discuss his trip. But in my view he missed the whole point of the exercise.
The point is not that he refused to
see the Press but that he had (until
then) refused to make a public report.
As a newspaperman I would have
appreciated a Press conference. As a
citizen I considered myself entitled to a
public report.
In justice to Mr Hasluck I must say
that I personally have never found him
unapproachable, as some of my col-
leagues apparently have. I cannot recall
an occasion on which I have asked to
see him and he has refused to see me. If
he has been unable to see me im-
mediately because of Cabinet, Party or
other engagements, he has always seen
me later at a more convenient time, and
(again speaking exclusively from my own
personal experience) I have never found
that he resents arguing with you if you
put a different viewpoint to the one he
has put to you.
Nevertheless there are weaknesses in
the Government's domestic handling of
External Affairs issues, which are in part
due to the Government’s own ambiguous
approach to Australian involvement in
Vietnam and in part due to Hasluck’s
own personality.
Although the Government insists that
its policy of support for South Vietnam
and United States action in that theatre
is correct and essential in Australia’s
long-term defence interests, it acts as
though it is ashamed of its policies. For
example, parades of troops before em-
barkation were commonplace through
Australian cities in World War II when
security requirements were surely much
more stringent than they would need to
be today, but the troops for Vietnam
departed almost stealthily as though the
Government were reluctant to impress
strongly on the public the stance it was
taking in Vietnam.
This slightly furtive attitude has pre-
vailed ever since. Dr James Cairns,
Labor’s most vociferous opponent of
the Government’s policy in Vietnam,
has climbed on every platform, joined
every TV programme, participated in
seven “teach-ins” and pamphleteered
extensively to get across his viewpoint.
Although it has had innumerable forums
from which to express its viewpoint, the
Government has not availed itself of
them.
The situation has become so ludicrous
that, to rebut Cairns and the others
hostile to its Vietnam policy, the Govern-
ment, possessed of such spokesmen as
Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies and
Hasluck himself (who can force their
views into virtually any publication or
on to any TV or news commentary by
the sheer weight of their importance),
has circulated a copy of a pamphlet on
Vietnam to the headmasters of second-
ary schools throughout Australia.
Instead of roaring like lions the
Menzies Government has squeaked like
mice—despite the probability that the
bulk of Australian voters support the
Government’s policy ir. Vietnam, even
though the policy has been imperfectly
and inadequately explained.
Superimposed on this rather hesitant
Government approach is the personality
of Hasluck. Hasluck, unlike the general
run of politicians, is, 1 believe, genuinely
not interested in personal publicity. A
former specialist in External Affairs as
a professional diplomat, he gives the
impression of regarding External Affairs
as the exclusive preserve of the specialist
—an attitude that has pre-war over-
tones and belongs to an era when the
bulk of Australians had no interest in
external affairs and, more importantly,
lived placidly behind the shelter of the
world power of the British Navy.
But times have changed. Not only
have more Australians an interest in
external affairs but many more Aus-
tralians need to have such an interest.
Nobody wants to hear Hasluck’s views
because of his bonny blue eyes. They
want to hear his views and get an official
report because he is External Affairs
Minister.
It is up to Hasluck to overcome his
personal diffidence, recognise that the
publicity he receives is not because he is
Paul Hasluck but the Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs, and act as the Govern-
ment's spokesman on foreign affairs in-
stead of as a specialist who concentrates
primarily upon informing his fellow
specialists and not the public.
ALAN REID
UNIONS
Normality?
Finality, as Disraeli knew, is not the
language of politics: a thought that the
democratic element of the ALP should
keep in mind when estimating the signi-
ficance of the effects of the recent elec-
tions on the Melbourne waterfront.
The Fitzgibbon-Labor team, led by ex-
boxer Les Stuart, and the widely
respected Mick O’Neill, is home but not


yet hosed. In the public rejoicing of Whit-
lam-supporters and the private rejoicing
of Arthur Calwetl, it has been largely
overlooked that, whilst the Communists
and fellow-travellers were defeated for
the four chief positions of the Melbourne
branch of the Waterside Workers’ Feder-
ation, they still control the majority of
the votes on the branch executive. Men
skilled in the tactics of Lenin can still
operate with some force from such
positions.
The widespread hope that the success
of the Fitzgibbon-Labor candidates will
encourage similar ALP groups to stand
for election in other Communist and
Unity Ticket-controlled unions must be
tempered by recognition of a number of
special circumstances which operated in
the WWF. Chief among these were: (1)
the special and national status of Fitzgib-
bon himself; (2) the resentment aroused
amongst watersiders by the industrially
and politically inspired series of stop-
pages which disrupted the Melbourne
waterfront more than any other last year
and brought no result except serious loss
of pay and heavy fines; (3) the split be-
tween the Russian- and Chinese-oriented
factions of the Waterfront Communist
machine; (4) the Industrial Groupers did
not nominate for election and supported
the Stuart-O'Neill party.
Communists and militants still hold an
eight to six majority on the 15-man
WWF executive, on which the new Pre-
sident, Jack McCormack, a supporter of
Stuart and O'Neill, has the power of a
casting vote but no deliberative vote.
The only militant who might be open
to persuasion to support the new Labor
group on some major issues is “Curly”
Rorke who, although an outspoken advo-
cate of extremist measures at times, has
never allowed himself to be captured by
the local Communists, and has at times
been involved in bitter factional fights
with Communists and members of the
ALP Executive, because of his refusal to
toe the line on policies with which he has
disagreed. Rorke likes to think of him-
self as a man who makes up his mind
on issues according to their merits.
The moderate Labor group led by
Mick Jordan can expect no immediate
assistance in defending their narrow
majority on the Trades Hall Council. The
predominantly Communist - influenced
WVVF delegates to the Trades Hall do n<jt
come up for re-election until June, 1967.
GUEST CARTOONIST, SNEAD
"And a prosperous New Year to you too!"


is your
uniform
as neat
as your
nylons?
US,
IttHU
in
When it’s made of Cesarella it is! New
Cesarella is woven from Toray Tetoron
and Viscose to make the softest,
silkiest, neatest, smartest uniforms
you’ve ever worn. Lustrous
Cesarella pleats permanently,
resists creasing, drips-dry to
original stylish beauty. Be
neat and smart all the
time, insist on Cesarella
for all your uniforms—
the fashion’s there
to stay!
(juakd&t
the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Torail TETOBOH*
POUtSTta FIBRE art Vistisi
652
It will be a major achievement of the
Stuart-O’Neiil group if it can strongly
influence these delegates over the next
18 months.
The extreme leftist WWF delegates to
the annual conference of the Victorian
ALP are also safe until June, 1967, a
fact which has been overlooked by those
who were expecting Stuart and O’Neill
to become the leaders of a new assault
on the present executive.
Furthermore, the Melbourne WWF
delegates to the ALP conference number
only five and are much less influential
than the large number of delegates from
such Communist-led unions as the Aus-
tralian Railways Union and the Amalga-
mated Engineering Union.
The ALP executive, which worked
actively against the Stuart-O’Neill group
in the recent waterfront elections, may
be expected to increase its efforts to pre-
vent straight ALP tickets being used in
other union elections: the masking prin-
ciple being “No Interference in Union
Affairs”.
There are not many Fitzgibbons left
in the Victorian Labor movement, but
even if they can break the Communist
control of more unions the battle against
the present executive of the Victorian
ALP will not be easily won. The contin-
ual erosion of centre-of-the-road mem-
bers from the branches of the ALP has
meant that many of them are now in the
control of small groups of fellow-travel-
lers and supporters of the present ALP
machine. At present the branch vote at
the annual conference is as tightly leftist
as the union vote. There is no easy path
back to normality.
BRIAN BUCKLEY
POST OFFICE
In the Bag
Late posting of letters and the arrival
of two heavy cargoes of overseas mail
were responsible for a pile-up of two
million letters and parcels on Christmas
Eve in Sydney Post Office.
This mail was sorted over the Christ-
mas break and most of it was delivered
on Tuesday in Sydney, or the following
day in outlying centres.
There was no build-up in other States
where sorting and delivery went as
smoothly as usual, partly because people
posted earlier there and partly because
the inbound overseas sea mail was light
compared with Sydney’s, where six ships
carrying in all 18£ thousand bags of mail
arrived between the 17th and 26th of the
month.
The acute shortage of labor in the
national economy was not the cause of
the Sydney build-up, as the Post Office
says it had no difficulty in recruiting
temporary staff. It took on 1300 extra
workers at Christmas to supplement its
normal postal staff of 2300. This force
had to handle 105.3 million individual
items of mail in the three Christmas
weeks compared with 106.6 million in
the same three weeks in 1964 and 81 mil-
lion five years ago.
As well as early posting the Post
Office stresses the advantages of using
standard size envelopes (that is, 3i in. by
sfin. and 4in. by 9in.) which gear into
its automatic processing machinery to be
converted into regular streams of letters
all facing the same way for stamp can-
celling and sorting, leaving packets and
outsize envelopes for manual handling.
It says that to install machinery capable
of automatically processing every size of
envelope available today would be too
costly and impracticable. With direct
sorting to suburbs to be introduced in
February and to be fully operative in
mid-year, Sydney is promised speedier
mail deliveries by the Post Office which
will have several other new electronic
mail speeders as well.
J. C. HORSFALL


GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN’S VIETNAM DIARY
TWO RUES OF MURAGE
1 —The Quiet Australians
TlTherever one goes in Vietnam one
” hears the praises of Australians being
loudly sung: the men of the battalion
operating out from Bien Hoa in the
countryside, hunting out Vietcong, while
helping the peasants to bring in the
rice ctop; Captain Harris, so well
thought of by the US Marines as a
temporary company commander of
theirs; Dr Stewart Harvison, a medical
missionary in the North; the surgical
team at Long Xuyen in the South;
Squadron - Leader Guthrie’s Caribou
Flight working long hours supplying be-
leaguered garrison towns north and south
of Saigon and Special Forces in wild
places; engineers preparing to lay on
water when opportunities offer; the 80-
man training team composed chiefly of
Warrant Officers, masters of penetration
and counter-insurgency; and the man
who has been described as “a legend in
his own time —and the legend’s true”,
Colonel E. F. Serong, whom many com-
petent Americans consider the greatest
counter-insurgent expert in the world.
It would be monstrously absurd for a
mere journalist—or for anyone else, for
that matter—-to try to establish superior-
ities between such people. They all
share a widely recognised excellence, a
modesty that rings strange to one re-
cently come from amongst the stridently
arguing academic Protesters in Australia;
and a sureness of purpose that permits
them always generously to talk about
“the other blokes” who are doing dif-
ferent jobs—and “the other blokes” in-
clude not only Australians engaged in
other occupations of war but Americans
and Vietnamese. Talking to experienced
Warrant Officer-instructors and partisan
warfare leaders, it is instructive to notice
how generous they are towards the
Vietnamese troops’ courage if properly
led, as they are increasingly being led.
It is really only Australian academics,
safely pontificating in common rooms
and behind well-known hotels, who feel
inclined publicly to slur the honor
of badly mauled troops who have been
fighting for nearly a decade—them and a
few desk-wallahs in Vietnam.
And the more desperately dangerous
the military role played, the more gently
do its participants speak, the more honor-
ably do they behave. This can be found
amongst members of the battalion, flyers
on the euphemistically named “milk run”,
and the Warrant Officers serving in vari-
ous exacting positions in I Corps Area
in the north of South Vietnam. It is of
these last I want to say something here.
They are so sure of their knowledge
that they altogether lack the “chip” that
still afflicts a certain kind of Australian;
they are so professional that though they
know the Mao Tse-tung-Vo Nguyen Giap
tactics of warfare extremely well (and
as a result of Colonel Serong’s tenure as
Commandant of the Canungra Jungle
Warfare Training School in Queensland,
know counter-insurgency almost certainly
better than anyone else in Vietnam), they
talk about the problems quietly without
the faintest hint of boastfulness; they
know so much about quick ambushes
and slow dying thereafter that they have
no time for mock heroics —they are
mostly married men who want to get
home when their 11 months of service
are over; they are so aware of the com-
plexities of counter-insurgency that they
are only too ready not only to concede
but vigorously to argue the superiority of
some American achievements —in com-
munications, in field medical service, in
fire support brought quickly to bear,
for example.
Indeed their quiet generosity is such
that, though they are easily the most
experienced Free World soldiers in the
area, and though Americans ask to come
along on operations to learn their tech-
niques, I never once heard from them a
suggestion of feeling superior—many of
their methods, yes (for which Colonel
Serong so often, nearly always, received
credit), but themselves, no. They are
much too wise for that. They simply
expressed the belief—again quietly—that
they were in gradual fact influencing
methods used. But even having said so
little in view of their achievement, they
were apt immediately to start applauding
US air support or the valiant work being
done by the RAAF Caribous in supply-
ing their posts in distant places.
They were as quick to talk about the
tremendous fighting spirit of the Nungs
(a Chinese group from North Vietnam)
who do battle as mercenaries at higher
pay than the ARVINS (Vietnamese
troops) receive; who can only be
“decorated” with gimmicks like watches
for outstanding bravery; who mostly re-
quire a curb on them lest their overly
keen fighting proclivities lead them into
trouble. Some of the Australian WOs
command these groups—llo strong “on
the ground” (i.e., actually available for
combat), fighting at 4200 piastres a
month, able to resign at will —and for
these WOs the term “mercenary” is
simply a technical one. This is as it
should be. After all, most of the Viet-
cong are fighting because of promises
made to them by their North Vietnamese
masters, promises of land, promises that
will immediately be abrogated wherever
victory is obtained. The Nungs fight for
money to support their families who are
refugees. There is no difference, except
in the minds of mealy-spirited Western
intellectuals who take eight times the
dough the Nung does from a society
they hate and seek to undermine. More-
over, these WOs pay tribute to the fight-
ing quality and tactical skill of the Viet-
cong.
Oh yes, in some ways the Nungs are
“shrewd like children”, as are no doubt
many of the CIDGS (Vietnamese trained
for special operations); they try to put
over the blarney and look unconscionably
hurt when it is exposed; they revere
their Australian WOs who command
them, often only through sign language,
but also through a system of honorable-
ness —no promise ever made by a WO
must under any circumstances not be
made good; one Nung, who plunged
across padi fields trying to reach wounded
colleagues and attracted such terrible
fire that even he had to retreat, looked
a little hurt at being asked to undertake
such an operation, as he Jay in “safety”,
back amongst his fellows, back amongst
the mortar and machine-gun fire that
had followed him. But despite the
peculiarly acute dangers—these Austra-
lian - commanded, Nung - sergeanted
groups belong to the reactive force (that
is, they are dropped in hideously grim
places at the behest of units which are
in real difficulties) in WO “Xs” force
only one man has gone from the unit
alive: an unsatisfactory NCO. No one
has resigned. And there is no ordinary


-.--J
:
g
■' >■
j
P
m
■
f §
Ml
S
mm
i
■
r
■■>
7S
Wte
MNik«
■v:
a
:■
•* .
■ :
: J|s;
HI
i
.
■
..V
HI I
1811
."■ r - .
Men who guide the destinies of the world
THE ROLEX "DAY-DATE" ►
Most remarkable achievement in watch-making, the Rolex
Oyster Perpetual “Day-Date.” Available only in 18-ct. gold
or platinum, with matching “President” bracelet.
Like all Rolex Chronometers, every “Day-Date” is now
awarded the highest distinction of the Swiss Institutes
for Official Chronometer Tests, the mention ‘Especially
good results.’ Its superlative accuracy is protected by the
famous Rolex Oyster case, made in Geneva by Swiss
craftsmen and guaranteed 100% waterproof, and its move-
ment is selfwound by the Perpetual rotor. The date and
the day of the week, written in full, change instantaneously
every midnight.
-
m
■,*
✓
............. v. <*;
<a# X
m *
V :
fill
V >'
if
!
>
m
THE ROLEX WATCH COMPANY LIMITED (Founder: H.Wilsdorf), geneva, Switzerland
SYDNEY: ANGUS & COOTE, 500 GEORGE STREET MELBOURNE: DUNKLINGS, 313 BOURKE STREET PERTH : LINDSAYS, 655 HAY STREET
BRISBANE: MACRAYB, 9 ADELAIDE STREET


wear Rolex watches
You know their names as you know
your own. You know their faces
from a thousand newspaper and
magazine articles. You have seen
them and heard their voices on
newsreels and on your television
screen. Their actions and decisions
influence the pattern of our lives.
We cannot mention their names,
or show pictures of them. It would
not be fitting to do so, for they
include royalty, the heads of states,
great service commanders. But we
invite you to look carefully at the
next pictures that you see of them,
at their wrists as well as their faces
and clothes. You will notice that
in almost every case they wear a
wrist-watch. That watch will most
likely have been made by Rolex
of Geneva.
We are proud of the service given
by Rolex watches to so many
eminent men throughout the world.
It is scarcely necessary to point
out that the performance of these
watches is, in the highest degree,
accurate and dependable.
RO L E X
A landmark in the history of
Time measurement
military discipline here: only fines. The
Nungs are not intellectuals, ot course;
but then what is happening in South Viet-
nam is not quite the same as a teach-in
where the only things participants have
to worry about are press reports of their
speeches next day.
These WOs serving as leaders of
Nungs and CIDGSs, as despatchers of
aircraft up-country during base duties
as trainers of popular and regional forces,
some of them as trainers of para-military
police, are a queer breed: Australians
under terrible stress, which in them
brings out the qualities—a lack of
raucousness, a strangely magnificent re-
finement of individual personality, an
absolute certainty that they are fighting
a Communist-controlled invasion from
the North, a belief that soldiering is not
only decent (they would never use terms
like “noble”, simply because they are
themselves too intelligently noble) but
can develop qualities of good citizenship
(they did use that term in a quiet sort
of way) even under the dreadful con-
ditions of war.
These men know what they are
about. They do not expect Australian
politicians to visit them. I never heard
a word of real exasperation about the
insouciance of an Australian public that
takes little account of them; sometimes a
query as to whether the deaths of the
incomparable “Dasher” Wheatley and his
off-sider had been noticed; nothing more.
There was a humorous remark about
visiting diplomats “putting on side”. But
that was all. However, despite their
gentle manner of speaking—or perhaps
ultimately because of it—one day, if the
Australian spirit has not been dehydrated
by its emotional air-conditioning as a
result of a luckiness guaranteed by a
long coastline, a long-since defunct
British Empire, and a long-bankrupted
insouciance about things Asian, then a
line of names will rank in the annals
of Australian history—only some few of
which can be recorded here: Serong,
Abigail, MacFadyean, Kent, Teague,
Musgrave, Wheatley, Bowman, Fasekus,
Stockton, Fuge, Cerda Pavia, Harris,
Phillips, Armstrong. , . . But the list
becomes too long to record the quietly-
spoken heroes . . . Wade, Everett, Suther-
land ... the list iV altogether too long
to record. Perhaps it never will be
adequately recorded. But writing as a
university lecturer in History I want to
say that just this: their silences and their
humorously laconic nobility seems to me
to be worth a million febrilely unin-
formed teach-iners. There are no bogus
public self-lacerations of overly tender
souls here; just the steadfast gallantry—
of a kind immeasurably more than
physical—displayed by men who would
describe themselves as ordinary blokes,
blokes who write home in the evening
when they can to their wives, men who
walk through tortuous paths seductive of
self-betrayal and redolent of horrors
Ulysses never knew in all his wander-
mgs. If they are not heroes, I have
known none. In South Vietnam they are
regarded as “ten feet tall”; and as one
of them said to me, it is not easy to
live up to that reputation. And yet they
are doing just that.
2-A Day with the Marines
out early in the morning
from the at present peaceful town
of Danang towards the US Marine
battalion headquarters in the shadow of
Marble Mountain, it is easy to believe
there is a war on —men and vehicles
and weapons attest to that—but strangely
difficult to get to grips with the reality
of sudden violence. An old man in a
sun helmet, whispy-bearded like Ho Chi-
minh, walks across the sand dunes after
a visit to a family grave. Little boys are
playing hopscotch; others are walking
their “beat” wherever the traffic stops
to call, “No. 1 man, give me 5 piastres.”
(It used to be 1 piastre.) Husband and
wife rowing pairs move small boats up-
river, bent standing over their oars. Huge
fishing nets stand gracefully above the
waterline awaiting the incoming tide.
At battalion headquarters the soldier’s
wry, tough humor is in evidence: a
photograph of some scrofulous-looking
beatniks has been roughly captioned in
large lettering: THIS MAKES IT ALL
WORTHWHILE KILL A VC AND
MAKE A BEATNIK UNHAPPY.
It is hard to describe the unreality of
the teach-ins, as it seems to be when
viewed from the sand dunes south of
Danang which was the point I reached
by 1 p.m. that day. Our squad marched
there through thick scrub and small vil-
lages lovely in their green vegetable
plots, their cactus fences, their gentle
brown huts peopled only by the old and
the very, very young, embellished by
occasional temples. The children smiled,
the adults withdrew into the shade
of their hutments. We were a small
squad with relatively terrible fire-power:
No one was going to attack us by day-
light; equally clearly, no one in those
villages feared us as troops about to en-
gage in depredations. Realising that was
rather nice.
But of course this kind of war never
allows such simple pleasures to be en-
joyed for long. When we eventually
reached the beach a small, wiry Viet-


namese made a run for it. He was caught
and brought back to our resting place
between long grey fishing boats. The
Vietnamese was in no way physically
maltreated but he was very frightened
and his sign-language explanation that
he had lost his ID (Identity Card)
while fishing was, naturally enough, not
accepted by the squad leader. No one
abused him, no one even touched him
except lightly to indicate our direction
south down the beach, but he began to
cry loudly like a child, so his scarf was
taken (quite gently, for the information
of Protesters) from his neck and made
into a blindfold and his shirt was used
to bind his hands behind his back. When
some time later the interpreter at Alpha
platoon’s bivouac examined the man’s
credentials, he was set free of what
obviously had been a most unpleasant
experience for him perhaps because
he was unduly frail as a character of
about forty, perhaps because he had been
told dreadful tales of American behavior.
Either way, lack of common language
had scarcely made a friend of him.
(Perhaps he was a Vietcong. It is
difficult, if not impossible, for this to be
established quickly; in which case he
would have been reinforced in his in-
doctrinated belief that Americans were
“paper tigers”. This is indeed an eerie
kind of war.)
During the afternoon we sheltered
from a tropical rainstorm which is at this
time a feature of the Danang area. I
was throughout the visit looked after by
Corporal Sandbank, a very young and
very intelligent member of the Marine
PRO set-up, a budding journalist from
Michigan who showed courage and
“extraordinary” solicitude for me under
fire.
Much of the talk was about the
Marines and about the war. The Marines
are a very tough outfit. Their initial
training is extraordinarily severe, psycho-
logically as well as physically, and their
general educational level is pretty low.
Indeed in some places in the USA
potential delinquents are given the
choice of the jug or the Marines. The
Marine Corps moulds young men in its
own particular image of pride: the
soldier who would fear letting down the
Corps more than he would fear the
enemy ... a kind of British or Aus-
tralian public school indoctrination. In-
telligent Marines obviously have some
reservations about such methods but
they always end up by expressing a very
genuine pride in the fact that in the
Korean (Chinese) prisoner of war
camps not one Marine ever behaved im-
properly. Not one Marine cracked up at
all. These young men inspired great con-
fidence in their general demeanour,
though clearly they still had things to
learn about guerrilla warfare.
This became clear at about 6.30 when
the time came to prepare to leave. We
lay down behind cover but fairly bunch-
ed up and in the same position. We lay
waiting for dusk to transform itself into
darkness.
But the Vietcong did not wait. Sud-
denly there was a most disagreeably loud
explosion very close by. Then came the
clear “putt” sound of the next shell
leaving the mortar barrel. With artillery
one hears the swish before the explosion;
here it is the other way round. We
moved rather smartly amongst the sand
dunes behind us, I feeling a mixture of
embarrassment and relief to find that I
had no difficulty in keeping up with men
twenty years younger than I in these cir-
cumstances.
Appalling shots
men took up positions along the
ridge with admirable precision and
the platoon commander, Lieutenant La-
queur, was quickly in contact with
headquarters. Very soon a flare was
lightening the dusk more or less above
the mortar position which was on the
hill we would otherwise by now have
been approaching. Since mortars were
the prerogative of Vietcong companies
of about 150 men and we were 32, it
was really rather decent of them to have
opened up. However, it was only the fact
that the mortar bombs fell just the other
side of a sandbank from our bivouac
area that rendered the incident innocu-
ous. The Vietcong are generally agreed
to be appalling shots.
Corporal Sandbank explained that it
might take some time before the US
mortars replied on our behalf, since
this was a time when the local population
was likely to be exposed on their way
home. I found this solicitude extremely
impressive. By the time that Sergeant
Chang of Hawaii was explaining to me
just how close I should let the Vietcong
get before I threw the hand-grenade I
had been given after a weak joke about
cricket, I began to find this solicitude
even a little irritating. The Marines were
beautifully calm, perfectly disciplined,
and the gentle lapping of the waters of
the South China Sea was oddly enchant-
ing behind us. But a sweeter sound came
later: the American 81mm. mortars
blanketing the hill with fire.
Then we set off in the darkness
deviously to approach another position
inland. The Lieutenant established a
tight defence perimeter on a gentle
slope and I stretched out on the sandy
ground quite ready for bed. But soon I
was awakened to be reminded that
earlier in the day I had asked to go out
on the night’s ambush patrol. Since
there was still likely to be most of the
Vietcong company in the near vicinity
I had imagined that this idea would have
been abandoned. But no: the Sergeant
lined the nine of us and whispered the
kind of instructions I had earlier ad-
mired in the Marines but now found
altogether too derring-do: “They’ll
probably ambush us. If they do, we just
walk on towards their fire-position, giv-
ing them everything we’ve got until we’ve
walked right over them.”
So we moved off down along the edge
of a wide track towards the ambush
point. Contrary to stories I had heard,
the patrol moved extraordinarily quietly.
Even my own smoker’s cough altogether
left me: perfect fear doubtless stills all
maladies. Then the moon began to be-
have quite atrociously: every time we
reached a clearing across which we had
to move singly the moon would wickedly
appear from behind the dark clouds.
After a while I began to become fairly
convinced that the croaking of frogs, the
only sound in the whole warm night, must
be Vietcong signalling each other. We
only moved about 1000 yards but it took
an hour before we reached the ambush
position between a well-used track and
the river which was also sometimes used
as a night-way for transporting resources.
The snipers took up their positions
overlooking track and river. The rest of
us settled under the small broom bushes.
It was a breathtakingly beautiful
scene and for the first time I began to
appreciate the part the moon has played
in the poetry of Vietnam: this dour,
combatative, sometimes cruel people are
also so tender and romantic, moved
always by the fleetingness of human
existence, symbolised so exquisitely by
the pale reflection of the moon in gently
running water.
No one came down the track, no one
used the river. This confirmed my fears
that we had been watched all the way
and would move into a well-prepared
ambush on the way back. I nerved my-
self to suggest to the sergeant that we
took another way back. He said: “Are
you joking? I want to live too.” We
moved back more quickly than we had
come but it still seemed to be a long
1000 yards or so. It was not only fear
of ambush that worried one; whenever
we used tracks I remembered all I had
heard about boobytraps. Once on the
way back a message was passed to the
rear to avoid a can standing in our
path.
The sergeant's sense of direction was
unerring and we were being received
within the platoon perimeter before I
realised we were home. It was utterly
delicious to lie back under a now clear,
star-filled sky surrounded by young men
who quite without fanaticism, occasion-
ally impatiently, yet with a steady cour-
age that has already surprised the hardy,
seasoned professionals of the Vietcong
mainforce units, do this kind of thing
regularly.


Taking Your Pick at Rosebud
By BATMAN
On the Mornington Peninsula quite
the most hideous thing that can
happen is a White Christmas. A
White Christmas is all cloud and no sun-
tan. You will be pleased to hear that the
Peninsula Christmas was perfect. The
sun shone eternally from a stainless blue
sky and the majority of the backs very
nearly matched the beach umbrellas.
George Armstrong, secretary of the
Rosebud Foreshore Committee, estimates
that there were 40,000 people on the
beach at Rosebud on the holiday. The
beach, the water, and the sea all quivered
and seethed with bodies, motor cars and
transistors.
Rosebud has 1000 registered camp
sites, occupied by 5000 people, and
George Armstrong claims that it is the
largest concentrated camping area under
one authority in Australia. For my money
it is the biggest camp on sand since
Hollywood filmed “Beau Geste”. Some
families have been coming back every
year for 30 years, always camping next
to the same families that they camped
next to last year.
Applications to go to Rosebud open on
September 15 and they close on Septem-
ber 15. I tell you, getting in at Rosebud
is as hard as making the big time at
Portsea.
The true Rosebuddie always has his
nameplate. This is placed on a stake in
a prominent position on the Pt Nepean
. Highway so that friends can find his
camp site. Nor is the name crudely hand-
painted. It is de rigueur among the old-
timers to have the nameplate beautifully
done by a signwriter. So along the high-
way one sees the names the Smithers,
Watsons, the Williams . . .
What’s more, camping these times is
competitive. One simply cannot afford to
be in a high-class camping community
with a mere, common tent. The skilled
hands bring down their “home” all in
carefully numbered sections on a trailer,
ready for assembly.
At Rosebud among the 1000 camp
sites, 125 are fixed with electric power.
This, you might say, is the SE2 camping
area. Just to give you an idea what they
are like, here is one that I visited. It
had prefabricated walls throughout, and
it was completely fly-wired. There was
carpet on the floor. There was an electric
oven with a glass window through which
mother was able to observe the Christ-
mas roast. They had an electric mixer,
frypan, electric radiator and a 23-inch
. TV set. There was proper furniture and
beds, kitchen dresser, wardrobe, chest-
of-drawers and a very correct L-shaped
bar to separate the dream kitchen from
the living area.
But I didn’t want to stay entirely in
SE2. I moved over to the non-power,
more the SE4, Haverbrack Avenue area
of Rosebud. There I found a camp that
was marvellously fitted out with gas
equipment. They had their gas stove, gas
radiator and gas lights. Outside the tent
house was a wrought-iron sign with a
yacht on top with the notice “Summer
Rest”.
Unlike Melbourne, over the Christmas
period, nothing ever closes in Rosebud.
Even on Christmas Day everything was
“Go” and it was possible to buy Christ-
mas chickens.
After Rosebud one drives on through
Rye, through Blairgowrie, through Sor-
rento, becoming progressively more re-
fined until one reaches the ultimate.
Portsea is a small area, very expensive, a
repository of the finest holiday houses,
and very like Toorak. This is the right
thing to say, because actually Toorak is
at Portsea in January, all the same people
doing the social round.
You won’t see any horrid signs, you
won’t see any B & Bs screaming for trade.
At Portsea one either owns a house or
takes a house. I suppose if you searched
hard enough there may be a little shack
available for £3O, but for something
decent you pay £4O or £5O a week.
Blocks of land sell there for £lOOO and
on the cliff front, if any are left, they sell
for £lO,OOO to £lB,OOO.
At Portsea it is still rather better to
bathe on the left-hand side of the pier
than on the right. The right may be more
comfortable but the nice people go to
the left. On the left there are no horrors
such as transistor radios and certainly no
extravagant behavior. Several years back
the “Sun-News Pictorial” reported that
someone actually set up a picnic table on
the left-hand side, brought out chairs
and sat down to a picnic lunch. The
cold stares that were received were simi-
lar to what a gentleman would expect if
he wore shorts into the Melbourne Club.
Mercifully it doesn't seem to have hap-
pened since.
However, the rugged young men go
over to the back beach where Portsea
provides some of the best surf in Victoria.
Yet at this beach our car always looks
a little wan and lonely with no surf-
board. This year we are planning to
remedy this. A surfboard rack can be
purchased for 765. 6d. and it is no trouble
to pick up a facsimile surfboard made by
the same people who produce the fac-
simile TV aerials. Also we can fix up our
rear window with some labels to reveal
the wonderful places where we have
surfed . . . Nakaha Beach and Sunset
Beach in Hawaii, Bell's Beach, Byron
Bay, Surfer's and all the rest. By filling
in a coupon taken from one of the surfing
magazines they can be purchased a
sheet of five transfers for 165., postage
free.
"This mingling with the beach crowds has got it all over point duty."


In the Bikini Belt
By BATMAN
At first 1 didn’t know which way to
look. Being a modest fellow I had
never sat down before in a public
restaurant with girl almost naked. I first
spotted the Meter Maid slowly wending
her way along Cavill Avenue, in the
heart of Paradise, putting sixpences in
meter after meter. Her legs were killing
her, she said. She’d love a lemon drink.
Janette Sosiak was very tall, well-
shaped and she was Melbourne-born. Her
gold-lame bikini was as brief as a gold-
lame bikini could be and attached to its
small acreage were little gold coins. The
gold bra was backless, of a most ingenious
cantilever construction. You appreciate
that Surfer's Paradise is a bikini-oriented
society. Every shop window is loaded
with bikinis, and bikini production is one
Of the major local industries.
The Meter Maids have been a re-
markable success. They started with
one and now they have three, and they
get through a pound a day each in six-
pences. The cost of Meter Maids is
partly offset by the sale of Meter Maid
kewpie dolls, Meter Maid postcards and
any day now a complete variety of Meter
Maid beachwear. Soon the Meter Maids
may become self-supporting.
But, as Janette Sosiak explained, all is
not easy for the girls. There are two
opposing groups: the parking attendants,
paid by the Gold Coast Council, and the
Meter Maids, paid by the Surfer’s Para-
dise Progress Association. Originally the
MMs only looked after the motor cars
of tourists, now they put sixpences in
meters for everybody, even truck-drivers.
Surfer's has changed and it hasn’t
changed. More is done here to assault
the eye and ruin the gifts of nature than
anywhere else in Australia. There seem
to be no laws whatever regarding the
shrieking vulgarity of signs. This is obvi-
ous from the second one approaches the
area. On the way in there is an appalling
sign hanging from seven of Walt Disney’s
dwarfs THE GOLD COAST BIDS
YOU WELCOME AND A HAPPY
HOLIDAY. The names are still designed
to convince the Australian he is in heaven
and the American that he has never left
home ... Bel Air, Santa Ana, Aloha,
El Dorado, Santa Lucia, Santa Barbara
and Surfside 6.
If you can stand all this, there is much
fun to be had at Surfer’s. The restaurants
are splendid, and there is plenty of enter-
tainment at places like the Beachcomber,
Chevron and the hotel at Broadbeach.
Right now Surfer’s is in the midst of a
boom. The land that should have become
a glorious beach boulevard greedily was
all sold to private citizens.
There is a 15-storey block called Para-
dise Towers. This already has reached its
maximum height and, while it will not
open its doors until next June, every
home unit is sold. In a matter of weeks
the bulldozers will move in to start a
23-storey block.
Prices are not all that ferocious for
accommodation. There are places going
for £l5 a week, if you can find them.
Good places are £3O or £4O and you can
pay £lOO for a service flat for six with
breakfast.
Actually, the Gold Coast is beautifully
golden for Queensland. The estimate is
that 48 square miles of beach resorts on
the coast means £35 million a year. An-
nual expenditure on buildings is now
worth more than £8 million. Total accom-
modation is around 113,000.
The seasons tend to flow into each
other. Now Surfer’s is full of holiday-
makers from Brisbane, but pretty soon
its character will change. It will be full of
graziers from out west. Then comes the
autumn and the Jaguars, like galahs
heading north to nest, move up the high-
way. But the big golden dream is to build
up an overseas tourist trade and the feel-
ing is that to do this they must have a
casino. With a casino they could run a
hotel in the big time with topline enter-
tainment like Sinatra or Sammy Davis
Junior.
You’re smiling. Don’t smile. There are
people here who think it can be done
within five years. “The TAB seemed a
pretty wild dream five years ago, didn’t
it?” What’s more, they can apply some
nice political pressure. To the Govern-
ment they can make the suggestion that
they would like to have their casino in
Surfer’s, but, if not, they could always
build it just south of the border down
Tweed Heads way.
The Surfer’s Paradise Chamber of
Commerce, a very active body, has gone
into this with great thoroughness. It has
drawn up a formidable report and it has
sent Bernard Elsey, “Mr Accommoda-
tion” on the coast, on a world tour of
casinos, including the best in Italy, Ger-
many and the res’ of the Continent. Ber-
nard Elsey, a non-smoker, non-drinker,
non-gambler, was well chosen and he be-
lieves that casinos are not the centre of
sin that they have been cracked up to be.
And who knows? Bikini-oriented Surf-
er’s doesn’t seem to be a centre of sin
either. I found a very special type of slot
machine in one of the arcades. Put in
two sixpences and out pops a “lucky
charm” Lord’s Prayer on a metal disc.
Thousand Miles from Care
By JAN SMITH
Everyone has been there sometime;
as children to the beach, to a party
in someone's flat, or to stay with
aunty, there being more aunties and
flats per acre in Manly than in most
other places. Others have been there
to school, although Brighton College is
now gone, or for New Year revels on
The Corso if they can't stand the pace at
the Cross. People have been retiring
there for years, to flats with names like
Blue Waters and Balmoral, and more re-
cently to home units like Kilburn Towers
and Sierra which are springing up
wherever there is a view to be had.
Since the day in 1788 when Governor
Phillip named the place in honor of its
virile Aborigines, Manly has produced
the famous Mr Gocher, who defied pro-
priety by swimming in the surf in day-
light in 1901; Miss Tania Verstak, by
adoption; and in recent months a well-
publicised polygamist, again by natural-
isation. But it is low in crime rate and
seldom gets a mention in the social pages.
Occasionally the pine trees are threatened
by deve’opers and stormy seas, a little
more frequently someone is drowned or
eaten around Fairy Bower.
However one arrives, the welcoming
indications are of slightly faded, genteel
fun-for-all. The long sweep down by
road, after Balgowlah, greets the tourist
with a dummy perched on a stack of
motor tyres. Arriving by ferry or
hydrofoil, there are battered red-and-
yellow signs about the Aquarium (losing
a lot of business to the ritzier Marine-
land, with its added lure of skindivers
feeding sharks), the pinball machines,
ferris wheels and other old-fashioned
amusements.
But the crowds around the wharf on
a Sunday are anything but old-fashioned.
In tight pants and leather jackets, armed
with transistor radios and paperback
romances, they promenade in front of
the fish-shop eating battered mussels,
battered scollops, or plain fried fish
and chips from paper bags, and waiting
for something to happen.
Manly, then, is caught in the situation
familiar to many a respectable family
seaside resort, forced to balance its
natural beauty and quiet attractions
against the clamor for economic growth
in the face of scarce parking, uncertain
building regulations and competition
from modern suburban centres like
Warringah Mall and Dee Why.
A big blow came with the establish-
ment of the Warringah Mall. Eight


"I'd like to see the looks on those Manly aldermen when they see one of
their trees is missing."
years ago, shoppers were spending about
£!oi million a year in Manly’s 422
shops, and the same in Warringah’s 625
shops. By 1962 money spent in War-
ringah had doubled, and the number of
shops increased to 842. Manly’s popu-
lation, 36,500, has increased by only
6000 in the last 10 years.
Old-established real estate firms like
Robey, Hansen and Strong, which began
in Manly in 1911, pin their faith in the
growth of the home unit. “It’s a wonder-
ful place for retired country folk and
business people,” said Mr Alan Robey,
“but young executives find the travelling
a drag and families with children need
more room. And they’re the ones who
spend money.” To attract a class of
resident who will revitalise something
more than the corner grocer, he thinks
cheaper modern flats and units should
be encouraged.
With no spare land, the procedure can
only be to buy and demolish before
building. But under the latest planning
scheme submitted by the Council to the
Minister for Local Government, many
developers and speculators have been
caught by a regulation which insists on
a 50-foot frontage for units.
“There’s a lot of people who think
these cases should be treated on their
merits, and not by an arbitrary distance
requirement”, Mr Alan Robey said.
On the letting side, 1965 has been
bad. “We’re having a crook time because
of the drought,” Mr Robey explained.
“The great majority of Christmas people
are from the country.” A good unit to
rent will cost £4O to £45 a week, and
Robey, Hansen and Strong, who have no
truck with what Mr Robey calls the
rough stuff, start around £25. “One of
our big troubles is Surfer’s Paradise,” he
said. “You can get really nice places
there for £2O, probably because the
building and development system is
different.”
It is in the retail field that one starts
to shed real tears for Manly. “It still
has a future as a local, strip-type shop-
ping centre as opposed to a regional
shopping centre like we have here in
Brookvale,” says Mr Mark Troy, the
36-year-old manager of Warringah Mall.
An ex-teacher, ex-army officer, ex-clinical
psychologist and ex-management consult-
ant, Troy is a symbol of everything
Manly isn’t.
■ Manly’s big trouble commercially, Mr
Troy said, was lack of-' co-ordination
among the traders. At the Mall, all
shops were automatically members of the
Merchants’ Association, paying levies on
a footage basis into a fund for overall
publicity and promotion —“Like people
in units pay for upkeep and caretakers,”
he explained. “We spend £15,800 a year
on promotion, which is peanuts for a
place this size, but it’s doubled by re-
ciprocal advertising deals with brand-
name manufacturers.”
Creeling sorry for anyone in competi-
tion with Mr Troy, we rang the Manly
Chamber of Commerce. “We’ve been
thinking quite hard,” said a member.
“We’re planning a window spotting com-
petition-finding the odd thing in the
store window and getting a prize, like
they’re doing in Sutherland, and we've
thought of inviting trade promotions
ideas from the general public.”
Other suggestions, which had not yet
been acted upon, included bathing beauty
contests, fishing competitions, and a
handwriting competition for school chil-
dren, “You Can’t Do Better Than To
Shop At Manly”, for display in local
shops.
The nearest thing Manly has to a
Mark Troy is Mrs Dawn Paton, a former
Mayoress and an active charity worker
who managed last year to revive the
Festival of the Pines, a programme of
surf carnivals, bands, marching girls and
sporting activities in mid-January.
Mrs Paton feels too much has been
made of the departure of Coopers and
Little’s from the Manly commercial
scene. “They were both old family busi-
nesses and with the recession coming on
at that time they naturally wanted to
retire while the profits were still good.
And the parking isn’t nearly as bad as
people say. We have room for 200 cars
in Manly, and Buckingham’s, I know, is
doing very nicely indeed.”
Lacking the financial organisation of
the Mall, Manly suffers from the usual
trouble of a few enthusiasts battling
against over-caution and lack of com-
munity, as opposed to personal vision.
Mercers and general stores point out that
it is the milkbars and restaurants which
do best out of the weekend tripper trade,
drawn by promotions like the Festival
of the Pines, while contributing least.
“We are hoping to go forward in 1966
even though the Festival has been de-
ferred until later in the year,” Mr Harry
Woodward, the president of the Manly
Chamber of Commerce, said. Some of
the activities for January included a
demonstration on Ocean Beach by the
NSW Fire Brigade—last year’s was very
successful—lunch-hour and evening per-
formances of “Fumed Oak” and “Sep-
arate Tables” by the Manly Theatre
Guild in St Matthew’s Hall, and possibly
a visit from the Krait, if mooring could
be arranged.
Mr Woodward was sure that the new
council would share the old one’s interest
in mixed development, which would mean
an increase in buildings containing park-
ing. shops and residences, all under one
roof. “We’ve called tenders but it’s a
bit early yet to tell how it's going and,
besides, we haven’t had much publicity,”
he said, “but mixed development, such as
the new Local Government Act has made
possible at the Rocks area, is a tremend-
ous thing for a place that’s limited for
space, as Manly is.
Manly got its new Council in Decem-
ber, and the new Mayor, 76-year-oid
Alderman A. K. Dein. moved into a
newly decorated office with gold-and-
brown patterned carpet, with massive
armchairs and a pair of large, gold-based
lamps.
The Mayor is happy about Manly’s
recent gazettal as a mixed development
area, although interest from big business
has not taken concrete form so far. Nor
are there any immediate plans for multi-
storey parking. “There's a considerable
amount of surface parking, enough for
several hundred cars, and we don’t know
yet how people would react to multi-
storey parking, and the possible charges
for it if it were run by private enter-
prise. But it’s being considered. These
things can't be done in five minutes,
you know.”
An immediate and costly problem is
vandalism, which Alderman Dein believes
to follow in the wake of the Rockers
from the Western Suburbs. “They run
around in cars as late as midnight yell-
ing and making nuisances of themselves,


By Popular Demand
Bulletin Record
(45 R.P.M. EXT. PLAY)
Chunder
Down
Under
WITH
>r
BARRY HUMPHRIES
is still available for only 10s. post-free. It has two
of the hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie's
"The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications"—with a new ski song especially
composed for this record.
Send 10s. (a cheque or postal note, not cash, please) to
"Bulletin Records", Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together
with the coupon and address label below. (Records may
also be purchased over the counter from the Paper Sales
Department, sth floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a m. to 5 p.m.)
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
ORDER FORM BULLETIN RECORD
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
| Please DISPATCH
[ BULLETIN RECORD(S), price 10s. a copy (post free). I enclose 10s. cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address.
State B.
If more than one record is ordered, attach list giving full name, address, State and,
if overseas, country.
and we get many complaints from resi-
dents.”
The Rockers also have no regard for
public property like telephone boxes and
public lavatories, and hand-in-hand with
the vandalism goes the great pile of
litter that council must clean up every
Monday. “New Year’s Eve isn't too bad
now,” the Mayor said. “A few years
ago it was getting to be quite Kings
Cross style. Bondi has its share of van-
dals and wild elements but they all have
cars and can move on to Bronte. Manly
is so remote and isolated. Once they
get here they’re inclined to stay, some-
times for half the night.”
But Manly would never lose its charm
as a retirement and resort area, and
it is here, one suspects, that the real
opposition lies. “By far the largest per-
centage of residents are retired folk,” the
Mayor said and, in their heart of hearts,
the razzle-dazzle of tourists, jazz bands
and pie palaces are probably something
they can well manage without.
Seeing Mr Frank Hardy included in the
list of native sons—“Manly’s Famous
Authors”—one began to wonder just
where the Billy Borker characters had
come from, and a call to Mr Hardy, who
lives over a Chinese restaurant at South
Steyne, revealed that Manly was a fertile
field. “There’s some marvellous local
identities,” Hardy said. “There’s an old
bloke who drinks in the corner of the
Steyne Hotel bar, for instance, who re-
cites old bush poems. Actually they’re
mainly Fawson and Paterson with a bit
of other stuff thrown in, but he thinks
they’re the real thing. At first he used
to wheedle beer out of me and when he
found I wrote stories he started asking
for spirits.”
Hardy maintains that most of the fear-
some Surfies, who drink at the other end
of the Steyne bar, are perfectly all right
“once they accept you”, and although
one reads wild reports of orgies in the
popular magazines, he hadn’t heard about
them. “We haven’t had much trouble
with the Rockers either,” he said, “but
then we haven’t had too many fine week-
ends. I never see any when I look out
the window and I live over the beach.”
But the fine weekends, he says, are
worrying Manly’s shopkeepers. “They
complain like farmers in the bush,” he
says, “and Christmas lights seem to go
on earlier in the trees along the Corso
each year. But I fear Manly as a sea-
side resort is declining.”
Yet in spite of all temptations to be-
long to other, more progressive, muni-
cipalities, Mr Hardy remains a Manly
man. “I’m calling my next book, about
Manly, ‘A Thousand Miles From Care’,”
he said, and, after all the fuss about de-
clining trade, officious brown bombers,
doomed pine trees and sex-crazed Rock-
ers, the old slogan is probably right.


1066 and All What?
The anniversary to end anniversaries (we hope)
By ALEXANDER FRATER
Precisely 900 years ago a grim and
hirsute group of Saxons stood in a
field near Battle (pop. 4300, early
closing; Wednesday), fingering their
broadswords and wilting beneath the
weight of their chain mail. The date
was October 14 so we can assume that
the chill autumn winds coming in off the
Channel kept them dancing around,
leaving tiny footprints in the loam. They
were waiting, of course, for William the
Conqueror to come and decimate them,
and come he did, complete with long-
boats full of Norman shock-troops who
swarmed ashore uttering shrill cries and
setting a medieval precedent for Omaha
Beach. The initial encounter was fought
at Battle but the clash has gone down
in history as the Battle of Hastings.
Hastings is miles away and even today,
amongst the modern, leather-jacketed,
juke-box-orientated generation of Bat-
tallicns, there is a strong and virulent
legacy of bitterness. “Don’t talk to me
about them Hastings pigs,” they are
likely to mutter. “Them pigs went and
pinched our bloody war.” Glory is a rare
and precious commodity, and it’s easy
to see what they mean.
But the Hastings people remain quite
unabashed by the charge. Time is a sooth-
ing balm to the conscience and they
have calmly set about making a very
good thing out of the Anniversary.
They’re not trying to hide anything. In
the vestibule of the Hastings Informa-
tion Office, for example, a large sign
reads: “2nd Floor. 1066 Commemora-
tion”. Inside, no less than f>2 separate
celebrations are being planned—cricket
matches, pageants, dances, concerts, ex-
hibition bell ringing, oxen roasts, and the
king-size Hastings Embroidery, currently
being created by the Royal School of
Needlework. When completed, it will be
243 feet long, will have cost £lO,OOO and
will be housed in a special aluminium
building on Hastings Pier All this, of
course, will set the old Cinque Ports
rocking as they’ve never rocked before.
The question that immediately comes
to my bleary, flatulent mind is: why
bother? There’s the money (the trippers
and gawpers should bring in a small
fortune) and the Sunday Color Supple-
ment fodder and, I suppose, a kind of
introspective prestige. But 900 years is
an awful long time and I am reliably in-
formed that the average Englishman
doesn't spring from his bed each morn-
ing crying: Ah, thank God for William
the Conqueror. The man is part of our
heritage but not, overtly, part of our
lives. I do not ignore my radio because
Lord Haw Haw once spoke on it. And
yet, like it or not, we are stuck with a
strong national weakness for annivers-
aries. They provide a legitimate excuse
for booze, certainly, but also an oppor-
tunity for looking back and polishing our
roots.
I think this business of roots is pretty
important, the heart of the matter, as
it were. I suppose a place with no roots,
no history, that is, and no recorded past,
must feel a bit like a leaf blowing in the
wind. I should think, for example, that
a party of pilgrims founding a colony on
some lonely Pacific rock would feel com-
pelled to start having anniversaries right
away. “It is exactly one week,” the leader
might point out, “since old Mrs Hambein
was savaged by a cod as she waded
ashore.” This chance remark immediately
instils the group with a sense of history,
a sense of belonging. “My goodness,”
they would mutter delightedly, “we must
certainly drink to that, chop chop.” But
they wouldn’t proclaim a holiday. Not
yet. When the first anniversary of Mrs
Hambein’s clash with the cod comes
around, they may run up their flags and
honor her scars, but a certain decorum
must be observed in these matters. It
saddens me to think of the envy they
must feel for Britain as they sit about
their fires and yearn for a past.
These good people, these hardy ad-
venturers, have never really contem-
plated time before. They have regarded
merely as the number of hours elapsing
between dawn and high noon, between
the breakfast egg and the luncheon
carrot but now, abruptly, it assume*
a new dimension. It becomes a precious
thing to be hoarded like rubies, to be
guarded and gloated over; their greatest
joy is the knowledge of its passing, faith-
fully day in and day out towards the
golden moment when it will provide
them, too, with anniversaries. They sit
about their fires and dream of the 900th
anniversary of Mrs Hambein’s clash with
the cod.
But a man’s need for a past aside,
are we honoring the right things? The
Battle of Hastings, for example, is all
very well but, apart from vague factors
like blood, freedom and lineage, it hasn’t
much bearing on the important things of
life, like paying the rent, or keeping
up appearances, or ridding the roses of
blight. I should like to see this whole
business of anniversaries very thoroughly
gone into by a Parliamentary Standing
Committee whose sole aim will be to
get things back into their right perspec-
tive. Take the paper clip.
According to a recent survey, a size-
able percentage of German women use
them to fasten broken bra straps. (The
Battle of Hastings cannot make a claim
like that and neither, for that matter, can
the Second World War.) The paper clip
has thus altered my entire attitude to-
wards Teutonic womanhood; whenever
I see a sample now, supple-hipped and
honey blonde, walking her wolfhound be-
neath the linden trees, I wink and throw
her a secret cmile for I know. This price-
less snippet of information has given me
a glance, as it were, into her boudoir,
and we are on first name terms without
even having met. But what of the genius
who invented the clip? Why are there
no statues up to him and why, on the
anniversary of his monumental dis-
covery, are no laurel wreaths placed
" Children, children, this is only a play."


upon his marble brow? There is obviously
a grave oversight here, for one cannot
contemplate civilisation without the
paper clip.
And that is merely a sample, selected
at random; history is creaking at the
seams with items, as yet unacknowledged,
which beg to be celebrated. What of
Scotland’s famed Drunken Parliament,
for example? Surely this provides a
heaven-sent opportunity for parliaments
the world over to drink themselves
annually into a state of paralytic stupor
and pass a bit of legislation while lying
on the floor. And what of the introduc-
tion of the Chimney Tax? Or the trans-
lation of the Psalms into Anglo-Saxon?
Or the birth of Taoism, or the grand
opening of the Union Jack Club or the
first festival of Xanthica? These are all
proud, robust events which bear remem-
bering.
A Visit from
Sir Osbert
By CHARLES HIGHAM
as a matter of fact, I do rather
believe in ghosts. Although I only
once really felt the touch of the super-
natural. I was sitting writing in my
study at Renishaw. Quite suddenly, I
felt every hair on my head stand up
absolutely straight. There was no ex-
planation, and it has not happened
again.”
Sir Osbert Sitwell’s secretary, a mild,
dark Maltese named Mr Megro, added:
“As it happens, I had two rather curious
experiences at Renishaw. I heard the
sound of young people running in and
out of the rooms, when there were no
young people in the house. And on
another occasion I felt a curious sensa-
tion about a portrait, a portrait of a
young man. The last of the Sacheverells.
He had, I believe, drowned himself in a
lake near the house.”
“Poltergeists, I believe, are a form of
energy. They are the energy, the extra
energy, released from certain people.
Young people. Poltergeist phenomena
take place with young boys or girls be-
tween certain ages present . . ~” Sir Os-
bert said, his Norman, aristocratic face,
with its splendid high forehead and nose
arched proudly, lit by the pale grey
porthole light.
We were sitting in a narrow stateroom
on board the Orsova, during a visit to
Sydney that had only lasted three days
and had passed almost unnoticed in the
Press. “I did not fly. When I was in
America I met a most famous medium.
He mentioned a lady who bad just
visited me and who seemed to be in
But, alas, the mainstream of annivers-
aries seems to be primarily bellicose; the
two World Wars have provided us with
enough battles, sieges, victories and de-
feats to keep us in a state of perpetual
myopia. And I see no reason for change.
Gazing into my crystal ball I discern,
mistily, the year 2875 and the annivers-
ary of the Third World War. A group of
men are sitting about a large table dis-
cussing the celebration of New York’s
destruction by a nuclear bomb. They are
smiling and festive and generally keen.
What they want to do, they say, is to
make this thing really swing. They are
hoping that people will come from far
and wide, jingling the dollars in their
pockets and eagerly seeking out the hot-
dog stands, the baseball matches, the
pageants, dances, concerts and exhibition
bell-ringing. And what’s this? Ah, yes,
and the monster oxen-roasts.
perfectly good health. He said she was
very unwell. Shortly after she died.
Nothing else he told me has come true
so far, but he told me not to fly. I
have not flown. . . .
“The voyage has been pleasant. But
I have met on board a lady who has
written 200 novels about romantic love.”
A hint of faint displeasure hovered in
the air. Mr Megro added: “She asked
each day about Sir Osbert’s health. When
I told her he was perfectly well, she
said ‘Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah’.” Asthma? “No,
awe.”
“Sydney,” Sir Osbert said, “is a most
marvellous city. It is like Venice in
1300. I should like to meet Patrick
White. John Gielgud wrote to tell him
I was coming, but he hasn’t contacted
me. I am most disappointed. I very
much admired ‘Voss’, and ‘Riders in the
Chariot’.”
And other writers? “T. S. Eliot, of
course. He wasn’t dry and austere at
all. He had a most unhappy marriage;
his wife became an addict of certain
drugs, and that made him, as it were,
appear to be dry, to be without emotion.
His poems about cats show a wholly
different, and far more amusing, side of
his personality, which I well knew.
“I find quite detestable the works of
Kingsley Amis. Sillitoe . . . well, it
isn’t —I always say—the only silly thing
about him. The trouble with English
writers is, quite simply, money. The
period of the great patrons, the great
private incomes has gone. These people
are condemned to write more and more
to continue financially. They have to
keep abreast of the latest developments,
have to write in a certain way, to make
enough to live on. The result is a
general lowering of standards. . . . Your
Commonwealth Literary Fund would be
a dream anywhere else. . . .
“Of course my brother and sister and
I were attacked in our younger days
because we wrote as we wanted to, not
as critics wanted us to. Unfortunately,
nowadays very few writers can afford
to please themselves. . .
Did Sir Osbert admire any new
writers? “I have been reading the poems
of David Gascoyne. He is, I believe,
a true poet. And the short stories of
V. S. Pritchett —one or two people like
that. On Sunday, I always turn first to
Cyril Connolly. And Ido very much
like the plays of Tennessee Williams.
When I met him “ —the eyes became
coldly ironical — “he was so very polite,
so extraordinarily courteous. Somehow”
-—now the expression was really sharp—
“one hadn’t quite expected that from his
work on the stage . . .
“But nearly all writing now is so dull,
so dry. The dryness is the worst part.
Do you think it will change?” He
paused, remembering the way he com-
posed, recalling how inspiration was
now in the discount. In the wheel-chair
facing the porthole, the slumped figure
tautened. “I hear my works. And I don’t
leave them. When writing is difficult, they
leave me. It's as Edith used to say. It’s
rather like being on the telephone. Some-
times you get through, and sometimes
you don’t. Sometimes you are dis-
connected.
“I am writing a memoir of her now.
As a child.” What was she like as a
child? The question met a faintly dis-
approving response. “Very much as she
was when an adult.” Mr Megro brought
me a photograph, taken 10 years ago in
New York, of Sir Osbert and his sister,
majestically poised. In the cabin on
the Orsova, as I rose to go, a pro-
found sadness hung in the air. “You’ll
forgive me, but I can’t rise. You must,
on your next journey abroad, come to
see me in London.”
“But we don’t live there now, Sir
Osbert,” Mr Megro said gently. “We live
in Italy.”
“Ah, yes, I have left England forever.
Death duties, you know. Well, then, you
shall visit us at our Italian castle.” Mr
Megro made a faint smile of permanent
farewell as he opened the door and
showed me out.


THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN’S GUIDE
Elegance Begins
at Thirty
My favorite women’s magazine has
just come up with a feature
entitled “Love 30”, which pro-
pounds the interesting thesis that the
thirties are “the best years of a woman’s
life”.
The writer (in her twenties) calls it
a “personal poll” and covers herself
magnificently by saying that the people
she chose to interview were “selected
because they all looked like obvious cases
of flowering in their thirties”. As long as
we know we’re playing with loaded dice.
These flowering ones are all remark-
able for having quite a bit of money, a
special talent for something you can do
in your own time (like dress designing)
and for either having married late or
having no children. There are no mums
with three children of 14, 12 and 8 among
this lot.
Still, it’s no use thinking that’s our
problem. While it might preclude pro-
fessional success (unless we also are
loaded with money for nurses or until
some kind of creche system like the
Israeli one becomes more respectable),
it can hardly be much of a factor in our
failure to “know what we want and
have the facility to dc it”, or “to ignore
superficial fears” or even “4o become
reconciled”.
I decided to conduct my own per-
sonal poll.
I found that the most absorbing prob-
lem in the thirties is the failure of the
flesh. “Every morning a new wrinkle.
You can watch them grow. Why do you
think there are all those new wig salons
and beauty salons and reducing salons?
For women in their thirties.”
And how do we cushion ourselves
against this? How do w'e spend our
time?
• Chauffering the children to
Brownies, swimming lessons, tennis
coaching, ballet, music, birthday parties,
the orthodontist.
• Entertaining the intimate little
dinner party for 10 that involves two
days’ preparation and shopping (includ-
ing new candles because the last lot
have melted in the heat into something
more suitable for the House of Usher),
and one day's washing and cleaning up
afterwards and then you find you
hardly had time to talk to any of your
carefully chosen guests.
• Holidays—you either stay at home
and drive the kids to the beach every
day (or to their separate social commit-
ments), or you take a holiday house by
the sea for a fortnight and do the things
you did at home with fewer means to
do them and with sunburn and sand
thrown in.
• Work —if you are lucky enough to
have salvaged anything from your educa-
tion you can only work if you have quite
substantial help, or if you have a job
that doesn’t need you 9 to 5. Then you
just fit it in with all your other activities
—as long as your husband doesn’t mind.
Women in their thirties might have
fewer expectations and more experience
(of what?), they might even find relation-
ships with people easier because these
are no longer so important to their
estimate of themselves.
They might already have taken refuge
like the 35-year-old child-bride who
still sews name tapes right through the
toes of her children’s socks because : t
seems the most logical place.
But are they reconciled? To all that
sagging flesh?
CLARISSA BLACK
Deprivation
Your children, too, can enjoy a cul-
turally deprived childhood just
like poor Mummy and Daddy. All
it takes is willpower and a dash of bit-
ter experience. You don’t have to spend
a cent, unless it is for some good, cheap
unhygienic, utterly unscientific toy from
the chain stores. The main thing is to
resist any impulse to go one better than
your unenlightened Depression-era par-
ents and lash out for the kiddies at
Christmas with Meccano sets, musical in-
struments, painting kits and plastic en-
gineering outfits.
Our own children, who have been the
natural victims of their parents’ passion
for doing the right thing, woke around
four on Christmas morning. Being too
young to decipher the Christmas labels
on the presents under the Tree, they care-
fully took the whole lot into their bed-
rooms, picking out the recognisable toys
(bazooka guns and battery-operated
Porsches) and putting aside the opened-
in-errors like Granny’s Remy Martin and
their father’s socks and cigars.
The painting equipment went over-
board first. “I think they’re lunch-wrap-
pers,” said a bewildered five-year-old
voice as the large sheets of drawing
paper were torn open, puzzled over and
put aside. The mouth-organ was popular
for a couple of hours. It had come with
a book called “The Five-minute Mouth-
Organ Course” — no musical knowledge
necessary and full satisfaction guaran-
teed.
Still, someone had to explain it all,
and by the time Mummy had mastered
the C-major scale, the children had run
off to the park with a plastic rocket and
abandoned the whole idea.
The smaller child played happily for
a few days with the kiddy engineering
outfit, a sort of younger plastic cousin
to the Meccano set which his elder
brother found baffling. We didn’t like
to label him backward so we consoled
ourselves with the theory that it was all
a matter of national environment, and
that Swedish and Norwegian children
(the instructions came in five languages),
being flat-bound in long European
winters, would naturally get a head start
over an honest, outdoor boy. Still, no
one could say we were sporty types our-
selves, and it seemed a shame to put it
away untouched with all its dear little
flanged plates and angle brackets lying
in their white foam plastic beds.
By 10 o’clock on the night of Boxing
Day, their father had produced a work-
able replica of a saloon car (Personbil
or Salonvogn) with a total of 212 parts,
give or take a few. The children wander-
ed in from time to time whenever they
lost their new cricket ball and made
admiring noises. Daddy was a genius,
they implied, leaving Mummy with no
alternative but to pull the wretched
thing apart and run up an observation
coach or utkikksvogn with 213 parts the
minute Daddy was back at work.
The screwdriver had been lost but it’s
marvellous what you can do with long
thumbnails. Clearly women were natural-
ly better suited for this sort of thing. By
lunch-time the saloon car was undone, as
were most other things around the house,
like beds and washing-up. Some little
friends trotted in to help lose the flat trun-
nions and rod connectors but were driven
back with a few bars of Beethoven from
the mouth-organ. By dinner-time the
children had disappeared after the ice-
cream man, the turkey was undisguised
and the observation coach, while looking
good on the outside, had something
dreadfully wrong with its undercarriage.
Female honor was upheld but I agreed
there was something wrong with the in-
structions.
I fear the instructions, though, are
not the only thing that’s wrong. Someone
should really take a long look round
about June when their minds aren’t too
befuddled with Christmas sentiment and
noble intentions at what the Austra-
lian male child really likes for Christmas.
Creative leisure toys may soothe the
guilty parental mind, but they make an
awful lot of work for the parental
fingers.
JOAN PHILLIPS


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER’S
NOTEBOOK
SHOPPING LIST
7 500 cf&jdn
Siooolbs stmts'
%000/bs (utter
10,000 lbs beef
31,300 ffc of hbst&r
and fish
pounds
and 120
of caviar*
Ashopping list lor a
lifetime? No, just a
small section of the 2,000
separate food commodi-
ties ordered by the Chief
Steward for one Trans
Atlantic sailing of the
“Queen Elizabeth.” More
than 300 choices of dishes
are available . . . over
60 kinds of hors d’oeuvres.'
Tremendous variety is
offered —ll flavours of
marmalade; 7 types of
shrimp; 24 different breads
(2,500 rolls are baked
for each meal); 8 kinds
of salmon . . . Some of
the many reasons why
getting there is half the
fun with Cunard.
YOU might think that
the Eiffel Tower, Paris,
is tall! The “Queen Eliza-
beth” is 50 feet longer! In
fact, she is 2i times longer
than the height of Sydney’s
Harbour Bridge.
rHE “Queen Mary's”
gross tonnage exceeds
that of the entire Cunard
Atlantic and Mediterran-
ean fleets of 1876 which
consisted of 36 ships.
EACH “Queen” has 6
children’s playrooms
and nurseries.
The letters of the name
“Queen Elizabeth” on
the bows are 2\ feet high
and 68 feet in length.
TJ//IEN you go Trans
Atlantic, spend five of
the most exhilarating days
and nights in your life .
with Cunard.
Consult Your Local Travel Agent
ON THE MARGIN
Problem of the Married Mother
FThis year social workers will be much
concerned with the plight of the
married mother. The problem is not
peculiar to this v country—statistics in
Europe and America show that increas-
ing numbers of children are being born
in wedlock. Custom demands that the
mothers should rear these children them-
selves, whatever the hardship involved.
They cannot take the easier course of
having the child adopted. It is small
wonder that the married mother faces
her uncertain future with apprehension.
There are always some people ready
to condemn her as careless and irre-
sponsible for getting into this situation.
However, the present-day trend is to-
wards a more humane and tolerant view.
In many cases the girl concerned has
been lonely and comes from an unhappy
home background. A personable young
man pays flattering attention to her. All
too soon, without giving thought to the
consequences of a licit relationship, she
drifts into marriage. By the time she
learns the full seriousness of
what she has done, it is too
late. She is faced with the
prospect of having a legitimate
child.
This state of affairs is the
outcome of the moral code
prevailing today; but little is
to be gained by wringing one’s
hands over it The urgent need
is to offer understanding and
help to the young women —
some of them mere girls —
who are to become mothers
with benefit of clergy. It is
worth remembering that there
are many others whose behavior is no
better, but who are smart enough to
keep out of trouble.
The first step for a young married
woman in this predicament is to con-
front the husband who is responsible for
her condition. Some let him know in a
roundabout way by knitting tiny gar-
ments, but it is better to tell him bluntly
and remind him of his obligations. The
husband’s reaction is often hostile. He
may accuse her of having led him on,
or even deny that he is the father. But
there is a chance that he will agree to
pay the necessary expenses without her
taking legal action.
A poignant case was seen lately on
the television programme Whither 1966?
A young married mother, referred to as
Mrs G, was interviewed with her back
to the camera. She said: “My husband
is a bricklayer. When I told him I was
going to have another legitimate baby he
hit the roof. We had two already, you
see. He said it was my own fault and
it was time I learned better.
“The neighbors talked about me be-
hind my back and said I had no self-
control. I didn’t know which way to
turn, till somebody told me to get in
touch with the church organisation called
Friends of Fecundity. They saw me
through the worst period.”
Matron Tomkins, the President of
Friends of Fecundity, has done much to
awaken the community to the problems
raised by the legitimate birth-rate.
In an interview she said: “We at FF
try first of all to encourage the married
mother’s self-respect. We emphasise
that maternity is a natural process, even
if it is lacking in chic.
“Too many people feel that the mar-
ried mother’s difficulties are solved when
she has had the baby. Actually they
have only begun.”
Social workers report that common
troubles of the married mother include:
Pilfering of chocolate frogs
from refrigerator, sticky door-
handles, scribbling on walls
and books. Refusal to wear
warm clothes in winter or cool
clothes in summer. Night cries
of “I want a drink of water”.
Falling on concrete paths.
Demands to stay up and
'watch the Lucy Show. Absence
at meal times. Presence at
meal times. Sickness after
eating Spotted Dog. Mixing
of face-powder with tooth-
paste. Wearing out of shoes.
Quarrels over cakes and tri-
cycles. Chewing-gum in hair.
Denting of school cases. Lost socks.
Coughs, colds, measles, chicken pox,
hives. Turning on radio to Top 40.
Waking up too early. Getting up too
late. Wanting colored pencils sharp-
ened. Cutting of school lunches, looking
for garters, making breakfast.
Matron Tomkins said: “From our in-
formation, breakfast is worst of all.”
Asked what can be done to help mar-
ried mothers in these difficulties, she re-
plied: “Not much. But it cheers them
up to know that the public is interested
in their plight.”
That is the crux of the matter. The
mothers of children born in wedlock
should not be treated as mere statistics.
They are human beings, who may have
behaved foolishly, but have a claim on
our sympathy none the less.
ROSS CAMPBELL


Memories of a Jewish Boyhood
Yiddish sounds , Carlton sights
By SAM LIPSKI
The earliest memories are incongruous
. . . the ABC News at seven o’clock
and the face of King George VI.
What have they to do with my Jewish
boyhood? Listening to the news was as
much a ritual as the lighting of the can-
dles on the Sabbath Eve. For the news
told us how the war was going. To be
more exact, the news tola us if the Allies
were coming close to defeating the Nazis.
And if that happened soon enough, there
was the hope, illogical and remote, that
the families my parents and their neigh-
bors had left behind in Europe would
still be alive.
On summer nights the Jews of Drum-
mond Street, Carlton, would sit outside
in the deckchairs they had brought from
Biyalestock and Lodz, from Czenstechow
and Lublin, and talk about the war. It
overshadowed all.
The sounds of my earliest Jewish boy-
hood were mainly Yiddish sounds. I
spoke Yiddish before I learnt English
and although both my parents and their
friends could speak Polish they were not
keen to do so. Polish was the language
of a country which held generally un-
pleasant memories for them. If the sounds
were Yiddish, then the sights were un-
mistakeably Australian. The map of my
world, at the age of six, was bounded
by Lee Street at one end, where I at-
tended school, and Princess Street at the
other, where I went to get bread and
onion rolls the unforgettable pletzlach
from Berland’s the baker. Fishel’s
kosher restaurant was on the corner of
Lee Street and Rathdown Street and Mr
Fishel, stoop-shouldered and moustached
like the faded photograph of an unknown
French writer he kept in his office, could
be seen regularly on my way to school
carrying the innumerable empty crates
of soda-water bottles out into the lane
at the back of his restaurant.
The stretch of Drummond Street be-
tween Lee Street and Princess Street was
really North Carlton; the houses were
a mixture of brick terraces, cottages
tightly buttressed against one another
and an occasional house with a garden.
Down the centre of the street ran the
nature strip of lawn playground and
cricket-pitch for me and my friends and
an isle of nostalgia for my parents and
theirs. This is where they sat and tried
hard to make sense of what was happen-
ing as much to themselves as to those
Jews who were being liquidated in
Europe.
The Jews of Drummond Street were
nearly all from lower-middle class un-
professional backgrounds; most of them
lived in a row of brick cottages on one
side of Drummond Street called the
kusharim or the cazarmes both words
meaning “the barracks”, a term which
was certainly appropriate. Most of the
cazarmes dwellers began their working
life in Australia as hawkers, as pressers,
or as in the Victoria Market.
I cannot recall the specifics of the sad-
ness which many of these Jews must
have felt when they knew that their
families had been lost but I do recall
the sense of helplessness which they ex-
pressed, especially on those summer
nights as clusters of children rushed
about, cooling off by jumping through
the sprinklers while their fathers sat in
singlets and their mothers with bowls of
fruit in their laps.
The war almost entirely the war in
Europe is inescapable therefore as a
memory and for the way it conditioned
so much of my earliest Jewish awareness.
There was, however, a humorous side to
the discussions. All were master tacticians,
all had their own ideas of when and
where the Allies should start the “second
front”. My father took it for granted
that I was interested in the details of
D-Day and the Russian advance and at
the age of six I was addressed as an adult
on these subjects. My father, who by then
was in his fifties, was particularly elated
one morning when he woke me to exult
“The Allies have taken Paris. At last.’’
Even a six-year-old boy had to be woken
with news of that importance.
The news is tied to my memory of
boyhood Jewishness in another way. As
soon as the broadcast was over at 7.15
my father would take out a Hebrew
primer and teach me to read.
Learning to read Hebrew, with the
strange letters of the alphabet which
spilled across the page back to front to
English, was not a chore but a special
treat. It was like playing with a puzzle
and besides it was a secret game that I
alone among my friends could play. For
although there were a number of Jewish
families among our closest neighbors,
none had children my age and my im-
mediate friends were then all from school
or from other non-Jewish families in
the neighborhood.
My learning to read Hebrew also ex-
plains the memory of King George VI.
As I learnt to read more fluently I was


expected to begin saying prayers—the
brief Modeh Ani in rising and the Kri-
yat Shmah before retiring. In trans-
lating both of these prayers for me my
father had to answer my first barrage of
questions about the nature of God. For
until the age of six I had not prayed.
Jews who follow the Orthodox rituals
pray only in Hebrew, formally at least.
God, therefore, was only a word to me
until I found myself thanking him every
morning in Hebrew for “having returned
my soul to me with loying kindness”.
My father was uncompromisingly strict
in his refusal to give God any human
attributes or shape and tried to answer
my questions by the citing of Talmudic
authorities. It was not much help to me
because all I wanted to know was what
God looked like.
Stones’ School
"Out, as my father explained, not even
JL * Moses could look upon God’s face
and hope to stay alive. My solution to
the mystery was simple. I decided that
God looked just like King George Vl—
a head like on the penny, no arms and no
body but a head in the clouds.
When I had learned to read it was
time to go to cheder Hebrew school.
My first cheder was “Stones’ School” in
Pitt Street, Carlton, next to the Chevra
Kadisha, the Jewish funeral parlors.
Called “Stones’ Shool” because it was
founded and kept alive by the remarkable
Melbourne family of Stone brothers, this
was a small synagogue which flourished
for two generations before it began to
decline when suburban migration over-
took it some five or six years ago.
But in 1945 it was a thriving centre.
It was open daily for prayers as well as
on the Sabbath and the holy days.
There were two Hebrew classes daily
from Sunday to Thursday. During the
week we would come after school—ten
of us in the “small boys’ ” class and half
a dozen in the “older boys”—to learn the
Bible in Hebrew, how to translate the
prayers and something about Jewish his-
tory and customs. Lessons lasted for an
hour and a half in what was not really
a school but the front pews of the syna-
gogue. With a lectern in front of him
our teacher struggled with us, and a
struggle it was. A round waddler of a
man with a small black skull-cap which
used to slide precariously all over his
nearly bald head, he was not up to the
formidable task of introducing us to the
finer points of Genesis, our main study.
His English was bad and, with the cruelty
of childhood, we made him feel that it
was far worse. In any case he did not
have his heart in it after a day of trying to
make his living at a clothing stall in the
Victoria Market and slaughtering chick-
ens at the kosher butchers.
He was short on temper and shorter
still on understanding of children. We
baited him mercilessly and, in a half-
Yiddish half-English, his warnings would
come spluttering forth, a score of times
every lesson, “I’ll gib you such a frusk
in de face, you chooligan, di einer”.
My father felt that I was wasting my
time and enrolled me in another after-
noon school. Here at Bialik School,
named after the great poet laureate of the
modern Hebrew language revival, I found
a new world. The teachers were either
kindly ladies or pleasant young men and
instead of going every night after school
we came only twice a week and Sunday
mornings. And there were parties; parties
to celebrate the festivals, parties every
Sabbath morning after the service, parties
before the summer holidays and parties
afterwards, all replete with butter-cake,
lemonade and honey biscuits.
I had to change my traditional Ash-
kenazi (Western) pronunciation of
Hebrew to the modern Sephardi (East-
ern) pronunciation and I had to call
teachers by their Hebrew titles. Simple
Hebrew conversation was encouraged and
songs were taught. Much time was spent
preparing concerts and pageants at which
we would dress in white smocks with
baskets of fruit on our shoulders. It was
one long game designed to encourage
some attachment to the new centre of
Jewish life in Palestine, but it was only
rarely educational in my father’s sense.
But he was an enthusiastic Zionist. So it
took him a year to discover that while
I was enjoying myself immensely I was
not really learning very much.
To my father “learning” meant the
Bible with its commentaries and even-
tually the encyclopaedic Talmud the
exposition of Jewish lore and law. So I
went to my third Hebrew school, this
time in Rathdown Street, Carlton, the
“Hasoolah”, which means Enlightenment.
More commonly we knew it as the “Tum-
mo” — short for Talmud Torah. Here
the atmosphere was much more like that
of Stones’ orthodox, Ashkenazi, East
European rather than the modern He-
brew flavor of Bialik School. But there
were many more pupils l3O when 1
started at the age of eight.
In the early months I found myself in
a class which was even more disorganised
than that of the hapless fat man at Stones’.
Our teacher was a young lady, a daughter
of one of Melbourne’s leading Orthodox
families, who was pleasant enough but
found it difficult to maintain even the
remotest semblance of order for very long
despite frequent and exasperated recourse
to a ruler across the backside.
To make matters worse, and at
one stage almost chaotic, our teacher
was being courted by another teacher, an
earnest young gentleman who would
send her notes during class, to our endless
glee and to the blushing teacher’s dis-
comfiture. In the circumstances it was
surprising that we learnt anything at all.
But we did, and I think this was largely
due to the “Tummo” headmaster, Rabbi
Silver. He was able to put the fear of
God into us, literally. Some years later
I was to study the Talmud with him and
find him one of the best pedagogues and
most charming men I have ever known.
But in the junior classes he was feared.
Appearing when our lady of the furtive
notes was in her greatest moment of dis-
tress he would silence the class with a
whack of his stick on the door He hard-
ly ever used the stick on us but ran the
school with the threat hanging over
all.
For the boys at the school the most
feared question from Rabbi Silver was,
“Are you wearing your tsitsis?” Orthodox
Jews are required to wear a small four-
cornered undergarment with tasselled
fringes known as tsitsis, and Rabbi Silver
made this one of his special projects.
The traditional answer for not wearing
the tsitsis (because it was hot, or cumber-
some, or because we had forgotten) was
“My mother’s washing them”. This sort
of excuse never satisfied Rabbi Silver.
With great determination he would look
hard at us and ask “And where is your
spare pair?”
I recall only one pupil at the school
ever standing up to Rabbi Silver. It hap-
pened after a number of us had been
called out in front of the class to explain
why we had been singing in the East
Melbourne Hebrew Congregation’s choir.
Rabbi Silver was concerned on two
counts. He knew that all of us who were
singing lived a long way from the syna-
gogue and that therefore we would have to
break the Sabbath and travel to get there.
He also knew that we did not go to
pray but only to sing when required and
to play hand-cricket for the rest of the
time.
A dissenting choirboy
Qo he insisted that we should stop travel-
ling to East Melbourne and start
attending the Sabbath services at the
Hebrew school conducted by him and
his eventual successor, Rabbi Reidzki.
Most of us were too frightened to do
anything but say we would do what he
wanted. But the one dissenting voice
came from a choirboy who said that he
was still going to continue to travel to
the choir. There was an awful silence as
Rabbi Silver demanded, “Tell me why”.
“Because,” said the rebel, “I pay two-
pence for my fares to get there and I get
two-and-six for singing each week. Two-
and-six for twopence I think it’s
worth it.” Rabbi Silver was speechless.
If he reads this his only consolation might
be that the rebel took his non-conformism


as far as becoming an active worker for
the anti-fluoride cause.
The dominating figure at East Mel-
bourne Synagogue in the ’forties was the
great Chazan Rechter, a cantor of inter-
national repute. East Melbourne was my
father’s “special” synagogue where he
went on the high holy days—“to hear
Rechter”.
We came from Carlton which was
relatively close. But others came from all
over Melbourne to hear Rechter. In the
tradition of the great cantors of Eastern
Europe he had a powerful tenor voice
and the manner to go with it. On the
eve of the Day of Atonement, when the
synagogue would be crowded for the
Kol Nidre service, he would wait until
the aisles were so blocked that he could
barely pass. Then he would enter drama-
tically from the rear of the synagogue,
pushing his way through, his voice ring-
ing out with the first prayers before he
had even reached the altar. When every
other synagogue would finish the Kol
Nidre prayers by 8.30 in the evening,
East Melbourne would rarely be through
until 9.30. The melodies and tunes of
Eastern Europe’s Judaism, together with
its food, were, and still are, the most
lasting memories for many Jews who no
longer expressed their Jewishness in any
other way Rechter was a living reminder
of what they could only hear on scratchy
recordings: Kussevitsky, Yossele Rosen-
blatt, Sarota and the other great names
of the cantorial pantheon.
In much the same way as the war had
determined much of the talk about and
around the Jews of my early boyhood,
the emergence of Israel affected much
of my later childhood. I joined Habonim,
the first of the Zionist youth movements
to be established in Australia.
It was an exciting time to join such
a movement. At every meeting there was
passionate talk about the events in Pales-
time, about the coming of independence
and about the realisation of historic
dreams. It was quite overwhelming for a
boy of nine and I took it all terribly
seriously, as did my friends. Saturday
afternoon, when we would meet in a
crumbling old factory turned into club-
rooms at the top of Drummond Street,
became the focal point of the week. The
blue uniform with its dark blue scarf
was the one item of clothing I cared for
through the week and the songs of the
Zionist pioneers crowded out all others.
Added to this fervor was that which
my father expressed by his long lectures
after the daily news. One of the first
settlers of Tel Aviv in the period immedi-
ately after the First World War, he saw
the coming of a Jewish State in a reli-
gious way. For him it was the fulfilment
of Biblical prophecy. Nevertheless he was
a strong supporter of the “terrorist”
liberation movement because, as he said,
“God needs help sometimes”. The word
“terrorist” angered him and he dismissed
the ideas of “self-restraint” I brought
home from my youth movement which
was ideologically aligned with Ben-Gur-
ion’s political party in Israel the Mapai,
opponents of the “terrorists”. In later
years I was to join a Zionist youth move-
ment which was fundamentally religious.
Habonim was irreligious (rather than
anti-religious although its leadership then
included some outspoken Marxists). But
in my boyhood Habonim was my first
love.
In the year before my bar-mitzvah, the
ceremony of confirmation at the age of
thirteen which introduces the Jewish boy
into the company of adults and makes
him liable for his own sins in the religi-
ous sense, a number of things happened
which changed much of the previous
pattern of my Jewish boyhood. They
happened as coincidences which make
them stand out even more.
Carlton Synagogue
T'he major change was that we shifted
house irom Drummond Street to
Palmerston Street, two doors away from
the Carlton Synagogue. It was a major
change because of the idiosyncratic
nature of my father’s attachment to
Orthodox Judaism. He came from a de-
voutly Chassidic family in Warsaw which
prided itself on its yichuss —its family
tree. On both sides there were famous
rabbis and on my grandmother’s side of
the tree he was a direct descendant of the
great Rabbi -oseph Karo, the medieval
author of the Shulchan Aruch, the basic
text of Jewish religious law.
My grandmother even had a family
tree which traced us all back to King
David. This my father used to say good-
humoredly thereby ensured that the Mes-
siah would come from our family or one
of the 100,000 or so other Jewish families
in Warsaw whose mothers had family
trees showing “quite clearly” their
descent from the House of David.
Yet although my father had had a
strong Orthodox education, even to the
point of completing the required amount
of study for the rabinate by the time he
settled in Australia, he was not strictly
Orthodox in any of the more important
matters. He did not observe the Sabbath,
going instead to Victoria Market to buy
fruit and vegetables for the week; he did
not observe the dietary laws strictly,
allowing my mother to mix milk and
meat dishes -ogether; he did not pray
regularly except on the holy days when
he did not carry on his work as a painter
and carpenter. On the other hand he did
insist on being lit in the house
every Friday night, he did bless the wine
and sit down to a special meal, he dog-
gediy if inconsistently demanded that I
should be observant even if he was not,
and he emphasised the importance of
Jewish learning above all else.
When we shifted to the house two doors
away from a synagogue he changed his
whole way of life overnight, literally. On
the very first night in the new house
there came a telegram from Jerusalem
telling us of my grandfather’s death at
the age of 94. It was as if that had been
a long-awaited sign. From that day on-
wards the Sabbath in our house was ob-
served strictly, the dietary laws were
kept, and my father attended synagogue
three times every day to pray. In fact his
whole life began to revolve around the
synagogue. At weddings he was an official
witness, at morning prayers he would
often act as cantor, in his reading he be-
gan to turn once more to the classic
Talmudic literature which he had not
studied for 40 years, and a wish expressed
in my grandfather’s will that if they
observed nothing else his children should
hold the Sabbath Day sacred had made
a deep impression on him.
At this time also I began to study the
special readings from the Bible which I
would chant in the synagogue on the day
of my bar-mitzvah. My teacher was the
late Leon Gurewicz. One of his proudest
possessions was a long poem of praise to
his culinary skills by A. D. Hope. Outside
a few friends of his family, however, he
was less well-known for his great fund
of Jewish learning and his delight in the
aesthetic qualities of the Hebrew liturgy
well sung in the synagogue. My study
with him, which also meant talking to
his father, came at the time when relig-
ion began to emerge as an everyday fac-
tor in my life.
The late Rabbi Gurewicz was very
much a part of this life —at least on the
Sabbath. Blind for much of his later
years he would walk down Rathdown
Street every Saturday morning on the arm
of one of his sons, a straight-backed
figure in an Edwardian coat with a wide-
brimmed black hat. His long, grey beard
framed a face which always beamed with
kindness.
In the late afternoon quiet of Satur-
days, a quiet broken only by
the dissonant shouts from the beery SP
shop in the lane at the back oLthe syna-
gogue, he would sit at the head of the
traditional Shalosh Seudoth table the
table of the Sabbatical Third Meal
and softly tell his parables based on the
Bible readings of the week. Then he
would lead the singing of Psalm 23, which
precedes the grace at that meal.
On my bar-mitzvah day, a hot January
Saturday, it was Rabbi Gurewicz who
farewelled my Jewish boyhood with his
priestly blessing of “May the Lord bless
you and keep you”.


OVERSEAS
Rhodesia Under
Embargo
The real test is yet to come
By EMERY BARCS
(m ho has just returned from Salisbury)
In mid-December, when I left Salisbury, the favorite Christmas decorations in
the shop windows of the Rhodesian capital were golden plaster shields with the half
life-sized profile of lan Smith, pictures showing him at the controls of an aeroplane
or with mighty Victoria Falls in the background, facsimiles of the November 11
“rebel” Constitution placed next to large color portraits of Queen Elizabeth 11.
Even in outer Charter Road —on the
fringes of the city proper where clut-
tered Indian stores cater mainly for
African customers Her Majesty in-
variably shared the display with the
Prime Minister of her most loyal rebels.
To show the Queen alone would have
amounted to a form of political demon-
stration against UDI. I looked for but
found no evidence of such silent protest.
The Salisbury retail trade seems to be
united in its support of Mr Smith and
of his Rhodesian Front regime.
Except for the shopwindows one
would have hardly noticed that on Nov-
ember 11 something big had occurred.
To call this “something” a rebellion is
a misnomer. It suggests some degree of
violence or forceful, flamboyant action.
So far there have been only feeble signs
of either in Rhodesia. On November 11
Mr Smith declared independence over
TV and radio and not to some mass
gathering intoxicated with political ora-
tory and hullabaloo. After he had made
the announcement Rhodesians did not
stream out into the streets to participate
in some “spontaneous” torch parade.
They went to bed. So did Mr Smith.
And since then the farmers, business-
men, professionals, soldiers and public
servants who form the middle-class lead-
ership of the Rhodesian Front have con-
sciously refrained from throwing away
money on propagating the “rebellion” at
home or abroad. The stories produced
the paraphernalia in the shopwindows.
The flags over the public and private
buildings of Salisbury are old Union
Jacks and banners of Rhodesia. A not
very smart green tie with strange pat-
terns is the Front’s only effort for sartor-
ial uniformity. It is strictly for Party
functions.
Besides the straitlaced character of
the people who now run Rhodesia (those
who call them “Fascists” have never seen
a live Fascist, Nazi or any sort of Right-
ist or Leftist totalitarian) there is another
important reason for the outward sim-
plicity of the regime. There is just no
need for costly ostentation.
The overwhelming majority of the
country’s whites (and a fair proportion
of the Africans) do not have to be con-
vinced that UDI was necessary. Nor
has Mr Smith to camouflage fears for
his own security behind such status
symbols as cohorts of smartly dressed
bodyguards like so many heads of newly
independent African States. When I
went to see him in his office in Milton
House—a modest single-storied building
in the heart of Salisbury—one policeman
sat on a bench near the entrance. I
saw the “rebel” Prime Minister departing
twice—once from the opening of Parlia-
ment and the second time from a social
function at about midnight. His medium-
sized and medium-priced official lim-
ousine with the plate “R I” is driven by
an African chauffeur and is known by
most people in Salisbury. It could be
an easy target for anyone. Yet neither
on these two occasions nor at other times
when I saw him in the city did he have
a police escort.
Is all this relevant? It is if one wants
to understand the people who have
challenged a large part of the world. The
absence of bombast and bragging and
the serious, unruffled preparations for
the trials of the inevitable austerity due
to the sanctions do mean something.
Other phenomena may be equally signi-
ficant in measuring up the “rebel” com-
munity: there has been no run on the
banks, no hoarding of foodstuffs or of
other goods, no black market in foreign
currencies, no attempts of profiteering.
Admittedly, it might be still too early
to judge the strength of the Rhodesians’
morale. By March or April the sanctions
are bound to pinch. Stores of goods
which people of high living standards
consider essentials may be exhausted.
There will be unemployment. There
will be a growing awareness of a long
struggle. So far Rhodesians have suf-
fered no real hardships. __
My guess, however, is that while the
Rhodesians can be beaten or starved
into surrender they will not easily ac-
cept defeat. lan Smith and his col-
leagues are not political operators who
have managed to bamboozle people into
accepting some spurious political credo.
Their credo may be false but it was
born and found acceptance before the
establishment of the Rhodesian Front
some five years ago. The Front and its
leaders have given only articulate expres-
sion to it. For all practical purposes the
Front today is the Rhodesian white
community and at least to some extent
also the black one. Its defeat would
not convince the whites that they had
followed false prophets but that they suc-
cumbed to brute force. Unless Mr
Smith commits some outrageous blunder
he will become a legend among his
countrymen and women whatever the
final outcome of the struggle which he
leads might be, and whatever final judg-
ment history will make about his activi-
ties. /
For the majority of Rhodesian whites
the issue is a simple one: they struggle
for the right of remaining in their home-
land. The main force of the Rhodesian
Front consists of pragmatists, farmers,
small and medium businessmen, trade
unionists, public servants and private
employees. They are a hardy lot.
Thousands of them fought in the British
forces in World War 11. Thousands of
others, who have settled in the country
after 1945, belonged to communities up-
rooted as a result of the liquidation of
the British Empire. They refuse to re-
treat further. They have brought up
their progeny in a spirit of frontiersmen
and women. During my three visits to
Rhodesia I have not seen a Beatle-haired,
tight-jeaned youth.
No one knows exactly what propor-
tion of whites does oppose the Front
and UDI. The most widely accepted
estimates range between three and five
per cent. Their political shades range
from conservative British loyalists who
gather socially around Sir Humphrey
Gibbs, the unilaterally deposed Governor
still recognised by Britain, to ardent one-
man-one-voters whose visible leader is
Dr Ahrn Palley, the only white member
of the 15-men strong parliamentary Op-
position. (He was elected by the black
electorate of Highfield.) In between
there are moderates such as the support-
ers of elder statesman Sir Roy Welensky
whose attitude is that people ought to
obey the “de facto” regime which main-
tains law and order. There is probably
a small underground radical Left with
connections at Salisbury University Col-
lege. So far, however, it has made no
noticeable impact on Rhodesian politics.
Whether the Opposition has made any
gains since November 11 will be shown


What do you call a motor hotel
with 108 beautifully furnished
airconditioned rooms and
suites, personalised attention,
24 hour service, free under-
cover parking, complete priv-
acy, glorious views, valet,
porter, medical, pharmaceu-
tical, and booking services
. . . and international hotel
standards? The New Mel-
bourne Sheraton, the great
new place to stay in Mel-
bourne. Call the Sheraton
for your next trip.
Book now with your local travel agent,
bank, airline or stock and station agent.
Or phone direct for immediate con-
firmed reservations for either hotel.
(Write for fully illustrated colour
brochure).
Rates: from $8.50 single, $11.50 double
SHERATON
MOTOR HOTELS
40 Macleay Street, Potts Point
Sydney, 'phone 35.1955
13-19 Spring Street,
Melbourne.
’phone 63.9961
SHSB/6.58
at a parliamentary by-election this
month. Brigadier Skeen, the Front’s
candidate, will contest the seat which be-
came vacant when Clifford Walter Du-
pont resigned to assume the position of
Acting Officer Administering the Gov-
ernment (a sort of substitute Governor).
The Brigadier was Rhodesia’s popular
High Commissioner in London until
UDI. He is expected to win but the
Front wants him to win with a greatly
increased majority to prove the regime's
growing popularity despite the mass of
threatening news from abroad.
While the Opposition itself has been
ineffectual, the censored Rhodesian Press
is as outspoken in its criticism of the
regime as it can be under the circum-
stances. Censorship is unpopular. Most
Rhodesians believe that they are mature
enough to read any sort of news and
comment, however hostile they may be
to the Government. Every newspaper in
Rhodesia carries on its front page the
warning, set in bold type: “In terms of
the Emergency Powers (Censorship of
Publications) Order 1965. all material in
this newspaper has been subject to Gov-
ernment censorship”. If the censors
strike out a single sentence, or even a
single word, from an article or from a
news item, the editors pull out the whole
story and leave a blank space in its stead
as a sign of protest.
I don’t think that lifting of censorship
would make much difference in the
amount of support the Front receives
now. Airmail editions of British news-
papers are freely available in Rhodesia
24 hours after their publication and
people listen to the BBC and other for-
eign broadcasts The radio station which
the British have installed in Francistown,
Bechuanaland, just across the Rhodesian
border, might, however, cause trouble.
For it will broadcast news and comments
hostile to the Front regime in African
languages spoken in Rhodesia. If this
is true Britain will engage in the sort of
psychological warfare which was fully
developed in World War II against the
Nazis and other Axis powers.
Not surprisingly, Rhodesia’s whites
are bitter about the attempt—ascribed
personally to Mr Wilson —to subvert the
African masses. But while the chances
of limited trouble through subversion are
not being taken lightly in Salisbury, the
regime is confident that the mass of
Africans will continue to co-operate with
the Government. This confidence is
based on three main arguments:
• There is no revolutionary situation
among Rhodesia’s Africans who have a
higher living standard than Africans have
anywhere else in the continent except
South Africa.
• Politically the Africans are hope-
lessly divided in three main sectors. The
traditionalist majority lives in tribal com-
munities. Most of the 280 tribal chiefs
and 400 headmen back the Government.
The numerically small Nationalist camp
is torn between Joshua Nkomo’s Zim-
babwe African People’s Union (ZAPU)
and Ndabaningi Sithole’s Zimbabwe Afri-
can National Union (ZANU). The hatred
between these two groups is so great that
not even Mr Harold Wilson could per-
suade them to unite or to conclude at
least a temporary alliance.
• Finally the Government’s policy of
creating not a multi-racial but a non-
racial Rhodesia is unaltered. Smith
wants “to arrive at a position which will
take a long time not through a revolu-
tionary but an evolutionary process
whereby we will accept people in this
country on their merit. We will be
Rhodesians.”
Can Rhodesia suri'i-ne?
Out couldn’t the Front set a timetable,
I asked Rhodesians, and say when
they would agree to an African majority
Government? The shot was always fired
back at me with the question: Why
couldn’t Australia set a timetable for
New Guinea’s independence? “Obvi-
ously,” I was told, “in New Guinea, as
in Rhodesia, the final date must depend
upon factors which we cannot foresee
yet. But it will come. . . .”
Whenever I asked whether UDI was
absolutely necessary and why the Rhod-
esian Front regime could not continue
to govern under the 1961 Constitution
until a compromise agreement for inde-
pendence was found. I was told that
Britain’s secret plan to toss the Rhod-
esian question to the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ Conference next June
made such marking of time impossible.
“The huge Afro-Asian majority at that
conference would have solved this issue
in favor of immediate one-man-one-
vote,” I was told
Can Rhodesia survive if the sanctions
were strictly enforced and extended?
Rhodesian economists were confident that
though the price of survival would be
stiff, Rhodesia could and would man-
age to remain alive. Some people, such
as Douglas Collard (Boss) Lilford (one
of the pillars of the Rhodesian Front who
started his career as a penniless orphaned
farm hand and who became one of the
country’s most successful and richest
land and mine-owners), told me that they
welcomed the sanctions which “would
force Rhodesians to develop their re-
sources quickly under pressure”. The
general and more careful opinion, how-
ever, was that living standards would fall
but that no one, neither whites nor
blacks, would go hungry, and the strains
would not become unbearable.
And what happened if the African
States lost patience when they saw that
the Rhodesian regime did not collapse
and combined their forces to impose
a military decision? I put this question
to lan Smith himself. For a moment
or two he sat still with clenched fists
on the desk, watching me with his good
left eye (he was shot down in an air-
battle in World War II in which he serv-
ed as a fighter pilot and a surgeon had
to rebuild the mutilated right side of his
face), then he said in his calm, metallic
voice:
“I don’t want to appear as if I treated
this light-heartedly, but I don't think
such a threat can be taken seriously. I
don’t think there is any country in Africa
to the north of us which can in any way
compare its armed force with the effici-
ent war machine that we have. This is
a sophisticated machine that has been
geared to serve Commonwealth defence.
“We are not looking for trouble. So
if anybody tries . . . well, I would simply
advise them not to try. Yes,” he re-
peated, “we are not looking for trouble.”
But aren’t others looking for it? . . .


LETTERS
Dr (tough and Dr Cairns
SIR.—In his article “The Double Stan-
dard”, sub-titled “Archbishop Gough as a
threat to freedom?' (8., Dec. 18), Alan
Reid quotes Dr Jim Cairns as saying
“Freedom in Australia is not endangered
by Communists . . . Those who really
threaten freedom in Australia are . . .
men LIKE Archbishop Gough of
Sydney”.
Reid then builds up his argument by
comparing the relative “power’" of Com-
munism as against the Archbishop as an
individual as though Dr Cairns had
suggested that the threat to freedom
came from one man rather than from
men of LIKE attitudes.
Geoffrey R. Fairhall
Noble Park (Vic.).
SIR.—Dr Cairns made his statement with
regard to the situation in Vietnam. To
the extent that the leaders of the church,
RSL, or Libera! Party distort the facts
of the Vietnam situation, 1 agree with
Dr Cairns: they present a danger to Aus-
tralia. For instance, some of these
people have attempted to stifle free
speech by implying that those who
oppose American and Australian policies
in Vietnam are disloyal to Australia.
Australia is entering a crucial stage
and there are some questions which
should be examined. If anybody attempts
by smear tactics to prevent their exam-
ination, then I believe he presents a
danger to Australia.
SIMON WEST
Point Piper (NSW).
Dr Davidson s Myths
SIR. —1 have just read twice what
must go down as one of the most naive
articles ever written in The Bulletin
(Dec. 18, 1965), I refer to the article
by Bruce Davidson on agriculture and
official policy.
Dr Davidson’s theme is that we should
forget all about any industry that is sub-
sidised. He eulogises beef, wheat and
sheep as being able to survive efficiently.
On the other hand, if he had the power
he would wipe most of our sugar, dairy-
ing, tobacco, cotton, dried vine fruit in-
dustries, etc., and possibly all irrigation
settlements, whatever they might be pro-
ducing. But why does Dr Davidson stop
there? Surely if his logic prevails he
would also abandon practically every
manufacturing industry in Australia be-
cause all, either directly or indirectly, are
being financially assisted by the Govern-
ment.
Dr Davidson attacks irrigation be-
cause the Government assists with the
capital works. But let him examine the
economics of the roads, railways and
ports which are essential to the sheep,
wheat and cattle areas. Perhaps he is
aware of the annual losses being sus-
tained and the attitude of Governments
to capital costs of these structures. To
close the sugar industry, for example,
would mean the abandonment of the rail-
way system and North Queensland ports
if this narrow economic theorising pre-
vailed. What does he think would then
happen to the cattle and sheep industries?
What worries me is this sort of non-
sense being taught to our university
under-graduates.
Yass (NSW). s - McGrath
SIR.—As a wheatgrower I strongly
object to the references in articles in
recent issues of The Bulletin which
insinuate that wheat stabilisation is some
sort of monster with a voracious appetite
for the hard-earned coin of non-wheat-
growing taxpayers. During the first ten
years of stabilisation wheatgrowers sub-
sidised consumers to the sum of nearly
200 million pounds. Why shouldn’t the
non-grower taxpayers now shell out a
few extra sheekels, with interest, to ease
the wheatgrowing burden? We’ll be a
long time breaking even!
KEITH HOFMAIER
Beuloh (Vic.).
Dr K's Romanticism
SIR. Professor Dunston’s contribution
to the Knopfelmacher scandal (8., Dec.
25) is written from the vantage point
of someone living in Sydney. In the
course of the debate, much has been said
about Dr Knopfelmacher’s position in
Melbourne May I, as one who has
watched Dr K’s impact on the intel-
lectual community associated with Mel-
bourne University, make a few observa-
tions.
When Dr K. came to Melbourne in
1955, shortly before my graduation, it
would not be unreasonable to say that
Melbourne University was intellectually
not very much alive. The pro-Com-
munist Left which represented the
dominant political force in the Uni-
versity until the 1950 s was on the wane
although Leftist cliches still tended to
set the tone of debates on ideological
questions. It is no exaggeration to say
that within three years of his arrival,
Dr K. had already exerted a profound
influence on the intellectual climate of
the University.
His greatest impact was attained as
a result of the regular lectures and
seminars which he provided in addition
to his normal teaching duties. This was
at a time when the average academic
tended to concentrate his extra-curricular
activities to building septic sewers or
churning out academic publications of
little consequence.
He seriously influenced a new genera-
tion of students, many of whom are now
rapidly moving into positions of in-
fluence in public life. Even those who
now loudly denigrate Dr K. were marked
for life by his educational influence.
They combine a completely detached
analytical and sophisticated attitude to
social affairs and politics with practical
political realism. They are all free of
traditional Australian political cliches
such as sectarianism, spurious moralis-
ing, anti-American, bogus mateship
postures, combined with a common ten-
dency to look down with equal disdain
on the false consciousness of the out-
dated traditional Anglophile Right. The
successful K. product is a mixture of
analytical philosophy, modern American
sociology and the political ethics of
responsibility.
Naturally Dr K. made many enemies
and the ease with which he makes them
has always been his major weakness and
fault. His other fault is that, despite his
avowed political realism and pragmatism,
I suspect that at heart he is really a
romantic. This is reflected in his un-
realistically excessive demands on
people’s intellect and character. When
disappointed, he sometimes tends to give
vent to invective Frequently it is a brutal
statement of a truth which is usually
better left unsaid.
Friends and foes of Dr Knopfelmacher
have conceded that had he not involved
himself in his extra-curricular educa-
tional and political activities, he possesses
the qualities which would easily have
enabled him to have already become a
professor in any of the three subjects—
psychology, philosophy and political
science—which he is qualified to teach.
It is no secret that the successful effort
to victimise him at Sydney was not the
first taste of discrimination experienced
by this man. For someone of Dr K’s
intellectual qualifications and academic
achievements to have remained a junior
lecturer for ten years speaks for itself.
IST LEIBLER
Caulfield North (Vic.).
SIR. — A number of Australian acad-
emies who might be simply identified
with the “old Left” expressed their con-
cern at the original Sydney University
decision on the Knopfelmacher case.
As far as 1 know, and as far as I
am concerned, a number of persons of
radical views still consider that Dr Knop-
felmacher has been wronged, and that
the action taken against him has weak-
ened the whole academic ethos in Aus-
tralia. The fact that Dr Knopfelmacher
himself, by report, does not welcome
the existence of allies whose support
weakens some of the case built up in his
name should not obscure their existence.
S. MURRYEY-SMITH
Mount Eliza (Vic.).


Motor Murder
SIR. —Insurance would seem to be the
cause of our Australian road - toll
situation. For an, annual payment one
can buy a fairly large portion of im-
munity from “Motor Murder”. By mak-
ing this payment the Australian sheds
responsibility for his actions and too
often behaves accordingly. Eliminate
Motor Vehicle Insurance and the road-
toll would eliminate itself in a short
period of time.
W. K. HOLDSWORTH
West Burleigh {Qld).
Anglicans and, Racism
SIR. The further the Rev. D. Pope
takes his campaign of attempted vilifica-
tion of the Australian League of Rights
the more clearly he reveals the tactics he
is prepared to use. In my letter of
December 11 I wrote that “The seconder
of Mr Pope’s motion on ‘anti-Semitism’
at the Synod informed Mr Pope that he
could not associate himself with the
proposed comments about League of
Rights members”. Rather than admit
the truth of this statement, Mr Pope
(8., Dec. 18) introduces a red-herring
by stating that his seconder “has no
intention of repudiating his association
with my Synod resolutions”. Mr Pope’s
motion has never been discussed in
this controversy. The issue is Mr Pope’s
allegation, in speaking to his motion,
that members of the League of Rights
were secretly infiltrating the churches to
spread “anti-Semitism”.
I don’t need to “evade” the allega-
tion that I am “the officially accredited
correspondent for the John Birch
Society”, for the simple reason that it
is not true. Mr Pope’s statement that
evidence to support this allegation will
be found in “American Opinion”, is, I
regret to say, another fabrication. I act
as a professional correspondent for
“American Opinion”.
Mr Pope should ask those who showed
him the “monstrous leaflet” entitled “Our
White Australia”, to produce some
reliable evidence that it was “produced,
endorsed and distributed in Melbourne
by The Australian League of Rights”.
The only leaflet I can recall bearing this
title was in fact a roneod screed, one
copy only of which I saw when it was
sent to Sir Raphael Cilento in an attempt
to persuade him not to appear at the
League 1961 Seminar. I repudiated the
screed, which the League neither pro-
duced, authorised nor distributed.
May I conclude by bringing Mr Pope
back to his allegations against League
members to the Melbourne Anglican
Synod: that League members are secret-
ly entering the churches to spread “anti-
Semitism”. Surely Mr Pope can produce
one vicar to provide some evidence to
justify his allegations? There is no evi-
dence. Mr Pope stands condemned of
bearing false witness against his fellow
Christians.
ERIC D. BUTLER
Melbourne {Vic.).
SIR. — The Rev. David J. Pope in his
letter (B., Dec. 18) has attributed to me
as Chairman of the Church Committee
of the Australian League of Rights state-
ments about, and views on, the African
native people, Rev. Martin Luther King,
Mr Isi Leibler, Mr Santamaria and the
DLP's anti-Communism which are quite
inaccurate and misleading.
H. L. DAVIES
Mitcham {Vic.).
SIR. — The Rev. Patrick Stevenson errs
in his letter (B., Dec. 18) when he seeks
to bring the Archbishop of Melbourne in
as a supporter of the Rev. D. Pope in
his criticism of the Australian League
of Rights.
My own vicar, the Rev. Charles
Maling of All Saints’ Church of England,
Greensborough, confirmed with me to-
day that he asked the following question
at the Synod: “Are the sentiments ex-
pressed by Mr Pope with regard to the
League of Rights to be regarded in any
degree as the opinion of this Synod?”
The Archbishop replied: “The answer is
no.”
E. ROCK
Melbourne {Vic.).
ENGLISH GOVERNORS
JiulletCn
80 Years Ago: January 2, 1886
look upon the appointment of Lord
Carrington to the Governorship of
New South Wales as an unfortunate one.
With his lordship personally we have no
fault to find. By all accounts he is an
Englishman of high rank, good report and
breeding, fair presence, pleasing address,
much amiability and large fortune. But
it is just because he possesses all these
enviable gifts and accomplishments that,
paradoxical as it seems, we wish he had
not come among us in the highest official
capacity. For over colonists especially
prosperous ones—who do not recognise
that Australia's true destiny is ultimately
to go alone, his presence will throw a
glamor which will prevent them from see-
ing that, all the world over, old social
distinctions are giving place to new, old
political faiths passing into the limbo of
exploded fallacies. This is the mischief.
If ever a land had what is called a
"manifest destiny" before it, that land is
Australia. Her destiny is to become a
powerful federated Republic, and any-
thing which tends to divert her attention
from this obvious role is injurious. We
would have young Australians taught, not
to keep their faces so firmly set towards
those little far-off islands in the northern
seas, but to think of their own great
future.
Making Films
SIR. Charles Higham in The Bul-
letin (Dec. 18) draws a very bleak
picture on the practical possibilities of
establishing some sort of feature film
industry in Australia. In his selection
of unsuccessful low budget films he
looks around any film with a critical
reputation that was a financial disaster.
Ironically, he uses as an example
“This Sporting Life” —a film which
according to its producers cost over
£200,000 sterling. It is not a low budget
film which is what the discussion is sup-
posed to be about. However, if one can
go by the English trade papers, the film
wasn’t the greatest financial disaster of
all time and had it cost in the vicinity of
£125,000 sterling such as “Saturday
Night and Sunday Morning” it would
have broken even.
As for the snob value of European
films and directors, Mr Higham over-
plays his hand here. “Saturday Night
and Sunday Morning” was successful in
art houses in the USA as was the higher
budget “Room At The Top”. Nor
could one fail to mention “David and
Lisa”, cost $120,000; gross take at the
last published figures $1,300,000.
It is still possible to make quality
low budget films in England. As two
recent examples we have Clive Donner’s
“The Caretaker” and a new Woodfall film
“The One Way Pendulum” made for
£30,000 and £40,000 sterling respect-
ively—figures I might add that are very
close to my £35,000. I maintain the
facts show that very low budget films
have a greater chance of success than
medium budget films such as “This
Sporting Life” or “They’re A Weird
Mob”.
MICHAEL THORNHILL
Woollahra {NSW).
Charles Higham replies: Mr Thorn-
hill is astonishingly casual in dismissing
Mr Lindsay Anderson’s £75,000 loss
(my figure would be closer to £125,000)
on “This Sporting Life”! It should also be
pointed out that “David and Lisa”,
“Saturday Night and Sunday Morning”
and “Room at the Top”, all sold hard
on sex, were in a budget area far above
that advocated by Mr Thornhill for Aus-
tralian art films, and that the last film
featured a French star. “The Caretaker”
was based on a successful play by Harold
Pinter, and was therefore in a sense
a pre-sold “art” property. Mr Thornhill
is a bit too Nostradamus-like in prophesy-
ing the future box-office takings of “One
Way Pendulum”, although this again
comes from a well-known original.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Sunshine: Who Needs Theatre?
By DIANA SHARPE
uT don’t think I could live without
I theatre,” said the Austrian.
“Watching a play is almost like
taking part in a religious rite that
electric communication, you know? But,
of course, I have been brought up with
it. I was taken every week from the time
I was seven.”
“When I was in Moscow,” said the
actor, “I went one afternoon to a child-
ren’s theatre. I've never seen anything
like it; beautiful place. An orchestra of
twelve and a full-time professional com-
pany of sixty actors who played only
to children. Seated six hundred, and
always packed to the doors.”
“Of course, kids go to the theatre at
home,” said the English visitor, “but I can
understand the Australians not being so
keen. After all, with all that sun and
the beaches . . . who needs it?”
“Who needs it?” This was the question
that was muttered around the room at
a party given by one of Sydney’s leading
actors a couple of years ago. We had
been summoned to the party by a writer
of children’s plays who had for years
been trying to get a theatre for young
people under way. “Why?” we wondered,
half aloud.
I asked myself the question even more
forcibly the next morning when I real-
ised that I had got myself elected
secretary of a theatre for young people.
Looking at it quite objectively one won-
dered if the Englishman had been right.
Here in the sunshine does one
need it? It doesn't build muscle, pay the
rent or the doctor’s bill. Were we all
being a bit fey about the whole idea?
Why did England need it, for a start?
After all, there is a huge country-wide
wave of youth theatre there, ranging
from Saturday morning workshops for
teenagers in Nottingham to Creative
Drama for infants in Birmingham, and
just about everything you can mention
in between.
“The stimulation of interest in the pro-
fessional theatre,” said the latest White
Paper on Education, “and encouragement
to feel that it is part of their own, not
an alien culture, is particularly important
to the older boys and girls, if they are
not to miss this source of enrichment in
their adult lives.”
“It is through the creative arts,” it
said on another page, “including the arts
of language, that young people can be
helped to come to terms with themselves
more surely than by any other route,”
and, “. . . the teacher needs all the help
which professional actors and readers
. . . can give”.
Perhaps England is a special case in
point. There is a long tradition of theatre
consciousness there. But why does India
feel it so necessary to set up children's
theatres, and subsidise them to boot? It
must have cost a bicto get the Bal Bhavan
(House of Children) going in Delhi.
And that caters for all forms of creative
as well as performing arts. Why, when
India, above all, needs so much in other
directions? “Well,” came the answer, “we
need everything most you see, and if we
cater only to one side of the want we are
neglecting something just as important
for future adults.”
And so on and so on . . . Russia deems
it of great importance, this theatre for
children; so does Red China. Israel sent
the director of its largest youth theatre
off on a six-month world study-tour. In
the United States it has become almost
big business. “After all,” said one exe-
ecutive, “It is the best kind of public
relations. Sponsor something good for
the young in the way of cultural activities
that they enjoy, and you build up a
loyalty. And it's good for taxes, anyway.”
It looked as if someone did need it,
after all. All this money, all these people,
the tremendous amounts involved re-
flected a pattern throughout the world
a growing and urgent interest in
theatre particularly aimed at the younger
generation. And there was one linking
thread. Wherever you looked, wherever
the subject was discussed, the same con-
sideration appeared paramount. My
Austrian friend had had the answer
communication.
One of the troubles with today’s
children, I have often read and been
told, is not that young Johnnie cannot
read or write, but that he cannot com-
municate. And television and films are
no great help. They can inform, certainly,
but rarely require participation in their
productions from their audiences. Nor do
they depend, to any large extent, on their
audiences’ imaginations. In films partic-
ularly, every ingredient germane to a
story can be presented the earthquake,
the shipwreck, you name it. And young
Johnnie can remain an absorbent vege-
table.
But theories aside, how does one set
about building a theatre out of nothing?
Two days after ours came into being,
the fact of its existence was announced
over the ABC news. We drew up a con-
stitution and held committee meetings.
But our establishment depended on pro-
ductions, and we had no money.
At this time, senior schools in NSW
were studying Goldsmith's “She Stoops
to Conquer”. We decided to rehearse an
adaptation of this play, dress it up with
costumes we hoped to be able to beg
or borrow, and if the Arts Council liked
Drawings of some of Peter
Scriven's puppets, the Tin-
tookies, at present at the Prin-
cess Theatre, Melbourne, are
by Middy.


the result perhaps they would take over
the management of it around the school
circuit. Not much of a proposition to
make to professional actors — three weeks
of unpaid rehearsals and no guarantee of
performance. Nevertheless, an excellent
cast came to the party, because they were
interested in the scheme. The Arts Coun-
cil accepted the production, we toured
the schools, met with enthusiastic re-
ception and made a profit of £l2.
For our 1964 Christmas season we
commissioned a play by Australian play-
wright Barbara Vernon. It was called
“Hullabaloo-Belay!”, and was put on at
the St. James Playhouse in Sydney with
the help of the Arts Council, the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust and the Bank of
New South Wales. We had rave notices,
the audiences that came loved it, but our
advertising allocation was small, the St.
James not well-established as a theatre,
and we lost money.
However, in 1965 we increased our
productions for schools to four shows;
“Hullabaloo-Belay!” toured NSW; a pro-
duction of Goldoni’s famous comedy
“The Servant of Two Masters” was sent
out on a tour of suburban centres during
September. This production, which re-
ceived critical acclaim, is playing at the
St. James Playhouse in Sydney during
the present Chrismas holidays. There
have been pre-Christmas seasons of two
other plays. “Bumble’s Circus” and
“Three Fairy Tales”, at the Warringah
Mall and at Roselands—and there has
been some help from one or two of the
many business houses that have been
approached.
But finances are always a bugbear.
Subsidy is like gold dust, guarantees are
rarer than diamonds, and the Education
Department pegs the charge that may be
made to children in schools at a level
which almost precludes the possibilities
of providing these services except at a
loss. This, even though leading actors and
actresses have been prepared to work
for us at a fraction of their worth and
the Committee of Management is not
only unpaid but bears the larger amount
of administration costs personally. All the
same, the theatre plans this year to
double its output, to enter the field of
music and to set up youth workshops.
One tends to think of something like
this as a static organisation, churning out
the same kind of material year in and
year out. Not true; there has been a tre-
mendous expansion. And we are not the
only people in the field. The Indepen-
dent Theatre Junior Group has mounted
excellent shows, with professional casts,
which, while performing schools texts
manage to stand up as first class enter-
tainment in their own right. There are the
Pocket Playhouse and the Young Eliza-
bethan Players. And, of course, everyone
climbs on the bandwaggon at Christmas.
But, starting from scratch, this is the
way the Australian Theatre for Young
People has built, and intends to continue
to build. It is an organisation which
hopes to mount productions for children
as good as any to be seen in the world,
to encourage a pride in our own heritage,
and to bring the best of the performing
arts to young people —to the extent
that no one, when discussing the subject,
will ask, “who needs it?”—They will all
know.
A Good, Cheap Night Out
By JAN SMITH
When the black-and-green posters
blossom on every electricity
pole between the Sydney GPO
and Newport, and the sound of protest
is heard in such unlikely places as Rose-
lands and the Warringah Mall “If
You Miss Me At The Back of The Bus,”
by Pete Seeger, out of the Nat Oliver
Jazzmen it is clear that only a handful
of listening nights remain until the New-
port Jazz Festival, a three-day twitch-in
that goes on in the Tent Theatre.
The man behind the Newport Jazz
Festival is Brian Nebenzahl, an energetic
31-year-old who branched from whole-
sale jewellery into theatrical entre-
preneuring ten years ago with his com-
pany, Playbill Inc. After a fling with
folk at last year’s Newport Folk Festival,
he has teamed with Kym Bonython to
promote jazz, and will bring out the
Modern Jazz Quartet in March for the
Adelaide Festival.
But in the weeks before January Mr
Nebenzahl still finds himself in the posi-
tion of interpreter and travel agent with
the uninitiated.
Mr Nebenzahl thought we’d better
start at the Oasis Room, at the Chevron,
and although he didn’t actually add “at
the bottom” it was clearly in his category
of things to be got over first. “It’s what
you might call slushy jazz,” he explained.
It seemed the Chevron’s Oasis Room,
or rather the Graeme Bell All Stars,
would be playing trad. Would they play
that famous old number, “The New Call
of The Freaks? Put Out Your Cans,
Here Comes The Garbage Man?” Mr
Nebenzahl looked pained. “What you’ll
get here is really more entertainment,”
he warned. “It’s a place where you can
stay for hours for the price of a few
beers. A good, cheap night out. Even
office girls come here.”
The show opened with the All Stars
going for their lives on piano, trombone,
clarinet, trumpet and drums. They wore
painted handlebar moustaches, striped
blazers, and straw boaters with matching
striped bands. A girl called Jan Adele,
in a fringed shimmy dress and purple
garters, appeared intermittently to sing,
dance and with the band do deliberately
corny routines, soft shoes shuffles, and a


•4
</
V
W
:
SINGAPORE
■ INCLUDE SINGAPORE • THE LION CITY IN YOUR
ORIENT TOUR PLAN.
Modern, bustling Singapore has been aptly named
the Lion City. Here If million Singaporean Chinese,
Malays and Indians live side by side • here you will
find the Orient’s most fascinating blending of
colourful customs, costumes and cultures - Stopover
• You’ll want to stay!
■ EXTRA PACKAGE OF HOLIDAY HAPPINESS
Further north - no more than an hour by air • lies
the beautiful States of Malaya. You’ve read about
it in books - now see it for yourself. See Kuala
Lumpur - Federal Capital of Malaysia - See beautiful
Penang - the Pearl of Orient - Island holiday resort
of Malaysia.
■ SERVED BY RENOWNED SILVER KRIS JET
Throughout Malaysia • throughout South East Asia
from Singapore • you’ll get there faster, get there
in real comfort when you fly by Malaysian Airways’
Silver Kris Jet. And in the air you’ll enjoy a superb
cabin service attended by charming hostesses.
WEEKLY
FREQUENCIES
I SINGAPORE/HONGKONG »9j
I KUALA LUMPUR/HONGKONG ■ 31
! JESSELTON/ HONGKONG "21
| PENANG/BANGKOK -4j
KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK-3
SINGAPORE/BANGKOK ■7
Jest
MALAYSfAIV
AIRWAYS
SERVING SOUTH EAST ASIA
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR QANTAS OUR GENERAL SALES AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA
collection of old classics like “Chiri Biri
Bin.”
As the curtains went across, Mr Neb-
enzahl hurried us out and away down the
road to the El Rocco. This was the real
thing, real jazz, cerebral, intellectual
and cool, he promised.
Whatever it was, it certainly wasn’t
slushy. The lighting was way down,
hundreds of candlepower below the
brightness of the Oasis Room. Under two
muted redspots could be seen Miss Judy
Bailey, trancelike at the keyboard of a
grand piano. Her head drooped lower
and lower. One almost expected to see
ectoplasm issuing from her mouth.
Whatever had brought the audience,
it was not Entertainment. Gone were
the Chevron’s unbuttoned jackets (every-
one wore shirts and sweaters), and the
vacuous eye, to be replaced by beards,
hornrims and the occasional pair of
sunglasses. You could hear an arpeggio
drop, if by some chance Miss Bailey and
her boys (Johnny Sangster on drums and
Ed Craston on bass) had ever ceased
playing when it sounded as though they
might. It was that sort of jazz, and the
nearest Mr Nebenzahl came to finding
the appropriate adjective was “intel-
lectual”.
At coffee break, the refreshments now
served by a girl with a Cilia Black hair-
style, Miss Bailey came over and talked
cautiously about her life —seven years of
classical music in a convent in Whan-
garei, NZ, playing on the local radio
station, nightclubs in Auckland and
finally Australia. She didn’t, she said,
have urges to be a concert pianist “like
we’re all supposed to in this business”,
and felt no impulse toward greater fame
abroad. She liked it here in her flat in
Potts Point, where she read books and
reared potplants. Again she stressed that
she had matured, had grown beyond
childhood dreams of fame.
For the group at the third establish-
ment, even Mr Nebenzahl was stuck for
an adjective. Adams’ was closed and
we stumbled into the place almost by
accident, down one of those plentiful
driveways that give on to Pitt between
Market and Park. The entrance con-
tinued into the depths of the block, ter-
minating in a large, covered cement-
floored space that might have been a
garage, or a venue for a two-up school.
It was terribly dark, and large pictures
of Satchmo and Dave Brubeck beamed
from the walls.
But the jazz was great. It came from
four young men, coatless and shaggy,
playing banjo, washboard, stone ginger-
beer jug, mouth-organ and guitar, the
last two played alternately, if not simul-
taneously, by the one performer.
Unfortunately no one seemed to know
exactly what category the jazz fell under.
It wasn’t country and western, it wasn’t
folk, although the young men did seem
to be singing some rough-and-ready songs
with a hillbilly twang. Eventually Mr
Nebenzahl galloped back with the official
word. It was the temporary premises of
the York Club, the music was folk-rock,
and the young washboard operator was
a proofreader from “The Sydney Morn-
ing Herald”, Peter Neil. The group was
The Original Battersea Heroes Jug Band
and the leader was guitarist Martin
James, a former folk singer.
But jazz moves quickly in Sydney, and
a week or so later, after we’d set dozens
of jazz lovers in frustrated orbit between
Market and Park, the Original Battersea
Heroes had been rocketed to stardom in
the ground floor of David Jones’ Market
Street store, to spread the grassroots
gospel among the after-shave lotions and
Jacques Fath ties. There had also been
a switch at Adams, and instead of Ray
Price, who was in the country, there was
the Olympia Jazz Band, who usually
play at the Miller’s Orient down by the
Overseas Terminal.
The Olympia Jazz Band comprises
four schoolteachers, one engineering
student and two clerical workers, and is


'■ i 1
f*_A
m
if 'i
r ’ ■ , ■'mmaam;? r a // /? /.«
■cJ *' * : *j f
s?!7v
ftliaiiMi if *
HMHfih£N&4g9
; s
A new angle
—on industrial buildings. The angle we are referring to is the
LOWLINE roof of the Armco Rigid Frame Building, so reveal-
ingly portrayed above by our photographer who got a little out
of control when he saw the beautiful job we’d made of it.
It’s modern. It's low. You like it? It means that you can plan
a building around the versatile Armco Rigid Frame System and
nave it look mighty attractive.
Drop us a line if you’ve got something in the wind. We’d like
to help you right from the start.
OONHV
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
N.S.W.: 127-141 Bath Road, Sutherland. 521-2711.
Victoria: 32 Levanswell Road, Moorabbin, 5.20. 95-0241.
Queensland: 194-196 Grey Street, South Brisbane. 4-3214.
South Australia: M.L.C. Building. Victoria Square.
Adelaide. 51-4282.
ABI3BA.eS
led by trumpeter Geoff Bull, a large,
gentle-faced man with a beard who
smokes large aromatic cigars. The
Olympia Band plays New Orleans' jazz
with great dedication and a great deal
of noise.
At the Newport Festival, the Olympia
Jazz Band is playing with Negro jazz
pianist Alton Purnell, guest artist with
the 1965 Jazz Convention and at 55
one of the few original New Orleans
school who escaped an early end in St
James’ Infirmary. “Some of them have
actually lived to be 90 and are still
playing,” Bull said, “and Alton is one
who really grew up with jazz. His family
were poor, of course, and they lived
right next to a jazz hall, so Alton learnt
his jazz just from listening at the back
door.”
At the Ironworkers in George Street,
opposite the Newcastle, there are rather
more home-made cotton shifts, and
orange cordial instead of beer. There are
two large halls, one on the first floor and
another on the second, and the bands
change from night to night so that no
one is ever sure which group is playing.
Downstairs it was Chicago style
(“You’re Nobody’s Sweetheart Now”)
with a woman pianist accompanying
trombone, trumpet, tuba, banjo and
drums. There were a lot of people, some
sitting, some dancing fairly sedately, and
a close atmosphere with a strange smell
of unwashed milk bottles. Upstairs a five-
piece group, including a sousaphone and a
washboard, was belting out rackety New
Orleans, and the audience was mainly
very young teenage girls, in large gaggles,
mostly sitting but some frisking ener-
getically in bare feet. What few boys
were there sat around the perimeter,
apparently inhibited by the whole busi-
ness. It might not appeal to the people
at the El Rocco, but if jazz must have
a purpose, this is probably it.
THEATRE
Surfaces of Life
The Subject Was Roses. Frank Gilroy.
Ensemble Theatre, Sydney.
The Business of Good Government. John
Arden. Q Theatre at Scots Church,
Sydney.
Jr is early in 1946 and the only son of
an Irish-American couple has just re-
turned from the war. He is a good son
who loves his parents but everything
goes wrong. It starts with the waffles
which his mother has lovingly prepared
because that was his favorite breakfast.
He has forgotten and says his favorite is
bacon and eggs. But the real trouble is
that his homecoming exacerbates tensions
between his parents. He buys his mother
a bunch of roses but insists that his
father should present them. Gradually it
emerges—to the audience but not to the
son —that the wife, exactly like the wife
in Gilroy’s earlier play, “Who'll Save
the Ploughboy?”, will not let her hus-
band touch her. Why not? A passing
reference is made to “other women”,
but Mr Gilroy does not pursue the
matter further.
Once again the question comes up:
what do you demand of the dramatist?
Photographic realism or illumination? In
his programme note, the director (Hayes
Gordon) asks whether the author is being
evasive, or whether the play shows “how
evasive man is generally when what is
really the subject is too painful to
acknowledge”.
Here we have to draw a sharp dis-
tinction between what is too painful for
the characters to acknowledge and what
is too painful for the author to acknow-
ledge. Contrast with “The Subject Was
Roses” another play about Irish-Ameri-
can family life, “Long Day’s Journey
into Night”, in which the author exposes,
compassionately but firmly, the weak-
nesses, illusions and deceptions which
lead to the tragic situation in which his
characters are locked.
By merely hinting at abysses which
he will not plumb, Frank Gilroy,
although a sensitive observer of the sur-
face of life, is in effect exploiting
human misery, gossip-fashion, instead
of casting light in dark places.
Jim Jelliffe, a young American actor,
is very well suited to his role as the
son, which he plays with sensitivity.
Frank Taylor and Rosemary Jones
played with some constraint on the first
night, which could easily be attributed
to the evasions of the play.
“The Business of Good Government”,
subtitled “A Modern Nativity Play”, is
unmistakably Brechtian in style. Herod,
the central character, addresses himself
directly to the audience, explaining his
actions and motives. He is not a monster
of cruelty but a politically astute gov-
ernor who must keep one eye on Rome
and one on Egypt. In his eyes the


Plck/£tp(Hlch;oi
AMPHORA
gentle
LIKE AN
EXTRA MILD TOBACCO?
Then ask for Amphora
in the Brown Pouch
•v
-r. v
H
PREFER A
MILD AROMATIC?
Then try Amphora Aromatia
in the Blue Pouch
FULL AROMATIC! SAI7S/1
Choose Amphora Full Aromatic
in the Red Pouch
AMPHORA
tjljp
There’s a choice of
three fine Amphora pipe
tobaccos all cool
smoking —so there is
one to suit you. Amphora
is an imported tobacco!
6'9
2 M.
I
l nutct if atm tarns urn nimiis, «mc«T, mint
child born in Bethlehem is a threat to
order and good government. John Gray,
gravel-voiced and man-to-man, is well
cast in the part.
An angel-narrator (Nigel Lovell) fills
in the gaps in the plot. The three wise
men, one old, one young and one black,
are a set of rather self-important pedants.
Owen Weingott, with his deep, rich
voice, makes the black one a very com-
manding figure. The three shepherds,
simple but shrewd, balance the formality
of the wise men.
John Arden combines well an astrin-
gency and freshness of treatment which
will appeal to adults with the simple
dramatic outlines and traditional color
which are familiar to the children. Peter
O’Shaughnessy, the producer, fits his
production well to the Scots Church. The
naturalness in the acting demanded by
Brechtian theatre was achieved in
Brecht’s own theatre by months of
rehearsal. That this company, although
professional, had not had the benefit of
such preparation is evident from a
certain self-consciousness in the acting.
The most Brechtian performance is that
of Helen Morse in the small part of the
farm girl who points Joseph and Mary
the way to Egypt. This is a play and
a production of charm and distinction
which deserves more than the two-week
season which is now over.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
FILMS
Four in Hand
Help! Director, Richard Lester. Esquire
and Palace Theatres, Sydney.
World Without Sun. Director, Jacques-
Yves Cousteau. Gala Theatre, Sydney.
Thunderball. Director, Terence Young.
Embassy Theatre, . Sydney.
T haven’t to now been a great admirer
of Richard Lester, his undoubted
cleverness being so full of self-conscious-
ness and self-satisfaction as to be dis-
tinctly off-putting. But my defences
crumble with “Help!” For this film at
least I am a devoted fan.
In “A Hard Day’s Night” and “The
Knack”, Lester was dealing with sub-
jects which for all their light-comedy
treatment were basically realistic and
even serious. His gimmicky direction,
deliberate unconventionality of camera-
work and cutting and general determina-
tion to be way-out at all costs were an
irritation and a distraction (though ad-
mittedly extremely successful in in-
dividual scenes). But “Help!” has no pre-
tensions at all to realism; the plot (some
rubbish about the efforts of an Oriental
sect to make a human sacrifice of Ringo
Starr) is both idiotic and practically non-
existent. What is important is Lester’s
gay and zany direction, his swinging and
often beautiful use of the color camera,
the easy charm of the Beatles —above all
the complete lightheartedness of the
whole enterprise.
It has been objected that the film is
superficial, but this is its nature and its
attraction. Certainly Lester makes no
attempt to examine the Beatle mystique,
or the characters of the individual
Beatles; he accepts them as a strange and
pleasing phenomenon.
The supporting cast, against the for-
midable opposition of the four-in-hand
stars, does remarkably well; Leon
McKern hams delightfully as the mur-
derous High Priest, and Eleanor Bron
is a wonderfully stately comedienne.
Captain Cousteau’s filmed account of
his experiment in undersea living has
hypnotic fascination, quite apart from its
documentary interest; beautifully photo-
graphed, it takes its audience into a new
and mysterious world. Cousteau believes
that man will soon be able to live and
function in the depths of the ocean as
well as in outer space. I still feel roman-
tically that the sea, the moon and the
stars should remain inviolate; but since
this obviously isn’t going to be allowed,'
I greatly enjoy being shown the silent,
teeming life under the water.
James Bond spends a good deal of
time underwater in “Thunderball”, which
is undoubtedly the most expensive but,
unfortunately, also the least exciting of
the series. With so much money to play
with, Terence Young has relied on lavish
backgrounds and elaborate gadgetry
rather than invention and wit. Bond is
now' so well supplied with tricky weapons
and safety devices as to be invincible;
his adventures therefore fail to generate
any great suspense.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
Death of Kurt Nodt
Xiy E announce with sadness the
f death of Mr Arthur Nichol,
whose black-and-white work, signed
Kurt Nodt, has enlivened our pages
in recent years. Mr Nichol trained at
East Sydney Technical College and
worked in advertising as well as for
both the “Daily Telegraph” and “The
Sydney Morning Herald”. He is rep-
resented in the State Galleries of New
South Wales and Victoria.
During World War II he served
with the 6th Division Royal Aus-
tralian Engineers and was a prisoner
of war in Germany.
Mr Nichol’s Kurt Nodt originated
in the corridors of “The Sydney
Morning Herald”. It was his belief
one shared with others—that you
could work there for years without
getting more than a curt nod from
many of your colleagues.


BOOKS
The Agony of Dylan Thomas
By VIVIAN SMITH
The Life of Dylan Thomas. Constantine
Fitz Gibbon. Dent. 525. 6d.
Most writers seem to get the lives
their art needs. The intellect of
man may be forced to choose “perfec-
tion of the life or of the work”, but
there is usually a much closer relation-
ship between the two than modern criti-
cism has been inclined to admit. One can-
not imagine the lives of Shelley and
Hugo, of Mallarme or Crabbe being other
than they were. The art feeds on the
life which it reflects, however much it
transcends it. The tree is more than the
soil it grows in, but would not be quite
the same if it grew in different soil.
Nowhere is this more strikingly true
than in the case of Dylan Thomas.
Dylan Thomas was a legend during his
lifetime and, as Mr Fitz Gibbon points
out in his excellent new biography, there
have probably been more legends and
myths about Thomas than about any
other poet since Byron. Mr Fitz Gibbon
sets out to restore a picture and to get
the balance right. The strange effect of
his sober book is to make one realise
how close to truth myths and legends
usually are. If one can no longer accept
Cyril Connolly’s description of Thomas
being “mobbed to death in America, like
Orpheus and the Thracian women”, one
can at least see why he was led to
make it. Myths begin where moral
judgments fail.
Thomas’s was a deeply unhappy and
disturbed life and his biography makes
painful reading. His health was always
poor; his grasp of reality was not firm.
From his earliest days as an inadequate
reporter to the disasters of his last years
with his marriage at breaking point, he
could not cope with the small practical
necessities of daily living, and, least of
all, with money. His life is a record of
growing debt, disintegration and exhaus-
tion; and then death when things seemed
on the point of changing for the better.
Ernest Jones has written: “It is one
of the many things known, but not
adequately recognised, that few can toler-
ate success with equanimity. With most
it brings about a deterioration of char-
acter or a lack of confidence that often
enough is equivalent to a neurosis.” Mr
Fitz Gibbon claims that Thomas was de-
stroyed by the agonising financial diffi-
culties which wrecked his health by
driving him to the drink which he could
not physically bear. But it does emerge
as a fact that Thomas found it hard to
survive “success” and all that it involved:
the self-publicity, the histrionics, the
waste of energy and time. Success, in-
stead of bringing him a measure of
serenity and security, brought him con-
flict and confusion. The more money he
had the less he was able to cope with
it. The last years of his life are marked
by some particularly humiliating inci-
dents.
That Thomas was an exceptionally kind
and generous man has been fully at-
tested by all who knew him. Kingsley
Amis once wrote of him: “He was far
too good-natured ever to contemplate
giving anybody the cold shoulder, and
I wonder whether a talent for doing that
might not have been something that he
badly needed.” Mr Fitz Gibbon mentions
Thomas’s petty thefts, some lapses and
sillinesses. But one quality emerges: a
strange lack of egotism, and “the lack
of a strong ego that makes for psychical
integrity”. He was, in fact, a deeply
timid person as incident after incident
in this book reveals. Mr Fitz Gibbon re-
fers to “his oddly recessive character”
which constantly drew him back to the
scenes and emotions of childhood,, and
some of the most painful parts of this
book are those which show him trying to
move out of and away from his easy
DYLAN THOMAS
regressive consolations into a harder,
more stable, world.
But Mr Fitz Gibbon’s book is more
than a portrait of the artist as odd man
out. It is a book about a remarkable
poet; and he nowhere loses sight of the
simple truth that if we are interested in
Thomas’ life and character at all, it is
because he was first a brilliant writer
and performer of poetry. And when
it came to his poetry, Thomas knew—had
known from the age of 13 or 14—
exactly what he wanted to do. His
first essays printed here show a sureness
of grasp and knowledge remarkable in
a boy of his age. And it was a sure-
ness without arrogance. Thomas always
referred to himself as “top of the second
eleven” and this was said without false
modesty and without wishing to win
reassurance.
If one cannot quite accept that Thomas
was the poet of knowledge that some
recent commentators have made him out
to be, he was nevertheless a more literary
poet than the early myths suggested. He
once wrote to an American critic:
The writers . . . who influenced my
earliest poems and stories were . . .
all the writers I was reading at the
time and . . . they ranged from
writers of schoolboy adventure yarns
to incomparable and inimitable
masters like Blake. . . . Bad writing
had as much influence on my stuff as
good. . . . The things that first made
me love language and want to work
in it and for it were nursery rhymes
and folk tales, the Scottish ballads,
a few lines of hymns, the most fam-
ous Bible stories and the rhythms of
the Bible, Blake’s “Songs of Inno-
cence”, and the quite incomprehen-
sible magical majesty and nonsense of
Shakespeare heard, read and near-
murdered in the first forms of my
school.
Thomas’s depth increased as his work
developed, though he remained through-
out faithful to his few preoccupations:
Thoughts of War on a Spring Day
Almost the delicate day
could lead one to forgive the
bone-crushing, gut-rending weight
the town’s god engenders. Not
a leaf out of place, the high
brownish limbs of a plane tree
slowly answer heaven with
a scroll of green. Kids climbing
on the worn bronze hipbones of
lions at the cenotaph
shout and straddle the loud myth
of historical lightning
that strikes the young leaves down each
two decades. Ruffled blond and
blue waves animate the cold
harbor face, and I am held
by the ambiguous touch
of an earth never darkened
by man’s wincing hope that made
these lawns, these streets, these domes, yet
goes acceptingly like a
wire-prodded bullock down a
corridor of slime and blood
to a death where two wrongs meet.
JAMES K. BAXTER


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
wine list is recognised as one of
the most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
for table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/ItBBf
childhood, death, sex and religion. He
was frequently accused of automatic
writing and allied with the Surrealists.
But in one of the many important articles
reprinted by Mr Fitz Gibbon, Thomas
wrote:
. . . the Surrealists imagine that
whatever they dredge from their sub-
conscious selves and put down in paint
or in words must, essentially, be of
some interest or value. I deny this.
One of the arts of the poet is to
make comprehensible and articulate
what might emerge from subconscious
sources; one of the great main uses
of the intellect is to select, from the
amorphous mass of subconscious
images, those that will best further his
imaginative purpose, which is to write
the best poem he can.
The more we know about Thomas, the
clearer it becomes that he was a
laborious worker and, far from writing
automatically, constructed many of his
poems like mosaics. His output is not
large: a great deal of his creative effort
went into the film scripts and broadcasts
he had to write to make a living; much
of his prose work remained unfinished.
As the myths wither and the facts
emerge, Thomas continues to prove a
much more interesting writer and poet
than the early over-estimations or the
later denigrations might have led us to
expect.
Those Lindsays
By M. H. ELLIS
The Leafy Tree. Daryl Lindsay. F. W.
Cheshire. 39s. 6d.
HThe book runs to an explanatory title,
A “My Family”, but it is disappointing.
There is a great deal about Sir Daryl
himself and those members with whom
he was most associated, but the Lindsays
have an excellent habit of refusing to
speak to each other for decades together
and that has handicapped the author
as chronicler.
The Lindsay brood matured under the
care and guiding hand of a mother and
sacrificial sister, who should both have
been knighted along with two ennobled
sons, and a medical father
who was once discovered in
his bathrobe chatting merrily
to two shaven-headed nuns
into whose bedchamber he
had inadvertently strayed,
and who were hiding as
much of themselves as pos-
sible under the bed-clothes.
Four of the sons became
national figures, one daugh-
ter, Ruby, wife of Will
Dyson, was on the way to
becoming an equally impor-
tant figure in the world of
art when she died all too
young. She was the loveliest
of them all. The residue seems to have
lived happily ever after, one even
having attained the bliss not only of
securing employment in the British Gov-
ernment Fishery Department but of
being able to hob-nob with beautiful
ladies in London and watch Augustus
John dining at the Cafe Royal.
1 he knighted Lindsays, who became
members of the Australian Artistic Es-
tablishment, were Sir Lionel and Sir
Daryl. It is true that, had he wished to
do so, Norman also might have become
Sir Norman, but when his elevation was
in the air his only response was said
to be a rather ambiguous noise.
Sir Daryl is an ARWS, a member
of the Capital Development Committee,
an ex-director of the Melbourne Art
Gallery, an LED (Hon.) of the ANU.
He appears to know more about him-
self than the others. He is depicted in
the portrait section of the book as an
officer medical-artist in the First AIF,
leaping high over a slightly disordered
rail fence on his “show jumper Dandy”,
and at Mulberry Hill, his country estate,
“with his hunter Pompey”. He began
adult life as a jackeroo, and earned emi-
nence even in this humble pastoral way
of life by being a member of a droving
team of five which, at the rate of ten
to twelve miles a day, conveyed 9000
two-year-old Shorthorn cows in one mob
without incident by road to Camooweal
from the parish where I was born. This
he describes in most indelicate language
as the fundament of Australia. Australia
needs drovers like Sir Daryl much more
urgently than it needs artistic knights.
Sir Daryl did not begin to paint pro-
fessionally till he was thirty. He has
talent for painting, if not genius. His
groups of horses and riders, which smell
sweetly of Tom Roberts and George
Lambert, are very acceptable in galleries.
Lionel (the “Latin at heart”), who
is the family’s other knight, ran away
to Spain when young and returned with
NORMAN LINDSAY
a wide-brimmed hat, a guitar,
a pure Castilian accent,
moustachios like those of
King Humbert of Italy, and
material that made him an
etcher, Australia’s best wood-
cut artist and an eminent
water-colorist. Sir Daryl says
nothing of the feature of his
artistic career which made
him known in almost every
outback home, if not favor-
ably known in art circles: the
weekly full-page advertise-
ment for boot polish in
The Bulletin which he
illustrated to proclaim such matters as
that:
Chunder Loo of Akin Foo
Cleans his boots with Cobra, too.
The most Lindsayish thing about Sir
Lionel was that for many a year he did
net speak to Norman. Sir Robert Men-
zies twice brought them together at
dinner, after which each said politely to
the host that the other was “a good
chap, but talked too much”. Then each
retired into his own forest.
Of what Nancy Mitford would call
the “U” Lindsays, who are yet not of
the Round Table Circle of Knights, Sir
Daryl writes that Norman “is undoubt-
edly the most talented member of the
family”, a delicate boy, whose work later
created “terrific antagonism among what
were then called the Wowsers”, who
generated the “myth of Norman Lind-
Cat
Sweet Puss,
You have the slowest stare,
You are the most religious person
I know.
Your giant dreams swing on your tail,
Your paws preach their symbols on my
arm.
Are you really in a state of Grace,
Or merely having a trauma,
You Popish puss?
ALEX ABERNETHY


Geelong Church of England Grammar School
Corio, Victoria
A Church of England boarding and da/ school for boys.
The School at Corio takes boys from Form I to Form VI, except
that boys in Form IV go for one year to Timbertop, near Mansfield,
in Victoria.
Preparatory Schools, Glamorgan in Toorak and Bostock House
at Highton, Geelong, take boarders and day boys from Kindergarten
to Grade VI.
There are limited vacancies in certain age groups in both
Primary and Secondary sections for 1966 and following years.
For further information apply to the Headmaster.
T. R. GARNETT, M.A. (Cantab.) M.A.C.E.
NOW AVAILABLE: 2nd EDITION
"MONOPOLY AND THE INDIVIDUAL" by Melbourne businessman and Sociologist GEORGE
HARDY. The controversial report on the practical effects of economic and political RESTRICTIVE
PRACTICES. Analysis of Legislation; Monopoly Control; Crisis Insurance; Natural Resources;
Consumers' Organisations; etc. *
Hardcover: 25/- at all bookshops or post free from
REFORM PUBLISHING CO. P.O. Carnegie, Victoria.
say, the protagonist of the nude, free
love and anti-Christian doctrine”. After
this promising start the reader might ex-
pect to be brought right up to date in
authenticity about the supposed corrupter
cf Australian art. But Sir Daryl makes
it quite clear that “owing to a difference
of opinion on family matters, we have
not seen each other for over thirty years”.
Actually, Norman is unique even in
the Lindsay family. Delicate he may be,
but no craftsman has covered such a vast
field and variety of work and good work
in this country, or in most others, in
modern times. He has the same versa-
tility as the great Renaissance Italians,
Leonardo da Vinci, say. He excels as a
cartoonist when he is interested. His
terrifying “The War God Strikes His
Gong” hangs in front of me as I write.
I bought it to give to a university, but
could never bring myself to part with it.
His charming little line drawings are
more than the equal of anything Phil
May ever did. His water-colors are a
riot of the more delicate tints of the
spectrum and a labyrinth of design. His
greatest black and whites and his
etchings are in the first rank any-
where. He is a superb colorist. His oils
are richly fashioned. He is at home in
every age.
Journey in the Jungle
BY MAURICE SHADBOLT
The Company of Animals. Ronald McKie.
Angus & Robertson. 375. 6d.
Oiography, in its conventional form,
implies an existence within human
society. How does a writer cope, then,
with a subject whose real existence has
been outside human society, in the
natural world? The answer, of course, is
that the conventional form won’t do;
and this is Ronald McKie’s problem in
“The Company of Animals.” To get
near his subject Jim Hislop, the last
white man to be Malaya’s Chief Game
Warden he must re-create the jungle
world in which Hislop found his exis-
tence meaningful.
Almost inevitably, the environment
dominates; the book is really only
patchily a biography. Just how unenvi-
able a task Mr McKie set himself is
clear when he discusses Hislop’s love of
butterflies: “He has an eye and a mind
highly sensitised to the movement of a
wing, the color of a wild seladang calf,
the subtle shades deep in an orchid on a
jungle tree yet a movement of a sym-
phony, the texture of cloth, the subtleties
of human behavior elude him.” In other
words, the remarkable Jim Hislop shares
the inhuman quality of the jungle and
the jungle creatures to whom he has de-
voted so much of his life. Such a man is
next to impossible to reach, for all our
civilised sympathy: not wholly human
on any terms we know, yet ultimately
alien too in his preferred society of nat-
ural things. For the strange ways of
human beings have taken Jim Hislop out
of the jungle forever, and placed him in
a stockbroker’s office in Kuala Lumpur.
And the loss may in the end be as much
humanity’s as the jungle’s.
Mr McKie disposes of the more pre-
dictable details of biography early in his
first chapter: Hislop’s arrival in Malaya
from Scotland as a cadet on a rubber
estate in 1937, his first ventures into the
jungle as a butterfly collector, his war
experience and parachute-drop back into
the Malayan jungle in 1945, and his es-
cape from assassination by Communist
terrorists in 1948. From that point on the
jungle takes over as it took over Hislop;
but the story is as much Ronald McKie’s
discovery of the Malayan ulu through
Hislop as Hislop’s own. This is a lo-
gical enough way of getting at the man.
But for all McKie’s efforts Hislop remains
inexplicable, or at least unexplained.
But the book’s real value is in the
chapters on Malayan animals in par-
ticular the five extraordinarily interesting
chapters, more than a quarter of the
book, on the gajah or Malayan elephant.
In these the author relies heavily on
legend and anecdote as well as Hislop’s
experiences, but the stitching is always
neat. And his Hemingwayesque love of
practical detail makes his accounts of
Hislop’s occasional hunts after rogue
elephants as exciting and intriguing as
anything in the literature of wildlife.
These episodes, though, are as untypi-
cal of Hislop's life as they are of
McKie’s book. The real story is that of
Malaya’s vanishing wildlife. It might be
thought that, since Malaya is still 80 p.c.
jungle, the conservation problem is not
yet acute. On the contrary, McKie shows.
The Javan rhino is extinct, and the
Sumatran rhino near extinction. The
large elephant herds have gone, and the
remnants now total somewhere between
1500 and 2000; roughly the same esti-
mate is made of surviving tigers. Smaller
animals have suffered as much or more.
The African devastation is being re-
peated.
Hislop, before the inevitable course of
“Malayanisation” took him cruelly from
the jungle, one of nationalism’s minor
victims, fought unsuccessfully for exten-
sion and protection of Malaya’s existing
and inadequately policed game reserves,
even Malaya’s relatively small National
Park is not immune from development
for all time.
One hopes that McKie’s voice will
be heard where the valiant Jim His-
lop's has not. The world really cannot
afford another zoological wasteland.
The task should be the world’s as much
as Malaya’s. If international co-operation
can win a temple from the waters of the
Aswan Dam, surely some like activity
can save another threatened part of our
human heritage? By the time Malaya’s
developing economy has bought the
leisure to examine the problem, it will be
too late.


Cooma’s most
modern Mote!
At
z
/n
&fciS
Tk& M&rflW&oak
MOTEL 0
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia’s leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee Shop for
budget-priced meals.
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or ANSETT-PIONEER, 74 Sharp St., Cooma.
A MIMBCI i COMPANY Of ANSITT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
AT1.703
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Profits Still the Arbiter
of 1966 Trends
A NY forecast of what’s going to happen in 1966 must take into consideration the
rise or fall in the US boom and its effects on the rest of the world. Most
Americans would be happy enough to see a maintenance of their record peace-time
boom (if you can still exclude Vietnam), without any bumps or spectacular bursts.
US forecasters are divided in their
opinions, more violently than usual,
with one group claiming the upward
surge will last for this sixth straight year
and that gross national product will
jump by at least 50 billion dollars to 722
billion dollars.
Unfortunately, the reverse side of this
happy picture is that almost half of the
projected 7 p.c. increase in America’s
gross national product in 1966 could be
made up of price rises. That’s why some
bankers at least are afraid of the in-
flationary build-up in America.
Most of the escalated defence spend-
ing on Vietnam is not expected to show
up until 1966. But the side-effects of the
escalated war in Vietnam have en-
couraged a renewed spurt in business
spending for plant and equipment since
businessmen became convinced that the
boom will continue.
It is widely known now that President
Johnson got into holts with the Federal
Reserve Board when it voted to increase
bank discount rate from 4 to 4i p.c.
The President was unhappy because he
wanted to see plenty of loan money
available at reasonably cheap interest
rates. LBJ’s concern over monetary
policy is believed to have caused a re-
shuffle in his three-man council of ad-
visers on economic policy with the
appointment of a new man, Prof. James
S. Duesenberry, of Harvard, and it
seems he would rather tax profits
generated by cheap bank loans than
allow the banks to make interest profits
at the beginning.
Naturally, after several tax cuts to
stimulate the economy, LBJ wants to
see plenty of internal activity, with an
increase in consumer spending, so that
he can raise the necessary taxes to meet
the boost in defence spending, which
will represent an important part in the
anticipated 12 billion dollars increase in
Federal spending in 1966.
Higher costs are worrying manu-
facturers, who say that to maintain
profits they must pass on the increases
the old, old story everyone knows by
now. This in turn lifts the hopes of
Wall Street, because investment booms
are part of inflation. To some extent
the market already has anticipated the
inflationary trend and has provided some
fat profits.
The world, watching from outside,
wants to see an upward trend in
America’s buying capacity because it
means stronger export markets and a
support for commodity prices.
But prosperity and inflation in
America could mean tax increases as
a natural evolution and bring more
agitation for control of imports, which
would become more competitive as
prices rise internally.
Australia, by comparison, is more con-
cerned with a slowdown in some sectors,
despite the increased tempo of Govern-
ment spending and large-scale mineral
developments. Tightness of money and
the effects of the drought are influencing
the Reserve Bank to be more generous
with its releases of frozen funds back
to the trading banks. The general feel-
ing is that the next six months will see
a further relaxation in monetary policy.
Exports have held up remarkably well;
the inflow of overseas funds has sur-
prised everyone. As pointed out by The
Bulletin some time ago, US com-
panies required to improve their in-
dividual balance of payments position
may prefer to withdraw funds from
countries less attractive than Australia,
both politically and economically.
This cannot be allowed to disguise a
situation where export prospects must
be affected by the carry-over from the
drought. The large mining development
projects will take quite a while to con-
tribute significantly to export income.
There is little doubt, also, that some
manufacturing industries in Australia,
hurt by increased competition and a
slowdown in spending, are facing a
further increase in surplus capacity.
Life assurance institutions will con-
tinue to have a rising volume of funds
available for investment, yet their com-
mitments to the bond market must be
kept in perspective.
If the share market, therefore, decides
that sufficiently cheap funds are not
available through previously accepted
channels (including the banking system)
to finance company expansion, there
could be renewed demands on share-
holders for investment capital which
would temper the recent enthusiasm for
price rises. Recent knocks to confidence
in debentures and notes must have some
influence on alternative financing.
Sidelong glances also will be kept
on the US economy to watch for any
cracks.
However, the main arbiter should be
the trend of Australian company profits
and earnings ratios. There could be
some weak spots here. Retail profits will
need some close scrutiny, as well as
certain sections of manufacturing.
Pastorals naturally are already under
surveillance. Some of the best invest-
ment prospects may come from recovery
stocks where the market has hit them too
hard. An example of a recent bounce-
back was Fairymead Sugar, which
sagged to a low of 15s. 6d. when a loss
was forecast for the year.
Speculator s Holiday
As usual each year, Speculator takes
his annual holiday during the
festive season and at a time of relative
calm (he hopes) on the Stock Ex-
changes. The Diary will be resumed in
The Bulletin’s next issue, dated
January 15.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Farmers’ Flights of Fancy
On Exchange Rates
Is the £A overvalued?
/\NE is always on the alert for vested interests raising voices, maybe ever so softly,
to suggest the Australian pound is overvalued at the present rate of 20 p.c.
discount on the pound sterling. In the old days, primary producers led a chorus.
More recently, manufacturers have also been telling us they could do so much better
in export markets if the discount was a little bigger.
The other day, a new voice was raised
under our very nose in the letter columns
of The Bulletin. In the Christmas
issue Mr lan H. Leys, backing up his
doubts whether wheat “is really sub-
sidised at all”, suggested that “under a
free exchange rate the Australian pound
would not be worth more than 85 p.c.
or 90 p.c. at most of its present fixed
rate”. If this were so, he argued, “the
price received for wheat sold overseas
would be as great or greater than the
assessed cost of production” (that is, of
course, in Australian currency terms).
That was not the end of his tale, but it
was enough to get us interested.
Mr Leys does not tell us how he
arrived at the somewhat startling con-
clusion that the pound would sink from
10 to 15 p.c. from its present fixed rate
if it was allowed to float. Perhaps he
will tell us. In the interim the proposi-
tion warrants examination.
Presumably Mr Leys is envisaging a
situation in which the authorities would
not be supporting the currency. This, I
would imagine, is the only real sense in
which “freed” can be construed. The
moment the authorities came in to sup-
port the pound at any particular level
it would certainly not be “floating”.
It must not escape our notice in this
context that the present fixed rate needs
no support from the Australian currency
authorities. And, as a matter of fact,
whether the current rate represents the
true value of the pound vis-a-vis overseas
currencies or not, this rate has only had
to be supported on rare occasions since
it was established (in sterling terms) in
the early 19305. Apart from one or two
drawings from the IMF to shore up over-
seas reserves, the authorities have been
able to hold this fixed rate through the
thick and thin of balance-of-payments
weather.
Indeed it is not altogether beside the
point to suggest that the strength of any
currency is the potential support a
country can bring in behind it if neces-
sary to hold a particular exchange rate.
In that sense the Australian pound still
looks very strong, even after the drain
on the reserves to sustain the heavy rate
of imports over the last year or more.
Not including second line reserves of
£294.5 million, official reserves were
about £650 million at Mr Holt’s last
count. In his year-end review he pointed
out the drain had slackened to an average
of about £lO million a month in the
June-November period. All told, re-
serves stood at about seven months’
imports equivalent at the end of the
year. The topping-up process seems to
be continuing more satisfactorily than
earlier expected.
Admittedly ours is not a world reserve
currency, but its self-supporting per-
formance contrasts with the position of
sterling and the dollar in recent years,
when the UK and US authorities have
become accustomed to working overtime
providing ammunition in support of their
currencies. The recent example of sterl-
ing is classic in this respect. The British
authorities have had to weigh in heavily
with reserves and borrowed international
funds to win the battle to keep sterling
from falling below the lower of its two
limits and happily seem now to be com-
fortably holding the rate above it.
Tn a sense, though not perhaps in Mr
Ley’s hypothetical one, the pound is
virtually free now, because its fixed level
is held without support from the authori-
ties either monetarily or by import re-
strictions. This is not necessarily to say
that the present fixed rate is the most
appropriate one considering the general
economic circumstances. Maybe a higher
or lower rate would be more appropriate.
One could argue either way. Obviously
Mr Leys thinks we could do with a lower
value in terms of sterling and dollars.
But to make his point he needs to make
a full case and not speak merely in
terms of the rewards and costs of wheat
farmers.
One way to arrive at a theoretical
value for the pound under free exchange
conditions is by the old purchasing
power parity method. For years between
the two World Wars R G. Hawtry
argued that sterling was undervalued in
terms of the dollar on a purchasing
power parity comparison. In default of
a better way of measuring this, the
usual thing is to take the cost of living
as the basis. It has always been accepted
that this was a case of faux de mieux.
Perhaps Mr Leys has this sort of com-
parison in mind. If so, the facts do
little to support his contention that the
pound is overvalued, at any rate in terms
of sterling.
The biggest snag in such an exercise
is deciding on a base year from which
to compare price movements depicting
changes in the cost of living in various
countries. For this purpose 1958 seems
a convenient year, because no less than
66 countries have their cost of living
measured by the International Monetary
Fund on the basis of 1958 equals 100.
Also, by that year (which does not
necessarily favor Australia in the com-
parison), practically all countries had
outgrown the disruption of the Second
World War, at least on the currency
slide.
Over the period 1958-1964 the cost
of living in Australia increased by 12
p.c. The only two major countries with
smaller increases were the US and
Canada, both 8 p.c. Nine smaller coun-
tries, all in the less-developed category,
did better still. Only one. Guatemala,
enjoyed a fall; three other Latin Ameri-
can Republics had less than a 5 p.c.
rise, and the others (the United Arab
Republic, Ceylon, Malaysia, Thailand
and Tunisia) 7 p.c. or less. However,
only the cases of the US and Canada
are the comparisons relevant to the argu-
ment whether the pound is overvalued.
It could be argued from this evidence
that, on a purchasing power parity basis,
the Australian pound is slightly over-
valued in terms of the dollar (the cost
of living has been rising at the rate of
2 p.c. in the US this year compared with
4 p.c. here).
Yet the picture is very different when
Australia is compared with Britain and
most of the European countries. In
contrast to our 12 p.c. rise between
1958-64, the cost of living in Britain in-
creased by 16 p.c. and is now rising at
about 5 p.c. a year. In France it rose
27 p.c. (3 p.c. rate in 1965); in West
Germany and Switzerland both 15 p.c.,
and the Netherlands 17 p.c. Obviously
the pound hasn’t been losing value in
terms of these currencies in recent years
on a purchasing power parity basis, nor
vis-a-vis the two major yen currencies.
The cost of living in Japan rose by 32
p.c. between 1958-64 and in 1965 was
increasing at a 7 p.c. rate. In Red China
it rose 44 p.c. in 1958-64. but the rate of
increase has slackened to about 2 p.c.
in the last year.


The Century’s Worst Food Crisis
India and the case for assistance
By DAVID SCOTT
“India Faced With Century’s Worst Food Crisis—Serious Drought Affects Crops” was the front page
heading in a December issue of the “Statesman”, one of India’s most responsible and authoritative papers*
Similar headings have appeared in Australian papers in the past month above reports of the failure of the
monsoons, the introduction of rationing, and descriptions of people moving in large numbers from rural areas
in search of food and even water in big cities and towns.
Conditioned as we are' to India’s
chronic food shortages, the first reaction
is one of doubt. Is the situation any
worse than it has been in recent years?
The signs are that this could be the pre-
lude to food shortages on a scale un-
known since the famine of 1942.
The background elements are the size
of the population and its net annual in-
crease: the political, social and economic
difficulties that beset food production
programmes, and India’s inability through
limited export earnings to purchase food
in the world market.
Population is currently estimated at
485 million and each year there are 10
million more people to be fed. The rate
of increase is about the same as Aus-
tralia’s, 2.3 p.c., but it adds almost the
entire population of Australia to the al-
ready formidable total every year. Food
requirements for this year were estimated
to be 98 million tons. Early in the
year it was thought that total grain out-
put would be 88 million tons. The de-
ficit was to be made up by overseas food
purchases and the large United States
shipments under Public Law 480, which
provide 500,000 tons a month.
Failure of the monsoons in many parts
of Central and Western India has trans-
formed a chronically difficult situation
into one of potential crisis.
The worst hit States are Maharashtra,
Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan
with a total population of 110 million
people. Rainfall has been 30 to 40 p.c.
down in these States. Not only is the
autumn crop virtually destroyed; pros-
pects for the following crop are gloomy.
Conditions in these States, the Food
Minister, Mr Subramaniam, said “would
be very close to famine”.
The introduction of food rationing in
cities with a population of more than
one million is a measure of the serious-
ness of the situation, for no responsible
Central Government Minister wishes to
introduce another layer of controls where
there is already an acknowledged prob-
lem of "red tape-ism” and bureaucracy.
The shortfall of 12 p.c., or 8 million
tons, in the autumn harvest can only
be made good by outside gifts or pur-
chases to add to the 6 million tons of
American food grains likely to be pro-
vided. The magnitude of the need can
be appreciated when it is realised that
Australia’s total wheat production is 9
million tons.
Gloomy predictions of Ministers and
correspondents in New Delhi are con-
firmed by reports from local districts.
Letters received in the past two weeks
by Community Aid Abroad, an Austra-
lian voluntary overseas aid organisation
which provides £20,000 a year in capital
aid for village-level food production pro-
jects, tell the story in simple layman’s
language.
Pierre Oppliger, Indian representative
for Swiss Aid Abroad programmes in
India, wrote after returning from a tour
of Central India: “All over India the
crops have failed. It is a sad picture to
see empty tanks (dams) and wells, the
fields without vegetation. Our Australian
friends coming to India in January must
be prepared to see the country in the
grip of a famine. Everywhere farmers
are worrying about the future. In the
Phaltan area near Poona they have had
only 21 inches of rain instead of the
usual 25 inches.”
CAA field officer in India, Roshan Lai
Agarwal. writes: “. . . failure of the
monsoons is creating many other diffi-
culties. The dams and reservoirs do not
have sufficient water. Hydro-electric
production is being reduced and this will
affect industrial production.”
HThe leader of a farm project in Mysore
State reports: “We are desperately
needing water. We are in the midst of
the worst drought in living memory.
There are no crops within miles of
Turnkur. All the reservoirs are com-
pletely dry. We had one week of light
rain and made an all-out effort, ploughed
up the land again and planted horse
gram. It sprouted well and our spirits
were high, but there has been no rain
at all since, and it is now a complete
loss . . . the fields are really a pitiable
sight. Many of the poor farmers around
us are actually starving and they do not
have seed even for next year.”
Even in Kerala, the southern State
that receives the full impact of the rain-
laden clouds that sweep across the Indian
Ocean, the story is similar. Writing on
December 2, Laurie Baker, an English-
man with 20 years' experience in Indian
village agriculture, said: “I have just re-
turned from Madurai in Madras State.
To see at the end of the rains all the
big water tanks and lakes less than a
third full was most distressing. At pre-
sent the fields in Kerala look fresh and
green with new rice shoots, but one
shudders to think what they will look
like in two or three months’ time.”
The most moving of these spontaneous
reports is from a laconic young farmer
from Bendigo, Victoria, who arrived in
India two months ago to work on a
CAA project. “The only water around
here,” he wrote, “is the tears in the
eyes of the villagers.”
Australian-Indian relations are now
more cordial than they have ever been,
yet so far there has been no official pub-
lic Australian reaction. On September 30,
in reply to a question about the food
crisis in India, the Minister for External
Affairs pointed out that, in response to
a request for assistance which arose from
suspension of American supplies due to
dock strikes in the US at the end of
last year, the Australian Government
made a gift of 150,000 tons of wheat
valued at £3.8 million. “The only other
request which the Indian Government
has made and to which we have not
been able to accede was a request for
participation in what was called a buffer
stocks scheme.” It is not clear from the
answer whether the request was for a
gift or a sale of wheat.
A month later, on October 26, in
reply to a similar question, the Min-
ister said that last year’s gift caused an
item of £3.8 million to be placed on
the 1964-5 Budget. “In this year’s
Budget,” he said, "there is no corres-
ponding item because no similar re-
quest has been made and no similar
situation has arisen.” The “situation”
was presumably the American dock
strike.
To the outsider, the distinction be-
tween a request for wheat to build up
buffer stocks to avert a food shortage
and the request for emergency help
appears academic.
Last year, when India’s food short-
age made headlines, “Wheat for India”
—a loosely organised campaign of in-
dividuals and organisations interested in
India—urged the Australian Government
to make an immediate and substantial
gift. The official response was that no
aid had been asked for. When aid was


.\(\^ od hamiv 3///
ft)
“HOW CAN I SERVE
THIS BUSINESSMAN
BETTER THAN HE’S
EVER BEEN SERVED
BEFORE?”
111
Bn
I iH
THINKING CAP
Here are some of the ways Ansett-ANA people think of your needs before
you've thought of them yourself. Pleasant people giving you pleasant service.
■ They will book you on the most convenient flight
■ Arrange an Avis Rent-A-Car to be waiting when you arrive
* Reserve accommodation for you alone, or a full convention group
■ Arrange for secretarial service * Organise your press conferences
■ Plan special sightseeing tours ■ Getyourtheatre tickets.
No wonder most Australian businessmen who fly regularly insist on Ansett-
AISA. Shouldn’t everyone?
ANSETT-ANA
SYSTEM OF THE GOLDEN JETS
A MEMBER COMPANY Of ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
2395
finally given it was in response to a re-
quest for help. Whether help should be
offered when a friendly country is in
need, or only given when asked for, is a
question of diplomatic nicety for which
there are no set rules.
It would now be extremely difficult
for India to ask for gifts. Not only
was Australia unable to accede to the
request for buffer stock but aid gener-
ally is a delicate domestic political issue
within India. The PL 480 arrangements
with the US are now on a month-to-
month basis and there have been long
delays in negotiating a new long-term
agreement. India fears that her need
for aid may be used to exert political in-
fluence in relation to the dispute with
Pakistan and Indian attitudes to South
Vietnam.
Chester Bowles, the US Ambassador,
has stated that there are no strings at-
tached to US aid, yet many Indian lead-
ers are critical of the suspension of some
other forms of economic and military
assistance. Some politicians advocate a
cessation of all aid, believing that it en-
courages permanent dependence and
postpones the day when India must be-
come self-sufficient.
In this situation India can scarcely be
expected to beg for food.
The response of individual Australians
to campaigns such as Freedom From
Hunger, Inter-Church Aid, Catholic
Overseas Relief, Community Aid Abroad
and other non-government overseas aid
bodies suggests that Australian voters
would like their Government to be gener-
ous and to be quick in offering to aid
India.
It is difficult to determine what short-
term help Australia could give without
a knowledge of the state of Australia’s
own wheat reserves at the present time,
its commitments to overseas buyers and
prospects for next year’s crop. It is hard
to believe that Australia could not make
some immediate gesture and that portion
of next year’s production could not be
earmarked and bought by the Govern-
ment as a gift to India, or sold on long-
term credits, even if this meant reducing
sales to controversial customers such as
China. The real crisis time in India will
be in February and the following months.
Wheat gifts are not the only assistance
Australia ■ could provide. Economic aid
to purchase essential equipment in Aus-
tralia that is now being bought from
other countries would free Indian over-
seas reserves for grain purchases from
other countries.
A maximum effort by Australia at
Government and citizen level can never
of itself enable India to win its war
on want. We can certainly help win
some of the battles along the way. To
do nothing because we can only do
little would be to contract out of our
human and political obligations.


Trials and Troubles of Vending
New polish on the industry image
By PAUL COOMBES
ITAVO major headaches are now confronting the vending machines industry its
public image and decimal currency. It has long been common knowledge, and
concern, that operators in the early heyday of vending gave little thought to the
industry's long-term reputation.
On the matter of decimals, the Deci-
mal Currency Board has paid scant
attention to vending machines in change-
over plans.
Within the industry moves are under
way to run the public relations obstacle
course. Serious initiatives on decimalisa-
tion are barely beginning. However, a
“new look” on the operational base will
undoubtedly help the chances for proper
consideration of “C day” problems.
The image-building job should be
accomplished by the recently formed
Australian Automatic Vending Associa-
tion. comprising distributors, operators,
and allied interests mainly in the food
industry. Members argued for some time
whether the word vending in the title
might be replaced by merchandising,
thereby reflecting their concern at the
distasteful overtones the word currently
carries.
Their worry is far from misplaced.
The IVM report and newspaper head-
lines (“Vending machine swindler dies”;
“Judge hits at vending machines”;
“£460,000 from slot machine firms”)
illustrate the suspicion and ill-will vend-
ing organisations have generated. A huge
backlog of poor Press must be overcome
before the vending slate becomes clean
in the public mind.
Association members claim the two
main reasons for the past failure of some
machine operators were the inadequacy
of the machines and the poor financial
lines along which the businesses were
conducted. They claim machines and
business arrangements have now been
greatly improved.
In an address to the formation meet-
ing, Mr Jim McKeon of Seeburg Auto-
matic Products Pty Ltd said: “The imme-
diate projects must include the promo-
tion of vending as an amenity to both
industry and the public, and erasing for
all time the tragic era of vending when
the industry was infiltrated by groups
interested only in quick profits. They
cared little for vending as an industry
and coupled their speculative interest
with shoddy equipment.”
He claimed that “now seems an appro-
priate and opportune time, with public
and commercial interest in coins in-
creasing on the impending introduction
of decimal coinage, for the formation of
an Australian Vending Association com-
posed of those whose interests depend on,
or include the use of, coin-operated
equipment”.
More than “A cup of tea, a Bex and
a good lie down” appears necessary to
cure the headaches of “C day” and after.
The Decimal Currency Board apparently
does not intend to compensate operators
for the cost of installing new coin and
change mechanisms in the thousands of
machines now operating. Vending firms
have not thoroughly computed this cost,
but one soft drink vendor is believed to
be up for £30,000.
Two or three weeks ago the first batch
of coins for testing were distributed and
technicians are now working with them.
They are the same diameter as existing
coins, but micrometers show a 10,000 th
of an inch thickness difference. Elimina-
tion of the penny means new change
mechanisms have to be fitted.
The number of coins in circulation,
apart from the mixing of currencies, will
create further difficulties. Initially only
30 million five, 10 and 20 cent pieces
are to be issued less than three each
per head of population. The mixed cur-
rencies create another problem which
machines to change, and where. Individ-
ual firms will have to take this decision
without much guiding data.
Compounding the already difficult
situation are the six million plastic coins
that have come into the country for use
by firms as advertising gimmicks. If these
are fed into slots, the machines will jam
because they are too light to drop. The
use of “slugs” in machines has been a
problem for some time; the Association
proposes to seek Federal Government
help on this because it also affects tele-
phones and parking meters. In America
the use of “slugs” carries a 12-month
jail sentence or $lOOO fine.
One of the first aims of the Associa-
tion is to show how important the vend-
ing industry is to the economy. Industry
groups have been established to check as
accurately as possible the amount of
goods bought through the machines.
Items include petrol, soft drinks, cigar-
ettes and sweets. This could be a tricky
job. The Association believes it first has
to secure the trust of operators and sell-
ers before they disclose the results of
their business.
In America products worth 3.5 billion
dollars a year are now sold through
vending machines. A break-up of items
shows 30 p.c. of single pack cigarette
sales come through machines; 15 p.c. of
soft-drinks are sold automatically; three
billion cups of coffee came from coin-
operated machines, and every fourth five
and 10 cent candy bar is bought from a
machine.
These figures indicate the huge poten-
tial of machine-originated sales. It fol-
lows that the Association is hoping for
a larger slice of the consumer market
once it cleans uj the industry image. By
removing the heritage of a bad Press it
hopes to push more machines into ser-
vice, eventually supplying a wider range
of products like iced drinks, coffee, candy
and possibly pastry.
The Association will not guess at the
coins fed into machines here each year.
One firm, the biggest, sells 28 million


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
(SECOND SERIES)
o
I
2
O
7% 4YEARS
6i% . 3 YEARS
6£% 2 YEARS
5|% ..... 12 MONTHS
FOR 5 YEARS
Prospectus and application form available from:
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
9001 Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
CIVIL ENGINEERS
NEW GUINEA
SALARY RANGE UP TO—£4soo p.a.
(Two positions are to be filled by qualified men)
SENIOR ENGlNEER—Considerable experience in roadmaking and bridgebuilding, preferably under
difficult conditions, is essential, also proven record of success in contracting demonstrating technical
competence as well as driving force, efficiency and administrative capacity.
As this position is in the Highlands and entails considerable travelling, it is expected that a
single man may be best suited. Hotel accommodation will be provided free of charge.
JUNIOR ENGINEER—This position will be at Port Moresby initially and could be filled by an
engineer with less experience. The work in this district at present comprises a variety of contracts for
road and general contraction and is increasing in volume.
VEHICLE—Vehicle provided for company and private use.
FARES—Air fares to Territory paid for appointee and family. Return fares paid after two years
service.
TAXATION—At present taxation is about half mainland rates.
LEAVE—Four weeks per annum.
APPLICATIONS—In the first instance apply in writing with details of experience and qualifications to
GILMOUR & McDOUGALL
Consulting Construction Engineers
16-18 Mount Street, NORTH SYDNEY
cigarettes a month through its vendors.
It should take about a year to determine
accurately how much Australians spend
in the machines.
The Australian Automatic Vending
Association plans a fairly formal pressure
group approach to its problems and
could well copy American lobby tech-
niques. Members currently pay a nominal
10 guineas fee, but subscription must in-
crease if proposals for advertising and
big PR campaigns eventuate. The local
Association has the backing of the
National Automatic Merchandising
Association of America.
The field for vending machines is
widening as they improve and extend the
product range. Currently, Australia’s per
capita use of petrol vendors is running
much higher than America’s, but our
restrictive laws contribute largely to this.
What is considered to be the most
important breakthrough for the industry
is the recent New South Wales Govern-
ment Railways’ acceptance of vending
machines on stations, following a 12-
month’s trial. This further supports the
Association’s belief that the industry is
now in a transition stage and will settle
down shortly, despite the bad start.
nPhe Association hopes to widen Gov-
ernment acceptance of machines
following the successful trial on railway
stations. The armed services could well
be the next target for widespread instal-
lations. Mess halls and canteens could
prove valuable sites, particularly with
conscription. HMAS Perth, believed to be
the first of Her Majesty’s ships to boast
a vending machine, claims the soft-drink
dispenser is working well and adding
considerably to the ship’s amenities fund.
Factories and offices will also receive
more concentrated attention than in the
past. American studies show staff work
more efficiently and consistently if they
can get a cup of coffee from a vending
machine whenever they want it, rather
than wait for the traditional break. The
Association wants to convince local in-
dustrialists that a vending machine would
be cheaper and more efficient than their
current tea and coffee making methods.
Another Association aim is for the
inclusion of machine service courses at
technical colleges. It claims that, as
machines become more widespread and
sophisticated, the demand for specially
trained mechanics will rise steeply.
The present action committee is: Jack
Stephens, Coca-Cola Bottlers (Sydney)
Pty Ltd; Eric Denton, Mick Simmons
Vending Services Pty Ltd; Ken Bateman,
Coin Selectors Pty Ltd; Doug Fairhall,
Lily Cups Ltd; Les Golding, Vendo
(Aust.) Ltd; Ted Dight, Machine Made
Sales Pty Ltd; M. Penhallurick, Ampol
Petroleum Ltd. The president is Jim
McKeon of Seeburg and secretary-
treasurer is Henry Hill of Nestles.


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
k Debenture StockS
(Stroud Scries)
UP TO £
L 5-10 YEARS
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog*
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial BanK
of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co. 68 4<s
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
THEM AN ON THE LAND
Thoughts on the Dairy Subsidy
And farmers’ standards of living
BtllE recent increase in the guaranteed price of wheat followed a Bureau of
Agricultural Economics survey. So, as night follows day, we can be pretty sure
that an increase in the dairy subsidy is on the way.
A survey by the Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics shows that more than
half Australia's dairyfarmers, 55 p.c.,
make less than £lOOO a year. The
average, according to the survey, is only
£ll9B. Looking at these figures the city
man is tempted to feel sorry for the
dairyfarmers. But if he makes periodic
visits to dairying areas he will be puzzled.
With net incomes of this order, one
would expect to find barefooted children
milking cows and farm wives lumping
water from the well. Instead, one finds
every sign of affluence—modern homes,
big cars, gleaming kitchens, TV, and
so on.
The survey may be good enough to
convince the Government that a bounty
increase is necessary; it is not good
enough to convince this observer that the
figures tell the real story. Is the survey
as accurate a reflection of dairyfarming
economics as it is a reflection of the
ability of the tax consultants employed
by dairyfarmers?
Not for one second is it suggested that
dairyfarmers evade taxation. It is, how-
ever, possible to suggest that the weight
of tax benefits accorded dairyfarmers,
and most primary producers, is fast
becoming too much of a good thing.
There is poverty in Australia, although
it is not to be found on the farms. The
farms get bigger, the farmers wealthier,
and children do go without sufficient or
proper food in Redfern and Fitzroy.
A recent letter writer to The Bul-
letin complained that this writer was
flippant in his remarks about the price
we get for wheat sold to China, con-
sidering the fact that the taxpayer weighs
in to make up the difference between the
price received and the cost of produc-
tion price guaranteed to the farmer. We
did not mean to be flippant. Cynical,
yes.
Farming by pressure group has be-
come a part of the Australian way of
life. The farmers just cannot under-
stand that in the end they will create a
wall of public indifference to their
problems. If a wage earner loses his
job, gets sick, or his firm closes down,
it is just bad luck. If a man starts a
business and it collapses that is bad luck,
too. Farmers seem to accept, as a
natural given right, that every ill in
their industry can be alleviated by calls
upon the public purse. The inefficient
are protected along with the efficient.
Now there is no denying that farmers
have suffered great hardships in the past
and that, in a drought such as we have
just experienced, they can suffer still.
There should be ways of alleviating
distress, just as there should be ways of
alleviating distress in the crowded slums
of Sydney and Melbourne. But the
farmer is no more entitled to this than
anyone else.
There is nothing wrong with the
framework of the dairy subsidy; there is
something wrong when a survey shows
that the majority of farmers are clearing
less than £2O a week. They are paying
tax on less than £2O a week and for this
they should be grateful. As a group they
receive tax benefits of a most liberal
order.
The Australian Dairy Farmers’ Federa-
tion has already indicated that, follow-
ing this survey, it will press for “living
standards for dairyfarmers comparable
with those enjoyed by the rest of Aus-
tralians”. This is the pressure group
talking. If they want a rise, let them
make their case without the humbug of
suggesting that dairyfarmers have a
standard of living below that of the rest
of Australians.
If the Government is wise it will
consider the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics survey in light of other sur-
veys by independent organisations into
poverty in Australia. The social welfare
groups have facts and figures on this
subject which should make us all
ashamed.
It is true that, in some of the poorer
dairying areas quite unsuited to dairying,
there will be found some pockets of
depression. Any increase in the subsidy
will not help these farmers much. On
the other hand it will greatly help
already affluent farmers in high pro-
ducing areas.
The dairy industry is sorely in need
of an E. J. Donath to pinprick the
bureaucrats. Mr Donath, of course., has
made himself highly unpopular with
wheat-farmers, and probably with his
fellow academics also, by consistently
claiming that the wheat industry is in
no need of a subsidy at all. His is the
extreme view.
Most Australians would feel that


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
THE BROKEN HILL
ASSOCIATED SMELTERS Pty. Ltd.
The Broken Hill Association Smelters Pty. Ltd., which is jointly
owned by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd. (50%), North Broken
Hill Ltd. (30%) and Broken Hill South Ltd. (20%), reports that the
consolidated net profit of the Company and its subsidiaries for the
financial year ended 30th June, 1965, was £1,650,179. This profit
was earned after providing £1,268,848 for depreciation and amor-
tisation and £1,291,464 for income tax.
The consolidated net profit for 1963-64 year was £1,188,916
after providing £1,242,397 for depreciation and amortisation and
£1,031,139 for income tax.
During the year, £3,500,000 of the amount at the credit of
"Capital Assets Revaluation Reserve Account" (created by the re-
valuation of certain of the Company's fixed assets) was capitalised
and distributed to shareholders as fully paid bonus shares. This
issue increased the issued capital of the- Company to £10,000,000.
At 30th June, 1965, Shareholders' funds amounted to
£13,989,236 and the net profit for the year ended on that date
represents an earning rate of 11.80%.
A divident of 12% on the increased capital amounting to
£1,200,000 was paid on 17th December, 1965. Last year the dividend
absorbed £845,000.
primary production has evolved a sound
framework of subsidy and support. As
the burden of taxation falls increasingly
on salaried employees, the murmurings
of discontent will increase unless the
farm system is administered in a com-
monsense way.
The commonsense way of interpreting
the dairy industry figures is to look at
the price of farms. If half the farmers
earn less than £2O a week, one would
expect to be able to buy a farm for far
less than the £20,000 capital which is
considered desirable by farm advisers.
You could get started on less, but would
really have to slave. A sound farm in
a good dairying district of Victoria
could cost upwards of £BO,OOO.
The most common way in which
farm incomes are brought down, for
survey and tax purposes, is the allow-
ance for family labor at award rates.
The wife and maybe three or four
children are all on the payroll; nomi-
nally, that is. Once, years ago, it was
standard practice for wives and children
to actually shoulder much of the real
farm work. As the Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics is well equipped to
conduct surveys, an interesting one, in
1966, would be to determine how many
wives and children are putting in eight
hours a day on actual farm work in
Australia.
An even more interesting one, for
somebody to undertake, would be to
determine how much of each and every
Australian’s income tax goes in sub-
sidies and supports to farmers who,
generally speaking, are a lot better off
financially than the taxpayer.
A second area for doubts in the
formulation of Bureau of Agricultural
Economics surveys is the inclusion of
interest on farm capital. This encom-
passes the capital value of the farm itself,
the machinery, plant and livestock. It
could be argued (by farmers) that this
is only just. It could equally be argued
(by non-farmers) that this involves a
double benefit. The farmer is already
permitted handsome tax deductions for
depreciation of plant and buildings, etc.
Quite apart from the detailed argu-
ment over these matters, there appears
to be little recognition of the obvious
end result of too much farm legislation
the ridiculously inflated value of
farm land which is denying thousands
of young Australians the opportunity of
infusing new blood into farming.
6.®5Iseajrch
Lamb-killing by Crows
New measures of predation rate
I>y careful crow-watching and by
detailed examination of dead lambs,
some estimates of the importance of
crows as lamb predators have now been
made. The evidence collected from
many properties over a wide area
suggests that possibly fewer than 5 p.c.
of all deaths among newborn lambs can
be attributed directly to crows. How-
ever, in some seasons, in some localities,
these birds may kill a much higher pro-
portion.
Generally, starvation for one reason
or another accounts for the major share
of the appallingly high loss among the
newborn of the national flock. But Dr
I. D. Smith of the Queensland Univer-
sity’s Veterinary School has observed a
lambing flock of Merinos in which almost
half of the deaths were due to crows or
eagles. In a Border Leicester flock near
Roma only crows were involved, but
were responsible for a lamb mortality
of 36 p.c.
Dr Smith has also noticed that groups
of marauding crows are able to in-
timidate ewes so that they neglect or
abandon their lambs. Some of these
lambs may then die of starvation; in
earlier studies on lamb losses such deaths
would have been improperly attributed
to poor mothering instincts, lack of
lamb vigor, inclement weather, or other
such reasons. In addition to this type
of indirect loss, Dr Smith has pointed out
that crows can be the original cause of
other losses. For instance, post-mortem
studies show that a small percentage of
lambs die of bacterial infections, but
some of these infections are started in


a
NO NEED to be concerned
over what 'the market' will be
or whether you should have
to dispose of part or all of your investment for
other purposes.
Join the growing number of folk who find that
the St. George & Cronulla Permanent offers
6% p.a. net (current rate) paid twice yearly,
with your Investment plus dividend readily avail-
able for withdrawal. There are NO brokerage
or other deductions.
Assets exceed £7 million. Write for brochure.
<rm
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME
ADDRESS
RBA 786 C
superficial peck-wounds which would
not in themselves be fatal. An even
more oblique loss of lambs basically due
to crows stems from the fact that twin
lambs are attacked more frequently than
single lambs and the death rate among
them is correspondingly higher. And
since twins carry a genetic propensity
for higher fecundity than singles, the
inequitable loss must lead to a gradual
decline in the reproductive capacity of
our flocks.
Many sheepmen tend to regard crows
as serious lamb-killers and would readily
accept Dr Smith’s examples of heavy
predation as being more or less general.
However, Dr Smith and other students
of avian predation are very much aware
of the need to determine whether the
birds actually destroy vigorous lambs
or merely feed on the newly dead and
those about to die. For example, in one
series of post-mortem examinations on
nearly a thousand lambs he found that
although 27 p.c. showed signs of having
been mutilated by birds before death,
only 14 p.c. of these lambs were not
already starving when the birds attacked
them. Thus, probably less than 4 p.c.
of the total number of deaths in this
flock was really due to the birds, which
in this case would have included both
crows and eagles. This figure accords
with the preliminary estimate of 5 p.c.
suggested by the CSIRO’s Division of
Wildlife Research after studying the
activities of crows in the sheep country
around Lake George and Hay in New
South Wales.
Assuming that this figure proves to
be the general average contribution by
crows to the total lamb loss, the question
arises whether it will be worthwhile to
spend effort and money in attempting
to reduce the crow population. As every
man on the land knows, the crow is a
wily bird not easily killed or scared off.
It is numerous, too. The better-watered
parts of Australia are probably inhabited
by at least four crows to the square mile.
Equivalent energy and cash invested in
other efforts to raise the lamb survival
rate, such as by providing lambing ewes
with better protection from the weather
or better prenatal nutrition, could be
much more rewarding. Nor should the
crow be regarded as being entirely black.
By scavenging and eating several harm-
ful insects such as grasshoppers it does
some good to offset its dark deeds.
The “crow” so-called here by its
popular name is actually a raven (Corvus
corortoides) . The true crow is a smaller
bird and does not occur in the sheep
country, being confined mainly to the
centre and central west of the continent.
More Calves
About a million head of cattle are
spread over the coastal country
between Grafton and Bundaberg. They
find the winters hard because the protein
content of the forage falls to an ex-
tremely low level during this season. The
young cattle especially suffer since their
need of protein is greater. Consequently,
heifers are not sufficiently mature to
breed untii they are three years old.
Various organisations are keenly trying,
so far without much success, to develop
more nutritive pastures for the area.
Meanwhile it has been found that if the
two-year-old heifers are fed a small
protein-rich supplement they thrive so
much better that they can be bred satis-
factorily during that year. This means
that each breeding cow can rear one
additional calf during her procreative
life; the value of this far outweighs the
cost of the supplement.
The plan has been tried out on a large
scale on one of the CSIRO’s “co-opera-
tion” properties, namely the Yulgilbar
Pastoral Co., near Grafton. Some 350
heifers running on 1500 acres of typical
unimproved coastal country were used
in the trial. They were given 10 lb. a
head a week of linseed meal during
winter. The cost ran out at about £3
per beast, but by their fifth year the
supplemented heifers, by virtue of their
greater production, are showing a profit
margin of at least £7 a head over the
unsupplemented heifers. It is considered
that this innovation could change radi-
cally the economics of cattle breeding in
the area. Further trials are presently
being conducted to ascertain the value
of beginning the supplementary feeding
during the first winter after weaning.
Preliminary results suggest that this, too,
may be highly rewarding.


BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to March 31
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
1372
1431
1638
1538
1612
Current liabilities
1136
1127
1461
1479
1531
Net working capital
236
304
177
59
81
Fixed assets
7101
7528
7869
8014
8447
Investments
259
295
344
489
629
Total capital
7596
8127
8390
8562
9157
Represented by:
Minority interests
22
3
—
—
—
Preference capital
50
50
50
50
50
Ordinary capital
3466
3968
4081
4151
5266
Reserves
4058
4106
4259
4361
3841
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES
o
o
p
Depreciation
353
399
418
438
451
Tax provided
585
563
632
738
814
Minority interests
2
—
—
—
—
Preference dividends
3
3
3
3
3
Earnings
605
724
796
890
936
Ordinary dividends
433
495
611
619
645
Surplus
173
229
185
271
291
Earning rate %
17.5
18.3
19.5
21.6
17.8
Dividend rate % (a)
12.5
12.5
15.0
15.0
13.75
Dividend yield % (b) 4.6
3.3
3.1
2.4
2.8
High price (c)
16/11
20/5
28/-
37/-
27/11
Low price (b)
10/6
17/3
19/6
26/9
22/3
(a) 15% pre-bonus
and after bonus.
(b) Based on the average of the high and low prices
for the year.
(c) Calendar year.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Second Thoughts on Swan Brewery
Wanted: a higher dividend yield
While brewers outside the States of
" New South Wales and Victoria have
not attracted my attention before, Swan
Brewery Company Ltd first came to my
notice just about four years ago. At that
time the shares were selling at 18s., the
dividend yield was only (!) 3.5 p.c. and
the earnings yield was 4.6 p.c. I consid-
ered that there would be an increase of
52 p.c. in per share earnings over the
next five years that is, from the 1960/1
financial year to the 1965/6 financial
year. This means that earnings for the
current year will need to be 5 p.c.
greater than they were in 1964/5.
Judging by the performance over the
last three years, this rate of increase
should be exceeded. So, even if the in-
creases in the retail price of beer, follow-
ing the increases in excise duty last
August, do cause a fall-off in consump-
tion, I believe that there is every
possibility that my 1962 forecast will
be achieved. Although I would like to
claim that this represents very accurate
crystal ball gazing, all it really means
is that the growth rate of the ’fifties has
been repeated during the first half of
the ’sixties. However, I certainly did not
foresee the substantial increase in the
market price; otherwise I would not have
thought that the shares were then fully
valued at 18s. Those who bought in at
this price at the beginning of 1962 have
seen their investment increase by 681
p.c. in four years (just about 14 p.c.
per annum compound), while the divi-
dends received during this period would
have provided an additional return on
the original investment of about 4 p.c.
per annum.
Swan has a monopoly in Western
Australia and it competes with Carlton
and United in the Northern Territory.
On the basis of excise duty paid, the
latter market is quite small in relation
to Western Australia and it is likely that
less than 3 p.c. of Swan’s total sales are
made in the Northern Territory. Never-
theless, the company continues to en-
large its operations there; during the
course of the current year, it intends to
increase the size of the Stuart Brewery
which is located in Darwin and which
supplies the Northern Territory.
Over the last five years or so, the
company has been undertaking the usual
brewers’ programme of modernising its
hotels and adding to the chain. Swan
has also been rationalising its hotel chain
and has been disposing of some hotels
“as costs were reaching such a level that
it would be uneconomic to modernise
them or to operate them in their present
condition” (directors’ report, 1960).
About nine hotels have been disposed of
since March, 1959. This would suggest
that close attention is paid to the eco-
nomics of running hotels.
Another interesting statement which
appears in the 1960 directors’ report
relates to the change in licensing hours
in Western Australia which came into
effect at the beginning of 1960. The
directors say: “It does not appear to
have resulted in any great change in the
consumption of the company’s products,
but it does appear to have altered the
locale of entertainment in a number of
instances.” The figures quoted in the
working papers prepared for the Royal
Commission into the liquor laws of Vic-
toria suggest that the per capita consump-
tion of beer probably declined in Western
Australia from 1956/7 to 1961/2, yet
it must be admitted that this phenomenon
was common to all States with the notable
exception of Victoria (where six o’clock
closing was in force over the whole
period).
Cwan would seem to have a consider-
able advantage over the brewers in
other States in that it receives a much
higher price for its main product. After
the adjustments which took place when
the excise duty was increased last August,
the wholesale price of bulk beer in West-
ern Australia is still 6H p.c. higher than
it is in New South Wales and 28i p.c.
higher than it is in Tasmania. So far
as bottled beer is concerned, the price
is only 11 p.c. higher than it is in New
South Wales and it is less than the price
in Tasmania. I find it hard to account for
these variations and even more difficult
to assess their likely effect on Swan’s
profit in relation to other brewers. Swan
exports its packaged beer to over fifty
countries. In addition, it seems likely
that the proportion of packaged beer con-
sumed in Western Australia is relatively
high compared with other States (whose
hotels are also open after six o’clock at
night).
In common with other brewery com-
panies, income tax provided in the com-
pany’s published accounts seems to be
in excess of the “normal” requirements.
In the preceding articles, I have worked
out the earning rate on the basis that tax
at the full standard rate was deducted
from the disclosed net profit before tax
and after making adjustments for items
appearing in the profit and loss statement
that would not seem to be tax deductible
but which have been deducted before
arriving at the net profit figure. In the
case of Swan, after making these adjust-
ments and the usual ones in respect of
bonus issues (a one-for-seven in 1961
and a one-for-four in 1965), the earning
rates over the last five years would be
as follows:
1961 1962 196: 1964 1965
Percentages 14.4 15.6 16.8 17.8 19.1
On this basis, an increase in per share
earnings of nearly 15 p.c. will be re-
quired during 1965/6 to reach the pre-
dicted rate of increase mentioned near
the beginning of this article. The reason
for this dramatic difference lies in the
1961 tax provision, which seems to be
overstated by about 22 p.c. whereas the
1965 tax provision only seems to have
been 9 p.c. above “normal”.
I still like to examine the rate of
growth in dividends per share in consider-
ing what would be “value” in the share
price. Swan's record is quite a good one.
In the last ten years, there has been a
79 p.c. increase in dividends per share
and most of this increase has occurred
in the last seven years. I think it is rea-
sonable to say that, on average, dividends
have been increasing at an annual com-
pound rate of about 8i p.c. I would
want to see a higher dividend yield than
2.8 p.c. (from the current price of 245.
6d.), particularly when, on the most
favorable basis, the earnings yield is
only 3.9 p.c. and could be as low as
3.6 p.c.


ff
Wk
%
I
Si
m
i
wm.
tm
Mb..
friends’for Ixfo-
Friends’ Provident the name to remember when you’re thinking of
assurance the Office with the personal approach, who have advised
on Life Assurance for more than 130 years.
Group Funds Exceed £200,000,000
FRIENDS’ PROVIDENT
AND CENTURY LIFE OFFICE
Head Office For Australia: “Century House” 70 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
N.S.W. Country Branches at Newcastle, Orange and Wagga Wagga.
Chairman: Lieut-General Sir John Northcott, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C.B.
Deputy Chairman: Major-General Sir Denzit Macarthur-Onslow, C.8.E., D. 5.0., E.D.
F.P.IC
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Expansion in the Food Industry
Toppa under British Tobacco's wings
any angle the ss. shares of Toppa
Holdings seem sensible buying at the
moment. Prices are moving between 10s.
and 11s. and yielding a satisfactory 4£
p.c. from the dividend after brokerage.
The British Tobacco group has recently
taken out an interest of more than 10
p.c. in the capital. This link is going to
bring more business Toppa’s way and
makes the likelihood of complete take-
over a feasible bull point as far as the
future is concerned. Herbert Adams has
aready tried without success to do this
and there are several other firms who
would welcome the Toppa fold under
their wings.
Their chances of success have been
almost completely nullified by the British
Tobacco move, which smacks of having
been made to keep out other suitors un-
til this expanding giant is good and
ready to gobble up the whole group,
This time may not be very far distant,
There have been big parcels of shares
changing hands in Melbourne recently;
the buyer’s identity remains a mystery,
despite the concerted efforts of the finan-
cial Press. General opinion points the
finger at British Tobacco. Whoever it is,
the outlook is encouraging for those buy-
ing Toppa shares or holding them at the
moment.
Putting takeover prospects aside, the
company is in for a year of substantial
recovery during 1965-66. The 1964-65
profit slipped from £116,000 (a record)
to £92,000. Earning rate came back from
the peak 18 p.c. to 12.4 p.c. on dividend
ranking capital increased by the 1963-64
one-for-five issue. Nevertheless, dividend
was held at 10 p.c. The prime causes of
the setback were temporary. These were
expenses associated with the transfer of
most of the group’s activities to new
premises in Preston, a Melbourne sub-
urb. Additional factors were bad seasonal
conditions and severe price competition
combined with rising costs in the ice
cream division.
Apart from making ice cream, the
company has interests in a variety of
milk products (mainly through the Life-
guard brand), the manufacture of pies
(under the highly successful Noon brand)
and dabbles in commercial refrigeration.
Operations are conducted through 16 sub-
sidiaries, 13 Victorian and one in each
of Tasmania, South Australia and Singa-
pore.
Even without the British Tobacco
group, the currenGyear would certainly
be one of improvement. All Melbourne
metropolitan activities, having been trans-
ferred to Preston, are now completely
consolidated. The general increase in
efficiency from the new factory and the
various other advantages of the new site
will be reflected in the year's result.
Last year's temporary costs will be largely
non-existent; this will have the additional
side effect of giving the group more
liquid cash to play with. Sales have
already been reported as slightly higher
so far in the current year.
The British Tobacco move will give
considerable impetus. In the first place
the issue of 360,000 shares at a premuim
of 7s. has virtually eliminated the savage
deficit in Toppa’s working capital at bal-
ance date (see accompanying table). The
issue brought in £216,000 cash. Of course
£90,000 represents extra capital which
must be serviced, but this should not be
too difficult. The low 1964-65 profit
would be equal to 11 p.c. on higher
capital. If profits recover to 1963-64
levels, earning rate would be 14 p.c.
This may not be particularly spectacular,
yet it would be extremely satisfactory in
view of the fact that the peak earning
rate since formation in the early 1950 s
has been 18 p.c. and on only two other
occasions has the rate been better than
14 p.c.
Another immediate benefit of the Brit-


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
June 30
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
343
422
450
564
415
Less current liabilities 270
221
445
411
663
Working capital
73
201
5
153
-248
Fixed assets
786
782
1217
1262
1667
Intangibles
41
40
54
54
54
900
1023
1276
1469
1473
Ordinary capital
573
619
619
743
743
Loan capital
8
7
267
242
221
Reserves
319
397
390
484
509
900
1023
1276
1469
1473
Depreciation
54
55
59
65
71
Tax
28
33
39
53
16
Net profit
73
81
105
116
92
Dividend
48
55
62
62
74
Surplus
25
26
43
50
18
Earning rate p.c.
12.7
13.0
16.9
18.0
12.4
Dividend rate p.c.'
8
9
10
10
10
Dividend yield (a)
4.6
4.1
3.5
4.9
6.0
High price (b)
9/10
10/3
13/6 1
1/10
12/3
Low price <b)
77-
8/9
10/3
10/2
7/6
(a) End September,
(b) Calendar year.
month
results
announced.
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North
J. H. Valder
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies
Act of N.S.W., on Bth March, 1950.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
10
0
2
4,6 or 10 YEARS
Applications can only be accepted on the form
attached to, and referred to in, the Prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST
Application form and Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• Any Branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
'Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra, Newcastle.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION
LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS -
21828
ish Tobacco link has been a substantial
increase in the orders for Toppa products,
actually introduced by British Tobacco
itself. In addition to the initial effect
of these orders, the group will benefit
through the development and more effec-
tive use of its increased manufacturing
capacity. Again, it has won access to
research facilities which will help it deve-
lop a wider product range and generally
expand through association with British
Tobacco’s frozen-food manufacturing
and marketing organisation. This, of
course, is more a long-term benefit which
is unlikely to have any effect in the cur-
rent year. On this point it must not be
forgotten that access has also been won
to funds for expansion in the future—
funds which Toppa directors could
barely conceive as existing before the
link was established.
ri\> quote Toppa’s chairman, Mr H.
■*- G. Tredinnick, at the recent annual
meeting: “Your company is now in a
strong position to take advantage of
future trade opportunities which are
available for the products we manufac-
ture. We are now ready for dramatic
expansion and entry into further lines
closely allied with the rapidly expanding
and important food industry”. At present,
the only dark patch in the company's
bright future appears to be the Life-
guard interests in Malaysia and Singa-
pore. The subsidiary has been exporting
to these markets for over 40 years. It
seems inevitable that the severe import
quotas imposed by the two Governments
will continue to reduce the sales of
export condensed-milk.
The table shows steady growth in cur-
rent assets until 1965, when deposit
moneys of about £125,000 were called
up to help finance the Preston move. The
1963 jump in current liabilities reflected
debts incurred over the purchase of the
Preston property, while the 1965 jump,
as with current assets, shows the severe
effect on liquidity which the Preston
move brought about. Working capital
has always been extremely variable and
the negative position at last balance date
has since been corrected. Fixed assets,
with big jumps in 1963 and 1965, also
reflect the Preston move in its initial
and final stages. Intangibles have yet to
be written down but they are fairly low,
anyway. The 1963 increases in all these
items also reflect the acquisition of Noon
pies and T. S. Gill, former owner of the
Preston property.
Ordinary capital rose in 1962 after the
acquisition of a small milk group and in
1964 after the premium issue. The only
other issue of shares was in 1952-53, one-
for-eight at par. Capital will be £90,000
higher at next balance date following
the British Tobacco move. Loan capital
is at a reasonable level, the 1963 jump
being in line with other balance sheet
moves that year. Reserves have been
climbing steadily and are quite high in
relation to capital. However, any bonus
thoughts can be forgotten because of the
low earning-rate history. Profits have
climbed every year and it should be noted
that the 1965 setback would have been
greater without the tax benefits of in-
vestment allowances.
To sum up: over the past year Toppa
has emerged from being a somewhat
mediocre entity to the embryo of what
promises to be a very strong force in the
food industry. This is something worth
investing in, but only on a medium to
long-term basis. The short term, of
course, offers t; j possibility of quick
money through taKeover to speculators,
who must bank on the hope that this
move will eventuate in the near future.
This is likely, although the wiser investor
will keep takeover at the back of his mind
and treat it as a longer-termed possi-
bility. Basically, Toppa offers what is
currently the best entry into that sector
of the food industry which British Tob-
acco seems determined to lead. The only
other thing to expect is steady dividends
and a rise in market prices as the com-
pany progresses. Even the odd share
issue should be discounted, since expan-
sionary cash seems more likely to come
from British Tobacco.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: PATSY HUTCHINSON, late of Lalor Park,
in the State of New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that JOHN DUDLEY BRUCE HUT-
CHINSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
3810 of 1965 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 27th
day of January, 1966, and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of Petition from
MESSRS HILLIARD & BERRY, Solicitors, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: PEARL JEFFS, late of 97 Rosa Street,
Oatley, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that STANLEY
RONALD JEFFS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. '3756 of 1965 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 20th February,
1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS ROBERT A. PAT-
RICK & SON, . Solicitors, 12 Butlers Road,
Hurstville, or from their City Agents,
DENSLEY & DOWNING, Solicitors, 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
TO: RICHARD WILLIAM RUFUS, formerly
of Balmoral, New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DOROTHY EVELYN
RUFUS has instituted proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Victoria in suit
No. 2008 of 1965 for a dissolution of her
marriage to you on the grounds of desertion
and separation and also seeking orders in
respect to custody of and maintenance for
the child of the marriage and for costs. AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless you
file an Answer in the office of the Registrar,
Supreme Court, Melbourne, on or before
the 28th day of February, 1966, the case may
proceed in your absence. ALLAN DOUGLAS,
Public Solicitor, of 601 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. M.C. 180 of 1965
BETWEEN
BETTY CAMILLA SULLIVAN, Petitioner
and
ELVIN GEORGE SULLIVAN, Respondent.
TO: ELVIN GEORGE SULLIVAN, formerly
of Albury in New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that BETTY CAMILLA SULLIVAN
has filed a Divorce Petition against you on
the ground of separation. Included in this
Petition is a claim for costs. AND TAKE
NOTICE that if you intend to defend the
Petition you must file an Answer within 28
days of the publication of this Notice at the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania,
Macquarie Street, Hobart, from which address
further information can be obtained, other-
wise the Court may hear and determine the
proceedings in your absence. Dated this 10th
day of December, 1965. Registrar.
TEACHER OF MATHEMA T ICS
required for 1966
Ability to assist with Biology in
upper forms would be an
advantage.
Apply in writing to the
HEADMASTER
St. Joseph's College,
Hunter's Hill, N.S.W.
SCOTCH COLLEGE, LAUNCESTON
The Council of Scotch College, a school of
the Presbyterian Church of Australia in Tas-
mania, and a member school of the Head-
masters' Conference of the Independent
Schools of Australia, invites applications for
appointment as:
PRINCIPAL
The successful applicant will be required to
take up his duties in second term, 1966, or
as soon as possible thereafter.
Full information will be supplied on applica-
tion to the Chairman of Council, Scotch
College, Penquite Road, Launceston, Tas-
mania
SHOULD WE PEOPLE THE NORTH?
SYMPOSIUM
February 14-15, University of NSW
Speakers: *Hon. D. E. Fairbairn, Minister for
National Development.
*E. G. Whitlam, Deputy Leader of the
Opposition.
Prof. Sir Philip Baxter, Dr. R. B. Davidson,
W. G. Walkley, Prof. J. Macdonald
Holmes, Prof. R. H. Greenwood, C. S.
Christian, Dr. H. Bell, A. R. Driver, Prof.
C. H. Munro, H. H. Hopkins, A. G.
Lowndes, Prof. J. Francis, G. W. Renwick.
Discussion after each paper. Public partici-
pation invited. Students especially welcome
(concession rate).
Fees: £2.2.0. per day inch morning/afternoon
tea, plus buffet final evening.
Applications by January 17 to:
SYMPOSIUM, P.O. Box 148
BROADWAY, N.S.W.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 880
ACROSS
I—Prop for a Western member of the dramatic
academy’s staff. (5, 5)
6—Tax cost may be adjusted, Mac. (4)
10—A party game enough for jobs like Prof. Peart’s
at Sydney University. (7, 6)
12— I’m not involved in an Athenian role in Shake-
speare. (5)
13— Ariel is rather effeminately precious. (4-5)
14— The rind of the bay vessel and a bay. (4)
15— One means to change the flowers. (8)
19— Articles carried by this sword-bearer. (8)
20— It holds many a collar breeding establishment. (4)
22—Guns make this crook in
the blood-vessel. (9)
24—Very Italianised donkey with
the first-class fruit of a
South American palm. (5)
26 Where to put in the leisure
legs and shoulders, etc.
(4-3, 6)
27 Advice to the famous Dick
Whittington act at the Tivoli.
(4)
28— Caluminate an employee on
many an American train. (10)
DOWN
1— The Jewish race around on
musical intervals. (9)
2 Negro’s master turned up in
part of Asia as the musket-
dropper. (5)
3 Echoes missing the culti-
vators money softened Rich-
ard, a crank. (9)
4 A girl confused the basis
for minimum nourishment
for survival. (6)
5 Business he ripped is by no
means disjointed. (8)
7 Ice-hounds become padded to
minimise concussion. (9)
8 — Wine present received by a
girl might be thus inscribed.
(5)
9 That is in the fortissimo
tenure of land in exchange
for military service. (4)
14—Campanile which drags along
the telephone’s inventor,
(4-5)
16—Glove for the baseballing
prop of a quizmaster town
m N.S.W. (9)
17— Foundered on one steamship
editor beautified by the light
of day—a reason for sizzling
lips. (3-6)
18— The cost of travelling in the
pink so long. (8)
21— Sounds as if Richard is urged
to misbehave for a senator
of Cambridge University. (6)
22 No minor publicity last
month. (5)
23 Song wasn't on the level. (4)
25—Despatched to a girl who
loved Wagner’s Flying Dutch-
man. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 879


-odd ' ouild encydopae dia
* e
suSsM
<3
/
Lift-out books
each week in
I (kittnafooM.
Ivvo.m m
I
There’s a marvellous “extra” every
week—books planned to help you,
and to entertain you, too; books
about everything from interior
decor to housework, from fashion
to gardening. And lots more !
CP.656


•>
** •:
* i
*C
% •
/
#€
XJk
'-Sit'S
««. -*'■
*
-..
E>
t •$ *
dm
b •* *' %*
r ■**#
*
•*
?
_
L
Omega Seamaster: the world's favourite precision sports watch. Winds itself. Hermetically sealed against water. Note onyx inlay of solid
gold hour markers. 14ct gold capped £95.0.0. Stainless steel £67.10.0.
The sturdy reliability of this Omega Seamaster is proved
in an atmospheric pressure chamber
Its accuracy and long life are assured by waterproofing tests in a special simulator, unique to Omega.
■ They take a watch. They plunge
it a hundred feet beneath the sea. Then
they suddenly catapult it to the height
of Mount Everest. And it still works
perfectly.
This happens every day with the
Omega Seamaster sports watch.
■ They prove its strength. The
drastic switch from a pressure of three
atmospheres to a partial vacuum takes
place in the Omega factory. In a
machine such as you will not find any-
where else in the whole watch industry.
A pressure simulator specially designed
by Omega.
Altogether, each Seamaster is “dived”
17 times. Through 17 different pressure
ranges. In the space of 45 minutes.
The tests ensure that the rugged Sea-
master case will withstand all the
changes of pressure that you can
possibly encounter—in the air and
beneath the sea.
■ They match it to the man. And
why does Omega indulge in this costly
and painstaking process? Because the
Seamaster movement is so accurate, so
finely built, that it deserves the best
protection watchmakers can give it.
Pressurizing conditions it for the rough,
tough life it has been designed to live.
For the life of a sportsman.
It will be a long life, too.
Some day you, too, will own an Omega.
All Omega Seamaster models are water-
proof, shock-protected and anti magnetic. Iht
calendar and self-winding features art
optional.
Seamaster models, manual wind, from
£27.0.0. Self-winding from £30.0.0.
Q
OMEGA
