

The Bulletin
JULY 9, 1966
A#
CORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMESp
_Kegistered in Australia for trgiismissio i by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l/ Malaysia $1


St*"* , *
m
m
X
*
m
mm
■
~ - ,4^fe
ONOH
auodvoNis
SYDNEY
NEW ZEALAND
LOS ANGELES
HONOLULU
FIJI
The whole Pacific is our dish...
Let’s make it yours!
Now every Thursday and
Saturday at 11.15 a.m. from
Sydney to Hong Kong.
Wednesdays 11.15 a.m. Sydney
to Singapore.
-m
The Pacific’s wide blue bowl is home-
territory to AIR NEW ZEALAND. Now
you can fly all round it by new long-
range DC-Bs, perfect version of the
world’s most preferred jetliners. New
accents on comfort and quietness. And
a bright new concept: Five Star Jetline
Service, dedicated to you. Five Star?
Food and wines you'd rate outstanding
anywhere. And quietly thoughtful atten-
tion all the way.
AIR NEW ZEALAND, the airline that
goes to more trouble to make your
flight a great pleasure.
m NEW 2EMAMB
The Five Star Jetline
in association with BOAC and Qantas, Air New Zealand’s general sales agents in Australia.


I
N
V'
"-s f
2*K
■
w®
\
Not just ‘Coonawarra’ but
COONAWARRA ESTATE
Coonawarra Estate is the original “Coonawarra”. This famous vineyard
was founded in 1890 (an illustration of the original cellars appears on
every label of genuine Coonawarra Estate wine). Years of careful culti-
vation have consistently produced vintage wines of exceptional quality.
If you prefer originals, collect and enjoy Coonawarra Estate.
Coonawarra Estate HERMITAGE 1962 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate CABERNET 1959 Vintage
Coonawarra Estate RIESLING 1965 Vintage
A:i Estate of S. Wynn & Co.
CS4R
LETTERS
Living with Asia
Sir,
Messrs. Buckley and Samuel have
detailed (8., June 11) two broad con-
structive ways of living with Asia. While
ECAFE intentions are good, there is
obviously a long way to go if recent
Committee discussions of its Trade and
Development section mean anything.
While sitting in as an observer (non-
official) in Bangkok in January, I listened
to disappointed delegates assessing just
how much had been achieved in the past
12 months. “Very little,” according to
India, Malaysian, and Pakistan delegates.
They deplored the fact that the develop-
ing countries promised possibilities of
trade openings which did not materialise.
These countries refused to lift all restric-
tions on entry of primary products and
handicraft goods of Asian nations, neces-
sary if they could be hopeful of lifting
standards of living. These poorer unde-
veloped countries had, it was argued,
fallen behind. Some comfort to an Aus-
tralian was that we were, in part,
excluded from the “guilty group.”
This self-satisfaction was deflated
quickly when in Singapore trade repre-
entatives critically examined our tariffs on,
e.g., manufactured goods, pointing out that
Asian States must have freer entry into
the huge consumer markets of the
developed countries. The best aid, seem-
ingly then, is further lowering of trade
barriers, harmful as that action may be
to sections of our own industry.
I would agree with Mr. Samuel that
the Asian Development Bank has a use-
ful future. However, I was annoyed to
hear that the motive of some European
contributors might not be lily - white.
Apparently being a “member” gives cer-
tain trading rights in the area, so here
again one suspects doubletalk of aiding
the Asians. Having made these criticisms
of the West and Russia, too, I believe
we must demand of Asian governments
much greater internal social and economic
reform. Granted you cannot abolish cor-
ruption and unjustified privilege over-
night, but as a condition of aid their
leaders ought show they are willing and
able to attack this special problem.
Richmond (Vic.).
F. G. GARDINER
CONTENTS
Lord Casey One Year After .. 32
China The Moon’s Other Side .. 12
One More Week 20
Tanner’s Bush 26
Batman 27
Cellarmaster 28
Ross Campbell 29
The Other Sex 30
Arts and Entertainment 35
Books . . 40
Business and Finance 44
Man On the Land 60
Speculator’s Diary . . ..i .. .. 64


Make this
your target
sc
o
NO
FIXED
TERM
CURRENT
RATE
NO FIXED TERM means your in-
vestment plus dividend is readily
available for withdrawal. Your
dividend is 6% p.a. net (current
rate) paid twice yearly. There are
NO deductions.
Assets exceed $l4 million. Write
for brochure.
TY
kBA 837 C
ST. GEORGE &CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J 8. Ward. General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to .. .
NAME
ADDRESS
The Drama Cartel
Sir, ... ,
For Neil Hutchison it is not enough
to list so-called “inaccuracies” from my
article his case must be stuck together
with all the usual invective of the Eliza-
bethan Trust (8., June 25). As I docu-
mented, this is the kind of thing effective
professional criticis of his cartel have had
to learn to stomach. The two major issues
Mr. Hutchison discusses are the Sydney
Opera House Committee and the question
of professional criticism of his Elizabethan
Trust. An examination of these current
and interesting questions will illustrate how
Mr. Hutchison copes with the older and
less relevant points.
His second and third “inaccuracies” are,
in fact, a single reference. I have, like
every other critic, tried to find who are
the “Representatives,” ex officio or other-
wise, of any of the three ma j n or g an i sa _
tions on the Sydney Opera House Com-
mittee. (Mr. Hutchison’s ABC, Mr. Hut-
chison > s Elizabethan Trust, and Mr.
Hutchison’s Drama Foundation.) The
ar ticle merely stated “He is now in effect
Trust/ABC representative on the
' Sydney Qpera House Committee.” For
Mr Hutchison to counter my point with
th(J statement t h at he has “left the Trust,”
when he of coursej a most influential
Board member of it, is misleading. He
then goes on to suggest that there is, at
this moment, no spokesman on the Com-
mittee for the ABC. My original com-
ment can perhaps stand though I can
quite understand why, as one inadequacy
after another is revealed in the building’s
quality Mr. Hutchison wishes to estab-
lish so very clearly that he speaks only
“in a personal capacity” and not for either 1
the ABC or the Elizabethan Trust, or both.
Mr. Hutchison gives his real aim away
when he stoops to equate my opinion with
that of the classic “unsuccessful applicant.”
The Elizabethan Trust/Drama Founda-
tion/ABC Drama cartel now has direct
control of well in excess of 80 percent of
all non-commercial employment. It must
surely be a very rare professional who has
not, at some time during the past twelve
years, filed his credentials with it. To
label in this way any critic with profes-
sional insight is not helpful. It seeks to
reduce the very necessary public dialogue
about Mr. Hutchison’s cartel to an occa-
sional quiet chat between it and well-
meaning but uninformed amateurs.
It is a new weapon in the Elizabethan
Trust armory with which to batter in-
formed critics into discretion. In my article
I listed vilification, non-employment, and
professional denigration. From my own
first-hand experience I could have
included a threat of libel, misquotation to
“prove” major inaccuracy, and a nasty
letter to my employers. In these circum-
stances most spirited professionals find it
easier to migrate to an environment where
healthier professional standards are
encouraged.
REID DOUGLAS
Double Bay (N.S.W.)
Touchy Hong Kong Bank
Sir,
I refer to the article by Mr. J. C. Hors-
fall entitled “Touchy on Foreign Banks”
(8., June 18). In the last paragraph of
the first column of this article he mentions
that three foreign banks have representa-
tive offices in Sydney the bank of
Tokyo, the Bank of America, and the
First National City Bank. The Hong Kong
and Shanghai Banking Corporation opened
a representative office on the 2nd Floor,
Commercial Union House, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney, on April 15, 1965. We
are rather touchy about being “ignored.”
A. L. HARMAN
Representative in Australia.
The Hong Kong Bank Group.
Sydney (N.S.W.)
Schools and Budgets
Sir,
Your article on the problems of
N.S.W. Education (8., June 18) uses the
same figures and similar arguments to an
article I wrote for the latest issue of
“New Basis,” the journal of the Sydney
University Fabian Society. Several friends
have approached me to ask why I did
not sign “my” article in THE
BULLETIN. For the sake of the record
I would like to establish that I did not
write the article. There are three issues
I would like to raise:
(a) The figures quoted were based on
the original budget estimates and it
appears that actual expenditure will be
greater than the original estimates. If,
as Mr. Cutler claims, the Labor Govern-
ment was warned of the potential crisis,
why did the first Askin budget fail to
tackle the problem to such a degree that


She’s a data processing specialist
(and just a typist).
Typing skills are all she needs
to use FLEXOWRITER* automatic
writing machine by Friden.
With this machine, a girl can
capture data on edge-punched
cards, or punched paper tapes.
These cards or tapes automat-
ically type business documents:
sales orders, invoices, purchase
orders, etc.; paperwork jobs that
cost so much to do manually.
By-product tapes are available,
too. While she prepares individ-
ual purchase orders, for example,
a tape is created that automatic-
ally reads out a purchase com-
mitment report at the end of the
day. This is automation that’s
easy to operate, inexpensive to
own.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration of
FLEXOWRITER automatic writing
machine by Friden.
The automatic writing machine by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
636 ST. KILDA ROAD, MELBOURNE. 51 6905
Branches:
SYDNEY
CANBERRA
BRISBANE
29 8731
4 6162
54 520
ADELAIDE
PERTH
HOBART
23 5998
23 3224
34 2673
403 ABN
eventually the budget allowances had to
be revised?
(b) Your correspondent claims “The
ALP, desperately trying to stay in power,
over-committed itself for school buildings
in strategic electorates.” He implies that
this was a shady manoeuvre. If the
Labor Government had not intended to
allocate additional funds, then why were
contracts made for its extended program,
contracts which Mr. Cutler was later to
“temporarily defer”?
(c) The so-called “crash” program of
$6 million does not represent major shift
in priority toward education expenditure
(the funds are to be met from the com-
ing year’s loan allocation). It is “crash”
only in the sense that an attempt will
be made to have the new facilities open
at the beginning of the school year.
JIM SPIGELMAN
Maroubra (N.S.W.)
KELLY WEEK
ffij^ulLetCn
86 YEARS AGO: July 10, 1880
enough the powers that be
stopped the performance of “The
Kelly Gang” at the Queen’s. In all con-
science, we import enough of the grim
and gory trash from America; let our
would-be colonial playwrights sock loftier
themes and not pander to a vitiated taste
to earn a paltry royalty at the expense
of self-respect.
★ ★ ★
The greatest show in Bourke Street is
Byrne the bushranger’s boots. They are
exposed at the Waxworks, and gather
tremendous crowds.
★ ★ ★
When it was announced by telegram
outside the Argus office that a reporter
had been shot by the Kelly gang, three
cheers were given, but whether the
ovation was meant for the reporter or
the gang we know not.
. ★ ★ ★
During the Kelly scare, the Argus
published on Monday five extraordinary
editions, with an issue of about 35,000,
which were sold in the suburbs at one
shilling each. The Age published six
editions with an issue of 52,000, The
Herald four editions with 110,000, which
was sold in Geelong for half a crown. The
crowds at the Argus office on the event-
ful Monday had no equal since the days
of the Franco-Prussian war.
What stronger breastplate than a heart
untainted?
Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel
just,
And he but naked, though locked up in
steel,
Whose conscience with injustice is
corrupted.


PAPER FOR PROGRESS NO. SOF A SERIES
MMi
,rz > <>■
M
/i
if
,«•»
'■
Hs A.
;» • 3-v. V-
-32
s*. x.
m
m
I
.*jL*W" -:4
M
(iy/ .1
m
;<*
rfyfs^ y /
m
T
•3*
>:■:>
?
A.P.M. IS EXPANDING TO MEET
A NATION’S NEED FOR MORE PAPER
Australia’s usage of paper is growing at a rate faster
than the increase in our population! Today, we’re
using over a million tons of it a year. Tomorrow, we’ll
need a whole lot more! To help meet the
growing demands, both within Australia and
'for export, A.P.M. Australian Paper
Manufacturers Ltd. is engaged on a
vigorous expansion programme. At Spear-
wood, near Perth, a new mill is scheduled to begin
production this year. At Fairfield, in Victoria, a big
new machine will start up next year. And at the Com-
pany’s mills in other States, improvements
are being made to existing machines to
step up their efficiency and increase
production. A.P.M. is gearing itself for
the challenge of the future.
&
ApM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTDI
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS. Head Office: South Gate,
South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals.
1370


Face of the Week
Facing an ALP Federal Conference
deadlock on State Aid, Mr. Calwell
said there might be a compromise. He
suggested an all-party parliamentary
peace mission to Hanoi, independent
Senator Turnbull suggested one to
Communist China, and Liberal Sena-
tor Hannaford in Adelaide disagreed
with Government conscription policy
for Vietnam. Army Minister Fraser
was in South Vietnam on a fact-
finding tour, Mr. Holt opened the
SEATO conference and left for Wash-
ington. Social Services Minister Sin-
clair and seven MPs were in Thai-
land. The new Indonesian Govern-
ment promised to hold a self-determin-
ation plebiscite in West Irian in 1969.
★
ACTU president Monk was re-
elected to the ILO governing body.
The discovery of a wire-wrapped body
in north Queensland led to a man’s
arrest and discovery' of another wired
body. Brisbane had a fourth ether
attack on a woman. Television’s chief
censor sent a Michael Charlton BBC
film of war in Vietnam to Senator
Anderson in Perth for examination,
but the Senator was injured in a car
accident.
★
Jack Carrington Smith won the
Helena Rubinstein Merit Award for
Portraiture with a portrait of artist
Lesley Greener. Melbourne’s Monash
University held an eight-hour Forum
on Vietnam. The Victorian Secondary
Teachers’' case for a new award went
into court, and Australian Bank
Officers’ Association wage talks ended
in deadlock. A new Industrial Com-
mission of South Australia came into
being, and two new Commissioners
were appointed in Queensland, one
being former N.S.W. Employers’ Fed-
eration man P. J. Self. Central Aus-
tralia had drought-breaking follow-up
rains of one to two inches, extending
into South Australia. Two N.S.W. car-
accident victims were awarded a total
of more than $300,000 on the one day.
A Victorian Criminal Court allowed
a taped police interrogation of accused
in a murder trial as Crown evidence.
★
Mr. J. R. Kerr, Q.C., Law Council
president, became an A.C.T. Supreme
Court judge. Britain sent 90,000 doses
of Salk vaccine to relieve a shortage in
Victoria. After 139 resignations in 12
months Victorian policemen were
forced to give three months’ notice in
future. Melbourne cracksmen took
$30,000 from safes the previous week-
end. The N.S.W. TAB had a 1965-66
turnover above $6O million.
★
Editorial and Advertising Offices:
Sydney—Park House, 54-58 Park Street,
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Melbourne Newspaper House, Collins
Street. Phone: 63-3341.
The Bulletin
VOL. 86, No. 4505
JULY 9, 1966
All the Way with LBJ
ONE of the most significant but
neglected aspects of the recent
U.S. bombing of North Vietnamese
fuel bases outside Hanoi and Hai-
phong is its timing: it followed im-
mediately on the latest American
attempt to start peace talks with
Hanoi an attempt which had full
if sceptical American and Allied
backing. The American offer was
passed on to Hanoi by a Canadian
envoy after one of the regular Warsaw
meetings of the Peking and Washing-
ton ambassadors to Poland; it was
also backed by Rumanian initiatives
following the visit to Hanoi and
Peking of the First Deputy Premier
Emil Bodnaras and his talks with
American officials in Bucharest. The
American move was further strength-
ened by President de Gaulle’s des-
patching of a special envoy to Hanoi
after his talks with the Soviet leaders.
To round it off the UN Secretary
General, U Thant, spoke of his plans
to visit Moscow to recruit open Rus-
sian support for peace talks.
In the event Hanoi turned down
the American offer as emphatically
as it has turned down all previous
offers: it would in no circumstances
meet the American condition for
talks that it stop invading South
Vietnam and sending in North Viet-
namese forces and military supplies
to the Viet Cong; but America, of
course, must meanwhile stop its
bombing of the North Vietnamese
invaders and their military installa-
tions. Hanoi, in other words, does
not want peace unless it be the peace
that follows conquest, and is pre-
pared to continue the war, convinced
that sooner or later a panicky U.S.
public opinion will force an Allied
capitulation.
Meanwhile, the U.S. continued to
fight a “limited” war, to increase its
personnel from the current figure of
275,000 men to 400,000 within the
next six months, and to suffer
appalling casualties - 1000 dead or
wounded in one week in May, for
example. The North Vietnamese, for
their part, continued to pour in their
highly equipped troops 7000 a
month and to use Cambodia and
Laos as sanctuaries without fear of
U.S. attacks. In the circumstances,
following the scorning of its peace
offer and the failure of earlier bomb-
ing to deter the North Vietnamese,
the U.S. decision to bomb fuel depots
is understandable. It does not even
represent a significant escalation,
since it is still the bombing of military
installations only. The statement by
Prime Minister Holt that he fully
supports the U.S. stand is not only
sound, it reflects the views of almost
all Australians, who, like the Ameri-
cans, believe the only way to bring an
end to this conflict is to convince
Hanoi that it cannot win, and that it
is wrong if it bases its policy on the
illusion that the Vietniks and Peace-
niks represent Allied public opinion.
British opposition to the move is
disappointing but expected. It is irL
line with the British policy of with-
drawal from our part of the world,
of its refusal, despite some brilliant
speeches by Mr. Michael Stewart, to
really see the importance of this war
to the freedom of the world. When
THE BULLETIN asked Mr. Stewart
in Canberra whether he thought the
Australian military commitment to
Vietnam was a contribution to world
peace, he said emphatically that it
was, since there is no hope for peace
in Asia or the world unless the Corm
munists are contained in Vietnam.
Yet the U.S. bombing of fuel depots
has precisely the same object.


THIS AUSTRALIA
The SEATO Rites
THERE have not been many weeks like it. So many portents of change thrust them-
selves before Australians every morning they opened their newspapers Rusk in
Canberra, Holt in Washington, and SEATO in Parliament House, all while new
differences between Britain, Australia, and the United States over the war in Vietnam
became apparent.
From Canberra Peter Samuel reports
on the SEATO balance sheet after the
organisation’s eleventh Ministerial Council
meeting:
Gently slumping deeper into the sofa,
Thai Foreign Minister Thanat Khoman
sighed, and the first lines of age showed
in his relatively youthful face as he ans-
wered the question: How was SEATO
after the annual council meeting? Sadly
he said simply: “Not better, not worse,
just the same.” That, on balance, summed
it up for me.
There were signs of progress, but of
regress, too. On the side of progress were
the indications that the Pakistani Govern-
ment is rapidly terminating its policy of
collaboration with China and looking for
ways of improving its relations with
SEATO countries. Still obsessed with the
problem of Kashmir and alleged Indian
hostility, and carrying quite an accumu-
lation of pro-Chinese and anti-Western
prejudice, Pakistan cannot be expected to
reverse its policies overnight.
But Pakistani delegates are said to have
been unusually co-operative at the talks,
and even to have suggested ways of
improving the SEATO image in their own
country. They have ceased verbal attacks
on Western policy in Vietnam (including
the recent bombing of Hanoi-Haiphong oil
installations) although there is as yet
no sign of their moving from a neutral
position to one of positive support
The other gain at the talks which must
be considered is the general solidarity
and resolution displayed by the core coun-
tries of SEATO The U.S., Thailand,
Philippines, Australia, and New Zealand.
But by far the most disheartening
development was the clear indication given
by the British that they intend to dis-
engage themselves and cease an active
role in the affairs of this region. Of
course the old pledges to “maintain a
presence” were faithfully restated, but
every single suggestion for making that
presence effective and meaningful was
rejected. Britain was asked yet again to
contribute troops to the Vietnam struggle:
it refused. It was urged to join in the
growing allied effort in Thailand: it
refused. It rubbished the proposal for
expanding the counter-insurgency activities
of the SEATO secretariat. And it was
Britain which alone stood out against the
Pakistanis on the Council Communique,
thereby making it more difficult to rein-
tegrate Pakistan into SEATO.
Many people have pointed out the
hypocrisy of the British Vietnam stance.
On the one hand they are prepared to
agree—as Mr. Michael Stewart did in
answer to a question of mine at the
National Press Club luncheon that
continued military efforts to defend South
Vietnam are quite vital to the establish-
ment of peace in the South-East Asian
region and beyond. Military withdrawal
would result, Mr. Stewart said, in “a
widespread belief in neighboring countries
and spreading over the world that this
kind of tactic of disturbing the peace
within a country, of sending forces from
outside to promote that disturbance, until
finally you have overthrown its govern-
ment and imposed a Communist regime
—was going to be allowed to succeed. If
that belief spread then I think the pros-
pects for peace would be very much
dimmer. That seems to me what is at
issue.”'
Yet Britain makes no contribution to
what it admits is a quite vital attempt to
organise a peace. And into the bargain it
moralises on the details of how the war
is to be run. Some quite weird British
attempts at public relations last week in
Canberra do not provide grounds for con-
fidence in British sincerity. One senior
official tried in all seriousness to tell me
among other absurdities that the Ameri-
cans did not want British troops for Viet-
nam. (Asked this very question later in
the week, Dean Rusk said: “I wouldn’t
want to pinpoint any particular govern-
ment. We would welcome forces from as
many friendly countries as are prepared
to send them. There’s plenty of room in
Vietnam . . .”)
Strange, too, is what seems to be an
exaggerated British version of the worsen-
ing of their relations with Malaysia. This
suggests the thought that just possibly some
phony incident between the two countries
might arise suggesting that the British
military installations in the area were
“no longer wanted by the people.” And
of course the installations would have
to go.
Mr. Stewart’s pledge that “just as
Australia and New Zealand came to the
help of Britain in two wars, it is unthink-
able that if Australia and New Zealand
were the victims of aggression Britain
would not similarly come to their assis-
tance.” But what reassurance is this?
Our defence is based on co-operating
with neighbors and allies in this South-East
Asian region to keep those who might
attack us from increasing their strength,
influence, or territorial control. We want
a contibution to keeping the warmongers
out of the region generally, not a distant
promise that when they are actually on
our doorstep we will get help.
In short, the week’s talks showed that:
Britain, like France, can no longer
be counted on to play a role in pursuance
of SEATO’s security objectives;
co-operation with Thailand, the Philip-
pines, the U.S., New Zealand, and possibly
Pakistan is likely to be most productive;
in Thanat Khoman of Thailand we
have a great force for effective and
realistic regional progress;
we cannot expect anything much
from the SEATO secretariat, the budget
increase being so ($20,000) and its leader-
ship so inadequate (General Vargas hav-
ing been described as a “nice, simple
soldier”);
SEATO remains utterly incapable of
collective action to tackle probable threats.
Ritualistic declarations of faith in an
ineffectual treaty are no substitute for
military strength or for concerted efforts
to increase the extent of all forms of co-
operation with neighbors who by their
geographical situation cannot chicken out
of the region and more distant allies who
do believe they have to stay.
Say not the
Struggle...
PRIME MINISTER Holt went to
Washington last week an even more
ardent supporter of United States
policies in Vietnam than his predecessor,
Sir Robert Menzies. And Sir Robert was
not backward in supporting the Americans.
What lies behind Mr. Holt’s conviction?
From Washington Alan Reid reports
that Holt’s recent visit to South Vietnam
and South-East Asia has hardened his
thinking considerably on the policy that
should be followed in the area. Reid says
that rightly or wrongly Holt believes that
there has been an improvement in stability
in the area because non-Communist coun-
tries have been able to revive their econo-
mies and governments behind the time
barrier erected by the Americans in Viet-
nam.
Writes Reid: “Whether the conclusions
Holt drew from his visits are more a tribute
to his optimisim than to his judgment re-
mains to be seen.”
One thing is certain. Holt’s support has
made him one of Washington’s most wel-
come guests for a long time. And in
public and in private Holt left no doubts
about the total commitment Australia has
made to U.S. policy. Alan Reid’s report
continues:
Holt told Johnson he was convinced
after his recent Vietnam visit that North
Vietnam was misinterpreting, certainly in
Australia and possibly in the U.S., the
depth of internal opposition in both
countries to present policies being followed
in Vietnam.
While Holt is understandably not reveal-
ing what transpired between himself and
Johnson, there is every reason to believe
that Rusk’s Canberra statement that U.S.
did not intend to raise the question of a
further Australian military contribution in
Vietnam represents official U.S. policy.
The matter was not raised. The Washing-


ton administration’s reaction to Holt’s
unqualified support of the U.S. and its
Vietnam policies was one of almost
pathetic gratitude. The Americans, despite
their enormous power, have apparently
been feeling terribly lonely on the Vietnam
issue. Holt, a professional pragmatic poli-
tician with a streak of idealism, seemed to
establish immediate rapport with Johnson,
who is a similar type in his approach to
political problems.
Johnson wanted further private talks
with Holt, but recognised it was almost
impossible to have them immediately with-
out considerable readjustment of both
men’s tight programs. But Holt was given
the full head of government treatment —
something not always given Menzies.
Johnson welcomed him officially in the
beautiful setting of the White House gar-
dens with massed bands playing while a
19-gun salute fired and an impressive
blue uniformed guard-of-honor stood
rigidly to salute. After luncheon Holt was
given a standing ovation, which for dura-
tion and enthusiasm was described as un-
equalled in recent White House history.
Particularly after his forthright declara-
tion in support of Hanoi bombing at a
period when other countries were express-
ing doubts about the wisdom of U.S.
action, Holt could probably have extracted
minor concessions from U.S. authorities on
matters unrelated to Vietnam about which
Australia has grievances. Instead, Holt
said: “I am not here asking for anything.”
On the Hanoi bombing Holt said: “This
action arises from a military assessment
of the needs of the situation. The bombed
supplies were strengthening the capacity
of the enemy and could have enabled
enemy forces to operate more destructively
against our own troops and those of allied
forces. I accept the military judgment.”
At his White House welcoming, Holt
said: “The outcome of the Vietnam
struggle is critical. What has occurred
over recent years is a transformation. To
go through Thailand, Malaysia, and even
South Vietnam itself and others of these
countries of South-East Asia is to see the
security and the progress which has been
found possible by countries where Com-
munism has successfully been held in
check.”
At the welcoming luncheon of 100 top
people in or associated with the adminis-
tration, Holt described Australia as a
“Pandora’s box” of mineral wealth. He
illustrated this by pointing out that Japan
had placed orders in Australia for 2300
million dollars of iron. The United King-
dom had also placed orders, and inquiries
were being made from Europe. Holt dealt
with bauxite, manganese, copper, nickel,
lead, and zinc development. “You are not
going to find our country a liability Mr.
President,” Holt said. “We have managed
to stand on our own feet without turning
to you for aid at any time and we intend
to go on that way.”
Holt said that because of Australia’s
ability to stand on its own economic feet
the U.S. would find Australia capable of
taking part in exciting new developments
that were occurring in South-East Asia.
“Our own country is not in Vietnam
because you are there. We are involved
far more directly than you. If this area
goes, where do you attempt to hold the
The Holts and the Johnsons - Red Carpet at the White House
line? In Thailand? Perhaps down the
neck of the Malay Peninsula? I don’t
think anyone would attach greater con-
fidence to our capacity to hold the line in
these places than where we are trying
to hold it today. In the meantime, there
would have been more people overrun,
more destruction. You are right to be
where you are and we are right to be
with .you. That, Mr. President, is our
conviction.”
Johnson, in reply, quoted with real
emotion from Dorothea Mackellar’s poem,
“I love a sunburnt country.” He continued,
“My personal ties to your country are as
deep as man’s could be,” the President
said.
“During the war I found among
you openhearted friendship when. I was
far from home. Now, once again, our two
nations are fighting side by side in defence
of freedom. The first thing I read every
morning are the battle reports from Viet-
nam. I want you to know that I follow
the exploits of Australians fighting there
with the same interest and concern as those
of our own men. I derive great pride from
their courage and dedication.”
Holt added that a new Australia had
risen since Johnson was there 25
years ago. “When can we see you there
again? This time with Mrs. Johnson and
perhaps the whole family?” Holt asked.
Holt also broke into poetry to illustrate
that the Vietnam struggle was worthwhile,
He recited from Clough
“Say not the struggle naught availeth,
The labor and the wounds are vain
The enemy faints not nor faileth
And as things have been, they remain.”
Police and their Pistols
THE convening of a jury in a Coroner’s inquiry into the cause of a violent death
is a rare occurrence in New South Wales. But the law provides for a jury to be
called in at the request of the deceased’s relatives.
And at the preliminary inquest pro-
ceedings in January into the death of a
17-year-old youth shot by a police con-
stable in the Sydney suburb of Merry lands
last December the youth’s parents invoked
i..* l „ ■
that provision. A barrister acting for them
sought and obtained an adjournment so
that a jury could be called. Significantly
it has since been revealed that legal
representation of the relatives was provided
by the Council for Civil Liberties, who
regarded the inquest as “a challenge on
police use of firearms.”
Last week the six-member jury returned
its verdict. Their task had not been eased
by the fact that the only witness, apart
from the police involved, did not appear,
(Sydney solicitor Michael Kirby stated in
court that the witness had told him: If I
gi ve evidence the police will give me ten
years. ) After a two-and-a-half-hour
retirement their finding was that the
.. died (h h t * aivmtu rt from
J he effects of a bul f e , wound the head>
accidentally inflicted on him . . . while
h e was fleeing to avoid arrest.”
But it was the rider to the verdict
which made the case a front-page lead
stor y j n every Sydney newspaper next
morning. For the jury added to its finding
a recommendation that the Police Depart-
ment should “exercise stronger discipline
even to the extent of amending police


atten-shim!!
CPA
faste
Furope
(r
.
k
V
Save hours flying time—with Canadian
Pacific! Jet direct from Sydney to Van-
couver, Canada! Then the fastest way to the
heart of Europe—over the shorter, non-stop
Polar Route. See your travel agent for details.
VANCOUVER GATEWAY TO ALL
CANADIAN AND U.S. CITIES! THEN
OVER THE POLAR ROUTE TO THE
HEART OF EUROPE LONDON IS
ONLY MINUTES AWAY!
FLY
A/RL/MES
Incorporated in
cations. World’s
Melbourne office:
Canada. Limited Co. Canadian Pacific/Trains/Planes/Trucks/Ships/Hotels/Telecommuni-
most complete transportation system. Sydney office: 247 George Street, Sydney. 27-3411.
59 William Street, Melbourne. 61-3371. General sales agents—Ansett-A.N.A.
regulations concerning the use of arms.”
And a “Sydney Morning Herald” leader
writer, after remarking that the New South
Wales Government must certainly consider
carefully the jury’s recommendation, went
on to say “many people will think that
the police should now be forbidden to
use firearms at all unless they have reason
to believe that the wanted man is armed
or has committed an assault against a
person.”
The Press, however, were not unani-
mously critical of the police. Indeed, the
“Sunday Telegraph” editorial, headed
“Why The Police Have To Carry Guns,”
was devoted to rebutting in advance any
possible argument that the police should
not normally carry firearms. “The com-
munity,” it ran, “can’t have it both ways.
It can’t expect to be guarded against
violent armed criminals and simultaneously
upbraid the police for using guns them-
selves.” Readers were told that it would
be completely unreasonable to condemn
the arming of the police force “because
of one or two isolated cases of misadven-
ture.”
'lt seems likely that there will be further
public discussion of this topic. For it is
a subject which has, in the past, many
times been the focus of excited and acri-
monious debate. Only last year the Vic-
torian police were accused of usurping the
functions of prosecutor, judge, jury, and
executioner because a patrolman shot and
killed a youth alleged to have stolen a
car and attempted to ram a police car.
And in the correspondence columns of this
journal a letter referred to “the Austra-
lian Policeman” as “a member of an armed
and virtually autonomous power group.”
Rhetoric aside, the essential question
here is whether our police should, as in
the United States (although not in all
Australian States), be armed at all times,
or, as in the United Kingdom, be issued
with firearms for special assignments only.
Those who favor arming the police tend
to argue that what “Newsweek” recently
called “the thin blue line society pays to
do its dirty, dangerous work” obviously
needs to carry firearms for protection. This
necessity is taken to be almost axiomatic;
something which only civil libertarians,
anarchists, and “philanthropoid” academics
would question.
Those who are opposed to the idea of
an armed police force generally point
to the danger of “misadventures” and cite
London’s Metropolitan Police Commis-
sioner’s dictum that “it is not right to
jeopardise lives even when chasing bank
robbers.” Moreover, they usually argue
that one reason for the good relations
existing between the police and the public
in Britain is the traditional civilian status
of the police there. Give him a gun, it
is said, and the civilian status would dis-
appear overnight.
It might appear at first sight that the
crux of the problem is that the right of
the policeman to adequate protection is
placed in balance against the desirability
of good police-public relations. But if
this were the case it would be hard to
explain what C. V. Hearn (an ex-police-
man himself), in “A Duty to .the'Public”
(1965), refers to as “the continued re-
sistance by the police themselves (i.e., in
Britain) to be issued with firearms.” For
not long ago a questionnaire circulated
amongst British policemen produced no
one who wanted to be armed despite the
number of assaults on the police having
trebled in the past 20 years.
That this was not entirely due to heed-
less quixotism is evident from the fact
that two-thirds of those asked gave as
their reason that criminals would also
arm. And it is in fact by no means
self-evident that carrying arms does in-
crease the safety of the policeman. Thus
an average of four policemen are killed
a year in New York compared with about
one every four years in London. Some-
where between 70 and 80 policemen are
killed every year in the United States—
about 50 of them dying from gunfire as
victims of direct attacks by criminals. And
it is significant that although all British
policemen can have firearms on request,
they avail themselves of this on only
about ten occasions a year.
GORDON HAWKINS


■
w
*
/
Not for sale!
Mr. David Gordon, company accoun-
tant came into our showroom the
other day, and was astonished when
we wouldn't sell him an Addo print-
ing calculator he saw there.
Wanted to know why we had a
machine on display if itwasn'tforsale.
We explained, that although it was
for sale, there were 17 other models
in Remington's Addo range and
one of these might prove far better
for his particular needs.
And sure enough after talking
about the type and volume of work
Mr. Gordon's department handled
we found the Addo machine that
suited his needs exactly.
Which shows that there is always
a best Addo machine from the
range for your particular needs. This
is the one for sale !
You see, we aim to satisfy clients
the first time round. Can we add you
to the growing Remington list?
Remington Rand The Largest Business Equipment Organisation in the World
Sydney 2-0925 Melbourne 69-0660 Brisbane 5-4651 Adelaide 8-4631 Launceston 2-2358 Hobart 2-2886 Canberra 4-0885 Perth 23-2281
RR49I


O' *•
Yalumba
2 WlHt
&
ONE OF A SERIES
Yalumba’s own vineyards in the Eden Valley district are
situated high in the folds of the Barossa Ranges, some
1,600 feet above the Adelaide plaiils. This is the most
elevated wine producing area in Australia. The prevailing
cool conditions, ideal soil, equable rainfall and climate,
produce the Rhine Riesling Grapes which are used
exclusively for making‘the famous Medal-winning Yalumba
“Carte d’Or Riesling”
YALUMBA CELLARMASTER SUGGESTS
YALUMBA CARTE d’OR
A vintage wine made solely from Rhine
Riesling Grapes grown in Angaston,
Eden Valley and Springington areas,
picked and fermented in the year
shown on the label. Yalumba Carte
d’Or is bottled while young, mainly
in August/September of the vintage
year, and then carefully aged in the
age-old cellars of Yalumba. Serve cold.
YALUMBA GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
This renowned red table wine is
blended from two varieties of grapes
Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz
(hermitage). . Cabernet Sauvignon, a
light-cropping variety, gives a wine a
full bouquet and a soft tannin, while
the wine from Shiraz grapes imparts
a soft, round, full flavour. All grapes
used are grown in the Barossa and
McLaren Vale districts, where climate,
rainfall and soil quality are ideal.
Labelled with the vintage year.
TABLE WINES
Famous sirroe 1849
Vintaged by S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, S.A.
SS9I6
After Mosman
THE state of Mr. Calwell’s health has
now become a major issue in the
ALP and has caused speculation
in New South Wales Labor offices that
Mr. Whitlam may lead the party into
the next election.
Mr. Calwell appeared to make a quick
mental and physical recovery from the
wounds inflicted at Mosman, but suffered
a set-back Thursday last week when he
was forced to cancel an address to Trade
Union officials at the Trades Hall. It was
announced that Mr. Calwell was suffering
from a skin irritation, a reaction tp an
anti-tetanus injection given after he was
cut by the shattered glass.
The unofficial story, however, is that
the Mosman shooting and its aftermath of
publicity, phone calls, and letters have
left Mr. Calwell more exhausted than was
first thought. It is not widely known that
Mr. Calwell’s health has been causing his
party concern for some time.
Mr. Calwell’s heart and blood pressure
are said to be in satisfactory condition, but
for some months he has been showing
signs of heavy fatigue. He has been sleep-
ing much more than has been his custom,
including for periods during the day. One
of his closest confidants claimed that Mr.
Calwell should not go to Vietnam because
he no longer had the stamina to under-
take strenuous tours.
The question facing the ALP is whether
he has got the stamina left to undertake
a strenuous election campaign with its
full apparatus of speeches, daily flights,
planning sessions, handshakes, and back-
slapping.
At present a lot of Mr. Calwell’s work
is being taken over by his friends. Chief
among them is Dr. J. F. Cairns, who has
never looked more healthy.
Aid from
the West
THE strength of “Joe” Chamberlain
showed itself in a backhanded way
in Perth last week when the West’s
ALP branch changed its stance on State
aid for schools, breaking down the resist*
ance to this move the Western Australian
secretary had maintained for so long.
During the illness of the key opponent
to such action, a special State conference
voted to urge relaxation of Labor’s opposi-
tion to State aid. Mr. Chamberlain has
been ill for 11 weeks, and only two days
before the conference he was operated on
in Perth for the removal of a large non-
malignant cyst from a kidney. The Party’s
Right wing has been quick to claim that
Mr. Chamberlain has mellowed his opposi-
tion to State aid in recent times. But he
has remained true to strict socialist doc-
trines over the years, and had he been on
his feet it is most unlikely he would have
allowed the recommendation to reach the
conference, as it did, with the endorse-


ment of the State Executive from which
he had also been absent. This backing was
the key to its success.
The new motion says: “Citizens who do
not wish to use the school facilities pro-
vided by the State, whether for conscien-
tious or other reasons, shall have the abso-
lute right to develop an independent
system of schools, and in so far as if
compatible with due efficiency in educa-
tion and the avoidance of unreasonable
expenditure, such schools and the pupils
attending them may be assisted by State
and Federal authorities.” It went through
59-50 on voices, and this was endorsed
when opponents demanded a card vote.
This went 376-265, with delegates polling
one vote for every 100 affiliated members
they represented.
Personalities involved are significant.
The decision was shepherded through by
Mr. John Tonkin, deputy to Mr. Bert
Hawke, Leader of the State Opposition,
who has hinted several times in recent
months that he has wearied of politics
after his long career. And since Mr. Hawke
and Mr. Chamberlain have clashed openly
and bitterly on a personal plane recently,
the Parliamentary Leader’s influence may
well have been a factor in the policy
turnabout.
The question of age is a touchy one
among the West’s Labor hierarchy, for
there are no bright young men obviously
ready and able to fill Mr. Hawke’s shoes.
Mr. Tonkin, who was a Minister for
Education in a Hawke Cabinet, could be
seeking to overcome his lack of youth by
strengthening his image as a progressive.
His contemporary and most likely rival for
leadership, firebrand Mr. Herbie Graham,
is overseas on a Commonwealth Parlia-
mentary Association tour.
On the other side of the fence, bitter
opposition to watering down socialist
policy came frtrni Senator John Wheeldon,
a Liberal in his early university days be-
fore he became a Left-wing Labor man.
He attacked the proposition as a complete
departure from the principles on which
the ALP was founded. Senator Wheeldon is
heir apparent to Mr. Chamberlain as leader
on the Left, but in this first flurry he failed
to wield the needed power, and depending
on how long Mr. Chamberlain takes to
convalesce, this could mean a weakening
of this wing in the West.
Meanwhile, Queensland has endorsed
the Federal line to continue opposing State
aid. So this leaves the voting theoretically
18-all for when Federal conference meets
in Queensland on July 29; N.S.W., W.A.,
Tasmania for State aid, Victoria, Queens-
land, and S.A. against. With such a dead-
lock, the question would have to be
declared lost or postponed.
Tanner
EISTEDDFOD


The Far Side of the Moon
China’s Next Great Convulsion
From ROBERT S. ELEGANT in Hong Kong
WHEN I was a small boy, a favorite
game left the grassy fields of
suburban New York pocked with
pits to trap the unwary. It was called
Digging to China. We knew we could
get there if only we dug straight enough
and deep enough because China was
exactly on the other side of the globe.
We never did reach China, for we were
hampered by inadequate equipment and,
ultimately, thwarted by parental prohi-
bition.
Despite the frustration of our pioneer-
ing instinct, we knew a great deal about
that contrary country. We knew that the
Chinese wrote backwards, not only from
right to left, but from top to bottom, in-
stead of across the page. We knew that
they began their meals with dessert and
ended with soup, that they gave girls’
names to boys, and that men wore skirts
and women trousers. We knew many
other things which also appear slightly
askew in the light of more direct and,
presumably, more. mature knowledge.
Yet we knew a great deal more than
we realised. Above all, we knew that the
Chinese were quite different from the
men and women of our comfortable
American middle-class world. Weary of
too much apparent knowledge and too
much illusory certainty about China, I
sometimes feel that simple clarity, now
almost three decades past, was the be-
ginning of true understanding. The Chin-
ese are different from us in their formal
manifestations, even if they are not direct
opposites.
The other side of the globe is common-
place today. Man-made devices have even
circled the far side of the moon, though
their exploration has enlightened man-
kind but little. As far as the opportu-
nities for effective mutual observation
have gone in the past decade and a
half, the Chinese might almost live on
the far side of the moon. Even less than
the occasional Westerner who is con-
ducted through China, deaf to the spoken
word and blind to the intricate ideo-
graphs, have the Chinese altered their
preconceptions about either the outside
world or their own nature by direct
observation. Nor does the prevailing
darkness on the other side of the moon
give off much light.
But the ether surrounding China has,
since the beginning of May, been charged
with words, alternately bitter and boast-
ful—aiid, often, as tantalisingly indistinct
as the Herzian emanations caught by the
astronomers’ telescopes. Distorted not by
time and distance, but by passion, the
words are intended for the Chinese.
Still, any simple radio receiver will inter-
cept them for the listener in Hong Kong
on the edge of the far side of the moon.
Since the beginning of May there has
been only one theme, though it has
developed and widened. Waves of
denunciation have resounded across China
from the broad plains of Manchuria to
the narrow, rock-bound farms set among
the misty crags of Kweichow. Harsh
male shouts have contended with sharp
female cries above the dark mutterings
of throngs. The mass meetings have bel-
lowed their spontaneous indignation at
the “traitors, the anti-Party, anti-socialist
elements, the devils with the spirits of
snakes and the souls of oxen, the bour-
geois agents, who plotted in co-ordination
with international revisionism and
imperialism to destroy socialism and bring
back capitalism.” Giving only perfunctory
attention to their familiar antagonists,
“Khrushchevite revisionism and American
imperialism,” all radio programs have
hailed the “great new victory for the
thought of Mao Tse-tung” which was won
in Peking, the holy city of Chinese Com-
munism.
It was a curious victory,
Devils and Monsters
A T the beginning of June, a brief
announcement noted the dismissal of
Peng Chen, mayor of Peking and first
secretary of the Peking Municipal Com-
mittee of the Communist Party. The
entire Peking Committee was also dismis-
sed because, for the first time in the history
of the People’s Republic, an erring group
had resisted reformation en masse. All
members of the Committee were de-
nounced as henchmen of a “black gang”
which had deliberately set out to thwart
the Party’s will and bring about the
recrudescence of capitalism by curious
means.
On the far side of the moon, the pen
is, it appears, still more dangerous than
the sword, and the pen was the chosen
weapon of the anti-Party group. In their
journalistic commentaries, in their col-
lections of essays, and in their historical
plays the writers concerned had sought
to undermine the confidence of the Chin-
ese masses in the canonical “Thought of
Mao Tse-tung” and to supplant it with “a
bourgeois view of the world.” Not only
the ranks of the Communist Party but
the “power of the State” itself was shaken
by the ruthless attacks of the squadrons
of bourgeois penmen, the Communists
averred. Even today, the immediate enemy
overcome, the Party continues to warn
that socialism in China is engaged in
a conflict with capitalism graphically
described in Chinese as a “you live, I
die; I live, you die struggle.”
The victorious legions of Marxist
orthodoxy did not grow complacent with
the defeat of the hapless Peking Com-
mittee and the suppression of its sinister
publications. As its first official action,
the • new municipal committee removed
other “bourgeois agents” from control of
Peking University, the seedbed of the
Communist revolution. In the provinces,
vice-governors, Communist Party cultural
directors, and newspaper editors were re-
lieved of their duties to the accompani-
ment of “drums and dancing,” as the
Chinese has the term Peking usually
translates as “fanfare.” No drums or
dancing have enlivened the quiet meet-
ings of Regional Political Departments
which are plucking dissidents out of the
economic structure throughout China.
But those sessions are an integral
part of the process of removing dis-
credited professional writers, academi-
cians, . journalists, managers, and techni-
cians from critical positions. The
ultra-orthodox faction now in command
has affirmed that the only wisdom which
is valid in the new age is the wisdom
of the “worker, peasant, soldier masses.”
All persons possessing skills derived
from higher education are in greater or
lesser degree corrupted by “bourgeois
thought.” Even those who came of “pure
proletarian backgrounds” have been con-
taminated by those “bourgeois scholarly
authorities,” their teachers. Many of the
erring intellectuals are being dismissed;
others are “struggled with,” in the stark
Communist phrase, until they recognise
their faults. Seeking to escape the familiar
pitfall of recalcitrance among the
educated, the Communists have already
been lured a long way along the road
toward dependence on .the “innate”
technical skills of the masses, who are
presumed to be ideologically pure. From
1958 to 1960, during the first Great
Leap Forward, that road led not only to
a great victory for “The Thought of Mao
Tse-tung” but to econofhic and adminis-
trative chaos.
It is still not clear how far this new
victory will be pursued. The Com-
munists themselves display an uncharac-
teristic imprecision, in contrast to the
certainty with which they announced the
plans, at once detailed and sweeping, for
the transformation of men and society
by the first Great Leap Forward. But
the tone of the mass meeting throughout
China has already begun to shift from
Marxist denunciation to Maoist uplift.
Having cast out the devils of revi-
sionism and slain the monsters of
capitalism, the enormous revival meeting
which is China today is reaching toward
new exaltation. The essential purge will
continue and expand until all opponents
who escaped all the previous purges are
eliminated. But the emotional tenor in
China now recalls the promises of trans-
figuration which heralded the first Great
Leap. The Chinese Press ecstatically
predicts “a great new era in the history
of mankind.” The glamorous phrases of


the earlier period are being refurbished:
“the wisdom of the worker, peasant,
soldier masses,” subdued during the years
of recovery; “the imminent transition
from socialism to true communism,” that
state of secular bliss which Karl Marx
so gingerly forecast and Mao Tse-tung
later proclaimed could be achieved
through spirit, rather than matter; and
“the creation of a new kind of human
being,” Maoist man, whose advent will
liberate mankind and the Communist
Party of China —from all difficulties.
In just one editorial the “Peking
People’s Daily” carelessly revealed the
stinging reality behind those portents.
“The cultural revolution now under way,
on a scale never known before,” the Party’s
organ declared, “necessarily foreshadows
a development of the socialist revolution
by leaps and bounds and a new Great
Leap Forward in China’s socialist con-
struction.”
China, it appears, is to be thrust into
another great convulsion in a second
grand attempt to bend the laws of mater-
ial nature and human nature to the will
of the Communist Party. China’s organs
of opinion quite candidly warn that the
nation must be purified of “remaining
bourgeois influence,” which is strong and
insidious. They are only slightly more
reticent in their implicit admission that
China’s industrial base hardly qualifies
her as a great power, and they have just
begun to admit that China’s population is
now at least seven hundred million. Since
the true figure is probably several - tens
of millions higher, population growth
appears to be consuming, even before it
is produced, whatever surplus the economy
can throw off. External observers feel
that only massive foreign aid could halt
that self-consuming spiral. But the
extremists who now hold power in China
believe that a massive deployment of
human labor inspired by the uniquely
correct thought of Mao Tse-tung can
accomplish miracles.
Leaping Forward
'J'HE concrete aspects of the new Great
Leap Forward are still being shaped,
for the newly purged Central Committee
has been forced by a combination of its
own impetuosity and the intra-Party power
struggle to move before its plans were fully
cast. The Communists’ awareness of their
previous errors indicates that they will seek
to avoid those specific excesses which
aroused greatest popular resentment and
contrived the greatest practical failures
from 1958 to 1960. Mass compulsory
labor, total social reorganisation, separa-
tion of families, and the segregation of
the sexes, the breakdown of the food
suppiy, and the lavish, wasteful use of
manpower on a host of simultaneous,
grandiose projects simultaneously mal-
administered all those disastrous
aspects of the first Great Leap should be
subject to greater restraint. But the Com-
munist Party may find itself unable to
stem the momentum of the new Great
Leap. Excess has already appeared in
the widespread purge and even more
general alienation of precisely those
men and women who are most essential
to economic progress, the trained adminis-
trators, publicists, and technicians.
The new Great Leap Forward may also
find itself incapable of avoiding excess
because of its unique sponsorship. Despite
their generous praise for their fighting
forces, the People’s Liberation Army, the
Chinese Communists always adhere to
the practice of traditional Chinese
civilisation and kept the military in a
subordinate political position. But the
sword has now prevailed over the pen.
Effective control of China now lies in
the hands of the Liberation Army. Defence
Minister Lin Piao, a Field-Marshal be-
fore formal ranks were abolished last
year, is the single most powerful man in
the country and the heir apparent to
Mao Tse-tung. The rough soldiers, who
believe that they have always conquered
all the enemies they have met, are im-
bued not only with bounding self-
confidence but also with a simplistic
approach to psychological and economic
problems.
In a recent joint declaration with their
European—and sole—ally, Albania, the
Lin Piao-heir apparent.
masters of China affirmed that stringent
coercion and a militarised State would
remain characteristic of true socialist
countries until they entered the blessed
realm of true communism, when the
State disappears. The Chinese Party is
now engrossed with the period of
coercion, presumably feeling that the
eventual paradise can see to itself.
The term Great Leap Forward, which
slipped into the editorial in the “People’s
Daily,” has not been repeated. It is
likely that the Chinese people will not
for some time be told “with fanfare”
that they are in the midst of a new
Great Leap Forward. They were not
told of the creation of urban Great
People’s Communes in 1959-1960 until
those new social organisms were a reality.
The Party obviously knows that the
simple; terms themselves arouse enormous
antagonism and stimulate the opposition
it is determined to crush.
The Chinese under Communism, then,
are markedly different from most of
humanity. Having just recovered from
the shattering experience of the first Great
Leap, they are poised for a new Great
Leap. Disturbed by the persistence of
opposition, though it is mild by com-
parison with the violent discontent pro-
voked by the first Leap, they are adopting
measures which appear certain to
stimulate strong opposition. Having
attained a reasonable standard of living
characterised by an adequate supply of
foodstuffs and a growing trickle of con-
sumer goods, they are about to hazard the
newly attained stability of their economy.
Having alientated a good part of humanity
by their assertive statements and their
intrusive foreign policy, they are inten-
sifying their assertions and threatening
more penetrating intrusions. It is tempt-
ing to shrug and wearily concede that
things are simply upside down in China.
The Human Spirit
B UT there is a consistent pattern in the.
news from the far side of the moon.
In terms of their own logic, developments
in China display a definite internal order.
Whatever understanding is possible un-
fortunately requires an examination of
first premises.
A state of contentment, gradually ex-
panding, is unacceptable to China’s
ideologues because it leads to em-
bourgeoisement. They recognise that
nearly 17 years of intensive effort have
by no means wholly destroyed that
Chinese civilisation which endured for
more than 2000 years, and they fear that
civilisation’s creeping back to cover all
their works. The Chinese hierarchy is
dismayed by the example of the Soviet
Union under Nikita Khrushchev and his
successors, “who are worse than
Khrushchev.” They believe, with much
justification, that increasing material
gratification inescapably engenders de-
mands for even greater material grati-
fication. They admit that they fear above
all else the “recrudescence of capitalism”
in China as a result of such demands,
which compromise the selfless dedication
that is the essential quality of a “true
Marxist-Leninist.” Their fundamental be-
lief has, in fact, evolved beyond dialectical
materialism into a creed which can most
concisely, if clumsily, be described as
dialectical spirituality. Continuing con-
flict between opposites they exalt as the
fundamental condition of nature, but the
essential conflict for them takes place in
the realm of the human spirit.
Political life has now engorged all other
aspects of life in China. In their political
life the Chinese have, for at least two
millennia, been wholly ideological in a
manner unknown in the Western world.
Their church has always been dedicated
to a mundane purpose—the establishment
of Utopia here on earth through the crea-
tion of the perfect human being. The
conscious ideal of creating the “new man”
was first enunciated in a collection of
aphorisms called “The Great Learning,”


which appeared almost half a millennium
before the birth of Christ. From approxi-
mately 200 B.C. until the beginning of
the present century, Confucianism, the
State ideology which delineated the poli-
tical structure, the individual’s personal
behaviour, and his relation to the super-
natural, sought to create the perfect man
in the perfect society. Even the reformers
who fought to remake Confucianism at
the end of the last century, the rebellious
“Westernisers,” took as a guiding principle
the shaping of a new man to meet the
new times.
It is hardly remarkable that the Chin-
ese Communist regime is captivated by
the traditional ideology it so vehemently
rejects, for all revolutionaries are shaped
by their origins. The present hierarchy
consciously seeks the creation of the per-
fect Communist man in the perfect Com-
munist society. Feeling that they will have
failed fundamentally unless they can
impose their own new morality on the
Chinese people, the Communist hierarchy
seeks to compel the Chinese to that trans-
formation by forced emulation of heroes
varying in quality from the omniscient
chairman Mao himself to self-sacrificing
private soldiers. Emulation was the Con-
fucian way.
The Communists are also impelled to
reassert the dominant political and cul-
tural position China enjoyed in the world
known to her before the onslaught of the
West in the nineteenth century. The per-
fect society and the perfect human being
must, they feel, be created everywhere
in the world under their own “uniquely
correct” tutelage. Marxism’s assertion of
universality has combined with the Con-
fucian ideal of bringing order to t’ien-hsia,
“all that is under the heavens,” to con-
firm them in that wider purpose.
The Chinese lack the material resources
to carry out their inspired mission, while
they find their human material within
China increasingly intractable. They have
won no striking victories in their cam-
paign to remake the world by substitut-
ing dedicated human beings guided by an
inspired ideology for the weight of metal.
“People’s war,” the employment of guer-
illas and subversion to overthrow estab-
lished governments, has proved unsucess-
ful in South Vietnam and disastrous in
Indonesia. Lesser Chinese reverses have
occurred in Africa.
A Protestant Tradition
BUT the Communists are mesmerised
by their own obsessions. They cannot
abandon their purposes without negating
their lives’ endeavors. They are, therefore,
compelled to one more attempt to remake
both the Chinese people and the Chinese
economy through another Great Leap
Forward. Because Mao Tse-tung tells
them so, they know that all things will
be possible once they have “completely
remade the thinking of the masses.” Be-
cause they have no choice, they must
believe that they can accomplish miracles
of industrialisation and agricultural
expansion by the intensive application of
human labor. Then China will be the
compelling model for the entire world.
Despite its institutional uniformity, the
glory of Chinese civilisation has always
been its protestant tradition. Under
the most stringent repression of the Con-
fucian empire, courageous men with in-
dependent minds always dared to chal-
lenge official obduracy and to speak out
against oppression. They were often
forced to make their points by indirection
in the settings of novels or plays. They
were often punished for their effrontery.
No more than was the empire is the
Communist State a seamless unity. Des-
pite the most intense intellectual repression
China has ever known, courageous and
independent men have managed to pub-
lish their reproaches. The Party has now
discerned a deep-laid plot in the works
of a few writers who dared to follow the
old tradition of criticism after the first
Great Leap. It is more likely that they
came together informally, drawn by their
common concern for the future of their
country.
Mao Tse-Tung’s withdrawal from the
day-to-day business of the State, perhaps
because his health is failing, transformed
such opposition into a major crisis within
the leadership of the Party. Peng Chen,
only fifth after Mao in the Party, appears
to have allied himself with the moderate
group because it represented his best
chance of attaining power. He seems to
have felt that he enjoyed substantial sup-
port and that he had to act immediately
or be swept away himself. Peng—and
other leaders still unidentified—therefore
joined with the men who cried against
the prospect of another Great Leap For-
ward, arguing: “My God, not again!
The people are reasonably happy, and the
economy is reasonably stable. Let us
build on what we have already built. Let
us not essay another wild leap into chaos
in pursuit of an unobtainable ideal.”
So spoke the pragmatists. They chal-
lenged the ultra-orthodox, who knew that
the preservation of their own power re-
quired of them the strictest adherence to
the extreme policies of Mao Tse-tung.
Even in death, the shade of Mao Tse-
tung is to protect his successors, who
are aware that his personal prestige is
a chief buttress of the regime. He has,
therefore, been canonised in his lifetime,
and his works have been enshrined as
the highest expression of human wisdom.
Only one man enjoys adulation almost
as intense as that accorded Mao Tse-
tung. He is the winner in the power
struggle and the present ruler of China.
First Deputy Prime Minister and vice-
chairman of the Communist Party, Lin
Piao, 58 this year, is exalted for his
“creative application of the thought of
Mao Tse-tung.” The Party’s ideological
bible, “Red Flag,” has just instructed its
readers: “The fundamental point is to
learn how to consistently place Mao Tse-
tung’s thought in the forefront of all
work and to absorb Comrade Lin Piao’s
highly important instructions on the living
study and application of Chairman Mao’s
works.” Such homage is reserved by the
meticulous protocol of Communist China
for the man in full command of day-to-
day operations.
Lin triumphed in the brief power
struggle because of his complete control
of the People’s Liberation Army, which
is today hailed as “the chief pillar of
the State.” The military have now pene-
trated almost all the major centres of
power, and they are, in truth, the driving
force in China.
Vast Confusion
'JHE directives for the present purge
have come not from the “People’s
Daily” but from the organ of the military,
the “Liberation Army Daily.” The respon-
sibilities of power may yet temper the
rough-hewn zealotry of the military, but
they now appear determined to pursue
their chosen course to the end.
With the defeat of the pragmatists,
China is now, once again, a scene of vast
confusion. “Every counter-revolutionary
restoration starts in the realm of ideology
so as to remould public opinion,” the
dominant clique has warned. It has pro-
claimed a vast “cultural revolution,” which
it describes as the greatest, the most intense,
and most sweeping thought reform cam-
paign China has known. The economic
convulsion is about to begin.
This new climacteric will be the third
and, almost without question, the most pro-
found in the brief history of the People’s
Republic. Each such convulsion has been
followed by a period of relaxation, and
each such period of relaxation has lasted
longer than its predecessor. Collectivisa-
tion in 1955 and 1956 was followed by the
relaxation of the brief Hundred Flowers
Movement in 1957. The first Great Leap
Forward of 1958-1960 led to the gradual
recovery of 1961-1964.
The new Great Leap Forward bears
every sign of being the most abrupt and
most vicious since the Communists came
to power. It may not be too much to hope
that it will be followed by a period of
true and lasting relaxation. The zealots
will be discredited by the failure of the
new Leap Forward they are themselves
contriving by their own extremism. The
moderates who succeed them will possess
all the evidence they need to demonstrate
that China cannot possibly triumph in a
continuing confrontation with both the
laws of nature and the nations of the world
outside.
Then the messages from the far side of
the moon may become more intelligible,
and the logic that prevails there may
become more like the logic that prevails
elsewhere.


AMP
UNCERTAINTY
out Cl
RETIREMENT
With tax-free superannuation from Ü blue chip ”
A.M.P. you can plan confidently for your retire-
ment and true independence .
If you are a self-employed person, an employee, a small business
firm or a great industrial enterprise you will gain from A.M.P.’s
long experience in the superannuation field. Every plan is tailored
to precise needs and circumstances to give you maximum benefits.
Any Company or individual with an
A.M.P. Superannuation Plan not only
has the “blue chip” backing of more than
$1,600 million in A.M.P. assets but re-
ceives “blue chip” service from Super-
annuation experts.
These are among the reasons why
AMP IS THE LARGEST UNDERWRITER
OF SUPERANNUATION IN AUSTRALIA
D 5980


An Australian Nuclear Reactor
By S. T. BUTLER
(Professor of Theoretical Physics, University of Sydney)
IN a recent article in THE BULLETIN
(8., June 18) Mr. W. C. Wentworth
has once again raised the question
as to whether Australia should build a
large nuclear power station. Mr. Went-
worth himself strongly advocates it.
The question has, of course, been de-
bated for many years; originally, however,
the cost of nuclear power was so much in
excess of ordinary coal power in Aus-
tralia that the whole idea was ruled out
on an economic basis alone. In the mean-
time, capital costs for building nuclear
power stations have decreased and it is
perhaps appropriate that the matter be
reconsidered at this stage.
Mr. Wentworth’s own suggestion is for
a 300 megawatt (300 million watt) power
reactor coupled in with the Snowy Moun-
tains Scheme. The idea here is that the
reactor could be kept generating full
power continuously; it is under such con-
ditions that the cost of nuclear power is
minimised and made comparable with that
produced by a coal station. A reactor
coupled in with the Snowy Scheme could
produce electricity direct during peak
loading periods, whereas during off-peak
periods it might be used to pump large
quantities of water from one level to a
higher level. The energy thus stored could
then be transformed into electricity when
desired via normal hydro-electric plants.
Mr. Wentworth is certainly correct that
a large nuclear power system operating in
some such manner can now be built and
operated in Australia at a cost comparable
with that of a corresponding coal station.
He concedes that there is still a small
margin of total cost advantage to the coal-
fired plant, but believes that other con-
siderations should now outweigh these
relatively small economic factors. In brief,
the following are the main two factors
which enter:
• nuclear technology in Australia;
• the production of plutonium and
nuclear defence.
As regards the first of these points, Mr.
Wentworth makes the following remarks:
“Nuclear power is the power of the future.
Its competitive position is constantly im-
proving, and it is relatively certain that
before long it will be driving the genera-
tors of the world. Australia should not
divorce herself from this nuclear techno-
logy. Without our own nuclear power
system, our engineers and designers are
going to be left in a backwater as an in-
dustrial country. We cannot afford the
maintenance of this gap.”
This is a very valid argument and one
with which most nuclear physicists in this
country would agree. The second of the
above points involves, of course, highly
political considerations as to whether Aus-
tralia should place herself in a position of
being able to build nuclear weapons, com-
pletely independent of outside support. I
shall not comment on the political issues
raised by this question, but rather will
merely describe some of the fascinating
aspects of plutonium production from
“breeder reactors.” All nuclear power pro-
duced in the world today comes from
fission reactions. The most famous of these
occurs when the isotope uranium 235 is
bombarded by elementary particles called
neutrons. When a nucleus of uranium 235
is* struck by a quite slow speed neutron
it breaks into two lighter nuclei, plus two
or three more neutrons with the release
of a considerable amount of energy. The
neutrons “manufactured” in the process
can then hit another uranium 235 nucleus,
which in turn undergoes the same trans-
formation. Thus a chain reaction is estab-
lished which, when uncontrolled, generates
the explosion of an atomic bomb; when
the rate of the chain process is slowed
down and controlled we have a nuclear
reactor. The “controlling” is done by
means of material which absorbs neutrons
leaving just enough for the chain reaction
to “take over.”
Naturally occurring uranium is a mix-
ture of three isotopes; more than 99 per-
cent consists of uranium 238, 0.712 per-
cent is uranium 235, and there is even a
trace of uranium 234. Unfortunately, the
most common, uranium 238, cannot itself
sustain a chain reaction. In order for a
nucleus of this isotope to fission it must
be hit by a very high-speed neutron; and
yet the neutrons which are then released
in the fission processes are not fast enough
to cause the splitting of other uranium
238 nuclei.
Chain Reactions
It is for this reason that in the ordinary
production of an atomic bomb a method
had to be found to be able to separate
uranium 235 from naturally occurring
uranium. An enormous separation plant
was built in America, and the cost of
this separation was one of the main factors
in the cost of producing the first atomic
bombs. The magnitude of the industrial
effort required to produce the so-called
enriched uranium can be illustrated very
simply. The total capital expenditure of
the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission for
the separation of uranium 235 from
uranium 238 was 2500 million dollars
prior to 1956 alone; the U.S. has three
separation plants, and these together con-
sume more electric power to run than
the whole of France.
At present it seems that there are three
countries in the world able to produce
enough enriched uranium to support a
major program for nuclear power as well
as military requirements; these are, of
course, the United States, Russia, and
China. Controlled nuclear reactors using
highly concentrated uranium 235 are often
called “fast reactors” because in them the
neutrons produced in each fission reaction
propagate the chain reaction directly.
A nuclear program for power produc-
tion and military purposes using uranium
235 is beyond the means of any country
outside the abovementioned “Big Three.”
All other countries are forced to use other
means of developing their nuclear power.
Despite what I said earlier about natural
uranium itself not being able to support
a chain reaction, it is in fact possible to
“trick” natural uranium into sustaining a
chain reaction by use of substances which
are called moderators.
Suppose a piece of uranium is sur-
rounded with some material such as
heavy water or graphite, a nuclear chain
reaction can be sustained by a rather
complex process. If fission is started
among some of the uranium 235 nuclei
present, neutrons are produced. If it were
not for the moderator these neutrons
would suffer a very simple fate; each of
them would collide with one of the highly
abundant uranium 238 nuclei and simply
be absorbed by forming a nucleus of plu-
tonium. The neutrons would not have had
enough speed to fission the uranium 238
nuclei and would simply be absorbed
with the production of plutonium.
The function of the moderator is that,
if a neutron passes through it, it has its
speed slowed down drastically so that no
longer will a uranium 238 nucleus even
absorb it; such an extremely slow neutron
will thus just bounce off uranium 238
nuclei until it eventually collides with
a uranium 235 nucleus and produces a
fission reaction. A nuclear reactor thus
operating on natural uranium has a
very remarkable property. It not only
produces nuclear power but gradually
converts some of the previously useless
uranium 238 into plutonium. And plu-
tonium itself is as good as uranium 235
for using as fuel in fast nuclear reactors
and atomic bombs. Naturally an atomic
bomb cannot be built out of natural
uranium because the chain reaction can
never be made to go fast enough.
It is in this way that countries such as
Britain and France have developed
atomic bombs. What these countries have
done is to set up nuclear power stations
with reactors using natural uranium; these
reactors not only produce power but also
accumulate plutonium. After such a re-
actor has operated for a certain length
of time, the used fuel elements are taken
out and the plutonium can be extracted
by a relatively cheap chemical method.
Thus Britain and France have obtained
fissionable material for atomic weapons
simply by making plutonium as a by-
product from their nuclear reactors.
In fact, the United Kingdom today is
generating almost a quarter of its elec-
tricity from nuclear power stations situ-
ated all over the country and is thereby
saving the equivalent of nearly 20 mil-
lion tons of coal a year. Most of
Britain’s commercial nuclear power
stations are using natural uranium,
although these are producing plutonium


V
ru
u
SUITE I.
ut n
X
When you think of heating... any heating...
think of GILBARCO
The right time to think-ebowt heating is when a construction is still on
the drawing board. It’s the right time to call in the Gilbarco man, too.
Gilbarco are specialists in the heating field. Their timely advice during
planning can mean a much simplified and efficient job when actual
installation comes. The Gilbarco advisory service is well versed in all
types of heating requirements ... no job is too large or too small.
Call in Gilbarco. They will advise you on—
* Industrial Space Heating * Domestic and Commercial Warm Air and Hot Water Central Heating
* Domestic, Commercial and Industrial Hot Water Boilers * Fully Automatic Oil Burners
0
GILBERT & BARKER
Mfg. Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Huntley Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AT BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, TOWNSVILLE, NEWCASTLE, HOBART.
Please supply further details to:—
NAME .
ADDRESS...
□ industrial Warm Air Heating □commercial and'Warm Air Central Heating □ Boilers for Domestic H. W. & Central Heating.
GB:P387(a)«
at such a rate that several vast plu-
tonium reactors are also now in opera-
tion. The production of plutonium from
the so-called “breeder reactors” is con-
siderably in excess of anything Britain
needs for atomic weapons.
There is no doubt then that a nuclear
power plant in Australia using a breeder
reactor operating on natural uranium
would, as a complete by-product, build
up for this country a stockpile of plu-
tonium. Australia’s own natural resources
of uranium would, of course, provide the
basic fuel. Thus this country will be
able to produce atomic weapons if she
chooses to do so; there is no doubt
Australia has the scientists required for
this, and she would then also have all
required materials. The project would
be completely independent of outside
assistance in any way.
The March
on Mississippi
From MURRAY KEMPTON
THURSDAY, Canton: From a distance
there had been the prejudice that
this affair was of no importance. On
the scene there was only the conviction.
Just 143 of these wanderers were still
afoot on the road between Benton and
Canton when one found them in the morn-
ing. At their front walked Martin Luther
King and Stokely Carmichael, of the
Student Non-violent Co-ordinating Com-
mittee, an NBC announcer between them,
to whom they delivered variant points of
view on black power.
It rained, off and on, in Canton that
afternoon and Stokely Carmichael ran
among the crowds of local negroes on
the sidewalks crying out “Black power,
black power;” they were not looking at
him.
There was one of those emergencies
which the movement, because it has lost
the public’s attention, seemed now' to need
to invent. The County of Madison had
refused the marchers permission to erect
their tents on the grounds of the negro
school. They went to the courthouse first
and sang their songs and, < under the de-
lusion of that moment without inhibition
by the establishment, the local negroes
joined the march to the school grounds
to put up the tents.
Suddenly there were no more State
policemen in sight. Stokely Carmichael
and Martin Luther King stood on the
moving truck which carried the tents of
the marchers and Stokely Carmichael put
his long arm in the air and said he under-
stood that the troopers thought they could
come and take the school. “Let us show
them,” he said, “that all the scared niggers
are dead.”
Then the eye wandered and one under-
stood where the State police had gone.
They were lined up fifty yeards away in
their gas masks, their carbines at the ready.
Someone counted sixty of them. “This,”


HHH
*
-m mi
- IK
; If jm
mm
m
* v
*■■#■«
%l
•«
m
«■*
V>*
m
3^*:
% ;
,„iM’
*»«
1
■
**
»"•*
*m#x**»«*
##*
. ,:>< .... ,
€S
9f*
-
I have the children to consider...
I want to give them a good education. Well, Ampol helps there, giving grants to univer-
sities, spending money on the progress of knowledge.
My main concern is the kind of future they can expect. I want them free to choose the
profession that suits them . . . not forced to take just any job. And I want security and
prosperity for them.
Well, that is the kind of life Ampol is helping to build. Its earnings stay in Australia and
are spent on developing Australia, on making us a stronger, richer nation . . . because
Ampol is owned and operated by Australians for Australians.
It’s worth it . . . buying Ampol.
THE AUSTRALIAN COMPANY
fIMPOL
AP:PIO94


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
Qi%
TWO
YEARS
7%
FIVE
YEARS
IQ
7
7
/r
2 /0
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 5%
90-179 DAYS 5Vs%
180-269 DAYS 5%%
270-360 DAYS 5%%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6Va%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS GVs%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7Va%
TEN YEARS 7Vs%
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
5643
said Stokely Carmichael, “is when we
separate the men from the mice.” And
then there fell upon Madison County
negroes the silence born of an understand-
ing how brief had been their moment of
mockery and affirmation, and they began
to drift away from the truck. The marchers
were alone again. They started to put up
the tents.
The troopers came down and stood wait-
ing until as much of the game as wished
came down into their hunting preserve.
And then the march’s crew raised their
arms and held the tent edges aloft and
the troopers threw their gas canisters. The
wind was perfect for the attack.
“Get up,” a trooper said to the youth
he was kicking. The voice came hollow and
impersonal through the gas mask. The
reality of power had no face except the
long snout and the plastic eyes. At the
other end of the ground, two troopers had
a white man down. One of them hit him
three times in the face with the butt of
his carbine. One could hear the bolt
bounce and the wood crack. He rose at
last outside on the road, one side of his
face pushed in and the other swollen out,
and went away —on his back a patch with
the inking “Medical Assistant.”
T'HE Attorney-General of the United
States said late at night that he was
confident that law and order were being
maintained. The Governor of Mississippi
announced that the marchers had attacked
his State police. None of the Attorney-
General’s representatives on the spot
seemed in a position to say what every
witness knew, that this statement was a
lie. It is, of course, law and order when
everyone who hits anyone else is wearing
a uniform.
Friday, Philadelphia. The marchers
had almost been driven from Philadelphia
here, four days ago. According to their
nature and their commitment, they had
to return today. The coming back to
Neshoba County began with the sight of
those persons who had never left it, of
the cars with the rebel flags around the
courthouse, and of the Baptist Church
on the hill above Philadelphia, where per-
haps 200 of the county’s negroes sat and
waited for what they knew they would
have to endure, at worst to be hit, at best
to be scorned. They sang a long time about
how they were ready to do what the spirit
says they have to do. It was more a prayer
than a song. Their leader made no effort
to increase their beat. They knew, and
yet they were ready, and they had earned
the right to be a little sad about the
moment before them.
Then the marchers camei out of their
cars and the beat increased. It is the point
of their mission to tell the county Negroes
that they have nothing to be afraid of.
That is, of course, not true, but it is in
the small lies to self that real self-respect
begins. The marchers have earned their
right, too.
The march back was over Negro gravel
and came at last to white pavements and
its course was being directed by the
Sheriff’s Deputy, Cecil Price, charged by
the Federal Government with having con-
spired to abridge the Civil Rights of James
Chaney, Mickey Schwerner, and Andrew
Goodman by assisting in their murder
and burial in a Red River bank.
Sunday, Jackson. And now the poor
143 of Thursday come down from Touga-
100 for the last eight miles, 8000 by now
and another 6000 waiting to join them at
points along the way and all singing about
the light of freedom.
The march had been slow on Thursday
from the mere need to endure. It was
as slow now from the congestion of trium-
phant wake, and when it came, after an
eternity, to the State capital, the few
white teenagers who had come to scoff
were quite invisible behind the incredible
file of black faces. There seemed, indeed,
more white marchers than there were
white protesters.
So these men, Meredith, King, and
Carmichael, have done all these things
they have done because they have refused
to accept what everyone else knows to
be the reality of existence. Now they had
been rescued by the poor Negroes who
had refused to accept the harshest reality
in their country. No one thanked anyone
else. Thanks are for the distinguished
visitors. Members of families do not owe
it to one another.


ONE MORE
WEEK
Retreat from Romano's
“ONE CARRARA MARBLE bust of
Napoleon Bonaparte by Fecit” in the
auctioneer’s notice was the only amusing
thing about the selling-up of what re-
mained of Romano’s restaurant in Sydney
last week. Romano’s went out of business
many months ahead of the demolition of
the building in which it was housed.
Gravas’ fish cafe in King Street will be
sold up this month, but here the wreckers
are already in. An auction is scheduled
for a third hallowed spot, Mario’s in Mel-
bourne, but here a reprieve is hoped for.
It had been a long, hard retreat for
Romano’s from the time when cafe society
judged its degree of sobriety by kissing the
third waistcoat button of Napoleon’s vest
as they left the restaurant. First competi-
tion came from wartime Chequers, then
the mushrooming of smart little places in
the near-city area. Romano’s became very
quietly elegant indeed until it made the
fatal decision to follow Sammy Lee into
the Go-Go world. By then it was all over
bar the shouting, and last week the shout-
ing was heard.
The young, successful restaurateurs
descended to sweep clean the hoarded
silver and the champagne buckets. Of the
200 people bidding, auctioneer Geoff Gray
judged that 150 were restaurant owners,
hotel people, or from the fringe, such as
strip joints.
Beppi Pilotto, headwaiter for 32 years,
watched his old restaurant meet its Water-
loo. Moving among the piled, the crowded
tables for the last time, he . remained a
dignified figure, still almost hosting the
occasion. His mission? To buy “his friend
on the stairs,” Lot 427, the bust of
Napoleon.
He brought $560. Beppi had planned on
“There has been a frank exchange of
poems.”
$5OO, but the extra dollars were of no
account. Napoleon’s destination? Gray an-
nounced that the marble would be going
overseas to “a centre of French culture.”
Could that be the new hotel in Noumea?
Wildlife in the West
JUNE WAS A great month for wildlife
in the West, where it you may recall
was under royal patronage. First there
was the birth of a pseudemydura umbrina
at South Perth Zoo, not quite the first
of its kind, but nearly so. And then the
town site of Casuarina vanished from
Western Australian maps, which was quite
a breakthrough, really.
The zoo’s happy event was significant
because this was the first short-necked
tortoise born to survive in captivity. Its
predecessor, the first, was unfortunately
and, its friends insist, accidentally eaten
by a bigger relative. The short-necked
tortoise lives in the wild only in a swamp
near Perth, burying in a kind of reverse
hibernation to miss the bushfires that
might otherwise wipe it out during sum-
mer. Its main attribute, as far as the
general public is concerned, is that it
pulls its head in sideways, but to natural-
ists it is a VIT.
Its home was saved from subdivision
by a public appeal, and this brings up
the matter of Casuarina: This is the home
of another Western Australian original,
the noisy scrub bird whose whipcrack call
apparently disappeared about 1889 to be
heard again at Christmas 1961, a red-
letter time for noisy scrub-bird lovers,
who include the Duke of Edinburgh.
Casuarina was to have been built on the
bird’s home country, 25 miles east of
Albany, but nature lovers revolted, and
the Government succumbed. The 40 pairs
of these creatures, believed to be in the
area, will rest there in peace.
Aghast at Artists
“WHEN WE FIRST went to Mt. Gravatt,
where I was left this house, Merv and I
thought we’d move straight away,” Barbara
Moriarty said. “You could sort of hear
the neighbors wondering what the place
was coming to. A man with a beard who
painted and a woman who talked politics.
But Invermore Street is quite proud of
Merv now.”
At the Rudy Komon Gallery, where
Queensland painter Mervyn Moriarty is
having his second one-man exhibition in
Sydney (his first was at Barry Stem’s),
we had just seen the artist swept away to
be photographed against a large work of
aluminium, wood, and paint which ex-
pressed man’s earthbound existence be-
tween sea and sky.
“Talk to my wife,” cried Mr. Moriarty,
a tall, thin 29-year-old with a splendidly
ginger beard. “She understands me a lot
better than I do.” And so we learnt that
Mervyn Moriarty had met his wife in a
department store when he was buying
paints, lived only for painting, and was
extremely vague about going to the comer
store in a suitable state of dress for Mt.
Gravatt.
“If you take a close look,” Mrs. Mori-
arty said, “you can see he’s even a bit
vague about signing his name. Once a
painting is finished he likes to get straight
on with the next one. But in four years
of marriage I still think he’s the most
wonderful, interesting, and fascinating
man.”
Mervyn Moriarty was born in Brisbane,
went to State schools, and has always
wanted to paint. “My parents were quite
happy to hang my paintings on the wall,
but they thought it was crazy to want to
make a living out of it. My father wasn’t
exactly square in fact, he would have
made a brilliant actor if he’d got the
chance -r- but our family was rather strong
on musicians, and musicians can be just
as aghast at art as solicitors or bank man-
agers.”
He studied with Jon Molvig and Andrew
Sibley and in 1961 began to exhibit in
mixed shows at South Yarra and the Kim
Bonythqn Gallery in Adelaide. He teaches
one night a week at a technical college
and does a spot of housepainting when he
needs extra money. For relaxation he goes
rock-climbing, in places like Mt. Tibrogar-
gan, a large volcanic plug that forms part
of Queensland’s famous Glasshouse
Mountains.
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
Don’t talk to me of mathematics. I
have come to the conclusion that I have
learnt to live without it.
Duke of Edinburgh.
I welcome foreigners as pupils if for
no other reason that so many of them
remind us of what we would like to
think an English gent used to be like.
Headmaster of Gresham’s School, England.
“I Love a Sunburnt Country.”
President Johnson.
Great Britain alone among the larger
nations of the Atlantic society has so far
failed to match her economic efforts to
her economic appetites.
—McGeorge Bundy, addressing the U.S.
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
I should explain that we have absolutely
no plans. The great thing is never to
make plans.
Robert Greaves.
I have got no objections to politicians
being interested in personal power. I
think they ought to he.
Michael Foot, British MP.
I can’t wait to get out of vital, pro-
gressive, liberal Melbourne and hurry
back to London while I can still get
me some of that decadence.
Ray Taylor.
Parting is such sweet sorrow.
Tun Lim Yew Hock.
France is par excellence a country of
liberty and a Western Nation.
—General de Gaulle.
State Aid for Church schools is in the
lap of the gods,' and that is a very
uncertain seat.
—Arthur Calwell.
The vast British Empire, built up over
hundreds of years, has been reduced to
ruins in the past 15 years largely through
the influence of television.
—Dr. Albert Hertzog, South African minister
responsible for broadcasting.


TANNERS BUSH LORE
U X 1 y-U
Jjjg,
"None of that Folk language round here, young man."
i mm
"As Tassy Drysdale said to Donny Friend
and Johnny Olsen . . ."
"That's an umbrella stand the torture
instruments are round here."
“We're preserving all this for posterity."


Heston, off the wide-screen
The rigors of re-creating history
By CHARLES HIGHAM
FRAMED against a Cecil B. De Mille
sunset in the Cinema Scope-shaped
windows of his suite at the Menzies
Hotel in Sydney, Charlton Heston cut the
kind of superhumanly splendid figure he
had as Moses in “The Ten Command-
ments,” when he climbed (literally) to
the top of Mount Sinai for one scene.
In the peak of condition, here to read
Melville, Twain, Thomas Wolfe, Robert
Frost, and some Australian poets, he
fully lived up to the legend: the falcon’s
profile, the bullock-yoke shoulders, the
piercing eyes: here was someone who had
exactly the right qualities of heroic and
improbable stature to play not only Moses
but Andrew Jackson, Michelangelo, Gor-
don of Khartoum, El Cid, and Ben Hur
as well.
His words are delivered with the same
strong, carefully spaced emphases as on the
screen, and the air throughout has a highly
charged although subdued for the inter-
view theatricality that makes it clear
how he has held his own not merely
against Stephen Boyd but against Laurence
Olivier as well: the USIS knew its onions
in choosing this uncomplicatedly normal
figure as ambassador for its literature.
Imagine those American poets of mental
illness Robert Lowell, Anne Sexton
doing a highbrow McCall and Brill
on us, and the mind boggles . . .
During a conversation that never flagged
across two hours, Heston ranged across
the whole of his career from the time
when he was signed by Hal. B. Wallis
at Paramount on the strength of a TV
appearance in “Wuthering Heights” to
his latest performance, highly praised
everywhere, as Gordon in “Khartoum.”
He had even figured a final immortalis-
ation in Strawberries Heston, consisting
of fresh strawberries with sour cream,
honey, and cinnamon, on the Paramount
commissary menu. He is a dedicated crafts-
man, and it wasn’t surprising to learn
that he always deeply studied the charac-
ter of the men he portrayed, reading every-
thing in existence that dealt with them.
For the part of Gordon - 1 — opposite Laur-
ence Olivier’s The Mahdi he had re-
read Lytton Strachey’s account, which he
thought flawed, and Elton’s definitive
biography, as well as the famous Khartoum
diary fragments, and all Gordon’s letters.
Best of all, he had liked Alan Moore-
head’s superb account in the Nile books.
“Gordon was one of the most remark-
able and at the same time archetypal of
the long line of British soldier-mystics. The
pages of history are studded with figures
of that kind, from Clive of India through
Wingate and even Lawrence. He was
a most curious fellow Wingate said
Gordon invented guerilla warfare, yet
his whole personality was a collec-
tion of contrasts on the one hand
an almost pathological shyness and with
that a quality of theatrical flamboyance
he would try to avoid all public appear-
ances, but when he was shamed or bribed
into appearing at a gathering he would
lean on the mantelpiece and dominate the
whole proceedings.”
Although Gordon was a small man,
Heston said, he had a quality of enormous
physical vitality. And so had Michelangelo,
whom Heston had played in “The Agony
and the Ecstasy.”
“Michelangelo was also a very small
man. But he was enormously muscular
he could hew stones ... he had the
strength of a giant . . .”
Heston had to keep in fine shape for
these giants, didn’t he? “Acting is after
all a physical craft, like the dance. An
actor’s tool is his body. It demands athletic
condition to play Macbeth or Falstaff . . .
For Falstaff I’d wear padding . . . but
to play it I could not afford to be like Fal-
staff in less than peak condition. So
there are all those dreary setting-up
exercises. Those 14 bloody lengths of the
pool . .
After a first film he regarded as routine,
“Dark City,” Heston had made King
Vidor’s “Ruby Gentry,” a wild fantasy
about a high-powered woman (Jennifer
Jones) who set out to destroy the small-
town folk who scorned her. In the final
scene, she and the character played by
Heston had shot it out in a death-struggle
in the mud that mirrored the director’s
own “Duel in the Sun.” “Jennifer was
terrified of guns. And, of course, she had
to fire one at me. She managed to
come through, but for a time it was
touch and go. The physical conditions
were very difficult . . . we were wet and
muddy and miserable . . . and there was
that studio fog, made of chemicals . . .”
He had been confronted with a still
worse ordeal on “The Naked Jungle,”
about a marching army of marabunta
South American warrior ants adapted
by Philip Yordan from the famous
“Esquire” short story “Leiningen Versus
the Ants,” which in its turn had owed
much to H. G. Wells. In the last scene,
Heston, as the planter Leiningen, had had
to run smeared in oiL through the ants.
“Instead of oil, the studio used molasses.
I was soaked in five gallons of molasses.
Can you imagine, molasses and in the
afternoon, all afternoon, I attracted swarms
of flips . . . and the ants really
were on the molasses ... for the long
shots they simulated them with sawdust,
but they were crawling over me for the
closer shots they weren’t the marabunta ,
of course but they were real ants
Californian wood ants . . .” And for
“Secret of the Incas” he had had to climb
high in the Andes, and for “Ben Hur”
plunge up to his neck in the icy winter
Mediterranean. Not to mention that Sir
Edmund Hillary-like stint up Mount Sinai
as Moses . . .
What did Heston have planned for the
future? “ ‘Officer Factory,’ a story about
officers in a World War II training school,
from a novel by Kirst, and a project I’m
brewing with Franklin Schaffner, director
of ‘The War Lord.’ It is about a pro-
fessional footballer a quarterback. They
take tremendous physical punishment
they are frequently outweighed.” Heston
stretched his massive shoulders, his cheeks
glowing, looking dauntingly huge. “This is
one of the very few situations in a modern
story I can be the physical second lead
. . .” he said with a fond and justifiable
smile of pride.


Not for “Life”-for posterity
Lord Moran’s dilemmas and readers’ delights
By DAVID McNICOLL
SHOULD he or shouldn’t he? So much
has been churned out about Lord
Moran’s ethical standards in strip-
ping his former patient Winston
Churchill —to his underpants that many
people have overlooked consideration of
whether or not it is a good, enjoyable
book that the famous doctor has written.
As a matter of fact, it is. Surprising,
because most doctors are not enchanting
experts with the pen. I except a few
books, among them “Viewless Winds” and
“Story of San Michele,” both delightful
and both by doctors and for some
strange reasons the titles have stayed in
my mind while the authors’ names have
disappeared.
Lord Moran writes well and without
undue fuss or pretension. Even if he
had been an execrable writer he would
have been on a winner with this book,
because it was a sure-fire subject. And,
of course, the prepublication controversy
clinched it. Particularly, Randolph’s rage.
Randolph is super-sensitive on the sub-
ject of his father. Some years ago when
he was visiting Sydney I was seated next
to him at a dinner party. It had been
announced some time before that Win-
ston’s forthcoming war volumes had been
sold for a vast sum to “Life” magazine.
I innocently asked Randolph: “How’s
your father getting on with the material
he’s writing for ‘Life’?” Randolph splut-
tered with rage, and giving me a wither-
ing look said: “My father is not writing
for ‘Life.’ He is writing for posterity.”
A techy chap, Randolph.
There is little doubt that if all books
about Churchill were to be written by
Winston himself or by Randolph, very
little of a critical nature would come to
light. Winston was not quick to admit
mistakes and he regarded as stupid any
people who did not understand and
appreciate his foibles. Because he was a
mighty man, all reasonable observers
viewed with tolerance his bull-headedness,
his crazy extrovertism (hats, boiler-suits,
etc., he made L.B.J. look restrained!),
his rudeness and arrogance.
There is a tendency in Churchill
worshippers to see nothing but good. A
commendable loyalty, but unsatisfactory
for historians. What Lord Moran has
done—and he must be thanked for it—
is to reveal Churchill as a man subject
to, and submitting to, all the strains and
stresses which beset other mortals.
Much of the criticism of Lord Moran’s
book has been levelled at his delineation
of Churchill’s latter-day decrepitude.
But this is surely the most fascinating
part of the book. The public was given
little indication that his mental faculties
were failing, and that he had been sub-
ject to strokes. In fact, these disasters
were cunningly kept from the public by
top men round Churchill. This was,
without doubt, reprehensible; but these
men wanted Churchill to remain the
figurehead at that time, just as passionately
as Churchill himself was determined to
hang on. It was tragic, for gradually the
stories of his failings leaked out, and when
they did—and were confirmed —his tot-
tering life became a sort of grotesque
charade. As a truly great man, he
deserved to die at the height of his
powers, not crumble away with the
inevitable erosion extending to his public
image.
Ross Campbell made a good point in
a review of the Moran book. This was
that Moran gave no indication of Chur-
chill’s humor, his ability to light a room
with his gaiety when he wished to. There
is no doubt Moran makes Winston sound
pretty dour most of the time, and often
a classic room-clearing bore.
How Lord Moran can detail conversa-
tions without the aid of the modern
tape-recorder is a matter of wonderment
for those delving into “The Struggle for
Survival.” Some of the recalls sound a
little phony; others ring very true. Some
of the best are the exchanges between
Churchill and Lord Moran himself. One
such exchange, on oratory, reveals Moran
as an erudite student of speech and lan-
guage. I thought the book came to life
far more at such times than it did when
Lord Moran offered his assessment of the
various statesmen with whom his trucu-
lent patient was thrown into contact.
66 A burnt-out case 99
'J'O revert to what I wrote in the first
line should he, or shouldn’t he,
have written the book and breached his
Hippocratic oath? Lord Moran’s own
view was that “It is proper and only
fair to him that the reader should be
given details of his mounting decrepi-
tude.”
This argument has, for the past two
months, locked in battle the medical pro-
fession, former Cabinet Ministers, civil
servants, and Randolph Churchill. Ran-
dolph has been very forthright in his
objections. Writing in the London “Daily
Telegraph” he hotly resisted the sugges-
tion by Lord Moran that Winston was
“a burnt-out case” after the war. Win-
ston, according to Randolph, was “like
a bear with a sore head” after his elec-
toral defeat in 1945. “But he soon
recovered his equilibrium and decided to
continue as leader of the Tory Party
and to write his six-volume account of
the Second World War, which was widely
acclaimed. This work earned him the
Nobel Prize for literature in 1953. Not
bad for a burnt-out case.”
“At the same time,” wrote Randolph,
“he managed, with able lieutenants, to
reform the Tory Party so that five years
later they were able to come within six
of defeating the Socialists in 1950, and
in 1951, when the Socialists threw in their
hand, he was able, as Moran says, to
‘crawl back’ to 10 Downing Street with
a majority of 17.”
“What this supposedly perceptive
doctor did not understand was that
Churchill was a man of many moods
and reacted more than most other men
would have to news good and bad. He
felt every situation through his finger-
tips. He did not expect to be observed
and reported.”
The most telling anti-Moran thrust
was Randolph’s revelation that Moran
tried to get himself a job in the new
Churchill Government and was rejected
by Winston. He had wanted to be
Minister of Health, and, according to
Randolph, he “ranted and raved” at the
Prime Minister when the suggestion was
turned down.
This shaft from Randolph must have
stung Moran. It was an episode which
did not figure in his book, and had to
be answered. So he made a separate
denial of the suggestion that he had
wanted Winston to make him Minister
of Health. What had really happened,
Moran said, was that Churchill had
taken amiss his criticism of the manner
in which Ministers of Health were
appointed. “Sir Winston did not take
my criticism in his usual good-humored
way,” wrote Moran. “Indeed, he took
sharp exception to what I said. ‘You
know nothing about politics,’ he said, ‘I
believe you want to be Minister of
Health.’ I allowed myself to become
worked up over this absurd charge and
we parted without patching up the
quarrel. My wife made peace between
us.”
A points victory for Randolph, I feel,
and a revelation which must alter, to
some extent, the reader’s approach to parts
of Moran’s book.
Of course, Randolph, as usual, went
too far. He called Moran “a slippery
controversialist” whose book did not in-
jure Winston’s reputation but “rather
smirched his own.”
Lord Moran made a number of mild
responses to his critics. He said his deci-
sion to publish the diaries he had kept
during his 25 years with Churchill had
not been taken without a lot of heart-
searching. A number of distinguished
men whose judgment he valued had urged
him to publish the diaries. Among them
was the late Brendan Bracken, who had
been one of Churchill’s closest friends.
In a long letter to “The Times,” Moran
wrote: “My book was written with the
knowledge and approval of Sir Winston
Churchill. When I told him what was
in my mind he said cheerfully, ‘I am cer-
tain I shall like anything you write about
me.’ He spoke to Brendan Bracken, who
arranged for me to see Sir Winston s
solicitor about an aspect of the business


a great moment
for all
whisky
drinkers
Connoisseurs are aware of the vital part grain plays in pro-
ducing a fine, smooth whisky. Australian barley, grown
under ideal climatic conditions, has reached such high
quality that it is now recognised internationally for its
superb whisky-producing qualities. This is important for
Australia; it is important for the entire Australian Whisky
industry. For the first time our modern distilleries, with
their highly skilled blenders and strict quality controls, are
now able to create smooth, matured whiskies of truly
unique character.
This is the era when Australian Whisky has achieved full
international recognition—so much so that it is being
sought in increasing quantities by overseas countries.
Connoisseurs are already celebrating this new era. Why
not join in and enjoy a nip or two tonight? You’ll be
pleasantly surprised.
side of the book. When that is said,
what is left? Generosity is always wise,
said my well-loved master. When he went,
smaller men took his place and sought
to speak for him.”
Sir Winston’s former solicitor and four
of his former private secretaries attacked
Lord Moran for publishing the diaries.
Mr. J. R. Colville, a former private secre-
tary, said: “This is a book which should
not have appeared 15 months after the
subject’s death and should perhaps not
have been published at all.”
Two women secretaries castigated Lord
Moran for presenting too gloomy a pic-
ture of Churchill’s last years. Mr.
Anthony Montague Browne, who was
Churchill’s secretary in the last 12 years,
said Moran should have told Lady Chur-
chill that Sir Winston had agreed to the
publication of the diaries.
Lord Normanbrook, former secretary of
the Cabinet, attacked Moran for publish-
ing without authority views he had ex-
pressed on Churchill’s capacity in his last
years as Prime Minister. Another dis-
tinguished physician, Lord Brain, who was
called in to examine Churchill by Lord
Moran, declared publicly that the refer-
ences to him in the book did not
accurately reflect his diagnoses at the
time.
The medical profession was divided over
the ethical aspects of Moran’s disclosures.
The “Lancet” opposed their publication
and said people in Moran’s position had a
special duty to set a good example in such
matters. But two other medical journals,
the “British Medical Journal” and
“Medical News,” took the opposing view
and welcomed the book as a valuable con-
tribution to history.
The papers of Britain were divided, but
most approved of the writing of the
diaries. “About this there can be no
doubt,” said “The Times.” “In generations
to come, in many lands, men and women
will want to know what kind of a man
Churchill was. What would we not give to
have similarly intimate, reliable testimony
about Caesar or Napoleon? How eagerly
we snap up every personal revelation about
Pitt!
“Whether Lord Moran should have been
so quick to publish is another matter.
There is not much in his volume to em-
barrass anyone still living. It is the fact of
publishing while so many concerned are
still alive and Churchill himself barely 18
months dead that is embarrassing.”
The “Daily Mail” said, “It may hurt the
Churchill family, but this is the stuff of
history.” The “Daily Express” review said:
“I was not shocked by the book. Not dis-
gusted. Sometimes bored by irrelevant
medical details. Medical ethics are a mat-
ter for the general medical council. What
concerns me is the literary and his-
torical value of the book. Let me
say at once it is a book of high
quality and unflagging interest, a priceless
witness to the history of our time.” But
Lord Birkenhead’s review of the book in
the “Daily Telegraph” said: “By these
premature medical revelations, Lord
Moran has set an evil example.”
The London “Daily Mirror” took a
different tack. It said that one revelation
in this diary must worry the whole nation.
This was the detailed story of “a great
fraud” practised on the British public by
Churchill’s political colleagues, said the
“Mirror.” “How they concealed from the
nation, from 1951 to 1955, the true and
alarming facts about the Prime Minister’s
state of health. The truth was that
Churchill’s growing senility and exhaustion
dismayed all who were close to him. Lord
Moran may have broken the doctor’s ethi-
cal code, but he has made a contribution
to the history of our times.”
It is interesting to ponder that a doctor
has written what may remain the most
controversial book about a towering figure
like Churchill. There will be hundreds of
books written on his life and times, and
those written by his detractors cannot con-
tain material which is not already com-
pletely predictable.
But Lord Moran upset lots of apple-
carts. He not only wrote a book which
contained exclusive and sensational
material but he made it eminently read-
able as well. Perhaps even Hippocrates
would forgive him.


Nobody in Australia is
making revolutionary PVC
conduit skirting.
Yet.
Could it be
the new product
that launches
your company into
profitable diversification?
Cl
• Conduit skirting made from Geon rigid PVC
is being used now in America. In homes and
particularly factories, offices and stores it is
proving extremely useful where multiple out-
lets are required without breaking into walls
or floors. Conduit skirting saves time in build-
ing and electrical installations.
The Geon rigid vinyl used in this skirting
has been approved by Underwriters’ Labora-
tories for surface and underground conduit. It
will not support combustion, has high impact
strength, does not dent, can be made in
colours, can be painted if desired and cleaned
easily with detergents.
Which company will be first to make rigid
skirting in Australia ? Why not yours ?
With Geon resins and our world-wide re-
sources and technical know-how, this skirting
could start you on a new field of diversification.
And skirting is just the beginning. The possibil-
ities for other new building products made
from Geon are almost limitless. Call or write
now. Let us help you explore the manufactur-
ing possibilities which interest you.
A job for vinyl
is a job for Geon
—polyvinyl chloride resins for industry
REGoodrich /
B.F. Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty. Ltd., Dept. E, P.O. 2538, G.P.0., Melbourne. 65-8221
MS9B3


turn
(n
JL
i
z#
jp jfe
IB ft* _
"
r
m
a
Well over one million different people view the
“News” on TCN-9 every week. What kind of people
are they? Interested people. Interested in up-to-the-
minute news of local and overseas events. Interested
in today’s weather, tomorrow’s weather. Interested in
the products you market. You can reach this enor-
mous, receptive audience every week. Your local
TCN-9 representative will tell you how. Ask him. He
has all the facts, all the figures. He’ll be happy to turn
on the consumers for you. Over a million of them.
Channel
c
I
i % 9
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Road,
Willoughby. 43-0444.
Sales —Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph House,
Park Street. 61-9931
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336.
F 653


So who needs
another new airliner?
Big airlines do!
To feed their main routes. To
operate auxiliary services where it
would be uneconomical to fly larger
aircraft. To rely on in emergencies.
Small airlines do!
To serve country routes with a
twin-engined, all-weather airplane
carrying 6-11 passengers in all the
comfort of a big, international airliner.
Big companies do!
To give their executives flexibility,
so they can go and see for themselves,
independent of airline routes and
timetables in their own, flying
conference room.
Charter companies do!
An aircraft that has all-weather
capability, that is so robustly built
and cunningly designed that
maintenance time is minimal and
flying time is maximum.
They all need the
eechcraft
Queen Air
6-11 seats. 252 m.p.h. Range of 1300
miles. Twin 340 or 380 h.p. fuel
injection engines. Retractable
undercarriage. Thickly upholstered
reclining seats. Deep carpeting.
Luxurious furnishing. Complete all-
weather navigational and radio
equipment.
HAWKER DE HAVILLAND AUSTRALIA PTY. LIB.
Sole Beechcraft Distributors for Australia and
New Guinea.
General Aviation Departments at:
Bankstown Aerodrome, N.S.W, Parafield
Aerodrome. S.A. Archerfield Aerodrome. Old
Jandakot Aerodrome. WA and
Civil Flying Services Pty. Ltd.. Moorabbin, Vc
Territory Airlines Ltd.. Goroka. N.G.
1f
27
AROUND MELBOURNE
Hitting the Clubs on the Head
THE best clubs in Melbourne have
reproduced the morbidity and
authentic gloom of the best clubs
in London. They’re exclusive. Groucho
Marx once said in the U.S.: “I’m not
going to pay good money to join a
club that lets in people like me.”
He’d say the same thing here. Then
there’s the famous story of the Beef-
steak Club in London, reported by
Anthony Sampson, of “The Observer.”
Before the war the police observed a
number of old men emerging from the
same door very happily every evening,
so they raided. They found four men
sitting around a long, long table.
“And who might you be?” the police
asked the first.
“I am the Lord Chancellor . . .”
“Ah! And you, sir” . . . “The Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.”
“Oh, yes! And the next?” ... “I am
the Governor of the Bank of England.”
“And I suppose,” said the police to
the fourth, “that you’re the Prime
Minister.”
“As a matter of fact,” said Arthur
Balfour, “I am.”
None of our clubs is quite that august.
They rate the odd Chief Justice and
the occasional bishop, but Sir Robert
Menzies, Harold Holt, Archbishop
Woods, and others are not good club
men.
The big three are the Melbourne, the
Athenaeum, and the Australian. They
have no nameplates on their door. If
you need to ask where the club is, you
shouldn’t be there. Actually, the Mel-
bourne Club now' has a plaque on it
from the National Trust, and it caused
a furore. Some felt that putting a
plaque on the front, giving the building’s
age and such, was a piece of unspeak-
able vulgarity. Finally it was agreed that
it was all right to put the name of the
architect and the builder on the plaque,
but certainly not the name of the club.
At these clubs, mercifully, money is
never seen. One walks into the lounge,
pours oneself a drink, as one likes it,
from a decanter and merely writes out
a chit. Membership fees for the big
three are around $lOO a year.
The Melbourne Club, at the Paris
end of Collins St., mind you, has a large
garden, the only genuine piece of green
in the Golden Mile. It is surrounded by
a 10ft. brick wall, which until recent
years gave the members a noble privacy.
Now, alas, a great ugly car-park has
been built in Little Collins Street,
which looks right over. Even worse, the
Lyceum Club, the female equivalent, has
been built alongside. The ladies can
look down and inspect whether their
husbands are talking to the right
people.
The big three are secure and com-
fortable, but for many of the others the
prospect of the years ahead is awful.
You see, back in the days of six-o’clock
closing it was customary to drink at the
corner pub until 6.15 and then quietly
grog on at the club until 11 p.m. Now
it is more convenient to go home for
dinner, forget the club, and grog on at
the local pub, where one can walk
home and dodge the .05 law. Clubs
like the Melbourne, the Australian, and
Athenaeum were not really affected by
the change in liquor hours.
The Hardware Club is suffering. At
the Celtic Club trade is down by a
third. The University Club has cut down
on its casual staff. The Royal Cale-
donian Club is in trouble and the sug-
gestion is that it may have to leave
Queens Road. The Public Schools Club
is having a crisis. There has been a $2O
levy on top of their $32 subscription, and
this club is contemplating a move from
the outer limits at the corner of Spring
and Flinders Street closer to some place
like Myers, where they might be able to
attract more members.
of all, the Yorick Club is
contemplating extinction. Its mem-
bers are meeting this week to decide
whether to battle on against rising costs
or whether to accept an offer to merge
with the Savage Club. The Yorick, after
the Melbourne Club (1839), is the
second oldest social club in Melbourne.
Its founder was F. W. Haddon, editor
of the “Australasian,” back in 1867.
Among the foundation members were
Marcus Clarke and Adam Lindsay
Gordon.
Your correspondent suggested to five
club secretaries that one-armed bandits
would solve their problems. There was
an awful hush at the other end of the
line. Like good women faced with pros-
titution, they all said they would prefer
to die quietly.
However, if you want to see where
the money is going in this new era,
drive out to the Tower Hotel, Burwood
Road, Hawthorn. This is on the edge
of the great, dry, local-option desert of
Camberwell. The Tower has its own
large car-park, but, even so, the cars are
parked solid for more than half a mile.
There are two swinging floorshows
every night, including Sunday. The
public bar is lush with wall-to-wall car-
pet.
What’s more, to cope with the brave
new world the Tower has its own
Breathalyser. You blow up a little
plastic bag, put it in a machine, and if
the crystals inside change color to a
pale shade of green, then you are better
than .05 and it is wiser to take a taxi.
BATMAN


■BB
I
ill
mm
4 1 • • 1 1
4 . v.. 1
1 "■'.' ■■ ttsSll
There’s no end
U c 6 SAVERS NEW FACTORY j
mn
tuff
U | M
to the applications
THE MONASH UNIVERSITY
<**♦*** 1
Air Conditioning
by
CHRYSLER
irtemp
PHONE YOUR STATE AIRTEMP DISTRIBUTOR
Q’LD.: Duon Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 349
Montague Road, West End. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W. & A.C.T. Strataflo Pty. Ltd., 100 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown. Phone 51 6645.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd.< 291 Moray
- Street, South Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A. : Airtemp Operations, Chrysler Australia Ltd..
Ninth Avenue, Finsbury. Phone 45 8111
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray Street.
Perth. Phone 23 2214.
AIRTEMP OPERATIONS
&
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD
CM 74
THE OTHER SEX
Lights, Camera, Inaction
ODDLY enough, my
first invitation to
perform on tele-
vision coincided with
an invitation —perhaps
command is a better
word —to take charge
of women’s topics on
a London newspaper.
What Eric the fea-
tures editor said, in
that fearless, outspoken
Yorkshire way he had, was: “You wear
clothes, you can damn’d well write about
them. And while you’re about it, you’re to
make a commercial, you won’t get paid.”
Who wanted payment for such a one-in-
a-million opportunity? Some famous
actresses might have had to start their
screen careers the hard way, posing for
calendars, for instance, but \here it was
handed to me on a plate. It seemed not
unreasonable that I should be paying them.
Anyway, I arrived at the studio very
early, a little after breakfast, and a gentle-
man in uniform led me to a room marked
MAKE-UP. The air was heavy with the
scent from Mr. Factor’s pancake and other
aids to beauty, it was hot, and the mirror
was barely visible for electric light bulbs.
A lady with bright red hair invited me to
climb into a leather chair and examined
a piece of paper on the wall. “Oh, it’s ’er,
Elsie,” she shouted to a seemingly deaf
female standing in the corner. “Give ’er
the works.” And Elsie did. Layers and
layers of works. Consultations with this
and that person about my eyebrows and
hair, should the lips be cupid or -bow, would
a brooch counteract that heavy jawline, or
would some 37 greasepaint work better?
And so on and so on. It took roughly an
hour to transform the lady-in-charge of
women’s topics to a dynamic Jezebel. Elsie
stepped back to admire her handiwork,
confiding, as she did, that this was no
test-stuff wot she’d given me, it was
Artiste’s only. She was, of course, con-
firming my own thoughts on the subject.
It came as a considerable shock, there-
fore, when on walking into the studio to
find not only had this potential star’s pres-
ence been requested but also the rest of
the newspaper’s specialist staff —viz., Mr.
Elms the gardening correspondent, Sam
the football man, Tom who did boxing,
the holiday editor, the letters editor, the
political expert, the expert on foreign
affairs they were all there looking like
Rudolph Valentino in their sun-tan make-
up.
“OK, ducky, write a bit about what
you do, keep it down to three minutes and
learn it off pat,” said the producer, and
then explained every time I dried up it
would cost the firm £2OO. My bit of the
commercial, therefore, cost £lOOO, a nice
round sum for the accountants to subtract
from the profits. The day after it was
used, Eric sent for me and said my face
was too large and whoever wrote the script
should be shot.
My second invitation to make a com-
mercial came some months later, but
owing to change of editor never saw day-
light, let alone our readers’ television
screens. My third invitation was to give a
lecture to ladies Around Town on the right
and wrong way to wear jewellery. “Why
didn’t you get your hair done, darling?”
asked a girlfriend later. I had, but this
illustrates what the finished product was
like. What with the jewellery getting
muddled, the producer objecting to my
use of the word “tarty,” and those remote-
controlled cameras creeping up when you
least expected, the program hardly got off
the ground.
My failure to establish overnight stardom
had become evident to even my own flesh
and blood, and it was at this stage that
the phrase “either you’ve got it or you
haven’t” was first heard. Life, I decided,
was more pleasant as seen from behind
the typewriter than before the camera, and
I made it publicly known that any inten-
tion on my part to become a television
personality was now over and done with.
Except for an occasional bleat from John
Arthur, the milkman, that he wished I
would wear a sombrero next time I
appeared on the screen, none of my inti-
mates referred to the subject again.
It probably would never have cropped
up, either, but then I came to live in
Australia and for the fourth time in my
life prepared myself for camera action.
It so happened a chum of mine was on
the program, too. She kept my morale up
with a few hissed instructions about keep-
ing one’s eyes on the red light, not looking
down, as one looked better with one’s eyes
open, not smoking —they didn’t mind, but
one looked awful. The result compared
favorably with a drunken giraffe squinting
into the noon-day sun, but this, it seemed,
was what the producer liked, for he invited
me to reappear on the program. The way
he put it was he had a hunch about these
things, a sort of sixth sense—look what
happened to Dita Cobb! —and deep down
he knew I had a personality waiting to be
dragged out. The important thing, darling,
was to play to the camera and be natural.
A strange, numb feeling gripped me at
precisely the moment the red light went
on, and a gentleman in ankle-length
trousers waved us off with a roll of paper.
It reminded me of those old amateur
dramatic days when the curtain shot up
to reveal rows of white blobby friends and
relatives all praying you wouldn’t dry up
and you did. I think athletics call it a
hardening of the arteries.
Perhaps I overdid the drunken giraffe
squinting bit, but then it is awfully difficult
to conduct a jolly conversation with some-
one on your right if, in order to “play to
the camera,” your eyes must swivel to the
left.
The general consensus of opinion was I
had the air of one toying with an
unpleasant smell under my nose.
Until the camera plays to me, that, I
am afraid, is what I’m stuck with.
DAPHNE GUINNESS


WINE OF THE WEEK
UNDEMAN’S
PRIVATE BIN
CHABUS
BIN 64
VINTAGE
1965
Crisp, dry
and flinty,
an ideal
wine to
serve with
oysters
and other
seafoods.
Made from
White
Hermitage Cr
Semi I lon
grapes
Ch AB Lis
i/ND KMAM S
\-, NTAge
PRIVATE bin
c HABLIS BIN 64
VISTACiI
: 'U,
r ’^ ANs Wines pty. ltd., sy<**
grown in the Hunter River,
Barossa and Clare Valleys.
MOST SUCCESSFUL EXHIBITOR
THIRD YEAR IH SUCCESSIOH
AUSTRALIAH
CHAMPIONSHIP WINE SHOW
1964 1965 1966
IlncL
eman's
AUSTRALIA'S
GREATEST
PRIZE-WINNERS
LW/PB3sa
Decant, recant
“"YT°U know that
wine you recom-
mended. It went
off!”
I closed my eyes, all
the better not to see
him with.
“Yes,” he went on, as
inevitable as a cigarette
commercial. “I bought
a bottle and it was full
of stuff.”
“Sir,” I said, with soft snake - like
sibilance, “that was probably the crust.
Didn’t you try it?”
“How could I,” he replied, “with all
that muck in it?”
I am almost ashamed to repeat the
story. I have never written about crust
because I assumed that you knew all.
The wine in question was the most recent
Wine-of-the-Month, Wynn’s Coonawarra
Estate Cabernet. In Sydney, this wine
is still unsedimental, but in Tasmania, the
location of the above occasion, no doubt
because of the bracing atmosphere, it
had thrown a crust and was the better
for it. Yet my fan had completely dis-
missed it.
Crusts and sediments in bottles are
generally mixtures of various things. The
crystals of the wine acid potassium tar-
trate (tartar) which are thrown out of
solution, various proteins which the wine
decides are surplus to its requirements,
pigments and coloring matter, yeast
crystals, and possibly solid bits which may
have escaped the filter.
The latter are unlikely to be found in
our wines, since the oft-repeated state-
ments about the high standards of local
wine-making are quite true. And you
will rarely find today the feather-like
yeast crystal for the same reason,
especially in standard botde lines. But
the other factors are inherent, and if
wines were “cleaned up” to any greater
extent they wouldn’t be nearly so much
fun. Finer flavors can be lost with too
much treatment.
A crust on the side of the bottle starts
off by being tartar. In being" thrown out
of solution it may or may not take
some protein matter with it. The excess
pigments, wandering around like leader-
less souls, are grateful to find something
to hang on to, and they absorb into
the tartrate to give the crust its color.
All this happens more or less at the
same time. It may be a formidable thick
crust, depending on the bigness of the
wine, the nature of the grapes and tan-
nins, or quite a light thin layer, as with
some of the Hunter wines. It may not
be a crust at all, but a loose sediment
containing exactly the same constituents.
Protein matter generally lies around in a
loose sort of fashion. Sometimes you can
see this combining with tartrate in a
fine sediment in white wines, particularly
White Burgundies. In other white wines,
a loose tartrate crystal will form after
refrigeration, though this is not so evident
now when wine-makers stabilise their
whites before bottling.
But the point of all this is that these
deposits are not in the least harmful.
In fact, they benefit. They have left the
wine rounder and softer and more deli-
cate, and by the very nature of there
being sufficient properties in the wine in
the first place to have thrown such a
deposit, you are assured that at least the
wine has a chance of a healthy life and
will achieve a point of maturation which
will show it at its best, whatever that
best is. The increasing demand for reds
today, plus the general preference of the
public for lighter styles, means that
the vigneron makes wines that are not as
likely to crust heavily. In fact, they don’t
even get a chance, since consumption is
almost outstripping production. Again,
you have been warned!
However, we are dealing with wines
containing deposits. What to do? The
French, with their flair for presentation
and tradition of mistrust, like the cob-
webbed bottle on the table and leave the
last inch or so. The British, with their
love of ceremony, decant.
The former method is quite sensible
and eminently simple. Merely decide,
preferably about 24 hours beforehand,
what wine you are going to serve at your
table. Take it from your storage, gently
tilt the horizontal bottle upright so that
the deposit slides down the side to the
bottom, and leave. Be careful not to
mix the deposit with the contents. When
the time comes to serve, simply be care-
ful when you pour. I prefer to line
up the glasses, fill them, and then give
them to my guests, rather than charge
round the table.
Decanting is surrounded by all sorts
of mystique, yet there is nothing to it.
Take the bottle from its bin, gently tilt
at a slight angle so that the cork is free
from the wine (otherwise the vacuum
caused by the cork’s withdrawal will
result in spilled wine), remove the cork,
and decant. All my decanters, naturally
enough, I suppose, have wide mouths,
and so I don’t use a wine funnel. If you
do use a funnel, make sure it has the
bent spout so that the wine is soothed
on to the side of the decanter rather
than hurtled on to the bottom. Wines
can be fragile. A light behind the neck
of the bottle does help, though you soon
get the feel of how much wine you leave
in the bottle.
The most important point to remember
is to disturb the wine as little as possible.
For this reason I decant right in my
cellar. I have a butler’s table with the
cradle, corkscrews, filter, and decanters
as part of the cellar, and I buttle from
this.
A few words about breathing the wine.
Most wines are better off for this chance
to breathe so that their ethers and esters
erupt. A robust wine can stand two or
three hours. Alan Bailey once told me
that his formidable wines, which have
great natural character, benefited by
being open half a day before consump-
tion! Yet be careful. Delicate wines, and
old delicate wines particularly, release
some of their precious subtleties fairly
quickly, and these could be lost to you
if you open them too early. It’s better
to be safe than sorry, as a bus conductress
friend of mine used to say.
Most restaurants don’t have crusted
wines simply because they don’t pay
enough attention to their wine lists any-
way. Those that do know how to handle


Have you
ever
smoked
a
Panatella ?
Those who have
know what a fine
cigar it can be
—if it’s a Henri
Wintermans.
Made from the
best tobaccos
obtainable, rolled
by experts in
Holland to give
you the fine, mild
but satisfying
smoking expected
of the world’s
finest cigars. Ask for
Henri Wintermans Panatellas
Panatellas are
13c- each
or drum
25 for $3.25
long
"VT a> .**»*•*—■. T T A.
the wines. They generally prefer the
French idea, the point of service having
a few of the wine standing upright, the
deposits firmly on the bottom, and the
waiter handling and pouring carefully.
Even then the worst sometimes hap-
pens. I once saw a commis waiter under
the watchful eye of an experienced wine
captain gently bring a crusted wine to
a table. “Have you shaken the bottle?”
demanded the customer. “No, sir, but I
will, I will!” said the eager youth,
shaking it as hard as he could.
But what does it matter if a bit of
crust does get in the wine? A few
moments will settle the big pieces and
the small ones don’t count!
CELLARMASTER
ON THE MARGIN
Intermezzo by Fritz Chrysler
fTIHE radio session
{_ Music for Motor-
ists, on a Sydney
station, is sympto-
matic of an impor-
tant trend. As more
people spend more
time in cars, the
world of broadcast
music is adjusting
itself to meet their
special needs. The
task is not a simple one, as many different
tastes have to be satisfied. What appeals
to M.G. drivers does not always go down
well with the 3-Litre Rover crowd, and
vice versa.
Most of the commercial stations are
frankly aiming their programs at young
motorists. Their following is among the
Austin-Healeys and souped-up early
Holdens inscribed “Don’t laugh, Madam,
your daughter may be inside.” They pull
in marginally some of the young-in-heart
Jaguars as well.
However, a few stations like 2GV are
trying to provide music for the middle-
lane driver. A 2GV executive said this
week: “You must remember there is a
big one-owner Holden and Falcon public
that likes to hear early Sinatra or Glenn
Miller. Some of the 1960 Humbers and
Hillmans in showroom cond. will even
listen to the odd light classical disc, like
a Chopin Nocturne. It calms them down
when they’re in a jam on the Parramatta
Road.
“Our new session Family Sedan
Favorites has been very successful. We
give them plenty of Julie Andrews and
Doris Day. But you can never be quite
sure of listener reaction, even in a 1963
Holden. There may be a couple of kids
in the back seat that want to switch to
a wild program like Mad Mac’s Mini
Swingers.”
The ABC is in a special situation. A
spokesman for the Commission said: “We
are expected to cater for the whole range
of musical tastes, from 1951 Ford Pre-
fects to late-model Lincoln Continentals.
But the more popular four- and six-
cylinder models are already well looked
after by the commercial stations. Our
function, as we see it, is to raise the
public’s musical appreciation from, say,
the VWI2OO level to something more
like the Princess R.
“We are putting a show on 2BL soon
called the Mercedes Hour of Melody. We
were going to call it Bentley Bel Canto,
only people might have thought Dick
Bentley was singing. The accent will be
on opera, with breaks for stock-market
quotations. We'll feature Joan Suther-
land recordings. She is very big with the
VB, overhead-camshaft group of listeners.”
These remarks provoked a sharp reply
from the manager of 2SN, which
specialises in pop sessions for under-25
drivers and provisional licence holders.
He said: “Never mind what the ABC
says, we give the Imps and Cortinas what
they want. As for that Mozart and Joan
Sutherland bit, it’s strictly slow-lane.
They ought to call it Music for Semi-
Trailers.”
What do composers think of the
motorisation of music?
One who favors it is Neville Catter-
wall, university lecturer in atonal compo-
sition. He says: “Automotive music is a
tremendously exciting challenge. I am
working on a suite entitled Homage to
Stirling Moss, in which I make full use
of sounds associated with cars. There are
horn blasts, backfires, and tyre squeals,
ending with a crescendo of panel-beating.
I think it will appeal to keen drivers as
the music of our time.”
The National Roads and Motorists
Association is keeping a watch on musical
developments. An official said: “Naturally
we are concerned with the safety angle.
For example, a 1961 Citroen on the
Hume Highway was tuned to a station
playing Tchaikovsky’s ‘lBl2 Overture.’
When the cannon went off, the drivei
got such a shock he left the road and
turned over. He wasn’t hurt much, but it
shows what extreme percussion effects
can do.
“I don’t mean the NRMA is opposed
to Tchaikovsky in general. It’s just that
we prefer the accent on the string sec-
tion. The ‘Pathetic Symphony’ is good safe
music for heavy traffic conditions. Young
drivers usually prefer the modern 2/4
tempo stuff, of course. The Beatles are
all right, but some of the numbers on
the Hot-Rod Hit Parade are too un-
settling. The new disc ‘Blood Lust,’ by
the Animals, has a bad effect on tow-
truck operators.”
It would be a mistake to suggest that
all sections of the motoring public are
satisfied with the musical fare offered.
Vintage car enthusiasts complain their
wants are neglected. They demand more
old-time ballads like “Just a Song At
Twilight.” Another discontented group
has organised itself as the 1959 Wolseley
Gilbert and Sullivan Society.
But, in general, owner-drivers are con-
tented enough. The growing need is a
good program of Music For Pedestrians.
ROSS CAMPBELL


m
as
■
. .
■
i
■r
S; :
v v
•i:'S
■
ii
Wi
WM
mm
mm
. ,vv;
wHmKtSL— ■■
H
Why is the owner of this healthy eye blind?
Because his vision has been
flooded by oncoming, badly ad-
justed headlights.
42,000 candle-power of glare!
At 40 m.p.h. he’ll be driving
blind for 20 yards each second.
Unless he runs off the road.
Or headlong into the headlights
that dazzled him.
Which could be yours.
Correctly adjusted lights aren't
just sensible.
Like safe wipers, brakes, steer-
ing and tyres they're clearly
indispensable.
See to it soon?
Join the Circle of Safety with
Mobil
MP6614.50


The Man Who Came Back
Lord Casey's lifetime of “doing something practical"
By M. H. ELLIS
WHEN Lord Casey of Berwick, in
Victoria, and Westminster was
appointed Governor-General a year
ago, there was some shaking of heads.
“Too old at 75,” said the pessimists, “He
will never stand the racket. He doesn’t
know what he is taking on.” A year later
he has proved them wrong. He will be
76 on August 29. He has led a life in
which there has never been a dull or
idle moment.
No man in Australia, few in the British-
speaking world, have had such a variety
of experiences and been associated with
so many and so various an assortment of
offices and personalities. It can be said
that he has talked at some time with
nearly every man of note or fame in the
world in the past 50 years.' He has a
range of friends and acquaintances wider
than that of any other Australian, Stanley
Melbourne Bruce and Robert Gordon
Menzies not excepted. He has outlived
most of them and survived in public life
most of the rest. And he is still fresh and
thirsting for more living and achievement.
Lord Casey is a Queenslander. He was
born, I think, in the old Government
House at Newstead, now inhabited by the
Royal Queensland Historical. He was
born with a silver spoon in his mouth,
for his father, apart from having large
pastoral interests in Queensland, was also
a large shareholder in Mount Morgan,
then the world’s largest goldmine.
He did all the things expected of a
rich youngster in those days when Vic-
toria was the hub of finance in the Com-
monwealth went to Melbourne Gram-
mar School, was sent abroad, like S. M.
Bruce, to Cambridge, where he graduated
in engineering with an honors degree in
mechanical science. He came home intend-
ing apparently to be an engineer—at some
time he was on Mt. Morgan getting his
hand in. And he has been a practical
engineer all his life, enjoying working in
his workshop, enjoying equally flying an
aircraft, a sport to which he took like
a bird when the time came.
When war broke out he wasted no
time in getting into uniform he enlisted
in the AIF in September, 1914, and was
adopted as aide-de-camp to Major-General
Bridges, Commander of the Australian
Division, partly because of his technical
knowledge and partly, one presumes, be-
cause he spoke German, an accomplish-
ment which made him useful long before
he looked at a war front. He was the
officer who interrogated the captive von
Mueller and others who were taken out
of the Emden when she fell in with the
first Australian convoy.
He emerged from the war imperturbable
as he had gone through it, knowing a lot
of people in high places after five years’
service with division and corps and with
a DSO and an MC on his ribbon bar.
In the restless years that followed the
war, he came home to sit on the boards
of a number of companies until some time
after the Imperial Conference of 1923,
S. M. Bruce then decided to send a couple
of young men to London as liaison offi-
cers to keep the Government in touch
with foreign affairs. Casey was one.
The row that immediately broke out
was uncomfortable for everybody. The
Labor Party gave tongue with every
charge in the calendar that Casey had
been appointed to Lord Birdwood’s staff
because his father had given Birdwood a
Rolls-Royce; that he was a rich dilettante
for whom a social setting was being pro-
vided at the expense of the Australian
taxpayers. It was really a fine row, and
the only person involved who did not give
tongue was the imperturbable appointee.
It had been intended that he should go
into the Foreign Office, but he was very
soon in the British Cabinet Secretariat
Office under the wing of another Austra-
lian, the brilliant Sir Maurice Hankey,
with all the knowledge of what was taking
place in the British Cabinet Room and in
international affairs at his disposal.
He, in fact, became the first Austra-
lian official outside Australian Cabinet
Ministers to have close and confidential
connections with the British Cabinet busi-
ness, and Bruce himself has testified to
the “regular personal letters he used to
write to me presenting probably the best
picture that exists of the political and
international situation at that time.”
It was in this period that Casey made a
world-wide range of acquaintances, that
he acquired by great industry, a know-
ledge of foreign affairs unequalled in any
Australian public servant up to that time.
He worked hard, but he had his own per-
sonal social circle which centred on a
group of intelligent young Australian men
and women who had drifted into London
either before or after the war and who,
through connection with family circles in
London, had acquired a place of their own
in the international set. Among these were
his friend the brilliant Rupert Ryan (son
of Surgeon-General Ryan “Plevna”
Ryan), who had graduated from the Royal
Military College at Woolwich at the top of
the list, and held a commission in the RHA
and had ended his war as GSO 1 Intelli-
gence, First Army, with a copious row of
medals. After the war he became Deputy-
Commissioner for the Rhineland Inter-
allied High Commission in Cologne.
Ryan had an attractive sister, very
intelligent, very full of life. And one day
when R. G. Casey was acting as best man
at the wedding of a British diplomatic
colleague, he remarked to her in a matter-
of-fact way: “When we are married, we
won’t have all this shemozzle, will we?”
In her memoirs, she says that she “looked
at him sharply” and found that he
appeared to be “neither facetious, nor
pressing. Merely matter of fact.”
Shemozzle, however, there was. All sorts
of people were invited, and some came
without being invited. One great Austra-
lian surgeon I rescued in the wilds of
the West End, he having been so casually
asked that he thought the show was in
St. George’s, Hanover Square, whereas it
was actually in St. James’, Piccadilly. The
surgeon hailed me like a cab, and we
broke the speed record for the West End.


The only imperturbable person present
was the bridegroom, the very mould and
form of fashion, silk hat, and spats, and
all. The bride looked a little dazed, she
having been engaged to him only ten days.
The bridegroom returned to 2 Whitehall
Gardens, and Sir Maurice Hankey, in time
for the Imperial Conference of 1926, the
important conference of the Balfour
Declaration, prelude to the Statute of
Westminster. Casey’s presence behind the
scenes was not more obvious than at other
times, but he was certainly a power at
some levels. It was singular that one
scarcely saw him anywhere connected with
Conference functions, but people talked
about him.
In 1927, when he returned to Australia
with his wife to see Canberra ushered in
as a capital and take in a view of an
Australia beginning to wilt under the
pressures of economic decline and Langism
and the various strikes which harassed the
key industries from then onwards, he was
so little known that his name did not
even appear in the Australian “Who’s
Who” issued that year. But he did attract
in Australia some interest from certain
peculiarities of behaviour, which did not
run with the conception of him as a man-
about-town.
For instance, he was heard vainly
importuning people to fly him and his
bride back to England. And he did, in
fact, take her on a risky flight from Perth
to Derby with Eric Chater, of Brearley’s,
who conveyed them shakily from settle-
ment to settlement in an old DH-9 with
a good deal of war service several years
back in its oily and overheated past.
Their return to London looked as if it
might mean the end of their intimate con-
nection with Australia, for they built
themselves a house in Westminster and
stayed put till Stanley Bruce arrived after
his defeat in 1929 and advised him to get
out of the rut of a civil service position,
which was perhaps becoming unpleasant
with Scullin and Theodore and a con-
temptuous Labor Party in power as the
Australian repository of his confidences.
So home he came, and at the election of
1931 he went into Parliament as MP for
Corio, again without attracting very much
attention at the outset. The campaign
exhibited him as a lucid, sensible sort of
speaker, who displayed little emotion,
treated interjectors rather as if they were
not there. But in the House he soon
proved himself equable, dogged, a hard
worker, and a sound and knowledgable
debater, especially on foreign affairs.
Nothing seemed to deflect him from a
course once set, and—to the astonishment
of Mr. Lyons—he showed an amazing
aptitude for finance. As Assistant Treasurer
from September, 1933 to October, 1935;
in fact, so apt that Lyons, who held the
Treasury himself, moved him up into the
Treasurership after watching him during
perhaps the two most difficult financial
years the Commonwealth ever faced
those years in which the country reached
the depth of the Depression and began
to pull itself out of it.
Casey was a remarkable Treasurer. His
budget speeches were anything but inspir-
tng. They were solid, rather tiring to listen
to, but lucid to read. As in everything
else it seemed he went about his public
Ministerial duties with an air of fixed
purpose.
I well remember sitting in a half-
empty Speakers’ gallery while he
delivered the Budget of 1938 to an almost
empty House without showing the slight-
est consciousness of the fact that the whole
world was waiting, finger on lip, for news
from Munich which would tell whether
or not the world might be plunged
immediately into war with Germany.
He did very much to stabilise the Party
organisation after the war. But he never
showed any obvious yearning to become
Prime Minister or to displace anybody
from any office. He seemed absorbed
entirely in the job of the moment, but
particularly when he had the Develop-
ment portfolio and the CSIRO under his
hand. That body he virtually created and
built up to strength and versatility under
his hand. It was his constant hobby-horse
which never wore out, even when he took
on the difficult task of rehabilitating the
External Affairs Department after its long
term under Dr. Evatt.
At an early stage in his political career,
and when he was well over 40, he learned
to fly under the skilled hand of P. G.
Taylor. His wife, who did everything with
him, learned to fly, too. From then onward
this was their joint enthusiasm.
Tales of “Dog Foxes 99
CONVERSATION with R. G. Casey in
a club was apt to attract the puzzled
stares of old gentlemen as they heard from
afar snatches of his latest adventures in
turbulences in his aircraft which he always
mentioned by its call-sign ending in “DF
dog, fox.” His tales were fairly stud-
ded with “dog foxes.”
It used to be a saying in the Federal
House that “once a Minister goes out, he’s
gone.” And this was the view held when
R. G. Casey abandoned office in 1940 to
become the Commonwealth’s first Minis-
ter to Washington.
The feeling was even more intensified
when Winston Churchill, having encoun-
tered him and remembered him, offered
him a post as British Minister of State in
the wartime Middle East in succession to
Harold Macmillan. The feeling of finality
was intensified when he accepted the great
prize among British vice-regal Governor-
ship, that of Bengal, to sit on the throne
that had been occupied by Warren Hast-
ings, the Marquis Cornwallis, and by
Wellesley, brother of the Duke of Welling-
ton. It was a truly regal office, conducted
in a setting of imperial splendor from a
a room “the size of a tennis court,” and
with a retinue that would have satisfied
a medieval emperor.
In 1931 he had returned to Australia
virtually unknown and unconsidered.
Eight years later he had left it a national
figure, a Privy Councillor, a man who
might well have succeeded R. G. Men-
zies as war-time Prime Minister and
changed the course of Commonwealth
history if he had left his going till a few
months later.
After the Bengal period, he returned as
an international figure. Then, had a
Liberal Government been in office, he
might well have been offered the
Governor-Generalship. But he elected to
come back to politics, to take up the reins
of Party organisation, to contest Latrobe
and win it, and to take over the Austra-
lian External Affairs Ministry and clear
up its messes. In doing all this he did
what the seasoned experts believed impos-
sible.
In External Affairs he was superb. He
was the first Australian Minister who had
a diplomatic training. He knew where to
turn no matter what he wanted. He was
better informed a hundredfold than his
civil service. He was accessible. He was
always working, always had his facts at
his fingertips.
When finally he left politics the old
story repeated itself. There was no fuss
about his going into the House of Lords.
If R. G. Menzies or Arthur Fadden had
done it, there would have been jeering
comment. But strangely, everybody,
Labor and Liberal alike, took it for
granted that he was a law unto himself
and that there was nothing off-key in his
becoming a lord. It made no great differ-
ence to him apparently. He lived as much
in Australia as he had done while Minister
for External Affairs, though his movements
were more regular and regimented.
Then when he was becoming forgotten
against the new political background of
the Commonwealth, he did the usual
thing. At 75 he took the Governor-
Generalship. To the last he proved him-
self to be the most consistent —the only
consistent example on record of an Aus-
tralian who unfailingly went away and
as unfailingly came back to greater things
and more public service.
He is the first Governor-General born
on Australian soil who is experienced as
a Governor. He is the first who has a
personal friendship with members of the
royal family and a standing in London
and a seat in the British Parliament. And
he is doing a closely watched job with
his usual imperturbable energy and appli-
cation to detail.
He seems to be everywhere. One day
he is in New Guinea in the grey topper
and frock coat reminiscent of the old
vice-regal days of Bengal. The next he
seems to be opening a Legacy building
in Coff’s Harbor or advising more women
in Melbourne to go to work because of
the labor shortage, or delivering a learned
address, well prepared, to the Academy
of Science, or flying to Arnhem Land (as
now), or in Wagga, or entertaining the
Queen Mother or Prince Charles, visiting
returning or departing troops, opening a
new chapel, visiting New Guinea lepers,
being welcomed in Darwin by that city’s
new Chinese mayor. He may be in
Adelaide, Brisbane, Kirribilli, Doodlakine,
Brunette, Humpty-Doo. But wherever he
is, he is doing something practical.
He is the hardest-working Governor-
General the Commonwealth has known,
and he thrives on it. Also, he is one
of the most popular and the most accept-
able to all classes and kinds of people.
And the amazing thing is that with all
his departures and cosmopolitanism he is
universally accepted as all-Australian.


£
I
#■
I
1
/
fc
Outgrowing
your
Australian
Markets?
Go international and keep growing.
The Government helps you with
these 7 important incentives.
1. Publicity Free for your products
in “Austral News”, Australia's over-
seas trade promotion newspaper—
circulated to importers and busi-
nessmen in over 100 countries.
2. Advertising In “Australian Export
Industry Features”, published in
leading overseas daily newspapers.
3. Trade Fairs Australia participates
in international fairs with special
Australian Pavilions. Exhibit your
products in them at low cost.
4. Insurance Through EPIC . . .
the Export Payments Insurance
Corporation, which protects your
interests.
5. Payroll Tax Rebate This allows
a rebate for increased exports at
the rate of 12i% for every increase
in exports equal to 1% of gross
trading income.
6. Market Development Allowance
For every $1 spent on overseas
promotion, you may be allowed
an additional deduction of up to
80 cents in the $l.
7. Trade Commissioner Service
Australia’s 43 Trade Commis-
sioners undertake trade enquiries
for Australian businessmen.
EXPORT ACTION
THERE’) A MEMBER OF THE DEPARTMENT ON HAND TO ASSIST YOU WITH INFORMATION ON EXPORT MARKETS.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
2 0372
51 6881
2 1765
ADELAIDE
PERTH
HOBART
23 974*
21 7509
34 3869
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Rich Traditions of Mexico
By J. C. KAYE
SENORA AMALIA HERNANDEZ,
who tosses off ideas for folk ballets
the way Schubert tossed off songs,
at the rate of several a day, has a mag-
nificent idea for the show the Mexican
Government has asked her to prepare
for the Olympic Games.
It was, she explained, an ancient
Mexican-Indian ceremony to douse every
household and brazier fire in Mexico for
a whole 24 hours once every 52 years,
and then enact, on a pyramid near Mexico
City, a propitiation of the Sun God. As
Amalia Hernandez
the sun rose, all fires were relit, all the
millions of them.
For her Olympic Games display,
Senora Hernandez, who is in Melbourne
as founder and director of the Ballet
Folklorico of Mexico, will restage this
ceremony, with 2500 dancers, to honor the
arrival of the Olympic Flame from
Greece. It will be on the Sun God’s
pyramid, of course, and it should be an
o/e-raising performance.
Senora Hernandez, who is still cream-
complexioned, firm-featured, and beauti-
ful at 48, was dressed in an o/c-raising
cherry-colored shift as she talked of her
life and plans at her Southern Cross Hotel
suite.
Her reputation among her associates is
that she is a fiery woman. She agreed
that this might well be so. “I have been
a tiger,” she said.
Today, however, she believes she has
calmed down a lot. It’s responsibility
which has done it. She is Mexico’s First
Lady of culture. She has 300 dancers,
musicians, and trainee youngsters in two
main companies, and a training school
set in Mexico City. The Government
(“everything in Mexico is the Govern-
ment,” she explained) gives her permission
to travel and present shows as she wishes,
both inside Mexico and abroad.
One company travels the younger
people on the whole, without too many
family ties—while another, in the charge
of her daughter Norma, 25, stays in
Mexico. A new centre for her companies
is being built' in Mexico City, to the
design of her brother, an architect also
responsible for some of the Olympic
Games buildings.
Mexico, she said, is a very rich source
for her. She estimates that there are at
least 60,000 folk dancers active in the
country. Her hundreds of ballets have not
yet gone beyond the fringe of the potential
theatrical material.
“Ours is the last country where folk 1
art is quite native, natural, and a genuine
expression of life,” she said. “What in-
creasing prosperity will do to this ah,
that is what we are seeing now!' It is my
hope that not too much damage will be
done. In the meantime, at least three Gov-
ernment institutes are working to record
and preserve all they can.”
Fortunately, she did not ask what we
were doing on similar lines in Australia.
She inquired about the aborigines, and
where she could see some dancing, and
was not perturbed to be told she would
have to fly far into the north or centre.
“Fly, fly, I am always flying,” she ex-
claimed.
This endless moving about the world
and her responsibilities to the enterprise
she has created in 15 years of work have
broken up three marriages. She has a son,
Jose Luis, 20, doing economics in Mexico
City; another daughter, Vivianna, nine,
who is in Melbourne with her; and a
granddaughter, Norma’s child.
She admits that in her younger days
she was a wild and disobedient child to
her rich father, a General who helped
carry out the revolution of 1950, and who
was later Mayor of Mexico City. He built
a special dance studio for her at their
family home, and imported teachers of all
styles of dancing, but forbade her to be-
come a professional or to dance in public.
She disguised herself as a peasant girl
to take lessons at a Government dance
school. When she had formed her own
small company and had no cash to pay
the bills, she sold jewellery her father
had given her, and a house. She also
pawned Papa’s Cadillac.
This put-upon and indulgent man has
long forgiven all. His wife, Amalia’s
mother, spends some of her time helping
with the wardrobes in Mexico City.
LETTER FROM VIENNA
Festival that is a Feast
MY five-day stay in Vienna was to
serve the twofold purpose of
attending the annual Vienna Festi-
val and of getting to know the city in
which my parents grew up, and where
I, as child and adolescent, had spent
many, though brief, happy holidays.
Vienna’s principal music centre for
other than opera remains the large hall
owned and run by the Musikverein.
Acoustically superb, this 19th-century con-
cert hall is almost without ventilation, and
the narrow seats, without either armrests
or leg-room, are decidedly trying, with the
mercury at 98deg., a humidity of 87 per-
cent, and not a stir of a breeze. The
opera house has air-conditioning, but not
of an efficiency to cope with the unusual,
sub-tropical weather; here, too, with all
the modern equipment and excellent
acoustics, seating comfort has hardly been
considered. Once again, there is no leg-
room, and by the end of a long evening’s
performance one finds that the upholstery
did more for the eye than any other part
of the anatomy.
The Vienna Festival, only in its second
decade, has attained an importance far
greater than the old trade fairs ever had.
The city is literally overflowing with visi-
tors, and the diversity of available enter-
tainment is staggering. There are two
nightly performances of opera, plays of
various kinds in at least eleven theatres,
concerts and recitals in two or more con-
cert halls. On a fairly typical evening
during my visit, you could choose from the
following: a program of three new ballets,
presented by the State Ballet of Wurttem-
berg, with choreography by the noted
John Cranko; “Aida” at the State Opera;
the “Gipsy Baron” at the “People’s”
Opera; plays by Grillparzer, Bahr, three
young Austrian authors, and Schnitzler;
operettas at two or more theatres; a Beet-
hoven concert given by the Bonn Beet-
hoven-Halle Orchestra; a concert of 17th-
and 18th-century sacred music. These were
the “official” programs for the evening;
in addition, there were commercial produc-
tions running in another eight theatres,
two puppet theatres, a special dialect
theatre, and a competitive gathering of
the leading amateur-dramatic groups from
each Austrian State.
My first evening was very properly spent
sweltering in the Musikverein Hall, listen-
ing to 82-year-old Wilhelm Backhaus in
a program of Beethoven sonatas. That
this old man was able to play under
such conditions at all was surprising, that
he played better that when I’d last heard
him, 30 years previously, seemed almost
miraculous. Using a mellow-toned Boesen-
dorfer piano, with slower action and less
brilliant tone than a Steinway (the instru-
ment invariably used in that hall), the old
master presented some of Beethoven’s best-
known music chronologically. He was


t
FLY TO
THE MIDDLE EAST
SWISSCARE b WORLDWIDE
received by an enormous advance-ovation
and opened with opus 13, the Pathetique.
In a completely fresh re-interpretation of
the old warhorse, he used considerable
rubato, and clear-cut decisive phrasing;
the second movement, Adagio cantabilc,
was given as the gentlest-ever Andante,
and even though there were a few mis-hits
in the final Allegro, the sonata emerged
anew as the immense achievement of a
young composer. This was followed by
opus 27, No. 2, so calamitously sub-titled
Moonlight by Rellstab; here was music
to which the intimacy of the Boesendorfer’s
tone was well suited, and I delighted in
the result, particularly the Allegretto,
where Backhaus showed a delicacy of
touch known to but a few pianists of
later generations. After a lengthy interval,
he played the Appassionata, opus 57. Just
as fleethoven, throughout his creative life,
deepened in experience and inner know-
ledge, so Backhaus’ interpretations gained
in status as he proceeded to the later
works.
The recital concluded with the great C
minor sonata, opus 111. This work, which
I love, is not a favorite with concert audi-
ences generally, but clearly is loved by
Vienna’s youthful listeners.
The next night, I was at the State Opera,
watching Mozart’s “Don Giovanni” pre-
sented as enjoyable theatre and, happily,
sung in Italian. The original text by
Lorenzo da Ponte is, of course, the most
suitable musically. As nothing is perfect
in this world, I must record that, as a
theatrical production, it didn’t quite come
off. The sets are very beautiful, lavish, and
simply enormous; the constant short breaks
to allow for scene changes tended to disturb
dramatic continuity, but this probably
would have happened anyhow, owing to
the unfortunate cessation of all activity for
curtain calls after every aria. The singers,
of course, deserved acclaim. Cesare Siepi,
as the Don, elegant, moody, and in wonder-
ful voice, proved also a fine actor and
made the character wholly plausible with-
out in the least glossing over his unpleasant
attributes. His singing, particularly in the
serenade and his duet with Zerlina, was
a rare demonstration of true Mozartian
style. Graziella Sciutti, who partnered him
in the duet, was the best of the women
in the cast; a diminutive, wasp-waisted
little Zerlina, she has considerable acting
and singing abilities of a rare order and
I should be happy to hear her “Batti,
batti” every week of the year. Of the other
men, Erich Kunz pleased me most.
The performance was conducted by
Josef Krips, who seemed much aged since
his last Australian tour. He was immensely
competent, sure of Mozart’s music, and a
wonderful accompanist even if, as in the
overture, he seemed wishful of slowing
down the general pace. The following
night, again at the State Opera, proved
that even in this temple of opera failures
do and must occur: The occasion of
* Verdi’s “Aida,” in which a young Italian
conductor, Bruno Amaducci, was making
his Viennese debut. The Vienna State
Opera Orchestra proved to be no better
than their colleagues elsewhere: they don’t
take kindly to what they regard as an
untried driver. Whereas, under Krips, they
had played with great discipline, accuracy,
and beauty of tone, they shed these quali-
ties for poor Amaducci’s sake. Many players
had sent substitutes and it was soon clear
that far more than one orchestral rehearsal
should have been allowed.
The improbably luxurious, and rather
inadequately lit, production of “Aida” was
certainly impressive. The second-act
pageant peopled the enormous stage with
more than 200 participants and was breath-
taking with its colors, depth of view, and
the military precision of its movements;
against that must be set some unoriginal
ballets, the excessive number of scene
changes (three during the final scene’s
nine minutes!), and the disturbingly poor
taste of some of the staging.
JESS THOMAS sang Radames; he
looked, sounded, and acted exactly
like a Wagnerian hero and did not fit
the banks of the Nile, however
attractive his voice. The only man
in the cast to impress me strongly
was Mario Sereni as Amonasro; his
is not, perhaps, quite the voice for
every great bass part, but he sang splen-
didly and acted well. Of the women, both
Grace Bumbry and Atonietta Stella sang
beautifully. The former, a young Ameri-
can negro trained by Lotte Lehmann,
played Amneris. Despite an alluring voice
and undoubted histrionic ability, she never
quite got to grips with the character and,
what was worse, had garbed herself in cos-
tumes and headdresses said to be of her
own designing.
The next night I was back on my little
chair in the box of the concert hall, to
hear Hermann Prey, who recently had to
cancel his Australian tour. He sang a
program of Schubert’s Goethe lieder, and
without going into any pointless discus-
sion of details, I will just say that he is
one of THE three or four great lieder
singers alive today the only one, other
than Souzay, whom I’ve heard in the
flesh. His singing is assured and effortless,
his manner wholly pleasant. He was
accompanied by Alfred Brendel, but four
days back from his tour for the ABC,
Brendel clearly suffered from fatigue, in-
sufficient preparation, and, perhaps, the
change from the Steinways on tour to the
smaller-toned Boesendorfer. Even so, many
of his accompaniments were fine and he
may well be an excellent Schubert player
when in top form. His apparent surliness
on the platform was in considerable con-
trast not only to Prey’s unruffled good
humor, but also to Brendel’s own affability
off stage.
On my final night in Vienna, I attended
a concert given by the “Wiener Symphoni-
ker,” the city’s second full orchestra, con-
ducted by Japanese Seiji Ozawa, who, I
think, is slated to visit Australia soon.
Ozawa, clearly very gifted musically, is
an odd little man; he is lithe and very
mobile and conducts in a disconcertingly
illegible manner, giving a fair beat with
his right hand and indulging in a dancer’s
fluttering hints with the left.
PAUL FROLICH
THEATRE
Tables Turned
The Workout. Albert Bermel. Q Lunch-
hour Theatre, Sydney.
The Three Cuckolds. Leon Katz Dramsoc,
at Jane Street Theatre, Sydney.
THE WORKOUT” takes place in an
American health studio in which
Marg has the job of selling God
and exercise as a package deal. She is
new to the job, and her customer, who is
himself a high-pressure mattress salesman,
decides to give her a lesson in sales tech-
nique. He teaches her to concentrate on
boosting the customer rather than the prod-
uct. Marg learns so quickly that she is able
to turn the tables on her mentor. “The
Workout” is a very neatly constructed play
which is well served in John Armstrong’s
production by the crisp performances of
John Gray and Anne Haddy.
“The Three Cuckolds,” based on an
anonymous scenario of the commedia
dell’arte, is a very good choice for the
first production at the Jane Street
Theatre, which is the new experimental
or workshop theatre of the University of
New South Wales.
Nowadays historians and critics of
drama are constantly talking about the
commedia dell’arte and this production
gives some idea of what it was like. Here
are the traditional stock characters of the
commedia —Pantalone, Arlecchino, Zanni,
and so on in a typical bawdy farce.
Of course, in the actual commedia, the
actors, like the old music-hall comedians,
improvised the dialogue and the action
characteristic of the role they were play-
ing. The stock characters and their tradi-
tional business were handed down from
generation to generation, but there was
no written dialogue. Leon Katz’s play is
a work of historical reconstruction with
dialogue supplied.
Victor Emeljanow’s production is lively
and colorful, with elaborate costumes and
masks, which at times seems larger than
the small theatre. Among a well-trained
cast Geoffrey Borny stands out as a lively
Arlecchino, while Alistair MacLachlan and
Gabriella Wieder give wonderfully expan-
sive performances as the decrepit Zanni
and his buxom wife, Franceschina.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


TELEVISION
Proof by Decibels
FOR a moment last week I feared that
Melbourne television’s controversy
about over-exposure to football had
given Sydney channels an “anything you
can do I can do better” complex. Last
Friday night in Sydney the ABC and two
commercial channels televised the First
Rugby League Test at the same time.
Only Channel 9 stood out, giving us a
Charlie Chan movie. But this week things
are back to normalcy. Sydney’s football is
filmed on Saturdays or Sundays and tele-
vised at well-staggered times during the
week. And instead of football on Satur-
days we have six hours of teenage shows
between 2.30 and 7.30 p.m.
As I have remarked before, apparently
there is a theory that Sydney teenagers
stay home in droves on Saturdays to gape
at their television screens and the antics
on them. The most hypertensive of these
shows is “Shindig,” from the U.S.A., on
which a cast of thousands seems to be
going nowhere all at once, and very
noisily, the talent being judged by the
decibels and their rise above the threshold
of pain.
Later in the week this same viewing
youth is presumed to be at least part of
the audiences for the television comics
during the early evening. What will hap-
pen when the teenagers are confronted by
P. G. Wodehouse’s characters on ABC
television this week I can’t imagine. “The
World of Wooster” is one of the week’s
new shows, and the name of the first
episode, “Jeeves and the Dog Mclntosh,”
may enrapture viewers of my vintage, but
chill those who have not encountered
Wodehouse’s humor of the old British
Establishment. Really, looking at the
whole range of television comics, I wonder
what youth could possibly find in them,
these mostly ponderously cute attempts at
humor. Do the audiences for Saturday’s
fever-pitch shows turn to radio during the
week? Or remain stunned during the
intervening days?
Possibly they avoid the “funnies” and
emerge from transistorised study rooms in
time to see the “adventure” shows, such
as the return of “The Fugitive” this week,
the return of “Burke’s Law,” or one hour
of “Peyton Place,” which would make a
joke of the censor’s classifications, above
and beyond the censor’s own efforts in
finding a film about the Vietnam war
likely to offend friendly nations, while
approving “Combat.”
FRANK ROBERTS
RECORDS
Overnight success
Presenting Montserrat Caballe. Arias from
Norma and II Pirata (Bellini) Roberto
Devereux, Lucrezia Borgia and Maria di
Rohan (Donizetti). RCA LM 2862.
RARELY has a record been as
anxiously awaited as this one. Mont-
serrat Caballe’s career has been short
and spectacular, though the utter lack of
background in all publicity makes one
wonder whether she has not been around
for some time before suddenly making
good. The ridiculous cover notes supplied
by RCA are no help at all beyond in-
directly confirming this deduction: a
repertory of “more than 40 operas” is
not acquired overnight!
The question everybody asks is: Can
Caballe replace Callas? —who, it cannot be
denied, needs replacing. I think that the
resemblance between voice and style of
Caballe to Callas is closer than that of
any two other major singers I can name.
Comparisons are odious, but at least two
parallels bear close inspection: the hooded
quality of the voices, which have no defi-
nite breaks in register, and the utter lazi-
ness of both singers, who cannot be
bothered to tidy up loose ends as long
as the stream of sound is unbroken. In
Callas’ case there was ample compensa-
tion in the tremendous dramatic projec-
tion which Caballe cannot hope to achieve.
On the credit side the latter has none of
the incipient unsteadiness which was
ultimately the undoing of her predecessor.
Montserrat Caballe is undoubtedly a
major addition to the century’s great
voices. It remains to be seen whether she
can improve sufficiently to sustain her
position. Initial impact has been so great
that many faults have been overlooked.
Critics will not remain as lenient with
a singer well and truly established. The
public on the other hand might well
embrace the new star, faults and a]l, asr
they did Maria Callas.
JOHN CARGHER
Dancers from Les Ballets Africains


INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CREDIT CORPORATION
Of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF $4,000,000 DEBENTURE STOCK
6i%
p.a.2 YEARS
7%
p.a. 5 YEARS
7i*
p.a.7 YEARS
7 k
p.a. 10 YEARS
SHORT TERM STOCK ALSO AVAILABLE 3, 6, 9 AND 12 MONTHS.
Applications may proceed only on the form attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is obtainable from:
any member of a recognized stock exchange
A.N.Z. Bank Ltd. and Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
at their principal offices in capital cities
any office of IHCC of Australia Ltd.
any branch of lan Potter &. Co.
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co. and Australian United Corporation Ltd. H 1797 Die
4
ON FILM
New Directors, New Directions
WHILE the high-powered block-
busters, the “My Fair Ladies” and
the “Sounds of Music,” inevitably
dominate the contemporary film, smaller,
black-and-white pictures continue to be
made; and continue to represent, as always,
the best of cinema. Two recent examples
illustrate the fact that, despite hard times
artistically, if not financially, it is still
possible to find- productions that rise above
the merely professional to a level of sen-
sibility and intelligence we expect to find
in a good novel or play.
These films are doubly welcome because
they introduce new directors; the first,
“Brainstorm,” is one of the very few
features made by William Conrad, a
former actor (“The Killers,” “Sorry,
Wrong Number”) of great skill, who has
recently signed a multi-picture contract
at Warners; the second, “Life at the Top,”
is directed by Ted Kotcheff, a young
Canadian director from Television now
working in Britain. These films are easily
the best I have seen in twelve months,
and, together with J. Lee-Thompson’s
exquisite and unknown evocation of
Mexican life in a remote and barbaric
past, “Kings of the Sun,” have attracted
little critical attention.
Mr. Conrad’s film is, on the surface,
merely a melodrama about a schizoic
employee of a research laboratory
befriended by a psychiatrist and involved
with the neurotic wife of a millionaire:
on the face of it, nothing more than a
‘‘sleeper” of the kind Hollywood used to
churn out with conveyer-belt regularly
in the ’forties. But from the first moment
Conrad’s direction displays a marvellous
power: a car stalled on railway tracks at
night, the train’s headlamp piercing the
darkness, the girl helplessly drugged at
the wheel, and a man trying to save her:
in glittering flashing images, a situation
of doubt and fear is built up; and the
mood is never allowed to slip, from the
rescuer’s arrival at the husband’s house,
a vast and pretentious mansion filled with
the revellers at a mammoth party —which
exactly catches the platinum-plated flavor
of contemporary Hollywood to the
assassination of the husband, daringly
shot in subjective camera in a picture-
decorated hall.
The look of the film, onyx-hard and
mounted with a polished leather Beverly
Hills ritziness, is superbly authentic
throughout; and there are two sequences
which even in their context look stunning:
the wild dance performed by the
socialites down a long corridor and the
arrival of a small, drunken, sequined or
dinner-jacketed group of Los Angeles
partygoers at the laboratory building on
a windy night, the central protagonist
(Jeffrey Hunter) watching them in the
middle of a long row of lighted windows.
You can taste the acrid Californian night
air; sense the tough little minds in the
gilded and pomaded heads; and feel pre-
cisely that you are in a certain place
at a certain time in a way that only
the best films can provide. The playing
Viveca Lindfors as the psychiatrist,
Jeffrey Hunter as the madman, and Anne
Francis as the millionaire’s unhappy wife
is admirably sustained throughout.
“Life at the Top” is very nearly the
equal of Conrad’s film as a technical
tour de force. “Room at the Top” I
found amateurish and clumsy, badly
directed by Jack Clayton; the sequel
seems to me in every way superior, and,
pace Beverley Tivey in these pages, the
best film to have come out of England
in many years. First, it exactly pinpoints,
through Mordecai Richler’s (another
Canadian’s) script, and the direction of
Mr. Kotcheff, a whole range of English
realities: the brutal class battle; the
tawdry ugliness of the North country,
and the desecration of London; the icy
toughness of the business world; and the
sheer nastiness of personal relationships.
It splendidly avoids hysteria, focusing
with unsparing precision on the grim and
frightening facts of life there. Oswald
Morris’ sombre camera work never
falters, from the opening of a flock of
birds released across a slate-colored sky
to the scenes in which Honor Blackman
(faultlessly cast, by the way) interviews
the locals on a television program. The
dance-hall sequence, with seedy couples
sliding past the camera, is beautifully
observed.
Are there any other new directors on
the horizon? Franklin Schaffner, whose-
“ The Best Man,” from Gore Vidal’s play
about an American election, has a keen
eye for human absurdity, but perhaps
not yet enough technical skill to execute
his ideas (his epic “The War Lord”
seemed to me an atrocity). And Jack
Smight, whose “The Third Day” and “The
Moving Target” are due in Sydney soon,
may, to judge by advance reports, be the
white hope of Hollywood along with Mr.
Conrad; both men are being assisted by
the excellent new production scheme at
Warners. I hope to report on Smight’s
work in this column later in the year.
CHARLES HIGHAM


The Saga of Madeleine Smith
(Acquitted (( not proven” of murdering her
lover, Emile I’Angelier, Glasgow, 1857.)
One night she slipped her moorings. Spurned the strong
And jail-cold stones of Seven, Blythswood Square.
The winter drew her wishing taut; along
Her nerves the bitter Glasgow winds made fire.
She put the cross-stitched alphabet upon
Her chair, and felt her skin stretch in the sun.
Outside the rusted windows of her room,
Outside the iron rail’s insistent hold,
She heard each night his stick rap on her tomb,
And sensed strong arms that reached across its cold.
Turning and turning in her frozen bed,
She knew her sex and wished that it had bled.
It was a nail scratching a mezzotint,
That real pain tearing her pluperfect dark.
Dustless, the house ticked on without a taint;
Leaves hung like bats’ wings in the formal park.
The polished floors showed up her arctic face:
Framed in the oval stones, a virgin’s grace.
She heard him well. O yes, she always heard.
The stick; the beating of his Frenchman’s heart;
Shallow and turbid, nervous as a bird,
His soul came up and healed her 1 bitter hurt;
She threw her night-dress down and ran to him,
Yet in her heart would tear him limb from limb.
It was her need that made her hate him so,
That she, the perfect, the implacable,
Should have to feel his strength divide her snow,
And on her frost feel the male sunlight fall.
All, all she could forgive him now but this:
That he had made her grovel for a kiss.
Below the bagpipes skirled; the kilted dance
Beat on across her father’s call to prayers.
Now she had lost her speckless innocence,
And she must face the cold cliff of the stairs.
Her faithful Minnoch waited with a ring,
Hearing her voice but never listening.
They could not, they must never, never know,
That in her flesh the spirit had been frail.
And that wild creature who had held her so
Must find no place within her well-told tale.
Yet he would thrust his face into her life;
Invade those rooms she kept so free of strife.
And all that followed; the immense disgrace,
Her letters found, the Black Maria there
Waiting to slam its doors across her face,
And preachers cursing in the Glasgow air;
All, all, was worth it, even if he should come,
The one who bore a hood to make her dumb.
Men argued. Wigs shook, stiff as wire;
Faces bright red with wind and whisky roared.
Black cloaks hung like the wings of bats, and fire
Burned in those venal eyes that she deplored.
But she sat cool, and cool the mezzotint
Bathed her in shades that bore no human taint.
Even when free she tripped across the court,
Bonneted, brisk, into the natural world,
She scarcely smiled, or showed a glittering thought.
Slowly her sober parasol unfurled.
She stepped into her carriage. Wheels groaned on
Across real mud into an unreal sun.
On into time. And seventy years of calm.
Men found her still, but she was always still.
She knew that now no male deceits would harm
Her, no warm face deflect her will.
The virgin spirit flickered on the spires,
Untouched as round it whirled the ceaseless fires.
Pressed in a velvet box shaped like a heart,
The mezzotint lay still. The leaves were dead.
No sun pierced that smooth darkness, and no art
Could capture the sleek emptiness that bled.
Right to the end she kept her little myth.
An upright miracle. A saint. A Smith.
CHARLES HIGHAM


FIRST N.S.W. INTERNATIONAL
FILM FESTIVAL
AUGUST 12th to 22nd
FESTIVAL MEMBERSHIP $7.50
Enquiries to Secretary. I.F.F. Committee, Box 3488, G.P O. SYDNEY
Phone 27-3470. A.H. 78-8798. 250 a George Street, Sydney.
BOOKS
Burials and Seductions
By DAVID MARTIN
The Lockwood Concern. John O’Hara.
Hodder and Stoughton. $3.15.
WHEN you begin reading “The Lock-
wood Concern,” and until you
come to about the 40th or 50th
page, you are aware only of pleasure,
and if this is your first O’Hara novel you
will remain pleased right up to the end.
It all seems so fresh, so relaxed, so in-
evitable —highly satisfying. But if you
are familiar with his work you are bound
to become more and more irritated as
you go on, because this is his first un-
ashamed pot-boiler, a distinguished rehash
of all he has previously written.
Everything is here: the burials and the
seductions, the seemingly casual but
painstaking exploration of side avenues
into which the writer lets himself drift as
the story wills, the laconic eroticism, and
the prosperous people whose physical
attributes O’Hara hardly ever describes,
because he does not need to. Yes, this
is again a saga of four generations, with
a fifth tacked on, moving forward and
backward through timeless time, where
ambition thwarts ambition and lust
thwarts lust, and men are puppets trying
to pull their own strings. Such a novel
could probably never be written by a
European—“Buddenbrooks” is a morality
as well as an histoire and the characters
in it do not inherit, as in the United
States, their father’s first names—for the
children of older cultures are not so
passionately concerned with their roots.
In Australia, too, we have not yet reached
the stage when we ask whether a family’s
wealth derives from a new or a past
patrimony; it does not matter much, and
perhaps never will. Nor, with certain
minor exceptions, do we set so much
store by origin and locality that it be-
comes one of the chief determinants of
our lives. From this we have been
saved, possibly by the British connexion.
Moses Lockwood, born 1811, was a
respectable murderer who established
himself solidly among the Pennsylvania
Dutch of Swedish Haven, founding a
dynasty to rule the town and its cautious,
unimaginative but clan-conscious, Lutheran
folk. Like his descendants he was a
great builder of high walls (the tale’s
one recurring symbol), recognising that
only the unknown stays terrible. He
wants to belong, but also to be free.
In his son, Abraham, the “concern”
emerges in full animation, as in a pious
Quaker: he dreams —but it. is more than
a dream, an overmastering urge—of mak-
ing the power of his line secure and more
lustrous into the third and fourth genera-
tions.
Lustrous? According to his lights.
“Abraham Lockwood had justifiable con-
fidence in his own ability to make money,
to establish a fortune; then once having
taught George and Penrose how to take
care of their inheritance, they could re-
main in comfortable, affluent obscurity
while deciding which boards to sit on,
which ambassadorships to take, what
games to play, whose women to sleep
with.”
JJUMAN nature being relatively human
even in German Pennsylvania, it is
a hope doomed in advance, but then the
Lockwoods are, in the words of Abraham’s
grandson, always cynical but hopeful.
What stymie them are the laws of genetics,
not of social change, although the great
Wall Streei crash of ’29 is just around
the corner in the opening chapter, hint-
ing at the coming of a turning point.
They cannot anticipate the influence of
mothers on their children, even while
they strive to reduce it to a minimum.
Collectively they fear women, treat their
wives unlovingly and oppress them, but
love is their Achilles heel.
Since they resemble each other so
strongly there is an air of repetition,
bearable because the shadings are bril-
liantly seen and projected. But the
reader is anxious throughout to return to
the 20th Century and George Bingham
Lockwood I, in whose days the concern
will have to be tested and proven. George
is already twice married, he is just finish-
ing his own immense wall, and a local
youngster has perished horribly on its
spikes. This George has a sophisticated
self-knowledge, a degree of tolerance,
which marks him off from his ancestors;
yet he is as capable as any of them, and
once or twice we feel that his dukedom
will stand.
It falls, however. George Bingham II
deserts him and the tradition by ruth-
lessly going after the oil of the distant
west, whilst his womanising is of the more
disgusting kind. The young man’s sister
is an unhappy but rather touching
nymphomaniac, dearly and legitimately
loved by old George, whose own brother
suicides in the bedroom of a mistress
whom, unknown to each other, they have
shared. At long last the first George
stumbles to his death on a secret stair of
his mansion ... an unnecessarily melo-
dramatic conclusion, but interesting in the
way the significance of the building re-
calls another, genuinely American pre-
occupation, a la Jack London and Orson
Welles.
O’Hara has covered this terrain many
times since “Butterfield 8.” His style,
which he doesn’t worry about, remains
unaltered, fluent as ever, and still throw-
ing up occasional banalities, such as, “No
young woman in Swedish Haven had
attracted the young buck as a suitable
nubile prospect.” He has lost the cold
intensity which, in their different fashions,
made “Appointment in Samara” and
“Ten North Frederick” remarkable; his
present semi-heroes carry their sexuality
like an honored flag. Their souls reside
in their genitals, because every other space
is occupied by ambitions ranging from the
crude to the rarified; hence when destiny
strikes them nine inches to a foot below
the belt, it has found a spot even more
vulnerable than in most mortals. They
are true O’Hara people in their helpless-
ness, poignant because in the eyes of
rivals and vassals they know but too
well how to help themselves, and in the
conventionality they think they are ex-
ploiting in their neighbors, while in fact
they are its victims, tied to it by the
umbilical. They are irreligious, extremely
intelligent, and optimistically desperate,
and we do not finally tire of them, be-
cause the battle they wage is never boring,
even when they are.
I believe the originality of “The Lock-
wood Concern,” such as it is, rests in
one particular small facet of the story.
The last three males of the sect are
Princeton men, with the youngest an
examination cheat whose expulsion
breaks the family spell and signals its
decline. We have, of course, long known
of the vital part that admittance to the
exclusive university clubs and societies
can play in the formation of self-
acceptance among students and status
among alumni, but I do not remember,
off-hand, a novel which lights up this
hinterland with so cruel a glare. The
pages devoted to it are excellent, adding
yet another item to the list of special
settings this author has made famous. The
episode which tells how George Bingham I
is nearly turned down by a prospective
father-in-law, a county judge, for failing
to promote his boy’s entry into the im-
placably defended inner circle has a
glittering verisimilitude which some of
the rest lacks.
The defiant but conformist house, the
illicit bed, the tyrannical fraternity—three
of the pillars around which the world of
John O’Hara, one of the authentic worlds
of America, is constructed. There remains
the world of the county, more important
at times than country, not a microcosm
of it but a substitute. The Lockwoods are
not Babbitts; indeed, you may now find
Lewis on their shelves next to O’Hara.
But they are provincials, Dow-indexed
provincials in a sky-scratching termitopolis.


Trilling, the Affable
By HOWARD JACOBSON
Beyond Culture. Lionel Trilling. Seeker
and Warburg. $4.45.
THIS book is subtitled “essays on life
and literature”—which strikes one as
not a little ambitious. But there
is never anything offensively arrogant
about Lionel Trilling. He is always
affable, moving pleasantly from a wry
humility (he calls himself a “pedagogue”)
to an avuncular geniality (“the simple
aesthetic personal pleasure of having to
do with young minds”) and back again,
as in his essay on the Leavis-Snow Con-
troversy, to a quiet and gently reason-
able firmness: “There can be no two
opinions about the tone in which Dr.
Leavis deals, with Sir Charles. It is a
bad tone, an impermissible tone. It is
bad in a personal sense because it is
cruel —it manifestly intends to wound.”
Mr. Trilling’s own tone is everywhere
highly permissible; he is never cruel and
he never intends to wound. Indeed, apart
from Dr. Leavis, he seems to have a
generous acfmiration and fondness for
everyone. His mind is a large one;
he moves freely from idea to idea, from
century to century, from country to
country. He is as at home with Nietzsche
as he is with Jane Austen, with Freud
as with Wordsworth. It is part of his
affable talkativeness that he should find
himself talking about Schiller and
Tocqueville in an essay on “Emma,” and
we come quite to expect that each page
should fairly stagger beneath the weight of
at least half a dozen portentously
European names. And if we ourselves
stagger a little, it is not so much in
awe at Mr. Trilling’s range, but at the
catholicity—l almost caught- myself say-
ing indiscriminateness—of his admirations,
and the paucity of interest to which that
large, übiquitous admiration ministers.
In embracing all ideas with the same
enthusiasm —of a chatty rather than a
determined kind there is never the
faintest possibility of any one idea, any
set of them, any position’s moving him to
such conviction as might make his tone
impermissible to anyone.
It comes back, of course, to literature’s
being for him no more than something
you fish out ideas from, quite rescue ideas
from. It is interesting that in his very
preface he should show himself worried
by Lawrence’s well-known remark: “The
world doesn’t fear a new idea. It can
pigeonhole any idea. But it can’t pigeon-
hole a new experience.”
If Mr. Trilling could pigeonhole a
new experience, I’m sure he would; but
he would have to get hold of one first.
And, as far as literature is concerned,
he can never convince us that any work
has touched off anything vital in him,
that any work has been, for him, an
experience. This is a pity because he so
wants us to believe, he so wants to be-
lieve himself, that he has been changed,
moved, excited, worried, and has had all
the rest of the right things done to him,
by literature.
He strikes all the postures, exposes him-
self, frees his mind from preconceptions,
“responds in an active way,” and yet
nothing really happens. And the more
nothing really happens the more he in-
sists something does. It is almost a des-
perate little note he strikes, when, in
the essay on Isaac Babel, he admits he
was once “afraid of the literature of
modern Europe, because I was scared of
its terrible intensities, ironies, and am-
biguities,” but, with a mental shudder,
adds that “there may possibly be a grace
in those moments when we lack the cour-
age to confront, or the strength to endure,
some particular work of art or kind of
art. At any rate, here was Babel’s book
and I found it disturbing.”
Pity almost moves us to cry, “We be-
lieve you! We believe you!” But we don’t.
For experience has become just another
idea for him; he wants it as an idea.
And it’s not surprising that when he is
confronted, to use his word, with a work
of “art, he should do with it what he'does
with “Emma” in the essay “Emma and
the Legend of Jane Austen.” “In ‘Emma,’ ”
he tells us, “Jane Austen contrives an
idyllic world.” If we were thinking of
asserting, as against that dubious praise
(it is meant as praise), our sense of the
world of that novel being a very real one,
recognisably real even today, Mr. Trilling
is ready for us. We have simply been led
into a “notable error” through which we
miss most of what is going on. “In the
community of Highbury, Miss Bates and
Mr. Woodhouse are sacred. They are
fools, to be sure, as everyone knows. But
they are fools of a special and transcen-
dent kind. They are the innocents —of
such is the kingdom of heaven.” What
we miss, as it turns out, is that Jane
Austen really is very like Dostoevsky,
at moments quite indistinguishable from
Patrick White.
But again Mr. Trilling is quick to
anticipate. “Only a modern critic would
think to call Mr. Woodhouse an idiot and
an old woman . . . Only Emma, with her
modern consciousness,” what exactly
is one of those? “comes out with it
that Miss Bates is a bore.”
One cannot contain one’s exasperation.
If “Emma” isn’t about the difficulty, if
the very distinction of the thing is not
to show us the difficulty, make us feel
it as such, in terms of plain everyday
existence, of having to live one’s life close
to people who are pretty idiotic, old
womanish and at times intolerably boring,
if the novel isn’t about that, then what is
it about? To which the answer comes back,
more loud than clear idyll! And Mr.
Trilling, by way of confirmation, sends us
away to chew upon this further observa-
tion we couldn’t handle it on the spot
that, “The weather plays a great part
in ‘Emma’ ” A special characteristic that
(we are assured) of the pastoral idyll. We
might hazard that the weather’s playing
a large part is not uncharacteristic of life
either; but we feel Mr. Trilling would
resist any such relation as purely coinci-
dental, even, we suspect, improper.
For, of the actual, Mr. Trilling is
always wary. In his essay, “Hawthorne
in Our Time,” he spells it out for us.
“For our time an investigation of objec-
tive reality cannot have the same imagin-
ative freedom and force as an affirmation
or a negation, which has only a subjective
obligation.” It’s difficult to give much
credence to an idea that has to exist in
that kind of language; it’s of a kind with
all those generalisations of which Mr.
Trilling is so fond, such as, “literature is
dedicated to the conception of the self.”
But the implications of his preference are
clear enough. That literature should con-
cern itself with the life people actually
lead appears to him as unexciting as that
he should have to read what is actually
on the page.
Give Mr. Trilling an ambiguity and
he’ll play with it for hours. Show Mr.
Trilling a novel or a poem or a play in
which there might be a conflict between
the Dionysiac and the Apollonian, the
desire for action and the love of peace,
even the individual and society, and he’ll
pursue and drag out the ambivalence no
matter how deeply buried it be in dull-
ness, obscurity, and ignorance. All that
comes between him and the idea, all that
we might call the work itself, he calls
“style.”
But if this is the nearest he gets to
excitement, even it is beginning to pall
for him. For .the writer of “Beyond Cul-
ture” is a bit worried about things; not
too worried, rather wistfully uneasy about
all he has dedicated his life to. The book
often adopts the solemn tone of an aging
man surveying his life’s work. And what
upsets him a little is his observation
it carries with it all the weight of that
life’s work that “art does not always
tell the truth or the best kind of truth
and does not always point out the right
way.” Perhaps it will hit Mr. Trilling in
time that that might have something to do
with the particular work of art, that it
might not be a work of art at all. But
it’s difficult to imagine what he would do
with that realisation if he had it. All I
can really imagine happening is that Mr.
Trilling will become sadder and sadder,
and talk, very pleasantly, more and more.
War
Only the strongest of our people
in this tower of chaos
have struck their own tormenting bells
and risked the battlements
of medieval argument.
Only the strongest of our people
can show their heads and wait
to hear them shot to splinters.
Already the engines of this war
have cracked the edifice
and heads have cried in the laughing gas,
lolled up, and been shot off.
This is the hydra of our hearts
the more we’re shot the more we grow.
But what will war be like
when our enemies get here?
RODNEY HALL


m
\
m
LOOK
THE ARD 52 -
CROSSBAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
Features: Any extension can be nominated as “operator"
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other • Outside calls dialled direct by
extension • Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
mm
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD, FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
The Old Man’s Humor
By JOHN PATERSON
The Wit of Sir Robert Menzies. Compiled by
Ray Robinson. Leslie Frewin. $2.
WHEN R. G. Menzies won Kooyong
in 1937, his majority was smaller
than that of the former Attorney-
General and Member for Kooyong, Sir
Arthur Latham, and the Melbourne
“Herald’s” political correspondent warned
Menzies that he should not look upon
his public meetings as “sheer entertain-
ment, with Mr. Menzies as the chief
entertainer.” The success with which Sir
Robert assimilated this lesson is evident
from his book.
Robinson’s book carries some 300 gags.
If Menzies is to be appraised by the
standards of the international big league,
only about six of the 300 rate, but the
style is a matter of no small importance.
It is now copied sedulously by virtually
every aspirant to Liberal honors. An
example was presented by Andrew Pea-
cock, Menzies’ successor to the Kooyong
seat, at his opening meeting of the cam-
paign. The sound of His Master’s Voice
from the fresh-faced young man gave a
serious political speech all the qualities
of a deadly accurate review sketch. The
right hand was draped over the rostrum,
the index finger revolving languidly.
Clauses were articulated with a clear
pause after each. The young wife sat
close by, just as Dame Pattie did. The
jokes were awful. The new book will be
invaluable source material for this and
other serious, horn-rimmed young men.
Menzies never tired of reminding
university-aged inter jectors that they
would not have won their scholarships
but for him, or predicting that their more
studious contemporaries must have
graduated years ago. He was ruthless in
his determination to shatter any noisy
Communist’s illusion that his disorderly
conduct would be permitted in the Soviet
Union. Chivalry never pre-empted his
comments on the shrill tone of a female
heckler nor prevented him from voicing
his guess that at least her husband would
be glad of the brief respite which her
attendance at the political meeting per-
mitted him. Generally the only deviation
from straight retaliation which Menzies
permitted himself was the tu quoque. At
its best this was good: “Tell us all you
know, Bob, it won’t take long.” “I’ll
tell you all we both know—it won’t take
any longer.”
Another of the imitated part of the
Menzies rhetoric is the double negative.
This afflicts the construction of Liberal
Party members at all levels, but whereas
it was a blemish on Menzies’ generally
splendid grammatical orthodoxy, his
followers often manage to appear to be
“speaking in tongues” political Holy
Rollers. “The Honorable Members can-
not be unaware that the Government is
not unconcerned at the aspects of the
situation which are less than not un-
promising” The weakest aspect of his
humor was Menzies’ use of word-play.
A photographer rose from his knees after
an angle shot, “. . . tired of praying.”
Menzies, “Yes, P-R-E-Y-ING.” In
1964 the ALP advocated a “watchdog
Senate,” which prompted the Prime
Minister to remark: “They’ve dropped
the idea of abolishing it—now they want
to turn it into a huge kennel.”
As a political wit Menzies showed an
early promise which was never fully
realised. If I am wrong that he opted
intentionally for a blunter brand of
humor, an alternative hypothesis is that
he lacked duelling companions. He
admired Churchill immensely. Did Eddie
Ward fail him by being unable to play
his Nye Bevan? Perhaps he disliked
Evatt too much, or Evatt was too ponder-
ous to play a Gaitskell to Menzies’
Churchill. Perhaps he could not match
Churchill’s definition of Socialism as
“Government of the duds by the duds
for the duds,” or, on a serious note, “a
burglar’s jemmy to crack the capitalist
crib.” Otherwise why huff away during
the 1949 campaign at a Socialist enemy
desirous of “increasing enormously the
circulation of money to create the illu-
sion of prosperity (while being) not
creative of real things”? Had he no one
to evoke the magnificent malice which
Nancy Astor’s “If I were your wife I
should flavor your coffee with poison”
drew from Churchill, who replied, “And
if I were your husband, Madam, I should
drink it.”?
One can only sympathise with a man
whose humor has been so grossly under-
rated. Virtually everything ever he says
worked on several levels simultaneously.
He evoked fleeting images of cigars, port,
and the Imperial connection for Liberal
men with a speech that could set heaving
the formidable bosoms of their ladies
with its measured grace and charm. By
carefully excluding content from his more
important political addresses, when he
wanted to he would, like de Gaulle, set
his political opponents dancing after a
chimera which they mistook for substantial
policy.
There is another way in which Robin-
son’s book fails to do “The Old Man”
justice. He not only misses the comic
import of the more subtle elements of
Menzies’ style, but on a purely mechani-
cal level Robinson fails to pick up some
of the delightful bubbles of after-dinner
wit which are easily researched and
which would help put straight the record.
The presentation of the gentler jests as
simple gags, each followed by a row of
asterisks, detracts further from the qual-
ity of a form of humor which above all
depends upon the context, the element of
surprise, and the personality of the man
before the audience.


John Baxter’s short stories appear fre-
quently in international SF anthologies,
including “New Writings in SF” (Dobson).
WRITING IN
THE 'SIXTIES
New Modes in “SF”
By JOHN BAXTER
“fTIHESE days,” a disgruntled critic
I said in the early ’fifties, “the best
thing one can do for science fiction
is go around the newsstands putting the
magazines at the back.” This attitude was
typical, an expression of the almost
chronic pessimism that had dogged science
fiction since the war. Junk editing, garish
covers, specious publishing practices, and
an attempt by the magazines to cash in
on the post-war SF boom by pandering to
Hollywood, crime fiction fans, and the
idiot fringe had brought the field to its
lowest level.
The situation in the ’sixties is in sharp
contrast. Science fiction is thriving both
commercially and artistically, as are its
writers. The fans are steady buyers and
keen critics. For the first time in its dis-
reputable history SF has a toehold on
artistic respectability. It is noticed by
mainstream critics and occasionally writ-
ten by major mainstream writers. In per-
haps the most important advance of all, a
group of American authors has formed the
first Professional SF Writers’ Association,
pledged to maintain standards and police
the field. Science fiction’s eruption into a
wide range of the arts from fiction to
the cinema is one of the most unexpected
publishing phenomena of the decade.
Predictably, money is at the root of this
new renaissance. As a form of popular
entertainment science fiction boomed after
the war, then declined sharply after the
demise of the pulp empires in the early
’fifties. Television, the paperback novel,
and the rise in popularity of alternative
forms of adventure/fantasy fiction
Tarzan, Bond reduced its reading pub-
lic to a figure so small that the science
fiction monthlies, traditionally the pub-
lishers of most popular SF, found them-
selves in deep water.
New markets were needed, and the
magazine publishers, with significant
alterations in content and format, man-
aged to find them. Some achieved a hold
on part of the adult paperback novel
market, others entered into competition
with semi-technical magazines like “Scien-
tific American,” while a few sank their
money, usually with disastrous results,
into publications that catered to the sex
and violence trade. The end result of this
forced change was a sudden shift in
science fiction’s approach, form, and
market, at the end of which, in the late
’fifties, it emerged as a field very similar
m most ways to contemporary realistic
fiction. Novels were more popular than
short stories, literary quality and price
alike had risen sharply, books in general
tended to conform to the public need for
cheap, serious reading matter.
Faced with the necessity to compete
with non-SF material, a challenge never
before offered to them, the science fiction
writers deserted the short-story field almost
entirely in favor of the novel and novelette
forms. Even a short SF story requires the
construction of a background, plot, and
set of characters more complex than those
found in the average adventure novel.
Many writers, having spent days on plan-
ning a three-thousand-word story, found
themselves reluctant to waste the idea on
magazines that would pay something be-
tween lc and 4c a word for it. Most pub-
lishers, on the other hand, would pay from
$2OOO up for even the simplest novel. The
decision was an easy one.
Other factors were involved. Science
fiction was being used more frequently
than it had been since the days of Wells
as a vehicle for serious non-SF writers to
express their philosophical ideas. Anthony
Burgess’ two science - fiction - orientated
novels, “The Wanting Seed” and his jazzy
Joyceian “A Clockwork Orange” (both
1962), were widely read and discussed by
professionals, while novels like John Her-
sey’s “White Lotus” (1965), though using
plots that SF writers discarded long ago,
were admired for their style and gloss. A
group of British writers found inspiration
in the work of ’twenties experimentalist
Wyndham Lewis, whose trilogy “The
Human Age” is currently enjoying brisk
This is the sixth in a series of articles on con-
temporary literature, to be contributed by various
critics.
sales in a paperback reprint despite its
often mannered theme.
The intellectual re-orientation of
science fiction has not been without its
cost. Many writers of the ’thirties and
’forties were unable or unwilling to make
the change. Arthur C. Clarke’s success
with fact articles in “Playboy” and else-
where had prepared his admirers for the
casual irrelevance of his last major novel,
“A Fall of Moondust” (1961), but his
elevation to scriptwriter of Stanley
Kubrick’s new film “2001; A Space
Odyssey” came as a surprise. There
were other predictable casualties; Ray
Bradbury, now the darling of the intellec-
tuals and the slick-reading public alike;
Charles Beaumont and Richard Matheson,
scriptwriters for Roger Corman; Robert
Bloch, TV writer and horror story
factory; Alfred Bester, Mack Reynolds,
L. Sprague de Camp, and many others
have become magazine writers, PR men or
worse. Even the greatest of them all,
Theodore Sturgeon, has written nothing
but a “Novelisation” of a SF movie, though
his bizarre psychosexual “Venus Plus X”
(1960) remains one of the novels still
talked about in raised voices.
Not all the old names have gone. Poul
Anderson continues to turn out fast-
moving though largely simple-minded
novels for the American market, while
his European counterpart, John Brunner,
despite a failed atttempt at non-SF in
“The Crutch of Memory” (1964), seems
intent on deserting the more popular
type of science fiction for something more
subtle. His latest novel, “The Squares
of the City,” is a fantasy in which the
characters move through evolutions sym-
bolic of a classic Steinitz-Tchigorin chess
match of the ’thirties. Most durable of
all is Robert A. Heinlein, who answered
the call for more sophisticated science
fiction with a series of politically
oriented fantasies liberally shot through
with violence, racism, and a wide variety
of sexual perversions. The virulently
rightist nature of “Stranger in a Strange
Land” (1962), “Glory Road” (1963), and
“Farnham’s Freehold” (1965) seems
neither to have alienated his publisher
nor diminished his personal popularity.
Heinlein’s idiosyncratic and largely
overrated talent is typical of the rickety
state of American science fiction. Imita-'
ting Heinlein, who has stated that he
prefers the Sears-Roebuck catalogue to
“Ulysses” as a work of literature, many
writers have abandoned style altogether
in favor of complex plot, but some
thoughtful authors still remain, many of
them old pulp craftsmen who have dis-
covered unexpected veins of literary
ability. Philip Jose Farmer’s fantastic
“Inside Outside” (1964), Edgar Pang-
born’s “Davy” (1964), the latter a futuris-
tic combination of Henry Fielding and
John Barth, Philip K. Dick’s “The Man
in the High Castle” (1962), “Doctor
Bloodmoney or how we got Along
After the Bomb” (1965), and “The
Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch”
(1966) all illustrate the intelligent and
imaginative way American authors are
able to use the medium. They are, how-
ever, in the minority. The only truly
experimental science fiction being written
at this time is British, most of it coming
from the pens of two writers—J. G. Bal-
lard and Brian W. Aldiss.
Ballard and Aldiss represent two pos-
sible futures for science fiction. Aldiss is
serious, intellectual. His novels reflect an
Oxford background, a wide knowledge of
literature and a deep involvement in
social problems. He knows English fic-
tion; recent novels have shown the influ-
ence of Dickens, Waugh, Wells, Aldous
Huxley, and Anthony Powell. “Earth-
works” (1965) and “The Dark Light
Years” (1964) especially demonstrate his
academic approach and sound style.
James Ballard, however, has little
interest in current social problems or
their solution. His world is the world of
“inner space,” the limits of the human
mind where fantasy and dream take over
from reality. His books are full of sur-
real landscapes, warped monsters, and
ancient cities abandoned to sand and
decay. In “The Drowned World” (1963),
the Earth is a foetid swamp, in “The
Burning World” (1965) a desert, and in
“The Crystal World” (1966) a fantastic
mirror landscape of prismed light and
giant crystalline life forms. Kafka, Bur-
roughs and Wyndham Lewis are his influ-
ences.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Why Be a Bank?
IT may not look like it, but the Federal Government is doing
the U.S. banks a favor by not letting them set up shop here
as banks. It means that the Americans can do what they like
in the huge fringe-banking area that is beyond the direct control
of the monetary authorities without fear that “misbehaviour”
(which means refusing to do what the Reserve Bank wants) will
bring repercussions in their normal banking operations.
As has already been clearly demonstrated by the ANZ Bank’s
decision not to proceed with its commercial bill subsidiary, the
Australian banks have been inhibited to quite a degree in their
“fringe banking” activities by the implied threat that a failure
to follow Reserve Bank wishes on the fringe may bring about
tougher controls over those parts of the banks’ activities that
are directly under the supervision of the monetary authorities.
By not being allowed to set up as banks, the Americans are not
subject to this, or any other, direct pressure —although, for
reasons related to their desire to keep their international lines
of communication open, they would presumably not set out
deliberately to annoy Dr. Coombs and his men just yet.
The First National City Bank of New York has been the
first to make use of this freedom of action in the fringe-banking
sphere by buying half of Waltons Credit Corporation, the
financing offshoot of the Waltons department store group. The
other U.S. banks here—the Chase Manhattan, Bank of America,
and American Express—have limited their financing functions
to big developmental operations, with Chase Manhattan in
particular playing a big role in the big mineral developments
and the Esperance land projects.
Of course, the City Bank move into Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion will mean some increase in the competition for hire-purchase
business between the majors in that industry, which will add
to the problem they face as more motor-vehicle manufacturers
move into the financing field the way General Motors has done
with its GMAC. For the Citibank-Waltons Credit Corporation
aims at doing far more business outside its traditional function
of financing Waltons’ debtors; it is aiming at instalment finance
on automobiles, consumer durables and equipment, financing
real-estate mortgages, personal loan business, factoring accounts
receivable and leasing equipment. It expects that these non-
Waltons operations will make up most of its activities within the
next decade.
Who needs to be a banker, anyway? You can borrow from the
public and lend to the public without being a banker and not
just at the risky end of the money business, either. And the
evidence from overseas is clearly that the major growth area
for banks is outside the traditional banking function. Among the
many fringe-banking functions open to the Americans are credit
cards, travellers’ cheques, mutual funds, and money orders, and
there seems enormous scope for them to develop at some depth
money markets like a commercial bill market outside the narrow
confines of the bank-controlled official bill market.
For reasons that may not be related to their own wishes, the
Australian trading banks have been reluctant about developing
an effective and substantial commercial bill market; so, despite
official satisfaction, the volume of bills the banks have dis-
counted in the market has not been as large as it could be. But
acceptance of a commercial bill by an associate of one of these
U.S. banks would certainly give it a solid status. And the real
difference in effect between an accommodation bill and bank
overdraft is at times quite hard to establish, particularly if the
interest rates involved can be kept at reasonable levels.
Another of the fringe areas into which the foreign banks
MEN AND MATTERS
IT is an irony of business life that one
of Australia’s most advertising-
conscious companies, one of the top
three buyers of television time to get its
products across to the public, should itself
be so private in every respect, so with-
drawn from public scrutiny.
The company, Samuel Taylor Pty. Ltd.,
does not reveal its profits, let alone supply
photographs of its directors. But it is
evident where control of the company,
set up 98 years ago by Mr. Samuel Taylor,
now lies. One of his two sons-in-law, Mr.
C. R. M. Graha,m, is managing director,
and his family holds about 40 percent of
the $132,000 share capital shown in the
latest official return. The remainder is
split, in the main, between the Shipway
family (Mr. S. K. Shipway is another son-
in-law of the late Mr. Taylor) and the
Jackson family
It seems that the Shipways have not
been maintaining the same interest in the
business as the Grahams, with one of Mr.
Graham’s four sons, Robert, taking a very
active role in the company. Robert, like
his lawyer brother Peter, spent a year at
Harvard; his other brothers are still re-
ceiving their education James as a
medical student at Sydney University and
J. R. is still at Shore.
Last week Samuel Taylor added a new
product to its wide range by taking on the
distribution of Perma-Sharp razor blades,
relinquished by Email Ltd. when it sold
its razor-blade operations to the American
parent. Razor blades make a useful addi-
tion to the Samuel Taylor range, which
already includes Smoothex shaving cream
and other items that sell through chemists,
like Gossamer and Le Gay hairsprays,
Medic vaporised cough remedy, and
Y-cough.
Samuel Taylor s most famous P ro *
duct is Mortein, the advertising for which
as followed its own advice when
Y ou re on a § ood thing, stick to it. It also
makes Trix detergent, Hi-Ho pink lotion
detergent, Mr. Sheen furniture wax, Aero-
zo»e room freshener. There is a relatively
new plant at Artarmon (N.S.W.). Most of
the products are sold in aerosol packs,
Samuel Taylor succeeeded in getting a
court order restraining Woolworths from
usi ng the words “pressure pack” or “Pres-
sure Pak” for any aerosol goods other than
* amuel Ta >: lor > >' “ , a B ent in Australia
for ° ne of ,w 0 Afncan sl 'PP llers , of
Pyrethrum, an important ingredient in in-
sectici es.
TIM HOWARD, one of the sizable
J collection of former top executives of
Lend Lease Corporation, has taken
on quite a job; he is trying to drag Strata
Development Corporation Ltd., the unim-
pressive Wollongong boom-child of the
19605, out of its dismal rut and put it
Streets Ahead.
Whatever happens, one thing is sure:
the 41-year-old ex-boss of Lend Lease
Jim Howard
On a good thing.
Homes Pty. Ltd. will make some drastic
changes in the Strata company that had
been shuffling along (with its 50 cent
shares around the 20-cent level) since the
former management of Streets Ice Cream
started up Strata when their ice-cream
business was swallowed up by the Unilever
group.
Jim Howard’s first move is to bring the
Strata organisation to Sydney and, pre-
sumably, to 'swing some of its under-
employed capital (last year it earned pro-
fits of only H percent) into the business
in which Mr. Howard has become one of
Australia’s top experts housing project
development. With one or two Sydney
project-building groups with impressive
records now in serious financial trouble
mainly because of undercapitalisation (one
well-known Sydney project builder that
had intended to go public is instead in
the process of going broke), the scope
for action by a group with funds like
Strata is very wide.


could well decide to move is rural finance, a field at present
catered for not only by banks but also by the pastoral companies,
which together have about $260 million on loan to farmers.
This market is only about one-fifth the size of normal instal-
ment credit hire purchase, but is nevertheless a useful field.
All this serves to demonstrate the inevitable disintegration
of the Australian monetary system of controls, which depends
for its effectiveness almost exclusively on regulation of the pro-
portionately diminishing banking functions as more and- more
controls are needed over a smaller and smaller area to bring
the same result.
The Palmer Case
THE Crown action involving H. G. Palmer (Consolidated)
Ltd. seems likely to last about three months. Some 200
witnesses will be examined. Documents to go before the
court include 180,000 ledger cards.
The case follows preliminary investigations by the N.S.W.
Registrar of Companies. Seven former directors, the former
company secretary, and a former auditor are charged with par-
ticipating in the issue of a false prospectus, under Section 176 of
the Crimes Act, and also, under Section 47 of the Companies
Act, with having made untrue statements and with w'ilful non-
disclosures in a prospectus.
Present hearings are before a magistrate, Mr. J. R. Scarlett,
in Sydney’s Central Court of Petty Sessions. With so much dis-
cussion taking place on the exact role and evidential value of
the prior investigatory process, it was of immediate interest
that, as early as the second day, Mr. Scarlett held that evidence
in records of interviews between defendants and investigators
should not be published.
Mr. Scarlett’s ruling, after argument in closed court, mentioned
that “a great deal of what was recorded and said (in the inter-
views) by one defendant might be prejudicial to some other
defendants and would not be admissible against them.”
Food for Asia
ANOTHER foreign group looks like moving into the local
food business in a big way. Two companies registered in
Melbourne last week, Ballantyne Holdings Pty. Ltd. and
Asian Food Industries Ltd., will both be controlled by a Hong
Kong group, Dairy Farm Ice and Cold Storage Co. Ltd. This
company is in turn controlled by British capital.
Asian Food Industries Ltd. was registered as a public company,
presumably because it wall be the chief fund raiser and the vehicle
for takeovers in Australia. Apparently the Hong Kong board also
plans to draw' cash from other countries, like New Zealand, into
Asian Foods to limit competition and amalgamate the efforts of
Westernised nations in their assaults on South-East Asia’s big
food market. For Australian investors, there is a possibility that
Asian Foods will eventually offer some of its capital for local
subscription.
Margarine at War
THE current furore over margarine seems to be part of a
well planned campaign to prepare the public to be dis-
pleased jf the Privy Council does not allow Marrickville
Margarine leave to appeal against the recent High Court judg-
ment preventing Marrickville from getting around its production
quota. If Marrickville can get leave to appeal to the Privy
Council this month on its quota-breaking operations, then the
company is confident that it can present a good case. But the
first hurdle of getting leave to appeal is a difficult one.
So the margarine war has spread (and very spreadable it is,
too) from a legal battle into an advertising war and now
into a fight between tw'o different groups of primary producers.
Last weekend, the three margarine makers who belonged to the
Edible Oilseeds Group decided to withdraw. Their reasons,
according to the general manager of Marrickville Margarine,
Mr. B. W. Robertson, were to allow' the group to proceed with
its aims “without accusations that it is influenced by margarine
manufacturers.” The other two companies involved were Unilever
and James Barnes.
The stage is now' set for a straightforward, no-holds-barred
battle between the oil seeds growers and the dairymen.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: Blandly and with a serene,
almost complacent, undertone, the Treasury white paper,
“The Australian Economy, 1966,” makes among other
things a case for encouraging consumer spending. On
this latter may depend “whether the total increase in
demand will be large enough to sustain a sufficient rate
of growth in the economy.” The Treasury believes “the
old sequence of boom, crisis, and recession has been
averted,” with a result that “the economy has settled
down to a rate of expansion slower than that of 1962-65
but pretty well up to the limits of available labor” (see
Peter Samuel’s Canberra, page 46).
A Bank of New South Wales Review suggests that
“in the past three months the economy has remained
in a state of full employment without inflation,” yet
this has “partly arisen out of conditions which have
sharply reduced the rate of growth.”
For the markets: Industrials have entered the
new financial year on Australian share markets tolerably
firm, although dealings still look rather light. Index
trends are largely determined by BHP, as indeed
they turned out to be during most of 1965-66. Metals,
however, continue to provide a rival attraction, although
a slight easing from peak levels became apparent
toward the end of last week. Most interestingly, oils
made a measure of comeback after recent instability.
Whatever criticism may be directed at Mr. Wilson’s
steel nationalisation bill, London markets expect re-
investment of much of the compensation money. On this
prospect, and on cessation of the seamen’s strike, they
remain sound on narrow' fluctuations . . . Wall Street
has achieved a better technical strength, but must face
tighter credit and Vietnam’s implications.
For companies: An adventurous and cleverly
conceived invasion leads the week. First National City'
Bank, New York, is to obtain a 50 percent share interest
(at an undisclosed premium) in retailer Waltons’ finance
subsidiary, Waltons Credit Corporation Ltd. Repulsed
from an official banking licence, First National joins
the new Citibank-Waltons Credit with the firm intention
of broadening the “spectrum of financial services.”
Next in the foreign line, Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
Oil may place some nine million 50 cent shares, per-
haps at a 20 cent premium, with, presumably, Burmah
Oil, of Britain.
Ushering in the June 30 results, Melbourne flour-
miller Robert Hutchinson (Holdings) found all divisions
trading profitably and lifted earnings by $22,813 to
$231,785 . . . For the year to March, James Hardie
Asbestos showed a 45 percent profit leap to $3,603,902
after taking advantage of tax losses . . . Steel and
aluminium merchant William Adams saw its profit
drop 5.3 percent in the year ended April, on a marginal
sales increase; dividend returns to 124 percent by
omission of a 24 percent bonus.
British Tobacco now has direct control of Coca-
Cola Bottlers (Perth) . . . Snack foods will, some
time in the future, be made in Australia by PepsiCo.
International . . . Potato costs particularly hit Smith’s
Potato Crisps (Aust.) Pty., so profits plunged by
$68,276 to $122,172 . . . Anderson Meat Industries
plans to attack the Victorian market with a full range
of smallgoods.
Investment income helped Bankers and Traders
Insurance to a record $328,171 profit and its 18th suc-
cessive 12| percent dividend , . . Melbourne’s Southern
Motors struck the lowest profit in 11 years, cutting
dividend back from 174 to 9 percent . . . The chair-
man of Kelvinator, Mr. A. L. Slade, finds the forecast
market for household refrigerators “somewhat optimistic.”


PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Tricks from the Treasury
ECONOMIC growth “must be some-
what intermittent, a matter of surge
and pause, a burst of energy today
and perhaps a degree of hesitancy tomor-
row”; so wrote the men of the Treasury
in 1961 in the traditional pre-Budget
White Paper. Their almost frivolous style
and apparent complacency at a time of
deep Government-induced recession drew
forth widespread cries of Canberra ivory-
towerism, bureaucratic bungling and
arrogance. It contributed heavily to the
elections which brought Sir Robert Men-
zies and his coalition closer to defeat than
any other in the postwar period.
How different is the 1966 paper. It
reads so much more smoothly, pone are
the irritating little lectures on the virtue
to be had from persisting with ill-defined
slogans like free enterprise or the dangers
of not exercising personal restraint and
like behaviour. The prose is smoother,
more professional, there is the beginning
at least of an attempt to add to public
discussion of economic matters by fiazard-
ing one or two quantifications of the
potential increase in employment, the
relative size of the various factors in the
economic movements of the past five
years. Endearing is the humility of the
authors in playing down the role of the
Government in the successes which have
so certainly been achieved in recent years.
We tend to blame our economic directors
when things go wrong even when it is not
their fault, so they should get some credit
when things go well even if a strict
analysis suggests it is mainly good luck.
As you read the 1966 White Paper for
the first time, it is notable how different
it is from the old days and you feel re-
assured and happy. Then suddenly near
the end you are brought to a jarring
reassessment. A stridently arrogant note
creeps in, with much-implied self-
satisfaction.
Summing up, it is proclaimed that
“From the standpoint of economic
management, the great fact about the
period considered by the survey is that
the old sequence of boom, crisis, and
recession has been averted ... The
economy has settled down to a rate of
expansion slower than that of 1962-65
but pretty well up to the limits of avail-
able’ labor.” This change in tune from
1961, and particularly from the quote
with which this article opened, is so
discordant as to wake the reader from
the mental slumber brought on by the
quiet soothing words which preceded.
What on earth is this talk of the
economy “settling down” to the ideal rate
of growth; what sort of propaganda or
wishful thinking is this? You fellas in the
Treasury have done damned well lately,
but you haven’t pulled off some quiet
revolution which ushers in a kingdom of
heaven on earth, in which all the old
problems are extirpated.
Even on the Treasury’s soothing analysis
of the prospects ahead, it is ludicrous to
argue that we have “settled down.” As
it admits, all the evidence points to an
end to the growth of business capital ex-
penditures and there is a strong possi-
bility of a significant fall. Consumer
spending has weakened badly recently; its
future is uncertain and a matter of
speculation because of the unpredictability
of the outcome of the national wages case.
On the other hand, there are bull points,
too. But the thought that a neat balancing
of the opposing tendencies will result is
irresponsible and complacent.
Mr. McMahon, the new Treasurer, has,
in an academic sort of way, suggested
the possibility of introducing more flexi-
bility into the mechanisms by which the
Government steers the economy: a com-
mendable idea. But it remains as only
an idea and basically the Treasury has
the same, tools of economic analysis and
management, and the same economic
world to deal with as in 1961, when it
described growth as necessarily intermit-
tent, “a matter of surge and pause, a burst
of energy today and perhaps a degree of
hesitancy tomorrow.”
ECONOMIC management is just as diffi-
cult as then and it is just as urgent,
too, to strive to improve its performance.
The complacency of 1966 is just as bad as
the fatalism of 1961.
Thus stirred, the reader has a second
look at the details of the latest White
Paper and he discovers not a few tricks
and mistakes. It happens to be untrue that
imports of plant and equipment have not
so far fallen on the basis of the first
eleven months, this financial year’s im-
ports of machinery and transport equip-
ment will be $ll3O million compared with
$l6BO million the previous year. The May,
1966, figure happens to be $B6 million
against the $162 million for May, 1965.
But the tricks are more serious. To
choose June, 1962, as the Treasury does,
as the dividing point between this era
and the past is designed to suggest mis-
leading statistical results. The paper argues
that personal consumption spending has
been growing more quickly of late. This
result is only obtained by depressing the
early figures with two years of recession
figures, bringing down the average rate
of growth from 4.0 percent to 3.5 percent.
And then the necessarily large recovery
rates of growth of 1962-3 and 1963-4 are
loaded on to the figures purporting to
represent recent times. So the fact that,
over the past two years, consumption has
barely increased at more than an average
of two percent a year is neatly obscured.
Unfortunately, too, the paper repeats
yet again the falsity that the recent slow-
down in the economy is largely attribut-
able to the effect of drought on farm
income. As it happens, the drop in farm
income occurred right back in the first
half of last year and has remained stable
at a low level since then. On the other
hand the non-farm sector, far from seeing
a slowdown in growth, experienced a
minor downturn in activity in the Decem-
ber quarter of 1965 and the March quarter
of this year, based on the slump in car
sales and housing and the liquidation of
stocks.
The happy fact that we seem since then
to have recovered from these events is no
justification for the Treasury attempting
to rewrite history.
J. C. HORSFALL'S MELBOURNE
Intellectuals and Business
I’VE recently been having some dialogue
in Auckland with Arthur Manning,
chief executive officer of New Zealand’s
Constitutional Society, about the nearest
thing the Dominion has to Melbourne’s
Institute of Public Affairs. Sad to say, the
Constitutional Society doesn’t command
the same support of businessmen, nor has
it as effective an organ to propagate its
views as our IPA. The reason, or one of
them, for this is that the N.Z. organisa-
tion isn’t shy of doing a bit of lobbying
on its own account in Wellington, whereas
the IPA stands outside the political stage
and largely confines itself to a sustained
public informing effort to lay bare the
common sense and facts of national econ-
omic issues.
Since its foundation, during World War
11, there’s been a remarkable transition
from the IPA’s originally avowed purpose
of pushing the same barrow of private
enterprise as N.Z.’s Constitutional Society
to its unique present role of national econ-
omic confessor. Practically everybody
agrees it is now doing a fine job. But
strangely enough the IPA has so far failed
to get on all fours with the intellectuals.
This is the more annoying to it because of
ffs legitimate claims to impartiality, which
intellectuals should be the first to recognise
and appreciate as their own raison d’etre.
As it did a couple of years ago, in its cor-
respondence with the “intellectual” authors
of “Taxation in Australia: Agenda for
Reform,” the IPA keeps trying to build a
bridge.
One of the difficulties the IPA faces in
doing this seems of its own making its
perpetuation of a hard and fast distinction
between businessmen and intellectuals. It
is at this again in an article discussing the
differences of outlook and approach be-
tween the two groups in the current num-
ber of its quarterly review. This article is
pitched on the same sort of “town versus
gown” level as used to prevail at Cam-
bridge, a university town where, in my
day at any rate, undergraduates were
notorious for “borrowing” townsmen’s
bicycles, not the other way round.
The IPA’s distinction between intel-
lectuals and businessmen doesn’t look all
that real and one gets the feeling the Insti-
tute likes to think of itself as having one
foot at least in the intellectuals’ camp.
“The intellectual,” it states, “we take to
be someone occupied mainly in the
pursuit and dissemination of knowledge


Now choose between any of
6 weekly big, friendly
jet flights to Europe
i
. »
Rome
> Mi
*«rr
11- m
r*
*
if
>i»< *
i"
F rankfurt
Zurich
T&m?.
*ll *if F i»ii »»
London
Now. Go when you like on any of six flights weekly to the four most
exciting gateways to Europe. Rome, Zurich, Frankfurt, or London, on
BOAC’s big Rolls-Royce 707’s. Bonus offer! Zip up to Singapore by
Rolls-Royce 707—enjoy a night on the town—then jet on next morning
to Europe in the big silent VCIO . . . the exciting new jet that experienced
jet travellers are talking about.
Talk over your itinerary with your Travel Agent,
BO AC or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BO AC
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
with Air India, Air New Zealand and Qantas.
BOAC: P5O (a)
and in the arts and cultural pursuits. The
great proportion of intellectuals, naturally
enough, are to be found in the universities
and higher educational institutions. Many
businessmen, whilst not intellectuals in the
meaning of the word here, nevertheless
have intellectual interests.”
The IPA goes some way in acknow-
ledging bicycle borrowing between busi-
ness and intellectuals, and illustrates how
both these circles and the whole economy
as well have benefited from the inter-
changes. Obviously, though, the traffic
is still not thick enough and the article is
at pains to show that “borrowing” pro-
clivities are weaker than they should be
on both sides. One gets the impression
the IPA has firm ideas where they are
weakest.
The message is that, if academic econ-
omists are to pontificate on the sins of
the business world from their ivory towers,
they should come into the marketplace
from time to time to watch and hear it
ticking. “Intellectual freedom carries with
it intellectual responsibility; the business-
man is entitled to expect that those dis-
posed to be critical of him should take
pains properly to inform their minds and
should state their judgments moderately
and without conscious bias. What one
would wish to see in the relationship, of
businessmen and intellectuals is a little
more generosity, a little more impartiality,
and a greater effort at understanding,”
the Institute says.
F is a moot point whether this oblique
criticism of academic economists stands
up, at least as far as Melbourne goes. It
may be more valid for Sydney and Can-
berra than here. Some years ago I in-
vited a professor of economics at Sydney
University, who professed a yen to see
more of “town,” to a business lunch in
his city; so far as I know the one experi-
ence was enough for him. I used to do the
same in Melbourne in the old days. Per-
haps the mix doesn’t work as well now
as when Professors Wood and Copland
were running the country and Sir Nor-
man Myer was here to pick up the bills,
but the IPA shouldn’t run away with the
idea that university economists in this
city spend all their time in Carlton and
out Clayton way. Despite their huge
teaching commitments, the like of Profes-
sor Cochran base frequently with business
and industrial circles, while Sir Henry
Bolte seemed to be walking arm in arm
with Professor Downing on the State in-
come tax proposal last year.
What is more, in Melbourne we now
have two “economics” professors, the heads
of the schools of business administration
and applied economics, whose lighter
teaching loads give them more time than
their academic colleagues to peddle around
the business world. We don’t see them as
often as we should, but at any rate they
have thrown up some very good sugges-
tions for improving our economic works
these past few years. How far the IPA
itself exchanges ideas with them and other
academics is a moot point. My impres-
sion is that there’s plenty of room for
thickening the traffic in ideas and experi-
ence in both directions.


&
m
ARE YOU
PLANNING
TO BUILD
WE OFFER YOU A COMPLETE
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT
BUILDING SERVICE AVAILABLE
ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA.
This means that you can have any type
of building from a large home to any com-
mercial project designed in detail for you
by our Architects, Structural Engineers
and Civil Engineers and built for you by
our mobile building teams of skilled trades-
men who are available to go to all States
in Australia, including N.T.
We specialise in the design of large
luxury homes with swimming pools, land-
scaped gardens, courtyards and special in-
terior finishes. Our group works in con-
junction with two of Australia’s leading
Interior Decorators and retains on its staff
artisans experienced in the working of
sandstone and marble.
The commercial projects undertaken by
our consulting designers include Civic Cen-
tres, Motels, Hotels, Drive-in Cinemas,
Shopping Arcades, Land Subdivisions,
Road Construction, Home Units and
Factories.
EXTRACT FROM CLIENTS LETTER
N.S.W. WHEAT RESEARCH FOUNDATION
Managing Director April 15, 1966
Mobile Constructions,
G.P.0., Box 3777, SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,
It is apparent that this work has been
carried out in an expert manner and I
will take this opportunity of commending
the finished buildings as one of credit to
the operations of your firm
Yours faithfully,
J. P. CASS, 0.8. E.
Chairman N.S.W. Wheat Foundation
(is a Member of the Australian
Wheat Board)
EXTRACT FROM UNITED FARMERS JOURNAL,
WED., JUNE 1, 1966.
“Although costs of the building have
not been disclosed, they are understood to
be most reasonable for a unit of its size
and design.” (This statement refers to
an Administration Building built in Nar-
rabri, N.S.W., under our design and con-
struct system for the N.S.W. Wheat
Research Foundation.)
toßiufN
All States write to
MOBILE CONSTRUCTION
CO. AUST. PTY. LTD.
GPO, Box 3777,
Sydney.
Phone 27-3246
New Zealand under Strain
By CROESUS
THE outside world sees New Zealand facing a host of crucial economic problems.
Its vital overseas trade is already subject to the inhibiting effect of import and
exchange controls. The longer-term threat of Britain, its main source of export
income and present source of most of its imports, joining the Common Market looms
ominously. Yet inside the country a serenity born of overfull employment, rising incomes,
and long acquaintance with tight Government controls prevails. Political play takes
precedence of the economic dangers as the two parties manoeuvre into position for the
coming election.
Certainly nobody I met on a flying visit
there these past two weeks was particularly
happy at the immediate prospects, except
the Government, perhaps. And even it was
admitting the internal economic pace to
be rather on the fast side. In an election
year the Nationalist Government, which
has been in power for the past five years,
is facing heavy charges of profligacy from
the Labor Opposition. But in the spirit of
“if this is a mess, let’s have more of it,”
the P.M., Mr. Holyoake, has been turn-
ing the charges, pointing to the unpre-
cedented prosperity, and playing down
the balance-of-payments difficulties. In
some quarters he is being called “a lucky
boy” because the impasse in the country’s
overseas trade could work out in favor
of the slender reserves position in the
period up to the election. ’
•In this situation, highly charged
though it be with inflationary tinder, it
was a nice pre-election touch for the Gov-
ernment not to increase personal taxes in
the Budget brought down when I was
there. To understand this, you have to
go back to the 1960 election, following
Labor’s punitive tax increases of the late
1950 s which paved Holyoake’s path to the
treasury benches. The P.M. is reckoning
on New Zealanders having a long memory.
Considering the economic perils ahead,
there seemed to be a high measure of
political opportunism in the delivery of
the general Budget theme. The only sec-
tion to get concessions were farmers, who
rule the roost in the Dominion. For the
rest, the Treasurer, Mr. Lake, said it was
merely hope deferred, pointing to such
awkward matters like uncertainties in ex-
port markets, difficulties in raising over-
seas loans, a heavy increase in defence
expenditure, and the current strain on the
country’s resources as standing in the way
at present.
There is so much of the orthodox in
New Zealand’s current fiscal and monetary
policy that an increase in personal taxes
would have fitted, appropriately into a
non-political approach to the overall
economic problem. But, as I say, an elec-
tion coming up and with company tax
at 10/- in the pound and incomes over
£3600 bearing income tax at the highest
rate of 13/6 in the pound both having
high disincentive effects perhaps Mr.
Lake could be excused for not stiffening
them further in an attempt to dampen
effective demand in an emerging situation
°f shortages in consumer goods,
With exchange reserves so low and
prospects for overseas borrowing pretty
bleak, it had been generally expected the
Treasurer would cut back unlicensed im-
ports, which comprised about a third of
the imports bill last year when their up-
surge was largely responsible for the re-
serves drain. Again, the coming election
may have played a part in this decision
and, looking at the inflation signals, the
cushioning effect of imports in a situation
of rising incomes and overfull employment
couldn’t be ignored.
In these circumstances the Government
has adopted a subtle mixture of fiscal and
monetary policy to substitute in part for
additional direct restrictions on imports
and higher personal taxes. On the
monetary policy side it is relying on higher
interest rates to increase savings and so
divert incomes from spending channels,
and with the additional purpose of damp-
ening investment expectations (in Keynsian
terms, lowering the marginal efficiency of
capital). This increase in interest rates (in
the first instance on new deposits in post
office, trustee, and savings banks and on
fixed deposits in trading banks) has to
be seen in conjunction with the fiscal move
to suspend .the investment allowances on
new plant and equipment which were
introduced in 1963.
latter step is directly aimed to slow
fixed investment; though its effects are
not likely to appear in the imports bill for
some time, eventually it could have some
force because fixed capital equipment
looms large in the imports bill and has
been one of the big sources of strain on re-
serves in recent years. However, it seems
that it will only operate to dampen private
fixed investment. Without direct cuts in
public sector fixed investment it looks
rather lonely as a means of easing the
strain on overseas reserves from fixed in-
vestment. There has been no hint that the
Government is to cut back its own invest-
ment expenditure, which has been leaping
ahead under the Holyoake regime..
Evidence of this high Government in-
vestment expenditure is very plain to one
who was last in the country in 1959. In
the past five years the Government has
spent £253 million on electric power, in-
stallations, and transmission; £lOB million
on post office works; land settlement £75
million; roads £56 million; railways £l6O
million, and so on. These are big sums
for a country with only 2J million people.
Clearly the basic services background has
been well attended to in the period since
1960, which has witnessed the most rapid
development in the private sector N.Z.
has every known. However, it would seem
that the Government must take another
look at the availability of resources to
sustain its expenditure on such a generous
scale in its own sector, especially so in
the light of the withdrawal of investment
allowances from private enterprise.
The overseas reserves position being
N.Z.’s Achilles heel, it will be particularly
unfortunate if internal growth has to bow
to it, although Mr. Holyoake seems de-
termined to prevent this. The dilemma is
all the greater because overseas borrow-
ings I found to be almost a dirty word
in N.Z. politics, at least on the Labor side.
Private overseas capital is almost frowned
on as a substitute and has to run the


MANAGER
UNIVERSITY BOOKSHOP
A rewarding position for a skilled energetic
manager, who can regard books with a little
more understanding than “mere merchan-
dise.” Turnover exceeds $500,000; staff number
between 20 and 30. The bookshop must be
efficiently conducted, but it must also be a
congenial service to the academic community.
It is a complex business, with its supplies
drawn from hundreds of publishers through-
out the world, and all the work that goes
with serving 12-15,000 customers, both cash
and credit.
Book trade experience may be an advantage,
though not essential; but applicants must have
business experience, as well as some literary
knowledge and interest, be used to training
and direction of staff and able to delegate re-
sponsibility; used to the systematic control of
detail, and energetic in solving new problems.
Age preferably not above 40. Salary up to
$6OOO. Superannuation.
Apply in writing before 15th July, stating ex-
perience and education, to
Director,
Melbourne University Press,
932 Swanston Street,
Carlton, Victoria..
E3£}£\
MARKETING DIRECTOR DESIGNATE
for an Australian public company which makes and
markets a range of branded and other consumer pro-
ducts through emporiums, chains and smaller retailers
throughout Australia. He will be responsible for con-
tributions to marketing policy and product develop-
ment, for pricing and discounts and for direction,
leadership, co-ordination and control of the marketing
effort involving sales staff of over 50, advertising
agencies and selling agents and distributors. Location:
Melbourne. Interstate and overseas travel.
Starting salary will be negotiated up or down from
$lO,OOO p.a. Car provided. Superannuation. He will be
appointed to the Board as an associate director after
a proving period of up to 2 years.
Candidates must have an excellent record of market-
ing management including substantial experience of
consumer products such as grocery, apparel, confec-
tionery, footwear, over-the-counter pharmaceuticals,
fashion articles, branded and packaged goods, etc.
Evidence of successful product innovation and de-
velopment, also of accurate market forecasting and
effective budgetary control would be highly regarded.
Age: mid 30s up to 50.
Please send brief information, quoting reference BULL/1091,
to
Dr. E. P. KeUalU
MANAGEMENT SELECTION AUSTRALIA
414 Collins Street, Melbourne
68 Pitt Street, Sydney
MSA. 1707. BULL
gauntlet not only of Government restric-
tions on where it goes and what sort of
partnership with local capital, but also
of a strong public opinion which abhors
the thought of the country being overrun
by foreigners and their capital.
Comparing the entry of a mere £l5
million (say $3B million) direct overseas
investment into N.Z. last year with the
$244 million we received underlines one
of the fundamental differences between
the Australian and New Zealand
economies. Our huge import of capital,
coupled with our enlightened immigration
policy, makes this a country of
ing economic development, whereas, in the
absence of either, N.Z. is a comparative
backwater in the stream of world develop-
ment.
Although an Australian doesn’t need a
passport to enter N.Z., one soon discovers
there that Australians are considered pretty
well as ranch foreigners as anybody else,
especially in the eyes of N.Z. -manufac-
turers, who have a nightmare fear of being
swamped by Australian firms in the event
of an economic union being formed with
us. One can get blue in the face enumerat-
ing the advantages of such a union. But
to no avail. Most of them have the same
sort of image of Australian businessmen
and their methods as we used to have of
the Americans.
Naturally, in one of these periods of
external strain for N.Z., the busiest man
in the country is the Chief Economist of
the Reserve Bank. I certainly found him
that way when I dropped in for a call
in Wellington. Far less busy were the
sharebrokers along the five exchanges from
Auckland to Invercargill, whom, in the
interests of conserving foreign exchange,
the Reserve Bank had robbed of all their
business in overseas shares, including Aus-
tralian, where dealings are for N.Z.
currency.
Transactions in Australian shares
accounted for up to 50 percent of the
Business of some N.Z. stockbrokers and
about 20 percent of national share turn-
overs before dealings in all overseas
shares were suspended after the Budget,
effectively to close the loophole in the
foreign exchange control net through
which the bulk of the grey import market
in motor cars and much of N.Z.’s overseas
tourist expenditure were being financed.
A way is being sought by the Stock Ex-
changes in current negotiations with the
Reserve Bank to restore genuine invest-
ment dealings in Australian and other
overseas, shares for N.Z. currency; the
prospects of these succeeding were dubi-
ous when I was there. In the meantime,
NJZ. brokers told me Australian Stock
Exchanges seemed to be underestimating
the possible effect on their turnovers of
the absence of dealings originating in New
Zealand.
Naturally, investors in New Zealand
are highly incensed, as indeed is the
local motor trade, at this new Reserve
Bank measure, which in one bold stroke
wiped off about £25 million from the
value in N.Z. of the overseas shares held
in the country, and at the same time
was being estimated in official circles to
save N.Z. some £25 million a year in
foreign exchange.
The N.Z. investor is now virtually
locked inside his own country, except, of
course, in the case of having overseas
funds at his disposal. This would seem to
suggest that in the prospective hothouse
state of the N.Z. economy and with
limited local scrip available, shares in local
companies offer distinctly favorable pros-
pects for improvement, But, after a flurry
of thoughts along these lines, a buoyant
market subsided a few days after the
Budget, one retarding influence being the
Budget’s edict that N.Z. life offices, the
biggest buyers of shares, will now have to
pay tax on the dividends they receive.
Galvanised as the Australian dollar is
by steady and strong capital inflow, it is
probably no more than a guess, but in
my view the Australian dollar is prob-
ably up to 20 percent undervalued in
terms of N.Z. currency. I certainly believe
this to be right on a purchasing power
parity basis, as any Australian visitor to
the Dominion will quickly discover. It is
quite another matter to argue that it
would be in the best interests of N.Z. to
devalue its currency, but the current
stonewall measures to maintain external
solvency are being seen by quite respon-
sible people in N.Z. as a last-ditch stand
to avert devaluation.


THE UNION-FIDELITY TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ADDRESS OF CHAIRMAN, MR. E. T. H. RICHARDSON
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, 28th June, 1966
THE Directors’ Report and Audited State-
ments of Account have been circulated to
shareholders and the net profit shown,
$68,352, is a little greater than the previous
year and the dividend has been maintained at
12| per cent.
Our Company has been in occupation of its
new offices in this building for over twelve
months and we are extremely pleased with
the facilities which the new premises pro-
vide for the efficient conduct of our work.
Extensive alterations to our Brisbane premises,
including their air-conditioning, are now
complete.
Last year, it was stated that the business
entrusted to the Company was greater in
value than in any previous year, and I am
pleased to report that this record amount was
exceeded in the last financial year and that
all offices of the Company in the three States
contributed to the result.
The Economy
Industrial progress during the last twelve
months has been at a much slower rate than
in earlier years and with the effects of the
widespread drought, optimism within the com-
munity has been noticeably reduced. These
factors, together with several serious company
failures, have contributed to the depressed
levels of prices of shares on our Stock
Exchanges and there has been an inclination
with investors primarily to seek income
through their investments. The most buoyant
section of our economy during the last six
months has been mining, and in the long
term great benefits must be gained by recent
discoveries of oil and natural gas, nickel and
other minerals.
Primary Industry
Seasonal conditions in the eastern part of
Australia have been unfavourable and in wide
areas continue to be so. The drought in New
South Wales and Queensland, referred to last
year, continues in many areas unabated.
Although rains were received in many parts
of those two States before the close of 1965
and early in 1966, later falls were disappoint-
ing and the hopeful benefits were not realised.
Whilst the wool clip this year was reduced in
quantity on account of the drought, prices
have progressively increased and are, today, at
satisfactory levels. The clip next season will
again be considerably below normal and the
effects of the drought will continue to be felt
during the next twelve months.
The 1965-66 Australian wheat crop was seri-
ously reduced by severe drought in New South
Wales and a dry spring in Victoria and South
Australia. However, there was a record crop
in Western Australia. There is a good demand
for wheat in the world and the Australian
Wheat Board expects to have a minimum
carryover on 30th November. The planting of
the current crop has been delayed by dry
weather and a good soaking rain is needed
urgently to ensure a full acreage and satisfac-
tory germination.
Sugar prices have been most depressed and
concern has been expressed by those associ-
ated with the sugar industry in Queensland
and New South Wales.
Agricultural College
Two years ago, in my report, I referred to
the most successful establishment near
Geelong, Victoria, of the Marcus Oldham Farm
Agricultural College. This institution con-
tinues to prosper and there is a considerable
enquiry for the entry of students to the
courses. The Company is most grateful to all
those persons who have so willingly given
their time and knowledge for the benefit of
the College and in continuing to serve as mem-
bers of the Council.
The moneys which were held by our Com-
pany for the establishment of Marcus Oldham
Farm have been nearly exhausted and we are
pleased to report that a Building Fund,
approved by the Deputy Commissioner of Tax-
ation, has been established and contributions
to this Fund by individuals and Companies
will be allowable deductions for Income Tax
purposes. Our company acts as Trustee of the
Building Fund and we are very pleased to be
associated with this most important develop-
ment of rural education.
Central Share Registry of Australia
Pty. Limited
Another activity in which the Company has
taken a very close interest is that conducted
by Central Share Registry of Australia Pty.
Limited. The Company, in which our Com-
pany is substantially interested, is probably
the largest Share Registrar operating in Aus-
tralia. Its procedures, now evolved for com-
puter recording and operation, give it un-
rivalled potential for expansion and for pro-
viding clients with the highest standard of
service. The company also carries out service
bureau work for many clients and certain
of our Company’s records are maintained by
the computer and as time progresses, we will
be seeking to develop our accounting and
recording work by electronic data processing.
It is anticipated that the experience gained
by Central Share Registry will greatly assist
our Company, and other Trustee Companies,
when the time comes for entry into the com-
puter field.
I wish to express the appreciation of the Head and
State Boards for the work performed by the manage-
ment and staff of the Company during the year.
I have pleasure in moving that the Balance Sheet,
Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports be adopted and I
shall be pleased if some shareholder would kindly
second the motion and the matter will then be open
for discussion by the shareholders as they may wish.


YOUR WILL!
1$ your Will of recent date? If not, then
perhaps revision could well be considered
along with the appointment of your Executor
and Trustee.
The responsibilities of an Executor and Trustee
are not always welcomed by a relative or
friend.
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Company
Limited will act as your Executor and Trustee;
competent officers providing the specialised,
personal attention required to ensure that your
wishes are faithfully carried out.
A senior officer is available for discussion,
without obligation, and a brochure giving more
particulars of the services available will be
forwarded on request.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
48 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone 2-0552
Associate Companies:
Winchcombe Carson Trustee Company (Canberra) Ltd.
Winchcombe Carson Executors & Agency (Queensland)
Pty. Ltd.
Post this coupon for free brochure to:
Wincheombe Carson Trustee Co. Ltd.
48 Bridge Street, Sydney
Please forward me your free brochure.
Name
Address ——
• 8.5.97
THE TRAVEL TRADE
China Looks for Tourists
TRAVEL to Communist countries has a
certain fascination for tourists. And
nowadays the Communist countries
make sure that tourists are welcome and get
value for their money. Tourists bring
foreign exchange, needed to pay for badly
needed imports, including food.
In fact, a recent group of Australian
tourists to Communist China found that
the bureaucratic paper war, seemingly in-
separable from travel in Western countries,
has been drastically cut down there. The
only startling feature of the tourists’
arrival at Canton Airport was a huge bill-
board depicting workers of the world
uniting to “crush imperialist aggressors,”
not exactly the friendliest “welcome” sign.
Mr. Doug Ramsay, sales manager of
Sita World Travel, Australian subsidiary
of a large American tour operator, who
escorted the tour party, puts it this way:
“The huge billboard was the only thing
which detracted from our welcome. A
pleasant-faced girl handed out transit
passenger cards and directed us to the ter-
minal building. More smiling girls handed
out glasses of jasmine tea until our Boeing
took off for Shanghai.
“Formalities at Shanghai were simple.
We were ushered through Immigration and
Customs in a matter of minutes, and
Customs did not open any bags. A modern
‘Shanghai’ coach took us to the Peace
Hotel, formerly the Cathay Hotel. We
were given rooming slips and went straight
to our rooms no registration, no hold-
ups, no delay and bags were delivered
to our rooms within minutes.”
Mr. Ramsay said that this was repeated
at all hotels where the group stayed, and,
on leaving, the tourists just walked out of
the hotels with no check out.
Other points made by Mr. Ramsay were:
• Hotels were all of a high standard and
the food was good.
• Sightseeing was a blend of the old and
the new, ranging from the Great Wall
to new children’s palaces.
'• Trains were of a high standard.
• The provincial towns, which do not see
many tourists, are the only places to
really meet the people.
• Tourists are a curiosity to be stared
at, but in a friendly sort of way.
Crossing the border into Hong Kong
requires more formalities than those
required in China. And once your passport
is stamped “Arrived at Lo Wu,” on the
Hong Kong border with China, you can
forget about going to Taiwan. As far
as the Nationalist Chinese are concerned,
once you have been to Communist China,
you are not welcome in Taiwan. But the
fact is that a curiosity trip to China does
not make a person a Communist any more
than a trip to Alaska makes him an
Eskimo.
On the other side of the world, Mr. John
Kemnitz, of Mitchell’s International Tours,
Australian representatives of Frames, of
London tours, says that this year the low-
priced 19-day Central European coach
tour which takes in some Communist
countries has become the most popular for
Australian tourists. Even so, only a small
minority of Australian tourists, mainly those
on their second or third overseas trip, ven-
ture behind the iron or bamboo curtains.
By far the greatest majority of Australian
tourists on their first overseas trip prefer
the ■ traditional British and European trip
or one to Hong Kong, Japan, or America.
Meeting at Surfers
THE annual three-day marketing meet-
ing of the Australian travel industry
will start at Surfers Paradise on July
13. Officially it is the annual convention
of the Australian Federation of Travel
Agents, and agents’ problems with their
principals, the airlines and shipping com-
panies, are featuring high in the agenda.
But the airlines and shipping companies,
which as a group sell the majority of their
seats or berths through the travel agents,
are taking the opportunity of meeting as
many of their agents as possible and also
to give many of the prepared talks. In
fact, the agenda, which is, of course, in the
hands of the travel agents, is this year
heavily slanted toward marketing.
Indonesia Beckons?
THE almost complete absence of any
tourist traffic between Australia and
Indonesia must hurt the Indonesians
severely. With a more stable Government
and the lifting of Confrontation, it will be
interesting to see who will make the first
move to develop the tourist trade to Indo-
nesia. Before the war, Indonesia, then
the Dutch East Indies, was quite popular
as a tourist country for Australians.
This could be a wonderful opportunity
for Australian investors, if the Goverment
guarantees against capital loss obtainable
through the Export Payments Insurance
Corporation also applies to the accommo-
dation industry. Assisting Indonesia to
rebuild its tourist industry could be one
of the most effective practical aids for that
country.


Waltons Worth Watching
WILD CAT
PAGES
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
WALTONS is well worth watching
following the sale of half its
Waltons Credit Corporation to First
National City Bank of New York. And
that is not only because the Credit Cor-
poration is now likely to be a lively profit
earner for the group (see page 44), It
means that Waltons has considerably more
room in which to manoeuvre now that its
major problem refinancing has been
solved. And it was this finance part of
the business that had been worrying the
stockmarket, following the series of bad
debt disasters elsewhere.
The s3| million or so that Waltons will
get from Citibank could find some sig-
nificant uses, particularly now that the
group presumably no longer feels it neces-
sary to keep its properties unencumbered
as a line of defence in case things had
gone wrong in refinancing. The group’s
acquisitive powers may now be strength-
ened.
But the immediate impact of the deal
could be to reduce Waltons’ group profit
for the year that ends this month. Last
year the Credit Corporation earned a net
profit of $855,000 toward the group net
profit of $2.8 million; as tlm deal with
Citibank will take place before the close
of the year on July 28, it will mean that:
the 1965-66 accounts of Waltons will not
consolidate the Credit Corporation. How-
ever, the dividends paid by the Credit
Corporation to Waltons in that period will
offset this in part, and these will probably
total about $700,000, if last year’s example
is followed.
The impact on the Waltons’ accounts
will not only be on reducing group profits
for the first year or so, for the prospects
of higher Credit Corporation profits, as
the cost of borrowing falls from the high
level of 8| percent in the latest prospectus, ■
should bring the hope of higher dividend
payments from the Credit Corporation.
The impact of the deal on Waltons’
balance sheet will be that the huge volume
of instalment accounts outstanding of $76,
million will be slashed back to a relatively
modest $l5 million, and that the $62
million in public borrowings will be cut
back to $l9 million. And Waltons may
not even face the responsibility of guaran-
teeing the Credit Corporation’s borrowings.
The conversion of $3 million of
unsecured notes into shares at the end of
this month could temporarily restrain the
market in Waltons’ shares, but there seems
little danger of the company’s dividend
being cut from 12J percent on that
account, as dividends took only $l.B mil-
ion last year out of the group profit of
$2.8 million.
There now seems every reason for Wal-
tons’ directors to do their utmost to re-
store their former market premium;
current prices of $1.20 look far too low.
THE prospects for East African Coffee
Plantations look considerably brighter
now that it has sold its trouble-ridden
coffee plantation in Kenya. The cash
return, although below book value, is
worth about 20 cents a share at present
the shares are selling only 10 cents above
this level. Ironically, all profits will now
come from tea. The group runs two very
successful tea 1 plantations, one at Kep-
chomo and the other at Savani. In the
latest year to May 31 the tea crop jumped
from 748,0001 b. to a record 1,103,0001 b.
Dividend prospects have been consider-
ably enhanced by the sale. The costs of
trying to combat the dreaded coffee berry
disease have proved too much for the
group over the last two years and profits
were rapidly reaching the stage where
they would have been drained dry. As
the proceeds of the sale will not be received
in a lump sum and because a tea factory
will now have to be built, dividends will
probably have to wait until next year.
The Chartist says:
TENNYSON TEXTILE still seems to have further growth prospects. After a side-
ways movement during 1960/1, an uptrend which commenced in 1962 took on a
steeper rate of appreciation to a high point of 92c. A low point of 70c was
recorded early this year, after the break in the intermediate trend during, the 1965 “bear”
phase. The stock now appears to be breaking topside from the consolidation pattern
formed over the past eighteen months, which suggests that a rise to about the $1.30
level would eventually be possible. A sharp rise could follow the break in the resistance
level at 92c.
Jason says:
LAST month’s merger announce-
ment between Tennyson and STP
should provide a sound basis for
the sort of rise that the Chartist sug-
gests, although there will clearly be
new market pressures involved when
the merger is effected and former STP
shareholders dominate the still unnamed
new holding company by three to one.
The two companies are behaving as
if the merger had been completed by
last Friday, so that operations in 1966-
67 will be completely as a merged
unit, although it is clear that the par-
ticulars of the merger will have gone
only a very small part of the way by
then. But there is little likelihood of
it coming unstuck; already the big
holders of about 40 percent of STP’s
capital (James Nelson and Carrington
and Dewhurst, who represent ICI and
Courtaulds, the Sekers Silk interests
and directors themselves) have agreed
to the scheme. About 30 percent of
Tennyson’s shareholders (including the
Toyo Rayon Co. of Japan, which has
a 15 percent shareholding) have done
likewise even before the proposal has
come before the public.
Even without the benefits of the
merger, Tennyson has strong attractions,
as it had managed to overcome most of
the problems involved in last year’s
Tariff Board decision on the textile
industry and had developed some very
important associations. The company
had even been able to overcome the
severe blow of the death three years
ago of its founder and joint managing
director, Mr. Henry Webster, who had
played a major role in bringing the
company to its present status and who
had provided most of the business
skills while his partner, Mr. Emery
Yass, concentrated on merchandising.


True Measure
of Value
The true measure of value of any
article is not merely how much it
costs you .-. but rather, how much
you get from it
With every grinding wheel you
buy from Australian Abrasives, you
gain the immediate bonus benefits of
experience, technical know-how,
after-sales service that only A.A. can
supply.
A.A. Sales Engineers and their Dis-
tributors are immediately at your ser-
vice. To give you a free plant
to check speeds and safety of your
machines, to prepare job specifica-
tions. .. to offer you whatever service
you need.
If you have a grinding problem, send
this advertisement to us on your
letterhead. We'll send a technical
expert to you immediately... and his
service will cost you nothing.
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
AUSTRALIAN ABRASIVES PTY. LTD.
302 Parramatta Rd., Auburn, N.S.W. 048 2*fl
AA2Ot
Which Way Into
G. J. Coles?
BUY Coles shares now or wait for the
rights? If last year’s experience in
the Woolworths issue is any guide,
waiting for the rights would be the best
way in. But the stockmarket situation now
is very different from what it was last
year.
After last year’s Woolworths issue was
announced the price of the shares con-
tinued to slide from 15/9, giving a
theoretical rights price of 6/10-|- until
the rights began to trade at around 5/-,
slipped to 4/9, and then recovered with a
burst to 6/9 before closing at 5/11. At
all times the rights were cheaper than
their theoretical level. But the important
thing about the Woolworths issue was
that it coincided with some of the heaviest
public company capital raising the market
has ever seen.
With the rate of private capital invest-
ment now clearly slowing down there is
no indication that new share issues of
anything like such a magnitude will coin-
cide with the Coles issue. This will be
open during October and November, two
of the flushest months for money in the
year. The coming BHP debenture issue
will presumably not be the same sort of
competition for Coles as its share issue
was last year for Woolworths.
In any event, so far the market has
moved up in Coles from the 1.23, when
the issue was announced, to the latest
price of 1.31, which has already estab-
lished a different pattern to that of the
Woolworths issue. Coles’ theoretical ex-
rights price is now almost as high as its
cum-rights price when the issue was an-
nounced a couple of months ago.
'J'O some extent this may be due to
brokers trying to out manoeuvre each
other, as very strong cum-rights buying
recommendations have gone out to clients
of some large broking houses, apparently
on the premise that most brokers will be
issuing a flood of circulars on Coles when
the rights come on, and that the market
pressure then will be upwards as investors
have more cash and companies are not
seeking so much of it.
But there is one intriguing feature of
the present prices of Coles and Wool-
worths shares. Right or wrong (and it
is probably wrong) the market is playing
no favorites in the chain-store battle; the
ex-rights dividend and earnings yields of
G. J. Coles are now exactly the same as
those obtaining on Woolworths at current
prices of around 1.31 for Coles shares and
1.32 for Woolworths.
Both yield 4.5 percent on dividends
(Woolworths pays 12 percent from its
18.4 percent earning rate, and Coles dis-
tributes 11 percent from its 16.7 percent
earnings). But solving its problem of estab-
lishing which of these two rivals the
market favors by saying “neither” is not
a coherent answer when the bases on
which the market comes to its conclu-
sion are so inexact.
For the process of arriving at the profit


helping to
forge Australia's
future on the
anvil of
good business
sense since
1935
for 30 years
Mercantile Credits Limited has
helped thousands of customers
with their financial affairs.
Successfully.
Mercantile Credits Limited
10-14 UNDERWOOD ST., SYDNEY. TEL. 2 0556
BRANCHES MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, CANBERRA,
ADELAIDE, PERTH.
figures for Woolworths is far different
from that used by Coles. If Woolworths
used the same method as Coles, its earn-
ing rate would fall from its stated 18.4
percent on capital to only 16.5 percent,
or less than Coles 16.7 percent on 1964-65
figures. In addition its earnings on share-
holders’ funds would ease from 11.1 per-
cent to 9.9 percent, and on total funds
employed to only 3.9 percent against the
6.7 percent of Coles. Its payout ratio
would rise to 73 percent against Coles’ 66
percent.
But for the year just ended, Coles could
be expected to show some of the scars of
the “retail recession” that the chairman
complained of earlier this year, while
Woolworths, under Sir Theo Kelly’s
dynamic leadership, presumably will have
continued the “satisfactory increase” in
both sales and profits since January’s
balance date.
In addition, Woolworths has the added
scope for manoeuvre over Coles in that
it appears to operate on finer profit mar-
gins (presumably one reason for its ability
to push its sales well ahead of Coles’) and
these margins could no doubt be widened
slightly without depressing sales if such a
a move were ever needed. Coles, whose
profit to sales proportion is 3.6 percent
against Woolworths’ 2.5 percent clearly
does not have so much scope.
JJOWEVER, the different accounting
practices of Coles and Woolworths are
of major importance. Coles, whose year
ends in June, writes off all development ex-
penditure before arriving at profit. Wool-
worths, on the other hand, arrives at
profit before making transfers from the
appropriate account to reserves for de-
velopment expenditure and in the past
two years, for decimal currency conversion
costs, too and then debits these accounts
when the expenditure is incurred.
In Woolworths’ year to January, 1966,
$756,128 was spent on development (com-
pared with $377,366 in 1964-65) and
actual decimal currency costs were
$157,910.
Both these items are tax deductible ex-
penses. Woolworths feels it is entitled to
treat them as appropriations rather than
charges against profit, because it would
be unfair to burden one or two years’
trading with either the decimal currency
conversion or the present unusually heavy
expansion costs. The company says its rate
of expansion is much greater than Coles.
Woolworths also now puts its capital
profits or losses directly through its re-
serve for development rather than through
the appropriation account. Last year’s loss
on assets of $263,684 compares with Coles’
profit of $119,826 and naturally reduces
the amount that appears to be going to
development reserve out of the appropri-
ation account.
Over the past 11 years it is estimated
that Woolworths has written off
$5,605,000 to development reserve. Coles’
developmental expenditure would not have
approached this, but it has all been paid
before declaring the published profit, indi-
cating that Woolworths’ profits are clearly
higher than they would be had Coles’
accounting methods been used.


COMMODITIES
Boost in Rutile Demand
PRICE cuts and technological develop-
ments in the use of titanium metal
promise a boost for rutile demand at
a time when output is rising in Australia
and overseas.
Australia has until now supplied virtu-
ally the whole of world rutile ore from
east coast beaches. In 1964 Australian out-
put was 180,000 tons; at present annual
production, capacity is estimated at around
350,000 tons.
At the same time, Pittsburgh Plate Glass
and British Titan Products are about to
begin exporting from Sierra Leone at a
rate of 100,000 tons a year. At least one
industry spokesman, the chairman of
Wyong Minerals Ltd., has forecast that
prices could weaken as a result of this
expansion of output*.
Prices have risen strongly over :he past
three years. The London market (which
is not an organised affair) has been quot-
ing above £stg.4s a ton for rutile this
year. These prices are considered by some
in the industry to be too high; one pro-
ducer has consistently sold in London at
below the free market. As most of local
production is sold under contract, prices
received have not caught up with the free
market rise.
Growth of titanium outside the aero-
space field where cost is of secondary
importance has been inhibited by its
high price and by the extreme difficulty
of fabricating the metal. These drawbacks
apart, its potential is considerable, for it
possess strength equal to that of most alloy
steels at about half steel’s weight.
Titanium alloys hold their strength at
temperatures up to 700 degrees Fahrenheit,
while light metals fail rapidly above 300
degrees. In the chemical industry, titan-
ium’s resistance to chloride corrosion is
a considerable attraction.
JMPERIAL METAL INDUSTRIES, ICI
of the U.K.’s metals company, has
finally put into commercial use a process
for welding titanium metal successfully.
Bolting and riveting had previously been
generally used for much fabrication with
the metal. And IMI has made a further
reduction in prices of titanium alloy
products.
Falling prices have in the past meant
extension of titanium’s use from its first
market in the aircraft industry. The latest
cuts range from eight percent on some
sheet alloys to 30 percent on forged billets.
“Since 1964, our titanium prices have
been reduced 11 times. Alloy billet prices
are now only 18 percent of what they were
then,” said a spokesman. “The latest price
changes have been made possible by the
healthy expanding demand for wrought
titanium this is in spite of the cancel-
lation of several important U.K. aircraft
projects in recent years.” Since 1954,
forged billet has dropped from about
£stg.6| a lb. to about £l.
Although the rutile market will prob-
ably be affected as extra output becomes
available, the growth prospects are con-
siderable in coming years, and long-term
contracts will offer some protection for
producers. Tie-ups with overseas users of
rutile could become important in time of
over-supply. The field is specialised, both
in pigments and metal. ICI, owner of
Imperial Metal, owns 50 percent of British
Titan Products, which as well as 20 per-
cent of the Sierra Leone venture, has inter-
ests in Australia.
Atomic Power for TV A
SWITCHES to uranium by major elec-
tricity supply organisations continue
the latest is the Tennessee Valley
Authority, the largest consumer of coal in
the U.S. The TVA, which supplies 18,000
megawatts, or about eight percent of
America’s electricity, will build the world’s
largest atomic power station, a 2200 mega-
watt plant.
The Authority operates in one of the
lowest-cost coal areas of the U.S., and
miners are believed to have fought hard
to keep it faithful to coal.
The plant (scheduled for operation in
1970-72) will be the first built in America
with capacity of more than 1000 mega-
watts. It will cost $U.5.247 million, plus
$66 million for initial nuclear fuel supply.
° v ? r a 12 '>' ear . P e .™ d a 'S 1 ? 0 . mi ! lio "
saving, compared with a coal-fired plant,
is expected.
Large stations such as this, with their
big initial fuel requirements (usually suf-
ficient to power the plant for at least ten
years), could soon put pressure on avail-
able uranium supplies.
MINING
Sulphur Imports Too Heavy
IN discussing the mineral industry, the
Vernon Report drew attention to
elemental sulphur as one of the three
major minerals in which Australia is
deficient, the other two being petroleum
and phosphate. The report stressed the
desirability of attaining self-sufficiency in
production of phosphate rock and elemen-
tal sulphur (otherwise referred to as
native sulphur or brimstone) as vital to
fertiliser production.
Australian imports of elemental sulphur,
which come mainly from U.S.A., Canada,
and Mexico, totalled 376,000 tons in 1964,
valued at over $A6.5 million and an in-
crease of $2.2 million on 1963 figures.
Further increases in the import bill are
likely, not only because of increasing
quantities of imports but also because of
world price rises for sulphur.
These price rises have been brought
about by the record demand for sulphur.
Although production of sulphur in all
forms in non-communist countries in-
creased 7.3 percent in 1965 to 22.4 million
tons (the increase being mainly in elemen-
tal sulphur), it fell short of meeting world
demand by 1.1 million tons.
On the Australian scene, imported
elemental sulphur supplies over half the
raw material required for the production
of sulphuric acid, indigenous materials,
such as pyrites, being at a price dis-
advantage despite the existence of the
bounty on pyrites since 1961 (recently ex-
tended to June, 1969) which producers
claim is not high enough. Pyrites supplies
about one-fifth of the raw materials for
sulphuric acid, zinc concentrates about
one-sixth, and lead concentrates about
one-twentieth.
In view of the increasing Australian
demand for sulphur which, on past ex-
perience, will bring an increased imports
bill, the desirability of the discovery of
local deposits of native sulphur is evident.
As world deposits are often associated
with sedimentary basins, for instance, in
association with salt and gypsum domes,
there is quite a possibility that local dis-
coveries could be accidentally made dur-
ing oil exploration. Another source
arise through the discovery of sour
natural gas fields, although to date all
natural gas discovered in Australia has
been “sweet” (free of sulphur). In this-
light it is interesting to note that m 1965
Canada produced some 1.6 million tons
of elemental sulphur from its sour natural
gas fields, displacing Mexico as the
world s second largest source of elemental
sulphur. .
Another interesting Canadian develop*
ment with implications for Australian
pyrites producers is the research currently
being carried out by Sherritt Gordon into
a process for the recovery of elemental
sulphur from pyrites. A pilot production
plant is expected to commence operations,
this year. This research fol ows ear ler
work in this field by Noranda. How-
ever, unlike Australia, Canadian mining
circles are not thinking in terms of
strai S ht Pr ntes mmin S for sul P hur re '
covery. .... ...
Australia, pyrites is mined speci c *
as a source of sulphur at Nairne
r } ear Adelaide and Norseman in Wes ern
Australia, or is recovered as a y*pro uc
meta j mi ” in S at M° unt Moygan
ln Queensland and Mount Lye 1 in Tas-
mania; So ™ e , auriferous pynfic concen-
Jrate from Kalgoorlie (in particular Gold
Mines Kalgoorlie Aust. tc *- s M .
Charlotte mine) is utilised as a source
°f sulphur. world su p ur
situation could heighten the .prospects of
these pyrites producers who haVe,^pver
past, had to limit production because
°f local preference for imported elemental
sulphur.
In 1964/65 Australia’s largest producer


Mfllii
44
k
ill
l«lp|; I I Wf»>: '
HH : 2P
!■■■■■
11111
illllllil
■
«
■
H
HI
**ohn
c
son
PROBLEM
How to brand
an outboard motor
ANSWER
A DRI-MARK MIRRO-CAL
Nameplate
Outboard Marine choose DRI-MARK to identify and decorate many
outboard motors in their wide range.
DRI-MARKS are self-adhesive nameplates with the beauty of highly
polished, mirrorized Mylar* plus these other advantages Selex
DRI-MARKS are applied in seconds . . . they're inexpensive . . . and
resistant to salt water corrosion and the solvent action of petrol.
Available only from Selex Decal Pty. Ltd., or their overseas associates.
SELEX DECAL*
do amazing things with TRANSFERS
MELBOURNE: 61 3211 —SYDNEY: 43 0221
OVERSEAS ASSOCIATES:
Canada Decalcomania Co. Ltd., Toronto
The Meyercord Co., Chicago
Decal Transfers (N.Z.) Ltd. Auckland
8D260
The words Decal, Dri-Mark, and Mirro-Cal, are registered. Mylar is a registered trademark of the duPont Co.
of pyrific concentrates was Nairne Pyrites,
which is owned by Adelaide and Walla-
roo Fertilisers Ltd., Cresco Fertilisers
(W. R. Grace), and BHP, with a sulphur
recovery of some 37,000 tons. Reserves at
Nairne are thought to exceed one million
tons, with a grade of eight percent sulphur.
Second on the list was Mt. Lyell Min-
ing and Railway Company Ltd., which
last year produced about 24,000 tons of
sulphur from 48,300 tons of concentrates,
averaging 49 percent sulphur. However,
production was restricted and, if suitable
markets can be found, the company could
produce in excess of 100,000 tons of con-
centrates per annum.
The third-largest producer last year was
Norseman Gold Mines NL, which has
also been producing at below capacity rates
due to local superphosphate manufacturers’
preference for imported brimstone. In
March, 1966, directors advised that, fol-
lowing discussions with these manufac-
turers and the Federal and State Govern-
ments, the company would be supplying
local manufacturers with increased quan-
tities of pyrites in view of the world short-
age of sulphur.
gINCE March, the company’s production
rate of sulphur has been stepped up by
about 500 tons to around 1800 tons per
month. At these rates, production for the
full year to October 31 should be around
21,000 tons compared with 17,413 tons
last year. The gross proceeds from this
production could be about $720,000 plus
the pyrites bounty of $20,000 compared
with $600,622 (including $20,000 bounty)
last financial year. In addition, the com-
pany should feel the benefits of economies
of higher production rates. It has large
reserves, totalling almost 1£ million tons
of proved and probable ore with an esti-
mated sulphur content of 25 percent.
Mt. Morgan has tremendous potential
reserves of pyrites. At June 30, 1965, ore
reserves totalled 9,175,000 tons assaying
2.34dwt. gold, 1.10 percent copper, and
15 percent sulphur. This figure does not
include reserves, the economic value of
which depends on the demand for pyrites.
Nor do they include tailing dumps total-
ling about 20 million tons, which contain
a considerable quantity of pyrites. After
strenuous efforts over many years to
exploit this potential asset, the company
has reached an agreement in- principle
with W. R. Grace and Go. for a joint
project to establish a fertiliser works at
Gladstone, using sulphuric acid produced
from Mt. Morgan pyrites.
The remaining important indigenous
source of raw materials for sulphuric acid
production comes from lead and, especi-
ally, zinc concentrates. All zinc concen-
trates from the Read-Rosebery area, in
Tasmania, are roasted at the Risdon works
of EZ Industries Ltd. About half of the
zinc concentrates from Broken Hill are
also treated at Risdon, and a portion is
sent to the Sulphide Corporation smelter
at Cockle Creek. Most of the lead con-
centrates from Broken Hill are treated at
Port Pirie and Cockle Creek. The sulphur
content of the lead smelter gases at Mt.
Isa, however, is not utilised.


BALANCE
Year to June 30
SHEET
1961
SUMMARIES
1962 1963
(J’OOO)
1964
1965
Current assets
5460
5682
6037
6419
8860
Current liabilities
1948
1633
2196
2158
4551
Net working capital
3512
4049
3841
4261
4309
Land and buildings
2194
2320
2570
2756
5129
Plant, etc.
2250
1988
2101
2286
2973
Investments
—
—
—
254
372
Intangibles
64
55
45
45
Total capital
8020
8412
8557
9602
12783
Represented by:
Loan capital
1482
1700
1618
2167
Long-term provisions
233
277
242
324
375
Preference capital
60
60
60
60
60
Convertible loan
754
882
703
467
Ordinary capital
3222
3222
3640
3774
3950
Rese rves
2289
2271
2294
2810
4595
PROFIT STATEMENT
Interest on loans n.a.
SUMMARIES
169 185
(S'000)
165
193
Depreciation
361
399
326
488
492
Other provisions
n.a.
44
—
120
51
Tax provided
—.
152
167
537
543
Preference dividend
5
5
5
5
5
Earnings
120
322
336
614
711
Ordinary dividend
143
193
261
370
383
Surplus
(23)
129
75
244
333
Earning rate %
4 2
10.0
10.3
16.6
18.7
Dividend rate %
5.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
10 0
Dividend yield %
3.4
5.4
6 0
5.9
6 3
High price
3.82
2.50
3.05
3.98
3 85
Low price
2.05
1.95
2.25
2.82
2.52
(&nb
AUSTRALIA
Quarterly Economic Review
After a year af adjustment to increased defence and developmental
spending, our latest review shows the course is set for renewed expansion
of personal consumption and factory output. Details from:
THE ECONOMIST INTELLIGENCE UNIT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 28-8175 52 Queen Street, MELBOURNE. 61-2730
security analysis
Investment in Fixed Assets
How soon will Malleys pay off?
IN September, 1965, the Whirlpool Cor-
poration, of Michigan, U.S.A., exer-
cised its option to take up the balance
of its entitlement to shares in Malleys
Ltd. at a price of $2.90 per share. By
doing this, Whirlpool seems to have saved
about $17,304 because, after September
30, 1965, the price would have risen to
$3.00 per share. So far as the market is
concerned, the price of the shares only
rose above $3.00 during May, 1966, after
languishing below this level for the first
four months of 1966. Currently, they are
selling at $3.04 and showing a dividend
yield of 6.6 percent. The record of rising
dividends and earnings per share over the
past four years would seem to suggest
that the shares are worth more than this.
Malleys is a very old business, which
started in 1835. When the present com-
pany was formed in 1919, the activities
were the manufacture of sheet-metal goods,
builders’ and plumbers’ hardware, and
sanitary ware.
So far as I can judge from the avail-
able records, the entry into white goods
manufacture was made in 1954. In this
year John Roberts Pty. Ltd was acquired
and the activities of this company were
described as the manufacture of washing-
machines and other home laundry equip-
ment. A new factory was built at Auburn
in 1957, and then in 1958/59 Colda Home
Appliances Ltd., a manufacturer of
refrigerators, was acquired. Later, United
Metal Industries Ltd. was acquired, and
then two months after this acquisition, in
September, 1960, it was announced that
the Whirlpool Corporation had taken an
interest in Malleys in the form of a con-
vertible loan.
At about the same time a loan of
almost equal amount but non-convertible
was obtained from a leading Australian
financial institution. From the circular
sent to shareholders when the arrang-
ments with Whirlpool were modified in
1963, it seems that the association dated
back to 1954, when a licensing agreement
covering the manufacture of washing-
machines was entered into. Fulfilment of
the 1960 plans seems to have been
delayed by the 1960 recession, it being
only in recent years that the production
of white goods under the “Whirlpool”
trademark has commenced in a big way.
The effect on earnings was quite
dramatic, for there was an 82 percent in-
crease from 1962/3 to 1963/4, and a fur-
ther increase of nearly 16 percent from
1963/4 to 1964/5. However, the return on
capital employed does not show such an
exciting pattern:
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
Net profit before tax, de-
preciation, other non-
cash provisions and in-
terest on loans as a
Percentage of total
capital (shareholders’
funds, plus loan capital
and long - term pro-
visions). 13.6 12.1 22 5 20 8
The big jump in 1963/4 is still evident,
but there was a drop in 1964/5, as there
was from 1961/2 to 1962/3.
In the chairman’s address at the 1965
annual meeting reference was made to the
substantial increase in stock which occur-
red during the 1964/5 year. It would
seem that, although stock held at June
30, 1965, was higher than necessary, a
comparison with the previous year was
not a valid one, as stock at that time was
“embarrassingly” low and higher turn-
over was being achieved. This increase in
stock amounted to over $2.2 million,
making the total (at the lower of cost
or market value) nearly $6.1 million. In
other words, stock increased by nearly
58 percent during the year. Debtors
increased by about 6£ percent which
“reflects the increased turnover enjoyed”
so the degree of over-stocking at June
30, 1965, or under-stocking at June 30,
1964, can be guessed at.
Malleys has certainly entered into the
spirit of the 1961 Companies Act, and
since 1962 onwards has published a source
and application of funds statement on a
cash basis. Converted to decimals and
with a little consolidation, the figures are:
Year to June 30 1962 1963 1964 1965
($’000)
Profit 922 835 1764 1804
Equity raisings 552 187 254
Loan raisings 346 313 1469
Increase—overdraft 207 313 558
creditors 174 73 302 1840
Decrease—stock 150 —.
debtors 23
Other items 34 4 16
Total 1626 1671 2605 5925
Dividends 102 231 302 400
Tax 14 96 184 553
Fixed assets 384 689 1113 2232
Loan repayments 261 300
Increase —stock 308 456 2225
debtors 386 50 185
Decrease—overdraft 740 550
Other items 36 30
Total 1626 1671 2605 5925
The most noticeable feature about this
comparison of funds statements is the
more than 100 percent increase in funds
flow during the 1964/5 year; it must be
assumed that this year was an abnormal
one.
A further consolidation for the three
and four years would show the following
figures and percentages:
Three years to ($’000) Four years to
D . . . , June 30, 1964 June 30, 1965
Retained profit 2592 (61) 3443 (41)
Equity raisings 739 (17) 993 (12)
Loan raisings ' 398 (9) 1567 19
Creditors 549 (13) 2389 (28)
Total 4296 8392
Fixed assets 2186 (51) 4418 (53)
Stock « 14 (14) 2839 (34)
Debtors 413 (10) 598 (7
Decrease—overdraft 1083 (25) 525 (6)
Other 12
Total 4296 8392
In the three-year period it seems that
retained profits and equity were used to
finance fixed assets and to reduce
dependence on hank accommodation,
while creditors were being used to finance
stock increases. In 1964/5, creditors were
used (with the assistance of bank over-
draft) to finance the big increase in stock,
but it seems that loan financing was used
for fixed assets, although this trend is
concealed in the consolidation of the four
years.
The main problem for the analyst at
this time is not the disposition of funds
but the extent to which the heavy invest*
ment in fixed assets will pay off. If it does
and the 1964/5 profit rate on funds is
maintained, then, after making adjust-
ments for the increased interest bill and
for higher depreciation, it would seem that
the earning rate on the increased capital
could reach 22 percent. This would make
the current price/eamings multiple less
than 7. This would mean that Malleys
shares are cheap.


. 38 iSjWfiCv
WATER TIGHT
Thats because it went by Certified Mail. You receive a receipt as
proof of postage, and a signature from the person to whom your
article is addressed, as proof of personal delivery. Sending any
document or correspondence of importance by Certified Mail leaves
no room for doubt. And it only costs you 3c plus normal postage.
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Is F. W. Williams Worth It?
THE market has seldom been so rude
to a company’s management as in its
present pricing of the one dollar
ordinary shares of F. W. Williams Hold-
ings Ltd. At $3.40, the market is express-
ing little faith in the ability of directors
to earn reasonable profits, for the assets
backing on book values is now around
$4.70 and on market values is about
$5.40. This $2 gap provides a sizable
speculative area.
If Williams did disburse all its 1,650,000
ACI shares from the St. Regis-Williams
takeover (which otherwise would provide
it with dividends of $330,000 a year or
16 cents a share) to shareholders this would
be worth, at latest market, $4.70 a Williams
share— or $1.30 a share above their cur-
rent price. This would leave about 70
cents a share in the group’s other assets
at book value, provided there are no more
write-downs.
It takes careful reading of the annual
report to see the situation. The 50 percent
owned Beutron holding company lost
$294,982 in the year to June, 1965, fol-
lowing the previous year’s modest profit
of $52,738, and the operating company
lost $345,194.
This loss was not consolidated into the
Williams accounts, but directors said they
had made provision to reduce the value
of the investment in Beutron in line with
the net tangible asset value, without saying
by how much. The notes to the accounts
reveal that F. W. Williams wrote $400,000
off the value of its associate company
shareholdings. As the capital of Beutron
was only $820,000, and Williams owns
half, the company’s assets backing must
have been severely reduced.
F. W. Williams also wrote $368,910 off
the value of its parent company holdings
in its subsidiaries to reduce this invest-
ment to book value, indicating that things
were not so good in the subsidiaries, either.
One of these subsidiaries is R. J. Moulang
Pty. Ltd., which is 60 percent owned
and which suffered a “substantial” loss
last year following an 86 percent fall in
its sales of agricultural equipment. As a
result, its activities are being reorganised
into industrial fields of materials handling.
The accounts show that the interest of
outside shareholders in subsidiary losses
totalled $81,500, which indicates that losses
by Moulang, McCarron, and Byrnes
Engineering (both 60 percent owned by
Williams) and S. & J. Plastics (75 per-
cent owned) would have accounted for
about $200,000 of the group trading losses
of $235,715, leaving only a small amount
of this loss to come from the fully owned
subsidiaries like F. W. Williams (Rural)
and (Wholesale), which were reported
to have been severely affected by the
drought.
Now the company is pinning its faith
in tea, with a 75 percent interest in a
venture in New Guinea, but as tea can
take up to five years to mature the
profitable result the company looks for-
ward to may be quite some time off yet.
Business looks bad. Stock rose by
$200,000 or about one quarter last year,
while receivables fell by $J million or
more than one third (only $46,000 of
which was due to a provision for losses);
creditors also fell by one-third or $J
million.
The management apparently thinks
things will be tough this year; it has trans-
ferred $lOO,OOO out of reserves into the
liabilities as a provision for contingencies;
this is not mentioned in the report.
December 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Gross profit (1)
$OOO 222 201 333 478 145
Tax $OOO —•— 57 2
Depreciation $OOO 27 28 44 56 67
Net profit $OOO 195 173 289 365 76
Earning rate p.c. 10.9 9.7 16.2 18.9 3 6
Dividend rate p.c. 10 10 10 10 10
Earning rate on
Total funds 5 4 4 6 9 2 8 0 .7
Fixed assets $OOO 439 554 535 865 1102
Current ratio 2.31 1.95 0.90 1 02 1 67
Dividend yield (2) 2.7 3.2 2.9 3.1 2.9
Price/earnings
ratio (2) 33 3 32 3 21.3 17.2 97.0
High price (3) 3.80 3.40 3.70 4.20 4.04
Low price (3) 2.90 2.80 3.10 3.10 2.95
(1) Profit before tax and depreciation.
(2) End of April, month accounts presented.
(3) Previous calendar year.


Par
Div.
Year
Week
Fri.
1966
T urnover
Yield %
Value| cents
ago
ago
close
High |Low
Syd.
Melb.
Div. (Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
.50
1 2
1 85, 2 40
2 55
2 55| 1.901 8,3001 10,100
i
.50
1.01
1 18
1.151 1.45, .85; 6,400! 5,400! ,
.50
15
3.9C
5 02] 5.10
5.52, 4.80] 1,3001 6001
A.O.G.
.50
2.35
2 60
2 63, 2.66| 2.251 24,300| 5,500| I
B.H. South
.50
12
2 . IE
2.56
2.68
2 90| 2.24! 24,300
34,000 4.7| 7.1
C.R.A.
.50
8
3.45
5 22
5,401 5.501 3.92
7,950
13,3751 1.51 3.9
C'wlth Min.
1.00
7
1.7C
2 45
2 39
2 481 1.901 4,800 ! 5,6001 3.31 5.7
K. 1. Scheel.
.50
10
1.43
1.97
2 131 3.25: 1 89
7,5501 12,1001 |
Mount Isa
.50
5
3 58
4 22
4 421 4.551 3.921 44,650
57,750; 1.1 ’.6
Mt. Morgan
1.00
12
1.90
2.62
2 601 2 621 1.90
28,8001 13,1001 4.6. 9 2
Mt. Lyell
.25
3
1.00
1 37
1.36
1 46, 1.25
7,5001 15,8001 1.81 4.0
New B.H.
.62
38
3.50
5 30
5 401 5.50) 4.421 1,600| 1,550; 7.01 10.0
Oil Search
.50
.19
.16
.17
.20! .12
15,450
8,7001 1
Renison
.50
10
5 55
7 20
7.20
7 50! 5.001
2,0251 1
Santos
.25
1 88
2 98
2.791 3 091 1.40! 3,000| 2,600
i
West. Min.
.50
10
2 23
5.00
4 99] 5 02, 2 45! 18,050| 22,450] 2 01 2.2
Woodside
.50
.25
.80
.70] .851 .24| 17,2001 27,200| 1
INDUSTRIALS
a.r.c.
.50
4 16
1.02
1 071 1 061 1 10] 1.00! 16,800; 30,200: 3.91 9.0
Adams, W.
1.00
12.5
3.2C
2 50! 2 251 2.901 2.251 1,900] 500
5.6! 8 9
Adel. Steam
.50
4 25
.70
.70
.68
.80, .64
2,600! 5,8001 6.31 8.0
Advertiser
.50
5
2 20
1 76
1.78
2.501 1 671
2.81 5.4
Allen, S.
1 00
10
1.83
1 56
1 56
2 101 1.56
6 4| 9.6
Allied Mills
.50
6
1.75
1 88
1 87
1.901 1.67, 15,7001 2,950
3.21 7.7
Amalg. Chem.
.50
5.65
.78
.70
.70
1 50 .69 2,950
25,9001 8.11 11 6
A.W.A.
.50
8
2.42
1 89
1 88
2 421 1.87
8,900 9,600 , 4 31 7 6
Ampol
.50
7
.99
.71
.69
1 02| .68
53,0001 50,900] 10 It 12 2
Ansett
.50
5
.67
.79
.79
83' .73) 35,0001 27,700! 6 3i 12.1
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.28
1 64
1 61
1.70 1 43
6.25C
9,30C
i 3.11 5 9
Assoc. Pulp
1.00
9
1.46
1.411 1 49
1 74| 1.371 15,750
27,500
6 01 7.3
A.N.Z. Bank
2 50
17.62
5.35
6.25
6 25
6.30! 6.25
5C
2 SI 5.4
A.K. Cement
.50
5
1.38
1 29
1 24
1.621 1.20 7,250
10,300 4.01 7.9
Aust. Chem.
1 00
10
2.63
1 55
1 501 2 551 1 501 4,150| 3,6001 6.71 9.3
A.C.I.
2.00
20
5 60
5 94
5 90
6 021 5.40! 13,800
; 9.100 3 4 6.8
Aust. Fert.
2 00
20
5.05
4.70
4.65
5 20 4 10
3 41 6.2
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1.43
1 51
1.481 1 521 1.22 7,550
3,000 5 11 9.5
A.P.M.
1.00
8 75
1 55
1 55
1 55
1.37, 1.511 11,500 ! 34,100
5 61 9.3
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3 10
3 35
3 45
3 451 3 15| 100
900| 5 8; 6.3
A.U.C.
1 00
10
4 50 3 90
3 87| 4.051 3 75
4001 2 6| 8 3
Bank Adel.
1.00
10
2.55
2 35
2 371 2.46, 2.15
2,5001 80C
4 2! 7.0
Bank N.S.W.
2 00
20
5 68
5 18
5 30
5 68 5 02
16,0801 4,050
3 8j 7.2
Bellambi
.50
5
1 83
1 88
1 90| 2 44) 1 85
1,6001
2 6| 8 9
Berlei
1.00
15
2 731 3 19
3 05! 3 30 3.00
3,100
4 9, 10.6
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.49 1.68
1.68) 1 87| 1 52
13,650
6,100 4 5| 6.6
Bonds Ind.
.50
5
1 00
1.10
1 06
1.16| .98! 45,350
4 7) 9.7
Boral
.50
10
2.25
1 89
1 88
2.40 .1 83
17,800
.13,700
5.3| 7.2
Borg Warner
1 00
6
2 15
1 78
1 78
2.05! 1.70
1,400|
3.4| 8.3
Brad. Coton
.50
5
.68
.57
.56
.69 .56
6,000
10,500
8.9 12 5
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.75
1 77
1.76
1.82] 1.67
11,289
2,200
4.3| 7.3
Brit. Tobacco
1 00
12
1 63
2 42
2.43
2 46 1.77
18,900
10,100
4.9| 7.4
B.H.P.
2.00
18 4
4.85
6 28
6 16
6 281 4 54
154.606T06.050
3.0 5 5
Bruck Mills
.50
5
.531 .62
.62
.73 .55
3,300 2,900
10.li 13.7
Burns Philp
1 00
10
3 62
3 95
4.15
4.15, 3.65
6,400
2,300
2.4| 6.4
C.U.B. Z"
1.00
13
3 35
3.70
3.70
3.88j 3.40
3,0001 9,300
3 5| 6 2
Carp., W. R.
.50
7.5
2 38
2 47
2.49
2.75 2.41
23,700
6,950
3 0 6 2
Carrier Air
.50
4
.60
.62
.57
.80 .57
4,500 4,900
7.0| 13.9
C'maine Perk
1.00
17 :
5.65
6 00'
6.05
6.40 5.93
1,050
2,250
2 8 5 2
Chamberlain
.50
6 25
1 30
1.27j
1.30
1.38! 1.23
7,600
4 8| 22 8
Clyde Ind.
.50
7.5
1 04
.96
.96
1.10! .91
16,600
7,300
7.8, 12.3
Coal Allied
.50
5
.92
1.40
1.45
1.56| 1.26
15,100
2,400
3.4] 9.6
Coles, G. J.
.50
5 5
1 41
1.31.
1 28
1.41! 1.20
25,450
50,600
4 3' 6 5
C.S.R.
1.00
12.5
3.20
2 99
3.01
3.26i 2.72
26,500
23,700
4.2| 7.6
C.A.G.A.
1.00
10
.75
1 40
1.45
1.65 1.30
4,950
16,500
6 9; 11 1
C.B.C.
1 00
10
2 45
2 36,
2.46
2 65 2.15
5,450
4 lj 7.1
C.B.A.
1 00
10
2.18
2.22
2.26
2.261 2.02
6,750
1,000
4 4 6 3
Com. Union
.50
4 25
1 25
1 231
1.36
1 44' 1.12
800
1,600
3 1 4 6
C.I.G.
1.00
11
2 35
2.70
2.60,
3.32! 2.55
4,650
3,000
4.2 10 4
Concrete Ind.
.50
45
. 35
.30
.48 .26
35,100
800
1 15.0
Consol. Press
.50
6.25
3 30
2 62
2 50
3 40] 2 50
1,000
40, 7.9
Containers
2.00
16
2 80
2.65
2 60
2 82| 2 58
1,400
7,750
6 21 10 0
Courtaulds
1.00
5
.85
.60
.60
.75, .57
2,400
1,400
8 3| 11.3
Crane, G. E.
1.00
12.5 |
3.85
5 00
5 00
5 02] 4 10
2,300
2 5 7.1
Cresco
2.00
20
5.63
5.001
5 OOj
6 25 4.90
3 2 5 6
Cust. Cred.
.50
5
.65
.84
.78
.84 .63
8.100
4,350
6 4i 10.7
Cyclone
1.00
10
1.69j
1.081
1 10
1 481 1 04
4,700
8,250
9 1 21.6
Oalgety
2.50
25.5
4.75
5 00
5 00
5 02 4 60
1,600
5 1 9 6
O.F C.
2.00
23
6.40
6 20
6 20
6 55| 6 20
150
3.7 7 6
Drug Houses
1.00
10
1.60
1.78
1 74
1 93] 1,58
6,650
8,400
5.7 8 2
Dunlop
1.00
8
1.91
1.22
1 27
1 65 j 1 20
22,400
20,500
6 3 10 4
E.M.I.
.50
7.5
2.05
1.79
1.78
2.15| 1 78
4,600
3,500
4 21 10.4
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
18
1.97
2.34<
2 38
2 40] 2 121 15,850
23,200
7.6[ 9 2
Elders, G. M.
1.00
10
2.00
2 28
2 34
2 38 2 01
5,050
4,400
4 3 9 6
Electronic “B”
1.00
10
1.09
.84
.85
1 04, .80
4,350
7,000
11 8 15 8
Email
.50
3
.63
.40
43
.511 .37
68,700
11,300
7 0) 7.2
E.S.A.
2.50
14 69
4.75
5 80
5 80
5 80 5.20
200
2 5 7 3
Evans Deakin
.50
6.25
1.23
1.31
1 31
1 40; 1 26
600
4 8, 8 1
Fairfax, J.
.50
8.5
2 40
2 11
2 16
2 801 2 10
3,300
3 9| 5.3
Fairymead
1.00
6
2 03
1.60
1 58
2 10 1.50
1,900
3 8;
Felt. Text.
.50
5
.75
.54
.53
.70; .53
10,950
13,200
9 4, 13 4
Fibre Cont.
.50
6
1.70
1.32
1 33
1 40 J 1 23
200
4 5 8 6
Fielding, J.
1.00
17.5
3.55
3 50
3 50
3 72J 2 43
800
5 0 7 2
Gen. Credits
.50
4
.58
.57
56
60 .50
3,100
7,400
7.1, 10 7
Gen. Ind.
2 0
12
1 05
1 29
1 29
1 38, .95
4,600
1,300
9 3 18 8
Gollin
.50
4.5
.68
.74
74
.88 .70
3,400
6 1; 12 0
Gordon, Gotch
.50
10
2.63
2 02
2 10
2 70, 1.17
1,900
3,600
4 8| 6 5
Grace Bros.
.50
6.25
1.51
1.79
1 73
1 91| 1 69
29,900
300
3 6 6 8
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
i
SYDNEY j
MELBOURNE
Clarification I
Week
. Friday I
Week
I Friday
1
ago
j last
ago
1 last
All ords . i
327.14
| 328 59 !
104.59 ,
105.03
50 Leaders . . . |
i 1
110.11 |
110.60
Banks I
168.82
i 171 53
110 19 j
111 13
Other Fin. . .
496 85
498 07
68.95
69 00
Pa-storal ....
i 229 64
232 69
116.12
| 120 11
Transport . . .
| 493 81
I 491.58
99 45
98.25
Retails (M’chants)
Serv ces . |
| 335 43
341.40
95 48
43.16 |
97.03
43.57
Foods
173.12
. 172.47
104.19
105.01
Textiles . . 1
! 177.74
i 174.73
74 25
73.16
Chemicals . . . |
331 18
1 330.43
82 83 I
82.89
Electrical .
Paper . .
403 02
404 59
1
59.81
102 97
59.98
102 47
Bu'lding . . .
Fuel power .
669 13
166 28
j 662 06 j
| 165.19 ;
91 26
1
90.67
Automotive . 1
722.10
| 721.20
74 80
74.42
Steel, Enn. . .
485 73
; 478 48 i
119.69
117 04
Non-ferrous . . . j
1220.31
|1263 65 i
206 61 i
213 34
__ i
Ol L |
SUGAR
i
W eek
J Friday
Week j
Fr day
_ i
ago
i last
ago
1 last
Brisbane ... . j
M&lbourne . . . j
153 80
129 94
i 148.39 i
[ 121.04 '
116.42 |
116.57
Share
Par
Div.
Year
Week |
Fri.
1966
T urnover
Yield %
Value| cents
*go
ago j close (High
Low
Syd.
Melb.
Div
Earn.
Hardie, J.
Healing, A.G.
1 0
.50
10
5 20
.59
4 651
26,
4 85
27
5.06! 4 40
- 59 j .19
3,300
6,800
1,5001 2 1| 79
7.600’ , n s
Herald, W.T.
.50
12.5
4 63j 4 60
4 50
5 22! 4.35
1,200
ll,500f 2 8
10.400 =
3 8
Hooker, L. J.
.50
12 5
■ 31| .25]
.34
.36 .24
37,500
11 6
Humes
1.00
3.00| 2 45|
2 40
2 901 2.10
1.04 .88
2,500
3.6001 5.21 8 5
Huttons
.50
5
.90
.90
.90
2,600
2,000
5 6
10 R
1 .A.C.
. 50
5.9
.86
,84|
.88
,8£
.75
8,650
9,200
6 6’ 11 1
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
2.00
15
4.50
4.00!
3.96
4,321 3.60
3,800
5.900
3 8j 5 3
Inter. Resist.
.50
6 25
1 25
.84
.84
1.45
, .83
1,900
1
700
7 4i 9 6
Jones, David
.50
6.75
1.49
1.39|
1.38
1.63 1.38
9,800
8.450
Jones, Henry
1.00
10
3.65
3 55;
3 58
4.10i 3.40
1,500
2001 2.8
8.0
Kauri
.50
.40
.20,
22
.26
.18
3,1QP
8.100
KeJvinator
.50
7.5
2.30
1.90|
1.90
2.08
1.90
200
3 9
Koitaki
.50
12.5
1.03
1 201
1 22
1 30i 1.15
700
10 ?\ 15 2
Lend Lease
.50
5
.93
1 14
1.13
1.25
i 1 01
31,850
6.1001 4.41 R 0
Life Savers
.50
8
2 35
2 43
2 42
2 55
2 24
6,350
3.800! 3 3
4 7
Lysaght, J.
1.00
11
2.88
2.18!
2 28
2 63
2 14
2,700
500
4 . R
8
M.L.C.
2.00
31 68
7.20
8.20j
H 2?
8 401 7.66
5,300
2.200
MacRobertson
1.00
8
1.74
1 35|
1 55
1.60
1 1.10
6,400
5.6001 5 2
Marrickville
.50
7 5
1.19
1 25!
1 19
1.551 1.13
23,600
4.400
6 3
7.2
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
1 65
2 00,
1 97
2 0£
1.82
8,050
1.5001 2 5-
5 A
M. Nickless
1.00
12 5
3.20
2 86|
2 85
3 20! 2.70
200
11,400] 4 41 6 4
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7.5
1.55
1.22[
1 16
1 5C
1 16
3,500
9.6501 6 51 11.7
McPhersons
2.00
16.6
3 85
3 60,
3.65
4 08: 3.40
550
3.900
4 5
10.3
M illaquin
1.00
20
3.40
2.751
2 SO
3 181 2 60
3,300
600
7.1* 81
Miller, R. W.
1.00
10
1.68
1.70|
1 / 2
2.07
1.63
5,950
2,300
5 8
14.5
M inster
1 00
20
6 30
3 40,
3 38
6 90
5.68! 3 13
1,900
3.850
5 9
12 7
Morris, Philip
2 0
24
5.25
6.90|
7.36j 6 20
•
200
3 5j 12 1
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.95
.681
.64
80| 59
2,500
12,200
7 81 9 8
Myer
.50
8.75
3.01
3.19:
3.29
3 56| 2 85
12,050
63,200
2 7
6.2
Myttons
.50
6
1.50
1 54
1 54
1 64! 1.42
6,700
3.<>
■ si
N.2. Forest
1.25
9 56
2.70
2 97
3.00
3 02
2 60; 3,100
6,000
3.2i 8.5
Nat. Bank
1.00
10
2 20
1 99|
1.9/
2 1C
1 871 9,500
8,400
5.li 54
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2 55
2 28|
2.30
2.40! 2 25
2,800
9.000
4.3-1 8 3
Nat. Dairy
2.25
26.7
40.00
39.00(38 00
1 53 1.55
42 00138 00
70
2.6) 5.6
News
.50
5
1 30
1 82
1.36
500
200
3 2( 6.7
N.Z. Ins.
1 25
11.5
3 03
2 751
2.75
2 82! 2.60!
4.9j 6.2
Olympic
.50
5
.89
■70|
4 15
68
80) 64
6,850
14,700
7.4! 14.5
Optical
1.00
15
4 55
4 .30
4 70 4.10
1,000
3 5,
Overseas
.50
5.5
1.10
1.07
1 06
.1 16| 1 03
5,800
6.400
5 2j 10.6
.50
8
1.65
1 33
1 33
1 60 1 20| 8,700
'
5 9j 9.9
Peko
.50
8
1.50
2 50,
2.47
2 54
1.85
25,700
24.500
3 Oi 5.2
Penfolds
.50
6.25
1.40
1.631
1 .6 /
2 03] 1 50
2,500
3.7
5.1
Pe'rp. Trustee
2.00
17
3 50
3 80}
3 80
3 90| 3.55
4 7
5 6
Petersville
.20
2.5
.50
.57]
.57
641 .55
22,400
54.100
4 4, 6 4
Peters, W.A.
.50
6 25
1.76
1.80|
1 90
1 92, 1 70
2,000
3.3-1 6 O
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6.25
1 40
1.49|
1 45
1 02| 1 37
16,000
9,400
4 3| 8.1
Prestige
.50
5
1.30
.85!
83
1.05
801 500
10.900
7.4| 14.4
Provincial T.
.50
5.5
1.18
1.15|
1 17| 1 3C
1.00
2,700
4 7i 10 3
.50
5
1.83
1.32|
1.30
1 55, 1 20
800
1,700
3.8
13 8
Q'land Can
.50
5
1.05
.92!
.95
1 13
92
1 300
5 3| 9.5
Q’land Cement
2.00
20
7.08
7 251
7 40
7.701 7.00
2.7| 5.5
Q'land Ins.
1.00
12.5
3.73
4 20 j
4 20
4.50| 4 00
900
3 01 7 0
Q land Press
1.00
16
5.20
5 05:
5.00
5.45! 4.78
3 2
5 6
Reeds
.50
7
1 85
1 491
1 50! 1 74
1 48
3,400
4.71 7.8
Repco
.50
7.5
2 15
1 99!
1 97
2 24 1 95
13,400
42,000
3 8| 6.4
Rocla
.50
7
2.11
1 80]
1.90
2 "14 j 1.78
450
2.-600
3 7| fy 4
Rothmans
1.00
20
3.48
2.75|
2 85
3 151 2.68
3,100
1,
100
7 0| 13.6
S.A. Rubber
.50
5.62
1.35
• 96|
.96
1 25
.95
600
5 8! 14.7
S.T.P. Hold
.50
6 25
.93
.95]
.95
1.00
.88
4,700
6 61 15.2
Schweppes
.60
5 75
1.45
1.651
1 m
1 &5
1 45
4,200
1.000
3 2
5 0
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2 30
2.50|
2 50
2 55
2.30
3.0
8 3
Simpson Pope
.50
1
.44
.35,
.35
.46
.27
3,000
9,500
2 9
8 7
Sleigh, H. C.
.50
5
.70
.56
.57
.72
.55
17,100
36,300
8.8
12.1
Smith, How.
2.00
10
2.46
2.501
2 54
2 57
2 39
5,450
1,700
3 9
6.8
Softwood
1.00
10
2.70
2.65!
2 65
3.25
2.07
1.000
3 8 14.8
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.25
14.16
3.68
3.75|
3.70
3 85
2.06
8,500
3.8
7.1
Steamships
.50
6.66
1.03
.99!
.96
1.05
.88
36,900
3.100
6.9
11.2
Stedman, J.
.50
7.5
1 88
1.80|
1 82
1.88
1.60
2,900
4.1
7.7
Swan Brew.
.50
3.12
2.28,
2.43|
2 50
2 50
2.21
12,500
32,500
2.6
3.5
Tarax
.50
6
.83
1 05
1 08
1 22
1.00
1,400
3,500
5 6
9.4
T aubmans
.50
8
1.35
1.00!
.92
1.18
.90
1,300
8 7
10 1
TV Corp.
1.00
20
2 55
2 60
2 60
2.75
2.08
2,100
7.7
7.7
Thiess
.50
.35
.66!
65
.76
.63
3,900
9.9
Tooheys
.50
4.25
1.00
1 08)
5 18!
1.08
1.21
1.07
32,900
3 9
6.1
Tooth
1.00
15.75
4.58
5 05
5.70
4.90
13,130
400
3 1
4.5
Union Carb.
1.00
10
2.90
3.75,
3 95
4.00
3.38
4,500
500
2 5
5.2
U.E. Box
.63
5 84
1.33
1 241
1 20
1.48
1.20
300
4.8
11.6
Walker, F. J.
1.00
12.5
1.49
1.46 j
1 45
1.63
1.25
1,700
8.6
8.8
Waltons
.50
6.5
.87
1 01
1 .21
1.23
.85
114,450
51,200
5.2
8.3
Webster, A. G.
.50
8
1.25
1 20}
1 25
1.50
1.20
100
6.0
12.2
Will’ms, F. W.
1.00
10
3.20
3.36!
3.40
4.04
2.95
14,500
400
2.9
1.1
Woolworths
.50
6
1.51
1.331
1.32
1.44
1.30
56,400]
19,700
4 5
6.2
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year Ago
Month Ago
Week Ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
' £ 196
Copper, wire bars, ton . .
£ 408%
£ 645V2
£ 6OIV2
£ 581
Gold. oz. . .
£ 12/11/6
£ 12/12/1
£ 12/12/21/z
£ 12/12/13/«
Lead, cash, ton
£ 96Vs
£ 96Vz
£ 95
£ 941/4
Silver, troy, oz
lllVzd.
112d.
112d
112d.
Tin, cash, ton
£ 1417Vz
£ 1294
£ 12883/4
£ 12791/2
Wolfram, unit,
c.i.f.
£113/ 8 -£113/ 4
£ 13-£ 14
£ 13-£ 14
i 13-£ 14
Zinc, cash, ton
£ 105V2
£ 973/a
£ 983/ 4
£ 961/4
Wheat, Australian, ton
£ 255/a
£26 11
16
£ 26 11
16
£ 26 11-16
Linseed Oil, ton . .
£ 953/2
£ 84V2
£ 841/2
£ 83%
Cocoa, 50 kilos
92/6
193/-
186/6
194/3
Coffee . . . .
withdrawn
withdrawn
withdrawn
withdrawn
Cotton, American middling,
lb
23
45d.
23.6d.
23.6d
23 6d.
Desiccated Coconut, ton . .
£ 185
£ 140
£ 140
£ 140
Rubber, lb. .
213/gd.
21
ll-16d.
203/4 d
£ 20 5/16
Sugar, ton . .
£ 20
£ 171/2
£ 16
£ 171/4
Tea, quality, lb
4/3-6/1
4/7-6Z3
4/6-6/1
121d
Wool Tops, 64s. lb.
109d.
121d.
123d.
(All
figures
n sterling)
OVERSEAS INDEXES
1
London
New York
1 Tokyo
| “Financial Times’
*
] Dow Jones
]D. Jones
| Inds. | Secs. |
Gold
| Inds. | Rails ( Avge.
. | 338.7 | 78.74|
61
3
1 965 54| 247.3811430.13
. 377.8 79.43
65
2
|-995.151 271 72l1588 73
| 337
| 75 88j
58
4
| 864 14 ! 220.5411412.93
. 1 364.
1 76.511
60
6
1 882.621 227.7011507.03
.,.! 373.30 76.14
59
4
1 896 16| 231.5611513 38
Latest
| 371.5
| 75.88,
59
2
, 877 061 227.2511509 16
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
I
SYDNEY
I
MELBOURNE
INDUSTRIAL!
MINING |INDUSTRIAL|
MINING
Sales | Value I
Sales | Value
Sales | Value
Vol.
1 $ 1
Vol.
1 $
Vol.
$
Vol. |
5
1000
1000 |
1000
| 1000 |
1000 | 1000
1000 | 1000
12874.913531.41
1865
0| 1426.0
2256 | 3293
1910 | 1857
Week to Friday
2868.4j4570.8|
1431
9] 1289.4
2716 j 4106
1717 1 1362
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend 6 30
MELBOURNE
dividend 5.26
earnings 8 37
LONDON ( F.T.)
dividend 5 12
earnings 6.91
NEW YORK (S 8< P)
div dend 3 23
earnings 5.92
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short 4.94 4.93
Medium .. .. 5.12 5.12
Long . . , , 525 525


PUBLIC INFORMATION
OFFICER
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company has a place for
a man between the ages of 30 and 35 years to help
manage the work of communicating information of a
general and semi-technical nature to people outside the
company.
His work will be mainly:
• The collection, collation and presentation of facts
and ideas.
• Managing the production of a number of publi-
cations, frequently illustrated with photographs,
graphs and diagrams.
• Preparing information of an educational nature.
The work requires ability to take care in collecting
detailed and accurate information, and an appreciation
of arrangement and presentation of the information. An
ability to communicate and teach rather than to sell is
sought.
The position offers the opportunity of working with
others experienced in the communications and publica-
tions field. It offers management experience working with
a graduate staff.
A man with good general education and wide interests
is sought for this position. He should be able to think
at reasonably high levels of abstraction, yet to be able
also to convey his ideas clearly in spoken and written
words.
Previous experience could have been in business or
industry, teaching or Government service. Some qualifi-
cation or experience in economics, economic geography,
commerce or statistics would be useful. A university
degree would be an advantage.
The position offers opportunity for advancement, an
attractive salary by negotiation, superannuation and
help with home ownership.
Applications, setting out full details of qualification and
previous experience, should he addressed to:
The Chief Staff Officer,
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
1-7 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
WHEAT: How Vital Are the Red Sales?
Two views on Australian exparts and the outlook for world wheat
Man on the Land says:
SOME two months ago we predicted
that the Wheat Board delegation
then about to leave for Hong'Kong
might sell Red China about 500,000 tons
of wheat. The sale, just announced, is
for 600,000 tons, so we were not that far
out. We also predicted that the Chinese
might drive a harder bargain than usual.
No price has been disclosed (as is custo-
mary), but reference to “off grade” wheat
more or less proves the point. This is
cheaper wheat.
There are a number of ways of inter-
preting this sale; interpretation is neces-
sary because the Wheat Board (wisely) is
not giving out more than the bald
announcement of the sale. The thing to do
is to compare this sale, in June, 1966, with
the equivalent sale in April, 1965.
In April, 1965, we sold Red China
1J million tons. Since the China trade
began in 1960, there have always been two
sales a year—one around April/May and
one around October/November:
April, 1964, 550,000 tons.
November, 1964, 1| million tons (the
record).
April, 1965, 1J million tons.
November, 1965 , 500,000 tons.
June, 1966, 600,000 tons.
November, 1966, ?.
That’s the picture in the period which
happens to coincide with the escalation
of the Vietnam war. Well, doesn’t it? We
think anyone is entitled to draw a con-
clusion. We do not say it is necessarily
the right conclusion, but unless we negoti-
ate a sale, and a big one, around Novem-
ber, 1966, we, personally, suspect it could
be.
You could argue another way. You could
say that the reason we have sold less wheat
this year is that there is not so much
available. This is partly correct, because
of the drought. It is not entirely correct,
because in this latest sale, as in all pre-
vious ones, there is a certain amount of
overlapping. Some of the 600,000 tons to
go to China is last-season wheat; some of
it is wheat yet to be harvested.
The coming harvest looks, at present,
like being better than anticipated earlier
and could exceed 300 million bushels. The
acreage sown is cerainly the biggest ever.
Whatever the reason, it seems unde-
niable that we have slipped from being
“most favored supplier” of wheat to Red
China. Our loss has been Canada’s gain.
Canada has not only got the biggest single
order in the history of international wheat
trading 9 million tons over three
years to Russia but only about a
month ago, at the very time our delega-
tion was in Hong Kong, was given a big
increase on an earlier order from China.
The increase means that Canada will be
supplying China with almost 1\ million
tons over three years. It is almost as
big as the Russian deal and the only
problem, we imagine, might be that
Canada must count on good seasons to
meet it. But the three-year arrangement,
quite different from the one-hit Austra-
lian order, gives time for planting ahead.
It goes entirely against our sentiments,
yet, trying to think of war in the classical
sense, as an extension of politics, one has
to ask how many troops Canada has in
Vietnam and how her relations with the
United States stand. The answer to the
first part of the question is, we think, 12
(observers), and the answer to the second
part is no alteration whatsoever. Excel-
lent, in fact.
We are far from qualified to offer the
Australian wheatgrower, or the Austra-
lian Government, any advice on this. It is
a predicament and if there is an answer
to be had only Mr. Holt is likely to find
it. There is no evidence whatsoever that
Red China is more self-sufficient in wheat
and that this is the reason for the smaller
sale. She still needs wheat and will still
buy some from us. Her need for imported
wheat stands at about the same between
five million and six million tons annually.
Her purchases indicate this figure.
Our share has been reduced by about
half and Canada’s has been nearly doubled.
We might, of course, sell China one and
a half million tons in November. Before
November, however, unless we miss our
guess, we will have heard of a big French
sale to China. France is determined to
push on with increased wheat production
(she has as much, if not more, potential
as Australia) and General de Gaulle’s
views on neutralising Asia and his visit
to Moscow need no elaboration.
ir fALK of an impending world wheat
shortage is, we think, premature. Of
course, there is always a shortage in terms
of human need. But what is meant by a
world shortage is a shortage of wheat
which can be obtained, transported, and
consumed through recognised channels,
and this, unfortunately, has little to do
with human need.
It is true to say, probably, that all the
wheat that can be grown can be sold
but at what price to the supplier? By the
end of 1966, or early 1967, Mr. Donath,
arch critic of wheat stabilisation, may be
proved right. The decider must be the
United States, under whose influence we
are and will remain. That is one positive
statement that can be made in an area
of discussion where no one can really do
more than make an educated guess.
The United States recently authorised
an increase in wheat planting roughly
equivalent to an entire, good season, Aus-
tralian crop. Now, only a fortnight ago,
comes the news that a further increase
still may be authorised. Certainly the


Vt
"A little learning is a dang'rous thing;
Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring:
There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain,
And drinking largely sobers us again."
(Alexander Pope)
Those most learned in the sobject of Whisky acclaim
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
J
weather, and a rundown of stocks, is the
official reason given, but one wonders.
Whatever effect this has on possible out-
lets for Australian wheat, other than
China, and there are many outlets (Japan,
for instance), it cannot be denied that
the U.S. has shouldered the burden of
providing wheat for needy countries, un-
able to pay, to a far greater extent than
any other. (Our own record, frankly, has
not been very good at all.) No nation
in history has ever provided so much
grain for needy peoples as has the United
States since World War 11.
From here on, wheat matters are going
to fill a lot of columns in Australia and
a lot of speeches are going to be made
about wheat and the subsidy. We could
get out of all this if only we could con-
tain cost increases. Three years ago, five
years ago, Australia could claim to be
the most efficient producer of wheat in
the world, and we could, if we had to,
undercut anyone. It seems not unlikely
that if the price was right we could sell
to anyone.
E. J. Donath says:
THE spectre of a world wheat shortage
was haunting Australian newspaper
editors last week. Nevertheless, the
usually very shrewd members of the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board have sold another 22
million bushels to Communist China at
the rumored price of about $1.40 a bushel
a rather low price, especially if the
world is expected to be short of wheat
in the near future. There is something
wrong somewhere.
Two bombshells and a minor explosion
caused the alarming, yet unjustified, fears
of a world-wide wheat famine. The first
was the gigantic purchase of 336 million
bushels of Canadian wheat by the Soviet
Union, the largest contract in the history
of international wheat trading and even
surpassing the spectacular contract of 1963.
Overseas experts have been forecasting that
the Soviet Union will continue buying
wheat for a year or two, although in com-
paratively small quantities, because the
1964 and 1965 harvest were quite good,
and the prospects for the 1966 crop were
reported to be favorable. Indeed, the
Russians must be very short of wheat
since they insisted that at least one-third
of their record Canadian purchase must
be delivered by the end of July, 1967.
It is rumored that the Russians tried to
buy Australian wheat, but could not obtain
a contract from our Wheat Board. In the
10 months to April 30, Australia exported
566,398 tons of wheat to the Soviet
Union, nearly 50 percent more than in
the corresponding period of 1964/65. So
far in 1965/66, Australia has exported 4.3
million tons (as compared with 4.2 million
tons last year), of which 1.7 million tons
was shipped to China, making the Soviet
Union our second-best customer with 13
percent of our total export. It is any-
body’s guess to speculate on the reasons for
the tremendous wheat imports of the
Soviet Union which, not so many years
ago, was a larger wheat-exporting country
than Australia.
The second bombshell was the cabled
forecast that, by the middle of next year,
American wheat stocks will have run down
to 250 million bushels more than 100
million bushels below the safety margin,
and compared with 1411 million bushels
in 1961 or an average of well over 1000
million bushels in the second half of the
19505. True it is that American stocks are
down below 600 million bushels (the low-
est since 1953), yet the current harvest
is expected to yield a crop only slightly
smaller than last year’s 1327 million
bushels.
However, with almost uncanny fore-
sight, several months ago President John-
son authorised American farmers to plant
an additional 7.7 million acres of wheat
this “fall” and next spring, with the aim
of increasing the 1967 harvest by about
200 million bushels. This means a 15 per-
cent increase from 51.6 million acres this
year to 59.3 million acres in 1966/67.
I would not be surprised if the Ameri-
can acreage will exceed 60 million, as
their farmers have only been waiting for
the go-ahead signal. For more than a
decade wheat acreage in the United States
has been strictly controlled, and declined
from 80 million in 1953 to 49 million in
1962. It has increased slowly in the past
three years under strong pressure from
farmers’ organisations, due to wheat acre-
age expansion in other countries, especi-
ally Australia. The wheat potential of
the United States is tremendous; with
average yields of over 25 bushels an acre
American farmers could grow 2000 million
bushel crops without any difficulty.
Despite criticism, the Australian Wheat
Australia's Wheat Exports
Board acted with proper foresight in
supplying China with another 22 million
bushels from our drought-depleted stocks.
The truth is (unpalatable to the pro-
ponents of our “Wheat Production Un-
limited” policy) that the non-Communist
commercial demand for Australian wheat
is limited to about 120 million bushels.
Even in this drought year we would have
a large, burdensome carry-over at the
beginning of the 1966/67 wheat year if
the Wheat Board had not acted wisely in
pushing another contract with the People’s
Republic of China.
The hard fact of life is that without
Chinese purchases the Australian wheat
industry will find itself soon in the same
painful position as our sugar industry,
another highly subsidised industry. The'
Queensland sugar industry has increased
tremendously over the past three years;
markets for the increased export surplus
of up to two million tons of sugar are
available but at “ruinous” prices. World
wheat shortage or not, Australia could get
rid of any amount of surplus wheat. At
what price?
There is no world wheat shortage and
there is none likely to occur in the near
future: from which, Australia can expect
an increased commercial demand for its
wheat from non-communist countries.


invest in
Paid up capital
$23,350,000
o
m
|g
CS :
Hi
iipls
0
f
2
0
NEW ISSUE
FOR 7 YEARS
5i% 12 MONTHS
Othw .tafe* and terms available 4> w» £ro*»«tei' ter full
dfetaii*. PrOSpOcHr* and appiifat«m form available from:
* All: MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANOE
♦All: - BRAMCH& or ThWMX BANK
• All BftANCHBS OF £A&
Applications writ proceed Only: on ana of tea forma
1005
Jftiiiitidii attached to a printed copy of Prospectus^
mmwmmjam porm & ctk
Member* of lf» Stocfc £#<fia»ipe, Melbourne,
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL, NORTH SYDNEY
There will be vacancies for a Science Master
and a Commerce Master on the Staff of this
School from January X, 1967 — both to
teach to Matriculation standard. Apply in
writing to the Headmaster, B. H. TRAVERS.
AGRISEARCH
Many More Sheep Needed
We would carry them if we had them
LAST week in Portugal, Mr. William
Vines, managing director of the
International Wool Secretariat, told
a global gathering of textile millers that
Australia and New Zealand could double
their production of wool in the next 15
years. He based his confidence on “the
current revolution in wool-farming
methods.” Meanwhile, back at the
ranch, our Government Statistician, Mr.
K. M. Archer, has broken the news that
Australia’s sheep population is down
million. This figure would not include the
more recent casualties of the drought in
New South Wales and Queensland.
Probably, we will begin the decade of
the 1970 s with only a few more sheep
than we began the 19605. It is possible
that we may have even less. The hard
truth is that the national flock is simply
not reproducing itself fast enough to en-
able Mr. Vines’ prediction to become
reality.
According to Helen Newton Turner,
CSIRO’s Miss Sheepbreeder, it would
take five years to add 30 million to the
sheep population, even if every ewe
joined had a lamb and if not more than
10 percent of the lambs died before
weaning. This calculation also assumed
that ewes and wethers were cast for age
at 5J years, that the current slaughter
rate of lambs and ewes to supply the
meat market continues, and that the
annual deathrate among ewes is five per-
cent. But if only 80 percent of the ewes
joined had a lamb, and if 20 percent of
the lambs died, it would take 18 years
to add the 30 million. And this seems to
be more in accord with the trends of the
past.
An average figure for lambs born to
ewes joined has riot been calculated, but
it is certainly much less than 100 percent.
The proportion of lambs lost between
birth and marking is known to be rarely
less than 10 percent and usually more
than 20 percent. To this must be added
a relatively small but nonetheless appreci-
able wastage of lambs between marking
and weaning. Further, considerable loss
occurs, of course, among the weaners, at
which stage these young sheep are only
beginning to make a contribution to the
wool clip.
These last two mortalities may amount
to 10 percent of the lamb crop—or, say,
five million young sheep. The five per-
cent deathrate assumed among the ewes
may also be a conservative figure on which
to base the above estimate, since some
local surveys have indicated that as many
as three percent of ewes die from preg-
nancy toxemia alone. The ironical situa-
tion is that the Australian pastoral
industry has now learned, or is fast
learning, how to carry more sheep than
there are sheep to carry. To this extent,
Mr. Vines’ view of the future may not be
too rosy. But big changes in our ways
of enticing more lambs from our ewes
and of rearing them to weaner age will
have to come first.
Research people say that the whole
problem of the poor reproductive per-
formance of our sheep comes down to
one of nutrition. Proper feed at the right
time, both in quantity and quality, is
the main key, they say, to increased con-
ception rates, to the control of non-
infectious abortion, to the prevention of
deaths among pregnant ewes, and to
saving almost all the lambs that are born
alive. Diet, indeed, is so important,
according to the Pastoral Research
Laboratory at Armidale, N.S.W., that a
ewe’s reproductive future is largely deter-
mined by what she gets to eat during
the first 14 months of her life.
The research people also say that their
studies of recent years lend no support
to several long-standing opinions. For
instance, generations of sheepmen have
believed that predators such as eagles,
crows, and foxes are largely to blame for
lamb losses. Many sheepmen are also
convinced that some strains of the
merino drop stronger lambs than other
strains. They have felt, too, that they
couldn’t expect many lambs from ewes
beyond five years of age, and that some
districts favored reproduction to a greater
extent than others.
gEVERAL intensive studies of predator
activity have shown that the overall
number of lambs taken by wild animals
must be very small and that a sheep-
man shouldn’t waste his time and money
chasing phantom slayers unless he has
good evidence that predators are a real
menace on his property. Detailed records
of sizable flocks on three CSIRO field
stations show no differences in reproduc-
tive performance between five strains of
the merino. The only importance of the
district was the effect it had on the
quality of the feed available.
The same study showed that seven-
year-old ewes rear as many lambs to
weaning age as do young ewes. At Deni-
liquin, for example, this age group has
had a slightly better record than even the
four-year-olds. At Cunnamulla, in south-
western Queensland, where the country
is very hard for sheep, more lambs are
generally weaned from 10-year-olds than
from two-year-olds. If the average cast-
ing age of ewes was raised the national
flock would increase at a considerably
faster rate.
The influence of nutrition on lamb sur-
vival is pervasive. Properly fed ewes
drop strong lambs and mother them well.
Such lambs are remarkably tolerant of
inclement weather. Farmers who have
been able to feed their ewes well during
the last month or so of pregnancy, and
provide a minimum of shelter for the
newborn lambs, have increased their
lamb-marking percentages by up to 20
percent.


PRESTIGE OFFICE
SPACE FOR
LEASIHG
DICKSON, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
New building in developing
retail area
PARTICULARLY SUITED FOR USE
AS PROFESSIONAL SUITES
• First Floor
• Excellent natural light
• Water and drainage provided
• Oil Heating
• Ample parking
VARIOUS SIZED SUITES
LONG OR SHORT LEASES
CONTACT: Mr. R. Symons, Canberra
4-0327, Mr. C. Jew, Sydney, 29-4881; Mr.
N. Horner, Melbourne, 63-0271 or write
N.C.R.
BOX 2626,
G.P.0., SYDNEY
NCR
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: COLIN JOSEPH MURRAY. TAKE
NOTICE that Nellie Beatrice Murray has
filed Petition No. 4365 of 1385 for divorce
on the ground of DESERTION, and seeks
orders for custody, maintenance costs and
an injunction. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Regis-
try j Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
10th day of August, 1968. You may obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from B. Neill & Company, Solicitors,
70/72 King Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GEORGE LAURIE COHEN. TAKE
NOTICE that HEATHER MAUDE
COHEN has filed a Petition No. 1397 of
1966 for divorce on the ground of
CRUELTY and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance, property settlement and
costs. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building. Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 28th day
of July, 1906, and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from E. B. Pen-
man, Solicitor, of 55 Market Street, Syd-
ney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
A Divorce Petition has been filed against
Philip Stanley MACEY late care of
C. D. W. Rounu, Port Moresby, Papua,
New Guinea, who may apply to the
Divorce Registry, Somerset House, Lon-
don W.C.2.. England, for a copy of the
Petition. If within 77 days he has not
communicated with the Registry, the
Court may hear the case in his absence.
COMPTON MILLER, Registrar.
ZJ
T
IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including . . .
The Persian Room Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque , too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392
RESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
RH2OB/66
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 906
ACROSS
1. Unsociable Margaret’s ill-adapted for 26-across. (6,
4 )
5. The Turk unmanned this boy. (4)
9. Swimming-pool feature. (4, 4)
10. Capone with the greatest amount? Nearly, but not
quite. (6)
12. Alternative to an Indo-Chinese organisation having
nothing on a famous old European city. (7)
13. Den of vice in contrast to 9-across. (3, 4)
14. Starting price in terms of 7-down is 10-across gaiety
of spirit. (13)
18. Seeking the light time for
sporting post-mortems. (5, 3,
5)
19. Clues an improper uncle as
knocked us clean wrong? (7)
21. Opportunity to angle part of
the church. (7)
23. Towels for the least elevated.
' C 6) .
24. Cuspidor shortly to be seen
about Chatham. (8)
25. Ballerina’s skirt gives rise to
a deprecatory remark by you.
(4)_
26. A circuit of the links and 18
of its features made by rotary
drills. (5, 5)
DOWN
1. But they don’t give instruc-
tion to natural swimmers. 7,
2,6)
2. A revolting joker? (12, 3)
3 . Dirge composition in the string
of high levels. (5)
4. A gardener’s wife. (3)
6. A couple of non-truants will
be goats when they grow up.
(3, 4,2, 6)
7. Proceeding correctly, but any
Australian train-driver would
be risking head-on collision.
(2, 3,5, 5)
8. A hit! Blast! (4)
11. Go red about one somewhat
otherwise colored. (6)
15. Obtained to dress up. (3)
16. A songster with a serious
complaint for the babies. (6)
17. Tree. (3)_
20. Barrel which can get the sack.
(4)
22. Often dropped by the careless
with a reason for scratching.
(5)
24. Thus you get very little
money! (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 905


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25’,
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North,
M. J. Hobbs, I. A, North,.
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BUGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
SPECULATORS DIARY
Why Not Financial Festivals?
Ruminations on the end-of-year situation
A JUNE 30 FESTIVAL. That’s what we need. All we have now is the Treasury’s
“The Australian Economy, 1966.” That sort of thing might have its place. But
what we really need is marches, processions, contests (Miss Bad Debt?). The lot.
The chairmen of the various stock
exchanges could ride through their res-
pective cities on the backs of bulls or
bears, as the circumstances dictate. In
Martin Place we could have stockbrokers
and accountants giving physical culture
displays. Shareholders could march to the
headquarters of their companies and burn
offending directors. Effigies would do in
most cases, yet occasionally the real thing
might be warranted.
There are endless possibilities. As it is,
the occasion passes in a very staid, grey-
suit-and-striped-tie manner. Except for the
barristers (fancy dress and all), who seem
to be enjoying some sort of feast down in
Liverpool Street
For me the only excitement was, of all
places, amid the flags and whatnot in the
rooms of the Royal Commonwealth
Society. The occasion was more for the
drawing of knives than the waving of
flags. The board of F. W. Williams was
having its annual confrontation with its
shareholders.
I arrived just in time to hear the
acting-chairman intoning, “In accordance
with growing practice, I propose to take
a note of all questions and answer them
collectively at the end”—or words to that
effect. Now, can you really see any com-
pany chairman, confident of handling a
meeting competently, using that sort of
tactic? I suppose if some chairmen want
to keep bad company, they’re welcome.
Apart from this meeting and the
Treasury’s oration, the end of the finan-
cial year offered little more than a time
to reflect,
titdct t n . j , T
fIRST I reflected on my portfolio. It
T ha /‘ b ,‘;' c '' a good half-year (not being a
j Une balancer). Particular thanks are
e A tO , ntine j ta Oil (for its takeover
Amalgamated Chemicals) and to the
mystery buyer of Woodside. My group
award must, of course, go to the mining
(Consolidated Rutile, Western
Mining, etc.). Now, however, the mining
market looks as though it might have
done its dash for the time being. Even
New Guinea Gold is basking up around
60 cents after being ignored at 43c or 44c
for so long.
You might expect me to sell Western
Mining now that they’re back almost at
$5 again. If I had the money I’d prob-
ably buy more. The new issue is not
likely to produce many rights’ sellers,
Small shareholders have done so well in
the past by taking up rights that they’re
hardly likely to sell now. And the new
shares are certain to be payable in instal-
ments, which should take the financial
strain off the big holders. So that buyers
of the rights, and there are sure to be
plenty of them, could well be faced with
a scrip shortage.
The oil market, too, I feel inclined to
leave alone for the time being. It’s had a
very good run the past month or two.
Now it’s having a pause. It will probably
take time for another rise to build up—
maybe until Woodside gets that rig out
into Bass Strait later in the year.
The new financial year must, however,
be the year for industrials. I’d go so far
as to say that the outlook is perhaps
better now than at any time since 1960.
So many hurdles, both local and over-
seas, have stood in the market’s way since
then that investors are pretty well condi-
tioned against anything. Even the prospect
of a $2 rise in the basic wage seems to
be accepted with astonishing calm. Of
course, everyone will bleat when the time
comes; at this stage nobody seems to care
less.
Likewise, the news of another BHP
debenture issue and it’s sure to be a
boomer didn’t give the market the dose
of salts it did last time, despite the fact
that it will attract many millions of dollars
which, presumably, would have found
their way into the market elsewhere. As
one of my adversaries says, when the
market doesn’t fall on bad news, it must
be going to rise.
Already there have been some good
rises among the industrials. British
Tobacco, G. E. Crane, not to mention
BHP. And good old J. B. Young is now
the lowest-yielding of all the retailers
except for Myers. A year ago it yielded
five percent. Suddenly the big brokers
have discovered Canberra, and Young
becomes a glamor stock. Canberra Tele-
vision could well be next.
Now the portfolio consists of:
No. of Name of Date Cost Price
Shares Company Bought Per 29/6/66
Share
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72 0.66
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.38
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1.08
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 0.23
400 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 1.98 1.95
400 Kathleen rights 15/6/66 0.82 0.95
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 2.90
400 Steel Mills 2/5/66 0.68 0.80
500 Haulage 11/5/66 0.54 0.58
400 McDowells 31/5/66 0.75 0.80
200 O’Donnell Griffin 31/5/66 1.23 1.30
400 Tennyson 7/6/66 0.78 0.79
500 AMI 14/6/66 0.42 0.50
200 TNT 15/6/66 1.53 1.58
200 Western Mining 17/6/66 4.60 5.00
200 Cottees 20/6/66 3.50 3.90


Solid, silent luxury-powered by Ford!
>
• f
7 . wi , .*“*■ ■". '** *
New Ford Galaxie 500
The new Galaxie 500 is the most impressive new Ford ever
built.
Styling is classic, sleek, unquestionably aristocratic.
The luxury of its interior and abundance of its convenience
items establish it instantly as a pace-setter among prestige cars.
Its performance is so smooth and quiet even a whisper can be
heard at highway limits. Power steering is precise in traffic,
easy in parking. Power brakes are self-adjusting. A massive
“Torque-box” frame and four-wheel coil suspension give the
car an incredible steadiness under all driving conditions.
And, there’s the agile responsiveness of Galaxie’s 200 horse-
power “Challenger” VB, or the optional 280 horsepower
“Thunderbird” VB, both teamed with dual-range Cruise-O-
Matic transmission.
Drive the new Galaxie 500 soon, and discover the new standard
of the fine-car field ... at your Ford Dealer’s.
FORD OF AUSTRALIA
FGIO2


A
4^oo*
V\ '%
mg. m
//
<1 XI
%
IK' ' ■ ~~
*■
✓
Vviars
aSCT:
>* / >*
X
.
f >■€
Omega Seamaster: the ivorld’s favourite precision sports ivatch. Winds itself. Hermetically sealed against water. Note onyx ink]
of solid gold hour markers. 14 ct gold capped $190.00 (£95.0.0). Stainless steel $135.00 (£67.10.0).
The sturdy reliability of this Omega Seamaster is proved
in an atmospheric pressure chamber
Its accuracy and long life are assured by waterproofing tests in a special simulator, unique to Omega.
■ They take a watch. They plunge
it a hundred feet beneath the sea. Then
they suddenly catapult it to the height
of Mount Everest. And it still works
perfectly.
This happens every day with the
Omega Seamaster sports watch.
H They prove its strength. The
drastic switch from a pressure of three
atmospheres to a partial vacuum takes
place in the Omega factory. In a
machine such as you will not find any-
where else in the whole watch industry.
A pressure simulator specially designed
by Omega.
Altogether, each Seamaster is “dived”
17 times. Through 17 different pressure
ranges. In the space of 45 minutes.
The tests ensure that the rugged Sea-
master case will withstand all the
changes of pressure that you can
possibly encounter —in the air and
beneath the sea.
m They match it to the man. And
why does Omega indulge in this costly
and painstaking process? Because the
Seamaster movement is so accurate, so
finely built, that it deserves the best
protection watchmakers can give it.
Pressurizing conditions it for the rough,
tough life it has been designed to live.
For the life of a sportsman.
It will be a long life, too.
Some day you, too, will own an Omeg
All Omega Seamaster models are watt
proof, shock-protected and antimagnetic. T
calendar and self-winding features
optional.
Sea master models, manual wind, fr°
£27.0.0. Self-winding from £30.0.0.
in
OMEGA
