

The Bulletin
LBJ Souvenir Issue Color Pictures
OCTOBER 29, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
ON THE
WAY WITH
LBJ.
jistered in Australia for transmission by post os a newspaper. Australia 20c, New Zeal' wd 2/-, Singapore $1/ Malaysia $1


For discerning people
who have a taste for luxury
-and an eye for value!
The new Ford Galaxie 500 brings a champagne touch to the fine-car field.
Styling is classic, sleek, unquestionably aristocratic.
The luxury of its interior and the abundance of its convenience items establish it instantly as a
pace-setter among prestige cars.
Behind the wheel it is a revelation to drive. Even a whisper can be heard at highway limits.
Power steering is precise in traffic, easy in parking. Power brakes need just “a touch”. A
massive, “Torque-box” frame and four-wheel coil suspension give the car an incredible steadiness
even under the severest cornering and handling conditions.
Finally, there’s the brilliant performance from Galaxie’s 200 horsepower “Challenger” VB, or
optional 280 horsepower “Thunderbird” VB, teamed with dual-range “CJruise-O-Matic” drive.
Discover the new standard of the fine-car world ... at your Ford Dealer’s.
Ford Galaxie 500
Solid , silent luxury powered by Ford
FGIO4
gsl


L.B.J
The Four Days of
President Johnson
in Australia
Canberra:
The most unnerv-
ing experience for
an old royal tour man as the LBJ
motorcade from Fairbairn Airport,
Canberra, to Government House. I
travelled in a 40-passenger bus with
the White House Press Gallery men.
We were superbly equipped with all
electronic aids. There were walkie-
talkie hook-ups with the important cars
up front, like the Presidential Lincoln.
So not a move, not a word that was
said, escaped us. When LBJ shook
hands with a couple of nuns, names
and addresses and religious order of
nuns were supplied. If a child was
cuddled we were told. Then if we did
happen to go to sleep, all this was
repeated back to us by Bill Moyers
and his aides at the later Press con-
ferences.
As the motorcade progressed, as the
President made impromptu stop after
impromptu stop, your correspondent
was saucer-eyed. This was tremendous.
The Queen, Prince Philip, the Queen
Mother, good heavens, even Princess
Alexandra didn’t do this sort of thing.
Never did they carry a courtesy car-
type microphone and speak to all and
sundry. LBJ had a most powerful
affair, known to the White House Press
Corps as “the Bull Horn.”
pRINCE PHILIP never stopped the
car at a street corner. Admittedly,
there was the occasional prearranged
stop to collect a posy of flowers from a
little girl, but when did he kiss a baby?
When did he hand out a ballpoint pen?
When did he call out, “I love ya, Aus-
tralia,” or “Hooray, Australia”? Never.
Canberra has become frightfully blase
about welcomes lately. Canberra doesn’t
decorate much anymore and crowds
don’t go out to the airport in large
numbers. This arrival promised to be
as dank as the last Queen Elizabeth-
Prince Philip affair, but the LBJ get-
with-it spruikering transformed every-
thing. Out in the cold-Public-Service
suburban heart of Canberra at 7.30
p.m., temperature 50-odd, the people
were singing “For he’s a jolly good
fellow.”
But, as said early, it was unnerving
being with these White House corres-
pondents. As LBJ was calling out
“your future is my future, your way is
our way,” one veteran U.S. newsgetter
was saying, “My Gard, not again.”
“Yair, we love everybody,” said a
radio man.
Your correspondent turned to a doz-
ing American correspondent beside him
and said: “But this is terribly unusual.
Has it ever happened anywhere be-
fore?”
“Yair,” said my man, “but not quite
as bad.” And he went back to sleep.
Yet one felt this was a solid lesson
to all Australian politicians. At the
first stop Mr. Holt stayed in the car.
At the second stop LBJ hauled him out
of the womb-like security of the Lin-
coln and said: “Here, you be in it.”
And we were advised by Mr. Moyers
that Mr. Holt said: “I am glad you
are not running for Prime Minister.”
The decorations were not extensive,
but the American correspondents were
impressed by the number of U.S. flags
flying. There was great trouble in
New Zealand, we were told. Only 11
could be found in the whole country.
They tried to print more, but there
was a printers’ strike. of im-
port restrictions cloth was not available
for more to be made and an appeal to
the Embassy brought the answer that
it had taken three months to get a new
flag even there. So this was triumph
for Canberra. Outside Parliament
House alone we had 16 splendid U.S.
flags.
An interesting point was that there
were no demonstrators at the airport.
We saw no nasty placards from the
motorcade, and it was as if by arrange-
ment with Security and the FBI that
they should all be stationed outside the
Canberra Rex. But LBJ tricked them.
He made his play for the nice people
along the route, overstayed at Govern-
ment House, had dinner with the Holts,
and finally slipped back to the Rex by
the back entrance.
This was his one false move. Offici-
ally Canberra had worked very hard for
this visit. Instant lawns were planted
all around the War Memorial, flowers
galore were carted into Civic, motor
mowers never stopped. Well, at the
same time demonstrators at the National
University worked terribly hard all
night until minutes before his arrival
preparing such placards as “Go away,
LBJ” and “Try LBJ for War Crimes.”
But he spurned them, didn’t even
look at their placards. This is what
gives Americans a bad name. If LBJ
wants to please Australians he should
at least turn out to be protested against.
The Press Room was the vast
Embassy banquet room at the Canberra
Rex, and it must be admitted that the
Department of News and Information
organised things magnificently. It was
quite the best set-up your correspondent
has seen. They had three TV sets, they
had 15 teleprinters, 30 telephones with
almost instant communication to Lon-
don, Bonn, New York, or wherever.
There was seating for over 160 and
there were typewriters everywhere.
There was a free bar, there were free
sandwiches, free tea and coffee
which started at 4.30 p.m. on the
Thursday and went non-stop all
night by courtesy of the U.S. Embassy.
It was quite our biggest Press show
yet. For the Olympic Games there
The Bulletin
Answer to the Placard-Bearers
Johnson Imperator,
The wallabies by the roadside wave small paws
To the black duco of the imperial litter.
Pax Americana has a big handshake.
Johnson Imperator,
On big wings from the sky flying (tang of ozone),
This province of the eucalypt welcomes you.
Our cohorts die for you in the hot North.
Johnson Imperator,
You kiss our kids in the flash-bulb popping night.
The night has snarling rivers, but you step cool
And unfazed over mined ground, through grass that has voices,
And you must choose what no man would like to choose.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN


were 225 accredited correspondents, but
here, from all over, there were more
than 400. There were 141 from the
White House Gallery plus others from
out of town U.S., four from West Ger-
many, several from Tokyo, several from
London newspapers, others from Singa-
pore and Asia. CBS led the field with
22 representatives, followed by NBC
with 17.
Even if the Australians were some-
what outgunned, outnumbered, and
outvoiced, news and information did its
bit with the map of Australia behind
the microphone on the podium of the
Press Room. It was labelled: Victoria
l-3rd Texas; N.S.W. slightly larger
than Texas; Queensland 2\ Texas;
N.T. twice Texas; W.A. 3| Texas; Tas.
l-10th Texas, and A.C.T. 13 times
Washington, D.C.
BATMAN
Lessons in Eloquence
JOURNALISTS, like other beings
ancillary to the Presidential visit,
finished up the worse for wear. Too
much excitement, too much drink, too
long in smoke-filled noisy rooms, too
many hours standing around, too many
relatively profitless attempts at gather-
ing information, and, worst, too few
hours of sleep left us all numbed and
dulled. Yet despite this the impressions
of the visit stand out stark and clear
from Canberra.
In anticipation it was going to be a
very great visit, but in actual perform-
ance it was greater. It brought politics
to life as it has not been for a long,
long time. From the time the elegant
707 s roared slowly, gracefully down
through the chilly winds into Can-
berra airport, the impressions began
to accumulate. For most other people
the initial welcome would have been
a gloomy flop. The weather was too
horrible, the speakers too remote from
the crowd, the speeches too banal, the
ceremony too slow to make it the in-
spiring occasion it should have been.
But President Johnson, having gone
coldly through the ceremonial, came
to life with the performance for which
he has become famous: going to the
people. It was apparent to everyone
who experienced it that this is not
mere showmanship.
The performance is real, an attempt
to exchange as jnany phrases, words,
greetings, smiles, and handshakes with
as many people as possible. From this
intense contact with masses of people,
Johnson, his aides say, draws the
strength for his remarkable speechmak-
ing.
The President has, of course, excel-
lent machinery for the preparation of
his speeches. He has two of America’s
greatest intellectuals and scholars in
Walt Rostow and John Roche with him
most of the time, and half a dozen
extremely bright and lucid men to help
with ideas and the drafting of speeches.
But it soon became obvious that John-
son is capable of the most eloquent ex-
temporising. The great bulk of his
moving speech in Melbourne was en-
tirely spontaneous: the profession of
a deep desire for peace and the de-
termination not to repeat the mistakes
of the 19305, thinking that peace can
be gained through weakness of faith in
the unpeaceful; the call to Australians
to decide whether they will be “all the
way” with what he is trying to achieve.
It showed up our political leaders
too: Mr. Holt for his quiet pride in
finding the most unmemorable phrase
Mr. McEwen for the dignity with which
he can deliver the banalities dreamed
up in the dark corners of the Depart-
ment of Trade and Industry; and most
of all Mr. Calwell: his was the only
Australian speech which could have
been great; it had real life allusions to
the historical links we have with the
U.S. and samples of the political
philosophy which means so much to
him, and it had humor, despite the
tactlessness of the analogy he made of
American political parties identical to
empty bottles.
But it was not great, because it was
not real. While Mr. Calwell stood in-
side speaking about his party’s affinities
with the President of the United States,
making rather sly allusions only to
“differences” (listing protesters Robert
Kennedy, Morse, Fulbright, etc.), out-
side it was “none of the way,” as the
placards said and as the violent
speeches shout.
For me in a crowd outside the Rex
on Thursday night the protesters were
well summed up in the form of a grown
man, an Australian National University
lecturer, I understand, holding a sign
reading “Johnson’s Baby Powder Is
Napalm,” and his uncontrolled rage
when someone told him his sign was
childish and tore it up. Frightening,
too, was the Left-wing McCarthyism
of those who, hysterically screaming
“Ustashi,” “Fascist murderers,” pur-
sued a small group of New Australians
carrying banners “Welcome Johnson.”
Refreshing were the large number of
rubbishing anti-demonstration placards:
“Eat At Joe’s,” “The King Is a Fink,”
“56 Days Till Beethoven’s Birthday,”


a nd the portraits of the Queen re-
galed.
No one in Canberra seems to doubt
that the visit will have great political
implications for the future. Johnson’s
eloquence, sincerity, splendor,
humanity, and power were expressed so
vividly that our alliance with the
United States must be greatly
strengthened.
Here at home the side which equivo-
cates about that alliance has a difficult
job ahead.
For the future of the Vietnam war
the visit suggested new grounds for op-
timism. According to some reports
Johnson said to both the Cabinet and
to the Labor Parliamentarians that he
believed that Hanoi is now much closer
to agreeing to negotiations than at any
time in the past. This assessment is
based partly on the continuing defeats
being inflicted on the Communist troops
in the field but more on Hanoi’s grow-
ing disenchantment with Peking and its
increasingly close relations with the re-
visionist powers.
President Johnson is understood to
have pressed hard in his private con-
versations for a greatly increased eco-
nomic aid effort by Australia. This im-
plication can be read into sections of
his speeches. For instance, in his Mel-
bourne address he said of the yearnings
of people for economic and social im-
provement: “We must deal with these
urgent drives (and) the drive for
security ... I use we deliberately. In
the early postwar years the indispen-
sible strength was America’s. Now other
nations have also gathered strength and
it has become possible to share the bur-
dens of defence more evenly.” This
suggests, by implication, that the bur-
dens of civil aid still remain to be
borne more fully by America’s allies.
It would be strange if the President
has not privately pointed out that Aus-
tralia’s economic aid of 2 million dol-
lars looks poor beside America’s ap-
propriation this year of 550 million
dollars. But American correspondents
here were emphatic that a preoccupa-
tion at Manila with economic efforts
does not imply any weakening of the
military struggle. Some said that they
thought Johnson’s Australian speeches
were distinctly hawkish.
Not that there is any likelihood of a
unilateral escalation of the war by the
Americans. One of the few things which
Labor Parliamentarians would say after
their conversation with the President
was that they are now more confident
that he would not extend the bombing
to the Hanoi-Haiphong areas or put
land troops across the border into the
North. But the struggle is likely to go
on longer and most probably more
troops will be needed. Australia has
approximately 400 troops in Vietnam
per million of our population against
close to 2000 Americans per million of
their population. So an even sharing
of burdens may dictate a higher sac-
rifice and contribution on our part.
PETER SAMUEL
Calwell Lowers the Rails
"I'm pleased to meet you too, Mr. President,
but I'm part of your bodyguard."
Melbourne was much closer to
Vietnam and the trouble spots of
Asia than was San Francisco,
President Johnson last week grimly
warned a Melbourne gathering
assembled to do him honor. To the
extent that by implication he was
emphasising the importance to Aus-
tralia of the American alliance he was
unmistakably interfering in Australian
politics. For while Prime Minister Holt
and his Liberal-Country Party col-
leagues are prepared symbolically
speaking to go all the way with
LBJ as the symbol of the United States
in Asia, Labor has its reservations.
In a way this interference was
brought upon the head of the Labor
Party by the attitude taken by Arthur
Calwell in the course of his welcoming
speech to the President at the Parlia-
mentary Luncheon in Canberra. Cal-
well was in an awkward position. His
Party is opposed to United States and
Australian involvement in the Vietnam
war. Labor has promised to bring the
national servicemen home immediately
if it is elected as Federal Government
on November 26 and to bring remain-
ing Australian forces home after and
in consultation with its allies.
Calwell made a good speech. It dis-
played his deep sense of the continuity
of history and paradoxically his feeling
that the American War of Indepen-
dence, which in its turn produced the
majestic wording of the Declaration of
Independence and its emphasis upon
the sanctity of individual rights, was a
landmark in man’s march toward
equality and justice for all.
But Calwell could not, as Holt did,
“go all the way” with the United
States policy in Vietnam, even if he
wanted to. His Party’s official policy is
a declaration that the United States in
that area of the world is going the
wrong way and that Australia should
not follow it.
Where Holt could uninhibitedly laud
the virtues of the ANZUS alliance
treaty between the United States and
Australia, Calwell could say only
reservedly: “We (Labor) will do our
best to maintain alliances and observe
all treaties at all times and under all
circumstances.”
Calwell proceeded to point out that
many of Johnson’s fellow citizens dis-
agreed with him on the Vietnam
question. He could probably have got
away with this without a presidential
backlash, but he then went on to discuss
American domestic politics in detail.
Senators Fulbright, Robert Kennedy,
Wayne Morse, and others Demo-
erats of standing were not prepared
to go all the way with LBJ, he said.
Calwell took a risk. He was letting
down a sliprail the sliprail of con-
vention that politicians do not dabble
in detail in the politics either of the
country they are visiting or of the
countries whence a visitor has come,
I n taking such a risk with a man like
Johnson, who can smell a dropped
sliprail with the certainty of a top
politician, Calwell in my view took a
foolish risk. While he was making his
references to Fulbright, Robert Ken-
nedy, Wayne Morse, and the others,
the Presidents face was a study, and
it was not a study in benignity. Hav-
ing dropped the sliprail and used
against Johnson his famous phrase of
‘ the way, Johnson picked up the
slipraii and clobbered Calwell on the
skull with it. .
The most notable portions of his
speech the fact that America would


go all the way with Australia if for
nothing else from gratitude that it was
going all the way with the Americans
in Vietnam were not in his text.
They came after Johnson had listened
to Calwell.
It was as though the President was
under a compulsion to demonstrate to
Australia that the American alliance
(which Calwell merely reservedly said
Labor would do its best to maintain)
was of value to Australia. “When your
Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, symbolically
said in Washington when speaking on
the (Vietnam) crisis that faced our
men on the faraway battlefront at that
moment, that he would go all the way
with LBJ, there was not a single Ameri-
can who felt that that was new in-
formation,” Johnson declared.
“There is not a boy that wears the
uniform yonder (in Vietnam today)
that has not always known that when
freedom is at stake and when honorable
men are in battle shoulder to shoulder
that Australia will not go all the way
as America will go all the way not
one third of the way, not part of the
way, not three-quarters of the way but
all the way until liberty and free-
dom have been won.
“I can speak for all Americans
and for the more than one quarter of
a million of them who are there (in
Vietnam) when I say that they know
that every Australian standing by their
side and back here at home will stand
with them with courage and honor.”
But Calwell’s speech seemed to touch
him on the raw. It was as though he
interpreted it as a denigration of the
worth for Australia of the American
Alliance and was determined to point
out to Australians the mistaken nature
of this valuation.
In Melbourne he was outspoken.
Melbourne was closer to the trouble
spots of South-East Asia than was San
LBJ IN COLOR
There are four pages of color
pictures of President John-
son in Canberra , Melbourne ,
and Sydney on pages 35 to 38.
Francisco. He hoped it would not be
necessary for another Hitler to gobble
up all the little countries and march
into another Poland or for another
enemy to be on the other side of the
Owen Stanley Ranges in New Guinea
before people realised where their
national interests lay.
America passionately wanted peace.
But peace could not be declared
unilaterally. Only when “they” realised
that they could not win and that there
was nothing to be gained by destroying
their own sons or ours will they be
willing to come and “let us reason to-
gether.”
Even in this speech Johnson re-
vealed how the Calwell barbs had pene-
trated. He asked his listeners not to
be misled by a few irrelevant speeches.
When the vote for the appropriation
in support of the American effort was
taken in the Senate there would be an
87 to nil vote. America knew its
responsibilities. It went where its
responsibilities were. It had and would
undertake its responsibilities.
It may have been an excursion into
Australia’s domestic politics, particu-
larly at a period when an election is
looming that is to be fought around
issues that involved the American
Alliance.
But if Johnson went through the
sliprails of political convention to make
his point, it was Calwell’s original let-
ting down of the sliprails that enabled
him to do it.
ALAN REID
Like JFK in Berlin
MELBOURNE: As for Melbourne it was
not until the last moment that the old
city decided to take off in favor of LBJ.
Until Tuesday we had decided on no
interstate vulgarity, just a decent, un-
decorated Melburnian dignity.
The Moomba Festival Committee
met on the Tuesday morning, and with
just two days to go it was decided to
give LBJ the full treatment. And we
did rather well. The 50ft. high Hare
wall by the new City Square was
covered with an enormous sign. We
put LBJ pennants on the tram wires
all the way down Swanston Street, and
between St. Paul’s Cathedral and Young
and Jacksons Hotel we hung a “Mel-
bourne Welcomes LBJ” banner. Many
people felt that this was the only not-
able act of co-operation between those
two fine institutions over the past 60
years.
The street scenes as the President’s
motorcade went through Melbourne
were so exuberant, so packed with
people and enthusiasm that to find a
precedent one has to go back to those
weary, hysterical almost, hours of 1945
when we learned that peace had been
won. Americans could only compare
it with President Kennedy in Berlin.
But this was different. We have never
before had things like parents passing
their children over the heads of people
in front of them to be cuddled and
kissed by a touring visitor. It was just
one of .many highlights. Or nuns wav-
ing star-spangled banners, a big squad
of people jostling 57 beagle dogs for-
ward, a man on crutches struggling to
offer a Texas-type yellow rose as a gift
to President Johnson, or a motorcade
detouring around Government House,
where 1500 dignitaries were waiting, so
the President could change his suit, and
have his vest slung out over the fence
to an aide waiting in one of the cars.
When his schedule finally got half
an hour behind and the motorcade had
still gone only seven miles, he had his
car speeded up, and since he couldn’t
talk personally to people he used his
car’s built-in loudspeaker to get across
his message and personal touch. Even
then he seemed unable to resist the
temptation of a warm crowd and would
stop, get out, and walk up and down
the barricades shaking hands and get-
ting himself lost in the crowd. Once
when it seemed the police and his
own men couldn’t keep the people
back from his moving car he used his
loudspeaker system, and there was con-
cern in the voice of the American
President as he appealed, “Mind there!
Could you try to keep clear of the
car so you won’t get hurt.”
Maybe it was luck, maybe it was
another brilliant LBJ move, but he
reached Swanston Street just at the per-
fect time: at 5 on Friday
Even if one had no desire at all to see
LBJ, it was impossible to get home.
There was the biggest crowd in Swan-
ston Street anyone could remember. At
times the long motorcade of Lincolns,
Cadillacs, Parisiennes, and such looked
like a triumphal march of Pompey re-
turning from the wars.
But imagine Pompey getting out of
his chariot right amongst the crowds
in the middle of the Forum. Pompey
LBJ did precisely that. Almost in front
of our Forum-like Town Hall he was
swamped with people. Barriers were
abandoned and he kept right on shak-
ing hands.
I ’J*HERE were other interesting
touches. The Beagle Club of Vic-
toria lined up with all its beagles. But
one felt as the President patted a beagle
that the President looked the happier
of the two.
The President also was presented with
a football by the vice-captain of Essen-
don Football Club. He looked slightly
nonplussed as he took the football and
asked, “What is it?”
The demonstrators were far more
potent and active than those of Can-
berra. They were very angry indeed
when the motorcade bypassed the big
demonstration prepared for Grattan
Street near the university. So they im-
mediately decamped to Government
House. But the big incident took place
in Domain Road just after the Presi-
dent had left Elm Tree House. Plastic
bags of paint were thrown all over the
Presidential car, and one poor Security
man was almost smothered. Your
correspondent saw the quarter-million-
dollar Lincoln arrive at Government
House dripping all over with red and
green paint.
As soon as the President stepped out,,
the bubble car, like some shameful
thing, was rushed down to the Goverfi-
ment House garage. There a dozen
policemen swabbed it down with petrol.
In all this, one feels deeply for Domain
Road, South Yarra. It is terrible to
think such a thing happened in the
nicest part of Melbourne.


Tanner at the ART GALERY


Declaration of Inter-Dependence
SYDNEY? It was, and for once the
cliche seems more than apt, a truly his-
toric occasion. Not the cavalcade with
its line of black cars and blgqk-
helmeted policemen; not the open car
with outriding security men holding
on, jumping off and running alongside
in the best Keystone Cops style; not .
the abortive procession through a
ticker-tape welcome with hundreds of
thousands cheering Mr. Holt and
Ambasador Clark in the assumption
that one of them was President John-
son —no, not even the superbly scenic
and unforgettable panorama of boats
and yachts strewn out across Sydney
Harbour. None of these is what made
President Johnson’s visit to Sydney
truly historic.
History was made in a stuffy
crowded room at the New South Wales
Gallery. No flags were lowered; none
was raised. But the seal was set on
what had been clear from the start of
the President’s visit: Australia is now
committed to a future based on a
Pacific inter-dependence with the
United {States. Britain? That is a mem-
ory, it seems, a phase Australia has
passed through on its way to American
even if in this inter-
dependence we are the junior partners.
IT was Premier Askin who, perhaps
without intending, it, underlined the
historic nature of the presence of Lyn-
don Johnson. He jumped to the micro-
phone with an eager and confident air.
Behind him stood a benignly smiling
“Ed” Clark, the übiquitous American
Ambassador with his Yellow Rose of
Texas in his lapel buttonhole. To one
side was Mrs. Holt in polka dots, and
Mr. Holt in a neo-double breasted suit.
An alert-looking Mrs. Johnson was
there and the President stood close by
presenting only his favoured side —his
left profile—to the whirring and snap-
ping of cameras. In front of Mr. Askin
close to the hand-rail crowded a clutch
of matrons gazing up at LBJ, and
spread out in various stages of genteel
perspiration were generals, admirals,
newspaper executives, parliamentarians,
brokers and young pregnant women in
maternity dresses, some still clutching
at their asparagus fingers and whiskeys.
For a final touch there were the paint-
ings—two Drysdales, a Nolan, a
Tucker, a Blackman.
The Declaration of Inter-dependence
came from Mr. Askin in a passing
sentence. Turning to the President he
said: “Orie hundred and eighty-eight
years ago, almost on this very spot, this
nation was founded.” Somehow that
sentence begged for the obvious addi-
tion which never came. . . . But if
any point was needed to mark the
symbolic passing of Australia from
Britain to the United States* as dis-
tinct from the journey to that goal
which began a generation ago, I would
pick the reception at the Art Gallery
and the reference to the foundation of
Australia. The remark would not have
had the same impact anywhere but
near the site of the First Settlement.
In a relaxed reply, Johnson con-
firmed the Declaration of Inter-
dependence and showed up the pedes-
trian quality of so many of the speeches
made by his hosts. When, after all, had
an Australian politician talked about
the pursuit of excellence? When had
a leading Australian politician said,
explicitly, and with no reservations
that “We want to build a Great Society
not only for white Australians and
white Americans but for all people?”
This last statement was greeted by a
very loud “Hear hear” from the front
row of ladies. It thudded into the
presidential silence which briefly fol-
lowed and it came from radio’s Andrea,
resplendent in a green coat and as
close to the President as anyone could
get. Andrea said afterwards she had
meant the “Hear hear.” “That was for
my Aborigines. I mean that.” She had
shaken the President’s hand and had
told him that for 21 years she had
been a citizen of the United States. He
said “Thank you, Ma’am.”
After a few handshakes the President
was off to see the harbour. Behind him
he left a band playing “Hello Dolly”
and “I lost my heart in San Fran-
cisco,” and those of the guests who were
eager to try the hot course of chicken
a la Jung.
While the President was on the
launch besieged by small yachts and
fire-boats squirting water into the air
his Press Secretary, Bill Moyers,
smoked a long cigar outside the Press
centre at the AMP building at Circular
Quay. Moyers stood cradling a walkie-
talkie. It semed as good a time as any
to speak to him. He was polite and
direct.
JJOW had the President reacted to
the demonstrations during the
cavalcade? Moyers felt that he had
taken it in his stride. it was a
shame that the demonstrators distracted
attention from the real thing—the great
outpouring of warmth of the people
for the President.” Had the throwing
of paint over the President’s car in
Melbourne led to a tightening up of
security and was this the reason why
the President had only left his car
three times to shake hands on the whole
route? “Well it could be. It could
be.”
Inside the Press centre newsmen,
some with four cameras growing out of
their backs, chatted. I met the Washing-
ton correspondent for the French paper
“Le Figaro.” He felt that after Sydney
the emphasis in the President’s visit as
reported in the American Press would
shift heavily to the demonstrations and
the , security scare they had set off.
He explained that for the American
Press their biggest concern was the
physical security of the President. It
was almost an obsession. This partly
explained why a number of American
pressmen were phoning through stories
that sounded very much alike: “In the
ugliest demonstrations he has so far en-
countered President Johnson was to-
day abused and threatened i n
Sydney. . .
Bill Moyers agreed with the assess-
ment of the demonstrations. If Sydney
had turned on Australia’s most lavish
and uproarious welcome, it had also
provided the biggest anti-Vietnam, anti-
LBJ demonstrations. In the end the
demonstrators met with a certain kind
of success. They did not give Presi-
dent Johnson the impression that the
country was deeply divided about
Vietnam and the American alliance;
President Johnson saw enough to feel
that Sydney’s people were prepared to
welcome him. But the great majority
of the crowd did not get to see him.
After the demonstration the cavalcade
moved so quickly that thousands who
had stood along George Street, the
main street of the procession, could not
have seen more than a blur—even if
the President had been in his own car.
(He had changed cars close to Hyde
Park where the bulk of the demonstra-
tors had gathered.) In an anti-climax,
pigeons, 1000-strong, were released
after Mrs. Johnson had passed; bal-
loons floated over police cars instead
of over the Presidential car (it had
gone), and all the flags along George
Street and the Domain right up to the
Art Gallery were waved, not at the
President, but at Mr. Holt and fyU-
Clark.
Why had the President switched
cars? One explanation by some mem-
bers of the White House Press was
that the air-conditioning in the Presi-
dential car had failed and, as Hugh
Sidey of “Time” magazine knowingly
explained: “He can’t stand the heat in-
side the car.” The air-conditioning had
failed, but whether this was the real
explanation seemed, to other newsmen,
doubtful. Their consensus was that the
extremely touchy security men, even
more touchy after Melbourne’s paint,
were wary of tangling with the demon-
strators. So on that explanation the
changing of cars was a diversion.
Whatever the explanation for the
change, the speedup did frustrate the
demonstrators. Many were cheated of
getting a loud scream of abuse directed
at Mr. Johnson. Instead the Press buses
bringing up a lame rear after the slow
trotting horses of the police had the
wrath of the Vietniks heaped on them.
Somewhere over the loud-speakers in
the buses we could hear the brave
efforts of the Mormon Choir struggling
with “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”
By the time we arrived at the Art
Gallery it was clear that if the major-
ity was to enjoy seeing President
Johnson —it would be vicarously: on
television replays and in newspaper
photographs. Only a handful had seen
him close-up, far less than he or many
others had wished.
SAM LIPSKI




Where to buy your Prid e
NEW SOUTH WALES
Graham Barclay Marine, Forster
Bailey’s Boat Shed, Port Macquarie
Brooker Marine, Tullibigeal
T. Diamond, Yass
Ford Marine Centre, Dubbo
Grafton Marine Centre, Grafton
Graham's Sports Store, Coffs Harbour
Gilmore’s Kempsey, Kempsey
Gosford Citrus Co-op. Pty. Ltd., Gosford
Roy Howard & Co. Pty. Ltd., Bega
Huetts Marine Centre, Berowra
Hunts Marine Centre, Blakehurst
Hunts Marine Centre, Fairymeadow
Inverell Steel & Pipe Supplies, Inverell
Jas. Loneragan Pty. Ltd., Mudgee
Lachlan Engineering, Cowra
Madsen Marine, Haberfield
Malouf's Marine, Mascot
Marine Sports Centre Pty. Ltd., Parramatta
Marina Tropicana Pty. Ltd., Wilberforce
Meaghers Machinery, Forbes
McKnight Bros. Pty. Ltd., Tamworth
Nock & Kirby Limited, Sydney
Nock & Kirby Marineland Ltd., Mascot
Nock & Kirby Limited, Wollongong
Osmond Motors, Taree
Orange Electrical Works, Orange
Vic. Parker & Sons, Warren
Powercraft Marine, Belmont
Smiths Marine Equipment Pty. Ltd., Brookvale
Sportscraft Outboards Pty. Ltd., Ryde
Greg. Torrens, Wisemans Ferry
P. Walsh & Sons, Nowra
Wenban & Good Pty. Ltd., Parkes
Cootamundra Marine Centre, Cootamundra
Griffith Marine Centre, Griffith
Hiscock Bros., Cootamundra
Hay Marine, Hay
A. G. Smith, Albury
Wagga Boat Centre, Wagga
CANBERRA
Eric O’Sullivan Marine, Canberra
QUEENSLAND
Brisbane Marine Centre, Newstead
Robinson Marine, Newstead
Busteeds Marine Centre, Gladstone
B. P. Cargo Service Station, Bundaberg
T. C. J. Carey Pty. Ltd., Proserpine
Coast Marine Centre, Southport
Coburns Electrical Shop, Ayr
Fairway Cycles, Rockhampton
Hervey Bay Marine Centre, Torquay
Hoffensetz Mower & Marine Centre, Ingham
G. S. Jarvis & Sons Pty. Ltd., Ayr
J. Michelmore & Co. Pty. Ltd., Mackay
Modern Motor Service Pty. Ltd., Ipswich
John McKinney Pty. Ltd., Toowoomba
Ivan Quinn Pty. Ltd., Cairns
See Poy & Sons Pty. Ltd., Innisfail
Winchcombe Carson Ltd., Townsville
VICTORIA
Heaths Aquatic Centre, Geelong
Arthur Blay, Bairnsdale
Cripps & Devison, Ballarat
B. Cobbledick, Traralgon
Dandy Power Equipment, Dandenong
Peter Dean Marine, Mont Albert
Frank Griffin, St. Arnaud
Hall & Sons, Kerang
Hamilton Wrecking Co., Hamilton
D. Henderson, Warrnambool
Jackson Bros., Abbotsford
Jackson Bros., Mentone
Johnson Auto & Marine, Maryborough
Ray McPherson, Benalla
Melbourne Outboard Service, Reservoir
Northern Marine & Joinery, Echuca
Rigby Motors, Mildura
Santons Sports & Marine Supplies, Bendigo
Sorrento Motor Garage, Sorrento
Stylecraft Pty. Ltd., Blackburn
S. H. Wallace, Shepparton
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Atwoods Marine Centre, Perth
Bower Timber Supplies, Esperance
Hall’s Home Furnishers, Carnarvon
G. D. Johnston & Co., Manjimup
Kays Agricultural Supplies, Albany
Keal Trading, Port Hedland
Major Marine, Fremantle
Marshall Motors, Katanning
Ochiltree Motors, Merredin
Sunny West Co-op. Dairies, Bunbury
Hayway Marine, Perth
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Adelaide Outboard Service Ltd., Edwardstown
NORTHERN TERRITORY
Peter Tovey, Darwin
TASMANIA
Cripps & Fleming, Hobart
Lloyd Campbell Pty. Ltd., Burnie
Lloyd Campbell Pty. Ltd., Launceston
PORT MORESBY
Steamships Trading Co., Port Moresby •
Return of the Saviour
BRISBANE : For Brisbane it was the
second coming. General McArthur had
come as the saviour of wartime Bris-
bane. He had said “I shall return” and
here he was again in the presidential
form of LBJ.
Everything was done to show that
this was a second coming. Premier
Frank Nicklin asked the church bells to
ring. Suite 44 known as the McArthur
suite was made ready at Lennon’s
Hotel though careful security men let
it be known that the President would
probably not sleep in it.
No one was cad enough to mention
that LBJ was a Democrat and so might
be considered as a party to Harry Tru-
man’s sacking of Brisbane’s folk hero
from over the seas. The faithful old
retainer was still working at the hotel
in the spruce shape of Frank Bailey
who had ministered to the needs of the
General and now crowned the long life
of service by valeting for the President.
The special 7ft. bed was ready and
paintings by Queenslanders Hugh Saw-
rey and Joy Roggenkamp were on the
walls to give the President a glimpse
of Queensland. For he came ,L>y x night
and left in the early morning. .
Queenslanders felt a special affinity
with LBJ \>b£cause Queensland is the
wide brown Texas of Australia. Queens-
land, too, is a land of oil and cattle.
Even the. Brisbane commuter thinks
that he is a frontiersman—not at JFK’s
New Frontier but of the old frontier
of dust and flies and horses. So the
American eagle that alighted at Eagle
Farm Airport was met by reverent awe
for another frontiersman. The Surfers’
Paradise Chamber of Commerce tried
to update the occasion by sending a
pressure group of two meter maids but
they were lost in the congregation of
the true believers.
It was a long wait on Saturday night
but the late timing was perfect. The
demonstrators had managed for the
first time to get a police permit to carry
placards. Carrying placards in Brisbane
is an offence under the Traffic Act and
students are fined on a pay-as-you-
march basis. But the permit only went
until 7.30 and the demonstrators were
moved on with three hours to spare be-
fore the President arrived.
At Breakfast Creek where Oxley had
stopped to have breakfast, LBJ had no
such gastronomic thoughts. He stopped
to get mobbed while he looked across
the creek to the American War Mem-
orial in Newstead Park. Lord Mayor
Clem Jones had announced that the
part of the park around the war mem-
orial was to be named Lyndon B. John-
son Place. For some days citizens had
been suggesting what we should name
after the President and some 51st
Staters had wanted to unhorse King
George V from outside the City Hall
and rename the square for LBJ.
In 'Queen Street, the theatre crowds
came out from Her Majesty’s Theatre
where they were playing “The New
Moon” to see the man who is going to
put a man on the moon with the help
of the new tracking station at Too-
woomba. Outside Lennon’s Hotel, Bris-
bane’s reverence dissolved into hysteria.
A jam-packed crowd nearly got out of
control, a security man was injured,
and a tram tried to barge through the
mob.
The security men were the real her-
oes of the crowd. With their unfashion-
able crewcuts and their marathon runs
at the side of the President’s car they
looked the best kind of American
supermen. On Sunday morning the
crowds who had rioted outside Len-
non’s had a reverent hangover. On their
way to church people went quietly to
see the President fly off on his way to
church in Townsville. The koalas who
had roosted all night in Lennon’s re-
fusing the whisky offered them by the
pressmen were carried out into the
street on the arms of LBJ and Lady
Bird.
For the young it was a gay visit.
But at the airport one damp-eyed
middle-aged woman said to another, “It
takes you back a bit, doesn’t it?” LBJ
had brought them back their youth in
the American Brisbane of the early
19405. McArthur had risen again and
had now been gathered up into Heaven
in a Boeing 707.
DENNIS PRYOR
“I'll take this one.”


Pride’s revolutionary
3 V wide track hull design
m
‘ /•
i
*~ r l ■■' j
'-waar-^'
mr <HeamJfcm
■-■a-:
-
-j;
; nt*** 'W *w
«,." -a &Ko*&* ,im
•*«w^» - ’ *»•««» » *
fish up front —
*■*■■
....
E
:,j
*: v g&ttf
«P3»*
■■
Trident
Don't let tradition stop you from enjoy-
ing the smoothest ride on water you’ll
ever have. Pride’s Trident-3V wide
track actually stabilises on its own
wave. The centre bow throws the spray
up (like a normal boat hull), then the
specially contoured outside hulls
catch the spray, turn it around and
force it down— creating hydraulic lift.
You ride on a rolling cushion of spray,
and Trident corners like being on a
wide track rail.
But catch Trident’s interior design.
The wide, flat floor and forward cockpit
make it ideal for fishing, skiing or just
pleasure cruising. Nudge her into the
beach, open the windscreen and walk
ashore—as easy as stepping off a kerb.
The more you know about boats the
more you’ll like what Pride has done
for boating in Australia.
Prjde Marine Corp. Pty. Ltd.
74 Hume Highway, Lansva/e, N.S.W.
72-0471.
Pride design and build 11 fibreglass
pleasure craft, all of which are avail-
able from your local Pride Dealer.
Write for a catalogue.
walk out up front—rides extra smooth for skiing, too!
4 ‘‘ ' .• tc" •,
T•'*’
• • •' - «
-. ■ , 'itsyu.s
* >'■'WHiiiSi'Y
w&
- a
2SB2***
/ ‘SAi&Yri
<svS
.ft**
"rii in m
SgSg":
3**te*lS
-aajigS'
saEM
3»S
v $ **


The home of Orlando Wines in South Australia’s Barossa Valley. From the original Goodchild painting hanging in the Cellar
*- *
eg*
wmm
■A*
mm
■■
SSI
■ ~
msmm.
m
-*••
• i
**** «*4
wmm
mm
'• v-
t:
.1
JR***”
ORLANDO
VINTAQED AUSTRALIAN ffl»
WHY IS ORLANDO
THE ONLY RIESLING
IN GREEN & AMBER
BOTTLES?
The current vintage of Barossa Riesling is
bottled in green bottles for those who like
their Rhine Riesling to be youthfully fresh
and crisp.
For those who prefer their Riesling to be agvd
and rounded, with the developed character-
istics that come from bottle ageing, Barossa
Riesling is in the traditional European amber
bottle. Amber glass keeps out the light and
protects the wine while it is ageing.
Because of the time it is held and the care
taken during ageing, the older vintages are
more expensive than the Riesling in green
bottles.
Since its inception in 1953, Orlando has won
more awards than any other Australian
Riesling - including a Gold Medal in 1964
and 1965 at Montpellier, France.
\ >- A
ORLANDO
VINTACED Australian ™ l,t


The Paper Chase
Myself when Young
By HAL PORTER
WHEN Mother dies in late March,
1929, I am newly 18. Although
I have already blandly par-
ticipated in, or artfully avoided par-
ticipating in, enough impure enough
or ludicrous enough experiences to be
as case-hardened as a stripling can
be, Mother’s death and the unromantic
form of it affront me deeply. No Lady
of Shalott she. Writers with their
aesthetic inventions about death and
death-beds—/ am dying, Egypt, dying
and so on and so on —are, it is too
clear to one wading heart-deep in
fruitless tears, charlatans. This latest
experience in which I resent participa-
tion is startling. The fairytale forests
of childhood are behind. That blossom-
hung and sun-striped era, at least and
at last, is over for ever and ever.
It is not only startling, it is agonising.
At least that’s how, in March, 1929,
it appears. My knowledge of agony
is, however, and to this very today,
nearly forty years later, meagre—the
dialect of grief is a hard one to learn.
My deathside agony may not be
authentic agony at all. Agony, grief,
sorrow, whatever it is, may be some-
thing else yet to accomplish or never
to accomplish. Does one —does a
writer with his eyes in his heart, and
his heart in his brain—ever really get
to know? Perhaps, 18, and considering
myself and the earth cruelly deprived,
I am putting, as Westerners are in-
clined to do, an excessive, maybe an
extreme, value on individual life.
As a quick lesson-learner I don’t put
it for long. By autumnal May the leaves
of my sorrow are falling, too. Dressed
in black like an early Julien Green
character I am walking, late at night
(midnight?), along the Gellibrand Pier,
Williamstown. There is a suitable fog,
moveless, and rich with chill, and the
prehistoric baying of foghorns. Now
and then, far from the lamp before, a
pier-lamp appears in its fog-bow. Now
and then, below and regularly, the bay
water slaps at the pier-piles like swags
of cold flesh. There is nothing to feel
with the eyes but the discernible noth-
ing. Into this salt-spiced lateness and
desolation there comes a consoling and
informative revelation (doubtless it is
canny self-information to self-console)
that eternity is what goes on behind
one’s back, that living is what goes on
behind the backs of the dead. Cold
fleshy water, blazing flesh, shrivelled
flesh, passion and loss, crystals, rocks,
barnacles and butterflies, laughter and
screams and songs, footsteps on fog-
damp pier-planks, all things go on and
on no matter who —Mother or some-
body’s mother or Caligula, Mary Queen
of Scots or drummer-boy at Waterloo
- —are filed away among the used-up.
Oh, yes, the used-up, the blue-pencilled,
the dead dead. It is (the revelation
continues), it is, however, impossible
to kill the dead. Indeed, it is only
the dead, salted down for ever, pickled
in the vat of time, who illustrate how
immortal mortals are, and how un-
avoidable is resurrection, how im-
mediate and permanent, with no three
days required, and no hope necessary —
hope, the last and most terrible of all
the evils let out of Pandora’s box. No
need at all for hope: although as dead
as mutton, Mother has come upon the
earth and with her two feet has taken
possession of it.
“Clean the backs of your shoes,” she
says. I obey —1917, 1923, 1935, yester-
day, today, tomorrow, as long as there
are shoes and shoe-polish and me.
“J/JCIFER, Star of the Morning, was
a fallen angel,” she says. “Grace
Darling was. a brave girl. Those stars —
see, there, above the cherry-tree—are
the Seven Sisters.” He, Lucifer, is. She,
Grace Darling, is. They, the Seven
Sisters, are. Mother, therefore, also is
because she has her resurrection in
them and such unforgotten lessons or
legends or lies. She lives in old words
to old tunes I catch myself singing in
new places and new years which hear
thus the errors in word and tune she
taught me. She lives in the woodbine
This extract is from Hal Porter’s second
instalment, of his autobiography, “The
Paper Chase” (Angus & Robertson),
published this week. William Dargie’s
drawing of Hal Porter is reproduced
by courtesy of “The London Magazine.”
and the picotees which have followed
the family, sentimental cutting by cut-
ting, from her country garden. She has
being in the chipped petals of a white
china rose she loved, in an appalling
supper-cloth she crocheted, in a Cacao
Grootes tin still filled with her blouse-
buttons —carved mother-of-pearl, jet,
cat’s-eye agate, in a silver teapot in-
herited from her inheriting, in blankets
she bought as a young wife over half
a century ago and which, threadbare,
with faded stripes top and bottom, now
lie folded beneath the mattresses of
grandchildren she never knew.
Ah, Mother, up to your tricks, vital,
inexorcisable ghost! As all women are,
you are born solitary. You must, as
each woman does, mulct a man of his
identity. You must, as a mother does,
use the subtlest temptations to mulct a
son of his identity. A writer son, a
marked man, needs particularly to brush
aside these temptations. He must round
on himself, and bare his unlovable
strengths to the bone with the insolence
of one baring lovable weakness. He
must say with finality, “Listen, you
there, woman . . . Mother ... it was a
short and merciless happiness, given
merely to be taken away. Gifts from
heaven are also gifts from hell. Be
comforted, Mother. Be comforted,


FLORSHEIM... cut exclusively from
the world’s finest leathers
Calf:..
from the heart of the hide
DREW
Calf from Europe is the most magnificent leather in the
world for a quality shoe. The cattle live under shelter in
winter and under mild skies in summer. This produces the
softest, smoothest skins.
Florsheim select only the choicest calf for its fineness of
texture, richness and depth of colour, softness of feel.
Enjoy the beauty and supple comfort of Florsheim im-
ported calf, crafted in a wide range of handsome styles.
In Black, Perfecto Brown, Academy and Cordova from
$17.95.
FLORSHEIM
7
FLORSHEIM
AMERICA'S STANDARD OF FINE SHOE VALUE


r T"i
* / i
7
I
\ l
Vv
( I
v I
I : 1
XPELAIR COOKER HOOD
stops cooking smrils
right where they start >
A'fe
f
Install an Xpelair Cooker Hood, right over your
stove. And you banish cooking odours, hot
greasy air from your house forever.
This smart new appliance does a real air-cleaning
job, quietly and efficiently.
Every vestige of fumes and grease is removed,
leaving only cleaned, purified air to be re-
circulated . . . with never a trace of odour. If
you prefer, the Cooker Hood is easily adjusted
to exhaust out into the open air.
Xpelair is smart, practi-
cal, functional; blends
smoothly with any decor.
And costs practically
nothing to run. It is
easily installed in your
present kitchen.
And, if you’re building,
make Xpelair Cooker
Hood an essential part
of your plans.
See Xpelair today at
leading electrical retail-
ers, or for full details
contact
I 111
7771
s.s.c.
G.E.C. (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 1594, Sydney. Telephone 2-0277
GEC2O44
immortal. Nature is, after all, not so
much cruel as not kind. Now, now, I
must try to avoid whatever repugnant
Utopia you might have wished lovingly
or with maternal zeal on your, first-born,
and defend my right to suffer or not to
suffer. Let me find out for myself if I
shall come to regret a desire not to
live better and better but only to live
more and more.”
Goodbye, immortal.
Goodbye, Mother.
Eternity will go on behind your back.
Already, 1929, April, May, June,
July, December, it goes on. Compulsory
military training which began in the
year you bore me is abolished in the
year it should begin to affect me. The
tumbrils of the Depression are now
audible. Words you’ve never heard are
beginning to be heard: cellophane, gaga,
beau geste, babbittry, Grand Guignol,
mentalism, scanties, super ego, heebie-
jeebies, proletarianisation, sexy, tommy-
gun, mike, and penicillin.
It is, then, 1929.
I return from my first devastating yet
exhilarating foray with doom, with
unaesthetic death; I walk out of the
fairytale forest, Hamletishly “sable-
garbed” and consciously “doleful of
mien,” to my job as a Junior Teacher at
State School 1409, North Williamstown.
QN a plane above the sorrow I seem
to feel, I counterfeit, when I don’t
forget, an additional public sorrow.
Now, all these years later, when my
past is already decades longer than
my future, it is amusing though dis-
comforting to recall how impressive,
then, my bad manners are. I take to
smoking Sobranie cigarettes —black
ones. I buy boxes of black-bordered,
hand-made writing-paper at the final
sale of Cole’s Book Arcade. How worn
the wooden floors of this place I loved
as a child, how dim the aspiring
columns of brass, how forlorn the iron-
rimmed risers of the stairways and
the echoing emptying galleries! It takes
years to use up this mournful hoard:
startled acquaintances of the nineteen-
forties are the final victims of the bar-
gain. It takes a far shorter period for
me to put myself out of mourning,
Sobranies and all, public and private.
Off with the black! On with the mot-
ley!
I remain at State School 1409 until
1937, and moreover remain as a
Junior Teacher. Without tiresome re-
search it is not possible to state if this
stationary decade, from 1927 to 1937,
as a Junior Teacher, ten years de-
liberately on the lower rungs of a
ladder easy to climb, is not some sort
of grotesque record. It may well be,
and almost certainly is. It does indi-
cate my dearth of material ambition.
At the end of ten years of energetic
work I am earning about £2' a week.
Do I care? No. Do I think of Rolls-
Royces, castles in Spain, a harem of
Clara Bows and Colleen Moores, a
Tahiti of my own? No and no and no
and no. This decade of apparent


How do you hold a board meeting
41,000 feet above New York City?
■i
High over New York City an HS 125, built by Hawker Siddeley Aviation,
cruises at 500 m.p.h. This is one of over 100 HS 125 twin-engined business
jets sold throughout the world-including over 60 in the U.S.A. and Canada.
Hawker Siddeley know how.
Hawker Siddeley know about airborne boardrooms.
They build them. Call them HS 125 twin-engined
business jets. Sell them right around the world.
The HS 125 is just one aircraft in the Hawker
Siddeley line. And aviation is just one of the tech-
nological fields in which this world-size industrial
group is active.
Look around you.
Hawker Siddeley products go down on the farm —
haul trains—steer and power ships—probe space—
build and equip power stations—roll roads—store
heat—transform electricity—pack food —fuel aircraft.
And maintain a daily turnover of over $A2| million.
The HS 125 is part of this turnover, but only
part. That’s what makes Hawker Siddeley a group.
With group power.
iCcHAWKER
SIDDELEY
18 ST. JAMES’S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I.
Represented in Australia by: Aviation: Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty.
Ltd., Lidcombe, New South Wales. Industrial: Hawker Siddeley Brush Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, Victoria.
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service


' |§ ; '
A
\>
Fresh as a daisy ...
Freshness is Frigrite’s stock-in-trade. In
air-conditioning, in refrigeration. Beer
chilling equipment, ice-makers, cool rooms.
Frigrite DGM keeps the land fresh, too,
with new irrigation and spray techniques.
And Frigrite is full of fresh ideas for the
future.
CREATING THE CLIMATE FOR PROGRESS
YOUR
VOICE
IS IN
WHEN YOU
ARE OUT
IF YOU HAVE AN
L M ERICSSON
TELEPHONE ANSWERER
For Complete Information Contact-.
Wm&
as sSofl
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
134 BARCOM AVE . RUSHCUTTFRS BAY. PHONE 31 0941
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
CLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
marking-time also indicates a lack of
domestic ambition or, maybe, since
fear and sex are so closely handcuffed
together, it indicates fearlessness.
Wife? Children? Backyard with lemon-
tree, Congoleum square, Royal Doulton
figurine, Genoa velvet three-piece
suite, ice-chest, wireless set, electro-
plated rose bowl? The opportunity till
death do us part to wound and re-,
wound, to be wounded and re-wounded
by the weapons of devotion? Decidedly
no. Why flee from freedom? Better to
be imprisoned in freedom than to be
free in jail. Wife, children, roof-over-
heads, Iceland poppy plot, and pea
soup on the gas-ring seem the threads
that could enmesh Gulliver on Lilliput.
Or, to be fair to all, a Lilliputian in
Gulliver Land.
Anyway, with no one to egg me
on, and lacking at least two of the
multiplicity of ambitions which could
jolt me into starting from cover, I
remain at State School 1409. I
chaperon myself pretty competently
most of the time, and keep myself
alive ‘ and lively by a nickel-plated
belief in myself. I am sustained also
by my love for and fascination with
the school and with Williamstown. The
microscopic uselessness of everything I
do in those years is no more than the
microscopic uselessness of what every-
one does.
JN writing of Williamstown during the
19305, and of the Depression, one re-
quires of oneself no more than to com-
mit an act of lucidity, and of lucidity
that is limited by one’s own nature,
one’s own shortsightedness, one’s own
conviction that, while a form of com-
passion is seemly, life is too short for
the exercise of outright pity or un-
pruned tolerance. One must, as well,
not philippise nor concoct emotions
and “thoughts” that a dedicatedly
omnivorous and intelligent but never-
theless ill-informed Jack-o’-Lantern of
a frat cannot possibly have had. After
all, in those years, there is never a
toneless day, never a filleted evening,
and my line is empty - headed
gaiety, chatterbox shallowness with one
eyebrow—the left, of course —raised
like Lew Cody’s. This is the exhibition
part. Alone, I am without a thought.
This makes for happiness. About the
evaluation of happiness I feel more
competent and confident than about
an assessment of agony. Happiness has
been practised for years. As a writer
it occurs to me, right here and now
in the country kitchen where this is
being written, the wood-stove vibrating
with heat, two cats folded into identical
designs of peace on the hearth-rug, that
nothing can be more tragic than the
life of a man who has condemned him-
self to the solitary confinement of
happiness, contentedness.
It is from this cell that I look out on
the Depression. As though through a
pane dazzlingly lit, and on which my
own all-too-important reflection fuses


r
f m
■w
m
m
I
m
All airlines have pilots. So why be so proud of ours? Because we know them
right from their very first plane ride. Where other airlines buy pilots,
we train them. From scratch. Even though it takes seven of our 56 plane fleet
to do it. And puts our senior captains into the instructor's seat.
And keeps our graduate pilots in the co-pilot’s seat. For a year at least.
And logs each of our captains 10,000 hours or more, before they ever see
the flight deck of a DCB. And still they could be 5,000 hours away
from the controls. Of course, they do make the most experienced flight
engineers, navigators and first officers in the business, which is what
we are after. Exactly. But perhaps you think we're a little extreme.
(Especially if you know how many pilots we lose to other airlines who buy
and don’t train I) But to us it's worth it. Because it gives us an edge.
A little bit extra to offer all along the line. Even if it's up front,
where, maybe, you'll never notice,
AIRMANSHIP
AIRLINE
i
PHILIPPINE AIR UNES
Monday-Thursday movie jetway to all the East
69,177


Turnover
a new leaf
Turn over a new leaf - Benson and Hedges Special
Smoking Mixture. Blended from Latakia, Perique
& other distinctive leaf, it's mild, smooth, aromatic.
For just 79c a tin, this is the right tobacco when
only the best will do. And isn't that all the time?
Benson and Hedges
SPECIAL SMOKING MIXTURE
79c
with the images beyond, I see some of
the effects, some few only, of poverty
on the minute section of time and space
confronting me. Poverty, however rela-
tive, is, I see, a brake. It slows move-
ment. It deadens and mutes. Trios of
ascetic-looking louts too languid to spit
101 l at street corners. Women shoppers
trudge by. The Williamstown beach,
bigger than that at Juan-les-Pins, is
strewn like Juan-les-Pins, on Depression
summer weekdays, with the expensive-
looking, sun-ripened bodies of sussoes—
young Adonises on unemployment relief.
Prone and moveless, they have laid
themselves out like pumas or corpses
across the castor-sugar sand, by the lisp-
ing silky sea. Impossible for me, the
poor employed scurrying in shabby
clothes toward work in sunless rooms,
to read their rich unemployed minds.
What goes on behind their blissfully
closed eyelids and calm Hindu-brown
foreheads and sun-bleached forelocks?
Has the sun, day after day, dried up
the fluid of emotion? Are their minds
breathing or holding breath? They
themselves breathe, no more than
that. For the rest they do not agitate
one single artist’s-model muscle. Other
sussoes, who have worn mud and lice
and terror for God, King, and Country,
for England, Home, and Beauty, do
move. They trail the streets with
blighted suitcases, and plead with bright
desperation and grinning fatigue at the
suburb’s front doors, offering for sale
strange tin-openers and apple-corers,
strange insurance policies, strange hair-
crimping devices, home-made toffees,
gaudy soaps, reeking of jasmine, ylang-
ylang and otto of roses, paintings of
camels sneering on dunes, toys of Cro-
Magnon crudity soldered from kerosine-
tins and jam-tins, or carpentered from
the wood of packing-cases. Un-fisher-
men lean, attempting to fish, against the
bollards of piers and wharves.
WOMEN of all ages wear cheap
berets. Men begin to take shame-
lessly to hatlessness. Notices, discreet as
pain but adamant, and childishly let-
tered on boot-box lids or the backs of
writing-pads, appear between the lace
curtains and the front windowpanes
BOARD & LODGING: SINGLE
ROOM to LET; ACCOMMODATION
for RESPECTABLE LADY (Protes-
tant); DRESSMAKING; KNITTING
for INFANTS; LAUNDRY TAKEN
IN (Dress Shirts). Do anything, say the
advertisements in the newspapers. Do
anything; go anywhere. The pawnshop
windows become more and more
crammed with gravy boats, tan riding-
boots, silver-topped walking-sticks,
goblets made of carved emu eggs set in
German silver, tureens filled with fish
knives and Apostle spoons, amber neck-
laces, Nellie Stewart bangles, wedding
rings and Mother brooches, and banjo-
mandolins that surely, at Jazz Age beach
parties sizzling with mosquitoes and
ill-lit by moonlight, must have been
strummed to the semi-tipsy caterwaul-
ing of “Barney Google,” “Betty Co-Ed,”
“Bye Bye Blackbird,” “All Alone,” and
“Me and My Shadow.”
Me and my shadow what un-
fitting and diaphanous shadows the
writers of the nineteen-twenites and
early nineteen-thirties cast. At least,
what non-human shadows of authors
fall from the shadowy books I am able
to find in the Williamstown Mechanics’
Institute Library where the Reading
Room is peopled by out-of-work men
wearing fissured patent-leather dancing
pumps, puce Oxford bags on their last
legs, out-at-elbow navy-blue twill coats,
and knitted white silk scarves with
fringes from which some of the teeth
are missing. They sit there vacant and
dazed before the tender young fire in
the art noveau fireplace, reading of
dukes in “The Tatler” or of West End
plays in “The Illustrated London
News,” while their solitude grows more
and more obese, and the lean wind
from the sea roams outside in the
world of the wind, and the diaphanous
and curious shadows float from the
books on the shelves übiquitous
Pan, Pan and satyrs and nymphs and


THE BEST THINGS IN LIFE...
—while not exactly free, are
often remarkably inexpensive.
r "y
*
V 3
msm
A case in point is the superbly engineered, immaculately appointed Humber Super Snipe.
Styling that reflects good taste, comfort that savours limousine luxury and performance
that smoothly glides through traffic and serenely takes to high speed cruising. Surely,
one of the best things in life, to be enjoyed by the successful man. $4298 (£2149) tax paid.
Humber
"■ SERIES V
SUPER SNIPE
FULLY AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION
POWER-ASSISTED DISC BRAKES
Now backed by 12-12 warranty
for your protection
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
Humber
VOGUE SERIES 111
Family car, sports car or luxury saloon, in every way, the series 111
Vogue is a Humber. Manual transmission - $2478 (£1239) tax paid.
Let your Dealer show you ALL the Humber features. It will take a little time.


Is it worth
maturing
Mount Rufus
Tawny Port*
for 15 years?
We’re sure you’ll
agree it is...
Seppelt Mount
Rufus Tawny Port
is a smooth
mellow port... aged
in big wood at
Seppeltsfield in the
Barossa Valley.
Winner of a Diploma d’ Honneur at
the Montpellier Wine Fair in
France in 1965.
B. Seppelt & Sons Pty. Ltd.
Adelaide • Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Perth
C 556
s ly, sidelong, lustless lust; pierrots and
harlequins and columbines tripping
under honey-colored moons; Blind
Raftery; Douglas Fairbanks pirates;
silver shoon; perukes and pomades;
elegant highwaymen with Valenciennes
ruffles (Stap me! and La, sir!); slender
gipsyish women with long green eyes,
arched insteps, husky voices, and secret
slanting smiles. There seems a whiff
of inferior incense or scented snuff in
the middle air between the chestnut-
glossy linoleum and the untouchable
upper shelves of calf-bound Dickens,
Scott, Thackeray, Mark Twain, Ouida,
uncountable biographies of David
Livingstone, and books on South Sea
Island cannibals written by portly
Anglican bishops with eyes like onyx
whose frontispiece, steel-engraved por-
traits are veiled in tissue-paper.
as I seek among the
cheaply scented and shadowy
James Branch Cabell, Donn Byrne, Jef-
frey Farnol, Rafael Sabatini, Georgette
Heyer, Marjorie Bowen, Eleanor Mer-
cein for Henry James or a Vicente
Blasco Ibanez I haven’t read (I
am getting too old for Guy de Maupas-
sant and Constance Garnett’s Chekhov),
outside, in the indigo twilight smelling
of October lilacs, or the uneasy night
alive with running elm-leaves yellow as
bile, or the night packed to its eaves
with the snoring and odor of sea im-
passioned by late summer, the street-
corner violinist is to be heard execrably
sawing out, as though on the tendons
of his own begging throat and the
strings of hunger, “Roses of Picardy,”
“After the Dawn,” “Little Grey Home
in the West,” and “Till the Sands of
the Desert Grow Cold.”
I remember, really, little unpleasant
about the Depression in Williamstown,
although more than a quarter of its
population is out of work, because I
am not punished enough by it to re-
member: its cat-o’-nine-tails leaves no
mark on my thirty-bob-to-two-quid-a-
week shoulders. I have no wife playing
landlady to a mysterious stranger in
the spare room of her belly. I have
no brood of children clamoring like
billeted troops for fish and chips,
vanilla ice-cream, and kola tonic. I
keep no mistress, greyhound, saxophone,
or motor-bike. It does become necessary
to learn to clean and press my own
trousers, and to try to remember to
walk on the grass plots, which do not
seem to be called nature strips then,
in attempts to save shoe leather. Be-
yond that —almost nothing. I am, how-
ever, persistently half-aware, even in
the most blinding midsummer high
noon, of a touch of twilight some-
where—someone else’s twilight— some-
where; and, even at moment of
absolute cessation, at dawn, say, with
dew-soaked suburban tulips still dead-
asleep on their feet, I feel there is a
bleakish wind blowing—but not for me
■ —somewhere high up, high above a
weakened and narrow-gutted world, a
streaming, ever-blowing, unheard gale
that tears to tatters the unseen banners
of someone’s life, of many lives, and
showers down no fiery petals.
During the day, at school, it is im-
possible not to know that many of my
pupils live on the breadline, it is
impossible not to observe the home-
cobbled shoes, the darned elbows of
boys’ jumpers - heather - mixture
jumpers just too tight and short of
sleeve, the don’t-be-ashamed-of-a-patch
trousers and turned shirt collars, the
chapped patent-leather belts and scrub-
bing-board-dimmed colors of girls’
dresses, their skirts home-made from
some obviously adult material. No one
is, however, not neat; there are speck-
less fingernails and polished shoes; no
one gets emaciated; all are ebullient
and happy-go-lucky, or undetectedly
pretend to be so. There may have been
hand-outs of milk at school—l have no
recollection of them. There are free
exercise books, donated by Williams-
town tradesmen, the “Sun News-
Pictorial,” the Wool Board, and a bis-
cuit manufacturer . . . Ben the Baker
offers a Malvern Star Bicycle— The
Bike that Oppy Rides — as prize for
the best essay on Brockhoff’s Malt Bis-
cuits. Printed on and within the covers
of the exercise books are the suppli-
cations of the tradesmen: a chemist, a
builder, wood and coke merchants, a
ham and beef seller (delicatessens are
ham and beef shops or smallgoods
shops in the nineteen-thirties), a hard-
ware merchant, and a maker of
licorice cigarettes. Parents! says a dis-
creetly conspicuous notice, support the
advertisers who have made this distri-
bution possible.
the early years of my pro-
longed Junior Teacher career I am
still well within earshot of my own
boyhood, and, therefore, learn from
the children I teach nothing that
cannot be disdained as very old hat,
and scarcely any more about children
than that as a mob—and any mob is
a mechanism, a juggernaut capable of
bulldozing itself down—they contain a
quality of danger and a fuel of frenzy.
The many teachers I work side by side
with during my ten years at this State
school are, most of them, adequately
equipped to smother the danger and
transform the frenzy. The equipment
is the diamond-cut-diamond one of
intimating a more dangerous danger
and a more skilled frenzy. In this, each
teacher to his own technique: steel-
lined sweetness, bullocky shoutings,
fishwife screechings, Shakespearian
denunciations, but mainly the iron
control in the velvet manner, the sug-
gestion that just beneath the patient
mask of the Archangel Gabriel are the
lineaments and fangs of Attila the Hun.
Since the 1930 s the abandonment by
those in authority of this Attila quality
is something that seems to one of my
generation and training not only an
irresponsible giving-away of the tribal
rights of adulthood and the powers due
to experience but a gesture of great
impropriety and greater danger. Chil-


#He thinks
he’s royalty
when
he fills up
with
powerful one/#
H
I
i m
A .
i
j
n
/
w
ft
H
O'
M
S
r.P
%
'*w
a
FLEEC
SSS
P»
?C
:
1
ipjill,;. •
m
ft
&• ’
m
lets GO GOLDEXFLEECE *™e
•.. the powerful one!


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER'S NOTEBOOK
“The ONE wager
I was happy to lose”
T like my food. Considered quite a
1 gourmet, in fact. Yet, frankly, the
menu on the Queen Elizabeth staggered
me. But what impressed me most was
this message that appears on the First
Class menu. It reads: “The Chef invites
you to give him an opportunity to pre-
pare your favourite dish —whether it be
a speciality of American, European or
Eastern Cuisine. He merely asks that
you give the head waiter sufficient notice
to enable your order to be prepared to
perfection.” I bet my friends he couldn’t
come up with Tagliatelle a la Paesana.
He did! I lost my bet. And the Chef
became a friend for life when I offered
my unstinted compliments.
- wt
TALKING of food. At mealtime on
1 the Cunard Queens, you choose from
a menu which is the equivalent of the
combined menus of forty leading res*
taurants on land . . . There are more
than a dozen bars on each of the Queens.
You can choose from forty brands of
whisky. The wine list is the largest
afloat. And you can celebrate with any
one of 21 kinds of vintage champagne.
r THE Cunard Queens Queen
* Elizabeth and Queen Mary were
built to provide the ultimate in comfort.
They are not just a means of transport.
They are express liners in the great
tradition of British seafaring.
THE "Queen Mary" carries 200,000
pieces of crockery and 100,000
items of tableware and the refrlgera*
tion plant would meet the needs of
15,000 average homes.
... Getting there is half the fun.
CUNARD
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT
dren, being born lawless, cannot make
themselves law-abiding. In London,
in 1965, I see with distaste and con-
tempt something of what happens when
archangelic tolerance gets out of hand.
In these days of England’s decadence,
when sections of London are also out
of hand, there infests Trafalgar Square,
side by side with the tourists and
pigeons, a horde of barefooted minors,
male and female, in a sexless uniform
of duffle coat and skin-tight trousers.
They infest also the railed-in concrete
island surrounding the Eros statue in
Piccadilly Circus. The males wear
earrings; their clotted hair hangs to
their shoulders; the backs of their hands
are tattooed; each finger, and some-
times each thumb, has its Woolworth
ring. In London one becomes used
to such people as the Duke of Well-
ington’s ex-son-in-law earbashing one
in an upper-crust accent about what
he obviously feels is the Australian
perversion of cleanliness, one becomes
used to the unwashed Englishman, to
the smell of feet and armpits and
rancid hair-oil in the Underground,
and learns to accept physical scruffiness
as being as English as eccentrics, tepid
beer, spring greens, bad manners, hard
water, overlong twilights, vapid beef,
public love-making in Hyde Park, and
a general cynicism of almost Gallic
size. The Eros Islanders, however,
the London young in their elderless
tribes, out-English the dirty English,
and are —surely, if one omit the Pari-
sian clochard and the Eskimo? —the
world’s filthiest and smelliest bipeds.
J WATCH from Swan and Edgar’s
corner, with the sense of watching
a nightmare. Why are they not called
to heel? Who is to call them to heel?
The cynical and bewildered adults trot-
ting cinem,a-wards up from the bowels
of the earth into Shaftesbury Avenue?
The Queen? The Archbishop of Canter-
bury? The Coldstream Guards? A posse
of warders from Hollpway Prison? The
two neat London bobbies posed a yard
away from me and the plate-glass of
Swan and Edgar’s? Standing there, I
think—and it breaks the nightmare —
of how this lawlessness might have
aroused to disciplinary action people
Hot thought of for years: Mr. Goulding,
of Grade Eight, State School 1409,
Miss Graham, of Grade Six, Miss
Glew, of Grade Five, Miss Benson, of
Grade Four, and Madam, the Head-
mistress of the Infant School.
The headmistress is Miss Margaret
Lindsay, but junior teachers, bleeding
from the knout of her tongue with its
barbs of chaste logic, call her Madam
—such is the grandeur of her style
they cannot call her anything less.
She is a tartar: were she ever to say,
“A little bird told me!” one would
know the bird a vulture. Madam wears
most often a patently expensive tailor-
made costume of barathea-like cloth
on the left lapel of which hangs a
cloisonne watch, gunmetal-grey silk
stockings on her aging elegant legs,
kid shoes embellished with oval
buckles of cut steel, and a sapphire-
and-diamond dress ring of almost
Rajput gorgeousness. Her pompadour,
long before the era of lacquer, sustains
itself in steep mathematically disposed
ridges, and is apparently an arrange-
ment of platinum and pewter no toma-
hawk can dent, and no exercise in
violence disturb a hair of. An in-
dubitable lady with a voice like a cut-
lass, Madam has no gentilities, and is
incapable of embarrassing herself. I
see her, once, under the sweetness-
and-light gaze of the Merrie England
inhabitants of Margaret Tarrant pic-
tures, pursue an eight-year-old vandal
and rebel around the Kindergarten’s
assembly hall, and catch him by the
upright Bechstein as an old vixen
catches a gosling, as fate and the law
must catch the sinful and stupid. In less
symbolic a manner this spinster of over
fifty pursues her staff of younger spin-
sters until their imperfections become
exhausted and their blackboards perfect
meticulously arranged multiplication
tables, copperplate sentences in colored
chalk ... The cat sat on the mat. A fish
is on a dish . . . and polychromatic
friezes of illustrations to nursery rhymes
and fairy stories. Madam, and each of
us lesser teachers, believe that children
can be taught to control themselves
and material. None of us believes, in
those days, before Jewish-Mittel-
European and “progressive” American
notions of child education hit Australia,
that education is fun-fun-fun and
sugar-and-spice, or that a splodge of
poster paint on a piece of butcher’s
paper is anything more than a splodge.
(“And what is that, dear? An ele-
phant? An umbrella? Little Miss
Muffet? Oh, it’s your Uncle Albie
drinking a glass of tomato juice. Very
good, dear.”) Even though some of
the less courageous teachers pretend
to rave about Van Gogh’s “Sunflowers”
there is still enough courage remaining
for them to mock the suggestion that
an aimless swirl made by childish
fingers dripping with colored goo is
Art, or training for anything except
swiping soiled fingers across clean sur-
faces.
From Madam and the older teachers
worked with during my suburban State
school decade, I learn many tricks of
the trade. I also learn much from
them as human beings, reluctantly
absorbing medicinal lessons in kindli-
ness, honesty, courage, forbearance,
and humility. Piecemeal, I acquire a
little of the much I lack. I pick the
pockets of those who have hard-earned
a handful of wisdom or a shillings-
worth of nobility. On the other hand
I steer clear in myself of weaknesses,
coarsenesses, and gaucheries observed
in others.
The Headmaster, Percival J. Green,
despite ,the fact that he is, as I am,
a Gippslander, is a man I nearly
respect yet do not wholly admire. I
am offhandedly fond of him as one is
of a big cuddly toy. This is largely,
perhaps, because he seems to have


Offer to Purchase
Australian Edible
Vegetable Oil Seed
Crops 1966/67
Recent numerous public statements suggest that Australian Edible
Vegetable Oil-seed growers will have part or whole of their
crops unsold during 1966/67.
Vegetable Oils Pty. Limited will purchase from 1966/67 crops, at
current market prices, terms and conditions, ANY ALLEGED
REPEAT, ALLEGED-EDIBLE VEGETABLE OIL-SEED SURPLUSES
ARISING FROM SO-CALLED “EXPLOSIVE” OR “DYNAMIC”
GROWTH OF AUSTRALIAN PEANUT, COTTONSEED AND
SAFFLOWER SEED CROPS.
GROWERS INTERESTED IN DISPOSING OF PART OR WHOLE
OF THEIR CROPS OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED OIL-SEEDS,
PLEASE CONTACT:
VEGETABLE OILS
Pty. Limited
514-518 Gardener’s Road
Mascot. • . N.S.W.
120 Handford Road
. . Q’LD.
31-45 Sunshine Road
Footscray . . • VIC.


“Freedom and Whisky gang
thegither!"
(Robert Bums)
Feel free to insist, at all times, upon
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
taken a shine to me, the least tractable
and most wilful member of the staff.
Every Friday, mid-morning, class
after class, all following the school brass
band playing “Colonel Bogey,” the
school marches round and round and
round, over the cindery ground, past
the peppercorn trees, past the boy&’
lavatory, past the shelter sheds and
the drinking-taps, round and round
again and again until with an imperial
gesture P.J.G. waves an enormous
handkerchief. The band expires. The
school halts. In the silence he
announces with the voice of God’s own
major-domo the name of the most
soldierly class.
P.J.G. appears at the window in the
door of my classroom, his expression
both wistful and despotic, and beckons
with a stubby finger. When I open
the door he whispers, in a manner
adroitly pitched between plea and com-
mand, “Come and talk to me, Laddie.”
I put the class on their honor to
behave well. This means, God help
you Young Turks if I hear you. Skilled
in the diplomacy of behaving honor-
ably, they misbehave with the stealth
of dingoes. Meantime, I undergo a
weekly experience which is perpetually
interest, partly because P.J.G. means
“Come and listen to me, Laddie. I’m
tired and alone,” partly because he
calls me —on Friday afternoons only,
and a sheer accident—by my child-
hood pet name, partly because I sit,
a decorous stooge with permission to
smoke, on an arse-mortifying Public
Works Department chair while he lies
on the floor beneath a Public Works
Department table, his head on a
cretonne-encased cushion of superior
grubbiness which rests on a cartridge
box, eating peanuts, and talking. What
these years of monologues are about
is largely beyond recall, though it is
recallable that the monologues are not
always fresh, that any one Friday’s
soliloquy can be any other Friday’s
rechauffe. There are certainly long
analyses of his two favorite books,
“Origin of Species” and “The Martyr-
dom of Man,” and affectionate
reminiscences of his favorite school-
master Spielvogel. He presents me also,
from under the office table, as from
under a nabob’s palanquin, with his
own schoolmasterly trinkets of wisdom.
Of these I retain but few:
Never keep in one girl only after
school.
If a message is to be run, send one
boy only, because one boy is one boy,
two boys are half a boy, three boys are
no boy at all.
A teacher has to repeat and repeat
and repeat until repetition becomes an
absurdity —and then repeat again.
A man who stands on his dignity
is standing on a balloon.
Not once does he offer a peanut.
Any minute, the bell will tinnily ring,
and all hell will be let loose. The mob
will flee toward Saturday and games.
Already, in the 19305, many of the
games of my childhood have become
as unfashionable as jazz garters, meers-
chaums, sunbonnets, ludo, and trilbies.
The Depression children of seaside and
dockland Williamstown no longer totter
on stilts, or play tip-cat or spin tops or
bowl hoops. The streets are no more
to be picked over for gilt-and-vermilion
cigar-bands; cigarettes are not accom-
panied by silk-covered cigarette cards.
Skipping is still mildly modish, and
jacks are still dyed with C'ondy’s
Crystals, but marbles are no longer the
gem-like spheres of my time, and the
game is less elaborate, less fervent,
an agateless and colorless match fought
out with the grey-green glass stoppers
of lemonade bottles.
PJ G. with his peanuts and point-
to-point stick and his maxims (Good,
better, best; never let it rest, until
your good is better, and your better
best) is a shrewder and much more
powerful headmaster than his fatherly
exposure of himself as an eccentric
windbag suggests. Even now I don’t
care to turn any of his maxims on its
back. State School 1409 runs like a
souped-up Daimler, and the showiest
of the staff “personalities,” even
Madam, who transmogrifies herself
into a gracious and charming Grande
Dame in his presence, are well under
his blunt thumb.
For some of the older men on the
staff, returned men from the Great
War one is actually a steak-faced,
pot-bellied colonel with hands like
Mona Lisa—l insist on myself having
just sufficient respect as a fprm of
gratitude for not having to goosestep,
eat frankfurters boiled in pilsener, or
salute the German flag. I do not, per-
versely, let this unfair minimum of
respect show even a whisker, nor do
I reveal that my deepest feeling about
them is one of masculine timidity.
They are the veterans of the tribe,
the old-stagers and warriors, scarred not
only by actual woundings of lung and
limb but also by experiences I have
not had and cannot imagine. A num-
ber of the elements of their maleness
have been, at Ypres or Cairo or
Villiers-Bretonneux, welded into a
design that must differ from the un-
welded elements of maleness in my
nature. They and the dead who
steamed away in puttees and dashing
khaki hats to the tune of “Goodbye,
Melbourne Town” make the fence
behind which I and my generation
put down roots in bloodless soil, and
put out young leaves in an air free
of mustard gas and dum-dum bullets
and foreign notions. They could justi-
fiably be sickened by the knowledge
that a flibbertigibbet whippersnapper
too wily to display respect or timidity
is one of the creatures they ate skilly
for, killed other men for, and laid
themselves open to the inconveni-
ences of trench feet, shellshock, limb-
lessness, Egyptian or French gon-
norhoea, and the risk of unbelievable
death. They disquiet me because I
am jealous of their knowledge, because
there is perceivable in the depths of
their eyes—which can see children
playing with yo-yos, and men of my
age playing miniature golf, puffing at
gold-tipped cigarettes, and wearing
silk socks—the damped-down lights
of appalling yesterdays in shattered
landscapes drenched bv cloudbursts of
metal and flame.
Until I understand more, I am
apprehensive of them because they mock
what seems to me their own courage by
monosyllables of obliquity, by changing
the subject, by outright silence. They
m ay drink their tea like horses, hold
knives and forks like fountain pens,
and belch as publicly as babies, but in
the matter of war their manners are
flawless, their reticence masterly. Be-
cause I’m a blabbermouth at this stage,
reticence disturbs me. This is my first
inkling of what is now a conviction
nothing can shake; in situations involv-
ing the sensibilities and sensitivities of
others, Australian men are the best-
mannered men in the world: oafs may-
be, gentlemen indubitably.


Send a gift of Australia’s Choicest
vintages to friends overseas.
The House of
m;uiiLLmm
can arrange delivery of a selection of its wines
to any address in the United Kingdom.
(England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland)
Closing date for delivery before Christmas, 23rd November. Minimum order, 6 bottles assorted.
PRODUCT
Sparkling Chateau-Gay
Mount Pleasant Vintage
Anne Riesling
Mount Pleasant Vintage
Riesling
Mount Pleasant Vintage
Sauternes
Mount Pleasant Vintage
Hermitage
PRODUCT
Mount Pleasant Vintage
Pinot Hermitage
Lovedale Riesling
Rosedale Claret
Dry Friar Sherry
Cream Sherry
Golden Sweet Sherry
Semi-Sweet Sherry
Rich Ruby Port
PRICE PER
BOTTLE QUANTITY
All prices quoted are in Australian currency and include import duties, packing and delivery charges.
Minimum 6 bottles to one address carried free.
Please indicate the quantity required in the squares provided
and post to McWilliam's Wines Pty. Limited, Box 1, P. 0.,
Pyrmont, N.S.W., enclosing cheque, postal order, money order, full
address of sender and recipient and message of Greeting if required.


LOOK
A HANDS FREE TELEPHONE
L M ERICSSON'S
mm
(Silcovcx^
LOUDSPEAKING TELEPHONE IS PMG APPROVED
FOR A DEMONSTRATION CONTACT:
mi
m
%
{ M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
134 BARCOM AVE . RUSHCUTTE RS BAY. PHONE 31 0941
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
Now
available at
leading
bookstores
62nd. issue of
AUSTRALIA TODAY
THE NATIONAL ANNUAL
Dramatic full colour photographs.
Articles on Australia by
Kenneth Slessor, Osmar White,
Phillip Law, Harold Pollock, Michael Sharland,
Ken Knox and George Farwell.
PRICE: $1
Send copies to your friends and business
associates here and overseas.
6578
ON THE MARGIN
The Street Where You Live
A LADY involved in some recent
court proceedings was described
in Press reports as “Mrs. , 34,
of the Wagga camping area.” As a
collector of addresses, I found this a
particularly attractive specimen. Its
charm lies in its total lack of preten-
tiousness.
In the status grading of Australian
rural addresses, the highest level con-
sists of the name of a pastoral property,
plus a small town. Example: Mrs. Nor-
man Fotheringay, of Bunglebumblong,
Coonamble. An address inside a coun-
try town, like 13 Station St., Junee, is
undistinguished but sound. It leaves
open the possibility that the person con-
cerned may own a piece of real estate,
to wit, 13 Station St. But the Wagga
camping area, as an address, defiantly
disclaims all propery rights. It has a
touch of wild, nomadic freedom about
it, while at the same time avoiding the
sinister overtones of “no fixed address.”
Occasionally addresses claim atten-
tion by reason of their oddity or appro-
priateness. I once knew a philosophy
student who lived in Logic Lane.
Oxford. I have seen a report by a
cadet journalist giving a man’s address
as Nothrough Road, Marrickville.
There are addresses with a poignant,
so-near-and-yet-so-far character, like
8 Downing Street and 75 Sunset Strip.
But the abiding interest of addresses
derives from their social implications,
their Proustian gradations of prestige.
rpHE system of classifying people by
this means had its ultimate codifica-
tion, one need hardly say, in London.
I use the past tense because I have not
been there lately and they say distinc-
tions are now more confused. When
I knew the city, one’s place in the
scheme of things was determined by
a postal district number. An ineffable
glow suffused the magical designations
W.l, which connoted clubmen and
actresses, and S.W.I, where earls’
daughters walked their dogs.
Generally, but not always, the higher
the number on a London address, the
lower the rating. During a period of
financial difficulty I lived on baked
beans in W. 14.
It took me a while to get my bear-
ings in New York, because I did not
know that (in reversal of the London
arrangement) the East side was smart
and the West was not; also that glamor
or the lack of it was signified by the
numbers of the streets, with the mid-
town ones ranking highest.
When Alwyn and Essie Lee invited
me to stay with them in East 51st
Street, I was not at first aware that this
rather drab-looking neighborhood was
in fact very desirable. It was not until
my hostess assured me an extremely
chic murder had just been committed
next door—in which a beautiful heir-
ess, who customarily visited restaurants
attired in nothing but a mink coat, had
been battered to death by her homo-
sexual husband with a Second Empire
candlestick—that I realised I was in
the heart of fashionable New York.
In Australian cities the standing of
an address depends mainly on the
suburb. This is traditionally a cause
of heartburning to those who live close
to the beaux quartiers but on the
wrong side of the border. In the Mel-
bourne of my youth, where such dis-
tinctions were observed with exquisite
care, dwellers in the limbo of Prahran
looked enviously toward the Elysian
fields of T'oorak. An advantage of
address connoisseurship is that it enables
one to read with more appreciation the
notices of engagements and marriages.
These are richly studded with addresses
that may convey dramatic information
or raise interesting questions.
As an exercise for the reader I offer
this notice, which I have not yet seen
but would like to see: “The engage-
ment is announced of Dulcie, elder
daughter of Mr. W. Nemo, of the
People’s Palace, Pitt St., Sydney, and
of the Hon. Mrs. William Dough-
Fortescue, of Park Lane, London W.l;
and Leslie, only son of Mr. James
Comeback, of Wombomblebah, Denili-
quin, and of Mrs. Ted McGoon, of the
Wagga camping area.”
ROSS CAMPBELL


I
■
mm
-
-.V


■
IBM has the ability
Meet IBM’s
Specialist Team*
on Government
Systems
When you install an IBM system
there’s no waste time with experi-
mental trial-and-error processes. In
your field of activity other organi-
sations have accomplished the
changeover to IBM Data Processing.
Their experiences have been the
special study of one of IBM’s
Specialist Groups. The function of j
these Groups is to concentrate on
the specific needs and methods to
be used in fields like Insurance,
Banking, Airlines and Government.
These men working as a team, are
ideally suited to guide your com-
pany’s staff through the transition
period and beyond. They assist you
to bring your IBM installation to its
fullest capacity in the shortest time
with the least dislocation to your
normal work process.
sf< These men have spent years becoming
Specialists in the fields they serve. They include
Systems Engineers to tailor a system to your
exact needs . . . Programming Specialists to find
new ways to get you the right kind of information
when you need it. And Customer Education
Specialists who arrange classes at our education
centres (for everyone from the Chairman of your
Board to key-punch operators).
IBM


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Melbourne to Montreal
By NOEL HAWKEN
James Maccormick’s Australian pavilion-“basically a floating square box.”
ALL world fairs are international
ego-matches, although to name
winners and placegetters is de
trop. Each exhibitor, like a girl want-
ing to be Miss Universe, displays its
attractiveness and intelligence and
goodness, and hints at the riches
beneath. The Universal and Inter-
national Exposition of 1967 to be held
in Montreal from April to October
next year will be no exception, as the
next great beauty show on the calen-
dar.
Australia is to be there, among about
80 other countries of all sizes and
importances, and is putting three mil-
lion taxpayer dollars into the event.
We have a geometrically square,
but, we believe, not “square,” building
set on a 41,000 sq. ft. allotment on lie
Notre Dame, one of two man-made
islands in the St. Lawrence River.
About 140 ft. along each side, our
pavilion stands about 20ft. high, with
two glass and two solid walls. It was
designed by Mr. A. J. Maccormick,
of the Commonwealth Department of
Works, and its striking feature is the
four great arching wooden “trees,”
which fan out overhead in graceful
dark-ribbed vaulting. What to put in-
side and around this pavilion, and how
this display should be shaped and
colored and ornamented, has been the
responsibility of one Melbourne man,
Mr. Robin Boyd.
He had to work with the building
as given, and that naturally conditioned
his approach. (Not that he is critical of
Maccormick’s work; he admires the
result.)
(Maccormick and his design team
put up several ideas—one was for a
roofline of six separate squares curved
to give something of the sail-form effect
of the whisper Sydney Opera
House.)
As Robin Boyd first studied the
approved pavilion design, he decided,
he told me, that it was clearly a place
that should not be cluttered up with
massed conventional exhibition material,
like a stand at the Royal Melbourne
Show.
The 64 underside ribs of the four
wooden columns are contrasted, in
Boyd’s design, with soft, white woollen
carpet.
“The space is tremendously bright,”
he said, “cheerful, open, floating with
sunlight. Because of this I have kept
displays jewel-like and low.”
In keeping with this approach, the
displays are meant to be' visual ex-
periences rather than exhibits packed
with didactic “information.”
Within this setting, how much and
what of “Australia” should go on show
to interest the Exposition’s visitors, who
can have their pick by day or night
of America’s 200 ft. geodesic dome;
Russia’s offer of the experience of
weightlessness; exotic displays from Asia
and Africa and South America; and
other excitements from Europe and
all over?
ir pHE idea of the Exposition is Man
and His World (warfare apart) with
emphasis on achievement in industry,
art, community development, science,
architecture, use of natural resources,
and so on. From the mass of possible
Australian material Boyd chose four
main fields science, development,
way of life, and the arts.
The eye-catcher of the science sec-
tion is a sft.-high model of the Parkes
radio-telescope. The stand also features
medical research and achievement
(brain, cancer, influenza), and progress
in agricultural research.
The main display of development ex-
plains the Snowy Mountains scheme.
Our “way of life” is shown through
a “beautifully made” model of Can-
berra, depicting “Australian suburbia
at its best” (as Boyd puts it). There
are also many photographs, and with
these a touch of humor has been in-
eluded with satirical and humorous
cartoons (including two by Les Tan-
ner), which convey that we don’t take
ourselves too seriously.
The art section includes a wall dis-.
play of 25 paintings, chosen by Robert
Campbell, director of the Adelaide
gallery. In a photograph of the line-up,
I noticed Drysdale, Tucker, Nolan,
Arthur Boyd, David Boyd, Fred
Williams, and Dobell.
Bark paintings represent the Abori-
gines.
Sculpture is recognised with two
abstract works, in bronze, by Norma
Redpath, which stand outside the
pavilion at the approaches.
Boyd has tactfully omitted himself
from the architecture pictures, which
show modern and colonial buildings
and some Sydney and Melbourne
houses.
To the four displays, wherever
appropriate, movement has been added
for interest models move, photo-
graphs in black-and-white or color
flip over.
As visitors arrive, ascending the
central circling ramp, they see an alu-
minium tree-shape 30ft. tall bearing
about 20 large back-lit color pictures of
Australia by the American photog-
rapher Robert Goodman, who collab-
orated with George Johnston in the
recent successful book “The Austra-
lians.”
Leaving the pavilion, the visitors
come on to a garden with a pit 70ft.
wide that will hold kangaroos and
wallabies. The outside setting is land-
scaped to represent Australian forest
and desert, with Australian trees,
shrubs, and flowers. A show of colored
corals will represent the Barrier Reef.
To return inside: the novel feature
here—an idea of Boyd’s—will be 250
talking chairs, about a quarter of them
talking French.
They are well-upholstered chairs
with backs that curve around and
entice the head to drop back.
As weight comes on to the chair seat,
a tape begins talking (for three to five
minutes only) and the sound comes
quietly but clearly into each ear.
Among the more distinguished voices
are those of Sir Robert Menzies, Googie
Withers, Harry Hopman, Sir Macfar-
lane Burnet, Alan Moorehead, Robert
Helpmann, Morris West, Sir Hudson
Fysh, Sir Bernard Heinze, Rolf Harris,
Harold Holt, Sir Marcus Oliphant, and
Sir Frederick White (of the CSIRO).
Collectively, the tapes in the form
of dialogues with a voice each side
talk about everything under the Aus-
tralian sun. Generally, the chairs will
be placed so that the tapes apply to the
nearest displays.
When the voice has stopped, the
sitter can remain, with his own voice
and thoughts, and hear no more.
The thinking is that the average
visitor will spend about 40 minutes in
the Australian pavilion and test about
a dozen chairs each.
The pavilion itself will be made
from Canadian materials, including
the dark wood for the vaulting.


M|||M
r r • ar v,^.
km*
** J\lW"
.^■itl;!
lillllll 1
■■l
■ ■■
m nml
Wm
X -
:
ii
vr« k i-.t>
HH
ag
as
M H
is
; g i
■
41 "Mn /.->*
IS
.
a*
3
at. m
■
J ’
■
1
L ••••
I
: m 1
fMf ;^jg
Hi
a
: ■ ;
ll' ■:■-
! I ! : ~TS
1
CUA? •
.....
mmmm;
•’ •••
sil
•■ a...
Is your money tied up in old-fashioned warehouses?
.... --"T*-*-
Switch to 600m.p.h. airhouses!
WITH QANTAS AIR CARGO, E.M.I. REDUCED TIED UP CAPITAL... SO DID MINDRILL & C.I.G.
Time lost by products on wharf or water
costs money—higher interest charges,
slower return on capital and possibility
of damage or pilferage. Isn’t air freight
preferable? Mindrill, Australian maker
of heavy industrial drills, switched to
Qantas; got their products overseas and
in operation within hours. Many other
exporters free their money the same way.
Daily Qantas flights speed your products
to any world market within 36 hours!
Air Freight costs less than you think—
Export distribution costs are slashed,
Qantas’ care and security mean lower
insurances rates, packaging costs are
lower and special low rates apply to
regular consignments. For the fpll story
on Qantas Air Cargo savings write to:
The Export Consultant, Qantas Empire
Airways Limited, 70 Hunter St., Sydney.
Qantas, with its Associates, offers you over 150 flights a week to and from Australia.
SAVE WITH
/Kill CARGO
46 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, with AIR INDIA, AIR NEW ZEALAND, 8.0.A.C. and S.A.A.
A 76.97.116


Adult Education Board of Tasmania
SUMMER SCHOOL
“Asia, Ourselves and the Future”
HOBART JANUARY 12-21
• INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS • DRAMA
• MUSIC APPRECIATION • WRITING • ART
Guest Lecturers will include Sir Alan Watt, lan Mudie and
Harold Lang (Macbeth In Camera).
Residential Accommodation Hytten Hall, University of Tasmania.
All inclusive fee $6O
Write for a brochure:
The Director of Adult Education,
G.P.0., Box 912-J, HOBART
Write also for a brochure on our other January school "Historic
Buildings of Tasmania."
The Bulletin Index for 1965 is now
being printed. Copies may be
ordered for $2.35, including postage,
from Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
ART
Robustness and Suavity
Emilio Greco. David Jones’ Art Gallery,
Sydney.
Marea Gazzard. Gallery A, Sydney.
THERE is a most rewarding con-
trast between the formal arti-
ficiality and refined elegance of
Emilio Greco’s bronzes at David Jones’,
sent from Italy, and the rustic sim-
plicity of Marea Gazzard’s pottery,
made from local Chullora clay, at Gal-
lery A. All they have in common is
something missing from most modern
sculpture, apart from Moore’s: the
sense that the outer shapes are- the
result of internal pressures. The hand
that strokes the curves feels the life
This doesht happen with most recent
sculpture, which is either uniformly
painted slabs, girders, and boxes, or
sundered shapes still suffering from
post-war lacerations. The slab-box
sculptors deal in unmarked surfaces as
though sculpture is pure, solidified color
and as though nothing goes on inside the
boxes, discs, and cubes; on the other
hand, the shattered hulks of, for ex-
ample, the earlier Paolozzi are victims
with the inner spirit beaten out.
, . ... .
Its the inner spirit that gives the
suiface a smooth voluptuousness in
Greco and a rough carnality in Gaz-
zard; forces move beneath the silken
thighs and in the worn crusty boulders.
Gazzard works entirely in clay, a basic
material, now rehabilitated from terra-
cotta virtuosity by the appreciation of
pre-Columbian sculpture especially
that of Nayarit with its monumental
treatment of the commonplace.
In ignoring most recent developments,
Greco turns not to primitive lmme-
diacy, but to Renaissance styles and
the tender toughness of bronze; he re-
jects Rosso, Rodin, and anything that
approaches expressionism or pittura
metafisica; and what he borrows from
the Renaissance contrapposto and
figura serpentina —is restrained by his
love of ancient Roman art, especially
the realistic comment of its port-
raiture.
His two portrait heads are excellent.
a bronze head of a man with closed
e V e .?' a . beaked ' 'y‘ d f | - a "' al “ and su;f‘5 u ;f‘
smile is economically and ironically
smooth; another, full of supercilious
assurance, has, in a manner that be-
comes too contrived in his anonymous
beauties, neat features delicately emerg-
ing from the solid, rotund head. Yet
“Moon” of 1961 is the epitome of
modern art’s anonymity: a cluster of
impersonal features on a sphere with
a sweep of hair that’s simply a formal
additive. Some of the heads, which are
not portraits, are, however, more than
formal e * ercase . s - / n Head a
Woman . the hair nses llke clouds f r ul
ot passionate storms; the powerful
mu scularity of neck and shoulders and
the energetic profile recall the vigor,
the civilised animality of a Delacroix,
Greco is best known for standing>
elongated nudes like the “Bather”
(1956), bought by Queensland’s gal-
lery; it’s typical of his liquid contrap-
posto, smooth limbs, slim face, and an
obsession with the way a bikini can
A sculpture by
Greco
make more erotic
the flesh where hip
becomes posterior.
Such nudes, with
their almost im-
perceptibly pulsat-
ing surfaces, are
like voluptuous ath-
letes whose
triumphs are not
won on the fields,
when he leaves the
easy-to - live - with -
grace for a crouch-
ing Earth Mother
or a model leaning
awkwardly back,
the zest and mar-
vellously liquid
articulation of
limbs disappears.
Awkwardness is
a virtue with Marea
Gazzard. Her off-
balance diamond-
shaped pots,
boulder-vases, like
Roc’s eggs with the
tops sliced off, and
helmet-heads are
stained with black
oxides and encrust-
ed with flattened
pellets of clay that set up unobtrusive
surface rhythms and modulate the dull
earthy colors. This nodular surface
movement runs counter to the monu-
mental and clumsy looking shapes, yet
goes quite naturally with the imbalance
of the vases’ shoulders or the off-centre
vertebrae in some of them.
Her love of the primordial solidity
has produced a series of helmet-head
forms, large bulbous ovoid shapes on
short cylindrical necks. They are
anonymous, but enigmatic. The im-
placable pitted surface of some is un-
pierced; others are sliced from edge to
edge with bitter grimaces; some have
scratches like embryonic lips; an im-
patient trepanner has slit one vertically.
The thin, even fragile slits and the
bulky rotundity can induce an un-
ease, but most look like stern and
benign household gods, grouped at each
end of the gallery and observing, like
silent witnesses, human frivolity. They
do recall Moore’s helmets, but, in their
aged look, also his love of wind-and-
water-worn stones; they certainly make
a lot of highly functional pottery seem
trivial.
Called Torsos, Shields, Boulders,
Dials, and Stems, they are enigmatic
effigies one thinks continually of
Easter Island with a rough, urgent
inevitability that Greco’s ladies with
their hedonistic elegance and a touch
of refined decadence would undoubt-
edly, and mistakenly, think uncouth.
All in all, a revealing encounter be-
tween robust roughness and sensuous
suavity.
ELWYN LYNN


now!!!!!!
maximum
security
*J
n..»»1 1 ?»
r . -
>5
s^l,
right at
your
fingertips
WITH
£&o/iwwcC
SPECIAL
KEYING
SYSTEMS
r
.5%.,
Al.
MK-A
A -
M
w
~A4.
A 3
A 5.
MASTER-KEYED SYSTEMS
A Master-Keyed System is one in which each
.lock has its own individual key, which oper-
ates that lock only and no other, but where
each lock is also built to a Master-Key which
will open all locks in the group.
Within a Master-Keyed System, if required,
certain locks may be grouped in a section
Keyed-Alike to a given Service-Key, and still
subject to the Master-Key.
GMK
MK-A
i —-—i 1 r
MK-B ||j MK-C
-”l I 1 »
At. A 2. A 3. 81. 82. 83. Cl. C 2. C 3.
A3.Q Ci. 9
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which
operates that lock only and no other, but the
locks are divided into two or more groups.
Each group is subject to its own Master-Key,
which opens all locks in that group, but no
other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a
Grand Master-Key which opens all locks in
all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike
groups may also be included in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM YOU
NEED CARRY ONLY ONE KEY
INSTEAD OF HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY.
MAXIMUM CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essential pre-
requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade and
Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part of the
building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are held
on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries —enabling quick
replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and allowing absolute
control of additions ,or extensions to the systems.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss Master-
Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty. limited
at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
LOCK UP
WITH
f&c/uoo&cC
N.Z. agents: G. D. LITTLE LTD.
Wellington and Auckland.
New Guinea Agent: CARL F.
RADKE AGENCIES, Port Moresby.
MANUFACTURED jN AUSTRALIA
Ogden Industries
PTY. LIMITED
Melbourne: 569-0611 •
56-3191, 56-3114, 56-3166
• Brisbane: 7-3047 •
4-4098 • Adelaide: 8-2153
23-2214 • Hobart: 3-3141
ceston: 2-1441
by
Sydney:
, 56-3186
Canberra:
• Perth:
• Laun-
Agents also in Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, South Africa, The Rhodesias, Malaysia, The Philippines, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Indonesia.


New wine variety
from Australia
wins Gold Medal
at International
Wine Fair
McWilliam s
Private Bin 56
Lexia has been
awarded a Gold
Medal at the
1966 Inter-
national Wine
Fair held at
Ljubljana,
Yugoslavia.
« «t« «*V*t«4
iiHiimiflui
McWilliam’s Lexia, recently intro-
duced to the Australian market, is a
distinctive, dry white table wine
which could not be exhibited in any
Australian Wine show, because there
was no classification for this new
variety.
McWilliam’s, therefore, entered it
overseas, and are justifiably proud of
receiving a top Gold Medal award.
In the short time it has been available,
this wine has received considerable
acclaim. McWilliam’s Lexia is made
from the grape variety know as Lexia,
and was produced at McWilliam’s
Robinvale Winery in Victoria.
During fermentation the temperature
was maintained below 55° F., and
this has helped to retain in the wine
a very powerful aroma of the grape,
as well as a tremendous volume of
flavour. This light, dry white table
wine is an ideal accompaniment to
most foods, particularly seasoned fish
dishes, white meats and poultry.
Other successes at Ljubljana for
McWilliam’s included Gold Medals
for Cream Sherry; Private Bin 530
Claret; Mount Pleasant Sauterne; Dry
Friar Sherry; Sherry (fruity type);
Muscat; Mount Pleasant Hermitage;
Champagne and Brandy.
nmuiLLißnrs mines
THEATRE
Rock Amid Waves
The Lucky Streak. James Searle. Jane
Street Theatre, Sydney.
“fTIHE development of work in pro-
[_ gress” is the declared aim of the
Jane Street Theatre in its season
of new Australian plays. Viewed in
this way, “The Lucky Streak,” the first
full-length play in the season, has both
interest and promise. The obvious
struggle of the inexperienced playwright
to master a difficult medium has an
interest of its own in an experimental
theatre. The oddly assorted and only
partly assimilated influences of Barry
Humphries and Harold Pinter contri-
bute to the uncertainties of tone and
theme. James Searle seems to have
been unable to decide whether he was
writing farce, satire, or psychological
drama. But, in spite of its gaucheries,
the play has both imagination and
humor.
At the centre of the play, like a rock
amid the waves, is the shy, awkward
Colin, with his transparent honesty and
unshakeable integrity. Dancing around
him, alternately buffeting and fawning
upon him, are Ken, his slick room-
mate, the loquacious and lascivious Mrs.
Bailey, with whom they board, the
saucepan-banging Bradley, her retarded
son, and the predatory Lynn, the girl
from up the street.
While the good-natured but coarse-
grained Mrs. Bailey is busy throwing
the sophisticated Lynn at his head,
Colin is stubbornly faithful to his
supposed girlfriend, Janice, who bakes
cakes and goes to church.
The production, by Alexander Hay,
and the acting are at once professional
and dedicated, an ideal combination
for a new dramatist. Martin Harris’
portrait of the uncertainties and frus-
trations of the honest Colin contrasts
well with Ross Thompson’s ever-
preening Ken. Andonia Katsaros plays
the amusing Mrs. Bailey with gusto,
while Richard Pusey is uncomfortably
realistic as Bradley.
MADELENE ARMSTRONG
FILMS
Wet Umbrellas
The Umbrellas of Cherbourg. Director,
Jacques Demy. Embassy Theatre,
Melbourne.
FROM the beginning of Jacques
Demy’s “The Umbrellas of
Cherbourg,” when motor
mechanics chat in a locker room, every
word of the film dialogue is sung to the
music of Michel Legrand. It takes some
getting used to.
In fact, “Umbrellas” is mainly of
interest because of this technical in-
novation if a device as old as
Chinese opera can be called an inno-
vation. What’s left over is just a pretty,
colored fable about young love, directed
in the overlit and wooden style of
commercials for expensive cigarettes.
Two young people are separated
when the boy is conscripted to fight
in Algeria. The girl finds herself preg-
nant and is persuaded to marry a
wealthy young jewel merchant. The
boy returns from Algeria, is emotion-
ally shattered, and only a new love can
save him from drowning in absinthe.
Not only did many in the audience
find “Umbrellas” overwhelmingly mov-
ing, but the film won the following
awards: Grand Prize, Cannes Film
Festival, 1964; French Critics Prize,
1964; Catholic Film Award, 1964; U.S.
Academy Award for the Best Foreign
Film of 1964. As under my marsh-
mallow exterior there beats a heart of
stone, I find this scale of success quite
inexplicable.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Kiwis Dancing
Don’t Let It Get You. Director, John
O’Shea. Recently at Palace Theatre,
Sydney.
How To Steal a Million. Director, Wil-
liam Wyler. Regent Theatre, Sydney.
RATHER unkindly, I approached
the New Zealand production
“Don’t Let It Get You” with some
trepidation, but it only took the open-
ing shots to show that the expected
home-movie amateurishness was re-
freshingly absent. In fact, the film
shows a remarkable and encouraging
technical grasp of the medium.
Its most striking feature is the photo-
graphy of Anthony Williams, which can
stand comparison with any expert pro-
fessional job. He uses the black-and-
white camera with skill and imagina-
tion; the New Zealand scenes capture
the special beauty of the place without
becoming a mere tourist brochure, and
the few early scenes of Sydney seemed
to me to convey much more of this
city’s atmosphere than the whole of
“They’re A Weird Mob.” The presenta-
tion of the musical numbers, too, is
inventive and often exciting, and Wil-
liams rarely indulges in gimmickry for
its own sake only occasional bits of
speeded-up action struck me as affected
and gauche.
Of course, the film is no master-
piece; its simple-minded plot is no
better than most pop-music movies
in fact, it’s the same as most pop-music
movies and the acting is heavy-
handed and gawky; only the Maori
pop-singer Howard Morrison shows
genuine ease as an actor before the
camera. But the film is visually inter-
esting, often exciting, and has an en-
gaging youthful enthusiasm
altogether a very pleasant surprise.
There’s all the professionalism in the
world in “How To Steal A Million,”
but, unfortunately, not much else.
William Wyler, usually associated with
solid dramas like “The Collector,”
“The Heiress,” or “Carrie,” is hardly
the director for a light comedy-thriller.
Subdued performances from Peter
O’Toole and Audrey Hepburn add little
vitality.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


A bulletin portfolio L.B.J. in Australia
PICTURES ON PAGES 35, 36 AND 37, BY DAVID BEAL.
Waiting for Lyndon


In George Street, Sydney


On Sydney Harbor
Welcome to Sydney


The Motorcade in Melbourne
At Government House, Melbourne
Demonstrators at the Art Gallery, Sydney.
Welcome to Canberra
Lady Bird at the Prime Minister's Lodge


BOOKS
Undeserving Laureate
By CECIL HADGRAFT
Henry Lawson: Poet and Short Story
Writer. Colin Roderick. Angus and
Robertson. $2.50.
Henry Lawson’s Best Stories. Chosen by
Cecil Mann. Angus and Robertson.
$3.75.
IN the last seventy years, Henry
Lawson has enjoyed two reputations,
as poet and as short - story writer.
A graph of the first would
show a fairly steady decline;
that of the second, a fairly
steady rise. The two lines
would intersect some thirty or
forty years ago.
In his book (a reprint of two
lectures delivered last year at
the University of Queensland)
Colin Roderick outlines the
fall in Lawson’s poetical fame.
He was early thought of as a
poet of consequence by such
people as A. G. Stephens, Vic-
tor Daley, le Gay Brereton,
and Arthur Adams, and some
of the estimates throw an
almost alarming light on the
perception of our earlier
critics. He was, like Burns, “a
minstrel of native fire”; he was
accepted as the “unappointed
poet laureate of Australia”;
and “it is because he feels so
deeply that he whites so
strongly.”
The change in estimate has
since then been considerable.
Roderick quotes from F. M. Todd,
H. M. Green, and A. A. Phillips to the
effect that the poet Lawson is “simple,
crude, and narrow,” and even that “It
is absurd to speak of him as the poet
Lawson.” All of which to us, some fifty
years since Brennan’s volume, seems not
too unreasonable at all.
I don’t want to misrepresent Rode-
rick’s position. For him, it appears the
earlier verdicts were closer to the
truth, and the current or later verdicts
are undeserved. He supports his position
with considerations of textual changes.
It has long been known, to take one
instance, that some lines in Lawson’s
“Andy’s Gone With Cattle” do not
represent what Lawson originally wrote.
Roderick quotes the first version:
Our Andy’s gone to the battle now
With Drought, the red marauder:
Our Andy’s gone with cattle now
Across the Queensland border.
In the volume edited by David Mc-
Kee Wright it runs:
Our Andy’s gone with cattle now —<
Our hearts are out of order —
With Drought he’s gone to battle now
Across the Queensland border.
Using the holograph ms. (reproduced
in his volume), Roderick neatly
Henry Lawson
analyses the process of emendation that
Wright (himself a poet) thought fit to
apply. Roderick has long engaged in
establishing a definite text of Lawson’s
verse, and if this is to be taken as an
example of his comment then his re-
sults should be illuminating and enter-
taining. But whether it will all make
much difference to Lawson’s reputation
as a poet is quite doubtful. A reader
of the two stanzas quoted
here may agree that one is
better, or less bad, than the
other; but he may ask with
some justice so what?
When it is a matter of
Lawson’s standing as a short-
story writer, then things are
almost exactly the reverse,
except that we do not have
early hostile verdicts we
have almost silence. The
earliest acceptance, some may
perhaps think too warm and
open an acceptance, came
from the French critic Saillens.
And since then, in article and
book, the praise has grown.
Most critics would think Law-
son certainly the best story
writer of his period and per-
haps the best we have in any
period.
Cecil Mann’s selection of
thirty-five stories Lawson’s
Best Stories, to quote the title
provides enough material
to support the second opinion.
They are Mann’s personal choice, and
his preface, both disarming and reason-
able, is hardly likely to provoke dis-
sent. Of the thirty-five, seven appeared
in the “collected” edition in three
volumes (again chosen by Mann) for
the first time in such an edition.
In commentary one might do two
things. The first alternative would be
to point out Mann’s omissions.
On this score I have no complaints.
The other alternative would be to
write an excursus on the quality of
Lawson, perhaps on his world stand-
ing. Luckily, space forbids any fulfil-
ment of this task. We shall have one
of these days a fairly authoritative
comment on Lawson’s stories as fit
companions to those of Mansfield and
the rest.
The question of text will arise soon.
Work is being done on this, so one
hears, and it seems that Mann may
have to look to his defences. If the
endings of the stories are in question,
then the dispute may be of some value.
This question of the text has a few
small side issues. We want, it is said,
the words that Lawson alone wrote, not
the words that Lawson wrote, that
McKee Wright, pernicious, persuasive,
altered, and that Lawson perforce, pur-
blind accepted. Textual critics applaud
the aspiration. (Sometimes they have
made us feel that the more distant the
poet the more important the accuracy
of the text.) The stress on the poet as
the only begetter is, however, interest-
ing. For some critics it is an irrelevance.
For them a poem should be anonymous
and comtemporary: it would be well if
a poem descended upon a critic in the
Sahara, sans any indication of date or
author or genesis. But for others the
authenticity is all—especially if it re-
sults in an upgrading. I hope I shall
not be regarded as too unpleasantly
cynical in wondering what values are
invoked and what interests are involved.
Having said that, and then insisting
that I want accuracy if it is possible to
get it, I am emboldened to hazard a
prophecy. It involves a minor paradox
in poetry. A great lyric is a consum-
mate but precarious balance of verbal
forces. One word altered may be des-
tructive. If a poor poem is concerned,
then alteration may be almost anything
but conclusive. So I suggest that the
work being done on the text of Lawson’s
short stories may effect minor revisions
of judgment, but that the work on his
poetical text will leave the modern
sentence unaltered.
Kerensky's Self-Flatery
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
The Kerensky Memoirs. Alexander
Kerensky. Cassell. $6.30.
FOR almost half a century Alexander
Feodorovich Kerensky has been
assiduously propagating the theory
that, but for the myopic miscalcula-
tion of the Allies and the timidity of
his own followers, he might well have
saved Russia from the Red Revolution.
A more hollow claim was never made.
Kerensky was a straw in the gale of
history.
The tragedy of the revolt that over-
threw the Tsarist autocracy in March,
1917, was that the ranks of the moderate
revolutionaries could produce nothing
better than this egocentric, oratorical
lawyer to steer the Provisional Govern-
ment through those critical days.
Kerensky was not deserted and betrayed
by the Liberal bourgeoisie on whom he
relied to forge a democratic constitution
for republican Russia. He was over-
whelmed by the harsh facts of con-
temporary Russian political and econo-
mical life, facts which, to this day, he
seems only partly to comprehend.
The Duma, the feeble, emasculated


Alexander Kerensky
Tsarist assembly from which the Pro-
visional Government emerged, was not
a bridge between despotism and the
subjected masses. It was not, as
Kerensky hopefully believed, a nursery
of statesmen ready and willing to seize
the reins of power from the Tsar’s
fallen Ministers. It was a mere debat-
ing club (with Kerensky its most bril-
liant debater), a hotch-potch of intel-
lectuals, idealists, pan-Slav mystics,
agrarian reformers and liberal in-
dustralists whose visions of Russia’s
future wavered foggily between a con-
stitutional monarchy on the English
model and a sort of super-Switzerland
of federated democratic republics.
The trouble was that the Duma and,
inevitably, its successor, the Provisional
Government, represented only a small
fraction of the Russian people. Since
the abortive revolution of 1905, a gulf
of blood and terror had sundered the
voiceless masses from the administra-
tion in St. Petersburg. The years be-
tween the Russo-Japanese War and the
Great War saw a remarkable increase
in Russian industrialisation, but the
middle-class was still relatively tiny,
compared with other big Western
nations. It had no training in political
responsibility, it feared the peasant and
urban proletariat almost as much as it
had the despotic apparatus of Tsardom.
In the white-and-gold halls of the
Winter Palace Kerensky’s Provisional
Government planned, argued, and in-
trigued within a vacuum, while the
administration of fame-racked and war-
weary Russia collapsed all round them.
ON one hand were the Soviets of
Soldiers, Workers, and Peasants
Deputies, who knew exactly what they
wanted. On the other were the Tsarist
generals, like Kornilov and Denikin,
who knew exactly what they wanted.
Between them the helpless, middle-of-
the-road Provisional Government fell
to pieces in Kerensky’s hands. He and
his followers were the Girondins of the
Russian Revolution.
Kerensky is now 85. He has outlived
almost every other survivor from the
apocalyptic months of the 1917 Revo-
lution. He is the last of the emigres,
and his voice is the last that can tell
us from personal experience of the
hopes that wereV swept away when the
Red battalions of Lenin and Trotsky
struck down the Provisional Govern-
ment. He is the final living witness to
the Russia - that - might - have - been.
Polemical writings have poured from
him over the years, but something more
was expected when it was learnt that
the old man was writing his Memoirs
a reflective distillation, a summing-
up of the events and personalities in
one of the most momentous epochs in
human history.
This expectation has proved sadly
misplaced. This is the same old Keren-
sky, scrabbling among his memories,
wearisomely self-justificatory, mixing up
the trivial and the significant with little
sense of historical balance, and quoting
voluminously from faded documents
that have long been published else-
where. It is hard to believe that any-
one who played such an important role
at the heart of affairs could write a
dull book about the Russian Revolu-
tion, but Kerensky has achieved the
eat -
His literary style is unrelievedly
pedestrian. Specialists in Russian his-
tory have impugned the accuracy of
some of his details. One could forgive
both these faults if Kerensky had some-
thing fresh or penetrating to add to the
oft-told story. But this book will be of
little value to scholars (except per-
haps as confirmatory revelation of
Kerensky’s limitations) and certainly
cannot be commended to the general
reader seeking an authoritative account
of the great drama of the Revolution,
On only two still-obscure points does
the author shed a little fitful light.
One is the curious intrigue that preceded
Kornilov’s abortive attempt to march on
Petrograd in September, 1917, an
attempt that really paved the way for
the Bolshevik seizure of power by the
terror and confusion it spread. The
Communists always claimed that
Kerensky secretly favored the general’s
aim to establish a military dictator-
ship. But the evidence seems clearly to
show that Kerensky honestly tried to
preserve the Provisional Government as
the germ of a future democracy for
Russia.
The other point concerns Kerensky’s
relations with the Allies. His argument
that, by flirting with the would-be
military dictators, Britain and France
foolishly helped to undermine the
authority of the Provisional Govern-
ment and to destroy the hopes for a
“liberal” Russia is not entirely con-
vincing. But he does show that the
Allies’ determination to keep Russia in
war at all costs perhaps blinded
them to the real state of affairs iit
Petrograd.
1956: 1966
How should one remember the ten-years dead?
They died before Russian tanks, pleading for aid:
We afforded them our sympathy instead.
A terrible end to illusion: those
Men of abstraction who for decades chose
To castigate the merely sane and close,
Confident of knowing the whole range
Of history, saw their shapely myths unhinge
Upon a world of nightmare, dense and strange.
The Communist apologists were silent;
Liberals, shocked to learn what they had meant
By People’s Democracies, were incoherent.
Mortified, remote, they licked their wounds
As year by year the nightmare sights and sounds
Faded, and were pushed safely underground.
Green men whom nothing finally can break,
Wholly renewed, once more they write and speak
With a naivete that nothing can shake.
Rolled round in earth’s diurnal course, the dead.
The ten-years dead, forget for what they bled
For life and light.
Darkness and death encompass them instead.
EVAN JONES
* This week is the 10fh anniversary
of the Hungarian Revolution.


AWA capability
Z 5
i
r 4
L
ranges
far and wide
The potential of AWA capability may be measured by its 50 years long
experience in radio, its broad resources through world-wide affiliations
and its depth of technical and engineering ability. Australian owned,
Australian managed and Australian staffed, AWA serves everyone
every day.
And so, too, with Export—in open competition with
the world’s greatest radio communication equipment
makers—AWA has met the standards demanded—
television transmitters in Singapore, tele-
communication installations in India, police patrol
radio-telephones in Hong Kong, broadcasting stations
in Pakistan—lndia —Thailand—Ceylon, tele-
communication stations in Egypt—Pakistan—
Singapore—South Africa, test equipment in India—
Lj by a—two-way radio telephones in South Africa—
Philippines—Hong Kong—East Africa—Mauritius—
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Head Office: 47 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne, Wellington (N.Z.), London, New York,
Kuala Lumpur.
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio
amplifying systems: electronic components:
testing instruments: telephones: programme
recording: television and broadcast receivers:
data transmission systems and training in radio
technology.
496/B


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. D, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
COMPETENT
SCIENCE TEACHER
REQUIRED
Begin immediately if possible.—Apply
St. Joseph's College, North Goulburn
The Miniature Zoo
By RODNEY HALL
The Talking Clothes. W. Hart-Smith.
Angus and Robertson. $1.95.
IN “The Talking Clothes” W. Hart-
Smith does not seem to be address-
ing the solitary reader, nor har-
anguing the crowd. He uses a middle
voice, quiet yet public, as if talking to a
small group of friends and admirers.
The numerous animal studies are very
much of this kind—like a tour of the
country or zoo, in which he devises
impromptu poems to sharpen the vision
of his hearers, to teach them how to free
their minds from a clutter of precon-
ceptions. Perhaps the best of the animal
poems are “Rhinoceros” and “Otters.”
“Otters” in particular opens with some
unerring imagery:
His wet fur, velvet-smooth, was sleek
as reeds
stroked downstream by a river.
. . . He flowed
into the water like water
entering water . . . and he swam
seal-like, eel-like, delighted.
Paradoxically, the brief poem may
command longer sense and rhythm-
units than the large poem. Here, some
pieces comprise only one such unit.
This is so in “Shivery-grass,” where the
first point at which sense and rhythm
pauses coincide is at the final full-stop.
More characteristically, the basic
rhythmic unit is the line. In poems
where long lines are used, it is almost
certain to be some more-or-less metri-
cal division; thjt is to say, a fragment
of a line. Ti turn ti turn ti turn pat-
terns, with their Latinate names (so
precious to schoolteachers), have little
place in Hart-Smith’s work.
Leaves can hear
they listen for the rain
and other things as well
Leaves
have a sense of smell . . .
It would be ridiculous to carve the
second and third lines quoted here into
component rhythmic units; the unit has
been marked by the poet —he has begun
a new line. In this use of the end of
line, Mr. Hart-Smith is highly accom-
plished. And he has impeccable taste
in judging the placement of rhymes
in relation to the rest of the line.
If you should ever have to
part from someone dear, tear
yourself away, be sure
the tear is where
the perforations are. Please
please do not ever . . .
In these tight stanzas from “Postage
Stamp” the basic sound pattern is art-
fully used to play up the important
words. So the first line break gives a
graphic and gentle suggestion of part-
ing. When it comes to the violent action
of tearing people apart, the stressed
half-rhymes are placed together, and
again the movement to a fresh line
helps deepen the effectiveness of mean-
ing.
The line-unit invites faster reading
than poetry can usually afford, but W.
Hart-Smith pares his language to
accommodate speed. The moment he
diverges from this technique, he risks
trouble. Most of his longer lines grind
to a hesitation. A good example is the
opening of “The Castaways of Port
Stephens”:
In the month of September, 1790,
ran away jive men . . . No, Mr. Hart-
Smith, no! On the other hand, “Trafal-
gar” is successful despite its uncharac-
teristic rhythms; there is an extra-
ordinary sense of distances in it. At the
end, when the historical and geographi-
cal perspectives are telescoped, the
reader’s attention is snatched back to a
memorable picture of the clergyman
who has been talking. As an interplay
of reality and illusion, this is a re-
markable poem.
“Notes in Pencil” is far more typical:
modest and delightful. Here the pencil
drawing he describes is matched by the
fine outlines of his word sketch. The
narration subtly guides our interest from
the recording of large appearances to the
exploring of small reactions. For the
essential Hart-Smith, however, one
should turn to the set of seventeen
short poems at the end of the book,
“Man into Trees.” Movement is again
the central quality. The cycle begins
by dealing with the land as an objective
reality; then as seen through Aboriginal
eyes; then to a mystical identification
of people with trees; and ends with a
vision of the nature of tree-life in
relation to the movement of the world.
These poems, with their charm and
compactness, make a cogent argument
against the charge that all modern verse
is obscure. Anyone not given to reading
poetry could hardly do better than begin
with “The Talking Clothes.”
Swansong for Empire
By GEOFFREY LEHMANN
Beggars On Horseback. James Mossman.
Bodley Head. $2.65.
THIS is a sharp and deftly written
first novel by James Mossman, an
English journalist who was a Far
Eastern correspondent for some time.
The action of the novel takes place in
the Marouf, a mythical kingdom in the
Middle East, against a backdrop of
declining British power.
The plot revolves around the British
Embassy. Hobby Dowling, the charge
d’affaires, has ignominious discussions
and negotiations with General Jouf, the
new national leader, who stages a coup
d’etat and nationalises oil, much to the
discomfiture of British interests.
Hobby’s wife, Cynthia, is childless and
has an affair with Nigel Renwick, a
vulgar professional seducer from
Johannesburg who trades in diamonds.
When Nigel achieves his aims, he gives
Cynthia a running commentary during
the performance. The affair disinte-
grates as shoddily as it began.
Simon Mulloch, young, vacillating,
and enthusiastic, is attached to Security.
All his assignments are bungled or col-
lapse. He falls in love with Toutou
Mantalis, a beautiful blue-eyed Greek
girl, who eludes him very capably and
gives him a mouthful of hair when he
tries to kiss her. Simon has a young
friend in the Maroufi Army, Hakim
Karem, who is idealistic and romantic
and whose zealousness causes him to
rise rapidly in the new regime. British
Security gets a blackmail hold over
Hakim because he arranges for the
illegal escape from the country of his
uncle, who is wanted by the Maroufi
authorities for wangling a corrupt Gov-
ernment contract. Simon’s boss in
Security discovers that Simon, as a
favor for Toutou’s parents, has tried
to smuggle some bonds out of the
country through the diplomatic bag,
and he uses this information to
bludgeon Simon into soliciting Hakim’s
services as a British agent. Hakim’s
reaction, the misunderstandings and
conflict of loyalties are tightly worked
out.
Mr. Mossman’s chief talent is to
evoke atmosphere and incident. One
comes away from this novel with a
series of acute vignettes, a malevolent
she-goat clattering out of a rickety
sports club for Arab youth, a palace
fishpond reddening with the blood of
the palace commander. Particularly
memorable is the scene where in the
nightmarish steam of the Turkish baths
late at night Henry Lowdon, the British
cultural attache, is arrested by the
Maroufi police in the middle of a
drunken homosexual debauch, to be
expelled from the country, driving yet
a further nail into the coffin of British
Imperialism.


*
L-
Cellarmaster’s
GUIDE TO
AUSTRALIAN
WINES
Cellarmaster's articles in THE BULLETIN
have now been collected and published in a
book. It also contains several new articles
including an important one on cooking with
wine. The book—an ideal Christmas present
for friends here or overseas—is available to
readers for $1.50 post free, or may be
bought from any bookshop.
Send a cheque or postal order, not
cash please, to “Bulletin Books,” Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney, together with the
coupon and address label below. (Books
may also be purchased over the counter
from the Paper Sales Department, sth
Floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney, Monday to Fri-
day, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
CELLARMASTER
BOOK ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name .
Address
State
Sender
If undelivered please return to
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
order CELLARMASTER'S BOOK
FORM Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DESPATCH
CELL ARM ASTER BOOK(S), price $1.50
each (post free). I enclose .... cheque/
postal note.
Name of sender
Address
Sfofe
If more than one book is ordered, attach
list giving full name, address, State and,
if overseas, country.
LETTERS
Peddling Propaganda
Sir,
Of course Mr. Glezer can cite (8.,
October 8) several articles published
in his magazine “DISSENT” which
cut across Brian Buckley’s general
assertion that the little magazines of the
Left, while making a valuable contri-
bution to discussion of domestic social
issues, “tumble down into a sentimental
heap” when confronted with the foreign
policy problems posed by Communism.
But on the crucial issue of Vietnam and
in the magazine’s editorial comment,
“DISSENT” does appear to have fallen
in with the left-liberal establishment,
echoing an increasing number of the
familiar syndrome of responses.
This is particularly apparent in its
treatment of the Vietnam war. The first
article to be published was headed
“Warring in Vietnam” and the title
appropriately summed up the hysterical
tone of the contribution. Everything
was the responsibility of the Americans
—the escalation of the war, the bru-
tality; and their motives were dastardly
—wanting to use Vietnam as a weapons
laboratory. The bombing of the North
was an impetuous reprisal. All the
arguments advanced in favor of Wes-
tern involvement in Vietnam were
stated in such a ridiculous way as to be
untenable, obviating the need to apply
real thought and judgment.
I wrote to “DISSENT” and my con-
tribution was printed in the next issue,
but next to it was a response describing
it with terms such as “effusions,” and
“excrescence” and saying that my
methods of argument resemble those
of “Communist and Fascist polem-
ists,” and suggesting I was a “poor
friend of liberty.” Apart from the risk
of libel action, the publication of such
material hardly suggested that the edi-
tor wanted dialogue on the vexed sub-
ject of Vietnam.
The very latest issue of “DISSENT”
contains fantastic editorials, more
notable for their fantasies than for any
particular political leanings. The one on
Vietnam suggests explicitly among other
things: that the French and the Rus-
sians would be prepared to provide
peace-keeping forces to safeguard non-
Communist South Vietnamese against
Communist reprisals in the case of a
negotiated takeover, that a Western
defeat in Vietnam would have no
psychological impact in the rest of
Asia, that the U.S. has no policy “apart
from bashing at the Viet Cong and
mindlessly bombing North Vietnam.”
The editorial on Chinese foreign policy
assesses the challenge which this poses
entirely in terms of its record of con-
ventional military expansion, simply
leaving out of consideration the method
which the Chinese themselves proclaim:
namely, “people’s wars of liberation.”
Mr. Glezer is quite wrong in saying
that the policy of “DISSENT” remains
unchanged. Like Mr. Brian Buckley
and Mr. Ray Evans, I was one of the
group which founded the magazine. I
was also co-editor for two years. I
think I can therefore say with some
authority that “DISSENT” under pre-
sent management is not living up to
the thoughts which inspired it until
recently. One of these was that the
magazine was to dissent as much from
left-liberal establishment cliches as from
conservatism. Another thought was that
it should promote dialogue, not peddle
propaganda on important issues.
PETER SAMUEL
Canberra (A.C.T.)
The Good Life
Sir,
I have just enjoyed Donald Horne’s
revisit to the Lucky Country. There is,
however, one correction to be made.
Mr. Horne writes: “In the era of the
Fair Deal, the New Frontier, and the
Great Society, Menzies did not bother
to coin a single phrase.” But he did.
In his first broadcast to the nation as
Prime Minister of Australia, in 1939,
Mr. Menzies outlined his concept of
the Good Life (27/4/39). His political
creed, said Mr. Menzies, was that “the
essential end of government was not
power or glory, but the good life for
ordinary men and women . . .” etc.
The Good Life. What a delightful
phrase! I’m sure Mr. Horne will savor
it. Yet, should the political thought of
Mr. Menzies be examined one day, his
concept of the Good Life will consti-
tute its core.
V. D’ CRUZ
North Melbourne (Vic.)
Australians Abroad
Sir,
We are compiling an anthology
entitled Australians Abroad, and in-
tend including an excerpt from the
autobiographical study An Australian
Girl in Germany, by Hilda M. Free-
man (Specialty Press, Melbourne, 1916).
We wonder if any of your readers
could supply biographical material on
the author or could lead us to sources
which would give this. We would
welcome any unpublished material,
which would be returned.
CHARLES HIGHAM
R. M. WILDING.
c/o F. W. Cheshire Ltd.,
Little Collins Street,
Melbourne (Vic.)
Brief Comment
Sir,
Behold the Peacenik Parson! Prompt
is he
With Christian zeal to love our
enemy.
What’s more, to show how far his
love extends,
With even greater zeal he hates our
friends.
J. H. GOSS
Wandong (Vic.)


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Making A Mess
THE Government is making a mess of things. It is
dreary to have to keep on saying so but it is mere
wishful thinking to deny that the economy is still
on the slow slide. Mr. McMahon’s supposedly expansionary
budget shows no signs of giving the stimulus it was sup-
posed to provide. Activity continues to decline as measured
by the State of the labor market. The exact interpretation
to be put on the September figures depends on the seasonal
adjustment which is made, but according to our calculations
they showed a further clear deterioration. Every indicator
suggested a further slackening in the demand for labor.
Unemployment increased almost three percent, taking it
to a level 10 percent above the April figure.
The number of vacant jobs on the books of the Com-
monwealth Employment Service also fell in September,
though only marginally. The number of people looking
for jobs now exceeds the number of vacant jobs by about
18,000, a solid increase on the average of about 13,000 in
the first half of the calandar year. It also represents a
complete reversal of the situation of 15 months ago.
Overtime, too, is low 2.7 hours against 2.9 hours
in May and June and over 3.0 hours through most of
last year. We have no statistics unfortunately on the
length of the work week overseas this is one of the
key indicators but a rough guess would be that in
manufacturing at least an hour less is being worked at
present than was common in 1964 and early 1965. Again
we have no statistics to show the amount by which industry
is operating below capacity, but this must be quite sub-
stantial now possibly as much as 20 percent. The latest
ACMA-Wales survey showed that only 41 percent of business-
men are happy with their rate of operation as against 74
percent in late 1964. Conversely only 9 percent mention
lack of plant capacity as being a limiting factor to 18 per-
cent two years ago.
None of this is surprising when we look at sales and
production trends. The ANZ Bank index of factory pro-
duction makes dismal reading. Consolidated and revised
figures now show that, between June, 1965, and June,
1966, there was a mere two percent advance in overall
production, representing a zero growth rate compared with
9 and 8 percent respectively in each of the preceeding
financial years. 'So much for the silly claim that the
slackening in growth is attributable to the drought. And
the opening months of 1966-7 do not show any of the
improvement which has been forecast. July was stationary
on June, and August registered a 3 percent fall. And this
was not only attributable to the car industry’s layoffs. Chemi-
cals, textiles, furniture, and household goods and miscel-
laneous groups also showed reductions. The only groups
to show rises were metals and food, drink, and tobacco.
The great danger in the present situation is that, with
sales and production now on a plateau (and even sliding
downhill a little) and with foreign capital scarce, there
could be a severe collapse in capital spending by busi-
ness. Why on earth should business continue to install new
plant at the present high rate, especially when the past two
years have seen an unprecedented boom in such installa-
tion? Of course, the Government has been quite frank in
admitting it expects some fall-off in capital spending, but
it has also said that it expects a strong upsurge in personal
consumer spending based on the basic wage increase and
the recovery of the rural sector. It looks as if on present
trends the latter expectation is going to be very partially
MEN AND MATTERS
TWO glass-making bankers (or is it
banking glass-makers?) are in
earnest conversation this week;
Sir Harry Pilkington, 61-year-old chair-
man of Pilkington Bros., the U.K.’s big-
gest privately owned company and also
a director of the Bank of England is
visiting his . Australian glass-making
companies, in which Australian Con-
solidated Industries has a stake. And
ACl’s chairman, Melbourne lawyer, Mr.
J. A. Forrest, is also chairman of the
National Bank of Australasia.
The two men will probably have
more to say to each other about glass
than banking, although Mr. Forrest
will no doubt be keen to hear Sir
Harry’s reasons for dismissing devalua-
tion last week when he said it was
“never likely” that Britain would be
forced to devalue.
Sir Harry, despite his many outside
interests, including several special U.K.
government appointments such as the
controversial committee he chaired on
Broadcasting and Television, is mainly
a glass man. Educated at Rugby and
Magdalene College, Cambridge, he
entered the family glass firm in 1927
when he was 21, became a director seven
years later and chairman after a further
15 years.
His links with ACI are through
Pilkington Bros. (Australia) makers of
safety glass, mainly
for the now de-
pressed motor trade,
in which his com-
pany holds 51 per-
cent and ACI 49
percent of the capi-
tal, and through it
he has a stake in
Australian Window
Glass and ACI
Casemakers. But
he says he has no
further plans here
at present and does not intend to set
up a plant here to make float glass
(which is superseding plate glass in
most uses) until the market gets bigger.
OIL diplomacy is more open than
it used to be, but if there’s less
cat-and-mouse play between the
great Western 'powers on the world’s
oilfields, competition between the big
international oil companies in national
markets for products is hotter than
ever.
Nobody knows this better than Sir
Maurice Bridgeman, the third son of
the first Viscount Bridgeman, and
chairman of B.P. Limited since 1960,
who came out here for last week’s
opening of the group’s Westernport
refinery. He was reared in the oil
W. H. Pilkington
M. Bridgeman
J. A. Forrest
industry in the days of the old-style
diplomacy and has spent 40 years in it
since he left Trinity College, Cam-
bridge and joined the old Anglo-Per-
sian Oil Company, as BP was once
known. His career has spanned the
industry’s transition.
He doesn’t see as much of his home
in Sussex as he’d like these days. When
he’s not at BP headquarters in London
holding a watching brief over such
affairs as the group’s new offshore gas
operations in the North Sea, there’s
never-ending journeying to BP’s myriad
overseas interests to be done. This
is Sir Maurice’s second visit to Aus-
tralia, but going on BP’s move into
fertilisers (if not so much its limited
plans for extending its oil-search oper-
ations here) it won’t be the last.


fulfilled. In this case the reaction of capital spending will
be accentuated.
With the elections coming on, it is probably too much
to expect honest economic talk from the Government, but
we can at least demand that Canberra refuse to be taken
in by its own optimistic propaganda. Further boosts to
housing can be given immediately through an easier money
policy, and without the need to admit past mistakes.
Boosts to housing would ensure that the important house-
hold equipment industries were fully engaged in the latter
half of 1967. (They are already heading for several
months of low sales, due to the fallback in the housing
industry early this year). With the elections out of the
way, the Government could bring down a “Little Budget”
in February. And Mr. McMahon would happily be able
to make his first little budget not a traditional horror one
but an untraditional “Pleasure Budget.”
Help from the World Bank
ONE of the more useful things Mr. McMahon was able
to do while on his overseas tour was to arrange for
New Guinea to be recognised by the World Bank
so that it can apply for development finance. So far, the
Government has shown a remarkable tardiness in seeking
international assistance in tackling the immense tasks to
be performed in the Territory. As a result the burden
on the Australian taxpayer has grown rapidly. At s7om.
this financial year, the bill is more than twice the grant
made in 1960. One of the effects of this has been to
limit the amount Australia spends on truly “Foreign Aid.”
Compared to the 100 percent increase in New
Guinea money, aid to UN agencies and through the Colombo
Plan has risen in the last six years by only sl3m. or 65
percent to s33m.
Both humanitarian and security considerations surely dic-
tate that our foreign aid be stepped up sharply. Indonesia
has emerged again as a nation friendly to us and prel-
- to use what aid we can provide. In Vietnam, as the
war of big battles is won, there will be increasing need
to take the opportunity of security to rebuild the economy
and administration. Our miserable s2m. of economic
aid to Vietnam will need to be multiplied several times
if we are to do our share in fighting the cleaner war as well
as taking part in the dirty one. India and Thailand are
also countries which deserve greater aid than the small
amounts they are getting. In both there are the seeds
of a Vietnam conflict and to do our share in preventing
these germinating, as well as to satisfy humanitarian con-
siderations, we should do far more. If only Australian
expenditure in New Guinea could be stabilised, or even
reduced, then more finance would be available for this
sort of foreign aid. The World Bank offers one means
of sharing the New Guinea burden. We could well look
for others.
A Housing Mortgage Market
MR. “MORT” HUTCHESON, managing director of
Cambridge Credit (which appropriately sports light
blue on the colorful cover of its annual report) is
taking over one of Victoria’s few permanent building
societies. (We are not allowed to say which one.) He is
going to fill it with business based on the insurance of
loans by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. What
Mr. Hutcheson, as well as the HLIC, is hoping for is a
big extension of trade in housing mortgage loans. This
has already shown a token of its potential, particularly in
Victoria, where many new proprietaries have been formed
in recent months to prosecute such business.
Cambridge has set on the potential of developing house
lending business on the basis of secured mortgages for the
simple reason that they offer sure-fire security, plus the
prospect of turning over funds time and time again as
mortgages are sold off to the mortgage companies with
the Government acting as backstop.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
F Or the economy : Australia’s total overseas
reserves fell $72.6m. in September, reflecting a large
merchandise trade deficit for the month . . . But
proceeds from the current woolclip, to the end of
September were running 7 percent above last year’s
and September brought the first rise in the monthly
total of balances outstanding to non-retail finance
businesses since November, 1965.
A slow-down in the rising trend of fixed deposits
in September appears to stem from the \ percent
reduction mid-August in interest on shorter-term fixed
deposits of trading banks and a decline in capital
expenditure by manufacturing industries worries the
economists of the National Bank of Australasia.
For the markets: Local sharemarkets continue
to stage a gradual revival from this year’s low, as
measured on the Sydney Stock Exchange Index>
recorded on September 28.
The week on Wall Street opened with good gains,
but there was a downward drift mid-week.
Hopes of a cut in bank rate appear to be behind
the boom in gilt-edged stocks in London. News of a
North Sea oil strike hardly affected Burmah Oil.
F Or companies : The long-awaited issue from
Consolidated Gold Fields Australia is 12.5 m. $1 shares
offered at $1.50 premium, which will give Australian
investor a 22.7 percent equity ... Its neighbor, WA
iron ore development, the Mt. Newman project, is to
be managed by BHP under arrangements with its part-
ners CSR and American Metals Climax. BHP and GSR
each hold 30 percent of the shares in the venture . . .
Firestone Tyre and Rubber Co. enters the Australian
scene by buying a 70 percent interest in Hardie Rubber
from H. C. Sleigh. The price was later revealed as
s4.Bm. Hardie will repay to Sleigh 70 percent of the
Sleigh loan account, after the change of ownership
. . . Inactivity in the motor-vehicle industry caused
Duly and Hansford, auto parts maker, to earn 60
percent less with a profit of $223,000. Dividend was
cut to 6| percent to suit the new situation. The pre-
vious payout was 10 percent.
The line’s best customer, EZ Industries, made a
takeover offer of $3.50 a share (worth a total $1.7m.)
for Emu Bay Railway Company, which operates the
railway from Rosebery to Burnie, Tasmania ... A
one-for-one bonus was announced by Ravenshoe Tin
Dredging . . . Comalso will set up a plant at Mile
End in Adelaide to extrude aluminium sections.
Without explanation, National Bank of Australasia
reported a 24 percent profit rise in a preliminary an-
nouncement which more than cancelled the previous
year’s fall. Earning rate accelerated from 10.6 percent
to 13.1 percent . . . Victorian Automobile Chamber of
Commerce Insurance Co. increased profit by $54,000 to
$281,000, being 31.8 percent on capital, but the 10 per-
cent dividend was unchanged. Hardware merchant
and building material supplier, Bunny Industries’
profit receded from $91,000 to $62,000, but the 9 per-
cent dividend was well covered by a 20.9 percent
earning rate . . . Plywood and veneer maker Cemac
Associated earned $72,000 more profit to create a
new record of $388,000.
After missing dividends in 1964 and 1965, Thiess
Holdings is making a one-for-five bonus from share
premiums. The company resumed dividends with an
8 percent payout out of 1965-66 profits. Fellow
Queenslander Sergeants Engineering will not pay a final
dividend after the profit slump from $251,000 to
$94,000. Shareholders were expecting a final 5 per-
cent after a percent interim. Electrical engineers
and contractor O’Donnell, Griffin Industries is raising
$204,000 by a one-for-four par issue for expansion
. . . Neon Electric Signs earned steady profit of


NEW ISSUE NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act
of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950)
DEBENTURE A 6 Or 10
STOCK 4 YEARS
I°/
2v
UNSECURED Q V r. DC
NOTES 0 TtflKs
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in, the
Prospectus, which may be obtained from:
• Any branch of the BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
• Any member of the Stock Exchange
• THE COMPANY’S OFFICES: Cambridge House,
249 George Street, Sydney. Phone 27-8621.
REGISTERS: SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA, NEWCASTLE.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House
249 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation,
a copy of your Prospectus.
MS./MRS./MISS
ADDRESS ,
8680 3717
$66,000, and paid 12| percent divi-
dends for the 12th successive year.
A new profit record came from
independent grocer Moran and
Cato Australia, of $932,000, or 16
percent on capital . . . Following
shareholders’ rejection of a plan
to pay the retiring founder of Keith
Harris and Co. a $200,000 allow-
ance, directors have introduced a
superannuation scheme whereby the
maximum payment will be $BO,OOO
. . . Higher costs deflated profit of
foundation garment maker, Hestia
Co. by 22 percent to $222,000, but
the dividend was enlarged from 10
to 12 percent, and was thrice
covered . . . Stoddarts Holdings
(textile wholesaler) earned $5OOO
less at $54,000.
Shareholders of F. W. Williams
continue to be the most courted
investors in stock exchange history.
Martin Corporation made a third
offer to win them, this time with a
promise of $4.30 net cash per share
. . . Martin seems to specialise in
long-drawn-out battles. It is the thir-
teenth bidder for Indooroopilly Toll
Bridge, making a $30.30 offer per $2
share, on behalf of Astor Hotel
Motels.
Parbury Henty shareholders are
asked to subscribe to a one-for-five
issue at 20 percent premium . . . and
Allied Mills plans to raise s2m. in
debentures from the public.
There is no profit in the offer
from Hothlyn Securities for original
shareholders of Reinvestment; the
offer is 10c below par value of $2.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
Statistics go on for Ever
LAST week Canberra was even more
busy than the rest of Australia
with “The Visit.” The Govern-
ment Printer turned out dozens of dif-
ferent programs, passes, invitation
cards, large route maps, and ceremonial
plans, and to cap it off printed a mag-
nificent seventy-page book resplendent
with colored diagrams. Departments
were scoured for guides, receptionists,
information officers, and general rouse-
abouts, and public servants were let off
work early to greet our visitor. But
some people must have been left
behind. Statistics, at least, came churn-
ing as usual out of the Treasury De-
partment which, incidentally, is
currently shifting into a new and
ghastly building which has recently
risen to afflict the landscape of the
parliamentary area.
There were two statistical releases
which contained items of interest. The
consumer price index for the September
quarter revealed a surprisingly small
increase in prices: 0.4 percent. It will
be remembered that between mid 1964
and the end of 1965 the index went up
on average by over 1.0 percent per
quarter. Of course the figure we have
for the September quarter is derived
from prices recorded in mid-August,
before the State Budgets were brought
in and before power and transport
charges were raised. It also fails to take
into account the rise in building costs
of. five or six percent which has
occurred as a result of the higher cost
of copper and the increase in the basic
wage. So while we can take heart from
the September quarter figure we must
not forget that it is only our antiquated
statistical services which prevent us
from seeing what has happened in other
months fast receding into history.
Talking of history, another statistical
release last week contained a fascinat-
ing message in a simple footnote. Sud-
denly the figure for 1963-64 table mar-
garine production has become “not
available, pending revision.” Obviously
the statistics bureau is getting mixed
up in the Marrickville-dairying affray;
up until the July release, the produc-
tion statistics showed a very precise
figure of 15,818 tons as 1963-64’s table
margarine production. This is just
below the 16,000 tons level which is the
sum total of all quotas for margarine
production. Of course 1964-65 and
1965-66 recorded figures of around
23,000, showing clearly that the quotas
were being flouted. Now it appears the
Statistics Bureau thinks that they were
being flouted much earlier, and that
someone has submitted inaccurate re-
turns.
LOCAL oil search companies are
keeping up the pressures on the
Federal Government to change its
mind about its proposed legislation for
offshore areas. Their latest champion
is Mr. J. G. Donaldson, chairman of
Woodside (Lakes Entrance), whose
first offshore well is scheduled for early
December. To him it looks “almost
as if the Commonwealth and State
Governments are bent on running the
Australian exploration companies into
the ground by making it financially
impossible for them to share in the
full rewards of their discoveries.”
The legislation provides that 4-9ths
of a producing area be forfeited to
the State in which the discovery is
made and the State shall then auction
the area. The discoverer then has the
option of matching the highest bid and
so have the doubtful satisfaction of
having had to purchase back, at prob-
ably considerable cost, some of the oil
or gas which may have cost millions of
dollars to find.
Mr. Donaldson thinks it inconceiv-
able that any Australian company could
outbid overseas interests. If it can-
not, then the Australian company must
then “bow out” of 4-9ths of its most
valuable and possibly only possession.


Last season we pre-
dicted Stetson pat-
terned felts would be
the most talked about
hats of the year. And
they certainly are!
These are the hats
that have success
written all over them.
And they write it all
over you.
In every hat you’ll
see the unmatched
quality of fine Stet-
son craftsmanship.
Ask to try one on
soon at your favour-
ite men’s store.
mm
STETSON KUGE
get with the
stetson 100 k...
the look of
success in
patterned felts
*
i
H
:
;
m
H
mm
m
a
lt *
....
* *****
STETSON CENTENNIAL
STETSON
/Mm
MICHAEL BAUME'S SYDNEY
The Men in Goldfields
THERE are no rights of succession
from father to son in the top jobs
in Australia’s big public companies
when management is divorced from
ownership. So what is an able son to do?
Mr. J. B. Massy-Greene, one of the
two sons (and a daughter) of the late
Sir Walter Massy-Greene (who was on
the board of so many Collins House
mining companies) has ended up as
chairman and managing director of a
mining group that is becoming one of
Collins House’s major rivals Con-
solidated Goldfields Australia, which is
now offering the Australian public
a share in its rapidly growing oper-
ations.
The Massy-Greenes are basically a
farming family, and John was born
50 years ago at Tenterfield while his
father was the local Federal member
and Government Whip before becoming
Defence Minister in the Hughes Govern-
ment.
Generally regarded as the next likely
Prime Minister, Walter Massy-Greene
was defeated in the 1922 elections by
a Country Party member called Green
whose name appeared above him on
the ballot paper, and S.M. Bruce be-
came PM instead. So this self-made
farmer turned his interests to business
and became a leading company director,
collecting a swag of Collins House
mining directorships including the
chairmanship of the Western Mining
group, North Broken Hill, EZ Indus-
tries (and Emu Bay, too, for those who
watch the takeovers), Metal Manufac-
turers, and Zinc Investments.
Sir Walter sent John to Geelong
Grammar and on to Clare College,
Cambridge, for his MA in engineering.
By 1953, a year after his father’s death,
Mr. Massy-Greene had become general
manager of Austral Bronze, which at
that stage was jointly owned by BfCC
and the Collins House group. But
after nine years in that job, he was
“pinched” by Consolidated Goldfields,
who decided he was the man they
needed as managing director of their
Australian operations. And now he has
become chairman as well, as Sir George
Harvie-Watt has stepped down, so
leaving the top jobs on the five-man
board in the hands of the three Aus-
tralian resident directors. And the
board intends to appoint some addi-
tional local men in time.
THE principle of “pinching” its
top men from other companies is
one that a newcomer must follow;
it has been the rule with Consolidated
Goldfields. Most of its top managers
were “acquired” rather than imported.
And even when they have been im-
ported, the chances are they were also
“acquired” from (or with) some other
company.
Sidney Segal, the 53-year-old
executive director of the Australian
group, is a South African barrister who
joined New Union Goldfields as assist-
ant to the general manager after coming
back from the war needing a job. He
and his company were taken over by
Goldfields in 1949 and five years ago
he was sent to Australia as business
manager of what was then a tiny group
operating out of a small office in
O’Connell Street.
The group’s technical director is Mr.
Brian Andrew, a 48-year-old Adelaide
engineer who spent most of his working
life with the Zinc Corporation, ending
up as underground manager. Then he
moved to another member of the CRA
group, Illawarra Coal and Coke (a
part of the Broken Hill Associated
Smelters organisation), as manager
before being “pinched” by Consolidated
Goldfields about two years ago.


a great moment
for all
whisky
drinkers
Connoisseurs are aware of the vital part grain plays in pro-
ducing a fine, smooth whisky. Australian barley, grown
under ideal climatic conditions, has reached such high
quality that it is now recognised internationally for its
superb whisky-producing qualities. This is important for
Australia; it is important for the entire Australian Whisky
industry. For the first time our modern distilleries, with
their highly skilled blenders and strict quality controls, are
now able to create smooth, matured whiskies of truly
unique character.
This is the era when Australian Whisky has achieved full
international recognition—so much so that it is being
sought in increasing quantities by overseas countries.
Connoisseurs are already celebrating this new era. Why
not join in and enjoy a nip or two tonight? You'll be
pleasantly surprised.
\
u
VJi
m
'll
LHN"‘
,(/- «L
J. C. HORSFALL'S MELBOURNE
The Reliable Mr. Rylah
AS an antidote to the clowning
glory of the principal actor in
Spring Street, it’s reassuring when
Sir Henry Bolte’s straight man, Mr.
Arthur Rylah, occasionally reminds us
that governing Victoria is really a
serious affair. Rylah did this last week
in a thoughtful review of the “whys
and wherefores” of the company trials
and tribulations which have cost in-
vestors so dearly in recent years. Sheet-
ing home responsibility for the heavy
investment losses must seem a never-
ending business to Victoria’s Attorney-
General. He has just roped in another
director to face charges under the
Crimes Act and currently has Mr. Stan-
ley Korman in the box at the City
Court protesting his innocence about
the issue of a now seven-year-old
Factors’ prospectus.
Mr. Rylah did not excuse the Gov-
ernment for the failure of legislation to
shut the door before the reckless com-
pany horses bolted in the 1959-60 boom.
He could rightly claim that much had
been done to improve the Companies
Act in the past few years but admitted
more could be done provided it didn’t
deter legitimate enterprise. “You won’t
stop fraud by legislation,” he said;
“there is always the danger that over-
legislation would be to the detriment of
sound business management.”
From the sound of it, the Attorney-
General is cooking up some additional
changes in the Companies Act. Judging
by his remarks he seems to be leaning
not so much toward any further restric-
tions or penalties for wayward directors
but more to the imposition of stricter
sanctions on company accountants and
auditors and even to putting statutory
responsibilities on company secretaries
and chief financial advisers on whose
information at least non-executive direc-
tors were heavily reliant ( pace H. G.
Palmer).
'J'HE Attorney-General talks only of
stiffening the company squad, prob-
ably the most overworked people in the
State in recent years. It seems strange,
considering what their role is, that he
says members of this squad need more
experience in accountancy (which one
would have tnought was absolutely basic
to the job) and that recruits with com-
pany experience are needed. After the
big crop of company failures these last
few years one would have thought the
Government would have attended to
these deficiencies.
While the activities of the company
squad certainly are in themselves a
deterrent to unlawful behaviour by com-
pany directors and officials, surely the
whole exercise of detection tends to be
undermined when the legal processes
of proof are so lengthy, difficult and
costly and the eventual penalties so
light.
Nobody, least of all Rylah, is say-
ing that the company crashes were
mostly the work of crooks or even that
dishonesty played a significant part
in them. For one thing, Rylah spoke
of inadequacies of some of the boards
and their dominance by masterful per-
sonalities “one man infects the board
of directors with his enthusiasm and
then they all think the El Dorado has
come and there’s no stopping them,” he
said.
Failure to stop company excesses
which lead on to big losses cannot be
condoned, as Mr. Rylah half suggested,
by unfavorable changes in the economic
climate ensuing say from national bal-
ance of payments difficulties, though
at least following 1960 some of the
crashes can be attributable to a balance
of payments inspired credit squeeze
catching already over-stretched com-
panies in mid-stream of further expan-
sion.


sai
Ml
mtm
«•
When container traffic comes ashore
Rail Transport is best
Having used containers on rail since 1949, the Railways of Australia
have played a leading part in the development of this modem con-
cept of moving freight. In association with the Searoad Cargo Service
of the Australian National Line, the railway industry has also helped
pioneer the sea-road-rail movement of freight between Tasmania and
the States of mainland Australia.
With years of experience in the container field, the rolling stock and
terminal facilities, the Railways of Australia are able to provide effi-
cient service, at low ton-mile ratings, for the developing overseas’
container traffic.
Standardisation of gauge on main trunk lines, as well as bogie ex-
change at key centres, ensures fast through schedules, unmatched
economy for inland line-haul work by the Railways of Australia—
the nation’s oldest, yet most modern, transport medium.
RAILWAYS of AUSTRALIA
Inserted by authority of the Commissioners of the Commonwealth State and Railway systems of Australia


£
I
> J
: l
i
■< ■>
. .
■J
m
*V“ : »
A s
■> v .
llv W V ' v
x 4y \ _
sssssssss^
'
' V
Outgrowing
your
Australian
Markets?
Go international and keep growing.
The Government helps you with
these 7 important incentives.
1. Publicity Free for your products
in “Austral News”, Australia’s over-
seas trade promotion newspaper-
circulated to importers and busi-
nessmen in over 100 countries.
2. Advertising In “Australian Export
Industry Features”, published in
leading overseas daily newspapers.
3. Trade Fairs Australia participates
in international fairs with special
Australian Pavilions. Exhibit your
products in them at low cost.
4. Insurance Through EPIC . . .
the Export Payments Insurance
Corporation, which protects your
interests.
5. Payroll Tax Rebate This allows
a rebate for increased exports at
the rate of 12|% for every increase
in exports equal to 1% of gross
trading income.
6. Market Development Allowance
For every $1 spent on overseas
promotion, you may be allowed
an additional deduction of up to
80 cents in the $l.
7. Trade Commissioner Service
Australia’s 43 Trade Commis-
sioners undertake trade enquiries
for Australian businessmen.
mP Pm mm mm
EXPORT ACTION
THERE’S A MEMBER OF THE DEPARTMENT ON HAND TO ASSIST YOU WITH INFORMATION ON EXPORT MARKETS. DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY


Modern Buildings with Exclusive Features
u
n i
for every Commercial and Industrial use
The ‘Stran-Steel’ system provides
column-free interiors for maximum
floor area. Low in cost, with mini-
mum maintenance, they go up fast.
Only 'Stran-Steel' provides the
widest possible freedom in your
planning by spans up to 200 feet.
Investigate our superior styling,
turnkey construction and financing.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA UNDER LICENCE BY
DIVISION OF INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING LIMITED
FAIGH STREET, SPRINGVALE
VICTORIA • AUSTRALIA
Phone 546 0233. P.O. Box 83, SPRINGVALE
Please forward brochures and details of
your ‘STRAN-STEEL’ Buildings
Name
Address
SS/1044
A Counsel of Despair
By CROESUS
AS M. Pompidou might say, the
equities’ share market has long
been as “cadaverique” in Aus-
tralia as in Paris. It has been dead
or perhaps only dormant for so long
that most brokers, even the- redoubt-
able Mr. Staniforth Ricketson, it seems,
almost despair of an eventual resurrec-
tion.
One should say straight away, though,
that when giving a mighty puff in Mel-
bourne last week to the present attrac-
tions of fixed interest stocks, Mr.
Ricketson didn’t scorn the merits of
ordinary shares. On the contrary, he
thinks people are mad not to buy them.
But he’s been blowing their trumpet so
long and loud and so few appear to
have been listening that he seems now
to be just a little fed up, grabbing a
different instrument for a change.
No, Mr. Ricketson hasn’t given
equities away by any means. In fact,
what he said about them last week is
highly interesting. If we put it beside
what is his love of the moment, fixed
interest stocks, we have all the ingredi-
ents for a good discussion.
v As I say, Ricketson thinks investors
are mad not buying ordinary shares,
taken as a generic group, at their pre-
sent levels. As he has often explained
before, not to do so is simply taking-
a short sighted view of Australia’s
growth horizons. More immediately,
they are ignoring the improvement in
profits reported by the majority of
companies to have issued statements in
recent weeks. Again, at their present
level, which is practically the same as
equity prices do not discount
the last three years of accumulation of
retained profits, not to speak of the en-
hanced prospects arising from develop-
merits in natural resources. Noting that
with few exceptions equity prices have
actually fallen in the past two years,
considers current prices favorable
both for long and medium term capital
gains over the next few years.
T EAVING equities aside for the
it,, ,
moment, let us look at the case he is
now putting up for fixed interest stocks,
]VT r . Ricketsons argument for them is
based primarily on his view that in-
terest rates are at their peak or nearly,
Even if he sees no immediate likeli-
hood of commercial interest rates being
reduced, he conisders that the next sig-
nificant movement in them “must
almost certainly be downwards.” Ad-
vantage should therefore be taken to
S. Ricketson
secure the high
returns now avail-
able on this class
of investment
which on this
view will not be
available indefi-
nitely. He doesn’t
say so, but it could
be added that if
fixed interest rates
do ultimately fall,
then presumably
the market value
of fixed interest securities will rise
and afford holders some capital gain.
He is quite adamant that “investors
would be well advised to obtain their
full requirements of such securities
now.”
He substantiates this with the further
observation that measures taken by the
State Governments and the stock ex-
changes have strengthened the safe-
guards enjoyed by fixed interest in-
vestors and corporate borrowers have
accepted the necessity for public bor-
rowings to be strictly supervised and
adequately secured. Cox Bros, debenture
holders may not think exactly on these
lines, but we’ll let that pass.
Mr. Ricketson does not restrict his
advice to buy fixed interest stocks to
any class of investors, say to institutions,
as he might have done. Rather he
thinks investment in fixed interest


SEND A DONATION TO
AUSTRALIAN FORCES
OVERSEAS FUND
BOX 175, P. 0., DARLINGHURST, N.S.W.
arocEb
EXA K T A
Has
everything
does
everything
In any technical field, the use of con-
stantly up-to-date and versatile equipment
is of paramount importance. In photo-
graphy only EXAKTA meets this require-
ment. The outstanding feature of the
EXAKTA system is the constant inter-
changeability of lenses, viewfinders, copy-
ing devices and other accessories. It is
possible at any time to produce your exact
requirements from this timeless and highly
developed single-lens reflex system. Apart
from the many time-proven camera combi-
nations and accessories, there are two
simpler camera bodies available in the
EXA I and EXA 11. Added to these are
more than twenty standard and special
lenses from apertures of f 1.5 and in focal
lengths of 20mm-1000mm. The constant
introduction of new lenses and accessories
which will fit every EXAKTA Varex model
from the oldest to the newest, ensures a
supreme and never out-of-date system of
photography.
Models from $119.00 incl. leather case.
Made by
IHAGEE KAMERAWERK, DRESDEN.
Distributed by
H. LEVINSON PTY. LTD.
J yar,
1. Waistlevel viewfinder
and Flektogon f4/20mm.
2. Large bellows equip-
ment and slide-copying
attachment.
3. Extension tubes,
swing-angle attachment
and auto'ioupie release
for close-ups.
4. Scientific viewfinder
and microscope adaptor.
5. Ihagee “Vielzweck’
copying stand.
securities “should be considered by
practically all investors.” Also, they
should go into the longs rather than
the shorts because otherwise “they will
deprive themselves unnecessarily of in-
come.” If interest rates fall, he assures
us, such securities will be saleable on
the market at a premium on their issue
price.
Looking at these two cases side by
side, investors may well say that their
choice would be for the type of security
likely to offer the best prospects of
capital appreciation. Although Mr.
Ricketson didn’t mention it precisely
on last week’s Capel Court occasion,
key factors in assessing the relative
merits for capital gains would be the
high yields now pertaining on good
equities and the prospects for dividend
increases. If one has confidence in a
general increase in dividend rates (if
only to match, say, the substantial
profit generating), the prospects for
capital gains from equities would look
very real simply on the argument that
equity yields would become more com-
petitive with those on fixed interest.
RICKETSON may be on safe
grounds holding that present re-
turns on fixed interest stocks are not
likely to be bettered much in the fore-
seeable future and the attraction of this
to institutional investors is undeniable.
But because equity yields have now be-
come reasonably competitive with exist-
ing fixed-interest yields and have un-
deniable prospects of being improved
on by dividend increases, which are
denied to fixed interest holders, I would
say most people would do better from
now on buying equities in preference
to fixed-interest stocks.
This is not the whole story, of course.
Traditionally fixed-interest investments,
both capital and interest wise, are bad
doers in inflation, whereas investors take
the equity bit in such periods. The
prospect of a resurgence of inflation
can never be left out of the investors’
calculations. It comes as no surprise to
me that one of the biggest trustee com-
panies is currently switching some of
its old-established trusts out of fixed-
interest stocks into equity shares.
Quite apart from the fact that we
are becoming far too “security” minded
about investment at a time in our
national development where the
emphasis should be on the deployment
of capital on a risk rather than fixed-
interest basis, I have a “darkest hour
before the dawn” feeling about equity
investment in this country. Apparently
Mr. Ricketson doesn’t share this, in
now so strongly recommending every-
body to buy fixed-interest stocks. One
must always keep in mind the old adage
that nobody rings a bell when shares are
at the bottom.


GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
4'o
6JQrT
.
YEARS
WO
7
Or
'O
five
YEARS
7
1 Or
2 'O
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS AW/o
90-179 DAYS 5 1 A%
180-269 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
270-360 DAYS 5%%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6 1 /4%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 /a%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7 1 / 4 %
TEN YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
X 607
MAN ON THE LAND
The End of the Farm Boy
LBJ, an American farm boy who has
done rather well in life, may be
among the last of his kind. In
Australia, as in the United States, the
farm boy may have no future because
very soon he may no longer exist. Early
years of close association with the
struggle on the land has always resulted
in a strong breed of men.
The migration of country youth to
the city goes on at an ever-increasing
rate. More than ten million American
families have left the land for jobs
in cities since World War 11. There is
nothing so dramatic going on in Aus-
tralia, but nevertheless there are signs
an estimated two-thirds of young
people in country service towns must
move to get a job when they leave
school.
The country service town and the
people in it are as much a part of the
problem as people on farms. Where the
problem is different today, in the
United States and Australia, is that
the roots, the family farms, are going. In
the past the courftry boy making his
way in the big city could always look
homeward even if he could 'not go
home again. Thomas Wolfe said it all
a long time ago. The farm boy gave
to the city a vitality and sense of pur-
pose that helped, in no small way, to
build the most powerful nation the
world has ever seen. The farm boy
always knew where he was going. But
today, without roots, he is likely to be
just another job seeker.
*pHE new word that public relations
uses much today is landmark. We
have not heard, or read, too many
landmark speeches, but one, we think,
that really qualifies was that by OECD
Secretary-General Thorkil Kristensen,
at the sixth International Congress on
Food Distribution in Copenhagen
recently.
Industrial farming must inevitably
take over, he said. The reduction or
elimination of subsidies and the link-
ing of small farms into big industrial
units were prerequisites of improved
world agricultural output, trade, and
incomes. World average export prices
for agricultural products in 1964 were
22 percent lower than in 1951, he said.
But between 1960 and 1965 prices re-
ceived by farmers increased by 20 per-
cent or more in eight out of the 15
(industrialised) countries where infor-
mation was available.
Restrictions and subsidies tended to
widen the gap between internal price
levels for agricultural products and the
lower world market prices. The wider
this gap the higher the barriers to
trade.
Commodity agreements between ex-
porting and importing countries were
likely to increase, and be reflected by
increasing numbers of private, State or
co-operative marketing organisations in-
side national agricultural industries.
This would mean, he said, that market-
ing in agriculture would become more
similar to that in industry, where big
firms can decide how much to bring
into the market, and fix prices within
the limits set by competition. They can
increase or reduce stocks as the marke,t
situations indicate. Price support was
not normally a rational policy, said
Kristensen. It gave the largest support
to the big producers, who, however,
were better off than small farmers.
In stating the economic case for
corporation farming, Kristensen was not
saying anything new. What was new,
and what makes the speech a landmark,
was the attempt to show that corpor-


•• • • >» m y 2’ *
. v - 7 .•
• •
•* .%
• •
* • .# . ••
•• • •
. •• *.
• ##
• •
• i . ..
. \
.. <•
• • . *
• . X*!
••. # *
• # •„ •
•• %
fresh air comes in all shapes and sizes
The Carrier nameplate appears on air
conditioners of every shape and size. It’s your
guarantee of quality. It signifies an excellent
product, backed by the world-wide reputation
of the Carrier Organisation. No other
manufacturer of air conditioning equipment
can match the range, service or years of
experience of Carrier. This is why more people
select Carrier than any other make of
air conditioning system.
Is your name on one of the boxes?
FIRST NAME IN AIR CONDITIONING
1440/65X
ation farming is not only right economi-
cally but also right morally. The gap
between the rich and poor nations will
continue to widen until the poor nations
of Africa and Asia can compete for
world markets without the barriers of
trade agreements, subsidies, and price
supports among the rich.
Moral support for corporation farm-
ing is likely to be far more readily
accepted in Europe than in America
or Australia. Europe is removed, by
some centuries now, from pioneering
new lands. In America and Australia
the tradition is still strong. Many of
the men in power, in America and
Australia, had grandparents, or even
parents, who were pioneers.
Abandonment of the idea of farming
as a way of life is therefore possible in
Western Europe as well as socialist
Europe. It could, in international trade
discussions, drive America and Aus-
tralia closer, but make them, also, iso-
lated. For, however the drift to the
city continues, however rapidly farm-
lands become consolidated in fewer
hands, the system of subsidy and sup-
port seems likely to continue.
In Australia, and America, we have
the paradoxical situation in which it is
morally right for taxpayers to subsidise
farmers even though farmers become
fewer. It is morally right to subsidise
corporation farming, for many of the
corporations would not exist were it
not for Government spending on roads,
transport, various types of subsidy, and
taxation benefits.
expresses the new view
which is likely to gain ground, even
if it is not the whole answer, and even
if it means heartrending changes in
places such as Australia. That’s just
bad luck for us. Critics of the Australian
view, in the Kennedy Round discus-
sions and other arenas, might well say
that we don’t know what to do with
our continent and that we do not de-
serve to have it. Where are the Aus-
tralians? In the cities, working short
hours, driving new cars, building plea-
sant houses, playing poker machines,
and watching football. We will not
admit that this is so. But consider how
easy it would be to present such a case
on paper.
Queensland, one of the last big open
spaces in the world, is a case in point.
American corporation farmers are get-
ting enormous tracts of country, but as
things stand it is difficult to see anyone
doing much to stop them. The fact is
that they are there and all else is talk.
We have been told that one of the
original planks of the Queensland
leasehold system has been changed
within the past six months. Where in
the past there always had to be a
ballot, it now appears that, in certain
regions, the Government can do away
with the ballot and allocate land to
whomever it chooses. The really sur-
prising thing about this is that the con-
stituents raised no alarms. In years


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS. all types (in-
cluding Poems) for book publication.
Reasonable terms.
STOCKWELL LTD.',
Ilfracombe, England (Est. 1898).
There we were in Singapore at the crossroads of
the orient—a mighty cosmopolitan city. Culture,
pageant, ceremony, scenery—all the mysterious
orient at her feet and...
all she did was shop!
■
My wife went shopping full-time...and came out dollars ahead!
You can get duty free goods in Singapore. And the variety?
You name it, they have it. That goes for the sights too. Malays,
Chinese and Indians living together make for colour...activity
... Instant Asia!
Singapore
WRITE TO:
SINGAPORE GOVERNMENT TOURIST INFORMATION SERVICE,
Sydney: 15 Grosvenor Street. 27-5791.
Melbourne: 50 Franklin Street. 34-4111.
Canberra: Room 101, Industry House, Barton, A.C.T. 7-2519.
gone by an amendment like that would
have aroused passions in Queensland.
The theory that corporation farming
offers opportunities for the qualified
is not being borne out in Queensland,
cither. Queensland has one of Aus-
tralia’s three veterinary faculties. One
would think that veterinary science has
more, perhaps, to offer a developing
pastoral State than any other branch
ol rural science. Yet, of 292 graduates
in the past ten years, only 74 have
stayed in Queensland, and of these 74
(only 25 percent) at least half are said
to be in cat-and-dog practice. You can-
not blame them, or the ones who have
left. If the opportunity was there they
would still be in Queensland.
JN February next year a property
goes up for auction in Queensland
which is sure to attract American inter-
ests. Havilah and Heidelberg, run to-
gether as one 390-square mile tract, is
hard country, but certainly not harsh in
the Gulf or Northern Territory sense.
The two properties have been running
14,000 head and grossing $235,000 a
year for the past three years. They are
on the Bowen River, on the seaboard
side of the Divide. Only 20 years ago
there was local talk of subdivision, but
if such pressure still exists it is pretty
well hidden.
That they are going up together, as
one property, makes it likely that the
buyer will be an absentee millionaire
or a corporation. As a matter of fact,
it is the sort of property which could
interest even the President of the
United States himself or some of his
friends. The potential, as stated in the
auction notice, is immense.
Putting oneself in the place of an
Asian, or African, depending entirely
on agriculture, the argument would be,
“Your trade agreements and subsidies
deny us a fair chance of getting mar-
kets. Your subsidies help rich men to
become millionaires and millionaires to
become multi-millionaires. Your ordin-
ary people suffer and we suffer, too.
We cannot expand our agriculture un-
less we obtain foreign exchange to buy
the implements and skills we need.”
There is aid, of course. But aid can
be two-headed. Australia is generous
toward India and Pakistan, up to a
point. But at the very same time that
we send them wool and wheat we devote
much of our technological skills to find-
ing a substitute for jute wool packs
which we buy from these two countries
and upon which many Indian and
Pakistan farmers depend.
It is difficult enough to define even
some aspects of this problem, let alone
suggest an answer.


I
V*
i
4*
\\
/.
u
JW
/
V
/
%
\
N
sap
►
m
X
x
« /
x\’
:


vs
m
HK
pis
In those
32 stately floors
246,960 sq. feet
of Ce/dek
Steel decking
In the State Office Block in Sydney,
Lysaght Celdek plays a large part. An
unseen part. Yet it offers advantages
not found in any other flooring systems.
Celdek is a galvanized steel cellular flooring.
It cuts fixing time to a minimum,
eliminates the need for temporary props,
reduces crane and handling time. And
following trades simply “walk in and work.”
All electrical and communications wiring
is carried within the floor. This means'
that office layout can be altered easily and
economically at any time —telephone and
power services can be placed at random.
Although you won’t see an inch of
Celdek when the State Office is complete.
Engineers, Architects, Tradesmen,
Technicians and Tenants will never forget
that Celdek is there. It’s a product you
can’t forget. Build it with steel, build it
with strength, build it with Celdek.
Available through structural decking
contractors.
We’ll be glad to send a senior representative
with all the facts and figures. Literature
is available. John Lysaght (Australia)
Limited, Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
lysaght
Ga/dak
CDl.n.


GREA T NEWS FROM ENCEL ELECTRONICS
AN EXCLUSIVE OFFER ON
SONY
TAPE RECORDERS!
This exclusive offer is being made to reduce our existing stocks of current
model, world-famous, SONY tape recorders. Orders can only be accepted sub-
ject to stock availability . . . and we will care-pack and freight anywhere. All
recorders are BRAND NEW and FULLY GUARANTEED. Encel Stereo Centres are
situated in Melbourne and Sydney . . . and service, if ever necessary is
available from the Australian SONY agents in both cities.
Elec t Lon i« ' s Australia's Greatest Hi-Fi Centre . . . and is firmly estab-
hshed in the Top Five” in international standing; the others are in New
York and London. Encel staff are trained to assist you with your “sound”
problems ... we do not employ high-pressure salesmen. Apart from tape
recorders and components, thousands of complete Encel Stereo Systems have
ell"! Me| bourne and Sydney. See Encel Electronics now for Australia’s
best SONY tape recorder deal . . . Here are the Encel prices
m
*■ . .
*3#
w
w
n
MODEL
TCI23
TCI3S
TC9OO
TCIO2A
TC2SOA
TC2OO
TCSOOA
All-transistor, two track, two-speed mono
recorder.
Sturdy portable for home entertainment.
All-transistor, battery and A.C. two-track,
two-speed mono.
High-quality mono recorder, takes 7"
spools. Two speeds.
All-transistor stereo tape deck, 30-18,000
Hz at i.p.s.
Illustrated. Four-track stereo recorder with
satellite speakers.
High-fidelity stereo four-track recorder.
Separate speaker end.
LIST PRICE
$60.90
$94.50
$102.90
$155.40
$229.50
$298.20
$428.40
ENCEL CASH PRICE
$39.50
$59.00
$66.00
$99.00
$147.50
$lBB.OO
$274.00
ENCEL ELECTRONICS PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 431
City Store: 18
MELBOURNE
Iridge Rd., Richmond, Vic. Tel. 42 3672
3ourke St., Melbourne. Tel. 32 2672
SYDNEY
Sydney Store: 257 Clarence St., Sydney. 29 4563, 29 4564
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST HI-FI CENTRE
AGRISEARCH
A reply on the CSIRO's budget
A CORRESPONDENT, L ’t Man-
netje (8., Oct. 15), imputes ignor-
ance and prejudice to the Agri-
search article, “CSIRO and its Budget”
(8., Sept. 24) It is not easy to shield
ones soft underbelly from such jabs.
The charge of bias may, perhaps, be
deflected somewhat by remarking: that
like the research scientist, the journalist
strives to deal objectively with the in-
,o work underpressure
On the question of pay scales it
appears that Mr. ’t Mannetje has over-
looked the Chief Research Scientist”
classification in CSIRO. It ranges from
$10,690 to $12,618. A professorial salary
is $10,500. The difference, at least in
eyes of an, impecunious journalist,
is substantial.
But Mr. ’t Mannetje points out that
rank-and-file salaries for research
scientists have a ceiling of $9209. Jn
other words he seems to be saying that
it would be more realistic to compare
salaries at this level. The Australian
Institute of Agricultural Science does
this each year and its latest report was
published earlier this month. This shows
that 22 percent of the agricultural
scientists employed by CSIRO receive
a salary in the range $9OOO-$9999,
whereas only 2 percent of university-
employed agricultural scientists are in
this class and a mere 1 percent in the
State Public Service.
Concerning the incidence of foreign
scientists, only CSIRO appears to have
released a figure. Certainly, they are
not unknown in University Faculties of
Agriculture though they are by uo means
P ° ssib| y *ey amount at a
£* in « b ; Departments of Agriculture
y '
’T MANNETJE further claims
that “the obvious reason for the
high proportion of foreign scientists
in CSIRO is that Australia is a fast-
growing country, which cannot supply
the number of scientists needed for its
ra t e of development.” Perhaps there is
some connection between the rate of a
country’s economic growth and the ex-
tent of its engagement in scientific
research, but it is certainly not obvious.
Indeed, all the available evidence points
to the contrary. For instance, it is a
notorious fact that until about 20 years
ago the U.S.A. grossly neglected the
“principle-seeking” type of research
which Mr. ’t Mannetje says CSIRO
pursues. Yet it was during that period of
neglect that American productivity in
almost all industries forged way ahead
tEe rest tEe wor ld-
A recent ° ECD investigation shows
that the U.S.A. now spends 3.1 percent
° f he / ss t Nationa * Product on re-
re^lC ew mont s ago President
thisTiWl °f cut back r° n
of expenditure.) The figure for
Mannetje’s old'homeland’, Holland it
j s j.B percent, France 1.5 percent and
West Germany 1.3 percent. ’
rp, ( . .
c J*” f ha ° S ™ n Hf afmos S
b <fl s f ° *«*■ Y Man-
rfZ
surely his head must tell him to go
home. Old England, once the doyen of
science and technology—and still respec-
ted next to the U.S.A. and Russia is
now a very poor cousin of France and
Germany, not to mention countries like
Japan and Sweden. Considerations such
as these point to very disturbing con-
elusions into which it ill-behoves an
ignorant journalist to probe too deeply,
If CSIRO findings generally “have
immediate practical value for the man
on the land” why belabor the State
Departments of Agriculture with the
need for doing regional research? Gran-
ted that the role of CSIRO is to do
“national, principle-seeking research”
it is no disgrace if the majority of its
findings are not immediately translat-
able to the farms.


WILD CAT
PAGES
Prospects for Goldfields
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
THE most interesting things about
Consolidated Goldfields, currently
being floated in Australia through
the most impressive underwriting
triumvirate of stockbrokers yet seen
here, are not its achievements so much
as its prospects.
Its profit record so far is not enough
to justify the 4 percent dividend yield
at the flotation price of $2.50 a share.
This is based on a 10 percent dividend
which would take $2.2 million out of
forecast earnings of “at least $4 million”
for 1966-67 involving a 38 percent
profit jump in the current year over
1965-66’s $2.9 million.
It seems likely that the company’s
greatest assets are those that have not
yet contributed to profits, like the iron
ore project at Mt. Goldsworthy that
should add possibly $1 million to profits
this year, and much more in subsequent
years, the big tin developments at Reni-
son, where the $8 million tin mine
should come into production early next
year, the new $2 million mineral sands
works of Associated Minerals near New-
castle, which together have involved the
expenditure of $3O million in the past
three years without any benefit yet to
profits.
B UT it is of special significance that
the current issue, to raise $12.5 mil-
lion, will not be used for any of these
existing developments, except that $1.3
million will go toward repaying a loan
to the U.K. parent company (which
retains a 77.3 percent interest in the
Australian company).
Directors say the major portion of
the funds raised will be available to
“follow up its interests and to take
advantage of mining and investment
opportunities as they present them-
selves.” It is interesting that Gold-
fields, which has interests in mining
coal, copper, gold, iron, tin, rutile,
and zircon, is not represented (except
in small portfolio investments) in the
four big areas of mining development
that have assumed such importance in
Australia oil, natural gas, uranium,
and aluminium.
It has an exploration company busy
looking for prospects, but it seems likely
that once the group has a ready instru-
ipent for takeovers (shares in the hold-
ing company which can be exchanged,
as well as the $ll million cash it will
hold) one or two of these could be
avenues for development.
Some of its most significant prospects
are in takeovers. The company now
seems set on an aggressive pattern. It
has self - confessed “territorial arnbi-
tions,” but admits to no particular tar-
g ets -
By next March its iron ore exports
should be up at the required rate of
21 million tons a year, so the current
year could result in exports reaching
about If million tons in total. This
suggests a P/ofit from this source of
about $1 million this year and about
$2 million in subsequent years from the
likely earnings of about $2 a ton on
iron ore exports.
. ■ . . ,
e orecast percent dividend
seems likely to rise before long; the
British parent company will no doubt
be keen (as will the Bank of England
if its present balance of payments prob-
lems continue for much longer) on
which it has had no earnings except last
year’s $J million dividend. At present
it still has sl2| million in interest-free
loans providing some of Goldfields’ one-
third stake in the $52 million develop-
ment costs of Mt. Goldsworthy iron ore
project, which is to return the group
one-third of $l4O million over seven
years in selling million tons of its
proved reserves of 40 million tons to
the Japanese.
One intriguing aspect of the pros-
pectus is the sharp reduction the
auditor makes in profits consolidated
into the Goldfields accounts from Com-
monwealth Mining Investments Ltd.
In the report by directors, CMl’s
latest profit is stated as $939,000, ex-
cluding $451,000 profit on sale of in-
vestments taken straight to reserves.
But the auditor, Cooper Bros., who also
audits the CMI books, reduces the
profits on realisation of investments for
members of the group (presumably the
CMI subsidiary) by $368,855 in the
latest year. This has followed the
auditors’ decision to regard profit as
the difference between selling price and
cost rather than selling price and book
value, when that book value had been
written down by charges against
reserves. CMl’s profits on share sales
are always related to book values, mak-
ing them look larger than they were
in cost terms.
This means that over the past five
years CMl’s accounts show it has
earned a total of $348,000 more in
profits on sales of shares than Gold-
fields is including in its consolidated
accounts as coming from this source.
Copper is the greatest single reason
for the Goldfields accounts rising 42
percent in the latest year. The times
increase in Mt. Lyell profits in 1966,
which Goldfields’ directors say reflected
abnormally high copper prices, pro-
The Chartist says:
COMENG has been able to move against the general trend of the market
since 1964 and an upward move at a rate of approximately 30% appreci-
ation per annum has been followed. After the sharp decline of 1960-61, a
base consolidation pattern formed during the sideways movement until the com-
mencement of the upward trend in 1964. Prices have already moved to a high
point of $1.27 in February, 1966, and the stock now shows signs of breaking
out of the consolidation pattern formed over the last eight months.
Investors could expect a further rise to approximately $1.50-$ 1.60 where
strong resistance would be encountered from the range of trading in this area
in 1960. However, any decisive penetration of the basic trendline would issue
a selling signal. It can be seen on the chart that a slight penetration occurred
during the recent overall market “bearishness,” but prices have moved back into
the trend channel. Last sale price on 18/10/66 $1.16.


One of Britain’s fabled castles
St. Paul’s Cathedral—London.
"t
S
s»
N.
m
11
m
v
*
Hi
BOAC is always poking its
nose into other peoples affairs
It’s logical when you consider our world-wide jet route covers
214,674 statute miles! And the fact that we fly to more places,
more often than any other airline in the world.
Take London.
We fly in and out of London more than 250 times a week from
all over the world.
In fact, we’re a familiar sight in most great cities of the world—
with our Rolls Royce powered 707’s and VClO’s. BOAC is
the biggest airline in the world outside of the USA and
the USSR.
Check for details with your BO AC Travel Agent,
BO AC, or BO AC’s General Sales Agents, Qantas.
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU.
BOAC:P182
British Overseas Airways Corporation, in association with
Air India, Air New Zealand and Qantas.
vided about 90 percent of the Gold-
fields group’s profit rise of $830,000 to
$2.9 million attributable to the com-
pany. This lifted Lyell’s proportion of
group profits to 43 percent.
The mineral sands miners, Associated
Minerals and Wyong, together provided
about $850,000 of the $2.9 group profit;
Bellambi only about $140,000 and Zip
Holdings Ltd., New Zealand’s biggest
electrical appliance maker, added a
further $158,000.
Directors have “assumed somewhat
lower prices and higher operating costs
than presently prevailing” in assessing
future prospects for the mineral pro-
ducers in the group. And with only
one of the company’s commodities,
copper, vulnerable to any substantial
price moves this year, the market could
well give the company a 50 - cent
premium or so on listing.
MYERS, last week’s missing link in
the retail story on this page, still
looks the daddy of them all in
the retail trade, despite claims that it
now has to hurry to catch up with
the trend into suburban shopping centre
developments that it had pioneered with
Chadstone ten years ago.
There is no doubt that Grace Bros,
in N.S.W. and John Martins in S.A.
have outpaced Myers into the suburbs.
But Myers is catching up. This month
it has opened two major suburban
centres; there are more to come. And
in the meantime its traditional Mel-
bourne store, the hard core of its busi-
ness, continues to increase its sales and
profits at a time when the group’s
non-Victorian . operations have all
brought in lower results. Any improve-
ment this year in the general level of
retail spending along with the natural
increase in profits that should come
from the two new centres, expansion
and modernisation of existing stores and
the inclusion of a full year’s profit from
Myer S.A., should all combine to give
Myers an improved result this year.
Myers is certainly expanding rapidly.
Last year’s $5.6 million expansion in
properties and equipment was not only
for the two new shopping centres that
opened in October, and for major ex-
tensions in Brisbane (at Queen Street
and Chermside) and in Orange, Dubbo,
and Penrith, but also went toward future
development, such as paying a lease
premium on the proposed Ringwood
shopping centre and part payment for
the Southland shopping centre site at
Cheltenham (work on both of which
has already commenced). The com-
pany was committed for a further $10.6
million capital expenditure at last
balance date.
But for those who continually tip
share issues from this stock, the cash
flow of almost $9 million a year and
the prospects of borrowing a little more
(last year bank overdraft fell by almost
$1 million, and long-term borrowings
dropped sl| million) should be enough


V\OW OP£/w
*
/
\
/
\
I
%
I
1
m
I
I
i
L
La
5
50
LU
CD
Or
I
f
tP
O
-A
Or
V
V
o
*
o
w
X
o
X
o o
$
'0 N
PV\
S OV
°ft/TY IN N.SAN
Government guaranteed
r-
for 10 or
15 years
3 7
5sE/||
for 7 years
The SCC Loan —an Authorised Trustee Investment —is
secured on an annual income of $lOO million. Fixed
assets of the SCC now exceed $l7O million.
This is an outstanding opportunity to invest available
funds in the future of New South Wales.
Also, if you have holdings in Loan No. 180, maturing
15/12/66, you are invited to convert them to the new
Loan.
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New
South Wales; Commercial Bank of Australia Limited;
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; Rura
Bank of New South Wales; or through a Stockbroker, or
at the Council’s Head Office, Queen Victoria Building,
George Street, Sydney (’phone 2-0259).
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne.
000
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
44.946


K
1
SPACE SAVER
%
m
DATA PROTECTOR
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier)
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (Australia) Pty. Ltd,
Head Office: 2 Wentworth Ave. } Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
Please have one of your representatives contact
me to further explain how 3M microfilm could
help solve my company’s filing problems.
NAME-
COMPANY,
ADDRESS,
State
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS
Than! a 3M Microfilm System
SPACE SAVER: By reducing your records into microfilm
cartridges you actually save 96% of present filing space.
DOCUMENT FINDER (and copier): Any one document
stored in 3M cartridges can be retrieved and viewed
within 20 seconds. Another 4 seconds and you can have
a full size dry copy ready for use.
DATA PROTECTOR: Store a duplicate microfilm file off
the premises for protection against fire, damage, theft.
SOLUTION TO YOUR FILING PROBLEMS: Discover how
easily and economically you can win the paper work
battle by using the 3M microfilm cartridge system. Send
the coupon today and 3M will contact you.
“PROFIT-AS-YOU-LEASE PLAN”: Operated through Mer-
cantile Credits Ltd. Under this plan your company can be
equipped with 3M Microfilm without investing a penny.
3m
MICROFILM WORKSHOP:
Sydney 43-0455, Melbourne 61-3841,
Brisbane 5-4131, Adelaide 51-5971, Perth 28-4651,
Hobart 3-3104, Canberra 4-0791, Auckland 295-109
3M9/3195/66


INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
CREDIT
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
NEW ISSUE
DEBENTURE STOCK
TO
INTEREST
UP
3Q
4
o
Applications may proceed only on the
form attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus, which is obtainable from:
Any branch of
lAN POTTER & CO.
Any member of
A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
Any branch of
IHCC OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE A.N.Z. BANK LTD.
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
TB
HISSSD/I2
Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPOBATIOH LTD.
A
Paid up capital
$23,350,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
i/ 0 7YEARs
5Vz%-U MONTHS
Other rates and terms ayailable see Prospectus fpr fvl)
details Prospectus and application form avaijabje from?
• BROKERS lAN POTTER & CO.
• ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EKCtfANP*
• ALL BRANCHES OF J.A.C,
• ALL BRANCHES OF A.N.Z, BANK
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms Of
application attached to a printed copy of Prospects
ASK A.N.Z. FOR DETAILS
tiot
to cope with any liquidity pressures
that this rate of expansion may bring.
Myers quite properly prepared the
market for a profit downturn some
weeks before the result (technically a
higher net profit) came out. For the
accounts issued last week show a 4.9
percent fall in trading profit despite a
2.3 percent rise in sales. Such a small
sales rise is a disappointment, especially
to a group that had spent $5.6 million
on new properties and equipment during
a year that directors say was “One of
the most difficult in post-war history.”
But the net profit attributable to
the company’s shareholders after ex-
cluding outside interests went up by
$190,000 or almost 2 percent to $ll.l
million even after adjusting the previous
year’s profit for $124,000 overprovided
tax. This net profit rise is for two
reasons the $565,000 drop in out-
side shareholders’ share of the profit
following the Myer S.A. takeover last
year, and a $820,000 fall in tax due
largely to a non-recurring tax saving
following a tax judgment.
But on the other hand, the company
did not include in its profit its full
year’s entitlement to profits of Myer
S.A., as the first half-year’s profits of
about $400,000 or so appear to have
been included as a pre-acquisition profit,
indicating that in the current year, the
full S.A. results will give the group’s
figures a further boost and so hold
earning rate up on the higher average
capital employed resulting from the
$3.4 million Myer shares issued to
acquire the outstanding 42J percent of
Myer S.A.
»pHE latest profit was clearly affected
by the development costs of the
recently opened Northland and Bur-
wood shopping centres, which will
contribute to the group for the first
time in the current year.
Myers are far more at home in Vic-
toria than interstate; Myers Melbourne
had record sales and higher net profit,
and so did Chadstone, Geelong, and
Ballarat (as well as Hobart), but Myers
S.A. suffered a decrease in sales and
profit, and the N.S.W. and Queens-
land stores (Farmers, Western Stores,
McWhirters, Allan & Stark and Myers
Toowoomba) reported record sales but
lower profits.
Myers is certainly avoiding becoming
too heavily involved in the credit re-
tailing business. Last year customers’
deferred payment accounts fell a
further $l.B million to a gross $l7
million (against total sales that rose
$6 million to $273 million). And to
stress their conservative approach to
this business, directors added a further
$440,000 to increase the provision for
doubtful debts to $3.3 million (which
is not expected to be drawn on except
in a severe economic crisis) to cover
total accounts receivable of $32.3 mil-
lion following the $300,000 rise in
other trade debtors to $2l million.
Myers’ self-financed expansion, its
massive reserves, and its dynamic retail
approach give this company substantial
appeal at prices below $2.90.


Make this
your target
NO
FIXED
TERM
NO FJXED TERM means your in-
vestment plus dividend is readily
available for withdrawal. Your
dividend is 6% p.a. net (current
rate) paid twice yearly. There are
NO deductions.
Assets exceed $2l million. Write
for brochure.
BY 54C
ST. GEORGE & GRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward, General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME.
ADDRESS
B
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Publishers for Holding
IT is hard to take a “growth stock”
seriously when its net profit has
risen over the past three years at
an average rate of 1.1 percent a year
and when its taxation provision is only
at the rate of 33 percent to pre-tax
trading profit instead of the normal
, C)1 5 y
422 percent.
Despite all this, Publishers’ Holdings,
the Sydney-based magazine publisher
and printer and snow resort developer
and hotelkeeper, should be taken very
seriously indeed, and should provide
considerable rewards in coming years
to investors buying in at around the
$2.30 mark its lowest level for five
years.
It h as n °t only been the profit
stagnation that has prompted the
market to slash the price of Publishers
sl f r “ a ‘ m “' ln t kalf 'T, 19 . 61 ’ P eak
° f “G™ TrhJ lit
end of speculation that one of the major
British publishing houses may acquire
Publishers as a method of getting into
the Australian magazine market, and
there has been voluminous evidence
that none of the other snow developers
are making much money out of skiing
and one has gone broke.
But Publishers’ three lean years
should soon to be followed by several
of plenty, as the accelerated deprecia-
tion allowable on plant and equipment
erected on leaseholds or franchise areas,
and the costs of rapid expansion which
have been the major reasons for the
dreary profits of recent times, should
provide an excellent earnings stimulus.
Despite this expenditure, and despite
the unpredictable nature of skiing con-
ditions, on which profits in the snow
depend, and even though net profit has
been bolstered by a low tax provision,
the “working profit” (before deprecia-
tion and tax) has shown a reasonable
and uninterrupted upwards trend.
In the past four years, total tax paid
has fallen short of normal tax at stan-
dard rates by over $400,000. Most of
this “saving” is related to the sinking
fund on Perisher Valley leasehold allow-
able as a tax deduction, even though
the fund comes out of appropriations
after profit, which gives the company’s
accounts a better look than more con-
ventional accounting would.
In 1961 the company appropriated
$200,000 for leasehold amortisation and
$lOO,OOO each year since, so that the
sinking fund stands at $700,000 against
cost of $1,201,000. If this rate con-
tinues, the leasehold land and buildings
will be written out of the books by
1971, and the Perisher investment will,
as it were, be “running for free.”
ACCUMULATED losses of Grenville
Publishing, acquired in the Green’s
Products takeover of 1962-63, gave tax
relief for the next couple of years.
Investment allowance has been claimed
for the heavy printing plant expansion
in the past four years and, in the
latest year to June, rebates were avail-
able for expenditure in drumming up
export trade in books. Altogether,
$198,000 of the past year’s profits
escaped tax because of the combination
of allowances and amortisation sinking
funds.
Almost $400,000 of last year’s
$500,000 capital expenditure was on
printing plant, placing Publishers
amongst the major printers in the coun-
try after the daily newspaper publishers.
The printery, Kenmure Press, works
exclusively for the publishing side of
the business.
Two offset machines were installed
to replace some of the letterpress plant,
but neither reached expected produc-
tion performance until after the close
of the 1966 financial year.
The Kenmure Press printing plant
already occupies two acres at Lidcombe,
but additions may be necessary in the
near future, shareholders were told at
the recent annual meeting. The com-
pany has plenty of funds, with $280,000
in cash and another $200,000 out on
deposit, and a cash flow of $400,000.
Investment in Perisher Valley is in
Sundeck Hotel, opened in 1959, the


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
NEW ISSUE
%
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
DEBENTURE
STOCK
UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
JOINT UNDERWRITERS: A. B. S. White & Co., 82 Pitt
St., Sydney; Pring Dean & Co., 20 O’Connell St., Sydney
(Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange Limited).
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
8-12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Tel. 27-9331
AND ANY BRANCH OF BANK OF N.S.W. ma2s4nsw
Y' 4
Now for immediate delivery
155 hp Hamhlep
American
and the Magnificent
Hamblen V 8
today's Biggest Value
in Comfort Motoring
High Trade-in Allowance
MARCO MOTORS
Authorised Rambler Sales and Service
Parramatta Road, Homebush
[Cnr. Hillerest Street)
76-8329
Man from Snowy River Hotel (1960)
and the Valley Inn (July, 1965), T-bar
ski lifts and a mile-long chair lift, and
in Kosciusko Centre, a supermarket,
plus a ski school and ski-hiring
facilities.
The leases expire in the year 2005.
Rentals are based on a percentage of
gross, estimated to bring the rental to a
normal commercial basis.
Although some other resort operators
in the mountains have been snowed
under with difficulties, Publishers makes
its venture pay by being low capitalised
(the sl.4m. investment was financed
from internal resources, too) and well
managed. It described the Perisher
enterprise as “very successful” during
the 1965 winter season, and there was
“further improvement” in 1966.
gHAREHOLDERS have not been
called on for fresh capital since 1955
(a one-for-four at par), but since then
they have had two bonuses, a one-for-
five in 1960 and a one-for-three in 1963,
neither of which interrupted the 20
percent dividend rate. Another bonus
seems likely after the next really good
result.
The period of great capital expen-
diture on printing machinery and in
the Perisher Valley appears to be over
(contracts not completed were only
$lOO,OOO at June 30, 1966, compared
with $300,000 in 1965) and, although
this may bring greater liability for tax-
ation in future, the company should be
well equipped to lift profits with that
new machinery.
JUNE 30 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Working profit 659 751 790 868 882
Depreciation 89 114 125 133 132
Taxation 210 138 156 221 234
Net profit 360 499 509 514 516
Dividend rate percent 20 20 20 20 20
Earning rate percent 48.0 41.9 42 5 43.0 43.1
Earning rate on total
funds 11.9 16 2 16 4 15 7 15 1
Current assets ratio 24 2.3 31 25 22
Fixed assets 1614 1898 1882 2052 2337
Dividend yield (a) 2.7 3.0 3.0 3.4 4.3
Price/earnings ratio
(a) 15 1 16 1 15 9 13 9 10 7
High price (b) 3.92 4 12 4 50 3 38 2 65
Low price (b) 3.34 290 328 2.38 2.30
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1966 to date.
MINING
Royalties to
the Rescue
THE huge royalty payments made by
the Barrier miners to the N.S.W.
Government have one good effect
on the stockmarket; they reduce the
violence of the swings in profits and
share prices that would follow if mining
profits moved in direct relation to
metal prices.
The recent profit announcements from
North Broken Hill Limited and Broken
Hill South show in quite a dramatic
manner the extent to which the New
South Wales State Government shares
in the prosperity of these enterprises.
Total royalties payable to the New
South Wales Treasurer by these two
companies fell from $6,856,000 in 1965
to $3,673,000 for the year ended 30th
June, 1966. Royalties payable by New
Broken Hill Consolidated Limited for
the year ended 31st December, 1966,
will be approximately $3.3 million less
than last year, while the Zinc Corpora-
tion (subsidiary of Conzinc Riotinto of
Australia Limited) will also be paying
much lower royalties.
The royalties payable by these Broken
Hill mining companies are on a pro-
gressive scale. On the first $400,000 of
mining profit the rate payable is 4
percent, but this rate rises by 2 percent
for each additional $400,000. Thus, on
the second $400,000 of mining profit


fcfr
M c Callunis
is a
SCOTS
Whisky!”
k
M
*
3*
it never was an
ordinary scotch.
The name is
OTGallnm’s
The whisky is perfection
For epic occasions, McCallum’s
De Luxe Scots Whisky also
available. Distilled, blended
and bottled in Scotland.
MC 75.103
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To: ROGER TIE KOSTER, late of 81
Auburn Street, Wollongong. TAKE
NOTICE that HENRY KENNETT
WATSON has filed a Supplementary
Answer ill Suit No. 235 of 1963 in-
stituting proceedings for a decree of
dissolution of marriage alleging that
Elva May Watson has committed
adultery with you. If you wish to de-
fend you should file in a Reply in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by
the second day of December, 1968, and
obtain a copy of the Supplementary
Answer and Notice'of Proceedings with-
out charge from Messrs. Marshall
Marks Dezarnaulds & Jones, Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.. If you
do not wish to defend this suit but
wish to receive copies of all documents
filed herein you must file a Notice of
Address for Service within the said
time. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
the rate payable is 6 percent, and on
the third $400,000 the rate is 8 percent.
The rate rises with additional incre-
ments of profit to reach an upper limit
of 50 percent. (Prior to January, 1965,
this limit did not exist, but was agreed
to when the Broken Hill leases came
up for renewal and the royalty rates
were reviewed.)
For the Barrier mining companies
the progressiveness of the royalties
payable has played a considerable part
in lessening the effects on profits of
lower metal prices. In the case of
North Broken Hill Limited the profit
on which royalty was levied fell by
$4.4 million while profit after royalty
(but before tax) fell by only $2.2 mil-
lion. The cushioning effect of the lower
royalty is quite apparent.
With B. H. South, the profit on which
royalty was payable fell by $3.4 mil-
lion, while profit after royalty (but be-
fore tax) fell by only $2.4 million, the
difference here being accounted for by
a drop in royalty from $1,294,000 to
$348,000. In the estimate of profit
given by New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated Limited for the year ending
December 31, 1966, the same thing
occurs. Profit before royalty is expected
to fall by about $6,766,000, but lower
royalties will mean that pre-tax profit
is expected to fall by only $2.6 mil-
lion.
In 1960 a different scale of royalties
was laid down for the copper to be
produced by Cobar Mines Pty. Ltd.,
a subsidiary of Broken Hill South
Limited. These royalties do not become
payable until December, 1971, or until
annual profits exceed $500,000, which-
ever occurs last. They are at the rate
of 2 percent on the first $200,000 of
mining profits, and increase at the rate
of 1 percent for each additional
$200,000 of mining profits. The maxi-
mum rate is 8 percent and consequently
this royalty will never provide much
of a cushion against wide fluctuations
in profit, should these occur.
On the other hand it does not weigh
so heavily on the profits of the Cobar
operation. On the first $2,000,000 of
mining profits royalties will be only
$llB,OOO, and profits of $3,000,000 will
attract royalties of only $198,000. The
maximum rate of 8 percent is con-
ditional, and applies so long as the
value of copper produced exceeds 50
percent of the total value of mine
production and so long as at least
$2 million has been spent on prospect-
ing and developing the leases held by
Cobar Mines Pty. Ltd. and Enterprise
Exploration Limited.
COMMODITIES
The Next Uranium Boom
THE next uranium boom moved a
big step closer with last week’s
surprise news of an 8000-ton
Canadian sale to Britain. This pur-
chase is all the more a surprise con-
sidering that the managing director of
the U.K. Atomic Energy Authority’s
Reactor Group said earlier this year
that success with new fast breeder
reactors could make Britain indepen-
dent of further uranium purchases
until well into the next century.
The 8000 short tons (16 million
lbs.) of uranium oxide will be delivered
from Rio Algom Mines Ltd. in the
ten years from 1971. And the U.K.
authority has the option to buy a
further 10,000 tons after that period.
The uranium will be used in Britain’s
civil electric power program the
most advanced in the world.
The price for the latest sale is not
disclosed, but considering the pros-
pects for price rises over coming years
it probably involves a sliding scale.
The large quantity and long-term
nature of the deal point up a problem
facing the Australian miners the
scale of sales will exclude their par-
ticipation in the uranium market in
many cases.
THE rubber market has developed a
better tone in the past three
weeks following a cut in U.S.
stockpile sales.
From January 1, 1967, the GSA will
sell a .maximum of 30,000 tons of
rubber a quarter, compared with the
present 42,500 tons limit.
The rubber market has risen more
than a penny a lb. to about (stg.)
following the moves. Apart from the
relief from stockpile pressure, the
demand side of the picture also looked
a little less gloomy with the September
export figures. Malaysia shipped some
11,000 tons in September—highest for
two years—against 89,000 in August.
Eastern European purchases of rubber
lately have also helped the Singapore
market.


‘I don’t mind
paying
a little
less!’
'
•-3H
"So when I rent a car I always rent from
Kays. It’s good business because I save
money. Save time, too, because I travel
interstate at least once a month. So when
I am making my travel arrangements I call
Kays and reserve a 1966 model car of my
choice at my destination. I don't need cash
either; I just say ‘charge it'!”
You, too, can do the same whenever you
travel throughout Australia. Inquire about
Kays Credit Card. So next time you rent,
rent from Kays. It’s good business and who
minds paying a.little less.
KAYS
RENTACAR
Throughout Australia.
let Kays put you on wheels!
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Getting Into Chemicals
DURING the 19505, chemical com-
panies were almost all regarded
as growth stocks, and it was only
necessary to have the word “chemical”
in the company name for the shares to
command a fairly substantial premium
on the market. I have selected five of
these for study. They are: Amalgam-
ated Chemicals, Australian Chemical
Holdings, Chemical Materials, Im-
perial Chemical Industries of Australia
and New Zealand, and Taubmans
Industries.
Amalgamated Chemicals’ gfowth
from 1958 (when it was first listed
under the name of Olims Industries
Limited) continued until mid-1963.
During this period paid capital in-
creased from $200,000 to $4,308,000
and a long list of companies was
acquired. The major acquisitions were
Blyth Chemicals and Lanes Holdings.
These two companies had been engaged
in the distribution of agricultural
chemicals for many years—one in Vic-
toria and one mainly in N.S.W., but
with branches in Tasmania and W.A.
as well as Victoria.
Subsequently, the new enlarged
group moved into the field of aerosol
packaging, and in 1963 Parco Chemi-
cals Pty. Ltd., the largest Australian
company in this field, was acquired.
Based on statistics from the United
States, great growth was predicted for
this particular part of the Amalgam-
ated Chemicals group. But it is likely
that while the growth in sales volume
is up to expectations, the margins and
even sales value may have declined
somewhat.
'JHE main events which today are
remembered about the company’s
relatively short history are two take-
over offers made for the company (not
by it), and the cancellation of three
onerous service agreements with three
directors in 1962.
The first takeover offer, by Parke,
Davis, did not materialise. Following
almost immediately on the announce-
ment that “the marriage will not take
place,” the 1962 annual report dis-
closed that the share premium reserve
had been drawn upon during the year
to the extent of $315,000 in “elimina-
tion of contractual commitments of a
capital nature.” After questions had
been raised at the annual meeting, it
was subsequently disclosed that pay-
ments had been made to Mr. J. D. Wil-
son ($240,000), Mr. J. Olims ($75,000),
and Mr. J. S. Blyth ($117,600), and
these payments had been satisfied by
the issue of shares in the company.
The last event “main event” took
place only in February/March this
year and ended with Continental Oil
Company acquiring 73 percent of the
capital of Amalgamated Chemicals.
The result was not achieved without
some high Stock Exchange drama as
Dow Chemical (advised by DFC) and
Continental (advised by Darling &
Co.) fought for the possession of the
bone.
Since then things have been relatively
quiet and the share price fell from
the offer price of $1.40 down to around
70c, and, while it has varied a little
from this price, there has been no
sign of any marked revival. Share-
holders (apart from Conaus) might well
wonder why the market is only valuing
the shares at half the amount which
they were worth to two astute U.S.A.
companies just over six months ago.
The profit for the 1965 years was
down, but this was no secret at the
time of the takeover offer and it seems
that profit for 1966 is expected by the
managing director to be less than that
for 1965, despite drought-breaking
rain. During 1965 net profit before tax,
depreciation, and interest on long-term
loans fell by about 12 percent, despite
the inclusion of six months’ profits of
the Alan Muston group acquired during
the year. It seems that the agricultural
chemical section “continued to prosper,”
but severe competition “resulted in a
substantial profit reduction” in the
aerosol division.
Continental is currently exploring in
Australia for rock phosphate as a feed-
stock for a superphosphate plant and
is investigating the best locations for
such a plant. In the announcements
that have been made about Contin-
ental’s intentions in this area, it would
seem that a new company will be
formed to operate the plant or plants
and that Amalgamated Chemicals will
be offered “a substantial equity” in
this new company. Amalgamated
Chemicals is already 73 percent owned
by Continental, so the equity available
to the other shareholders would be
quite small. For the time being then,
the outside shareholders in Amalgama-
ted Chemicals can only await the
publication of the details of the findings
of Continental’s study team.
Disregarding .the prospects of enter-
ing the fertiliser manufacturing in-
dustry, the prospects of Amalgamated
Chemicals can only be judged on the
results of the past five years. There is
little doubt that by any standards, per
share earnings have declined over this
amalgamated chemicals limited
Year to 31st December 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES $000
Current Assets 4671 5870 7306 8131 8241
Current Liabilities 2637 3501 4163 4508 4175
Working Capital 2034 2369 3143 3623 4066
Land & Buildings 1908 1982 2116 2266 2337
Plant etc 837 834 979 970 991
intangible Assets 132 - 726 725 827
Total Capital 4911 5185 6964 7584 8221
LoaT 6 Capital * 566 561 442 790 1050
Ordinary 3*8 34$ 43$ 43
Reserves 011 1154 2126 2399 2738
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES $’000
Loan Interest NA 40 42 59 114
Depreciation 75 128 162 183 192
Tax provided 372 492 536 629 468
Earnings 659 992 860 832 723
Ordinary Dividends 384 432 548 624 498
Surplus 275 560 312 208 225
Earning Rate % 21.4 28.8 21.6 19.0 16.3
Ordinary Dividend
Rate % 12 5 12 5 13.75 14 25 11.25
Dividend Yield % 4.7 3.6 3 9 4 5 4.3
High Price $ 1.63 2 06 2 10 1.92 1 58
Low Price 5 1.05 1.42 1.46 1 22 1.02
period. The question is by how much.
The figures given in the table suggest
a decline of about 24 percent, but if
the pre-tax figures are used, the decline
is nearly 45 percent.
On this latter basis, per share earn-
ings for 1965 (with a fall expected in
1966) were about 7.7c per share, and it
looks as though the dividend might be
reduced to 5c per share this year. I
would think that 70c is just about the
right price for Amalgamated Chemi-
cals by present-day standards.


Share
Par |
Value
Div.
cents
Year [Week |
| ago ] ago ]
Fri. | 1966 J
close | High j Low |
T urnover
Syd. | Meib.
Yield %
Div. J Earn.
METALS
AND
OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
1 95
2 15
2.00
2.58 1.90|
2,250
3,300
Ampol Exp.
.50
.961
1.10
1 02,
1 401 .89,
3,400
1,400
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
4 75|
5.50 [
5.50 i
5.50j 4 80
2,400
2,700
A.O.G.
.50
2 351
2 13
2 20
2.81| 2 10]
14,150
7,600
B. H. South
.50
11
2 50
2 57
2 581
2 90 2.24
18,900
27,800
4.3
5.1
C.R.A.
.50
8
3.70,
5 28
5 26
5.82] 3.92,
5,625
6,650
1 5
4 0
C’wlth. Min.
1.00
7
1.78
2.50,
2 38,
2 85| 1.90
7,700
4,700
3.8
6 1
K. 1. Scheel
.50 1
10
1.58
2.58]
2.52
3 25. 1.89
2,800
4,100
Mount Isa
.50
10
3.901
4.40'
4.27,
4 71 3 92
35,060
20,800
2 3
' 4 1
Mt. Morgan
1.00
15
1.70|
2 65 f
2.75|
2.90, 1 90!
11,400
7,500
5 5
12.8
Mt. Lyell
.25
4 5
1 08:
1.40-
1.35!
1 581 1 251
5,800
10,900
3.3
10.6
New B.H.
.62 j
38
4 70 j
4 401
4 28
4.40] 4 25]
1,900
3,000 j
10 5
12 6
North B.H.
1.00
25
3.66
3.7l|
3 65
3.88 3.23]
12,200
13,7001
6 £
11.5
Oil Search
.50 |
.18,
.15.
14!
.20, .12]
14,600
2,300
Renison
.50
15
5.70
7.70.
7.50|
7.801 5.00!
300
700
Santos
•25 j
1.62
1.94i
1 90,
3 09! 1.40
2,200
West. Min.
.50 |
10
2 30
6 12!
6 10
6 16 2 45
7,550
16,750
1.6
1 4
Woodside
.50 f
.22
• 93|
,93|
1.00, .20!
5,500
12,700
A.R.C.
Adams, W. 1
Adel. Steam.
Advertiser
Allen, S. 1
Allied Mills
Amalg. Chem.
Ampol
Ansett
A.P.C.M.
Assoc. Pulp 1
A.N.Z. Bank 2
A. K. Cement
Aust. Chem. 1
A.C.I. 1
Aust. Fert. 2
A.G.C.
A.P.M. 1
A. Newsprint 2
A. 1
Bank Adel. 1
Bank N.S.W. 2
Bellambi
Berlei 1
B.
Bonds Ind.
Boral
Borg Warner 1
Brad. Cotton
Brambles
Brit. Tobacco 1
B. 2
Bruck Mills
Burns Philp 1
C. "Z" 1
Carp., W. R.
Carrier Air
C’maine Perk 1
Chamberlain
Clyde Ind.
Coal Allied
Coles, G. J.
C.S.R. 1
C.A.G.A. 1
C.B.C. 1
C.B.A. 1
Com. Union
C.I.G. 1
Concrete Ind.
Consol. Press
Containers 2
Courtaulds 1
Crane, G. E. 1
Cresco 2
Cust. Credit
Cyclone 1
2
Drug Houses 1
Dunlop 1
E.M.I.
E.Z. Ind. 1
Elders, G. M. 1
Elec. ''B" 1
Email
E.S.A. 2
Evans Deakin
Fairfax, J.
Fairymead 1
Felt. Text.
Fibre Cont.
Fielding, J. 1
Gen. Credits
Gen. Ind. 2
Gollin
Gordon Gotch
Grace Bros.
Hardie, J. 1
Healing, A. G.
Herald, W. T.
Hooker, L. J.
Humes 1
Huttons
I.A.C.
l.C.I. A.N.Z. 2
Inter. Resist.
Jones, David
Jones, Henry 1
Kauri
Kelvinator
Koitaki
Lend Lease .
Life Savers
Lysaght, J. 1
M.L.C. 2
MacRobertson 1
Marrickville
Mauri Bros.
M. Nickless 1
INDUSTRIALS
gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg3gSggggSSgS888§SSSSgSS§§SgggggSSggggggggggggSgggggggggSgg
QO'O'Cno'Uiro ro oo'NjuIuioooo«osjO'ooui^ouimNjuio'Oui^ro^
“ * * urrob * m v* mg u, oO, bu, g ginw
i—• »—» m o' ro ivj m i—• ro -U ►-* f-* ■£* ro 4* Vjj h* roroM-t* »-* ro ro ro v*j h* ir m 4* .t* h 4 ro oj Whmw ro h* t-**- 4 h-* jj, WWW 4*h 4 h* ro ho h* ro to a- ro v*j to h* h* Xk ro to h* cn h< h* »—•*—* ro to l—*
KSggSSggggSSSS&SSgSSg^SSggSKggSKgSSgKgSSgSSSgSSgKSgSKS^SS&SSSgggSSfdSgiSSggggKgigSSg^gSSgJligSgggKiSS
to to m h*-o ro ro h* h* ojh 4 vo ro h 4 ojh* Mror-*vn rorot- 4 >-*t-- , 0'4^t- 1 4*4* ro ro whmwhwhm mu' rowovo vn ro i-* ro>-*
gggKgSSggSKSggSSSSgKKSSgSSSgggggSSSgSSSSSgSSSSSggSgSgggSSSSgggSgg^gSSSSSSSgSSggSggSSSt^gSSSgSSSSSg
ro ro ►-* p- 4 cd ro ro *-*m oj h* vo ro 4* 4* k-*ro m wh hiohui 4* 4* ro roHMroHroHM t-* a- rowovo ui ro »-* t-*i-<k-<h-<rof-iuirov>jv>ji-‘t-*ojro ( _ Jl _- 1LnHJK _, hwm ro
«SSKgS£SS;SS33g2gSg^K£g$S££gS3g£Sg££S&SSg;3gSS3SS£SSS3g2g£;SSSg£SggggS!£KSSSS^ggSS£gSSgg-S;£;SSS3e;;^g2£gS
wioHHOororoHHio hio Ln roit-'io h* v>> • roNHO' i—•rororor— ‘t—•O'Oif— * orji ro v*j UiMroroMWHHMMO' ro oj 4* otoh ro ro h* h* oj ro ro 4* oj j- 4 oj ro h* o'h* ►-* h-< h-< ro ro rot-*
gggSgSSKS;gySS5;SS^ggrig5SgggSSg2SggggggiKSSggSgKgDiggS^gyS;S^f:c!SgggggE=!g^SSSgSSggSggS3gg§ggg3SSg5;gSggg^
wh t— 4 1010 >-* t- 4 wh Vo ro 4* 4*H*ro ron miohui -t>4* ro ro iohh hiohh h*ui ro oj 4*h 4 h 4 h* h* r- 4 ro »-• 4* ro v>j oj h 4 h* oj ro »-• h 4 01 h 4 h* »—• v—* . to
SSSSgEgSiGSSgSggggSggSgggSggSKSgSgSggSKSSggggSSSegKgSgSggSSSgKSagKggg^figgSggKSSgKK^ggSgggSygSSSg^ggg
vororovo uivn ui O'0 ro 4* ro >0 4* O' 0 ro h* co U v>j h 4 4* 4* t- 4 ro «ohioh &■ 4? v* *-* -o 4* O' «-• >0 >0 rotten
lllllll sis lll'slMs'lilll slgi'gggSSgiSSisiS lllilslsilllsls 111
O'UIMIO roHH oj co 4* -0 h 4 O' ro i_n o' £ '.0 vnroro4* OJ ui cr O' ro oj vn ro h* 4* row •£> O' vo v>j£vn «o 00 ojh* £0 whui »-* ro
IHIslis llligslsslgll 111! si si 1111111 Ills II HsIgHgll'HHUlllll 1 1 llilill'llislgll* 1 §
ro ui 4* -4 ui h* oj ro4*4*0'>o’'4 4*u>vn4*0'4*.c»ojoo4*v>j'0v>>v>jroooojuujia) uiuiUiOioj4*4*rouivnvn4*OJO'4*vi-ov>j>OH 4 0'V>j4*ojvno'4*
ouiuio'O'jooo'4) 0WWWH04) o wu,l»m^woroHC D boH^)0'roH>H W ( r^o4)HO' J aoo-oH^MUoooMHou-^HOHa
O'UV-0-O4*^JO'H*H 4 CD *0 >D <50 Ul £ 4* UlUl^-oS>0a)O0'4i^*0H^0J0'^Go«OMO0''000>0^J'0C0roroUlW)0'0'0'5oiC)0-vjH^«OO'H 4 '0rO0i-vJ-0O'O''045'O-sJ0J'0Ur,S'stvIjOJ^00'OO'0'>0H 4
Ulii4kH003 00HH4) NjM4)vOO'W OMJ1COW'J1HU1U14)«OH OJO'C»4»'ob'OH 4 <>4*<JirO(»H 4 H 4 >Db'01jiUis04*4>0'.Oa)foa)'00'UlO'C04*4>OJro»- 4 0-b4*ro>OH*'«J^40'CobwJ'0^jOJro.0.4>b^J4*H 4 Ojb4*»- , bboob
Share
Par
Value
1 Div.
! cents
| Year
1 ago
|Week 1
1 ago |
Fri. | 1966 1
close | High | Low |
T urnover
Syd. | Melb.
1 Yield %
1 Div.|Earn,
Mclllwraith, J
.50
1 7
5
1
50
i i
20|
1
20! 1
.50
.99
900
3,500
| 4
M cPherson
2
.00
16
6
4
It
3
42!
3
46
4
.08
3
.40
1,900:
2,400
1 4
1 ' J
M illaquin
1
00
14
2
5t
2
60:
2
64
3
18
2
52
1,950
500
5
6 7
Miller, R. W.
1
.00
10
2
20
7
66,
1
.63
i 2
07
1
.59
6,110 j
1,500
6
1
Minster
1
.00
20
5
5£
2
.63
2
63! 5
68
2
.42
1,100,
6.000
7
Morris, Philip
2
00
24
5
. n
b
.901
7
00
7
,60|
6
20
100|
200! 3
Moulded Prod
.50
5
801
70,
.66
80
59
12,200
35,900
7
.6
Myer
.50
8
75
3
.26
2
89
2
89
3
561
2
80:
19,300
22,100
3
0
Myttons
.50
i 6
1
5t
1
3/
1
,3?
1
. 631
1
.30
4,900
4
N.Z. Forest
1 25
9
56| 2
.75, 2
56;
2
60
3
.03
2
.06,
9001
1,600
3
7
Nat. Bank
1
.00
10
2
10
1
85
1
98
2
19
1
.75!
5,000
15,500
5
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2
.42
2
• 251
2
25
2
451
2
20
3,850]
12,600
4
4
Nat. Dairy
2
25
26
7
38
.50
33
001
32
00142
00|
32
00
50
3
5
News
.50
5
1
40
1
37!
1
.35
1
821
1
35
300,
2,400
3
N.Z. Ins.
1
25
11
5
2
88
2
95
2
90
2
95!
2
60,
5
Olympic
50
5
84
'
70
72
80,
611
7,800
23,100
6
9
Optical
1
00
15
4
.65
4
35,
4
30
4
70
4
Hi
2,050:
200
3
Overseas
50
6
0
1
.08
1
061
1
06
1
16!
98
1,4001
8,100
5
7
.50
8
1
60
1
131
1
14
1
601
i
05
1,900
7
Penfolds
50
6
25
1
35
1
/5
1
78
2
031
i
50
4,000
3
Peko
50
8
1
68
2
26,
2
13
2
60,
i
85 j
6,200;
8.9001 3
Perp. Trustee
2
00
18
3
.41
3
60
3
60
3
90!
3
53!
800
Petersville
20
2
5
50
541
52
661
51;
19,450
25,200
4
Peters, W. A.
50
6
25
1
64
1
69|
1
69
1
93
1
50
1,100,
3
Pioneer Cone.
50
6
25
1
48
1
26
1
24
1
6 21
1
14
71,120
19,600
5
Prestige
50
6
25
1
08
78,
79
1
051
75
1,5001
Provincial Td.
50
5
5
1
18
1
04j
1
00
1
14
1
00
600
5
50
5
1
52
1
05!
1
10
1
55
1
00
7001
§
Q land Can
50
5
1
04
94:
92
1
131
92
Q'land Cement
2
00
20
6
82
7
65!
7
70
7
95!
7
70
400
2
9
Q'land Ins.
1
00
12
5
3
70
4
20
4
20
4
50|
4
00
2,400
3
Q land Press
1
00
16
4
80
5
00
4
95
5
45
4
75,
200
3
2
Reeds
50
/
1
80
1
55
i
55
1
74
i
45
4
5
Repco
50
7
5
i
90
2
03
2
02
2
24
95
8.250 1
16,300
3
7
6 0
Rocla
50
7
2
18
1
75!
1
76
2
14
i
71
1,700
4
0
Rothmans
1
00
20
3
15
2
60
2
66
3
15
2
50
2,000
7
5
12 6
S.A. Rubber
50
5
62
1
28
98
97
1
251
89
500
800
5
8
7.5
S.T.P. Hold.
50
6
25
82
83
85
1
00
83
100,
1,200
7
4
15 4
Schweppes
60
5
5
1
50
1
78
1
75
1
85
1
45
1,350
1,900
3
1
Shelleys
50
/
5
2
20
2
531
2
53
2
55.
2
30
100
3
0
8 2
Simpson Pope
50
45
22
21
46!
20
4,3 0 0 j
2,600
1 4
Sleigh, H. C.
50
5
/O
62!
62
7?
55
3 2,300!
34,500
8
1
8.7
Smith, How.
1
00
10
4
82
2
631
2
60
2
75
2
391
7,750
2,000
3
8
6.6
Softwood
1
.00
10
3
20
2
30
2
25
3
25
2
071
1,000
1,000
4
4
13.9
Sth. Brit. Ins
1
25
14
1.6
3
/O
3
80!
3
80
3
85!
2
06
800
3
7
6 9
Steamships
50
6
66
1
00
1
03,
1
08
1
10
88
10,2001
7,400
6
2
10 0
Stedmans, J.
50
9
1
91
1
70
1
60
2
201
1
60
2,450!
4
7
7.5
Swan Brew.
50
6
5
2
44
2
36
2
43
2
75
2
211
3,700,
53,900
2
7
3.6
T arax
50
6
95
1
191
1
10
1
35
1
00
300
5,200
5
5
10.0
T aubmans
50
8
1
19
89,
90
1
18
76;
8
9
10 3
TV Corp.
1
00
20
2
72
3
10!
3
10
3
131
2
08
1,800
200
6
5
6.5
Thiess
50
8
45
1
051
1
10|
1
06
63
40,000
4
4
19 3
T ooheys
50
4.
35
1
09
1
03!
1
04
1
21
96
14,100
4
2
6.4
T ooth
1
00
15.
8
4
90
5
16;
5
13|
5
70
4
90
9,225
1,000
3
1
4.4
Union Carb.
1
00
12
3
89
4
001
3
98
4.
04
3
38.
1,150,
3
0
7.2
U. E. Box
63
5.
841
1
56
1
25!
1
20!
1
48!
1
05!
600
•
4
8
11 6
Walker, F. J.
1
00
12.
5 |
1.
45
1
50:
1
50
1
73
1
20!
1,500
8
3
10.8
Waltons
50
6
25 J
92
911
92
1
23
85
12,500)
16,700
6
8 i
9.8
Webster, A. G
50
7
5
1
?R
1
26
1
26
1 .
50
1
20!
500
6
o
12 2
Williams, F.W.
1.
00
10
3.
801
4.
10!
4.
10|
4
20)
2.
95!
18,850
2
4|
0.9
Woolworths
50
6
1
1.
40:
1.
23|
1
25|
1.
44j
1.
16,
50,200,
23,100|
4
8|
6 6
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
Jast
All ordinaries
315.27
317.09
101.59
101.81
50 leaders
106.70
106.71
Banks
158.60
162.91
102.43
102.84
Other finance
499 99
496.14
68.34
68.31
Pastoral
232.25
233.00
125.72
126.44
Transport .
452.82
454.21
90.80
91.36
Retail, merchants
319.17
325.04
90.13
90.25
Serv ces,
entertainment
46.58
47 42
Foods ....
168.51
168.98
100-21
102.11
Textiles ....
169 36
172.40
70.32
70.88
Chemicals
307.08
313.23
76.12
77.01
Electricals
408.74
406.84
59.88
59.87
Paper
101.01
102.00
Building ....
643.47
641.23
87.65
87.55
Fuel, power
160.78
161.86
Automotive
709.40
710.17
74.60
74.12
Steel, engineering
463 92
465.73
115.70
116.23
Non-ferrous
1226.77
1207.85
209.20
207.80
OIL I
SUGAR
Week
Friday
Week
Friday
ago
last
ago
last
Brisbane
142.45
140.72 ;
105.79
106.54
Melbourne
121.77
122.86
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
J
SYDNEY
! MELBOURNE
ji N DUSTRI AL|
MINING
IINDUSTRIALI MINING
! Sales |
1 Vol. |
1 1000
Value |
S 1
| 1000 1
Sales
Vol.
1000
| Value
1 5
i 1000
1 Sales |
1 Vol. |
| 1000 |
Value | Sales |
S | Vol. |
1000 | 1000 1
Value
S
1000
Week before i 3035
Week to Friday 2891
, 3726 1
| 3425 |
892 |
837
915
862
1 2514
| 2217 |
2640 | 459 |
2576 i 348 |
1048
746
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
i
London
1
New York
Tokyo
| “Financial Times"
Dow Jones
D. Jones
| Inds.
| Secs. |
Gold |
Inds. | Rails
Avge^_
Jan. 3, 1966
| 338 7
78 74|
'61 3 |
965 5411 247.3811430.13
1966 high
[ 374 2
79 431
65.2' |
995.151 271.72
1588.73
1966 low
1 294.7
1 72 77
52.4 |
744.321.184 34
1410.43
Month ago
i 304 1
74.781
56 7 |
797 77; 196 80
1422 17
Week ago
305 8
75 84
53 9 |
772 93 i 192.47
1448.17
Latest
| 294.6
76 44
52.5
787 30| 193 07
1426 99
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
Big news of the week was the size and price of the Consoli-
dated Gold Fields Australia issue, which undermined the prices
of others in the stable, C.M.1., Renison, and Wyong Minerals.
There was unusually heavy trading in Melbourne of David
Jones, which has been lately selling at its cheapest level for
years. Pioneer Concrete, contestant for F. W. Williams, drifted
down to $1.12 during the week, but finished up at $1.24, within
a cent of the previous week’s closing price.
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend . . 6.55
MELBOURNE
dividend 5.47
earnings 8.78
LONDON (F.T.)
dividend 6.12
earnings 8 23
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3 81
earnings 7.73
C’WEALTH BONDS-
Week
before Friday
% %
Short 4 86 4.87
Medium .... 513 5.12
Long 5 24 5 25


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: KEVIN JOHN WINDLE. TAKE
NOTICE that DAWN IMELDA
WINDLE has filed a Petition No. 4715
of 1865 for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion and failure to pay mainten-
ance, and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance, and costs. If you wish to
defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
twenty-second day of November, 1966,
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from Messrs. Sheekey
Williams & Nitschke, Solicitors, 33
Pitzmaurice Street, Wagga Wagga, or
from their City Agents, Messrs. Russell-
Jones & Livingston, Solicitors, 39
Hunter Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
To: LILLY MAUD FULLER formerly
of Pacific Highway, North Wyong.
TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE WIL-
LIAM FULLER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3139 of 1966 on the ground
of desertion notwithstanding the facts
and circumstances set out in the Dis-
cretion Statement filed. If you wish
to defend, you may file an answer at
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the sixth day of December, 1966. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Lightoller, Talty &
Brooke, Solicitors, of 231 Macquarie
Street, Sydney, or from Thomas Mit-
chell & Co., Solicitors, of 53U Pacific
Highway, Belmoht. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: RAYMOND CLYDE PARKER late
of Miller’s Point TAKE NOTICE that
MARGARET MARY PARKER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4401 of 1965
on the ground of desertion and seeks
orders for custody, maintenance, and
costs. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Syd-
ney, on or before the eighth day of
November, 1966, and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of the Petition
without charge from L. W. Williams,
Solicitor, 32 North Parade, Campsie,
or from his City Agents, Messrs. Jones
Jones & Jones, Solicitors, 76-78 Clar-
ence Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: JOHN WILLIAM HENRY GAT-
CLIFFE TAKE NOTICE that SHIR-
LEY JOAN GATCLIFFE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3294 of 1964
on the grounds of desertion and sep-
aration and seeks orders for custody,
access, maintenance, and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the third day of November, 1966, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Flannery, Mura & Co.,
Solicitors, 29 Bligh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
The Bulletin Index for 1965 is now
being printed. Copies may be
ordered for $2.35, including postage,
from the Australian Consolidated
Press Library, 54 Park Street, Sydney,
or Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
T
IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including . . .
The Persian Room Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It's a discotheque, too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel 'and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392
RESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE
RH2OB/66
"The Bulletin" Crossword
NUMBER 922
ACROSS
1. An Arthurian vehicle taken by an Evatt. (7)
5. Malicious boy of Barcelona or thereabouts. (7)
9. One who makes renewed efforts with the
remainder by the river. (9)
10. Are four to one against 50, according to this
competitor. (5)
11. Queensland town to formally hire cargo-
stackers. (8, 6)
13. Helping one having a punt. (8)
15. What did the leather merchant
do to the hides vehicle used for
Daisy’s honeymoon. (6)
18. Urn Sue smashed is without
conviction. (6)
19. Blasted island sounds like a
biscuit haulier. (8)
21. Landlords of Canberra ignore
the lower case! (7, 7)
25. Leaps into confusion as a tem-
porary fall from grace. (5)
26. Handcuffing some fellow article
to hold tenaciously. (9)
27. Chidley’s bowling! What a
blessing! (7)
28. The Arctic transports Viv in
the steamer. (7)
DOWN
1. The ladies of whose harem was
just passing the automotive
statute with current nous? (10)
2. Those who freshly enunciate
about old Greek money. (9)
3. Dares. (5)
4. Bloke to telephone some hood.
(8)
5. They indicate what’s missing,
but there are obscure traces
nevertheless. (6)
6. An atavistic type to return the
ball to the wicket. (9)
7. Sweetheart having a surplus of
50? (5)
8. Cromwell Head. (4)
12. Missions giving them a kind
of relief with wise men. (10)
14. Unpunctuality permits the
sailor to have dinner on the
steamer. (9)
16. Acting like a muddlehead
Diana associated with Bayreuth
entertainment. (9)
17. Makes the matter last for a
more extended period, but be-
hold the middle of the fork
points! (8)
20. Who collect our left-offs in
German? (6)
22. Noted for trembling like some
writer. (5)
23. The attache drops at a biblical
clasp, which is something new
for the he-cat. (5)
24. Get a duck, being bowled by
a high slow delivery. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 921


MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
INCORPORATED IN 1935, PAID-UP CAPITAL $8,000,000
DEBENTURE
STOCK
3 MTHS 5% PA
6 MTHS 6% PA
12 MTHS 6%% PA
2 YRS. 7% PA
3 YRS. 7%% P.A.
4 YRS 7%% P.A.
STO 10 YRS. 8% P.A.
YIELDING UP TO PA
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications are obtainable from:
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative Office, 109 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
• Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
N.B. Applications for Deben-
ture Stock will proceed only on
one of the Forms of Applica-
tion referred to in and attached
to a printed copy of the
Prospectus.
The main business of Mercan-
tile Credits Ltd. is the provision
of finance facilities in various
forms for industrial, commer-
cial or private purposes. szs/ee
SPECULATORS DIARY
Getting the Good Oil
Out of searching and into selling
WITH such an uninteresting market, it’s difficult to show enthusiasm about
any particular stock irrespective of its special merits. While you get some
small rises and some small falls, it is only the exceptional situation which
produces a sustained move.
There is one thing you painfully
learn in this market, and that is the
importance of marketability. Small
companies are excellent investments in
times of rising profits. But just try to
sell their shares in a dull market.
The sum total of the move in the
Sydney Stock Exchange index in recent
weeks would not be more than a few
points. Contrast this to Dow Jones
index, which has risen 40 points in the
last week, bringing it up almost to the
800 mark. Unlike the slow strangulation
of the investor here, you know very
quickly if you make the grade in the
New York market,
Fortunately one or two of the stocks
in the portfolio are ignoring this general
state of apathy. United Uranium con-
tributing shares added 7 cents to last
week’s price of 26 cents. This rise was
sufficient incentive to quit the stock,
Neatly balancing out the profit was the
loss on Planet shares. By the time the
diary is published the final result of the
BHP-Esso well should be known.
Whether it be good, bad, or indifferent,
there’ll be a lot of sellers around after
the event. I never was much of an
oil man!
Before going on to what I did buy,
allow me to first mention what I
would like to have bought. Details of
the Consolidated Goldfield float have
at long last been announced. To me
the immediate worth of the shares seems
to hinge on three points the favor-
able mining investment climate, the 4
percent dividend yield, and the relatively
small number of shares being
offered to the Australian public.
Consolidated Goldfields Australia
Ltd. is not unlike CRA. Both are
widely diversified mining companies
operating in Australia but being con-
trolled by an English parent company.
The most significant difference between
the two companies is their respective
dividend yields. The current yield on
CRA shares is less than half that of
Consolidated Goldfields. Even making
possible allowance for CRA being over-
priced (the shares sold at only $1.30
when CRA was first floated five years
ago), there’s still plenty of room for
Consolidated Goldfields to move up to
the $4 level in due course.
While Consolidated Goldfields is
almost a certain candidate for
the portfolio at some future date, H.
C. Sleigh is already making its debut.
Rumored for some months, the partial
takeover of the rubber division by the
Firestone Tire and Rubber Co. of
Ohio has now eventuated.
The rubber industry in Australia has
been fiercely competitive for some years
and it was the poor performance this
year of the rubber division that dragged
the pre-tax profits down below last
year’s level. Offsetting this reduction
was the higher profits recorded by the
petroleum and shipping divisions. Also
contributing to profits was the maiden
dividend of 10 percent received on
the 25 percent shareholding of the
Australian Lubricating Oil Refinery.
Without the full burden of the rubber
division, group profits could now pos-
sibly be starting their long haul
upwards. So also could be the share
price, which now stands at only 62c.
This was the price paid for 1000 shares.
I did consider getting some James
Wallace at 25 cents, but alas the seller
is selfishly holding out for 27 cents.
But more of this next week.
Transactions this week are:
SOLD
1000 United Uranium ctg 33c $323
1000 Planet 36c $353
BOUGHT
1000 H. C. Sleigh 62c $634
Still a healthy balance of $930 in
the account. The portfolio consists of:
Cost
No. of Name of Date per
Shares Company Bought Share Price
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.79 2.90
1000 AMI 14/6/66 .46 .45
1000 Emperor Gold 12/7/66 .55 .48
100 Mt. Isa 9/8/66 4.70 4 40
400 G’M'K 10/8/66 1.20 1.15
200 Borg Warner 15/8/66 1.70 1.60
200 MKU 17/8/66 3.00 2.95
500 iPetersville 30/8/66 .59 .56
500 Eglo 13/9/66 .87 .85
500 Whale Ind. 19/9/66 .43 .49
400 Macquarie Broad’ing 26/9/66 1.12 1.26
600 Toft 4/10/66 .37 .33
2000 L. J. Hooker 4/10/66 .35 .35
200 Passiona Perth 4/10/66 1.80 2.21
1000 Buckinghams 11/10/66 .13 .14
1000 G. J. Coles Rts. 12/10/66 .34 .36
1000 H. C. Sleigh 19/10/66 .62 .62


For people
who are not ashamed
of having brains.
y / //////////// /a 11 ttitMJii iuuii
%A
4
% W \ W VV \
wmmwm mmmm mmmmm
■ .»*-.dp«v Sgff# rt* * # ff- *# -0m imf *
. j’^
igftta* VntfjrP s**-. »f£*f>- rf*r *
w . m* Sf --.V s*r» ■;. asm «-*r status, atts »»/.«; mtt.it. mru* naitgixr*vts.itt*t*-ivr.tte**t;ttstvz.!*tiltx.-ut.ttrt<*ttfWtixt*t*t.xttttt*fitiif.ttfit*s**t'**t-’st-’ttir.t tttt
$ i mi iiiiiiii mi iiiiiii vitttvwf votfc w t iti iiimii t i
■'*•** WS* O&SM •> * SFJJ» ittu **> jfiTV
Here is the most superb home library ever assembled —Great Books
IT may not be popular to admit it, but all
people aren’t created equal. Not with equal
intelligence, anyway. And the longer they live
(and learn), the less equal they get.
You were probably born with a bigger share of
intelligence than most of your fellow men . . .
and taught how to use it.
Chances are, the records you own play a more
sophisticated brand of music. The books in your
library offer more nourishment. The home you
live in is equipped for a more gracious way of
living.
Most of all you appreciate the difference.
Certainly, you are not ashamed of having brains. You enjoy
using them.
For this reason alone, Great Books belong in your home.
These are the writings of Plato, Homer, Cervantes, Tolstoy,
Dostoevsky, Freud, Rabelais, Aristotle, Shakespeare and many,
many more. They contain just about every important thought
of Western man for the past 3,000 years! The Great Books
were published in collaboration with the University of Chicago,
by Encyclopaedia Britannica. A set of 54
beautifully bound volumes containing 443
masterpieces byi 74 of the greatest geniuses
who ever lived. A library you couldn't
duplicate at any price.
The $1,000,000 Syntopicon included
With the Great Books (dnd available only
with Great Books) is a unique reference
work called the Syntopicon. An amazing
index that required 8 years and cost more
than $1,000,000 just to write.
Unlike a dictionary that indexes words,
or an encyclopaedia that indexes facts, the
Syntopicon indexes ideas
every one of the thousands of
topics and subtopics within the
Great Books.
In minutes, the Syntopicon
enables you to look up any idea
in the Great Books and find
what each of the great thinkers
thought about it.
Also included with the Great
Books are the handsome 10-
volume reading plans. And you
may also get a remarkable
10-volume set culled Gateway to the Great Books as well.
Let us send yOu
more information
FREE
Certainly the
Great Books be-
long in the home
of every thinking
person. What do
they cost? About
the price of a
good set of
luggage.
Mail Reply Paid Card Now for FREE BOOKLET
liH
U<
To learn more, just fill out and mail the attached
Reply Paid Card and you will receive a full colour
16-Page Booklet describing the Great Books in detail.
Or write to:
Great Books of the Western World, Box 5360, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
There is no cost or obligation. You don’t even need a
stamp. Do it now.
GREAT BOOKS
GB*I(G)


■
esant
„r* - *
\ W j
*
FILTER
20
3»’
a
1592
1672
RICH CHOICE TOBACCOS
KING SIZE
jf
&
S
?*
%CV-
ALL OVER
THE WORLD
...SO MUCH MORE
TO ENJOY
Wherever you go, whatever you do,
wherever life is fresh, vital, elegant,
you meet Peter Stuyvesant, the
international king-size cigarette.
Rich choice tobaccos, miracle filter.
Light up a Stuyvesant, you’ll be so
glad you did.
