

The
Bulletin
CLIFTON PUGH S MEXICAN PAINTINGS
JUNE 25, 1966
E&N^nunMHßfl
pmwgMCT
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper. Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, MalqyS’C! $1
PICTURE BY DAVID MIST


Fly the quick & quiet jets:
Douglas DC-8 or DC-9
■ ■
■ : :.; v /.":v:' ". ■■ V.v-
I
:; *
'
..
■■
m
—■
!3K>i lllll:lllllll
■ ' ■
:':v?
mm
■■
■
c
The famed Douglas DC-8 has flown faster, higher, and farther than any other commercial jet.
Ask for them by name. Request a
quick and quiet Douglas DC-8 or
DC-9 next time you fly.
When you step aboard the famous
DC-8, you’ll enter a world of big jet
travel like no other. You’ll experience
the ultimate in smooth, fast, reliable
flight. Did you know the DC-8 was
the first jetliner to be designed with
fan jet engines as original equipment?
And that the quick and quiet DC-8
has flown faster, higher, and farther
than any other commercial jet?
Take the new DC-9 to places jets
could never go before. Take it on
hops as short as 100 miles. Every
fleeting minute of the trip will be
smoother and quieter and more com-
fortable than you ever imagined.
Look for a quick, quiet Douglas jet on the
following 50 airlines:
Aeronaves de Mexico • Air Afrique • Air
Canada • Airlift International • Air New
Zealand •Alitalia • Allegheny • Ansett-
ANA • Bonanza • Canadian Pacific •
Capitol • Caribair • Continental • Delta •
Eastern • Garuda Indonesian • Hawaiian
• Iberia • Japan • KLM • Korean • Middle
East • National • North Central • Northeast
• Northwest Orient • Overseas National •
Ozark • Pacific Southwest • Parc American
• Panagra • Philippine • 5/45 • Saturn •
Saudi Arabian • Seaboard World • 5/z'c& •
Southern • Siidflug • Swissair • THM •
Trans-Australia • Trans Caribbean •
Trans International • Trans-Texas • t/T/l
• United • Varig • Viasa • W'V.sY Coast.
The Douglas Royal Family of Jets


*
1
p
t « »<
lIS
: ;
. :■ *. : s.
HI
«
■
'[ iT'-'Ti" ~ J '"T
DRLAN
«*# fc&tt* Zpnt&l*# ***'
fuoaitae .p»>#
if
« W «9SSSSUi CJBWSWW*
Vvile# ~ •w'
W» WU**? -fe?
Aii2jr <
*•
*ii& a y*W
**• «HB6t sri*v
#'' I
"*i«t M-3*o*
MyXim «
Why can Orlando make
Blue Ribbon Spaetlese
Riesling every year?
In Europe, where climatic variations can be substantial, it is
not possible. But in South Australia's Sunny Barossa Valley,
where the weather is stable, Orlando so far has been able to
produce a true Spaetlese every year since it was the first "late
picking" Riesling to be produced in Australia in 1956,
Blue Ribbon Spaetlese is a unique white wine that is vintaged
only from the last and ripest Rhine Riesling grapes picked in
each Vintage Year. Its superb fruity freshness makes it the
perfect wine to enjoy with all sweeter foods, particularly
desserts.
Your first sip of this bottle-aged wine will tell you why it has
been awarded a Gold Medal overseas every year it has been
shown.
G. GRAMP AND SONS PTY. LTD.,
BAROSSA VALLEY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
1589
LETTERS
The Morals of Mudie
Sir,
I am shocked by Mrs. van der Sman’s
letter (8., June 11) concerning my “What
DID I Have On?” although her critical
evaluation of this short story as “vulgar”
merely surprises me. What does shock
me is her assumption that I intended it
to be no more than either flippant or
funny, and her implication that my “vul-
garity” would have been acceptable if I
had written a humorous story.
That anyone should think of a story
such as mine in this way appears to me
as symptomatic of the sickness of our
society. To me, one of the most unfunny
problems of our time is the one dealt
with in the story —the degree to which
many among us have been corrupted
through living in an Affluent Society, so
corrupted that we have come to look on
what others consider to be the value of
the things we own as of more importance
than any considerations of morality, in-
cluding sexual morality.
If Mrs. van der Sman believes that I
should have treated this subject as a
mere matter for idle mirth, I fear that
she and I have vastly different concep-
tions of humor, of right and wrong, and
of the need for the maintaining of human
dignity beneath the burden of possessions,
including imitation pearls.
Glenelg (S.A.)
IAN MUDIE.
Hutchison of the ABC
Sir,
The errors, distortions, and generalisa-
tions which characterise the article by Mr.
Douglas on the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
(8., June 11) call for more than a brief
letter in answer, but I would like at any
rate to correct a number of inaccuracies in
reference to myself. These inaccuracies
are fairly typical and by no means the
only inaccuracies. Others will no doubt
be quick to point out the numerous other
mis-statements of fact.
1. Mr. Douglas begins by describing me
as “now Director of Drama and Feat-
ures for the ABC.” Since the end of
1959, i.e., a period of six and a half
years, I have acted in this capacity
for a period of approximately eight
months (in 1963 and 1964). A simple
inquiry would have put him right on
this.
2. I am not, as Mr. Douglas states, the
CONTENTS
SEATO’s Failure 12
The Teachers’ Dilemma 15
One More Week 20
Batman 26
Clifton Pugh 32
Saint Caroline Chisholm? 37
Business and Finance 44
Man On the Land 60
Speculator’s Diary 64


MAC BAREN’S FINEST
fel
mmsmisz
I ■
is :
l&A ,
Si
"
' k
1 II
'
'
m
r.
"
The tobacco that keeps the
promise of its “bouquet”
PLUM CAKE
Vc&iH/
Open a tin and the aroma of 6 different
tobaccos dominated by a golden ripe Virginia
promises you an extravagant smoking pleasure.
MAC BAREN’S
PLUMCAKE
Imported especially for the pipe-
smoking connoisseur. 2 oz. tin 89c SAlBBll
representative of the Australian Broad-
casting Commission on the Sydney
Opera House Committee. I was
appointed to this committee in 1960
when I became Executive of the Trust,
and was asked to continue my member-
ship, in a personal capacity, after I
left the Trust.
3. I am not the Trust representative on
the Sydney Opera House Committee.
Mr. Stefan Haag occupies this position.
4. I did not choose Mr. Brian D. Barnes
as Director of the Sydney University
Union Repertory Theatre. I had no
share in this appointment and I cer-
tainly did not tell Dr. Davies that if
Mr. Barnes was not chosen, Trust
financial assistance would be withheld.
5. Mr. Douglas says that at one period I
had interested myself in the work of
“the Religious Drama Society an
Anglican group.” I do not recollect,
in fact, having heard of this group
until I read Mr. Douglas’ article,
although I do remember attending a
religious drama in an Anglican church
some years ago. Whether this was
produced by the society he mentions
or not, I do not know.
6. Mr. Douglas says that the Old Tote
Company was well past the initial
planning stage when the Sydney Uni-
versity Repertory Union Theatre ran
its unsuccessful season. As a conse-
quence, he alleges, Professor Quentin
was not anxious to offer the necessary
advice. This is untrue. The Old Tote
Theatre Company at this stage was
not under consideration. Professor
Quentin discussed the matter with me
in November, 1961, and preparations
went forward from February or
March of the following year. The Old
Tote opened a year later.
7. Mr. Douglas says that I “advise against
the employment of offending profes-
sionals.” This is a generalisation that
I do not understand. In justice to Mr.
Douglas, however, it must be conceded
that he has himself, down the years,
done his level best to put the Trust
on a workmanlike footing. It is, per-
haps, of some significance that when
he came to see me five or six years
ago at the offices of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust I was unable to offer
him the kind of appointment for which
he was looking. I mention this in pass-
ing as it may well be that his present
judgments are to some extent framed
in the context of this rather unhappy
episode.
8. In two places, he suggests by inference
that because the Trust is not a com-
mercial body it has no need to take
notice of the tiresome business of
economics or to design its coat to the
available cloth. The Trust spends
public moneys and has to watch its
budget. This it does with care and
a high sense of duty. Mr. Douglas’
other-worldly and naive attitude to
these matters no doubt comes easily
to all those who have no responsibility
in the administration of such budgets.
The Trust has certainly made mistakes.
It will no doubt continue to make mis-
takes. Already, however, substantial pro-
gress has been made, and this in the
face of a Babel of critical tongues. Candid
criticism will, I am sure, be always wel-
come to the officers of the Trust when
it is coherent and constructive. When,
however, it is based on rumor, hearsay,
and a tissue of inaccuracies it will be
treated for what it is worth.
NEIL HUTCHISON.
Sydney (N.S.W.)
Robert Brothers
Sir,
We are preparing biographical notes for
an anthology of Australian short stories,
and would be most grateful to anyone
who could supply us with information
about Robert Brothers, who published
stories in THE BULLETIN around 1914.
BEATRICE DAVIS
Editor, Angus and Robertson Ltd.
Sydney (N.S.W.)
A Marxist Lesson
Sir,
Having regard to the erroneous con-
clusions arrived at by Mr. Brian Buckley
in his article “A Marxist Lesson” (8., May
28) and the mis-statements relating to my
nomination to a vacancy on the Central
Committee of the Victorian Secondary
Teachers’ Association, I should like to
record the following points in addition to
those set out in my letter published in
the June 11 issue:
1. In seeking nomination I did and
continue to accept the aims of the
VSTA. My policy statement, circulated
by the VSTA Executive to its members


Be sure
the next uniform you buy
is wearing this tag ...
it means you will be wearing
the best uniform...
made from the new, soft, silky,
miracle fabric called
CESARELLA—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
To rag
TETORON
(POLYESTER FIBRE
\ and Viscose
65Z)
CTB33
on the 31st May, indicates clearly my
support for such aims.
2. My nominator was a colleague from
the branch of the Education Depart-
ment, in which I am employed. He is,
incidentally, a member of the Demo-
cratic Labor Party, a fact which I con-
sider is only important in refuting the
unfounded conclusion of Mr. Brian
Buckley that my nomination was part of
the Communist Party’s aims in infiltrat-
ing organisations within the teaching
profession and the innuendo that my
nomination was sponsored by the Com-
munist Party.
3. If Mr. Buckley had taken the trouble
to read any of the articles which I
have had published on the question of
education in such journals as the “Aus-
tralian Science Teachers’ Journal,”
“Lab-Talk” (the organ of the Science
Teachers’ Association of Victoria),
“Arena,” “Outlook,” and “The Second-
ary Teacher,” he would have concluded
that they could not be official state-
ments issued by or emanating from the
Communist Party, but that they reflect
my own personal views and opinions
on matters of education. I have never
acted as the Communist Party’s spokes-
man on education in Victoria.
DOUG WHITE.
Clayton {Vic.)
Sir,
Mr. D. White omitted to mention (8.,
June 11) his writing in the “Communist
Review.” In order to answer Mr. B.
Buckley’s comments about him, he refers
teachers to his written material in
“Arena” and “Outlook.” But neither in
his letter to THE BULLETIN nor in
his prompt and organisationally efficient
circularisation of all Victorian Secondary
Teacher Association representatives in
schools does he mention the “Communist
Review,” which is the official organ of the
Communist Party and contains articles
which are normally considered to have the
approval of the CP and indicate its lines of
policy. Is Mr. White asking us to believe
that he, a Communist, is standing for a
union position and that this action has
nothing to do with his membership of the
Communist Party?
It is very important for organisations
like the VSTA, which have no commu-
nist connections, to remain this way and
not become involved in the sort of use-
less faction fights that communist partici-
pation always brings. It is obviously im-
portant, to.o, for them not to have their
organisation influenced by the Communist
Party, which subordinates all objectives,
including education, to the demands of
their other ambitions. It seems that Mr.
White would also have us believe that the
CP is just another political party and that
his membership of it is as irrelevant Jo
the union election as membership of the
Liberal Party would be. This, I believe,
requires a little too much naivety of us.
R. W. BROWNING.
Nth. Croydon {Vic.)
N.Z.’s Security Student
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to your
column “All Their Own Work” (8., May
14). The trouble with the words which
you attribute to me is that they are not
“my own work.” I do have strong feel-
ings on the subject you raise. But the
only interview I gave on the subject was
fully and fairly reported by the Auckland
“Star” of May 4, 1966, when it said “Pro-
fessor R. M. Chapman said Mr. Godfrey
had told him he worked for security at
the start of the year. Professor Chapman
said he told Mr. Godfrey that he thought
security men should be encouraged to get
all the education they could. He accepted
Mr. Godfrey, thinking he was genuinely
interested in studying. But, said Professor
Chapman, Mr. Godfrey had altered his
position by his own actions, which had
upset the other students.”
R. M. CHAPMAN,
Department of Political Studies,
University of Auckland,
Auckland (N.Z.)


Aiding our southern neighbor with
hydro-electric power...
0
0
Fuji Electric
Electrical Power for Progress
Electricity plays an important part in
the modernization and the development of
man’s ability to conquer science for indus-
trial growth. Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. is famous
for design and manufacture of modern
equipment to generate and harness electric-
ity, Nature’s greatest gift to mankind!
Australia’s Industrial Potential
The potential growth and development
of Australia’s industry, and the use of her
natural resources are dependent upon the
ability to place unlimited electrical power
at the disposal of industry. Fuji Electric
is aware of the advances Australia has
made in becoming an industrial leader.
Australia has begun an electrical power
modernization program from which she
will emerge as one of the world’s most
progressive and industrialized nations.
Fuji Electric’s Past Contributions to this
Program
We at Fuji Electric have seen the impact
modern electrical power generating equip-
ment has on Australia’s industrial advances.
An example of our contributions to Aus-
tralia’s modern power for progress program
is the huge 950 KW Pelton type water
turbine generator built by Fuji Electric and
installed at the Murray Power Station as a
part of the Snowy Mountains electrical
power modernization program which is
changing the entire future of industry in
Australia.
Fuji Electric’s Place in Australia’s Indus-
trial Future
We have the most advanced research
laboratories and the highest trained crafts-
men anywhere in the electrical equipment
industry. These assets, coupled with mod-
ern facilities and quality controlled pro-
duction techniques, bring an outstanding
quality to every Fuji Electric product—
an excellence which will help increase the
industrial growth and economic structure
of Australia. We offer a variety of electrical
power generating equipment to provide
electricity for an entire city or for the
largest industrial facility ever constructed.
No matter what the requirement, our abun-
dant technological knowledge and ability
can design, develop and construct that
equipment.
Fuji Electric, A World Leader In Its Field
For more than 40 years, Fuji Electric’s
products have established the standard of
excellent electrical equipment in Japan and
the world. The quality performance and
high reliability of Fuji Electric products
is backed by the integrity, experience and
skill of more than 18,000 craftsmen who
make up our working force. In addition
to electrical power generating equipment
we hold a leadership position in the fields
of electronics, nuclear research equipment,
and electrical household appliances de-
signed for modern living. We manufacture
everything electrical from mammoth water
turbine power generator to the tiniest
transistor.
(D
FUJI ELECTRIC
SYMBOL. OF BETTER LIVING
FUJI ELECTRIC CO, LTD. (FUJI DENKI SEIZO K.K.) Head Office: Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cable: DENKIFUJI TOKYO


Face of the Week
In N.S.W. 1200 Malaysian students
joined the general alert for missing
Malaysian High Commissioner Tun
Lim Yew Hock. The ANL freighter
Jeparit sailed for Vietnam with a full
crew and 4500 tons of supplies. Rob-
bery of the week was $20,000 taken by
cracksmen from a Melbourne hotel
safe. $23,000 in cash and cheques
disappeared from a Canberra bank
and a teller was later arrested in Towns-
ville. There were no Vietnam demon-
strations during the week, but a Sydney
man erected a protest tent in Hyde Park
and a Melbourne woman fasted for two
days outside the U.S. consulate in
Melbourne. Rod Laver became engaged,
and Brian Henderson was married. A
Melbourne businessman was made bank-
rupt, owing a bank $500,000.
★
The 1966 national wage case, the
Premiers’ Conference, and the Loan
Council talks ended. Australia was one
of nine nations which agreed to set up
an informal Council for Asian and
Pacific Co-operation. In the Papua New
Guinea House of Assembly a heated
debate preceded legislation giving all
landowners a minimum $2 an acre
payment for land under mining. A
Nauruan delegation was in Canberra
for phosphate royalties discussions, and
Australian geologists were due to follow
up American research into likely off-
shore deposits and on-shore mining
areas. Queensland sugar growers
learned that the world price had drop-
ped further, to £16.15.0 sterling a ton,
from its post-war peak of £losstg. a
ton. Sabin vaccine was approved as an
alternative to Salk injections against
polio.
★
Adelaide saw the opening of its
redeveloped Central Market. In Perth
newspaper printers were on strike three
days. Queenlsand. drafted legislation
for womens’ service on juries. N.S.W.
north coast dairyfarmers demanded a
share of the Sydney milk market. Mel-
bourne’s St. Vincent’s Hospital reported
three patients’ heart valves replaced
with ones from calves’. Peter Thom-
son withdrew from the U.S. Open, Ben
Hogan refused invitations to play in
Australia, our tennis players were top
seeds for all Wimbledon titles this
year. The Victorian ALP Conference
directed 12 Labor controlled municipal
councils to give their employees a
minimum 35-hour week. Australia’s
unemployed numbered 56,537 in May,
or 1.2 percent of the work force. Wide-
spread rain fell but missed many im-
portant areas, including dam catch-
ments.
★
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street. Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666, Ext. 2504.
The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4503
JUNE 25, 1966
Asian Conference Circuit
A S conference follows conference
up and down Asia and the
Pacific these past weeks Bangkok,
Taipei, Seoul, Canberra each lead-
ing to more windy pomposities with-
out apparently significant decisions,
Australians might be excused for
underestimating the importance of
what is going on. Even the Bangkok
conference the best of them all
did not completely end Confronta-
tion; Mr. Hasluck’s Taipei meetings
led to an Australian diplomatic mis-
sion in the Republic of China but
meant no significant change in policy;
the Seoul Foreign Ministers’ con-
ference led to even less the sort
of meeting of which it is said it “laid
the basis” for some intangible some-
thing still to come.
Next week there will be another
SEATO conference in Canberra
about Asian defence by coun-
tries including France which believes
in undermining this defence and
“realistically” recognising Red
China’s predominance in South-East
Asia, and Pakistan which has been
allied with Red China against India;
a conference of nations which, as
a group, has done almost nothing to
help defeat the Communists in the
test case of Vietnam (although some
have done so individually). Even
Britain is not significant in SEATO:
it pretends that it is precluded from
sending troops to Vietnam because
of its membership of the Geneva
Conference, but in that case, as
Peter Samuel points out in this issue,
its signing of SEATO after it joined
the Geneva Conference must have
been totally cynical, since the signa-
ture was supposed to be an agree- 1
ment to send troops to Vietnam if
requested.
Nevertheless, the recent buzz of
conference activity is not pointless.
It is a symptom of the fact that the
tide is at last turning against the
totalitarians in Asia, that history
seems to be on our side again.
Peking, involved in its fierce purge,
is discredited in Africa and the U.N.,
and of all Asian States only two
neutrals Cambodia and Burma
remain friendly to it. At the same
time Indonesians are shouting “to
hell with Confrontation,” and in
Vietnam the military effort of the
allies is going extremely well, irm
pressing other Asian countries of the
ability of the West to provide protec-
tion against Communist Chinese-type
warfare. With the Association of
South-East Asian States being re-
vived, Indonesia returning to the
community of nations, and the South
Koreans and Japanese proposing new
co-operative ventures, the possibilities
for developing regional schemes is
better than ever before. Hence the
round of international conferences.
In these circumstances the com-
parative uselessness of SEATO is less
depressing than formerly. The im-
proved outlook in Asia could even
stimulate new action by those SEATO
members who mean business, or finally
lead to more worthwhile alliances to
solve the two great questions of Asia:
how to deploy Asian and Pacific
forces for prompt action against new
outbreaks of Communist guerilla war-
fare and how to maintain reliable
guarantees against Communist
China’s nuclear threats.
It is by its decisions or lack of
them on these two questions that the
Canberra conference will be judged.
On the past SEATO record there is
no reason for optimism on this score;
the important fact is that SEATO
uselessness is no longer so damaging.
Despite SEATO the outlook has never
been better.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ECONOMY
The Good-Humored Council
IT was one of the most good-humored Loan Council-cum-Premiers’ Conference gather-
ing,s for years. This was partly a matter of personalities the Holt-McMahon
team operating with more ease and informality than previous Menzies-Holt partnerships.
The Prime Minister unintentionally got things off to a light start by addressing Queens-
land Premier Mr. Nicklin as “Sir Frank.”
The Premiers were a different crow'd
too, the new' ones more familiar with the
proceedings and more alike in their style.
But no one has stepped into Sir Thomas
Playford’s shoes to provide a dominating
personality.
Commonwealth Treasury officials were
heavily congregated behind the Victorian
team. They were not going to be caught
again. Last year they happened to sit
behind the N.S.W. Premier, and the Vic-
torian Premier, Mr. H. Bolte, wound up
one of his harangues about Common-
wealth favoritism of N.S.W. by exclaim-
ing: “And notice how they even seat
themselves as if they represent New South
Wales.”
As it happened the only change this
year in the carve-up of funds involved a
minor readjustment in favor of N.S.W.
Mr. Askin got $5 million beyond the
amount the formulae dictated.
The Premiers collectively could be
happy because they got the biggest in-
crease ever: $134 million more than last
year. And their increase then was $B6
million, slightly below average because of
the restraint which the Commonwealth
felt w'as necessary at the time. Once,
however, the $l5 million extra given in
March for housing was added, this
financial year just ending proved a pretty-
average one. So the additional allocation
for 1966-67 w'as only a slight improve-
ment.
And, of course, this year should have
been better for the States. As the
Treasurer, Mr. W. McMahon, is ready to
concede, business looks unlikely to put up
as many buildings and factories as it has
recently, so there W'ill be some slack de-
veloping if other part-; of the economv
remain restrained. This potential slack
can usefully be taken up by a small ex-
pansion of State capital works.
It can easily be argued that Mr.
McMahon was a bit less generous than
he might have been. After all, it is not
unlikely that business capital spending
which looks like being up around the
$2700 million mark this financial year will
drop back to the 1964-65 level of $2400
million, so slicing $3OO million off total
demand. The extra $134 million the
States will be allowed to spend as a re-
sult of last week’s Canberra meetings
does not go very far to matching that.
But, of course, we cannot leave the arith-
metic there.
As the Treasurer pointed out to me
afterwards, the economy looks like getting-
some healthy boosts from other directions.
Those rains we have been getting look
like the beginning of the end of the
drought, which together with a likely
record w'heat crop will provide a sizable
general stimulant to the economy. Just
as important, personal consumer spending
seems likely to rise more strongly this
year, and so probably will general indus-
trial production, because the signs are
that excess stocks built up in the minor
slump of late last year have now been
worked off.
For the moment the economy is finely-
balanced with unemployment stable at a
reasonable level, and so the Common-
wealth can well wait and watch before
giving the States more. This it un-
doubtedly will.
Despite the extra Commonwealth money,
the Premiers did leave Canberra with
quite acute economic problems. For till
The Premiers Conference - Canberra's new team.
T reasurer McMahon—cautiously generous.
of them education is a headache, though
more so for Mr. Askin with the Wynd-
ham addition of a sixth secondary school
year putting strains on building and teach-
ing staffs. He also has his Opera House,
and shares with the Victorians enormous-
metropolitan traffic congestion which de-
mands some expensive solution.
Western Australia has to put an im-
mense amount of money into basic services,
like electricity to provide for the exciting
boom in manufacturing over there, while
the Queenslanders have to contend with
the aftermath of the drought, low sugar
prices, and their general Cinderella-State
condition. The others have their troubles,
too.
Later in the year the Commonwealth
will feel political pressures to do more
for education. It was extensively aired by
the Premiers in Canberra last week, but
little concrete has been promised. Mr. Holt
has simply said that he will meet the
Premiers before the Budget to consider
university financing problems. Still, there
is a feeling he will also announce some-
thing more for secondary education.
Natural gas proved a Hzzer at last
week’s conference, because despite the
prior ballyhoo not one of the Premiers
had a detailed submission. Mr. Holt is
keen to consider schemes as a contribution
to national development, but his Treasurer
may feel that the Commonwealth’s com-
mitments are already too great and that
it is best left to private enterprise.
Immediately after the conclusion of last
week’s meeting with the Premiers the
Prime Minister held his weekly Press brief-
ing. Obviously pleased with the way it
had gone, he took a few minutes off to
observe in his slow discursive manner that
year by year the Commonwealth and the
States are steadily building a more co-
operative spirit in their relationships.
There is now, he told us, more and
deeper communication at all levels be-
tween the Governments. He saw' in a con-
tinuation of this a practical alternative to
constitutional change.
PETER SAMUEL


She’s half of a fast billing department.
The other half’s her desk.
All she has to do is type. The new
5010 Computyper* electronic bill-
ing / accounting machine by
Friden does the rest.
It computes, stores', recalls,
types and re-stores figurework
information. Just touch a key.
Multiplication time is 350 milli-
seconds. Addition, 10 millisec-
onds. It turns a billing clerk into
a whole billing department. Or
speeds up your present one.
What’s more, no matter how
your billing and accounting pro-
cedures change, the 5010 can be
programmed for the change.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
The electronic billing/accounting machine by Friden
Friden Pty. Ltd.
636 ST. KILDA ROAD, MELBOURNE. 51 6905
Branches:
SYDNEY 29 8731 ADELAIDE 23 5998
CANBERRA 4 6162 PERTH 23 3224
BRISBANE 54 520 HOBART 34 2673
422 N
THE PRESS
Tun Lim Scoop
THE girl floor manager had tears in her
eyes. ABC executives watched
anxiously. And an ABC reporter said
quietly, “This must be done again. We
can’t let these people appear on television
in this manner. They’ll do it better next
time.”
The Second Secretary to the Malaysian
High Commissioner, Mr. Ajit Singh,
replied, “They are very upset. Let us not
do it again.” Newsman Michael Schild-
berger representing the Channel 9 network
agreed and after a quick discussion so
did the ABC. That was how millions of
television viewers got to see the wife and
two daughters of the Malaysian High
Commissioner, Tun Lim Yew Hock, who
had disappeared four days earlier.
The drama behind the drama of the
missing diplomat began last Tuesday morn-
ing when the News Department at GTV9
decided to approach Toh Puan Lim, the
High Commissioner’s wife, to ask her if
she would care to make an appeal on tele-
vision. GTV9 then asked the ABC in Can-
berra for studio facilities so that the appeal
could be taped simultaneously in Mel-
bourne and Sydney by means of the co-
axial cable. Schildberger flew to Can-
berra to assist Toh Puan Lim and her
daughters in the appearance, which was
seen on ABC and Channel 9 stations in
Melbourne and Sydney.
The next day the emotional TV appeal
was major news in every newspaper in
the country. It also pointed up some
of the odd attitudes the Press has in re-
porting television. Following the bizarre
rule of all newspapers that the least amount
of favorable publicity should be given to
the activities of television channels owned
by opposing newspaper companies, GTV9,
whose initiative led to the appeal, was
mentioned only in the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” . . . Other newspapers, with
varying degrees of emphasis, made it seem
as if the ABC had organised the appeal
and that it was shown only on ABC
stations.
Another sort of reaction came from the
Sydney “Sun,” which could not resist a
faint air of condescension and sanctimony
when it editorialised the next day. After
allowing that the eminence of the missing
diplomat had “justified” the use of tele-
vision, the “Sun,” seized by a rare-aware-
ness of the moral issues and an ill-con-
cealed attack of sour grapes at being
scooped, quaintly said: “At the same time,
the dramatic impact made by the appeal
is a warning that this kind of thing should
be done very sparingly. To attempt to save
a life or resolve a tragedy or restore a
reason yes. Almost emphatically yes.
Merely to pander to sensationalism or
tear-jerking, emphatically no.”
For GTV9’s News Department none of
this is new. They have been “scooping”
the Melbourne Press regularly for years
and the Toh Puan Lim appeal showed
them doing it nationally.


FIRST CHOICE IN HONGKONG
a
7 s
A Ik
Ms
&
&
iw\
}>
2?Ss
sgs
s
It
KS
_*iigfrr
P WilfVlE *** •
*
i
HOTa
t»s
wm **“ * t ‘if l»
2 Hankow Road, telephone 667211, cable MERLIN
A luxury hotel under experienced Swiss manage
ment. In the heart of Kowloon’s busy shoppinj
district, a mere three minutes stroll to the Honj
Kong ferry. 180 spacious air-conditioned rooms
many with panoramic harbour views, .Unique Jungli
Bar, Ivanhoe Grill. Fabulous cuisine. Courteous
service to highest world standards. When can wi
expect you?
Rates: Single rooms from HKS4S/- (A 56.75)
Double rooms from HK$6O/- (A 59.00)
CHOKE IN KIlMi LUMPUR
1
rr
lil!
r
]]]>
II!'
frfKfm
v
■'a.*
Treacher Road, telephone 87701, cable MERLIN
In the residential area, but only 5 minutes wal
from the commercial centre. Malaysia's premie
hotel offers 242 luxurious air-conditioned roomi
each with refrigerator, private bath. Free laundr)
Superb continental and Chinese cuisine. Shoppin
arcade. Courteous service to highest worl
standards. When can we expect you?
Rates: Single rooms Ms 33- (A$10.00)
Double rooms Ms4B/- (A 514.00)
Bookings may be made through
ODNER, Delasala House, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney
EDUCATION
The End of Intermediate
COMPARED with other States, Victoria shows a certain dislike for public examina-
tions. Accrediting, for instance, has long been accepted as an alternative to
univei'sal public examinations. Even so, there have been, until now, three public
certificates and examinations—lntermediate, Leaving, and Matriculation at the end of
fourth, fifth, and sixth years respectively.
Although schools may have awarded
their Intermediate and Leaving Certificates
on internal examinations, courses and
standards were still under the control of
the public examining board.
At the end of next year, however, the
lowest of these certificates, the Inter-
mediate, is to be abandoned. In part, the
Intermediate is going because it has out-
lived its usefulness. About a decade ago
it was an important qualification for many
kinds of jobs. It marked at least a year’s
progress beyond the compulsory leaving
age and was certainly not everyone’s pro-
perty. Nowadays, nearly every student in
High School sits for it, but white-collar
employers in particular no longer want it.
A minimum qualification now is most
likely to be Leaving. Jobs, therefore, which
once demanded Leaving, like primary
teaching, now expect Matriculation.
Employers do not have to impose these
demands —there are usually enough appli-
cants with the higher qualification, any-
way. Round about eighty percent of
students now stay on till fifth year. No
doubt this has been the main reason for
the abolition of Intermediate. There is,
however, another which results from the
trend to stay at school longer.
The Intermediate is controlled by a
joint Universities and Schools Board, whose
main purpose, under Statute, is to conduct
examinations for unversity entrance. In
principle, at least, courses and standards
for Intermediate are a step along the way
to university graduation. With virtually
everyone taking Intermediate, schools have
the choice of either failing a lot of
students or of dropping their standards.
Whatever they do (usually the latter) it is
clear that the courses ..being offered are
not designed for mass education. Overall
they are much too academic, and the pace
is theoretically that of the potential
graduate.
Probably the worst results of this are
that facts are stuffed in from an early age,
and that up to a quarter of the students
are chronic failures. For the majority the
value of such training is dubious. For
many it is quite worthless, and in so far as
it puts them off education in all its forms,
possibly harmful.
This, of course, is an argument against
courses rather than against examinations.
New South Wales Wyndham scheme
changed courses to meet the new situation
in secondary schools, but introduced a
public examination where previously there
had been none. Victoria chose to extend
the idea of internal school assessment.
After next year if a student wants a certifi-
cate endorsed by a public authority he
will have to complete the five-year Leaving
course.
The danger of this situation is that
schools may aim straight at Leaving
Certificates, and either make no change to
’their courses or even perhaps stiffen them
academically. In an attempt to prevent
this the Education Department’s Chief
Inspector of Secondary Schools, Mr. R. A.
Reed, has planned to set up a network
of advisory boards to make suggestions
about the curriculum of the first four years
of secondary school. The final responsi-
bility for all courses, assessments, and
certificates will remain with individual
schools. A general board will make sug-
gestions about the principles to be followed
in designing a curriculum.
Regional Boards, comprising up to
twenty schools, will discuss means of put-
ting these principles into effect. No one
knows yet what might slowly emerge from
these groups they are representative
rather than high-powered and they do not
have much local experimental or philo-
sophical background on which to draw.
To their credit, however, they will prob-
ably gain wide support for whatever they
do because they involve a lot of interests
and are not prescriptive.
At the same time, the Universities and
Schools Board is considering ways of
loosening the academic grip from the top.
The planners of a first four years’ course
can always be thwarted by prescriptions
applied from above, so any liberalisation
of the strict requirements of Leaving and
Matriculation will help their efforts to
design courses for general education.
Liberalisation of the tw'o senior years is,
in any case, desirable in itself.
BILL HANNAN
LAW
“Shadow of
Terror”
The Chief Commissioner of the Vic-
toria Police (Mr. Arnold) well knows
that when constabulary duty’s to be done
the policeman’s lot is not a happy one.
In a recent issue of “Police Life,” Mr.
Arnold found it his constabulary duty to
declare: “The need of the hour is for
juries with consciences, supported by
judges directing all their efforts to seek-
ing guilt or innocence rather than tech-
nicalities.
“There is room for the courts to give
equal justice, not only to the criminal
but also to the law-abiding citizens who
are the victims of savagery perpetrated in
our streets and places of public resort.
Surely our public cannot be called upon
much longer to suffer under the shadow
of terror at present being maintained by
the criminal fraternity in Victoria. As
police officers, as distinct from arm-chair


* fm
9
\>
I
V.
<s
A
p _»■#
r%
♦f
V
•*«
i
a
H
F •
/
♦M
»'0
*r
'
l
'/sC
I:
***•
NO. JUST ONE!
The tranquillity of a minaret at sundown. A sleeping colossus
of the Buddha. A Hindu penitent. A vivid Cantonese opera.
A watei buffalo cooling in a tropic Asian ricefield. You could
spend months travelling from Baghdad to Bombay, Kandy to
Kyoto to see scenes like these. Or you could holiday in Malaysia,
let to Kuala Lumpur's magnificent new $A14,000,000 Airport, right
on the international holiday map (only one stop from Sydney).
Find superb hotels (at low rates). Exotic foods, Oriental colour,
excitement, adventure. When can we expect you ?
JOIN THE JET SET IN MALAYSIA
POR FURTHER INFORMATION, SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT, OR WRITE TO THE DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM P. O. BOX 3ES KUALA LUMPUR


a great moment
for all
whisky
drinkers
Connoisseurs are aware of the vital part grain plays in pro-
ducing a fine, smooth whisky. Australian barley, grown
under ideal climatic conditions, has reached such high
quality that it is now recognised internationally for its
superb whisky-producing qualities. This is important for
Australia; it is important for the entire Australian Whisky
industry. For the first time our modern distilleries, with
their highly skilled blenders and strict quality controls, are
now able to create smooth, matured whiskies of truly
unique character.
This is the era when Australian Whisky has achieved full
international recognition—so much so that it is being
sought in increasing quantities by overseas countries.
Connoisseurs are already celebrating this new era. Why
not join in and enjoy a nip or two tonight? You’ll be
pleasantly surprised.
criminologists, we are irrevocably con-
vinced that crime is committed by crimin-
als. Keeping these criminals in close
confinement for long periods of preven-
tive detention is the only way our society
can be made safe. The answer, then, is
in the hands of our courts.”
The Chief Justice, Sir Henry Winneke,
was not impressed by the Police Commis-
sioner’s “Shadow of Terror” talk and a few
days later said in the Court of Criminal
Appeals that the Court would not be influ-
enced by recently published remarks about
the severity of sentences.
The next day Mr. Frank Galbally, a
leading criminal barrister, followed the
precedent of Sir Henry and asked a
criminal court jury to ignore recent
remarks by the Chief Commissioner of
Police to use consciences in criminal trials,
However, Mr. Arnold found an ally in
a former Stipendiary Magistrate, Mr.
Biggan, who bared his steel in Police
Life” and charged the local courts with
being too lenient with criminals: “The
performance of the so-called criminal
courts, especially the Courts of General
Sessions, today amount to nothing shoit
of condonation of crime, at the cost of
the people whom it is their duty to pro-
tect.” Speaking with the wisdom gained
of many years on the beach he said: “The
criminal is a beast in human form, ruth-
less, self-declared enemy of society.” He
gained support from many former fellow
magistrates who are expected to raise as a
a major issue at their annual conference
in July the lenient sentences imposed by
some courts on persistent offenders.
Last week, however, the balance of the
debate tipped against the Chief Commis-
sioner of Police when Melbourne Univer-
sity Law Lecturer Mr. Cliff Pannam des-
cribed the article in “Police Life” as:
“An illicit attempt by a policeman to
interfere with normal procedures of
courts of law.” Mr. Pannam said that
public officials should not write reports
in emotional language for publication in
the general Press. “If the police consider
aspects of the legal system are impeding
their job of enforcing the law, then the
Police Commissioner should have sub-
mitted a report in balanced language to
the Attorney-General, who could have made
public such parts of it as he saw fit.”
He said it was no business of the Com-
missioner to say the rules of law are
technicalities that juries should disregard
and that juries were not asked to make
moral judgments but to decide guilt or
innocence on the evidence. Mr. Arnold’s
claim that Victoria was experiencing a
crime wave was rejected by Mr. Pannam
as being not supported by the figures. “It
may very well be the case that there
has been an increase in reported crimes
but this would only indicate that the public
now has greater confidence in the police
than formerly.” Mr. Pannam added that
it was difficult for judges, solicitors, and
barristers to enter public debate with those
who were trying to interfere with due pro-
cesses of law, because legal ethics normally
prevented their doing so.
On Mr. Arnold’s call for more severe
sentences Mr. Pannam commented that
in a large number of cases detection was
a much greater deterrent than heavy
penalties: “This whip ’em, hang ’em talk
is to some degree the understandable re-
action of a policeman frustrated because
sometimes men whom the policeman be-
lieve guilty were not convicted. But
rather than call for tougher penalties for
those who were convicted it would be more
sensible to assist the police in pressing
their charges by making professional
legal assistance available.”
Mr. Pannam also called for the removal
of Justices of the Peace and Magistrates
from the Bench. He described the use of
J.P.s as “scandalous.” “All he’s got is the
Justice’s Manual so that if counsel drops
a Latin word he can look it up. This
scandalous situation is not much better
with magistrates who have done six sub-
jects at university and 15 years round
the courts sucking in knowledge by some
form of legal osmosis. We need a replace-
ment of all lower court benches, even if
it costs $3 million a year.”
It is now likely that the Magistrates will
discuss Mr. Pannam at next month’s
annual conference.


POLITICS
Psephology
ALP men gloomy about Labor’s pros-
pects of winning election to the
Treasury Benches in Canberra have
only five years in which to right the posi-
tion. This is the theory of a writer in
this month’s issue of “The Australian
Literal.”
The byline was Chris Puplick, of Col-
laroy Young Liberals, and the story a
centre-page spread under the heading
“Psephology, Simulation, and the future
of the Liberal Party.” Mr. Puplick
offered the Liberals guaranteed success at
the polls.
In the first place he advanced two
hypotheses: 1. That within about five
years computers would hold all the ke\s
to winning elections, and 2. That in all
probability only the Liberal Party really
stood to benefit from such a development.
Opinion polls in Britain, the U.S., and
Australia have accurately forecast election
results. “If election results can be pre-
dicted,” asks Mr. Puplick, “can we pre-
dict the issues that will win elections, the
policies that will attract votes, and the
platforms that will guarantee success? If
so, how? The answer to the first question
is emphatically yes, and to the second the
answer is by the use of the Science of
Simulation.”
Mr. Puplick cites the U.S. Democrat
Party’s use of simulation techniques in
the 1964 Presidential campaign. The
Democrats paid the experts millions of
dollars to design a program which would
ensure them victory.
Given that political parties can deter-
mine, at fantastic expense, what policies
will guarantee votes, why should the
Liberal Party be the only one to gain?
Mr. Puplick gives two reasons: “Firstly,
the Liberal Party has more funds than
the others and is more able to mobilise
funds when necessary. Secondly, the
Liberal Party is less ideologically commit-
ted than its opponents. If a computer
said the ALP could only win office by a
policy of limiting trade union power or
the Country Party by abolishing primary-
production subsidies, then it is clear that
these parties are too tied to an ideological
base to do this and would have to remain
in Opposition. The Liberal Party on the
other hand is more flexible and less com-
mitted to preconceived ideas of policy.”
Conceding that a party which won
an Australian election using simulation
techniques would probably be entrenched
in office for a long time, Mr. Puplick
maintains that the process would be
democratic. “Many would feel that there
is something wrong with the implications
of what is almost rule by machine,” he
says. “But this is not so. Even now any
election is only a choice of two sets of
policy, with the public having little in-
fluence on its original formulation. They
would have more (influence) in a simu-
lated system where their wishes, directly
measured, are used as the basis of policy
formulation.”
JOHN WEBB
THE WEST
The Iron Combine
The Secret Of Popularity
A RESHUFFLE no less exciting than the original deal is under way in Western
Australia’s iron ore fields, with three of the five Pilbara joint ventures joining up
to form a huge new combine.
As forecast in THE BULLETIN (May-
-14) this will probably mean making Port
Hedland the world’s biggest iron ore port,
handling 9-12 million tons annually, fed
from the estimated 1000 million tons of
ore within Mt. Whaleback’s reserves, 260
rail miles due south. But so far only the
officially sponsoi'ed happy noises have been
heard, although agreement will mean the
start, not the end, of a new round of
difficulties. Lor the four-handed deal
agreed to by BHP, Colonial Sugar Refin-
eries, Amax, and the Cleveland Cliffs-
Mitsui corner is essentially a compromise,
bold and basically sound though its con-
cept may be.
With BHP coming in, Australian equity
is maintained. But with everyone now
taking a bite out of Mt. Whaleback,
BHP and Cliffs must defer development
of low-grade ore on their adjoining leases
of the Robe River area, 240 miles north-
west of Whaleback. From the proposed
deal, BHP will win access to direct blast
furnace feed for local consumption; it
has not yet notched any export contracts
to supply its steel-making competitors in
Japan. Cliffs were to have started pelletis-
ing. the lower-grade Robe River ores in
1968; now it is reported from Tokyo that
only lump ore will be shipped until 1974.
Provided agreement is reached with
the Japanese and the governments, three
other major obstacles remain: (1) A num-
ber of politically explosive decisions will
have been made in finding common
ground, and when their implications be-
come clear some heavy sniping can be
expected. (2) The planners have said
blandly they will not seek renegotiated
prices. Their scheme went before the
Japanese last week. Will they miss such
a chance to nudge prices lower? Already
their trade publications are carping at the
lower f.o.b. price paid for ore in a small
but significant shipment to the Steel Co.
°f Wales. (3) Port Hedland, itself severely
limited in availability of land, in seaward
approaches and in depth of water and
tu ™ n S circle wl ‘ h,n *e harbor.
T, e ‘7° ° the ( r J groups are t
quietly pleased at the likely outcome of
negotiations / Hamersley,
probable challenger to BHP steel monop-
oly, a t the future of Dampier beyond
t h e natural limitations of Port Hedland.
Mt. Goldsworthy already is exporting
through Port Hedland from a nearby
mine with a limited lifetime.


SEATO - the Paper Tiger
Learning from NATO
By PETER SAMUEL
MEMBERS of the Labor Party are
often berated for their naive faith
in the peacekeeping powers of the
United Nations—and rightly so. Unfor-
tunately the record shows that the UN
has never played more than a marginal
role in settling international disputes, at
the most setting a seal or formalising a
settlement after its basis had been estab-
lished through other means. In most
major disputes it has played no part.
Yet whenever there is trouble on the
international scene the UN is invoked in
a ritualistic, unthinking manner, as an
appropriate arbiter. But on the Govern-
ment side there is often evidence of a
similar naivety of faith in the efficacy of
SEATO.
Now the war in Vietnam is without
doubt the most serious threat to SEATO
objectives which has arisen since the
organisation’s establishment in 1954.
SEATO’s record in meeting the challenge
in Vietnam is therefore a measure of its
general value.
As early as March, 1961, the SEATO
Council in its formal communique saia
noted “with concern” the Communist w<
against the Government of Vietnam, a.id
declared “its firm resolve not to acquiesce
in armed takeover.” Yet these proved mere
words, nothing being done to back them
tip with military assistance. The United
States was the only country to do any-
thing, and its help was limited, to a few
thousand advisers. Since then, three subse-
quent meetings have produced similar
proclamations—the last in London a year
ago. After noting that the Vietnam War
was a “critical test of the tactic of infiltra-
ting arms and trained men” it went on
merely to recall that “its members agreed
at Manila that they should remain pre-
pared, if necessary, to take further concrete
steps within their respective capabilities in
fulfilment of their obligations under the
Treaty.”
After that only three of the eight
SEATO countries had moved themselves
to provide assistance. Recently Thailand
and the Philippines have joined Austra-
lia, New Zealand, and the United States,
so that now five SEATO members are
engaged, even if some of the contributions
are of no more than token size. Three of
the most powerful members Britain,
Pakistan, and France are doing noth-
ing, and seem likely to continue that
way. South Korea, not a SEATO member,
is doing more than all the SEATO mem-
bers put together, with the exception of
United States forces.
It is also arguable that all the countries
which have joined the United States in
helping South Vietnam have done so more
because of their belief in the importance
of their own bilateral alliances with the
United States than because of any belief
in SEATO as such.
Yet despite these major shortcomings,
we have had the Government lavishing
praise on SEATO over the years. Sir
Garfield Barwick, in one of his major
speeches as Minister for External Affairs,
described it as “remarkably successful.”
His successor, Mr. P. Hasluck, has not
been quite so unqualified in his praise,
using the phrase “considerable success” in
his major speech on the organisation at
the 10th meeting last year.
But Government spokesmen have gener-
ally been very enthusiastic, often pulling
out the old argument that no SEATO
members have been the object of aggres-
sion since they joined the Treaty. Yet it
is pretty obvious, when you examine the
matter in some detail, that it has not been
membership of the Treaty which has
saved them from aggression. Pakistan, by
virtue of its anti-Indian stand, was useful
to China as an ally in its campaign against
India; Thailand and the Philippines have
been geographically difficult to get at,
although each has suffered a measure of
insurgent aggression. The other lone
SEATO members, not being part of the
“countryside” of the world, are not yet
due for liberation in Maoist thinking.
Earlier this month the Government
again demonstrated its seriousness about
SEATO with a tortuously legalistic state-
ment by Mr. Hasluck on the relationship
of our Vietnam commitment to the Treaty
published in some newspapers, and
as an External Affairs pamphlet. It is
also expected that the Government will
be publishing a booklet of select docu-
ments on SEATO.
Unless Mr. Hasluck gets some personal
inspirations on his present tour of Asian
countries it looks as if Australia will
go to the SEATO meetings in Canberra
this week with nothing to offer toward
strengthening the organisation. No one
I have come across in External Affairs
seems to have any positive ideas. Partly,
of course, this is because their Minister
does not give them much encouragement
to have them. But it is also a product
of several varieties of negative thinking.
One, the Left-wing one —which is mani-
fested every now and then by defections
to the Australian National University—
believes that SEATO is a provocation to
the Communists, who, like Freudian chil-
dren, are only reacting in a hostile manner
to the nastiness of their neighbors. For
them, SEATO must be kept as ineffectual
as possible. More numerous are cynical
or complacent attitudes.
Depressingly, these are just part of the
general public service ethos; the tendency
to rubbish any long-term strategy and
think that only concrete and immediately
applicable measures are worth considering.
This is evident in any discussion with
Australian officials about SEATO which
is not at present an affectively multilateral
organisation. This is because of an inter-
pretation which the Americans, in a fit
Paul Hasluck - tortuously legalistic.
of expediency, put on the Treaty in
1962 to justify sending troops to Thai-
land. This was the interpretation that
the obligations of the Treaty were “in-
dividual as well as collective.” This has
enabled members to argue that the Treaty
is being fulfilled when some countries put
in troops and others hold them out. It
lets the less enthusiastic members of the
“alliance” off the hook.
More than tha* »«• enables members who
have become positively hostile to the objec-
tives of the alliance and the actions of
other members to stay on. Both Pakistan
and France are now opposed to contain-
ing Chinese influence and are most un-
likely to do anything practical to help
with it. Their presence, therefore, be-
comes a verbal pretence.
Australian support for the American
interpretation of the nature of the SEATO
obligation therefore weakens its effective-
ness and gives it some of its paper tiger
features, to use the Chinese phrase.
There are strong arguments against mov-
ing- to interpret the Treaty so strongly
as to force the three inactive members out
of the organisation. Pakistan does show
some encouraging signs of disillusionment
with its period of living with China and
may again become an effective member.
The arguments put by Australian officials
for going out of our way to keep the
British and the French in the scheme
seem less convincing.
They seem reluctantly to agree with
the proposition that neither Britain nor
France is likely ever to accede to a request
for troops to fight in South-east Asia—
France because of the strength of support
for giving up South-east Asia, and Britain
because of isolationist Right-wingers,
appeasive Leftists, and an economising
Treasury.
The British Government’s argument that
it cannot contribute troops for the Viet-
nam war because of its position as one
of the co-chairmen of the Geneva Con-
ference is seen in Canberra as pretty
phony. If, as Mr. Denis Healey has
said, this position prohibited Britain from


Make this
your target
Si
o
r • '
NO
FIXED
TERM
CURRENT
RATE :
NO FIXED TERM means your in-
vestment plus dividend is readily
available for withdrawal. Your
dividend is 6% p.a. net (current
rate) paid twice yearly. There are
NO deductions.
Assets exceed $l4 million. Write
for brochure.
TY
ifroT#
kBA 837 C
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J S. Ward. General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
CITY OFFICE: 82 Elizabeth St. Phone 28 2801.
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to . . .
NAME
ADDRESS
becoming militarily involved, then it should
never have agreed to the protocol sections
in the SEATO Treaty which pledged
military assistance to Cambodia, Laos, and
Vietnam should they need it. Britain
made this pledge just a few months after
the Geneva Agreement.
Britain has also put its name to numer-
ous declarations of support for military
measures to combat insurgency and aggres-
sion in the area covered by the Geneva
Agreement.
It looks then as if Britain simply does
not want to get involved militarily in
the Indo-China area. The British Govern-
ment may be going cold on its admirable
commitment in its February Defence Re-
view: "‘lt is in the Far East and Southern
Asia that the greatest danger to peace
may lie in the next decade . . . We
believe it is right that Britain should con-
tinue to maintain a military presence
. . .” The “presence” will not serve much
purpose unless there is an assurance that
it will be mobilised when needed, and
sophist legalisms not used to rationalise
inaction.
Australian officials incline to the view
that we must not “push the Poms” with
SEATO because they might pack up com-
pletely and leave the Malaysia-Singapore
area. An alternative view is that only if
we urge a gradual implementation of the
NATO doctrine that an attack on one
member of SEATO is to be regarded as
an attack on all, will SEATO become
credible and effective as an alliance. In
the long-term the British are only worth
having in the area if they can be moved
gradually to accepting this.
Generally it might be said the SEATO
Treaty will increase in its usefulness in
proportion to its emphasis on the collec-
tive nature of its obligations. So building
up the organisation requires forgetting the
spurious “individual obligations” which the
Americans invented in 1962 and with
which we have thoughtlessly gone along.
After all, if the obligations become purely
“individual” through de-emphasising their
collective nature, the Treaty becomes
merely an indeterminate collection of
bilateral arrangements. Specifically, if
Britain, France, and others can simply
opt out of involvement in major conflicts
like Vietnam then the treaty becomes
simply a collection of bilateral relations
between Vietnam or its principal sup-
porter the United States and the
other willing members.
It may suit the Americans to continue
to keep SEATO a loose organisation
which will respond or not largely accord-
ing to their initiative and influence, as
it has in Vietnam. It gives the Americans
more manoeuvrability. Should an Ameri-
can administration be reluctant to go to
the defence of Thailand against a “libera-
tion war” because this was too much after
a long drawn out defeat in Vietnam, it
could quite easily do so, with SEATO
as it stands.
There would be less chance of this if
the NATO doctrine were adopted and if
the members of the region were strength-
ened and made more interdependent. In
the past both economic and military aid
to the Philippines and Thailand has been
extremely small, an average of only $35
million a year to the former, and about
$5O million to the latter. As a result.
these two countries are almost defenceless
compared with Pakistan, South Korea.
Taiwan, and South Vietnam, as well as
European countries—Communist and non-
Communist—of similar size. Countries
such as Holland, Greece, Belgium, Sweden,
and Israel, with populations mostly below
10 million, have armies larger and far
better equipped than those of Thailand
and the Philippines, both of which have
populations of about 30 million.
It looks as if there are two sorts of
military threats facing the SEATO region
in the next ten years. One is warfare
as in Vietnam, at first political, terrorist,
and substantially indigenous, gradually
turning into offensive mobile warfare in-
creasingly dependent on support from
bases in a neighboring neutral or Corn-
munist country. At a late stage, regular
troops from the Communist camp may be
involved.
The second is the increasing nuclear
strength of China, which already makes
it physically possible for her to engage
in nuclear gunboat diplomacy in the
region. Within five years, Defence De-
partment analysts say she will have inter-
mediate-range missile systems and crude
hydrogen bombs. Within a decade she
will have intercontinental delivery machin-
ery. We can insure best against the first
contingency by developing strong local
forces trained for counter-insurgency and
mobile warfare, and the second by credible
nuclear guarantees. It would be most con-
venient if they both developed in the con-
text of joint standing forces of the NATO
type.


Does your duplicator
accept paper'stencils'
costing only a few
pennies?
Does your duplicator pro-
duce well printed decimal
stationery and literature as
well as copy duplicating?
Does your duplicator give
up to 50,000 copies using
the thinnest film of con-
centrated ink costing only
$1.35 a pound?
..................
ML
•: n
I'*
„ '* lis s r I
si;V^C'-S-'
HI : :
V-V:
.
mm
: M
■HR 1
i■ : i
Does your duplicator
accept any kind of paper
and give top quality results
on all weights and
textures?
Does your duplicator do all this?
Unless you have an offset duplicator it is
unlikely. The Rotaprint R 75 offset dup-
licator can save its initial cost in a few
months even working at low output. It
prints and duplicates the R 75 is two
machines in one. Phone your local Rem-
ington office ask for a demonstration
at any time to suit your convenience.
Wt&mmtytoTn. for Rotaprint
REMINGTON RAND-THE LARGEST BUSINESS EQUIPMENT ORGANISATION IN THE WORLD
Sydney 2-0925 • Melbourne 69-0660 • Brisbane 5-4651 • Adelaide 8-4631 • Launceston 2-2358 • Hobart 2-2886 • Perth 23-2281 • Canberra 4-0885
RR 482


The Teachers ’ Dilemma
Three Myths about John and Betty
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
JOHN is 23. John is a teacher. John
is not unhappy. John left the uni-
versity last year. John graduated
with a Bachelor of Arts degree with a
Diploma of Education. John was posted
by the Department of Education to
Sunnyside High School. John’s mother
and father are happy, and proud of John.
Australia is proud of John, too. Listen to
the story of John.
When John was a little boy he never
missed a day at school unless he was very
sick and he always listened carefully to
what his teacher said. One day the head-
master called John to his room. “Lad,”
he said, “have you ever thought of be-
coming a teacher?”
John could hardly wait for the after-
noon bus to come so that he could get
home to tell his parents. Next day he
was back at the school office with the
form signed. Mr. Luted patted him on
the shoulder and called him “a very sen-
sible boy, who should go a long way if
you keep your head strapped down tight
on your shoulders.”
John never forgot that advice as he
proceeded from school to the university
and the Secondary Teachers’ College. He
kept his head down and always took care-
ful notes of everything his lecturers and
tutors said. He never bothered them with
silly questions and in return they gave
him passes in all of his subjects.
How proud John felt, and how proud
he knew his Mother and Father and the
Department felt, too, on those glorious,
sunny graduation days when he received
his degree and diploma.
John was a little puzzled in the first
few weeks at Sunnyside High. There was
the initial confusion about just how many
teachers the Department was going to send
the Headmaster that year, and what sub-
jects he was to teach, and the students
took some time to get their books, and
they were often interrupted by announce-
ments, forms to be filled in, and the trials
for the swimming sports. But things
finally sorted out and morally armed with
Degree and Diploma, and physically
armed with plenty of both plain and
colored chalk, John settled into teaching
28 periods a week of English, Geography,
and Physical Education.
However, John is still preparing his
lessons with his initial thoroughness, and
refuses to be downhearted by the lack of
response in some of the classes. He likes
the responsibilities of the job, and as he
told his mother and father, on his visit
home last weekend, “So long as I prepare
the kids adequately for the exams, keep
reasonable order, arrive on time, and put
on a bit of a show for the inspectors, I
should move up into the next division in
a few years. That will be good money for
my age. With the super and the holidays,
it adds up to a pretty good job. Besides,
it is a worthwhile job.”
With emotional responses varying from
disinterest to the warmth of fellowship,
from disappointment to anger, all second-
ary teachers will recognise John. For due
educational balance he should be paired
with Betty.
Betty could be 33, a spinster, but not
unhandsome, a trained Primary teacher
with three university subjects, a Junior
Secondary teacher in the seven years since
she rose from the Primary Service, with an
open and friendly nature which delights
some of her pupils, but which others trade
on so that her classes are in perpetual
tension between the forces of order and
anarchy; or she could be 45, with three
teenage sons and a deep and scholarly inter-
est in her major teaching subject, English
History, with a much less than tender
concern for her pupils.
Or Betty could be 22, with a Trained
Secondary Teacher’s Certificate, engaged
to an engineer, lazy, and utterly bored
with schools, pupils, and Education
Departments, and piling up her pay fast
to put a decent deposit on a triple-fronted
brick veneer; or she could be a fat, tough
headmistress, determined to run the best
school in town, demanding on her teach-
ers, up with the latest teaching methods,
a constant embarrassment to the Depart-
ment with her incessant demands, some-
thing of a patron of the arts, a public
terror to the school, but off the rostrum
often surprisingly compassionate.
But enough for the moment of John
and Betty, of hyperbole and example:
the point is to challenge some of the
myths, fictions, and presuppositions which
surround and penetrate the present
national debate about “the education
crisis.” Unless this is done further entry
into the debate may well be useless.
Myth No. 1: All teachers are dedicated.
Frequently the arguments for more
money, more schools and classrooms, better
physical appurtenances in general are
conducted as if it were the case that
basically we have the right kind of men
and women on the job but (A) there are
not enough of them, and (B) the facilities
with and in which they work are inade-
quate. The presupposition seems to be
that once (A) and (B) are fixed up by
a beneficent government, once we have
more teachers, smaller classes, and mod-
ern buildings, the education machine will
be able to run smoothly and satisfactorily,
and Australia will be able to boast as fine
an education system as any in the world.
With due respect for the many thou-
sands of fine teachers throughout the
nation it must be stated that this is
largely nonsense. Teachers are not much
more noble than the rest of men, but
they have a vocation that demands more
nobility than most, a vocation which is
more than usually difficult to live in this
country.
There are saints, heroes, men and
women of wonderful invention, inspiring
enthusiasm, and noble heart, in our
schools; there also are loafers, time-servers,
neurotics, left-seekers, exhibitionists, alco-
holics, sadists, fools, homosexuals, teach-
ers who find the daily task of spending
seven hours with children and adolescents
an almost intolerable bore, teachers who
have no interest in the subjects they teach
or in anything else that taxes or tickles
the intellect. (The basic organisation of
the State education systems gives us many
more of the latter kinds of teachers than
might be reasonably expected.)
Myth No. 2: All students automatically
respond to good teaching.
In the logic of much of the present
education debate about funds, teacher-
pupil ratios, equipment, etc., there also
seems to be a built-in notion that once
a sufficient number of good teachers
have the right conditions to work in
education will flourish, society will pros-
per, a multitude of flowers will bloom in
our civic and cultural garden, and good
will finally triumph over evil.
This notion is held despite evidence that
even under the best of conditions many
pupils do not want to learn much, and
some of them want to learn nothing at
all; that because of this, their background,
previous school experience, native tempera-
ment, or something else, many pupils
resent school authority and the kind of
classroom tensions and demands which
most teachers and education departments
regard as normal.
The teacher-centred classroom, the lec-
ture, discussion, and notes method of
teaching (sometimes referred to as “the
talk and chalk” method), and the exam-
dominated curricula, even with lower
teacher-pupil ratios, more qualified staff,
better libraries, etc., bores many pupils,
frustrates others, and exacerbates the per-
sonality difficulties of the nervous, the
aggressive, and the dull child.
But apart from ignoring these things


m
omm
mm
■
l.. ■
One way to keep moisture & dirt out, freshness in.
The other way:
a polyethylene film bag.
Your product looks great when it
leaves the factory. But a lot can
happen between factory and final sale.
Your product can get grimy. Or take
on a foreign taste. Or go from dry to
damp. That’s why so many packagers
prefer polyethylene film bags.
Polyethylene film bags isolate your
product from dust, dirt and damaging
humidity. They keep contaminants at
bay. Their gas permeability is high—
important when your product has to
“breathe” to stay fresh, as in the case
of fruit and vegetables.
How can the barrier properties of poly-
ethylene film bags improve your
packaging?
The Union Carbide office nearest you
can supply all the answers. We can
also put you in touch with bag makers
who can supply you with bag samples
and prices.
When ordering direct from your bag
maker, be sure to specify one of the
“Union Carbide” polyethylene resins
(listed at the right) on your order.
That way your bag supplier will know
what you want, and you’ll know what
you are going to get: a bag made from
top quality “Union Carbide” poly-
ethylene.
Union Carbide Australia Limited
Plastics Division
167 Kent Street, Sydney
Branch Offices in State Capitals
I
POHETHYiENE
RESINS FOR FILM
FOR CLARITY
UCAL42O2 makes high clarity,
antistatic film.
DFDLOISO makes high clarity,
very thin film.
FOR STRENGTH
UCAL2IOI makes high strength,
medium clarity film.
"Union Carbide” is a registered trade mark.
989


the mythology of the automatic response
of the student to good teaching ignores the
existence of the multi-million-dollar indus-
tries call them “admass,” “masscult,”
“popcult,” or whatever you like which
destroy much of what children and adoles-
cents learn or should be learning between
9 a.m. and 4 p.m. for most of the week.
Under this influence many Secondary
students regard their teachers as “square,”
and resist the knowledge and wisdom im-
parted by the schools, except that which
is strictly necessary to pass examinations,
gain qualifications, and flee. There is
every reason to think that the majority
of teachers are not very well equipped
to meet this challenge.
Myth No. 3: The qualified teacher and
only the qualified teacher is competent to
teach.
The fact is, and every education
administrator knows it, that quite a solid
proportion of trained and well-qualified
teachers, no matter how fine their inten-
tions, will never be competent teachers in
the kind of schools we now run. The
analogies fall down because teaching,
more than almost any other job, depends
largely on personality factors, and on the
constitution of the nerv.ous system.
A weak social radar apparatus, a highly
developed sensitivity to the emotional
demands and individual needs of the young,
hyper-shyness, constitutional indecisiveness,
a too obvious need to be liked or admired:
these are only some of the many per-
sonality deficiencies which may prevent a
person otherwise adequately trained and
qualified from being able to control and
direct groups of children and adolescents
for any length of time. Numbers of
teachers battle along heroically and unsuc-
cessfully with these handicaps others
have breakdowns, others retire.
Certain kinds of personalities, although
quite able to handle any kind of shape of
class for disciplinary purposes, and
equipped with high degrees of scholarship
and educational theory, may also be not
suited to the basic classroom style of
teaching which is almost universal in
Australia. This may be due to neurosis,
to reflective, contemplative, or self-inspect-
ing habits of mind, or simply to the kind
of mental constitution, which, however
hard it tries to respond, finds spending
seven to nine hours a day with and for
children and adolescents boring to the
point of inanition.
Because successful teaching depends so
heavily on personal qualities, much more
so than plugging teeth, designing engines,
or preparing court briefs, those without
formal professional training and qualifica-
tions may be competent and even out-
standing teachers. Most headmasters would
agree that the division of their staff into
trained and untrained teachers is not even
a rough guide to where the line may be
drawn between competence and incom-
petence.
This is not to argue that teacher train-
ing is not beneficial and should be
abolished. Of course, such training is
useful, even in the present “Talk, Chalk,
Discuss, and Notes” era, and would be even
more necessary if teaching styles more
suited to the mental lives and motivations
of pupils became dominant, instead of
“experimental” (and instead of being
largely irrelevant gimmicks). But there is
good reason to believe that the notion that
teacher training is almost always effective
(as, say, an apprenticeship and night
school course are for plumbing) is a harm-
ful one and that the attention and respect
paid to teaching diplomas and certificates
often disguises the real issues and is unfair
to the many competent untrained teachers.
In addition, I have not even men-
tioned the dubious intellectual standards of
many of the faculties and courses which
grant diplomas and certificates in Second-
ary education. The trained Secondary
teacher’s course offered by a teachers’
college in the grounds of at least one of
our universities is regarded by the rest
of the university staff as a joke or worse.
The Education Diploma course offered at
the same university, but, mercifully, not
by the Education Department, has been
described as mostly an irritating waste of
time (a situation exacerbated by compul-
sory lecture attendances) by most of its
graduates I have personally known. There
has been a strong correlation between
high - performance in the previous under-
graduate course and the violence of the
reaction to the Dip. Ed. course. There is
no necessary criticism of the staff of this
faculty implied in these remarks: a root
cause of the trouble is that, one way and
another, the State Education Department
has always exercised a strong influence on
the course and it has a strong vested
interest in pushing certain subjects of
doubtful intellectual merit and in keeping
the pass rate extremely high. To fail Dip.
Ed. is considered a mark of great intel-
lectual distinction and integrity.
Hard Facts
'J'HESE are only some of the major myths
and presuppositions which surround
the national debate about the so-called
education crisis. There are a number of
others; chief among them (a) the sacred-
ness of the 7-hour, 5-day teaching week
and (b) the personal frustration felt by
departmental pressures.
But, tales of John and Betty, the expos-
ing of educational mythology: Surely it is
time to be serious and get down to the
facts and figures, to our educational
expenditure in terms of the Gross
National Product, to overall teacher-
pupil ratios, to the number of schools
lacking satisfactory Maths and Science
teachers, to the percentage of High School
teachers with no teacher training, down
to the hard facts.
For the benefit, then, of those who
believe that facts are only estab-
lished by statistics, here is what the statis-
tics show:
• As a percentage of our Gross National
Product Australia’s spending on education
is a little over three percent, which ranks
us behind about 14 other advanced coun-
tries in proportionate spending on educa-
tion, despite the fact that we are in terms
of income per head about the fourth
most prosperous country in the world;
• less than half of our secondary teaching
service has been specifically trained for its
present teaching duties;
• little more than half of our secondary
teachers are graduates;
• nearly 20 percent of those teaching
Matriculation subjects have no university
qualifications for the subject they teach;
• less than a third of the nation’s
secondary teachers have a university
degree, plus teacher training;
• there has been a steady decline in the
number of new teachers holding honors
or higher degrees;
• there is a severe shortage of Maths and
Science teachers throughout the land, and
also a great need for more specialist
teachers;
• class sizes average not less than 40 in
most secondary schools, with the lower
forms mostly spilling over this figure and
the higher forms averaging less;
• matriculation teachers of the following
subjects with qualifications below third-year
university level rank in proportion: Biology
74 percent, Physics 68 percent, Chemistry
60 percent, Mathematics 58 percent,
French 49 percent, Economics 42 percent,
English 38 percent (15 percent of Matricu-
lation English teachers had not studied
the subject at a university and three
percent had not reached Matriculation).
On the statistics, then, we need more
money, more teachers, more teacher train-
ing, and more schools. The State Educa-
tion Departments admit this but claim
that they have done better than those who
talk continually of crisis allow, and as well
as could be expected in the face of the
problems created by the post-war baby
boom and the strong national competition
for a limited number of graduates.
The State Governments claim that edu-
cation is the biggest single item of expen-
diture in their strained budgets and that
nothing more can be done unless the
Federal Government gives them more
money. There is clearly a strong case for
the Federal Government to increase its
grants, but this would mean raising taxes,
an unlikely event in an election year.
The chief barrier to progress is the
central bureaucracy which dominates pub-
lic education in each State, By and large
these bureaucracies are no better or worse
in their conduct than might be expected,
but their very existence has the following
consequences.
First, their powers make it impossible
for headmasters to select or at least play
an important role in the selection of their
staff. Headmasters get the teachers they
are sent, a circumstance which automati-
cally reduces their level of responsibility
and commitment to the school, which
often prevents them from even attempting
to build strong subject departments, and
which usually stops them from attracting
and trying-out promising experts with no
formal teacher training.
Second, the undemocratic centralism of
the departmental system exercises moral
and physical pressure against experiment
and initiative. What passes for experi-
ment in most departments is really only
the latest gimmick imported from abroad


SERIES V
m
mi*
y 'ft-r
m
fi
* W hite-wa/l tyres optional at extra cost.
WITH STILL FURTHER REFINEMENTS FOR 66
• Distinctive styling f Deep foam
luxury seating • Courtesy lights
• Centre armrests f Child-proof
locks • Foldaway tables • Fully
automatic transmission f Power
assisted front disc brakes.
The kind of refinements that result from
the continual search for perfection in
luxury motoring. A new even smoother
Fully Automatic Transmission, an alter-
nator to replace the generator giving
longer battery life, a heavy duty ex-
haust system, a sealed propeller shaft,
and a distinctive new colour range—
Sparkling Acrylic Enamel. Drive Humber
Super Snipe. You will appreciate the
effortless power, the attention to detail
and the engineering skill that is tradi-
tional with the name Humber.
$4298 (£2149) tax paid.
VOGUE SERIES 111
Family car, sports car or luxury
saloon, in every way,
the series 111 Vogue is a Humber.
$2478 (£1239) tax paid,
standard transmission.
SEE YOUR LOCAL CITY, SUBURBAN OR COUNTRY DEALER!
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD,


and a proof of its unremarkable character
is acceptance at headquarters.
Third, the promotion systems which the
departments apparently find necessary,
make interchange of teachers between
other States and nations extremely un-
likely, discourage teachers from higher
studies, often prevent them from going
overseas for further experience, and utterly
discourage the importation of well-
qualified professional men in other fields
from attempting to enter the teaching
service.
Fourth, the inspectorial system, which
the departments also apparently find
necessary what, after all, is the
point of having a huge human apparatus
under your control if you can’t police its
members?—encourages an exam-orientated
school with its attendant consequences of
teacher self-seeking and exhibitionism,
student cramming, the disappointment,
discouragement, and sometimes the
neurosis of the less successful and duller
students. It also ends in hypocrisy, and
the preparation of show lessons which may
fool the inspector but less often fool the
students.
Fifth, at all levels the existence of the
central and all-powerful department
fosters the alienation of teachers from their
appropriate responsibilities, from long-
term planning for subjects, courses, and
schools, from increasing their own know-
ledge and experience, and, like all
bureaucracies, encourages time-serving,
conformity, and servility.
The most urgent need is for teachers
to establish more professional indepen-
dence, in relation to the standards of the
training for their chosen work. Consider
the earlier parable of Teacher John.
From the age of five to 23, from
Primary School to Secondary School,
through degree and diploma, and finally
to Sunnyside High, he has been nur-
tured in the kindly bosom of the Depart-
ment of Education and its institutions.
His claim to be a fully professional man
can scarcely be taken very seriously by
lawyers, doctors, or even pharmaceutical
chemists.
Teachers must win more autonomy and
independence from Mother Department.
They must establish their own profes-
sionalism and command much greater
authority over the courses and standards,
gain decisive influence over training insti-
tutions, and command much greater
authority over course and staffing. Until
they do the evils of time-serving, aliena-
tion, conformity, exam-orientation, and
declining standards will persist. So will
their present sub-professional status; and
perhaps it should.
Equally necessary is a crash program
of educational research, experiment, and
dissemination of new methods. Many of
the problems alleged to have been created
by lack of government grants would dis-
appear if relatively new, but thoroughly
tried, European and American methods of
education such as program-learning and
team-teaching were extensively used and
directed by skilled senior teachers.
For example, a properly conducted
program of team-teaching, in which stu-
dents are gathered in large numbers for
lectures, and small groups for discussion
and clarification, can be quite success-
fully run by one or two competent,
experienced teachers and a number of
relatively untrained and unqualified assis-
tants. There is no reason why female
graduates and university students could
not be widely used as part-time assistants
in this kind of teaching.
Program-learning has great advantages
in that each child works at his own
appropriate pace, the element of fierce
competition is removed from the class-
room, tension between class and teacher is
removed (unlike in the “Talk and Chalk”
system, where it is always present), the
method has its own built-in checks which
ensure that the student is actually learn-
ing as he goes, and the teacher has more
time to give individual attention to each
of the class.
Research into the application of thes
methods would, I am sure, reveal that
they would save much money, time, and
frustration once the initial cost of lib-
raries, alterations to school buildings, etc.,
was met.
The real crisis in education is not
created by insufficient government-
provided finance or too many post-war
babies but by too little imagination,
experiment, long-term planning, and
teacher independence.
A Night at the P. & C.
A POINT of order, Mr. President!
Are we voting on the motion, or
the amendment to the motion?”
The aggressive persistent voice
irritated the headmaster out of the
reverie into which he had fallen. “Oh,
God!” he thought, “there goes that
bore Johnson again! Point of order!
Point of order! I move this. I second
that!”
Mrs. Francis rose ominously to her
feet and glared at Johnson. The head-
master settled back to witness the battle.
“Now it’s on! Old Foghorn Francis no
less. She’ll give Johnson the old one-
two.” He turned the nickname over
and over in his mind with malicious
pleasure. “Foghorn Francis! Foghorn
Francis.” Then, pleased with his alliter-
ative skill, he extended it to “Fat-head
fog-horn Francis” and could not keep
a small smile from his lips. Mrs.
Francis, who happened to be looking
at him at the time, graciously
acknowledged his smile in the mistaken
belief that it signified approval of her
part in the debate.
Actually, the headmaster had no
idea what they had been debating. After
many years of attending Parents and
Citizens’ Association meetings, he had
come to the conclusion that he was
no match for these zealous parents. His
habit had long been to let his mind
drift gently away.
In any case, most of the meetings
would follow a pattern. Somebody
would rise up and complain about
something and then they would all
have a go at it. Confusion would be
heaped on confusion until with any
luck at all the complaint would become
submerged in a flood of, words and
would be lost for ever. Occasionally,
however, and this looked like being one
of those occasions, a nuisance like John-
son or Mrs. Francis would start sprout-
ing rules, and he would be forced to
take note of what was happening in
case they decided something.
This time, as he gathered from Mrs.
Francis’ next words, it was a public
address system. Mrs. Francis had heard
that Lilyfield P. and C. had purchased
one, and that the headmaster there
found it of great assistance for his
announcements at assemblies, and for
marching and physical training music.
It was also handy for background
music at the annual fete.
Again, as on all of these occasions,
the headmaster began to feel like a
bought woman. Marshalled there in the
back of his mind stood the formidable
array of items already purchased by
the P. and C. for the school. These
ranged from an assembly hall as the
proudest effort, through a welter of
valuable equipment such as movie pro-
jector, television and radio sets, record
player, sporting goods, library books
and playground furniture, down to soap
and toilet paper.
Mentally he again cursed the Educa-
tion Department which had placed him
at the mercy of these overwhelming
parents. How on earth was he to give
young Francis the walloping he so
richly deserved if his mother success-
fully sponsored the purchase of an ex-
pensive public address system? The
others also would place fetters on his
freedom, as they would all take part in
another fetish of fund raising; even
Johnson, who was only putting up a
disgruntled resistance because he had
not thought of the public address system
himself.
“This time I’ll do it!” he resolved.
“If they ask me to speak I’ll tell them
I don’t want a public address system;
further, that I don’t want them wan-
dering all over the school, often in
school hours, fixing this, painting that,
building something else, until the
formidable list of their good works gives
them a voice in things which are best
left for me to decide.”
Brave words! He knew in his heart
that he could not do it. Without them
the school just would not function. His
resolution faded as Mrs. Francis finished
her booming . . . “and as the head-
master is the one who will be using
it if we purchase it, I suggest that we
hear his views.”
He rose to his feet— “Mr. President,
ladies and gentlemen. If you are willing
to purchase a public address system, you
can rest assured we shall find plenty of
use for it. Already I can think of . . .’'
I.D.


ONE MORE
WEEK
For the Kiddies
IN THE “SUNDAY MIRROR” (where
else?) a coloring-in contest for child-
ren of a scene from the film “How to Fill
a Wild Bikini.”
Skyline at Sunset
THE FILM “They’re a Weird Mob” was
shown recently to an audience of Aus-
tralia House and immigration officials in
London. The officials disapproved the
amount of drinking in the film, but noted
that there were some simply splendid shots
“Weird Mob” at sunset.
of the Sydney skyline at sunset. Stills from
the film show this is so, but it may not
be what most of us would notice first.
Stonehenge
FEW IDEAS have had a cooler reception
than the suggestion for a sportsmen’s
Stonehenge, a series of monoliths to be
bedded in Sydney’s Hyde Park. Lord
Mayor (Clean-up-Sydney) Armstrong
agreed to become chairman of the com-
mittee to push the project forward and
Town Clerk Luscombe thought he knew of
a spot available. (It must be one of the
last.) But although many sports journal-
ists are a party to the ridiculous enter-
prise, three out of four Sydney papers hit
the idea on the head. The following day
a magistrate ordered psychiatric examina-
tion for a man who pitched his tent in the
park.
Peggo Mite
RUSSELL BAKER in “The New York
Times” this week appears to have filched
the substance of a lifetime’s serious study,
which Australian scholar Afferbeck Lauder
recorded in his book “Let Stalk Strine.”
Baker treats the matter as something of
a joke, and suggests the compilation of
an American phrase-book for Europeans.
Sample entries: “Wotz eet’n Duhgawl?”
“Owkum yernot baknus uppin Veet
Nam?” “Woddayathinkah Elbeejay?”
These seem merely to point up the
phonetic poverty of American speech
compared with the richness of language
in the land of Gloria Soames.
Tanned
IN THIS ISSUE Robert Raymdnd
writes about the indiscriminate slaughter
of wild life and Jock Marshall’s book
“The Great Extermination.” It seems an
ironic footnote to the past decade’s mass
destruction of kangaroos for the export
meat market that the shooters, in their
haste and greed, may have often left the
most valuable part of the animal to rot
in the paddocks. This year kangaroo hide
is following kangaroo fur into the fashion
field, right at a time when there is an
enormous revival in leather and suede for
both men’s and women’s wear.
Kangaroo hide is now established as the
toughest and strongest leather and suede
in the world, but at the same time new
processes in tanning, developed here, have
made it soft and pliant enough to make
up into any garment and it comes in any
color you wish.
A former Sydney law student, Graham
Edelsten, at 22 is managing director of
Roo-wear Pty. Ltd., which, he says, is
now selling $4OOO worth of kangaroo gar-
ments and novelties a week, two-thirds of
which are suede and leather.
Edelsten said his new high-fashion
kangaroo suedes and leathers have been
developed by tanners W. Chaffer and
Sons. In the beginning there were prob-
lems with color variations, “not to mention
bullet holes,” Edelsten said.
Edelsten claims that today the price of
an imported garment of comparable
quality could be $4O dearer than the home-
grown product.
The Pied Piper of Brisbane
RUSS TYSON was Queensland’s best-
known human export until a couple of
weeks ago when he parted company with
the ABC. To the Queenslander-in-the-
street it is another southern plot to black
out the brightest ray of talent in the
sunshine State. But to Russ Tyson it is
the end of the work of half a lifetime,
and a fresh start in his 46th year.
He lives in a clean white house in
Albion, on the border where the OK
suburb of Clayfield slips down into the
industrial area of Albion. His sons
Charles (16) and Stephen (13) go to the
Church of England Grammar School. His
wife, Joy, runs a gift shop at Clayfield.
Tyson was hooked for radio by the
time he was seven. His uncle ran the first
children’s program in Queensland for the
old Brisbane Broadcasting Company, and
he had Russ playing parts as soon as he
could read. In 1939 he started with the
ABC as a cadet announcer and sound-
effects officer. He served five years in the
Army, in coastal artillery and light ack-
ack.
In 1946 he was back with the ABC.
Then Mike Connors fell ill and Russ
deputised at the breakfast session. The
Commission’s breakfast session has had a
notable trinity of announcers. The legend-
ary Watto did it for four years, Mike
Connors for ten years, and Russ Tyson for
16 years. “I was only 29 when I started
the program. I’d probably have gone mad
at the time if I’d known it would go on
for 16 years. But at the beginning I didn’t
expect it. I was just standing in for Mike
Connors; so I could relax, not worry,
and be myself.” Russ Tyson says this
with none of the professional slickness of
a long-time gabfest king.
His success has been steady and un-
broken. He was and is a middle-of-the-road
man. His fans are the great, inarticulate
mass of the low- to middle-income group
families. They like their music tuneful,
sentimental, familiar, and straightforward.
They like their thoughts ordered, solid, and
decent. They like their cliches gift-
wrapped. And there is a special place for
Russ Tyson in the sub-culture of hospitals
and old people’s homes. Three hundred
hospitals a year were linked into the hos-
pital show.
Not long ago Tyson played “Feed the
Birds” from “Mary Poppins,” and casu-
ally wondered what the old lady looked
like who sold crumbs at 2d. a bag. Within
three days he had 4000 drawings and
paintings on his desk. There was no free
trip to Tokyo for the winner. They just
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
I’m going to have my turn as Prime
Minister of this country.
Arthur Calwell.
We’re going to do everything we can
to keep those blasted tourists away from
here.
Hans Ericsoji, founder of the Burrum
Heads Anti-Progress Association.
The attendance at Ascot of the Queen,
driven in a carriage up the main course,
does nothing to remind the British
people just how serious a plight their
country is in.
British Liberal Party Leader Jo Grimond.
Personally I think the Sydney Opera
House is a pile of junk. I wouldn’t care
if they just built a barn as long as they
got moving and put some opera on.
Actor Ed Devereaux.
I am convinced that at the moment
when NATO ends its existence the War-
saw Pact will dissolve.
President Tito.
Viewing with dismay the conditions
in someone else’s backyard is a great
speciality of the New York “Times.”
American journalist John Crosby.
Donald Horne, the Mahatma of the
Republican movement, sees Republican-
ism as a sort of Giant Economy Size
Detergent that will bleach . out not only
the old British stains but make us better
than new.
Alan Fitzgerald.
If British Parliament is televised we
might be billed in the “TV Times” as
“Live From London, The House of Lords
Show,” starring Monty Boothby, Dil-
horne, and the Bishop of Southwark.
Earl of Arran.
It was not the black man of Africa
who invented and used poison gas and
the atomic bomb, who sent six million
men, women, and children to the gas
ovens.
Robert Kennedy.


wanted to let Uncle Russ know they had
been listening.
Lloyd O’Neil, of Lansdowne Press, saw
that Tyson on paper could sell as well as
Tyson on air. “Philosopher’s Notebook”
sold 30,000 copies and broke a number of
Australian records. It stayed in the top
ten (non-fiction) for ten months, and that
was the only time that Tyson followed
the charts. It even outsold the Bible for
a while and is still a great standby for
after-dinner speakers.
What happened? The Tyson-ABC mar-
riage looked rocky a year ago when he
gave up the Breakfast Session and con-
centrated on the hospital program. This
was one of the first shots of the Duck-
manton shooting season against the com-
mercial stations. The new Breakfast Ses-
sion was rather self-consciously flip, with-
it, and detysonised. Breakfast with Tyson
may have been corn, but corn is still the
best ingredient for family breakfast cereals.
The hospital program was a different cup
of schmalz. Everone concerned is being
as discreet as the Crimes Act says they
should be. There are suggestions that this
is a trial separation rather than a divorce.
But it would need an outstanding marriage
counsellor before the couple could live
happily ever after. The Albion postman
brings sacks of mail from devoted listeners
who feel they have lost an old friend.
The Spastic Centre, the Schools for the
Blind, the Crippled Children’s Homes, and
a lot of other social and medical welfare
organisations feel something like a personal
loss. The new-look ABC has chosen a
curious victim.
Noh Business
IN JAPAN Noh theatre plays before the
traditional pine-tree to an appreciative and
select audience of mostly middle-aged in-
tellectuals and a few American tourists,
who generally leave early. Once you
export Noh, reactions are more mixed, as
Professor Benito Ortolani discovered last
year when he took a Japanese company to
Europe.
Professor Ortolani until recently held
the chair of drama at Sophia University,
Tokyo. He is at present lecturing on
Noh theatre in the School of Drama at
the University of N.S.W.
During the European tour, Professor
Ortolani told us Noh was played on a
large open-air stage in Athens to an
audience of Greeks who laughed at the
actors’ seriousness “only half the time.”
The Italians took it very well, but the
Germans, who packed performances in
Frankfurt and Ulm, and who were obvi-
ously widely read on the subject, left the
theatre enraptured.
However, Professor Ortolani doubts
whether Australia is ready for Noh. “I
have only been in Sydney a matter of
weeks, but others confirm my opinion that
Australians would prefer the middle-brow
Kabuki theatre,” he said. He has, he said,
already had talks with the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust about such a tour.
Professor Ortolani explained that there
were obvious differences between Noh and
Kabuki Noh actors wear masks and
Kabuki actors do not but the essential
difference was between “a noble art and
a less noble art.” Both forms of drama
began Noh in the 14th century and
Kabuki in the 16th with a tinge of
prostitution, female in the case of Kabuki
and male in the case of Noh. Now players
in both are always male.
Noh, Professor Ortolani said, remains
independent of popular support and there
are always at least ten days between per-
formances of the same piece. “In this
respect,” he said, “a Noh performance is
like Mass in the Roman Catholic Church.
I don’t come home on Sunday morning
from church and declare at breakfast that
I enjoyed Mass so much that I intend
to take in an afternoon session as well.
Noh is like that.”
Professor Ortolani said that while Noh is
a refined, civilised, and almost religious
experience, Kabuki is full of mimicry and
exaggeration. An excellent example, he
said, of extravaganza.
Kabuki is expensive it costs about $6
to see a performance in Japan and in-
volves a cast of about 120 and elaborate
sets. All of which may in time be reflected
in the Elizabethan’s balance sheet.
Young Cousins
“Let’s face it, Smith — we’re both caught
up in the mouse race.”
“Save the Children Fund, Dad. "


Measure of
capability!
'v*' r
& V
..TT?****'**
am
>rT<
Cr*
V
mi
•nr<
<?>s%
•m
CAPABILITY in an industry as complex and progressive as ELECTRONICS demands more than a
knowledge of production and distribution. It requires the inspiration of dedicated engineering skills, the
support of world-wide technical resources and precision manufacturing processes and to be maintained
in service by competent know-how. Of such is the substance of AW A—an all-Australian-owned enterprise
and the nation's largest manufacturer of radio communication equipment. AWA not only serves the
nation's needs but has, over the years, built a reputation of dependable performance for equipment here
and abroad.
AWA capability embraces development, manufacture and installation—having supplied two-thirds of
the broadcasting stations in Australasia * over 75 television transmitters in Australia * broadcasting
stations in Pakistan, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Ceylon * telecommunications stations in Egypt,
Pakistan, Singapore, South Africa * television transmitters in Singapore * test equipment in India,
Libya ★ two-way radio-telephones in South Africa, Philippines, Hong Kong, East Africa, Mauritius ★
amplifying systems in Malaysia.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston,
Wellington, N. 2., London, New York, Kuala Lumpur.
Manufacturers of television and broadcasting
equipment: communication transmitters and
receivers: radio aids to navigation: audio ampli-
fying systems: electronic components: testing
instruments: telephones: programme recordings:
television and broadcast receivers: data trans-
mission systems: and training in radio technology.


“Plenty And Want,” published by Nelson.
Price $6.60.
©p
r
MW&
HOTEL
am,
INTER* CONTINENTAL-BAMGKOK
On June 10th, a superb
new hotel opened in
Bangkok. It's the Siam
Inter Continental, long, low
and luxurious—with swimming
pool, terrace dining, air-
conditioned rooms and chic
supper club. All presided over
by General Manager Warner Gilmore—
who has a real gift for pleasing visitors.
Call your travel agent or Inter Continental
for reservations—by Panamac.
One of 32 incomparable Inter’Continentals around the world
THE OTHER SEX
Before the French Invasion
THE next time I cut my finger on a
tin, or open the frozen asparagus
packet the wrong end, I’ll think
about my unfortunate English ancestors
and the rough time they had with food in
the 1800 s.
The poor starved and drank beer made
with harts-horn shavings. The rich stuffed
and purged themselves with peristaltic
persuaders. They needed to, of course.
Practically every morsel or drop they
downed was adulterated with some poison
or other. So much that I’m surprised that
Dr. John Burnett, the author of “Plenty
and Want,” has survived to tell the tale,
and me, too, to read it. Goodness knows
how my Grandmother drank coffee made
of baked horse-liver, or bread spliced with
ammonia. To say nothing of sand in her
pepper, cromate of lead in her sugar,
copper in her pickles, and a dozen other
vicious ways they had with food in those
days.
One grisly story tells of the tragic fate
of three people who died after eating
blancmange impregnated with arsenic,
of copper and yellow Bath Buns colored
with sulphide of arsenic.
However. A sudden influx of French
chefs escaping from the Revolution
cheered things up quite a bit, and what
with their introduction of the potato crisp
and other gastronomical delights the
English palate took a sudden turn to
sophistication. It is just as well—other-
wise my relatives might still be consuming
Good Milk Gruel for breakfast and Fine
Cod’s Head and Shoulders for dinner.
At once it became very smart to either
have a French chef in one’s employ, or
the knowledge oneself of the art of cook-
ing “fancy.” There was Queen Victoria
up at Buckingham Palace with a kitchen
staff of forty-five overlorded by the piece-
de-resistance of all French chefs, Monsieur
Menager, determined that she would have
at least as good a table as any of the
crowned heads of Europe. And there was
my Grandmother over at Wandsworth
Common swotting up ingredients and
recipes of such dishes as cotelettes a la
puree de bacasses, rognons au vin de
Champagne, dindes aux truffes, etcetera,
determined that no so-called gourmet
would refuse one of her dinner invitations
on the grounds that she served one course
only.
Queen Victoria did very well, though
she herself was a plain eater. For example,
she liked a boiled egg in a gold egg-cup
for breakfast, while the rest of the family
tucked into a spread of oeuf en cocotte,
bacon, grilled trout or turbot, cutlets,
chops or steak, and, to end, a serving of
roast woodcock, snipe, or chicken. She was
an unselfish soul, and even when they
went boating provided sumptuous meals
of nine or ten courses, though the
chance of their being eaten under those
conditions was remote. Her son, when she
passed on, went one better. Edward
decided Buckingham Palace food would
be the best in the world and, with this
in mind, planned a magnificent Coro-
nation Banquet of fourteen memorable
courses. It was all prepared and then he
went ill, and if it hadn’t been for the
poor people of London would have been
wasted.
Anyway, back at Wandsworth the
cookery books were piling up. There was
Mrs. Beeton giving her recipe for a Ball
Supper Menu, roughly twenty-two dishes
not including coffee and liqueurs, which
should be served from midnight to 2 a.m.,
after which dancing would continue. And
there was Mrs. A. B. Marshall, in hot
pursuit with her Souper du Bal with
twenty-six dishes, not including Glases,
Cafe, The, and Dessert, after which guests
might—but it is extremely doubtful—feel
sufficiently refreshed to resume the waltz
and the polka. Into all these cookery
books there crept an alarming note. Some
actually told ladies how to run their
households, and one even said no lady
was a lady unless her husband earned
£250 a year, at the very minimum.
Now we may laugh at all this today.
After all, who cares if one is a lady or
not? But then it must have hurt. Especi-
ally when, on reaching the £lOOO-a-year
class, you were informed a lady’s status
requirements included not only a Gentle-
man, three Children, three Female Ser-
vants, a Coachman, and a Footman, but
also a Chariot or Coach, Phaeton, or other
four-wheel Carriage, and a Pair of Horses.
Small wonder the greatest feminine
problem of the day was the scarcity of
husbands for middle-class girls. Without
Mary Hooper’s cookery book angled at
getting the man, who knows? The Eng-
lish race may have ground to a halt. I
quote the following slab from her “Little
Dinners: How to Serve them with Ele-
gance and Economy”: “It cannot be too
strongly urged upon the ladies of the
middle classes that there never was a
time when it was so necessary for girls
to be instructed in every branch of domes-
tic economy. We cannot misread the signs-
of the times, or doubt that unless the men
of the next generation can find useful
wives, matrimony will become even a
greater difficulty for them than it is now.
Let all be sure that she who in these days-
of expensive living shows how the best
can be made of cheap material, and who
in any measure helps to revive what
threatens to become a lost art in the
home, does a work which far outweighs
any within the power of woman.”
As I say, the next time I bungle in
the kitchen, I shall think of these poor
19th-century ladies. At least we’ve got
tins and frozen food on our side . . .
DAPHNE GUINNESS


3
*
w
*\
*
s v
'V
•v
S 5
u
n
V
I
&
\
vi?4f
&
&
I
N
i. .
L-?
'
\
X-'
m
M,


■ ,
i 1
St
mm
In those
32 stately floors
246,960 sq. feet
of Celdek
Steel decking
In the State Office Block in Sydney,
Lysaght Celdek plays a large part. An
unseen part. Yet it offers advantages
not found in any other flooring systems.
Celdek is a galvanized steel cellular flooring.
It cuts fixing time to a minimum,
eliminates the need for temporary props,
reduces crane and handling time. And
following trades simply “walk in and work.”
All electrical and communications wiring
is carried within the floor. This means
that office layout can be altered easily and
economically at any time —telephone and
power services can be placed at random.
Although you won’t see an inch of
Celdek when the State Office is complete.
Engineers, Architects, Tradesmen,
Technicians and Tenants will never forget
that Celdek is there. It’s a product you
can’t forget. Build it with steel, build it
with strength, build it with Celdek.
Available through structural decking
contractors.
We’ll be glad to send a senior representative
with all the facts and figures. Literature
is available. John Lysaght (Australia)
Limited, Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
lysaght
Gaiduk
CDl.n.


AROUND CANBERRA IN A ROLLS
Flying Ladies and Rich Young Men
AT the eighth National Rally of
the Rolls-Royce Owners’ Club it
took a little time to get used to
the gentlemen who were labelled
according to their cars. For example,
in the lift one would read on a gentle-
man’s lapel “E. Rainsford, 1912 Ghost”
or “J. Glover, 1938 Phantom III.”
Altogether 101 Rolls-Royces arrived
in Canberra from South Australia, Vic-
toria, N.S.W., and Queensland. It was
easily the largest rally the club has ever
held. In England rallies have been
held with up to 800 R-Rs, but, even so,
it was rather a splendid effort for little
Australia.
There was practically no prior pub-
licity. Innocent Canberra citizens fre-
quently rubbed their eyes in disbelief.
There were Rolls-Royces everywhere,
parked in great clusters outside every
motel. At times it seemed that the town
was in for the most formidable royal
tour it had ever seen. The most fascin-
ating sight was to observe the owners
every evening at dusk unscrewing the
flying ladies from their bonnets, and
taking them inside. Oh, they were
very careful. So far as I know the rally
survived three days in Canberra without
one flying lady being pinched ... if
you understand me.
It wasn’t possible to exactly pin down
an R-R type. Some were young men,
who had restored old cars thejnselves,
and they would look at their precious
R-R with deep and real love through
big Aberdeen Angus eyes. Some were
easy-going farmers from the back of
N.S.W. Some were wealthy young
men in superb leather sports coats and
cloth caps, bought at Georges or the
like. Then there were the very rich
who simply drove their 1965 Silver
Clouds out of their garages straight to
Canberra. Mr. Charles Lloyd Jones,
for example, sent up his two Bentleys.
One was a dark blue 1960 Bentley Con-
tinental drophead, the sort of car to
make you almost bite the grass with
envy. Mr. Lloyd Jones said that he
himself drove up in a Morris Mini: “I
thought that rather the thing to do at
a Rolls-Royce rally,” he said.
And he told a story against him-
self. Last year he was driving across
the Sydney Harbor Bridge in his
mother’s Silver Cloud. As he
approached the tollgate he remembered
that he didn’t have a penny, note, not
even a cheque-book. So he had to put
up with the humiliation of going into
the tollgate office, to fill out papers
promising that he would send one shil-
ling, etc. Just then a character pulled
up in a tired Holden, tossed over a
shilling, and said: “Here, mate, let me
pay. I reckon you need the money more
than I do.”
What makes people want to collect
Rolls-Royces? Mr. S. E. K. Hulme,
president of the Victorian club, said:
“There’s a certain satisfaction in the
idea of Rolls-Royce, that this is some-
thing which is being done as well as
it can be possibly done.”
Others simply are in love with the
big, square radiator, and the hope is
that some of the prestige might wash
off. However, this does not explain
why many of the members have Rolls-
Royces in large numbers. Members with
four or five are quite common. “Why?”
I asked. “What do you do with them?”
One member replied: “One just has
them.”
Actually, an old Rolls-Royce is the
best galloping investment around, some-
thing to be collected like Corots,
Renoirs, Sir William Dobells, or holey
dollars. Members who really love the
old cars almost cry with anguish over
the fact that so many are being shipped
away to the United States. A well-
restored early Ghost is worth at least
$lO,OOO. Indeed, some members feel
that the Government should pass legis-
lation and that our veteran cars should
be preserved as national treasures in
the same way that France protects its
art from the rape of the U.S.A.
“There was only one way to elim-
inate the noise in mine. I divorced
her "
There are some notable collections.
Val Stocks, of Beelong, has five R-Rs,
Charles Wright, of Adelaide, has four
superb cars, and Farris Palfreyman, of
Queensland, has eight Silver Ghosts
stored in a row in a great white-
painted barn at Ingleside, Queensland.
They are rarely seen.
The best collection of veterans is
owned by George Green, the former club
Federal President. The whole under-
neath of his house at Castlecrag in
Sydney is excavated to make a great
garage. He has a 1909 Silver Ghost,
a 1910 Ghost, two 1911 Ghosts, a 1912
Ghost, a 1913-14 Ghost, a 1921 Rolls
that always has been in the family, and
a 1952 Silver Dawn. His 1911 machine
is a replica of the car that Charles
Rolls used for ballooning. Rolls made
at least 100 ascents and this car has
the Roi de Beige seats and a huge basket
on the back. The basket was used
both for storing the balloon and for
riding in. George Green altogether has
40 cars. He has a devotion also for
Vauxhalls and Bentleys. For example,
he has a 1911 Vauxhall, 1913 Vaux-
hall, and a 1914 Prince Henry. He
has a vintage 3-litre Bentley and a
Grant 1931 8-litre Bentley saloon. Mr.
Green’s face lights up with happiness
when he says: “This car was guaranteed
by the makers to go from 8 mph in
top gear to 104 mph in 57 seconds."
One had to ask what on earth he
did with 40 cars. He’s no motor-car
miser. He lends them to young enthusi-
asts around Sydney, who drive and care
for them as if they were their own.
Green says Australia is one of the
best places in the world for veteran
cars and veteran Rolls-Royces: “The
great years were from 1910 to 1915.
There was a good deal of money about
and there were no restrictions. Aus-
tralians bought cars from every country
in the world, Rolls-Royces, Hispanos,
De Dions, Alphonsos. That’s why the
Americans come here looking.”
But let’s talk about individual cars
at the rally. Eric Rainsford, of Adel-
aide, drove his utterly perfect 1912
Ghost at a stately 45 mph all the way
from home. He hit a bandicoot at
Blanchtown 80 miles out, turned round,
went home, had his car repaired, and
still came to the rally. He has a log of
the car’s entire history from the time
it was bought by Sol Green, the Mel-
bourne bookmaker until it ended up as
a tractor. I liked the part where it
was bought by a fruitgrower at
Tanunda around 1930. He sued the pre-
vious owner because the lock was so
wide it wouldn’t turn around his rose
garden.
Frank Moulang, of Milperra, N.S.W.,
had a 1928 R-R which looked inside


like a mid-Victorian boudoir. It was
upholstered in tapestry, plus curtains
trimmed with lace. There were racks for
umbrellas, a vanity box on one side
with bottles of perfume and on the
other a built-in cigar box.
Another intriguing car was a 1938
Phantom 111 owned by John Glover,
of Hawthorn, Victoria. This car with
a Hooper body was originally built
for John Spedan Lewis, the millionaire
of Lewis stores, London. It cost him
£stg.3ooo and his monogram is still
on the splendid bottle-green paintwork.
The same car, just on three tons, 7.34-
litre, 100 mph plus, V-12 would cost
£stg.2o,ooo today.
The petrol tank takes 33 gallons, and
John Glover say that when he gets it
filled at a service station it’s always
something of a sensation. One time he
took it to a car wash, where they
were offering sixpence off for each
gallon of petrol bought. They had to
pay him to wash the car.
Of course, a great number of almost
new Rolls-Royces were present; the
R-R representative, Mr. Jack Vidler,
was there with the newest of the breed,
the Silver Shadow, the only one of its
kind in Australia. Already over 50 Aus-
tralians have ordered Shadows, which
cost $21,700 each. He confirmed that
originally they intended to call it the
Silver Mist but at the last moment they
learned that mist sounded like some-
thing dreadfully vulgar in German.
By the time of the rally 174 people
had test-driven Mr. Vidler’s Shadow,
and your correspondent was the 175th,
and one can only say that driving this
was a very, very considerable improve-
ment on driving a Ghost. He told the
story how a lady was test-driving it
toward her property in South Australia.
In the blissful R-R silence he put his
hand over the speedometer and said:
“Guess how fast you are going?” “Oh,
about 60,” said she. “No,” said Jack
Vidler, “you are doing 105.” Ask Mr.
Vidler if he is frightened on such
occasions and he replies: “No, not in
a Rolls-Royce.” He has the sort of
supreme faith in R-R that one would
expect a Bishop to have in the Trinity.
On the Sunday all 101 Rolls-Royces
and Bentleys, from the most venerable
Ghost to Mr. Vidler’s brilliant Shadow,
and the British High Commissioner’s
Silver Cloud (perhaps the only chauf-
feur-driven car of them all), went on
a magnificent parade through Can-
berra. Regrettably few of the drivers
could understand the mysteries of
Canberra’s topography. The line-up
broke at traffic lights and soon we had
poor little lost groups of Ghosts, Phan-
toms, Wraiths, Dawns, and Clouds
wandering hither and yon. But eventu-
ally they linked up on the road to the
Hall showground.
Somehow, the sight of 101 Rolls-
Royces bumper to bumper in a straight
line is tremendously reassuring.
BATMAN
The Art of Destruction
By ROBERT RAYMOND
IT seems to take half a lifetime to learn
most things that matter; and it takes
just as long to discard the priorities
that ruled one’s life in childhood. As a
boy, growing-up in small country town-
ships in southern Queensland, the im-
portant things in life were clearly defined.
School and home and Sunday school
were one, an oppressive, shadowy realm
of work and obedience and restriction, to
be endured only for the moment of escape
into the other, sunlit world which we
called “out.”
To go “out”—after chopping the fire-
wood, watering the garden, or feeding the
fowls—was to race down the road to a
meeting by the creek, or behind the saw-
mill, or under the railway bridge—any-
where that was out of sight, sound, and
mind of adults, particularly parents.
All this, thinking back, still seems
eminently reasonable. What I now can-
not understand is the order in which we
graded our pleasures.
Swimming in the creek was rated quite
highly, particularly in summer. Riding
someone else’s bike (few of us had one
of our own) was a much-prized privilege.
Riding someone else’s horse was not bad,
but you were expected to unsaddle it and
put all the stuff away afterward, which
was a nuisance. Going to Brisbane to the
Show was a big event, but it was always
too remote, like Christmas, or your birth-
day.
Perhaps the best thing of all was going
out for the day, into the bush, as far away
as you could walk in half a day, and
staying out until the darkness suddenly
fell, and the distant yellow lights made
you run for shelter,
And on our days out, the most pleasur-
able activities were chopping down trees
and shooting birds. We hardly moved
without carrying an axe, and it was con-
stantly in use. It wasn’t that we ever built
bridges or anything except “hides” with
the trees; we just liked the feeling of
chopping them down,
Killing birds was the ultimate satisfac-
tion particularly parrots, which were
everywhere. To own an air-rifle was the
most important aim in life. To earn
enough money to buy a packet of pellets
or slugs was the central task of the week,
And to stalk the glossy parrots feeding in
the hanging gum-blossom, and drop them
with a squawk and a flutter of green or
crimson, was a heart-stopping moment of
exultation. (The instant of compassion, if
any, was fleeting.)
I can only suppose now that we were
so destructive because everyone else was.
Every man, in those days, seemed to spend
part of his life shooting things,
My father a schoolmaster had a
number of guns, including muzzle-loaders,
He could perform the remarkable feat of
pouring in black powder, packing it in
with the ram-rod, sealing it with a wad,
adding the shot, sealing that as well, and
placing a cap on the primer, all while
lying on his back in a cornfield, stalking
quail,
But he only shot things we could eat —
quail, pigeons, bush turkeys. Most men,


take a bow, CPA!
for just £598*10 0 ($1197) you can
include Tokyo on your round-world
economy fare with Canadian Pacific
Airlines... through Manila, Tokyo,
Vancouver, Amsterdam, London,
Paris, Rome, Beirut, Delhi,
Bangkok, Hong Kong,
& back to Sydney!
Nrra
m
mm
WJ
‘MS' 4
I M M-
mm.
VA&M
mmi
i
m
m
tiw
m
A
CPA! FASTEST TO EUROPE
VIA CANADA & THE SHORTER
NON-STOP POLAR ROUTE!
see your travel agent for
alternative itineraries!
Canadian
A/RUNES
01 JJ/1 - General sales agents—Ansett-A.N.A.
as I now recall, shot anything that moved.
They were all very decent people in those
parts —and yet some of them no doubt
took part in the great koala massacre of
August, 1927.
This event is worth relating in some
detail —partly because it must seem incred-
ible to most people today, and partly
because something very like it has been
going on among the kangaroo population
over the past ten years.
The commercial fur trade of the last
century slaughtered millions of animals:
flying squirrels, possums, bandicoots,
wallabies, seals, even the platypus (it took
between 50 and 60 platypus skins to make
a rug). The koala suffered more than
most, because even the most inefficient
hunter could hardly fail to shoot or club
it.
By the beginning of this century koalas
were plentiful only in Queensland. In
South Australia they were wiped out after
World War I. The fur trade then concen-
trated on Queensland. F. Wood Jones
reported 205,000 koalas killed in 1920-21,
and Ellis Troughton (Furred Animals of
Australia, Sydney, 1941) says that in 1924
some two million koala skins were ex-
ported, many under the name of wombat.
In August, 1927, the Acting-Premier of
Queensland, Mr. W. Forgan Smith, in
response to approaches from interested
parties, declared the month of August an
open season for koalas and possums.
More than 10,000 people applied for a
trapper’s licence.
A sustained public outcry, particularly
in the Brisbane newspapers, failed to
change the Government’s mind. The
Parliamentary Papers of 192$ give the
result: “During August 1,014,632 possums
and 584,738 bears were secured.”
The Government collected royalties of
£IB,OOO on the sale of skins, and the
money was put into a trust fund “for the
protection and propagation of our native
fauna.” (Today the same argument is used
—an open season on ducks is used to
attract licence fees for the protection of
the breeding grounds.)
I was five when the koala slaughter took
place. In our part of Queensland koalas
had been a common sight before 1927,
according to my family. But I can hardly
remember seeing more than a handful
while I was growing up and roaming the
bush.
I have been reminded of this, and of our
Australian predilection for thoughtless
destruction of the natural world around
us, by a book which has just appeared.
The Great Extermination* is edited
by Professor Jock Marshall, the zoologist,
of Monash University. It includes not just
the story of the virtual extinction of the
koala from Australia and the threatened
extermination of the red kangaroo, but
chapters by various authorities on the
decimation of the whole animal and plant
world on this continent since the settlers
arrived.
It is depressing and disturbing to be
reminded that our forebears, while exhibit-
ing admirable qualities of tenacity, enter-
prise, and adventure also demonstrated a
fateful lack of understanding of their new
country. Perhaps, justifiably, they were
appalled by the physical appearance of the
place.
The landscape they found drab and dis-
mal, the animals indifferent as meat, the
trees without form or beauty, the flowers
scentless, the birds songless, the reptiles
sinister. Less justifiably they tried—with
some success, unfortunately—to replace all
this with familiar animals and vegetation.
The pests, both animal and vegetable,
that have become established in this
country as a result of the early settlers’
efforts are well enough known. What
most Australians perhaps do not realise is
the slow but irreversible change that has
come over the landscape as the result of
settlement the clearing of millions of
acres of land for grazing sheep, the felling
of forests for timber and agriculture, the
de-vegetation of vast areas of grassland.
It is the attack on the framework of
the web of life the trees and plants
and grasses that most alarms the
ecologists. The disappearance of so many
*Heinemann, $4.75.


Now you have no excuse
for leaving your wife
at home when you go
to New Zealand!
Bring her with you and
stay on for a short holiday. .
Well charge her no mom
rate whatever ai any of seven *
top resort hotels between now
and October 20, Fly to
New leaked on the Family Fares
Plan and she travels at half fare
(for as little m $79.40 return
economy classl
Get full details at once
from your Travel Agent,
airline office or the
New Zealand Government
Tourist Bureau.
5N
m
"Waitangi
Waitomo
The Hermitage, Mt. Cook
Franz Josef
Wanaka
Te Anau
Milford Sound
Sydney: 14 Martin Place. Phone 25-6631
Melbourne: 93 Elizabeth Street. iPhone 67-6621
Brisbane: MLC Building, Adelaide Street. Phone 2-6152
12666
NZ.86.107
kinds of birds and animals from the average
Australian’s cognisance is due more to
the destruction of their habitats than to
shooting, poisoning, or direct extermin-
ation.
Professor Marshall’s contributors do not
say it and it would perhaps be small
consolation but we in Australia have
a long way to go yet to equal the havoc
wrought by man in New Zealand.
These islands are still spectacularly
beautiful in parts, but the unique animal
and botanical paradise that existed in
that corner of the Pacific has gone for
ever.
It began with Captain Cook, who on his
second visit released sheep, goats, pigs,
fowls, potatoes, cabbages, and turnips.
Other Europeans following him brought
in more alien species, in well-meaning
attempts to provide food supplies for
themselves and assistance for the Maoris.
Rabbits were introduced, and became such
a pest that carnivorous mammals, includ-
ing weasels and ferrets, were brought in
to control them. Today they are both
an ineradicable nuisance.
Seeking to make New Zealand like home,
the settlers last century brought in 130
kinds of birds from Britain; moose and
elk from North America, wild sheep from
Asia, red deer and chamois from Europe.
Of the 48 introduced mammals, 25
kinds have gone wild, resulting in immense
populations of grazing animals, which,
together with wild pigs and goats, are
literally destroying the primeval forests
from the ground up.
Eating these forests from the top down
is the worst pest in New Zealand today —■
the Australian opossum, introduced in
1858 as a source of fur. Half the total
forested area is now grassland, much of
it useless. Many introduced plants have
taken foothold in nightmare fashion. Euro-
pean watercress develops stems two inches
thick, grows fifteen feet long, and chokes
rivers.
In Australia the results of two centuries
of the great extermination are perhaps
less obvious, because much of it is taking
place in the vast open spaces.
What is left may yet be saved by an
understanding of ecology, the relationship
of living things to their environment and
to each other if it doesn’t become a
kind of pop-science catchword that loses
its meaning.
What Marshall and others want is not
the interference with a thriving, prosperous,
developing human and economic com-
munity, which is Australia, but the
preservation of some existing virgin areas
for the other inhabitants of this continent,
which are unique.
Man is the only creature to develop the
ability to modify his environment. Like
all other forms of life, we are confined
within the “biosphere,” which extends
from the bottom of the deepest tree-roots
to the tops of the trees, and a similar layer
on top of the seas a fragile veneer
of life on the surface of our globe, draw-
ing all its energy from the sun, through
photosynthesis.
In relation to the earth itself, let alone
the universe, it is thinner than a soap
bubble, and it may not stand too much
knocking about.


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER’S NOTEBOOK
<r*
SHOPPING UST
1,500
£OOO lbs eese
ai'3oo/fe cf
’andM^H
“... and 120 pounds of caviar”
A shopping list for a lifetime? No, just
■L* a small section of the 2,000 separate
food commodities ordered by the Chief
Steward for one Trans Atlantic sailing of
the “Queen Elizabeth.” The immensity
of the food operation aboard Cunard’s
“Queen Elizabeth” and “Queen Mary”
is difficult to describe without figures.
For example, approximately 250 people
are behind the scenes for food prepara-
tion on each ship. There are six kitchens
covering more than half an acre; a vege-
table-preparing room, a potato room, a
fruit room, a salad room and a room
where Kosher recipes are prepared.
More than 300 choices of dishes are
available . . . over 60 kinds of hors
d’oeuvres. Tremendous variety is offered
—ll flavours of marmalade; 7 types of
shrimp; 24 different breads (2,500 rolls
are baked for each meal); 8 kinds of
salmon . . . Some of the many reasons
why getting there is half the fun with
Cunard.
4.J5L.
V 2 OU might think that the Eiffel Tower,
Paris, is tall! The “Queen Elizabeth”
is 50 feet longer! In fact, she is 2\ times
longer than the height of Sydney’s Har-
bour Bridge.
'T'HE “Queen Mary’s” gross tonnage
-*■ exceeds that of the entire Canard
Atlantic and Mediterranean fleets of
1876 which consisted of 36 ships.
XpACH “Queen” has 6 children’s play-
rooms and nurseries .. . small worlds
of teddy bears, rocking horses, play pens.
Even a miniature replica of the Captain’s
Bridge.
'"The letters of the name “Queen Eliza-
J- beth” on the bows are 2i feet high
and 68 feet in length.
T/f/ HEN you go Trans Atlantic spend
W five of the most exhilarating days
and nights in your life . . . with Cunard.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT
NEW YORK LETTER
Trial by Newspaper
After the Sheppard case
Nowhere in the
world of Anglo-
Saxon laws has
freedom of the Press
gained the ascendancy
over right of fair trial
than it has in this coun-
try. The laxity of police
and court officers in
safeguarding suspects in
their charge from “trial
by newspapers” has
lung since reached scandalous proportions.
No one who watched the incredible pro-
ceedings televised from Dallas on the week-
end of the shooting of President Kennedy
—the arrest of the accused assassin, flat
statements by the District Attorney as to his
guilt, and finally the shooting to death
of the suspect by a crony of the cops who
had free run of the city jail need be
reminded of this laxity. Conversely, it is
axiomatic that American communications
media have become a law unto them-
selves. Television interviewers sticking their
portable microphones into the faces of
accused dope pedlars or wife slayers or
other wretches caught up in the toils of
the law are . commonplace on every even-
ing’s TV news programs. The immediacy
of the on-the-spot TV interview makes it
more conspicuously offensive, but the news-
papers and magazines take the same un-
due liberties with the rights of the accused
in every major crime story. Nowhere was
this more flagrantly demonstrated than in
the celebrated Sheppard murder case,
which the Supreme Court has now
examined and condemned for its “carnival
atmosphere.”
Dr. Sam Sheppard, an osteopathic
surgeon and member of a wealthy Ohio
family, went on trial in Cleveland in 1955
charged with the murder of his wife,
Marilyn. Dr. Sheppard claimed—and still
does—that a “bushy-haired intruder” com-
mitted the crime. The case was one of
the most sensational—and most sensation-
ally reported—in the gaudy history of such
domestic causes celebres. Dr. Sheppard
was found guilty, sentenced to life im-
prisonment, and released from jail on a
writ of habeas corpus nine years after-
ward by a Federal judge who found that
the publicity attendant on the trial had
unfairly influenced the trial jury. Last
week the Supreme Court reversed the 1955
conviction of Dr. Sheppard on the same
ground—“virulent publicity”—and ordered
him released from custody or tried again
as soon as possible. It is now officially
stated that the State of Ohio will actually
proceed once more with a murder charge
against the physician, who has recently
married an attractive German blonde and
is once more a useful citizen.
It remains to be seen how much im-
provement will take place in TV and
newspaper handling of major crime news.
Actually the Supreme Court in its 8-1
decision placed the onus on police and
court authorities, rather than on the com-
munications media, for the abuses of the
Sheppard trial and, inferentially, for
greater vigilance on behalf of defendants
in future trials.
Justice Tom C. Clark, who wrote the
majority opinion—Justice Hugo Black, a
staunch defender of Press freedom, dis-
sented—of the court, singled out the Judge
in the Sheppard trial for full blame for
“The bedlam that reigned Atebaurthouse.”
Justice Clark castigated Judge Edward
Blythin, now dead, for failing to main-
tain adequate decorum and for not isola-
ting the jury from the Press.
Justice Clark ticked off a long cata-
logue of improprieties of Judge Blythin:
• Permitting the Press to sit so close
to the defendant and his lawyers that re-
porters could overhear their private con-
versations in the courtroom.
• Permitting all prospective witnesses and
jurors to be interviewed by the Press dur-
ing the trial.
• Failing to take action to prevent news-
papers from printing “evidence” (leaked
to them by the prosecution and damaging
to the defendant) which was never actu-
ally offered in the trial. For example, an
allegation by a witness for the State that
the murdered woman had called her hus-
band a “Jekyll and Hyde personality.”
Cleveland newspapers headlined this
characterisation, but the witness did not
use the phrase in court.
• Permitting hundreds of Pressmen and
photographers to accompany the jury to
the murder scene photographed from
above by a Press helicopter.
• Denying defence counsel petitions for a
removal of venue of the trial in view of
the bias shown by Cleveland newspapers
toward the defendant.
The Justice noted he was “a candidate
for re-election” to his post at the time—the
clear inference being that Judge Blythin
was therefore acutely sensitive to prevail-
ing public feeling against Dr. Sheppard.
As to the correction of such abuses,
Justice Clark saw no need for new legal
restrictions on the Press or new proced-
ures by the courts. Had “existing pro-
cedures” been followed to the letter,
“these would have been sufficient to guar-
antee Sheppard a fair trial” and there was
therefore no need for “sanctions already
available against a recalcitrant XSS.”
With that summation the Justice disposed
of the question which has increasingly
concerned not only American legal author-
ities but responsible journalists should
the communications media be placed under
stronger restraints in their coverage of
crime in order to ensure fairer trials?
GEORGE McGANN


the brass
at Cranes
takes some
beating
MM
m
5®
m ,
000 O O
mm
m
an
xrnuii\w
Into urns, plaques, trays ... but this
is a minute part of the brass that
Cranes fabricate every year. Tightly
controlled production facilities pro-
duce the finest sheet, circles or strip
to meet the diverse and exacting
requirements of industry. Telephone
and communications systems. Radio
and television components even
eyelets for shoes. And Crane them-
selves make Australia's largest range
of taps and plumbing fittings from
brass. Aluminium and copper also
play a major role in Crane’s activity.
Cranes are the oldest and largest
Australian owned and controlled pro-
ducers of mill products in aluminium,
brass and copper. Their 7 manufac-
turing plants and warehousing facili-
ties in all states assure prompt
delivery whilst their near-century of
experience and "know-how” is readily
available to all customers. If you have
a problem involving brass, copper or
aluminium, contact the Crane office
in your State:- New South Wales,
74 0351; Victoria, 35 4316; Queens-
land, 604041; South Australia,s7Bol9;
Western Australia, 23 1441.
CRANE COPPER & ALUMINIUM PTY. LTD. I irpflMP PRODUCTS
PTY. LTD. UZ2 G. E. CRANE PTY. LTD.dJ CRANE ENFIELD METALS
PTY. LTD. L I CRANE (VIC.) PTY. LTD. r~~ IC.O. N. PTY. LTD
WATSON & CRANE PTY. LTD. EZZZZZ2 BRALCO PTY. LTD. r = 1
G. I E.
CRANE
GROUP
CP22O


“The only way to get rid of a
temptation is to yield to it."
(Oscar Wilde)
Then yield we shall, to the delights of
VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Crucifixion in Mexico
By J. C. KAYE
THERE are still remote villages of
Mexico where at Easter a volunteer
submits to crucifixion and dies as
Christ did. For this man it is the peak
of self-fulfilment. For his killers, and for
the spectators, the sacrifice is a religious
ecstasy, a time of penitential agony and
presumably of profound sat.sfact.ons
arising from an insatiable need for per-
sonal suffering.
Clifton Pugh did not witness such an
event during his four months’ tour of
Mexico -last year. He was not there at
Easter, and, in any case, these Calvaries
are not for strangers any more than they
are for the Mexican police. He heard
reliably of the custom, and saw enough
other evidence of the simpler Mexican’s
need for physical and spiritual agonies to
be convinced that this is one of the
essential keys to the national character.
_ . . . , , .
The jet-plane, tourist-hotel air-
conditioned colorful Mexico of travel
ads is still a place of flagellants; of knees
calloused from crawling over stones and
thorns to the Cross; of fresh animal blood
smeared on the effigy of a whipped
Christ; of plaster feet, impaled with nails,
and wet with the tears and kisses of the
faithful.
Pugh, who had never painted outside
Australia before, and has never hankered
for Europe, was achieving an ambition
in visiting Mexico. He toured the sierras,
the fertile valleys, and the jungles of the
south. He suffered the rains and the dis-
tress of intestinal illness. With a Mexican
interpreter, he moved among Mexicans
and Indians the peasants, the landless
laborers, the shopkeepers, the officials, the
soldiers—ever alert against their touchy
pride, but welcomed by them,
For one thing, he was not an American
g rin g°- “I ne ver thought I’d play up be-
ing an Australian, he says, but it made
such ? „ dlfferenc '' that 1 found m y self
7 0 S r anoth he was an artist and in
, and of ’ Ri Orozco, & queiros ,
and Tamayo the humMest person grants
prestige to the painter.
After this journey, Pugh and his wife,
Marlene, returned to the house they had
rented in San Miguel, 400 miles north
of Mexico City. There are enough
English-speaking people, mainly Ameri-
cans, in San Miguel to justify an American
school, and the Pughs’ two sons, Shane
and Dailan, attended there. Pugh himself
avoided non-Mexicans, and seems to have
ke P} awa X from anything not satisfyingly
native.
He was bursting with ideas and feeling,
an( j p a j ntec j f or s j x we eks from morning
to a ft er midnight. Penitence and the
sufferings of poverty were his theme. The
achievement of this time was 16 works
0 n the penitents of the church of Aton-
tonilco, which is a sort of national shrine
women, with their children, travel to it
G f penitential suffergin, so that men and
from all over Mexico intent on expiation,
but unable finally to believe that they
have yet suffered enough,
Why this theme of suffering obsessed
him, Pugh hardly knows. “Painting, for
me,” he explains, “is a voyage of discovery,
Does that sound corny? I can find out
what it meant to me, and what sort of
person I am, only by painting,
“Perhaps I am a masochist, too. Per-
haps those Mexicans and Indians have
touched something in me, some need for
suffering, or hatred of it, I do not yet
understand.
“I would say I have enough material
from Mexico to paint for another year,
perhaps longer.”
Pugh wanted to stay on in Mexico to
work longer on his theme, but Marlene
was ill, the American school was no ideal
for educating young Australians, and the
cost of living was high. So they flew back
to Melbourne, to their home in the bush
at Cottle’s Creek, beyond Hurst Bridge,
some 25 miles north of Melbourne.
Sixteen paintings done at San Miguel,
of mainly the penitentes, went direct to
a show devoted to Clifton Pugh by the
St. Louis Artists Guild. They were not
painted for this show, or with any show
in mind, but the well-heeled and culture-
minded St. Louis society asked for them,
and undertook all the manoeuvres of
negotiating them into the U.S.A. through
Mexican Customs.
But St. Louis wanted to have the
living artist, too. Pugh made a rush flight
there early this year with Rudy Komon,
and arrived so dead-beat and ragged that
he felt hardly articulate. The opening
night was plush, with a minimum of $25
American to enter. The gate took about
$19,000 and buyers snapped up half the
pictures in a few hours.
Pugh I found quite modest about this.
“We translated what would have been
our prices in Australia into American
dollars,” he says. “But we could have
allowed for the higher cost of everything
there and added maybe another 45 per-
cent!”
On the other hand, he adds as a wry
afterthought, “perhaps they might not
have sold so well then.”
Back in the Victorian bush, Pugh has
not found it so easy to work as he hoped.
The Mexican light was much the same,
and he has his mind stocked with details,
and backgrounds—the farms, the build-
ings, the trees, the cacti, the flowers, the
burros and other animals; the colors of
everyday life and the festivals; the feat-
ures, dress, lines, and manners of people;
the rivers, the mountains, the tropical
forests. He can carry in his mind’s eye the
form of an old man praying, or of a
girl farm worker drawing warm milk
from her breast to cool in the shade for
her child.
But Cottle’s Bridge has many distrac-
tions. In the studio next to his house,
just before the easel, is an old chair with
one arm missing. “I do most of my
painting there,” he says with a gesture
toward this chair.
The human figure, which means so
much in the Mexican paintings, is some-
thing that Pugh still finds difficult.
Although he has entered often for the
Archibald, and has now won it, the human
form has not played the role in his
painting that landscape and animal forms
have done.
One difficulty is that Australians to
him are not people of their own soil.
They are strangers still, not organically
grown from their land and environment
but superimposed by history.
In Mexico, he saw the people as true


A BULLETIN SUPPLEMENT
S
Skfc
. n
, \ v t
; . A
*'**W>V
• A
. A
. . m
/
.jAt / £i >
I • •; A
A&7 V '
STREET DOGS. 36" X 48"
Clifton Pugh’s
MEXICAN
PAINTINGS
WS’ 5
-■'Ls-
' >
m ! r
I
V
%
>
M i
♦
S'.
PICADOR. 48" X 36
isi§
m
mmm
/ V
c
m
THE CHRIST OF ATONTONILCO. 48" X 36"
i 2Si4* \
IS
1*
/-
iii* 8
m
•wpW
m
%W gf
THE PENITENTS, No. 2. 48" X 36


* • *•
}\
' is '
> ... .
- i &
>. A
i ; - 1
:
:e,v
0
i
* 5! I
i *
- i
r>
.1
»tt r» ■ ~ iPwiSi ‘ I
■•. ' ’ • • ■••'.: •. ■ '


Solid, silent luxury—powered by Ford!
The new Ford Galaxie 500 brings a champagne touch to
the fine-car field.
Styling is classic, sleek, unquestionably aristocratic.
The luxury of its interior and the abundance of its
convenience items establish it instantly as a pace-setter
among prestige cars.
Behind the wheel it is a revelation to drive. Even a
whisper can be heard at highway limits. Power steering
is precise in traffic, easy in parking. Power brakes
need just “a touch”. A massive “Torque-box” frame and
four-wheel coil suspension give the car an incredible
steadiness under all driving conditions.
And, finally, there’s the brilliant performance from
Galaxie’s 200 horsepower “Challenger” V 8 or 280
horsepower “Thunderbird” VB, teamed with dual-range
Cruise-O-Matic transmission.
Discover the new standard of the fine-car world . . .
at your Ford Dealer’s.
j
n m
mii
f
sm
jSSrVir/t'y:
FORD
alaxie 500
For people who have a taste for luxury
and an eye for value.
FG.IOI


m
THE PENITENTS, No. 3. 48" X 36
■W-
‘
m
m
THE PENITENTS. No. 5. 48" X 36
V I
v* 4
Uf
••• ■:%
t-'f
mg
THE PENITENTS, No. 4. 48" X 36
*1
■s^pMgggfS
mj i
s r i
m
4
4.
&fis» #
THE PENITENTS, No. 7. 48" X 36


products of, and true possessors of, their
land. He tried to feel them truly; and to
express this truth has naturally been the
underlying aim of his paintings. To place
himself existentially in such a foreign
setting has been his deepest struggle.
So much dignity, so much suffering, so
much poverty, so many riches, so much
intermixture of racial, material, and reli-
gious values are no comfortable subject
for art.
MELBOURNE FILM FESTIVAL
Family Matters
SURROUNDED by films that are
fiercely filmic, technically extrovert,
and modishly meaningless, “Raven’s
End” is somewhat out of step. It not only
lacks zoom, whip pans, jump cuts, and
hand-held camerawork, but worst of all
it’s “literary.” There was hardly a film
cultist with a good word to say about it.
But notwithstanding all this, I confess to
finding it marvellous.
Voted the third-best Swedish film of all
time by homeland critics, it was presum-
ably beaten home by two of Bergman’s.
Now, “Seventh Seal” awed me, too, but
it’s unlikely that Bergman will ever make
a film as flawless as this work of Bo
Widerberg’s. This is not to suggest that
Widerberg eclipses the black sun of Berg-
man’s talent. He is no great innovator,
simply a scrupulously honest and impec-
cable craftsman.
Like Lawrence’s “Sons and Lovers,’’
Gorki’s “My Universities,” and most of
all, like O’Neill’s “Long Day’s Journey,”
“Raven’s End” is concerned with a young,
would-be writer’s attempts to free himself
from agonising family relationships. It is
1936, and the sounds of Nazism can be
heard in the working-class district of
Malmo. No horrific slum, it is a bleak
and austere suburb, not unlike one of our
outer suburban Housing Commission areas.
The boy Anders sits alone in a cold flat,
writing, while his mother takes in washing
to pay the rent. His father just drinks and
sleeps, or, as he puts it, “submerges in
Prof. Picard’s diving bell.” Outside, noth-
ing much happens. Children splash in the
puddles or sneak rides on the store’s new
escalator. An old man talks incessantly to
a lilac tree. Youths kick Soccer balls and
whisper about Parisian prostitutes. A crone
dreams of her girlhood and dances dottily
at her window. A child dies of peritonitis
and is buried with resignation. Mysteri-
ously, the old man fells the tree of his
obsession. A publisher receives Anders’
novel and wants to discuss it with him.
Anders’ father is not yet 40, yet he is
utterly defeated. However, with the
promise of success for his son, he comes
briefly and charmingly alive. He is
hilarious as, like Willy Loman, he tells
his son how to succeed in the business
world he has never known. “Dad, you’re
fantastic!” laughs Anders with genuine
affection, as the father lectures him on
the subtleties of contracts and the correct
etiquette for cigars. (“Never stub a cigar,
let it die in peace.”) Soon, however, the
father is diving deeper in his alcoholic
bathysphere.
The novel is regretfully rejected, and
Anders returns from Stockholm numbed.
The girl next door comforts him in a
woodshed, and becomes pregnant for her
pains. It is arranged that Anders will
marry her, but painfully Anders realises
he must leave Malmo and the girl. His
mother cannot forgive what she sees as
a terrible desertion. She was never as
ashamed of the father as she is now of
the son. Even when Anders points to his
father in the street below, struggling
under the final humilation of a sandwich
board, she cannot understand. But he
leaves for Stockholm without self-pity,
bitterness or remorse. The artist, Wider-
berg is saying, must choose differently
from other men.
Stylistically, the film might have been
made by a Mark Donskoi or Satyajit Ray.
Its sense of period and its atmosphere are
perfect. The camera is a sympathetic
observer, but not a protagonist, so the
viewpoint is a little distanced. There is
never a feeling of contrivance, and no
alien symbols are introduced.
Hemingway warned against including
any element in a work of art that might
“go bad.” A great many of the films at
the Festival are a little “off” already. But
“Raven’s End,” like the Apu and Gorki
trilogies, will have nothing to fear from
the passing of time. It’s a real film, not
a fad.
Another Melbourne exclusive is “Greek
Without Ruins,” a travelogue on modern
Greece with a disastrously inept narration.
Visually it was like a long Stuyvesant com-
mercial, and one waited for the gloved
hand to offer the pack to those snatching
hands.
Two short films on adolescent love
appealed Canada’s “Phoebe” and the
Netherlands “Let’s Have a Party.” In
“Phoebe” we spend the day at the beach
with the girl in question as she tries un-
successfully to tell her boy-friend she is
pregnant. She daydreams the possible out-
comes of confession, first seeing her parents
aghast, and then jubilant at the glad tid-
ings. The film concludes that evening,
as she picks up the phone, dials the boy’s
number, raps out the message, and in-
stantly hangs up. Cut to close-up as Phoebe
looks blank-faced into the future. “Let’s
Have a Party” showed the first love-pangs
of a high-school boy, as he watches for the
slightest glimpse of Her. Girls giggling
behind their hands, the dogged devotion
of the boy’s puppy love, ana the teacher-
pupil relationships at an end-of-term dance
were beautifully observed.
From Hungary came Istvan Szabo’s
“The Age of Daydreaming.” The director
acknowledged his debt to the French New
Wave by having a poster for a Truffaut
film carried through a scene by two work-
men. We meet five young graduates as they
leave engineering school, and watch their
fierce desire for achievement blunted by
an unresponsive environment. There is no
New Wave humor in Szabo’s film. He is
more concerned with accurately conveying
his suffocating atmospheres than in enter-
taining, and the film was relentlessly slow-
moving. The film’s greatest value was its
observations on the conflict of old and new
values in Hungarian life, and the conflict
was best expressed in a funeral scene. One
of the friends has died of leukemia, and his
boss is delivering a quiet, secular oration
at the graveside. But a Catholic ceremony
begins only a few feet away, and the
chanting and singing drown him out. Szabo
seemed to be scorning both ceremonies, one
for its antique superstitions, the other for
its modern bleakness. And both funerals
were, of course, Hungary.
“60 Cycles” is a color documentary on
an international bike race. Filmed with
what must have been 600 mm. lenses, the
compressed, fore-shortened images were
intrinsically beautiful, and vividly con-
veyed a feeling of epic endurance. Like
many other excellent Festival films, it was
produced by the Canadian Film Board,
an organisation of remarkable vigor, now
moving into feature production. It makes
you wish our Commonwealth Film Unit
would do the decent thing and bury their
dead.
PHILLIP ADAMS
SYDNEY FILM FESTIVAL
Out of Season
OF course it would be marvellous to
have a foreign-style film festival, with
visiting celebrities, new films in com-
petition, even starlets in bikinis. But we
can’t afford the fares for the celebrities,
we aren’t registered as a competitive festi-
val, and the starlets would have looked
awfully silly in the cold, wet, windy
weather.
It has been an interesting festival,
although most of the feature films were
worthy rather than exciting. There were
a couple of fine films, some others worth
seeing, the usual crop of earnest bores. And
the organisation was, in general, very
smooth some of the announced films
didn’t arrive, but this is a normal festival
hazard, complicated in this case by the
British seamen’s strike, and the projection
occasionally broke down at the Newtown
Hub but in general all went well.
To me the highlights were “The Pawn-
broker” and “Fires On The Plain.” “Did
you like it?” I was asked after each of
these. No, I didn’t. I wasn’t meant to, but
I was moved and stimulated, and won’t
forget either of them in a hurry. Rod
Steiger’s magnificent performance as the
New York pawnbroker, survivor of a con-
centration camp, would in itself make the
film worthwhile, but Sidney Lumet’s
effective direction has developed consid-
erably from his earlier films, with its jump-
cutting from the present to the past, which
can’t help intruding into the man’s
thoughts, and the dreamy, nostalgic refer-
ences to the last happy day in his life.
Happiness never intrudes into “Fires On
The Plain,” even as a memory; war, death,
and defeat have erased it and nothing re-
mains but a brutish instinct for survival.
This is probably the most single-minded,
uncompromising anti-war film ever made.
It is extraordinary to realise that Ichikawa
also directed the lighthearted “My Enemy,
The Sea,” the diverting, beautifully photo-
graphed story of a young man’s solo voyage
across the Pacific.
I suppose, basically, Visconti’s “Sandra”
is one of those turgid family dramas that


' ■
wm
Ss»
«w... / y
SSiF 7
j - H wmw« j ****»&&&
—r;.. ■■ x ■ / > /
__.hKT hwva mq .
HMHfflnn \ vataW* i*vrt«*‘- .A--
yn\9WM¥l. 1 *je-
/ MHStAW "/ '
»f Mans intuo / .
hoi‘imm4u -tiSfASSSS.*’
V.;’'
I
«T t
Good heavens! Somebody's found
a way to use all our eight divisions at once
(Wouldn't he have fun with our 2,982 products?)
We thought that no one person (or organisation) could
manage to use all Remington's divisions at the one time.
He's having the time of his life proving us wrong.
But. of course, there's much more to using Reming-
ton's eight divisions than rubber stamps. Together, these
divisions cater for every type of business and office
organisation.
No matter how small or large your business, or how
diversified your operation Remington have the
machines, the systems and the equipment you need.
Typewriters, adding and calculating machines, dupli-
cators. office printing machines, accounting machines,
mailing equipment, office supplies, filing equipment;
we could go on and on !
You may not need them all but whatever your
equipment problems, you'll find experts ready to help
solve them in every one of the eight Remington
specialist divisions.
Wf&wr*wnqton_
Remington Rand The Largest Business Equipment Organisation in the World
RR4B3


FIRST N.S.W. INTERNATIONAL
FILM FESTIVAL AUGUST 12th to 22nd
FESTIVAL MEMBERSHIP $7.50
Enquiries to Secretary, I.F.F. Committee, Box 3488, G.P.0., SYDNEY. Phone 76-8798.
Wo*
BELLS
•00% SCOTCH WHISKHS
OlSTlUfo AND BUHOID
IN SCOTLAND
•*Cf £&«£«£
hath SCOTIAN®
the
large st-selling
Scotch in
Scotland
A custom all good
Scotsmen know.
A spot of Bell’s
Arthur Bell & Son, Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
An Independent Company
8W10.65N
used to star Lana Turner or Joan Craw-
ford (though they never had incest to cope
with); but it’s very much better directed
and acted, and the sumptuous good looks
of its backgrounds and stars are extremely
attractive. There was the inevitable Satya-
jit Ray film, and though I’m a member
in good standing of his non-fan club, I
found “Charlulata” his most interesting
film yet; there is even the semblance of a
plot, and the meticulous observation of
life in Victorian India is always striking.
Too much plot of a naive kind is the
trouble with Sanjokk’s Korean film “The
Mute.” Camera work and editing are
beautiful and remarkably sophisticated, and
the early scenes, a nostalgic look at rural
Korea’s feudal past, are charming. But the
plot manages to be both simple-minded
and complicated, and the ending of the
film is fairly silly. Another extremely silly
film was “Les Abysses,” which came with
a great but baseless reputation.
“Thomas The Imposter,” “A Blonde In
Love,” and “Werner Holt” were among
the earnest, worthy films reasonably
well made but totally forgettable, though
“Werner Holt” did have strong individual
scenes. But it was tortured by over-involved
flashbacks. In fact, this was the Flashback
Festival.
A feature of the festival was the gener-
ally high quality of the short films shown.
In the early festivals they used to be pur-
gatorial; in the past couple of years they
have become almost its most interesting
offering. The cartoons were generally fine,
from Jiri Toman’s engaging “Strange
Birds” (described in the program as
“allegorical,” but I can’t see that) to Fred
Wolf’s beautifully drawn, remarkably
cynical “The Bird.” Borowczyk’s mysterious
“Les Jeux des Anges” was incomprehen-
sible, yet haunting.
Probably the most peculiar offering
perhaps a better word would be “curious,”
in the bookseller’s sense—was Yoji Kuri’s
“Aosu,” with its deliberate distortions, its
general, though elusive air of obscenity, its
erotic soundtrack. This even reduced to
stunned silence the lunatic fringe of the
festival audience who feel it their duty to
chuckle knowingly at practically every-
thing.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
Minor Miracles
HAVING learned not to expect too
many miracles in television, I like
to pause now and then to count
some blessings. In that mood I am satis-
fied to find one or two enjoyable and
even memorable programs or parts of
them each week. During recent days I
saw one of the better Red Skelton shows,
with Audrey Meadows, and one of the
best “silent spots” in which Red was a
hapless Boy Scout. And what else? Parts
of “Mavis,” especially the 60sec. breaks
showing families how much could be done
while the ads. were on, including a whole
week’s ironing. “Mavis” continually
reaches out into experimental fields.
I enjoyed “Petticoat Junction” as much
as usual, and as much as anything be-
cause it is always a lesson into how to
pack an amazing amount of plot into 25
minutes, with at least seven characters
and often ten, joining in the good humor
without falling over one another. Simi-
larly I find the “Black and White Min-
strel Show,” a wonderful half-hour of song
and dance, occasional humor, and scads
of British showgirls who are markedly
different to American ones or their Aus-
tralian copies.
In drama, ABC Television has “Four
Seasons of Rosie Carr,” Ted Willis’ social
plays in four cycles, warm and earthy,
filled with humor and pathos, meticulous
as to sets and costumes, and bulging with
good actors. The Steptoes, Andy Griffith
with a new side man whose comedy line
is the antithesis of Don Knotts’, and for
something in the public affairs sector, a
“Telescope” look at a cosmetic surgery
operation rivalling the ABC’s “Your Life
in Their Hands” series, if the human body
inside-out is not too repulsive for you.
I looked in one afternoon to see an
item called “The Magic Circle Club,”
described as winning a national award of
some kind, for children’s shows. It seems
to be popular with the under-ten set, and,
I gather, quite a number of adults, who
volunteer to keep company while the off-
spring watch. The scene is a magic
wood, populated in part by some talking
birds, none of whose words I managed to
understand. Each week or so a new batch
of visitors arrive, and a story goes on
around them. It seemed good, imaginative
children’s television. I’ve seen worse on
supposedly adult locally produced shows.
PRANK ROBERTS


THEATRE
Alice, What Art Thou?
Tiny Alice. Edward Albee. Old Tote,
Sydney.
“fTIINY ALICE,” according to Albee, is
an attack on modern materialism
and “the illusory nature of modern
life.’’ He has said something similar about
all his plays. I suspect that many people
who saw “Who’s Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?” regarded it simply as a play
about the sex life of academics. But it
would be more difficult to regard “Tiny
Alice” simply as a play about the sex life
of the clergy, although that comes into it.
Albee himself admits that this metaphysi-
cal thriller is likely to be somewhat
opaque to the audience at first viewing.
The play begins in the Cardinal’s garden
where the Lawyer is talking to two brightly
colored birds in an elaborate cage. They
are cardinals. In this idyllic setting,
beautifully designed as a formal Renais-
sance garden by Ron Reid, the Lawyer
and the Cardinal, old enemies from their
schooldays, exchange brutal insults with
each other in a ruthless struggle for
position. The scarlet-robed Cardinal, proud
and condescending to begin with, is finally
routed utterly by the malevolent Lawyer.
Not, however, by insults, but by money.
The Cardinal is bought. For the Lawyer,
representing Miss Alice, a lady of immense
wealth, has come to offer him a gift as
rich as a King’s ransom.
To the castle in which Miss Alice lives,
which has been transplanted stone by stone
to America from England, the Cardinal
sends his secretary, Brother Julian, to
arrange for the transfer of the money.
Miss Alice’s castle is mysterious, and life
there becomes curiouser and curiouser as
the play proceeds. For one thing there is
the model, an exact replica of the castle,
which sits in the library like a large doll’s
house and appears to have a life of its
own, but a life which has some mysterious
correspondence with the life in the castle.
Then there is a butler called Butler, who
mostly does not behave like a butler and
who was formerly Miss Alice’s lover. The
Lawyer is Miss Alice’s present lover. But,
anyway, Miss Alice is not really Miss
Alice. The Lawyer, Butler, and Miss Alice
are playing a part, representing someone
else. But whom? Alice-in-the-model? Tiny
Alice?
Whether, if one solves the metaphysical
puzzle, the play suddenly lights up, like
the model in the castle, and reveals the
spiritual malaise of our times, I do not
know, for I have not solved the puzzle,
but am left with loose clues lying about all
over the place. Perhaps because I did not
know what on earth or in heaven or in
Lilliput was really going on, I became
less and less involved as Julian’s agony
increased, until his dying soliloquy left
me quite cold.
Robin Lovejoy has achieved a polished
production of this Websterian melodrama
cum metaphysical crossword-puzzle. The
first scene in particular is brilliantly
theatrical. Alan Edwards gives us every
nuance of the proud Cardinal’s progress
from condescending benevolence to con-
fident malice to complete confusion and
disarray. Alexander Hay is convincingly
malevolent as the satanic Lawyer and Rob
Inglis is beautifully urbane as the .mys-
terious Butler. Dinah Shearing plays Miss
Alice as a sophisticated, but rather lost,
woman of the world. But the acting honors
of the evening must go to Ben Gabriel
for his gentle, tormented but trustful
Julian, lost in a world of toughs,
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
ON TELEVISION
Independence Within The ABC?
VIEWERS of ABC television in Tas-
mania may not realise it but when
a new ABC magazine program
“Lineup” starts its three-nights-a-week run
there next week they will be taking part
in an experiment which could help to
shape a new kind of television program-
ming for viewers in New South Wales,
Victoria and the A.C.T
tct * „ . C i ,
Lineup is the forerunner to the much
~ , ,£ T . . i • i •
discussed tonight program which is now
~,j i . •
scheduled to start either late this year
i • 1 x r , , 1
or early in 1907. Marshalling the resources
f ii •; j , . • -r a
ol all its departments in Tasmania the ABC
■ ■ r x v If , . .
hopes to present a halt-hour topical maga-
. r r . ii , - &
zine program of largely local interest.
A ° .. \ , . .
pai rom e ec mca etai s, w ic
the Commissions program^ planners hope
to learn from the Lineup experience, it
will be interesting to see how the program
editors maintain interest and viewer
appeal. But, of course, the real test will
come in Sydney and Melbourne. And in
those cities “Tonight” has been a subject
of rumor and discussion for so long in
television and Press circles that it might
be worth while outlining some of the back-
ground.
“m • u Don
a™ , g Til °r t "Tr
JLll r y IT P. ro 8 , ; an ',, w,th lts
3 r mg “f * T n T S
a "l” T' eW,ng T nUSUaI - ° r , lnter , e j tln ?
personalities in the semi-real world of
showbusiness and the arts.
About 18 months ago this format was
changed. “Tonight” became “24 Hours.”
It still goes on for the same five nights a
week, Monday to Friday, but now it is
the last program of the evening running
for a basic 50 minutes. Being “open-
ended” it can and does run for longer.
It has basically the same team of reporters
and editors but it is more serious and gives
more background to political and inter-
national news.
How will the local “Tonight” compare?
As the independent unit which will pro-
duce the program has not yet been
assembled it is difficult to give more than
some general outlines which ABC plan-
ners are agreed upon. They envisage that
the local product will have some of the
elements of both the BBC programs. A
combination of short film stories and
studio interviews running for half an hour,
“Tonight” will place particular emphasis
on showing the people who make the news
especially the faceless men of all political
parties whose reluctance to appear, on
camera and talk anything but banalities
is one of the most depressing features of
Australian public life. The ABC’s Federal
Director of TV Programs, Mr. Ken Watts,
hopes that the program will establish itself
so that politicians and other public figures
will come to feel that appearing on the
“Tonight” program is as .much part of
their public life as it is for their counter-
parts overseas.
The program will go on five nights a
week in P rim e viewing time after the
seven o’clock news but no later than 8.30.
It will have its headquarters in Sydney,
M ,/ }>
but it will also have a team in Melbourne
, „ a ■ n u nl ~
and a staff in Canberra as well. Generally,
~ ~ , c , ’
Melbourne and Sydney will see the same
~. ■ , ,
program but in special cases there will be
& ,, „ . ,
an opportunity for local stories to be seen
~'•,• , . „ .
in only one citv exclusively or at greater
, 1 -p, / . f J f
length. The plan is for a team of four on-
camera reporters in Sydney, four in Mel-
bourn6) a £ d
one in Canberra.
.
.^ s we as tbe P r °g ram editors the unit
have research men, cameramen, and
production assistants. It will be mdepen-
<^. e 1 nt .* n the sense that it wi 1 operate out-
Sl<^e J- be traditional domains of both Talks
News with the program editor wor mg
direct to Mr. Watts, who in turn is respon-
sible to Mr. Neil Hutchison, controller of
programs.
The “Tonight” team will be based at
ABN2’s Gore Hill studios and their editor
will be expected to work in close liaison
with the news editor - but obviously there
are going to be difficulties in drawing lines
r j s 5 . rp, . , . „i
of demarcation. The internal organisational
and personality problems may not be easily
resolved
I asked Mr. Watts about the thinking
behind setting up a unit outside News
since in some overseas organisations,
especially the large American networks,
they are joined. He explained, “We believe
that the vitality which comes from a
small group of creative people working
together can t be found easily within an
already existing organisational framework,
but . must come ,; rom a unit set U P for a
specific purpose. .
9, ne question remains and it will be
reall y an *wered only when the Tonight
program tackles or fails to tackle -
lts brst P obtlcal over which
gentlemen in Canberra start bu lying. The
Smce a Tonight program
™ b ! cb w ’ f er m ?, re than th f P a P ° f
“Weekend Magazine needs a sharp bite
to how f J ee f ™ m u P° btlcal
or will the Tonight team be?
More than for any other program the
ABC has launched since television began
i n Australia, the answer will be crucial,
Encouragingly there are signs that there
are men i n tbe organisation bold enough
to aim for real independence.
SAM LIPSKI


St. Caroline and her Circus
Should Mrs . Chisholm be canonised?
By M. H. ELLIS
PROFESSOR JAMES McAULEY, in
his review of T. L. Suttor’s “Hier-
archy and Democracy in Australia,”
makes a strong plea for the canonisation
of Caroline Chisholm and remarks that
THE BULLETIN might take up the
cause.
There is nothing original in Professor
McAuley’s thought. Mrs. Chisholm is
well qualified to join the saints, though
she would probably—practical, motherly
woman —be the first to smile at the sug-
gestion. Michelet, the French historian, de-
clared long ago that “the fifth part of the
world, Australia, had but one saint,” and
elected Caroline. The Westminster Review
declared that she did more for the re-
generation of the Australian colonies than
all the Churches “and the five Australian
bishops to boot.” A true queenly woman,
and by divine right, too (wrote the Re-
view). Charles Dickens, as McAuley
points out, sang her praises and Florence
Nightingale declared herself to be Caro-
line’s “friend and pupil.” Even Punch,
usually a little ribald about good works
and those who performed them in its skit-
tish infant years, was ready to raise her
to rank of prophetess by declaring her
to be a “second Moses in bonnet and
shawl.” And Henry Kendall sang almost
exactly the same thing.
Few spoke evil of her. About the worst
that was said of her was Sir George Gipps’
remark that she was a “lady laboring
under an amiable delusion,” but even he
was forced to walk in sackcloth and ashes
and recant. As for the Holy Church, I can-
not remember that its hierarchy showed the
slightest interest in her work. They left
it to lesser breeds without the ambit of
Rome, like the reverend Mr. Mackenzie,
to extol her virtues. Where Mr. McAuley
seems to me original is that he should
join with Mr. Suttor in proclaiming her
a great Roman Catholic.
Certainly she became a Roman Catho-
lic about the time she married, at the age
of 22, possibly, it has been suggested,
though I do not know on what grounds,
because her husband was one. But the
fact is that she showed as little devotion
to the Church of Rome as she did to any
other Church. And if her husband lived
up to the old Chisholm boast that only
three people on earth were entitled to use
the prefix “The” before their titles—“ The
Pope, The King, and The Chisholm” —he
was not a very encouraging communicant,
either. Most of the trend of Caroline’s
work so far as it connected itself with
religion was centred more on basic
morality than devotion to the True Church
and she might even have found herself in
the same predicament as the Mother Mary
McKillop, who was excommunicated by
the Bishop of Adelaide. For she could have
been accused of seeming to encourage
infidels to practise their heresies as taught
by the Protestant Church.
She cared not whether those she set out
to succor were Jews, Lutherans, cala-
thumpians, or humanists; if somebody with-
in her franchise needed help and she
could give it, he got it.
Possibly, the “priests and Levites” whom
Henry Kendall excoriated in his poem
addressed to her would (in the Catholic
Church of that time) have paid a lot more
attention to her merits if she had set
out to fill the country with good and
reverent Irish families in an age when
the word “Irish” and the word “Catholic”
were almost synonymous in Australia. But
nearly all her efforts were directed to filling
the continent with more and more des-
cendants of the ravagers of the monasteries
and the unregenerate descendants of Praise
God-Bare Bones and his puritan crew.
The Catholic Church in Australia was
not noted in the 1840 s for the liberalism
that distinguishes it in 1966. If Mr.
McAuley had lived in Tasmania in that
dark age, he would have needed a con-
siderable amount of iron in his composi-
tion to nerve him to proclaim Mrs.
Chisholm a “great Catholic.”
None of these things has any bearing
on the need or otherwise for her canon-
isation, in favor of which it can be said
that she herself regarded herself at least as
a divine instrument and “looked upon
her vocation as a divine mission.”
The extraordinary thing is that a
woman as unique as she should not have
a greater fame in the country to whose
deserving population she did so much
to contribute, while at the same time
finding time to present the world with six
little olive branches (one of whom at least
married outside the Catholic Church).
There is something unreal about the
whole of her life. In these days, to most
people, she is only a name, a shadowing
vision. I have asked more than a dozen
people in the past week or two to expose
their stores of knowledge about Caroline.
Most of them were ostensibly well edu-
cated—one or two were even historical
enthusiasts—but the best informed among
them had only something vague to offer,
though all were well stocked with lying
legends about Ned Kelly, Governor
Bligh, and the New South Wales Corps.
Yet you could not find a more arresting
tale than hers in the annals of British
womanhood. Judging by her portrait as a
mature matron she must have been what
Governor Macquarie’s uncle would have


Why did
the world’s
leading pop group
stay at the
Sydney Sheraton?
To be sure it wasn’t just because our
rates are lower than those of most other
first-class hotels. Perhaps it was because
of our ultra-modern rooms; central
location; friendly atmosphere; the un-
obtrusive privacy; our 24-hour room
service; or all of these reasons com-
bined. Sheraton hotels are very personal
hotels where you’re treated as a very
special friend. Book now for your next
visit with your local bank, travel agent,
airline or stock and station agent. Or
’phone us direct for bookings at either
hotel.
Rates from $8.50 single, $11.50 double.
SHERATON
MOTOR HOTELS
40 Macleay Street, Potts Point,
Sydney, 'phone 35.1955
13-19 Spring Street, Melbourne,
'phone 63.9961
lllllllfllllll
SHS2/6.58
called a “sonsie lass.” In her youth
she married Captain Chisholm of the
Honorable East India Company’s Service
who was a dozen years her senior
and shortly hied herself off with him to
the insalubrious station of Madras.
There Caroline began her life work by
establishing a school for the neglected
waifs of the riff-raff of the barracks.
When her husband succumbed to the
climate he invalided himself and his
family, after the fashion of many sick
Indian officers of the time, to the sunny
climate of Australia, arriving when the
Hungry ’Forties were beginning to spread
destitution with a lavish hand. At that
period Caroline herself was beyond the
reach of destitution. When her husband
returned to India he left her in a rose-
embowered cottage in a Sydney suburb.
She was soon to be seen at Government
House door pleading for help to rescue the
600 destitute females, mostly immigrant, of
which Sydney had no reason to be proud.
It was then that Sir George Gipps made
the remark about her illusions, which he
soon lived to repent to the extent of giving
her for her purposes the old female immi-
gration home at the corner of Bent and
Phillip Streets. There she gathered the
girl waifs and the destitute, cleaning them
up, giving them such rudiments of educa-
tion as she could manage.
She left the rose-hung cottage for a
fireless room in the crumbling warren
which was seven feet by seven feet in
dimensions, but not lacking company, in
that all the rats of Sydney seemed to dis-
pute her claim to it. There she established
her sovereign remedy for the difficulties
of young females: Get them out of the
town and into respectable homes in the
country, where they were needed and
where they had the chance of marriage.
She opened the first registry office in Syd-
ney. She worked day and night. She was
indefatigable, firm and practical. But no-
body would have classed her as a do-
gooder.
Few settlers in the outer counties who
needed wives had the opportunity to leave
their stock and property to the mercy of
the outlaws and blacks while they came
to Sydney to prospect. So she decided to
take to them the commodity which they
so badly needed.
Thus she became the Moses of the dis-
tressed female, leading her host of
womanhood into the promised land of the
outback. She travelled the roads with her
caravans of girlhood, ranging as far afield
as Port Macquarie or out to Bathurst and
down to Goulburn over roads infested with
footpads. She was in the secret parlance of
the time among her admiring onlookers
the mistress of “Caroline’s Circus,” a show
welcomed everywhere, its travelling ex-
penses paid by expectant Benedicts who
waited, finger on whisker, lest she should
fail to arrive.
No left-overs
H er journeys to the Hunter district
were, indeed, the longer because her
impatient clients were chary about allow-
ing her to bring settlers to the new land of
Canaan by steamer up the river lest,
stopping at intermediate ports, they were
snapped up en route through tempting
offers in the towns.
Her longest sojourn on the roads with
a convoy was three weeks of rough bush
travelling. Her greatest assemblage of peri-
patetic femininity numbered 147. But,
however many went with her, there were
never any leftovers or returns.
Many a great pastoral family of today
'can count (but often doesn’t care to do
so) a founding pioneer mother who was
picked out of the Sydney streets destitute
by Caroline, toothcombed and cleaned up
morally and physically, instilled with the
elements of domestic virtue and house-
wifery, and then carried off neat and trim
to bush matrimony.
When she was called on to return to
England with her husband she went off on
another tack. She collected shiploads
of orphans from • the workhouses and
secured free passages for them to enable
them to start life afresh in sunny New
South Wales. And in the course of her
battle against the overcrowding of immi-
grant ships, the starvation of poor passen-
gers, and the brutality of crews, she be-
came the main drive behind the move-
ment that culminated in the drafting of
the Passengers Act, which turned many of
the reforms she had advocated into law.
At the same time, she began a new
activity. In her supervision of the com-
panies of young women whom she dealt
with overseas, she saw, all too often, the
spectacle of families broken up by the
poverty-enforced emigration of fathers or
sons or daughters, and was led to found
the Family Colonisation Loan Society to
aid the emigration of families in groups
of from six to eight, and to provide them
with needed finance.
The seal was set on her planning when
William Schaw Lindsay, founder of one
of the world’s greatest shipping companies
of its time, built a specially equipped
emigrant ship to her specifications and
named it the Caroline Chisholm. It sailed
with 144 passengers, including “twenty
young maiden Jewesses” who were moved
to emigrate “for the noblest and most
humanising purposes.” Between Septem-
ber, 1850, and July, 1852, she sent seven
vessels carrying 1288 adults, 475 children,
and 68 infants, finding opportunities to
start on the land for nearly all of them.
She herself returned to Australia in
the Ballarat in 1854 and was soon at
work on the goldfields, fighting to imple-
ment her doctrine that wives and children
were the best policemen to use in sub-
duing the unruly and lonely male.
Her last period in Sydney was spent
in continued crusading for early closing,
for the improvement of homelife in the
bush, for family settlement and the oppor-
tunity of lonely men struggling with
farms to marry and provide for her immi-
grant girls.
In her old age, worn out by her con-
tinuous 40 years of service to the poor,
she lived in cheerful penury, supporting
herself for some time by keeping girls’
schools in the Sydney suburbs, until a
small Civil List Pension was granted her
by the British Government.
Her monument, when she died in 1877
at the age of 69, was formed by the
extending families of . 11,000 immigrants
whom her efforts had settled in Australia.
Kendall thought of Wordsworth when he
wrote his verses addressed to her, and
quoted a line or two from “The Phantom
of Delight” at the head of his tribute,
which he might have extended into a
proper description of her and her nature:
A being breathing thoughtful breath,
A traveller betwixt life and death,
The reason firm, the temperate will,
Endurance, foresight, strength, and skill;
A perfect woman nobly planned,
To warn, to comfort and command.
She would have laughed, one imagines,
at the thought of being St. Caroline. One
feels she would have been much prouder
to be remembered as the firm and kindly
ringmaster of Caroline’s Circus, the “Moses
in Bonnet and Shawl,” who led hundreds
of destitute girls to marriage in the south-
ern land of Canaan. She was very human,
very vital, no prig. Why the novelists
have missed her, heaven only knows. Her
true life story could be served up on a
plate without garnish and readers would
accept it without question as romantic
fiction.


m
-
if-* ■
★ Such a friendly fellow to
sell it! Like Black Bottle,
Graham mixes well in any
company, so it’s not surprising
that well over half a million
TV viewers in all social groups
are beginning to agree that
their friend has recommended
another worthwhile product.
Such a
friendly
old
Brandy
★ In the bars where business men gather, in clubs,
conference rooms and restaurants, the buzz is that,
when a product is in with Graham, it is in with
Melbourne too.
Sales everywhere indicate that Black Bottle is one
of the “in” things. Thanks to its quality and the
Kennedy touch!
CHANNEL


OUT NOW!!
THE AUSTRALIAN
LEFT REVIEW
A Marxist journal of informa-
tion, analysis and discussion on
economics, politics, trade
unionism, history, philosophy,
science and art, for the pro-
motion of socialist ideas.
ESSENTIAL FOR THOSE WHO
WANT TO BE WELL INFORMED
Published Bi-Monthly
30 cents
Annual Subscription $1.75
Orders to Box A 247,
SYDNEY SOUTH POST OFFICE
BOOKS
Who’s afraid of Tom Wolfe?
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine Flake
Stream-Line Baby. Tom Wolfe. Cape.
$5.15.
IN the March issue of British “Vogue,”
Elaine Dundy, breathless author of
the appropriately named “Dud Avo-
cado,” records in a dither her meeting
with Tom Wolfe at Sardi’s East, deliver-
ing herself of an encomium in the process:
“He is your simple, barefoot American
Boy of letters . . . taking journalism like
a walnut, cracking it wide open and get-
ting down to the meat of what was really
going on inside all those facts.” She
approves his attack on “The New
Yorker,’’ she notes with approval his sharp
bony nose (“a nose for news”), his “calm-
ness, cool and loose,” his Beekman Place
Chelsea Pad, his vintage 1946 tie from
a disposal sale. She asks him charged
questions over iced tea: “What do you
feel is the real function of journalism? Do
you remember when you first discovered
yourself wandering round the minds of
your subjects? Is there a literary pre-
cedence for this kind of writing that you
can think of? Explain certain calculated
mannerisms . . . what contemporary
writers do you most admire?” In reply,
Mr. Wolfe makes the paralysing disclosure
that news what people in power are
doing —is old-fashioned: that what we
want is a report on stock-car racing; that
his “wanderings” were inspired by the
free-wheeling talk of a man called Phil
Spector, salesman of teenage junk; that
the Brother Serapion group of Soviet
writers in the ’twenties were his precur-
sors; that “repeating words means that
they have become for me inseparable from
the meaning I want”; and that the White
Hope of American literature is—wait for
it—Nelson Algren.
Miss Dundy’s eager receptivity to. Mr.
Wolfe’s wanderings is shared, it seems,
by a large slice of America, and his col-
lected writings “The Kandy-Kolored
Tangerine Flake Streamline Baby” Have
been selling like jelly beans. They taste
much the same: solidified nothings coated
with multicolored sludge. In his intro-
duction, Mr. Wolfe writes that he was
initially set in motion by a visit to a
Hot Rod and Custom Car show called for
by his employers, “The New York Herald
Tribune,” and brought back a “totem,”
i.e., square piece of journalism; but he
realised that the subject, a motor-cycle boy
who had built a machine called The
Golden Alligator, with a scaled seat like an
alligator’s body, called for more high-
powered treatment. So, for “Esquire”
magazine, he ran up some notes, couldn’t
get them into the shape of an article, pub-
lished the notes instead. And from then on
— zowie! —he realised he would never have
to write, to shape words again. Everything
he has done since is no longer the work of
an author, but of a maker of notes.
Wolfe makes reading easy—for those
who go to parties, ride motor-cycles, etc.
He doesn’t make “swinging” readers feel
guilty, as they would when picking up
“Reader’s Digest.” Everything is jotted
down, in a free-wheeling, vacuous style
which saves us the trouble of thinking at
all. Fan magazines used to do this kind
of thing for film stars; now that everyone
appears to think himself at least on nod-
ding acquaintance with the arts, the
method applied to pop culture has to be
tricked out with rather more precious
prose.
Mr. Wolfe sails into a dozen subjects
with equal slickness, from Las Vegas
through stock-car racing, the Beatles, the
Rolling Stones, and motor-cyclists, to the
art gallery society and the nanny mafia.
His purpose is to give a wide-angle view
of the period we are living in; of the
enormous wealth of the American teen-
ager; of the wildly with-it New York
socialites and their mad parties. He in-
tends to put his finger on the pulse of
fashion; we are to be carried along
breathlessly by the charm, the excitement,
the beauty of it all. Like a gushing debu-
tante, Mr. Wolfe whirls about New York
looking for the latest “in” things and
recording them in a bubbling, insipid
diary of public prose.
The most characteristic chapter is the
one on Baby Jane Holzer, a bird-brained
socialite whose dreary doings seem to have
for him the magic a ’thirties career once
had for Louella or Elsa Maxwell (whose
natural heir Mr. Wolfe is). Baby Jane,
he tells us, “has a huge tan mane around
a narrow face and two eyes opened
sivock!! —like umbrellas.” The “swock”
and the two exclamation marks exactly
pinpoint Mr. Wolfe’s method: the first
part of his description has the flatness of
a police report, the last is inaccurate and
silly, but the “swock” gives the sentence
. . . swock. Once having hit on this device
of lacing otherwise routine prose with
Batmanesque words, Mr. Wolfe could
giggle all the way to the bank.
Mr. Wolfe’s description of Baby Jane’s
party, of the irruption of the Rolling
Stones and a hectic concert they gave,
evokes a witless and charmless world, of
mindless people whose sophistication can
be peeled off like a glove. So, too, his
evocation of the New York social set and
of the vulgar stupidity of Las Vegas and
its incipient violence. This is an age that
desperately needs dry satirists, observers
like Scott Fitzgerald, Dorothy Parker, and
Nathanael West. But those true and
honorable minds would battle for a place
today; it is indecent in the ’sixties to
expose the febrile behaviour of the rich
masses and their cheerlessly nutty idols.
We must make do instead with the small,
good Wolfe, in his jittery excitement at
the ugly, the vulgar, the repellent, and
the obscene.
The Treason of the Clerks
By GEOFFREY FAIRBAIRN
Vietnam. F. J. Mount. Freedom Publishing
Company. 20c.
The Faceless Vietcong. George Carver.
Council on Foreign Relations Inc.
MR. FRANK MOUNT’S 36-page
pamphlet containing four very use-
ful sketch maps, a glossary of terms,
lists of North Vietnamese Politbureau fig-
ures, and “leaders” of the National Liberal
Front and of the People’s Revolutionary
Party which controls the NLF Appendices,
and a Select Bioliography of writings on
the Vietnamese struggle, is by far the
best two bob’s worth on the subject. It
does what the Government has still not
succeeded in doing quite appropriately;
in plain prose and simple terms (which
are, perhaps inevitably, simplified at
times), it considers nearly all the argu-
ments that have been put forward by the
political opponents of American-Australian
involvement and considers them in the
wide context of Asian resurgence.
It is, for the most part, a carefully and
quietly argued brief for intervention.
Though Mr. Mount has recently travelled
around parts of South-East Asia, including
South Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore, and
the Philippines, he makes no pretence of
being an expert unlike a considerable
number of academics who would scarcely
have known Vietnam from Venezuela
until Australian troops were committed to


~ TODAY’S,
Resign n
TOMORROW
HOME MOVII
EUMIG'S superb Mark S
(S for Sound) 8 mm.
projector brings a new
concept in ease of
operation to movie
projection.
For literature contact:
R. Gunz (Photo) Pty. Ltd.,
24 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
the former place—and no pretence of say-
ing anything very new. Which is precisely
the source of his strength: he has con-
scientiously prepared his brief and pro-
duced an argument admirably suited to
the man-in-the-street “jury.”
As a man legally trained, he is at his
best and it is a good best on the
Geneva Agreement argument. Here
indeed he not only disposes of the Com-
munists and Old Lefties and others, most
of whose lives have been devoted to sup-
porting or apologising for a penology
based on torture, concentration camps, and
Law as a derivative of Politbureau deci-
sions, and yet had the nerve to get up
at meetings, slavering delightedly like
scrofulous old wolverines on heat to dis-
cuss the “legalities” of the issue; he quotes
Oppenheim to deadly effect against those
who have to uphold the sovereignty of
East Germany, yet strive to deny it to
South Vietnam.
However, the wide-ranging scope of the
pamphlet must be chiefly emphasised for
review purposes, since this can be the
source of its great usefulness to those who
maintain that so far they have not been
sufficiently informed on the Vietnamese
struggle to enable them to make up their
minds one way or the other. Mr. Mount
analyses the situation of being at war with-
out a declaration of war (of the 164 inter-
nationally significant outbreaks of violence
since 1958, only 15 have been military
conflicts between two States and not one
of them has involved a declaration of
war, as the McNamara statement in a
recent BULLETIN revealed); the back-
ground of Vietnamese nationalism; the
nature of revolutionary guerilla warfare
(generally very well done, a little
muddled, unnecessarily, by a curious dis-
tinction between revolutionary guerilla
warfare and genuine revolutionary war-
fare), and containing a truly excellent
portrait of the ideal guerilla cadre); the
Geneva Agreements; the interregnum
period between 1954 and 1959 when revo-
lutionary guerilla subversion and insur-
gency in South Vietfiam began to be
escalated; the nature of Hanoi control of
the whole operation; the likely effect of
its possible outcomes upon the Chinese
and Hanoi view of the world; and the
purpose of Western involvement.
A very great deal of information and
argumentation has been bpiled down to
form a comparatively short presentation
of the issue, and so readers will doubtless
find some chapters much more rewarding,
some much less rewarding than others. I
found his lack of understanding of some
of Diem’s shortcomings and the brusque
treatment of Vietnamese history not alto-
gether satisfying. I found his arguments
about the likely consequences of an Allied
defeat valuable—the “domino theory” is
derided almost always by those whose
thought is distinguished by an almost lack
of concrete experience of South-East Asia.
Mr. George Carver’s pamphlet a re-
print from “Foreign Affairs” —provides an
altogether necessary supplement for those
who believe they know more than the
average Intelligent Man, but yet are
scarcely prepared to declaim their pecu-
liar expertise on the basis of “I. F. Stone’s
Weekly,” that clarion call to (God save
the term) New Leftists. Mr. Carver
addresses himself particularly to the
control of the Vietcong; and it is this,
not arithmetical juggling with figures of
arms imports to South Vietnam, which is
crucial to the whole argument.
As Mr. Carver says so truly of the
National Liberation Front: “It is fairly
easy to devise an organisation structure
capable of lending verisimilitude to a
political fiction, doubly so if one is trying
to deceive a foreign audience unversed in
local political affairs. Fleshing this struc-
ture out with live, known individuals to
occupy posts of public importance promi-
nence is considerably more difficult.” Mr.
Mount also makes this point very well
indeed; and shows how no significant
Vietnamese figure in the South has ever
identified himself with the NLF. At this
point, someone who knows a little bit
about Vietnam and about the menda-
ciously dishonest behaviour of the Austra-
lian intellectual Left might be inclined
to throw his hands in the air and shout
toward the magpies, “But the Left intel-
lectuals who have spearheaded the oppo-
sition are perfectly aware that they have
committed la trahaison des clercs of which
Julien Benda wrote so eloquently years
ago; perfectly aware that they have to
go on committing that intellectual treason
because lifelong they have been commit-
ted to an “Asiatically” alien solution of
their own personal neuroses; perfectly un-
caring about the Vietnamese, their his-
tory, their ethos, their suffering—but also
perfectly aware that in such matters as
the agony of Vietnam, neither knowledge
nor thought is relevant: only the nihilist
appetite for the destruction of the culture
they hate so deeply, for the mean reason
that it does not seem to take sufficient
account of themselves, is meaningful to
them. So, entrenched as “leaders of in-
tellectual opinion” by the phonies who for
30 years have exercised unwarranted in-
fluence on university campuses, men
neither strong in perfidy nor valiant in
dissent, they will use their irrelevant
academic badges in order successfully to
sickly o’er the native resolution of the
less favored majority of the population.
But such a cry of despair may be alto-
gether misplaced. If the tradition of West-
ern democracy remains valid, then it will
be misplaced. Those thousands of ordinary
folk who welcomed home the First Bat-
talion may come to read the roughly
gentle arguments of Frank Mount and the
elegant analysis of George Carver and
learn, even yet in good time, how deeply
they have been misled, some of them,
about a struggle upon the outcome of
which their future, and the future of their
children, will depend.
Holiday
Sunlight runs like fluid gold in the veins,
A soft hilarity upon hair and skin.
A bird’s momentary shadow stains
The stone paths we walk in. *
It is good not to do what we should do,
But something good we needn’t do - like spin
Straw into gold, or living into
Surprises, as this thin
Voltage of pale sunshine may incite.
For loving is a game where both can win,
And freedom to do nothing right
Is the flower of discipline.
JAMES McAULEY


Are you preparing
your children to
avoid the pitfalls
of adolescence?
Your children need a sound
training in religious principles if
they are to grow up as good,
honest citizens.
Children look first to their
parents for the advice and the
reasons they need to live honest,
upright lives. Parents cannot
adequately teach and guide their
children, unless they themselves
have a clear understanding of
Christian morality and personal
faith in God.
FREE
Correspondence Course
Thousands of parents who are
not regular church-goers feel a
special need for practical help in
this all-important task. The
Catholic Enquiry Centre is help-
ing many of them through a free
course of 20 lessons by corre-
spondence on the Christian way
of life—a unique course in which
the beliefs and practices of
Christianity are examined and
explained with reference to the
vital moral and social questions
of today.
POST COUPON FOR DETAILS
Ail lessons are posted in plain,
sealed envelopes. There is no
obligation and nothing to pay.
There is a guarantee that no
representative will call.
■ FREE and IN CONFIDENCE a
Please send your brochure
in plain, sealed envelope, busi
Mr./Mrs./Miss
(Block letters, please)
Address
— State
CATHOLIC ENQUIRY
CENTRE
P.O: Box 63, Maroubra, N.S.W.
The poet’s tensions
By VIVIAN SMITH
Connoisseurs of Chaos. Denis Donoghue.
Faber. $5.15.
The Modem Movement. Cyril Connolly.
Deutsch and Hamilton. $2.55.
MOST critics only have their opinions;
the best have knowledge and judg-
ment as well. Never before has so
much criticism been written and published.
Never before has there been such a pro-
liferation of critical methods and modes.
Helen Gardner pointed out some years ago
that literary criticism has now taken the
place of the sermon; it is certainly taking
more and more the place of genuine
creativity. Once one had criticisms of
specific authors and works: now we have
criticisms of the critics. And just as nobody
complains quite so much about tourists as
other tourists, so no one complains quite
so much about critics as other critics.
Still, criticism at its best is a humane
occupation, and every now and then a
critical work appears which restores one’s
faith in the usefulness of the critic’s task.
Denis Donoghue’s “Connoisseurs of Chaos”
is such a book. Lively and alert, it is sub-
titled “Ideas of Order in Modern American
Poetry” and consists of a series of separate
essays on some of the American poets
from Walt Whitman, Melville, and Dickin-
son, to Wallace Stevens, Theodore Roethke,
and Robert Lowell.
Mr. Donoghue’s guiding idea it can
hardly be called a thesis —is taken from the
title of one of Wallace Stevens’ books. He
is concerned with the way American poets
cope with chaos to shape it into a new
order in their art, and with the fact that
“men do not create in light and warmth
alone; they create in darkness and cold-
ness,” and with what happens if they leave
out the dark and the cold or the light and
the warmth. The biggest poets cope with
the greatest number of “squirming facts.”
So Mr. Donoghue sees Whitman as an
optimistic romantic delighting in the pleni-
tude, the mystery, the variety of the created
universe, who solves the problem of the
self by celebrating energy as a value in it-
self. Tuckerman is a recluse trying to im-
pose control through withdrawal, and the
most fruitful tensions arise in his work from
“the pull between the official commitment
to rest, quiet, limitation, and the unofficial,
wild desire to pursue things to the end
of the line,” Emily Dickinson is torn be-
tween “the craving to know and the des-
pair of having known.” E. A. Robinson
seeks release from the furies of reason and
passion—less successfully in his Arthurian
legends than in his shorter poems on
people, places, and things. Wallace Stevens
spent a lifetime trying to console his deeply
religious sensibility for the loss of the
Christian faith and finally identified the
imagination with God.
All this is valuable, suggestive, and fre-
quently illuminating. Mr. Donoghue’s poets
are all alienated from their society and
from a generally accepted body of beliefs
and all are searching for order. All are
faced in fact, with the modern problem.
Sometimes Mr. Donoghue gives the im-
pression of coping a little too well with
his poets and their problems, and then he
appears inadequate to his task. But his
strength can be seen in the eight pages he
devotes to Robert Lowell.
Donoghue is the first to formulate the
crucial theme in Lowell’s poems the
conflict between authority and the self:
“Teased out a little it amounts to this:
the individual self can rely upon its own
resources such as they are —or it can
accept the order provided for it by a
compelling, totalitarian force, of what-
ever kind, or it can spend a lifetime
searching for a more benign, more per-
sonal order, sufficiently firm to make its
edicts persuasive if not legal. If the self
refuses all external orders and trusts in
its own direction, it runs the risk of
exposure, loneliness, a terrible desicca-
tion of spirit, utter chaos ... If the self-
takes the first opportunity of coming in
out of the storm, it is likely to come upon
an authoritarian order, and the price of
this shelter is the attenuation of the self
until be becomes the no-man favored by
all authoritarian states.”
Mr. Donoghue’s analysis of the early
poems in the light of this theme is excel-
lent—brief, swift, always to the point--
and it is a pity that he did not refer to
Lowell’s more recent work in detail. How
else is that brilliant poem “The Drinker”
in “For the Union Dead” to be under-
stood, but as a clear contrast between pri-
vate disorder and public order?
Is he killing time? Out on the street,
two cops on horseback clop through the
April rain
to check the parking meter violations
their oilskins yellow as forsythia.
It is not necessary for Mr. Donoghue
to spend time asserting that Lowell’s
poems should not be taken as issuing
from his special position as a member of
the Lowell family, that they are wider,
more general in scope. More important
and central is the fact that Lowell believes
in the possibilities and the dignities and
indignities of damnation—but this is a
subject that Mr. Donoghue, although a
declared Christian critic, does not take up.
“Connoisseurs of Chaos” is a book that
students and readers of American poetry
will welcome. It is hard to imagine for
whom Cyril Connolly’s “The Modern
Movement” is intended. A text of 90
pages and a bibliography of 50, it is a
selection of 100 “key” books from Henry
James and Flaubert to Pound and Wil-
liam Carlos Williams, accompanied by a
brief, not always accurate comment. As
a guide for the “general reader” it will
certainly have its uses—though there are
odd omissions; Beckett and Lowell in par-
ticular are notable absentees. Mr. Con-
nolly justifies his choice by saying “When
in doubt choose genius” and he happily
acknowledges that his list of books is
as personal as a cardiogram.


Cooma’s most
modem Motel /.1
3S
o O
~m MttrliW&aak
<=> MOTEL 0
MONARO HIGHWAY, COOMA
at the gateway to the Snowy
Offering the degree of comfort and luxury
you would expect to find in one of
Australia’s leading Motels. • 60 heated
bedroom units with convenient parking.
• Radio and Telephone in all units.
• Private Shower and toilet. • Guest
lounge. • Quick service Coffee;Shop for
budget-priced meals.
For reservations and further/aetails contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
or ANSETT-PIONEER, 74 Sharp St., Cooma.
A MEMBER COMPANY Of ANSETT (TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ATI.7OB
Agony of the Uprooted
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
Trap. Peter Mathers. Cassell. $3.25.
“fTIRAP” is one of those curiosities
I liable to tempt a reviewer into a
yelp of indiscriminate enthusiasm
before he has considered exactly what he
is being enthusiastic about. I must say
that I found Peter Mathers’ novel com-
pulsively readable. Why it should be so
is another matter. Its plot development is
wildly, and wilfully, erratic, the chronology
bounding in great kangaroo leaps from
colonial antiquity to the present day.
And yet, its total impact is remarkable.
Somehow it gets under the readers’ skin,
it stings the imagination, and its effect is
hard to shake off. It forces on the reader
a fresh angle of vision, distorted and
idiosyncratic perhaps, but refreshing be-
cause its theme has so often been handled
in such a grimly pedestrian manner. This
is a book that everyone interested in the
Australian novel should read.
The anti-hero of the novel is Jack
Trap, whose ancestry is part English,
part Irish, part aboriginal, and part
of all outlandish things Tierra del
Fuegan Indian. The aboriginal strain is
the important one. If Trap was all black,
or even half-black, he would simply have
drifted down to his appropriate level of
anonymous squalor in Redfern or a fly-
blown shanty settlement on the skirts
of an outback town. As it is he has a
foot in both worlds and a sense of be-
longing to neither. He is alternately
apathetic, cynical, cringing, and spasmodi-
cally futilely aggressive. He drifts from
job to job, “rooted in rootlessness,” a
degraded object of mingled charity, fear,
amusement, and contempt.
We learn a lot about Trap’s ancestry
in digressions that occupy a large part
of the book. It does not appear to me that
our understanding of Trap’s nature is
much enriched by these tales of his father,
, . Jf 1 , , . ~ ’
his grandfather, and his extraordinary
? , -urn- , ,
grandmother from the wilds of Tierra del
-r> a , ... , .
ruego. But no reader will cavil, for these
, . , , TJ l. * , ,
chapters about early Hobart and the robust
■ r xt e tat i xt .i
pioneers of the New South Wales North
T.•, , r ,
Coast include some of Mathers most
, • , rr j • ■
graphic and unaffected writing. Old
„ rp , , , ,
Peters the cedar cutter, lurnbuckle, of
tj u * ,
the Hobart counting house, and even the
. a ~ , , c a
ineffable Colonel Sancty-Mony are creat-
rax jli j j
ures of flesh and blood compared with
mons trous puppets who crowd round
Jack T in , he 20th cent
T ... /
However, this is a moral fable and we
are c^ not supposed to i egard Jack s
tormentors and would-be patrons as three-
dimensional human characters. They
represent the reactions of different levels
t^ e conformist world to the vaguely
felt threat of ana rchy embodied in Jack s
person. Trap has no philosophy except a
hopeless nihilism. He has no recognisable
attitude toward the normally accepted
values of society. He has no place, no
meaning in society at all. He is not black
to simply wntten off as an
o> and shoved down into the limbo
°, f doles a ? d drudgery. Everyone agrees
t^iat s ° met hi n g should be done for the
poor But what is to be done about
the Traps, the crossbreds, only faintly
tailed with the biush but who will never
quite be one of us and who only embar-
iass by tiying to be. Wherever he
§ oes ia P caves a tiail of guilt-ndden
unease, evoking the lesponses. of pom-
posity, cruelty, oi a pitying indulgence
more humiliating than either.
Mrs. Nathan, the business tycoon, in-
dulges in a fantasy of using Trap as a sort
of watchdog over the native workers on
a vast industrial development in the
Northern Territory. Mrs. Paine, who wor-
ships at a private shrine in her backyard
cactus plot, dreams of redeeming him by
religion. David David, the Town Hall
welfare worker, hopes (intermittently)
that v the milk of human kindness will do
the trick. Everyone tries to use Trap in
some way as a scratching post for their
itchy egos, as a sitting target for volleys
of benevolence, as a primitive creature
to be tamed and exploited. The irony is
that, however commendable their motives,
Trap brings out the worst in all of them.
They have assimilated the natives, of half
Europe but they cannot digest Trap, the
part-aboriginal primeval Australian. He
is a nagging pain in the bowels of their
conscience. Therefore, they hate and fear
him.
In the end we see Trap and a handful
of humanitarian ratbags abandoning
civilisation and setting off to “fish, farm,
and fossick” on Cape York Peninsula. They
don’t get very far before Trap is arrested
for throwing an axe at a policeman. On
this futile gesture of violence the book
comes full circle.
Octopus in a Bottle
Fishing from the end of a holiday-resort
wharf once, I hooked a beer bottle.
My line had snagged an amazing encrus-
tation
of barnacles, weed, worm tubes, and sea-
squirts
that disguised it completely.
Truly it was an object
to set up on a table indoors
and study minutely
There were oysters, colonies of mussels
attached directly to the glass
by bissus-threads, many species of algae,
ivy-rooted there is no nourishment
in glass, but seaweed foots
are organs of support only.
The thing was completely unrecognisable
as a bottle, so thickly covered it was
with miscellaneous marine growth.
There was even a perplexed
worm writhing, quite naked. My bottle in
fact
was not so much a bottle
as a detached chunk of seabed.
It was also, I discovered later,
when emptying the contents . . .
seawater and sand ... on to the splintery
planks of the jetty,
the home of an octopus, which,
knowing exactly in which direction was sea,
octopus-walked to the edge and tumbled
in.
Ever since when
I have had a feeling of relief,
a subliminal hope that the sea
is not vainly trying to breach the land
and wash away our human dirtiness.
I know the sea will disguise what it cannot
devour,
or crush, or bury under loads of sediment;
and will convert
bombs and bottles and such
into flats, home units, and apartments
for nice, clean little fish,
and the octopus.
W. HART-SMITH


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Good Deal of Luck
WHILE the British Government is again sorely worried by
balance of payments problems, the Australian Government
is reasonably happy with the situation it finds itself in.
It has long been recognised that the reserves which we ran up
in 1963 and early 1964 were bound to be eaten away by the
demands cf economic prosperity and defence. Those reserves
at about $3009 million, were higher than necessary, and it was
only sensible to use some of them up. But by early last year it
was apparent that we were using them up too quickly for com-
fort. The trade balance was in deficit to the tune of $4OO mil-
lion and foreign investment was only just covering the drain of
invisibles such as shipping and the like.
As late as September last the international payments situation
looked rather grim. The drought threatened our export earnings
and many people thought it would take $5OO million or $6OO
million off. Imports showed no signs of slackening and there
were plenty of grounds for apprehension about the inflow of
capital.
As things have turned out we have had a good deal of luck.
Price rises in international markets have largely offset the effect
of the drought in reducing the quantity of farm produce for
export. The rains of the past few weeks will not be much
immediate help to cattle and sheep men who face a winter of
feed shortage. Rebuilding of flocks and herds will be a slow
process and so exports of meat and wool cannot be expected
to recover quickly. But on the other hand, there is now no
doubt that the wheat harvest will be an immense one this
year and this, together with strong prices for wool and meats,
suggests that export earnings could be up $2OO million to $3OO
million.
After almost two years of booming imports of plant and
equipment for industry it is certain that a major category of
imports will diminish in the coming year, so it seems possible
that trade balance will be achieved. So far the British Govern-
ment’s restrictions on investment here have had no noticeable
effect, except the perverse one of encouraging a quick transfer
of money before they bite. It is reasonable to expect that they
will cut away a considerable slice of our total capital inflow and
this will prevent us balancing our overall international accounts
for some time to come.
But even if the current situation is reassuring, there are two
problems. One is a structural problem which will arise for firms
traditionally relying on British finance and for firms which supply
equipment for expansion programs. The first will be short of
money, the second of orders. Additionally there remains the
longer term balance of payments problem created as much as
anything by defence needs.
Primary Differences
THE Australian Primary Producers’ Union appearance at the
basic wage inquiry was indicative of deep differences among
primary producer organisations. Usually the APPU leaves it
to the others to represent their views. But this year there has been
strengthened feeling that the Australian Woolgrowers and
Graziers’ Council is not doing the job for primary producers.
The unprecedented intervention was an assertion of independ-
ence on the part of the APPU. It was vigorously opposed by Mr.
Robinson, who is briefed by the employers, and by the AWGC.
The difference is partly occupational. The APPU members are
MEN AND MATTERS
A LOT has happened to the Coca-
Cola companies in Australia since
“Big Jim” Farley, chairman of the
U.S. Coca-Cola Export Corporation
board, was last here six years ago. Recent
moves into non-returnable bottles and cans
and the big changes in Coke franchise
ownership, as British Tobacco has moved
into Perth and Melbourne and the South
Australian company has floated publicly,
have given the Coke business a new look
here.
But if things are going better with Coca-
Cola in Australia, there is no evidence of
it in the Sydney Coke franchise company.
The Sydney bottling company, which last
year lost about $62,000, is the only major
Australian' franchise owner in which the
majority of the capital is owned by the
Coca-Cola Export Corporation itself.
These problems may have something to
do with the recent decision to introduce
disposable bottles for Coke only into the
Sydney company at present; and South
Australian investors will be keen to see
whether Mr. Farley may have anything to
say about the S.A. bottling operator’s
apparent territorial ambitions into what
could look like the Sydney bottling com-
pany’s areas in N.S.W.
No doubt the British Tobacco group will
be keen to talk to Mr. Farley; there could
be some negotiating to be done on the ex-
tent to which Coke would allow itself to
become too heavily committed to any one
company in its fran-
chise arrangements.
Still, if British Tob-
acco can convince
Mr. Farley that it
can make money for
him, that would be
the sort of logic that
is hard to resist in
business.
But interesting as
the Coke business is
in Australia, it seems that Mr. James Far-
ley, the 78-year-old Democratic Party
elder-statesman, New Dealer friend of the
late President Roosevelt and his Post-
master-General for eight years, will prob-
ably have a lot more to say in public on
political questions and international affairs
on his visit here this week than on Coca-
Cola.
NOW that Sir Theo Kelly is a knight,
Royalty is no longer taking a one-
sided view of the retail battle be-
tween Woolworths and Coles. This month’s
knighthood was a pleasant birthday gift
for Sir Theo, who turns 59 next week.
But there was more to Sir Theo’s knight-
hood than evening up the sides in a retail
battle; there was something inevitable
about recognition for his services on bodies
outside the boardroom at Woolworths,
such as the Retail Traders’ Association, the
Reserve Bank, the Australian National,
James A. Farley.
Sir Edgar Coles.
Sir Theo Kelly.
Travel Association, and the RAAF, whose
catering needs he helped to look after in
an honorary way long after he ceased active
service at the war’s end.
Theo Kelly’s name is synonymous with
Woolworths these days but he was not one
Q f t^e corn p an y’ s original staff when it be-
gan j n 1924 He joined four years
later, at 21, and has been there, the war
excepted, ever since. His first managerial
job in the company came after four years
when he was sent over to manage the New
Zealand operations in 1932 and two years
later he became a New Zealand director,
He returned as general manager in Aus-
tralia in 1940 and then joined the RAAF,
where he became a Wing-Commander
in charge of canteens. Woolworths’ move
into food in a big way after the war may
have something to do with that, for Sir
Theo has been managing director since
1945 and chairman as well for the past
three years.


mainly small farmers, horny-handed sons of the land, as they like
to describe themselves, while the AWGC is regarded as being com-
posed of squatters. The difference is also regional, APPU being
Canberra-based and predominantly Victorian in membership,
while the AWGC is an N.S.W. show.
This year the drought has made things especially hard for the
cockies and so they went it alone. A charming and wily Scot,
Dr. A. Dawson, the APPU director, gave the Commission a
forceful 50 minutes on the position of small farmers—a break
from the tedious discussion of the Vernon Report.
Rights of the Press
LAST week’s judgment by Mr. Justice R. L. Taylor of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court rejecting applications by a company
director to institute criminal prosecutions for libel against a
Sydney finance editor included an important statement of prin-
ciple on the role of the financial Press. Mr. Walter Shapowloff,
a director of both Freightlines and Construction Holdings Ltd.
and Freightlines Investments Ltd., had sought the prosecution
over an article discussing the shareholdings involved in a take-
over offer made to shareholders of the publicly listed Holding-
company by the unlisted Investment company (in which Mr.
Shapowloff was a very large shareholder).
In dismissing Mr. Shapowloff’s application with costs, Mr.
Justice Taylor said: “I am satisfied that the real purpose of the
prosecution is to prevent by the institution of criminal proceed-
ings or the threat of such proceedings any further freedom of
discussion in the financial pages of the ‘Herald’ of the affairs of
the Freightline group of companies so far as they concern the
applicant ... If no other ground for doing so were made out
I would refuse this application on the ground that to grant it
would be to prevent freedom of discussion of matters of public
interest ... It is undoubtedly in the public interest and for the
public good that there be freedom of discussion in the financial
columns of the Press of the operations and affairs of public
companies, domestic matters excepted.
“Takeover bids or offers where public companies are con-
cerned is a field of public interest where examination and analysis
may be uninhibited and frank. But this, as well as all examina-
tions and criticisms of public companies and their directors, must
of course at all times be fair and if it transgresses truth and
fairness, the civil courts, if it is defamatory, afford a remedy.
“So long as persons continue to exercise control and influence
in the affairs of public companies where there is public invest-
ment or where public participation is sought, they must expect
to be the subject of discussion in the financial columns of the
Press and financial journals. On these matters, indeed, it is in
my opinion, of the utmost importance to preserve the right of
the Press to examine, to criticise, to advise, and to warn, and
that it be known that it has this right.”
Tyre Troubles
EVEN if the Tariff Board comes to the aid of the parties at
present locked in bitter competition for the Australian tyre
market by doing something about competition from Japan
on the profitable volume-selling lines, the industry will still be
facing a most unsettled period.
Last week’s strengthening of rumors that the big U.S. tyre-
maker Firestone would soon set up an Australian manufacturing
operation (following a visit from one of the company’s big-
wheels earlier this year) coincided with the almost 80 percent
fall in profits by the local Goodyear company. This result, due
in part to “increased competition” that had been intensified by-
mounting imports and the establishment of another tyre manu-
facturer, followed a 20 percent profit fall in the latest half-year
by Olympic Consolidated, a 24 percent drop by Dunlop, a simi-
lar fall by Goodrich, and a report from Hardie Rubber that the
tyre business was tough. But Goodyear is still proceeding with
its big expansion plans.
Last year’s appearance of the U.S. Rubber Co. here through
the Unißoyal tyre made by S.A. Rubber had already heightened
competition for the vital initial equipment market. The appear-
ance of Firestone and the developments in radial-ply tyres will
clearly .mean some substantial changes in the framework of this
industry.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: Mr. Holt believes the State
Premiers went away from the Loan Council “not so
discontented” as usual. Total allocations for 1966-67,
with the increase on 1965-66 in parenthesis, are: Tax
revenue $818,539,000 ($61,188,000); works and housing
$645,000,000 ($40,000,000); semi-government borrow-
ings $267,000,000 ($18,360,000); specific purposes
$234,000,000 ($30,000,000).
The Arbitration Commission’s decision on the basic
wage is expected by mid-July; already some sources
predict a $2-$3 weekly rise . . . Registered unemployed
in May, at 56,500, fell back a bare 76 on April’s 56,576;
seasonal adjustment would bring them to the highest
level since February, 1964.
For the markets: Oil issues have lost some of
their high glow on Australian share markets, mainly as
a result of the inevitable profit-taking. Yet there’s still
no doubting their speculative appeal and the close of
the week saw most of the favorites reasonably firm
again. Much the same story applies to metals and
minerals; they also returned to an essential steadiness.
Industrials, not unduly helped by the leaders, drew a
good deal of busy trading, which tended to quieten.
“Remarkable strength” is a phrase tacked on to
London’s behavior in the face of unsatisfied hopes on
the seamen’s strike, unhappy May trade figures and
almost certain steel nationalisation. Advances are accom-
plished on small volumes. None of Wall Street’s major
economic preoccupations have been resolved. Its worries
are expressed by an obvious softness among blue chips.
For companies: Two very keenly awaited re-
ports illustrated the steadying factors operating on the
economy . . . Very creditably, however, CSR’s profit
for the year to March 31 moved back only $135,592
to $12,913,130; tax was considerably lower after invest-
ment allowances, low sugar prices were “partly offset
by improved results from other activities” . . . ICIANZ’s
half-year result produced a 1.6 percent advance in
earnings, to $3,310,000, on an 18 percent increase in
sales, at $136,266,000; lower demand from plastics and
automotive industries was noted, as well as the drought.
Varying fortunes struck three local companies with
majority overseas ownership . . . Refractories maker
Harbis'on-ACI Pty. achieved maiden profit of $91,828
after two years of losses . . . Australian Petrochemicals
suffered a profit drop from $419,256 to $282,782 because
tax had to be provided . . . Pressures on tyre makers
brought a slump from $3,084,538 to $713,618 for Good-
year Tyre and Rubber Co. (Australia), ascribed to
higher wages and increased competition.
Talks now in progress “could lead to an offer being
made” for Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd., and
rumor suggests London’s Transport Development
Group as the bidder . . . It’s on again for Cottees, once
more holding discussions with the U.S. General Foods
Corporation following a five weeks’ break.
Tasmania’s Goliath Cement Holdings is to make a
one-for-four par issue; funds will allow it to benefit
from the State’s high level of industrial and mining
activity.
Miner Placer Development lifted earnings by 27.4
percent to $Can.6,425,248 for its year to April and
excluded results from the now-merged Bulolo Gold
Dredging . . . Lower tungsten prices may affect (though
not heavily) King Island Scheelite.
Paper merchant Edwards Dunlop enjoyed a tenth
successive profit gain, this time by 10.8 percent to
$544,120 . . . Lower running costs and higher sugar
recoveries should help Pioneer Sugar Mills . . . Cold-
shouldering a bonus. Tooth’s directors say “future plans
and intentions are fully covered” in the annual report.


J. C. HORSFALL'S MELBOURNE
Slow Housing Corporation
THOSE of US who expected the Hous-
ing Loans Insurance Corporation to
get off to a slow start have not been
disappointed. Nor, apparently, are its
directors, who came out into the public
limelight in Melbourne this week to tell
us what progress had been made and
generally show' the flag to the business
world and a political mixture of Federal
and State leaders at a huge gathering at
the Windsor. It was most enlightening
and well-timed, because the same day the
Corporation announced the sale of its first
parcel of insured mortgages, its passing of
the $5 million mark of business effected,
and indicated a current rate of more than
a .million dollars a month.
Directors of the Corporation admit to
it being further than they would like to
be from the madding building scene and,
indeed, from the public. They confess its
net is not yet spread widely or deep
enough. Of course, it has only been
operating since last November, and in that
time N.S.W. and Tasmania, I was told,
have responded better than the other
States, especially the former, where the
strength of the permanent building societies
has helped get it off the ground. In
Victoria the Corporation accounts for only
a fifth of the business transacted Com-
monwealth-wide thus far.
Nobody should imagine that these large
sums represent new cash going into the
housing industry. As a matter of fact not
a penny (sorry, a cent) of it represents
hard cash at all, but simply guarantees put
up by the Corporation for effected hous-
ing loans by, mostly, building societies and
savings banks. Though a director agreed
W'ith me that this made the Corporation
somewhat different to the U.S. body on
which it was partly modelled, it was quite
possible that lending functions w'ould be
annexed later and so give the Corporation
more teeth.
As things stand at the moment the
Corporation’s guarantee or insurance func-
tions are designed to stiffen the security
of housing loans and so increase the
attraction of investing in the lending
organisations, thus making more private
capital available for housing. Equally, the
sale of mortgages insured by the Corpora-
tion to institutions and so forth, as
exemplified by the first transaction in
such mortgages carried out this w'eek (the
sale w'as by Mortgage Management Ltd.
to Yorkshire Insurance Co. Ltd), means
that the original lenders on the mortgage
can re-lend their funds.
It remains to be seen how the market in
insured mortgages develops, but directors
are confident. How far this will divert
funds into housing that w'ould not find
their way into housing loans direct is a
matter of conjecture, yet the idea holds
promise. What disappoints me, however, is
that thus far in the piece apparently the
new insurance facility has done nothing to
increase the percentages of the value of
houses the lending bodies, such as building
societies and savings banks, are prepared
to advance. Originally one had the idea
the Corporation would facilitate the lend-
ing on a house up to 95 percent or so
of its value; this apparently is a mis-
conception.
With its main effects on housing finance
stiffening the security of lenders, possibly
one could expect it also to lower interest
charges on housing loans. This might
happen, but it doesn't seem to have hap-
pened yet and probably the scale of the
Corporation’s insurance operations will
have to expand a great deal more before
it does. In the meantime, despite the out-
flow of more housing money from Federal
sources this year, the supply of housing
money is still very tight and interest rates
on private housing loans as high as ever.
PERHAPS it has been the Arctic
w'eather, but seldom have I seen
Melbourne retailers in a more dis-
mal mood. Eavesdropping on a domestic
appliancist in an Exhibition Street restau-
rant, I heard a tale of knocked-down prices
and absence of buyers, evoking the com-
ment that perhaps it was the beginning
of the backw'ash from Britain. Checking
w'ith the local Retailers’ Association, I find
its latest figures make April sales in Mel-
bourne city stores ten percent lower than
a year earlier and stocks higher by the
same percentage. Apparently sales had a
w'orse experience in Melbourne than
nation-wide in April. The provisional Aus-
tralian figures for the month show a rise
of just under two percent, which, in-
cidentally, looks to be one of the smallest
since the static performance of September,
1962.
These figures don’t include sales of
motor vehicles and parts thereof, nor
petrol, which together in the two latest
quarters to the end of March have been
5.9 and 2.7 percent respectively down on
the previous year—the first falls in any
quarter shown in the Comonwealth
Statistician’s table, which goes back some
years. Of the items included in the general
national figures for retail trade there’s a
marked contrast in recent quarters be-
tween sales of food and drink, which have
been rising at a reasonably good rate (6.4
percent in the March quarter), and those
of clothing, hardware, electrical appli-
ances, and furniture, which rose by only
.3 percent in the March quarter. If the
conversation I overheard in Exhibition
Street is anything to go by, sales of such
goods in May and June will be lower than
in the like months last year. The big
question is whether we can prevent the
sales slump from hitting employment.
PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA
No Fears on Sterling
STERLING crises are a bit of a bore
these days and the latest one is no
exception. So, when I raised the
matter w'ith people in the Treasury here
this week they almost yawned at the men-
tion of the latest flurry in London. It
seems agreed that the trouble w'as pro-
voked by the nice paradox which the
seamen’s strike sets up. As long as the
strike goes on, Britain’s export efforts
are undermined, an already poor reputa-
tion for reliability in delivery further
damaged, and industry generally hampered
by shortages of raw' materials.
Yet, the solution of the strike seems
certain to involve a fairly large increase
in seamen’s w'ages of an order that
may deal a telling blow' at the general
policy of restraining incomes. And the
logic continues. If the back of the in-
comes policy is broken, there is not much
hope for Britain to contain general cost
increases. So its international competitive-
ness will go even further to pot.
This thought is quite enough to send
the short-term finance merchants into a
spin, and to sending tides of money flow'ing
out of London. The withdrawal from
ELDO seemed a rather desperate measure
in view of Britain’s deep commitments to
the project and its small annual cost in
foreign exchange; this undoubtedly con-
tributed to the speculative activity.
All the same, the crisis is not seen
here as in any way comparable with the
situation which arose soon after the Wilson
Government was elected in November,
1964. There is continued confidence that
Britain can extricate itself from its present
mess without devaluation, though three or
four years will be needed for structural
adjustments and efforts at modernisation
to produce results.
The feeling is that the world’s financial
big men the Group of Ten central
bankers and the IMF are determined
to persist with their support of sterling.
Indeed it is likely that many of the sup-
port arrangements have been offered on an
understanding that Britain refrains from
devaluing.
For Australia there is no immediate
cause for concern. In some w'ays we do
very nicely out of recurring crises in Lon-
don. We have over a billion dollars earn-
ing deliciously high rates of interest on
the London financial market six or
seven percent is commonplace and so
we get a useful supplement to our export
earnings. So we are being handsomely paid
for our policy of continuing to hold our
international reserves in sterling. Not that
in other w'ays our membership of the “Ster-
ling Area” means very much now. The
controls on private investment in sterling
area countries were described as “volun-
tary,” so as to keep some semblance of
meaning in the old institution. But people
here readily concede that in reality there
is very little left.
People in Canberra are very hazy about


What goes on in
CRA
7
m
(Miningand Manufacturing...to put it briefly.)
m
m
%
i
Ik
la
Cl
HI
m
V'
SK
r i
m+
: >v': r
'] m&trJrA
mvStfri ; n®?/^
Y* .t'v / * : Wl& >'
In fact, a score of big and active companies
have their headquarters in this building
in Collins Street, Melbourne, the offices of
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited.
Conzinc Riotinto is a company with more
than ten thousand Australian Shareholders.
The member companies of the C.R.A. Group have
interests in many aspects of mining and industry.
They are engaged in such diverse activities as
the mining and processing of the ores of lead,
silver, zinc, aluminium, iron, copper and uranium,
in mining coal and beach sands, in growing
and milling timber; in power generation, in
manufacturing chemicals and fertilizers, in oil
and mineral exploration and construction
engineering. With this big investment in
Australia, C.R.A. is playing a major role in
the development of this country's enormous
mineral and industrial potential and, at the
same time, providing the raw materials
for the growing industries of our Asian
friends and neighbours.
CONZINC RIOTINTO OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
95 Collins Street, Melbourne
CRI62


If it’s
Banking!
mill
• IK I.
LLfTLLL* l
*
/
I
i
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
the way in which the investment controls
will work, although there is general agree-
ment that there will not be much meaning
in the adjective “voluntary,” which has
been applied to them. The latest issue of
the London “Banker” is probably exag-
gerating things in describing them as a
“complete ban,” but it is thought here
that they will effectively prevent most of
the big institutions from bringing new
money in. There will be some leakage
through Singapore and Hong Kong, yet
we can certainly expect sBom. to sloom.
less British money than we have recently
been getting. The access which the Aus-
tralian Government has to the British
capital market as a member of the ster-
ling area does not mean very much just at
the moment because of high interest rates
which deter us from borrowing.
It is difficult to get an entirely satis-
factory answer to the question as to why
we are holding an increasing amount of
our reserves in dollars, at present about
s2som. compared with sloom. to slsom.
a year ago. It is, of course, still a small
proportion less than a fifth of the
total —but it has traditionally been kept
around the ten percent mark. It may be
simply that we are doing more non-
sterling trade and that we need to have
higher dollar balances for reasons of bank-
ing convenience. It may be, on the other
hand, a marginal hedging exercise
designed to hint to the British that we
are not completely complacent about the
state of our international financial
arrangem its with them.
is little doubt, though, that, des-
pite the competence of people in the
Reserve Bank and the Treasury in inter-
national financial matters, they are in-
creasingly isolated from the real decision-
making. Increasingly, therefore, we in
Australia are less masters of our own
destinies. This is partly the inevitable
price we have to pay for our inter-
dependence with the rest of the financial
and economic world, but it is unnecessary
to the extent that we are almost com-
pletely excluded from important areas of
discussion and consultation. We do not
participate in the supremely important
machinations of the Paris Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Develop-
ment (OECD) or the Group of Ten
central bankers.
There are excellent reasons why the
Government should make decisive moves
to get us involved in both of these. Our
economic aid program will undoubtedly
benefit from us being in the Development
Assistance Committee of the OECD, but
we are still nowhere near the heart of
that organisation’s activities. We should
be moving to full membership. The same
goes for the Group of Ten. There is no
doubt that we stand within the first dozen
nations of the world in trading and
financial importance, and so have both the
right and the interest in being fully in-
volved in international institutions. The
longer we stay out the longer will our
officials be hazy about what is really going
on and the longer will there be no one in
important places to speak for us.


The Virtues of Equities
By CROESUS
ONE of the enigmas of the full-employment ball these past few years is that, while
private investment has been calling its fair share of the quicksteps, its traditional
handmaiden, the Stock Exchange, has been having very little of the fun at all.
Private investors and Government alike continue to look askance at her, but both could
soon be making advances in her direction.
It is easy enough to understand the
disenchantment of private investors these
past feu years, following their ill-fated
rush into democratic share ownership at
the end of the 19505. However, one would
expect that sooner or later memories of
equity losses will dim and speculation re-
appear as a market force. Indeed there
have been signs of the latter happening
in recent weeks, with the widespread of
oil search share-buying. This is not a full-
blooded revival of faith in equities, but
it is something.
The excellent long-term performance
of equities as investments has often enough
been extolled by brokers, investment ad-
visers, and commentators like myself in
this country. Some recent brokers’ circu-
lars have been parading equities’ charms
here and I see from the “Investors’
Chronicle” that Professor A. J. Merrett
and Allen Sykes have lately been doing
the same in Britain through another of
their articles in the “District Bank Re-
view.” Their statistics leave no doubt
about the superior performance of equity
compared with fixed interest investment
in that country over the years.
'pHEY show that, on a broadly based
portfolio of leading equities, investing
the same amount of capital each year from
1919 to 1965 would have produced a com-
pound rate of interest of 8.1 percent, net
of tax, in money terms and 5.8 percent
in real terms, allowing for changes in
monetary values. Over the main pre-war
and post-war periods, monetary returns
were 8.9 percent and 11.9 percent, res-
pectively; in real values these became 11.1
percent and 8.0 percent. Wartime and
immediate post-war returns were substan-
tially lower and some other qualifications
apply. But the authors stand by their
original verdict that: “Equities (will) tend
to earn 8-10 percent net of tax. in money
terms, over longish periods and tend to
the latter figures (during) inflation.” Over
January, 1963-1966 (with inflation at 3
percent yearly), average year-to-year re-
turns were 9.8 percent in money terms.
Far different has been the return on
fixed-interest stocks. Deflation brought
pre-war (1919-39) returns of 6.5 percent
and 4.6 percent, in real and money terms,
respectively. From 1939-1949, these rates
fell to minus 2.2 percent and 3.3 percent
(positive). The real return, 1949-66, was
minus 4.6 percent and the monetary yield
minus 1 per cent. From 1919-1966, un-
fortunate investors got 2.3 percent in
money and 0.6 percent only in real terms.
Moreover, there was no “security of haven
in years in which equities were performing
badly.” The latter “gave substantially
higher returns in every ten-year period
(1923-1933 and 1925-35 excepted), than
did Consols.” Government-option-mort-
gage proposals will now mean borrowing
“net of tax and allowing for inflation
(at rates ranging from) 1 percent to
zero.” And companies have the cushion
of the corporation tax against debenture
debt.
In real terms, then, the so-called
“fixed interest rate” has been a complete
illusion: It has been negligible or nega-
tive over nearly half a century, with
erosion as a cumulatively damaging pro-
cess. “Major investors, particularly big
institutions, would be well advised to con-
sider whether or not the next decade
and a half will see (that) interest rates
must be expected to climb by another
percentage point.”
As for the Government’s view on the
Stock Exchange, it is not all that diffi-
cult to appreciate why the authorities have
felt no need to beam on its capital-raising
facilities in the past few years. It is not
just a question of the bother the collapse
of the 1960 Stock Exchange boom caused
them. It is much more than that. It is
that they have done so well in recent
years without much reliance on the Stock
Exchange, at least in maintaining a high
rate of private investment in the eco-
nomy. What is more, they’ve got enough
of it through other channels notably
capital inflow and through fixed-interest
media to keep'employment full without
any of the troubles encountered in 1959-
61 from speculation when the Stock
Exchange was the main channel for mar-
shalling private investment.
F would be wrong to ascribe the present
malaise of the Stock Exchange merely
to the transient decline of the equity cult.
In the complex of forces operating this
is important, but it has to be considered
in relation both to direct investment in
industry from overseas and to the official
monetary and fiscal policies, which have
been operating since 1960 to play down
the equity method of finance in Australia
and turn the bias toward fixed-interest
media.
Although I don’t want to dwell on it
here, the Stock Exchange has missed a
big part of the private capital funnelled
into Australian industry from overseas in
recent years. There has, of course, been
some portfolio investment to rattle the
brokers’ tills, yet most has been direct
investment by overseas companies with
interests here and this has bypassed them.
The Stock Exchange can’t do much about
this except to plug away at the line to
get more of these overseas-owned com-
panies to go public, take in Australian
shareholders and list their shares on local
exchanges, hoping that somebody in
Government will listen. The bias in official
policy which favors fixed-interest media
of financing as opposed to equity is, how-
ever, something on which the authorities
should be more amendable to persuasion.
The two most blatent manifestations of
this bias, which incidentally goes some
way in explaining the present predicament
of the Australian Stock Exchanges, are, of
course, the 30/20 rule, coupled with its
attendant tax concessions, and the loan-
raising policy of the Government, which
virtually underwrites the whole elevated
structure of fixed interest investment and,
indeed, our high interest rates in general.
(I am not saying that our high interest
rates derive only from the bias of official
policy here. In fact there are, in my
view, other more basic considerations, in-
cluding the high level of overseas interest
rates and the overall shortage of capital in
Australia measured against the high de-
mand for capital here.)
The 30/20 legislation and its attendant
tax concessions have put a premium on
investment by the institutions in Govern-
ment securities and in the process widened
the gap between equity and fixed interest
yields to the prejudice of the equity in-
vestment. When one couples this with
other official attitudes whereby monetary
policy considerations take second place to
the role of interest rates in the Treasury’s
loan-raising activities, we have all the
explanation needed as to why equities have
been virtually locked out and why the
Stock Exchange machinery has been left
to go rusty.
'J’HERE can be little doubt that, so far as
local equity investment goes, the high
interest rates to which this policy has
driven us need looking at very closely by
Mr. McMahon. Perhaps all that is needed
as a first step is to drop the tax conces-
sions attached to the 30/20 rule. It is
probably too much to expect the Govern-
ment to drop the rule altogether, even in
face of the pending prospective fall in
private investment and a possible run-
down of capital inflow next year when the
British capital curbs begin to bite in
earnest. (One would hope that any short-
fall from Britain would be more than made
good by capital inflow from other places.)
One needn’t go all the way with those
who think the 30/20 rule itself should be
abolished to see that something should be
done officially to operate on fixed-
investment yields as an aid to the revival
of the equity cult.
On the capital raising aspect, in the
past few years high company profits have
greatly facilitated the financing of com-
pany expansion and have enabled com-
panies to get by without much recourse
to capital raising via the Stock Exchanges.
This situation has changed, as witness the
decline in company profits in the March
quarter. It would be too bad if companies
have missed the boat. While company
profits were rising in the past few years,
equity prices failed to reflect them. This,
as we have seen, was largely because of
the relatively superior attractions of fixed
interest yields. Now, companies facing the
prospect of raising new capital through
this channel could meet a market where
prices continue low and equity investors
are unreceptive.


NORTHERN DEVELOPMENT
IS VITALLY IMPORTANT
TO AUSTRALIA
Power speeds and assures many Queens-
land projects which have a vital Nation-
wide significance. A planned programme
of massive electrical expansion in recent
years means, today, that Queensland’s
vast resources of natural wealth can
contribute to the Nation’s economic
well-being and help secure the future
of every Australian.
But this is, virtually, only the beginning
for the task to continue, for the
dividends to grow, power development
must intensify. And this means money
a huge investment which merits the
consideration of people in every State.
Here, in the Queensland State Electricity
Commission Loan is your opportunity to
assist in a task of National importance
and, at the same time, to gain the
substantial benefits of Australia’s highest
Government - guaranteed interest rate.
Open for subscription now!
5%
% per annum
for
10 or 15 years
51
% per annum
for
7 years
AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED INTEREST RATES
Apply through your Bank or Stockbroker, or direct to the State Electricity
Commission of Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane. Deposit
10 % now and pay the balance by 31st October. Interest is paid half-yearly
and securities are readily negotiable. This loan is an authorised Trustee
investment in Qld., W. Aust. and Tasmania.
QUEENSLAND
STATEELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
LOAN
Underwritten by:
Ord, Minnett
T. J. Thompson & Partners
SEC 39/3


iJsttntlu
Limited
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase leasing and other finance operations.
RED
>TES
TO
10/
2/0
UNSECURED NOTES
Currency issued at par Interest rate
10 years 7
8 years 7 V%*\»
6 years 7’/i%
5 years 7 1 /iu
4 years 7*%*
3 years 6%%
Interest per annum payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only on one of
the forms of application referred to in, and
attached to, printed copies of the prospectus
which are available from
Members, of Stock Exchanges
and at any office of
The English Scottish and Australian Bank Limited
ESANDA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Registered Office:
365 George Street, Sydney
Some Lessons from Hong Kong
By J. G. HARDY
THE resilience the Crown Colony of
Hong Kong has displayed during
the past year is something which
must carry some sort of a lesson for Aus-
tralia, where flexibility and adaptability
will be called for if we are to overcome
the difficulties confronting us in the near
future.
Nearly four million people, of which 40
percent are 15 years of age and younger,
crowd into Hong Kong’s less than 400
square miles, most of which are moun-
tainous and rugged islands. The lack of
indigenous raw materials extends even to
water, which is to a considerable extent
obtained against payment, but on suffer-
ance, from Mainland China. There is
hardly a week that not one country or an-
other stops or hinders the flow of imports
from Hong Kong by some ingenious stretch
of the GATT rules or by a clear repu-
diation of international agreements. The
little country has seen two bank crashes,
and the resulting run on deposits, within
15 months, suffered a crisis of confidence
caused through the export of certain cool-
ing devices which went far beyond these
water-filled contraptions, and witnessed in
April this year a few days of vicious riots
on a trivial provocation.
All this and a hundred other difficulties
have, however, failed to stop development
in the commercial and industrial growth
of Hong Kong. Bank deposits, which have
risen six times between 1953 and 1964,
rose again in 1965 by 12 percent to a
total of $H.K.7356 million. One doesn’t
have to be a Chinese expert to know that
the little man (or woman) in China used
to save by buying bracelets, bangles, or
some other ornamental object in solid
gold. This has changed to a great extent;
even the failure of the two well-known
banks has not caused a big break in the
new saving habit. Savings bank deposits
have increased during the past ten years
elevenfold; they doubled between 1962 and
1965. Banks from 15 nations, with 300
branches, take in the money against 3 per-
cent interest. There is now a chance to
make deposits in the rural districts of
the New Territories and outlying villages
are visited by travelling branches.
Unbelievable as it may sound, one bank
has opened up among the squatters and
found that these poor of the poor, in tin
and wooden shacks, have still something
left for savings. Australia’s interest in the
stability of Hong Kong, for reasons of
security and trade, should be reassured
by the fact that the total of Hong Kong’s
savings deposits amounted by the end of
1965 to $H.K.7251 million ($A1132 mil-
lion). This is $H.K.1910 ($A.294) per
head of the colony’s population and does
not compare badly with Australia’s per
capita amount of $A.450.
The foreign trade of Hong Kong grew
in 1965 by “only” 8.1 percent —for the
two previous years the increase was 12.3
and 15.6 percent and for the first time
in many years there was a fall in the
deficit of the balance of trade, which in
1965 amounted to only 37.5 percent of
export value. Under these circumstances
one would be permitted to assume that
the colony is a heavy drain on the poor
British taxpayer. This is, however, far
from the case, as capital inflow and invis-
ible exports, particularly from tourism, put
the accounts square and in surplus. Hong
Kong has, as a matter of fact, a nest-egg
in London of more than SH.K.IOOO mil-
lion. This, incidentally, is often criticised
by the better-informed citizens who think
that, as Hong Kong is a colony and
treated as such, these funds should be
used for the development of the country
and not to bolster the sterling reserves.
In the past all attempts to introduce
protective tariffs or “regulations” have
been resisted and at present there is no
sign that the protectionists might win.
While the entrepot merchants are finding
new ways of supplying somebody, and the
industrialists are willing to try something
still newer to manufacture, Hong Kong
will remain the only example of a genuine
free-trade country in this duty-crazy world
of ours.
Few people remember today that indus-
try in the colony, apart from some ship-
building and breaking, did not really get
under way until 1950. The modern textile
factories are only 16 years old, and many
other industries much younger. Hong
Kong has today the world’s largest fac-
tory for torch lights and a very efficient


*
£ Wist
ONE OF A SERIES
The Rhine Riesling grapes used for Yalumba White Table
Wines are picked when the degree of sugar and acid are
in balance (12° beaume and 8% acid). Immediately after
gently crushing through a special roller mill to avoid
stalkiness the juice is completely separated from the
skins, seeds and stems. This reduces astringency and con-
tributes to the delicacy of the wine. Fermentation is care-
fully controlled at regulated low temperatures. The wine
is then carefully prepared for very early bottling to avoid
excessive exposure to air, in order to maintain its crisp
freshness and full Rhine Riesling bouquet.
YALUMBA CELLARMASTER SUGGESTS
YALUMBA CARTE d’OR
A vintage wine made solely from Rhine
Riesling Grapes grown in Angaston,
Eden Valley and Springington areas,
picked and fermented in the year
shown on the label. Yalumba Carte
d’Or is bottled while young, mainly
in August/September of the vintage
year, and then carefully aged in the
bottle in the age-old cellars of Yalumba.
Serve cold.
YALUMBA GALWAY VINTAGE
CLARET
This renowned red table wine is
blended from two varieties of grapes
Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz
(hermitage). Cabernet Sauvignon, a
light-cropping variety, gives a wine a
full bouquet and a soft tannin, while
the wine from Shiraz grapes imparts
a soft, round, full flavour. All grapes
used are grown in the Barossa and
McLaren Vale districts, where climate,
rainfall and soil’ quality are ideal.
Labelled with the vintage year.
m
r'
m
tJMBA
mast *rr,
a Tret
TABLE WINES
Famous since 1849 .
Vintaged by S. SMITH & SON PTY. LTD., Angaston, S.A.
SS 911
plastics industry. The newest star is the
manufacture of electronic components and
appliances. The number of transistor radio
sets made rose from zero in 1959 to 5.7
million, valued at SH.K.IIB million, in
1965. Silicon transistors, diodes, capacitors,
tuners and memory cones for computors
are coming up fast. The United States and
Great Britain are the main customers.
All these amazing features are still quite
modest in comparison with the achieve-
ments in the tourist industry, which
showed a value increase of 937 percent
between 1957 and 1965. A great deal of
this success must be attributed to the
international airlines for which Hong
Kong was an attractive and natural stop-
ping place on the way to Japan. Since
the arrival of Air New Zealand with their
smart DC-Bs, the colony is now served
by 22 international lines, which bring or
take nearly 3000 passengers daily to and
from Kai Tak Airport, a building (and
organisation) which leaves all visitors from
poor little Australia very envious and
possibly a little ashamed. It is typical of
Hong Kong that, whereas passenger and
air mail services increased last year by
about 14 percent, the air freight volume
jumped by 38.5 percent.
I T is not all plain sailing, of course. The
very efficient Hong Kong Tourist Associa-
tion has found, for instance, that people
are staying fewer days and spending less.
Australians are still the second-best shop-
pers, but receding ship travelling is not
conducive to long stays or a big buying
spree. Part of this down-turn is hoped to
be made good by European visitors, who
are supposed to be attracted by the London
office of the association. It is doubtful
whether such an indirect approach will
bring the desired results.
Although some smart tycoons try to tell
the world that the property market is
“finished,” investments in housing and
industry are going on at a steady pace.
A certain type of luxury accommodation
is suffering from saturation, but well-
designed medium-priced apartments are
still selling well. The Government, too, is
keeping up with expansion in the indus-
trial areas of Kwun Tong and Tsuen Wan,
and has made a good beginning in the new
satellite towns of Castle Peak and Sha
Tin. The Ocean Terminal, another
building which leaves Australians a little
green behind the gills, is nearly finished,
and work on the Plover Cove water
scheme is progressing well. Gone are the
days when, less than three years ago,
Hong Kong had to ration water to four
hours once every four days. Next year will
see the start of a four-lane tunnel, high
enough for double-decker buses, under-
neath the harbor, and valued at $H.K.220
million; it will be the only project of this
size in the world to be constructed,
owned, and operated by private enter-
prise.
Perhaps we should visit Hong Kong
less for the duty-free bargains and more
for the lessons it has to teach. If we do,
we might be able to provide such bar-
gains at home. Or would this be spoiling
the fun?


WILD CAT
PAGES
A Transport of Delight
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
THE people to watch in the big round of Australian transport industry takeovers are
not the acquisitive British road transport companies so much as the overseas
shipping companies.
It looks as if the big moves out here by
British transport groups like Transport De-
velopment Group, United Transport Over-
seas, and more recently by the Scottish
investment group William Baird and Co.,
do not provide the main takeover pressure
at all and are only incidentally related to
the real long-term trends in this indus-
try.
For the facts of road-transport life are
far more concerned with “containerising”
of shipping freight than with simply pro-
viding investment opportunities for British
transport companies who fear nationalisa-
tion at home, particularly for those road-
transport companies heavily involved in
'exports.
And the simple inescapable conclusion
that must emerge from the trend to con-
tainers in overseas and interstate shipping
is that in their own interest road transport
companies must come to very close re-
lations indeed with shipping companies—
and vice versa. The more these close asso-
ciations become necessary, the greater the
danger for those transport companies left
by the roadside.
The latest talks with TNT will not be
the last negotiations in this industry, by
any means. The container trend in ship-
ping, sparked off here by the joint venture
between the P & O-associated group Over-
seas Containers Ltd. and the Adelaide
Steam-Mcllwraith McEacharn partnership,
Associated Steamships, is certain to spread
to other major shipping groups.
The move by shippers into container
operations further underlines the wisdom
of the recent P & O purchase of a large
interest in the road carrier Mayne Nick-
less, and this seems more likely to be the
pattern of development here.
The Cunard group (whose Port Line
ships do big Australian business) will no
doubt continue the trend toward containers
and this could mean an eventual linking
with a road-transport operator; and the
same goes for the Blue Star Line, a sister
organisation to the Vestey .meat interests
here, which presumably may be consider-
ing how to fill the land-transport gap in
their partially integrated structure of pro-
ducing exportable goods (meat) and ship-
ping them.
Apart from TNT, the most impressive
of the transport companies left which are
clearly in a good position to come to some
sort of agreement with a big shipping com-
pany are Brambles, Yellow Express, and
F. H. Stephens—with the Ansett road
transport operation being in an intriguing
situation. It seems likely that the Ansett
group has already decided to stay on its
own, but whether that is a final decision is
yet to be seen.
The same goes for Yellow Express,
whose attractions are believed to have
been closely investigated by United Trans-
port Overseas, a company that has only
gone a small part of the way to securing
its stated objective of building up a big
operation in Australia. Like its rival Trans-
port Development Group (owners of the
Cargo Distributors company which merged
Rudders and Green McCandlish), United
Transport Overseas .may itself come to
some sort of terms with a big shipping
company on the container question on an
international scale.
The situation at Brambles is particu-
larly interesting in market terms, as the
company’s chief executive has just returned
from overseas, where he is believed to have
examined the container freight situation.
This is a company with an impressive
record in the transport business, and per-
haps its old links with air freight overseas
may develop into sea carriage, too.
The F. H. Stephens position, with the
company heavily involved in export carry-
ing, is clearly an attractive one to an over-
seas shipping company, and there seems
every prospect that the company could
be entering into some sort of association
in the future.
The container freight approach by ship-
ping companies means that there will have
to be developed large marshalling yards
for semi-trailers, like railway yards, near
the shipping terminals, and the trends in
the U.S., where Matson on the west coast
and Seland on the east coast, will be
appropriate here. The situation in this
industry is intriguing.
WHILE New Guinea establishes its
first tea plantations, producers in
other countries are expressing
concern at the industry’s future. “The
future outlook for the tea industry is not
at all encouraging,” says Sir John Muir,
The Chartist says:
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT appears to be a promising recovery situation. The chart
reveals a sideways movement from 1960 until the middle of 1963. It then followed
a strong downward trend, which could be described as a recessive phase in the life
cycle of this stock until late 1965, when a low point of 12c was recorded and which is
quite a dramatic fall from the high point of $2.01 in 1960. An island reversal pattern
has formed over recent months and the stock could well be commencing a new uptrend.
Although it is still within the base formation, a short-term move to about the 30c level
would be possible and the consolidation to date suggests an ultimate recovery to about
the 70c level.
IT would take a very game investment
analyst to suggest that Deposit and
Investment shares could ever regain
an ultimate level of 70 cents.
Even though the Melba-like succes-
sion of “positively last appearance” of
bad debt write-offs may now have
ended, the company faces a heavy re-
financing problem when its fixed inter-
est borrowings mature, and the likely
need to redeem much of these from the
cash flow will clearly limit the com-
pany’s future scope for doing business.
A recapitalisation does not appear out
of the question in an attempt to bring
the lower capital into line with its
future earning potential.


INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CREDIT CORPORATION
Of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF $4,000,000 DEBENTURE STOCK
6i%
p.a.2 YEARS
p.a. 5 YEARS
Vk
p.a.7 YEARS
**
p.a. 10YEARS
SHORT TERM STOCK ALSO AVAILABLE 3,6, 9 AND 12 MONTHS.
Applications may proceed only on the form attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus which is obtainable from:
any member of a recognized stock exchange
A.N.Z. Bank Ltd. and Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
at their principal offices in capital cities
any office of IHCC of Australia Ltd.
any branch of lan Potter &. Co.
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co. and Australian United Corporation Ltd. h.us? dig
chairman of Consolidated Tea and Lands
Co. Ltd., in his latest report.
He calls for the revival of the Inter-
national Tea Agreement as the only effec-
tive method of relating production to
requirements. Prices on the world’s mar-
kets have moved down in the past feu-
years. The fall has accelerated in recent
months after a temporary rise following
the India-Pakistan war.
Another problem which has been worry-
ing both Bushells and the tea producers
is a trend which seems to be world-wide
'for some packers to reduce the quality
of blends by using more of the cheaper
types of tea. The reduction in quality has
been made possible, says Sir John Muir,
by the appearance of a steadily increasing
weight of cheap tea from new producers
and a scramble among older-producing
countries to expand production and
exports.
Following World Bank recommenda-
tions, the Australian Government has acted
quickly to establish a New Guinea tea
industry. New' Guinea is now expected to
be producing 4000 tons of tea for export
by 1973-74 from 11 “nucleus” estates and
many smaller native-owned plantations.
The “nucleus” estates are European-
owned, with several Australian companies,
including publicly listed W. R. Carpenter
Holdings Ltd., F. W. Williams Holdings
Ltd., and ANG Holdings Ltd.
FOLLOWING last week’s items on the
Snow Business, some readers have
enquired whether transport problems
will affect the ski developing companies
this year. The closure of the Alpine Way
this winter will make it more difficult for
the few Victorians-who use N.S.W. resorts
to get to Thredbo, but the road will be
maintained on the N.S.W. side as far as
Thredbo village, so skiers will be mainly
unaffected.
Thredbo is operated by Kosciusko
Thredbo Pty. Ltd.,-a profitable subsidiary
of Lend Lease Corporation Ltd., which, as
last week’s article showed, is in the pro-
cess of further expansion despite a mis-
leading misprint last week which may
have wrongly suggested that it shared the
problems of its bankrupt rival Kosciusko
Chalet Ltd.
The decision by the new owners of the
Chalet, Moteliers Ltd., not to operate the
chair lift linking the Chalet with the
Alpine Way will mean that all visitors to
the Chalet will have to take over-snow
transport from the terminal at Smiggin
Holes. But few had used the unreliable
chair lift last year, anyhow.
Transport into Publishers Holdings’
Perisher Valley is limited to over-snow
vehicles owned by the Ansett group, which
operates under an agreement (that has 16
years to run) with the Kosciusko State
Park Trust. This agreement requires a
barrier to be placed across the road into
Perisher at Smiggin Holes from which the
Ansett tracked vehicles operate out of the
terminal for Ansett buses. No overnight
parking is permitted at Smiggins except
for guests at the Smiggins (Kosciusko)
Ltd. hotel so resident visitors to both
Smiggins and Perisher coming by car must
leave these below the snowline at Sawpit
Creek and take an Ansett bus.
THE well-diversified motor parts maker
National Consolidated appears to be
having some problems with its Mur-
phett greeting card operation, at least on
a top management level. The greeting card
business has become most interesting, with
the likelihood that the Containers Ltd.
subsidiary in this industry (Regency) will
soon break down the barriers that had
prevented newsagents from handling its
products (a sort of restrictive trade prac-
tice by the Greeting Card Manufactures
Association of which it was not a mem-
ber).
At this stage of the competitive game,
management is going to be all important
in the card business.
This is one industry that British Tobacco
could well decide to re-enter, if only be-
cause of the group’s large interest in the
printing industry. At one stage its sub-
sidiary P. C. Grosser had a shareholding
interest in Murphett, but this was disposed
of by agreement when National took over
Murphett.
But whether British Tobacco would have
its eyes on Murphett (or whether National
would sell) is problematical. The most
likely candidate for an approach from
British Tobacco is the energetic Valentine
Holdings, which is making the most of its
Norcross card franchise and whose man-
agement appears very good indeed. This
is an industry worth watching.


C. T. BOWRING & CO. LIMITED
Extracts from Mr. lan Skimming's Statement on the year's results
“I am pleased to be able to report that your Company’s profits before taxation for
the year 1965 amount to £2,337,291. This compares with £2,155,195 for 1964, which
figure included fifteen months profits from Muir Beddall & Co. Ltd. During the year
1965 a substantial part of the considerable expense incurred in moving to and
re-equipping our new offices has been absorbed.
C. T. BOWRING & CO. (INSURANCE) LTD. The 1965 results were satisfactory
and revenue again increased; but due to increased expenses, particularly since the
main cost of the re-equipment fell on that Company, its profits declined slightly.
The results of all branches and subsidiaries both in the United Kingdom and
abroad were good.
UNDERWRITING. The very unfortunate worldwide underwriting experience both
in the Marine and Non-Marine markets has inevitably resulted in a diminished
revenue from the operation of our syndicates at Lloyd’s.
SHIPPING. The overall results of The Bowring Steamship Company Limited were
satisfactory, and earnings exceeded those of the previous year.
GENERAL TRADING. The results of the Group’s trading activities have shown a
substantial overall improvement compared with the previous year.
CONCLUDING COMMENTS. The current year’s figures so far indicate that the
growth of your business is being maintained.”
COMPARATIVE FIGURES 1963/65
(Stock Exchange Quotation granted January, 1964)
Year ended 31st December
Consolidated Profit before tax
Group Profit after tax
and minority interest
Rate of Ordinary Dividend
Net Assets . .
1963
£1,578,700
£794,967
161%
£10,988,818
1964
£2,155,195
£988,188
20%
£11,132,241
1965
£2,337,291
£1,420,748
22%
£11,618,670
Copies of the full report and accounts may be obtained from the Secretary,
C. T. Bowring & Co. Limited, The Bowring Building, Tower Place, London, E.C.3.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
S.A. Brewing's Reticence
THE latest profit from the South Aus-
tralian Brewing Co. Ltd. was a
striking improvement over the pre-
vious year. But the full accounts indicate
that there were some unusual (and, natur-
ally, unexplained) features of the profit
rise, which suggest either that the previous
year’s profit was unusually low or that
the latest one is unusually high.
In the latest year, to February 28, the
company appears to have done much better
trading, yet the balance-sheet indicators
of higher stocks combined with both lower
creditors and debtors could suggest the
opposite. An explanation would be useful.
And the profit-and-loss account shows that,
although the company thought its trading
profits went up by 37 percent, the directors
considered that for tax purposes the rise
was large enough only to warrant a 15
percent increase in taxation provision.
So, for 1966, the tax provision is about
44 percent of what appears to be pre-tax
profit (back to the level of two years
ago) compared with an unusually high
level of 47 percent in 1965.
There were other significant moves in
the balance sheet, enough to suggest that
the company may have made some changes
in its bookkeeping or trading practices to
have brought about the sharp 30 percent,
or $430,000, fall in “sundry creditors and
accrued liabilities.” No mention of this
fall is, predictably, made in the annual
report, nor is there any explanation of the
15 percent, or $220,000, fall in debtors
which was hardly influenced by bad debts,
the provision for which remained constant
at $100,356.
This debtors item provides further evi-
dence of the unusual look of the 1965
accounts; they had risen considerably that
vear before being trimmed by $219,000 to
$1,216,000 in 1965-66.
Similarly there was no comment about
the rise in stock-in-trade, which jumped
30 percent in 1965-66, although the in-
ference in such a rise presumably is that
it followed a whopping increase in the
money value of trading. This would come
not only from selling more beer but it also
would have been influenced a little at
least by the previous year’s beer excise
rise.
There may be more than coincidence in
the fact that S.A. Brewing’s trading profit
(before appropriating $300,000 to plant
and property development) also went up by
30 percent (or $644,000), which appears to
indicate a return to buoyant profit growth
that seemed to have slowed down in the
dull result (up only $26,000) of the pre-
vious year. The company’s version of net
profit (after deducting the property appro-
priation) is that it jumped 36 percent in
the past year to February 28, lifting the
earning rate from 12.8 percent to 14.6 per-
cent on capital increased by the one-for-
five par issue, which ranked for the full
year’s dividend, an unchanged ten percent.
If this property money were treated as an
appropriation after profit as the Tax Com-
missioner must see it, instead of a charge
before profit, the earning rate would be a
much more attractive 17.2 percent on
capital.
Although management declares that the
provision is necessary in view of the plan-
ned capital expenditure, there is no evid-
dence of drawing on the provision in the
past two years when figures for this
“special provision” have been revealed. In
fact last year’s capital spending of sl.9m.
coincides exactly with the new equity
capital raised last year. The account now
stands at $2.5m., on which tax has been
paid, judging by the tax provision. There
is no indication, however, of where this
year’s expenditure will be covered from;
cash on hand cannot meet it, although a
good cash flow, which is likely, could go
some of the way.
'J'HIS year the cash on hand or on de-
posit is up another $381,000 to almost
$2.2 million, a larger proportion of which
will presumably go toward the sl|m. tax
payment and final dividend will take most
of the rest.
S.A. Brewing Co. embarked in early
postwar years on a huge modernisation and
expansion program for both hotel proper-
ties and breweries. In the past two years it
has spent $3.3m. and plans to spend a lot
more within the next few years; at Feb-
ruary 29, 1966, it was committed for a
further capital expenditure of $962,195
which had not been provided for in the
accounts.
Two bonus issues both three-for-five
ratios"— in 1955 and 1959 reduced divi-
dends from 10 percent to more modest
levels. A succession of 10 percent divi-
dends should again precede another hand-
out, when economic conditions provide
sufficient encouragement or prowling U.K.
brewers present a threat.
Now that licensing hours have been
extended in Victoria, presumably the day
for a similar move in the neighboring
State is advanced, but this would not
necessarily result in an appreciable in-
crease in beer consumption and would
probably increase costs disproportionately.
S.A. Brewing may be more apprehensive
about the Federal Budget to come down
in August, as to whether Mr. Holt’s
Government will again increase excise
duties on liquor, although the 1964 rise
apparently had only a temporary impact.
February 28 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966
Gross profit (a) 3441 3520 4224
Tax 5000 U.A. U.A. 1218 1290 1490
Depreciation 5000 U.A. U.A. 698 692 749
Property and plant
dev. 5000 U.A. U.A. 389 300 300
Net profit 5000 882 1169 1136 1238 1685
Earning rate p.c. 9.4 11.1 11 8 12 8 14 6
Dividend rate p.c. 8% 10 10 10 10
Earning rate on
total funds 6 2 7.3 7.7 8 2 9 6
Current ratio 0.65 0.77 0.93 0.91 1 04
Fixed assets 5000 15,263 15,498 17,088 17,828 18,977
Dividend yield (b) 3.2 3.1 2.3 3.3 3.2
Price/earning
ratio (b) 34 8 28 6 26.7 23.8 21.3
High price (c) 1.48 1.88 2.35 2.18 1.69
Low price (c) 1.28 1.48 1.95 1.50 1.48
(a) Profit before tax, depreciation, property and plant
development provision.
(b) End of June, month accounts presented.
(c) Calendar year.


J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North,
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,.
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO NORMAN THOMAS JONES, formerly
of Main Street, Murrurundi, TAKE
NOTICE that GLORIA RUTH JONES has
filed a Petition No. 2739 of 1964 for
Divorce on the ground of Desertion not-
withstanding the facts and circumstances
set out in the Discretion Statement filed
by her and seeks orders for custody, main-
tenance, and costs. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street. Sydney, on or before the 19tn day
of July, 1966. You may obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from Messrs.
Charles A. Morgan & Co., Solicitors of
77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
A "Not Unattractive" Share
General Industries after reorganisation
THE next article in this series would
normally have dealt with Email
Limited, but this company has re-
cently been reviewed in “Behind the
Balance Sheets” and there is nothing to
be gained by repetition. General Indus-
tries is the next on the list, which includes
Kelvinator, Malleys, and Simpson Pope.
I last reviewed this company in 1962,
shortly before the publication of the
annual report for the year, which then
ended on February 28 for the parent com-
pany but on December 31 of the previous
year for the subsidiary companies. My
conclusions at that time were:
“1. There seems little prospect of any
marked increase in general demand for
the type of products produced by General
Industries prior to 1965.
“2. Any appreciable improvement in
earnings over that period seems unlikely,
but, with a return to ‘normal’ levels in
1962 onwards, the company should be
able to maintain a 4 percent dividend
rate from 1962 onwards.”
It is now clear that this would have
been a better forecast of the variations in
the share price than the changes in the
fortunes of the group itself. However,
th6re have been some extraordinary
events over the past four years which have
rendered the earlier forecast invalid. Per-
haps the most important was the boom
in home building which started, rather
sooner than expected, in the latter half
of 1963. Another factor so far as Metters
was concerned was the disastrous fire
which consumed the refrigerator produc-
tion line in February, 1964.
Metters is an old company. It was
established as long ago as 1888 in Vic-
toria, but in 1916 three employees of
Metters formed KFB Foundry, which set
up in opposition to Metters. General
Industries was formed in 1927 to merge
the two rivals. It was not until 1954 that
the group decided to enter the field of
household refrigerators, and in the follow-
ing year an arrangement was made with
Admiral Corporation of the U.S.A. to
manufacture radio and television receivers.
This latter venture lasted for just over five
years.
In 1961, a joint venture with James
B. Clow and Sons Inc., of U.S.A., was
started at Broadmeadows, Victoria, to
produce, cast-iron pressure pipes for gas
and water reticulation, but Metters dis-
posed of its 50 percent interest in this
operation during 1964. Today, the group’s
activities would seem to be concentrated
in “home fittings” and cover the manufac-
ture of stoves, baths, soil pipe fittings,
heating elements for stoves, refrigerators,
and dish-washing machines.
;r fHE first year of the five-year period
now being examined, the group incurred
a large loss. A smaller loss had been in-
curred in 1956, although prior to that the
company had a twenty-three-year record
of unbroken profit history. The 1956 loss
ended the long record of 10 percent
annual dividends (twenty-one years, with
a 2£ percent bonus in 1936 to 1941 in-
clusive) and it was unfortunate that the
company had raised nearly $3.4 million
by a share issue at par in August, 1955.
The years which have followed seem
to have been ones of reorganisation. The
entire basis of cast-iron soil and plumbing
pipe production was reorganised in
November, 1958, following the acquisition
of the Ferro group of companies. In mid-
-1959, the automatic bath-casting plant
started production at Alexandria. During
1961, the remainder of the appliance
division was moved from Alexandria to
Bankstown, thereby concentrating all pro-
duction of stoves, refrigerators, dish-
washers, air-conditioning units at one loca-
tion.
Early in 1964 the fire at the Bankstown
appliance factory occurred which stopped
the production of refrigerators for several
months and which meant that a com-
pletely modernised production line was
installed.
There are one or two factors which
could make the trend in per share earn-
ings misleading in attempting to assess
whether or not there has been a rise in
profitability over the past few years.
Firstly, the group has had the benefit of
past tax losses but has made in its
published accounts an additional provision
which has been placed to a special pro-
vision “against the resumption of the pay-
ment by the company of a higher amount
of taxation . . It also seems that “over
recent years" the depreciation provision
has been rather higher than normal.
Furthermore, the consolidated balance
sheet contains several provisions where
movements are not explained. The net
movements in the provisions for doubtful
debts, long-service leave, other trade pro-
visions, including service contingencies and
legal expenses and unresolved claims, have
been as follows:
Vear to Decamber 31 1962 *963 1964 1965
$ 'OOO
+B2 -134 +36 -92
Net profit before tax, depreciation, and
interest on fixed-term liabilities has been
as follows:
Year to December 31 1962 1963 1964 1965
1532 1689 2228 2050
If the movements in the provisions are
added back to try to get a figure roughly
equivalent to “profit from trading,” it will
immediately become apparent that 1964
was a particularly good year, for not only
was the “profit in that year 46 percent
higher than 1963” but it was also 23
percent higher than the average “profit”
of the four years.
There can be little doubt that, with
the strong revival of building activity
which occurred during 1964, the sales
(and presumably the profitablity) of
General Industries’ stove and pipe divi-
sions would have increased quite sub-
stantially. It is also apparent that
refrigerators, air-conditioning, and dish-
washers would not have made much con-
tribution, as they were not being pro-
duced for a large part of the year due
to the fire.
I think that it would be appropriate to
regard 1965 as a “normal” year and, after
making adjustments for the low tax pro-
vision and for the interest on convertible
notes and regarding the convertible notes
as shares, earnings per $2 share would
seem to me to be about 13.4 cents. Some
growth might be expected in this figure,
but I would not expect more than five
percent per annum up to 1970, and a
reduction after that. At $1.23 9.2 times
earnings I would think that the shares
are not unattractive.
balance sheet summaries (S'OOO)
Year to Dee. 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Current assets 11745 1 7aof 1 6317
Current liabilities 8175 7874 7494 6594 6317
Net working capital 3570 4269 4481 5477 5057
Land 8< buildings 8011 7855 7726 7383 6873
Plant, etc 3694 3631 3437 3057 3237
Investments 402 404 503 234 768
Total capital 15677 16159 16147 16151 15935
L.TTSX bV: 2654 Ml 2824 1770 775
Minority Interests 202 211 212 210 223
Preference capital 1332 1332 1332 1332 1332
Convertible notes 2196 2196 2196 2196 2196
Ordinary capital 7453 7453 7453 7453
Reserves 1830 2016 2125 3190 3956
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES (S’OOO)
Interest on loan
capital n.a. 216 243 136 96
Interest on convert-
si si si hi nt
Earnings (947 ) 250 337 889 908
Ordinary dividends - - 186 373 447
Surplus • (947) 250 151 516 461
Earning rate % - 3.6 4 5 10 2 10 4
Dividend rate % - - 2.5 5.0 6.0
Dividend ’ yield % * * 4 5 9 6 10.3
High price 2.00 1.48 1.45 1.24 1
Low price 1.23 0.78 0.80 0.85 0.88


SYDNEY WATER BOARD
LOAN NOW OPEN!
A new $4,550,000 Loan is your opportunity to gain the
maximum return from a Government-Guaranteed security.
D
2
D
10 OR 15
YEARS
3
8
FOR 7 YEARS
H ighest Interest offered by any Government-Guaranteed security
now available in Australia.
Absolute Security. The N.S.W. Government unconditionally
guarantees interest payments every 6 months and full repayment
of principal at maturity. The Loan is also secured on the Board’s
annual revenue, estimated at $62,000,000 in 1966/67.
Cash Applications will be accepted in full or by instalments;
investors pay 10% deposit on application, and the balance by 30th
September, 1966.
Two Conversions. Holders in Loans Nos. 150 and 262 (5i%)
maturing on Friday, Ist July, are invited to convert to the new Loan.
Trustee Security. An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Tax Concessions. An approved security for Trustees of Pension
and Superannuation Funds who wish to qualify for Taxation
Concessions.
Invest or Convert at any office of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New
South Wales; Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
English, Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of
New South Wales; through your Stockbroker; or at the Board’s
offices.
SYDNEY WATER
Underwritten by A. C. GOODE & CO., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
20.783
MINING
Otway Basin
Interests
IN his report to the Victorian Govern-
ment in March, Dr. Charles Hether-
ington estimated that the offshore and
coastal sedimentary basins the Gipps-
land, Bass, and Otway Basins could
contain reserves of between 15-60 trillion
(million million) cubic feet of gas and
between 2.5 to 10,000 million barrels of
oil. However he warned that unless the
rate of drilling in these highly prospective
areas was stepped up many times, the dis-
covery of reserves of such magnitude could
not be prove’d for some considerable time.
Because of the existence of many dif-
ferent agreements between the tenement
holders and other parties, it is often
difficult for the layman to know who
will benefit from any such discoveries.
Since the announcement last March of the
discovery of oil by BHP and Esso off-
shore in the Gippsland Basin, BHP and
the adjoining tenement holder, Woodside
(Lakes Entrance) Oil Company N.L.,
have become more and more popular as
the market has come to appreciate the
prospective value of their Gippsland Basin
tenement holdings. The recent announce-
ment that BHP and Esso now plan to
intensify their exploration efforts in the
offshore Otway Basin areatf held by BHP’s
subsidiary, Haematite Explorations Pty.
Ltd., focuses attention on the other tene-
ment holders and interested parties in this
area.
Under exploration tenements from the
Victorian, South Australian, and Tas-
manian Governments, Haematite Explora-
tions holds most of the offshore Otway
Basin areas apart from the relatively nar-
row tenements around the coastline. The
Otway Basin extends west from Melbourne
almost to Adelaide. Subject to the ap-
proval of the Ministers for Mines in the
States concerned, BHP and Esso plan to
carry out extensive marine seismic sur-
veys to select suitable drilling sites. Drill-
ing will commence as soon as a second
offshore drilling unit, which is being en-
gaged for the project, can be brought into
operation.
In the Victorian portion of the Otway
Basin, the listed company, Interstate Oil
Ltd., has substantial interests through its
third ownership of Frome-Broken Hill Co.
Pty. Ltd., the other two-thirds being
owned jointly by Mobil Oil Australia
Ltd. and the BP group in Australia. Ex-
cluding a small coastal area around
Anglesea, Frome-Broken Hill’s tenements
cover the coastal area both offshore
(PEP 22, 4000 square miles) and on-
shore (PEPs 5 and 6, 8635 square miles)
from Port Phillip Bay to the South Aus-
tralian border.
Shell Development Australia Pty. Ltd.
has an agreement with Frome-Broken Hill
whereby it will carry out certain explora-
tion work (including the drilling of one
offshore and one onshore well) to earn a
25 percent interest in these areas. This


invest Jfir
mOUSTRIM ACCEPTANCE CORP
TIOH LTD
DEBENTURE STOCK
Paid up capital
$23,350,000
NEW ISSUE
0
0
FOR 7 YEARS
51% 72 MONTHS
Other .rates and term* available ~ : s«« prospectus ter tell
details, Prospectus and application form available from:
♦ All MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
♦ All BRANCHES OF fHE A.NI. BANK
♦ AIL BRANCHES OF UUC,
Applications will proceed Only, on one of tee forme
of, application attached to e pr«rt*d copy of Prospectus,
umsmmm iAH rotter & co.
1005 ' Member* d? tfntiSietk fxteange, Melbourne.
interest can be later increased to 50 per-
cent with further expenditure on explora-
tion by Shell.
Significant although non-commercial
showings of both oil and gas have been
discovered in wells drilled on Frome-
Broken Hill’s onshore tenements between
1959 and 1964. Although it is considered
that the onshore portion of the Otw'ay
Basin continues to offer promise for com-
mercial discovery of hydrocarbons, Inter-
state Oil now holds greater hope for the
offshore portion of the area. Indeed the
marine seismic survey completed by Shell
last February gives indications of several
anticlinal structures suitable for oil and
gas accumulation. However, in view of
the extremely high cost of offshore drill-
ing, additional marine surveys may be
necessary before any final decision on
actual offshore drilling locations.
The Alliance Oil group Alliance Oil
Development Australia N.L. and Alliance
Petroleum Australia N.L. a^ so . as
exciting prospects in the Otway Basin in
both So,,<h Austral,a and Victoria. On
the South Australian side these interests
, j ~ , -rr- . •
are shared equally, while on the Victorian
side the group’s interests are held 75 per-
cent bv AOD and 25 percent by APA.
The Alliance group holds a small
coastal area of 149 square miles around
Anglesea in Victoria in which Planet Oil
Company NL and Westralian Oil Ltd.
each hold 20 percent working interests.
A well drilled in this area in 1962 en-
countered small oil and gas shows but the
sedimentary section w r as light. Although
another small inland area is held in the
Victorian portion of the Otway Basin,
most of the Alliance group’s activities
have been concentrated on the South Aus-
tralian side in OEL 22 (4900 square
miles) in the south-eastern corner of that
State. The Alliance group has a farmout
agreement with the tenement holder,
General Exploration Co. of Australia
Ltd., w'hereby it can earn a 50 percent
working interest in this tenement,
General Exploration Co. of Australia
j s jointly owned by General Exploration
Co. of California and Santos Ltd. which,
i n partnership with Delhi Australian
Petroleum Ltd., looks like having its
Gidgealpa and Moomba gas in Adelaide
within two years,
A FACT that is not often realised is that
OEL 22 includes an offshore strip ex-
tending out to the three-mile limit, which
is the inner boundary of Haematite Ex-
ploration’s tenement OEL 26. Since 1961
several onshore wells have been drilled in
OEL 22, the latest being the Kalangadoo
well, which last year encountered large
fl ows of non-combustible gas.
Beach Petroleum NL has also earned
interests in three small farmouts totalling
340 square miles in the onshore portion
of OEL 22 This companv is a i so the
holder of a substantial omhore and off .
, .
shore tenement, OEL 24, just to the west
. . , .
of ° EL 22 - » h,ch ls - however located in
a different sedimentary basin, the St. Vtn-
cent Gulf Basin -
Apart from its 10 percent in Woodside’s
Gippsland Basin areas and a 20 percent
interest in the Alliance group’s area at
Anglesea, Planet Oil Company N.L. also
holds an inland Otway Basin area in Vic-
toria, PEP 26. Oil and Gas Investments
Pty. Ltd. (owmed by Messrs. J. G. Fuller
and C. W. Siller) holds a 10 percent car-
ried working interest convertible to a 5
percent overriding royalty in PEP 26.
Although three w'ells drilled in the area
near Casterbon failed to discover signifi-
cant amounts of hydrocarbons, promising
reservoir conditions encountered.
COMMODITIES
Little Cheer
For Cotton
A RECENT assurance that the U.S.
would not dump cotton on world
markets has provided little cheer
for cotton growers. America has, since the
beginning of this year, adopted an aggres-
sive cotton export policy, upsetting the
world market after a decade of stability.
Price support policies aimed at aiding
domestic growers had, over the years,
gradually priced U.S. supplies out of the
market. Government - held stockpiles
reached such levels, however, that drastic
measures became necessary, and so the
problem has, to some extent, been expor-
ted, with export prices and home support
prices both cut.
Countries dependent on cotton for
foreign exchanges, such as Uganda, have
seen prices fall from 28-30£ pence (stg.)
a lb. to 25 pence and lower. Australia’s
producers have also been affected.
Now the U.S. has promised not to sell
its standard-grade cotton at less than 22
U.S. cents a lb. during the 1967 crop
year. However, this price is slightly lower
than the equivalent standard U.K. market
quote at present. So there is no recovery
in store for cotton prices in the foreseeable
future.
Moreover, the inroads of synthetic fibres
into the field formerly held by natural
products have affected cotton far more
than wool. Cotton has lost the equivalent
of 15m. bales a year to synthetic fibres,
and as a result growers are finding in-
creasing difficulty disposing of their crops.
As a step to improving the situation,
U.S. cotton acreage should fall by about
one third, or 3 million acres, next season
following the price cuts, according to the
U.S. Agricultural Department’s estimate.
Sugar's Problems
THE free sugar market’s lack of reaction
to the destruction of part of Cuba’s
sugar harvest by storms underlines
the basic problem for sugar—overproduc-
tion past, present, and future.
World sugar stocks rose about six million
tons last season, more than the whole of
Cuba’s output that year. So the days are
gone when a natural calamity could save
the producers’ bacon, and at the same
time drastic production cut-backs will be
necessary if producers are to save them-
selves.
Agreement on quotas will obviously be
difficult for economically hard-pressed
nations like Brazil, which recently sold
500,000 tons to dealers in defiance of the
temporary producers’ pact.
The continuing world surplus has, of
course, been the main reason for bringing
the London price (£stg.l6-15-0 a ton at
the time of going to press) to its lowest
since the ’thirties. Short-term prospects are
plainly unhappy. Some brokers are even
talking about “disaster levels.”


Share
Par
| Div.
Year
Week
Fri.
1966
T urnover
1 Yield %
Value
| cents
ago
ago
close | H igh
| Low
Syd.
| Melb.
| Div
| Earn.
METALS
AND
OILS
Aberfoyle
.50
2
1 99
?
15
2
28
2
35
1
90
4,200
7,600
Ampol Exp.
.50
1 19
1
2?
1
23
1
45
85
23,650
13,500
Assoc. Min.
.50
15
4 00
5
00
5
02
.6
52
4
80
600
300
/
A.O.G.
.50
2 40
2
53
2
50
2
60
2
25
22,850
5,400
B.H. South
.50
12
2 22
2
48'
2
54
2
90
2
24
17,200
25,400
4.9
7.5
C.R.A.
.50
S
3 63
5
04
5
15
5
20
3
92
10,800
12,500
1.6
4.1
C'wlth Min.
1 00
7
1 80
2
28s
2
48
2
48
1
90
4,500
1,500
3.2
5.5
K. 1. Scheel.
.50
10
1.44
1
97
2
09
3
25
1
80
7,100
5,600
Mount Isa
.50
5
3.78
4
1?
4
20
4
55
3
92
35,220
43,600
12
1.7
Mt. Morgan
1 00
12
1 85
2
38
2
46
2
49
1
90
37,400
14,800
5 1
9.7
Mt. Lyell
.25
3
1 05
1
34
1
31
1
4b
1
25
13,700
6,600
1.9
4.2
New B.H.
.62
38
3.90
4
80
5
12
5
28
4
42
2,625
7,900
7.4
10.5
Oil Search
.50
.19
18
20
20
12
38,10!T
’ 18,900
Renison
.50
10
5 70
7
10
6
05
7
50
5
00
600
700
Santos
.25
1 90
3
10
3
02
3
u /
1
40
15,700
10,900
West. Min.
.50
10-
2 35
4
46
4
62
5
00
2
45
14,700
10,400
2 2
2.3
Woodside
.50
.28
83
79
85
24
19,450
29,800
INDUSTRIALS
A.R.C.
.50 i
4.16
1.03
1 08
1 08
1 10
1 00
8,900
26,700
3.8
8.8
Adams, W.
1.00 |
12.5
3 05
2. 52
2 50
2 90
2.30
3,400
200
6.0
12.1
Adel. Steam
.50 |
4.25
.65
.71
.69
.80
.64
1,900
5,500
6 2
7.9
Advertiser
.50
5
2.10
1.75
1 75
2.50
1.67
2.9
5.5
Allen, S.
1.00
10
1.83
1.60
1 56
2.10
1.56
400
6 4
9.6
Allied Mills
.50
6
1.80
1.81
1.90
1.90
1.67
8,950
1,000
3 2
7.6
Amalg. Chem.
.50
5.65
.78
.71
.71
1.50
.70
8,900
3,700
8 0
11.5
A.W.A.
.50
8
2 50
2 03
1.95
2 42
1.95
6,500
2,200
4.1
7.3
Ampol
.50
7
1.01
.77
.76
1.02
.75
39,200
39,700
9.2
11.1
Ansett
.50
5
.70
.77
.79
.83
.73
59,850
54,700
6.3
12 1
A.P.C.M.
.50
5
1.35
1.63
1 651
1 70
1.53
11,000
2,900
3.0
5 8
Assoc. Pulp
1.00
9
1.43
1 45
1.46
1.74
1.37
7,000
8,700
6.2
7.5
A.N.Z. Bank
2 50
17.62
5.50
6 00
6 20
6.23
5.65
450
150
2.9
5.4
A. K. Cement
.50
5
1.30
1.31
1.33
1.62
1.20
15,850
19,400
3 8
7.3
Aust. Chem.
1.00
10
2.64
1.72
1.77
2.55
1.75
5,650
1,700
5.6
7.9
A.C.I.
2.00
20
5 55
5 84
5.94
6.02
5 40
14,700
12,050
3.4
6.7
Aust. Fert.
2 00
20
5.05
4 70
4.70
5.20
4 10
300
3.4
6.1
A.G.C.
.50
7.5
1.53
1.48
1 51
1.51
1.22
17,900
5,700
5.0
9.3
A.P.M.
1.00
8.75
1 50
1 66
1 62
1.87
1.51
24,050
25,200
5.4
8.9
A. Newsprint
2.00
20
3 30
3 20
3 30
3.45
3.15
4,150
3,500
6.1
6.6
A.U.C.
1.00
10
4 50
3 85
3 90
4.05
3.75
100
2 6
8.3
Bank Adel.
1.00
10
2.63
2 22
2 25
2 46
2.15
2,600
600
4.4
7.4
Bank N.S.W.
2.00
20
5 80
5 36
5 26
5 68
5 02
9,852
2,600
3.8
7.3
Bellambi
.50
5
2 05
1 85
1 85
2.44
1.85
400
2.7
9.1
Berlei
1.00
15
2.70
3.20
3.20
3.30
3.00
1,600
4 7
10.1
B.M.I.
.50
7.5
1.50
1 68
1.72
1 87
1.52
27,000
4,400
4 4
6.4
Bonds Ind.
.50
5
1.05
1 16
1 12
1.16
.98
3,400
4.5
9.2
Boral
.50
10
2.28
1 91
1 86
2 40
1 83
20,100
9,500
5.4
7.2
Borg Warner
1 00
6
1.95
1.70
1.73
2.05
1.70
1,400
3.5
8.6
Brad. Cotton
.50
5
.70
.57
.59
.69
.56
1,900
3,000
8.5
11.9
Brambles
.50
7.5
1.73
1.80
1 77
1 82
1 67
13,050
4,400
4 2
7.3
Brit. Tobacco
1.00
12
1 63
2 36
2 45 i
2.46
1 77
51,400
29,100
4.9
7.3
B.H.P
2.00
18.4
4 90
5.84
5.90
5.98
4.54
48,994
50,050
3.1
5.8
Bruck Mills
.50
5
. 53
. 65
.65
.73
.55
2,500
1,200
9 6
13.1
Burns Philp
1 00
10
3 70
3.80
3 75
4 10
3.65
21,800
800
5 7
7.0
C.U.B. "Z"
1.00
13
3 50
3.48
3.65
3 88
3.40
4,000
6,500
3 6
6.3
Carp., W. R.
.50
7.5
2.38
2.50
2 49
2.75
2.41
12,750
5,200
3 0
6 2
Carrier Air
.50
4
.55
.62
.62
.80
.60
2,350
3,300
6 5
12 8
C’maine Perk
1 00
17
5.73
6.10
6 01
6 40
5 93
300
300
2 8
5 2
Chamberlain
.50
6.25
1 45
1.25
1.25
1.38
.1.23
14,900
5 0
23.7
Clyde Ind.
.50
7 5
1.05
.96
.97
1 10
. 91
17,300
3,500
7.7
12.2
Coal Allied
.50
5
.91
1.50
1 50
1 56
1.26
10,900
2,100
3.3
9.3
Coles, G. J.
.50
5 5
1.40
1.31
1.30
1 41
1. 20
26,450
47,400
4 2
6 4
C.S.R.
1.00
12 5
3 22
2 88
2 97
3 26
2.72
36,100
14,800
4.2
7.7
C.A.G.A.
1 00
10
.74
1 37
1 35
1 65
1 30
7,450
3,900
7.4
11 9
C.B.C.
1 00
10
2 42
2 28
2.30
2 65
2.15
8,050
4 3
C.B.A.
1.00
10
2.18
2.23
2 22
2 25
2 02
2,050
2,100
4 5
Com. Union
.50
4.25
1.39
1.12
1 10
1 44
1.10
2,000
800
3.9
5,7
C.I.G.
1.00
11
2.45
2 80
2 80
3 32
2 55
5,100
2,900
3.9
9 6
Concrete Ind.
.50
.45
.36
.35
.48
.26
96,950
22,400
12 9
Consol. Press
.50
6.25
3.30
2 80
2.80
3 40
•2 60
100
36
Containers
2.00
16
2.78
2.80
2.75
2 82
2.58
800
5,600
5.8
Courtaulds
1.00
5
.84
.63
.62
.75
57
1,000
1,700
8 1
Crane, G. E.
1.00
12.5
3 85
4.60
4.70
4.70
4.10
600
2.7
Cresco
2.00
20
5 90
5.00
5.00
6 25
4.90
3.2
Cust. Cred.
.50
5
.65
.76
.7E
.79
.63
22,450
18,400
6.4
10 7
Cyclone
1.00
10
1 75
1.08
1.0E
1 4E
1.04
4,700
14,600
9.3
Dalgety
2.50
25 5
5 20
4.76
4.90
5.0C
4.60
3,350
5.2
9 8
D.F.C.
2.00
23
6 40
6.20
6.2C
6 55
6.20
600
3.7
Drug Houses
1.00
10
1 58
1.72
1.79
1.93
1.58
3,900
4,500
5.6
Dunlop
1.00
8
1.93
V- 35
1.24
1 65
1.22
24,750
22,300
6.5
10.6
E. M. 1.
.50
7.5
2 00
1.83
1.81
2 15
1.78
3,100
1,700
4.1
E.Z. Ind.
1.00
18
1.99
2.38
2 35
2 4C
2.12
12,100
15,300
7.7
Elders, G. M.
1.00
10
1.99
2.18
2 22
2.3E
2.01
9,300
9,800
4 '5
Electronic "B”
1.00
10
1 1C
.80
.8'
1.0'
.80
2,300
7,100
11.9
16 0
Email
.50
3
.63
.40
.40
.51
.37
29,100
8,600
7.5
7 8
E.S.A.
2.50
14.69
4 75
5 8C
5 8C
5 8C
5.2C
500
2.5
Evans Deakin
.50
6.25
1 23
1.29
1.2<
1.40
1.26
1,300
Fairfax, J.
.50
8.5
2 75
2 8C
2.1'
2 8(
2.10
17,950
1,000
4 0
Fairymead
1.00
6
2.03
2.1C
1.55
2.1C
1.50
3,350
100
3.9
Felt. Text.
.50
5
.74
. 7C
.56
. 7C
.5'
4,400
13,900
8 9
Fibre Cont.
.50
6
1.7C
1.4C
1 32
1.4C
1.23
500
1,900
4 5
Fielding, J.
1.00
17.5
3.69
3.72
3.6C
3.72
3.43
700
Gen. Credits
.50
4
.51
. 6C
.52
. 6(
.50
2,400
10,500
7.7
10 1
Gen. Ind.
2.00
12
1 0£
1 3£
1 27
1.3E
.95
5,000
700
9 4
Gollin
.50
4 5
.7 £
8E
. 8(
. 8£
.70
600
Gordon Gotch .50
10
2.65
2.7C
2.17
2 70
2.17
3.550
1.300
Grace Bros.
.50
6.25
1.6C
1 91
1.77
1.91
1.69
10.3501 500
3 5
Hardie, J.
1.00
10
5.00| 4.65|- 4 75
5 06
4.40
5,300“
1,500
2.1
6.2
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
ago
Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
ilast
All ords. . . .
323.09
325.02
102.90
103.80
50 Leaders . . .
107.81
108.71
Banks
168.23
168.53
110.49
110.26
Other Fin. . . .
492.29
499.55
67.73
68.52
Pastoral ....
220.30
224.77
112.60
114 55
Transport . . .
482.60
489.64
97.31
98.16
Retails (Merchants)
337.52
336.56
93.85
93.58
Services ....
44.11
43.67
Foods ....
170.96
174.39
102.45
104.91
Textiles ....
182.65
181.45
75.72
74.80
Chemicals . . .
339.69
336.12
84.02
83.59
Electrical
415.53
409.95
61.34
61.14
Paper ....
103.74
103.94
Building ....
670.80
678.73
90.43
91.66
Fuel power . . .
170.39
169.37
Automotive . . .
733.21
726.47
77.22
75.99
Steel, Eng. . . .
458.00
462.17
113.30
113.81
Non-ferrous . . .
1182.12
1205.34
198.48
203.71
OIL
SUGAR
1 Week
I ago
j Friday
last
Week
ago
Friday
'last
Brisbane ....
Melbourne . . .
158.24
133.36
159.76
133.94
121.20
116.60
Share
Par
Value
Div.
cents
Year
ago
Week | Fri.
ago | close
1966
High |Low
T urnover
Syd. | Melb.
Yield %
Div |Earn.
Healing, A. G.
.50
.60
.23
.25
581
.19
10,650
6,300
34 0
Herald, W. T.
•5CL
12 5
4 58
4 50
4.50
5 22
4 35
3,900
11,800
2 8
3 8
Hooker, L. J.
.50
.33
.25
.25
.36
.24
18,500
5,200
15 8
Humes
1.00
12.5
2.98
2 45
2 40
2 90
2 10
1,500
5,900
5 2
8.5
Huttons
.50
5
.98
.90
.91
1 04
.88
500
1,900
5 5
10 7
.50
5.9
.90
.82
.86
.86
.77
1,750
16,600
6 8
11.3
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
2.00
15
4.43
4.10
4.00
4 32
3.60
9,000
6,900
3 8
5.2
Inter. Resist.
.50
6.25
1.33
.88
.84
1 45
.84
2,300
1,500
7 4
9 6
Jones, David
.50
6.75
1 52
1.40
1 41
1 63
1.38
29,150
10,400
4 8
8 5
Jones, Henry
1.00
10
3.58
3 50
3 60
4 10
3 40
2,700
2.8
8 0
Kauri
.50
.43
.21
.20
.26
.18
2,900
2,500
15 3
Kelvinator
.50
7.5
2.33
1 95
1.95
2 08
1 92
3 8
8 7
Koitaki
.50
12.5
1.08
1 20
1.19
1 30
1.15
500
10 5
13 6
Lend Lease
.50
5
.93
1 14
1.12
1 25
1 01
9,700
1,000
4 5
8.1
Life Savers
.50
8
2 48
2 45
2 43
2 55
2 24
1,800
800
3 3
4 7
Lysaght, J.
1 00
11
.2 79
2 20
2 20
2 63
2 14
4,200
2,700
5 0
8.4
M. L.C.
2 00
31.68
6 80
8 16
8 26
8 40
7 66
3,500
500
3 8
3.8
M acRobertson
1 00
8
1.75
1.15
1.15
1 55
1 10
500
7 0
7.6
Marrickville
.50
7.5
1.25
1 36
1 35
1 55
1 22
10,850
3,200
5 6
6 3
Mauri Bros.
.50
5
1 68
1 88
1.97
2 08
1 82
8,600
600
2 5
5.4
M. Nickless
1 00
12.5
3.23
2 75
2.75
3 20
2 70
1,700
4 5
6 6
Mcllwraith, J.
.50
7.5
1 55
1 26
1 33
1 50
1 16
1,500
2,200
5 6
10 2
McPhersons
2 00
16.6
3.90
3 58
3 65
4 08
3 40
2,400
3,100
4 5
10.3
M illaqu-in
1 00
20
3.50
2.82
2 75
3.18
2 60
1,900
7 3
8.3
Miller, R. W.
1 00
10
1.75
1.76
1.73
2 07
1 63
7,400
2,000
5 8
14 5
M inster
1.00
20
6.30
3 40
3.40
5 68
3 13
3,600
5,400
5.9
12.6
Morris, Philip
2.00
24
5 28
6 90
6.90
7.36
6 20
100
850
3.5
12.1
Moulded Prod.
.50
5
.90
.66
.70
.80
.59
2,100
12,300
7.1
8.9
Myer
.50
8.75
3.15
2 91
2 91
3.56
2 85
10,400
59,600
3 0
7.0
Myttons
.50
6
1.55
1 54
1 54
1.64
1.42
4,100
3.9
8.5
N.Z. Forest
1.25
9.56
2.85
2 90
2- 94
2 95
2 60
1,750
1,500
3 2
8.7
Nat. Bank
1 00
10
2.18
2 01
2.00
2 10
1.87
2,500
1,800
5 0
5.3
Nat. Consol.
.50
10
2.58
2 35
2.35
2 40
2 27
3,400
14,800
4 3
8 2
Nat. Dairy
2 25
26.7
41.00
39 00
39.00
42.00
38.00
2.5
5.5
.News
.50
5
1.45
1.46
1 53
1.82
1.36
1,000
3 4
7.0
N.Z. Ins.
1.25
11.5
3.03
2.60
2 60
2 82
2.60
900
5.2
0 lympic
.50
5
.94
.70
.72
.80
.64
10,600
13,000
6.9
13.7
Optical
1.00
15
4.60
4 10
4 15
4 70
4.10
900
3 6
7.2
Overseas
.50
5.5
1.10
1 04
1 04
1 16
1.03
4,750
7,900
5 3
10.8
P.G.H.
.50
8
1.63
1 30
1.35
1 60
1 20
1,650
5 9
9.9
Peko
.50
8
1.45
2.40
2.46
2 52
1.85
39,450
24,500
3 0
5.2
Penfolds
.50
6.25
1.53
1 52
1 63
2 03
1.50
100
3 8
Perp. Trustee
2.00
17
3.70
3.77
3.77
3 90
3 55
4 8
Petersville
.20
2.5
.50
.59
.59
.64
.55
19,150
44,600
4.2
6.2
Peters, W. A.
.50
6.25
1.78
1 80
1 80
1.92
1.70
3.5
Pioneer Cone.
.50
6.25
1.40
1.47
1.49
1 62
1.37
14,400
6,500
4.2
7.9
Prestige
.50
5
1.30
.90
.85
1.05
.80
2,800
1,900
7.4
14 4
Provincial T.
.50
5.5
1.18
1.10
1.14
1.30
1 00
2,200
4 8
10.6
Pye
.50
5
1.89
1.33
1.32
1 55
1.20
2,600
1,000
3 8
13.6
Q’land Can
.50
5
1.10
1.00
.98
1 13
98
700
5 1
Q’land Cement
2.00
20
6.95
7.25
7 30
7 70
7 00
2.7
Q'land Ins.
1.00
12.5
3.75
4.13
4 20
4.50
4 00
800
3 0
7 0
Q’land Press
1.00
16
5.50
5.00
4 86
5 45
4 78
300
3.3
5 9
Reeds
.50
7
1.99
1.50
1 50
1.74
1 48
3,000
4.7
7 8
Repco
.50
7.5
2.13
2 04
2 00
2.24
1 98
8,300
33,100
3.8
6 3
Rocla
.50
7
2.10
1 80
1.80
2.14
1.78
2,000
3.9
Rothmans
1.00
20
3.53
2.88
2 80
3.15
2 68
9,450
2,500
7.1
13.9
S.A. Rubber
.50
5.62
1.40
1.05
1.02
1 25
1 00
1,825
700
5.5
13 8
S.T.P. Hold
.50
6.25
.80
.96
.95
1.00
.88
500
2,900
6 6
15.2
Schweppes
.60
5.75
1.55
1 45
1 53
1 85
1 45
3,500
3,700
3 6
5 6
Shelleys
.50
7.5
2.30
2 55
2.55
2.55
2.30
2 9
8.2
Simpson Pope
.50
1
.43
.30
. 3C
.46
.27
1,500
3 3
10.2
Sleigh, H. C.
.50
5
.73
.56
.56
.72
.55
22,750
20,000
8.9
12.3
Smith, How.
2.00
10
2.44
2 43
2 5C
2.57
2 39
3,550
1,500
4 0
6 9
Softwood
1.00
10
2.85
2.65
2.5C
3.25
2 07
100
4 0
21 1
Sth. Brit. Ins.
1.25
14.16
3.70
3.60
3.73
3.85
2.06
3 8
7 0
Steampships
.50
6.66
.93
.94
.95
1.05
.88
12,100
11,300
7 0
11.3
Stedman, J.
.50
7.5
1.85
1.65
1.68
1.88
1 60
1,300
4 5
8 3
Swan Brew.
.50
3.12
2.25
2.45
2 41
2 50
2 21
5,000
11,000
2.7
3.2
T arax
.50
6
.93
1 05
1 OC
1 22
1.00
300
900
6 0
10.1
T aubmans
.50
8
1.43
1 03
1 03
1.18
.90
1,600
900
7.8
9.0
TV Corp.
1.00
20
2 83
2 75
2.72
2.75
2 08
900
7.4
7.4
Thiess
.50
.39
.68
.6'
.76
.63
4,800
9 3
T o-o Keys
.50
4.25
.98
1.14
1.13
1 2]
1 10
32,600
3 8
5.8
Tooth
1.00
15.75
4 66
5 35
5 32
5 70
4.90
18,925
4,550
3 0
4 2
Union Carb.
1.00
10
2.94
3 52
3 56
3 65
3.28
650
500
2 8
5.7
U.E. Box
.63
5.84
1.33
1.23
1.22
1.48
1.2C
1,400
4.7
11.4
Walker, F. J.
1.00
12.5
1.58
1.43
1.46
1.63
1.25
6,000
1,700
8 6
8.8
Waltons
.50
6 5
.88
1.03
1.02
1.12
.85
18,500
20,600
6.1
9.8
Webster, A. G
. .50
8
1.25
1 2C
1.2C
1 5C
1.20
700
6 3
12.7
WiU’ms, F. W.
1.00
10
3.6C
3.22
3.25
4 0^
2.95
6,500
400
3 1
1 l
Woolworths
.50
6
1.49
1 36
1 36
1.44
1.30
44,750
28,700
4.4
6.0
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Y«ar Ago
Month ago
Week ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton
£ 1%
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wire bars, ton . .
£ 476V4
£ 6271/a
£634
£ 6131/2
Gold, oz
£ 12/11/63/4
£ 12/ll/7l/ 2
£ 12/12/11/2
£ I2/H/IOV2
Lead, cash, ton ....
£ 102
£ 963/4
£ 941/2
£ 933/8
Silver, troy, oz
llli/ed.
1113/ 4 d.
112d.
112d.
Tin, cash, ton
Wolfram, unit, c.i.f. . . .
£ 14411/e
£ 1348
£ 1277
£ 1275
£ lli/e- £ H%
£ 12%- £ 133/4
£ 12%
£ 13- £ 14
Zinc, cash, ton ....
Wheat, Australian ton .
£ 1151/4
£ 100
£96 13/16
£ 99
£ 255/s
£ 265/ 8
£ 265/ a
£ 26 ll-16th
Linseed Oil, ton ....
£ 97
£ 87
£ 451/4
£ 84
Cocoa, 50 kilos ....
Coffee
Cotton, American middling
105/9
185/9
190/-
198/6
withdrawn
withdrawn
withdrawn
withdrawn
lb
23.45d.
23.60d.
23.85d.
23.6d.
Desiccated Coconut, ton
£ 180
£ 131
£ 140
£ 140
Rubber, lb
213/ 4 d.
215/ad.
20% d.
20 ll-16th d.
Sugar, ton
£ 2IV4
£ 203/a
£ 171/2
£16%
Tea, quality, lb
4/3-6/-
4/6-6/9
4/7-6/3
Wool Tops, 64s, lb. . . .
107d.
(All figures
121d.
In sterling)
121d.
121d.
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
London
“Financial Times"
New
Dow
York
Jones
Tokyo
D. Jones.
Inds.
Secs.
Gold
Inds.
Rails
Avge.
Jan. 3, 1966
1966 hiqh
1966 ilow
Month ago
Week ago
Latest
338.7
374
337.3
364.70
366.90
372.2
78.74
79.43
76 42
77.25
76.54
76.42
61.3
65.2
58 4
60.0
60.3
59.4
965.54
995.15
864 14
876.89
891.75
894.26
247.38
271.72
220 54
226.08
231.24
231.96
1430.13
1588.73
1412.98
1552.75
,1515.01
1519 42
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
SYDNEY
'
MELBOURNE
i
i N DUSTRI AL|
MINING
INDUSTRIAL! MINING
Sales
Value
Sales
Value
Sales
Value-
Sales
Value
Vol.
$
Vol.
$
Vol.
$
Vol.
$
1000
1000
1000
1000
1000
1000
1000
1000
Week before
2620.2
4032.21
2390.7
1750.8
1947
3114
3035
1812
Week to Friday
2429 2
3558 7]
2310.7
1356 9
1750
2594
2253
1325
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend . . 6.30
MELBOURNE
dividend 5.43
earnings 8.65
LONDON ( F.T.)
dividend 5.28
earnings 7.12
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3.26
earnings 5.99
CTVEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short .. .. 4.96 4 95
Medium .. .. 5.14 5 13
Long . . . . 5 25 5 25


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
lo
0
4
TWO
YEARS
0/
k
o
FIVE
YEARS
7£
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 4 3 A%
90-179 DAYS 5 1 / 2 %
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 5%%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6Va%
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 /a%
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
EIGHT YEARS 7V4%
TEN YEARS 7 1 / 2 %
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectusand Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
MAN ON THE LAND
Reply on the Subsidy Issue
ENEMIES are easier to answer than
friends. Mr. J. O. K. Denny, of Lily-
dale, Tasmania (8., Letters, June 4)
is our enemy apparently. He does not like
reading about farm subsidies.
We suggest that this is rather like not
caring to read about Vietnam. Life is
much more comfortable for the Australian
farmer who closes his eyes to the predica-
ment he is getting himself into by his con-
stant demand for, and acceptance of, sub-
sidies.
As we write, yet another subsidy cam-
paign is being mustered —this time to get
the Commonwealth Government to In-
crease the superphosphate bounty to offset
the almost certain price rise of about $2.50
a ton after July 1. The pity of this is that
the super bounty is one which, unlike too
many others, does qualify as a stimulator.
But it is also one which could be readily
cut out, as there has not been time for
a bureaucratic administrative force to be
set up as part and parcel of the deal (the
fate of some other subsidies). We do not
expect the Government to cut the super
bounty.
Vet there would be some justification for
holding it at the present level (about sfi
a ton), bearing in mind the rather gener-
ous aid given to farmers in other spheres
over the past 12 months. The fanners will
be satisfied with nothing less than an
increase, of course.
We must record, however, the emer-
gence of the most potentially far-reaching
movement in Australian farming in years.
This is the decision by a number
of farmer organisations to look into the
possibilities of demanding reduction of
tariffs on equipment and materials used in
farming. There is truth in the farmer
argument that certain Australian industry
is subsidised; there is little truth in the
frequently heard farmer opinion that
“everyone is subsidised so why not us.”
This blind, unsubstantiated view is creating
resentment and it is encouraging to note
that some farmers, at least, are becoming
aware of it.
'J'HE Queensland Liberal Party will prob-
ably not go on with its plan to contest
Country Party seats. Even so, this is yet
another indication of changing attitudes in
country towns which, far more than the
purely rural vote, are the key to country
electorates. There are simply not enough
farmers roughly 250,000 in the whole
continent. Win the towns and you win the
seats.
If Mr. Denny does not like reading Man
on the Land he might turn his attention
to the other letter from a reader which
appeared in the same issue of THE BUL-
LETIN. This, from Mr. E. P. Middleton,
Editor of “Good Government,” Sydney, we
find most interesting. He appears, at first
glance, to want to be our friend. But some
of the sentences he used in his letter jogged
our memory.
“Utilising the natural rent fund to the
full as the basis of all Government revenue
at all levels"' sounds very much like the
Henry George philosophy. We thought
that the Henry George movement in
N.S.W. had passed away with the death
of that prolific writer of letters to editors,
Mr. Huie, of Lindfield, some years ago.
Apparently not so. Georgism, or an off-
shoot, lives on in N.S.W. We know that it
is quite active in Victoria.
Georgism, like so many ’isms, has its
purists and its deviationists. The original
“single tax'" theory w'as that increase in
land values should not be returned to the
owner of the land but should be the source
of all Government revenue. By reaping
this rental the Government would have
sufficient funds to abolish income tax
always an attractive proposition.
Part of the original Henry George philo-


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
WATER TIGHT
That’s because it went by Certified Mail. You receive a receipt as
proof of postage, and a signature from the person to whom your
article is addressed, as proof of personal delivery. Sending any
document or correspondence of importance by Certified Mail leaves
no room for doubt. And it only costs you Sc plus normal postage.
AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
Sophy found its w'ay into the early Labor
movement, but as George was an advocate
of free trade, while Labor was inherently
protectionist, there was a parting of the
ways. Likewise, Georgism, in its original
form, influenced the Fabian Socialists in
Britain.
There is a delightful logic about it, par-
ticularly the bit about abolishing income
tax, but what else would be abolished?
Certainly the banking and insurance sys-
tems as w'e know them, and certainly free-
hold of property.
The disappointing thing in Georgists is
that they can admit to no benefit in free-
hold of property whatsoever. It may have
its faults, yet our entire Anglo-American
way of life has been built on it and it
is the strongest possible inducement to
law and order without the need for mili-
tary or police hierarchy. You pay, you
own, you are secure (or feel you are).
We were introduced to Georgism by the
late King O’Malley about 20 years ago
now', when as a young reporter we were
sent to interview him in a small cottage
near Albert Park Lake in Melbourne.
He w'as very frail. It was his birthday,
from memory we think it was his 90th.
He intrigued us with his talk of days
on the railways in the United States in
the railroad era of the 1880 s.
JJE claimed he had known Henry
George well. It is possible, of course.
Henry George ran for Mayor of New York
about that time and, significantly, lost at
a period in history when radical reform
was sorely needed.
A few months ago we were amused by
the little controversy in Canberra over
whether they should call some suburb
O’Malley or something else. As far as we
are concerned they might as well call the
whole place O’Malleyville and be done
w'ith it. Whether he really was the origi-
nator of the plan to build the capital in
Canberra, tven though they can never
the fact that the land tenure system in
Canberra is based on O’Malley’s (and
other early Laborites’) version of Georg-
ism.
So what has happened? Some land is
still more attractive, in the eye of the
beholder, than other land. What is the
fairest way of deciding who gets which
piece? Why, naturally, the only fair w'ay
is to auction it off to the highest bidder.
So w'e get, today, people paying $lO,OOO,
$20,000, and even $50,000, for sites in
Canberra, even though they can never
have freehold. It has become as valuable
as freehold.
But Georgism is supposed to do away
with land speculation. It would, too,
although it would also create its new' kind
of hierarchy and, in our view, it is wide
open to take-over by malcontents and
opportunists.
In the social system we have evolved,
based on private land ownership, there is
room for movement and there are safe-
guards. Georgism, carried to its logical
end, could see generals and politicians
with the biggest houses, and so on down
the line. The personal opportunities for
those in control of the reins of Govern-
ment would be altogether enormous.
The old Labor version of Georgism
favored allocation of land by lot. The
existing leasehold system in Queensland is
a legacy of this. This, too, has gravitated
toward almost the equivalent of freehold,
Henry George’s -own stress on free trade
makes one wonder if the theory becomes
irrelevant in the absence of free trade and
whether present-day Georgists have the
cart before the horse. A revival of a free
trade, tariff reduction movement in Aus-
tralia today could have much to offer,
we think, if only as a brake on creeping
bureaucracy.


Hew Issue
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNUM
DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes accepted only on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE ‘WALES’ FOR DETAILS
•N'srciN
AGRISEARCH
Food for the Hungry
Changing the pattern of land use
MEN on the land in Australia should
begin now to consider the need for
changing the whole pattern of our
rural production. The traditional empha-
sis on animal products seems unsuited to
the primary wants of a starving world.
Food in quantity at lowest possible cost,
rather than high-cost-high-quality food, is
the first cry of hungry people. This view,
at any rate, is gaining currency among our
agricultural scientists, some of whom are
beginning to plan their research programs
accordingly.
If the present pattern of land use con-
tinues, and if our rural production
expands at the same rate for the next
20 years as it has over the past 20, we
will be raising almost twice as much
wool and meat in the mid-1980s as we do
today. Cereal production will be 75 per-
cent greater and there will be at least a
50 percent increase in the amount of dairy
food. By the mid-1980s we will be running
130 million more sheep, 4.3 million more
beef cattle, 1.5 million more pigs, 1.12
million more dairy cattle, and we will
be sowing cereal crops on up to 26 mil-
lion acres.
The sheep by that time will be cutting
an average fleece of nearly 101 b. instead
of the present B|lb. and the cows will
have lifted their per head annual milk
yield from 396 gallons to 488 gallons. The
wheat crops will probably be yielding at
least 22 bushels per acre and could con-
ceivably be averaging over 30 bushels.
The present national average is 18 bushels
and the present area sown is around 18
million acres. The expected acreage 20
years hence, it should be noted, is not
greatly above today’s figure. But if the
emphasis in rural production is shifted
tovvard the raising of plant food rather
than animal, the tilled area could be
very much larger. Some say that this should
and will happen because our own con-
science and world opinion will urge it on
us. Besides, plant foods are cheaper to
produce and therefore more readily sale-
able among poor people.
The projections mentioned above are
largely based on a scholarly assessment of
production trends carried out by Dr.
C. M. Donald, Professor of Agriculture,
University of Adelaide. They deserve to
be more widely known, since they are an
important help to individual farmers lay-
ing their long-term plans, and of especial
value to Federal policy-makers. Dr. F.
Morley, an Assistant Chief of the CSIRO
Division of Plant Industry, referred to
them when discussing Australia’s possible
role in helping to alleviate the widespread
hunger in the world.
He showed that our present exportable
surplus, together with New Zealand’s, pro-
vided sufficient energy to support some
22 million people and sufficient protein
for about 20 million. The latter figure
allows each person 70 grams of protein
a day. Modern dieticians now believe
this to be an unnecessarily luxurious
quantity. They are now inclined to the
view that people can live quite healthily
on half this much protein. If this is so,
the current exportable surplus gives some
40 million people enough protein. In
the mid-1980s, however, our increased
production will furnish calories for 40
million and protein for 76 million if
they are content with the smaller quota
of 35 grams per day.
To maintain the envisaged rate of
expansion in our accustomed form of pro-
duction, Dr. Morley has calculated that
we will need to pour about $350 million
into agricultural development each year.
By the same costing procedure we have
apparently been spending about $2OO mil-
lion a year during the past 20 years.
(The cost of production was lower dur-
ing this period than we can reasonably
expect in the future because we have had
some exceptional luck. The seasons have
been unusually good and scientific re-
search has produced some bonanzas such
as myxomatosis and trace elements that
are unlikely to be repeated). Financing
the expansion during the next generation
will therefore be harder, but scarcely be-
yond our capacity. However, Morley
points out that if we invest this money
A selection of THE BULLETIN’S
Agrisearch articles, of interest to farm-
ers and graziers, has been published by
the Commonwealth Development Bank
of Australia. The booklet, “Agricultural
Research,” is available from the Bank.
in calorie production rather than protein
production we will get more food from
each dollar spent.
Thus, if an investment of $lOO will re-
turn 10001 b. of wheat, it will produce
only 1501 b. of meat or 300 gallons of
milk. On this basis it would cost nearly
$5OO to feed a man for a year on meat,
$3OO if he was provided with a milk
diet, but only $l5O would be needed to
give him enough energy and protein in
the form of cereals. In other words, a
total investment of $5OOO million would
let us feed an additional 70 million people
on a predominantly cereal diet, but only
about 1| million extra people on a pre-
dominantly meat diet.
Looking farther ahead and calculating
from the fact that 1000 tons of water will
grow one ton of plant dry matter, such
as grain, Dr. Morley suggests that the
theoretical maximum number of people
Australia could eventually feed would be
800 million. Allowing for the provision
of a reasonably mixed diet, land reserved
for fibre and timber production, and
general losses and inefficiencies, the
realistic number that this country could
support may be 200 million. Even if this
feeding capacity is attained by the year
2000 we will be able to support only five
percent of the people who will be living
in Asia by that time.
Such facts about food production pro-
vide food for gloomy thought. Instead of
putting our money into agriculture, which
despite our best efforts will barely keep
pace with the population, should we in-
crease the defence budget and continue to
enjoy the sort of diet and the sort of
life on the land to which we are
accustomed?


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO ERIC JOHN BOOTH TAKE NOTICE
that PATRICIA MARY BOOTH has filed
Petition No. 3007 of 1965 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion and seeks orders
for costs and maintenance. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 25th day of July, 1966. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from James L. Diamond & Co.,
Solicitors, 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO JOHN JOSEPH DALY TAKE NOTICE
that MILDRED ELIZA DALY has filed a
Petition No. 695 of 1963 for Divorce on
the grounds of separation notwithstand-
ing the facts and circumstances set out
in the Discretion Statement filed herein.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 20th day of July,
1966. You may obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from Messrs. lan
Duncan, Knudsen & Co., Solicitors, 403-
411 George Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO RODNEY JOHN ELPHICK TAKE
NOTICE that JOANNE PHYLLIS ELP-
HICK has filed Petition No. 861 of 1966
for Divorce on the ground of Drunken-
ness and Cruelty and seeks orders for
custody maintenance and costs. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
on or before the 20th day of July, 1986.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Bull Son Schmidt &
Berg, Solicitors, 17 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO HECTOR BRUCE MacCALLUM
TAKE NOTICE that EDNA PATRICIA
MacCALLUM, of 70 Gwawley Street, Mir-
anda, in the State of New South Wales,
has filed a Petition for dissolution of
marriage in Suit No. 459 of 1966 on the
grounds of desertion, cruelty, and separa-
tion. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 25th day of July, 1966. A copy
of the Petition may be obtained by you
without charge from Messrs. Denis Solari
White & Co., solicitors of 56 Railway
Crescent, Jannali, or from their City
Agent, Harold Rich, Solicitor, 83 Pitt
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Regi-
strar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
PROBATE JURISDICTION
IN the Will of JOHN DONALD McKEN-
ZIE late of Merewether in the State of
New South Wales Hotelkeeper. Probate
granted by the Supreme Court of New
South Wales on 10th February 1966.
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and
Administration Act 1898 (as amended)
Testator’s Family Maintenance and
Guardianship of Infants Act 1916 (as
amended) and Trustee Act 1925 (as
amended) HENRY NORMAN McKENZIE
and CORNELIUS JAMES O’CONNELL the
Executors of the Will of the said JOHN
DONALD McKENZIE who died on the
26th day of August 1935 hereby give
notice that creditors and others having
any claim against or to the estate of the
said deceased are required to send par-
ticulars of their claims to the said ex-
ecutors care of Messrs HARRIS,
WHEELER, WILLIAMS & McKENZIE,
Solicitors, 105 Tudor Street, Hamilton on
or before the 31st dav of August 1366 at
the expiration of which time the said
executors will distribute the assets having
regard only to the claims of which they
then have notice. Dated this 10th day of
June 1963. HARRIS WHEELER WIL-
LIAMS & McKENZIE Proctors for Ex-
ecutors, 105 Tudor Street, Hamilton.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
TO JOHANN SCHAROTKE late of Syd-
ney TAKE NOTICE that BEATRICE
MARY SCHAROTKE has filed a Petition
No. 2831 of 1965 for Divorce on the ground
of cruelty and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance, and costs. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 15th day of July, 1966. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Messrs. T. G. D. Marshall
Landers & Co., Solicitors of 251-253
George Street, Sydney, or Messrs. Harris
Wheeler Williams and McKenzie, Solici-
tors of 43 Bolton Street, Newcastle. C. A.
H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO DESMOND NOEL MURRAY TAKE
NOTICE that KRISTINE MURRAY, of 74
Murdoch Street, Cremorne, in the State
of New South Wales, has filed a Petition
for dissolution of marriage in Suit No.
86 of 1963 on the grounds of Desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 20th day of July, 1966. A
copy of the Petition may be obtained by
you without charge from Messrs. Denis
Solari White & Co., Solicitors of 56 Rail-
way Crescent. Jannali, or from their City
Agent, Harold Rich, Solicitor, 83 Pitt
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is now
available. It may be bought for 75c
at the Australian Consolidated Press
Library, 54 Park St., Sydney, or ordered
for $l.lO including postage from the
same Library, Box 4088, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 904
ACROSS
1. Seedy outcry from an objectionable nobody. (9)
5. Haircut by Simpson. (5)
8. “It’s an absolutely lousy place to play tennis”
for example. (8, 2,5)
10. Melon tobacco becoming how needy? (8)
11. II est the Trust’s Interstate Theatre Season. (3)
14. Vallin fabric. (5)
15. A name’s adapted for salt. (6)
17. Take little money from the right-minded and right-
living. (6)
18. To recapitulate briefly, it’s a
problem in flight. (3, 2)
20. About to kiss Harrison. (3)
21 and 27. No pagan arrow-
smith was a trouble-maker
on 6 down. (8)
25. Don’t be at all ignorant to
be aware of an object,
alternatively a brace. (4, 1,
5,2, 3)
26. A clue for a place at the
head of the Bight. (5)
27. Isn’t a rich version, but see
21 across. (9)
DOWN
1. Post office business having an
honorary state squaw. (10)
2. An inclination to write vocal
music. (8)
3 and 6. Sovereign charity not
to be confused with Bligh’s.
(5, 5,6)
4. How’s a marine when dead
hungry? (5)
5. Attempt to throw a “boy” a
coin. (4)
6. See 3 down. (6)
7. You having turned it, it’s
abominable. (4)
9. Actively effective and in
order in one part. (7)
12. Shady’s cool enough to be in
establishments which don’t
run in the dark. (3, 6)
13. A Victorian country town or
a Sydney suburb getting a
holiday -maker depressed.
(10)
15. Furtive progress when the
salt is spilt. (7)
16. Meat riot affected such
lovers. (7)
19. Her love, I see, is very brave.
(6)
22. Alternative number first
rendered by a singer. (5)
23. Keys for the island. (4)
24. Girl having a gay time. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 903


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks .... $5.20 52 weeks .... $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25*,
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail —send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
SPECULATORS DIARY
Advice from a Chartist
Getting away from fundamentals
ADVERTISING campaigns have always appealed to me, particularly when they
develop into dogfights. Have you been following the increasingly tough war Mr.
Crebbin’s men at Marrickville Margarine have been waging on butter, leading up
to their “Is Mrs. Jones a good Australian?” ad? She’s the one who buys mar-
garine, while her neighbor squanders her money on butter.
Then we’ve had the growing number
of ads from the investment services. We
have had Moir’s telling us, with some con-
viction, that his portfolio had doubled in
value in five years—and quoting figures
to prove it. Then Trendex has been say-
ing, “Nobody—yes, nobody—can come
within miles of the Trendex record.” I
don’t dispute that. But I seem to re-
member some 12 months or so ago it
was Trendex that was loudly heralding the
birth of a new bull market. Alas, that
poor bull has proved to be a weedy little
number so far.
Be that as it may, I have found myself
under increasing pressure recently to take
notice of the charts. This week my chart-
ing lady urged me to buy both Deposit
and Investment and Australian Motor In-
dustries. I already had D & I but decided
to take her advice on AMI, and bought
just a token 500. I’d have bought more
but noticed that at 42 cents they were
already well above their year’s low of 29
cents.
Back in the ’sos, AMI was a very suc-
cessful company. Then it ran into some
cracking losses. Now it seems to be
recovering strongly again, aided by rising
sales of the Triumph 2000 and Toyota
vehicles. The latter could be the main
clue to the company’s recovery, as the
assembly of Toyota vehicles probably gives
AMI the biggest stake of any local com-
pany in the sale of Japanese cars in Aus-
tralia. However, my chartist friend says
all this is irrelevant. The “fundamentals”
don’t count for much in her view. It’s
what the charts say that matters.
M Y other industrial purchase this week
was 200 TNT at $1.53. I figure that
the shares would be worth much more
than this in any takeover. Of course, it
could well be that the market knows best
—it usually does—and that it doubted very
much if the takeover talks would lead to
anything. Being an optimist, I took the
opposite view. After all, the shares had
been $1.30 before the announcement, so
that $1.53 didn’t seem too much to pay.
And if this takeover doesn’t come off, the
possibility of another offer will never be
far from the market’s mind.
The mining market continued to be a
tease. For weeks I’d been on the verge of
buying both Mt. Isa and Mt. Morgan, yet
lacked the courage of my own convictions.
Instead I allowed myself to be deterred
by the market trends in both cases. And
then suddenly both got away from me.
In the meantime, my carefully planned
Kathleen Investments exercise came un-
stuck, I hope only temporarily. The fall
in profit proved to be greater than the
market was expecting. Still, the annual
report read well from the point of view
of the current year, when earnings from
Coffs Harbour and Cable should both
be up substantially. And the fact that
three half-yearly dividends were appro-
priated against the past year’s accounts,
indicating that only one will have to be
met this year, suggests that directors are
doing everything possible to ensure that
the 25 percent dividend will be main-
tained.
With the renunciations for the new
issue out, as well as the annual report,
Kathleen now has all its bad news behind
it and should now move on to better
things. So I went in deeper and bought
350 Kathleen rights at 82 cents, with a
view to reselling before the issue closes
on July 22. This brings my holding in
Kathleen to 400 shares and 400 rights.
Of course, the shares look cheap in re-
lation to the rights if you take the
dividend difference into account. But the
point is you can buy two rights for the
price of one share.
My sales this week were my 200 Sydney
Mutual, which moved up more quickly
than expected, and also my remaining 500
Woodside, which had been so good to
me. Total profit on these and the other
1500 Woodside was $352.
BOUGHT
500 AMI, 42c $215
200 TNT, $1.53 $312
350 Kathleen rights, 82c . . .. $292
SOLD
200 Sydney Mutual, $3.67 .. $720
500 Woodside, 62c $304
The portfolio now is:—
No. of Name of Date Cost Price
bhares Company Bought Per 15/6/66
Share
tnnS £? ngrass Ui . 15/9/65 51.10 $1.05
£| rC . , !. lght ' ng 24/2/66 0.72 0.73
Westralian 8/3/66 0.35 0.38
rnnn £ ome "9 J , 10/3/66 1.11 1 15
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0 18 0 21
122 !5 at t'! een lnv - 20/4/66 1.98 . 1 .*B5
400 Kathleen rights 15/6/66 0 82 0.82
200 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2 79 2.80
400 Steel Mills 2/5/66 0.68 0.74
500 Hanimex 6/6/66 1.45 1 48
500 Haulage 11/5/66 0 54 0.58
200 F. W. Williams 24/5/66 3 05 3 30
400 McDowells 31/5/66 0.75 0.80
200 O'Donnell Griffin 31/5/66 1.23 1 30
400 Tennyson 7/6/66 0.78 0 78
500 AMI 14/6/66 0.42 0.45
200 TNT 15/6/66 1.53 1.50
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change
their addresses are asked to notify “The
Bulletin” Subscription Department well
in advance in order to avoid a break
in the continuity of service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing die former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.


/
0
Q>
■
a
«y?-wk
m
\'j
%
<$
<&
:■-
o
©
6
/
*
Q
i
*»...
©
%
©
m
m.
PROTEUS-
the aero-engine that
started a revolution
Chosen for the world’s largest hovercraft
Powerplant for the fastest fighting ships of eight navies
4 million flying hours in Britannia aircraft
Generates electrical power for industry
THE Bristol Siddeley Proteus, chosen as the
powerplant for the new, large-capacity
hovercraft, began its working
life conventionally enough in
a Britannia airliner.
Millions of flying hours later, it broke with
convention by powering a fast naval vessel.
This was a major breakthrough in marine
propulsion: a lightweight gas turbine afloat,
J. T\
with four times more pow- id
er per lb weight than any ,
marine engine. J
Next, Proteus was installed in a village
in south-west England, supplying the inhab-
itants with 2,700 kW of electricity at peak
periods.
This opened up a new prospect of electrical
generation for power authorities and industry,
including high-output, mobile
power stations.
Other interesting applications
may well await this most versatile of engines.
Meantime, it can already justifiably claim to
have caused a revolution in power.
Bristol Siddeley Engines Limited. Executive
Headquarters: Mercury House, 195 Knights-
bridge, London SW7, England.
Bristol Siddeley supply the power l=js


?•
,'8.75
s£> :
«;■ ' •;*»• f*¥
/ -
•*
ft \
W
»?■>%• '••' ft ▼
-**-.. 1
3*** "ft
If you go for plush new comfort, new
good looks, silky new power .. . here you go!
Let’s take the inside story first. What we’ve done is
make Holden’s seats much, much softer. Thick with
new design foam padding you can really sink into.
And we’ve given them a new fine-car look as well
with a handsome new upholstery called Sadlon.
You’re sitting in the lap of luxury
. . . just a turn-of-the-key away from
the kind of performance you’ve never
had before. The Turbo-smooth kind.
There’s silky new power up to
145-hp in the fiery ‘X2’ .
Easier handling. A smoother ride...
TESTA TURBOSMOOTH
J L m
(more like a glide the way it soaks up the bumps).
And there’s a wider choice of options than you’ve
ever been offered. Disc brakes, new positive traction
rear axle, power steering, liquid-smooth Powerglide
automatic transmission, to name but a few.
New Holden gives you it all with a
style that’s beautifully new from
bold new front to sleek new rear.
There’s a lot to go for —a lotto enjoy
right now at your Holden dealer’s.
Australia’s Own Car. Still from
$1,770 or £BB5 plus tax
General Motors-Holden’s
