

The
Bulletin
JUNE 4, 1966
•!iNc^pcrß-A!Tiua-j!ue!-AU9!T!^Ai!iiA , N-!eiis<^Ne , wcK‘!T-iMe!sv
D . , . . ... . . ,
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 2Qc, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


Fly the quick&quiet jets:
Douglas DC-8 or DC-9
'
■
%
The quick, quiet Douglas DC-9 brings a new kind of jet service to Centerville. U.S. A.
When you have a choice, be choosy.
Select a quick and quiet Douglas
DC-8 or Douglas DC-9 jetliner next
time you fly.
The new DC-9 was designed spe-
cially for short to medium hops and
smaller cities—and already it is bring-
ing jet service to places where only
propeller airplanes could go before.
But there’s nothing small about the
DC-9 when it comes to comfort. The
seats are big and comfortable; the
headroom is tall; the legroom is long;
and the quietness and smoothness are
something you’ve never experienced
before—even in a giant jetliner. Pilots
praise the Douglas DC-9, too—for its
simplicity, reliability, stability, and
ease of handling.
The excellence of the quick and
quiet DC-9 is a logical outgrowth of
Douglas’ 40 years of commercial air-
plane experience—including the great
DC-B—the jetliner that has flown
higher, faster, and farther than any
other commercial jet.
Look for a quick, quiet Douglas jet on the
following 49 airlines:
A eronaves de Mexico • A ir A frique •
Air Canada • Airlift International •
Air New Zealand • Alitalia • Allegheny •
Ansett-ANA • Bonanza • Canadian
Pacific * Capitol • Caribair • Continental •
• Eastern • Garuda Indonesian •
Hawaiian • Iberia • Japan • KLM • Korean •
Middle East • National • North Central •
Northeast • Northwest Orient • Overseas
National • Ozark • Pacific Southwest • Pfm
American • Panagra •Philippine • SAS •
Saudi Arabian •Seaboard World • 5//cA' •
Southern • Siidfhig • Swissair • •
Trans-Australia • 7>a/J,v Caribbean •
Trans International • Trans-Texas • [77/1 •
United • Varig • Viasa • WV.vf Coast.
The Douglas Royal Family of Jets


A 4 i| KT?
$
k is w
Ll 1
i
*.: l'
•. •• s
r'K-..; '•
Jr 3./. ■.
I=l
a X:
I
:■ Ws**Lzr:»M
r-
• t
f
Ml-
-9
JFjJ
24 hour room service!
A cup of tea, a magnum of cham-
pagne, a sandwich, a sumptuous meal -
they’re yours at any hour of the day or
'night - at Menzies. Right in the heart
of Sydney, Menzies offers beautifully
appointed bedrooms, with individually
controlled air-conditioning. The under-
ground car park, right in the hotel is
free. Restaurants and bars cater for
every taste. Emperor Room Theatre
Restaurant features gourmet menu with
famous musicals nightly at 9.30. Single
Rooms from $10.50. Doubles from
$13.50. (Special rates for children.)
7KlS izTh
H n
n nn.im in
njrui hum rn
n rn nr nr ir
SLE
nn in
nr rn
nr rn
hi nil mi mi mi mi
i m
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
14 CARRINGTON ST. TEL. 2-0232.
CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: Victoria - Menzies, MELBOURNE;
Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE; Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. Queensland Lennoni,
BRISBANE; Lennons, TOOWOOMBA. South Australia - Hotel Australia, NORTH
ADELAIDE. Tasmania - Wrest Point Riviera, HOBART.
MZI/44
LETTERS
Vanishing Australian
Sir,
If Mr. Kevin Cairns, MHR (8., May
28), is right about the falling birthrate,
then it is more by good luck than good
statistical analysis. Your heading “The
Population Fizzle” aptly described Mr.
Cairns’ statistical argument. He bases his
view that we are approaching a critical
or danger level in the birthrate (a phrase
that appeals to him so much that he
repeats it three times within 22 lines)
on a set of figures that simply do not
establish his proposition.
It is ludicrous to discuss the falling
birthrate in terms only of the falling
number of offspring per marriage. Any
analysis of this situation must include an
examination of the composition of married
couples, particularly the question of what
proportion of couples are in the peak
fecundity ages. In simple terms, if it can
be shown that there were fewer couples
of an age when they are likely to produce
children, then it would not matter two
hoots whether the average for all couples
was falling; the key figure is what is the
birthrate in that all-important peak
reproductive age.
This is so important in the present
analysis because for special reasons there
are now fewer couples aged between 21
and 26 than there have been for many
years. For this there is a simple expla-
nation the war. From 1940 to 1945,
the birthrate fell (as is usual in wartime).
There are now simply fewer people of a
reproductive age as a result of this halt
in the birthrate 21 to 26 years ago.
So before we start jumping to the con-
clusions offered by Mr. Cairns on hope-
lessly inadequate evidence, it seems worth
reminding him that from 1946 on the
birthrate jumped; that there was a post-
war baby boom which produced a gener-
ation that should soon be making its first
big impact on birth statistics perhaps
in a year or two. This should mean that
over the next five years there is likely to
be a steadily increasing proportion of
couples of a peak reproductive age
rather than the steadily decreasing pro-
portion that has so clearly influenced the
“disaster” figures quite wrongly interpreted
by Mr. Cairns. How much the falling
number of couples in the peak reproduc-
CONTENTS
Pop Go the Pictures 43
Do-Gooders Who Do Good .... 23
One More Week 26
Ross Campbell 32
Cellarmaster 32
Overseas 35
Arts and Entertainment 45
Short Story 50
Books 54
Business and Finance 58
Man on the Land 77
Speculator’s Diary 80


■
SI
i ■'
_
See it at the 3M Business Communications Centre
this is the
only true
Dry Photo-Copier
(except for the fully automatic model)
No inks. No chemicals. Or powders. And every copy is clean. Precise.
Sharp. On dry white bond-weight paper (instantly usable.) Compact.
Simple to use. Anyone can use the 3M Brand 107 Dry Photo-Copier. See
it now at the 3M Business Communications Centre.
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Adelaide 51-5971
Perth 28-4651 • Hobart 3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109
3m
3M2/2729/66


mm
mmsmm
m
mmm
m&M
mmm
mm.
m-
V&XMSC*
<?s& —7
m
' -•:
Cinzano Vermouth is a great party drink; fashionable, and
not expensive. Superb in cocktails, it’s utterly enjoyable
straight and very cold, "on-the-rocks,” or with a little
soda. Add a professional touch by serving
CINZANO SWEET (red) with a lemon peel
CINZANO EXTRA DRY with an olive
CINZANO BIANCO (sweet white) with a cherry
CINZANO AMARO (pleasantly bitter) with a slice of orange.
House Founded 1757
Write to Cinzano. Birmingham Street, Alexandria, N.S.W., for
"Have a Cinzana. Party" -Folder.
tive age has influenced the lower birth-
rate figure I don’t know. But it seems a
shame that Mr. Cairns has not even done
the statistical work to find out before
rushing into print with figures that are
not really relevant to the point he is try-
ing to make. For it could be that over
the next five years the birthrate will rise
again for the very reasons I have sug-
gested it has been falling over the past
five.
Figures can be made to show anything;
perhaps now Mr. Cairns may be prepared
to go to work on the relevant figures and
let us know his conclusions.
P. GIBBONS
Lindfeld (N.S.W.).
Zhivago as anti-hero
Sir,
Your reviewer in criticising “Dr. Zhi-
vago” refers to director Lean’s “inability
to convey a heroic character.” I feel that
this criticism is irrelevant to the film. Dr.
Zhivago is not meant to and in no way
pretends to be a hero. He is rather an anti-
hero. Here is a man who believes in the
importance of the individual living his
ordinary everyday life, apart from any
“ism.” All that Yuri Zhivago wants is to
be allowed to practise his medicine, write
poems, and be with those he loves.
To have given him heroic qualities
would have meant to completely misun-
derstand the book. In Pasternak’s “Dr.
Zhivago” it is the Russian landscape, the
Russian people who are the heroes, not
the man.
HEDDA BLACK
Dover Heights {N.S.W.).
Ding-a-Ding-Day
Sir,
In reference to the letter from the
Sydney Film Festival (8., April 9) I
omitted to tell Charles Higham that
“Ding-a-Ding-Day” had been titled
“Sketches” when I submitted it to the
Sydney Film Festival in 1965. One of the
committee’s criticisms was “you must have
had a lot of fun making it.”
GARRY SHEAD
Sydney (N.S.W.).
Calwell’s obsession
Sir,
How pointed Geoffrey Fairbairn’s com-
ments in “The Lost Years” (8., May 21)
seemed only a few days later when the
news came of the first conscript’s death
in Vietnam. He was quite right to em-
phasise that what is happening in our
reactions to the war in Vietnam “is not
at all an intellectual debate about events
in Vietnam, but a profound emotional up-
heaval in the minds of a great number of
Australians.”
But can one attribute the totally
inexcusable crudeness of Mr. Calwell’s
comments within hours of the conscript’s
death to “emotional upheaval” alone? I
was once ready to believe that in fighting
against conscription Calwell was respond-
ing with deep emotional conviction and
tfiat for once his obsession with one day
becoming Prime Minister was in this
case secondary. But what lower level of
political behaviour can there be than issu-
ing a prepared statement which includes
the sentence “Thank goodness the
Labor Party has opposed Australia’s in-
volvement in Vietnam and is free of the
blame for any casualties among service-
men there . . .”
If ever there was any doubt about Mr.
Calwell’s capacity for national leadership
that statement will dispel it. Or was Mr.
Calwell “malevolently misquoted”?
M. VAUGHAN
Castle crag (N.S.W.).
A Nation of Buffoons
Sir,
Are we a nation of buffoons? Judging
by Hugh Atkinson and his Expatriate’s
Agony (8., May 14) our “image” (if, in
fact, it was ever anything else) has grown
very tatty. Disquietening! Even if you’re
still comfortably at home and not exposed
so directly. On the whole, one can’t help
feeling we’re horribly full of self-conscious
fervor; and brimming over with self-
righteousness in umpteen directions.
Down with Knopf elmacher! (Frank’s
too Frank.) Up with royalty! (And for
heaven’s sake let’s bury that convict past.)
Out with Utzon! (How dare that genius
put a spoke in our financial calculations)
and so on, “ad inf’ ”! Perhaps Yevtus-
henko might redeem us. An Australian
Epic perhaps? (Song of our brave New
World?) But I forgot. Though he stands
ten feet tall, he has his critics, too.
F. D. WATSON
Burnie (Tas.).


one in a series of case histories of Goodyear reliability in industry ...
WE WAITED
TO BRING YOU THIS STORY
m
a*
m
mm
t
■rawj%fi f . r %■
- iMMn
***» ♦
m%
ff
£
i
i
*S*B£l'
:: ~v . >w- :«
N ;•-:■••
CASE HISTORY 1
In 1951, that’s 15 years ago, a set of
six Goodyear C105 multi V-belts was
installed to drive the No. 8 Circular
Saw at a large firm of Sydney Timber
Merchants, Vanderfield & Reid Ltd.
Operating at 950 R.P.M. from a 35
H.P. motor, the V-belts drive from
an 8 Vi O.D. pulley to one 13 s /s O.D.
The saw operates, on the average, 6
hours a day, 5 days a week. That
means that these Goodyear V-belts
have worked about 22,500 hours over
15 years. So that’s a long time. So
they’re Goodyear belts. They’re made
to take it.
With reliable performance like this,
it’s no wonder that this firm insists on
all Goodyear rubber products.
CASE HISTORY 2
At the North Melbourne Bedford St.
plant of Metropolitan Refrigerated
Services Pty. Limited, Goodyear Green
Seal V-belts are giving maximum
trouble-free hours at minimum cost.
Eleven D270 Goodyear Green Seal
V-belts have been operating in the
freezer and stores side of the plant
for 10 years. The compressor is an
80 ton twin cylinder 11 in. x 11 in.
Werner. It works approximately 112
hours every week of the year.
Six D 240 Goodyear Green Seal belts
drive a 7 in. x 7 in. Werner compres-
sor, while three Wilac twin cylinder 70
compressors are each fitted with twelve
D 270 Goodyear Green Seal belts.
Both the Werner and Wilac compres-
sors are fully automatic and the belts
fitted to them are exposed to a con-
siderable amount of wear and tear. Yet
in their 4 years’ service since installa-
tion, the drives have given no trouble
at all. They have, in fact, many years
of service left.
It’s this type of reliable service that
makes Goodyear V-belts synonymous
with high quality engineering know-
how.
When you want extra driving force at
the lowest drive cost, contact your
Goodyear technical man at the Good-
year branch in your State.
GOODYEAR
CSQOB


3^5
! o.
o o
A SOS/
CPA
FASTEST TO CANADA
HOW?
SUPER DCB JETS
THAT’S HOW! NON-STOP
DIRECT FROM HAWAII .
TO VANCOUVER
VANCOUVER—
THE GATEWAY TO
ALL MAJOR CANADIAN
AND U.S. CITIES
Canadian Pacific is fastest to Vancouver—gateway to all North
America. You’ll save enough flying time for a side trip to Banff
and Lake Louise —Canada’s wonder mile-high in the Rockies! See
your travel agent for details.
FLY
A/RL/A/ES
Incorporated in Canada. Limited Co. Canadian Pacific/Trains/Planes/
Trucks/Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World’s most complete trans-
portation system. Sydney office: 247 George Street, Sydney. 27-3411.
Melbourne office: 59 William Street, Melbourne. 61-3371. General sales
agents: Ansett-ANA.
ASK YOUR TRAVEL AGENT ABOUT
THE VANCOUVER VISITORS’
HOSPITALITY PROGRAMME
STARTING IN SEPTEMBER
Muggeridge's God
Sir,
I am amazed that Malcolm Muggeridge
in answer to his own question: “Is There
a God?” should be content to add his
testimony, “so hesitant, fitful, and inarticu-
late” (B. May 21).
He adds his testimony, be it noted, to
that “of those whom I most reveie like
Christ, Paul,” etc. Paul, of all people! That
raving ranter who smartly sidetracked
people up the garden path by being “de-
termined not to know anything among
you, save Jesus Christ and him crucified!”
What a fraudulent substitute for the
simple teachings of the historical Jesus!
No wonder they are now saying “God is
dead” crucified, dead, and buried, he’s
never been anything else THAT kind
of God. That was not the kind of God
preached by Jesus.
Again, Muggeridge reveres Christ. What’s
wrong with Jesus? Surely this gifted writer
has developed his perception and analyti-
cal perception sufficiently to distinguish
between the synthetic symbolic Christ
and the genuine human Jesus whose simple
“Good-Samaritanism” was the sine qua
non of his entire philosophy. Muggeridge
says: “There are no adequate words for
any of the great absolutes, like life and
death, good and evil . . .” What absolute
rot! Jesus had plenty of them, and they
were neither hesitant, fitful, nor inarticu-
late nor vague.
Mr. Muggeridge should take one more
look at his homework. He would then (we
hope) not pose the silly sixty-four dollar
question: “Is There a God?”, but rather
nearer the $64,000,000 one: “What Kind
of a God is God?” We hope he comes
again.
EWAN TUCKER
Sandringham (Vic)
Sir,
Need Malcolm Muggeridge feel so “dif-
fident” about his “testimony?” As far
as I can see, he puts himself merely into
the category of those beings mentioned in
the letter of James, 2.19-R.S.V. “Even
the demons believe and shudder.”
ISABEL McLENNAN
Cheltenham (N.S.W.)
Eisenhower’s Attlee
Sir,
An excess of zeal on the part of your
proofreaders in correcting President Eisen-
hower’s spelling of Earl Attlee’s name
rather blunted the point of the Eisenhower
anecdote in my recent piece on Earl
Attlee (B. May 21).
What attracted my attention was that
as late as 1949 General Eisenhower still
thought that the British Prime Minister’s
name was “Atley.”
BARRY O. JONES
Windsor (Vic.).
Who pays rates?
Sir,
Having only just caught up with Man
on the Land’s intriguing piece on local
government finance (B. May 7), may I
offer a belated comment?
Your columnist deals logically with the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association’s pathetic
“solution” by pointing out that the so-
called non-ratepayer does contribute his
share of municipal and shire funds through
the rent he pays for whatever type of ac-
commodation he occupies. He might have
gone further and shown that merely by
being domiciled in the ratable area
by living and breathing, requiring food,
clothing, shelter, and entertainment —he
pays his full share of the local rate through
the prices of everything he buys within
the area. It is his presence which creates
the rental value of the land on which the
rate is based. It is therefore as just as
it is logical that those who enjoy ex-
clusive possession of land —and the “land
value”—should pay the rate.
Another, broader, issue is raised by the
suggestion that “Australians should ask
themselves whether we treat symptoms
instead of causes in dealing with rating
issues.” I submit that it is this inability
—or refusal; I hesitate to say which —to
look beyond symptoms to causes which
is responsible for the entirely misguided
campaign by the Shires and Local Govern-
ment Associations to alter the incidence


C
Cities depend
on pipes...
Miles upon miles of concrete and steel pipes . . .
for water supply, drainage, and sewerage . . .
all of them vital to the needs of a modern city.
HUMES make these pipes . . . in fact they
invented the modern method of concrete pipe-
making, now in use all over the world. Humes
also obtained patents back in 1923 for
“a method of curving sheet steel to form
pipes . . .” And again Humes made history
when they originated the concrete lining of
steel pipes, now accepted practice throughout
the world.
Today HUMES, an all-Australian company,
are the largest pipe makers in the Southern
Hemisphere.
Humes have a total of 70 factories throughout
Australia, supplying the products essential for
Australia’s development . . . including steel
fabrications such as pressure vessels, bulk
tankage and ductwork . . . hoppers, bins, piles
and caissons . . . and precast concrete com-
ponents like floor and seating units, wall panels,
box culverts . . . also prestressed concrete
bridge beams, piles and other units. Whatever
your requirement in concrete and steel wc
are geared to meet them, from planning to final
installation.
S3IAIRH
AUSTRALIA'S BIGGEST PIPE-MAKERS
HUMES LIMITED: Head Office: 185 William Street, Melbourne. Phone: 60 0221. Offices and factories in all States.
HCSI264X


A NEW FREE BOOK
SHOWS YOU HOW TO
MINIMISE
YOUR
INCOME
TAX
\k
by Mr. Norman W.
Lewis, Chartered. Accountant,
this free Taxation Savings Guide will
show every businessman and executive
how to prune his income tax to the
smallest payment legally possible. What
makes this Guide unique is that it
answers tax questions frequently asked
by executives.
Questions answered in detail include:
“What is the present position regarding
the use of superannuation trusts?”
“When should you form a company to
handle your private share portfolio?”
“Are professional partnerships and
family service companies still worth-
while from a taxation viewpoint?”
“What is the present position regarding
the use of family trusts?” “How can
family business groups best spread their
income and limit income tax?”
This new and comprehensive Guide
is now being sent entirely free to new
subscribers to Rydge’s Business Journal.
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF
RYDGE'S BUSINESS JOURNAL
Rydge’s, 100 pages each month, is
Australia’s largest-read business and
financial magazine. Each monthly issue
is packed with practical, helpful articles
on all aspects of business and share
investment.
Rydge’s keeps every executive up to
date with latest management techniques
and practices, as is shown by the list of
articles below, taken from recent issues:
© “How to Sell Ideas to Top Manage-
ment.”
• “Getting More Turnover with Sales
Contests.”
• “A Practical Course of Memory
Development.”
• “Picking the Bad Credit Risk.”
• “Superannuation Funds for Small
Businesses.”
• “Simple Principles of Correct Office
Layout.”
• “Survey of Australian Executive
Training Courses.”
• “How to Forecast Capital Require-
ments.”
• “Basic Principles of Successful Share
Investment.”
-y Stimulating regular features which
also appear every month include:
“Current Economic Trends,” “Recent
Income Tax Decisions,” “Monthly
Taxation Article,” “The Court Rules,”
“What the Business Doctor Says,”
“Australian Executives’ News Review.”
No other business and financial maga-
zine in the world can equal Rydge’s
for accurate and authoritative articles
that help businessmen make greater
profits and earn higher incomes.
SHARE INVESTMENT ADVICE
For 38 years Rydge’s has been re-
garded as an authority on the share
market; our Share Recommendations
have made many thousands of dollars
profit for subscribers. Recently recom-
mended shares which have gone up
substantially in price are:
Western Mining Co. Ltd., Automatic
Totalisators Ltd., Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Co. Ltd., Business Equipment
Holdings Ltd., Fire Fighting Enter-
prises Ltd., Gadsden (J.) Australia
Ltd., O’Neill (Frank) Industries Ltd.,
Pongrass Industries Ltd.
As well as recommending specialised
buying situations, each month’s
financial section contains the technical
article “Trader’s Page,” puts on record
(AND THIS CANNOT BE
OBTAINED ANYWHERE ELSE)
complete Stock Exchange Indices for
the preceding four weeks, and con-
cludes with a very detailed and
accurate analysis of the balance sheets
of approximately 20 companies.
POST TODAY
RYDGE’S
GUIDE TO
TAXATION
SAVING
Rydge’s Business Journal,
449 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Would you please enrol me/my company as a subscriber to Rydge’s Business Journal
for one year and immediately forward my complimenta'ry copy of “Rydge’s Guide
To Taxation Saving.” My cheque for $8.50 is attached.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
of the burden of local government finance.
Through the site rating system (U.C.V.)
local government taps the flow of a
natural fund of revenue created by the
presence of people which is reflected in
“land value” (the capitalised price of the
annual rent). So long as this natural
fund exists (and the Valuer - General’s
latest returns show that it exists in N.S.W.
to the tune of five billion dollars, exclusive
of unvalued and non-ratable areas) there
can be no talk of “saturation” or “exces-
sive burden.”
The final solution of the problem, which
Man on the Land says must be sought
through “correcting the basic flaws of
our system of federalism,” is to utilise
this natural rent fund to the full as the
basis of all government revenue at all
levels, and remove the mounting load of
taxation from private property, produc-
tion, and enterprise, under which our
economy staggers like a man with a severed
artery.
E. P. MIDDLETON
Editor, “Good Government”
Sydney (N.S.W.)
Normie Rowe v. Thailand
Sir,
The article on Father A. Bonningue,
S.J., “Another Domino” (8., May 14),
had special significance in Townsville on
Friday night, the 13 th May, when a public
lecture by the French Jesuit coincided
with the' visit of another “celebrity”
pop singer Normie Rowe. Father Bon-
ningue fears that Thailand may become
the next “Domino” after Vietnam. If the
interest of Townsville residents is indic-
ative of the support which Thailand will
receive from Australia his fear would
appear to be well founded. Father
Bonningue’s meeting attracted an audience
of about 350, while a couple of blocks
away 1400 “twelve to twenties” paid $2
a seat for the privilege of screaming
through the fifteen minutes’ personal
appearance of Normie Rowe.
It is disturbing to think the Normie
Rowe audience may have been swelled
by the leaders of a “Christian Youth
Group,” who, in an eye-catching 15 sq.
inch advertisement in the Townsville
“Daily Bulletin,” announced to the city
that the regular youth social was can-
celled for the night, “to enable Commit-
tee Members to attend the Normie Rowe
show.” In spite of the lead given by
the leaders of the Youth Group, enough
young people chose to be more impressed
by the words of the heroic Jesuit than
by the antics of the entertainer.
P. J DUNNE
Regional Officer,
National Civic Council.
Townsville (Qld.)
A Proud Teacher
Sir,
John McLaren’s article (8., May 21)
about the lack of professional status
among teachers displays an abysmal
ignorance of recent trends in N.S.W.
State schools. As principal of a school
which is in fact undertaking the organisa-
tion of a program of education which is


One heater isn’t whole house heating.
But Gilbarco Ducted Heating is!
Ask an expert and he'll tell you a heater in one location, no matter how good and how
expensive, won’t warm a whole house. Warm air must be distributed through ducts,
individually into each room, for even house heating.
This is just what Gilbarco Central Heating does. And at a reasonable cost. It’s oil-fired
and thermostatically controlled for economy and gives you warmed filtered air distributed
through outlets into every room of your house. In summer it converts to assist ventilation
throughout the house.
If you’ve decided on whole-house heating, get it. Go to Gilbarco!
GILBERT & BARKER
Mfg. Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Huntley Street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
BRANCHES AT BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, TOWNSVILLE, NEWCASTLE,
HOBART, AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH
Please send me further information on Gilbarco Ducted Central Heating.
NAME :...
ADDRESS...
G8:P389
meeting the needs of particular groups
of children, I issue a cordial invitation to
Mr. McLaren to visit Daceyville School,
Kingsford, at any time. For want of a
better name this is an “ungraded” school.
J. S. RUSSELL
Manly (N.S.W.)
A Love for Polemics
Sir,
Every article in THE BULLETIN’S
“Man On the Land” series, whatever its
title, turns out to be a polemic about
agricultural subsidies. I am no lover of
subsidies, but I do not wish to read about
them week after week.
One could add that it seems quite
irrational to attack one item in a
managed economy without considering
others. For example, if it is conceded,
as apparently it is, that the Australian
cost structure makes it necessary for the
local industrialist to have tariff protection
to be able to compete on his home
market, it is only logical to suppose an
exporter would also require assistance to
meet foreign competition. It is also irra-
tional to judge the prosperity of an in-
dustry by quoting the expenditure of pri-
vate individuals without reference to
capital employed or other sources of
income.
J. O. K. DENNY
Lily dale (T as.)
THE RADICALS
fit&ulLetia
86 Years Ago: June 5, 1880
UUE of New South Wales have had,
and unfortunately still have, some
newspapers whose hideous indecencies
would render them a disgrace to any
civilised country, but we fortunately have
never had printed on this side of the
border so flagrantly cowardly a rag as
“The Williamstown Advertiser.” This
is what it says on the 15 th ultimo about
Disraeli and Queen Victoria: “What a
blood-red page the renegade Jew mounte-
bank has written in the history of our
country. A seven years’ bountiful har-
vest for the reaper Death; and the net
results, titted distinction to the charla-
tan, an obese, not-overburdened-with-
brain old woman dubbed Empress, Zulu
murders, Afghan massacres, and millions
added to the national burden!”
The foregoing appears in a journal
the proprietors of which are two mem-
bers of the Victorian Parliament. It
affords an excellent index to the motives
by which some of the most prominent
Victorian radicals are really actuated,
and fully justifies the opinion expressed
by the “Argus,” that whichever of the
pair is responsible for this gross and
scandalous act, this cruel and brutal in-
sult “should be hooted from the Vic-
torian Assembly and have . his name
dragged in the mire of infamy through-
out all time.” That the latter end may
be attained so far as this colony is con-
cerned is our sole excuse for disgracing
our pages with the extract from “The
Williamstown Advertiser,” owned by
A. T. and edited by W. M. Clark.


my
\ *v
\ v.\
SWxl
m
Kit
0
m
m
Vi)
• X:st
v
\1
I \ ktf
Ip
*
r /
1
u
i
>/
a
w» /E R *•*:
3PI»
I , N \l '
V? ;
* ' t \»
""—kiL-I
; , * t tjjß|
*l*^
K
* y'\£.',-. .
'
W *•
- ■ '
Palletair is currently operating between Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
TAA Palletair
the jet-age way to move cargo
TAA’s new mechanised system moves cargo faster,
safer, than ever before. It’s called Palletair. The
jet-age way to move cargo.
And here’s how it works.
Shipments are loaded on extra-strong pallets. Like in
the picture. Then tied down with a new kind of
security net. (Flat webbing of steel-strong nylon.)
So nothing can budge.
Special equipment lifts the pallets up to the aircraft,
slides them along rollers, and locks each one tightly
into position. Each pallet becomes part of the floor of
our big-door DC4s, and can’t move. Our turnaround
(the time occupied by unloading and reloading air-
craft) is now twice as fast. So we have more flights.
And more flights mean we can offer you greater
convenience.
With Palletair, physical handling of your goods is
reduced to the absolute minimum. So they’re also
delivered faster.
Ask about TAA’s jet-age service. It will be well
worth your time. And money.
TAAIAHI CARGO
For faster, surer shipment anywhere
in Australia or the world.
TAA493'66


GUEST CARTOONIST SHEAD
ELECTING THE NEW PRIMATE
"Every sin can be forgiven"
"I want to reach...hem...
I want the church to reach the
masses, the teenagers, the strip
clubs, the call girls, the brothels,
the..
"We have been too lenient on
the question of morality."
"Everything in moderation, I say."
"I find no reference to Sunday
films in the Bible."


The Bulletin
VOL. 88, No. 4500
June 4, 1960
Death at Vung Tau
SINCE all Australians feel the
death of Private Noack person-
ally, the political exploitation of it
is sickening enough to quickly pro-
duce its own backlash. Yet if there
is a reaction among some sections of
the public that goes beyond an aching
recognition of the horror of war,
then the Government must share
much of the blame: it has never
seriously faced the problem of pre-
paring the public for the radical
importance of victory in this war,
and for the inescapable necessity of
sending National Servicemen to fight
in it. Many Australians are, even
now, so unaware of the issues and
unprepared for the news that the
Government may have to pay dearly
for its “propaganda” failures in the
lost years. Private Noack’s uncle
himself, after deploring the use of
his nephew’s life in party politics
(“To us, Errol died for the good of
Australia”), said: “Man alive, we
don’t know what the Government
knows. They know more than we do
or ought to.”
This of course is true enough, but,
in fact, Mr. Noack and all Austra-
lians have a right to know far more.
For years, however, the Government
solved the problem of making a
significant contribution to the war
effort, while at the same time not
needing to engage in public educa-
tion of the issues, by treating the war
as an arena for a part of the Austra-
lian elite, by making a commit-
ment that was both excellent and
small. As anyone who visited Vietnam
testified, our soldiers, airmen,
surgeons, diplomats have been and
are of the finest calibre. They also
served the purpose of impressing the
Vietnamese, Americans, and other
allies, while leaving Australians as
a whole free to carry on as if the
war did not matter. Even the soldiers
were shipped away secretly in the
dead of the night, apparently in case
anyone wanted to cheer them. The
Government solved its propaganda
problem by adopting a policy that
did not require any.
Later when the crisis deepened and
conscription became necessary, the
Government seemed so used to not
explaining the issues that it limited
its propaganda to Ministerial pom-
posities or learned exercises in diplo-
matic history; and the initiative
remained for some time with its
critics, often with those who
actually want the enemy to win.
The situation is now at last
changing, as is inevitable with our
increased commitment. But the
Government still has much to learn.
It needs urgently to make up for the
lost years in clarifying the threat
to Australia of what amounts to a
new Hitlerism, but one which is even
more dangerous than the old in
that it is stronger and can count of
a more subtle Australian Fifth
Column; in dramatising the signi-
ficance of Vietnam to Australia; in
weakening our chronic isolationist
belief, based on our fundamental
superiority complex, that it can’t
happen here. A range of policies are
called for, from more popular
explanation and cultivation of Aus-
tralian loathing of brutal tyrants to
the forging of closer, more human
links with the suffering people of
Vietnam. We are at war, as Sir
Robert Menzies told an English
audience two years ago but he
left to his successors the job of
explaining it fully to the Australian
public and preparing us for the
sacrifices involved.
Face of the Week
Eldo rocket Europa I was fired from
Woomera. Broken Hill had an industrial
dispute affecting two mines, about 2500
men, over 2c an hour payment, later
over withdrawn lead bonus. Barrow
Island was declared Australia’s third
and biggest commercial oil field. The
national basic wage case dragged on,
with evidence from Sir James Vernon
and successful APPU application to be
heard. Tasmania’s 1966 apple and pear
exports, marketing and prices are
threatened by the U.K. shipping strike.
April building approvals and factory
production both went down. Sir Robert
Menzies wrote “Australia in Next 20
Years” for the London “Times.” The
Anglican Primate Archbishop Gough
resigned. The Methodist Church became
second to ordain women.
★
River Darling, 49,000-ton ore carrier
built at Whyalla, was handed over to
A.N.L. HMAS Sydney sailed for Viet-
nam with 400 troops, eight helicopters,
and MV Boonaroo with stores, supplies
and full crew. Rare blood patient Kevin
Abberton died, N.S.W. shark victim
Raymond Short left Coledale Hospital
after presenting shark’s jaws to life-
saver rescuers. The first death among
NS conscripts in Vietnam was reported.
The first aboriginal to have seeing eye
dog, Cyril Fisher, aged 55 of Q.’s
Cherbourg Mission, is at the training
school in Melbourne. U.S. Ford Founda-
tion gave $200,000 to Sydney Universi-
ties team for research towards a better
Pill. Senator Gorton forecast that num-
bers of privately enrolled Asian students
would have to be reduced. The Vice-
Chancellor of the University of Papua-
New Guinea, Dr. Gunther, forecast
Australia soon must double its $lOO
million annual grant to Territories.
★
It was Commonwealth Youth Week
and Prince Charles visited the Out-
ward Bound School in Sydney and saw
a Bondi surf carnival. The Adelaide
Hunt Club opened its season, and the
Film Festival began. International Milk
Day was followed by a lc a pint milk
rise in Sydney. Police and union pickets
clashed in a Melbourne weekend bread
dispute. Minister for Trade McEwen
left for the Kennedy Round and other
trade talks. A witness told a Tariff
Board inquiry that Australians are
“cheese snobs.” The Sydney Opera
House car park is to be built, the first
estimate being $4 million. W.A. is said
to be the world leaders in railways
construction, with a standard gauge and
two ore lines under way. The Victorian
Employers’ Federation supported
Weeden Report on educational TV.
★
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street. Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666.
Advertising: 168 Castiereagh Street. Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2-0666, Ext. 2504.


NCR
PROUDLY PRESENTS
the pdxh
9 new NCR Class 12
adding machine
$156-
Here’s a genuine beauty you won’t want to
miss. The most exciting new addition to the
NCR line since the introduction of the full-
size NCR 10-Key. Truly “petite,” and trim
of figure, this diminutive package of perfec-
tion is only 5" high, 8" wide, 12" long, 10
lbs. light. It’s NCR quality inside and out.
Durable. Dependable. Fast. Accurate. Quiet.
Nine-column listing and ten-column totalling
capacity make it capable of handling all
everyday figuring problems in the home,
office, store, school, factory, farm, every-
where. For more information, contact your
local NCR representative—he’ll bring a Class
12 right to your desk.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE
211-2188 63-0271 2-0631
TOWNSVILLE NEWCASTLE ADELAIDE
3276 2-4837 51-5821
PERTH HOBART CANBERRA WAGGA
21-9727 3-3887 4-0327 4345
/
m%
.
ccc
'
CCC
ccc
as
G
fSHJHI
£ .V*
OC K' <
m '
HELPING AUSTRALIA CHANGE TO DECIMAL CURRENCY
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO. PTY. LTD,


THIS AUSTRALIA
VIETNAM
Depending on the Americans
U.S. helicopters - essential for the Task Force.
IT was a week which dramatically underlined the seriousness, the depth, and the
difficulties of our involvement in Vietnam. On the day that another 400 troops
left on board the carrier HMAS Sydney came the news that Private Errol Noack, a
National Serviceman, had been killed in action near the Vietnamese coastal city of
Vung Tau.
Private Noack’s death not only set off
a wave of political and emotional reaction
but raised questions about the role of the
Task Force. Just how “self-contained”
would it be? In March, Prime Minister
Holt said that the 4500 Australians would
operate as a “self-contained Australian
task force under Australian command, em-
bracing all personnel serving there.”
In Canberra last week Army authorities
explained that Australian troops would
still be dependent on American forces in
more ways than one. In the case of Private
Noack, the first National Serviceman to
be killed in South Vietnam, he was en-
gaged in an operation to clear Viet Cong
from the area in which the Australian
forces would be based.
Advance units of the force have com-
bined with units of the American 173rd
Airborne Division in a series of local sweep
operations, and Private Noack died in
an encounter required to ensure that the
main force of Australians could arrive and
set up camp safely.
Australian troops will continue to com-
bine with American, Vietnamese, and
South Korean units and they will almost
always be supported by the New Zealand
artillery battery. They do not have the
helicopters for air assault operations, and
for these they will have to call on the
American “chopper” fleet. But they will
be “self-contained” in several senses. They
will have their own base area, one of the
two battalions defending the base while the
other is out on operations. At Bien Hoa
the Ist Battalion was part of the American
force operating around the Bien Hoa com-
plex. Its security and logistics were often
the responsibility of American units.
Having its own area, a higher ranking
commander, greater logistical and support
units, its own armour, light reconnaissance
planes, and stores, the new Task Force
will operate with a greater degree of
independence. After two months acclimat-
isation and settling in, the force will be
able to conduct medium-scale “search and
destroy” operations by itself.
But the exact degrees of “self-contain-
ment” have yet to be clearly worked out
and will depend on arrangements which
the Americans make with the local Aus-
tralian officers and commanders. It will
also, of course, depend on the uncertain
future of the war itself. One thing is clear
—no fighting force in Vietnam, whether it
be the South Koreans or the South Viet-
namese or the Australians, could afford in
any real sense to be completely indepen-
dent of the American military command.
OPERA HOUSE
Even Worse
THE biggest fuss over the Sydney Opera
House is yet to come.
Within the next week or so Mr.
Davis Hughes, the N.S.W. Minister for
Public Works, is likely to give some details
of the sketches and outlines (they were
certainly not working drawings) that the
Opera House’s former architect, Mr. Joern
Utzon, left behind when he left hurriedly
at the end of April.
The Utzon sketches are believed to con-
firm rumors that have been current for
some weeks that there will have to be a
wholesale redesigning of many features of
the Opera House. This is either because
some of Mr. Utzon’s concepts are still so
far from being reduced to anything like a
practicable design, or because the require-
ments of the potential users of the build-
ing are such as to force changes in what
are clearly unsatisfactory proposals.
The key question in urgent need of an
answer is the seating. So far the people
of Sydney have been told rrtore by music
critics in the morning newspapers about
the fluctuating number of seats being pro-
vided in the Opera House than by the
authorities responsible for it, in particular
the Opera House Committee.
Every time a new estimate appears, it
has been downward, so that the original
plan for a hall accommodating up. to 3500
was steadily whittled away until the Opera
House Committee (or someone) burst into
life a year or so ago and demanded that
the seating be radically changed; that the
concrete steps already poured for the
auditorium should be covered with timber,
a new seating configuration worked out
and some sort of side balconies built into
what had been intended as a one-level
hall.
This calmed most people down, except
for some like Mr. Walter Bunning who
continued to insist that something like
2000 rather than 3000 would be the most
that could fit in on his understanding of
Mr. Utzon’s scheme. He will probably
be proved right when the Minister event-
Davis Hughes - a statement.
ually makes the outlines public. The new
architects clearly will have to do something
about it. if this is so. Otherwise, not even
the good news about plans for a car park
would keep the Sydney subscription
orchestral concerts as a customer of the
Opera House.
But seating will not be the only prob-
lem. “The whole situation is worse than
I had feared,” one architectural team
member said last week. But if the Minister
handles it well, his coming statement of
what Mr. Utzon left behind him could
do more to justify his Opera House actions
than all the slightly self-righteous asser-
tions the Government has made since Mr.
Utzon resigned.
MICHAEL BAUME


DEFENCE
Still a Very Good Buy
THE commercial airlines are used to ordering their craft before they are developed or
flown. But the RAAF is not. The F-11l is the first plane it has ordered at the
development stage, and so it is not surprising that it should get itself into some-
thing of a Sydney Opera House type mess.
Not that it is really fair to hit it with
that analogy. The cost is up from $4.6
million to $7.6 million per plane over a
three-year period. But part of the increase
is due to changes in design intended to
make for greater reliability and smaller
maintenance costs. According to the Ameri-
cans, general labor costs are 15 percent
higher than anticipated and there have
been other extra costs because of technical
..... . , . r ,
difficulties- with the weight of the plane
and the air intakes for the engines. But
the biggest factor in raising costs is the
reduction in the total number of planes
being built, which means that fixed research
and development costs have to be spread
over a smaller number of aircraft, raising
unit prices. The Australian Government
has been careful not to commit itself deeply
to the latest estimates, having been made
to look rather foolish over its adamant
denials of cost rises. Most recently, the
Minister for Air, Mr. Howson, said that the
$52 million estimate for supporting com-
munitions equipment included in the
$lB3 million total was very rough indeed.
In fact, a choice of equipment has not
even been made yet, and a team of tech-
nicians are at present in the United States
examining alternatives. Several of the
planes are to be fitted out for reconnais-
sance and the cost of this is not allowed
for, either.
Even if the price does rise further, the
F-11l still looks like a very god buy. For
a mere $l5 per Australian, payment for
which is being spread over seven years
at a low rate of interest, we will have a
squadron of the best all-purpose planes in
the world. For once, we will not be a
“generation” behind, as we were with the
Canberras and Sabres and indeed with the
Mirages. The F-11l is certain to be the
match of any fighter aircraft in service
until the mid- 70s. It will be able to be
used in a great variety of roles in
strategic bombing of enemy industry or
bases > “ tact ' cal su PP ort of t S l ™™* trooPs-
“ interception of bombers or
counter-insurgency. It is of course, vastly
more expensive as a machine than planes
P.,, do SQme of these th f
, ... C o . mr
* Bm compared with s3m to ssm.
But if we are faced with a Chinese
nuclear threat or Russian - backed
Indonesian bombers, then the F-llls are
probably the only machines which would
allow us to defend ourselves. If there
are doubts about the wisdom of Govern-
ment aircraft policy, then perhaps they are
better directed at the s3oom order for
Mi fl hters These are {ar less adapt .
S mac hi„es, slower than the F-l 11 and
, . U 1 .’ „ . .
unabl<! “ lolter ln the same
There is some dispute as to how good
they are in ground-support operations,
although since there are none in Vietnam
it suggests that the RAAF is not yet ready
to give them a trial. For ground support,
which is so vital for counter-insurgency,
a number of alternatives are either far
better or far cheaper. The American Phan-
tom is both. The Mirage is an expensive
specialised plane which needs long run-
ways and sophisticated blackbox equip-
ment. It is essentially an interceptor and
it will no longer be top class by the
19705. In a missile age, no one has ever
explained why we need a hundred inter-
The F-111 in test flight over California
Costly, but swinging
ceptors except to say that they replace
the existing Korean War model Sabres:
which is hardly dynamic thinking. They
are also said to be very nice to fly.
PETER SAMUEL
THE WEST I
Nickel race
AS the first shipment of Western Aus-
tralian iron ore mined by one of the
big international groups sails toward
Japan, a fascinating race is under way to
put Western Australian nickel on the ex-
port map.
The pattern is similar to the beginnings
of. the iron-ore story, with overseas con-
cerns involved, cloak-and-dagger-type
shipments, and hot competition to establish
hopes of profitability and then to be the
first to get a foot in the door.
The companies concerned are Western
Mining Corporation, a relatively minor
iron-ore exporter in partnership with
America’s Hanna and Homestake groups,
but the first to start exporting; the other
is South Western Mining, originally owned
by Nickel Mines of Australia but now
with a 67.5 percent interest held by the
world’s giant in this field, International
Nickel.
Western Mining’s find is at Kambalda,
about 30 miles south of Kalgoorlie where
the Red Hills Westralia Gold Mines cre-
ated a boom town at the turn of the
century. South Western Mining have had
a pepped-up exploration program going
since October, following ten years’ work in
the Blackstone Range area straddling the
W.A.-S.A. border. The company has a
3000 square mile temporary reserve in
the area, centred on Wingellina, 40 miles
west of the border.
The goldfields find has caused a great
deal of excitement; the Blackstone Ranges
find a certain amount of resentment. Kam-
balda is said to be capable of assaying up
to 8 percent nickel against the 1.2 to 1.4
percent that would be considered com-
mercial. The worth of the Blackstone
Range deposit is not known, but it has
been described as “a vast lode” and en-
gineers are carrying out an evaluation


Toyota Lite Stout
is the tough 1-ton truck
you’ve been looking for
to replace that
'passenger-car’ utility:
A
a
453
rr. —v y \r
J/l
D
/
r*j
Now get your money’s worth with TOYOTA Lite
Stout genuine one ton utility with a real truck
chassis plus the kind of rugged toughness that
no other manufacturer has been able to match:
TOYOTA TOUGHNESS.
COMFORT: EASY HANDLING
Great comfort for three in the big panoramic
view cab. Lite Stout sports a column gear shift and
other passenger car niceties like light steering
and easy handling but underneath there’s a real
truck chassis. It’s all toughness and no “beg-
pardons.”
MUSCLE : PULLING POWER : 28 M.P.G.
74 horsepower gives you lots of muscle to pull
the big loads easily and a rugged 4-speed truck
to the gallon because there’s no wasted power.
SIMPLE: EASY TO SERVICE : RELIABLE
Lite Stout has the incredible reliability that
comes from simple, no-nonsense design. It’s
built to sound, tried and proven ideas. When
you lift the bonnet you see nothing you haven’t
seen before. It’s easier to work on and service
than any vehicle you’ve known.
BEST YET FOR SPECIAL BODIES
You’re seeing them everywhere! With Lite
Stout’s extra load carrying ability and truck
chassis, it's the most popular basic unit for
special bodies for many a long day. This tough
one-tonner is being converted to every known
delivery van use for bread, dry cleaning,
removing, department stores, carriers you
name it sofne have even been used for
refrigerated vans. Flat top model is especially
good for conversion to covered milk delivery
trucks.
Pictured here is the Lite Stout all-steel utility.
There’s also a standard drop-side wooden tray
and a flat top wooden tray up to 50 square feet
of carrying space!
SERVICE : SALES : PARTS :
Lite Stout is backed by an efficient network of
TOYOTA
dealers throughout Australia. Look for
this authorised Sales & Service Sign—
it’s your guarantee of the service and
parts that have helped to make Toyota
famous.
GoTOYOTAand get your money’s worth!
VJ %/ %/ LSPC.FPB
"SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS AND DISTRIBUTORS. THIESS (SALES) PTY. LIMITED, HAYES ROAD, ROSEBERY, N.S.W."


study that entails looking into mining,
processing, and exporting. Although South
Western Mining has said it is looking at
the prospects of setting up an industry
that could be worth up to $lOO million,
there is little official enthusiasm over this
compared with the hopes of nickel mining
and processing reviving the ailing gold-
fields.
Much of the rivalry arises because
Nickel Mines of Australia Ltd., operating
company for Blackstone Range deposit
with $2 million nominal capital, has its
headquarters in Adelaide. The South Aus-
tralian capital has also been used as the
shipping terminal for a $50,000 contract
with Ansett Transport Industries to get
the earth out in a hurry. The rush is to
make sure the “samples” are with Inter-
national Nickel’s processing plant at Port
Colburn, on the Great Lakes of North
America, before the waterways freeze up.
A shipping delay would give Western Min-
ing a 12-month break.
THE WEST II
Oil on the Island
AUSTRALIA’S long struggle to achieve independence in crude oil supplies moved
a stage forward when Wapet declared its Barrow Island well in Western Aus-
tralia a commercial find last week.
THE BULLETIN predicted this would
happen after I visited the island in 1964
to inspect the discovery well and examine
its prospects (8., Aug. 1, 1964). But
future progress toward complete inde-
pendence is not going to be easy. In the
past two years the enormous expenditure
throughout Australia on searching for oil
about $260 million has brought that
goal nearer, but the 200 million barrels of
oil the search has now uncovered is not
the whole answer.
Indeed, a senior official of the Bureau
of Mineral Resources warned last week
that we would have to spend something
like another $lBOO million to become self-
sufficient. Even if this is no more than a
wild guess, the magnitude of the task and
the money involved will help to keep
Wapet’s success in perspective as will the
fact that crude oil imports are still cost-
ing us about $3OO million a year including
freight.
Wapet’s decision to produce oil at Bar-
row Island after an otherwise unproductive
search costing nearly $BO million in West-
ern Australia over the past 15 years means
that in two years’ time Australia will have
three commercial fields. These will have
combined reserves of about 200 million
barrels and a probable output equal to
about 10 percent of national requirements
of crude oil. (Our other commercial
fields are at Moonie and Alton in Queens-
land.)
This 10 percent allows nothing for any
oil from Bass Strait following the Esso-
BFIP discovery there earlier this year. Ex-
perts believe this well will be the fore-
runner of the discovery of other oil-
bearing structures in this region, not only
by Esso-BHP (whose recent two dry wells
have been wildcats away from the more
likely oil area) but also by Woodside
(Lakes Entrance), which will shortly drill
offshore in the area. Frome Broken Hill
has offshore as well as land tenements in
Western Victoria on which Shell (which
has an interest in the exploration) re-
cently completed an intensive geophysical
survey. Frome’s next well, however, will
be drilled on shore close to the coast.
Nor does the 10 percent take into ac-
count the possibility of oil being produced
by Santos from its promising structure in
South Australia, about which the South
Australian Premier, Mr. Walsh, • has re-
cently been having discussions with Santos’
principals in the United States. In that
case the search looks more like throwing
up a natural gas proposition than a com-
mercial oil field.
Moonie, with current production at 8000
barrels a day, and Alton, with 800 a day,
are between them producing roughly 3 per-
cent of Australia’s current consumption
of crude oil. Higher outputs can be ex-
pected from both these fields. Production
at Barrow Island is scheduled to rise from
an initial 9000 barrels a day in May next
year to upwards of 20,000 a day, depend-
ing on the number of wells producing. To
achieve a 20,000 rate Wapet would need
in the vicinity of 240 producing wells com-
pared with the successful 22 wells so far
drilled. (Only two of the 26 wells drilled
on Barrow have proved to be dry holes and
the third produced gas but no oil.)
A much higher number of producing
wells will be required on Barrow to get
a given output of crude oil than at Moonie
because of the low permeability of the
44ft. average depth of sands of the rela-
tively shallow Windala formation which
Wapet is to exploit.
Even if the most advanced recovery
techniques are used, the rate of produc-
tion per well is unlikely to approach that
at Moonie. And this is comparatively low
in itself measured against Middle East
rates, although certainly higher than usual
in the United States.
J. C. HORSFALL.
THE CHURCHES
Dr. Gough
AS a public figure Archbishop Gough,
the Primate who resigned last week,
often gave the impression of being
rather old-fashioned. But some of those
who were irritated by his strictures on
church lotteries and Sunday games will
remember his courage and concern in a
matter of greater moment.
At a time when a number of Anglican
bishops, as a result of persistence and
epistolary exchanges with the Prime Min-
ister, were inadvertently creating the im-
pression in some quarters that the Church
was opposed to Australian involvement in
Vietnam, Dr. Gough dramatically re-
dressed the balance.
Typically, as a former chaplain wounded
in World War 11, he visited Vietnam,
where he found the troops in good heart
but annoyed at the anti-war demonstra-
tions at home. He said, “They felt that
if the Government had seen fit to send
them, the Australian people should give
them their wholehearted support.” It
was this kind of question of elementary
decency that Dr. Gough was quick to spot;
and which made him write in a diocesan
letter after his return, “The war in Viet-
nam may drag on for many months and
prove increasingly costly in casualties, but
it is a fight for freedom and the Aus-
tralian and American troops there are in-
spired by this knowledge even as their
forerunners were in Korea and the two
world wars.”
Indeed, he went further; he warned
people not to be influenced by clever
propaganda on the Vietnam war being
spread by “misguided or mischievous
people.” This was not an easy stand for
an Anglican cleric, and an Englishman to
boot, to take up at the time. It was much
easier to remain silent or to take comfort
in the argument that the Communist
“idea” could not be fought by arms, or
at the very least to speak softly about
Vietnam. But Dr. Gough’s voice was clear
and firm. As a result he was declared a
greater risk to the liberties of the country
than the Communist Party of Australia
by none other than Dr. J. F. Cairns. Such
was the price to be paid for arguing that
the country must honor its commitments.
Sometimes certain old-fashioned traits
arc so much more honorable than the
The Primate Courage
fashions of the moment, as the late Lord
Keynes demonstrated so bitingly in respect
of the “progressive” appeasers of the
’thirties.
Dr. Gough’s simple courage, allied with
a concern that took him to Vietnam, was
an example of this. As he said of the
Australian servicemen up there, he did
a “jolly fine job” in guiding and nerving
people at a difficult time. He will be
remembered for it.
RAYMOND MARTELL


SPACE
London’s
Woomera
THE champagne and communiques
flowed freely last week after the
successful launching of Europa 1 at
Woomera. But the doubts about the future
of Eldo’s whole program, of which
Europa is only the first stage, captured
much more attention than the celebra-
tions.
And those doubts come largely from
London. Andrew Wilson reports:
The British Cabinet is expected to meet
this week to settle a serious split be-
tween Ministers about Britain’s continu-
ing membership of Eldo, the European
space project.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr.
Callaghan, has demanded that Britain
should quit the organisation, whose costs
have risen from $175 million to $3BO mil-
lion since it started four years ago. The
Foreign Secretary, Mr. Stewart, and the
Ministers concerned with Europe are say-
ing that this would wreck a British appli-
cation to enter the European Common
Market. The Minister of Aviation, Mr.
Mulley, is also committed to continuing
with the project, though he is more pain-
fully aware than the Foreign Office of the
problems surrounding it.
Britain’s decision must be given at the
Eldo Ministerial meeting which will be
resumed in Paris on June 9 after a six-
week recess. Britain’s withdrawal could
lead to the collapse of Eldo unless the
other members are prepared to take over
the United Kingdom’s 40 percent finan-
cial contribution. In that case, however,
they would be entitled to take over Blue
Streak, the British first-stage rocket
around which the project has been built.
(The second-stage rocket is French, and
the third-stage rocket German. Italy is
developing the satellite and Belgium and
The Netherlands are providing guidance
and telemetry equipment.)
The British Government’s decision
could depend on expert estimates of the
advantage offered to British technology by
the suggested incorporation of so-called
“Perigee” and “Apogee” stages into the
existing system, enabling a satellite to be
placed in an equatorial orbit from the
Woomera range. Such an orbit is essential
for a communications satellite the only
pay-load that makes economic sense.
Another method of launching such a
satellite would be to change the launching
site, and next week’s meeting in Paris
will have had time to think over three
proposals made in April: The first, by
Australia, was for a new launching site
near Darwin. The second, by Italy, was
for a floating launching platform. The
third, by France, was for the use of a new
site now being constructed for the French
space program in French Guiana.
But while any of these might provide
a simpler and cheaper solution than the
“Perigee-Apogee” system, they might not
melt the stony heart of the British
Treasury.
Although it is emphasised in London
that the Foreign Office may yet get its
way, observers are naturally asking what
will happen to Woomera if Eldo folds up.
There would still be a number of other
projects requiring the range, including
the British Black Arrow project, whose
development is still going steadily ahead.
There is also the Australian Ikara pro-
gram and the prospect of Japanese use
of the range. But the cessation of Eldo
would leave a major gap. If it occurs it
would not be surprising if someone sug-
gested Woomera as the site for accom-
modating 1-5,000 British troops if and
when Britain is obliged to quit Singa-
pore.
Discussion on this and other facilities
is now going on between the British and
Australian defence staffs, though no site
for the land forces has yet been men-
tioned.
POLITICS
The New-Look Communists
YOU could get yourself expelled from some branches of the ALP for saying things
like: “Differences of opinion should and must become a natural thing in the
Party . . . sectarian, dogmatic tendencies remain the most serious harrier to taking
advantage of the favorable soil for building the Party in the direction of becoming a
mass Party . .
But not from Australia’s new-look Com-
munist Party. The speaker was the suave
and handsome John Sendy, Victorian State
President of the Communist Party of Aus-
tralia.
Mr. Sendy was addressing the recent
annual State Conference of the Party. He
stressed the need for discarding outmoded
Stalinist sectarianism, the necessity for
establishing a new mass base, and for
dialogue with previous' opponents. It seems
that even the crypto-fascist, social-
democratic, CIA hyenas who write for
THE BULLETIN may not be beyond the
pale.
Mr. Sendy had plenty of comrades,
sorry, mates. Chief among them, Mr. Rex
Mortimer, of the Communist Party’s
Central Committee. Mr. Mortimer spoke
of a “coalition of forces” into which the
Communist Party should enter in order
to “inaugurate a Socialist transformation.”
The leading Italian-line Communist in
Australia, Mr. Mortimer must have felt
himself riding deep in the curl of the
wave of history when he heard his views
echoed by aging Party functionary Mr.
Ralph Gibson, who felt himself bound to
declare, without any outward sign of in-
ternal pain: “We are witnessing a con-
siderable growth of working-class and
Socialist ideas within the ALP. New pros-
pects have opened up for a united effort.”
Party cadres whose memories go back
to the days when ALP leaders (of a super-
ior kind to those now ruining the Labor
movement) were abused as “social
fascists” and “running dogs of imperial-
ism” must have gained great insight into
the nature of political dialectic as Mr.
Gibson added: “United front work should
be the very centre of attention for Com-
munists everywhere . . . the industrial
working class must form the closest alli-
ance with white-collar workers . . . scient-
ists and technicians . . . intellectuals gen-
erally . . . the typical small farmer . . .
and the tens of thousands of smaller busi-
nessmen” . . . And Uncle Tom Cobley
. . . and all.
Meanwhile, Mr. Ted Hill, Titan of the
breakaway Communist Party of Australia
(Marxist-Leninist), is disturbed from burn-
ing joss before the revered icons of Stalin
and Mao. His rage reverberates from
totalitarian cavern to artesian basin
that is from the periodicals “Vanguard”
to “Outlook,” and he denounces the
“mass party,” demands “revolutionary
quality” in his membership, repeats the
doctrine of “the proletarian revolution and
the dictatorship of proletariat,” and deni-
grates the “Aarons-Mortimer revisionist
clique.”
But there is more foolery yet, and I can
remember some of it. Late last month in
Melbourne I attended a Fabian Society
“dialogue” between Mr. Mortimer and Mr.
James Jupp on the present and future
roles of the CPA. Mr. Mortimer pro-
claimed the mistakes of the Stalinist era
and refused to be bound by Leninist doc-
trines “which must be considered in the
context of conditions as they existed in
Tsarist Russia.” He attacked the Peking
faction as a sectarian lunatic fringe group
. and “thanked God” for the fragmentation
of the international Communist movement.
Displaying full sympathy for the Togli-
atti line, he pleaded that the new-look
CPA should and would respect the views
of others in progressive movements, whilst
at the same time contributing moral
toughness and organisational cohesiveness
to them. Mr. Jupp replied that the Labor
movement did not want or need the ser-
vices of an outside “ginger group” with
such an appalling historical record, and
Mr. Mortimer smiled without apparent
apprehension when Mr. Jupp suggested that
Mr. Mortimer seemed to want the CPA
to melt away and merge into the ALP.
Except for his omission of any refer-
ence to the importance of events and pros-
pects in Asia in estimating the worth of
“united efforts” with the CPA, Mr. Jupp
made no concessions. He is, of course, a
highly competent political scientist and
might have been expected to know the
moves better than the Catholic priest whom
I heard in “dialogue” with Communists a
couple of weeks earlier.
To this latter soiree, held in an expen-
sive cream-brick house at Kew, the CPA
listened politely whilst the invited clerical
guest, who is also a philosophy tutor at
Melbourne University, expounded on
Catholic principles and Social Action.
What, the party wanted to know during
question time, was the reason for the new
spirit of tolerance and understanding in
the Catholic Church? Many things, but


RARE nSAf: LOBSIHS THAT HY
JL
:^4
/
4 *
J
*+
4
4
i
<
//*
r/
n
Every Monday and every Thursday morning.
When PAL’s big DCB fan jets leave Mascot.
Canapes. Drinks. Beautifully served. And in-
flight entertainment on nine music channels
—two of them in full stereo. Fresh lobsters
appear, with king prawns in aspic. Served with
French champagne. This littletreat isn't lunch.
It’s just “elevenses." Lunch is yet to come.
As is your first-run colour movie. We pride
ourselves in the way we serve you in every way.
Especially since the Pacific is 68,000,000
square miles of nothing to see. So stereo
music that flies, movies that fly, and lobsters
that fly are part of this entertainment break
between Australia, the East, Europe, U.K. and
the U.S.A. Big treats instead of boring trips.
EUROPE VIA TOKYO
TAIPEI
SAN FRANCISCO
MANILA
811
EUROPE
HONOLULU
j SYDNEY
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
PAL
For PAL flight schedules, and Philippines tour infor-
mation, see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Cnr. Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane.
140 North Terrace, Adelaide.9B Williams Street, Perth.
62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra. 178 Liverpool
Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NAME
ADDRESS
MY TRAVEL AGENT
PHONE


That’s
Scotch,
by George!
GeorgelV
naturally
Never before have the
Scots been so generous with
majestic blending . . .
mellow, mature taste.
King George IV Old
Scotch Whisky—fit for a
King, and named after one.
THE SCOTCH
WITH THE
ROYAL FLAVOUR
The Distillers Agency Ltd., (Inc. in Great Britain)
12638
KG.32.73
mainly the extraordinary Pope John, they
were told.
Could not the Catholic Church and
militant sections of the Labor movement
learn to co-operate and have discourse on
specific issues, since both were concerned
to make moral and qualitative changes in
society? The church was always willing to
co-operate with men of good will, and for
the others, well, there was, indeed, the
parable of the Good Shepherd looking for
the lost sheep, was the reply.
All very cordial and ecumenical; then
came the rub: “We appreciate, Father, that
there are differences between us over the
question of the future of Vietnam. How-
ever, it seems that you are not in favor of
conscription. Perhaps here is an issue on
which we can not only agree, but on
which we can co-operate in practical
ways?”
The question captured the essence of the
“dialogue.” The Communists present
they included Victorian President John
Sendy, Central Committee member Mr.
Bernie Taft, “Guardian” editor Malcolm
Salmon, “Guardian” journalist Eric Thorn-
ton, and some top and rising union opera-
tors —were courteous and polite and made
no concessions.
The priest, however, impressed by the
attentive hearing, and no doubt feeling
that he ought to do something to make it
a good, ecumenical night, made the con-
cession, when he strayed very much away
from the central issues of his address; to
grant the audience that, whilst he dif-
fered with Communists and many Labor
men over Vietnam, he did concur with
them in opposing conscription.
At that point of the “dialogue” one felt
that the Red corner had suddenly opened
up a big lead on points. After this ges-
ture of reconciliation why should not the
Reverend Father and those Catholics who
thought like him give flesh to their opinions
and join with Communists and other pro-
gressives opposing part of the Govern-
ment’s defence policy? The question, after
all, follows naturally from the “dialogue,”
and surely Pope John would not have
been opposed to turning words into deeds?
Although they made no concessions in
the “dialogue” of this particular evening
in the plush Yarra Valley, CPA leaders
have made important gestures recently in
order to demonstrate their new liberalism.
One was the admission of the fact of
anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union (e.g., I.
Liebler. “Soviet Jewry and the Australian
Communist Party”); another, more re-
cently, was the statement by Mr. Laurie
Aarons, General Secretary of the CPA,
attacking the jailing of Soviet writers
Daniel and Sinyavsky: “We consider the
arrest and sentence of these men to be
unnecessary and wrong,” said Mr. Aarons,
amidst a lot of stuff about the lack of
principles of the two writers and the great
achievements of Soviet culture in general.
Of course, not all of the CPA, by any
means, is sold on “dialogue” and the new
liberal image. The influential Aarons bro-
thers of Sydney are giving the new-
look a try-on, but one suspects that their
hearts are not entirely committed to the
style. Furthermore a number of corres-
pondents to “Guardian” and “Tribune”
attacked the Aarons’ official statement on
Daniel and Sinyavsky. Gwladys Bird, the
nominal publisher of the “Guardian,”
wrote in about “the underhand methods
employed by these gentlemen of leisure
to sell their snivellings to their capitalist
publishers,” and the powerful and able
trade union boss, Laurie Carmichael,
makes no secret of his scorn for the bulk
of the leftist forces in the ALP. He
would rather destroy the ALP than
merge with it.
But the establishment of the magazine
“Arena,” the changing of the title of the
“Communist Review” to “Australian Left
Review,” the mellowing tone of “Guardian”
and “Tribune,” the persistent calls for
“dialogue” and attacks on “dogmatism”
and “sectarianism,” along with the evidence
listed earlier, demonstrate that the Morti-
mer faction is in the ascendancy. Whilst
a cool head is demanded in estimating
the Communist new-look, one should not
be blind to the probability that there is
more involved than a new phase of
Stalinist double-dealing. Mortimer and
his followers, whatever their record in the
past, are not ideological gangsters or
revolutionary neurotics. Following the
ideas of Antonio Gramsci, who died of his
sufferings in the jails of Mussolini’s Italy,
they are at last facing up to the dangers
of a bureaucratised, authoritarian, and
megalomaniac party in which idealists
are squeezed out and power-crazed self-
seekers struggle for leadership and
orthodoxy.
Some of the neW Communist critiques
of Australian society and the Australian
economy, found, for example, in “Arena,”
are pragmatic, intelligent, and civilised.
But they are still, on balance, a dangerous
and subversive force because their in-
fluence on strictly internal national issues
is minimal and their influence on foreign
policy is both strong and pernicious.
Although ideologically opposed to aspects
of Chinese Communism the new Com-
munists are still committed to the fol-
lowing propositions:
• East Asia is destined by history and by
right to fall under the Chinese sphere of
influence;
• Only Communism (no matter whether
Russian or Chinese) can bring agricultural
and industrial prosperity to Asian and
other underdeveloped countries;
• The loss of human life, civil liberties
and simple human rights in countries such
as China, North Korea, and North Viet-
nam is inconsequential when measured
against the order and economic efficiency
(sic) of these Communist regimes;
• The war in Vietnam is basically one
between decadent American Capitalism
and the people’s revolutionary forces;
• Australia should not only NOT be sur-
porting the government of South Vietnam
it should be actively assisting the
policies of the Indo-Chinese Communist
party and its agent, the Viet Cong.
I have no doubt that the new Com-
munists will respond similarly to the
“National Liberation” fronts already estab-
lished in Laos and now being set-up in
Thailand and Malaya. The question to
ask the new-look Communists is what
would be their attitude if the Communist
Party of Indonesia had been successful in
its attempted September 30 coup? That is,
if a Chinese-Stalinist totalitarianism had
been imposed with a consequent blood-
bath, extensive slave-labor system, econo-
mically destructive agricultural collectiv-
isation, abolition of any actual rule of law,
and an immediately hostile and aggressive
policy toward Australia?
Because I think I can guess the answer
to this question I can’t really buy the
“dialogue” stuff or the new-look.
BRIAN BUCKLEY


Mount Isa’s Newspaper War
Asher Joel
Rupert Murdoch
MOUNT ISA has come back into the news again in recent weeks not because of
another tussle between mine and miners, but because of a struggle for power
between rival newspaper groups.
Two morning daily papers are fighting
it out in Mount Isa in a battle which is
costing each group far more than it
would ever make in normal operations.
When and where it will all end nobody is
quite sure yet, although it is obvious to
those who know anything about news-
papers that somebody has to come down
to earth before too long.
The battle is between the “Mount Isa
Mail,” owned by Adelaide and Sydney
publisher Rupert Murdoch, and the
“North-West Star,” a new morning paper
produced by Carpentaria Newspapers Pty.
Ltd., of Mount Isa. Managing director
of Carpentaria, is Mr. Asher Joel, Mem-
ber of the Legislative Council in the
N.S.W. Parliament, Sydney company
director, for many years a journalist, and
formerly advertising consultant to the
mines.
An editorial in the “Mount Isa Mail,”
said to have been written by Mr. Murdoch
himself, declared that the “Mail” wel-
comed competition. But others were less
welcoming. Within days of the “North-
West Star” making its debut, reporters
were threatened with violence, a bundle
of papers was burned at a hotel, and
attempts were made to stop some news-
paper sellers handling sales of the “North-
West Star.”
Of course, none of these manoeuvres
was directed by the “Mount Isa Mail.”
Other forces Left-wing and Communist
elements had a stake in the fight and
moved in early.
Asher Joel, from the first issue of “The
Star” made himself clear: “Let there
be no misunderstanding where we stand
as publishers of ‘The Star’,” he said at a
dinner to 150 of the town’s leading citi-
zens to launch the new paper. “Without
Mount Isa Mines there wouldn't be a job
in this town, a single opportunity for in-
vestment or a future for one single person
in this room, our wives and our children;
and that goes for each and every one of
us, whether we are in business or workers
in industry or the mines. As far as I am
concerned we look to support from Mount
Isa Mines.”
It was small wonder that the Left-wing
union factions did not welcome a new
paper which was rumored to be owned
by the mines.
But how far they will succeed is shown
by the fact that last week the new paper
was selling far beyond expectations and
sales were increasing rapidly every day.
Before the advent of the “Star” the
“Mount Isa Mail” had been a very ordin-
ary country broadsheet bi-weekly. The
story goes that Joel offered Murdoch
$90,000 to buy it out. Murdoch refused the
offer probably because he did not take it
seriously at first. But before long Joel
announced that he was going to start
a paper of his own in opposition and it
would be a daily. The rush was on when
a new building started to go up just out-
side the main shopping centre in Camoo-
weal Street and printing plant moved
in. It was for Carpentaria Newspapers
Pty. Ltd. More than $250,000 was spent
on the building air-conditioned through-
out the factory portion and on plant
which included a new Swiss' Duplex print-
ing press imported from England at a
cost of more than $40,000.
To meet the coming challenge, the
“Mount Isa Mail” blossomed into a tabloid
morning daily and began to take
more care with its appearance. Editor
followed editor in rapid succession. A
few Sydney “Daily Mirror” features were
added and the size of the paper built up
to as many pages as possible by exten-
sive use of what are known as “house
ads,” and pages of pictures. The actual
advertising content of some issues was
less than 20 percent, creating a situa-
tion which would quickly turn profits into
heavy losses. Papers which should have
been eight-, 12-, or 16-page issues were
bumped out to as many as 20 pages, and
when the big day of battle arrived the
“Mail” pushed out a 24-page issue the
biggest in its history to meet the
“Star’s” first issue, also of 24 pages, which
was so late it did not hit the streets until
lunchtime.
For a week the “Star” struggled to get
out on time, even with 12-page issues,
because a fourth linotype was not installed
in time and because the number of com-
positors needed for a daily paper com-
pared with the job-printing business that
had been carried on previously had been
underestimated. The result was that people
worked the clock round in the first few
days until more compositors were flown
up from Sydney.
During that first week the people of
Mount fsa, Camooweal, Cloncurry, Long-
reach, Julia Creek, Winton, Hughenden,
and places in between had every oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the
new paper. They received it free. More
than 7000 were distributed every day.
A few days later Brisbane “Truth,” owned
by the Murdoch group, published a story
headed “New newspaper burned at Isa.”
The “Truth” story stated:
“Mount Isa miners oh Thursday night
made a funeral pyre of 200 copies of the
first edition of the town’s new newspaper,
the ‘North-West Star.’ On the concrete
floor of Mount Isa Hotel not a yard
from the very spot where 18 months ago
Pat Mackie held sway over a milling mob
of angry miners the papers blazed and
a hard core of Isa unionists cheered. It
was the first blow of the frontier town
newspaper war which promises to be
among the fiercest in Australian history.”
After another large sub-heading,
“Backed by Mine,” the story continued:
“On Thursday, two 24-page newspapers
chock-a-block with local, Australian,
and world news, jolted the 15,000 resi-
dents of Mount Isa with an impact almost
as great as the industrial dispute of 1965.
The players in this drama are the long-
established ‘Mount Isa Mail’ and its new
challenger, the ‘North-West Star.’ And the
battle just begun looks like reaching
gigantic heights. To the average Mount
Isa resident the battle already has been
established as one between an independent
newspaper - the ‘Mount Isa Mail’
and an allegedly Mines-backed publica-
tion, the ‘North-West Star.’ In November
last, when the ‘Mail’ was still a broadsheet
bi-weekly publication, the public relations
consultant of Mount Isa Mines, Mr. Asher
Joel, announced that a competitive news-
paper would be launched. The ‘Mail,’
which for several years has been a mem-
ber of the Mirror newspapers chain, threw
its full resources into the fray and two
months later Mount Isa people received
their first daily local newspaper. This is
now a six-days-a-week publication.”
The story goes on:
“Mount Isa Mines hierarchy hotly deny
any connection between the Mines and
the “Star.” When this was suggested to the
Mines publicity chief Mr. John Hopper he
replied: ‘This is scandalous. There is
nothing to show that the Mines and the
“Star” are connected.’ The general mana-
ger of the Mines (Mr. Jim Foots) also


v % 11
1 •. }s. T< Ilfs
Wm
.
Si-
m,
'mi
1
iM
m
m
m wm
M
ms
S&S
■g *
.v,*.r-
?s*
I"- 1 ! 1 "”
| s®l |
; \ r. "
. -
.v'.-.fe'.'i-.. ••■
■
■
' * ' S ; r .
’ " ■ : '. ? - V ’ ■
~ „ e* » V* <
WM
<-xC:
Apf{
Am£J,
m
mk
, • Y<:&:4: ■ m •••;
V. *!
i
■:■>,'<■ * >s* V-j *< A* V J V :
/ fcra %'M i
Sfe ' i
'\s ,• < ,-
■■6ll*
'**■,/ 'I- ' f < •'' •
1-v %-: ,
|> 3f ■* ‘
••
. . w-W
mmmrnSs,
m rv> M :
m |
EZffi
a Si
: S>
■
■ ■■ '• /. -. • : . - , - .' “
,
' ‘ ’" • ‘ ‘
< s . JmoL3£ fA-rk-i'* .
Who shot a bullseye
100 times out of 100?
Burroughs
Burroughs computers on the job at Cape Kennedy have
taken part in every U.S. space shot and missile test. The
impressive tally? More than 300 shots with 100% computer
success.
From complex tests such as these, Burroughs scientists,
mathematicians and researchers have developed highly
advanced computer systems for commercial use. Systems
with the same bullseye accuracy. The same ultra-reliability.
For example: Burroughs recently developed an Electronic
Data Processing System that does the job of three com-
puters. Capable of handling simultaneously On-Line work,
Off-Line work and Multiprocessing. But that’s only part of
the story about Burroughs Electronic Data Processing
Systems the 8500, the 82500, the 83500, the 85500 and
the 88500. Ask your secretary to call a Burroughs man.
BU22BDR


II
J.
■' .111111111111111111,1,,
llllllllllllllllltiiiiii,
,iMMiiiiiiiiiiiniiiii||||,
!" I ■■iiiiinniiiiiiiiiiii
ll
4 rl
( - k f
|; v . fe JV; r 1 \\
ii. H
- It
E’ It i
kM
i« t i *i
M 111
Praktica
belongs
Belongs in a world of people who
know and appreciate fine things,
who know the special benefits of a
precision-built German single
lens reflex camera.
Praktica's crystal-clear. Reflex
View Finder allows you to see the
picture you are taking, accurately.
Allows you to take wide-angle
and telephoto shots and the
instant-return mirror makes sure
you see the shot you took,
right through the lens.
From the moment you hold a
Praktica, you know it belongs.
Experience the thrill of holding a
beautifully finished instrument,
meticulously made. Praktica, from
$89.50. Distributed, serviced and
fully guaranteed in Australia
by Hanimex.
HANIMEX
BELONGS TO THE GOOD LIFE
As exhibited in the Photokina
World Exhibition, Cologne,
Germany.
HAP 2669/66
denied the connection. ‘lt is absolutely
untrue,’ he said.
“However, the town generally believes
that there is some connection. Mr. Roy
West, former president of the ALP Mount
Isa branch, said yesterday: ‘I feel certain
that the Mines are backing the “Star” and
so do the majority of people here. This
is a workers’ town and that is a Mines
paper’.”
The second issue of the “Star” carried
as its page one lead the news that Mount
Isa Mines proposed to spend $1,600,000
this year on development of its McArthur
River project, 350 miles away in the
Northern Territory. To any sane news-
paperman this was a good story anywhere,
and in Mount Isa is was a boomer. But
it was inside page stuff for the “Mount Isa
Mail” and it brought only hisses from the
noisy minority of left-leaning mine-baiters.
The “Star” must be a Mines paper, they
said. It had put that big plug for the mines
on the front page with a picture of the
big boss of the mines, Jim Foots.
They were no less appeased when the
“Star” published a page-one lead story
and pictures of top AWU officials in
Mount Isa for talks with members of
their union, by far the biggest in
Queensland and in Mount Isa. The
AWU is not the most popular in
other unions on the field. The “Star”
reported next day how the AWU
men were welcomed by miners when they
visited the mine on an inspection tour.
But the “Mail” was not interested in the
AWU visit. Its front-page story the
same day was an interview with a laborer
who claimed he had been unjustly sacked
by a firm doing a contract job at the
mine. It had featured the previous week
front-page stories and pictures about the
eviction of a man named John Lemm, one
of the 44 miners who were not re-employed
at the mine after the strike. Lemm had
continued to live in a house owned by
the mine, claiming he was staying there
until the final appeal of the 44 came be-
fore the High Court of Australia. The
appeal was heard last week in Sydney and
was rejected with costs against the strikers.
But back to Mount Isa and the news-
paper war. A young Sydney reporter who
had gone up to work on the “Star”
quickly found the industrial round tough
going. Another reporter who was waiting
outside a meeting to get a report of
decisions was approached by two burly
characters and told “ off or you’ll
get your ’ead kicked in.”
In one hotel, copies of the “Star” were
buried on the foyer counter under copies
of the “Mail.” An old pensioner who sells
papers at the mine gates came in the
“Star” office the day before the “Star”
was to go on sale and said he was sorry
he would not be able to sell the “Star”—•
only the “Mail.” Another seller said he
was told that all supplies of all publi-
cations from a large publishing chain
would be withheld from him if he sold
the “Star.” He went ahead and handled
sales of the “Star.” Advertisers were told
the new paper would not last three months.
It would be unwise for them to advertise
in the “Star” because if it folded up they
might look in vain for someone to take
their advertising then.
But, of course, whoever wins will
not reject anything because there is not
that much advertising to be picked up
locally, and all of it will be needed to
recoup the losses incurred in the early
part of this struggle for power. A conser-
vative estimate is that each side is losing
about $4OOO a week.
Meanwhile, the people of the north-
west are enjoying the tussle, for it has
given them two good daily newspapers
instead of one fairly dull bi-weekly. More
important still, it has given them two
voices in their local and industrial affairs
instead of only one and a potential cham-
pion against the standover tactics of the
extremist elements.
"Somehow he’s not taking it in the same spirit as Mr. Holt."


Do-Gooders Who Do Good
No Therapy for Guilty Consciences
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
LOOKING for the chance of a nice
long holiday abroad? In the beauti-
ful New Guinea Highlands or Sunny
Malaysia or on. the shores of Tonga?
Don’t apply to Australian Volunteers
Abroad. Nor do they offer a cosy pro-
gram of conscience therapy for those who
feel guilty at Western affluence and would
like to move a few underdeveloped
mountains.
Australian Volunteers Abroad may be,
in some ways, a local parallel to the
American Peace' Corps. But since it be-
gan its work in 1964 it has established
an identity of its own, often reflected in
the letters and comments • of those who
have been the first participants in the
scheme. As one Australian volunteer now
working in Nigeria wrote:
“People who expect to make a great
sacrifice and move mountains are usually
disappointed. Similarly, those who expect
to have everything they had at home will
also be dissatisfied . . .”
Nobody is asked to change the
destinies of nations or to apply ready-
made solutions to the problems of others.
A volunteer in Tanzania admits: “I am
still groping to find out what one should
do in particular situations here the
complexity of which I only just seem to
have begun to penetrate.”
There is work to be done: hard work
and rewarding work. Writes a volunteer
nurse in the Pacific: “They always come
half-dead because they all try the magic
first I’m just the last resort. I love
them and get mad with them and walk
miles to them because they won’t come
to me, but no matter how little edu-
cation they have they are real, real
people, much more real I think than
most of us.” Writes another nurse: “The
mothers are all anxious to have their
children looked after medically and the
fact that they walk quite a few miles on
the hot dusty road, with one child in
arms and a couple stringing behind, makes
me feel rather humble that I am the
person they are all flocking to see, when
back in Australia I am just one of the
many thousands of double-certificated
nurses floating around the place.”
Impartial in the world-wide economic
debate over whether most monetary and
other capital forms of assistance to under-
developed countries are in the long run
advantageous, the Overseas Service Bureau
began its Australian Volunteers Abroad
Scheme in 1964, when 13 volunteers were
sent to work in New Guinea, the Solomon
Islands, Nigeria, and Tanzania. The
Overseas Service Bureau was itself estab-
lished only in 1961 as a community
organisation to encourage Australians to
serve in Asia, Africa, and the Pacific. The
Bureau is supported by more than a hun-
dred church, youth, and community
groups and gets its funds from individuals,
trusts, and now the Federal Government.
Among its patrons are listed Sir Garfield
Barwick, Sir MacFarlane Burnet, Dr.
J. F. Cairns, Professor Manning Clark, Sir
Owen Dixon, Archbishop Eris O’Brien,
Mr. David Scott, Mr. Gough Whitlam,
and Archbishop Frank Woods. Director
of the Bureau is active young administra-
tor Mr. Jim Webb, a former leading figure
in the Australian Student Christian Move-
ment, once president of its Students’ Rep-
resentative Council, and Warden of the
Melbourne University Union.
“What I am looking for at the moment
are a sawmiller and a boatbuilder for a
co-operative on the Papuan coast,” were
Mr. Webb’s first words when I spoke to
him last week at the Overseas Service
Bureau national office at 124 Jolimont
Road, East Melbourne, only a drop-kick
from the Melbourne Cricket Ground. He
added it way a common misconception that
the major need was for professional
workers, teachers, doctors, nurses, etc.,
there was just as much demand and real
need for people with trade and organisa-
tional skills: “Carpenters, plumbers, and
mechanics can be of tremendous assis-
tance to the emerging nations of Asia and
Africa.”
Big-time operators would probably be
out of place, but Australians with sufficient
organisational experience to assist in teach-
ing others how to conduct meetings, to
carry out executive duties, to keep books,
and to present a case to superior national
Glenys Witham - Physiotherapist in Port
Moresby
Peter Fleming - Science teacher in
Tanzania
authorities are also in great demand from
local government bodies and co-operative
societies in the Near North. One of the
most successful volunteers sent abroad by
the Bureau was previously a clerk in a
shire council.
One of the differences between the Aus-
tralian Volunteers Abroad system and the
American Peace Corps is the emphasis the
former places on the benefits to be gained
by Australians who serve abroad. “We are
not just a band of dedicated do-gooders,”
says Mr. Webb. “We believe that personal
contact with Asia, Africa, and the Pacific
can be of tremendous advantage to indi-
viduals and to Australia as a nation.” He
points to the fact that his Bureau's scheme
is favored by the Australian tradition of
travelling abroad, but adds with regret
that of the 30,000 young Australians who
travelled overseas last year only about two
percent managed to touch down anywhere
in the whole of South-East Asia.
In one of its brochures the Overseas
Service Bureau prints the comments of a
volunteer teacher who worked in Papua:
"You may make plans for your return
and once home begin to live again much
as you did before. But you will find that
you cannot shut this short-term volunteer-
ing experience away in a box. You cannot
just pick up the threads where you left
off. You are a changed person. You have
become vitally interested in world affairs.
You are now sensitive to racial issues. A
review of aboriginal stockmen’s wages, a
new slant on Australia’s immigration
policy, an American Civil Rights Bill: these
have become meaningful to you . . . This
all happened to me because as a volunteer
teacher I spent one year among the Saua-
speaking people in the Milne Bay area of
Papua. Papua to me is no longer a brown-
meat piece of land off Cape York, but
rather a rapidly developing country where
the people have ordinary humans’ hopes
and fears.”
The Bureau wants volunteers to think
of themselves not as twentieth-century
inheritors of the white man’s burden or


S 3
m,
m
mms>m
m ' M
■ ■
HR
m
n
mm
m
wt
tzm
■
*®f-
jfifi
4<vy*
MBs!
m§
PUSt
r,i®£
aftvx
,* : -tv.*:
Copyright by Rand McNally & Company
An idea for Australian business:
Emery Air Freight
can put the speed of light
on your international orders
Emery watches over your shipment by means of
30,000 miles of private cable, teletype, and telex.
This electronic service is maintained exclusively for
Emery customers. People such as you.
Specify Emery Air Freight when ordering from:
United Kingdom • Continental Europe • U. S. A. • Canada
Sydney, Kingsford Smith Airport—Phone 67-0381
Melbourne, Essendon Airport—Phone 379-5449
EMERY AIR FREIGHT


PROBLEM!
Provide correct
atmospheric conditions
for medical
research at Monash
University
iiiiiiirtiWl
iiiiliw .
SOLUTION-
A bank of five models
1005—04 plus two single
free-standing units of 7
and 10 tons respectively
.by CHRYSLER
Y
I
The equipment is serving general
laboratory areas and also some
operating theatres. The packaged
units used ideally suited the applica-
tion and provided a rapid minimum
cost solution to the problem.
Just another example of Chrysler’s
ready adaptability to rigid specifica-
tions to meet the circumstances.
CHRYSLER
«
PHONE YOilR STATE AIRTEMP DISTRIBUTOR
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 349
Montague Road, West End. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W. A A.C.T. Strataflo Pty. Ltd., 100 Parramatta
Road, Camperdown. Phone SI 6645.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray
Street, South Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A. : Airtemp Operations, Chrysler Australia Ltd.,
Ninth Avenue, Finsbury. Phone 45 3661.
W.A • ! Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray Street,
Perth. Phone 23 2214.
AIRTEMP OPERATIONS
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD
CM7B
as tourists of cqnvenience, but as private
ambassadors offering their service at the
disposal of their new neighbors.
The Bureau conducts a thorough screen-
ing of all applicants for overseas service
and also runs its own brief training school.
Without dampening enthusiasms the train-
ing school is partly designed to rid volun-
teers of their illusions. After last year’s
nine-day residential briefing one girl wrote:
“My interview with the Bureau was a
shattering but very interesting experience,
convincing me that it would be difficult
to get into the net.” Another said he was
“impressed but alarmed. I thought I had
no chance of selection from such a high-
minded organisation.” A third declared
that his main impression of the briefing
was “one of careful and acute scrutiny.”
The Bureau claims that the briefing
seems to be successful in making wary
those who are attracted by glamorous
images of bringing physical and economic
salvation to the “natives” (a word, of
course, which is never used officially). The
message is repeated that the best volunteers
are those who learn to live in friendship
in their new environment and slowly learn
how they can best serve the needs of the
indigenous people.
John Ingram, a volunteer at Kuala
Trengganu, in Malaysia, describes his ex-
perience: “One of the major activities as
a volunteer seems to be talking. I have
had many long discussions with the Malay
teachers on such topics as religion, educa-
tion, art, and our respective countries.
The discussions we have tend to emphasise
our similarities rather than our differences.
It’s good that people from different
countries and cultures can come together
like this, sit together exchanging ideas. As
one said, ‘Once the English were separate,
regarded as “Tuan,” and treated as such.
Now, with Americans and Australians
coming here, living with the people, cycl-
ing along the road, and so on, it is being
realised that they are the same as us and
don’t think they’re better’.”
Australian Volunteers Abroad has 74
men and women over the age of eighteen
serving overseas this year. Fields of service
include India, Nigeria, Zambia, Tanzania,
Malaysia, Papua-New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Tonga, and the New Hebrides.
This year AVA has pioneered new rela-
tionships with local government councils
in Papua-New Guinea at the request of
village leaders who want to improve the
efficiency and scope of local government
councils and co-operative societies. In the
New Guinea Highlands four volunteers,
an engineer, a librarian, a shire clerk, and
a mechanic, are working for the Goroka
Local Government Council and are paid
a small allowance by the Council. As with
all of the volunteers, they are employed by
the local authority. The payment proced-
ures differ a little from country to country.
In some cases the prevailing local wage
rates (tiny by Western standards) are
paid, in others only a little pocket money.
The Bureau provides the return fares and
some insurance coverage.
As well as receiving some financial
assistance from individuals and the 120
sponsoring organisations, AVA is now
seeking to promote an adoption scheme.
Groups may adopt a selected volunteer by
raising the money to pay for the cost
of selecting, briefing, and sending him
overseas. Fares are a heavy burden, with
the cost of sending a volunteer to Africa
ranging from $lOOO to $l5OO, to Asia
from $6OO to $lOOO, and to New Guinea
and the Pacific Islands $350 to $5OO.
Encouraging recognition of the work
of the Overseas Bureau was given by the
Commonwealth Government a few months
ago when the Minister for External
Affairs, Mr. Hasluck, and the Minister for
Territories, Mr. Barnes, announced that
their departments would extend their sup-
port for the Volunteers Abroad scheme
to provide financial assistance. The Min-
isters praised the scheme as being in the
national interest, and added that they
wanted as far as possible to preserve the
voluntary character and independence of
the Bureau and its activities.
The Bureau is anxious to preserve both
its independence and what it cails its “per-
sonalised approach.”
Its leaders feel that one of the prob-
lems of such a large organisation as the
American Peace Corps is lack of adequate
personal screening of volunteers and lack
of loyalty to the whole scheme and its
administration. The Peace Corps, for ex-
ample, uses computers extensively to
handle applications.
Superfluous lecturers
most of its volunteers
come from those in the low middle-
twenties, the Bureau would like more ap-
plications from older or even retired
people in good health and with appropriate
skills. It has already placed one man of
67. With the increased public and private
support the Bureau wants 100 new volun-
teers ready to leave Australia by next
January, a figure which would increase its
field strength to 140. It requires more
teachers, nurses, tradesmen, administrators,
scientists, and engineers, and has already
requests from overseas for a social psy-
chologist and lecturers to university
standard in a number of disciplines.
Most of the volunteers so far have
been placed in Papua-New Guinea, but
the range of countries requesting assis-
tance is increasing faster than the Bureau’s
supply. There are urgent calls for two
surveyors in the Solomon Islands, for a
headmaster in Tonga, for a lecturer in
sociology in Singapore, for a senior
English mistress in India, for an office
secretary in Nigeria, for a doctor in Paki-
stan, and for nurses in Formosa.
Those who accept the challenge may
find themselves writing back home next
year in the spirit of Peggy Adamson, now
lecturing in Physics at the University of
Zambia:
“Recently we had a physics prac. class
experiment falling bodies. In Sydney,
prac. was the most boring three hours
of the week one tried to escape from
the lab. as soon as possible. Here, 6 p.m.
last cheerful student leaves lab., jaded
instructor collapses into chair having in-
structed since 1.15 and building equip-
ment since 7 a.m. These students are so
keen, so interested, so intelligent . . . they
come back to lab. on extra afternoons
they run seminars by themselves the
lecturer is quite superfluous.”


ONE MORE
WEEK
Half-Wit
“THE WIT of Sir Robert Menzies,” com-
piled by former cricketer Ray Robinson,
and, we assume, rushed out by British
publisher Leslie Frewin, provides some
good reading. The best of it is probably
what reviewers found to say about previous
“wits.”
All the publishers could find quotable
from reviews of “The Wit of Prince
Philip” was “ ‘Salty’ Daily Mirror.”
“The Wit of President Kennedy” yielded
“ ‘Cannot fail to bring enjoyment’—Daily
Mail,” and “ ‘Good stuff’—Daily Mirror.”
Some of Mr. Robinson’s selections seem
no less flat on the page. For, of course, this
book doesn’t tell you what Sir Robert was
like when he was in good form any more
than the Press photographs “in which they
could study your adenoids,” which he
mentions in the section on the Press, tell
you what he looks like.
The book acknowledges help from a
long list of people, not including Sir
Robert.
Percent Age
THE BALLET FOLKLORICO of
Mexico, which opens in Melbourne this
month, is being brought here by Harry
Miller, of Pan-Pacific Promotions, and the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust on a 50-50
basis. Miller, who has had his ups and
downs since he came from New Zealand
a few years ago, has now settled on his
role as the “Sol Hurok of Australia,” pre-
ferring the calculated risks of high-class
attractions (he did well with Rubinstein)
to the incalculable risks of popular en-
tertainment.
The Ballet Folklorico and the current
tour of flamenco guitarist Carlos Montoya
are his first major essays in this role.
It grows harder to determine what the
Elizabethan’s role is. However, it is of
some interest that the Ballet Folklorico,
which is a national theatre, has two com-
panies, one permanently in Mexico City
and one on tour, and operates profitably
enough to hand back ten percent of its
gross to the Government each year.
British Institutions
“PRIME MINISTERS are not born; they
just happen,” said an authority on the
subject, Mrs. Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, MP.
Mrs. Pandit refused to talk about Viet-
nam, “because I am a guest in your
country and it is a controversial issue
here.” But there were plenty of suitable
topics her brother Nehru (“Unlike
him I experience no conflict between my
British and Indian backgrounds”), her
niece, Prime Minister Indira Ghandi, re-
form of the United Nations, India’s stack
of internal problems, skirmishes with Sir
Winston Churchill, and the futility of the
containment-of-China theory.
Mrs. Pandit agreed that the success she
and her niece had enjoyed in public life
was an inspiration to Indian women. “I
would not describe us as exceptional
women,” she said, “Rather we come from
an exceptional family.”
The present Prime Minister was not
jolted as her older relatives were by the
impact of Gandhi’s teachings. “It hap-
pened almost at one stroke,” Mrs. Pandit
said. “Those things were so new to us:
Austerity, simplicity in living, coarse
clothes. But Indira was really a child of
the revolution. She was brought up in a
house that was broken up many times
father in jail, mother in jail, grandfather,
aunts, uncles, cousins in jail. Nobody
minded. It was just part of the pattern.”
Mrs. Pandit, former Indian Ambassador
in the U.S. and Russia and High Com-
missioner in London, recalled her dismay
when she first met Sir Winston Churchill.
Churchill growled: “I don’t hold with
women in high places.”
“He was so gruff and harsh I wanted to
run home and cry,” said Mrs. Pandit.
Churchill, years later, made an exception
for a woman in a high place, inviting
Mrs. Pandit, as President of the UN
General Assembly, to spend a weekend at
“Chartwell.” Lady Churchill was charming
and gracious. But Sir Winston, recover-
ing from an illness, was crotchety.
During the conversation he remarked:
“You seem to know a lot of English
history.” Mrs. Pandit replied: “Certainly,
I do.” ‘ Why is that?” demanded Chur-
chill, annoyed. Back came the response:
“Because you English made me learn
nothing but English history all the time
I was in school.”
Discoveries
AUSTRALIANS in Europe who grow
irritated when they are confused with
Austrians might not feel so bad if they
realised that Austrialia was the name by
which the Portuguese navigator Quiros
referred to the unknown great south
land in the early 17th century. He was
paying tribute to the reigning king of
Spain from the House of Austria, and
also using the old Spanish word for
southern.
So “Austrialia Franciscana” was the
title chosen by Franciscan Father Celsus
Kelly, of Waverley, N.S.W., for his his-
torical series, published by Franciscan
Historical Studies in collaboration with
Archivo Ibero-Americano in Madrid. With
the opportunities for scholarship which his
calling sometimes provides, Father Kelly
has had five books published in years
and is working on the sixth.
The first volume of “Austrialia Fran-
ciscana” dealt with Franciscan documents
of the expedition of Quiros to the South
Seas (1605-6) and missionary plans for
the conversion of natives of the southern
lands 1617-34. The second was dedicated
to Mendana to commemorate the 400th
anniversary of his voyage of discovery
from Peru to the Solomons in 1567-69.
Father Kelly is working on the third
volume.
The closest Quiros got to Australia was
the New Hebrides, which he named Aus-
trialia del Espiritu Santo.
The Hakluyt Society has sponsored the
publication this year of two volumes of
“La Austrialia del Espiritu Santo,” edited
by Father Kelly. (Only the title is in
Spanish.) The fifth book is a “Calendar
of Documents,” containing a selection of
documents in their original text and a
catalogue of source material available for
further research.
Father Kelly has spent 12 years inter-
mittently on these researches into three
Spanish expeditions to the South Pacific,
and found 800 documents in archives in
Madrid, Simancas (near Valladolid),
Seville, and Venice. His scholarly dis-
coveries have been perhaps as rewarding
and exciting as those by the original
adventurers.
How Long is Forever?
WORLD SALES of diamonds have
doubled in the past ten years, and the rise
is expected to continue as people buy
with both decoration and investment in
view. Sales through the De Beers organis-
ation, which handles between 80 and 85
percent of the world total, have risen
from SAIB7 million in 1955 to SA36O
million last year.
Credit for the rise is given in part to
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
It wouldn’t be right using the boy’s
life for propaganda.
—J. H. Noack, whose nephew is the first
. conscript killed in Vietnam.
The notion that one can cause people
to abandon their ideologies by inflicting
pain on them should have died in Rome
with the Christian martyrs.
—Professor Jerome Frank of Johns Hopkins
, University.
. rea “ the papers and the maga-
zines you would think we were almost
worshipping the female bosom.
—Evangelist Billy Graham
In an unsatisfactory condition due to
having had intoxicating liquor.
—N.S.W. Railways Department Appeals
Board’s description of a crew involved in
c .. , , . . a collision.
Sensation onljr brings journalism mto
disrepute if it is for commercial pur-
poses rather than the outcome of news.
Duke of Edinburgh.
Most businessmen need a perfect sec-
retary more than a perfect wife.
—Lady Dartmouth.
The disruptive vortex of linguistic
politics.
—Heading in the London “Financial Times.’’
An opponent can be bombed into sur-
render or even into non-existence, but
he cannot be bombed into honest
negotiations.
— Professor Charles Osgood l of the University
of Illinois.
Someone has described a technicality
a p Q j nt Q f principle which we have
forgotten.
— Sir Elwyn Jones, British Attorney-
General.
Spart-parts surgery is likely to be an
economic nightmare.
—Sir John Bruce, of the University of
Edinburgh, at present in Australia.
Britain should welcome expulsion from
British Commonwealth. If precedent
. .. ~ *
15 § ulde ’ lt would P™ e a tu c mia f
point in our economy, as it has for South
Africa, and millions would become avail-
able to modernise ourselves.
—Elspeth Huxley.


a heavy advertising campaign, based on
the slogan “Diamonds are forever.” But
are they? Is the investment potential of
the average diamond of engagement-ring-
size all it’s cracked up to be?
For a beginning, the value of a diamond
plummets the moment a newly-engaged
couple walk out of the jeweller’s shop.
If the girl decides ten minutes later that
married life is not for her and returns
the ring, the young man could be 15 per-
cent or so out of pocket immediately. Most
big jewellers get several broken engage-
ments each week and unless they are
unscrupulous, they have a special box of
second-hand rings selling about 15 percent
below new price.
If the diamond-is-forever slogan is to
be put to the test when she is a hard-
pressed married woman, the picture is no
more cheerful. The jeweller might offer
only between half and one-third the price
paid. This is because he must carry the
overhead of the plush surroundings which
go with diamond selection, entailing a
mark-up of 50 percent or more. Then he
must pay 25 percent sales tax which he
cannot hand back.
Because of the fashion aspect, which
his industry promotes, a secondhand ring
is usually worth to him only the few
shillings for the melted-down gold or
platinum, plus the wholesale worth of
the diamond not very much.
But all the time the diamond ring is,
on paper at least, improving in value, as
the jeweller’s valuation for insurance pur-
poses will attest. In one case we came
across, the couple could have picked up
$350 from their insurance company with
no trouble at all, as long as they had
been dishonest enough to “lose” the ring.
Yet they could get only $l2O by trying to
sell it honestly.
So much for a girl’s best friend.
Out of the Cocoon
LEONARD HESSING, one of the most
articulate of Australia’s artists a not
notably taciturn group in our experience
has returned to Australia after 18
months abroad. He was prepared to ex-
pound a whole theory of life and art in
both Britain and the United States. After
six weeks home, a mere breathing space
before returning to London, he was able
to pronounce confidently on the state of
things in Australia.
“Australia,” he told us, “is a large
cocoon in which people can hide for
shelter.”
Hessing said he was drawn not only
to the London art-scene but to what he
called “the totality of London life.”
“England is in the throes of a rigorous
internal reassessment which is reflected in
the work of its painters and sculptors,”
he said. “For the first time painters in
England are closely scrutinising their work
and confronting all the challenges of their
environment. They are experimenting with
a multiplicity of new forms and ideas, but
are firmly rooted in a rich and painterly
tradition.”
This sense of tradition gave contem-
porary British painting a humanism which
Hessing found lacking in America. “Ameri-
can artists are obsessed with intellectualism
and theorising which is reflected, for in-
stance, in the role of the critic,” he said.
“Pie has become so tremendously influ-
ential as to be almost an extension of the
painter himself.”
The art of both countries was more
meaningful to Hessing than Australian.
“We do, of course, have our few good
painters,” he said, “but, on the whole,
Australian art lacks conviction. It reflects
the isolation of Australia and chares its
lack of tradition and self-knowledge.
Australian painters suffer from a lack of
any real confrontation with the basic for-
mal problems of art.”
A large part of the blame could be
laid at the door of our art-schools, Hess-
ing said. “They teach the student how
to wield a brush, but not how to grapple
with the world at large,” he said. “They
teach the very thing an art-school should
not how to paint.
“The day of the easel painter in his
ivory tower is over. Today the painter
is more interested in marginal things. It
is almost as daring to paint with a brush
today as it was not to 20 years ago.”
“It happens all the time.”
“Cheer up, you’re not the first Leo to be born under Pisces.”


Who said an
adding machine
can't
type?
——'
i.< 4 Ajk r 4 *»»
m *5 *5 * I
Not us...
This adding machine can type anything. That's
the secret of its versatility.
It’s the new Addo-X 8000, combining all book-
keeping and typing functions on the one machine. A
machine whose efficiency and economy make it ideal
for all accounting procedures.
Now you can type details or text on an invoice,
ledger card or statement, calculate and print the
balances at the same time - all on the one machine.
Nothing could be simpler. Or more efficient.
But it doesn't stop there. This new Addo includes
unique features that simplify procedures, cut time
delays, reduce operator fatigue and eliminate errors.
If you're looking for this kind of modernisation in
your business, it's worth your while to call Remington
and arrange a complete demonstration of the new
Addo-X 8000 in your office. Remington experts are
available anytime to suit your convenience.
Remington Rand The World's Largest Business Equipment Organisation
Sydney 2-0925 Melbourne 69-0660 Brisbane 5-4651 Adelaide 8-4631 Launceston 2-2358 Hobart 2-2886 Canberra 4-0885 Perth 23-2281
RR47Q


NEW YORK LETTER
Keeping the Paranoia Index Down
From GEORGE McGANN
THERE seems no reason to doubt the
sincerity and high purpose of Dr.
Timothy Leary in his current crusade
for everyone’s right to use the drug LSD.
A brief encounter with him the other day
left the impression of exactly the tweedy,
academic, affable type one had expected
the ex-Harvard professor to be.
But someone should try to protect Dr.
Leary from his friends and supporters
the earnest bumbling amateurs who staff
his make-shift offices in swank United
Nations Plaza here, the shaven-headed
Caucasian monks in flowing robes who
billow round him, and the likes of Chief
Boohoo, who gave evidence in Washington
last week before the Senate subcommittee
investigating juvenile delinquency.
Chief Boohoo, nee Arthur Kleps, of
Florida, is head of an obscure sect calling
itself the Neo-American Church, which
has its headquarters at Morning Glory
Lodge on Lake Cranberry in upper New
York State. (There is a bit of an “in”
joke here morning glory seeds are used
by the psychedelic set as a substitute for
LSD and marijuana.)
Chief Boohoo told the Senators that if
Leary eventually went to prison as a con-
sequence of the nine indictments against
him in various parts of the country for
possession of marijuana, the youth of the
country would rise up in revolt and bring
on “religious civil war.”
The Neo-American Church, the Chief
went on, looked upon Leary “with the same
special love and respect as was reserved
by the early Christians for Jesus.” The
church also regarded the taking of psy-
chedelic drugs as “sacraments,” akin to
partaking of the host in the conventional
Christian faiths.
Another witness, Dr. Robert Baird, of
the Harlem Haven Clinic for Narcotic
Addicts, told the committee: “LSD users
are suddenly overcome with religion —■
they accept any philosophy of life but
work.”
Although Dr. Leary has never equated
the taking of LSD with religious experi-
ence (he adopted the Hindu faith some
years ago) the presence of white Budd-
hist monks among his entourage and the
cult-like atmosphere obtaining at his ramb-
ling mountain headquarters, Castalia, lend
the air of a guru surrounded by faithful
followers. Young followers, of course. He
is the defender of the “under thirty” group
who are presumably turning to LSD as a
revolt against the alcohol-centred old
gaffers over thirty.
The heart of the controversy between
Leary and his “under thirties” and the
more mature segment of the population,
led by the medical and narcotics-enforce-
ment authorities, is over the effects of
LSD on its users.
Leary contends that LSD is “less harm-
ful than aspirin” and far, far less dan-
gerous to the individual and the com-
munity at large than alcohol, nicotine, or
“nuts in cars.”
He ascribes all horror stories told by
his medical opponents concerning the
homicidal and suicidal effects of LSD to
misinformation, distortion, or “abuse” of
the drug.
As a result of the growing storm
centring about the use of hallucinogens
such as marijuana and LSD, Leary ad-
mits that they must be put under some
form of control, contrary though that be
to his notions of individual freedom.
In a recent television debate with medi-
cal men, Leary (who is a Ph.D, not an
MD) called for a method of licensing
marijuana and LSD users, similar to that
in effect for motor-car drivers. He has also
suggested a moratorium of one year to
his followers and all users of the halluci-
nogens to educate the public to their true
nature and to fight against further legal
and police prohibitions on the use of the
controversial substances.
is a persuasive and logical prose-
lytiser, intelligent, attractive, and soft-
spoken in debate. He comes over well on
TV. In the debate he likened the uproar
over LSD to the conflict between theo- '
logians and scientists 300 years ago, when
the microscope was first used.
“The microscope opened up a world
that had been invisible,” Leary contend-
ed. “After you looked through a micro-
scope you were a changed person. You
realised that behind static forms was a
universe of tiny organisms, tiny cells, and
behind it a meaning and intelligence . . .
The same thing is true of LSD.”
LSD is simply another kind of energy,
argued Leary, and as such is not the
province of the medical profession to con-
trol or to interfere with:
“It is similar to atomic energy or any
kind of man-produced energy, and is
neither good nor bad. What matters is
how it is used, and that is why I say it
should be widely used under supervision.
More and more young people are using
it, and that is a good thing. If you try
to prevent its use there will be an explo-
sion.”
Leary waxed eloquent over the experi-
ence of a “trip” with LSD.
“A person taking it for the first time
experiences a dramatic intensification of
the senses, as though one were seeing for
the first time. The energy of light itself
hitting the retina, everything glistening
and being bombarded by energy. The
senses are different, touch is exaggerated,
the intensification of panoramas never
seen before, energy kicking inside the
nervous system, cellular messages, cellular
wisdom hundreds of millions of years old,
revelations, lessons from within of wise
men and religious leaders, a place to learn
inside. The substances of LSD are thous-
ands of years old and have been used for
religious, artistic, and personal revelations
or for pleasure and fun, discovering the
wonders of God’s universe.”
Anyone who takes LSD becomes a new
person, Leary insisted.
“It permanently changes people. Any-
one who has had a glimpse of the won-
ders within is a changed man. The cur-
tain is pulled aside and you realise the
tremendous potentialities within you.”
When challenged on the dangers LSD
posed to the mind, Leary, a former prac-
tising psychologist, replied:
“I gave LSD one hundred times over
a two-year period to prisoners in a maxi-
mum security prison, the toughest, most
dangerous men in Massachusetts. There
was not one second of friction or violence.
In 2000 cases I personally supervised
there was one case of violence and it
was my fault. I gave LSD to 23 people in
a mental hospital. All were cured.”
Despite his legal difficulties, Leary
does not have the feeling of being perse-
cuted “I try to keep my paranoia
index down.
“I belong to an old trade union that
suggests people can solve their own prob-
lems,” he commented. “We are in a little
bit of trouble because we are threatening
the medical profession, the psychiatric
profession, and the alcohol industry. That
is an occupational hazard. There is no
one conspiracy.
“I may be 50 or 100 years ahead of my
time or maybe just a nut. But let us
use this microscope. A lot of people will
be solving the problems of alcoholism
and neurosis on their own without medical
help. The widespread use of LSD might
bring about a spontaneous recovery by
the American people who are harassed
and in a state of confusion by many
forces, political and economic, that have
nothing to do with the use of LSD.”
Despite his fervent espousal of every-
one’s right to use LSD, Leary admitted
in an appearance before the Senate sub-
committee on juvenile delinquency that
use of the drug was getting out of hand.
With one-third of the nation’s college
students experimenting with it, “the use
of LSD has provoked a crisis—not a
crisis of peril but a crisis of challenge.”
To solve this crisis, Leary proposed the
formation of a national commission, com-
posed of psychologists, neurologists,
philosophers, and religious leaders, to con-
duct organised research into the entire
LSD problems and to determine safe limits
for the drug’s use by the general public.
He envisaged the establishment of LSD
centres, where the drug could be adminis-
tered in aesthetically harmonious settings.
Each person might be given a lifetime LSD
card, he suggested, to be punched for each
trip, like a commuter’s train ticket.


.
'
Sydney
: ■
V 1
ew York
:•
Wm
M 5633
If it’s worth shipping 9,692 miles, it’s worth Farrell Lines Care.
What is Farrell Lines Care?
It’s space. Dry cargo spaces. Refrigerated space.
Deep tank space. The right space for your product, whether
it’s big, cold, liquid, dry-grown, manufactured, or mined.
It’s experience. Experience in long voyages that goes
back almost 40 years. Experience in handling tobacco, tea,
coffee, fruit, meat, rock lobsters, wool, machinery, ores and
minerals. Experience in helping world trade grow.
But put Farrell Lines Care to the test yourself. We’re
prepared to pass it... with flying colors.
ship via Farrell Lines
An American Flag Line Serving
Growing World Markets
FARRELL LINES INTERNATIONAL-LINER HOUSE, BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
AGENTS: Wilh Wilhelmsen Agency Pty. Ltd. Liner House, 13-15 Bridge Street, Sydney, Australia
Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Limited, P.O. Box 959, Auckland, New Zealand.


P*°tnd oor
3-, co «a«
,U s ' raUan
pa\a' e
. 1 » ss ° e
N oiT>'
e o£ Austtato.
omw' wines. 01
■Safe s3?sS
Son *JS f s i a l
%*&£ * £>»*»
1 "linisceuees £ Ucbe mwre c -
te Toi bems eoR Ot«*
at °cnGlttf s *°
A
THE OTHER SEX
Money In
Old Clothes
I MADE a hundred pounds one evening
without moving a muscle. Well, to be
more accurate, without moving more
muscle than was absolutely necessary. We
had a couple of friends dining with us,
and during a lull in the conversation I
happened to remark that upstairs there
existed a cupboardful of clothes that had
better be worn by someone soon or my
husband would up sticks and off. This
promise had long threatened the stability
of our marriage, because I was a com-
pulsive clothes buyer but not, unfortu-
nately, a compulsive clothes wearer. Lest
that remark be misunderstood, I am not
a nudist.
Later, while the men were talking,
Diana and I packed all the clothes into
cases, carrier bags, newspaper, anything
that was wrappable, and stowed it all into
her husband’s car. A sizable vehicle, which
took six fat people comfortably. We had
to overflow into the boot. He expressed
some annoyance at becoming an overnight
Steptoe and Son but otherwise took the
intrusion quite well.
Next day Diana got to work spreading
the message to anyone interested that she
had in her possession “marvellous model
clothes going for a song.” Viewing time
at her home next day. She put everything
on hangers, priced them—charging more
than I originally paid in some cases (“never
mind, darling, they weren’t to know”)
and when the onslaught started cleverly
introduced a competitive element by hint-
ing that someone over there had her eye
on that. Her husband returned that night
to find his house a shambles. He was not
too pleased, I gather, because he had
brought his boss back for a drink. For a
long time after he could hardly put a foot
in his club without being accosted by
strange gentlemen inquiring if he had
anything to fit their wives, and certain
senior executives with whom he worked
were heard asking if he could possibly
knock five bob off?
But this is all by the way. Diana’s first
report to me was that she’d made fifty
pounds or thereabouts. Then it rose to
sixty-five, then seventy-eight pounds ten
shillings, then in bits and pieces up to a
final glorious hundred pounds, give or
take a penny here and there. She then
went abroad, but this had nothing to do
with her clothes-selling activities in Eng-
land.
Now I mention all this as an example of
what those hoarded-up clothes did for me.
There’s no reason why they shouldn’t do
something for other people, too. London,
in fact, is enjoying a boom in the sale of
second-hand clothes. Young ladies are
snipping up not only second- but third-,
fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-hand clothes from
street markets just as fast as old ladies
can turn them out of their attics and trans-
port them there. “The Honorable Miss
Felicity fflagshawe-fflagshawe seen wearing
a moleskin coat which she bought from
Petticoat Lane for fifteen shillings” is not
an unlikely caption to read in one of
the glossier glossies these days. I recall,
too, a picture of a high-society lady photo-
graphed from the rear climbing into a
taxi-cab with a whole load of junk on the
back seat which, according to the story,
was going to join three attics already
groaning with second-hand clothes. I have
witnessed more caterwauling fights over
junk-stalls bursting with Victoriana reach-
me-downs than ever seen in shops at sale-
time. Some dress manufacturers are so
keen to get in on this second-clothes boom
they are even producing garments that
look worn. “We don’t want our stuff to
look stiff and starchy. Our customers want
clothes that have that broken-in look, you
know,” said one whose sales returns are
doing very nicely, thank you.
I haven’t dabbled in the genuine second-
hand clothes market myself lately. I
tried, after Diana left the country, to shed
my fast accumulating wardrobe once more,
but my nerve failed when negotiating be-
gan. My takings were too embarrassingly
small to record here, and once, I am
ashamed to admit, I had an evening dress
returned. I toyed, briefly, with the idea
of selling a sample range of Swedish
bikinis for an agent. Indeed, if Diana
had been there, I wouldn’t have hesitated.
As it happened, the agent succeeded in
selling £2O worth of bikinis to me.
But, obviously, there’s a germ of a
money-making idea in this. Only the other
day I received a beautifully typed letter
on expensive scented notepaper informing
me of the opening of “a brand-new kind
of dress-shop.” Titled ladies, tired of
their Balcenciagas and Diors, were dis-
posing of their exclusive wardrobes at
knock-down prices. Would I care, in the
privacy of this deliciously different bouti-
que, where refreshments were also served,
to come along perhaps and see for myself
what succulent goodies could be mine for
a mere song? On the other hand, if I
had a similar wardrobe that could be
theirs for the taking, could they send a
plain station wagon to my house and dis-
pose of it under no obligation to anyone?
I am tempted. I have no Balenciagas
or Diors or anything as haute couture as
that. But there’s one thing I learnt from
Diana. You can always sew the labels in.
DAPHNE GUINNESS


SifltGOUiM^
<£& :
: : •
5 ’•■:<,•
**£
54
ORLANDO
Miamba claret
AISIRAtIAN Hllit
ORLANDO
Miamba hock
g.gramp C SONS PIY.IIO
NET I PINT 6 FLUID 01
AUSTRALIAN Wilt
C.CRAMP JASONS PIY.IIO. _
>SSA VALLEY. SOUTH AUST«*L»
NET I PINT 6 FLUID OZ
ORLANDO
MIAMBA HOCK &
MIAMBA CLARET
People who prefer their wine
white choose Miamba Hock
for its fruity bouquet and crisp
finish. Those who like a red
wine that is medium to full,
With a pleasing bouquet, in-
triguing palate and soft tannin
finish, choose Miamba Claret.
But there are many who like
both white and red, with a
meal. And, this is where
Miamba Hock and Claret be-
come truly memorable be-
cause one balances perfectly
with the other.
10«1
ON THE MARGIN
A View of Camelot
CHARMIAN CLIFT, in one of her
newspaper essays, has recalled that
as a young girl she was infatuated
with Tennyson’s poem The Lady of
Shalott. In emulation of the unfortunate
lady, she even lay in a canoe, robed in
snowy white, and floated down a creek.
It was an amusing reminiscence, yet some-,
thing about it made me want to protest.
Miss Clift seemed to imply that the poem
was juvenile stuff a jingly Arthurian
fairytale and nothing more. This attitude,
and it is not uncommon, shows a super-
ficial view of the Lady of Shalott and her
difficult situation.
When we encounter her she is stuck
there alone on an island in the river. She
is forbidden to look through her window
at the people and things outside. Especially
she has been warned not to look down-
stream toward Camelot, the swinging
town where the in-group of young exe-
cutives and their switched-on girlfriends
are making interesting careers for them-
selves.
The Lady is condemned to see only the
reflections of the outside world in a
mirror. As a consolation she has her
creative talents—she sings songs and weaves
a tapestry depicting the mirror’s magic
sights.
One can recognise something familiar
in her plight. It is that of the romantic,
“artistic” person who is not a good mixer,
and is temperamentally unfitted to cope
with practical affairs. The Lady of Shalott
may weave competent tapestries, but she
would not do very well in, say, the used-
car business. She would rather read a
book than attend a Parents and Citizens’
meeting or go waterskiing. She is, in short,
an introvert of the purest type.
Nevertheless, as such persons often do,
the Lady hankers after some action. She is
half sick of shadows, she says. Her
undoing comes when Sir Lancelot appears
in the mirror. Lancelot is a successful man
of affairs, handsome, dynamic, outstanding
war record,' an armor-plated Gregory
Peck. He represents two forces which often
draw dreamers and intellectuals into the
active life: war and love.
There follows a tremendous climax.
With what power Tennyson’s multiple
rhymes describe the stages in the down-
fall of the Lady:
She left the web, she left the loom,
She made three paces through the
room,
She saw the water-lily bloom,
She saw the helmet and the plume,
She looked down to Camelot.
At once the curse takes effecc the
Lady has to pay for her rash attempt to
come closer to reality. To make things
worse she suffers disillusionment: she finds
that when she looks straight at the world
it is not as attractive as it seemed in the
mirror. She sees the low sky raining over
towered Camelot. One feels very sorry
for the doomed Lady now. She stands
with a glassy countenance gazing down-
stream, then gets into her boat to die.
There is a final ironic twist when she
“Fm afraid, sir, we’re at war with Disneyland.”


WINE OF THE WEEK
UNDEMAN’S
PRIVATE BIN
WHITE
BURGUNDY
BIN 77
VINTAGE
1965
Made from
White
Hermitage
and
Semilion
grapes
grown in
the Hunter
and Clare
Valleys.
Crisp
generous
medium
bodied.
Awarded
Vfi ITE
sEL ECIhD VIN TAge
PRIVATE bin
Bin 11
■TY. LTD.. S*W*J
Bronze Medal 1965 Brisbane
Show Table Wine Dry Export
Class.
MOST SUCCESSFUL EXHIBITOR
THIRO YEAR IN SUCCESSION
AUSTRALIAN
CHAMPIONSHIP WINE SHOW
1964 1965 1966
/^ndt
eman's
AUSTRALIA'S
GREATEST
PRIZE-WINNERS
LW/PB3IA
floats silent into Camelot. Lancelot comes
away from an important conference to
have a look at her. A pity she had those
silly romantic ideas, he muses; and yet,
perhaps, such people make a contribution
to society. He remarks: “She has a lovely
face.”
The most important part of the story —
the Lady’s isolation from ordinary life—
was invented by Tennyson. He obtained
the original hint for his poem from Mal-
ory’s account of Elaine, the Maid of
Astolat, who loved Sir Lancelot “so that
she could never withdraw her love, where-
fore she died.” Tennyson took this pathetic
tale of a girlish crush and turned it into
a myth about the gulf between romance
and reality. The poem was published when
he was 23.
Tennyson understood the Lady of
Shalott’s problem well because it was his
own. His one venture from the literary
into the practical sphere was a fiasco. He
put all his savings into a concern called
the Patent Decorative Carving Company,
which went broke.
Although past the juvenile stage, I am
still a fan of the poor introverted Lady.
She haunts the mind because the Shalott
syndrome affects many of us, in vary-
ing degrees. Its consequences are not often
fatal, as they were to the Lady, but they
cause a good deal of discontent. Anyone
who buys a lottery ticket, then reads the
blank results, sees for a moment the low
sky raining.
You may find the symptoms in an actor
who hoped to be a star and appears now
in commercials for a catarrh remedy. Or
you may see the Lady of Shalott sitting
in a bus. She is married to Sir Lancelot,
who has put on weight and spends his
evenings at the RSL. You recognise her
by her glassy countenance as she looks at
the streets of Camelot.
ROSS CAMPBELL
WINE OF THE MONTH
The Coonawarra Crusade
by CELLARMASTER
WINE of the month is Wynn’s Coona-
warra Estate Cabernet ’59, a well-
advertised wine that often escapes
attention because it’s so well advertised.
Somehow this is not entirely compatible
with the mystique of hunting and search-
ing for a few bottles of something special
that “they mostly keep for themselves!”
To talk of the wine you must first talk
of Coonawarra. On a recent trip, a wine-
maker said to me: “All you hear is Coona-
warra, Coonawarra. If you coughed while
you were driving through, you would miss
it.” Yet, this wasn’t the case 15-odd years
ago, when the wines of the area were
largely unavailable, and there was little
recognition of any kind. Tony Nelson,
a G.O.M. of wine now, had been featur-
ing some Woodley wines under this
regional label with some success,
and the Redmans made some out-
standing wines that no one ever
heard of. Enter the Wynns, dressed
for battle, from the right. They
bought the Woodley property,
founded by Riddoch in 1880, armed
themselves with good wine, and un-
furled the banners of promotion and ad-
vertising. The Crusade for Coonawarra
was under way.
And though the remark about quantity
still holds true to a certain extent, this
column concerns itself only with quality.
While the Wynns were preparing for
battle, Rudy Komon, the art dealer-wine
judge, was served a bottle of Rouge-
Homme (Redman) wine in Adelaide in
1952. He virtually got up from the table
and drove straight to Coonawarra to buy
some. As winemaster of the N.S.W. Wine
and Food Society and as an enthusiast
he has introduced these wines to hundreds,
particularly in the eastern States.
This word-of-ebullient-mouth supported
the Wynn program and vice versa. Samuel,
with his son David, who runs the company
today, had some odd ideas. They wanted
to feature vintage wine, wine of a
particular year, when this was still
considered unnecessary commercially. They
wanted to declare a Cabernet vintage only
when they thought the wine was good
enough. And they wanted to establish the
conception of Estate wines, wines made
to style of one region from certain grapes
without lots of bin numbers and fancy
titles. Skill in design has always been a
feature of their merchandising and label-
ling and those for Coonawarra Estate
wines had everything dignity, clarity,
simplicity. And note that even today their
list of wines from the area covers only
three types, Cabernet, Hermitage, and
Riesling.
Coonawarra was advancing, and it was
not long before the big guns—first
Mildara and then Penfolds—thund-
ered in support by establishing vine-
yards in the area. (Mildara won the
trophy for best red of Show at the
’66 R.A.S., Sydney, with their Coon-
warra Cabernet Souvignon ’63 a
wine with another classic label, by
the way.) Last year Lindemans
acquired Rouge Homme to entrench them-
selves in the region as well.
But to retreat back to the Wine of the
Month, the ’59 Cabernet. The previous
Cabernets have been the ’54, of which I
know nothing; the ’57, which was slow to
develop and did not come good until a
year of so ago. (The aged Cabernet nose
is now pronounced, the flavor good, though
the wine is a little thin on die palate,
and there is plenty of tannin still evident.
Not a hard tannin, but more a sort of
stretched-out, persistent finish); the ’5B,
which was a different style with quite a
floral nose, a round soft palate and
clean firm finish. I think this wine will still
improve over the next couple of years
and both it and the ’57 can be found on
some store shelves.
The ’59 is the one, though, having all
the properties of the ’5B plus. The pluses
are an extra fullness and compexity,
coupled with balance and finesse. I am
always amused by the statement: “though
very drinkable now, this wine will improve
for years,” since this strikes me as being a
very good each-way bet. I personally
would not drink too much of the ’59 now,
because it is not cheap and I am stingy
enough to want to drink the wine at its
best. But it is good drinking now.
And the whole point is that this is still
a commercial wine and there is lots avail-
able.


HO"
JNE
"O
A BSOLUTE
FIRE
Wormald Brothers design, manufacture,
install and maintain:
Grinned Automatic Sprinkler and Fire
Alarm Systems, Mulsifyre (extinguishes
flammable liquid fires by the specialised
use of water alone), Protectospray spray
systems for severe fire risks, Fyretron
duo-control deluge systems, National and
Svenska Skumslacknings foam systems
and appliances, Kidde carbon dioxide
systems, Minerva Fire Warning systems,
Lowecator and Wormald fire detection
systems, Telefyre alarm systems, Fire
Boss dry chemical systems, High Expan-
sion foam systems and many other fire
protection and detection systems.
When fire starts is no time to look at your
fire protection arrangements. The time is now,
and the place, Wormald Brothers. A phone
call to Wormald Brothers will bring a highly
skilled fire protection surveyor to your place
of business to investigate and advise on your
fire protection needs. This service costs
nothing but could save you plenty. Wormald
Brothers provide automatic systems of fire
protection and detection for all types of fire
risks. They have been the acknowledged
leaders in this field since 1889.
WB
WORMALD BROTHERS
Complete Fire Protection Service
G 79


The End of
an Illusion
Australia without New Guinea
By IAN MACPHEE
FEW Australians who have lived in the
Territory of Papua-New Guinea have
not at some time or other advanced
the theory that the best form of self-
determination for the Territory is for it
to become Australia’s seventh State.
Within Australia many prominent figures
have lent support to this call.
Such advocates find massive support
amongst the natives of the Territory, who,
as a natural consequence of our pater-
nalistic administration, are both economic-
ally and psychologically greatly dependent
upon the Australians with whom they mix.
Dr. Gunther, the former Assistant Adminis-
trator, who is now Vice-Chancellor of the
new University at Port Moresby, recently
reaffirmed his belief that over 90 percent
of the Highlanders would vote in favor of
Statehood if a referendum on the question
were held now. No one who knows the
Territory doubts this.
Why, then, in the maze of recent dis-
cussions on the Territory’s future, has the
one major point of agreement been the
wholehearted rejection of this concept?
And why is it now rejected by some of
the men with whom formerly the idea
found some favor?
The truth seems to be that it is only
now that the Constitutional Committee of
the House of Assembly has sought guidance
from the Australian Government that the
previously vague but comforting notion of
Statehood as a solution to the Territory’s
short-term problems has really been closely
analysed by its former proponents.
Until recently a self-governing State with
representatives in Federal Parliament
offered natives of the Territory a sense of
security which they had come to expect
and even need; independence brought the
possibility of the removal of Australia’s
protective umbrella. To the many Aus-
tralians who have spent so much of their
lives in the Territory and who wished
to remain indefinitely it offered essential
financial and social security.
Such adherents to the seventh State con-
cept had found it fairly easy to dispose
of the arguments of their opponents.
Everyone knew, they said, that the Terri-
tory would not really be able to cope with
self-government for at least one, and
probably two, generations. Any reason-
able observer from the United Nations or
from other countries could see this if they
cared to. International pressure was largely
considered to be imaginary; all newly in-
dependent members of the United Nations
had enough items on their domestic and
continental agenda without concerning
themselves with New Guinea. So ran the
argument.
But the United Nations was not satisfied
with Australia’s rate of progress in the
Territory, cracked the whip, and set in
motion the rapid political development of
the past two years. With this, and with
the last Unitecf Nations Mission Report and
General Assembly meeting in New York,
has come a realisation of the “unreason-
ableness” of international politics. Allega-
tions of “neo-colonialism” in the event of
Statehood were not so hard to imagine
now. Australia’s delicate position in Asia
emerged quite suddenly. Bitterly and re-
luctantly facts were faced.
The economic and cultural arguments
against a seventh State were now being
canvassed more widely and even the most
idealistic “seventh Stater” was becoming
aware of the difficulties. Culturally this
State would have amongst its citizens men
who have never seen a white man and
who have no concept of a world wider
than their village environments. It is true
that such men are comparatively few, but
so, too, are those who are fully westernised.
Many of the remainder still practise sorc-
ery and believe in cargo cults, and a few
still indulge in cannibalism.
Economically, it was one thing to grant
aid even if this aid is a paltry 0.4
percent of our Gross National Product
to help raise living standards to a reason-
able standard by Asian estimates, and
another matter entirely to grant massive
aid to a new State to raise its standards
until they are equal to the other six
Australian States.
ir pHERE was a further and even more im-
mediate barrier which became apparent
when the idea was discussed more widely.
It was the simple fact that no Australian
Government would face the Australian
people on such an issue. Whether they
would be wise, or whether they would be
immature and myopic, the majority of
Australian voters would oppose the acquisi-
tion of a predominantly colored State.
No government would dare risk such a
policy and no government would contem-
plate statehood without freedom of migra-
tion; second-class citizenship is repugnant
to all parties.
One need not go beyond this difficulty
to find out why the seventh State concept
is doomed to immediate failure. In general
those who have advocated the seventh
State idea have approached the question
from the viewpoint of Papua-New Guinea.
They despise the irrationality of Australian
fears and prejudices. But to despise them
is not to combat them or dispose of them.
Even looked at from the point of view
of the Territory there remains an import-
ant obstacle. While the great majority of
natives would vote for Statehood the
majority of younger leaders would cam-
paign against it. Men like the Leader and
Deputy-Leader of the House of Assembly,
John Guise and Matthias To Liman, do
not believe it is in the Territory’s interest
to become an Australian State. And this
view is shared outside the House by prom-
inent union leader Oala Oala-Rarua and
the student leader Vincent Eri a man
with a definite political future.
What, then, of the possibility of State-
hood in 40 or 50 years’ time? The idea
has much to commend it and should con-
stantly be borne in mind by the two
countries as being something of probable
benefit to them both, and a factor which
should add stability to the region in gen-
eral. This assumes, however, that relations
between the two countries will always re-
main closer than those between Papua-
New Guinea and West Irian and Indon-
esia. No such assumption can be made.
One example of recent history suffices to
show this.
Regardless of whether the reduction of
the salaries of native public servants was
an act of the highest statesmanship or
whether it was a shocking blunder, this
has caused a loss of trust in Australians
which can never be restored. It is to-
morrow’s leaders who feel they have suf-
fered by this measure, and it is they who
will determine how great our future in-
fluence is to be.
In a letter to THE BULLETIN on
December 18 last year, Mr. Dudley Jones,
a former Rabaul solicitor' and Member
of the Legislative Council of Papua-New
Guinea, suggested that the people of the
Territory may become a seventh State
on terms and conditions which were dif-
ferent from those existing between the
other States and the Commonwealth. For
example, he said:
“fewer powers could be reserved
to the Commonwealth even to the
extent of the Commonwealth re-
taining power as to only Defence
and External Affairs. The Terri-
tory may or may not be repre-
sented in the Commonwealth
Parliament.”
Mr. Jones added the alternative that
under Section 122 of the Commonwealth
Constitution the Territory could still re-


ATLANTIC TRAVELLER’S NOTEBOOK
shopping UST
1500
% t doolbsori^ese
10,000 lbs t&f
Q] 300
'of\do l^*l
.. and 120 pounds of caviar”
Ashopping list for a lifetime? No, just
a small section of the 2,000 separate
food commodities ordered by the Chief
Steward for one Trans Atlantic sailing of
the “Queen Elizabeth.” The immensity
of the food operation aboard Cunard’s
“Queen Elizabeth” and “Queen Mary”
is difficult to describe without figures.
For example, approximately 250 people
are behind the scenes for food prepara-
tion on each ship. There are six kitchens
covering more than half an acre; a vege-
table-preparing room, a potato room, a
fruit room, a salad room and a room
where Kosher recipes are prepared.
More than 300 choices of dishes are
available . . . over 60 kinds of hors
d’oeuvres. Tremendous variety is offered
—ll flavours of marmalade; 7 types of
shrimp; 24 different breads (2,500 rolls
are baked for each meal); 8 kinds of
salmon . . . Some of the many reasons
why getting there is half the fun with
Cunard. _
A -B- \
at&m
YOU might think that the Eiffel Tower,
Paris, is tall! The “Queen Elizabeth”
is 50 feet longer! In fact, she is 21 times
longer than the height of Sydney’s Har-
bour Bridge.
rHE “Queen Mary’s” gross tonnage
exceeds that of the entire Cunard
Atlantic and Mediterranean fleets of
1876 which consisted of 36 ships.
EACH “Queen” has 6 children’s play-
rooms and nurseries . . . small worlds
of teddy bears, rocking horses, play pens.
Even a miniature replica of the Captain’s
Bridge.
The letters of the name “Queen Eliza-
beth” on the bows are 21 feet high
and 68 feet in length.
TT /HEN you go Trans Atlantic spend
** five of the most exhilarating days
and nights in your life . . . with Cunard.
CUNARD
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL TRAVEL AGENT
main a Territory of the Commonwealth
and enjoy a much higher status than at
present. It could, therefore, receive from
the Commonwealth Government a con-
stitution which met its wishes and which
would not be altered by the Common-
wealth Parliament without the consent
of the people of the Territory.
This interesting compromise will gain
much sympathy and would have the un-
doubted benefit of giving private investors
a much-needed sense of security. It would
also ensure the continuity of the present
pattern of development and provide a
greater chance of a stable democratic
State of Papua-New Guinea than can be
expected if sovereign independence is
granted within a similar period.
It could only be supported, however,
as an interim measure; ultimate indepen-
dence or full Statehood would still need
to be the long-term objective. Even then
the Australian Government would have to
overlook the minority view of some of
New Guinea’s most prominent leaders who
would have vocal international support if
they chose to oppose such a proposal.
Assuming then that seventh Statehood
is no longer a real alternative, what other
sort of relationships could there be?
Broadly they could be of two sorts: (a)
sovereign independence with a treaty re-
lationship with Australia, or (b) internal
self-government only, with a constitutional
provision in both countries leaving Aus-
tralia with responsibility for the Terri-
tory’s defence and external affairs.
N° ready-made plan for the develop-
ment of the second arrangement exists,
but a glance at the relationship between
New Zealand and the Cook Islands is
interesting. The Cook Islands have inter-
nal self-government until, and unless, they
should opt for complete independence.
Many people see internal self-government
as the best answer to Papua-New Guinea,
as it will leave the country’s leaders free
to attend to the massive problems confront-
ing them domestically without having to
concern themselves with their role in-
ternationally.
The Cook Islands, however, have a
population of only 20,000, and have New
Zealand citizenship, which gives them the
right to reside at will in New Zealand. In
fact, between 20 and 25 percent of the
Cook Islanders do actually live in New
Zealand. Citizenship is by no means es-
sential in such a scheme, however, and in-
deed it would be in the interests of Papua-
New Guinea for its students, after suitable
training in Australia when necessary, to
return home to apply their talents and
training in their own country rather than
in Australia. Nevertheless, a liberalised
system of lengthy stays in Australia would
have to be granted if this form of consti-
tutional association is to be seen as con-
ferring other than an inferior status on
Papua-New Guinea. In the case of the
Cook Islands, 80 percent of the budget
comes from New Zealand, a factor which
finds a parallel in Papua-New Guinea.
On both of the major alternatives the
Commonwealth Government is playing a
“wait and see” policy (if that could be
called a policy) and is waiting for the
House of Assembly Committee on Consti-
tutional Development to come up with
ideas.
My belief is that the leaders of Papua-
New Guinea will, within a very few years,
request ultimate independence and reject
any notion of a constitutional tie with Aus-
tralia. Some may even do this before the
1968 elections, and this will probably meet
with the tacit approval of the remainder.
Few of them began their consideration of
the rerritory’s future with this notion, but
having failed to receive encouragement
from the Australian Government regarding
any concrete form of constitutional asso-
ciation, the view that ultimate independ-
ence is the only goal open to them is be-
coming more widespread. Such leaders
know, however, how dearly the mass of
the people at present want to be as closely
associated with Australia as possible. They
know, too, how dependent they really are
on Australian aid and guidance, and how
few of them are in any way qualified to
conduct the complex business of self-
government.
For these reasons the present leaders
oppose the present setting of long-term
target dates and feel that the Committee
on Constitutional Development should con-
centrate on ascertaining the views of the
people regarding a form of Ministerial
Government and working toward this end.
Most of them have spoken of the House
of Assembly having a greater measure of
control over revenue especially intern-
ally raised revenue and have set 1968 as
the target date for the passing of some
such control to the blouse. Recently this
thought has led to statements that there
should be ministerial government by 1968,
but few have any ideas as to the most
suitable form of such a Cabinet or the
method of its selection.
The Committee on Constitutional De-
velopment is at present taking evidence
from different parts of the Territory, and
its chairman has stated that a report will
be made to the House of Assembly in
August. This would seem to rule out the
possibility of actual ministerial government
by 1968.
Nevertheless, one may expect a greater
measure of actual power in the House
of Assembly in 1968, ministerial govern-
ment (perhaps with some or all of the
Ministers not actually being members of
the House) during the life of the next
House, self-government shortly afterwards
(possibly 1972 or even 1970), and
eventual independence.
Our hope then must be that we will
have retained sufficient goodwill amongst
the articulate few who will then be in
the seat of power for the independent
Government to wish to enter into a treaty
with us with regard to defence and ex-
ternal affairs. At the present moment that
goodwill is under severe strain, and if the
current arbitration hearings do not result
in an easing of the situation Canberra
will have to regard the problem as being
capable only of a political solution, a
solution which would have to be found
if there were ever to be a real prospect
of an independent Papua-New Guinea
having treaty relations with Australia
based on mutual respect.


Some business aircraft f/y faster...
m
m
m
msmmm
' :
some f/y more slowly...
■Mnn
■
■.v:. . .
..
VAC
,
■it s
ms
But the 500 mph 125 makes business sense
When you consider buying a business jet its
principal virtue of speed has to be weighed care-
fully against size and price. The more closely you
look into it, the more clearly you see that the 125
makes business sense.
Faster, bigger aircraft have considerably higher
capital and operating costs than the 125. Less
expensive business aircraft have either lower
performance or less passenger comfort.
The 125 is a jet airliner in miniature. Seating six
to eight passengers in comfort, it covers 1,000-mile
stages in two hours. It gives executives complete
flexibility in their travel—independent of airline
timetables—and flies high above the weather at jet
speeds.
Hawker Siddeley, who build the 125, are the only
manufacturers with experience of both business
aircraft and pure jet airliners. The 125's Bristol
Siddeley Viper engines are backed by unique
experience: ten years in military-training aircraft—
the toughest proving ground for any power plant.
Look carefully at the specification of every
business jet. You will find that the 125 makes the
best business sense. To study its finer points in
more detail, please write for a copy of the brochure
which takes you on a conducted tour of the 125.
in
m
'
HAWKER SIDDELEY AVIATION
Richmond Road, Kingston upon Thames, Surrey. England. Tel: Kingston 7741
Hawker Siddeley Group supplies mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service
Represented in Australia by: Hawker de Havilland Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe, New South Wales


Verwoerd and Rhodesia
Exciting Times Ahead
From STANLEY UYS in CAPE TOWN
DR. VERWOERD has denied that he
has had anything to do with the
tentative resumption of talks between
London and Salisbury, but this is pro-
bably just modesty. Before he issued the
denial, one of the newspapers supporting
him, in a “tell all” dispatch, had disclosed
that he had advised Mr. Wilson and Mr.
Smith to meet “unconditionally” and seek
a settlement.
Dr. Verwoerd played a “key role,” said
the newspaper, observing: “Mr. Wilson
took Dr. Verwoerd’s hint because the al-
ternative would have been a British-South
African conflict which Britain cannot
afford at this stage. Dr. Verwoerd gave
precisely the same advice to Mr. Smith,
who also accepted it, because in the cir-
cumstances he could hardly reject it.” We
may never know exactly what happened
behind the scenes, but at least one thing is
fairly certain now: Dr. Verwoerd is still
furiously at work behind the scenes. He
has pleaded to be excused from engage-
ments, even with VIPs, because he is
preoccupied with the Rhodesian situation.
This is perfectly natural. If the London-
Salisbury talks break down again, South
Africa will be dragged into the ensuing
crisis. The pro-Verwoerd Press has warned
already that if the talks fail, the situation
will get out of control. Presumably, there-
fore, Dr. Verwoerd is poring over ideas
to break the deadlock. What kind of ideas?
Here again secrecy descends. The public
is left to assume either that Dr. Verwoerd
feels Mr. Smith should accept an inte-
grationist settlement and ultimate black
majority rule or that he has something
entirely new up his sleeve.
Is there any significance in the fact
that the b!vo major pro-Verwoerd Sunday
newspapers have each suddenly started
thinking' in depth on the Rhodesian crisis
and have come up with approximately the
same solution, an apartheid solution? One
of them has even used the word “parti-
tion.” This is Dagbreek (Dr. Verwoerd is
chairman of its board of trustees al-
though this does not necessarily mean that
it always,faithfully reflects his thoughts),
which has asked for a “sub-continental
solution” which will guarantee the position
of the whites in Rhodesia. Dagbreek’s
solution is the physical partition of Rho-
desia, with whites in permanent control
of one part, and Africans in permanent
control of the other and, hey, presto!
both Mr. Wilson and Mr. Smith are
satisfied.
The other pro-Verwoerd Sunday news-
paper, Die Beeld, in an open letter to
“our friends” in Rhodesia, suggests that
Rhodesia’s main difficulty is that, while
it is united over UDI, it is divided over
its future race policy. “We see this as
the fundamental weakness of your position
now that your Government has entered
anew into cautious negotiations with the
British Government,” writes Die Beeld.
Many white Rhodesians have rejected
partnership, integration, and black
majority rule, says Die Beeld, but they
are not clear what the alternative policy
is. “We (in South Africa) are moving to-
ward separate freedoms for white and
black in separate States, and the National-
ists (Afrikaners) among us believe this
is the only solution ... We see no other
(solution) for a white nation in Africa
that wants to maintain its right of self-
determination.
After reminding the Rhodesians how
they have leaned on South Africa for help
during the UDI crisis, Die Beeld asks
them whether they are really potentially
an extension of the white South African
nation: if so, then they must make the
connection. “Such a linking-up, however,
will necessarily mean acceptance of the
basic principle of separate freedoms, which
will involve discussion of which part of
Rhodesia should be designated as perma-
nently white and which part will become
a free black homeland from w r hich the
whites will have to withdraw themselves
progressively.”
This could be a typically Verwoerd
solution: meeting immense problems with
immense solutions. If the solution were
acceptable to Mr. Wilson and the Rho-
desians, white and black, South Africa
would acquire an extension of its apartheid
kingdom to the north, and the position
of the whites in Southern Africa, indeed,
would be consolidated.
There is, however, some scepticism in
pro-Verwoerd circles over the outcome of
the preliminary talks between London and
Salisbury, and preparations to make South
Africa as invulnerable as possible to UN
sanctions go ahead unremittingly. The
whole emphasis now is on making South
Africa as economically self-sufficient as
possible, but this, of course, will take time.
Meanwhile, a Radio South Africa broad-
cast has drawn attention to the dangers
inherent in having foreign-controlled firms
(like banks) acquiring too much power
on the local scene: look what happened to
Rhodesia, the broadcast said.
But the immediate task is to prepare
against possible oil sanction. For this a
three-point program is being implemented:
to acquire, by charter or purchase, a fleet
of South African oil tankers; to promote
the search for oil in South Africa at all
possible speed a giant new oil rig cap-
able of drilling to 15,000 feet is due to
arrive at Cape Town dock this week and
will be rushed to the Beaufort West dis-
trict of the Karoo; and to consider the
establishment of a second oil-from-coal
plant to bring South Africa’s own produc-
tion of oil up to about 30 percent of the
country’s requirements. Exciting times lie
ahead for Southern Africa.
Da Nang Aftermath
The Buddhist View
By GAVIN YOUNG
BY capturing Da Nang, using troops
and teargas to control Buddhist
demonstrators in Saigon, and arrest-
ing numerous political organisers in the
capital and elsewhere, Prime Minister
Nguyen Cao Ky’s campaign to suppress
the extreme nationalist Vietnamese
Buddhists as an effective political force
has achieved a tactical success. It is doubt-
ful if victory is final.
The repression is the first real attempt
of this erratic military man whose stand-
ing in Vietnam as a whole remains feeble,
to turn himself into a new Vietnamese
“strongman.” It also means that the elec-
tions Ky and the Americans now eagerly
urge for September have little or no
chance of being free or representative,
even if, as seem unlikely, Buddhists par-
ticipate. Many of their organisers will
probably be in jail.
In fact, the elections yearned for by
most politicians as a means of final
“legality” in the Government of South
Vietnam have apparently been tragically
sabotaged by Ky’s attack on Da Nang.
Yet the support of the American Embassy
officials for Ky’s suppression of the
Buddhist movement is clear. Such sup-
port is in rigid conformity with the policy
they committed themselves to, probably
American observers here would say =-
before Ky’s meeting with President John-
son at Honolulu in February.
It is a policy based on fear of an ex-
treme nationalist Buddhist section of the
political community that is prepared to
fight Communism but mistrusts American
influence as well. This policy seems to
favor any forceful Government action
designed to reduce the possibility of a
strong “neutralist” political voice in an
eventual National Assembly.
Some senior Embassy officials genuinely
consider that when Buddhists express
their anxiety at a time when “the boys
are dying in the paddyfields” that
Americans are riding too cavalierly over
Vietnamese sensibilities or that only a
political solution can end the war, they
are forfeiting the right to be regarded as
“responsible” Vietnamese. In other
words, these Buddhists should be sup-
pressed, not accommodated.
Thus the American Embassy approved
of the dismissal of General Thi, the Budd-
hist’s favorite from Ky’s Directorate,
although he was one of the most effective
figures in it. They lent Ky aircraft when
he threatened to “liberate” Da Nang soon
after and were disappointed when he
backed down. Not all Americans here, it
is interesting to note, agree with the
Embassy’s assessment. General Walt, the
American Marine Commander, seems to


have had reservations about the recent
attack on Da Nang. Experienced American
political advisers in Da Nang also did.
Fnese advisers denied any Viet Cong
penetration of the Da Nang Buddhist
"struggle movement.” They said that
General Dinh (whom General Walt flew
to refuge in Hue) and Da Nang’s Mayor,
Dr. Man (who was called a Communist by
Ky and is now under arrest) were com-
mendably restoring order in the area after
the upheavals triggered by Thi’s dismissal.
These cautious Americans, it is now dis-
paragingly said in Saigon, “have been too
close to the Vietnamese for too long.”
One explanation for the Da Nang opera-
tion now given by Marshal Ky and Ameri-
can Embassy officials is that Buddhists
were being infected with anti-Ky senti-
ments by Buddhist chaplains and that the
area was outside Saigon’s administrative
control. Yet there seems insufficient danger
in that to justify military repression—
unle’ss Buddhists and Viet Cong are
thought to be one and the same. In theory
at least, Ky’s Directorate is only a stop-
gap government. Its life ends—according
to even anti-Buddhist politicians—as soon
as a Constituent Assembly is elected.
To resort to force to reassert the
authority of a transitional government
seems unnecessary to some moderate Viet-
namese. They point out that even if the
whole of Central Vietnam voted for
“struggle” candidates as a result of Budd-
hist proselytising, the movement would still
be in a minority in the Assembly.
Elections aside, the government seems
to feel that the arrest of Buddhist
“struggle” organisers in Da Nang, Dalat,
Saigon, and elsewhere will usefully decapi-
tate the Buddhist movement. Intelligent
Vietnamese do not agree. What repression
may do, they say, is to force a number
of extreme Left-wingers in the movement
into collaboration with the Viet Cong.
Thus repression may precipitate exactly
that Buddhist-Viet Cong link that rela-
tively moderate Buddhist leaders such as
Thich Tri Ouang have shunned.
The Erosive New Left
Where is the Centre?
By GEORGE FIELD
THE Presidential election of two years
ago in the United States indicated a
national consensus unparalleled in re-
cent times. It was hailed as proof of the
vitality of the democratic centre in Ameri-
can political life. Yet today it is clear that
this centre is suffering serious erosion.
The centre is so important to the Ameri-
can body politic that any threat to its
vitality must be of concern. For it is a
great deal more than the swing vote or
middle-of-the-road indecisiveness; it is
everyone who approaches public affairs
with a basic belief in the validity of demo-
cratic institutions. Regardless of how the
groups that compose the centre may be
divided on the issues of the day, they are
united in a readiness to compromise and
to see the political scene as a whole rather
than in terms of a single overriding issue.
Above all, they are united by dedication
to the free interplay of views those of
their opponents as well as their own.
Freedom as we know it in the United
States can flourish only when the centre
is strong and healthy and boldly self-
confident. /
What is eroding the centre today? There
have always been dropouts among the
prejudiced, the impatient, the thwarted—
those who have never been aware of
democratic values or have lost faith in
them. But today the centre is losing ad-
herents among groups which not only are
of great importance to our society but
actually have a high stake in the con-
tinuing viability of democratic processes.
On the Left the losses are among the
younger faculty members and graduate
students, a group whose education and
intellectual training should have provided
particular insight into the importance of
democratic political techniques. On the
Right the losses are taking place among
middle-class suburbanites, although no
group has benefited more from our
society.
Erosion on the Right is far from a new
phenomenon. In its present form it
originated during the McCarthyite era
15 years ago, and by 1964 it reached the
point where far-Right extremism became
a major issue in the Presidential election.
But it has shown a disturbing growth
since that election perhaps in part be-
cause of it since the defeat of Senator
Goldwater led many ultra-conservatives to
believe that their objectives would never
be realised within the traditional political
activity of the centre.
While the older varieties of Right-wing
extremism cannot be dismissed, most of
them appear to have declined in influ-
ence. Always on the outermost fringes of
the American scene, the scattered hate
groups preaching anti-Semitism, anti-
Catholicism, neo-Nazism have never
achieved respectability. In contrast, the
Southern groups fighting a last-ditch
battle for white supremacy have burgeoned
during the Civil Rights controversies of
the past decade. It appears that the Klans
may continue their subversive battle des-
pite the increasing pressure of the Federal
authorities; but their “respectable” allies
of the White Citizens Councils are losing
the support of the white community and
may be supplanted by organisations less
blatant in their defiance of the values of
the rest of the nation.
The most active candidate for this in-
heritance is the John Birch Society, which
is reported to be growing rapidly in the
South. By camouflaging extremist views
with a veneer of respectability, it has
already won a considerable following in
the North and West. Here is the strongest
threat from the Right, for the Birch
Society, by adopting trappings which are
intriguing to sections of the middle class,
is luring conservatives away from the
centre to an anti-democratic position on
the Rightist fringe.
On the Left we find quite a different —
but equally alarming—situation. Here the
erosive effect results primarily from the
growing impatience of many intellectuals
with various aspects of our society. This
is neither new nor in itself disquieting.
The intellectual always has tried to main-
tain a critical detachment from society
and serves a useful function in so doing.
But the way some intellectuals are express-
ing their impatience in action is alarm-
ing.
The “New Left” is a hodge-podge of
diverse elements, but too many of its com-
ponents, substituting emotion for objec-
tive analysis and direct and sometimes
illegal action for political activity, share
a neurotic suspicion of the nation’s leaders
and a crude intolerance of divergent
views. Moreover, some of the New Left
Picketing the White House - a substitute for dissent?


Canadair XMS7I Dynatrac takes jungle head on
• ••
<**
; -
if "’*•fiTWn i T'mSWfcfniftfrTi i rim
■->' . «*«> -T -
MNM
* i
> i •
.tSMfe ®
*»» ■:
_ A
.**
•* *#■
F S
*;« »*
.
** '«*•• .*
JNfjb ,'“ ..*
i - .
> . Jt.l
> s , *-:■ ■ J
i&t'•.
: >,. ... -.
" ..:::-•■


and meets
The XMS7I fulfils the U.S. Army
Air Mobility Concept. It can be
readily airlifted with assault forces
to the landing zone in Chinooks and
other medium helicopters, or in the
Caribou. In addition, the XMS7I
can be parachuted or air landed
ready for instant action.
As a result of its light weight and
articulated steering, the XMS7I hais
demonstrated superior mobility and
maneuverability on jungle trails,
swamp, mud and other soft going.
n
* *
It has also demonstrated its supe-
riority to other tracked or wheeled
vehicles in stream crossing and in
negotiating river banks.
All aspects of the XMs7l’s per-
formance have been proven in the
Arctic and the tropics, in tempera-
tures ranging from —6s° to 115°F.
The standard, two-unit XMS7I can
carry a fully-equipped infantry squad
or a ton of cargo, while its flexibility
and versatility permit its utilization
as a weapons carrier. The XMS7I
can operate as a weapons platform
for the 7.62 mm machine-gun, the
In a medium helicopter there is ample room
to walk on both sides of the XMS7I
106 and 120 recoilless rifle, TOW,
and other crew-served weapons. *
Other missions within the capa-
bility of the XMS7I are that of a
field ambulance, company command
post, communications center and
radar outpost.
*-»w , ' .. X":.. - ■• ■
***■ ..;:‘3k
CANADAIR
LIMITED MONTREAL
A SUBSIDIARY OF GENERAL DYNAMICS


show a willingness to accept totalitarian
groups as allies and co-workers.
These tendencies are manifested in much
of the current opposition to the American
role in Vietnam. There is, of course, an
important place for argument, criticism,
and dissent on this issue. As President
Johnson pointed out in his recent Free-
dom House speech, “The strength of
America can never be sapped by discus-
sion and we have no better or stronger
tradition than open debate in hours of
danger.” But where the Korean war
served as the catalyst for intolerance from
the Right in the ’sos, the Vietnam war of
the ’6os is the catalyst for intolerance from
the Left. In certain groups no Administra-
tion statement is taken at its face value
and no accusation against the United
The Right - respectable veneer
States as a power-hungry “imperialist” is
too wild to be taken up and parroted.
The Administration’s peace efforts are
described as a hoax. “To our leaders we
are plainly nothing but a natural resource
cannon fodder,” reads one pamphlet.
At a teach-in a professor proclaims: “The
United States is a bandit. We have no
legitimacy. Red China is much less com-
mitted to conquering the world than we
are.” Here, as elsewhere, the fantasies
closely parallel those of the extreme
Right-wing circles who view the Admini-
stration any administration as the
puppet of a Communist conspiracy.
This suspicion is accompanied by an
unwillingness to listen to the other side.
Not all, but too many, teach-ins have been
sounding-boards for unreasoned attacks
on American policy rather than objective
attempts to make clear the facts of a
highly complex situation. The intolerance
is sometimes carried to the length of inter-
fering with the right of those of different
views to be heard. It is virtually impossible
for any rational defence of United States
Vietnam policies to be made before some
audiences. These groups armed with
“documentation” alleging that the United
States is engaged in an action in Vietnam
that is immoral, if not even insane greet
pro-Administration speakers with every-
thing from total disbelief to rowdy cat-
calls. ,
The substitution of abuse for argument
is a frequent practice of the anti-Vietnam
demonstrators and a dangerous one.
The picket who chants “LBJ, LBJ, how
many kids have you killed today?” is
appealing to raw emotion instead of
reasoned judgment and doing it in a
particularly cruel and unjust way that
makes a mockery of democratic debate.
The right to assemble and demonstrate
peaceably to make known one’s own views
is time-honored recognition that the ex-
pression of dissent is an essential element
in our free society. However, the picketing
of a public assembly simply for the pur-
pose of proclaiming disapproval of the
views of its sponsors tends to limit rather
than foster the free interplay of opinion.
These are, of course, the tactics of the
extremist who, unable to tolerate views
other than his own, perverts the expression
of his opinions into a weapon. Even while
loudly proclaiming his own right to dis-
sent, he cannot bear to allow others to
express their views unchallenged. He seeks
to hamper his opponents, to drown them
out, sometimes even to interfere physically
with their expressions.
The substitution of direct action for
democratic political procedures is mani-
fested in other ways. Attempts to stop
troop trains, burning of draft cards, “sit-
ins,” blocking public buildings or streets,
letter-writing campaigns to undermine the
morale of American troops in Vietnam,
broadcasts from hostile capitals attacking
XJ.S. policy these again are the tactics
of the extremist who has abandoned the
normal democratic techniques for securing
changes in laws or policies.
Direct action has a justification at times
when it is needed to attract public
attention to urgent social objectives in
situations where the normal, democratic
process is otherwise unavailable. But this
is not the case in the current wide-ranging
and open debate over our Vietnam policy,
and therefore the adoption of such tactics
is clearly unwarranted. Often their use
is spurred by self-proclaimed allies of the
New Left drawn from totalitarian groups
whose doctrines specifically scorn demo-
cratic procedures.
The perennial efforts of such groups to
penetrate the liberal Left slowed to a halt
after the brutal Soviet suppression of the
Hungarian revolt, when the true nature
of Communist terrorism became clear even
to the most obtuse. At present, the Com-
munist Party and its Trotskyite Maoist
offshoots see the anti-Vietnam movement
as a golden opportunity to regain lost
ground. They have had some success.
While the more responsible organisations,
such as SANE, have made an effort to
prevent or limit Communist participation,
others have pretended the problem does
not exist. Their attitude was summed up
by one organiser of teach-ins, who de-
clared, “Is it up to us to say who is a
Communist and who is not?”
This situation reflects current attempts
to rewrite the history of the McCarthy
era. The basic sin of the Wisconsin Senator,
it is now assumed, was not in wrongfully
labelling certain individuals as Commun-
ists and using non-existing evidence to
raise the spectre of an imaginary Com-
munist conspiracy in the upper echelons
of government, but in raising the issue
at all. According to this new version,
adopted by some Liberals who should know
better, identification of a Communist,
whether in the Government or out, is an
invasion of political privacy.
One would have thought that this ques-
tion had long since been settled. The
totalitarian discipline accepted by members
of the Communist Party and the party’s
dedication to furthering the foreign policy
objectives of another country have long
been recognised as evidence that this was
no political party in the usual sense of the
word, but a special case that required con-
tinued exposure to public scrutiny.
Any society has only two weapons with
which to defend itself against totalitarian
infiltration aimed at subverting its institu-
tions and eventually capturing its govern-
ment. One is suppression, a weapon that,
cannot be used (except in time of dire
national emergency) without endangering
the free society itself. The other weapon,
and in effect the only recourse available to
a free society, is exposure.
In a world where totalitarian groups dis-
guise themselves by endless metamorphoses
into front groups and fellow travellers con-
ceal their true allegiance, exposure is an
essential process. The use of the McCarthy
label to deter legitimate identification of
Communists thus strikes directly at the
ability of a democratic society to defend
itself. If successful, it would be immune
from criticism while working to undermine
the society that harbors them.
Everywhere the extreme Right and the
extreme Left feed and stimulate each other.
Where elements on the Left ignore the
obvious dangers of totalitarian penetra-
tion, they stimulate the fantasies of Right-
wing extremism. Communist recruitment
of students spurs Birch Society recruitment
of fearful middle-class matrons. When
elements on the Right resort to violence
against the Civil Rights movements, they
evoke counterviolence on the Left. And in
all cases it is the centre that is the real
loser.
The extremes, with their action pro-
grams that offer excitement and a sense
of direct participation in the making of
history, have an illusory glamor. They
offer the reassurance of absolute convic-
tions, prefabricated so that the believer
never faces the tedious and time-consuming
task of making up his own mind. It is
therefore not surprising that some view
the centre as a sort of no-man’s land,
whose inhabitants try to escape from con-
troversy. But this view is false.
The thousands of unrewarding tasks
carried out by the centre enable a
democratic political system to function
from day to day. It is the centre’s dis-
trust of absolutes, its ability to postpone
judgment until the facts are in, its readi-
ness to compromise that keep the extremes
from tearing our social fabric into shreds.
It is only the open-mindedness of the
centre that permits the experimentation
needed for solution of the problems pro-
duced by rapid technological and social
change.


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Pop Go the Pictures
By CHARLES HIGHAM
A POISON distilled from black poppies
is used to drug the entire world;
from a sinister underground chamber
below the Thames a Chinaman threatens
to conquer the globe; in a stronghold off
the coast of North America a power-drunk
tycoon holds America to ransom with a
gigantic hidden atomic stockpile; an evil
figure out of nightmares emerges in a
ballroom dressed up as a predatory bird;
a phantom count holds the corpse-like
zombies of his private army in a cellar,
full of cages and wicked warders; an
aggrieved male bursts into his former
wife’s wedding ceremony dressed up in
the skins of an ape. And, out of the past,
a seedy caped figure emerges to do battle
with a Japanese brain-washer: Batman,
with his undernourished helpmeet, Robin,
spends reel after reel escaping from
clutches anyone with half a brain wouldn’t
have got into in the first place.
These are images distilled from the
contemporary, “swinging” cinema; a mad
melange of spies, adventures, dogged
heroes, and villains with powerful jaws, a
pop world plucked out of 30 years of
comic strips, in which every director be-
comes a kind of animated-frame Andy
Warhol. The color must be gaudy, the
pace frenetic, the editing bang-on. The
music must have a desperately with-it
brassiness- or moodiness, ready if possible
for the hit parades with theme tune
moaned against a background of thudding
guitars. None of these films is built to
last; they are going to be dated in a year,
forgotten in two. But while they are go-
ing, 'Hollywood yes, Hollywood is
going to clean up. Because, although every-
one around seems to think the new pop
cinema is a European, or at least a British,
invention, it is, in fact, an American sales
gimmick, the best devised since the
advent of Cinema Scope.
How come? The simple fact is that
most of these op or pop instant movies
have been made in Britain, but have been
financed by Americans. British film-making
is cheaper, the union rates are lower than
Hollywood. Lord Willis has protested that
there are no more British films, no longer
anything there but American-British con-
fections. But his is a lonely voice. Every-
one else in Britain, the “Sight and Sound”
team included, has cheerfully welcomed
the ride on this impermanent but brightly
painted bandwagon.
Last year, one and a half million
American dollars even the British now
tend to think, in this context, in dollars
rather than pounds was paid to the
American team which, for UA, produced
“Goldfinger.” The sum came from the
British Eady fund, a system of levying
money on theatre seats to finance film
production. And this is only a drop in
the ocean of gold which has poured into
Hollywood siqce it discovered that Eady
Money, Britain’s proximity to the Euro-
pean markets, and the presence of hordes
of low-cost, Hollywood-standard technic-
cians and players, were all it needed to
break into a whole new era of film-making.
This year, a record $2,100,000 of Eady
Money went into “Thunderball.” And
“Thunderball” really needed Eady Money
like it needed a hole in the head.
At Pinewood, at time of writing this
article, “Fahrenheit 451,” directed by
Francois Truffaut, and Charles Chaplin’s
“The Countess from Hong Kong” were
being made with Universal money from
Hollywood. “Kaleidoscope,” shooting at
the same studio, had Warner Brothers
backing. At Shepperton, there were until
recently two Columbia American pictures,
“Georgey Girl,” and the latest fan Flem-
ing, “Casino Royale,” being shot, at
Metro, two American-financed films, Stan-
ley Kubrick’s “2001,” and J. Lee-Thomp-
son’s “Eye of the Devil,” and so cn. Mean-
while, the purely British-produced films
have had to wait their turn for two years
and up to get into the cinemas. And Aus-
tralian enthusiasts talk of selling Austra-
lian-made movies in Britain!
With, as “Sight and Sound” recently
pointed out, Truffaut, Kubrick, Chaplin,
Losey, and Richard (“The Knack”) Lester
making pictures or about to release them,
England certainly looks every bit as much
a world centre of film-making as Holly-
wood did or Rome almost did. For the
director, there is the strong appeal of not
having to submit the dailies shots made
within a specific day’s schedule to igno-
rant producers or front-office men who
might damage their concepts. Eighty-five
percent of British films are American and
no one, least of all the cameramen and
the writers who have often faced hardship
in recent years, is likely to complain. Only
the British showmen who used to dominate
the scene have been beaten into retreat:
one hears less and less of staunch old
names like Launder and Giiliatt, the
Boulting Brothers, Powell and Pressburger,
the Boxes. With the advent of the swing-
ing, surrealist cinema, the cinema du
papa, as the French critics dub the square
old movies of yesterday, has been replaced,
completely, by the cinema du Dada.
Of the directors who a few years ago
looked like moving the British film firmly
away from its post-war romantic splurge
(“Blanche Fury,” “Black Narcissus”) into
the kind of neo-realism exemplified there
by Humphrey Jennings and in Italy by
de Sica and Rossellini, a few now seem
active. Lindsay Anderson’s determined
effort to make everyone Stand Up, Stand
Up (to quote the title of his famous article
in “Sight and Sound”) and face the
Marxist challenge, bringing the lives of
the people back to the people, was a total
failure: nobody in “Coronation Street”
wanted to be shown what an unmitigated
hell it was, and Anderson’s “This. Sport-
ing Life,” a naked expression of petit
bourgeois pain masquerading as working-
class tragedy, failed dismally in those very
provinces to which it was obviously meant
to give a breath of their own rancid life.
After Karel Reisz made that other, more
sober realist film, “Saturday Night and
Sunday Morning,” he apparently aban-
doned all pretence at socialist comment and
turned first to a Godard-like (and catas-
trophic) revamping of “Night Must Fall”
and then to a wildly with-it comedy, mod-
ishly titled with a single name, “Morgan,”
in which David Warner, Britain’s most
“in” actor, and Vanessa Redgrave, equally
“in” representative of the distaff side, were
involved in a farce about a man who at-
tempts to blow up his mother-in-law, sees
himself as Tarzan, and ends up dressed
as an ape, all interluded with shots from
King Kong, Johnny Weissmuller shinning
up trees, stop frames, jump cuts, and the
whole shoddy paraphernalia of the French
old New Guard.
Richard Lester, with the two Beatles
films and “The Knack” all white-painted
“I don't know
anything about art.
Fm a word man."


LOOK
A HANDS FREE TELEPHONE
vmm K
m
L M ERICSSON'S
GrfucovcXr,'
LOUDSPEAKING TELEPHONE IS PMG APPROVED
FOR A DEMONSTRATION CONTACT:
mm
z&m
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 92 1147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
QLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle 8. Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
sets, jazzed-up cutting; flip dialogue, and
wild music has been able to get more
“with it” than anyone else. Brococoli and
Saltzman, producers of the Bond pictures,
have risen from small-time Hollywood
operators to British-American big-shots,
complete with millionaire accoutrements,
simply by dressing the doormat-chested
Sean Connery in a rubber skin-diving out-
fit, providing him with a bevy of inter-
national broads, and throwing him into
conflict with spiders, scorpions, and
sharks as well as two-legged fauna from
Istanbul to the Bahamas. Michael Caine,
coldly lecherous on screen, has become
famous in the year following his starring
role in “The Ipcress File” a surrealist
pursuit story shot in an unrecognisably
peacock-colored London. In “Modesty
Blaise,” made by the American Joseph
Losey in Britain, Miss Blaise is lured from
retirement as a rich crook to act as a
Government agent delivering diamonds
to an oil sheik. In “The Face of Fu Man-
chu,” Sax Rohmer’s time-tested oriental
villain operates a new campaign of terror
from a hideaway below the Thames.
Dracula stalks again in the emaciated
person of Christopher Lee. Sex changes,
flagrant camping (in “Modesty Blaise”
Dirk Bogarde flaunts a parasol and a
silver wig), incest, death jokes, and male
striptease (Peter O’Toole unwisely displays
a Before I Saw Charles Atlas chest in
“What’s New, Pussycat”) are all the cheer-
fully odious orders of the day.
In France, oddly enough, there is less
“with it” movie-making than there is in
Britain. The New Wave long since went
out with % gurgle, leaving those cold fish,
the French New Critics, gasping as though
landed on a rug. Jean-Luc Godard has
been the most successful survivor, rushing
out each new film with the doggedness of
a conjuror pulling one more pink rabbit
after another out of a very battered hat.
Ancient French serials the Gallic
equivalents of Batman have been re-
constructed into features, first “Judex,”
in which the American magician Channing
Pollock plays a quick-change artist, and
there is a wicked villainess involved in
endless, breakneck chases, and later
“Fantomas,” from the old chapter-plays
about a diabolical count who conducts
a reign of terror from his chateau deep
in the French countryside. The batwing
cloaks, the masks, the high-camp mas-
querade of Jean Marais as Fantomas: all
these are in keeping with the strong sadist-
homosexual streak.in the new cinema, and
its refusal to even pretend to be art.
Hollywood, of course, is content to con-
trol the new movement from the pleasant
suburbs of Beverly Hills without at any
stage sullying its own skirts in the process.
It may make an occasional “Our Man
Flint” or “The Silencers” brisk Ameri-
can variants on the British success formula
but it is far more likely to pour its
superb technical resources into the high-
powered wholesomeness of a “Sound of
Music,” the sOre-fire squareness of a “My
Fair Lady,” or the fey period romance
of a “Camelot”: remakes of stage suc-
cesses, banged across with all the old know-
how, are obviously going to be the answer
there for years to come, always provided,
of course, that Broadway can come up
with a couple of major hits a season, and
that Julie Andrews is able to give voice
at sufficient volume until 1984. The
occasional arty films Hollywood puts out
nowadays “Mickey One,” with its rather
sadly hopeful look-I-can-do-it-too introduc-
tion of a self-destroying sculpture, its new
wave shots of junkyards, the frenziedly
worked “The Loved One,” and “The
Reward,” which one hopes spells the death-
knell of Darryl Zanuck’s flirtation with
European directors, all have the air of a
nice old grandma having a fling at the
Watusi.
What about the future of the film? First
of all, there seems little chance for a
dedicated artist to do any work in it
nowadays: he would all to quickly be
forced into manufacturing instant pop, a
fate every bit as bad as (and less amusing
than) mounting soap operas for Crawford,
Davis, Lockwood, or Stanwyck back in the
’forties. Spies seem to be here to stay for
at least another year:. Universal’s new
“Arabesque,” about a spy in gold lame who
is kept by an Arab ship sheik with a
falcon on his wrist, seems, like the not dis-
similar “Modesty Blaise,” to be par for
the present course. On television, 30 mil-
lion viewers a week watch the new “Bat-
man” series. Superman has made it to the
Broadway stage, and the American maga-
zines have been falling over each other
recording all the bizarre offshoots of the
cults, from a bat image projected on to a
San Francisco hotel to the sale of imita-
tion bat’s blood by the bottle for babies’
birthday presents. In this kind of context,
even a supposedly with-it comedy like
George Axelrod’s “Lord Love a Duck,” a
send-up of beach-cult movies, can only
seem old-fashioned.
And after the spies? I’m putting bets
on SciFi as the new, swinging cinema cult
of 1967. First of all, there’s Stanley Kub-
rick’s “2001 Space Odyssey,” a giant con-
coction destined almost certainly for
critical acclaim.
This is based on a story by Arthur C.
Clarke, “The Sentinel,” about a group of
space explorers who find a strange machine
on the moon. The machine turns out to
be a giant burglar alarm which will warn
the occupants of a distant planet if it is
set off. Kubrick, who directed “Lolita” and
“Spartacus” and is still only in his thirties,
has been treating the shooting as a top-
secret venture, brushing aside even the
most determined of would-be interviewers,
and earning a million bucks’ worth of
free publicity in the process. Two scientists
have worked on the designs of the film,
Hardy Amies has done the clothes for the
21st century, and all the actors have to
be over six feet tall (those for an intro-
ductory Plioscene episode have to be less
than five feet).
Truffaut has simultaneously been making
“Fahrenheit 451.” This is based on a novel
by Ray Bradbury about a fireman who
escapes from a city of the future to find
a race of men who still care about books,
who pass them on from generation to
generation when men have deliberately
destroyed all the published knowledge that
exists on earth. Scarcely, one would have
thought, “with-it” commercial fare, but
Truffaut is certainly a natural for the art-
house circuit.
Finally, Fox’s “The Fantastic Voyage,”
about a group of scientists reduced to the
size of cells to explore a human body,
promises to be, under the direction of the
very gifted Richard Fleischer, the most
promising of the new SF films. And beyond
that? Comedies made on Mars.


Culture Without Tears
By JOHN CARGHER
A COMPREHENSIVE Opera Survey
conducted by Thomas’, a leading
Melbourne record shop, among its
customers gives conclusive evidence that
a large public for grand opera exists in
Australia, contrary to box-office appear-
ances, but that this public expects first-
class entertainment in all departments in-
stead of the “culture with tears” which
it has received in past years. Criticism is
centred on productions rather than singers
or repertoire; and the myth of high prices
keeping audiences away is laid once and
for all by the apparent willingness to pay
an average of $4.20 per seat for “a good
local production of opera.”
Thomas’ Pty. Ltd., of which I am
general manager, are the largest classical
record specialists in Australia, who deal
almost exclusively in serious music and
are therefore in regular contact with pro-
spective opera audiences in all States.
The Opera Survey set out 43 questions
covering all aspects of opera produc-
tion in Australia and was posted to about
700 selected mail order clients. Some
hundreds of additional copies were made
available to individuals where required,
but no attempt was made to provide
copies to the general public, so as to pre-
vent any possibility of “doctoring” of the
results by over-zealous enthusiasts.
A total of 354 forms was returned be-
■fore the set deadline, another 13 arriv-
ing too late for inclusion. While no
accurate possible total of replies is avail-
able, clearly a major portion of record
buyers, not all of whom are necessarily
opera lovers, took the trouble to complete
this lengthy document and thought it
worth a four-cent stamp to have their
opinions registered. By any form of simple
arithmetic this shows the existence of a
ready-made public able to fill any Aus-
tralian opera production to capacity, pro-
vided that the offering meets the not un-
reasonable demands made by this cross-
section of local opera audiences.
In view of the often repeated (and
often dismissed) criticism of poor produc-
tions in past seasons, it is significant that
no less than 259, or 74 percent, of the
replies state positively that the writer
would stay away from an opera because
of its staging, and 190 (53 percent) would
not excuse a poor production even if the
singers are first-class!
In addition, 75 percent consider the
producer to be as important as the singers
and 61 percent actually favor the impor-
tation of producers at the expense of
singers! A more detailed breakdown shows
that 70 percent like modern productions
and 94 percent traditional staging. (It is
possible to like both.) Individual comments
in the space devoted to “complaints about
past seasons” unequivocally favored the
Sutherland productions over those of the
Elizabethan Trust though many con-
demned both. Praise for individual pro-
ductions did not alter the overall picture.
A good orchestra is also considered es-
sential; only '56 entrants (16 percent)
would excuse a poor orchestra if the
singers are first-class and the Sutherland
season appears to have lost large audiences
because of complaints in this quarter.
That the demands made regarding
quality are not unreasonably high is clearly
shown by replies concerning what many
would consider the most important part
of opera: the singers. A majority (69 per-
cent) do not consider the importation of
singers for local productions as essential.
Fifty-one percent feel that local singers
are good, 41 percent think them fair, only
two percent refer to them as poor, and
the balance have no opinion. There is
also, contrary to general opinion, no snob-
bery regarding star-values here, though
the picture may well be different among
the musically less discerning public. No
less than 89 percent would visit an opera
featuring singers who are completely un-
known to them, but 43 percent are will-
ing to pay higher prices for productions
featuring “good imported singers who are
not stars” and 32 percent would pay up
to $20.00 per seat “if the cast includes
two singers of Joan Sutherland’s calibre.”
Apparently opera as a medium has con-
siderable box-office value in itself, an
assumption which is backed by the range
of operas chosen as most desired. (See
table below.)
There is some evidence that reduced
prices would increase audiences, with par-
ticular emphasis on the absence of gal-
leries for the young music lovers of Aus-
tralia. Multiple attendances xvould rise
sharply if prices are lowered in at least
some sections of the house, without affect-
ing the 45 percent who admit to buying
only the best seats. Many pathetic pleas
come from the country: people anxious
to pay high prices just cannot afford the
added expense of fares and hotel bills.
Nevertheless, the only serious complaints
about prices concern the Sutherland
season. The price of Elizabethan Trust pro-
ductions is only considered high in re-
lation to quality offered. -
There is a distinct conflict between the
complaints of high prices and the replies
to a simple question: “What is the maxi-
mum you would pay for a good local
production of opera?” Sixty percent are
willing to pay $4.00 or more, 30 percent
Most Favored Operas
(In Thomas’ opera survey two points
were given for first choice, one for
others. In case of ties, opera with most
firsts takes preference.)
1. Tristan und Isolde (Wagner) .. 77
2. Meistersinger (Wagner) . . . . 75
3. Magic Flute (Mozart) 70
4. Don Giovanni (Mozart) . . . . 51
5 Aida (Verdi) 51
6. Rosenkavalier (R. Strauss) . . . . 47
7. Boris Godounov (Moussorgsky). 43
8. Rigoletto (Verdi) 42
9. Otello (Verdi) 38
10. Peter Grimes (Britten) 37
11. Puritani (Bellini) 36
12. Norma (Bellini) 34
Trovatore (Verdi) 34
13. Don Carlos (Verdi) 34
14. Turandot (Puccini) 33
15. Moses and Aron (Schoenberg). 31
16. Pearlfishers (Bizet) 31
17. Wozzek (Berg) 28
18. Barber of Seville (Rossini) . . . . 27
Lohengrin (Wagner) 27
19. Madame Butterfly (Puccini) .. 27
20. Cavalleria Rusticana (Mascag-
ni) and I Pagliacci (Leonca-
vallo) 26
21. Orpheus and Euridice (Gluck) . 26
22. Pelleas and Melisande (Debussy) 25
23. Parsifal (Wagner) 22
24. Don Pasquale (Donizetti) . . . . 21
25. Seraglio (Mozart) 21
26. The Rake’s Progress (Stravin-
sky) 19
27. Threepenny Opera (Weill) .. 18
28. Forza del destino (Verdi) . . . . 16
Tosca (Puccini) 16
29. Prince Igor (Borodin) 15
30. Queen of Spades (Tchaikovsky) 14
31. Midsummer Night’s Dream
(Britten) 13
32. Gypsy Baron (J. Strauss) .. .. 12
33. Bartered Bride (Smetana) .. .. 12
34. Der Freischutz (Weber) . . . . 12
35. Mahagonny (Weill) 11
36. Albert Herring (Britten) . . . . 10
Der Mond (Orff) 10
Snow Maiden (Rimsky-Korsa-
kov) 10
37. Le Coq d’or (Rimsky-Korsakov) 9
38. The Consul (Menotti) 9
39. Cenerentola (Rossini) 8
Les Huguenots (Meyerbeer) . . 8
40. Elektra (R. Strauss) 7
Falstaff (Verdi) . 7
41. Lulu (Berg) 6
42. The Medium (Menotti) .... 6
43. Adriana Lecouvreur (Cilea) .. 6
44. Andrea Chenier (Giordano) .. 6
Belle Helene (Offenbach) .... 6
Simone Boccanegra (Verdi) . . 6
45. La Fanciulla del West (Puccini) 5
46. The Flying Dutchman (Wag-
ner) 5
Hansel and Gretel (Humper-
dinck) 5
Manon (Massenet) 5
Samson and Delilah (Saint-
Saens) 5
47. La Gioconda (Ponchielli) .... 4
48. Manon Lescaut (Puccini) .... 4
Mefistofole (Boito) 4
Tales of Hoffmann (Offenbach) 4
William Tell (Rossini) 4
49. Ballo in Maschera (Verdi) . . 2
Italiana in Algeri (Rossini) . . 2
Lakme (Delibes) 2
50. Arabella (R. Strauss) 1
Beggar’s Opera (Gay) 1
Damnation of Faust (Berlioz) . . 1
The Flood (Stravinsky) .... 1
Julius Caesar (Handel) .... 1
Nabucco (Verdi) 1
No votes: Capriccio (R. Strauss),
Daphne (R. Strauss), Fedora (Gior-
dano ), The Merry Wives of Windsor
(Nicolai), Salome (R. Strauss).


TABULA
an essential aid in
Commerce, Industry and
Educational Establishments!
Locally made to suit Australian conditions,
"Tabula" educational boards are featured in
notable installations throughout each State.
"Tabula" is available in an extensive range—
Glass, Hardboard, vertical or horizontal, re-
volving, sliding, magnetic, projection, cork
bulletin boards, flannelgraph, pin-up boards
and many others to suit your exact require-
ments.
We tender realistically and boast a "Unique"
personal service to please you or your client.
For detailed information and/or
demonstration, please write, phone
or call:
UNIQUE HOUSE
SHOWROOMS IN ALL STATES
N.S.W.: 681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt,
Telephone: 56 7313.
A.C.T.: 89 Petrie Street, Canberra.
Telephone: 4 5554.
yiC.: 139 Boundary Road, North Melbourne.
Telephone: 30 1381.
less than $3.00 and an even ten percent
found the question impossible to answer.
The actual breakdown of replies is:
$2.00 = 38
$3.00 = 69
$4.00 = 75
$5.00 = 74
$6.00 = 30
$7.00 or more = 32
Since 178 stated that they buy the
cheaper seats, it is clear that $4.00 per
seat is considered cheap by a large per-
centage!
It would also appear that the advan-
tages of Elizabethan Trust membership are
not brought home to the public at large.
215 replies (58 percent) stated that block
bookings for all productions would be
made if prices are reduced sufficiently.
Twenty-two thought a ten percent reduc-
tion reasonable, 95 asked for 20 percent,
and 50 for more than 20 percent. Actual
reductions for Trust members do not
reach these figures, of course, but while
esoteric non-box-office operas are in-
cluded, as in past seasons, the Trust
might well ponder these figures.
The willingness of so many people to
pay heavily for “good local opera” con-
trasts sharply with the attendance figures
shown. No fewer than 66, or 19 percent,
did not attend any opera at all during the
past three years! Twenty-eight percent
went only once a year or less, 16 percent
went up to twice a year, and only eight
percent went up to three times a year.
These figures include attendances at pro-
fessional and amateur performances during
three years which saw 16 professional pro-
ductions plus innumerable local efforts
which, judging by comments, comprised a
fair percentage of performances actually
attended. This shows a positive sales resis-
tance to past opera productions on the part
of people who clearly love the medium
and wish to further it. One must conclude
that they have grown tired of supporting
instead of enjoying opera.
The repertoire presented not only by
the Trust but also during the Sutherland
season came under considerable fire. How-
ever, the wide range of operas requested
makes it obvious that no repertoire of
fewer than 20 or more operas will satisfy
the majority of established opera fans.
There is no overwhelming preference for
any composer, style or period. One hun-
dred and ninety (53 percent) did ask for
more standard works “like Boheme, Travi-
ata, Rigoletto, etc.,” but this is only natu-
ral after years of seasons catering for the
music student rather than the general pub-
lic. The figure is offset by 42 percent re-
questing neglected classics, 34 percent more
modern operas, and 26 percent antique
operas. (Multiple replies are responsible
for the apparent excess of 100 percent.)
Since 77 percent admitted to being
regular opera fans, against 23 percent who
denied any positive interest, it may be
assumed that the 53 percent favoring
more standard works would be very sub-
stantially higher if a cross-section of casual
members of the public were taken.
At the same time the enterprising tastes
of the hard core of potential opera audi-
ences must cause real surprise. Perhaps
the overwhelming 87 percent affirmative
to the question: “Would you visit aYiew
Australian opera?” was prompted largely
by a reluctance to admit disinterest in such
an event. But the operas chosen as most
requested are the real eye-openers. The
big surprise is the immense demand for
Wagner. Not only do “Tristan und Isolde”
and “Die Meistersinger” lead the field,
but the clear question: “Would you sub-
scribe to a complete cycle of the four
operas comprising Wagner’s ‘Ring der
Nibelungen’ ” produced a staggering 233
(66 percent) affirmatives, a large percent-
age placing multiple ticks to accentuate
their absolute desire to witness this spec-
tacle! Perhaps this is the cue for the
West (or East) German government to
consider making such a venture possible
through a visiting German opera company.
The rest is closer to what one might
expect, with some exceptions. Operas
presented recently were omitted from the
list, yet no less than 68 different works
received votes ranging from one to 57.
(Each entrant was asked to name the three
operas he or she would most like to see.)
While Mozart occupied 3rd and 4th
place, Verdi had five among the first
thirteen. Only Puccini lagged surprisingly
with “Turandot” attaining 14th position
and “Tosca” a poor 28th. If any trend is
discernible, it leans toward spectacle. The
first seven operas all demand resources of
staging and/or casting which might reason-
ably put them out of bounds for a local
company.
The temptation to ask for operas un-
likely to be seen in Australia must have
been strong and this accounts, no doubt,
for some of the high placings of rela-
tively non box-office works. Out of 50
individual placings (on a points basis)
the showing of “Wozzek” in 17th' and
“Moses and Aron” in 15th position is only
a little less astonishing than the coupling
of “Orpheus and Euridice” (so easily pro-
duced) and “Pelleas and Melisande” in
21st and 22nd place respectively.
In the non-popularity stakes there must
be some raised eyebrows at no single vote
for “Salome,” “Capriccio,” or “Daphne,”
and a single voice for “Arabella,” when the
same composer’s “Rosenkavalier” is up in
sixth place.
“Would you visit an opera you do not
know at all?” This question was put
purely as a basis for supplementary ex-
planations asked about it. However, a sur-
prising 88 percent said “yes,” a fact
which makes the rest of the section im-
portant. In this it was asked whether
advice about such an opera would be
sought through, (1) critics in the Press,
(2) publicity in all media, (3) books and
magazines, and (4) personal recommen-
dation. The critics came out of this sur-
prisingly well, considering the trouncing
they usually get; 48 percent admitted to
accepting their findings, though a solid
29 percent were equally emphatic that
they would not. Books and magazines, and
personal recommendation, had almost no
opposition and the approval of 71 percent
and 76 percent respectively. The only
excess of “No” over “Yes” votes was
achieved by publicity, 40 percent against
35 percent.
On the subject of subsidies for opera
in Australia, opinion was almost unani-
mous: 95 percent of all answers favor sub-
sidies of some sort, the rest being in op-
position and no single entry registered an
abstention. As to where the subsidy is to
come from, opinions varied but it was
pointed out that more than one source
of subsidy is possible and multiple sug-
gestions were general. State Government
subsidies favored by 80 percent were
closely followed by support at Federal
level (79 percent) and even city councils
received votes (however unwelcome)
from 67 percent of the entries. Only a
single vote opposed this kind of subsidy
in favor of private enterprise.
Finally, four questions were asked about
the future of opera in Australia. Again,
multiple replies were possible, but the
substantial majority (82 percent) favors
a full-time national company giving
seasons in all States. Twenty-nine percent
would like to see local companies in major
cities, possibly interchanging seasons when
occasion demands, and 21 percent want
visiting professional companies “keeping
in mind that this would mean gaps of
many years between seasons.”
We do not feel called upon to draw


ROLF HARRIS
A
58th BP Super Show recorded at TCN. Directed by Rod Kinnear of GTV.
HERMAN’S
HERMITS
Sponsored by Hilton Hosiery to launch their new ladderproof nylons.
CLANCY BROTHERS
JIMMY EDWARDS
Live telecast of the last Tivoli show sponsored by W.D. and H.O. Wills.
TOM JONES
Another Hilton Hosiery special recorded at GTV9.
ts>
Top 5 live specials make 9 top station
in two cities
Australian “live” specials from top
international stars another reason why
the two “Nines” put your name before the
largest captive audience in Australia.
TCN-9 SALES —Sydney: Bth Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street. 61-9931
Melbourne: 247 Collins Street. 63-8336
GTV-9 SALES Melbourne: 22 Bendigo Street. 42-0201
Sydney: 54 Park Street. 61-9931
Channel


conclusions from this Opera Survey
beyond stating that it produces food for
thought: perhaps audiences for opera, bal-
let, and other theatrical attractions are
scribe to a complete cycle of the four
they are offered what they want.
FILMS
Zap! Pow! Pooh!
Batman. Director, Lambert Hillyer. Capitol,
Sydney.
What’s New, Pussycat? Director, Clive
Donner. Regent, Sydney.
IT’s so bad, it’s good!” It seems this
is the argument which has made
appreciation of “Batman” the badge
of intellectual chic. To me it just seemed
bad, dull, and far too long. This com-
pendium of serial episodes lasts for over
four hours too long even for a funny
joke. I lasted for about a quarter of the
time, then thankfully decided that I
wasn’t all that intellectual. Sometimes I’m
so glad I’m a Gamma.
Made in the early 19405, “Batman” was
based on a popular comic strip of the time
I never read that, either whose
literary content apparently consisted of
such bits of onomatopoeic violence as
“Zap! Pow! Braaak!” The dialogue in the
movie version is slightly more articulate,
but no worthier of attention. Batman is a
plump gentleman who dresses up in
masquerade costume when foiling villains;
at other times he wears a sharp lounge
suit and poses as a foppish playboy. The
Scarlet Pimpernel played this card many
years ago with much more elegance.
You can get some slight intellectual
exercise out of this by noting the similari-
ties and differences between Batman and
James Bond. The heroes are both tall,
invincible, omniscient, and on the right
side; they can escape by luck or cunning
from the direst dilemma. But there’s no
sex in “Batman,” in any case no hetero-
sexual sex since the pompadoured hero-
ine is most of the time stunned, gassed, or
drugged, she’s little use to anyone and
though the aforesaid intellectuals have
made much of Batman’s relationship with
Robin, I do feel this is pretty farfetched.
Also, in our days of uneasy peace the
villains of the Bond films are carefully
international. In “Batman,” made during
the war, they are roundly identified as “the
shifty-eyed Japs.”
These Japs devote most of their time
to hijacking cargoes of radium consigned
to the hospital where the heroine is em-
ployed. Their nefarious plan is to manu-
facture atomic weapons a notion which
fills all the true-blue Americans with
proper disgust. It might be tactful not to
screen “Batman” in Hiroshima or Naga-
saki.
It could be fun to see a half-hour of
this on television, with feet comfortably
slippered, a drink to hand, and some
friends to help send it up. But four hours
plus in a cinema Zap! Pow! Pooh!
There’s plenty of heterosexual sex, of
an ogling, sniggering kind, in “What’s
New, Pussycat,” a noisy, garish, eminently
dislikable film surprisingly directed by
Clive Donner. Whatever became of the
smooth sophistication and understatement
of “Nothing But The Best”? His new
film has the negative interest of
demonstrating that even Peter Sellers
can give a poor performance when
deprived of a good script (on the few
occasions when he is given a good line
he delivers it brilliantly). Peter O’Toole,
dancing through his role with roguish
self-satisfaction, is embarrassingly bad as a
comedian, and the film’s few good mom-
ents must clearly all be credited to Paula
Prentiss, who is rapidly qualifying as one
of the funniest girls on the screen.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
It’s Got It
Robert and Elizabeth. Directed by Charles
Hickman. Princess, Melbourne.
Man Speaking. Directed by Harold Lang.
, St. Martin’s, Melbourne.
WHEN the Rons Millar and Grainer
settled down to write themselves a
hit musical they very sensibly took
a leaf or three from the book and score of
Lerner and Loewe. Like the MFL men,
their starting point was a successful play,
and while “The Barretts of Wimpole
Street” is no “Pygmalion” it’s not with-
out its useful similarities.
The setting remains gas-lit London, so
the designers can go to town on elegant
gowns, interiors, and street-scenes. Fore-
most phoneticist Higgins becomes famous
poet Browning, and the central conflict
once again concerns the hero’s determined
efforts to transform a reluctant heroine.
Where the authoritarian Professor took a
flower-girl and made her into a lady,
Robert’s alchemy is to change a bed-ridden
neurotic into a woman. In fact, the scene
in which Browning makes Elizabeth walk
is so like that in which Higgins triumphs
over Eliza’s vowels that, at the sight
of her first tottering steps, one waits for
him to cry “By George, she’s got it! I
think she’s got it!”
While Eliza, out in the cold, warbles
that all she wants is a room somewhere,
Elizabeth, locked far away from the cold
night air, sings poignantly of “The World
Outside.” And both girls have their father
troubles. Alfred Doolittle and Edward
Moulton-Barrett are poles apart socio-
economically, but they do give their res-
pective proceedings a touch of villainy
and most of the laughs.
Ron Grainer’s apt and vivid themes
for “Steptoe,” “Maigret,” and “Dr. Who”
show his inventiveness as a pop composer,
but his talk-songs for Robert and Edward
are unashamedly derivative. The lyrical
numbers are more individual, but are
hampered by the lyricist. Millar, who
dramatised G. P. Snow’s “The Masters,”
dares for example to have one of Eng-
land’s greatest poets sing that the Moon
fell like a rocket right into his pocket.
But enough nit-picking. The show will,
of course, be a thumping success. The
ingredients are proven and the production
unstinting. Sets, costumes, and supporting
cast aren’t brilliant, but they’re bright,
and Alan Barker’s orchestra is the best
we’ve heard in a musical for years. Then
there are the principals, all liberally en-
dowed with star quality. Frank Thring
plays Father Barrett like a Tory Dracula.
Most women would climb happily in or
out of bed for Denis Quilley’s Browning,
while the diminutive June Bronhill de-
livered her lines, songs, and curtain-speech
with supreme skill and assurance.
She also contributes some program
notes, gleanings from her personal research
into the Barretts. She considers incestuous
Edward maligned. It was the neurotic
Elizabeth that dominated 50 Wimpole
Street. And far from being a Doulton
figurine, she was “an opium eater” to her
dying day.
Thus, two perfectly good illusions are
shattered.
“Man Speaking” is a dramatised discus-
sion in which Harold Lang, Greville Hal-
lam, and Nicholas Amer take the poetry of
Donne, Milton, and Blake and seek to
discover the poet. Anything that followed
the extraordinary “Macbeth in Camera”
would have to be anti-climactic, and this
time Lang alows his pseudo ad-libbing
to become overly cute and arch. But the
analysis remains incisive and the tech-
nique stimulating. One thanks the Arts
Council and St. Martin’s for the oppor-
tunity to see these productions.
PHILLIP ADAMS
More a Romp than
a Ritual
The Sport of My Mad Mother. Ann Jel-
licoe. Group Theatre. Wayside Chapel of
the Cross, Sydney.
My Flesh, My Blood. Bill Naughton.
Genesian Theatre.
The Pirates and the Inca Gold. Beverley
Gross. Independent Theatre.
THE Sport of My Mad Mother” is
an anti-intellect play,” writes Ann
Jellicoe “not only because it is
about irrational forces and urges, but be-
cause one hopes it will reach the audience
directly through rhythm, noise, and music
and their reaction to basic stimuli.”
This performance by the Group Theatre
certainly has rhythm, noise, and music
(played by the Four Whichways). And
the atmosphere of the tiny Wayside
Chapel Theatre, with its modern ecclesi-
astical architecture, pocket-handkerchief
stage, and rosy gloom as of a damped-
down inferno, is indeed nearer to the
folk cellar (which the Group believes
young people prefer) than the conventional
theatre. But, in creating a carnival color-
fulness, to appeal to young people, the
Group Theatre company has rather lost
sight of the play.
The play, set in London, is about the
restless, inarticulate members of a youth-
ful gang. They spend a lot of time wait-
ing: waiting, like Pinter characters, for
something menacing to come through the
door; waiting, like Beckett characters, for
their leader, who is not, however, a stern
father-figure but a fierce, cruel mother-
figure. Before she comes the only arrivals


are a gentle American and a simple-
minded girl.
While they wait they become bored.
Boredom leads to restlessness and out of
this builds up in a recurring pattern
a repetitive, incantatory rhythm of more or
less meaningless speech, accompanied by
rhythmic movement, which leads either to
violence or just exhaustion. The best
scene is the one in which they decide to
give Patty a home perm. They begin in
workaday fashion but, as they repeat the
operations, the instructions become trans-
formed into a wild chant accompanied by
a kind of corroboree dance.
It is a weakness of Jim Sharman’s pro-
duction that these scenes, which lie some-
where between children’s games and
primitive ritual, are more of a romp than
a ritual, and that the primitive passions,
which are supposed to be bubbling volcan-
ically in the characters, are well below
the boil.
It is a weakness of the play that the
character who represents the sweetness and
light of civilisation (an American called
Dean) in opposition to the barbaric
cruelty of the archetypal mother-figure (an
Australian called Greta) is such a frail
bulwark against the forces of unreason.
He is the only articulate character and
he is a bore.
The young members of the Group
Theatre, now amalgamated with “Oz”
magazine, have talent and liveliness. If
they can keep these qualities while achiev-
ing more discipline and shape in future
productions, they will become an exciting
addition to our theatre.
The familiar psychological realism of
“My Flesh, My Blood” is at the opposite
pole from the avant-garde experimentalism
of Ann' Jellicoe’s play. It is a study of
the conflict in a Lancashire family between
an authoritarian father and his four chil-
dren young adults with their mother
a patient buffer. His non-conformist
strictness and thriftiness, reinforced by
experiences in the depression, seem in-
tolerably oppressive to his younger
daughter, a child of the affluent society.
Refusing a herring for her tea, she raises
a storm which, rapidly becoming a tornado,
almost wrecks the whole family.
This is a solidly constructed family
drama with plenty of local colorlessness.
Raymond Ainsworth’s production is like-
wise solid and satisfying and has some
good performances by May Pusey as the
mother, Patricia East as the rebellious
daughter, Peter Carroll as the sensitive
younger son, and Terence Madden as the
quietly reliable son-in-law.
“The Pirates and the Inca Gold,” pro-
duced by Noelann Gandon, has all the
ingredients you would expect in a colorful
story about the capture of one of His
Majesty’s ships by a pirate crew in order
to search for Inca treasure on the banks
of the Orinoco, while keeping the hostile
Indians at bay.
But the pirates are not at all what you
would expect. Captain Lasher, an ex-actor
who cannot stand the sight of blood, is
played with his own inimitable stylishness
by David Goddard. Mr. Wilkinson, an
ex-classics master, is kindly as well as
learned, while Nosey and Splinters, a
colorful pair of villains, are not as
frightening as they look.
Jill I jeonard as Georgina is really both
heroine and hero she pretends to be
Midshipman George —as she is the
prettiest and cleverest and bravest of them
all.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
"The Sport of My Mad Mother,” Ann Jellicoe's play done by the Group Theatre at
the Wayside Chapel Theatre, Sydney. Left to right, Jennifer Cullen, Janie Stewart,
Charles Little, Alan Hardy, Roberta Grant, and Ross Thompson.
TELEVISION
Neither Deft Nor
Delightful
CRAWSHAW seems an average name
to me, but to Oldenshaw, the super-
cilious bearded fellow in Granada
TV’s “Man in Room 17,” it sounds “as
though someone was expectorating
heavily.” Actually there are two men in
Room 17, which supposes that one of
them is perhaps a member of the Unisex,
and for my money it could be either. The
second, Dimmock, has a turn of phrase
which runs to such prissy terms as “a
delightfully deft electrician” and solicitors
“deft to the point of chicanery.” The two
blathering idiots seem to spend night and
day in their mysterious room, from where
they solve spy and criminal affairs merely
by taking thought and using telephones
to order various people about, including
deft electricians, obliging burglars, Cabi-
net Ministers, Governors of the Bank of
England, and police officials.
After watching several episodes with
growing wonder, it dawned on me that
Granada had filmed the activities of two
English eccentrics confined to a private
asylum and acting out their phantasies.
These the producers have filled out with
the help of a few actors, and the whole
has been sold as a series to entertain
other less imaginative eccentrics, who,
after all, must need diversion in their
isolation. One can only praise ABC Tele-
vision for buying the series to cater for
such a small minority in Australia.
In the episode of “Man in Room 17”
which I saw most recently, Oldenshaw and
Dimmock were daydreaming about a fin-
ancier who had siphoned a million or so
from his company, faked his own death
in a charter plane crash, and escaped
with the loot to Yugoslavia, “best place in
Europe for a man who likes underwater
fishing,” Oldenshaw deduced. To flush out
their criminal, the pair borrowed a million
or so from Threadneedle Street, ordered
four more telephones, and proceeded to
bull and bear the stockmarket until the
embezzled firm was in such great shape
that the mastermind could not resist a
return from the dead. Then O & D called
the police, and settled down to a game of
Monopoly.
The fact that in Sydney the viewers
who tune into “Australian Playhouse”
know that it is followed on the ABC chan-
nel by such a load of old rubbish as
“Room 17” would not be encouraging.
This means that “Playhouse” has a moro-
nic show before it and hopelessly pseudo-
highbrow entertainment after it. Clearly,
“Australian Playhouse” is being thrown
away by the program, arrangers, a sign
that they must have seen enough of it to
reach the conclusion I’m coming to after
five or six episodes, that charity is wasted
on it. So far “Playhouse” has even fallen
short of “Batman’s” attraction, that it is so
bad it’s good. Like the dramas of “Room
17,” most of “Australian Playhouse” to
date has just been plain ridiculous, and
silliest of all was the play called “Wall
to Wall.”
FRANK ROBERTS


DISPLACED PERSON
“irvURING the war,” Miss Mort said.
1 W “Dooring ze vore?” Dr. Deligdisch
echoed.
Miss Mort sighed and said no more. She
stood up, moved away from her desk, and
picked up the wire-basket of cups and
saucers covered with a teatowel.
“Well, I think it’s time for a nice
cup of tea,” she said. She moved across
the room. “You don’t want a cup?”
“No, no tea. In a minude I’ll make
myzelf a nize gup of goffee.”
Miss Mort registered this with a nod
and a frown. “Oh, well,” she said. “It’s
a free country.”
Miss Fleming from Acme Export-Import,
across the corridor, was already at the
sink in the decrepit washroom. Miss
Mort might have gone back to her office
and got on with her work, but she decided
to begin again the conversation she had
been having with Dr. Deligdisch which
had come to such an unsatisfactory stop.
“There’s a whole lot of letters in the
paper today about this business of too
old at 40,” she said.
“What business?” Miss Fleming said,
looking up from the sink.
“This lady wrote to the papers, a very
highly qualified secretary she was. Con-
fidential. Bookkeeping, too. She left her
employer for some reason. She didn’t
state. Now she finds everywhere they
say no one over 35 heed apply. All the
ads say ‘Senior, aged between 25 and
30.’ And as she says in her letter, doesn’t
experience count for anything. Is a.
woman of 47 she’s 47, or so she says
ready for the old women’s home? Now
there’s been a lot of letters about it.
Businessmen saying they prefer younger
women. And women with years of ex-
perience saying they can’t get jobs, or
can’t get jobs suited to their experience.”
She gazed from the narrow window to the
new glass-fronted building opposite in
which impossibly handsome and graceful
men and women moved back and forth
about their business. “You can’t throw
human beings away like worn-out shoes,”
she said. “Superseded models.”
“Oh, well,” Miss Fleming said. “It’s
an old story. I never thought the day
would come when I’d be making the tea
again. But now I wouldn’t go back into'
a big office if you paid me. When I
was at Permanent the girls got me down.
Insolent. Ignorant. They can’t spell. Time-
wasters. Always taking sickies. And on.'
top of that—”
“During the war,” Miss Mort said, back
where she wanted to be, “I was private
secretary to the Director of Waste
Accumulation for New South Wales.”
“I know,” Miss Fleming said. “You’ve
said.”
“Mr. Collins and I had complete charge
of the collection of essential waste for
the war effort. Everything was stored
in warehouses for when it was needed.
Most of it was down at Pyrmont, but,
of course, during the war you couldn’t
tell anyone that. Security. Now it’s all
right to say. Pyrmont, most of it was.
When we had filled the available ware-
houses we took over some suburban pic-
ture-theatres and stored stuff in them.
The Roxy at Glebe. The Arcadia at
Homebush. The Amusu at Mosman. Oh ;
lots of them. It was a precaution, too.
In case the harbor was bombed. All
sorts of things were collected and stored.
Silver paper. Bottle tops. Typewriter
spools. There were big campaigns, urging
the public to co-operate. And, of course,
Mr. Collins was often away. In Can-
berra conferring with the Minister and
so forth. Once he flew to Washington
in wartime, mind for an Allied Waste
Accumulation Conference.”
“Yes, I know,” Miss Fleming said.
“You said.”
“While Mr. Collins was away I vir-
tually took complete charge, inspecting
suitable empty warehouses and taking
over suburban picture-theatres for further
expansion, even attending collectors’ ral-
lies on behalf of the Department. Not
speaking, of course, but sitting on the
platform with the bigwigs. But after the
war the whole department folded. I
was only temporary. Mr. Collins went
back into industry. They made him Sir
Albert, but he died soon after just the
same. • He was worn out by his war
effort. But I think it’s a pretty funny
world we live in when a woman who ran
an essential service during the war finishes
up at Pearson Press. But, there it is ;
it is a funny world.”
“Still, we’re in jobs. That’s the main
thing. Head above water,” Miss Fleming
said and pulled the plug out of the
sinkful of grey suds. She rinsed out the
sink and gave it a final rub-around with
her dishcloth. “Well, that’s that,” she
said.
Miss Mort had been boiling the kettle
at the gas-ring. Before Miss Fleming had
picked up her tray to leave the room
Miss Mort had splashed the hot water
from the kettle around the sink and
was wiping it out carefully with her own
dishcloth. That was the sort of thing
she did which annoyed people, Miss Flem-
ing thought. It annoyed Miss Fleming,
who might otherwise have suggested that
some time they have dinner and do a
show in town one Friday night. Dutch
treat, of course. But Miss Fleming had
her sister, Una, and Auntie Sal, who
really was very bright for her age, for
•company on an outing. Why should she
This story was the first prize-winner in
the Adelaide “Advertiser” literary contest,
held in conjunction with this year’s Adelaide
Festival of Arts.
put herself out for someone who wiped
the sink out after you? That was the
thing about Miss Mort. Not a bad old
stick, but always at the last minute she
managed to do something which infuriated
you.
When Miss Mort got back to her office
Dr. Deligdisch was making coffee on a
filter arrangement over a tiny primus
stove. He had shoved all the proofs
he was working on aside and set up the
stove in the middle of his desk.
“It’s a fire hazard, Dr. Deligdisch, really
it is,” Miss Mort said. “Particularly in an
old building like this. With all the files.
And papers. And books.”
“I am fairy gareful,” Dr. Deligdisch
said. He lifted the filter with his clumsy,
sausage fingers and the flame leapt up.
Miss Mort frowned as she poured her
tea and Mr. Pearson’s. Then she went
into the inner office.
Mr. Pearson looked up and tossed
over one of his winsome smiles.
“Ah, tea! Ah, good!” he said, rubbing
his hands together.
Miss Mort set down the tea and
stared at Peregrine Pearson. She never
could get over the fact that Peregrine Pear-
son was a person, a name, almost famous.
There was Mr. Collins, who had been
Director of Waste Accumulation for the
whole of New South Wales in World
War 11, and who would remember him
now? And just a few lines in the paper
when he died. But all sorts of people
had heard of Peregrine Pearson. Once in
a while a television station would ring up
and want to interview him. They had
him once on a program called “Sydney’s
Great Bohemian Days,” and even took a
shot of him in his office. That night Miss
Mort had been modest and withdrawn as
she entered the television room at Buena
Vista. Then she had mentioned, very
casually, that her boss would be on tele-
vision that night. The TV people had
been in the office for a whole day with
cameras and things, she explained. What
an upset they had caused! But when
the television, at great inconvenience to
the whole room (it meant missing the
279th episode of “Navy Days”), was tuned
to the national there was this untidy fat
old man, surrounded by junk, and ram-
bling on and on about nothing.
Sometimes students came to talk to
Mr. Pearson about Australian literature.
There were books on the shelves behind
Mr. Pearson that he had written himself.
They were how shabby, old-fashioned
books, the sort, Miss Mort felt, that no
one would read these days, not with the
television.
“Will I draw the cheques, Mr. Pear-
son?” she asked.
“Why, bless my soul,” Mr. Pearson
said, looking at her over the top of his


half-moon, gold-rimmed glasses. “What
day of the month is it?”
“The 29th.”
“Lawks ’a’ mercy!” he said, and threw
out another winsome smile. “What
month?”
“August.”
“August! ’Pon my soul!”
“Nineteen sixty-five,” she said.
“Yes, to be sure, to be sure. I knew
that.”
“Will I draw the cheques?”
“Ah, dear,” Mr. Pearson said, and
smiled down at the galley-proof he was
reading. “Well, yes, m’dear. But not the
printers’. Not the printers’. I want a little
more time, a little more time to go
through their statement again.”
“And the - salaries?” she asked. “The
salaries, Mr. Pearson?”
Mr. Pearson smiled his contempt. “To
be sure, m’dear. To be sure.”
By the time she had finished the
cheques and pinned each to' its invoice
and slipped the account from the printers
under her blotter where some other bills
waited, Dr. Deligdisch, sighing and blow-
ing, had set down his pen and was spread-
ing his lunch on his desk. Miss Mort
consulted her watch, got out her lunch,
one Marmite sandwich and one tomato,
a cup-cake, shop-bought, and an apple.
As she bit into the Marmite sandwich,
Mr. Pearson, putting on his wide-brimmed
black hat and swinging his cane, went
through, looking from one desk to the
other.
“Delicious, to be sure,” he murmured.
“Delicious,” but curling the brim of his
hat over his brow and down over his
right ear to show his contempt for the
Miss Morts and Dr. Deligdischs of this
life, and went off to his good lunch at
Rainauds.
Miss Mort went bite for bite with Dr.
Deligdisch while he ate his carton of
yoghurt, his pickled cucumber, and hunk
of cheese and black bread. They didn’t
talk. After ten years there was nothing to
say. Occasionally, they looked above and
beyond each other, because you have to
look somewhere.
Finally, Miss Mort gathered up the
plastic bag in which she had brought her
lunch, shook the crumbs into a sheet of
SHORT STORY BY
PATRICIA ROLFE
paper because of rats in the building,
and folded the bag and put it in her
handbag for tomorrow’s lunch.
“Well, I think I’ll make a nice cup of
tea,” she said. “Would you like a cup
of tea, Dr. Deligdisch?”
“I’ll make a nize gup of goffee,” he
said, slicing his bread against his waist-
coat.
“Oh, well,” Miss Mort said. “It’s a free
country.”
In the washroom Miss Fleming was
making-up her face.
“Phew,” Miss Mort said, putting on the
kettle. “The smell of that cheese Dr.
Deligdisch eats. It turns your stomach.
And that rotten old yoghurt.”
“The • smell of him,” Miss Fleming
said.
“It gets you down.”
“Particularly in winter. What does he
do in there? Pie’s not a real doctor, is
he?”
‘“No, he’s not. I’m ‘Christian Science
myself. You meet a very nice class of
person in Christian Science. Doctors are
against my principles, but if he was a
real doctor I might overlook things. But
just let anyone try to get away with call-
ing him ‘Mister’ and see how they get
on. He’s a Jew, you know.”
“I know. You said.”
“You couldn’t guess to look at him.
Before the war they all seemed to have
the look. Now, with some of them they’ve
let into the country you don’t know where
you stand. And these days everyone’s
going on about getting on with the New
Australians, making them feel at home.
How can you make them feel at home?
This isn’t their home. Not that I’ve got
anything against foreigners. In their
place. But I always say, once a reffo
always a reffo. And I can’t see that you
aren’t just as likely to dislike someone
because they’re a Jew as for any other
reason. I am willing to hold out the
hand of friendship, but I don’t see why
I should bend over backwards, do you?”
“No, not really. If you don’t want to.”
“I’ve never bent over backwards for
anyone. Not that I dislike Dr. Deligdisch.
But we’re just not simpatico. That’s it,
not simpatico.”
Miss Fleming spat on a finger and
smoothed her eyebrows. “What does he
do in there?” she asked.
“He’s editor of the general list.”
“What on earth’s that? There’s only
three of you.”
“Well, Mr. Pearson publishes books and
Dr. Deligdisch edits them. It’s all very
involved, really.” After ten years it was all
quite beyond Miss Mort, who still
. couldn’t believe that books at some stage
appeared new. Books were books, classics,
Dickens and that, or a nice, light book
from the library, although she didn’t
bother with the library so much now,
with the television. Yes, she knew about
books, but when the first copies of one of
Pearson Press’ rare volumes came in from
the printers she would shy away from it as
if someone had held up a newborn babe in
all its indecent nakedness. So she didn’t
care much to talk about the goings-on
at Pearson Press. “We have books from
Europe sometimes and he translates them.
He was a professor. That’s how he speaks
English. He writes it as well as me or
you, but he’s got this horrible accent. It
gets me down, really it does.”
“I know. You said.”
“He doesn’t like Australians, really,
although he tries to hide it. And you
can’t mention the war in his presence.
He was in one of those camps in Ger-
many. The ones Hitler started. I’ve got
no time for Hitler and I’m glad I did
my bit in Waste Accumulation to beat him,
but there must have been some reason. No
smoke without fire, is there? He even
showed me the number they tattooed on
his arm. Pulled up his shirtsleeve and
said, There, there, now do you under-
stand?’ Really most objectionable. Grunt-
ing and spitting at you. I know it was
terrible, but you can’t live in the past.
I said that to him. ‘Dr. Deligdisch,’ I
said, ‘you can’t live in the past.’ There’s
millions of people who weren’t even born
when the war was on. You can’t live
in the past.”
“No, indeed.”
“After the war he came out here. He
was at the Uni for a while, but he didn’t
last there. Goodness knows what would
happen if he lost this job! He’d never
get another one at his age. Being a
foreigner, too.” .
“No, indeed.” Miss Fleming gathered
up her handbag and gloves. “I was think-
ing,” she said. “One Friday night—”
But Miss'Mort was fastidiously picking
one of Miss Fleming’s hairs, grey, dyed
Royal Plum, out of the sink. Miss Flem-
ing watched this, then turned on Miss
Mort:
“If I were you two I’d start looking
around now. Your boss is on his last
legs. I saw him in the lift this morn-
ing. He’s all white and flabby.”
“He’s always white and flabby. But
he’s never had a day’s sickness in his life.
Touch wood.”
Mr. Pearson collapsed and died just
six days later as he was coming down
the steps of the Cannibals Club after a
dinner in his honor. The tiext day Miss
Mort read about the death in Mr. Pear-
son’s copy of “The Sydney Morning
Herald” and noted with disapproval that
Mr. Pearson, who was called the Last of
Sydney’s Great Bohemians and whose death
was described as the End of an Era, had
been given far more space than Mr.
Collins.
Miss Mort then turned rather shakily
to the Positions Vacant and was brooding
over senior secretaries, 25 to 30 years,
when two of Mr. Pearson’s oldest and
closest friends arrived at the office. They
were, of course, quite old, too, but today
there was a glint in their eyes and a
spring in their step. They were walking
the earth, talking about dear old Perry,


and dear old Perry was deady-bones-
dead.
They paused and one of them spoke to
Miss Mort.
“Very sad. Very sad,” he said. “A
great loss to Australian literature.”
“I’m sure,” Miss Mort said.
“The Last of the Great Bohemians,”
the second man intoned.
“The End of an Era,” the first man
responded.
But all the time their eyes were on
the inner office. “Well,” the first man
said finally, “if you don’t mind we’ll just
check the ah! the manuscripts.” He
and his friend sidled past Miss Mort and
went into the inner office.
“Vaht are zey doing?” Dr. Deligdisch
demanded.
“They are friends of Mr. Pearson,” Miss
Mort said. “The late Mr. Pearson,” she
amended, took another look at the Positions
Vacant and sighed.
Dr. Deligdisch sat at his desk, one
fat hand over the other like two pounds
of sausages. He groaned and rolled his
eyes.
“Vaht vill begum of us now?” he
asked.
“Of us?” she echoed, letting him know
just where he stood.
Voices came from the inner ."•ffice.
“My God, here’s a first edition of
‘Kangaroo’ with a scribble from Law-
rence. Look at the signature. What would
that fetch these days?”
“And look at these Lindsay nudes. Not
even framed. Just chucked here on the
shelf. What do you get for them these
days?”
“Hard to say. They say- there’s a big
demand in America. The thing would be
to stow them away and just dribble them
on to the market. A few at a time. Keep
the price up.”
“Any use to you?”
“No, you hang on to them.” A pause.
“You don’t mind if I go through the
books?”
“Not at all. Help yourself.”
Eventually they came out with broad
smiles and bulging briefcases.
“A great loss. A great loss to Aus-
tralian literature,” they said as they passed
Miss Mort and Dr. Deligdisch. “The
Last of the Great Bohemians,” “The
End of an Era,” their voices floated back.
Other friends came, spoke to Miss Mort
and nodded to Dr. Deligdisch, but with
their eyes on the inner office to which
they headed like pirate ships sailing into
the open sea. By the time that Mr. Pear-
son’s solicitor, Mr. Dyason, arrived, the
inner office was commendably clean and
neat, its shelves almost bare and clean
patches on the walls where pictures had
hung. Mr. Dyason shook hands care-
fully with Miss Mort and Dr. Deligdisch,
then, without preliminaries, said there was
no hope of Pearson Press continuing in
business.
However, Mr. Dyason said, Mr. Pear-
son, with his usual generosity, had not
forgotten them. Most of his important
manuscripts and papers had long since
gone to the Mitchell Library, but he
had instructed Mr. Dyason to use his
discretion and anything which was not
valuable as literary remains was to be
given to Miss Mort and Dr. Deligdisch,
to sell or to keep as a souvenir of their
time at Pearson Press. Mr. Pearson had
also said they were to be given a week’s
notice. It was unfortunate, Mr. Dyason
added, that Mr. Pearson had died on a
Monday night. That would mean they
would finish on the Friday. It was
hardly fair that they could expect to
continue nearly two full weeks as employees
of a company which no longer existed.
There were the creditors to think of.
“Zey came, all zose teeves,” Dr.
Deligdisch cried excitedly. “Zey took
everyzing. Ze pictures. Ze pornography.
Everyzing.”
“What do you mean?” Mr. Dyason asked,
moving into the inner office. He picked
up a couple of the remaining books,
examined them and stowed them in his
briefcase. “Who came? Surely no one
came. After a death an estate is com-
pletely tied up until probate is granted.
It is a most serious matter,” he said
severely, unhooking a rather pleasant
picture from the wall. “Particularly a
bankrupt estate.”
“Zey came. Zey took everyzing.”
“Nobody came,” Miss Mort said, dis-
owning Dr. Deligdisch. “Nobody took
anything.”
“Zey was here. Zey stole our zings.”
“Nobody was here,” Miss Mort said.
“Nothing of value has been removed.”
Disowning Peregrine Pearson and all his
works.
“'y'ERY well, then,” Mr. Dyason, who
knew well what had happened but
who Certainly could not be bothered with
any messing-about, said: “Just as well. I
would have had to take action. A very
serious matter.”
Then, tottering under the weight of
his bulging briefcase and with a sheaf
of drawings under his arm, he left.
Now it was just Miss Mort and Dr.
Deligdisch.
“You fool of a vooman,” Dr. Deligdisch
said, rising and shaking a pudgy fist at
her.
“Really, Dr. Deligdisch. Most objec-
tionable.”
Dr. Deligdisch ran a hand over his
bald skull.
“Veil,” he said, “Zere is liozzing to be
done about it. Nozzing. Zey will believe
you, not me. Zey will do nozzing for
me. A foreigner. A reffo. A Jew.”
“I’m afraid that’s so, Dr. Deligdisch.
You are at a disadvantage.”
Dr. Deligdisch groaned and wiped a
speck of white foam from the corner
of his mouth. Then he sat back and
studied her.
“And vaht vill you do now, Miss
Mort?” he asked.
“Well, I’m sure that’s my own busi-
ness, but I don’t expect any difficulty.
After all, during the war—”
“Dooring ze vore,” Dr. Deligdisch
echoed and groaned.
“You ’ave a family, Miss Mort?”
“A family? Really, Dr. Deligdisch. Per-
sonal questions.”
“In times of trouble a family is fairy
’andy. A family can do zings, find an
opening, a liddle ’ole, somevere, ven no
one else can see it.”
“I don’t know what you mean.”
“ ’Ave you a family?”
“My parents are dead,” Miss Mort said
slowly. “I have a brother.”
“A brozzer? ’E can ’elp then?”
“My gracious, I don’t see my. brother
from one year’s end to the next! We
just don’t get on. I don’t care for
the woman he married. Or the way they
live. I did my best. I extended the
hand of friendship, but you can’t be
expected to bend over backwards, can
you?”
“Bent over backyards?”
“I’ve never bent over backwards for
anyone. My brother and I are not,
well, just not simpatico. Not Simpatico.”
“Simpatico,” Dr. Deligdisch repeated
wonderingly. “You ’ave cousins some-
vere? An oncle?”
“Really, Dr. Deligdisch. I don’t know
why you ask these questions. Very per-
sonal. I don’t know why you drag the
family into it. They won’t find me a job
and I wouldn’t expect them to. I’ve
stood on my own two feet since I was
16 and my darling Mummy passed on.”
“You go to church? You are, perhaps,
Church of England? Or Catholic? Catholic
voud be goot. Zey stick togezzer. Like
Jews.”
“Of course I’m not Roman. I’m
Christian Science. It’s a very satis-
fying creed, with a great deal of refinement
about it.”
Dr. Deligdisch sighed heavily.
“But ze Christian Science are vealthy,
fashionable,” he said. “Zey voud find
you a goot job.”
“Really, Dr. Deligdisch, you have such
a funny point of view. Why would I
ask them to find me a job? If I were
you I would be looking out for myself,
not worrying about little me.”
“I am,” Dr. Deligdisch said, reaching for
the phone, “looking after myself. I am
going to make a phone call. To New
York.”
■ “New York? But, Dr. Deligdisch, you
can’t do a thing like that. Mr. Pearson,
the late Mr. Pearson—”
“Zere is no Mr. Pearson,” Dr.
Deligdisch said, lifting the receiver.
“Very well, then. I don’t see there’s
anything I can do to stop you. For my-
self, I intend to stroll around to the Com-
monwealth Employment Office and put
my name down.”
Miss Mort put on her hat, picked up
her gloves and handbag, and left the
office. Dr. Deligdisch, she decided, had
gone off his rocker.
She reached the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Office in York Street. “During the
war,” she would say, “I was private
secretary to the director of Waste
Accumulation for the whole of New South
Wales.”
But she kept walking. She walked
until she came to Sussex Street and the
wharves. She crossed the Pyrmont
Bridge, thinking now of shoe leather. The
price of repairs often made it cheaper
to take a bus. But today she kept walk-


asttime ,7j
we sawJaris
m
-was yesterday
Mais Oui! AIR-INDIA jets do get about the
world. We're in Paris almost every day. Twice
some days. Right in! No transferring to a
local airline. But Paris is only one of the 27
important cities we fly to regularly. The same
goes for Rome, Beirut, Zurich, Moscow, New
York, London. We can show you several dif-
ferent routes to London, all the same fare
even the via Moscow route. Stopovers too.
We can also show you something very
special in passenger attention. An interna-
tional cuisine that is justly tamed. Hostesses,
chosen for their grace and poise, gowned in
rich silk saris. Maharajah service we call it.
It comes with every AIR-INDIA ticket. Have a
talk with your friendly travel agent. He
can be a helpful guide in planning your
AIR-INDIA journey.
AtR/NDiA
the airline that treats you like a Maharajah worldwide.
AIR-INDIA flies to Aden, Bahrein, Bangkok, Beirut, Bombay, Cairo, Calcutta, Frankfurt, Geneva, Hong
Kong, Kuwait, London, Madras, Moscow, Nairobi, Nandi, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Perth, Prague,
Rome, Singapore, Sydney, Teheran, Tokyo, Zurich.
with BOAC and Qantas
A 172.105. IOOSc.
ing in the early spring sunshine, certainly
a modest indulgence. She went past ware-
houses, now crammed with the accumulated
waste of another generation, plastic toys
from Japan, cheap shoes from China,
messy china teasets from Britain. Some-
times she glanced in at open windows or
tried to penetrate the gloom beyond half-
closed doors, but she found none of the
answers she was seeking.
What had happened to the shining
mountains of silver paper, the garlands
of typewriter spools? • Where had they
all gone? For the first time, Miss Mort
wondered, then sighed over her ignorance
and walked slowly back to Pearson Press.
Dr. Deligdisch was sitting at his desk
rubbing his hands over the coffee filter.
“A fire hazard, Dr. Deligdisch, really
it is,”' she said automatically.
“I am fairy gareful,” he said. “Besides,
you said yourself, zere is nozzing ’ere but
rubbish. Now, Miss Mort, ’ave a nize gup
of goffee wiz me. To celebrate.”
“I don’t care for coffee. I’m a tea
drinker myself.” She paused. “To cele-
brate?”
“I rang New York. Everyzing is fixed.
I told you, Miss Mort, the family is
everyzing. Zey vill find somezing, a
liddle ’ole, ven no one else can see one.
I ’ave a cousin in New York. Saul. 3
’ave not seen my cousin Saul since ve vere
young men togezzer. At university. But
I do not forget Saul is zere. And Saul
does not forget me. I ’ear from Aunt
Sarah in Bogota zet Saul is in America
now. I write to my cousin Rebekah in
London and ask her vere is Saul living.
Back comes Saul’s address. I write to
Saul to tell ’im vaht I ’ave in mind. So
today I ring Saul and say, ‘Saul, now I
’ave no job. ’Urry up, Saul.’ And, ’ey, I
’ave five tousand dollars! Five tousand
American dollars.”
“Gracious, he’s rich?”
“It is not ’is money. Zere is a fund
in America. Ze money is ze money of
ze Jews who died in ze camps at
Dachau, Auschwitz, Belsen, Buchenwald.
Now it is to ’elp us, who are left.”
“Gracious, what a thing!”
“But not for nozzing. You ’ave to ’ave
a plan. Zen zey will give you money. I
am going to write a book. I will write
‘Ze Jewish Influence on Australian
Literature in Ze Nineties.’ Next year if
zere is no job for me I do anozzer book,
‘Anti-Semiticism in Australian Literature
in Ze Nineties.’ And so on. And so on.
Ven I see Mr. Pearson is sick I write
to Saul and tell him zese zings. Today I
ring Saul, who is on the committee for
the fund, and say, ‘ls it fixed, Saul?’ And
Saul says, ‘lt is fixed.’ So you say, zat
is ’ow ve vork zings.”
“Well,” Miss Mort said, feeling rather
breathless. “That’s splendid for you. It’s
really a load off my mind. I didn’t
know how you would get another job,
being a foreigner and not young. But
now everything’s all right.”
But “It’s just not right,” she said to
Miss Fleming later in the washroom, heiN
anger holding her back from the edge
of despair. “It’s not the Australian way of
life. Of course, it’s a free country. But
some things should be stopped.”


BOOKS
Murder in the Corn-Belt
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
In Cold Blood. Truman Capote. Hamish
Hamilton. $3.15.
ON the night of November 15, 1959,
two young hoodlums broke into a
farmhouse in western Kansas, bound
and gagged Herbert Clutter, his wife, and
two teenage children, and then killed
them by blasts of a shotgun held a few
inches from their heads. It was a revolt-
ing crime, at first sight motiveless and
clueless, but it was by no means unique
in American criminal history. In fact, only
a few weeks later, an entire family in
Florida was wiped out in very similar
circumstances. What elevated the butchery
on the Clutter farm to the classic status
enjoyed by the activities of Lizzie Borden,
Jack the Ripper, and Dr. Crippen was
the fact that it became the subject of a
book by a celebrated American author,
Truman Capote.
“In Cold Blood” has been near the top
of the best-seller lists in the United States
for months. It is reputed to have already
earned the author about two million dol-
lars and it is in the process of being made
into a film. It represents, the dust jacket
blurb solemnly assures us, the cuimination
of Capote’s “long-standing desire to make
a contribution toward the establishment of
a serious new literary form: the Non-
Fiction Novel.” Well, I suppose it all
depends on terminology, but this is no
more a novel in the accepted sense than
Defoe’s “Journal of the Plague Year.” It
is a factual account of a brutal murder,
the hunt for the murderers and their trial
and execution, beaten out to novel pro-
portion by minute research into the back-
ground of the killers and a lot of pains-
takingly-collected trivia about the victims
and their neighbors and friends.
This book will do nothing for Capote’s
rather brittle literary reputation. It has
been the subject of ridiculously inflated
praise on one hand, and almost hysterical
denunciation (by Kenneth Tynan especi-
ally) on the other. It deserves neither.
Capote fans had better regard it as an
aberration from the corpus of the master’s
serious work. After all the critical brou-
ha-ha in America and England I found it
an intensely disappointing book.
The Clutter killers were still on the
run when the author took up his quarters
at the Wheat Lands Motel in Garden
City, Kansas, a few miles from the scene
of the crime in the somnolent nearby
hamlet of Holcomb. There, on and off,
he remained for about five years, an exotic,
outlandish little figure, cooking his own
meals in the motel bedroom (with caviar
occasionally flown in from New York),
and filling 6000 pages of notes from inter-
views with local inhabitants and, after
their capture, with the murderers them-
selves during their trial and during the
five years they spent in the death cells
in the Kansas State Penitentiary. None
of the simple Kansan wheatgrowers had
ever heard of Truman Capote when he
descended on them. “I felt as if I had
gone to Peking,” Capote said afterward.
Eventually he won the confidence of local
lawyers, policemen, farmers, and store-
keepers who talked to him freely and
how they talked! The most fascinating
thing about this book is its picture of life
in the bible-and-wheat belt of western
Kansas. Sinclair Lewis’ Gopher Prairie
was Babylon compared with Holcomb and
Garden City. Capote, however, does not
sneer at his rustics. On the contrary, he
evidently expects us to regard them as
a sort of Greek chorus to a tragedy of
enormous and archetypal significance, just
as the vicious. young murderers are pre-
sented as characters worthy of profound
psychological probings, understanding and,
even, of compassion.
These tacit assumptions are, I think,
quite unjustified and merely reveal the
central weakness of the book. The fact is
that the slaughter of the Clutter family,
grisly as it was, was a banal business, a
senseless welter of Grand Guignol hor-
rors, enlivened by none of those bizarre
incongruities that lend perennial relish
to the stories of the spinster Miss Borden,
the meek little doctor of Hilldrop Crescent
and that other sexually hypnotic medico
who drowned his brides in the bath.
Not all Truman Capote’s industrious
accumulation of detail and stylistic tricks
of writing can make Dick Hickock and
Perry Smith particularly interesting figures.
Both were petty toughs, thieves, and
passers of dud cheques when they met in
the Kansas State Penitentiary. From a
fellow prisoner who had once worked on
the Clutter farm they learned that Her-
bert Clutter, a prosperous and respected
wheatgrower, probably kept thousands of
dollars in a safe in his Holcomb farm-
house. Released on parole, Hickock and
Smith set out to rob the farm. They broke
in after midnight, roused Clutter, his
semi-invalid wife, his 16-year-old daughter
and 15-year-old son from their beds,
trussed them up with rope and pasted
strips of adhesive tape across their mouths.
Then, enraged because they found no
safe crammed with dollars, they shot their
victims dead, one after the other.
JJICKOCK and Smith were at large for
six weeks after that, wandering aim-
lessly in stolen cars through the Middle
West, down into Mexico, back north to
Miami, to Kansas City, and finally to the
sleazy rooming house where, hungry, filthy,
and penniless, they were arrested. In
March, 1960, they were tried in Garden
City and sentenced to death. For five years
they sweated it out in the death low of the
State Penitentiary in Lansing while their
lawyers (provided by the State) kept
them from the gallows by launching one
appeal after another according to the
curious rites of the American legal sys-
tem. On April 14, 1965, they were hanged
in the dusty, echoing old warehouse that
served as the prison execution chamber.
At their particular request Truman
Capote was there to see them die, before
hastening back to his typewriter to tap
out the last chapter of his book.
Throughout the five years of waiting
for the rope, Capote had visited them
regularly and, between visits, had kept
up a voluminous correspondence with
them. Hickock, the extrovert braggart,
was only too eager to talk to the famous
writer who was going to put it all down
in a book. Perry Smith, the little para-
noid with stunted legs and the swarthy
complexion inherited with his mother’s
Cherokee blood, was a more difficult sub-
ject. .But he, too, eventually talked, and
as week after week of interviews went by,
Capote pieced together the stories of their
lives, their crimes, and their callous, selfish
and nihilistic philosophy of life. It is not
a pretty story, but neither is it an especially
intriguing one. Any prison in any country
could produce a flood of similar case
histories, and the records of homicide are
filled with crimes far more terrible than
the events in the lonely Clutter farmhouse.
A writer of less superficial gifts than
Truman Capote might have made some-
thing of it all, though I doubt it. It will
be interesting to see whether the sen-
sational success of “In Cold Blood” pro-
duces a stream of more “non-fiction
novels.” I wonder if Capote himself
coined that idiotic term? I hope not.
Night Flower
Sussex Street sleeps in mists of nickel
moonlight
And echoes ghostly music, but the sound
Inside is crushing, voices, drums, stars
jerked
From electric guitars, and swaying, shaking
bodies:
Young, beautiful, and cruel my friends
are dancing.
Night in your cold vase hold this crumb-
ling flower,
Stung smiles, dark corridors where bodies
push
To a white stately room of bare feet
stamping
A gritty floor, figures dissolving in
shadows,
The dance, this great, sad, bitter swaying
thing
Which burns and moves and kisses us with
salt.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN


Write
your
way to
success
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( } Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott’s step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
STOTT'S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
ADDRESS
AGE
I understand that no sales representative will
call on me.
810661
Robert Lowe, Outcast
By M. H. ELLIS
Illiberal Liberal. Ruth Knight. Melbourne
University Press. $6.
IN the blurb, this book of 258 pages by
a graduate of Vassar and the Austra-
lian National University, who spent
a few years at the A.N.U., is described as
“the best detailed treatment to date of
New South Wales politics between 1842
and 1850.”
It is a reasonable thesis by A.N.U.
standards. Her results have been achieved
largely by a skimming of neswapapers and
a constricted range of authorities under the
aegis of Professor Manning Clark and
others. Inter alia she thanks “Lady Stan-
hope” she means Lady Stanham
for permission to “use the uncatalogued
Macarthur Papers in the Mitchell Library,
Sydney.” These contain nothing whatever
of the slightest importance to her theme,
though the long-since catalogued group
of papers which she does not seem to
have perused do. There is no sign that
she has ever seen these papers.
Lowe was one of the most peculiar
political products of the political boiling-
pot of mid-Victorian politics and cer-
tainly the strangest apparition that ever
appeared on the Australian political
scene. He was the albino son of a hunt-
ing Nottinghamshire clergyman dowered
with a fat living. There was no doubt
that he was intellectually brilliant in the
academic manner of many leading pro-
ducts of the Oxford Union, though one
is apt to feel that Mrs. Knight is a little
credulous in accepting his say-so that he
composed a poem at the age of eight
years which began:
Go, seek the mountain man can never
scale,
Breathe the pure air that man shall
ne’er inhale,
Seek thy lost eyrie’s well-remembered
rift,
Be free ’tis e’en to thee, God’s
highest gift.
It sounds more like the emanation of
the Lowe of ’3B, who had been reading
Pope, than that of his infant self before
his impressed parents shot him into
Winchester.
His excursion into Australia and its
politics after a short career as an Oxford
tutor whose success as a crammer was
phenomenal is one of the most fantastic
episodes in Australian political history.
Refusing an invitation from his youthful
contemporary, Delane, to join the staff
of the Times, he came here in 1842 frankly
to combine the exercise of restoring sup-
posedly shattered health and failing eye-
sight with a project to bleed enough of
what wealth was left to Australians by
the impact of the Hungry ’Forties and
to hurry home in seven years when he
had made his fortune. He and his man-
nish and dominating wife, Georgiana,
made no secret of this plan, inspired
largely by the lectures of Professor Meri-
vale and the news of a luscious field of
bankruptcy proceedings arising out of local.
conditions. Bankruptcy to the N.S.W. Bar
in 1842 was what the “running down”
case is to the N.S.W. Bar in 1966. “Com-
petent judges” assured him and his wife
that “£l2OO a year may be made the
first year, and with large annual incre-
ment.” One needs to multiply by eight
to produce the real money values of 1966.
The Lowes came with an introduction
from Sir Edward Knatchbull, ninth Baro-
net, to the Governor, Sir George Gipps,
with whose wife Georgiana was tenuously
connected through family marriages. They
arrived in the Aden in October, 1842, he
having been called to the Bar in Lincoln’s
Inn only nine months earlier. In the
same ship came the first copy of the new
Constitution Bill designed to change the
nominated Legislative Council of N.S.W.
into the first partly elective legislative on
the Australian continent.
Issuing from Government House, where
he stayed on arrival, Lowe proceeded to
use his opportunities to the limit. He
plunged into work at the Bar, which was
for a time interrupted by failure of health
and sight. He appeared vainly for Knatch-
bull, the murderer (who was a near rela-
tive of his sponsor) and made himself
unpopular by his pleading the famous
McNaughton Rules on insanity for the
first time in Australian history before a
scandalised Judge Martin. And in dema-
gogic politics he gave an exhibition of
acrobatics which would have made a mod-
ern member of the House of Represen-
tatives on the make turn green with envy.
Gipps put him into the Council as a
nominee, but he deserted Gipps to be-
come an elected member, as a prelude to
a remarkable display of versatility, making
every post a winning post and laboring in
every field in which the flowers of pros-
perity seemed likely to bloom, including
the field of journalism, in which he culti-
vated his short-lived Atlas, a weekly
journal of “commerce, politics, and liter-
ature” with which he sought to improve
the culture and taste of the uncouth
Sydneians and their appreciation of the
merits of Robert Lowe. In the promo-
tion of this last project, he was not back-
ward as when his paper covered the Colo-
nists’ Dinner to William Charles Went-
worth on Foundation Day, 1846. It
averred that some of Mr. Wentworth’s
friends expressed themselves as “a little
disappointed” with the guest-cf-honor’s
speech, and that, in fact, in the enunci-
ation of principles of liberty, he had
allowed “Mr. Robert Lowe to take the
lead.” The report declared that the
splendid and eloquent speech “of the latter
had laid the country under an obligation to
him” and that his “noble sentiments would
not be readily forgotten” by those who
heard his speech.
Mrs. Knight mentions the speech but
does not quote this and other titbits which
illuminate Lowe’s character. Her picture
of Lowe is as sketchy as that which she
gives of others and of the matters with
which they were concerned. But she
does give enough material to help in
assessing both his nature and his principles
(or lack of them) and his political antics,
though she was hampered by the fact that
he destroyed very wisely, one might
think most of his personal papers. She,
however, seems to much overrate his im-
portance to Australian history. The day of
his election to the old hybrid Legislative
Council of 1843 was not, as somebody
in ecstasy alleged, “the birthday of Aus-
tralian democracy,” but the natal day of
a short period of opportunist demagogy
from which emerged the final march to-
ward responsible government, which was
actually achieved after his departure and
which would have eventuated if he had
never been heard of.
His last blast was at the meeting which
turned back the Hashemy convicts in 1849,
when, according to his wife, he had
already decided to return to England, hav-
ing “now an income of £9OO a year from
our invested property . . . making £l5OO


ft
FLY TO SWITZERLAND
VIA THE EAST
SWISSCARE -h WORLDWIDE
a year from the Bar (and) rich . . . likely
to grow richer.” Especially if he could
persuade the trustees of his father’s will
to send out £5OOO to invest in Sydney
property . . . from which “we can make
at least 15 percent without any risk.” He
did not intend to leave Sydney until he
had an assured income from investment
of at least £2OOO a year.
From 1845 onward he was “something
of a social outcast, partly from necessity,
partly from choice.” Even the working
men who had at first hailed him as their
saviour had come to distrust him and
brigaded themselves behind other enemies.
Thus for more than half his period in
New South Wales he lived his personal
life almost in Coventry. His wife “could
not like the people.” So when he sailed
away in January, 1850, with his spoils,
seven years after he arrived, after being
more successful in a material sense than
most gold miners of the succeeding decade,
there was more interest in the sale of
his furniture than grief at his departure.
Mr. Chief Justice Stephen was not much
exaggerating when he wrote of him:
A man of first-rate talent and rare
eloquence, but violent in politics and
inconsiderate in speech, and withal
dead to friendship and inconsistent in
opinions. Probably no man ever made
so many bitter foes in so short a time,
or acquired so little influence with such
commanding abilities.
In England one more, Delane made him
a Times leader writer. With the help of
his Oxford Union friends, he was in the
House of Commons by August, 1852, was
a Junior Minister later in the same year
through the influence of his friend W. E.
Gladstone, who was Chancellor of the
Exchequer, and who later appointed him
to that office. He served in a number of
administrations, but was not to become
remembered as a democrat he opposed
the extension of borough franchises and
brought down the Government in 1866
over Lord John Russell’s Reform Bill, and
became the leader of the famous Cave of
Adullam.
Some observers thought that his violent
opposition to reform might lead him to
the Prime Ministership, but his career
developed on the same pattern as that of
his life in Sydney. He left behind his
monuments in his scheme of national edu-
cation and his establishment of the exam-
ination system of appointment civil ser-
vants. However, he destroyed his own
Ministry by his obstinate opportunist policy
of laissez faire, as usual misjudging the
trend of public opinion. He found himself
shunted into the House of Lords, politic-
ally ruined. After a speech on the Royal
Titles Bill in which he had assailed Queen
Victoria, he collided with two immovable
objects the Queen and Disraeli, who
spoke his exultant epitaph, when he made
him apologise on the floor of the Flouse
to Her Majesty: “Smashed that wretched
Lowe last night . . . He appeared in a
white sheet . . . holding a taper of repen-
tance ... it was the last blow to a
Parliamentary reputation.”
After which as Dizzy’s victim retired
into an unhappy and nearly sightless old
age, which ended in 1892, Lowe himself
Latinised his fate: “Vappulo ... I am
beaten; Veneo ... I am sold; Exulo . . .
1 am banished; Fio ... I am done.”
Nobody drowned him.
Science-Fiction Theology
By JAMES McAULEY
Teilhard de Chardin and the Mystery of
Christ. Christopher F. Mooney. Collins.
$3.85.
THE unslackening tide of discussion
around Teilhard de Chardin means
that he meets —or seems to meet —a
felt need. The need is for a “synthesis,” or
comprehensive world-view, in which the
language of natural science and the
language of theology contribute to a total
unified vision, instead of being so far apart
as to seem incompatible.
The possibility of such a comprehensive
world-view has not seemed to exist for
some time. In the middle-ages a many-
storeyed architectural construction, rich in
ranked and figured detail, was offered as
a cosmos in which man could live and
know his way about. It was a world-
picture purporting to hold natural science
and theology together in a single view;
but the natural science was mainly pseudo-
science, and the theology was contaminated
and distorted by being bent into the cosmic
design. Up to the mid-18th centuiry a
simplified, newtonised version of the
medieval cosmic picture was still avail-
able. But since then our changing unstable
vast physical universe has defeated
imagination; the biological and human
world forms and odd local evolutionary
freak within it; and the language of Chris-
tian doctrine about the world—using such
terms as the Mystical Body of Christ, the
“expectation of creatures,” the “restora-
tion of all things,” the Parousia„ the
pleroma —has seemed unrelated and per-
haps unreliable to the language of
physics and biology.
Teilhard’s system begins with one of
those flashes of intuition, after which
everything else is elaboration, adjustment,
accommodation, rationalisation. He simply
saw the entire universe as forming; one
single system in evolutionary process, with
a definite direction, therefore presumably
a goal. And what is that goal? It is Christ,
who is not only God and Man but also
the cosmic principle, the beginning- and
end of all that comes into being: “the
Christ of revelation is identical with the
Omega of evolution.”
This attempt at a solution merely
sharpens the problem. Theologians must
ask: can the proposition that the cosmos
has a supernatural origin and destiny be
simply equated with the proposition (if
true) that the universe is an evolutionary
process with a direction? And scientists
have not taken very kindly to the highly
speculative and unverifiable “hyperphysics”
that Teilhard had elaborated in order to
present a total evolutionary process which
leads from Go to Whoa, from Alpha to
Omega.
I suspect that this is SF theology. Meda-
war and Rostand and other scientists have
pointed out gently but firmly that Teilhard
was not really a competent man of science
(finding a few fossils is not enough) and
that his ideas won’t stand scientific tests
of truth. As regards his theology, his
admirers rather specialise in getting him
out. of holes by pleading his lack of
theological expertness and precision. We
are back with a combination of pseudo-
science and questionable theology, offering
a neo-medieval world-view, now adjusted
to the dynanism of evolution instead of
being static as of old.
The important question is whether a
fully unified world-view of this sort is
possible or desirable. Teilhard was sure it
was: “In my opinion,” he wrote in 1946,
“a simple incorporation and assimilation
by Christian thought of modern evolu-
tionary ideas does away completely with
the barrier between reason and faith which
has been building up for four centuries.”
This book by a Jesuit theologian at
Fordham is very sympathetic toward Teil-
hard’s enterprise, and also aware of the
danger that an over-hasty removal of
barriers between reason and faith will
prove to be at the expense of the super-
natural partner in the proposed union.
Instead of faith coming graciously to wed
reason, faith may find herself seduced and
then abandoned at the altar, with a
funny little hybrid inside her as a reminder
to be more careful. When Teilhard was
chatted about the danger of the super-
natural being degraded to the natural
within his monist system he would tem-
porarily try to take this into account, but
more in deference to other people’s nagging
than from any clear, constant awareness.
Personally, I doubt whether Teilhard
has made a significant contribution to
either science or theology or to the very
tricky problem of “synthesis” beyond pro-
viding an impulse and an excitement—no
inconsiderable achievement.
He could communicate that impulse and
excitement, not because he was a scientist
or theologian in any very serious sense but
because he was a visionary, one of those
rare souls for whom the splendor of the


cosmos is really part of the glory of God.
His poetic intuition of the cosmos in its
relation to Christ places him with St.
Francis of the laudes and with St. John
of the Cross in his last phase; and perhaps
even more with Christopher Smart and
William Blake and Shelley, those splendid
ratbags who saw a universe destined to be
ordered and transformed by love into the
final figure of a Divine Man.
Behind the Kimono
By JAMES KIRKUP
The Kimono Mind. An Informal Guide to
Japan and the Japanese. Bernard Rudof-
sky. Victor Gollancz. $5.20.
Asia, Gods and Cities. Aden to Tokyo.
George Woodcock. Faber & Faber. $5.90.
WESTERNERS are always complain-
ing that the Japanese are “insular.”
In the case of Japan, I see no
reason to complain of that. Japan was
greatest when she was most insular; her
arts and economy flourished, and she en-
joyed, particularly in the 17th-century
Tokugawa Era, long periods of stability
and peace. It was only when Japan
opened herself to the Western world in
the Meiji Era the centenary of whose
beginning will be grandly celebrated in
1968 that Japan began to decline.
By becoming “modern” (still a very
relative term as far as Japan is con-
cerned) the country and its people have
largely lost those almost indefinable
aesthetic attributes known as wabi and
sabi, which mean roughly the ability to
recognise and enjoy simple, preferably
rustic and austere, pleasures. In all but the
remotest corners of today’s Japan, I have
noticed, even within the past few years, a
continuous steady deterioration in truly
Japanese standards of courtesy, kindness,
and sensitivity, and a corresponding decline
in the love of the native traditional arts and
customs. Festivals are still celebrated with
great gusto and splendor at shrines and
temples, but their atmosphere is ruined
by hordes of cameramen trampling on
moss and stones, breaking priceless lan-
terns, by tourists damaging doors and
windows and scratching their names on
cultural treasures.
True, the tea ceremony and flower ar-
rangement still remain with us, but the
former has become stiff and stuffy in its
abstract ritual, while the latter has
“boomed,” like everything else, into big
business, going completely contrary to the
chaste conventions of the pure arrange-
ment of space around a flower and a few
leaves and twigs, and presenting a gawp-
ing populace with ponderous, humorless
monstrosities of labored gorgeousness that
could not possibly be displayed in a modest
Japanese home. Japan has lost a great
deal by not remaining insular, and her
gains have been dubious in the extreme.
I suppose Europeans, and particularly
the British, are the people who care least,
and know least, about Japan. In this
respect, it is the British who are insular,
insulated in smug ignorance. By compari-
son, Americans, Australians, and New
Zealanders are experts on a country that
is, of course, physically nearer to them
than it is to England, and that has be-
come a good trading partner. Particularly
welcome to the European in Japan, where
French, German, and Italian wines and
spirits are outrageously expensive, are the
modestly priced and high-quality Austra-
lian wines and brandies, which the Japan-
ese, too, are beginning to know and
appreciate. Many other excellent Aus-
tralian and New Zealand products, at
reasonable prices, are now obtainable in
almost all the large department stores. This
seems to indicate the success of the new
relationship that has come into being
between Japan and her Australasian neigh-
bors.
While the British remain insular, con-
servative (and often, alas, deeply pre-
judiced) in their attitudes toward a land
they make little effort to understand, the
Americans seem to think that they, and
they alone, are the only possible experts
on Japan. There is a certain truth in this,
for no country has done more than the
United States in promoting cultural (and
economic) relationships between the two
countries. But Americans, however well
informed, are often naive and curiously
blind to the obvious when it comes to see-
ing the truth about Japan.
These qualities and defects are illus-
trated in Mr. Rudofsky’s book. He is a
New York architect who lived for two
years in Japan. Despite the book’s slick
and arty cover, Mr. Rudofsky, as one
would expect from a person with artistic
training, has an eye for the surface beau-
ties and incongruities of Japanese life.
Though one is put off by the daunting
chic of chapter titles like “Kimonology”
and “Guidemanship,” he writes interest-
ingly about such well-worn subjects as
Japanese inns, kimono, kites, the Katsura
Detached Palace, and the incomprehensible
maze of Japanese streets. However, he
relies far too often on the staid and often
out-of-date Official Guide and lards his
work with too many snippets from The
Japan Times. The book is illustrated by
some not very revealing or attractive
prints from old books.
Like most Americans, Mr. Rudofsky
cannot get over the fact that Japan is a
land unlike America, a land of very un-
American contradictions. He seems to
think there is something wrong and
childish in a country where democracy
(in any case, a most peculiar kind) and
Zen can co-exist, where one finds both
striptease joints and Noh theatres, flower
arrangement and baseball, without realis-
ing that, in fact, the majority of Japanese
live quite happily and unconcernedly in
both worlds, for the Japanese are bom
reconcilers of opposites: they are in this
respect natural poets. It is only those
unfortunate Japanese who have been con-
fused by Westerners exclaiming, on the
“incongruity” of their lives and who have
thus been made agonisingly self-conscious
who pretend that they are upset by the
“conflicts” in these two ways of life. Mr.
Rudofsky’s book will only increase that
unnatural confusion and self-consciousness.
The Japanese set themselves high stan-
dards of behaviour, so high that it is
impossible to live up to them all the time:
a lifetime’s training prepares a Japanese
for only certain rare moments when he
can approach the exquisiteness of behaviour
that is his ideal. Mr. Rudofsky does not
see this, and though he is sympathetic to-
ward Japan, he often writes with insuf-
ferable condescension and archness, as if
humoring and idiot child.
George Woodcock is a British anarchist,
but one would never guess this from his
laborious trudge round Asia. This is one
of the most pedestrian travel books I have
ever read, and is illustrated by equally
humdrum photographs taken by the
author’s wife.
Bonsai
A landscape in a flat dish.
Three tiny pines
Yearn together, lean
Against imaginary skies
And legendary bays.
No bird nests here,
But sometimes the cicada
Pulses in the needled boughs
No bigger than a child’s fingers
Where winds also sigh
Like the sea in a shell.
Rain, too, and mist
Are large enough to be
And move at home in them.
The sun irradiates
Their mimic grove,
And they bear, in winter,
Their proper weight of snow.
Onuki-san, their ancient master,
Ballooning wrinkled cheeks
With fresh spring water,
Sprays them from a mouth
Round as the cherubs’ blowing clouds
From the four corners of the universe.
to Chuzo Onoki
He, too, in his sober kimono,
Is tiny but authentic, though
Even in wooden clogs he stands
Hardly higher than their crests.
On rows of tables
The garden forest
Is his ordered shire.
The dwarf persimmon
Lights like lamps its toy fruit.
In season, apricot and peach,
Nectarine and quince
Berry their boughs.
We sit together in a doll’s summerhouse
Whose paper windows shrine
Ancient stones, polished like sacred images.
We sip neat cups of rice-wine,
Exchanging poem-thoughts
While the moon of harvests
Rises between crippled trunks that cast
Into the past shadows long as earth.
Hachioji
JAMES KIRKUP


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Too Bad; Too Good
THE stockmarket down near its lowest point for the year,
savings bank deposits falling by $4O million in the two
latest months, building approvals the lowest level for two
years, barely steady estimates of new capital expenditure by
business, and an unimpressive collection of company statements
did not give last week a pretty look despite Barrow Island
being declared a commercial oil field. ■
The key question is to what extent can everything be blamed
on the liquidity shortage; will things be all right when the
seasonal money pressures ease off in a month’s time? The pros-
pects are that money will stay in short supply for far longer
than the seasonal pattern usually dictates. The loss of overseas
investment, the heavy demand for funds for local development
projects, and the diversion of cash to the officially backed
stimulation for the building industry seem to suggest that money
will be a little short this year.
But not everywhere. Striking feature of the latest March-
April fall in savings bank deposits is not so much that it is the
first time since the 1960-61 credit squeeze that deposits have
fallen for two consecutive months. In Western Australia
things are quite different from the rest of the nation. In the
last two months, savings bank deposits rose in W.A. by about
SIJ million the only State to show a rise, and giving it a
growth rate in savings bank deposits over the last 12 months about
double that for the Commonwealth as a whole.
This was not at all affected by the latest 27 cents rise in
the W.A. State basic wage, which was not announced until the
beginning of May. These rises in W.A. savings bank deposits were
despite a sharp rise in the cost of living in March quarter
that the wage rise was designed to offset in workers’ pockets.
Until Mr. Hawke wins a rise to employees under Federal awards,
the W.A. State basic wage will remain $1.85 higher than the
basic wage for Federal award employees in Perth. This may be
one reason why about 85 to 90 percent of W.A. workers are under
State awards, compared with the 50 percent in most States.
It is clear now that the W.A. labor situation is in danger of
getting out of hand. The labor turnover of some big contractors
doing the major developmental projects in W.A. has doubled
in the last 12 months to reach frightening proportions already.
And no doubt the latest oil news will stimulate even more
developmental works in remote parts of the State that could
tend to increase the shortage for this kind of labor. Already the
number of vacant jobs in W.A. is three times the number of
people registered as unemployed; a strikingly different proportion
from the rest of Australia, particularly Queensland, where there
are four times as many seeking work as there are jobs on offer.
The major problem these W.A. developments bring is of
mobility of labor. It is churlish to complain about riches, but
unless some system of encouraging labor mobility from under-
employed areas to the West can be found, what should be a
dramatic move forward by the whole State could become bogged
down by labor shortages, pressures for massive wage increases,
and industrial unrest.
Towards a Siege Economy
W'HAT is good for manufacturing industry is good for
Australia in most cases. And as the Canberra represen-
tative of local manufacturers, the Associated Chambers
of Manufactures of Australia has every right to speak out
vocally on behalf of its members. But, unfortunately ACMA
MEN AND MATTERS
LESLIE BURY was no exception; there
is quite a collection of Australians
working in top jobs with World Bank
organisations overseas. And anyway,
Cambridge-educated Leslie Bury (now
Federal Minister for Labor after a stint
as an executive director of the World
Bank) was born in London.
One of these Australians who left their
country for the world’s good was back
home last week. He is Mr. P. A. Reid, the
World Bank’s representative on the Food
and Agricultural Organisation in Rome.
Peter Reid, a Melbourne Agricultural
Science graduate, was a farmer for 14
years before the war near Scone, but in
1946 he became assistant director of Post-
war Reconstruction and then the Bureau
of Agricultural Economics, left this for a
job in the World Bank at the end of 1954
and became chief of its agricultural divi-
sion in Washington in 1958.
Another Australian who recently joined
the World Bank’s payroll was David Love,
the Financial Review’s former Canberra
correspondent, who last year left to work
in the Bank’s Washington headquarters.
TWENTY years ago a businessman and
a government geologist met in Mel-
bourne for the first time and dis-
cussed where would be the best place to
look for oil in Australia. Both agreed
that around Exmouth Gulf was the pick.
In 1949 the businessman was talking
excitedly about the
sedimentary rocks
found in a 5000-mile
area around North
West Cape in West-
ern Australia (now-
site of the U.S. radio
base) and that the
area would become
one of the world’s
largest oilfields.
Seven years after
their first meeting, the businessman,
Ampol’s then boss Bill Walkley, and the
geologist, then Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources chief Harold Raggatt, were proved
almost right when a wild-cat drill at
Rough Range hit a small reservoir of oil.
It took another 13 years for Walkley
and Raggatt to be proved almost right
again —• but in a far more satisfactory
way. There is oil in W.A. in commercial
quantities, but it is about 100 miles away
from the spot the two men selected not
a bad mistake in such a huge area.
The 1953 non-commercial find was one
of those freaks of prospecting, as Ampol
and its U.S. partners had started drilling
on an educated hunch in the Exmouth
Gulf area, because it looked very like
west Texas and had everything geologi-
cal to make it it an oil zone.
Now the oilfield, outlined over the last
year or so by 24 wells at Barrow Island,
has been declared commercial by Wapet,
H. G. Raggatt
W. G. Walkley
P. A. Reid
the searching company in which Ampol
Exploration Ltd. is partnered by Stand-
ard Oil of California, Texas Oil, and
Shell, thanks to Mr. Walkley’s initiative.
Mr. Walkley is still managing director
of Ampol Exploration, at a most energetic
69, but has retired from the maketing
company Ampol Petroleum Ltd., which
he founded. He now devotes his boundless-
energies and optimism to presiding over
the Australian Soccer Federation, for
which he has travelled from Argentina to
Japan to Cambodia, the Royal N.S.W.
Institution for Deaf and Blind Children
(where he instituted breakfast monthly
meetings for the governors), and to the
People the North Committee. Typically,
he prefers to speak of “The Challenging
North” rather than the defeatist sounding
phrases “The Empty North” or “The
Neglected North.”
It is' no coincidence that Barrow Island
is well and truly north of Capricorn.


often takes a very narrow view of industrial interests. It is
doing this in its current campaign for the reintroduction of
quantitive import restrictions to replace the system of tariffs
which, so it says, have not proved effective enough for local
industry.
There will be a lot of sympathy for the view that the con-
tinuing round of applications to the Tariff Board and to its
little (or big) brother the Special Advisory Authority waste a
great amount of the valuable time of company executives and
cost the taxpayer a great deal, too. But the solution does not
lie in import controls. These would cost even more in company
lobbying and bureaucratic procedure. The solution lies in a
move toward a simplified and more uniform tariff, a move which
would, of course, have to be gradual to minimise disruption and
allow manufacturers the time to adjust. It would offer great
advantages, too, in improving the pattern of industrial develop-
ment. At present we maintain a number of very high-cost
industries which are uncompetitive despite tariff protection of
100 or 200 percent —some sections of the textiles and chemical
industries in particular. Other firms are highly competitive on
international markets despite very low and, in some cases, non-
existent tariff protection the wide range of exported manu-
facturers is testimony to this.
A move toward ua more uniform tariff would have the
advantage of releasing scarce skills and executive energies and
capital resources for the expansion of competitive and economic
industry. By encouraging a gradual pruning of high-cost non-
competitive ventures it would also lower costs to consumers and
to other sections of industry. This would contribute to raising
real standards of living and to the development of the economy.
ACMA’s policy, however, seems to be that any product of any
Australian firm must be protected from international competition
whatever the costs may be and how very much cheaper it
may be to buy the import. This is the prescription for a siege
economy attempting to produce everything domestically and
abandoning all the immense advantages of an international
division of labor.
■ Government policy should certainly be to protect Australian
industry by making sure that there is a condition of full employ-
ment, providing jobs for all who want to be usefully employed
and providing an incentive to productive investment. And if the
interests of individual firms are harmed by Governmental policy
they should get compensation. But a dynamic society cannot
guarantee protection to every individual product no matter
what. Adjustment to changed conditions is part of the process
of development.
Trusting the Funds
DESPITE strenuous promotion and valuable though they are
as a medium for the investment of small savings (and a
source of feed for share markets) unit trusts have never
commanded the same influence on our investment scene as they
have on Britain’s. Recent experience of investment in unit trusts
here is, moreover, in striking contrast to that in Britain. And if
our poor performance is possibly more a reflection of the pro-
longed lull in public interest in shares than of any weakening of
faith in unit trusts themselves, it throws at least a small ray of
light on the current thinness and stubbornness of our share
markets.
The trend here is illustrated by the figures for investment in
unit trusts and mutual funds for the March quarter. While pur-
chases amounted to $4.8 million, repurchases from trusts and
funds were $5 million; that is, there was a disinvestment of $0.2
million. Admittedly, there were seasonal influences at work, as is
usual in the March quarter, for instance, tax payments. But in
the previous March quarter there was a net investment of $1.4
million (when repurchases were $5.4 million) and net investments
of $3 million and $1.7 million in the latest September and
December quarters. At the end of March this year total funds
invested in unit trusts and mutual funds in Australia amounted
to $223.3 million.
The much more thriving state of unit trust investment in
Britain is shown by the record net investment of £13.4 million
stg. in the month of March this year, followed by $11.4 million
stg. in April, at the end of which the total amount invested was
£584 million stg., the number of individual unit holdings
1,533,162 and the average holding £3Bl stg.
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: April building approvals
were the weakest for over two years, excluding January’s,
which are no guide because of holidays . . . Fears were
expressed that the British seamen’s strike would
jeopardise about 20 percent of Australia’s international
trade, but the effects will be delayed for another few
weeks . . . Record acreages have been planted in wheat
in Australia, which may partly offset continuing effects
of the drought on other export earnings . . . The
Treasury revealed the $75 million May loan was under-
subscribed by $l3 million.
For the marhets: On Australian share markets
almost all types of industrials were easier. Oil stocks took
top trading honors everywhere, with greatest activity
centred on companies interested in Victorian off-shore
areas, Woodside, Mid-Eastern, and Planet . . . Real star
. on the market should have been Ampol Exploration, as
the only means of public participation in Wapet’s suc-
cess at Barrow Island, off W.A., finally declared a com-
mercial proposition. Threatened strikes at Broken Hill
weakened the Barriers.
In London, Mr. Wilson may have to declare a state
of emergency if the British seamen’s strike continues much
longer. The first gas strike on land under the York-
shire moors excited speculation . . .Wall Street, after
some shakeout, is climbing again. Predictions are that
either the boom will slow down materially, limiting
company profit gains, or Washington will step in to raise
taxes.
For Companies: Early news was mostly gloomy.
Gordon and Gotch’s profit for the year to March was
reported as lower, although the 20 percent dividend was
held . . . Ernest Hiller, Sydney clothing manufacturer,
missed its interim dividend again ... So did manufac-
turers’ representative, Ponsford, Newman, and Benson . . .
The Indian war gave Bushell’s its first profit downturn in
five years.
In keeping with the lower building statistics, com-
panies in this industry had a bad week . . . Earnings by
PGH Industries in the March quarter, usually the slack-
est period of the year, were insufficient to cover dividends
at the current annual rate of 16 percent . . . James
Wallace incurred a total deficit of $642,000 for the
December half-year after adjustments to the value of
works in hand. Directors “know no reason why the State
Government should not proceed with the Rocks Scheme”
. . . Sydney pottery-maker, R. Fowler, completed the
bad news with a reduction in dividend from 12J percent
to an indicated ten percent.
But there were bright spots. The tax losses of Aus-
tralian Factors have attracted the G. E. Crane group,
and McDonald Industries expects to show a profit in
the year to June, despite losses on the Tullamarine air-
port . . . Ralph Symonds, still in receivership, continued
to lose money $32,000 in the December half-year
but at a slower rate than in 1964 . . . Other companies
in difficulties were also in the news with T. and G.
Nominees Pty. Ltd., trustee for Stanhill Development
Finance noteholders, asking the Victorian Supreme Court
to rule on its rights to sue directors and officers of SDF
. . . Melbourne-based retailer, Cox Bros., lost $407,000
in the six months to January 31, and trading profits were
insufficient to cover interest on borrowings.
Yet another sugar grower and miller Australian
Estates, headquartered in London, was hit hard by
drought and depressed sugar prices, with profit down from
£5tg.307,000 to £62,500 . . . One up and down for
fixed interest, with the CIG sBm. debenture issue being
rushed on opening day and the Automobile and General
Finance note issue closing 78 percent undersubscribed
. . . CAGA cut its debenture interest rates and raised them
on unsecured notes.


IT
/ T'S SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . . .
By installing the Smith-Corona “Typetronic 2215”, you
will introduce automatic operation into your office
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OF SMITH-CORONA MARCHANT INC.
Distributed by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney. 2-0233 • 167 Queen Street, Melbourne. 67 9161
The Need for Priorities
By CROESUS
LIKE Sir Maurice Mawby for his mining empir’e, Sir Henry Bolte has been looking
around for local capital to develop Victoria’s newly found natural gas resources,
and says he’s virtually drawn a blank. “The capital is just not in Australia,” the
Victorian Premier told reporters in London, “and if Australia poured its savings into
natural gas there would be no money left for anything else.”
Even allowing for the Premier’s pro-
pensity to exaggerate, especially at Press
conferences, the line of thought shouldn’t
be neglected. Indeed, at the Colonial
Mutual Life meeting this week the chair-
man, Mr. W. D. Brookes, showed himself
preoccupied with similar thoughts, under-
lining, in fact, the viewpoint expressed
recently in this column.
As is right, although giving a polite
nod of approval to a mead of overseas
investment, Mr. Brookes wasn’t alarmist
on the stringency of capital supplies for
doing everything we want to do on the
development front . . . Rather, the path
for mobilising more local capital and its
better utilisation in the task was still wide
open. That was one direction in which
on his showing the life companies (like
the trading banks) think the authorities
should be more alert, say in the matter
of the proposed National Investment Cor-
poration. One can agree with that no
stone should be left unturned not only to
streamline the mobilising machinery, but
also to promote more savings.
As for the life companies themselves,
their investment policies had to be geared
primarily to the best interest or interests
of policyholders. They had to be mighty
careful not to invest unwisely or too
liberally (as a proportion of their investible
funds) on the equity front. By
the same token also in policyholders’ in-
terests their investment managers couldn’t
look gift horses in the mouth, say in alter-
native avenues of investment offering re-
turns at high interest on fixed terms. The
latter, it should be remembered, are as
much the reflection of official policy (the
20/30 rule and all that) as they are of
pressures on the supply of capital avail-
able to the economy.
Mr. Brookes didn’t protest about the
attractions of high returns on fixed invest-
ment and it is easy to understand why. In
such circumstances, as private institution,
the life companies have no need to feel
very bold in their investment policies,
However, if policyholders’ interests and
the loading of the dice against low interest
rates on fixed term lending together under-
standably militate against boldness in their
investment dispositions, it would have been
interesting to hear from Mr. Brookes
what the life companies are currently
thinking about consortium financing by
themselves along lines on which useful
beginnings have been made, say along
Ampol lines.
Consortium financing on an even
broader basis is what the proposed National
Investment Corporation is all about. But
it seems a pity from the national view-
point that, if, in fact, the life companies
have more capital available for risk invest-
ment, they have not done more among
themselves in this direction without wait-
ing for the formation of the Corporation.
Sir Maurice Mawby was possibly quite
right to point the bone at them for being
too timid.
On the other hand, as with the over-
all supply of capital, there is little point
in criticising the institutions for timidity
in equity investment if in fact the funds
are simply not there to do more in the
equity field. (One has also to keep
MLC’s disastrous excursion into H. G.
Palmer’s equity in mind.) This brings
us back to Sir Henry Bolte and the
whole question of spreading the avail-
able supply of capital over the range of
appropriate uses.
F Sir Henry has done nothing else he
has highlighted the intensified
demand for funds to do all the bright
new things we’re doing here over the
whole wide range of economic, social,
and defence development. Nobody, least
of all the Victorian Premier, is saying
that we shouldn’t do this or that in
order to make way for some new pros-
pect there’s a new one practically
every day. In Sir Henry’s case he knocks
on all doors, like he’s about to do at
the Loan Council and is currently doing
overseas, to get Victoria’s natural gas
development off the ground.
Only the timid see the possibility of
some glittering spot on the horizon having
to stay there through lack of funds to
bring it closer to reality. I’m not
quibbling about this. It symptomises the
essential urge to progress. However, two
points occur to me. First we must be
prepared to suffer a few white elephants
there were plenty of these about say
in 1953-54 left high and dry by a
capital shortage. The other is that in
the midst of our enthusiasm for develop-
ing new things there are some old ones
wnich we could starve of funds at our
national peril.
One is not thinking of activities which
will be superseded by new developments.
For instance, Sir Henry Bolte has put the
Indian sign on Victoria’s briquette in-
dustry, and although a mint of money, as
well as muddle, has gone in it, this is
quite right because natural gas will do
briquettes’ job so much better and cheaper.
On such cases obsolescence must be applied
fearlessly.
The most obvious of our key physical
capital assets likely to suffer from our
doing too many new things to the neglect
of the old are roads. In fact, I would say
this has been happening for years and
that the effects both on industrial costs
and human lives is clearly on the record.
So we should spare more than a passing
thought and a coin or two, not only for
the maintenance of roads which, especially
in the cities, look to me to have been
grossly neglected for years (except in Can-
berra, perhaps) but also for their modern-
isation and extension.
In this connection Mr. H. T. Loxton,
Chairman of the Commonwealth Bureau
of Roads, set up by the Federal Govern-
ment last October, told a forum of the
Australian Road Federation recently that
“requirements for roads must be balanced
with the needs for other capital develop-
ment.” This is perfectly true. It is also
true, as he said, that the priorities must
be set at the very highest level. But while
the allocation of Federal road aid money
is made at five-year intervals at a national
conference of State and Federal Govern-
ments, nobody would pretend for a
moment that it is based on a rational
balancing of national development priori-
ties, which is something we’ll have to get
down to in this country, and the sooner
the better.


PETER SAMUEL'S CANBERRA COMMENT
Two Swallows Make a Gulp
WE journalists are, in general, not
much liked by public servants. Of
course, that is how it should be,
for if the relationship was harmonious we
would not be doing our social job of need-
ling and opening up the process of govern-
ment. We have the advantage of being
able to sound off publicly, when they must
remain silent. But the coin has another
side; the journalist’s continuous public ex-
posure makes obvious his mistakes and mis-
judgments and the public servant can get
considerable satisfaction chuckling away
to himself and his mates at the journalist’s
expense.
Last week some people in the Statistics
Bureau must have had a laugh at two
items in my general roundup of the
economy: My confident comments on the
recovery in housebuilding from the slump
of the past six months and my assertion
that there was as yet no evidence of the
predicted down-turn in business capital ex-
penditure. This confidence was shared by
officials in high places, who have con-
tinued to assure us that everything is
going along swimmingly.
Hardly had we gone to press when two
sets of figures were released. The April
building approvals, adding up to sllsm.
for the month, were the .lowest for more
than two years (leaving out January’s,
which, of course, are knocked right back
by the holiday break) and were way be-
low the $158m., which was the March
figure. Most of the fall was outside hous-
ing in what is mainly business projects.
These fell back from almost s3sm. in
March to slBm. Part is seasonal April,
for some strange reason, always being a
somewhat weak month but all the same
the figure looks extraordinarily weak this
year.
The optimist will, of course, : nvoke the
axiomatic warning of the statistician, “Be-
ware of one month’s figures,” and, of
course, with this series the caution is
particularly appropriate, since it is made
up of rather few quite large items.
An examination of the breakdown shows
that the April drop is accounted for mostly
by a decline in factory approvals from
sl2m. to ssm. and in office approvals
from sBm. to s2m. All the same it would
be foolhardy to rationalise away the April
figures, because a moving total of three
months’ figures which will usually elim-
inate the effect of random fluctuations
gives quite a lurch downwards on the
latest estimation: it is now at about s9om.
after eight months floating in the range
of s9sm. to sllom.
In the first few months of last year it
was in the area sllom. to $130m., and
this must have provided much of the
building work which really pushed the
industry to its limits in the first three-
quarters of 1965. But to put things in
perspective it is worth pointing out that
the 1965 business spending boom was a
really big one. It came up from a 1964
with approvals running at about sBom.
each quarter, and a 1963 with s7sm.
average.
Also published last week were estimates
of actual capital expenditure by business.
Seasonally adjusted, the latest quarter’s
total comes to s44om. steady on the
, figure recorded for the past two quarters
of last year. But there are two strikingly
contrasting trends within these totals.
New buildings and structures are drop-
ping quite steeply, while expenditure of
plant and equipment continues to rise.
Much equipment is installed in structures,
so it is only sensible to presume that quite
soon the equipment figures will follow
the structures figures downwards and take
the total down.
Some of the impact of this will, of
course, be taken by Britain and America
in the form of smaller sales of capital
equipment, and this will be a welcome
relief to our balance of payments. But most
of the slack say two-thirds will
impinge on local industry.
The recovery of housing will take up
some of this. April housing approvals
figures were less encouraging than for
several months, but unlike the business
series they do not suggest any deterior-
ation in the trend. Private flat and house
building was down a good ten percent
on the 100,000 to 110,000 rate of the past
few months. But against this Government
building appears to be up. And the smooth-
ing process of taking moving totals sug-
gests that in housing the setback is just
a bump in the national graph.
Housing, however, is not going to take
up all the slack from a down-turn in
business spending on expansions. So the
economy will quite soon have scope for
expanded production later in the year and
the Government will have to anticipate
this, and remember the time it takes for
its actions to take effect.
The Grip of Drought
PEOPLE in the cities, and, for that
matter, many in the country, too,
will be developing an immunity to
drought talk. Not only has it been going
on for a long time now, but there has
been rain. The fact is, however, that the
rain has not broken the drought every-
where and some areas which got out of
trouble are back in again with the unusu-
ally dry autumn. In the northern half of
N.S.W., everywhere west of the divid-
ing range is in the grip of drought.
The rich tablelands and slopes got good
rains in December and January, but since
then they have received very little. The
wide open plains of the north-west quarter
of the State never received more than
random storms, and the sheep population
is down to a third of its pre-drought level.
There is, of course, relatively little hope
for these areas, or for the south-west of
Queensland, until the summer because
winter rainfall is always scanty.
For the individual farmers a continua-
tion of the drought will compound their
tragic losses and delay recovery. But from
the national viewpoint, probably more sig-
nificant is the plight of the farmers on
the central and northern tablelands. They
go into the winter with much poorer re-
sources of feed than last year. Paradoxi-
cally, in 1965, the failure of autumn rains
helped the feed situation. Dry feed was
plentiful and rains would have washed
it away. This year there is nothing to be
washed away.
Officials of the Department of Primary
Industry in Canberra are rather worried
that stockowners will give up attempts at
drought feeding and let their animals die
this year. It is quite possible that last
year’s loss of ten million sheep will be
repeated and possibly exceeded if rains
do not come soon. Of course, the days
are getting colder now and so rain will
grow less grass feed than it would have
earlier in the year.
But all is not grim. In coastal N.S.W.,
there is no drought and in the southern
half of the State there were excellent rains
at the beginning of April. Victoria and
S.A. have had excellent rain and can
look forward to a better-than-usual season.
So can Western Australia, which looks like
planting even more wheat than last year’s
immense acreage. The total Australian
wheat acreage is certain to be a new
record, though the actual figure will de-
pend on whether or not there are winter
rains in northern N.S.W. and Queens-
land. W.A. is expected to sow close to
7m. acres (against 4m., which was com-
mon a couple of years ago), S.A. 3m.,
and Victoria up to 3.5 m.
From these States alone it should be
possible to get the equivalent of last year’s-
national crop of 258 m. bushels. And with
an average season in N.S.W. and Queens-
land, where planting can be done as late
as July and August, the harvest should
be an all-time record. As much as 21m.
acres may be planted, almost twice the
area common five years ago.
Mr. Jeff Bate, MP, has been putting out
a highly exaggerated version of the extent
of the drought. It probably is the “worst
drought in history” for the north-west of
N.S.W., but cerainly not for Australia as
a whole. And his figure of $ 1470 m. as the
losses incurred by the drought is very high.
There is some disagreement about the
cost of drought losses carried forward to
future years in lower births and so on,
but assuming that the current price of
livestock adequately discounts their re-
productive value and, as a result, sug-
gesting that putting a value on this year’s
losses will properly reflect in money terms
the full drought loss, an estimate I feel to
be more realistic is one close to s4oom.
s3lom. from the three worst-hit pro-
ducts and you might find another s9om.
in others.
The main losses are of about
sl.sm. dead cattle at an estimated $7O
each ($105m.), 10m. dead sheep at $6
each (s6om.), and a wheat crop down
100 m. bushels ($150m.).


7
FOR 4YEARS
OR 6 YEARS
e
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from —
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank,
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in N.S.W.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.,
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest & Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
Phones
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 311861
Perth 21 6273
BENEFICIAL
BUSINESS BOOKS REVIEW
Making Jack a Dull Boy
Prices for Primary Producers. Sir Sydney
Caine. Institute of Economic Affairs,
London. 75c.
MR. McEWEN has had to wait a long
time for the question of Britain’s
entry into the Common Market to
warm up again. But now it has, he is
hotfoot to London without any other
avowed pretext than to defend our eco-
nomic interests in this and general trade
matters. Unlike other senior Ministers in
taking the tour he would seem to have
the single-minded approach. We never
hear of him playing golf in London like
Sir Henry Bolte last weekend, watching
cricket as Sir Robert was wont to do on
his London trips or buying hais in Jer-
myn Street as Mr. Holt does.
In Ray Robinson’s recently published
“The Wit of Sir Robert Menzies” (Hut-
chinson: $2.00) by the way a most en-
tertaining collection —we learn, for
instance, that when he was British PM,
Sir Anthony Eden cabled round the Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers inviting them
to London for a January conference. In
reply, Menzies asked, “What about June?
Is there nobody on your staff who reads
cricket fixtures?” Eden cabled back, “Point
taken. Conference convened day after
Lord’s Test.” As for Mr. Holt’s hats, I
once had it from his London hatter, Mr.
Bates himself, that when in London Harold
was wont to buy half a dozen of his ex-
clusive models at a time.
If Mr. McEwen had a walk in Batter-
sea Park with Mr. Douglas Jay or a
game of golf with Harold Wilson, it might
be worth a lot more to us than a dozen
sessions round the table at the Board of
Trade. So one can only hope that all work
and no play doesn’t make Jack a dull
boy when he’s in London or taking in
the Continental capitals. But by the dedi-
cated sound of his objectives stated on
departure this could happen. Last week’s
were much the same as usual. Inter alia,
he will press for stable prices for primary
products on world markets, for a common
approach to help efficient producers and
for improved access of Australian exports
to world markets.
I’m always fascinated when, as they gen-
erally do, our trade representatives declare
themselves irrevocably in favor of price
stability in world markets. They usually
do this without qualification, when what
they probably mean is stability at profit-
able prices.
Again, in the light of the many pre-
vious abortive attempts ta harness the
contrary forces of world demand and
supply of such goods in world agreements,
one has to ask what use it is persevering
in knocking on the door of the big con-
suming industrialised nations from year
to year and of mouthing the tiresome
platitudes about stability of prices. Are
we all that certain that this cap-in-hand
approach to the big industrialised coun-
tries is the right one? Perhaps Mr.
McEwen shouldn’t be in Europe at all,
but instead huddling together with our
primary-producing brothers somewhere
south of the equator cooking up ways to
reverse our role of mendicant.
W E have at hand Sir Sydney Caine’s
revised treatise “Prices for Primary
Producers” (published by The Institute of
Economic Affairs, London) to guide us in
the consideration of such questions. Its
author used to be a high permanent official
in the Colonial Office and Treasury and
has, since 1957, been director of the Lon-
don School of Economics.
While saying that primary producers
haven’t been doing too badly in the past
few years, Sir Sydney admits that the
basic problem of price instability remains.
He proceeds to outline the true nature
of the problem, though refusing to admit
that primary producers have suffered over
the long run as compared with industrial
producers.
He asks pertinently why the fluctuations
in primary producers’ incomes resulting
from price fluctuations are necessarily
bad, and draws attention to the essential
difference between fluctuation and uncer-
tainty, examining the various forward mar-
kets and other institutional arrangements
available for discounting the latter.
Fluctuations even have their attractions,
say from the investment angle. They may
be disturbing to Government plans for
capital expenditure, but in Caine’s view
it is by no means certain that entrepre-
neurs will save more out of steady in-
comes than fluctuating ones, nor that there
will be more incentive to invest in pro-
ductive enterprise when people can look
forward to stability rather than ups and
downs in their incomes.
While seeing virtue in pursuing stability,
even in face of sometimes intractable
forces, Caine doesn’t think that world-
commodity agreements are necessarily the
most efficient and are certainly not the
only way of securing it. For instance, he
thinks much more can be done through
the further diversification of the economies
of the primary-producing countries (on
our lines, say) and, of course, by widening
markets for primary products in the in-
dustrialised countries.
More basically, though, he draws at-
tention to three types of rigidities which
must be broken down to ensure much of
an advance. These lie, first in the con-
ditions under which export commodities
are produced; second, in the social struc-
tures of the primary-producing countries;
and third, in the demand for exports.
Caine thinks that to introduce a fourth
type of rigidity via the price structure
of exports might be only a palliative with
tightening long-term effects. Above all,
what is wanted, he says, is more flexibility
to facilitate technical innovation and the
development of new industries.
J.C.H.


THE TRAVEL BUSINESS
Tourists Strike Trouble
This new feature, written by a special
travel correspondent, will appear once
a month in The Bulletin. It will keep
up to date with trends and problems
in the travel industry.
BRITISH shipping lines, Australian tour operators and travel agents will have to
resort to drawing tourists attention to the fine print on their tickets if the British
seamen’s strike continues beyond the end of May.
If it goes past May 28, the strike will
cause immediate repercussions for thou-
sand’s of Australian tourists and for the
Australian travel industry. The fine print
on all tickets issued by all carriers com-
pletely relieves the carriers of responsi-
bilities in the event of a strike. But travel
executives would be reluctant to use ex-
emption clauses unless there was no other
way out.
Worst affected will be P & O-Orient
Lines, still by far the largest passenger
shipping line serving Australia. Next will
be the Shaw Savill Line which operates
two one-class ships between Australia and
Britain. Now is the height of the
European and North American tourist
season and every ship is fully committed.
If the strike continued for any length of
time, it would have far reaching effects
on schedules for months to come.
Airlines are also heavily booked and
aircraft committed at this time of the
year, and could not accommodate all pas-
sengers stranded by the strike-bound Bri-
tish ships. On the Atlantic, many foreign
shipping lines unaffected by the strike are
operating and could carry a small pro-
portion of the stranded passengers, but the
position in the Pacific would quickly be-
come more acute.
Only the American Matson Line com-
petes for passengers with P & O-Orient on
the Pacific, and there are far fewer air
services between Australia and the United
States than across the Atlantic. Matson
has no chance of carrying all passengers
now booked by P & O.
Failure of the P & O-Orient flagship,
Canberra to leave Britain on schedule
on May 31 immediately upsets P & O’s
schedules. A delay of a further day will
also affect the departure of the Orsova.
The one-class P & O liner Himalaya
will also be affected soon after. The Can-
berra and the Himalaya are due to sail
to Australia via the Suez Canal and the
Orsova via Panama and the west cost of
the United States. The Shaw Savill liner
Southern Cross is due to leave Southamp-
ton on June 8, but the Northern Star left
Sydney only on May 26.
The strike has already laid up the
Atlantic liners “Queen Elizabeth” and
“Queen Mary” in Southampton. Hundreds
of Australian tourists are booked to cross
the Atlantic in either direction in the
next few months. Most of the tourists are
on round-the-world cruises organised by
Australian tour operators.
One world tour organised by a tour
operator, World Travel Headquarters Pty.
Ltd., left Sydney on the Oronsay for
the west coast of the United States on
May 25, and after the tourists cross the
United States by coach, are due to sail
across the Atlantic on the Queen Eliza r
beth. Another group is due to leave Syd-
ney in June. Other world tour groups are
due to sail via Britain to the United States
and back across the Pacific.
While it may be possible to accom-
modate a few passengers on normal air
services, it may turn out impossible to
airlift groups of 50 or more passengers
or accommodate them on foreign ships
at this time of year in the northern hemi-
sphere. The problems involved in splitting
such groups are difficult and costly for
the tour operators.
All travel organisations are reluctant
to use the “fine print” to preserve their
reputation with the travelling public, but
a lengthy strike could cause problems so
acute that they may be forced to do so
and to charge passengers for services not
included in their tickets. The Australian
travel industry is holding its breath hoping
for a speedy settlement to the strike.
Doing the Continental
Mr. Pierre Salinger, former
U.S. presidential Press secretary, the
Continental Airlines delegation headed by
Mr. Chris F. Whelan, senior vice-president
• —marketing, and including Mr. Harvey
Wexler, vice-president governmental
affairs, would have rated little news space
and not much more interest in the travel
industry.
Continental Airlines is one of the small-
est of the United States domestic trunk air-
lines and operates from Los Angeles to
nine states of the U.S.A., serving 22 cities
in mid-U.S.A. as far east as Chicago and
Houston. Yet the airline has filed appli-
cation for easily the most comprehensive
network of routes with the U.S. Civil
Aeronautics Board yet sought by any
carrier. And, as Mr. Salinger said, Con-
tinental is keen to come to Australia, and
the South Pacific generally because of its
existing U.S. West Coast springboard at
Los Angeles.
More than 20 U.S. airlines have now
lodged applications for new overseas
routes with their C.A.8., but Mr. Salinger
gives only Trans-World Airlines, Ameri-
can Airlines, and Eastern Airlines and, of
course, Continental a real chance of be-
coming the second U.S. Government-nomi-
nated carrier to fly the South Pacific
route. Senior executives of American Air-
lines and Eastern Airlines had completed
their Australian visits and the accompany-
ing public relations exercises before the
Continental Airlines party arrived.
But the big news which was brought
by Continental Airlines is that the United
States had granted a British nominated
airline —• which is, of course, BOAC
rights to operate from the west coast of
the United States to Australia, in return
for certain rights granted by Britain to
U.S. airlines elsewhere. When Continental
executives broke this news, BOAC here in
Australia knew nothing about this. But
an announcement on this subject is ex-
pected at any time.
All this activity on its coveted South
Pacific route has not caused Qantas
executives to lose any sleep. For the
record, a Qantas spokesman said: “We ex-
pect more competition on the South
Pacific route, but we are confident that we
can hold our share of the market. There
is certainly no complacency in this camp.”
Pan American Airways has also dug
itself in on this route and although more
vulnerable to competition from another
U.S. airline, is confident that it has the
organisation and the goodwill to meet any
challenge.
Most logical choice as the second U.S.
carrier seems to be Eastern Airlines which
already operates to Mexico from large
cities on the Eastern Seaboard of the
U.S.A. Eastern Airlines could duplicate
Qantas’ service through Mexico, instead
of running just parallel to the present Pan
American Airways’ service from the West
coast of the United States.
Fostering Fiji
' 'pHE Fiji Visitors Bureau wants to set
up its own office in Sydney as soon
as possible to interest more Australian
tourists to visit Fiji. At present, Australian
tourists rank third in number of visitors
after New Zealanders and Americans.
Mr. William Drury, recently appointed
managing director of the Bureau, said in
Sydney that accommodation in Fiji was
increasing and improving and that Fiji
was gearing itself for a big increase in
tourism.
Mr. Drury will find a ready response in
Australia when present concessional air-
fares are extended throughout the year,
and the airlines are expected to agree to
this move at the lATA conference in
Honolulu in September.
KNOX GRAMMAR SCHOOL
WAHROONGA, N.S.W.
Additional teaching staff will be required to com-
mence Ist Term 1967 when the secondary course
extends to six years. There will be four vacancies:—
1. Mathematics to Higher School Certificate and Matricu-
lation.
2. Mathematics and Science to Higher School Certifi-
cate and Matriculation.
3. Mathematics and Science to School Certificate (end
of Fourth Year).
4. French to School Certificate ability to teach
Class Music will be an advantage.
Some accommodation available for single applicants.
Superannuation scheme. Salary Scales £ 1825- £ 2431,
according to experience and qualification.
Written application to the Headmaster (Dr. T. R.
McKenzie) should be supported by at least two testi-
monials, and should state previous experience, games
and extra-curricular interests.


WILD CAT
PAGES
Taking Up the Option
MARKET POINTERS • SECURITY ANALYSIS • COMMODITIES
MINING • SHARE LIST • BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
By JASON
SOMETHING will have to be done to improve the Stock Exchanges’ stock options
post; the attitude of stockbrokers themselves to it seems to be the main reason
for its failure to compete successfully with the independent stock option dealers.
A glance at the daily newspapers shows
that there are far more options written by
members of the Option Brokers’ Associa-
tion than by stockbrokers. No doubt the
Sydney and Melbourne Stock Exchanges
are seriously thinking about improving
their stock options arrangements; there is
certainly scope for it, as the experience
since their introduction only a couple of
months ago has shown.
It does not appear to be simply a matter
of price that gives the Exchanges such a
hard pull, although it seems the Option
Brokers do have the edge over stock-
brokers a little on this score. It is offset,
so the Exchanges say, by the great finan-
cial protection afforded buyers by the Ex-
change itself and the clear indication,
under its system, that the writer is a man
of substance.
But the Exchanges can compete on
price. One day last week, for instance, the
Option Brokers’ Association reported a
sale of options in 45-cent-paid Woodside
shares at an exercise price of 60 cents and
a premium of 12 cents while the Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange dealt in the same
stock at an exercise price of 58 cents and
a premium of only 10 cents. The better
deal was that on the Stock Exchange
and the reason would not only be the
lower exercise price, which only provided
half of the 4-cent advantage and could
have been due to the time of day the con-
tract was negotiated.
The key thing that the Exchanges have
yet to get across to option buyers is that
by building up the Exchanges’ post they
would be doing themselves a good turn in
the long run. It is clear that if potential
writers of options (brokers in the first
instance who will then try to place their
contracts with the ultimate writers) are
all together at one post looking for busi-
ness, then the prospect of price-shaving is
a real one, provided buyers are prepared
to use market techniques.
On the other hand, deals through an
options broker are arranged over the tele-
phone and depend on the dealer deciding
which of the quotes he has received he
will convey to the buyer. There is no
active competition by writers for the busi-
ness invthe Stock Exchange situation
where bids are put up on a board for all
to see —and undercut.
The other side of the coin that
writers will raise prices if too many cus-
tomers seek options is the sort of mar-
ket situation that would be reflected in
the price of the shares themselves any-
how.
But for the Exchanges’ posts to oper-
ate effectively there will have to develop
some options specialists among the brok-
ing houses on a much more skilled level
than has been demonstrated so far. The
number of silly quotes for buying options
going up at this post which bear no rela-
tion to realistic writing costs of options
only damages the fabric of the whole
idea.
Some brokers seem to be taking the
view that by putting up large buying
orders for stock options at silly prices
they will create an impression that the
shares themselves are in strong demand —
with the hope that this will influence the
market price for the shares. The Ex-
changes should take some sort of stand
on this to remind brokers that their first
duty is to their clients and maintaining an
orderly market not to themselves.
WHEN Sir Frank Richardson intro-
duced his complicated reconstruc-
tion and rejuvenation plan for the
faltering Cox Bros, retail group two years
ago, THE BULLETIN was sceptical about
its chances of success. But with Sir Frank’s
close friend Sir lan Potter keeping an
eye on things, there was always a ray of
hope. Unfortunately, this seems to have
been reduced to only a glimmer by the
latest six months of trading to January
31.
In line with the more difficult trading
that brought even a halt to the mighty
Myer’s gallop, the Cox group lost a
further $407,000 well above the
$55,000 deficit of the previous correspond-
ing six months. A loss of $659,000 was in-
curred in the full 1964-65 period, during
which Sir Frank predicted a return to
profits this year. But the nose dive which
appeared to have been arrested has now
set in again in earnest, although the seri-
ousness of the group’s position cannot be
fully ascertained until the 1965-66 accounts
are at hand for perusal.
It could be that the latest difficulties
reflect merely a temporary disturbance in
the retail scene rather than any perman-
ent malaise. But they could also be
partly due to the attack on the Mel-
bourne retail scene by Waltons, whose new
Bourke Street store is offensively close to
Foy’s. The Cox group rejected a Waltons
takeover bid back in the late 19505.
Cox group sales in the latest half-year
dipped from $22.4 million to $21.5 million
but trading profit slumped badly from
$l.l million to $770,000. Foy’s profit was
down from $36,000 to almost nil and
Georges’ from $15,000 to $lOOO. Both sub-
sidiaries have decided to omit preference
dividends. Cox Finance, 50 percent owned,
lifted its result from $74,000 to $BO,OOO,
but there will be no dividend as share-
holders’ funds need strengthening. It will
be surprising if Cox Bros, rises again with-
out some outside helping hand.
VULCAN INDUSTRIES proposal to
issue $200,000 worth of redeemable
preference shares to a financial insti-
tution promises a skirmish between the
board and shareholders. Shareholders have
to approve the issue by voting for a change
in the articles of association, which, at
present, prevent such an issue.
What will bring a lot of shareholders
strongly against the scheme is the board’s
denial of an opportunity for them to con-
tribute more capital at a time when the
group is starting to do well and undertake
expansion. Although few shareholders may
be prepared to contribute ordinary capital,
most would be happy to take up the pref-
erences in question. They are going for
par and paying 7 percent. Another bitter
pill arises from last year’s annual meeting,
where the chairman of the Melbourne-
based domestic heating company, Mr. E.
Dubsky, said new capital was not needed
to offset external liabilities, which, in 1964-
65, were higher than for most years.
THE share price index may be down
around its lowest level for the year,
but there are many stocks that have
not suffered at all from the general market
depression. And if they can swim so suc-
cessfully against the tide, it is worth
speculating on how well they would go
with it once the market turned up again.
Associated Portland Cement stands out.
It is currently selling near its 1966 peak, at
a price which exceeds anything achieved
in 1965. The same applies to Coal and
Allied, coming into its own at last, as
Japanese coal contracts are offsetting such
things as the Aberdare fire problem and
the special boost to last year’s profits in-
volved in running down coal stocks.
John Holland, the very successful civil
engineer and builder, and Mindrill, sup-
plier of mine drilling equipment, are both
at or near their 1966 peaks, which exceed
those for 1965, and for good reasons.
Hollands are proving the old adage about
making profits by sticking to your speci-
ality, and Mindrill are benefiting from the
intensified mineral developments in Aus-
tralia.
Despite easing demand for some of its
building products and higher copper
prices, the price of G. E. Crane, producer
of semi-fabricated aluminium for Co-
malco, is very close to the 1965 peak,
though it has been higher this year. Pros-
pects of a birthday (and retirement?)
bonus next year are a factor in its high


Invest in
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
DEBENTURE STOCK
FOR 7 YEARS
NEW ISSUE
Other rates and terms available see Prospectus for full
details. Prospectus and application form available from:
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one c
application attached to a printed copy of
F the forms of
the Prospectus.
8980
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
price, particularly if its neat taxation pro-
posal tor Australian Factor losses works
out.
Reflecting the improved situation in
soft drinks, Shelleys is as high as it has
been this year or last, while Lifesavers,
the confectionery manufacturer, although
well down on 1965 peak, is now near its
highest level for 1966, and seems unlikely
to relapse to its lowest levels. The higher
price of chocolate will make its stock posi-
tion healthier, even if it raises costs.
Regaining lost favor here is British
Tobacco, higher priced than at any time
in 1965, as better cigarette sales and im-
proved food and soft drink results are
offsetting the drought problem for its
extensive pastoral properties.
Other stocks at or near their peak for
the year at a time when most are near
their low are Allied Mills, Australian
Guarantee Corporation (the only hire
purchase stock in this group), motor
dealer W. T. Coggins, Elder Smith,
Katies, J. Kohler, Malleys (a striking re-
covery from last year in a difficult in-
dustry), Merco, Newstead, the Perman-
ent and Perpetual Trustees, H. B. Selby,
A. G. Sims, Speedo, Tancred (whose new
Queensland abattoir appears to be off-
setting some drought problems), Television
Corporation, and Yates Seeds.
DID Boral hit bottom last week when
it dipped down deep into the $ I.Bos
(its lowest price since 1960’s share
split) before recovering to close at $1.90?
Despite market indications that the stock
is up off the floor, there are still brokers
encouraging their clients to quit the stock
in keeping' with the “sell immediately”
advice given last week by a truncated but
nevertheless influential Melbourne invest-
ment counselling establishment.
There is no doubt that problems are
mounting for Mr. Elton Griffin and his
men at Matraville. On top of the cost-
raising effects of Mr. R. W. Miller’s Aus-
tralian flag tankers in the oil-carriage busi-
ness, the troubles in Victorian quarries in
which Boral has such a large stake, the
uncertainties over fertilisers, the increas-
ing competition in the road-surfacing busi-
ness from the major oil companies, con-
tinued coal losses, and the mounting evi-
dence of severe assaults by other oil com-
panies in some of Boral’s traditional oil-
supply markets, the recent bad news from
McDonald Industries on beef roads no
doubt has some implications for Boral.
In last year’s annual report, Boral direc-
tors said that the 21 percent fall in profit
was due in part to “losses incurred by a
subsidiary company in completing beef
road construction contracts entered into
prior to the company’s acquiring its share-
holding.” It added that “approaches have
been made to Government authorities for
relief from some of the onerous burdens”
of losses the extent of which the com-
pany did not feel inclined to tell its
shareholders.
Last week, directors of McDonald In-
dustries told their shareholders that the
Queensland Government had rejected their
application for an ex gratia payment of
$1 million to make up some of the $1.4
million the company has lost on its beef
road contracts. So Boral will probably not
be getting any of the “relief” it asked for,
either.
How much is Boral down on beef roads?
It is impossible for an outsider to establish,
because the “losses in completing” the
contracts talked about in last September’s
annual report were not the end of them
by any means, and the “completing” was
still going on this year, according to the
March interim report. This said that
losses had continued “in the completion”
of existing beef road contracts, without
giving any indication of when they would
be completed or when the losses would
stop.
In addition, the decisions by former
Ansett underwriters to sell their clients
out of the stock and to draw to the public’s
attention the traditional fall in Ansett
shares before a Federal election has not
been a bull point for Boral, which owns
15 percent of Ansett’s sl9m. share capital,
even though stout-hearted market support
(particularly by a big Sydney broking
house which seems to have its eyes on
sharing the Ansett business) has been able
to hold the shares up at around the 76
cents level. This is near the price Boral
paid when adding a further parcel of 2.7
million Ansett shares in April to its exist-
ing holdings.
The recently filed half-year accounts to
December did nothing for Borahs market
image, with the half-year profit of $1.7
million being considerably below the
yearly rate of $4.1 million of the previous
year. No comparable half-year figure was
given. Earlier Boral had reported to the
Stock Exchange that its profit and sales
had been maintained at the same rate in
the same half of last year, and indicated
there were signs of improvement in the
current six months.


Now choose between any of
6 weekly big, friendly
jet flights to Europe
Jr
■ m.
Sr?
5
Rome
mf
II
V.
Zurich
> ■(
IftlJ
rir
T
■rr«
sbj:
Frankfurt
Kk.
WWW
21'fill I
London
Now. Go when you like on any of six flights weekly to the four most
exciting gateways to Europe. Home, Zurich, Frankfurt, or London, on
BOAC’s big Rolls-Royce 707’s. Bonus offer! Zip up to Singapore by
Rolls-Royce 707—enjoy a night on the town —then jet on next morning
to Europe in the big silent VC 10 . . . the exciting new jet that experienced
jet travellers are talking about.
% Talk over your itinerary with your Travel Agent,
BO AC or Qantas (BOAC’s General Sales Agents).
ALL OVER THE WORLD BOAC TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
BOAC
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
with Air India, Air New Zealand and Qantas.
BOAC: P5O (a)
Mr. Whippy: for Whom
The Bell Tinkles?
THE soft ice-cream-on-wheels business
has not really got rolling the way
shareholders in Mr. Whippy Hold-
ings Ltd. had hoped when they paid 75
cents in last year’s flotation for shares
that are now worth only 40 cents. The
poor market for Mr. Whippy shares does
not depend simply on last year’s unim-
pressive profit, or on their poor technical
position resulting from the under subscrip-
tion of its flotation. It seems closely related
and wisely so to the heavy loss posi-
tion by its rival Dairy Frost (the British
Tobacco subsidiary) and the strong sug-
gestions from British Tobacco that stern
measures are being taken to improve this
which presumably means some increase
in the intensity of competition for Mr,
Whippy.
The facts available from the Comomn-
wealth Statistician suggest that soft ice-
cream production has been rising and
claiming an increasing share of the market
although the remarkable jump in half-
gallon tins of ice-cream (once again featur-
ing British Tobacco) in recent months
appears to have given the hard side an
extra boost along. For while the pro-
portion of “other frozen dairy foods and
mixes” to ice-cream increased in the seven
months to January from 14J percent to
17£ percent, latest more detailed figures
of soft ice-cream alone (about one third
of the “other frozen” statistics) show a
clear fall in its market share against the
hard stuff in recent months.
But overall there can be no doubt that
soft ice-cream output is rising. It will have
to. Present levels clearly do not provide
adequate rewards for both the big com-
panies, and the comment from the chair-
man of Mr. Whippy at last month’s annual
meeting about upward sales trends and a
brighter outlook is not enough to set in-
vestors’ minds at rest that a better profit
level will soon be reached.
Mr. Whippy earned 31 percent less in
his first public year than as a private com-
pany, turning in a disappointing profit
of $278,000 for the year to January 31,
1966. Capital is $2.4m. in ordinary shares,
giving a meagre earning rate of 11.6 per-
cent to cover the prospectus estimates of
a ten percent dividend, which was paid,
small cover notwithstanding. One reason
for this could be that the company is
anxious to maintain a ten percent rate for
three years to entitle holders of the
800,000 deferred 50c shares to qualify
thereafter as ordinary shareholders. (Mean-
time, the deferreds do not rank for divi-
dend.) The 1965-66 profit related to total
ordinary and deferred capital would give
an earning rate of less than ten percent.
Directors of Mr. Whippy blamed the
profit fall on to the difficulties of obtain-
ing suitable vendors in a period of full
employment, and they admitted compe-
tition had also increased. The only refer-
ence to turnover was at the annual meet-
ing. Sales were not up to expectations
for February-March, 1966, but since mid-
March there had been an upward trend.
The public was offered 1,920,000 50c


You don’t have
to be a top wine
and food group
to hold
a function at
Chevron
But you’ll be treated like one
Chevron just can't help it. Over the
years, it’s been so used to hosting lead-
ing wine and food organisations, inter-
national gourmets and hoteliers, that
the expertise shows through. Chevron
caters for groups of 8 to 800, from as
little as $2.25 a head. Finest in foods,
wines and service. Don’t gamble on
the success of your functions. Hold
them at Chevron. Connoisseurs do!
Before arranging your next business or
social function call on the experience
of the banquet manager.
IChevron
Macleay St., Potts Pt., Sydney. Phone 35-0433
FOR PROMPT BOOKINGS—ADELAIDE: Hotel Australia, 6-BSBI (Telex 82174): MELBOURNE:
Chevron 51-1281; BRISBANE: Hotel Carlton, 2-2941; SYDNEY. Chevron 35-0433 (Telex AA20489)
SYDNEY
ordinary shares in May last year at 75c.
The issue was 32 percent undersubscribed
and the shares are now selling for 40c.
Forte’s (Holdings) Ltd., the UK hotel and
catering group, hold about 54 percent of
total capital (deferreds included), Ken-
dell’s (N.S.W.) Pty., 12 percent (the
family company of Mr. W. G. Kendell,
who began the business in Australia) and
the public the remaining 34 percent.
Mr. Whippy’s soft-serve ice-cream is
sold by mobile vans (there were 150 in
April, 1965) which are leased out to
operators in N.S.W., southern Qld., S.A.,
and W.A. In northern Qld., Melbourne,
and New Zealand, vending operations are
carried out by franchise holders. The Mr.
Whippy trade name is exclusive in Aus-
tralia to the company, subject only to
the franchise rights. Forte’s have promised
that should diversification take place in
catering the name Forte’s will be avail-
able to Mr. Whippy.
The only publicised move taken by
Forte’s in Australia since then was a care-
ful survey in April-May, 1966, of Chevron
Sydney as a buying proposition. Mr.
Whippy’s chairman, Mr. A. N. Armstrong,
said his company may be invited to par-
ticipate in buying the Chevron hotel if
Forte’s proceed. But on Chevron’s record
of finance troubles this would be a bear
point for Whippy shares.
Mr. Whippy looks heavily capitalised
and indebted to outsiders to the tune of
$276,000 in secured loans. The refrigerated
vehicles cost over $lO,OOO each, and net
of depreciation stood at over slm. in the
1966 accounts, including plant and fixtures
and fittings, with perhaps another 32
vehicles in transit, booked at cost,
$340,904.
J)AIRY FROST PTY., which British
Tobacco’s subsidiary, Asociated Pro-
ducts and Distribution Pty., acquired in
November, 1964, from American Machine
and Foundry Co. (Aust.) Pty. (owned SO-
SO by British Tobacco and AM and F of
New York) lost $737,000 in the year to
October, 1965. Its soft-serve ice-cream is
in direct competition with Mr. Whippy.
Besides mobile vans, Dairy Frost is dis-
pensed by machines in major stores. Capi-
tal is $1.5m., by comparison with Mr.
Whippy’s s2.Bm.
Trends in Britain do nothing to brighten
the picture. Last year, Forte’s considered
it sensible to merge the motor operations
of its Mr. Whippy fleet with Unilever’s
motorised ice-cream operations, so that
the one unit would sell both soft and
hard ice-creams.
But in January Forte’s got right out
of the business altogether, selling the
remaining half of Walls-Whippy to
Unilever. Some hint of how the business
was going came in Unilever’s annual
report for 1965, which showed that ice-
cream sales “on wheels” were unsatis-
factory.
Forte’s willingness to sell out to Unilever
was stated to have no effect on the Aus-
tralian operations, but it seems a pattern
that could well be repeated—provided
Unilever here (with its McNivens and
Streets interests) thought that the operation
was worthwhile.


COMMODITIES
Another Look at Uranium
THE uranium industry is heading for buoyant times but the strength and length
of the boom may not be as great as some have forecast.
The managing-director of the U.K.
Atomic Energy Authority’s Reactor Group
claimed in London last month that Britain
would be independent of imports of
uranium until “well into the next century”
if the current “fast breeder” reactor pro-
gramme was successful.
As pointed out in Mining last week,
Australia’s presently known reserves are
quite small by world standards—perhaps
3 percent of the total.
These local deposits will probably find
a market in the next ten years on even
the most pessimistic forecasts of demand.
But further extensions of present ore
bodies and new fields will need a larger
and long-term market.
Two factors make it hard to be dog-
matic about uranium’s future. Nuclear
energy is, firstly, one of the most active
areas of scientific research, and is a
potential factor in one of the fastest-
growing and changing, industries fuel
and power.
And secondly, uranium is a newcomer
to the mining scene, so exploration has
not been anything like as extensive as that
for metals which have been used for cen-
turies but are still being found in new
areas.
Gas discoveries in the North Sea (and
Bass Strait) steps toward exploitation of
huge shale oil reserves in North America,
and new oilfields in North Africa mean
that competition between traditional energy
sources will be intensifying even without
pressure from uranium.
There is little doubt, however, that
nuclear energy will be able to overcome its
opposition in two fields —electricity gen-
eration and water desalinisation.
In May last year a new version of
Britain’s advanced gas-cooled reactor was
developed, with costs expected to be 10
percent below any other nuclear plant.
So it is now generally accepted that
nuclear power is competitive practically
anywhere with oil and coal which last
year supplied 63 percent and 29 percent
of world energy requirements respectively.
But the nuclear technology is new (the
first of the new British plants will begin
operations in 1976), so at present no
country is making massive conversions of
electricity supply systems.
Forecasts of the future, however, are
optimistic, and each new forecast paints a
brighter picture than its predecessor.
One of the latest reviews, from a
Canadian firm, anticipates that the com-
pound annual growth rate for world
electrical demand up to 1985 will be at
least 7 percent.
Worldwide average power consumption
now averages 900 kW' hours a' person,
compared with 3000 in Europe and 4850
in the U.S. providing huge scope for
growth even if the advanced nations stood
still.
It is reckoned that there will be at
least a four-fold increase in world electrical
demand in the next 20 years, and it
seems clear that nuclear energy will be
the main supplier of the new capacity.
Total installed nuclear plant outside
Russia, China, and Eastern Europe
is put at 27,000 megawatts by 1970, 86,275
MW by 1975, and 200,000 MW by 1980.
(This is far from over-optimistic, as the
European Economic Community alone has
recently set 200,000 MW as its nuclear
target for the end of the century.)
The second growth area for nuclear
energy is water supply by removing salt
from sea water.
In two district fields water supply is of
growing concern —giant urban areas like
London and New York, and under-
developed low rainfall areas needed for
expanded food production.
American Machine and Foundry Co. last
year gained a contract to build the world’s
first nuclear-powered desalinisation plant—
a $U.5.4.3 million project to be completed
in 1968 to supply water for New York
City.
U,S. Government experts predict that
water shortages will become acute in large
areas of Western U.S. within 20 years, and
most other countries face similar problems.
U.S. water demand is expected to double
in 15 years, and the Interior Department’s
office of Saline Water predicts that, in 35
years, 7-10 percent of the nation’s fresh
water will come from the sea.
;A LL in all the prospects for nuclear
power are quite clearly very good.
But the uranium market may not perform
so well, for two reasons. On the demand
side, uranium faces problems from ad-
vancing technology. Of most importance
is the fast-breeder reactor.
Only .72 percent of natural uranium is
“active” (fissile) to any great extent.
The current generation of reactors em-
ploy natural uranium, leaving most of the
U-238 as waste, but also producing small
amounts of plutonium.
Fast-breeder reactors, at present in the
experimental stage, employ a “core” of
plutonium or enriched uranium (with a
higher proportion of U-235 than normal)
surrounded by a blanket of U-238.
As the reactor generates, heating gas or
water to produce steam for turbines, the
U-238 is converted into plutonium—at a
faster rate than the core is used up.
By this means a far greater proportion
of the uranium fuel is consumed than in
older types.
Expenditure on developing the fast
breeder is immense, and will continue for
many years —at present the U.K. is ahead
of even the U.S. in this field.
Euraton, the Common Market’s atomic
agency, expects that by the end of this
century all of its reactor capacity will be
breeders. But with the expansion of
capacity later this century even breeder^
will require large amounts of fuel. Further
in the future are threats to nuclear fission
power itself nuclear fusion and
magnetohydroynamic energy.
The former employing hydrogen and
other “light” atoms as fuel, could easily be
a factor before the end of the century.
But for uranium producers the law
of supply and demand will for some time
be more important than th,e nuclear
physicists’ latest discoveries.
Demand has already begun to pick up
after the plunge in the late ’sos, when
early hopes for nuclear-power generation
were shown to be premature, and when
military demand eased.
The first major sign of the changing
times was a foray into the market by
France last year.
However, because France was unwilling
to accept the conditions to ensure peace-
ful use of the material, the deal was not
concluded.
More recently, a “multi-million dollar”
sale by Anaconda Co. of the U.S. in
March to a Swiss power group was fol-
lowed last month by a reported 400-ton
sale by Utah Mining Corp., also of the
U.S., to a Swedish group.
Anaconda has since announced a further
contract to supply Westinghouse Electric
Corp. of the U.S. during the seven-year
period 1968-1975.
The reported price mentioned in the
French-Canadian talks, SU.S.7-8 a lb.,
would have been well above the current
depressed levels about $5 a lb.
To keep mines open the Canadian Gov-
ernment is buying for its stockpiles at
$4.90 a lb.
This compares with a reported $9.06 a
lb. paid by the U.K. Government for
4500 tons from Mary Kathleen over about
seven years during the last boom.
On most forecasts of future demand on
the basis that each new station acquires:
supplies for 20 years’ operation, present
proven reserves would be exhausted by the
mid-19705.
Prices will begin to rise long before
then. For this reason producers are by no
means anxious to sell at present. However,
prospects are already stirring again.
New reserves will be found, and
although some observers think otherwise, it
seems clear that major discoveries will be
reported soon after searching moves into
top gear.
It hardly seems likely that a few years
of searching in the. 1950 s would have un-
covered anything more than a fraction of
exploitable reserves.
What will prices do?
From the point of view of consumption,
this is not an important question because;
the cost of uranium is only a small part ofj
total costs.
With commercial first breeders perhaps
ten years away and demand growing,
rapidly, SU.S.IO a lb. should be reached
soon after the boom begins.
As most producers have depreciated
their plant and/or built up stockpiles, price
levels will largely be matters of negotia-
tion, and the longer supplies are withheld
the higher prices will go.
But the breeder reactor and probable
new ore finds will mean a fairly tight lid
Qr\ t,he market.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
NEW ISSUE
%
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications tor Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pring Dean & Co.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street. Sydney. Tel. 61-9701. 61-6421
MINING
Back to Taws in Tin
IN view of the current excitement over
the coming flotation of the Mt.
Cleveland Tin Company, which
undoubtedly looks good, the progress of
two other Aberfoyle Tin Development
partnership companies, Ardlethan Tin
N.L., floated in 1963, and Greenbushes
Tin N.L., floated in 1964, is worth examin-
ing.
Within the past six months both of
these companies have been forced to make
new issues to shareholders to finance modi-
fications deemed necessary as a result of
early unexpected production difficulties.
However, both companies now seem to be
on the way to achieving anticipated pro-
duction rates.
Ardlethan Tin (51 percent owned by
Aberfoyle Holdings Ltd.) commenced
operations in June, 1964, and although a
net profit of $153,000 was earned in the
year to June 30, 1965, the company was
handicapped by technical difficulties in the
treatment and recovery of concentrates.
Luckily, the extra operating costs in-
volved were largely offset by higher tin
prices averaging about £stg.l2so per ton.
Incidentally, the average price for the cur-
rent financial year looks like being perhaps
£lOO higher than last year’s.
In their last annual report directors said
that they expected the company to be able
to pay its first dividend in the 1966-67
year, with increasing dividends thereafter
as loan repayments cease.
Originally it was estimated that Ardle-
than’s annual production would be 250,000
tons of ore, yielding about 650 tons of tin
metal in concentrates produced. Last year,
although nearly 234,000 tons of ore assay-
ing 0.424 percent tin were milled, average
recovery was only 46.23 percent, yielding
458 tons of tin metal in concentrates.
However, by the beginning of the cur-
rent year, average recovery exceeded 50
percent and, on the basis of current pro-
duction rates, it is likely that the tonnage
of tin ore milled this financial year will
approach 290,000, yielding about 640 tons
of tin metal still below the original
recovery estimates.
The company has a further problem in
that it is anticipated that concentrate
grades will be adversely affected by an in-
crease in sulphide occurrence as the White
Crystal open cut deepens.
To counteract this, a concentrates dress-
ing plant is scheduled to be in operation
by the first half of the 1966-67 year. This,
together with additional plant in the
gravity section, will cost about $600,000.
Greenbushes Tin N.L. (in which Aber-
foyle Holdings has altogether a 32 percent
interest) began productive dredging opera-
tions last October and had just entered
payable ground when the dredge partly
foundered on January 10 and was out of
operation until early April. Since then
it has only been operating at half capacity
because of slimes in the dredge pond, but
modifications are now being made to bring
it into full-scale production.
Prior to this the company had arranged
short-term borrowings amounting to
$480,000 from the bank and sponsor com-
panies to meet increased costs of construct-
ing the dredge (and subsequent repairs)
and increasing the efficiency of the treat-
ment plant. These costs had been under-
estimated and to reduce the heavy short-
term borrowings the one-for-two issue of
contributing shares was made early in
1966.
Annual production was originally esti-
mated to be about 300 tons of tin oxide
concentrates assaying 70 percent Sn —
about 210 tons of tin metal rising to
960 tons of concentrates (670 tons of tin
metal) after the second full year of opera-
tions, when a mobile treatment plant will
also be established.
Concurrently tantalite production was
expected to be initially 45 tons of con-
centrates p.a., rising to 205 tons with the
combined dredging and mobile treatment
operations. But because of the early pro-
duction difficulties, the dredge up to May
3, 1966, had only produced a total of 9.1
tons of tin concentrates and 1.6 tons of
tantalite concentrates.
It is significant that early bucket dredg-
ing operations in the Greenbushes area
in the late 1930 s encountered difficulties
due to the uneven nature of the basement.
If the basement again proves to be irregu-
lar, Greenbushes may strike problems with
its Jim Crow bucket dredge. In this event,
suction dredging or sluicing could be more
effective.
Once full productive capacity is
achieved, the current high tin prices
and these seem likely to persist for some
time will enhance the company’s
ability to start dividend payments.
Original prospectus estimates of the
average annual cash surplus available for
dividends of $394,000 were based on prices
of £stg.96o per ton of tin and 37/- Aust.
per lb. of tantalite in concentrates assaying
about 45 percent Ta 2 o s . Although tanta-
lite prices have remained fairly steady, the
marked increase in tin prices will obviously
increase the company’s profitability.
new tin prospect at Walwa
in Victoria is being brought into oper-
ation by Oil & Minerals Quest N.L. under
an agreement with Shaw River Alluvials
N.C. and Kia Ora Gold Corporation N.L.
To date insufficient details on the pros-
pect have been announced to enable any
accurate assessment of its potential. Des-
pite this, there has been considerable mar-
ket activity in the partner companies’
shares, particularly Oil & Minerals Quest
N.L., since the March announcement that
pilot production would commence in April
at a' rate of 600 tons of ore per week on
a two-shift basis.
The latest assay values published were
those issued by the Victorian Mines De-
partment as a result of its boring program
in November, 1965. This showed values
mostly under 0.1 percent tin with one
value of 2.69 percent tin over a 2ft. 6in.
width. The Department suggested that
selective mining of the higher grade ores
was possible.
Since then further testing has been car-
ried out which, according to the partner
companies, give much richer results than
the averages previously obtained. So far
no further assay values have been pub-
lished and no statement on reserves has
been made.
Results of progress of the pilot produc-
tion plant will be awaited with interest.


NEW ISSUE
NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION
LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’
Act of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950.)
PA
DEBENTURE
STOCK •
4, 6 or 10
YEARS
OR
The main business of the Corporation is
to make loans on the security of first
mortgages on property and the accep-
tance of selected hire purchase agree-
ments.
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in the
Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any branch of: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• The COMPANY’S OFFICES: 249 George Street,
Sydney. Phone 27.8621.
REGISTERS: SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA, NEWCASTLE.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your Prospectus.
NAME. ™
ADDRESS
8327
J
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Howard Smith’s Prospects
BEING well diversified these days
1 means that if one of your activities
looks to be doing well, another will
be doing badly enough to hold your share
price down. That is the case with Howard
Smith Ltd., whose shares are around their
lowest point for the year, despite the fact
that its traditional shipping business is not
doing nearly so badly and that its major
investment (in BHP shares) has recently
received a solid market fillip as a result
of its natural gas interests.
The market seems to have gone sour on
Howard Smith because of sugar or the
lack of it (although the generally lower
stockmarket is another big factor in a com-
pany with such a large investment port-
folio). For those keen to bargain against
the sugar cycle, Howard Smith has some
attractions as a safe stock (and one there-
fore not likely to rise as fast) that should
do better for other reasons.
In the last two years it has been diffi-
cult to get any real appreciation of trends
at Howard Smith because of moves in bal-
ance dates which gave the 1965 result a
much worse appearance than it deserved,
although the collapse of sugar prices would
presumably have brought about a slight
profit fall had these other factors not
existed. But it would be wrong to pin
Howard Smith’s star too closely to sugar.
The company’s other operations are far
more important - and more bullish in
most cases than the Mourilyan Mill in
North Queensland.
Howard Smith is a far different com-
pany from ten years ago.
The most striking evidence of change in
Howard Smith is in its trading activities,
which are clearly growing less important as
time goes by. In last year’s accounts, ves-
sels, colliery, mill, plant, and equipment
were in the books at a net $8.9 million,
representing a rise of 40 percent in ten
years compared with the 2\ times rise in
investments. And the profit from trading
has only gone up by 25 percent over this
period, while investment income has
jumped 2| times from $300,000 to
$BlO,OOO.
These investments alone last year pro-
vided almost four-fifths of the dividend
charge and about 50 percent of the net
profit against 40 percent ten years ago.
And this was despite the incorporation of
one of its very profitable investments, A.
Goninan, into the consolidated accounts
for the first full year.
The 1964 profit figure was inflated
by $714,000, representing five years’ results
from sugar-milling operations (when
sugar prices happened to be very high),
an extra three months’ profits from The
Invincible Colliery Ltd., and A. Goninan’s
profit for the half-year to December,
1964.
Goninan used to provide about $lOO,OOO
in dividends (tax-free income) to Howard
Smith. In 1965 it probably contributed
around $450,000 to group profits. This
current year started more quietly than
last, but overall, with its services to the
rubber and plastic industries, iron ore,
bauxite, and coal, Goninan should prove
a very valuable acquisition.
Principal activities of Howard Smith
are shipowning, tug-owning, marine and
general engineering, stevedoring, travel
agency, raw sugar milling, and colliery
owning. Substantial investments in BHP,
Coal and Allied Industries, Mt. Isa Mines,
and other lesser shareholdings provided
$551,860 of 1965 income, with a further
$259,262 from unlisted investments in-
cluding Southern Portland Cement.
The listed investments increased by
$158,886, with the BHP issue in October
(so it looks as if the BHP holding is now
1,271,088 shares), to $7,224,822. Their
quoted market value is $14,257,846.
The non-listed investments may appear
in the books on an equally conservative
basis of valuation. “At cost or valuation”
they appeared at $1,583,418, up $82,980
because of the call Southern Portland
Cement made on its former preference
shares. The subsequent one-for-one bonus
made by that company during 1965 should
have brought Howard Smith’s holding to
780,000 $2 shares.
In shipping, results “improved during
the year,” so much so that the board is
considering building new “specialised
vessels.” But cost problems still remain.
In 1961-62, it took over Melbourne
Steamship in a move toward rationalisation
in Australia shipping. The company fleet
of five vessels is engaged mainly in bulk
trade, and in towage in the Port of
Melbourne, carried on by six tugs, one
of which is owned jointly with Mcllwraith
McEachorn.
The Mourilyan sugar mill handled a
small tonnage, owing to unfavorable
weather conditions, in 1965, and this
reduced output coincided with the lowest
prices in a decade. The company expects
to fall short of the 1966 gazetted mill
peak of 57,000 tons. But it views long-
term prospects with confidence, and is
continuing to enlarge and modernise mil-
ling capacity and extend transport
facilities.
Current price of $2.45 gives an
immediate yield of 4.1 percent and earn-
ings yield of 6 percent.
In 1960 and 1963, bonuses were handed
out in the proportion of one-for-four and
one-for-five.
December 31 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
profit
s’ooo (1) 1255 1352 2106 3616 2946
Tax s’ooo 136 87 283 494 479
Depreciation
s'ooo 440 488 473 658 617
Net profit s’ooo 679 777 1350 2464 1850
Earning rate 10 1 10 9 16 1 25.3 17 2
Dividend rate 10 10 . 10 10 10
Earning rate on
total funds 4.4 4.8 8 2 11.2 8.2
Current ratio 0.63 0.49 0.60 1.50 1.30
Fixed assets
s’ooo 8239 8485 8176 10626 11741
Dividend yield
(2) 3.9 4.4 3.4 4.2 4.0
Price/earnings
ratio (2) 25 6 21 3 18 2 9 6 14 5
High price (3) 2 75 2 87 3.40 2 77 2 57
Low price (3) 2 20 2 11 2 64 2.25 2.43
1. Profit before depreciation and tax.
2. End of following April, month accounts pre-
sented.
3. Following calendar year; 1966 to date. Price per
$1 share.


Share
Par
Div.
Year
Week
Fri. (
1966 |
T urnover
Yield
%
Value
cents
ago
ago
close
High | Low i
Syd. | Melb. |
Div-| Earn.
METALS
AND OILS
oyle
.50
2
1.95
2 61; 2.15i 2.35
1.90|
800]
10,2001
Exp.
.50
1.32
1.40
1.31
1 55|
.85
56,3501
30,100]
1
Min.
.50
15
3.98
5 00
5.00
5.52|
4.80'
56,500|
13,500:
A.O.G.
.50
2.55
2.37
2.40
2 601
2.39]
7,500:
2,600]
i
B. H. South
.50
12
2.47
2 47
2.40
2.90:
2 241
28,250]
14,500
5.2 1
8 0
C.R.A.
.50
8
3 80
4 80
4.36
4 90'
3.92
19,300]
43,100;
1 8'
4 8
C’wlth Min.
1.00
7
1 80
2.251 2.28
2 401
1.90
4,100|
2,300|
3.5
6.0
K. 1. Scheel
.50
10
1 52
1.90
1.93
3.25
1.80]
1,400]
4,700,
Mount Isa
.50
5
3 46
4 00
4 02
4 55]
3.92]
32,400 463,500|
1-2]
1.7
Mt. Morgan
1 00
12
1 86
2.22
2.20
2.49,
1.90|
2,900'
5,000]
5.7|
10.8
Mt. Lyell
.25
2
1 .02
1.32,
1.361 1.461
1 251
10,500
19,300
1.8]
4.0
New B.H.
.50
22
4.28
4.70
4 42
5.28|
4 42
7,800
7,700|
6.9 :
9.8
Oil Search
.50
.19
.18
.19
.19
.12]
29,000|
9,000;
|
Renison
.50
10
6.15
7.14
7 00
7.50]
5.001
loo:
13,500!
Santos
.25
2 08
2 60
2 80
2.85,
1.40
3,000]
2,100]
West. Min.
.50
10
2.58
4.40
4.45
4 50:
2 451
49,000]
30,800]
2.2]
2.4
Wocdside
.50
.30
.65
.71
• 74]
,24|
19,300
41,700;
i
X oocnOo'n'n'n-nTimmmmmmmooooononnooorionooOoi'iorir'innocD m Pm® m rammmrommro >>>>>>>>> >>>>>>>>>>>>
“ ? -n8 n -il* 0 S’ S’ ?n c ‘ > „>-%”"< -o? - - z >' 3T ' 5„' S ' Sw s»- ’
il huh jr I ‘ rii 1 1 11 ‘ p M ffif fi f*
>-j m m *-* ro *—•*—•*—• r\s ra *—■ ro ro >-* *_• • *— • »-* m i-* ro *-•»-• io *-• rofon-* ro *-* *-• *-»
gggggggggggogggggoggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggogggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg
HAoooMUiuivjo'^siujouiOMvjuiO'o^vjinuioooomsjooogioouiuivjcDyia-ouiAwXi
jj; u « utg a « is is "is " * * * a 01 2 is^a
OHM *-* CD*-* *-* ro JO fO -t* U) O' U1 *-• WHNUl O *-* *-* *-• O' fO -si *vl ■£* UJ *-* fO fO h- *-• fO *-• Ul O’ X* UJ UJ *_. Ui Ul NJ *-* Ul fO t-» ►-< NJ *-* *-• |\J fO *— 1
SSSSKSgSSSSS&SSSSKSggKZiSittKgSttSS&gSSgSSSgSSSS&gSgaSSgSgaSSSSgg&SSSgSSSSgSSSSSSSS
£»*-<ru v*ih ro ro »—•*—••—• a* m ui.e* ro ro WHWNMroMH mo* roujw U’roi-* m io *-»*-• uj ro uuo uj uj ►-*»-* ui *-* *-* cr *-• i-' ro hhw ro*-*
S3S2£XSggS££S£;SSKgSSS£S3ggS3S;S£g£K2g3e;:§KS£gg88;£SS!g5!3£8K££SSKS£g2S3g£e;s;s!SSS3S£SS
INDUSTRIALS
ahm *-■ Ui ►-* >-*roi-*ui ro ro *—<»—•►—» a* -i* *-< Ul -£> roro ro ►-• ro ro *-* ro i-' *-• *-• cr cvjujuj wnh mhmhv a jwuiwwwhh^uih h O'mh ro hhh ro*-*
S£gg2ggggg££Sgg^££SS8g£^8gS£gSg£Kg2gg£SgS5g28S^S=igSg£ggS£KgKggggg^ggSsiSSSSgSsigS
ui*-»ro *-* uiM roro*-*m *-* ro ro ro *-* *-* O' ui *-* cr £» rou> uj *-• to ro *-• uj *-* i-» *-» ►-• cr roujx* wnh ro ro »-* *-* uj ro ui ro £> uj *-**-* m O' ro *-• O' *-» »-* *-* ro *-* *-• f\j ro ro'-'
?S3S£SS§c!Sgg3S2SSSS;;SS8§2KSS2S£!SSKSSS!£$S££g3g532£SSSSS3g£S25!S3£ggSStt2cJSSSgSSgggS
r\j uj*-' Mronyi -£* roru K>*-'rur\j*-'Ki*-'*-‘ *-*u* mujuj >-•*-• *-* v>j ro ui ro uj uj *-* *-* ui *-• *-• ui *-* *-* ro »_-*»—*»—• ro*-*
gSK8gg6KggSgggS2£32ggS2gg5ggS5;a£S£g3g£gKSS2 2Sgg35g5igggggS£S£gKSgggSgfi33g5i383£g8
WW y’.-o.-'”. u ’ - M - u o .-0.^2
sloisgoosssssi sills II llllslllslllll Hill alsslilillll lllssllllSslls III
*-« KJ ruS O' *-* Ui Ul fu J-* *-• Ul *-• fU 00 r*J ui Ul O' *0 £> O' UJ o K) a 2 UJ UJ *— * tjUJ 2 Ul O' O' 2 2 00 J\J UJ “U
llll'sl sill iIHlii Ills II lil'li'llllll'illlliilll ! 1 1 1 ll|ll|||il|||| i ?
MVJ*U'J3'4Uli>ai-ft-l»'bW^'- J twiJlvl*J.WanjlMO'kuWWJJWUl* [ i| W uij s t*MUJ>fJO'UUJIUUUHauo-UO-OJUsJWUlWO-0-l 1
fuo'Uiuiuiuiruuiruoo3UJ*-*oo^40'i»fvjr\jo'X»uJUjUiO'^vOUiO'r'juiruujXkJi03ouioo'>DsOxkN)^)j5o*-*o
O'O'O'hoonoon Uiaj^i'-j!b^ooooo'Uo2*-‘uioo2^)^j^ouio"-Jruooo'>ohJUJUi{uo*0‘*vjujO'Oo-^jrooo^40oa'ooo'U^JooCT''0'00'a"-J^jui-uiiroo^Jo^ja5Ui-xjr\j*o
UJNJ*^s0^>'Ha^fvXUl<7'WU»00O'*- , UJ^ii4DfvJUJXi*0O00^>U00^JUJO'V>)'U*-**-'ruO'UJ*-<Ui*-'^^4^)OUiUlXi'^t- vOUl XiO'vOUlO'O'O^JO'COUl'-JUJ^J
SHARE
PRICE INDEXES
SYDNEY |
MELBOURNE
Classification
Week
Friday |
Week
Friday
ago
last |
ago
last
All ords.
316.70
314.00
101.61
100.61
50 Leaders
105.50
104.33
Banks . . . .
165.55
164.85
109.78
107.65
Other Fin.
486.05
481.83
67.35
67.27
Pastoral ....
226.68
224.33
118.87
118.40
Transport . . . .
477.33
478.17
96.93
97.29
Retails (Merchants)
337.97
[ 336.01
95 15
94.19
Services ....
42.78
43.52
Foods ....
165.70
166.32
100.64
100.57
Textiles
189.02
187.30
78.34
77 75
Chemicals ...
333.91
332.54
85.85
83 71
Electrical . . . .
427.18
417.49
62.02
61.17
Paper
103.77
102.25
Building
661.77
662.42
89.38
90.57
Fuel power
173.57
170.45
Automotive .
739 95
I 739.83
77.87
78.01
Steel Eng.
435.10
432.68
108.36
107.17
Non-ferrous
1139.14
|1099.00
191.87
186.04
OIL |
SUGAR
Week
| Friday
Week
Friday
ago
1 last
ago
•last
Brisbane ....
144.94
; 148.15
115.51
115.96
Healing, A. G.
Hera LI, W. T.
Hooker, L. J.
Humes 1
H uttons,
I.A.C.
I.C.I.A.N.Z. 2
Inter. Resist
Jones, David
Jones, Henry 1
Kauri
Kelvinator
Koitaki
Lend Lease
Life Savers
Lysaght, J. 1
M.L.C. 2
MacRobertson 1
Marrickville
Mauri Bros.
M. Nickless 1
Mcllwraith, J.
McPhersons 2
M illaquin 1
Miller, R. W. 1
Minster 1
Morris, Philip 2
Moulded Prod.
Myer
Myttons
N. Forest 1
Nat. Bank 1
Nat. Consol.
Nat. Dairy 2
News
N.Z. Ins. 1
Olympic
Optical 1
Overseas
P G.H.
Peko
Penfolds
Perp. Trustee 2
Petersville
Peters, W A.
Pioneer Cone.
Prestige
Provincial T.
Pye
O’land Can
Q'land Cement 2
Q'land Ins. 1
Q'land Press 1
Reeds
Repco
Rocia
Rothmans 1
S. A. Rubber
S.T.P. Hold.
Schweppes
Shelleys
Simpsor Pope
Sleigh, H. C.
Smith, How. 2
Softwood 1
Sth. Brit. Ins. 1
Steamships
Stedman. J.
Swan Brew.
T arax
Taubmans
TV Corp. 1
Thless
T ooheys
Tooth 1
Union Carb. 1
U.E. Box
Walker, F. J. 1
Waltons
Webster. A. G.
Will’ms, F. W. 1
Woolworths
Share Par Div.
Value cents
gggggSggggggggggKgggggSgggggSggggggSSgSgggggggSSgggKggSgggggggSggggggsgggggggggggg
crot»a-roa'oyu> !o .£*
is £"£3 01 KST & * * " ‘ S *'*'* " S 3K
' ►— < *o f—' ro h-> to »—<»—•*—* lo to ro ro Ln *»j -*4 »-*»-» >-* m \-j ►-* lo »- • O ro ro Lo r-j vo Ln O' m lo Lo r-* hj v-* oo Ln ro mio — 1 1 — * t—• o'
Year
ago
sgK^ajssssisgaftsgsssssiSJsgsgssiSgsgsggssiiBSsisssssasftggBgaKssaasgsassasgsaKfiasaaasssssag
LO
HUiMHHHUJyiM tO *— * rvj ►— -* U)WI\) ro ' |— * 1— < LO »-* IO I-* H* WH KlWnWl-JUJ O' VO t-* ro LO »-• hO M »-* 1-* CD N) ro v_. i-1 y-t LOH-* ro
Week
ago
3S52SSgKKS£S2£3S3SS2£gSSSg;SSSg5SSSSa&328SS£SC£gSg!£5S2S£Sa2SgKSgSK5S:!25G;5iK$g;SSg;SSS;SSi
fjpjMMH mujUim ro H-aro*-* \o ro ro ro ►-* aohmh mi-* ro t-* -o ro r-* ro ro 0'Lo»- J joLoh-*ro*-»»-*H-*oororo,_,i-*»-' vom .u ro £*
Fri. 1966 | Turnover
close High | Low | Syd. | Melb.
BSSgSliiaSSSSSSSSSgSftSSggiSSSgSSgStSSgSSa&SSSSSSSKSSlSgSSifiSgiSSgSiSSSSSgSKgiSgKKSSSSSSgSKSiSS
HrsHHM hwuih ro t— ►-» io h-* »-• vo vo to ro *-» »-*(-• vo ro ro *-* Ln jk m i—• *—• i-* h-* t-* lo ro to *-* x* rop- , rorororoH-*Lo Ln ro vo x* lo ro t-* »-> co ro ro *-• ro rsHHis »_j ro ui
fcggKSSSSetSSSKggSSKiSSSgSgKKKSiSiagSCaSSSiSSSSKSSSgSBgSSSSggSJSSSSgSSKSgSSKgSSSSSigSgSSKa
MWM ro HWH to ro ro ro *- J *-* ro t-> m »-« »—• »—• Whmhha ro »-• 3 to t-> ro h-* ro o* Lo to vo ro h-* >-*»-. to ro Lot-* lo ro
SSKaKaSg5SSSgS5g|!SesS5Jfe'gSSSSSSg8ggSggiSgSJS88SgS5S^g5J3S$aSSt;SSSSgSIS8g:SSSd®S8SaS^8SKlSS
£ £» ro ro o wo' to ro vo*-* ►-* (ji voro x» Uito ro Vo ro £» vo u. O'-ouiioh A ro cd ro co wo Min ro 43 v-* town w »- , vor- , ro
Iglsgggllgglgggll §1 jflgggls g ggll sllllllg 1 ItltsS lilt Islgslllg Igglillllls
3 £ *-*vO vo wn h ro ro ro ro h-* 43 vo ro i-* £ O' X* o* m ooiocoho O' to vovovo t-*ooLoroVoii^JMororo'v4
II 1 I! 1 II i HU llglgl.g 1 11 1 1 III ggliSggiolilillggglllg l|'s|l|g|||g|
oo ui ro o- LoLo oo ro O' Ln -o lolo & vo voro vo Ln o' lo X* A X* Loo* Lnvo-o Ln lo ro Ln Vo a vo co voLn is. O' Xk ro m o' Lo Ln vo -U o lo to lo oi Ln ro cr
Yield %
Div. | Earn.
vCoaMovomoo vio
0'F^oo^oui-^Ln*0'OvO>oLoCDl^'4«o^jH-<>ooo'-nLnro^O'0'^Ln^4Lnooroh^O'C»Lno''JvoiO'oO'vjiiO''OLnooLnLncD^jotoro^cDOf-- J
i- j ioroor> wowsiO'O' ■»JuivoLOH-*vo«oo*ooLo*^ttooo»-<03H-'0'>o*-'0'sOOOQu?>-»Horo'j'LnrO'»jroro»-*LOLo^jfOLnLn'^JO-t»H-*Lr>'00'^'>4^k'OLno*oLoo''CO’^4»- , -t>.0'to»- , ro«>jji.rocoo
LONDON COMMODITY PRICES
Year Ago
Month Ago
Week Ago
This Week
Aluminium, ton
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
£ 196
Copper, wire bars, ton
£ 461V4
£ 575
£ 627V2
£ 664/10/-
Gold, oz
£ 12/11/4 V?
£ 12/11/6
£ 12/ll/7l/ 2
£ 12/ll/9i/ 2
Lead, cash, ton .
£108 5-16th.
£ 971/4
£ 963/ 4
£ 94%
Silver, troy, oz
1115/ad
111 5 /a d.
lll%d.
111 3/4 d
Tin, cash, ton .
£ 158 2 Vs
£ 1363
£ 1348
£ 1293
Wolfram, unit, c.i.f.
f 105/ 8 .lll/4
£ 14-15
£ 13- £ 14
£ 13 - £ 14
Zinc, cash, ton ....
£ 1161/4
£ 98V2
£ 100
£ 1013/a
Wheat, Australian, ton
£ 25%
£ 265/ 8
£ 265/a
£ 265/ 8
Linseed Oil, ton
£ 97
£ 84
£ 851/j
£ 851/2
Cocoa, 50 kilos . . . .
112/6
191/3
196/-
197/9
Cotton. American middling
lb
23.45d.
23.35d.
23.35d.
23.60d.
Desiccated Coconut, ton
£ 180
£ 135
£ 131
£ 131
Rubber, lb
22d.
20 3-16th d.
221/ad.
215/ 8 d.
Sugar, ton
£ 21V 2
t 201/4
£ 203/a
£ 191/4
Tea, quality, lb. ... .
4/2 to 6/-
4/6 to 6/8
4/6 to 6/9
4/6 to 6/9
Wool Tops, 64s. lb.
107d.
121d.
I17d
121d.
(All figure*
in sterling )
OVERSEAS
INDEXES
1 "F.
London
nancial Times"
New York j Tokyo
Dow Jones iD. Jones
Inds.
Secs. |
Gold j
Inds. Rails |
Jan. 3, 1966
i 338.7
78.74
61.3 !
965.54 247.38 1430.13
1966 high
374.0
j 79.43i
65.2
995.15, 271.72(1588.73
1966 low . . .
337.3
76.93,
58.6
876.11 226.08 1412.98
350.0
77.5
937.41, 252.78;1553.68
364.7
, 77.25
60.0
876.89; 226.0811552.75
Latest
372.7
77.29
59.0 !
891.75, 231.161550.06
THE WEEK’S TURNOVERS
[ SYDNEY j MELBOURNE
j 1 N D U ST RIAL.) MINING INDUSTRIAL! MINING
i Sales J Value Sales | Value Sales Value Sales Value
! Vol. | 5 Vol. | 5 Vol. S | Vol. 5
iooo i iooo iooo i iooo 1000 iooo ; iooo iooo
Week Before
Week to Friday
2574.513423.5 1809.21 1036.5; 1942 2729 1 265 ; 677
2245.53099.6 1976.3 1330.6' 2095 2953 , 391 960
SHARE YIELDS AND STATISTICS
YIELDS
ORD. SHARES
Latest
SYDNEY %
average dividend 6.07
MELBOURNE
dividend 5.42
earnings 8.57
LONDON (F.T.
dividend 5.23
earnings 7.07
NEW YORK (S & P)
dividend 3.21
earnings 5.49
C’WEALTH BONDS
Week
before Friday
% %
Short . . 4.96 4.96
Medium . . . 5.13 5.13
Long 5.25 525


Forecasting Share Price Movements
Why Trendex Succeeds
"There are three steps in the history of a great discovery. First,
its opponents say that the discoverer is crazy; later that he is
sane but that his discovery is of no real importance; and last, that
the discovery is important but everybody has known it all along.”
Sigmund Freud.
Market Action Analysis:
Freud’s comment didn’t refer to the
stock market, but his maxim certainly
applies to it. Many years ago it was shown
in the United States that share price
movements can be determined much bet-
ter by charts and other methods of market
action analysis than by company studies,
over short to medium periods of time.
Charts and other market tools were found
to be the best guide as to whether the price
of a stock no matter how good the com-
pany— was likely to rise or to fall in
price. The methods were used by only a
few people before the war. Since the war,
and especially in the last ten years, the
guides have been used by more and more
investors.
We started to use the techniques in Aus-
tralia, and to modify them for local condi-
tions, a dozen years ago. They were so
successful that in 1961, when they were
still completely unknown to Australian in-
vestors and brokers alike, we decided to
publish Trendex, to bring them to the
attention of serious investors. The going
was hard at first, as with all new concepts.
However, the effort has succeeded.
Today, the Trendex methods are used
by quite a range of people, and charting
departments have been set up by a number
of public investment institutions. Brokers
are gradually beginning to admit that they
have been experimenting with them in
secret for some time. One leading broker
is now publishing his own charts and
recommendations based on them. Others
are preparing to do the same. Investment
services, and journalists, sensing the trend
and becoming resigned to it, are “discov-
ering” the methods which Trendex has
been advocating. This is all to the good.
It is what Trendex set out to achieve.
The Consequences:
Technical methods of market analysis
such as those described in the Trendex
book have caught on so strongly in the
United States in the last few years that
a few of the more common techniques are
beginning to have an effect on the market,
and to defeat themselves. Examples of
false moves, and traps, are becoming more
common. Those who blindly follow the
simple price patterns are becoming so
numerous as to prevent their succeeding
as well as they used to do.
Market action analysis will always
succeed, provided it is applied properly.
However, only the minority can win. Even
the most astute at the racing game can-
not alter the total amount paid out at the
tote windows; all they can do is influence
who gets it. Similarly, in the stock market,
the thing is to get with the minority who
profit from share price movements. If the
rules start to put you with the majority
it is time to change your rules.
The rush to jump on the Trendex
bandwagon is beginning. This inevitably
means that some of the simpler and more
obvious price patterns and action rules
will in time cease to be so effective in Aus-
tralia, too. Even when properly interpre-
ted, the standard chart patterns may not
continue to give such a high performance
as in the past.
One thing will help to delay this effect,
of course. Being able to draw a chart, and
being able to interpret it, are achievements
which do not necessarily go together. There
are tens of thousands of pianos in this
country but how many top flight con-
cert pianists do we have? Market action
interpretation is enticing, and can be spec-
tacularly successful. However, the exu-
berance of the newly convinced is no sub-
stitute for experience. The confusion
between the two will take the stage for a
while, until the public sorts out who has
which.
New Plans for Trendex:
We have been publishing Trendex for
five years. Our primary purpose was to
convince an important minority of Aus-
tralian investors that market action analy-
sis pays off. This programme is nearing
completion. So far in Trendex, with one
minor and recent exception, we have de-
scribed and illustrated only the well known
and standard techniques used overseas
modified where necessary to suit Austra-
lian conditions.
It is true that by their very success, the
Trendex methods are beginning to attract
a following of investors and would-be ex-
ponents to an extent which threatens to
reduce the effectiveness of some of the
techniques. That does not really matter.
The main point has been made. Market
action analysis is the most useful tool
available in the investment field, though it
may be necessary at times to change the
rules, to stay in the minority which wins.
However, the published and standard
methods are only part of the story. Over
the last ten years, we have been develop-
ing new and effective techniques, especially
suitable for the Australian market. Just
as some of the newer techniques being de-
veloped in America cannot be used success-
fully in the Australian market because
of the difference between the specialist
system in New York and our own Stock
Exchange system —so also it has been
possible for us to devise forecasting tech-
niques which work well here, but probably
would not work so well in New York.
With one exception, we have not used
these in Trendex in the past. In the future,
we shall be devoting considerable attention
to them. To pin point the timing of buying
and selling, some of the indicators are
strikingly successful. Their use and effec-
tiveness will not be impaired by wide-
spread acceptance. For purely commercial
reasons, details of the methods will not be
published. However, the signals which
they give will be published, in Trendex,
for subscribers only.
What are the Trendex Methods:
This organisation, whose primary busi-
ness is portfolio management, covers all
aspects of security analysis, including
company performance, industry outlook,
and the like. However, in our publication
Trendex, which is devoted to demonstrat-
ing the value of market action analysis,
we confine our attention to the conclusions
which can be drawn from market action
alone. Sometimes they are spectacular.
If you wish to participate in them, start
subscribing now. If you would like to
know more about Trendex first, ask for
further information, and some sample is-
sues. Just mark the coupon “sample only”.
DIRECTORS
Dr. M. D. Garretty
Capt R. J. Robertson
TRENDEX & Co. Pty. Ltd • (Inc. in Vic.)
INVESTMENT COUNSELLORS
PEARL ASSURANCE HOUSE, 151 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, 671309
SYDNEY BRANCH OFFICE: CENTURY HOUSE, 70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 2111434
TRENDEX, G.P.0., BOX 763, MELBOURNE. Enclosed is remittance of
$25 to cover one year’s subscription to the weekly publication TRENDEX.
I understand you will send also, without charge, your background book
“Forecasting Australian Stock Prices with Trendex”. All sent airmail in
Australia and New Zealand, without additional charge.
NAME
ADDRESS


ISSUE NOW OPEN
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Issue at par of
$14,000,000
Unsecured Notes
7!*
7
7!*
P.A. FOR 15 OR 20 YEARS
P.A. FOR 10 YEARS
P.A. FOR 7 YEARS
Applications may proceed only on the form referred to in and
attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus, obtainable from ...
• Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
• Any Branch of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
• The Underwriters
lan Potter & Co
E. L. & C. Baillieu
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
325 Collins Street,
Melbourne
360 Collins Street,
Melbourne
9197/R
SECURITY ANALYSIS
The Current Attraction
A market lift due for Electrical Equipment
THE principle of diversification by in-
dustry of an equity portfolio seems
to be firmly established and in a
great number of portfolios this would
mean that probably not more than two
or three stocks per industry would be in-
cluded in the portfolio. The performance
of Electrical Equipment of Australia Ltd.
over the past 15 years suggests it should
be included in any portfolio of equities
but one might have a little difficulty in
deciding its industry grouping.
The “new look” Sydney Stock Exchange
Gazette (which is now a most informative
publication and a tribute to its designer)
classified Electrical Equipment under
Electrical Sales & Manufacturing (Electri-
cal & Electronic Equipment). This par-
ticular group includes such companies as
Email, Federated Industries, O’Donnell
Griffin, and Tyree Industries, whose results
have varied considerably in recent years.
The companies considered in this series
are, with the exception of International
Resistance, included in another classifi-
cation, but it seems that a number of
them would compete with Electrical
Equipment in at least one area of its
activities.
Electrical Equipment’s main manufac-
turing activities are carried out in three
different locations. At St. Leonards (a
northern suburb of Sydney), Australian
Line Materials makes pole line hardware,
outdoor switchgear, and connectors in a
factory standing on three acres of land.
Somewhat closer to Sydney, but in the
same general area, another subsidiary,
Transmission Products, makes telephone
switchboards and associated equipment,
mainly for the Postmaster General’s
Department. South of Sydney at Arncliffe,
G. M. F. Electric Motors makes fractional
and integral horsepower electric motors
and a few power tools. Major additions
to this last manufacturing unit were com-
pleted during the 1964-65 year and the
factory of Transmission Products was re-
organised.
'J'HE other manufacturing units, such
as Swiftsure and Australian Time
Recording, are not large in size and pro-
bably do not contribute as much to group
profits as the other three.
Generally, the last two mentioned supply
the consumer market with water heaters,
drying cabinets, and electric clocks, where-
as the other larger subsidiaries supply
Government Departments and Industry.
Some of G.M.F.’s electric motors would
find their way into domestic electrical
appliances, but by far the larger part of
the production of this subsidiary is not
subject to the fluctuations of the unfor-
tunate “white goods” industry.
It may well be that the secret of Elec-
trical Equipment’s success is that it has
not been closely associated with the dur-
able consumer goods market, but rather
with the expanding telephone and elec-
tricity reticulation industries.
By any standards, the profitability of
Electrical Equipment has been improving
over the past five years. Net profit as a
percentage of shareholders’ funds has pro-
gressed as follows:
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
After tax 13.3 13.1 13.2 14.6 18.3
Before tax and
depreciation 25.4 24.6 25.0 28.3 35.0
Apart from the slight drop from 1960-1
to 1961-2, there has been a strong upward
movement, so that, in both cases, the ratio
in 1964-5 was 38 percent higher than it
was in 1960-1.
This increase in profitability was accom-
panied by a 32 percent increase in stocks,
but the increase in trade debtors was about


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
0/
'0
6i
7%
71
TWO
YEARS
F VE
YEARS
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectusand Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
P6QS
60 percent. During the five-year period,
the company has had no financing prob-
lems and appears to have had little reli-
ance on bank overdraft, for in only two
of the five years (1961 —$339,000 and
1963—5299,000) was this item of any
significance at the balance date. Although
a par issue in the ratio of one for nine
was made at the end of the 1963-4 year
to raise $200,000, the company seems to
have been able to finance its expansion
during most of this period out of retained
profits plus depreciation.
In fact, it would appear as though this
new issue was not necessary at that par-
ticular time as retained funds during the
1964-5 year seem to have been more than
adequate to meet capital expenditure needs
in that year, and cash on hand and at
bank at the end of the year seems to have
been nearly sufficient to cover the cost
of commitments for capital expenditure
still outstanding at 30th June, 1965. How-
ever, the chairman pointed out in his
address to the annual general meeting on
27th October, 1965, that the board had
organised the company’s finances so that
it would be particularly liquid at that
time and there can be no doubt that the
move showed considerable foresight.
The interim report issued last February
said that profits improved by more than
ten percent over the half-yearly period
and that sales were up by seven percent
on the corresponding period of the pre-
vious year. One would judge that earn-
ings for the 1965-6 year could rise to
about $700,000 and would represent an
earning rate of close to 35 percent. The
dividend rate was increased yet again,
and it seems likely that eight cents per
share will be paid for the year. This would
mean that the dividend pay-out will be
$320,000 and fifteen years ago the total
dividend pay-out was only $22,360.
Equally, net profit after tax in the
1950-1 year was only just under $31,000.
The major lift in profits came in 1956-7
following the acquisition of G. M. F. Elec-
tric Motors, but even so, earnings have
quadrupled since that time. Paid capital
has more than doubled over this period
but 35 percent of the increase came from
a two-for-five bonus issue in December,
1959. It therefore seems that this remark-
able company has increased per share
earnings by about 70 percent from 1957-8
despite the fact that most cash issues have
been made to shareholders at par.
SHAREHOLDERS have done well over
this period and while I lack the
information to calculate the bonus content
of the par issue (one for four) in Sep-
tember, 1958, it is quite clear that divi-
dends per share have increased by at
least 128 percent from 1957-8 to 1965-6,.
or at an average annual compound rate
of about 11 percent. Strangely enough this
rate of increase is about the same as that
of 8.H.P., but there are very few other
companies who can demonstrate such a
consistent record of dividend increases
over such a long period.
If the earnings per share should reach
17 cents in 1965-6, the shares are cur-
rently selling at 13£ times earnings at
the present price of $2.30. This is close
to the low point for 1966. In January,
1964, the shares were selling at 17 times
earnings and, over the past four or five
years, I would say that the most common
price/earnings multiple for this stock was
15.
The earnings record of Electrical Equip-
ment has, if anything, improved of late,
so there is no reason why the shares should
sell at less than 15 times earnings now.
This suggests that a price around $2.55
is not unreasonable.
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
BALANCE SHEET SUMMARIES s’ooo
Current Assets 2628 2472 2782 2908 3518
Current Liabilities 1226 880 1232 1144 1381
Working Capital 1402 1592 1550 1764 2137
Land 8c Buildings 1132 1138 1354 1386 1468
Plant 388 384 404 404 497
Total Capital 2922 3144 3308 3554 4102
represented by:
Long Service Provision 20 56
Ordinary Capital 1800 1800 1800 1800 2000
Reserves 1122 1344 1508 1734 2046-
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARIES s‘ooo
Depreciation 64 72 78 86 100
Tax provided 230 264 288 370 486
Earnings 326 382 412 482 648
Ordinary Dividend 190 198 216 240 300
Surplus 136 184 196 242 348
Earning Rate % 19.4 21.2 22.9 26.7 32.4
Dividend Rate % 10.5 11.0 12.0 13.3 15.0
Dividend Yield % 4.2 3.7 3.5 3.3 3.3
High Price 1.42 1.78 1.85 2.55 2.52
Low Price 1.05 1.22 1.60 1.50 1.95
This is the last of a series of six
Security Analyses on electrical companies.


DEPARTMENT OF
TRADE AND INDUSTRY
Overseas Careers for
Outstanding Executives
If you have demonstrated outstanding executive ability or potential in fields
of commerce or industry, and if you are interested in an appointment over-
seas as an official representative of Australia this announcement should
interest you.
The Commonwealth Government is inviting applications for appointments
in the Trade Commissioner Service. These appointments carry with them
a direct responsibility for bringing about an increase in Australia’s exports,
and for developing trade between Australia and the countries to which
appointments will be made.
The Trade Commissioner Service, operating in over 40 posts around the
world, will provide successful applicants with a most challenging and
satisfying role with every opportunity for using their drive, energy and
experience. They would be involved, for example, in market research,
development of marketing and promotional programmes, negotiations with
Governments, advising exporters and manufacturers on export opportunities
and joint venture participation with local industry.
Appointments will be made at the level of Trade Commissioner or Assistant
Trade Commissioner, depending on qualifications and experience. Whilst
the terms of appointment are for an initial period of 3 years, renewable for
successive 3-year periods, the Department is looking for applicants intend-
ing to make the Service a career.
QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants should be under 50 years of age with
preference for those between 30 and 45 years. They should have demon-
strated their capacity or potential for senior executive status. Academic quali-
fications and competence in foreign languages will be taken into account.
SALARY: Commencing salaries will be commensurate with qualifications
and experience. Future promotion would be on the basis of performance
and not seniority. The range of basic salaries at present are:—
Assistant Trade Commissioner: $3,250 to $6,570 p.a.
Trade Commissioner: $7,200 to $9,714 p.a.
SUPERANNUATION: Commonwealth Superannuation benefits comparing
most favourably with other schemes are available. Contributions depend on
age when units are taken out, with the Commonwealth contributing the
greater part. Benefits cover not only normal retirement at 60 or 65 but
prior retirement on medical grounds. Widows and children are provided
for in the case of death.
ALLOWANCES AND OTHER BENEFITS: A number of allowances are
paid in addition to the basic salary. These vary by country of posting but
the following are indicative:—
Living Allowance: Designed to bridge
the gap between the cost of living in
Australia and that overseas at a stan-
dard commensurate with a Trade
Commissioner’s status and representa-
tional responsibilities. These allowances
are substantial —in the case of Paris,
for example, a senior officer would
receive $4,570 per annum.
Representation Allowance: An allow-
ance is paid to cover the cost of enter-
tainment which arises as a result of a
Commissioner’s representation activi-
ties in the promotion of Australian
exports.
Child Allowance and Education:
Allowances are paid in respect of
children residing overseas and educa-
tion costs subsidized. For children
remaining in Australia for secondary
education, assistance is given up to
$B6O per annum and return fares paid
once a year to allow them to join their
parents for holidays.
Leave: In general, public service con-
ditions apply in respect of recreation
leave, sick leave and furlough. In
some areas, additional local leave is
granted and travel costs subsidized.
Medical Expenses: Reasonable costs
in excess of those applying in Australia
will be met by the Commonwealth.
Housing: A residence furnished to the
level necessary for representational
purposes is provided in many countries
with the officer paying a nominal
rental. In other countries an adequate
allowance is paid to enable acquisition
of accommodation of the required
standard.
Application forms and further information are available from the
Department of Trade and Industry in Canberra and State Capitals.
Applications should reach the Secretary, Department of Trade and Industry,
Canberra, by 17th June, 1966.
READING THE CHARTS
Following the
Moving Average
By GERALD LAURANCE
MOVING averages are a fairly com-
mon statistical device and are per-
haps the best known of stock market
calculators. Used as 50 day, 100 day, and
200 day figures, they are the source of
manifold predictions, both in this country
and in America.
The chart involved is really a combin-
ation of two graphs one the actual day
to day figure (the share price or the index
if that is the item in question) and the
other a moving average of the same figure.
With such a chart it is then possible to
compare, let us say, the index with its
own 100 day moving average. The quality
of this chart is that the behaviour of the
market today can be compared to its be-
haviour over the past 100 days with greater
perspective, because the moving average
figure will only begin to reflect current
behaviour after any rise (or fall) has been
sustained for some time, or if there has
been a movement of considerable dimen-
sion.
While the index is rising it will remain
above its own moving average, and if it
remains below the moving average it must
have been falling for some time. The com-
parison of one line with the other leads
some chartists to suggest that the market
is in an upward or downward trend,
whichever is appropriate to the circum-
stances.
At this point it is tempting to suggest
that the “relative strength” chart, des-
cribed last week, may be of greater interest
to the investor, who after all can only
buy shares in a specific company (at least
at the moment). The index, of course,
is a composite figure and is made up of
some shares which are rising and others
which are falling.
Indeed, this is the point on which
chartists are unanimous it is not suf-
ficient to buy shares when the whole mar-
ket is rising; the shares chosen must also
be rising on their own account.
This is the last of a- series of four
articles on “How to Read the Charts”
aimed at answering readers’ questions
about the composition and usefulness as an
investment guide of charts based on move-
ments in market series for stocks and
shares.


R&N DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE
. . . your logical choice for complete planning,
design, construction and on-time completion at
lower cost of your company’s next industrial building.
PLANNING
CONSTRUCTION
DESIGN
* /
..
9
m
JIN*
Creative engineering backed by practical professional advice—that’s the
R&N Industrial Building Service. Our informative brochure contains all
the pertinent facts you’ll need—have your secretary send for a copy.
T
RN 39
R & N STATHAM LIMITED*
*Holding Company of R. & N. Trading Co. Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY: "UNION HOUSE,” 24? George St., SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone 27-8941/2
NEWCASTLE: 25 Pacific Hwy., Bennetts Green, Newcastle, N.S.W. Ph. 4-8391 (10 lines)
MAN ON THE LAND
The Egg Marketing Yolk
LIKE the Clay-Cooper fixture Harper
v. The State of Victoria in the High
1 Court in Sydney had a predictable
ending.
Harper lost.
Appeals against the Government have
a habit of losing. But the dissenting judg-
ment of the Chief Justice of Australia, Sir
Garfield Barwick, turned this otherwise
dreary formality into a court action of
unexpected interest.
Undoubtedly emboldened by the dissent-
ing judgment of Sir Garfield, Harper and
his supporters have announced that they
will appeal to the Privy Council.
The Privy Council appeal assumes an
importance far beyond the mere trading
of eggs.
If the Privy Council finds in favor of
Harper the marketing of much of Austra-
lia’s primary produce will be influenced.
If it finds against him, the fact that he
went through with it may well promote a
degree of caution and care in the framing
of future marketing enactments which,
hitherto, has been lacking.
Harper v. The State of Victoria could
well be studied by the committee set up
by the Australian Wool Board to examine
ail aspects of private wool selling, includ-
ing the suggestion that private selling be
prohibited by law.
Eggs and wool are quite removed from
each other, in the industry sense, but a
law to prohibit private selling would be
similar, in important ways, to the laws
governing the sale of eggs.
The Harper in this particular case is
one Robert Harper, who sells eggs at the
Coburg market in Melbourne.
He is a member of the Free Traders
and Egg Producers’ Council, which is sup-
porting him financially in his court
appeals.
Harper applied to the High Court for
a declaration preventing the implementa-
tion of amendments to the Marketing of
Primary Products Act (a Victorian law),
which provides that all eggs offered for
retail sale in Victoria must be graded and
stamped by the Victorian Egg Board.
This was, in fact, his second try. An
earlier appeal was struck out because of
insufficient preparation.
It should be noted that the Free Traders
and Egg Producers’ Council does NOT
wish to do away with Egg Boards. Its
aim is the reconstitution of the Victorian
Egg Board.
It should also be noted that Harper is
still a loser. That the Chief' Justice dis-
sented from the ruling of the High Court
in no way alters this.
What did Sir Garfield say?
W E believe it to be extremely impor-
tant and extremely relevant to the
marketing of primary produce in Australia
generally.
While the law against which. Harper
appealed is a Victorian law it is neverthe-
less complementary to the Commonwealth
CEMA hen levy. It HAS to be comple-
mentary, since both laws govern the same
commercial activity.
In saying this we recognise the pos-
sibility that the Victorian Egg Board may
dispute the point.
Where you have State and Common-
wealth laws applying to the same activity,
even to different aspects of that activity,
the area for dispute is obviously large.
The remarks of Sir Garfield follow
“I cannot believe that this intrusion
(the Victorian law r ) into the plaintiff’s
course of business is anything but a sub-
stantial impediment and a serious burden
upon his interstate trade in eggs. It is
immediate, direct, and within the precise
legal operation of the State statute. It
prevents him from completing the purpose
of his having brought his commodity across


If it's
Banking!
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
the border. To deny to an importer the
ability to sell what he brings interstate
must directly impede his freedom to trade
interstate.
“It seems to me that whatever the
relevant nature or character of laws of
the former kind, a law which prohibits
the retail sale until a Board has graded,
marked, or stamped the commodity is not
regulatory in its nature in the relevant
sense. It remains prohibitory and the im-
pediment, or burden, which in its opera-
tion it imposes upon a trader’s interstate
trade is an infringement of the Constitu-
tional guarantee of the freedom of such
trade.
“WE have become increasingly accus-
tomed to legislative control of con-
siderable areas of trading and commercial
activity. But, however much this must be
accepted as in the interests of the com-
munity generally in intrastate trading and
commercial activities, the constitutional
emphasis upon the freedom of interstate
trade requires that any such control in its
operation, upon or in respect of interstate
trade and commerce, shall be clearly com-
patible with that freedom.
“It is not enough that there are percep-
tible reasons for the enactment of the law
valid enough in the eyes of a legislature
pursuing some policy conceived by it to
be for the public good or the general
welfare.
“The basic nature of the permissible
limitations on the trader’s activities, so
far as interstate trade and commerce is
concerned, must be the mutual accommo-
dation of the rights and actions of those
engaged in that trade and commerce so
that each is free in respect of such trade
and commerce, though none have licence.
“Whilst very conscious of the room for
different views on such a question, I find
myself quite unable to accept the propo-
sition that the requirement, that the inter-
state importer of eggs must submit them
to the Board for grading, testing,- mark-
ing, and stamping before he may sell them
by retail, however reasonable in the inter-
ests of consumers, is compatible with the
absolute freedom which Section 92 de-
mands. That a fee quantified according
to the Board’s costs of performing these
acts should also be payable is but an ad-
ditional circumstance making such accept-
ance to my mind impossible.
“I retain a considerable doubt as to
whether a fee payable by statute, in
respect of acts to which the subject is
compelled to submit, can be regarded as
a payment for services rendered in the
sense in which the expression should be
understood when considering whether an
exaction is, or is not, a tax.”
SUBSCRIBERS
Subscribers who intend to change
their addresses are asked to notify “The
Bulletin” Subscription Department well
in advance in order to avoid a break
in the continuity of service.
For easy identification, please for-
ward the new address, together with
the wrapper bearing the former
address, to the Subscription Depart-
ment.


£
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed $A500,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia:
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
AGRISEARCH
Populate or Perish
Malthus in Insect Horde
DR. J. MONRO, of the Waite Agri-
cultural Research Institute, South
Australia, has now successfully tested
his odd theory of insect control by in-
creasing the size of the existing population.
About three years ago he remarked that
everyone has always tried to overcome
harmful insects by reducing the population
to as small a fraction as possible and that
no one had ever tried the reverse. He
recalled that history contained several
natural examples of a population of ani-
mals swelling to a critical size, crashing,
and never afterwards regaining its original
numbers. In fact, the extinction of some
species is believed to have followed a
population crash.
Accordingly, Dr. Monro speculated that
it should be possible to increase certain
insect populations deliberately until one
of its basic needs, such as shelter or food
supply, .became overtaxed. Their numbers,
he said, would then decline rapidly.
He has now demonstrated this on three
out of four occasions when he released
artificially reared Queensland fruit flies
among small and isolated, but naturally
occurring communities of the fly. In the
most striking test the population density
index fell from 193 to 15 in two days.
The crash was not quite so dramatic in
the other two cases, but very impressive
nonetheless.
The unsuccessful attempt was subse-
quently shown to be due to a sickly batch
of artificially reared fruit flies. As a con-
sequence they did not actually integrate
with the wild flies and in effect did not
augment the natural population but
formed their own separate and unthrifty
community nearby.
The flies released by Dr. Monro were
sterilised beforehand by gamma-rays.
Fertile flies would have produced the
population crash just as well. Indeed, they
would have done so even more effectively
because in the one unsuccessful attempt
the flies were suffering from radiation sick-
ness.
However, Dr. Monro wanted the surviv-
ors of the crash to be diluted with sterile
flies so that he could test a second part of
his theory, namely, that, by repeating the
process, fertile flies would eventually be
completely replaced with non-breeding
flies.
It was, therefore, with mixed feelings of
accomplishment and disappointment that
he was unable to test this second stage
because the first release had been so
thoroughly effective that there were
scarcely any flies left to experiment on.
Dr. Monro calls his strategy of control
based on the addition of new members to
overload an existing community, “popu-
lation flushing.” We may expect to hear
this term again within the next few years
as it is quite likely that the theory will
prove to be a practical and economic
means of checking some harmful pests.
Apart from the four test cases, one
larger-scale application of the principle
has already been carried out with en-
couraging results at Warren in New South
Wales.
In this pilot field-trial, massive numbers
of sterile fruit flies were released near
the centre of the town at the beginning
of winter. In the following spring the
loquat crop suffered fly damage only on
the outskirts of town.
Also Worth Watching
An American scientist, W. J. Roberts,
at the University of Illinois, has applied
for patent rights on a method of reducing
moisture loss from the leaves of plants.
The process uses fatty alcohols of the type
being used, albeit with only limited success,
in Australia to reduce evaporation from
dams and other free-water surfaces.
Some scientists are claiming that
Roberts’ discovery could eventually mean
as much to agriculture as the discovery
of fertiliser did a century ago.
Roberts mixes the alcohols in water
and applies them to the soil at rates rang-
ing from 25 to 500 pounds per acre. Beef
tallow and whale blubber are two of sev-
eral alternative sources of the particular
alcohols involved, hexadecanol and octa-
decanol.
Plants can absorb these chemicals
through their roots and then move them
to the leaves where in some unknown way
they throttle back transpiration, a normal
function of plants during which water
vapor is exhaled to the atmosphere.
As a result the amount of water needed
by plants for growth is greatly reduced
and they may continue growing after soil
moisture has dropped below wilting
point. Also, in cutting down evaporation,
heat loss from the plant is reduced as well.
If the alcohols can be produced cheaply
in large enough quantities the process
would have incalculable value in an arid
country such as Australia. Grass is one
of the crops that has responded well in
Roberts’ alcohol treatments.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE.
TO ALFRED HERBERT MARSHALL
late of Murwillumbah. TAKE NOTICE
that GLADYS MAUD MARSHALL has
filed Petition No. 2008 of 1965 for divorce
on the grounds of desertion and seeks an
order for costs. If you wish to defend you
may file an answer in the Divorce Regis-
try, Supreme Court Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the Ist July, 1966
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. C. Paynter. Solicitor 107
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. Sydney Agent
for J. G. McDonald. Solicitor of Mur-
willumbah. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
TO KENNETH WILLIAM WHITBREAD
late of Revesby. TAKE NOTICE that
IRIS LILLIAN WHITBREAD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1179 of 1966
on the ground of desertion and seeks
orders for custody, settlement of property
and costs. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Regis-
try, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 15th June, 1966.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Noel P Forrest &
Co.. Solicitors, 36 Ormonde Parade, Hurst-
ville or their city agents. N. C. Rowles &
Co., Solicitors. 92 Pitt Street. Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
A Divorce Petition has been filed against
WILLIAM BERNARD SCHOLTE late of
Aaland Hotel, 24 Coram Street, London,
W.C.1., who may apply to the Divorce
Registry, Somerset House, London W.C.2.
England, for a copy of the Petition. If
within 79 days he has not communicated
with the Registry the Court may hear
the case in his absence. COMPTON
MILLER. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL. CAUSES
JURISDICTION
TO FRANK KOLARIC formerly of 10
MacDonald Street. Paddington.' TAKE
NOTICE that DAVID WATKINS of 50
lan Crescent Chester Hill has filed Peti-
tion for dissolution of marriage suit No.
2189 of 1965 on the ground of your adul-
tery with the Respondent Helen Patricia
Watkins. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney
on <?r before the 15th June, 1966 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. E. L. O’Loughlin &
Co., Solicitors, 46 Station Street, Penrith.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
„ JURISDICTION
TO JOHN WALLACE EMMERSON late
of Kurri Kurri. TAKE NOTICE that
ar -L? ri ? a i J£ n ? lers 9n has filed Petition
No. 633 of 1966 for divorce on the ground
of Desertion and seeks orders for costs,
custody and maintenance. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court,
Mint Building. Macquarie Street, Sydney
or before the twenty-first day of June,
1966. You may obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs.
T. G. D. Marshall Landers & Co., Solici-
tors of 251-253 George Street. Sydney
or Messrs. Harris Wheeler Williams and
McKenzie, Solicitors, of 43 Bolton Street,
Newcastle. C, A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES
JURISDICTION
TO VICTOR ROBERT ROY BURGESS
TAKE NOTICE that PEGGY IRENE
BURGESS (formerly Scott) has filed a
Petition No. 2130 of 1965 for Divorce on
the ground of Desertion notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in the
Discretion Statement filed by her and
seeks orders for custody and costs. If
you wish to defend you may file an
answer m the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 15th day of
June, 1966 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from S. C. Taperell
& Co. Solicitors of 186 Mann Street,
Gosford or S. T. Hodge & Co., Solicitors
of'iCastlereagh street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
WILL any person claiming to be a des-
cendant of JAMES HENRY ROGERSON
who resided in the Manchester area of
England during the first World War
please contact Messrs. Davies Campbell
& Piesse, 401 Collins Street. Melbourne.
fj»\ er * e l lC i. Geriatric and Mothercraft Nurse
(48), wishes to attend invalid or young chil-
dren travelling to U.K. early 1957. Remun-
eration by arrangement. Highest character
references available.
Apply in first instance to
NURSE TURNER
23 Esplanade, Tennyson, South Australia,
or ring Adelaide 56-2693.
NATIONAL DAY TOUR TO CHINA
27 days. Visit Canton, Peking, Nanking, Wusih, Soochow, Shanghai,
Hangchow, Hong Kong. Departs Sept. 22nd, returns October 19th
Cost $99 8.
Box 2629-X, G.P.0., Melbourne.
PHONE 26-4854 or 83-8159
AUSTRALIA-CHINA SOCIETY
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 901
ACROSS
1. Sheeny finds sex appeal very small. (6)
5. It can help to sustain those on the outing block. (6)
8. Pike damaged a legionnaire’s headgear. (4)
10. Rock formations in capricious poetry? (10)
11. Its producers are devoted to the shamrock problem
for the home gardener. (4)
13. With capacity to back the scene of a famous exile.
(4)
14. It may be helpful in stringing up a spicy difficulty.
(5, 5)
16. An end in the home garden. (5)
17. Taxi allowed.to drive into San Franciscan trans-
port. (5-4)
20. Not companies acting in journalism though. (9)
22. Finished. (5)
24. Restricts the conveyances of
Constantine. (10)
26. Bird rate to despatch by the
same conveyances. (4)
28. My well-being is telegraphic-
ally reported by me when cut-
ting fast and loose. (4)
29. Fruit by Jean, a film actress.
(10)
31. Fellers need such a sex trans-
formation. (4)
32. A capital bovine of Roy
Rene. (6)
33. An arched formation of the
brain for no charge whatever.
(6)
DOWN
1. Rob the person in a tempor-
ary person. (9)
2. A signpost for diners can be
borne. (7)
3. Pinch cut the devil. (4)
4. New turn makes one sore
among the horses. (3)
5. Politician taken from history?
(3)
6. Postscript to change the small
piano pickier in a church
book. (7)
7. Station as removed from some
Australian service cash. (5)
8. Kicks around the crook
anchors. (8)
9. He’s an unpleasant bird-
watcher by five. (4)
12. This is seen about the first
girl in nickers. (7)
15. Pop you over the big smoke
when the supply is pitifully
small. (7)
18. State of the very actively
occupied company. (8)
19. Hermaphrodite county? (9)
21. Lightweights are loose-livers.
n (7)
23. Serviceman taking the doctor
to a joker of the Spike Milli-
gan kind. (7)
24. Gulf has to appear in one
hundred thousand. (5)
25. Top monkey to kiss. (4)
27. Roy Rene introducing him-
self when shot? (4)
29. Fruit doubles this hand. (3)
30. Political complexion of 32-
across. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 900


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guineo Air Mail —26 weeks, $8.25",
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks .... $26 52 weeks .... $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mai! rates on application.)
U.S.A. AND CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY —>■
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
□ Renewal. □ New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for ....
SPECULATORS DIARY
Sick of the Malaise
A bullish feeling in my bones
THE most miserable man in Sydney last week must have been the fellow who wrote
the S.M.H.’s market summary on Saturday morning. “The share market yesterday
closed the week with a day of neutral, half-hearted trading,” he wrote. “Friday
failed to create any enthusiasm . . . Trading in Woodside, which created the only
excitement during the week on Wednesday, was also listless . . . The market is now
suffering from a malaise . .
It practically made me weep.
Things weren’t much better on Wall
Street, apparently. The New York broker,
whose optimism I quoted last time, this
week reported, “We do not recall a time,
since we * first came into this business
twenty years ago, that short-term pessi-
mism has been so widespread and so acute
as it is currently. The switch in public
sentiment from ebullient greed to para-
lysing fear has been accomplished in. three
short weeks. The ‘fundamentals,’ viewed
so optimistically in April, are now seen
through a thick blanket of gloom.” And
to give this American broker his credit,
he’s sticking to his guns that the slump
on Wall Street is over, at least for the
time being. So far he’s been proved right.
Despite the gloom here and in New
York, I’ve got a feeling in my bones
(rather than my brain) that the market
is soon going to turn up. Admittedly there
are some bear points about,' but there
always are. There are also some' encourag-
ing points: (1) the balance of payments is
looking better; (2) the massive investment
in minerals in recent years is now begin-
ning to earn its first revenue; (3) the news
from Indonesia is more friendly and from
Vietnam no worse; (4) the drought, though
severe in north-western N.S.W., is now con-
fined to a relatively small area of Australia
as a whole. And on the market, investors
are now so thoroughly steeled against
adversity that prices hardly seem to suffer
any widespread fall. So things could be
worse.
Nevertheless, the mining market still
seems to be the place to make money. I
very nearly sold my Consolidated Rutiles
when they ran up to $1.15 or so, but I
think there will still be more in these
when production begins in July.
Kathleen Investments, with its big beach
sands interests in both N.S.W. and W.A.,
continued to tempt me. I’ve been impres-
sed with the way they’ve held up so well
in price since the new issue was announced.
So I bought 200 more, even though the
profit for the year to December has yet
to be announced. As mentioned before,
this profit must be down sharply as no
longer are there any MKU dividends to
be included. Nevertheless, it’s just possible
that the result will not be down as much
as is expected. In any event, rights to
next month’s new issue should be very
popular, even though it will be Kathleen’s
third issue in six months. After all, is
there any other mining stock with such a
good range of interests yielding anything
like Kathleen’s 6 percent?
Last week I mentioned that I might buy
some F. W. Williams— not, needless to
say, because of the management’s ability
to earn profits. Rather for the opposite
reason: because of management’s apparent
inability to use its very considerable assets
to advantage. If the present directors
can’t produce results from assets of $5 a
share, then perhaps others can. What
I’m getting at is that a takeover of F. W.
Williams looks almost a “natural” for
someone like Boral.
surely Elton, with the help of his
good friend lan, wouldn’t have too
much trouble getting rid of Williams’
principal asset, the 1,650,000 ACI shares.
Look at it this way. Offer say $4 cash for
each Williams share, currently selling at
about $3. Shareholders would more than
likely be happy with an offer of that order.
If Williams’ shares have a theoretical mar-
ket value of $5.20-odd, then surely the bid-
der could net at least $4.50 in a liquid-
ation, after allowing a good discount on
the ACI shares. On this basis, a success-
ful Bidder for Williams would make him-
self at least a proverbial million dollars
on the company’s two million shares:
Think about it, chaps—now that I’ve
got my 200 shares.
To pay for these I sold my 400 Coal
and Allied at a small profit. I realise a
bonus or something may come later in
the year, but I’m not sufficiently patient
to wait.
This week I also bought back the 200
Tooth I’d shorted at $5.30. Alas, they’d
hardly fallen at all, after taking the
dividend into account, but I only lost my
commission.
BOUGHT
200 Kathleen, $1.95, $396
200 F. W. Williams, $3.5, $622
200 Tooths, $5.16, $1052
SOLD
400 Coal & Allied, $1.46, $571
Those transactions carried my cash posi-
tion into the red ($246). Now my thoughts
are turning to McDowells and O’Donnell,
Griffin, both of which look cheap to me.
Meanwhile, the state of the portfolio
is:
Cost
No. of Name of Date Per Price
Shares Company Bought Share 25/5/66
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 $l.lO $1 00
200 VAM 28/9/65 0.50 0.50
400 West Titanium ctg. 13/2/66 1.15 1.05
1000 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.72
400 Coal and Allied 24/2/66 1 36 1 46
1000 Westralian 8/3/66 0 35 0.38
500 Comeng 10/3/66 1.11 1 06
200 Fowlers Vacola 13/3/66 045 046
1000 Deposit and Inv. 30/3/66 0.18 019
100 Tyree 30/3/66 1.62 1 70
4CO Nuttall 5/4/66 0.70 0.70
500 Consol. Rutile 13/4/66 089 1 14
400 Kathleen Inv. 20/4/66 1.98
100 A. G. Campbell 26/4/66 2.84 2 80
400 Steel Mills 2/5/66 068 0.75
300 Hanimex 4/5/66 1 42 1 45
500 Haulage 11/5/66 054 054
500 Woodside 13/5/66 025 040
200 Sydney Mutual 17/5/66 3.45 3 25
200 F. W. Williams 24/5/66 3.05 3.02


for the drape of it
the enduring good looks of it
for the way it tailors
and stays in shapi
a man has a right
to insist on
pure new wool
PURE NEW WOOL
jggjiaturally
ks
Cx
It Ff
WT; 7
1
F
§«/
m
-7
m
■>y,
n
f.
mu?
wm
f
.
1 1 / .1 If
I'/;
lIM . i
Mi® <ll
fc & fmv •; J
him
M
iftiilW J i
Sjfl s«|
M
,-. ■
Jj'
■
hy* / ; v . .• ifj
W'-h-H ■
;7 { • 10-' ..7 /
I i '■,
|
. ,/ f
Ml:
THIS is THE INTERNATIONAL SYMBOL OF THE WORLD'S BEST
PURE NEW WOOL
5116/B


There are 1800
reasons why
they call this...
THE GAR
OF THE
CENTURY
MORE SPACE
Logical! No space consum-
ing tailshafts, differentials,
and thus more space to offer
than any car anywhere near
its size! No less than 70% of
the total length of the car is
devoted to passengers and
luggage. There is stretch out
room back and front. The
boot offers 17 cubic feet of
usable space. There is a full
width dashboard parcel shelf,
open pockets on every door,
six square feet of parcel
shelf behind the back seat!
IT FLOATS ON FLUID
The Austin 1800 has no
springs to sag, no shock ab-
sorbers to wear and rattle.
Instead, the miracle of Hyd-
rolastic* suspension gives
you expressway riding on the
toughest tracks. It floats
on fluid with independent
suspension for each wheel.
Pitch, sway and bounce are
out. Better adhesion and
cornering are in!
SAFETY FIRST
Seatbelts are standard up
front. The Austin 1800 has
power assisted disc brakes,
a special braking device to
prevent rear wheel locking
and skidding. You get rack
and pinion steering, safety
glass, new radial ply tyres.
MORE STRENGTH
The body shell of the Austin
1800 is the stiffest and
strongest structure ever built
into a production car. It is
completely free from rattl-
ing, twisting, vibration. This
kind of strength means
greater safety. For life.
MORE PULLING
POWER
Pulling power is a reality in
the Astounding Austin 1800!
It has the proven BMC idea
of East-West engine and
front wheel drive. Gearbox,
engine, differential are all
together in one compact
unit. Power losses are cut to
a minimum. The weight is
over the front wheels where
it counts most. Result: more
usable power, greater econ-
omy, better cornering.
THE CAR
OF THE CENTURY
These are just some of the
reasons why this car has
been greeted as the car of
the century. You must see it,
-■ ■ -
mmmmm
RUST PROTECTION
7 COATS DEEP
Your motoring investment is
protected by the unique BMC
Rotodip anti-rust process.
The car is completely sub-
merged and rotated in spe-
cial chemical baths, in pro-
tective undercoats so that
every square inch, inside
and out, is completely treat-
ed. This multi million dollar
process is new and exclusive
to BMC. Rotodip protection
provides the base for the
gleaming baked enamel fin-
ish, provides protection a-
gainst moisture inside the
car where rust usually starts
in other cars.
EXTRA VALUE
In other cars you could
easily pay up to $3OO (£150)
extra for the luxury features
that come completely stan-
dard with the Astounding
Austin 1800. You get a camp-
ing body, adjustable and re-
clining seats. You get heat-
er/demister/fresh air ven-
tilation system, luxurious
carpeted interior. You get
courtesy lights, armrests.
There is even a hook to hang
coats on above the rear
door! These features are
completely standard, inclu-
sive in the astounding price
of just $2,330 (£1,165).
drive it yourself. It’s at your
BMC centre now. An astoun-
ding $2,330 (£1,165) incl.
tax! *Regd. Trade Mark
Prices slightly higher in some areas.
N 800
