

The Bulletin
APRIL 16, 1966
SrNpbRPORATING THE /iWSTRA!*IAfQ*R(N ANCI AL t9»L
The Times,
Are They A-Changin’?
BOB DYLAN
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


a
I
ifi
:. m i
«M
■ -
-■
■
C
: i'‘ ; :V.
*
Omega Seamaster de Ville: the elegant, slender timepiece that is also a high-precision sports watch. Movement winds itself. Case seals out water
and dust. Calendar changes automatically at midnight. As illustrated: In 18 ct. gold. $290 (£145). 14 ct. gold capped, 8160 (£80). Stainless steel,
$l3O (£65). Other Seamaster de Ville models from $B5 (£42.10.0).“
This Omega Seamaster de Ville is actually four watches in one,
outmoding ordinary, single-function watches
1. A sturdy sports watch, for outdoor and beach wear
2. A dependable calendar watch, for up-to-date accuracy in business
3. A slim, elegant dress watch, for formal occasions
4. A self-winding precision watch . . . you set it and forget it
Omega has designed the Seamaster de
Ville specially for the man who leads
a full,. active life. By using new ' tech-
niques it has been possible to combine
the rugged dependability of a sports
watch with the slim elegance of a watch-
about-town. And this has been done
without sacrificing one precious second of
fabulous Omega accuracy.
So now, with the Seamaster de Ville,
you have a watch that is right for every
occasion.
This great advance is due to a remark-
able new, one-piece watch-case, which
has no detachable back and is therefore
much slimmer. Inside it Omega crafts-
men have been able to place not only
the strong, shock-protected, high-
precision movement, blit also a self-
winding mechanism and automatic
calendar.
The elegant Seamaster de Ville is a
triumph of watchmaking ingenuity, a
worthy addition to the renowned range
of accurate Omega timepieces. It will
keep good time in each of your three
busy lives and it may well stay with you
for all of them.
And, wherever you may live, wherever
you may travel, you will find Omega
Service close at hand.
The Omega Service Network, staffed by
factory-trained experts, is spread over
156 countries. The Omega one-year
International Guarantee is honoured in
all of these countries, regardless of where
you bought your watch.
Some day you, too, will own an Omega.
OMEGA
OM 660 S


HOW TO RECOGNISE THE COONAWARRA ESTATE VINTAGE WINES
A
WYNN
ESTATE
WINE
4 l
BRItXiE
HtMra/ia,
OONAWARR/V
The select wines of Coonawarra
are labelled Coonawarra Estate.
The vintage wines are
HERMITAGE Vintage 1962
CABERNET Vintage 1959
RIESLING Vintage 1965.
The Coonawarra Estate
Vintage label denotes the
best wine of the district for the
particular year.
Like all the truly great wines
of the world, Coonawarra
Estate Vintage wines should be
treated with due respect and
reserved for those occasions
that call for the best.
Estate wines of
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
M/,
Hi?
m
i
•<>
Rlb
C6l
The Bulletin
Established 1880
APRIL 16, 1966.
VOL. 88, No. 4493
folk times
“As Water Dribbling Down a Drain” 40
WHAT HAPPENED IN
DUBLIN
The Birth of a Christian Brothers
Republic? 16
THE OTHER HONG KONG
Real World of Suzie Wong 26
living off fat
Rhodesia after the Wilson Landslide 32
TANNER .... 13 LETTERS .... 38
BATMAN 24
THIS AUSTRALIA
Women in the Post Office 12
Labor: Whitlam’s Key ~..tr. 12
The North 14
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
THEATRE: The Master Builder .. 41
A Sleep of Prisoners .. 42
FILMS: 5/oh Motion 42
TELEVISION: Borrowed Time and
Borrowed Jokes 43
BOOKS: John Osborne’s “A Patriot
For Me” 44
Henry Miller’s “Letters to
Anais Nin” 45
Bruce of Melbourne 46
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Re-thinking Export Incentives 55
Sugar Price Stays Depressed 57
Difficulties Among Retailers 58
man on the land
Planner's Paradise in the UK 62
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


Channel 9 does it again
-
f.
I i
wP
sil m
IH
'-•* V
SUOjXu JfhAdjDppVJ
NOll^l
HIGH TOPS FOR SHORTER SKIRTS
and Hilton ladderproof nylons
GET WITH IT„ w >.
What makes a group great?
Watch Herman’s Hermits and you’ll come away in the know.
Sponsored for all the girls who want Hilton
ladderproof nylons with the hi-tops for shorter skirts.
When and where to watch
TCN9
April 18
7.00 pm
GTV9
April 17
7.30 pm
April 20
7.00 pm
NWS9
April 17
7.00 pm
TVW7
April 20
7.00 pm
TVT6
April 19
7.00 pm
TNT 9
April 19
7.30 pm


WORMALD BROTHERS
RESEARCH
KEEPS
INDUSTRY
AHEAD '
OF TODAY’S
FJ EW
RISKS
w
Vi'-
• Wormald Brothers design, manufacture, install
and maintain:
Grinnell Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm
Systems, Mulsifyre (extinguishes flammable liquid)
fires by the specialised use of water alone),
Protectospray spray systems for severe fire risks,
Fyretron duo-control deluge systems, National and
Svenska Skunslacknings foam systems and
appliances, Kidde carbon dioxide systems,
Minerva Fire Warning systems, Lowecator and
Wormald fire detection systems, Telefyre alarm
systems. Fire Boss dry chemical systems, High
Expansion foam systems and many other fire
protection and defection systems.
G 78.95
The advance of technology and science in industry very
often creates fire risks which are entirely new and differ-
ent to those which we all know and recognise. Conven-
tional fire prevention equipment would prove ineffective
in many instances. However, the constant research carried
out by Wormald Brothers, in conjunction with world-
wide associates, ensures that industry can meet new risks
as they arise with new fire protection systems specially
devised for the job.
WB
WB
WORMALD BROTHERS
Complete Fire Protection Service


mm.
mm mm wm
m
m
mm
? :
mwsmm:
m- .
\ ■:••«■ ■;:
:
*m& m
::::>:*S:-xixx ; .-' ; :•' ••••
Independence Day...
Freedom to do just what you want seeing places, keeping up friend-
ships. This is the independence you have in your retirement when you
have a regular A.M.P. cheque in the mail. You are certain of the amount
you will receive for your retirement with an A.M.P. “Blue Chip” plan.
Ask your A.M.P. man to show you how A.M.P. “Blue Chip” insurance
works for you.
ACCEPT
NOTHING LESS,
THAN
'BLUE CHIP-
PROTECTION
am*
f
u
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: Sydney Cove
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding $1,600 million which the
Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
Y 5568


How can a sleuth check 1,000 suspects,
then pinpoint the villain-in one hour flat?
-r-v:
Safe*-.* •
■■■*>'' ''•
i®* •
s ’
v „-
'l ,
T.R.A.C.E. (Tape-controlled Recording Automatic Checkout Equipment)
is the answer. Can make 1,000 checks an hour. Shows a time-saving in the
region of 90% when compared to manual methods of checking aircraft
systems and equipment. In its first year of operation with BOAC, T.R.A.C.E.
saved more than its capital cost by enabling amongst other things a reduction
in spares holdings.
Hawker Siddeley know how.
Hawker Siddeley know through T.R.A.C.E., an
electronic inspection system. If aircraft have suspect
faults T.R.A.C.E. checks them out. Whether the fault
exists or not, it pinpoints the fact - fast. Testing time
is sharply reduced. Money is saved because fewer air-
craft spares need to be carried. Hawker Siddeley
Dynamics developed T.R.A.C.E. Now BOAC, the
Royal Navy and the French Government use it.
T.R.A.C.E. is one example of Hawker Siddeley
ingenuity. There are many more. Namely the products
that make Hawker Siddeley a world-size industrial
group.
Hawker Siddeley products go down on the farm -
haul trains - steer and power ships - probe space -
equip power stations - roll roads - fly people - store
heat - transform electricity - pack food - fuel aircraft.
And maintain a daily turnover of SA2 2 million.
T.R.A.C.E. is part of this turnover. But only part.
That’s what makes Hawker Siddeley a group. With
group power.
HAWKER
SIDDELEY
1« ST. JAMES'S SQUARE, LONDON S.W.I.
Represented in Australia by: Aviation: Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty.
Ltd., New South Wales. Industrial: Hawker Siddeley Brush Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Mechanical, electrical and aerospace capital equipment with world-wide sales and service


What do macaroni and new warm
yet lightweight fabrics have in common?
:
i 1
m.
Your eyes can’t see it, but they share the
same shape. TEIJIN, Japan’s pioneer synthetic
fibre producer since 1918, now make a fibre
that contains millions of tiny tubes. It is a
new form of TEIJIN Tetoron polyester fibre that
creates handsome coat and suit fabrics that
are never heavy.
TEIJIN calls this new fibre TEIJIN Spacy (T-38).
We were the first in Japan to produce it.
When blended with wool it makes possible
soft, light jackets, suits and coats that resist
wrinkles and retain their shape longer.
Japan’s leading weavers now turn TEIJIN Spacy
into quality easy-care fabrics. You can put
your trust in TEIJIN, a leader in the synthetic
fibre, plastics and petrochemical fields.
TEIJIN Spacy T-38
r i. a
% <■
m
h
S
tWS
m
m
m
Blend of Teijin Spacy and Rayon for Women's wear.
Blend of Teijin Spacy, Wool and Rayon for Men’s Suiting.
Seij iml
TEIJIN LIMITED
TEIJIN LIMITED SYDNEY OFFICE: Swire House, 8 Spring Street, Sydney. / OSAKA HEAD OFFICE: 1 Umeda, Kita-ku, Osaka.
Cable Address: TEIJIN OSAKA
Main Products: TEIJIN Tetoron (Polyesterfibre)/TEIJ!N Nylon/ s EIJIN Teviron (Polyvinyl chloride fibre)/TEIJIN Acetate/TEi JIN
Polycot (Poiynosic fibre)


ONE MORE
WEEK
Theme without variations
THE ADELAIDE FESTIVAL of Arts,
just ended, came in for some criticism
because it lacked both an artistic director
and what its critics called a “theme” or
a “focus”. The Festival board has not yet
been able to make up the first lack, but
it has tried to do something about the
second. It has already announced that
the theme for the 1968 Festival will be
the “music, arts and drama of Central and
Northern Europe”. Well, you wanted a
theme, didn’t you? Now you’ve got one.
Oh, Montreal!
THE ABC has its faults, as we all know,
but one can hardly include racial intoler-
ance, or the cowardice that gives way
before the racial intolerance of others,
among them. It was rather unfortunate
that Dean Dixon’s complaint quite
incredible as it surely is that the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra would not
be commercially recorded while he, a
Negro, was its conductor might make
it seem that the ABC was playing safe
in sending the Melbourne orchestra to
North America next year, rather than
risk trouble if the visit to Montreal
should be extended to the United States,
as the Sydney orchestra’s visit to London
became an Asian tour last year.
The trip to Canada seems part of the
ABC’s plan to lift the sagging spirits of
the Melbourne orchestra, bedevilled for
years by changes in the permanent con-
ductor, squabbles over the leadership and
a drift in the ranks, and eternally cast
down by the poor support Melbourne
gives it.
Part of the plan appears to be the
appointment of Sir Malcolm Sargent as
this year’s principal conductor and Wil-
lem van Otterloo for 1967 and 1968.
It may be over-generous to give the
orchestra a trip to Montreal just to en-
courage it, but, apparently, lately it has
been playing much better.
Incidentally, the Sydney orchestra has
not been recorded commercially since
1952, under Goossens.
A suburb named O'Malley
CONTROVERSY currently troubling
the pure air of Canberra is whether the
capital should have a suburb called
O’Malley.
The suburb would commemorate King
O’Malley, Federal member for Darwin,
Tasmania, from 1901-1917 and Minister
for Home Affairs in the Fisher Govern-
ment, who died in 1953, aged 99. The
announcement of the new suburb pro-
voked a strong article in “The Canberra
Times” from former top public servant,
C. S. Daley, which was followed by a
spirited rejoinder by former Melbourne
journalist J. A. Alexander, now editor
of “Who’s Who in Australia”.
Daley quoted the Canberra National
Memorial Committee report of 1928
which said: “Patriotic and national senti-
ment would be met best if the names of
those men who have contributed most
to Australia’s existence as a unified nation
be used in the most important place, that
is, for the names of divisions or suburbs
of Canberra”.
Daley contends that O’Malley con-
tributed nothing to Canberra and in the
early days called the moving of the capi-
tal from “civilised” Melbourne “a crime
unparalleled in history”. One offence
Daley imputes against O’Malley is that
he claimed that he was born in a house on
the United States-Canadian border and
his mother walked into a room on the
Canadian side of the house for his birth,
thus giving him British citizenship. Re-
grettably, O'Malley late in life destroyed
this picturesque legend and admitted he
was American, and thus, according to
Daley, became a “confessed impostor in
our Parliament”.
Alexander calls the naming of the sub-
urb a “grievously belated tribute to the
foremost part played by O’Malley in the
early planning” of Canberra. “Strong
influences,” Alexander says, “have been
at work to deprive him of his rightful
place in Canberra’s history. These are
the same influences responsible for the
persecution of the engineer-architect he
brought to Canberra to design and build
the city—Walter Burley-Griffin—and for
hounding Griffin out of Canberra to end
up designing municipal garbage incinera-
tors.”
"Whom do I see about changing an
opinion?"
From Aubusson
AS BEFITS the splendid reputation of
Aubusson tapestries, the invitation to the
current exhibition at La Salle Galleries
came with a bouquet of red roses, a
charming gesture rather astray in Syd-
ney’s rackety art world. The tapestries,
gathered together by M. Lucien Dray,
are the first from Aubusson on exhibition
for sale in this country. There are samp-
les in the Art Galleries of NSW and Vic-
toria and one or two in other places,
notably a Lurcat at Anzac House, Syd-
ney. Some Aubusson tapestries were on
exhibition at the NSW Gallery in 1956
but were not, of course, for sale.
The NSW Gallery bought its Lurcat
last year as the first purchase under the
bequest of $72,000 made in the will of
Sydney dentist Wesley Holme Nolan.
Although most of the Aubusson tapes-
tries seem designed for the large spaces
of churches and public buildings, and
with prices to $BBlO might seem out of
reach of the private pocket, all sales so
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
1 am not a Communist and I am not
going anywhere. Vietnam is my country
and this is my city.
The Mayor of Da Nang.
Assimilating Aborigines by inter-
marriage is simply a modern, cleaned-up
form of racial extermination.
H. S. Groves.
If 1 were a British citizen I would vote
for the Conservative Party.
Valery Tarsis.
India and Pakistan—rapid return to
normal bitterness and hostility.
Heading in London "Observer".
We'd come to a pretty pass if every
soldier had the right to say to the
President of the United States, "Your act
is illegal and I refuse to obey it."
—US District Judge Alexander Holtzoff.
Anyone who wants the Melbourne
Chevron can make an offer to the Com-
monwealth Bank or the receiver.
Stanley Korman.
As I keep repeating to anyone who will
listen, there is no such thing as a secret.
Suzy Knickerbocker.
After all. you can't blow your own
euphoniums.
Mrs Harold Holt.
General de Gaulle is a very biq man
and a very dangerous man. He eats 12
men like Mr Heath for breakfast.
Denis Healey.
The average Australian buys one
toothbrush a year, uses it once a day.
usually at the wrong time, and often
does more harm than good.
Colonel E. Deane.


' !
!■'-i
' • «
•m*
»-
■■
1
:' \
mm
Mi
9
mi
ViS!
There are bigger theatres showing first-run
colour movies. But there is np more comfort-
able one. There certainly isn't a faster theatre.
500 m.p.h. at 32,000 feet. Between Sydney
and Manila, all points east. Connections to
Europe. Presenting in-flight colour movies, or
nine different music channels—two of them
in full stereo. Suddenly the biggest ocean
of all exists no more. You’re at the Philippine
Air Lines’ theatre. Instead of sitting, with
nothing to see but sea. PAL theatres are now
playing every Tuesday and Thursday. Starting
at Mascot at 0945. And the price of an aisle
seat includes our very special kind of service.
EUROPE HONG # EUROPE VIA TOKYO
■ ■■■MU"™? ■
EUROPE • TAIPEI
VIA BANGKOK SAN FRANCISCO
i iKnmntn
HONOLULU
SINGAPORE
mmuui
EUROPE
• SYDNEY
PHILIPPINE AIR UNES
For PAL flight schedules, and Philippines tour infor-
mation, see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Anseft-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Cnr. Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane.
140 North Terrace, Adelaide. 98 Williams Street, Perth.
62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra. 178 Liverpool
Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston,
NAME
ADDRESS
MY TRAVEL AGENT
PHONE
69.91


far have been to private people, although
one or two companies are interested. The
exhibition will later go to Melbourne,
Adelaide and Canberra.
Each tapestry is original. In the early
days of the revival of tapestry, when
Lurcat was pioneering the use of modern
designs before the Second World War,
up to five copies of each design were
made, simply because people could not
be induced to pay high prices for them.
However, now once a tapestry is woven
the cartoon is destroyed.
The exhibition includes the last two
designs of le Corbusier, who died in
December, and two by Lurcat, who died
in September, but who left behind him
another 20 designs completed.
Home comforts
WITH THEATRE, that permanent in-
valid, looking even less healthy in Sydney
than usual, actor Alexander Archdale is
still trying to run his brave little flag
up the masthead on the North Shore. Mr
Archdale is the prime mover in the Com-
munity Theatre Company with a board of
directors which includes his sister, Miss
Betty Archdale, the indomitable head-
mistress of Abbotsleigh, writer Patrick
White, actress Ruth Cracknell and bar-
rister John Kerr.
Mr. Archdale plans a permanent thea-
tre with restaurant and club attached
“People want the theatre to be an ex-
tension of the comfort of their homes,”
he says.
The theatre began rather tentatively
last year in St Alban’s church hall at
Lindfield with a revival of Fry’s “A
Phoenix Too Frequent” and Mr Arch-
dale’s solo performance in “Krapp’s Last
Tape”, a play which a member of the
audience described as an “acquired taste
—like gorgonzola cheese”.
On April 19 it will begin a season of
Colin Free’s “Where Did Vortex Go?”
again in St Alban’s and planned, accord-
ing to Mr Archdale, to turn the disad-
vantages of the church hall to advantage.
In between sending off submissions to
any Government, State or Federal, which
shows signs of subsidising the arts, Mr
Archdale is negotiating—now with a
great degree of confidence —for a building
on the North Shore. This his company will
completely rebuild “so that it can com-
pete”, he says. “Do you realise there are
four theatres, seating between 400-500
people with proper equipment and com-
fort in Adelaide, where there are almost
no professional actors, and not one in
Sydney?” he said.
So far the idea of Mr Archdale’s
theatre has induced 670 people to part
with $lO to become members. He is
confident that anything approaching
reality will encourage many more to
join.
Pep's Priests
"Would you hold on, please? He's busy on another line!"
"This won't hurt a bit, I'm afraid!"


THREE SYDNEY BISHOPS sup-
ported conscription and our
presence in Vietnam. Mr Holt fore-
shadowed votes for all servicemen,
and conscription for resident aliens
of draft age. which the NSW New
Settlers’ League threatened to
challenge legally. Two youths in
Sydney and three in Melbourne
were summonsed for draft-card
burnings. 500 Melbourne Univer-
sity students pelted Army Minister
Fraser with paper darts when he
spoke for conscription. In Moscow
a Richard Dixon said the Aus-
tralian Communist Party was fight-
ing consistently for peace. US
Ambassador Ed Clark promised
Papua-New Guinea support against
any aggressor. The University of
Papua-New Guinea’s interim
council met in Brisbane, approved
site plan for campus on 1200 acres
8 miles outside Port Moresby.
★
ADELAIDE UNIVERSITY
students and faculty met to plan a
“teach-in” on education the week
after Easter. The University of
Virginia invited Sir Robert Menzies
to be Scholar in Residence. GATT
approved the Australia-New Zea-
land free trade agreement but
frowned on the 60 per cent of
commodities included, asked for
100 per cent. Harry Oppenheimer,
South African diamond man,
arrived in Australia “to see the
races”. Concern over the road toll
led police in six States to promise
more patrols, stronger action during
Easter. One oil company announced
it would spend $300,000 adver-
tising budget on road safety cam-
paign.
★
ANOTHER sll MILLION was
granted to develop Queensland’s
brigalow country, Qantas granted
permission to buy two more Boeing
7075. The first Mareeba tobacco
sales cleared 1766 bales at average
of 117.3 cents a pound. Sir Arthur
Warner and former jockey “Darby”
Munro died. June Bronhill flew
home from London to star in
“Richard and Elizabeth”, a Barrett-
Browning musical and in New
York Zoe Caldwell was rushed with
offers. About 12,000 NSW nurses
applied for a 10 per cent margins
increase. The Queen Mother left
for visits to Fiji and New Zealand.
Cyclone Shirley petered out after
holding up Barrow Island oil drill-
ing and damaging railways for two
iron-ore projects.
THIS AUSTRALIA
THE MAIL
Women in the Post Office
In the basement of Sydney Town Hall early in 1964, George Slater, Federal
secretary of the Postal Workers’ Union, held aloft an agreement signed the previous
day in Canberra which ended a week-long postal strike, and told his jubilant members:
“You can go back to work with your heads held high; we have won a great victory”
Yet the 1964 settlement has emerged as a major defeat, since the union virtually
renounced the right to strike by agreeing to submit all future disputes to arbitration,
That settlement was part of the basis
of the recent nation-wide dispute. Shortly
after the resumption of work the PWU
agreed to the employment of females on
a part-time basis for the contentious
6 p.m.-ll p.m. night shift. This mano-
euvre satisfied union members at the
time, but left them vulnerable. During
the war years and until 1951 women
were employed in the mail exchanges at
male rates. After 1951 the women were
phased out, although there are still 16
still employed at the Melbourne Mail
Exchange.
When women were brought in again
following the 1964 strike, the PWU
sought equal pay for them but after a
protracted case the Public Service Arbi-
trator awarded only 75 per cent of the
male rate. Now the union, in its cam-
paign over the employment of females
on automatic coding machines, is fight-
ing to stem an extension of female labor.
About three years ago when the con-
struction of the Redfern Mail Exchange
was in its early stages the PMG’s Depart-
ment told the union that coding machines
were being developed for the new build-
ing. The union believed (and nothing
was said by the department to the con-
trary) that the machines would be ope-
rated by (male) mail officers. The depart-
ment conceded that there would be a re-
duction in the work force but claimed
there would be no retrenchment of ex-
isting staff. Natural wastage such as re-
tirements and resignations would ab-
sorb the surplus.
It was not until shortly before Christ-
mas last year that the PWU was told
that (male) mail officers would not be
engaged on the machines, and that a
separate classification, Coding Machinist
(female) would be used.
This is the basis of the union’s claim
that the department and the Public Ser-
vice Board did not adequately consult
the PWU on the staffing issue. While the
board possibly was at fault then, it has
subsequently gone a long way towards
meeting the union’s demands, although
stopping short of equal pay, which
under government policy, can only be
granted by arbitration.
The board’s final offer for adult females
ranged from $1662 to $1834, whilst the
male scale was $2064 to $2230. With
the differential of $4OB between the male
and female basic wage, the board’s offers
virtually amounted to equal margins.
Partly behind the dispute is the spectre
of automation. In the United States
where similar coding machines have been
installed a 16 per cent staff displacement
has resulted. At the Sydney mail ex-
change where 2200 (male) sorters are
employed the loss could be at least 350.
The quick and open withdrawal of
support from ACTU president, Mr A.
E. Monk, (a signatory to the 1964 agree-
ment) left the PWU alone in its con-
frontation with the Commonwealth. The
Waterside Workers’ Federation when
threatened with the Commonwealth’s new
stevedoring measures, quickly sought the
shelter of the ACTU to save itself. In
having chosen to go alone, the PWU
lost any chance of winning its campaign.
So it gave up. It had no choice but to
accept arbitration.
The next chapter will be enacted on
Monday when the Public Service Arbi-
trator conducts a statutory conference
into the issue.
LABOR
Whitlam’s Key
The immediate future of the ALP is
likely to be decided in South Australia.
Mr Gough Whitlam is now only a few
votes away from certain victory in a
Caucus spill for Federal Labor Leader-
ship and the few votes he needs to
replace Mr Calwell are most likely to
come from South Australian parlia-
mentarians.
The South Australian Labor contin-
gent in Canberra represents the whole
spectrum of ALP ideological and organis-
ational positions. On the extreme left is
Mr Clyde Cameron, bitter opponent of
the AWU machine, and a supporter of
Mr Chamberlain and Dr Cairns,
Cameron, however, is not at present a
major force in caucus and it is doubtful
that he could swing many South Aus-
tralian votes against Whitlam in the
impending showdown.
At the other end of the spectrum is


Mr Pat Galvin, again not a major caucus
force, but capable of some influence over
MHRs from his home State. Mr Galvin
is in favor of State Aid to private
schools, of strengthening the American
alliance, and of increasing the inde-
pendence of caucus from the Federal
Executive. He is now fully committed
to the Whitlam cause.
In between these camps fall men like
Senator Toohey and Mr J. C. Sexton,
who are not strongly committed to any
faction and whose voting tends to be
unpredictable. Whitlam’s problem is to
win the support of the Tooheys and Sex-
tons before moving for a spill.
Working in Whitlam’s favor is the
influence of middle-of-the-road South
Australian politicians, such as the
Attorney-General, Mr Don Dunstan, and
Premier, Mr Frank Walsh. Despite the
differences which create such bitterness
in the Federal sphere, the South Austra-
lian ALP is surprisingly united on the
home front.
State Labor parliamentarians believe
that they can remain in office for a
generation if they can survive the next
election. This previously caused them to
advise caution to the Federal colleagues
to avoid the possibility of a split in the
party. However, recent events have made
the South Australian Cabinet more con-
fident of victory in 1968 and they are
no longer so concerned to restrain sup-
porters of a Federal caucus spill.
The rejection of the Electoral Reform
Bill and a wide-ranging Transport Bill by
the hostile Legislative Council have
won them more popular support.
The ALP will almost certainly have
to face the polls next time with the same
unfair electoral boundaries as operated
last time but party leaders feel that the
record of the present Government is now
well appreciated in marginal seats, such
as Casey, the grape-growing area.
Mr. Don Dunstan is confident that he
and his supporters can further strengthen
their appeal by getting the June State
Labor conference to accept some measure
of State Aid in party policy. An in-
creasing number of SA Federal Labor
parliamentarians may support Whitlam
over State Aid now that policy in their
own State is likely to change, and any
supporter of Whitlam over State Aid
is a certain vote for him in a contest
for Federal leadership.
If the South Australian attitude to
Tanner
The Old China Plate


(Bxucimjai
perfection
**c*£3c
Give Your Slides “Paximat Per-
fection” Treatment. For extra col-
our brilliance, superior optical
systems ... coolness and ease of
operation .. . magazine load ...
reliability and largest range of
lenses to suit you. See your slides
large as life, twice as colourful.
Regular or quartz iodine, projec-
tion lamps. Discriminating people
choose Paximat world’s largest
selling projector.
Paximat Triumph 4 models
Give ample illumination for nor-
mal home use, cool running, pop
free, jam proof operation.
• 300 W model £36.0.0 ($72)
• 12V/100W Cold light £42 ($B4)
• 24/150W (same light as from
the DeLuxe N 24) £47.0.0 ($94)
• or popularly priced Pico 12V/
50W cold light
£29.15.0 ($59.50c)
Paximat DeLuxe N 24
World’s most up to date model . . .
fully automatic . . . variable self timing
device . . . remote control focus . . .
forward and reverse slide change. “Cold
light” 24V, 150 W lamps yield light
output of I,OOOW . . . interchangeable
lens . . . synchronised for tape re-
corder commentary.
• Paximat DeLuxe N 24, £79.10.0 ($159)
• Paximat super N 24, same as DeLuxe,
but without self-timer £73.10.0
($147)
timin'
Paximat Electromatic 300 W
The classic automatic model 300 W light
output gives 500 W brilliance. Remote
control focusing and forward and re-
verse slide change .. . interchangeable
2.8 lens attachable to tape recorder.
Only £54.4.0 ($108.40c).
SEE THEM AT ALL LEADING CAMERA DEALERS
FREE Brochures from: PHOTIMPORT PTY. LTD.
153 Barkly Street, BRUNSWICK, Victoria. 38.6922
State Aid changes at the June confer-
ence, and the odds are that it will, Mr
Whitlam will get the bulk of the South
Australian vote and will almost certainly
capture the leadership. However, the
forces which can probably win changes
in State Aid are already hard at work
for Whitlam and may prevail before
June. Now that fears of a split have
diminished the pro-Whitlam group can
concentrate on the problem of Labor’s
electoral prospects under Calwell. On a
present count of the members, a few
more votes for Whitlam from South
Australia and caucus has a new com-
mander.
B.B.
THE NORTH I
Dreams
What happens if you want northern
development but oppose foreign invest-
ment which may be the only way of
getting it?
The answer of the WA Government
is: Giving up your short-sighted objec-
tions to foreign investment. The answer
of Federal Trade Minister McEwen >s:
Find other ways of developing the North.
Hence the collision course of Perth and
Canberra.
The name of the dispute is a mountain,
and the issue is a haulage line. Mt New-
man is committed to developing a haul-
age line from its mine at Mt Whaleback
to the outlet of Port Hedland. But
costs have escalated by 20 per cent, and
on the present capital structure of the
group it seems impossible for these
facilities to be paid for.
The Trade Minister, Mr J. McEwen,
wants to “rationalise” things—hooking
up the Mt Whaleback railway with the
Mt Tom Price railway, and getting the
ore out through the new deepwater port
of Dampier. But, although such a
rationalisation would bring the costs
down, it would deprive the State of the
dual facilities —haulage line and Port
Hedland—it has bargained for.
Here it is necessary to understand the
northern dream: This area is seen not as
a barren transition point for a lot of
iron ore, but, in the words of the London
“Times”, as a possible “Ruhr of South-
East Asia”. Developing the hinterland
is part of the dream, and what Mr
McEwen might see as a sensible measure
is, in fact, an erosion of a vision.
What is the alternative? Here again
the other hot potato pops up. The Mt
Newman group is bogged down financi-
ally because the Australian partner, the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., cannot raise
its share; the other half shareholder,
American Metal Climax Inc., can. So
the bogy of overseas capital raises its
head —and it raises it higher when it is
realised that another overseas group is
waiting in the wings to take up the
slack if the Amax equity is not in-
creased to the two-thirds needed to pay
for the Port Hedland outlet. In other
words, reducing the Australian share
from one-half to one-third would make
the job feasible.
West Australia feels this is worth doing
to get the Mt Whaleback hinterland
opened up; Mr McEwen, on his favorite
bandwaggon, considers increased over-
seas investment too high a price to pay.
So far the WA Premier, Mr David
Brand, has allowed Mr Charles Court
to be his hatchet man. But certainly
Mr Court is not alone in his protests,
and if it comes to a showdown present
indications are that the WA Cabinet
would stand firmly behind him on this
far-reaching dispute.
THE NORTH II
How Ordinary?
National Development Minister David
Fairbairn gave the Government’s chances
of. winning northern seats this year a big
blow in his unwise statement to the
Young Liberals’ conference that north
Australia would never be as populous as
the south.
In stating that the ordinary European
does not choose to live there he classed


TN-::>Vv
Pr
fiiiiiiiHimMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiimitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiiiiiMiiHiiiiiiiiu?
PETER O'SHAUGHNESSY
33i RPM BULLETIN RECORD
SPIRIT OF ANZAC
Available for only $1 post-free. The noted Aus-
tralian actor presents specially recorded excerpts,
evoking the spirit of soldiering, from the works
of William Charles Wentworth, C. J. Dennis, lan
Mudie, A. B. Paterson, John Manifold, John Mase-
field and Alan Seymour.
■r
is,
TANNER BUST
OF MENZIES
We have arranged for the casting of a limited
number of life-size plaster copies of Tanner's
bust of Sir Robert Menzies, which appeared on
the cover of the January 29 issue of The Bulletin.
These are available to readers for $lO (£5)
each, post-free.
j||||||||flH<lllllllllf ••llllflllllllllllllllfllltffltltlllllflllKlliaillllllllltlllac
BARRY HUMPHRIES'
45 RPM BULLETIN RECORD
CHUNDER DOWN UNDER
Available for only $1 post-free. It has two of
the hits from the show "Excuse I"—the surfie'*
"The Old Pacific Sea" and the skier's "Snow
Complications"—with a new ski song especially
composed for this record.
For each record send $1 (a cheque or postal note, not cash) to "BULLETIN RECORDS 7 ', BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY, and for each bust sio (cheque
or postal note, not cash to "BULLETIN SCULPTURE 77 , BOX 7052, G.P.0., SYDNEY, together with the coupon and address label below. Both record*
and bust may also oe purchased over the counter from the PAPER SALES DEPARTMENT, sth FLOOR, TELEGRAPH HOUSE, 168 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
ORDER FORM
BULLETIN BUST
OF MENZIES
BULLETIN ANZAC
RECORD
BULLETIN BARRY
HUMPHRIES' RECORD
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN RECORD(S) ONLY
BULLETIN BUST(S) ONLY
Cross out item(s) not packed
Name
Address -
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
thousands of Europeans who do live
there as extraordinary. It is foolish to
overlook the fact that it was Italians in
many cases who developed big areas of
sugar land in the North and the Anglo-
Saxons who settled there chose to leave
the south to live there. Mount Isa mines
have a huge proportion of migrants from
Europe, many from Scandinavia,
amongst their workers and a lot of those
people are permanent residents of the
booming mining city. While putting into
perspective the fact that northern Aus-
tralia must be developed on its economic
merits the Minister should be very much
better acquainted with the facts and re-
sources of the north and the nature of
the people who settle there.
Huge areas of North Queensland enjoy
a most benign climate, certainly much
better than that of David Fairbairn’s
home at Woomargama. The summers
on the Atherton Tablelands are far more
pleasant than those of the New South
Wales south coast or northern Victoria.
The top summer temperatures around
Mackay are rarely as high as the top
summer temperatures of Sydney or New-
castle.
Lumping the Northern Territory with
North Queensland is like lumping Gipps-
land in with the Wimmera for purposes
of comparing potential for development.
Likewise there are big areas of the east
coast of Queensland that will not stand
comparison with each other. For 200
miles between Rockhampton and Sarina
the land is cattle country that will not
easily be closer settled. The next 200
miles north enjoys fertile soil and a high
rainfall and is capable of intensive devel-
opment away beyond the present pre-
occupation with sugar cane. Behind
Mackay is a rich tableland similar to
that around Atherton but scarcely touch-
ed by the booming growth of Mackay.
There is a balanced climate, abundant
water, rich soil and great forests of fine
cabinet timbers. Not far away is the coal
of Collinsville.
The Minister for National Develop-
ment was wrong. Electrical power deve-
lopment in the north is bringing about
a lot of airconditioning of business pre-
mises and homes and climate is rapidly
becoming of small importance in settling
the more promising parts of the tropics.
There is everything man or woman
wants in North Queensland except a
major city. Once Townsville develops to
that size and the north gets the steel
industry it is after, the question of po-
pulating North Queensland will have
been solved.
CLIFF CALDER


What Happened in Dublin
The birth of a Christian Brothers Republic?
From PATRICK O’DONOVAN in Dublin
Fifty years ago a group of Irish-
men seized the General Post Office
in Dublin. They hoisted flags
the green, white and gold tricolor, and
green banners of their own devising.
They proclaimed a republic: “In the
name of God and of the dead genera-
tions from which she receives her old
traditions of nationhood, Ireland, through
us, summons her children to her flag
and strikes for her freedom.” There have
been more eloquent calls to the barri-
cades, but none that was more hopeless
and few that were more fruitful.
The revolt came at a time when con-
ditions in Ireland had improved. It is
true the slums of the cities were among
the most dreadful in Europe, with
multitudinous families heaped into the
shells of superb Georgian mansions
where the windows sagged and the floors
broke, and the front door could no longer
be closed. They smelt like cesspits and
sounded like jungles. Wages were low,
children died too often. But men were
less squeamish then about such horrors.
The farmers were doing well out of
world war. The worst abuses over land
tenure had been righted. The Church
was free. There was a promise of orderly
progress towards self-government. It is
usually at such times that revolt explodes.
It was also an awkward time for
England. England was engaged in a
bloody war in Europe. Traditionally
such English preoccupations had always
been considered Ireland's opportunity.
So a group of activists decided to strike.
Their leaders were schoolmasters, minor
poets, shopkeepers, barmen. One was
described as a “drunken, vainglorious
lout”. There were about 1200 of them,
members of the illegal volunteers and
of the citizens’ army. They had trained
themselves in backyard parades and on
the hills, drilling with broomsticks and
practising bayonet lunges and parries
with hay-forks. Some of them wore uni-
form or bits of uniform that had been
dyed a muddy green. Bicycles and com-
mandeered cars were their cavalry and
transport. Their main hope of arms had
gone with a German merchant ship that
the British had taken. What they had
was a logistical nightmare, old rifles from
the Franco-Prussian War, a few pistols.
They held out for nearly a week in
the post office. By the time they had
finished it was gutted by shell-fire and
the great streets of Dublin around it
were in ruins. Of the insurgents, British
soldiers, police and civilians, about 1350
were dead or wounded. The Irish
surrendered with dignity after a vote had
been taken among the survivors in the
post office.
A few of the boys among them were
given a boot on the backside and told to
run off home. The leaders were tried
by court-martial, without defending
counsel, and then were found guilty.
One of these, Eamon De Valera, now
President of Ireland, had an American
passport, and so was only imprisoned.
Fourteen were shot in Dublin and one in
Cork. One was hanged in London. He
was the former colonial administrator,
Sir Roger Casement, who had landed
from a German submarine and was
captured almost at once. As exemplary
punishment this, and in time of war,
was not a very savage reprisal on the
part of the British.
W. B. YEATS
All changed, changed utterly:
A terrible beauty is born.
The Irish resented the insurrection. It
was rash and retrograde. It was irre-
sponsible and disloyal to the Irishmen
at the front, who were fighting the real
war. It put 100,000 on public relief. It
ruined the commercial life of the city.
Irish men and women hooted and re-
viled the prisoners as they were led
through the streets to the boats that
took them to England. Bishops, news-
papers, politicians, all Irish, condemned
them utterly.
Then the executions began. These were
held at dawn in the long, coffin-shaped
yard of Kilmainham Gaol, which is a
massive and louring mock-baronial fort-
ress-prison near the centre of Dublin.
One prisoner was married the night
before he died. One had a smashed and
gangrenous foot, and had to be propped
up to die. Mr Asquith’s Government in
London was implacable. Dawn after
dawn the volleys rang out against the
dank stones. Shabby crowds with cruci-
fixes in their hands and rosaries around
their fingers stood, guarded, outside the
prison gates, and a vast national revul-
sion set in. Ireland had a new crowd of
martyrs for its already-crowded pan-
theon. From now on co-operation and
compromise with the British, in the light
of these deaths, seemed merely squalid.
The poet, Yeats, suffered a sort of con-
version. He had disliked or looked down
on some of the dead: the plottings
seemed infantile to him. Now he wrote
one of the greatest popular poems in any
language. He strung out the plain names
of the dead into a paean, triumphant
and tragic, and again and again:
“All changed, changed utterly:
A terrible beauty is born.”
There was much to follow. The
superb Irish battalions were booed by
their comrades a.s they marched to take
their places in the trenches of Flanders.
The treaty with England did not come
until 1921. It was a sorry compromise
from the Irish point of view; it led to a
civil war and killing of some of the best
of Irishmen by Irishmen.
But the Easter Rising, trailing its
failure like a long robe of honor, this
was the turning point. The first pebble
against the vast facade of the British
Empire, the exemplar of many more
demands for freedom at any price, the
beginning of the most important move-
ment among the nations in our time, the
first step in the certain, and sometimes
squalid, triumph of nationalism. Not even
the American Revolution had such an
effect.
The insurrection was really a com-
mittee effort, but its real leader and
inspiration was Patrick Pearse. He was
young and good-looking in a humorless,
starry-eyed sort of way. He was a school-
master and a Gaelic enthusiast. He was
impatient of the dead, dull way men
make their living. After his execution,
it wa.s found that his school was deeply
in debt. I have heard serious Irishmen
who knew him describe him as a
“Christ-like figure”. The late Frank
O’Connor, a considerable writer, called
him a bore. He preached that the old
earth needed to be warmed with red
blood and yet was so shy and gentle him-
self that he could hardly take a knife
to a loaf of bread. In 1915 he wrote:
“The old earth needed to be warmed


NEW ADDITION TO
RANGE OF TABLE WINES
ST. CORA
WHITE
BURGUNDY
The new addition to Lindeman’s
popular range of Table Wines is
a pleasant dry white wine with a
soft round character and flavour.
It will accompany all sea foods,
salads and light meat dishes, and
is best served chilled.
jm&KfA vt> -
? kivku vtsc«ai
RXT»A SHtCIAI. ■?>
UNDEMAN'S
S T COR& WHITE
BURGUNDY
I.WOMANS ttY, im,
SY&Ht'f
k- N¥T J>T A « 025
»•*
with the red blood of the battlefields.”
Yet, during the rising, he watched over a
wounded British soldier with an almost
feminine compassion. When he pressed
for the rising he expected death for him-
self. He believed that a sort of blood
sacrifice, freely and nobly given, was
necessary before Ireland could be free.
The strange thing was that this weird
idea proved to be true.
Yet the ideas that drove this man so
easily to his death were not those of
social revolution in the accepted sense.
It is true that one of the executed was
James Connolly: he was a Marxist, and
a Catholic, and a professional trades
union leader. He was one of the few
who had definite plans for the future.
Pearse had spoken of an Ireland not
only free, but Gaelic which, in prac-
tical terms, means, almost, nothing. And
his followers shared the vision of a
frugal, pious, homespun republic, where
the vulgarities of England and the
American continent could be avoided:
a place where men might delight in the
poetry written in Gaelic, worship
simply, eat home-made food and, in
short, resist the temptations of modernity.
Their ideals were those of Rousseau
and those, though they have never been
practical, have never ceased to be
effective. There was a great purity about
these men, preoccupied with death and
the wild legends and the black history of
their people. They despised deep drink-
ing, womanising, frivolity and fine
clothes. They were not interested in
getting rich. They were passionately in
love with an idea of Ireland.
survivors were coarsened by the
terror and the counter-terror that
followed the treaty. In their hearts they
hardly quite believed that the “Brits”
would ever go. The survivors were left
with a nation to make, and still with a
grievance that kept them out of the last
World War and still keeps them out of
all the European military alliances. For,
at the treaty, and then at the subsequent
border demarcation, six counties of
Northern Ireland were kept to the
British Crown, with their own Parlia-
ment subject to Westminster, not Dublin.
For the activists, this was one more in-
justice and, in theory at least, the repub-
lic still does not accept this partition.
So the new republic began with a
built-in grievance. From England it also
inherited a great deal of superb
Georgian architecture, built with a subtle
Irish accent. It inherited an honest and
capable civil service and a tradition of
public probity that still exists. No Irish
politician has died owning £5OOO earned
as a result of his political activities.
Socially, the new republic started with
an almost classless society. The old Celtic
aristocracy though the country has
still many claimants to its ranks had
been effectively destroyed by the English
over the centuries. The Anglo-Irish
landed gentry, the Horse Protestants”,
were tolerated and almost isolated. The
larger and less well-run estates were
broken up by land reform. The Ascen-
dency had lost their political power.
They provided rural employment and,
after the burning of a few of their houses,
no resentment was left for them.
The new leaders were and are largely
educated by the Christian Brothers. These
are a huge and dedicated teaching order.
Its members deny themselves the conso-
lations of the priesthood. They get little
of the prestige and power that is given
to the fathers and monsignori in Ireland.
The education they give is stern and
sensible, comprehensive rather than
scholarly. They teach practical good
manners rather than elegance. Modern
Ireland owes them an unacknowledged
debt.
This society, whose awareness of the
past is probably the most vivid and
tragic on earth, is stepping into the
modern world. It starts with the draw-
back of having almost no mineral
wealth. Its exports are largely made up
of agricultural products and by-products
And its trade and economy depend abso-
lutely upon that of Britain. When
England’s economy sneezes, Ireland gets
a headache.
Nonetheless, undoctrinaire, unroman-
tic except where romanticism can be
made to pay, the Irish have strained to
modernise their meagre resources. They
encourage foreign capital. They build
free ports and link them with light
industrial estates. They use computers as
much as any country in Europe. They
have elaborate managerial training
schools. They carefully nurture their
growing hotel industry, since tourism
is their new source of wealth. They are
trying to wean their cooks away from
the frying pan and the kettle, which still
dominate Irish cuisine. The dreadful air
of poverty has lifted.
The result is the growth of a middle
class. It is crashingly respectable. The
(Continued page 20)




a
$ -
m
.
f:
IBM has the ability
This is the IBM
Specialist Team* on
Banking Systems
Their mandate: focus the entire
resources of IBM on Banking
problems, and needs.
There are IBM Specialist Teams
covering practically every industry.
They’re part of IBM’s “total value”
concept.
The computer is just machinery. You
have to tel I it exactly how to do a job
—step by step. This can get
expensive if you have to start from
scratch. That's where IBM specialist
teams come to your aid.
They have the knowledge, they have
the experience, they have the ability
to bring your IBM installation to its
fullest capacity in the shortest time
without dislocation, delay or doubt.
These men have spent years becoming
Specialists in the fields they serve. They include
Systems Engineers to tailor a system to your exact
needs . . . Programming Specialists to find new
ways to get you the right kind of information when
you need it. And Customer Education Specialists
who arrange classes at our education centres (for
everyone from the Chairman of your Board to
key punch operators).
IBM
IBM AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
IBM.65.109(8)
12380


K \j. s**
m$
o /vv c r* v i k ■
PROTECTION
: '> >.|»^ fvy,^-'Yll||jf--v *** e *‘** , *&s^
It pays to put all your
‘insurance eggs’
in one basket
FOR YOUR PROTECTION and FINANCIAL BENEFIT it could pay you hand-
somely to consult us now on all your insurance requirements. Simply
complete and post the coupon below or call us and we will be pleased
to provide you with full information without obligation.
THE AUTOMOBILE FIRE & GENERAL INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Founded 1422)
Branch Offices: Melbourne 678531; Sydney 2114099; Brisbane 54726; Perth 232148; Hobart264o3
Sub-Branches at Geelong, Canberra,. Albury, Wagga, Goulburn, Newcastle, Townsville.
SEE
A.F.G.
FIRST
PROMPT SETTLEMENT
* COMPETITIVE RATES
* LIBERAL POLICIES.
Post today.— A.F.G., P.O.'Box 1625 M, Melbourne.
Please supply me with further information regarding your special
benefits and services available to me.
I am especially interested
IN INSURANCE
NAME ADDRESS.
PHONE
cliches about Ireland, beloved by its
exiles, simply cannot be applied to it. It
is church-going, heavily clothed, con-
servative, relatively unpolitical, and it
lusts, like all the other members of
societies on the make, after the new,
good things of life cars, refrigerators,
foreign holidays and television sets. This
is not the sort of society for which the
martyrs died, but it is the sort that most
of the world grasps at when it is offered.
At long last, it is coming to Ireland.
Only the most tweed-entwined, twilit
Gaelic romantic could mourn its com-
fortable approach.
Perhaps the 50-year-old origins of
Ireland show most clearly in its foreign
policy. Foreign policies come expensive
nowadays, as many a rash and am-
bitious young country has found to its
cost. The Irish are not interested in this
sort of self-assertion. They do not lavish
money on their external affairs officers,
who, in fact, are among the most brilliant
and detached in the world. For enchant-
ing eccentricities they come a good
second to Britain. (Never refuse an in-
vitation to an Irish diplomatic party.) But
Irish foreign policy is, above all, sensible.
They start with a huge moral capital that
they are careful not to dissipate. After all,
they have never —at least in the last
handful of centuries—done anyone any
harm, except in the hopeless defence of
their own land. They are really Christian,
they are neutral, but oppose all sorts of
totalitarianism. They are an ex-colonial
country with a built-in experience of
what colonialism means. None of the
conventional terms of abuse that nations
exchange today quite fits the Irish. They
could, if they wished, out-Nkrumah any
African. They do not.
HPhe main policy of the Irish is ex-
A pressed through the United Nations.
Unlike the great and near-great nations,
they sincerely believe it. Nor, like the
neurotic newcomers, do they exploit it
in an attempt to impose the new tyranny
of the weak. Their policies in the UN
have, from time to time, irritated the
other English-speaking powers. No one
likes a closely related and genuinely ob-
jective adviser at his elbow suggesting
that the confident exercise of power is
not synonymous with morality. They have
tried to prevent the proliferation of
nuclear weapons. More recently they
have tried to arrange the financing of
United Nations peace-keeping forces.
Ireland, sending an overseas expedition
for the first time in 400 years, suffered
30 dead in the Congo. They are with-
drawing their contingent from Cyprus
because they cannot pay for it.
All these things are only the externals
of the inner truth of modern Ireland. I
am a three-generations emigrant, and am
a stranger there. I find it one of the most
delightful foreign places in the world.
It is happy. It is achingly beautiful. It is
different from anywhere else I know. Its
countryside is small-scaled; its cottages
austere, not picturesque. Its mountains
are hills, and yet so old that they com-
mand a religious respect. Its small towns
have a bare, almost Balkan look. It is
littered with the ruins of churches,
monasteries, castles, keeps, great houses
and dreadful expressions of English
Edwardian vulgarity. The Irish treasure
none of these in the English manner.
They will show you the local co-opera-
tive creamery first.
The Irish are anti-clerical, and yet love
God and His Mother like no other people.
Ireland is not a wild or drunken or
sentimental place. It is simply one of the
sweetest places in the world. And, even
if it is marred by some political violence
bred on grievances as old as the graves
of their martyrs, this is a country that
richly deserves its pride, its tentative
complacency, and its pietas.


Something of a Jack
A sort of Walter Mitty crossed with Billy Liar?
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
is incredible. Ed, you are more
Jack than Jack himself.” The
speaker was George Johnston.
Ed is Ed Devereaux, the star of the ABC
television production based on George
Johnston’s novel, “My Brother Jack”.
In all of his steady climb from the
chorus in post-war J. C. Williamson
musicals to star billing in films and on
stage, Ed Devereaux has found no part
easier to play than Jack. A North
Sydney boyhood, a Catholic family back-
ground, a variety of manual jobs, and
a sound working of city pubs fitted him
well for the role. “I didn’t have to work
at imagining what Jack was like. I’ve
known plenty of Jacks, in some ways I
am Jack myself.”
Largely through his mastery of this
role, “My Brother Jack” was one of the
most popular-ever ABC television pro-
ductions and is to be shown again in
Sydney and Melbourne shortly. As tele-
vision drama it has numerous and mani-
fest weaknesses. The scenes are uneven,
the dialogue is often banal, the whole
thing lacks dramatic tension, and some
of the acting scarcely rises above school
speech-night standard. But Jack and Ed
somehow carry the thing along, with the
aid of public nostalgia for the ’thirties.
The secret is that not only is Dever-
eaux something of a Jack, he is also a
thoroughly professional actor, a genuine
pro. confident that given an even break
from the script, he is talented and
industrious enough to do the rest. He
can even do it without an even break
from the script. “The Desire of the
Moth”, in which he has just completed a
Melbourne season and is about to play
in Sydney, has some dreadfully flat pas-
sages of the “I’ve just done it”. “You’ve
what?” “I’ve just done it.” “You
haven't?” “I have.” “No. No. You
haven't.” “Yes. Yes. I have” variety.
And some of the symbolism and themes
of the drama do not make any apparent
sense. Somehow Devereaux and co-star
Googie Withers manage to hold their
audiences, or at least they did in Mel-
bourne. By all the laws of theatre the
play should have folded after a week,
yet houses in Melbourne were good for
almost a month and a couple of local
critics actually praised the play. Only
top professionals of the boards could
have created such magic.
Unlike Joe Cassidy in “The Desire of
the Moth” but like George Johnston’s
brother Jack, Devereaux is a tough,
stocky man, physical attributes which
have been handy at times on the stage,
especially when he played Police Lieu-
tenant Schrank in “West Side Story” in
London.
London’s “West Side Story” was the
“method” production to end all of its
kind. “The Jets and the Sharks were
recruited mostly,” says Devereaux, “from
the back streets of Harlem and Brooklyn.
They were not just made for the part.
They were the part. Also, some of them
were nuts: sadists, pervs, thugs, the lot.
The producer used to separate them and
build up tension between them before
they went on stage. They grew to hate
one another, and nearly everybody else.
The producer thought it made for tense,
tough theatre. It was more than that.
It was terrifying.
ED DEVEREAUX
“In the mob fight scene, on my first
night, as I moved in to break up the
melee, someone hit me behind the ear
and crashed me on to the boards. One
of the Sharks then followed up by kick-
ing me in the groin. I could hardly stand
for the rest of the show. I tell you, I
was in agony. And I was supposed to
be the tough, cold tap; you know, sup-
posed to leak ice-water.
“This ‘method’ production was so far
out that the Jets and Sharks grew to
positively hate one another, and the
rest of the cast. They bashed one an-
other and the rest of us, and clawed at
the girls all over the stage. The audience
thought it was great acting. This was
no act, it was for real. Half the cast was
in terror before they went out in front.
You could see their mouths dry up and
their teeth clench. One of the cops used
to amble on to the arena with his knees
literally knocking together. He could
hardly move for fright.
“Some of the gang got me in a passage
one night backstage and one of them
drawled: ‘You’re a weak cop, Schrank/
“Next night I punched them hard
during the mob scenes and body-slammed
a few for good measure. At interval I
walked into their room and shouted, half-
crazed with fear admittedly: ‘I used to
eat weakies like you on toast for break-
fast back in North Sydney’. Then it was
on. There was blood everywhere but
I stayed on my feet. We went back out
in front with sticking plaster everywhere,
except that some of them did not emerge.
I had my hands bandaged and blood
dripping through as we played the final
scenes.
“I played ‘West Side Story’ for two
and a half years and after the first three
months it wasn’t so bad. But those first
three months were terrible as we fought
the young hoods, and tried to drag the
thing back to the script whilst the hoods
tried to send the rest of us up. The
only help I got from the management
was carte blanche to hit back where and
when I liked. Living like that has a
strange effect on an actor. I began to
kick doors open instead of pushing them,
even to measure people off in the street
whilst I was talking. I started to act
strangely with the wife. You know, order
things instead of ask for them. I almost
started to believe life was like on ‘West
Side’. I must have been all nerves. And
you should have seen some of the rest
of the cast.”
Devereaux has come a long way since
fighting for manhood amongst the Jets
and Sharks at “Her Majesty’s”. He has
played Sky Masterson in London’s “Guys
and Dolls” —“A great stage musical,
though a rather disappointing film”
and acted in numerous BBC television
dramas. “They’re usually well-written,
competently produced; and they pay me
well, about £350 a play. I can fit in five
or seven a year even whilst appearing in
other productions.” He has also been
in about 33 films, including “The Savage
Innocents” with Peter O’Toole and
Anthony Quinn, “The Password is Cour-
age” with Dirk Bogarde, “The Shiralee”,
half a dozen of the “Carry On” series,
and “The Wrong Arm of the Law” with
Peter Sellers.
Sellers he likes and admires both as
man and actor. “He is a perfectionist
with an uncanny sense for what is wrong


instinctively Finnish . . . definitely comfortable
This is a recent import example from Artes Studios.
Contoured to suit boardroom opulence or living room
luxury. Oxhide cover enhances the resilience of
fibreglass inner construction and superior design.
•- . . -
Hi , m
ARTES STUDIOS HOME AND OFFICE INTERIORS PTY. LTD.
539 AND 569 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. TELEPHONE 61-8595.
AS7/66
with a part or a line, and a gift for
making exactly the right changes. He
will take hours making and re-making
the smallest incident of a film until he
feels it is right. He is also a most pleasant
and unaffected man, with instant genius
for mimicry. He can ape the manner,
mannerisms and voice of any new
acquaintance within seconds. One of his
less pleasant tricks is to slowly and
quietly assume the personality of the
person with whom he is talking. You
don’t notice anything until you sud-
denly find yourself talking to yourself,
face to face, voice to voice. It could
drive you crazy if he kept it up. It beats
brain-washing by a long way.”
T>ack in Australia, where he expects to
make about $34,000 in two years,
Devereaux, apart from “The Moth” and
“Jack”, has co-starred with Walter Chiari
in “The Weird Mob”. He thinks Chiari
a great comic and, whilst delighted with
his own promotion to co-star, believes
that his role was pretty straightforward.
“All I had to do was go through the
actions and say the words.”
Devereaux prefers films and television
to theatre these days. “I don’t miss that
audience feeling much. I like the way
in which you can work on a film scene
until it is just right and then it is
captured on the celluloid for all time.
It is more permanent, and certainly
easier than sweating life out on the
boards night after night. Films and telly
pay well, too, for the hours.” He is likely
to play the leading role in another film
later this year, a film about the Aus-
tralian commandos in Timor, World War
11. “I spent one year and 37 days in
the army, but I don’t think that’s why
I got the part.”
Devereaux’s manner is most un-
theatrical as he speaks. His accent might
be called International Aussie: Aus-
tralian consonants with a hint of the
States and London in the vowels. There
is nothing of the film playboy about
him, either. Devoted to his wife and
four sons, religious, sentimental, he is
nobody’s idea of an actor once the motley
is off. Yet with the curtain up he moves
and speaks as if born to the trade, a
trade to which he had no inclination as
a youth and which he joined only when
out of a job. The secret of his success
may lie in a brooding, dreamer’s tempera-
ment. “I can sit and stare out of a
window for hours on end. As a boy I
used to spend hours, even days, working
out daydreams.”
“You mean you are a sort of Aus-
tralian Walter Mitty, Ed?” “Yes, some-
thing like that, a sort of Aussie Walter
Mitty-Billy Liar cross.”
Dreams may be the stuff that actors
are made of.


IN SYDNEY
Tanner
"And when polling day comes I hope you’ll
remember who got you the vote."
"We've tightened security precautions—
the money's at home in a sock."
" Arrk!! Due to the postal strike your
last payment may have been delayed.
However, the terms of your hire pur-
chase contract provide . .
"Take a message . .
"This is the original they're doing the carbons."


AROUND MELBOURNE
The Phantom Rolls-Royce
Vour correspondent was at a little
gathering last week and he tossed
out the question: “Hands up anyone
who can suggest something grand the
Melbourne City Council has done in
the past three or four years?”
Immediately hands began to fly up.
“They put those tree tubs in Latrobe
Street”. Good, next man. “And the
daffodil boxes on the Town Hall.”
Excellent. Next. “Urn . . . they
kicked in for the ill-fated Kings
Bridge.” Yes—yes, we’re going well.
“And they made a taxi rail so that
you can queue nice and straight out-
side Flinders Street Station.” Go on.
“Well, they have washed the Town
Hall. And made the clock electric,
don’t forget. Keeps lovely time now.”
What else? “There’s that strange
fountain by Princes Bridge.” Yes
and . . .
“I know. I know. They’ve just
approved the purchase of a million-
dollar block to create an open plaza
right in the heart of Little Collins
Street.”
How big? How big?
“Oh, about the size of a tennis
court.”
But what happened to that idea for
doing over a whole city block op-
posite Myers, open plaza, gorgeous
new Town Hall, everything? The
architects ran a competition last year
for this “dream civic scheme”. Even
Harry Seidler was interested. “Oh,
alas, even before the competition was
over a new car park went up.”
What about the plan for a “dream
square” on Latrobe Street?
“Nope. Would have cost 20 mil-
lion to get the land and think of all
that horrid loss of rateable area.”
Then the group began to discuss
the Melbourne City Council, a quite
fascinating anachronism, which could
well be given an A grading by the
National Trust. It can’t control or
plan Melbourne because it is only one
of 35 councils. It has 33 councillors
(unpaid), 11 of whom are Labor. The
others are members of the Melbourne
Civic Group, another name for rich
Right-wingers. It has been estimated
that the cost of getting into the
Council is 14,000 dollars. Expensive?
But don't you see, it is de rigueur for
candidates to throw election parties, to
hand out glossy booklets, color
pamphlets, and to provide motor cars
for electors to and from the polling
booth. Why, last election one can-
didate even had Eisenhower-type lapel
discs complete with smiling picture.
But what incentive is there for an
MCC candidate? Mainly prestige,
and if he is a good chap, a member
of the Civic Group, can stay alive and
maintain a splendid income, it's as
inevitable as the footy season that he
will become Lord Mayor. If he can
stay there for two years it’s as inevit-
able as the grand final that he will
get a knighthood. Then the election
of the Mayor is another thing that
deserves National Trust A-grading.
The Civic Group always is in power,
you see. It meets on the Sunday
night after the council elections and
it is a most gentlemanly arrangement.
The job comes up by turn, there’s the
understanding as to who has the
money and the support. There’s no
need for the untidiness of an election.
Why are we telling you all this?
Well, the city is just a little startled
because the City Council has ordered
for His Worship the Mayor a Rolls-
"This HEAP happens to be the Lord
Mayor's Rolls who shall I say is
calling?"
Royce—not a common, raw, brute
Rolls-Royce, but the big fellow, the
Phantom V, $23,800, and the R-R
company makes less than 20 of these
a year, mainly for Royalty, African
premiers and oil sheikhs. The theory
as to why it had to be a Phantom and
not a Silver Shadow was this. His
Worship by tradition travels on the
right-hand side, by tradition he gets
out of the car first past the Lady
Mayoress so he needs plenty of space.
But, damme, it’s only four years since
the Council bought a quite charming
12,000-dollar Daimler. This was al-
most as big in the back seat as our
new pint-sized civic square, complete
with microphones to chauffeur and
push-button electrically operated glass
partition. “The Herald” was so upset
by this it contacted its correspondents
all around the globe to find out what
vehicles various Lord Mayors used.
New York’s Lord Mayor had a
$lO,OOO Lincoln Continental with air-
conditioning and two-way radio. The
Lord Mayor of London had a 13-
year-olc Silver Wraith Rolls worth
about £l4OO on a trade-in, plus a
four-ton. horse-drawn gold coach
which they had been stuck with for
209 veam, and of uncertain value on
a trade-in.
Many people felt the Council had
wasted money. Even Kevin Dennis,
the second-hand car dealer, thought
so. Said he: “Why don’t they save
money and buy a good second-hand
Rolls from me?”
But that’s not all. Now the Coun-
cil is shopping round for a three or
five-piece French period suite to put
on the dais for use at Lord Mayor’s
balls. During the past few years
they have borrowed a Louis XIV suite
from Myers. The feeling is that period
furniture, particularly the Louis XIV
style gilded, and upholstered in petit
point, rather sets the atmosphere. One
wouldn’t like to think that the use
of Louis-style furniture was symbolic
of a possible pending revolution, but
the suite will cost at least 2000 dollars.
Unquestionably they could get it
cheaper than that. Look here, the
Tivoli has just closed down. There’s
no doubt that Gordon Cooper would
have all sorts of Louis pieces there in
his prop room. They could probably
pick up some beauties for 50 to 60
dollars, perhaps even sat upon by Mo.
BATMAN


m
m
£ V
SC
f! «S
vC,: ir-J,
. ■■.:■
I- ■ ri
- >-.
Did you realise
that Chrysler Corpora-
tion has been a prime
contractor in the U.S.
space programme since its
early days?
Chrysler was deeply involved
with Redstone, Jupiter and
the big Saturn booster to
name only a few.
So when you specify Chrysler
Airtemp Air Conditioning you
too are getting the full
benefit of the same top
flight engineering skills in
design and manufacture.
It is this skill that gives
Chrysler Airtemp equip-
ment the many built-in
exclusives that ensure
long life and trouble-free
performance for you
CONDITIONING!
CHRYSLER
CONTACT YOUR
STATE AIRTEMP
DISTRIBUTOR
7
Q’LD.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 349 Montague
Road, West End. Phone 4 2941.
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., 100 Parramatta Road, Camper*
down. Phone 51 6645.
A.C.T.: Strataflo (A.C.) Pty. Ltd., 4 Ipswich Street,
Fyshwick Phone 9 0705.
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray Street,
South Melbourne. Phone 69 7114.
S.A.: Airtemp Operations. Chrysler Australia Ltd.,
Ninth Avenue, Finsbury. Phone 45 3661.
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray Street, Perth.
Phone 23 2214.
AIRTEMP OPERATIONS
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIA LTD.
CM/5
THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
Mensa, Mensa,
Mensam
It began when I saw an advertisement
in the Saturday paper, sandwiched in
with the water-ski-ing and theoso-
phists’ meetings under Amusements.
“Belong to Mensa,” it said. “A group of
people with a higher intelligence than 98
per cent of the population.” It promised
people from all walks of life, with all
kinds of interests, who would meet at
monthly parties; and also affiliation with
overseas Mensa groups.
To a friend, Barbie, and myself it all
seemed too good to be true. No longer
would we make the dismal round at
parties, trying to start conversations
about Truffaut and Simone de Beauvoir
while keeping an eye out for dirty finger-
nails and wife-knitted sweaters. The very
cream would be laid on, so to speak,
everyone with an impeccable IQ. True,
they might be fat or bald, but we’d be
prepared to overlook that. Half of the
200,000 would be male, and with cer-
tain eliminations on the grounds of age,
and grave disabilities like acne, slipping
dentures, drug addiction, religious mania,
and clammy hands, there would still be
a few thousand left over.
Eventually the preliminary tests arrived
in plain envelopes, with instructions that
they were to be completed in isolation,
and to a specified time limit. We battled
with ciphers, long-distance runners, and
horse traders with rubber cheques who
formed the bulk of the final tests. The
earlier questions seemed simple, being
tests of word similarity, and space-form
perceptions measured by relating squiggly
lines and circles. Anger is to hurt as
amuse is to laugh? Shutter, screen, veil,
curtain and door mark the odd one.
Eventually the results came. We’d both
passed, so alarmingly well that it seemed
the Mensa people might be laughing up
their sleeves at us for cheating.
Trouble came when we told a couple
of friends. “Intelligence has nothing to do
with personality,” one said. “Look at my
"Can't you make it without
sleeping pills?"
ex-husband. He was an absolutely bril-
liant mathematician but he couldn’t
talk about a thing but football and drag-
racing.” Another took the scientific view
and demanded to know all the details.
A psychologist herself, she demanded to
know the author of the test, its ceiling,
norm, mean actuality scores and differ-
ential co-efficient.
A month or so later we got word the
second supervised test would be held at
Sydney University on a Wednesday night.
“You won't do nearly as well,” our
friends said smugly. “People never do in
supervised tests.” But we turned up
bravely on the Wednesday evening. There
were 10 people there, two nice middle-
aged women and a batch of men between
20 and 40. But there was little time for
social chatting before a bearded man
arrived and said we would begin. The
test was the same type as the earlier,
unsupervised one, only the horse traders
were making less profit and a nasty
money problem had crept in which made
the decimal changeover look like child’s
play.
There were people who didn’t want to
live next to each other and demanded
houses on corner allotments; cipher tests
in Russian, and three kinds of carnivor-
ous fish in tanks fighting for survival.
There were men twice as old as their sons
when they were the age their sons were
now, and an explorer found dead and
gnawed to the bone beside a loaded rifle.
Somehow there was never time to in-
spect the other candidates closely, al-
though there was one man with a nice
smile who beamed encouragingly at us
when we came to the end of each test
and waited for permission to turn the
page. And well he might, what with part
of Test Six bobbing up on page three
where Test Three ought to be. The
Mensa people have obviously been to a
rotten layout man, but that’s not much
consolation when everyone else is well
into analogies and you’re still stuck with
space-form perceptions.
The man with the beard was very nice
about it everything would be taken
into account somehow when they marked
the test papers in Melbourne but
from that moment a feeling of doom set
in. Some people in the Great Hall across
the way began to play Schubert. From
Parramatta Road there came a dull roar
of home-bound traffic. What did it
matter? Better some wretched dullard
with an IQ of 147, who liked Schubert
and a drink or two before dinner, than
a genius who grappled all evening with
doddering old gentlemen twice as old as
their sons.
JAN SMITH


The Other Hong Kong
The real world of Suzie Wong
By DAVID BONAVIA
WTT’s great —for a while,” said a young
I artist from Sydney, clutching a Fos-
ter’s lager at the bar of the Waltzing
Matilda steakhouse near Hong Kong
Island waterfront. “But I got tired of
Chinese food after the first three months,
and there’s no cultural life to speak of.
Nobody has time for anything except
his own business. You can’t paint junks
forever, and though the money’s good,
there are too many ways of spending it.”
He was voicing his own personal ver-
sion of the ambiguous feelings many
Europeans and Australians have towards
life in Hong Kong.
To the young businessman fresh from
London, it seems like paradise.
Europeans are paid high salar-
ies, with allowances and fur-
lough; they live elegantly with
at least one servant per house-
hold. Consumer goods are
cheaper than almost anywhere
else in the world. The bachelor
is persistently dazzled by the
profusion of feminine beauty,
whether on the streets, in the
bars, or on beaches lapped by
the South China Sea.
Those who have lived in Hong
Kong longer complain of serious
strains bound up with their exis-
tence here. On the Island, one
has to be ingenious to drive for
much more than an hour with-
out landing up where one
started. The town is bedlam,
pavements torn up everywhere
round construction sites. Lan-
guage difficulties in shops and
offices are a constant source of
irritation, which builds up in-
side Europeans and is vented
self-righteously on the spitting,
pushing and shouting of the
local Chinese. From May to October, the
sticky humidity frays nerves and reduces
efficiency.
Nearly four million people are jammed
into less than 400 square miles of sea,
island and farmland, slum, suburb and
hillside. To house so many, Hong Kong
builds upwards to twenty and even
thirty storeys, driving piles down into soft
reclamation sites or flinging precarious
concrete platforms out from the slopes of
the hills. Cotton millionaires live in layers
over and under one another; so do dock-
side coolies. A flat may be in a squalid re-
settlement block at $25 a month (£AI
equals SHKI3), or in a harbor-view, split-
level apartment at one hundred times that
amount. Of individual villas and houses,
there are only a few hundred in the whole
Colony. Some are located on Victoria
Peak, the exclusive mountain-top area
1,809 feet above sea-level. They are
reached by a funicular railway, modestly
referred to as a “tram”, running up from
the central business district where the
Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Cor-
poration, Jardines and the Hong Kong
Club look smugly out over the harbor.
Others are on the centre of the island,
looking down at the picturesquely named
creeks and beaches to the south Deep-
water Bay, Repulse Bay, Turtle Cove,
Big Wave Bay. Still others nestle on
hillsides in the farmlands of the New
Territories behind mainland Kowloon,
leased from China for 99 years in 1898.
The Communist People’s Republic lies
silent a few miles away behind the hills.
For the young bloods who trickle out
from England to work in trading firms,
banks or insurance, or roll in from Aus-
tralia to find jobs in advertising and the
motor trade, the situation is difficult.
They shack up together and share, or
take rooms in gloomy boarding mansions.
However, opportunities in Hong Kong
are so rich that many of them are well
off enough to rent their own luxurious
apartment and verandah within a few
years. The roads are full of the young
European tearaways burning up their
new sports cars.
Even bachelors have no need to buy
drip-dry shirts; abundant Chinese women
are glad to find work as domestic ser-
vants. Only a few ultra-individualistic
European women do without an “amah”,
The amahs are a social class of their own:
they formed a labor union a few months
ago, and even have their own language
—a semi-comprehensible pidgin English
that covers most everyday contingencies,
They dress in floppy dark blue trousers
and jackets, often wear their hair in long
pigtails, a sight otherwise rare
among the local Chinese. They
gossip, pilfer or disappear as the
mood suits them. European
housewives complain bitterly of
their bossiness and eccentric
ways, but depend on them none-
theless. An amah seldom asks
for a salary increase: she fails
to come back the Monday after
pay-day, or introduces a relative
as a “temporary” substitute on
pretext of illness. This is usually
a sign that she has found a
better job. Most amahs live in,
dossing down on hard shelves
in back rooms. Their pay is
between SHK2SO and $350 a
month they expect more
from European households than
from Chinese.
If accommodation is expen-
sive, so is food. A European
working in the business district
will probably pay at least SHKB
for a plain one-course lunch
with a beer. Hong Kong grows
very little of its own food most
is imported from Chir,«. but
European-type foodstuffs come largely
canned or frozen from Australia and the
United States. The long shipping dis-
tances mean high prices, particularly for
meat, fruit and vegetables.
To economise, one can eat Chinese.
But even Chinese food is not particularly
cheap unless the diner is prepared to
squat on his hunkers at a kerbside stall
selling rice-gruel and noodles. If he wants
hygienic conditions and a waiter who
understands at least basic English, then
he will pay about the same as for Euro-
pean food.
Hong Kong is the place where race
prejudice cuts the other way. If there is


TIME FOR
NEW PLANT
EXPANSION?
Considering expanding, modifying or adding process or plant
capacity?
If so, you will profit from the unbiased services of Wardrope
and Carroll Pty. Ltd., an organisation whose aim is to help
you achieve your goal in plant expansion with maximum
efficiency, maximum economy.
Regarded as authorities in the field of technical plant fab-
rication, Wardrope and Carroll Pty. Ltd., will save you time,
money and sometimes disillusionment in the engineering
and construction of your project.
For Pipe and Plant Engineering, Distillation Plants, Pressure
Vessels, Chemical Plants, Condensers, Heat Exchangers,
Evaporators, Road and Rail Tankers, or any other fabrication;
see Wardrope and Carroll first!
WARDROPE & CARROLL Pty. Ltd.
30 O’Riordan Street, ALEXANDRIA. N.S.W. 69-1727, 69-3620
. ! ;r
' .7
2 T , , V
. r
m
- v
* /&***■jiit
any deep-seated and long-standing sense
of racial superiority, it is more on the
Chinese than on the European side. Edu-
cated Chinese are too urbane to show
this, and live together with Europeans on
a superficially equal and friendly footing.
But deep friendships between Chinese
and Europeans are not so common.
The race prejudice is so well disguised
in normal circumstances that many Euro-
peans have Chinese wives and ostensibly
live happy lives, circulating freely in both
communities. But the girls sometimes
run the risk of being treated as bar-
girls by their own countrymen: there
is a latent assumption that any girls seen
with Europeans are prostitutes. A married
European, years resident in Hong Kong,
still complains of occasional brushes
with insulting youths when walking with
his Chinese wife.
Racialism
/Chinese, for their part, complain that
Hong Kong is geared economically to
suit the European. They point to ex-
patriate salary scales in the civil service
and teaching profession, and accept with
silent resentment that Europeans enjoy
precedence and privileged treatment
when dealing with police and officialdom.
Some Chinese even use European names
when making telephone bookings for
restaurants. The local Press has come
alive recently with a bitter controversy
about appointments to senior grades of
the colonial Government, and locals have
complained that Britain is using Hong
Kong as a “dumping ground” for re-
dundant administrators from East and
Central Africa. Europeans retort that
they need high salary scales as Chinese
charge them higher prices in shops,
garages, etc., and that psychological
stresses involved in living admidst an alien
community would stop any skilled people
from working in Hong Kong without
material rewards. The Government main-
tains that it cannot recruit enough suit-
ably qualified civil servants locally.
This debate is seldom a source of acute
friction. Both races accept each other as
necessary and put up with each other’s
peculiarities. While Chinese are scrupu-
lously clean about their persons, Euro-
peans object to traditional habits of
spitting (TB is rife) and throwing
rubbish out of tenement windows. Leave
a car in the street overnight, and next
morning it is littered with banana skins,
peanut shells or worse. Uneducated and
sometimes educated Chinese spit every-
where, in lifts, restaurants, cinemas, and
react with blank astonishment if admon-
ished. Queue jumping and pushing are
worse than in France or Italy, and it is
simply not done to apologise or excuse
oneself. This has the compensation that
one can push back with a clear con-
science.
These are little things, but coupled
with the month-long irritation of high
temperatures and near-saturation humi-
dity, tempers become frayed and many
Europeans slip into a testy scornfulness
towards the Chinese.
The Chinese themselves have a strange
double-think regarding their own position
in Hong Kong. The Island and the Penin-
sula of Kowloon, it is true, were taken
more or less forcibly from the former
Empire in 1841 and retained as the price
for peace in 1843, after the first Opium
War. On the other hand, neither was
thickly populated or economically impor-
tant at the time. Hong Kong’s prosperity
came entirely from its position as a
transhipment centre for the China trade.
The vast majority of Chinese here now
are of immigrant stock: they or their
ancestors preferred foreign but orderly
Colonial rule to the ravages of the war-
lords before the Pacific conflict, and to
the austerities and discipline of the Com-
munist regime afterwards. Yet now they
regard British rule ostensibly as only the
least of a number of possible evils, and
consider Hong Kong as part of “their”
China. Despite fear of the Communists,
most reacted with pride when China ex-
ploded her first atom bomb in October,
1964.
China*s permission
llThy does China permit this vestige of
” imperialism to survive on her door-
step? Russia occasionally needles her


He has an electronic calculator
with a visible memory.
Bee the TV screen? __
That’s where all his entries and
answers appear. They're on a
restful, blue-green field. Four reg-
isters can be seen.
A fifth, unseen register can be
Used for storing constant factors.
In fact, figures In all registers
ere in memory. He can recall any
{>f them back to the working reg-
ster for further calculation. This
eaves him an amazing amount of
time. And also eliminates any
Chance of making an incorrect
re-entry. ;
He can work complex prob-
lems and never take his fingers
off the keyboard, except to writs
the final answer.
This is the incomparably fast,
new 130 Electronic Calculator by
Friden.
Call us for complete informa-
tion and a demonstration.
The 130 Electronic Calculator by Friden
Friden Pty. ltd.
254 ALBERT STREET,'EAST MELBOURNE. 411133
Branches:
SYDNEY 925807
CANBERRA 46162
BRISBANE 511571
over it, linking Hong Kong’s position
with that of Macao, the tiny Portuguese
peninsula 40 miles away across the Pearl
River Estuary, and accusing China of
tolerating the two colonies for material
gain. This is a very fair estimate of the
situation. Hong Kong, since this year,
is probably China’s biggest single export
market, surpassing Russia and Japan in
this respect, though Japan is by far the
biggest two-way trade partner. Though
the Colony no longer serves such an im-
portant function as previously in the
transhipment trade between China and
the West, many Chinese goods are still
re-exported through Hong Kong, and the
four million population pay huge amounts
of Western currencies every year for food
supplies, emergency water supplies,
cotton and fabrics for the booming
textile and garment industries, and other
necessities. Without the currencies earned
through Hong Kong, many of China’s
industrialisation schemes would go beg-
ging for lack of plant bought from the
advanced nations of the West. Despite
America’s embargo on trade with China,
many dollars, or funds in other currencies
converted from dollars, flow into the
mainland through Hong Kong, which sells
one quarter of its own domestic products
in the USA. And Hong Kong is China’s
principal banking centre for trade with
the West.
Once or twice a year, the paradox is
laid bare by an international incident
which both Chinese and British Govern-
ments would rather avoid. In August
last year, a US transport aircraft crashed
into the harbor while taking off from
Kaitak Airport, killing nearly sixty mar-
ines bound for Da Nang. It may be that
the international Press coverage of this
disaster brought home to Ho Chi-minh
the fact that Hong Kong was being used
as a “rest and recreation” centre for US
troops only a few miles from North Viet-
nam’s “fraternal” ally, China. Peking
was forced to protest to save face, even
though the dollars US servicemen spend
in Hong Kong often find their way to
the Peking treasury through remittances
by bar-girls and shopkeepers to relatives
on the mainland. The incident was hand-
led with restraint by Chinese, British and
American authorities alike, and the leave
parties were suspended for a while. Later,
Washington made arrangements for
marines from Vietnam to go to Taiwan
for “rest and recreation”. The sailors of
the Seventh Fleet, however, have contin-
ued to pour into the bar-lands every
time a ship is in harbor, which is almost
always.
Tour guides and others with a vested
interest make much of the Suzie Wong
angle, the nightlife of the Wanchai and
Kowloon bars, many of which contain
ageing bar-girls who claim to be the “real”


mmm
-
tm%
Be sure
the next uniform you buy
is wearing this tag ...'
it means you will be wearing
the best uniform ...
made from the new, soft, silky,
miracle fabric called
Cuakdk,
CESAREUA— the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Toraif
TETOHON
FIBRE
\ and Viscose
65’
CTB33
Suzie Wong. The American sailors, as well
as the British soldiers from the garrison
camps, and an occasional scattering of
Australians, roll eagerly into the dimly-
lit establishments that infest street upon
street of these grubby areas. If a sailor
still has enough illusions left to want to
take a girl out, he pays the bar about
$4O for the privilege, and makes a sepa-
rate financial arrangement with the lady
herself. Fat and wordly-wise old madams,
referred to Japanese-style as “Mama-
san”, preside over the proceedings. The
Hong Kong Government organises regu-
lar medical checks for the girls; though
it does not officially tolerate prostitution,
British empiricism prevails.
Very few local Chinese men would be
seen dead in a bar or with a bar-girl.
This is pride rather than prudery: their
special preserve is the dancehalls, where
dance-hostesses fulfil roughly the same
functions as bar-girls, but are usually
more naive, less hardened, and less versed
in English than their more ambitious
sisters. The local Chinese-language Press
abounds with poignant or pornographic
stories about dancehall-girls and their
lovers.
Hong Kong presents to the world a
brash mask of neon bar signs, office-
block skyscrapers and booming depart-
ment stores. Behind the mask lies an
enormous iceberg of poverty, grime and
human misery. Industrialisation has pro-
vided livings for many formerly destitute,
but it has brought its own crop of social
problems. When the China trade declined
after the Communist takeover in 1949,
and millions of human beings flooded into
Hong Kong from the mainland in not
much more than a decade, the Colony
had to find some new way of earning its
living. The story is too well-known to
need retelling: the abundant capital of
the overseas Chinese and the enterprise
and skill of the Shanghai emigres, the
vast pool of cheap labor, the fine harbor
and the stable financial and administra-
tive system, bred a mushroom growth
of light industry that hit the markets of
the world with its products: textiles,
blouses, slacks, transistor radios, plastic
flowers, gloves, toys, umbrellas, electrical
goods, canned foods—lool varieties.
Dozens of Chinese industrialists and
financiers became millionaires from this
boom. European traders, bankers and
insurers made their piles too, and are
still making them. But behind it all are
the factory worker, the construction site
laborer, the dockside coolie, without
whose labor nothing could have been
accomplished. In their hundreds of thou-
sands, they live in cramped, shrill re-
settlement blocks, in raw factory towns,
or in rabbit-warren shacks up the hill-
sides. At dawn, they pile into antique
trams and buses or on to the backs of
lorries to get to work; they eat on the
job and return at night to homes where
several families may share the same tiny
apartment
P '
In these conditions, crime and drug
addiction are a natural growth. Hong
Kong s free port is a sitting duck for
opium shipments from South East Asia.
The opium quickly becomes heroin ia
back-room pharmacies, and Hong Ko»g
is adjudged to have one of the world’s
worst addiction problems,
W l„ ( • .. rTI
' * e great at raCt,on , oi »°"S
K 8 that draws a continuing trickle of
refugees from the mainland, directly by
junk or deviously through Macao—as
many as the Colony’s Government will
let in? It is true that in general even
poor people are probably better fed in


C-
>&&><■ 5*
m
Look at the difference...
TRAINING PROGRAM
GROUP INSURANCE
SUPERANNUATION
HOLIDAYS
JOB ASSIGNMENTS
BENEFICIARY FORMS
PERSONNEL
Dymo makes
With a DYMO Tapewriter anyone can make legible, permanent raised
letter, self-sticking plastic labels in any one of 10 distinctive colours.
Your DYMO becomes an integral part of the identification and
organisation of files, equipment, shelves and containers; has
1001 uses for identifying property, office doors, cupboards.
Just dial the letters and squeeze the handle. It’s as
simple as that. There’s a complete range of DYMO
Tapewriters for commercial, professional and
industrial use. DYMO Tapewriters make low
cost labels that permanently adhere to any
smooth surface.
OYIVIO
THE COMPLETE
LABELLING AND
IDENTIFICATION
SYSTEM
-
There’s a Dymo
Tapewriter for every
application including
embossing on metal tapes.
JA 3754
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR USUAL STATIONERY SUPPLIER OR OFFICE SUPPLY COMPANY
Hong Kong than in China, where agri-
culture is only now recovering from the
inadequate rural development policies of
the Great Leap Forward a few years
ago. On the other hand, they do not
have the social security, the assurance of
liberal medical treatment and free edu-
cation for their children as are promised
by the authoritarian regime in China.
What they undoubtedly have is the
chance, at least, to better themselves by
enterprise, hard work or luck, and attain
a standard of living unthinkable in their
austere and egalitarian homeland.
At the same time, they can escape
the ceaseless mental pressures of the
mainland, the relentless cadres who de-
mand new disciplines, new austerities
and new enthusiasms every month,
driving their children into social or politi-
cal work at the expense of their studies,
and forcing any student who wants to
do well into endless conning of Mao
Tse-tung’s dreary works —Mao, openly
compared to the sun, the guiding star,
the bridegroom of virginal China, Mao
the Christ-like, Mao the father-figure.
How much longer has Hong Kong
got to go, and how will it go? The lease
on the New Territories, which contain
most of the Colony’s vital industry, runs
out in 1997, but few people think that
far ahead Few, likewise, cherish the illu-
sion that China will permit even a grad-
ual transition to self-government (let
alone self-determination) and the em-
pirical, materialistic Cantonese show little
interest in demanding a more democratic
form of Government than the present
consultative paternalism, which observes
public opinion in all important matters
of legislation, but only sometimes con-
forms to it, and allows the popular voice
to make itself effectively heard only in
such relatively harmless matters as muni-
cipal hygiene, handled by the Urban
Council on which elected representatives
sit.
It is certainly foolish to dream that
even American military support could
hold Hong Kong if Peking once decided
to retrieve it. Without firing a shot, China
could cut off supplies of most foodstuffs
and much of the water supply. The very
threat of action would strangle the
Colony’s economic life —dependent on
fickle “international confidence’’ —with-
in a month or two.
The main hope for the Colony’s 98 per
cent Chinese people, most of whom have
literally nowhere else to go, is that China
may delay her move for a decade or two,
until she, too, is perhaps entering a Rus-
sia-like phase of “goulash Communism”,
the revolutionary austerity fading grad-
ually into the security-mindedness of a
new bourgeoisie. Then the transition will
not be too much of a shock.


IP
!1
Why do so many businessmen fly TAA?
Because TAA is a successful
business enterprise
TAA is a business enterprise required
to make a profit and pay a dividend just
like any other commercial undertaking.
And people naturally prefer to do business
with sound, competent enterprises.
The Airline is operated by the Australian
National Airlines Commission, in the same way
as a public company is controlled by a board of
directors.
7|% DIVIDEND
TAA has a capital of $15,000,000, unchanged
since 1961.
Out of a net profit for 1964/65 of $1,409,052
TAA’s 74% dividend to the Treasury absorbs
$1,125,000.
TAA PAYS TAX
TAA is subject to income tax, payroll tax, sales
tax, etc., normally met by other commercial en-
terprises, and has to pay special tax on aviation
fuel and air route charges as well.
In its operation TAA enjoys no special privi-
leges over its competitors. TAA must win every
passenger and pound of air cargo in open business
competition.
JET-AGE EFFICIENCY
The fact that TAA gains the greater overall
share of the competitive passenger market is in-
dicative of TAA’s business efficiency.
The continued business success of TAA helps
to preserve the competition vital to a healthy
airline industry.
BENEFITS OF COMPETITION
This competition guarantees that every Austra-
lian will continue to enjoy the right to choose by
which airline he will fly, or consign air cargo.
Competition also helps maintain the highest
standards of service for Australian air travellers.
Supporters of free enterprise, in placing busi-
ness with TAA, are preserving for themselves
these benefits of business competition in the air-
line industry.
This is one reason why so many business-
men fly on our Whispering T-Jets. Another is that
they simply prefer to fly TAA.
. the Friendly Way
TAA is in business for your business


tfc
M c Callums
is a
SCOTS
Whisky!”
s
I
■
*
it never was an
ordinary scotch.
The name is
O^Calhim’s
The whisky is perfection
ft®.
For epic occasions, McCallum’s
De Luxe Scots Whisky also
available. Distilled, blended
and bottled in Scotland.
MC 75.103
OVERSEAS
Living Off Fat
Rhodesia after the Wilson landslide
From ROY PERROTT in Salisbury
~T~\OY PERROTT was ordered to
leave Rhodesia by April 6. He is
appealing agains his expulsion.
Perrott is the third foreign reporter to
be ordered out of Rhodesia this month.
This is his latest dispatch from Salisbury:
The return to power of Mr Wilson
has not outwardly shaken the Rhodesian
public. Like the opinion polls, they
expected it. But now that the hope, or
illusion, of an easier escape route with
the Tories has been finally dispelled,
the first small ripples of unease about
the future are beginning to move across
the surface.
When Mr Wilson comes to size up the
situation he will almost certainly consider
that some important revisions are needed
in the sanctions now operating. First,
he will have to do something about
supplies from South Africa, which had
delayed the effectiveness of sanctions by
several months. Everything hangs on Dr
Verwoerd’s post-election attitude. No one
here can guess whether he will shrug off
Rhodesia, allow private aid to continue,
or even come out in open support. Mr
Wilson may feel that, if necessary,
diplomatic pressure on Dr Verwoerd can
get co-operation or, if not, he may con-
template asking for mandatory sanctions
through the United Nations.
What then? It is still premature to
say whether and how
sanctions are working.
If tankers do not ar-
rive, Rhodesia prob-
ably has about four
months’ fuel supplies
in hand at present
rationing levels. Yet
if sanctions “work”, is
there any chance that
this will budge the
regime? Perhaps the
best Mr Wilson can
hope to achieve by the
end of the year, at the
current level of sanc-
tions pressure, is a
stronger bargaining
position in which talks
with Mr Smith would
not automatically mean
conceding independ-
ence on white Rho-
desian terms. Even
then one cannot see
Mr Smith and his
colleagues giving in,
unless there has been
"I'd like to drive you MPs
around to show how ineffective
sanctions are, but I'm a bit low
on petrol !."
From "Punch".
a marked change of opinion among
their white supporters. Is this possible?
A couple of months ago it looked out of
the question. Most businessmen are still
strongly anti-Wilson simply because it
is a corollary of defending their living.
The more frequent grumbles one now
hears about the situation from the man
j n s t ree t a t [ eas t ra j se a fragment of
doubt whether, in six months’ time, Mr
Smith will be holding the white electorate
together as strongly and capably as he
does now The white artisan class, the
farmers and the businessmen are not a
naturally cohesive whole. In the sharing
out 0 f the national cake there have
always been jealousies between them. The
one-party State now conveniently hides
them. It may be different when the
go ing gets rough. The electorate here
has always been so changeable and
fickle in its attitudes to its leaders that
there is an outside chance, and no more
than that, of a surprising change of mind
in the months ahead. If the regime were
not privately aware of this, there would
be no need to keep the electorate in
blinkers by censoring undesirable facts
and opinions out of the Rhodesian news-
papers.
What else could Mr Wilson do? So
far he has been losing badly in the
propaganda war. Most White Rhodesians
still presume that surrender would mean
African majority rule
tomorrow. They neither
know nor particularly
trust Britain’s peace
aims. The Africans who
gather round the tran-
sistor radio in the vil-
lage general store have
very little idea what it’s
all about. Local propa-
ganda has probably
persuaded them by now
that Britain is their
enemy, too.
If talks are feasible
between the two sides,
is there any way of
taking some of the
steam out of the con-
frontation? One sug-
gestion raised here by
more thoughtful peo-
ple, worried about the
drift towards the use
of force, is that some
impartial government,
perhaps in one of the
Scandinavian countries,


HONG KONG!
SINGAPORE!
Air New Zealand's giant new DM Jets,
the worlds most nreferred Jetliners
plus Five Star Jetline
Service. All yours now.
Perfect way to Hong Kong or Singapore. Perfect
first step to stepping around the Orient
Perfect first step to Europe and London with a
Hong Kong or Singapore stopover
at no extra fare.
Wide choice of daily connections for Europe
and London at both Hong Kong and Singapore.
Book through your Travel Agent or
AIR NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney, 28-2786; Melbourne, 63-2554;
Brisbane, 31-2548; Adelaide ; 51-0331;
Canberra, 4-7141.
r
fll
: •
. i ■
>■ '■'•«■:
. .mmm
:•
m - V
- m m
HEW 2EAIAHD
The Five Star Jetline
ia association with Q ANT AS and BOAC.
General Sales Agents in Australia: QANTAS.
AP68.107.855CN


Q
1 "0t cowfrQete' Success !
PLAN YOUR SALES CONFERENCES,
CONVENTIONS & RECEPTIONS AT A
HOTEL
/N CANBERRA. Canberra-Rex Hotel: Australia's
finest convention centre. Spacious areas to accom-
modate up to 600 guests. Accommodation, service
and cuisine to international standards. All areas
and rooms fully air-conditioned.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Affording convention and reception
areas for up to 400 people. Centrally situated.
Rooms, service, cuisine to exacting standards.
IN SYDNEY. Carlton-Rex Hotel: Situated in the
heart of Sydney and offering international standards
of service. Four magnificent reception areas cater
for every type of function: weddings, cocktail parties,
banquets, private dinners. Fully air-conditioned.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Air-conditioned reception areas for
conventions, sales conferences, trade showings and
weddings. Beautiful appointments and facilities.
Full particulars from Functions Manager
Carlton-Rex Hotel: 56 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. Phone
28-5541.
Canberra-Rex Hotel: North-
bourne Avenue, Canberra City.
Phone 4-5311.
Ainslie-Rex Hotel: Canberra:
Cnr. Limestone and Ainslie
Avenues, Canberra. Phone
4-3351.
Bondi-Rex Hotel: Cnr. Beach
Road and Glenayr Ave., Bondi,
Sydney. Phone 30-7247.
or any Rex Hotel
L2M
might provide a neutral commission. A
small team of intermediaries couid move
continually between the parties, taking
soundings, trying to detect where com-
promise is possible.
Awareness of the long-term fragility
of a sanction-bound economy is slowly
growing among the public. They admire
the ingenuity, resourcefulness and refusal
to wilt of Mr Smith’s regime and the
country’s businessmen. But they are also
beginning to suspect that they have been
living through a flying trapeze period,
when the highly stimulating bravura of
some of the aerial work simply averted
the public gaze from the reality at ground
level. More people can now see that,
while the shops remain reasonably well
stocked and personal life has been little
affected, Rhodesia has been living off its
fat. They surmise that, if sanctions re-
main at their present level of effective-
ness, in three months or so the belt-
tightening period will begin, with stiffer
taxes to make up the loss of export earn-
ings and growing doubts about jobs.
It may be in preparation for this
tougher period ahead that the regime is
taking steps to plug some of the outlets
of information from the country. The
fact that reporters, myself among them,
are now becoming a sort of invisible
export is perhaps a symptom of the fear
that the future may not be too rosy. The
explanation may, on the other hand, be
contained in a recent speech by Mr How-
man, the Minister of Information (who
also conveniently holds the portfolio of
Immigration). He suggested that the
hostility of the world’s Press to the cause
of independent Rhodesia was the result
of a “long - standing” Communist and
Leftist conspiracy, with the Fabians play-
ing a kind of junior-villain role. “What
else is there which fits the facts?” he
asked. Well, one suggestion might be
that visiting reporters cannot help noting
a few of the things about the way the
country is going that make some of Mr
Howman’s fellow-Rhodesians (a small
minority, but enough to matter) angry
or depressed.
Press censorship, phone-tapping, re-
striction without charge or trial and so
on are also part of the scene in indepen-
dent Rhodesia and deserve a mention.
It is also true that there is a sense in
which overseas reporting from here, my
own included, is patently one - sided.
Regrettably, there is neither space nor
reason to declare in every piece that
Rhodesia contains its due human pro-
portion of excellent and industrious
people, that there is hardly a woolly-
headed Fabian in sight, or that a good
many here, particularly among the
farmers, have an admirable pioneering
spirit of the sort which leader-writers
vainly urge true Britons to recapture.
Perhaps a reporter should have affirmed
more often that most whites here treat
their African servants with patience,
even with Consideration, and do charit-
able work among them.
These things are true, yet there is also
a certain irrelevance or obviousness about
them in the present case. If the evidence
a reporter collects suggests that the
patient may be sick and is slowly being
led into an unhappy, perhaps dangerous,
racialist disease, then it is an unbalanced
approach to praise his hair style. That
is all we were trying to say, roughly
speaking.
Behind the scenes, sanctions are having
more effect than the Smith regime
concedes or most visitors would notice.
This is partly because the regime is
taking pains to keep up a sunny and
prosperous surface in order to persuade
the world that sanctions are not working
at all, and also because their effects are
likely to be abrupt rather than gradual.
It may be five or six months before
present erosions break through to the
surface.
There are also signs that the crucial
tobacco sales have been going badly.
Rhodesia would be glad to sell at bargain
prices. But the big international firms
are unlikely to touch the tobacco, since
they have an 18-month stockpile anyway
and they count on an end of the rebellion
by next season. Despite rumors of “in-
scrutable Oriental tobacco buyers in dark
glasses” filling the hotel lounges (they are
just as likely to be those inscrutable
Special Branch detectives who occasion-
ally follow reporters from overseas, only
to find that we end up in the same old
monotonous places), it does not look as
though even the smaller firms have
bought much. If this is so, it means that
the Smith regime will be spending the
better part of £2O million in buying in
the crop at rock-bottom prices. The
money will go towards covering the
farmers’ production costs, with perhaps
a small profit. Some smaller growers are
expected to go out of business. There
will be an extremely hard time for all
of them when it comes to raising new
overdrafts in the autumn to finance next
season’s planting.


(ADVERTISEMENT)
Australian Owned Australia Wide
a
©
Volume 3, No. 3
April, 1966
UNLIMITED!
Now it’s Bauxite and Boomerangs
The Gove Peninsula, in Eastern Arnhem Land, is cur-
rently the scene of a project which will cost a total of
$lOO million and produce half a million tons of alumina
a year.
What’s $lOO million anyhow! You couldn’t blame the
man in the street for such a reaction, after all he’s been
hearing about multi-million dollar projects for so long,
he’s naturally blase.
Nevertheless, that one hundred million dollars can have
a very important bearing on his future; it’s part of an
estimated one thousand million dollars to be spent on
development projects between now and 1970. These
promise to spell an even greater era for this land of
ours with natural gas, oil exploration, iron ore and
bauxite bringing new industries in their wake . . . truly
development unlimited.
The Yirrkala Aborigines are a group of people whose
lives will most quickly reflect the changes wrought by
progress. Living in the remote Gove Peninsula in
Eastern Arnhem Land, these people will shortly see a
town arise and marvel at the complexities of modern
living.
Not only this, Nabalco Pty. Ltd., the Swiss-Australian
company which has been granted Special Mineral Lease
No. 1 for the area, intends to employ the local abo-
rigines where possible, giving them the same conditions
as all other workers. The Yirrkalas have been reported
to view the project with enthusiasm and the prospect
of regular employment will mean major changes in
their lives.
Australia's
Development
523
I
V&
&
##■£o
l\V-\\\VaV.‘
&1®?
GOVE
$&
DARWIN
As for the Gove project, it is expected to produce half a
million tons of alumina a year, and Nabalco will study
the feasability of erecting an aluminium smelter.
Initial steps include the building of a town for 3,000 to
4,000 people, a harbour and an alumina plant with a
total expenditure of $lOO million.
It is difficult to conceive the detailed planning neces-
sary behind such a project. Orders have been placed
all over Australia for a wide and varied range of items
... from clothes hoists to flag poles, from pre-fabricated
houses to outboard motors, from drills to traxcavators
. . . and these will converge on Gove to change virgin
country into thriving industry.
The co-ordination of shipping and transport for such a
project is a major task, calling as it does for the
assembly throughout Australia of supplies from many
sources and their fastest possible delivery to the Gove
area. Brambles International Division is proud to have
been appointed by Nabalco Pty. Ltd. as shipping and
transport co-ordinators for this Australian development.
The company has already despatched the initial ship-
ments and will be keeping deliveries to Gove running
smoothly —another example of “Brambles service" in
this era of unprecedented growth and development.
m




A COMPLETE
package deal
1
THE
INTERNATIONAL
FACE OF
BRAMBLES
markets in
AUSTRAL^
A GUIDE prepared
BY
One of Brambles International
Division’s customs and ship-
ping offices which are located
in all main Australian ports.
Going to London
on Business?'
Brambles International
Division has opened a
Regional Office for the
European area in
London. A concise,
informative booklet,
“Markets in Australia,’'
published to coincide
with the opening, has
received a very warm
response, including
many requests for extra
copies.
A load of heavy engineering equipment ... the import
of delicate testing machinery ... an inquiry regarding
export by an Australian manufacturer, these are typical
jobs that have found a time and cost saving answer in
a Brambles “Package Deal.”
Just what is a “Package Deal”?
Well, it is the successful approach of an Australian
company to provide an integrated service which saves
time and relieves importers and exporters of shipping,
customs and related worries.
On receipt of one order, Brambles International Division
provides clearance for import, prompt costing of ship-
ments, By-Law (duty concession) applications, skilled
export advisory service, all export documentation,
wharf cartage, mechanical handling, bond and free
storage, local and interstate cartage including heavy
haulage. In short, within the one organisation, every
facet is co-ordinated to ensure the smooth, prompt
delivery of goods either to or from the ports throughout
Australia.
It was logical that Brambles should provide such a
service; for many years the company had been respon-
sible for a number of independent, highly successful
services, the new move meant simply integrating these
to meet the complete needs of the clients. The result,
the International Division of Brambles.
As a result of a recent five months' study trip through-
out the world by its General Manager, Mr. S. A.
Ferguson, the International Division is right in touch
with the developments in world trade as they affect
Australia. In providing a fast, efficient service, whether
it be for sea or air freight, it is meeting a demand of
the moment; in the future it will introduce new and
improved methods to further streamline the handling
of every type of merchandise into . . . out of ... or
across Australia.
1NT0... OUT 0F... ACROSS AUSTRALIA
PUBLICITY SHY?
Ever heard of a national advertiser who didn’t want
publicity? Well, here’s a true story about a well-kept
secret. When the Coca-Cola Export Corporation
decided to introduce TAB, its low-calorie soft drink,
to the Australian market, the specially designed
bottles were imported. Brambles “Package Deal”
provided the obvious answer to landing arrange-
ments in Australia: a single organisation to handle all
phases, thereby restricting the possibility of a leak-
age of the company’s plans. The client’s faith was
justified, the highly successful TAB promotion was a
well-kept secret, thanks to the integrity and co-
operation of the Brambles International Division.
4$ f
H
C2£3
WMttUS
m
M®
TRADE FAIR OR DISPLAY CENTRE
• • • it makes no difference to Brambles. That’s what the'
Japan Trade Centre decided after a highly satisfactory
relationship at the time of the First International Melbourne
Engineering, Industrial and Machine Tool Exhibition and the
Third International Trade Fair in Sydney. As a result, they
once again called on the Brambles organisation to give
prompt attention to the products to be shown at the General
Merchandise for 1966 Display. Result, a trouble-free delivery
of a wide range of Japanese products, a representative range
of which is shown in the photograph above.
HANDLE WITH CARE . . .
Naturally . . . when you bring in a 1,000 case shipment
>f glassware, handling is important. That’s why Kennard
'os. Pty. Ltd., let Brambles International Division ensure
fe, quick delivery, the photograph showing part of the
snipment from the “City of Canberra.” Kennards, well-
known Sydney merchants, use Brambles “Package Deal” for
quick “into store” receipt of their imported merchandise.
Strict supervision right from receipt of shipping documents
ensured complete protection for the customer, the super-
visor's station sedan being seen at the rear of the truck
ln the photograph.
A “RECORD” FOR PORT KEMBLA . .
It’s not quite what the heading suggests, the
record lies purely in the size of this air separator.
The floating crane, “Falcon,” makes light of
lifting the British Commonwealth’s largest single
all-aluminium air separator onto a Brambles low-
loader. The separator, which measures 85 feet
long by 13 feet wide at its widest part, weighed
32 tons deadweight and was on its way to the
C.I.G. Cringila, Port Kembla Plant. As a part
of an oxygen making plant which will produce
550 tons of oxygen a day, it will normally
operate at a temperature of —lBo° C., pro-
cessing 3,300,000 cu. ft. of air per hour.
Brambles “Package Deal” provided smooth
co-ordination between handling equipment and
transport, as well as clearance by customs.
m
m
0


It’s Incongruous!
when you travel by air you
spend more time on the ground
An odd statement, yet it’s a fact, any traveller
between Sydney and Melbourne, for example,
knows that it often takes longer to get to and from
the airports than it does in flight.
Just imagine how much truer this is when applied
to a parcel from overseas. Time between capital
cities is negligible, it’s the getting from the out-
lying areas to the overseas airport that produces
the initial delays, then on arrival in Australia you
have customs clearance followed by delivery.
There’s no doubt, time in the air is negligible, it’s
the time on the ground that’s important.
Today, air freight is the accepted, logical way to
move merchandise quickly and Brambles Interna-
tional Division has ironed out “on the ground’
delays.
The answer is, of course, the Brambles “Package
Deal.” As with sea freight, an integrated service
means speedy handling with all its advantages.
With agents in all major overseas countries, con-
solidation of cargoes means prompt, money-
saving attention.- Telex advice is available to give
the customer 24 hours’ notice before arrival, pro-
viding flight details, relevant order number and
airway bill number. On arrival in Australia, the
Brambles customs and airfreight office is situated
right at the airport, within walking distance of the
Customs Office. It’s simply through customs, onto
Bramble's transport and into the customer’s store.
With airfreight, too, Brambles International Divi-
sion smooths the way for quick “supplier to cus-
tomer” delivery . . . into . . , out of . . .or across
Australia.
SLES
.....
18
i m
'
■e
nrc
firmfr
At the airport, the combination of Brambles “on
the spot” customs staff and transport facilities
ensures prompt handling of all types of freight.
To the importer, Bond and Free Stores form an
important adjunct of his business. The Brambles
“Package Deal” includes the facilities shown
below, just another part of the complete service
available for both air and sea freight.
rv
■'SJXP'TT"
X.
iX-i
VS.
■ I
m
:, V
m
V?
m
m
w&m
. |
■
*s£l*
■■
*


FORUM Mo sco w' s Jewbaiters
Moscow’s Jew-baiters
How to conduct a “dialogue” with Communists
By BRIAN BUCKLEY
In the decade following the fracturing
events of 1956, Khrushchev s formal
exposure of the machinery of the
Stalinist terror, and the Hungarian revolt,
the Communist Party of Australia has
been seriously concerned by the decline
in its credit amongst Australian intel-
lectuals. Shortly after the 20th congress
speech the CPA disbanded its “intellec-
tual committee , lay low, watched
sullenly the departure from its ranks of
a number of writers, publicists, and
academics, and said nothing.
But the Party is tough, patient and
resourceful. The traps have been set
again, the main bait is the magazine
“Arena”, and the trails are heavy with
the scent of “Dialogue”. Led by
Comrade Rex Mortimer, editor of the
“Guardian” and a post-graduate student
at Monash University, the strong Italian-
line faction in the Communist Party of
Australia has the
task of restoring
the Party’s image
amongst intellec-
tuals. Monash Uni-
versity is one of the
important tactical
objectives of the new
strategy. Already a
number of tutors and lecturers have
shown themselves to be willing contacts,
and a meeting at the Richmond Town
Hall some months ago to introduce Mon-
ash and Melbourne academics to the
general secretary of the CPA, Mr Laurie
Aarons, was described by a Party official
as “highly successful”.
The Togliatti-Mortimer line has also
been well received in some sections of
the ALP, and discussions about the pos-
sibility of a Right-wing Communist and
Left-wing Labor merger have been pro-
ceeding for some time. Mortimer has
openly proclaimed, both inside and out-
side the CP, that a Cairns-led ALP would
create the right conditions for a true
united front, and in those circumstances
he would be in favor of abandoning the
present CP structure for a new Leftist
coalition.
Although the Mortimer group holds
the initiative at present it is still con-
tending with strong opposition within
Party ranks. Besides the snarlings of the
fundamentalist Peking-liners, led by Ted
Hill in the Marx-Leninist CPA, there is
the old Stalinist core of Sharkeys and
Dixons who are hostile to the revisionist
tendencies of the Party’s “Young Turks”.
More formidable is the bureaucratic cau-
tion of experienced Party officials, such
as Laurie and Eric Aarons, who are con-
ditioned to respond to political demands
primarily in terms of the institutional
safety of the Party. Quite aware of the
opportunities for political manipulation
the united front offers, they also know
the dangers it creates for Party solidarity
and discipline.
Now that they are in the ascendancy
the CPA, and have established the
necessary atmosphere of comradeship
with key leaders of the anti-American
wing of the ALP, the problem of Morti-
mer and his followers is to find some
issue around which they can re-establish
their credit amongst the Australian intel-
ligentsia. Open-hearted condemnations of
Stalinism and of the rigidity of older
Party functionaries in Australia has not
proved to be enough. Some further sign
is necessary to make manifest the image
. . .
An exchange of letters unique in the world between leading
Australian Communists and a prominent Australian anti -
Communist form the backdrop to a book published next week
about the persecution of Jews in the Soviet Union.
of liberalism and apparent independence
from overseas control which the Italian-
liners are composing.
The available evidence suggests that
the image-building issue which has been
chosen is that of admitting and, to a
degree, protesting about Soviet anti-
Semitism. As the Marxists say, it can
be no accident that until January the
editor of the “Guardian” and a present
member of the Party’s Central Com-
mittee agreed to have Mr Isi Leibler
publish his exposures of Soviet anti-
Semitism in the Marxist magazine
“Arena”, and that when this offer fell
through he was willing to have a letter of
introduction printed in a booklet written
by Leibler last year, “Soviet Jewry and
Human Rights”: a letter which said,
among other things, “1 am convinced that
the massive documentation you have
assembled poses a substantial and dis-
turbing problem for Marxists and people
of the Left anywhere”.
Mr Leibler thought the admissions
were significant enough to warrant his
establishing contact with the official CPA
apparatus. He had already had conver-
sation with a few local Communists and
had become aware that the Party was
anxious to engage in what it call*
“Dialogue” with leading figures in cer-
tain groups, especially with Jews,
Catholics and university teachers. Al-
though well known for his anti-
Communist views, and not at all in-
terested in being manipulated by Com-
munists in the oral strategy which they
like to call “Dialogue”, Leibler felt that
there was some chance of conducting a
business transaction with certain forces in
the Party in order to increase the pres-
sure on the Soviet authorities to ease
restrictions on the Jews,
He felt that the approach from Mor-
timer and “Arena” was an indication
that the Italian-line Communists had
chosen Soviet anti-Semitism as the
vehicle on which they would ride to
“Dialogue” with the liberal intelligentsia:
by making concessions in this area they
would gain their ticket of entry into
circles useful in the
establishment of the
united front.
In August last
year Leibler re-
turned from a trip
abroad and wrote to
the secretary of the
CPA, Laurie Aarons.
The Central Committee was at first
cool in its response. Laurie Aarons was
away and his brother Eric replied on
behalf of the committee that it was “at
all times to hold talks with those desirous
of developing Dialogue”, but that “dis-
cussions with the Communist Party
would hardly be fruitful if. in them
besides seeking to improve the position
of Jewish people, as you conceive it. you
also had other anti-Communist aims. . . .”
Leibler refused to make any conces-
sions in the area of his own anti-
Communism. kept pressing for a meeting,
and sent the Central Committee a copy
of an anti-Semitic article which ap-
peared in the leading Byelorussian daily,
“Zviazda”.
On Wednesday, September 15. Leibler
met three members of the Central Com-
mittee, Messrs Eric Aarons. Taft and
Robertson, in Sydney. We can learn
something of this meeting from a letter
dated Sept. 20, 1965, which Leibler sent
to Aarons: “It would be advantageous
if I endeavored to specify those areas in
which we share similar attitudes. You and
your colleagues insisted that anti-Semitic
propaganda in the Soviet Union, whether
in the form of crude anti-religious propa-
ganda or crude anti-Zionism, must be


''Come, let me know what it is that
makes a Scotchman happy J"
{[Samuel Johnson)
It'*
VAT 69
FINE OtD SCOTCH WHISKY
eliminated, as such published matter can
only serve to fan hatred of Jews.
“You expressed the view (which was
supported by Mr Robertson and Mr Taft)
that Soviet leaders should conduct an
educational campaign designed to combat
anti-Semitism. I also agreed that the
religious and cultural concessions granted
in recent months as a response to public
protest were welcome. However, I em-
phasised that the basic question of
religion and cultural rights for Soviet
Jewry had yet to be faced. I welcome
your assurance that on your forthcoming
visit to the Soviet Union you would raise
the issue of the “Zviazda” article and
other anti-Semitic articles and publica-
tions. You intimated that you would
protest at the continued circulation of
such anti-Semitic material.
Whilst Eric Aarons was in Russia*
Mr Leibler found occasion to write again
to the Communist Party and to put their
recent assurances to the test: “I am writ-
ing to draw your attention to an ex-
tremely distressing incident directly per-
tinent to the discussions I had on Sep-
tember 15 with representatives of the
Central Committee of the CPA. It was
then unanimously agreed that anti-
Semitic propaganda in the form of crude
anti-Zionism must be eliminated, as it
can only serve to fan hatred of the Jews.
“The incident took place last week at
the United Nations General Assembly’s
Social, Humanitarian and Cultural Com-
mittee. The Soviet delegate moved that
a resolution calling on all states to ‘con-
demn anti-Semitism and to take action
for its speedy eradication in territories
subject to their jurisdiction’ be amended
by substituting ‘condemn anti-Semitism,
Zionism, neo-Nazism and all other forms
of the policy and ideology of colonialism,
national and race hatred and exclusive-
ness’.
“During the height of the Stalinist
terror, anti-Semitism was frequently en-
couraged under the guise of anti-Zionism.
Now, I believe that a public equation of
Zionism with the ideology which exter-
minated six million Jews —at an inter-
national forum —is unprecedented even
in Stalinist terms. This fits precisely into
the category of crude anti-Zionism which
is indistinguishable from anti-Semitism.”
Certain elements in the Party were
disturbed by the nature and tone of this
letter. Their reluctant toleration of the
Mortimer project was based on the hope
of readily evidenced short-term gains.
The more liberal forces in the Party were
anxious to keep going the “Dialogue”
with a respected and influential Jew, but
the bureaucrats were unhappy that the
initiative had now passed firmly into the
hands of the aggressive and anti-
communist Mr Leibler.
Laurie Aarons, accompanied by Ber-
nie Taft, called at Leibler’s home early
in November. In a letter to Aarons,
dated November 8, Leibler gives his im-
pression of the meeting. Among other
things, the letter records the following:
“You will no doubt recollect that after
I had outlined the discriminations experi-
enced by Soviet Jews, and, in particular,
the most recent scandalous anti-Jewish
libel by the Soviet Union at the United
Nations, you indicated that, upon the re-
turn of your brother from the Soviet
Union, you intended to take practical
steps in conjunction with the Central
Committee, with a view to rectifying the
present disabilities experienced by Soviet
Jews as well as making public the CPA
attitude to this question.”
High price
T eibler was demanding a high price for
his participation in the “Dialogue”;
and the shrewd Laurie Aarons began to
feel that, in fact, although the Party was
attempting to create at least the atmo-
sphere of a “Dialogue”, Leibler was
engaged in a tough business deal. There
followed an exchange of correspondence
in which Aarons was concerned to “con-
fess I was somewhat surprised to get
your letter which is surely a very one-
sided interpretation of our discussion”.
There is one delightful paragraph in
a letter dated December 13 in which
the old battle-scarred Leninist warrior,
survivor of a dozen major Soviet policy
reversals, of a hundred bitter faction-
fights, and of other and nameless terrors,
is pained to declare his philosophy and
morality of “Dialogue”: “It seems to be
that the value of personal discussions (or
‘Dialogue’) between people of differing
philosophical and political views, on
issues of joint concern or in general, is
surely to exchange information, ideas and
opinions. Neither side should try to
gain any narrow or ephemeral advantage,
particularly not by one side interpreting
and formulating the other’s viewpoints.”
Wiping the tears from his eyes, Leibler
refused to let sentiment interfere with
business and pressed again for a state-
ment from the Party to assist his cam-
paign to ameliorate the lot of Soviet
Jewry. It came a few days later in
“Tribune”.
“During their overseas visit Mr Eric
Aarons, a member of the political com-
mittee of the CPA, and Mr Pete Thomas
had discussions with representatives of
the Central Committee of the Com-
munist Party of the Soviet Union on
the position of Jews in the Soviet Union.
Mr Aarons gave the following interview
to the national Communist weekly,
‘Tribune’.” The “interview” is, of course,
mostly a compound of evasions of the
issue and paeans of praise to the Soviet
Union, but it is significant for the fol-
lowing three exchanges:
Question: Is it true, as is sometimes
stated, that few Jewish people are able
to leave the Soviet Union, even to join
their relatives in other countries?
Answer: We were informed by the
representatives of the Communist Party
of the Soviet Union that all nationalities
were treated alike, that there was cer-
tainly no discrimination against Jews
who wish to emigrate to join their kins-
men in other countries, and that there
has recently been a considerable liberal-
isation in handling such applications. We
welcome this on humanitarian and
general grounds. As a further example
of this a recent article in a Soviet maga-
zine circulating internationally was
quoted. The article tacitly supported
the Arab position on the Jordan waters.
This did not accord with the position oj
the Communist Party of the Soviet
Union, which recognised the right of
national existence of Israel, and the
question had been taken up with the
author of the article.
Question: What is your opinion on the
report of a Soviet delegate at the United


RBA 838 C
r
>
*
5 v '
/V* **./
<*>
, ✓
M
■■ : , : ’
'f
1
It
n I
You can take it from me, Mac . . .
. . . I've invested with the St. George
& Cronulla Building Society. Not thous-
ands, of course . . . only a few hundred,
but it earns 6% p.a., current rate on
NO FIXED TERM. It's readily available
without deductions if I need it, and I
know it's safe with the St. George &
Cronulla Building Society. I don't reckon
there's any better investment.
MEMBER
SAFETY
NVESTMENT
Swojt
ST. GEORGE & CRONULLA
PERMANENT CO-OPERATIVE BUILDING SOCIETY LTD.
J. S. Ward, General Manager
Head Office: Co-operation House, 36 Ormonde Pde.,
Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone 57 0201.
City Office: 82 Elizabeth St., Sydney. Phone 28 2801.
/tf<u£faky
Mail to our nearest office.
Please send free comprehensive literature to .. .
ADDRESS
Nations supporting a proposal grouping
Zionism with Nazism?
Answer: / heard of this on my return
to Australia, and understand that this
incident took place in a UN Commis-
sion discussing racial discrimination. I
have not, of course, had the opportunity
to examine the details but in my opinion
it is certainly wrong to link Zionism with
Nazism in such a connection.
The fact that the USA has been at-
tacking the Soviet Union in pursuance
of the cold war does not alter the fact
that the forum formulation was wrong
and appropriate steps by the Soviet
Union to prevent the possibility of such
a mistake in future would be beneficial
to the Communist movement.
The answer to the first question is an
assurance by Aarons that official repre-
sentatives of the CPSU declared that
Soviet officials were liberalising their
approach to Jewish emigration. Until
this interview, Jewish authorities were not
aware that any changes in the restrictive
policies of the Soviet Union were con-
templated. If the Australian Communists
have been able to induce the CPSU to re-
lax restrictions on Jewish emigration they
will have made a tremendous contribu-
tion to the happiness of many thousands
of fragmented human families. Of
course it is always possible that the Soviet
officials were telling lies.
Question: What about reports of con-
tinued publication and circulation of
articles with an anti-Semitic effect?
Answer: / told the representatives of
the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
that we condemned such articles and
would welcome a more vigorous cam-
paign against them.
Pressure
answer is an important indication
of how far the CPA is willing to go
on the anti-Semitism issue. In certain
circumstances it will bring pressure to
bear on the Soviet Government itself, a
fact which, in the circumstances of the
rivalry between Moscow and Peking for
leadership of world Communist move-
ments, could prove to be of significance
in other areas besides that of anti-
Semitism.
More important is Aarons’ statement
on the Soviet linking of Zionism and
Nazism. His condemnation of this and
request that “appropriate steps be taken
to prevent the possibility of such a mis-
take in the future” lines the CPA up
with the Israeli Communist Party as the
only two Communist parties in the
world to have officially condemned this
Soviet tactic of using anti-Semitism as a
device to win favor with the Arab world.
On Monday, January 3, a hundred
Jewish students picketed the Soviet Em-
bassy and some of their leaders gained
an interview with the second secretary
at the embassy, Mr Stenin. Mr Stenin
is reported to have stated that there were
no restrictions of any kind on Jews in the
USSR and that the Australian Com-
munists who had made admissions about
Soviet anti-Semitism were fools.
Perhaps, in Leninist terms, they are.
But they are playing for their own stakes:
the possibility of building a strong united
front party on the foundations of their
own protestations of liberalism. Mr
Leibler was playing for a different pur-
pose: to get the Communist Party of
Australia to bring pressure to bear on the
Soviet authorities so that they would be
forced to ease the severe restrictions
operating against Soviet Jews.
So far the CPA has gone further than
any party in the world in admitting the
dissenting from Soviet anti-Semitism.
Under the conditions operating in Aus-
tralia, Mr Leibler has conducted a highly
successful campaign. And it is impor-
tant to note that at no stage has he been
lulled or diverted by Communist chat
about “Dialogue”. Whilst they have
been talking “Dialogue” he has been
waging, from a strongly anti-Communist
position, a tough political transaction. His
success could lead to considerable allevi-
ation of the sufferings of three million
Soviet Jews. The result of his cam-
paign deserves high commendation; the
method contains lessons for all others
who are approached to join “Dialogue”
with the CPA. The book on the campaign
• “Soviet Jewry and Australian Com-
munism: Select Documents” appears
next week.


LETTERS
The Phantoms of the
Opera House
SIR. —In listing the naughtinesses of the
villains in the Affaire Utzon (8., April
2), I suspect that you have let the
theatre “experts” on the Opera House
Committee off a bit lightly.
The one big silence in this whole
noisy business has been that of the local
theatre professionals. This is odd. The
criticised project is for three major new
theatres and all local professionals will
seek work in one of them, some day.
The technical detail of each theatre is
being extensively criticised by theatre
buffs overseas. Why then the local hush?
Toilers in my profession have remain-
ed discreetly silent because they know
what happens to those producers, actors
and stage managers who dare to criticise
the wisdom of the ABC - Elizabethan
Theatre Trust Old Boy network. And it
was this, the single pressure group on
the Opera House Committee, which
quietly left Mr Hughes and Mr Utzon to
argue about who is to hold the baby.
Just how expert are the “experts” who
angered Mr Utzon by their endless im-
provisations of policy? Typical of the
pressure group on the Committee is Neil
Hutchison, the major influence in both
ABC drama and the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust drama. It was his idea to call the
smallest auditorium “The Experimental
Theatre”, a catch-phrase popular in the
days of his BBC youth, but meaningless
now.
His notion of what constitutes, for
the generations which will soon succeed
him, an “experimental theatre’ ; ? A tired
proscenium stage which could have been
designed thirty years ago without seem-
ing modern . . .
Like the middle - sized auditorium, it
is a poorly proportioned touring theatre
without workshops or meaningful storage
space. We have theatres like this, rent-
able from the commercial managements
and frequently empty. Both new theatres
are therefore presumably in mind, Mr
Hutchison’s and Mr Haag’s mind, as a
useful outlet for productions mounted
by the minions of their new “Drama
Foundation”.
By the end of the year this extra-
ordinary organisation will directly con-
trol something in excess of 80 per cent
of all non-commercial drama employ-
ment in the State, this figure not in-
cluding Mr Hutchison’s own ABC
television and radio drama departments.
Remembering the unhappy profession-
al history of Mr Hutchison’s ABC and
Elizabethan Trust, is it any wonder that
local theatre professionals have chosen
to preserve a discreet, public silence in
the current muddle?
REID DOUGLAS
Tutor in Drama,
Dept, of Adult Education,
University of Sydney.
Sydney (NSW).
Ding-a-Ding Day
SIR. In Charles Higham’s article
“Hobbyists on Hobby-horses” (8., April
2), he states that a film, “Ding-a-Ding
Day”, made by cartoonist Gary Shead,
was rejected by the Sydney Film Festival
last year.
To set the record straight, no film of
that title was submitted for the Festival’s
consideration in 1965. Mr Shead did, in
fact, submit two films after the official
closing date for entries: “Sketches” and
“Four-Eyes, The Fastest Gun”. These
films were delivered for appraisal without
soundtracks, and the Festival’s Film
Sub-committee was unable to assess their
merits in this uncompleted form. It was
therefore decided not to programme the
films in the 1965 Festival.
Mr Shead has not yet entered the
completed films (which Mr Higham has
presumably seen) for the 1966 Film
Festival.
DAVID J. STRATTON
Director, Sydney Film Festival.
Sydney (NSW).
Charles Higham replies: My infor-
mation came from an interview with
Mr Shead.
LIBEL
feuLletCci
85 Years, Ago: April 17, 1880
knows by this time that
Dr O'Connor has issued a writ against
the proprietors of the "Evening News",
and that he claims therein the moderately
large amount of £20,000 as, in some sort,
a salve to his reputation, which he con-
ceives to have been injured by an article
published in the "Evening News" of the
27th of last month. We say this to our
contemporary go in and win, if possible,
but at all hazards fight the case out in the
Supreme Court arena. We most certainly
consider that our gaol system, as at pres-
ent administered, is anything but immacu-
late. Should our contemporary succeed in
unearthing some of the abuses obtaining
in Darlinghurst, we are certain that it
will not afterwards begrudge the time and
money spent in such a cause. Once more
we say to "go in and win if you can".
The fight should be continued by both
parties to the bitter end to the Privy
Council and bankruptcy.
French are about to occupy Tonquin,
North Vietnam.
Music Teachers
SIR. —Perhaps the most telling statement
in Mr David Salter’s article, “Out of the
19th Century” (8., February 12), is
“It is significant to note here that AMEB
is strictly an examining body and in no
way involved with the process of educa-
tion”. Mr Salter is obviously concerned
with musical “education” and not mere
examinations, which he may or may not
consider as means to that end. To what
extent the AMEB examinations help as
means to musical education is not the
concern of this letter, nor are other
points such as the “rose-colored-spec-
tacles” view of music in NSW schools.
But Mr Salter has omitted completely a
point that has been a serious concern of
the Victorian Music Teachers’ Associa-
tion for some considerable time, namely
the registration of music teachers, and
this closely concerns many of the judg-
ments he makes in his article.
There is no limit placed by any pro-
fessional, government or examining
body on who may prepare and present
candidates for music examinations (the
question of formal class teaching is
not intended here). We are all aware of
the public, governmental and profession-
al demand for qualified and approved
teachers in other areas of teaching, and
even where we have it, of the criticism
still levelled at unimaginative syllabuses
set by examining bodies. Yet where do
we find demands for the registration of
music teachers?
Admittedly, the whole matter is com-
plicated, partly due to the valuable
presence of many expert instrumentalist-
teachers who, it might be said, can show
no formal qualifications in the way of
degrees, etc., yet who have proved them-
selves competent teachers.
It is the aim and hope of the VMTA
to achieve some form of registration of
music teachers for both private and class
teaching based on standards set up by
the music teaching profession in consul-
tation with other registration bodies. The
association maintains that any evalua-
tion, such as Mr Salter’s, of mere
examining bodies and teaching institu-
tions is not complete without considera-
tion of the important matter of the
registration of music teachers.
(Rev.)
D. G. BRIGLIA
Council Member, VMTA
(Seaforth) Mackenzie (1913-1955).
Private Eyewash
SIR. Mr Higham’s view would seem
to be that “Private Eye” (8., March 26)
is merely a seedy exercise in under-
graduate, old-school-tie iconoclasm. But
if the magazine is designed for, and has
appealed to, an English sense of humor,
its value is no less if it fails to satisfy
the apparently high standard of satire
demanded by one critic in a country


mm
>
wm.
am
mmm
m
mm
■» * j
WMM
m
mm-.
"
fircettoU’for fofo*
Friends’ Provident the name to remember when you’re thinking of
assurance the Office with the personal approach, who have advised
on Life Assurance for more than 130 years.
Group Funds Exceed $450,000,000
FRIENDS’ mOVIDENT
AND CENTURY LIFE OFFICE
Incorporated in the United Kingdom
Head Office For Australia: “Century House” 70 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Chairman: Lieut-General Sir John Northcott, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C.B.
Deputy Chairman: Major-General Sir Denzil Macarthur-Onslow, C.B.E. D. 5.0., E.D.
which, with the possible exception of
“Oz” and the recent Oz revue, has failed
entirely to appreciate how urgently real
satire is needed.
JOHN PEEL
Kings Cross {NSW).
98 v Higham
SIR. —We have just read Charles
Higham’s reference to Normie Rowe as
“shortish and unhandsome” (8., March
5). If he honestly thinks Normie is
shortish and unhandsome, he must be
blind. He is the most sincere, adorable,
gorgeous, loveable, handsomest person
I know (and I do know him because I
have met him). How he can say things
like that about Normie is beyond us.
Unless of course he’s jealous of his looks
and success.
RUTH HARRISON
(and 97 others)
Mornington {Vic.).
"I'll Grow”
SIR.—One detects the sarcasm in your
“Dead Wood” paragraph under your
regular heading One More Week (8.,
April 9), in referring to the Anthony
Horderns Razorback Port Jackson Fig
tree, which has been saved as a monu-
ment—national monument, I might add
—and been restored to life after wanton
vandals had tried to destroy it. That
you should liken the attempt to kill this
famous tree to the difficulties encountered
by this company, in common with other
well - known retail stores in uptown
Sydney (some of which, unlike ours, have
failed to survive), is a source of regret
to thousands of Australians.
During the period the “While I Live
I’ll Grow” tree has been recovering on
the Razorback Mountain, improvements
have also been occurring in the condition
of the company’s business in Brickfield
Hill.
In justice to Australia’s first retail store
(1823) it is to be hoped therefore that
The Bulletin, a most readable and
worthy weekly magazine, will in fairness
take the trouble to point out these facts
to its influential and growing readership.
FRANK MUNRI
Managing Director,
Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd
Kenneth Mackenzie
SIR.—I am writing a biography of the
Australian poet and novelist Kenneth
(Seaforth) Mackenzie (1913-1955).
I would be pleased to hear from
anyone who knew Mackenzie at any
time, or has information concerning his
life. Also, if any person has in their
possession letters from Mackenzie,
poems or other unpublished works, I
should be grateful if they would let me
know.
(MISS) DIANA DAVIS
Moorabbin {Vic .).
In Defence of Captain Cook
SIR.—I write as an admirer of both
Captain Cook and Matthew Flinders, not
as President of the HMS “Endeavour”
Trust, to express my surprise that M. H.
Ellis in reviewing “A Voyage to Terra
Australis” by Matthew Flinders (8.,
April 2, 1966) could so disregard the
admiration of Flinders for his pre-
decessor.
Flinders puts on record in his book
—“This voyage of Captain Cook,
whether considered in the extent of his
discoveries and the accuracy with which
they were traced, or in the labors of
his scientific associates, far surpassed all
that had gone before. The general plan
of the voyage did not, however, permit
Captain Cook to enter minutely into de-
tail of every part; and had it been other-
wise, the very extent of his discoveries
would have rendered it impossible . . .
he reaped the harvest of discovery, but
the gleanings of the field remained to be
gathered”.
One wonders how anybody with the
slightest knowledge of Captain Cook
could describe his dramatic voyage of
discovery up the east coast of Australia
as a cursory run up the coast, compare
his cartography to the amateurish work
of some yachtsman and suggest by infer-
ence that Cook was not an intelligent,
experienced and seasoned seaman.
VICE-ADMIRAL SIR JOHN COLLINS,
KBE, CB (RAN, Retired)
Rosebery {NSW).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
“As Water Dribbling
Down a Drain”
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The face is chewed up, hurt, pale,
like a Thurber rabbit’s; the hair is
like iron fillings bristling on the
surface of a magnet. The pouting baby’s
mouth is turned down at the corners, the
eyes droop under sleepy lids. The clothes
are deliberately shabby, unkempt. He
shaves and washes when the mood takes
him. The half-starved frame carries a
defiant air. The voice is a monotonous
drone, like the sounds a man makes after
sea-sickness. The songs go on and on, as
inexorably and tunelessly as water drib-
bling down a drain. But the words, the
words are what matter.
Bob Dylan is sincere, sincere, utterly
sincere. He means it all, the pain of it
sears him where he lives. He is against
war, oppression, race hatred, business-
men, middle-aged adults, bourgeois liv-
ing. He is protesting. And he has a
very good agent.
What does he like? He likes the
young. He likes the rebels. And
Francois Villon, Bertolt Brecht, A. L.
Lloyd, Edith Piaf, Marlene Dietrich,
Eddie Freeman, Allen Ginsberg, Modi-
gliani, Charles Aznavour, Yevtushenko,
Miles Davis, William Blake, Johnny
Cash, Pete Seeger. Why go on?
“With my thumb out, my eyes asleep,
my hat turned up, an’ my head turned
on I’s driftin’ and learnin’ new lessons.”
He began playin’—the dropped “g” is
catching guitar at 10, ran away
from home seven or eight times, and “I
started smokin’ at 11 years old and only
stopped once to catch my breath ... I
fell for an actress girl who knifed me in
the guts ... I rode freight trains for
kicks . . . An’ got beat up for
laughs . . .” He flunked out from Uni-
versity after usin’ darin’ words in class,
or, in his own account, “ ’cos I wouldn’t
watch a rabbit die.” He had been on the
Kerouac Hike—South Dakota, Kansas,
New Mexico, California and found
Woody Guthrie, Shakespeare of the folk
people, in New York. (“He ain’t a folk
singer, he’s a genius, genius, genius,
genius.”) John Hammond, Director of
Talent Acquisition at Columbia Records,
heard him moanin’ and, no fool, signed
him up; before long he was getting 2000-
3000 dollars a night.
Joan Baez was lank-haired Queen to
his King: her pure, piercing voice, like
insistent thrust of a needle in the
brain—was “cool” (she was, someone
a co °* i s^ of integrity in the
middle of the little boxes”). And her
songs hit no less desirable targets. (“And
boys go into business/And marry
ant * ra ‘ se a f am ily/In boxes made of
ticky tacky/And they all look the
same.”) Bob Dylan’s song titles soon
hit the right note: “Masters of War”,
"Only a pawn in the game.” Miss Bae2
was fl u °ted as saying: “Bobby’s songs are
powerful as poetry and powerful as
music. And OH, MY GOD, how that
hoy can sing!”
Soon Bob whose real name was
Zimmerman, and who took his surname
from the Bard of Wales—only had to
work part of the year, spending the rest
in leather jacket, jeans, black jersey and
desert boots at the home of his manager,
Albert Grossman; he had obviously
been seeing James Dean pictures. A
typical comment was “integrity, that’s
what he’s got. By now, that kid is
outselling Thelonius Monk and Miles
Davis. He’s speaking to a whole new
generation. And not only here. He’s
just been in England. He had standing
room only at the Festival Hall.” And
“Bobby’s talking for every hung-up per-
son in the whole wide universe.”
“The New Yorker” profiled him:
“What’s wrong,” he told them, “goes
much deeper than the Bomb. What’s
wrong is how few people are free. Most
people walkin’ around are tied to some-
thin’ that doesn’t let them really speak,
so they just add their confusion to the
mess. I mean, they have some kind
of interest in the way things are goin’.
Me, I’m cool.”
But he wasn’t, of course, or didn’t
otherwise let us know he was. On one
occasion he was “hot” enough to cause a
real gone response: at the Tom Paine
Award of the Emergency Civil Liberties
Committee meeting at the Americana
Hotel, he said he saw a lot of himself
in Oswald. They booed. They bawled
him out. And his record sales kept
zooming.
There was trouble, too, over the
authorship of his “Blowin’ in the Wind”,


which some claimed had been sold him
by a high school student named Lome
Wyatt . . . asked to comment, Joan Baez
said: “There is a lot about Bobby I don’t
understand. But I don’t care. I under-
stand his words. That’s all that
matters.”
According to “Newsweek” he also
denied he knew his parents, Mr and
Mrs Abe Zimmerman, saying that his
real name wasn’t Zimmerman. (“Dig
my draft card, man.”) The woodsy
atmosphere was kept up, the dropped
“g’s”, the denim togs; it was all part of
the tradition in which civilised, grey-
faced, citified Americans put on the
wilderness dress, and it appealed not
only to all those young rebels, scruffily
present on campuses like the appalling
Berkeley, but to all those ageing, blue-
rinse matrons who follow the doings of
the other wilderness folk, those share-
holding Brooks Brothered Californian
mummers in coonskin caps on television:
it Put Them In Touch With The
Pioneers.
★
The Folk Song Cult was not always
a Cult: no one could listen to the mar-
vellous music of the miners, railroaders,
sailors and cowboys—above all the
Negro slaves of the South—without being
deeply moved. John and Alan Lomax
collected these superb songs for years,
and showed in their researches, pre-
served in fine albums, that folk singing
is a naked expression of pain, of hope;
listening to these lyrics so often com-
mercialised, smoothed and ironed away
to gutless anonymity by smoothies like
Harry Belafonte, one realises that the
reason for their greatness is that no-one
singing them thought them great, and
no-one listening to them did either; the
songs stemmed from painful experience,
not from the feverish brains of the
agent-manager-recording company com-
plex. In the early singing of Huddie
Ledbetter, discovered in a gaol, or
Woody Guthrie, bard of the Dust Bowl,
the real America of the under-privileged
comes breathtakingly through. It is a
far cry from the thin-brained efforts of
today.
Guthrie never quite succumbed to the
commercial pulls, and his songs about
hoboes, the big city, the dams of
America are still moving. But Folk
Song became big in America, not so
much because of him as because of the
slicky commercial Kingston Trio, whose
“Tom Dooley”, a smash-hit of 1958,
really set the whole thing off as a craze.
Later, the campuses took Folk up: folk
song clubs and festivals became com-
monplace. At the Newport Festival the
addition of Folk to the usual jazz format
brought 45,000 students to listen: it
wasn’t long before a group like Peter,
Paul and Mary could move into the
Sutton Place category, and amass mil-
lions: the songs, though, emphasised the
wickedness of riches, and were against,
“Variety” told the uninformed, “war-
mongers, Nazis, poverty, injustice, com-
mercial exploitation, blacklisting, prize-
fighting, and atom fallout.” At the famous
March on Washington in 1963 Folk was
very much to the fore, and Bob Dylan,
Peter, Paul and Mary, Odetta and Josh
White sang to the marchers.
But alongside the “genuine” folk
movement, the deadly grip of PR had
taken hold, and too often it wasn't a
question of being an artist, but simply
of looking right, of striking the correct
attitudes. Forget your parents exist,
attack the correct targets. You don’t have
to be able to sing, or compose; any bird-
brain can call himself a folk-singer today
and get away with it. Just be Holden
Caulfield, Franny and Zooey, Bob Dylan,
Joan Baez, James Dean and Yevtu-
shenko rolled into one, “and, baby,
you’re the top!”
★
And the folk times, are they
a’changin’? For the Australian per-
formers, undoubtedly —and for the worse.
Only one of the performers well-known
here a year ago can be said to have
held her own, and more than that: Tina
Date, a former Bulletin cover girl, has
gone to New York at the suggestion of
Brother John Sellers, opened at a Green-
wich Village boite named the Gaslight
Cafe, and is due at time of writing to
star at the celebrated Folk City. She
has concentrated largely on ballads, in-
cluding some Australian numbers in her
repertoire.
For the others here, times have been
tough. The trouble, probably, is that the
bulk of the folk concert or cafe audi-
ences here weren’t deeply interested in
folk song at all, let alone feeling an
emotional commitment to the Left-wing
ideals many of the numbers put out. Un-
like so many of their American and
British counterparts, who found them-
selves caught up in the whole movement
mentally, the Australian young were
simply, one suspects, looking for new
kinds of kicks in the folkie haunts. When
the kicks became old-hat they moved on
to new pastures (currently, the dis-
cotheques).
Gary Shearston’s records still sell well,
but not as well as they used to. His TV
programme folded quickly, and has re-
cently only seemed to be going: it has
been on replay. Alex Hood and Marian
Henderson perform at the durable
Copperfield, Sydney, while Hood, Hen-
derson and others appeared on occasion
at the Castaways, a now closed cafe in
Mosman. The Pigalle, Parramatta, can
mean a take home roll of $26-odd to an
entertainer for one night’s work. Then
there is (or was) the regular folk concert
at Pact, a Sydney actors’ co-operative
rather fewer places are active in Mel-
bourne.
There is still some money in folk
singing, but few of the local performers
have changed their formula significantly
in 18 months, and they may have ham-
pered their careers. In America the
situation has been different. Early last
year Bob Dylan switched to a folk-rock
format, i.e., a welding together of folk-
song and rock-’n’roll elements, which
shocked some purists but registered
strongly with most fans. The wild craze
of 1963-4 may be over, but most of the
stars are making very big money still.
Dylan and Joan Baez and Peter, Paul
and Mary (the last the most overtly
commercial of the folkies) are all around
the millionaire level. Odetta, the Clancy
Brothers, Judy Collins, all tour continu-
ally and successfuly. Most combine at
their concerts “straight” folk-singing and
“rock”-type folk renditions.
Nowadays, it is uncommon for even
the severest critics to complain about
“folk-rock”. One very popular group,
The Byrds, have retained a strong fol-
lowing among critics while going all
out for the new blend. A combina-
tion concert, recently given by Bob
Dylan, was typical: the first half was the
“old” Dylan, ending with “Mr Tam-
borine Man”, a number which bridged
the gap between his earlier and later
styles, and the second half was backed
by a rock group; he finished up “like a
rolling stone”.
The new folk concerts have largely lost
their old, solemn, sub-political flavor,
and are now more and more like ordin-
ary teenage concerts: frenetic, full of
screaming mobs. It looks as though,
if the Australians in the field are going
to give the mode a new shot of life,
they are going to have to band together,
give “wild” concerts, and forget about
the ballads of the sad cafes.
THEATRE
Built-up Area
The Master Builder. By Henrik Ibsen.
Produced by Irene Mitchell. St Martin's
Theatre, Melbourne.
This is the sort of play that, from time
to time, theatres feel obligated to
perform and audiences to attend. So it
takes philistinism or fearlessness to
admit to finding it boring; which it was
in a stimulating sort of way.
Ibsen wrote the play at 69, attempting
to resolve his ethical confusions through
some harrowing self-analysis and, unlike
most recent examples of theatrical breast-
beating (e.g., Miller s '‘After The Fall ’
and you-name-it of Tennessee Williams),
his writing is free of self-indulgence.
Ibsen depicts himself as the architect


LOOK
A HANDS FREE TELEPHONE
' %
W
L M ERICSSON’S S****~'r> .
Qmccvcz^
LOU DS PEAK INS TELEPHONE IS PMG APPROVED
FOR A DEMONSTRATION CONTACT:
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD. FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYONEY. PHONE 921147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., 163 Collins St., Hcbart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 8 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 21 9331
FLY TO
THE MIDDLE EAST
SWISSCARE •*- WORLDWIDE
Halvard Sol ness, who has succeeded by
following pretty much in Faust’s foot-
steps, and who maintains his position by
cruelty and deception. Surrounded by
those his ambition has destroyed, he waits
for youth to tear him from his pedestal,
dreading and willing it at once. At
last, in an attempt to vindicate his life,
he accepts youth's challenge, tackles a
final tower and falls.
Ibsen loved symbols—wild ducks,
dolls’ houses, coffin-ships—and used
them brilliantly. But in “The Master
Builder” his towers of ambition clutter
the stage, and the prolonged architectural
metaphor must be one of the most weari-
some devices in drama. One wishes it
were possible to fillet all reference to
building from the play; the characters
would still stand up quite well and the
ideas would remain exciting. As it is
you can’t see the wood for scaffolding.
Norman Kaye plays Solness with earn-
estness and Elspeth Ballantyne is appro-
priately intense as the vehement Hilde
Wangel. As Aline, Solness’s poignant
ghost of a wife, Margaret Reid is splen-
did. The play takes place in sets by
Paul Kathner which derive from the ex-
pressionist paintings of Edvard Munch,
a contemporary and compatriot of Ibsen.
This must have seemed a good idea in
the abstract, but in practice great whirls
and whorls of traumatic color are a bit
hard to take for three acts.
PHILLIP ADAMS
Not Very Exciting
Voyage
A Sleep Of Prisoners. Christopher Fry,
Voyage Theatre, Old Tote Theatre, Syd-
ney. *•*
'C'our prisoners of war are locked in a
church. In the first scene David
King, the passionate one, becames irri-
tated with Peter Able, the unaggressive
one, and in a moment of fury almost
throttles him. Joe Adams, the corporal,
and Tim Meadows, an older man, separ-
ate them. They go to sleep and each of
the four has a dream which is influenced
by the surroundings and the quarrel.
Meadows dreams he is God and that
David and Peter are Cain and Abel.
David dreams he is the King of Israel
and that Peter is his son Absalom. Peter
dreams he is Isaac and that David is
Abraham his father. These dark images
of conflict and violence between brother
and brother, son and father, and father
and son are followed by an image of
hope: the three younger men have a
collective dream in which they are
Shadrac, Meshac and Abednego, cast into
the fiery furnace by the evil Nebuchad-
nezzar, but rescued by God.
The trouble with the play is that there
is no real dramatic development. We are
shown a set of images with common ele-
ments like patterns in a kaleidoscope.
But one image does not grow from an-
other.
Before the play begins the four actors
present an explanatory prologue written
by Harold Lang, the director of the
Voyage Theatre. They first enact a very
contrived and elementary discussion of
dreams and then read the four stories
from the Old Testament.
The first half of the prologue seems
to me unnecessary and the second sub-
versive to the play. As to the first,
audiences nowadays are quite familiar
with metaphorical devices and probably
feel cheated if the dramatist does not
provide a few dreams, symbols, changes
of identity or invisible objects on which
they can exercise their ingenuity. As to
the second, in the four Old Testament
stories we are presented with models of
dramatic development which the play-
wright patently does not copy. Terse,
vivid, poetic, with a clear line of action,
they have a strength and immediacy
which in Fry is blurred and muffled by
an inflated rhetoric which swings between
pastiche and banality.
Harold Lang and his company have
obviously devoted a great deal of thought
and sympathy to the production of this
difficult play. But their style of acting
seems to me over-theatrical and self-
conscious. Admittedly these are the same
faults that I find in Fry’s poetic drama
and might be attributed to the dramatist.
But the company exhibits them also when
reading the Old Testament stories which
cry out for strength and simplicity in the
treatment and the art which conceals
art.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
FILMS
Slow Motion
The Greatest Story Ever Told. Director,
George Stevens. Plaza Theatre, Sydney.
Dear Heart. Director, Delbert Mann. Town
Theatre, Sydney.
Our Man Flint. Director, Daniel Mann,
Regent Theatre, Sydney.
The Silencers. Director, Phil Karlson.
State Theatre, Sydney.
HThe numerous screen versions of the
life of Christ have generally bogged
down in solemn reverence, and George
Stevens’ film is no exception. He’s so
determined to achieve good taste that
he’s removed all flavor. It’s very big,
very loud, very sincere and totally life-
less, and it moves at a pace that would


. ■
the
Black
Dolphin
l motel
Princes Highway,
Merimbula
’phone
Merimbula 328
For overnight
accommodation or a
relaxing holiday, it’s wonderful in winter, superb
in summer Merimbula, located on the coastal
Princes Highway (between Sydney and Mel-
bourne), is famous as a year-round holiday
resort. It’s a fishing paradise, located right on
the lake with nearby surf beaches, and in
winter Merimbula is famous for its oysters and
its climate - warmed by tropical currents. A
motel of distinction, the Black Dolphin has the
usual licensed restaurant, guests’ lounge, air-
conditioning, swimming pool, private jetty and
superb cuisine.
For reservations and further details contact any
ANSETT-ANA TRAVEL SERVICE
Offices in all Capital Cities, or direct to
The Black Dofphin Motel, Merimbula. Phone 326
A MlMitft COMPANY Of ANifU JkAMPOKJ IHDUSTMIS UMItIQ
————. i '■ AT1.711
make the stateliest pavane look like the
Watusi.
Just in case any of the story’s drama
should register, Stevens has decided to
photograph the film almost as a series
of stills, with figures grouped as in friezes;
he also indulges himself greatly in those
John Ford shots of riders in silhouette
against the sky. Despite the discretion
of its color, the film is visually unimpres-
sive except by mere size, and some of
the model shots are both ugly and embar-
rassingly obvious.
In the difficult (probably impossible)
role of Christ, Max von Sydow man-
ages to convey force of character, but
he is coldly intellectual and withdrawn
—-no hint here of the warm-hearted,
gregarious Jesus who enjoyed company,
weddings and wine; and since his dia-
logue consists chiefly of the more sen-
tentious of Christ’s recorded sayings he
can’t help occasionally sounding like a
pompous bore spouting “quotations”.
The rest of the impressive cast battle
along gamely but mostly succumb to the
prevailing melancholy. Tidings of great
joy, indeed! ,
A strangely patchy script probably
accounts for the unsatisfactory impres-
sion left by “Dear Heart”, one of those
interesting failures which irritates by not
being just that little bit better. The
performances are impeccable, the direc-
tion unobtrusively expert, some of the
scenes are beautifully written, worthy
of Paddy Chaveysky at his best. But
they are too often interrupted by
sequences of folksy sentimentality, of suf-
focating American warm-heartedness. It
says much for Geraldine Page and Glenn
Ford that they manage to establish their
characters as human beings, not maga-
zine-story symbols. Michael Anderson
Jnr (who also makes his mark as one of
the disciples in “The Greatest Story”)
gives a funny and sympathetic picture of
a bewildered 18-year-old.
Where will the spy-film cult end? Not
that I particularly want it to just yet, I’m
quite enjoying it. But James Bond is
"So! The great architect is creating
a sunset!"
himself a parody. Now we’re getting
parodies of Bond. In “Our Man Flint”
the joke comes off delightfully, after a
slightly creaky start. But there are no
more problems after James Coburn ap-
pears on the scene as the wealthy, in-
vincible, omniscient Flint, who lives in
an automated apartment with four (count
’em) adoring mistresses. Coburn gives a
remarkably droll, light-hearted perform-
ance as Flint, who knows just about
everything and can carry such useful
devices as a Geiger counter, a blow-
torch and a microscope without marring
the hang of his beautifully cut suits. The
photography is handsome—the scene in
the smoky Marseilles cafe is noteworthy
—and the set designer must have had
enormous fun with Flint’s apartment and
the villains’ science-fiction headquarters.
But “The Silencers” has parodied it-
self out of existence. Noisy and garish,
it repeats its one or two not very funny
jokes ad nauseam ; and though Dean
Martin seems to be enjoying things in
his offhand manner, he doesn’t pass on
much of the fun to the audience.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
TELEVISION
Borrowed Time and
Borrowed Jokes
The Bob Crosby Show. Channel 7, Sydney.
’66 And All That. Channel 10, Sydney.
Two local enterprises which remain in
the doldrums, waiting for an inspira-
tional breeze, are “The Bob Crosby
Show” and “ ’66 And All That”. On
his Sydney show, Mr Crosby is currently
in harness with an English comedian
who plays the part of a lewd, mischievous
child, and whose humor runs to such
items as a monologue about his “itching,
bleeding tooth” and a description of a
Sophia Loren-Jayne Mansfield film as
“a meeting of the big four”. Crosby
also provides house room for older Tivoli
performers who, together with Mr Den-
nis, may delight the over-60 set and show
the young why the Tivoli circuit lost
money on variety.
Time is running out for Bob Crosby
tc build shows which include people with
empathy for the image he is or was try-
ing to project. After many weeks both
his Sydney and Melbourne shows remain
aimless. The same can be said of Carol
Raye’s gang in “ ’66 And All That”.
Someone should decide, and soon, wheth-
er it is supposed to be a humor show, or
a dreary social commentary with occas-
ional dancing. At present in Sydney we
have a series of commercials for a morn-
ing newspaper which are funnier than
any sketch of “ ’66”.
Oddly enough, one of them was suit-
ably visible just before ATN-7 showed
a “Seven Days” episode last week, de-
voted to the local film industry which
exists on TV commercials and is visibly
smug about their quality. In a tightfy
edited half-hour film, Peter Martih
gathered that Australia feels technically
ready to make feature movies, and pro-
bably soon will. Industry leaders indica-
ted that only faith and finance are lack-
ing. There were sobs about problems of
distribution, but Michael Powell seemed
to think that good B-class movies could
be made for $60,000 or less, and get
distribution.
The apparently pigeonholed Vincent
Committee Report on Australian filming
was twice mentioned, without clarity as
to what exactly was said in it. Michael
Powell’s “Weird Mob” cost around
$600,000 to make. Leon Becker, of Art-
ransa Park, said a feature movie could
be made for $200,000 but would be a
gamble, and no one said “boo” about
Powell’s $60,000 B-class estimate. I got
the general impression that the bigger
existing studios were not entirely un-
happy to be forever making $l4OO-
- TV commercials while waiting for
the “real” film industry to spring into
being.
FRANK ROBERTS


BOOKS
Epitaph for a Spy
By R. M. WILDING
A Patriot For Me. John Osborne. Faber.
$2.55.
“T ook Back in Anger” still remains the
best-known and arguably the most
successful of John Osborne’s plays. It
is a very personal play, and in the ten
years since its first performance it is
Osborne’s personal involvement in Jimmy
Porter that has sustained the play, carry-
ing it over the obvious flaws. This is
not to say Osborne identified with or
even wholly supported Porter the
stage directions established clearly the
criticisms that should be made of him.
But Porter became a type for a whole
generation because his situation was one
that obviously was shared; his frustra-
tions were presented with a passionate
conviction that found a ready response in
the mid-’fifties.
At first sight, “A Patriot For Me” has
little in common with “Look Back in
Anger”. The passion of Jimmy’s speeches
is rarely present. Only at the end of the
play does Redl break out into a char-
acteristic Osborne harangue—once when
his last boy friend has said he wants to
marry, and once when he has been given
the pistol with which to kill himself,
and attacks, incoherently, the Spaniards
in the Hapsburg empire.
Alfred Redl is a totally different char-
acter from Jimmy Porter. When the play
opens, in 1890, he is a lieutenant in the
Austro-Hungarian army; he has a work-
ing or lower middle-class background
hardly promising for a career in the
rigidly class-structured army. Yet, by
hard work, by application, by ability, he
makes an astonishing rise until finally
he becomes head of Imperial counter^
intelligence. Redl, though, is a homo-
sexual; indeed, it is in order to repress
consciousness of his homosexuality that
he works so hard, and achieves such
success. But his homosexuality makes
him vulnerable to blackmail by the esp-
ionage system of Tsarist Russia. And
so he becomes a spy for Russia. The
money is useful for paying for his ex-
pensive cars, his bills, and the bills of
his boy friends. Redl’s character, then,
is one necessarily preventing revelation,
continually repressing. He cannot admit
to his background, to his homosexuality,
to his spying. He must remain a silent
and hence rather an undramatic figure.
But the differences in the two plays
are due not merely to the personality
differences of their protagonists. In “A
Patriot For Me” there is an historical dis-
tancing from the characters and incidents.
Osborne gains important advantages from
this. One of his troubles as a dramatist
has been an inability to present his mater-
ial with objectivity. It is a failing most
conspicuous in “The World of Paul
Slickey” where everything the church,
the aristocracy, the Press, success, pop-
music, racial discriminators, fox-hunters
came in for equal abuse abuse
equally random, wild and ineffective.
Similarly in the short play “The Blood
of the Bambergs”, the topical theme of a
royal marriage to a press photographer
provoked undirected or multi-directed
wild attempts at social satire. In this
latest play, though, Osborne can deal
with contemporary themes the Vassal
case is obviously relevant without a
disabling over-engagement.
After the burning contemporaneity of
his first play, it might seem odd that
Osborne should have turned to historical
drama. Yet he has already written an
historical play for television, “A Subject
of Scandal and Concern”, and the very
successful “Luther”. Then there were the
two film scripts he worked on “Moll
Flanders” and “Tom Jones”. Indeed it
has been suggested that “A Patriot For
Me” was originally conceived and par.
tially written as a film scenario. It has
even now, a cast of 84 characters and
twenty three scenes. This might suggest,
too, a sort of Brechtian epic theatre;
Osborne was influenced by Brecht as
early as “The Entertainer”. But the in-
fluence is only a superficial one. The
contemporary epic theatre tricks of back
projection are there but the total
effect is nearer to the typically English
biographical-chronicle play like Ratti-
gan’s “Ross”. With Brecht, an historical
action is made into a public, dramatic
action. With Osborne, an historical action
is examined for the psychological in-
terest of its protagonist. The Austro-
Hungarian empire is shown here in all
its rich, decadent glory a marvellous
picture. But it is never much more than a
picture. The historical implications of
Redl’s spying are not brought out. The
political consequences of Redl’s inform-
ing Tsarist Russia of the Hapsburg em-
pire's fortifications and troops in the east
are left from the picture.
The centre of the play, then, is the
plight of the individual, of Red! in a
society from which he is, for various
reasons, alienated; the similarities to
Jimmy Porter or Archie Rice are obvious
enough. The social class aspect is firmly
present; because of his background
Redl can never be at ease; he carries
a hatred (finally cruelly revenged) of the
aristocratic von Kupfer with whom he,
from the beginning, has to compete,
Because of his background, Redl is
vulnerable to blackmail he cannot
pay his debts; and because of his
background, because of that alienation,
he feels few compunctions in betraying
his country. Unlike the earlier Osborne
heroes, Redl has succeeded in the social
world and, interestingly, he has suc-
ceeded in the world of the turn of the
century; in “Look Back in Anger” and
“The Entertainer” that world is seen as
the possibly peaceful, stable, desirable
world, so much more attractive than the
19505.
Redl masters the social situation. His
quietness, his restraint at the first Court
Ball show his unease. But it is the last
time we see that sort of unsureness. Id
the next scene he is the lover of the
Countess Delyanoff. But though he has
gained a social security, then, his sexual
unhappiness is accentuated. And it > s
sex that provides the other concern of
In Service
The pale day-moon fits to
The chimney’s length that slightly tapers.
A thick height up flush to it;
Not nestling, nor pressing against.
One large and a smaller metal noise repeat
Their life; a hammering: too paced though
for that
A pressure forced on to metal,
Which cuts out of metal the cars’ parts,
A noise of something stronger
Forced into something resistant,
Unlike a sound in nature.
I am made in words for the eye
For the torn mind, as it tears
Another for its masticating.
The knitted strength is devoured
Into the devourer’s strength
Adding a certain health
To his bone’s walls, and shaped
Like a fin feeling its way
Into the water with a net in it.
I have fed up the sphincter
Squeezing out the flesh’s ordure.
Employed, powerful. And survive
In myself in service,
Integral as a muscle.
JON SILKIN


the play linking Redl again with
Jimmy Porter. Indeed, sexual unease has
always been as much Osborne’s concern
aS social unease. In Porter the two are
inseparable.
And the homosexual theme is not new.
‘‘Personal Enemy” a play Osborne
wrote with Anthony Creighton before
“Look Back in Anger” suffered badly
from deletions required by the Lord
Chamberlain; a whole homosexual strand
was excised from the plot. The Lord
Chamberlain, of course, has refused to
license “A Patriot For Me”—a list of
the deletions he required (including one
entire scene) is appended to the text of
the play.
Redl, then, is one of Osborne’s sexual
Victims. Yet this never becomes very in-
teresting. His growing awareness of his
homosexuality takes 10 scenes to develop
lasting almost an hour and a half. The
theatrical climax of this comes at the
beginning of Act II in the drag ball
that the Lord Chamberlain objected to.
The scene is prefaced by a rather pre-
tentious note by Osborne categorising the
different sorts of homosexuals though
its pretentiousness is perhaps excusable
since Osborne wants the scene to look
striking. It certainly does that (there is
a still on the dust jacket) and it provides
the play with the sort of shock that
Osborne likes to give. But that is as far
as Osborne takes it something thea-
trically shocking.
At the end of the play we are somehow
disappointed. It is difficult to judge only
from the script though that is all one
is ever likely to be able to judge from
here. The final effect is of a sort of
woodenness. We have seen an interesting
spectacle but we know no more of Redl
than we did at the beginning. He is some-
one so fenced in even when he has
recognised his homosexuality that his
personality cannot be displayed. All the
first act was devoted to developing Redl
as a psychologically interesting char-
acter; but with his homosexuality est-
ablished, Osborne seems to have felt that
nothing more was needed. This surely
is only a beginning; yet for Osborne it
seems that this is the conclusion, as if
this was Redl’s full psychological com-
plexity. Certainly this fact allows Redl
to be manipulated, blackmailed, and so
destroyed; but the subtleties of his motiv-
ations, even of his relationships (we are
shown not much more than his jealousy
when one of his young lovers wants to
marry) are missing. Redl remains as
much of an enigma as ever and the play
concludes, rather wearily, on the melo-
dramatic aspects of the “plot” the
spies and the suicide not on the
richer possibilities of the historical or
ihe psychological drama.
The Priestess and the Satyr
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Letters to Anais Nin. Henry Miller. Peter
Owen. $6.60.
“jyvT you don’t look so obscene!” a
French bookseller once exclaimed on
meeting the author of “Tropic of Can-
cer”. Neither does the self-portrait that
emerges from these letters: Henry Miller,
the undisputed champion literary hobo
of the four-letter word, though making
a brief appearance here and there, is far
less in evidence than Henry Miller, the
“crusader for life”, fighting both personal
and professional disappointment with
undiminished zeal.
The “Dear Anais Nin”, the fragile
child-woman he addresses first in 1931,
may have caused him to put a brake on
his pen initially. At this time an unpub-
lished and unpublishable forty-year-old,
he even hesitated to show her his work
for fear of giving offence. But soon she
is trying to help him revise an early
crude MS and during the fifteen years
that follow his most productive period
when he passes from obscurity into
notoriety his manner scarcely changes.
On the surface, the friendship between
the two authors seems an attraction of
opposites. A comparison between Nin’s
“Ladders to Fire” and Miller’s “Tropic
of Capricorn” seems to put them light-
years away from each other in thought
and style. She delves in “inner space”, he
probes the junk-yards of life; she drifts
in rhythmic scents, he writes at what
Ezra Pound calls “full stink”. A 1933
photograph of Anais Nin (daughter of
the composer) reveals a slim, sad high-
priestess posing in long, flowing draperies
in the walled garden of her home near
Paris; a shot of Henry Miller that year
shows a knowingly grinning, bald, be-
spectacled figure sitting on a doorstep,
relaxed, collar askew and both feet
planted firmly on the ground.
Yet their penfriendship, begun in
Europe, was to outlast the war, wives,
Miller’s Greek visit and his return to the
United States for which he nourished
such a traumatic hatred. Starting with
the discovery of a mutual interest in
D. H. Lawrence (Anais Nin’s first pub-
lished work was “An Unprofessional
Study”, an intuitive plea for Lawrence’s
acceptance when the original Lady
Chatterley scandal was in full cry) it
soon progresses to a discovery of the
still jumbled talent of the struggling new
writer Henry Miller. Later he was to con-
tribute his own “World of D. H. Law-
rence.”
Perhaps the most important letter for
the understanding of Miller’s work is one
headed Villa Seurat, August 1938.
Referring to the Zodiac, he explains that
for him Cancer is the apogee of death in
life while Capricorn, its opposite, means
life in death. He himself is constantly
trying to walk the hairline between the
two. Cancer is also the disease of civili-
sation, or the moment when the extreme
point along the wrong path has been
reached. Like the Crab, one must then
reverse direction. He links this to the
Nietzschean doctrine of eternal recur-
rence and also to the essence of Budd-
hism.
Some pages read like exuberant intel-
lectual ratbaggery, soliloquies on any-
thing from Proust to Ramakrishna or
the jottings of raw ideas for books. There
are hundreds of letters, though breaks
occur when the two lived in the same
place, and Miss Nin’s replies are not
given and are seldom missed. Driven
by the urge of the compulsive letter-
writer, Miller also carries on the well-
known correspondence with Lawrence
Durrell and with Michael Fraenkel
(“Hamlet”), etc.
There is one recurring theme again
and again, letter after letter, year after
year money. Always hard up, always
skimping, always wiring, writing, begging
for advances. Even when “Tropic of
Cancer” was accepted by Englishman
Jack Kahane for the Obelisk Press which
almost specialised in risque books in
Paris in 1932, the publishers sat on the
censorial fence for two more nervously
dithering years until Anais Nin herself
backed them financially. On other oc-
casions she hand-printed MSS on an old
press.
Later, back home, where his books
were banned, Miller unearthed a nice
case of censorship turning literature into
pornography. Pirated editions, printed in
China were doing a splendid under-the-
counter trade in American bookshops
and were being circulated rapidly through
the wartime navy, while the unpaid
author sat around waiting-rooms in
Hollywood studios, living mainly on
promises of scenario work that did not
eventuate. Ironically, the man whose
major books were not to appear in Eng-
land until the ’sixties (and are still not
available in Australia) was found “too
pure” for Hollywood.
However, one is not really surprised
that Doubleday, who had originally com-
missioned “Air-Conditioned Nightmare”,
turned down the finished MS and de-
manded their advance back, if the rough


By arrangement with GOSCONCERT, MOSCOW, and ERIC EDGLEY
EDGLEY & DAWE
J. C. WILLIAMSON
THEATRES LTD.
PRESENT
RUSSIA'S
MOST
DAZZLING
ATTRACTION
B€RIOSKA
DANCE COMPANY of MOSCOW
•* Russian Notional Orchestra
CAST OF 70
V
ft w
CRITICS RAVE!! "Fantastic skill and panache . . . excellent
evening's entertainment" BULLETIN. "The most perfectly
drilled team I have ever seen" Melb. AGE. "The sum total
is wonderful enter-
tainment" Melb.
SUN. "They're a
Marvel . . . fascinat-
ing experience"
Melb. HERALD. "An
incessant miracle"
. .. . . , , BRUSSELS. "An un-
believable, magic show"— NEW YORK. "A cease-
less thunder of applause rocked La Scala"
MILAN.
AUSTRALIAN SEASON 1966
MELBOURNE (Her Majesty's) Until April 19.
ADELAIDE (Her Majesty's) April 21-30.
CANBERRA (Civic Centre) May 2-4.
SYDNEY (Tivoli by arrangement with Tivoli
Circuit Aust.) May 6-June 11.
BRISBANE (City Hall) June 13-18.
PERTH (Her Majesty's) June 20-28.
SEE METROPOLITAN PRESS FOR BOOKING
DFTAII <;
tub most exciting of ALL SO WET SHOWS
Flying exclusively TAA throughout Australia
By arrangement with AEROFLOT, Moscow, U.S.S.R.
W
material of Miller’s coast-to-coast Ameri-
can journey in a battered, temperamental
old bomb as recorded in these letters is
anvthing to judge by. “Here space and
emptiness are synonymous,” he writes.
“This Continent for the white people is
doomed.”
Some of these notes are likely to
throw light on a few controversial ques-
tions, for instance, that four-letter word.
He says he uses it because he feels he
cannot do without it. It is a necessary
adjunct to talking about life and he
seems to treat it as a surrealist treats bits
of bodies and a Gothic artist treats gar-
goyles. If we find it obscene, then it is life
itself that is obscene, not just Henry
Miller. In an early letter he tells Anais
Nin that she does not yet know what men
are like: it is fairly normal to swim in a
perpetual sea of sex.
Meanwhile, opinions on Miller are
likely to go on differing as much as after
“Tropic of Cancer” when the first pub-
lisher reported, “Some thought it great,
some thought it vile; some thought it
mortally dull, others wildly exciting.”
Perhaps the best summing up is Miller’s
own admission in Capricorn, “I was a
contradiction in essence.”
There is an excellent introduction by
Gunther Stuhlmann, an index, biographi-
cal notes and photos.
Man of Two Worlds
By M. H. ELLIS
Bruce of Melbourne. Cecil Edwards. Heine-
mann. $7.50.
Though Mr Edwards has written a
A readable book which puts together
in one piece many things that have not
been woven into a single fabric before,
he is still left wondering about “myster-
ies” that are not mysteries at all. There
is no mystery about Lord Bruce’s earliest
and first career, of course. He was the
son of a North of Ireland Scotsman
who, after an education at Madras
College, St Andrew’s in Scotland, had
come to Australia to work in a Mel-
bourne softgoods indent house in
Flinders Lane where he began with such
jobs as sweeping floors and ended up as
the main proprietor and controller.
His father having modernised the
methods of the softgoods indent business
and its financing, the family was able to
send young Stanley to Melbourne Gram-
mar School and Cambridge though
the years were piebald as to prosperity
before landing him in the position just
before World War I in which he was a
hard working barrister of 30 who had
been called in the Middle Temple and
had already begun to earn several
hundred pounds a year in Equity to add
to his £5OOO a year from Paterson Laino
and Bruce of which he was London
chairman at 23.
Measured by the rate of progress
normal to the London Equity Bar, he
was headed for considerable success. He
in 1914 already had earned a reputation
as a junior, skilful in arranging difficult
settlements with queasy foreigners and
had been as far afield as Mexico City
and Bogota in the course of his profes-
sion.
It was not surprising, despite Mr
Edwards’ apparent puzzlement, that
when S. M. Bruce came back to Mel-
bourne during the war, he fitted in
immediately into the world to which he
had been born. For Melbourne financial
and indent circles were merely an ex-
pansion of the same circles in England
and they operated privately and politi-
cally with English-based money. Half
their ardor for good government was
English ardor. And this was perfectly
logical in view of the fact that we owed
hundreds of millions in London (about
the ability to pay interest on which the
lenders overseas felt a nice concern).
Melbourne was the political kernel of
Australia and the Victorians, with the
Federal Parliament in their clutches,
were as now the dominating factors in
financing campaigns and choosing leaders
throughout the Eastern States. So it was
easy for a young man of fighting record,
the only survivor among the original
officers of his battalion on Gallipoli, with
a striking appearance, the gift of ex-
pressing himself clearly and a personality
that made an impact everywhere, to be
drawn quickly into politics when the
Melbourne financial groups were looking
for somebody young and bright to put
Victoria back in the position they occu-
pied in the days when young Deakin was
a dominant national force. Youth in
Victoria was distinctly an asset still. It
remains so there even today in politics, j
I hat State still leans towards young
Liberals who are reasonably fresh from
Oxford and Cambridge. The compo-
sition of the back bench in the House of
Representatives illustrates the tendency
in 1966.
Once the accident that he had been
the only man available in Europe and
suitable to represent Australia at the
League of Nations on a notable occasion,
had given Bruce a chance to prove bis
qualities and show his paces, there was
no escape for him. The financiers and


3 l.i NOOdOX 1 i
measures'
'all the \
EIGHT
THROUGH THE LENS!
Topcon camera*
have no limitation
to automation, for illus-
trated literature con-
tact: R. Gum Pty. Ltd.,
24 Wentworth
Ave„
Cabinet makers of Melbourne sentenced
him at once to be Prime Minister, if
they had not done so even before that,
which seems possible. W. M. Hughes was
showing rebellious and erratic tendencies,
a rather swollen head and some uncer-
tainty as to whether he was leading the
Nationalists or Labor, and he was
doomed.
As early as 1919, during the Federal
election campaign, when 1 was in Mel-
bourne on a liaison visit for the Queens-
land political wing and State Opposition,
Murray Clapham of Goldsbrough
Mort asked me to sound my opinion in
Brisbane about Bruce (of whom I had
barely heard), and the following Sunday
evening, over dinner at Herbert Brookes’
with Massey Greene, I heard his praises
loudly sung. I have pretty good reason
to believe that if Mr Edwards had looked
a little more closely at what happened
round that time in Walsh Street in the
home of Brookes (who was Deakin’s
son-in-law) he would have spotted the
man who crowned the Bruce. Brookes
had also earlier been very largely instru-
mental as a catalyst in bringing Hughes
and his conscriptionist rebels into com-
bination with the Liberals to form the
Nationalist Party. And I am pretty sure
from what I heard that night, in a
general discussion, that he was also the
catalyst that had much of the credit for
later bringing together the Bruce-Page
combination. One would imagine, know-
ing Billy, that when Billy offered Bruce
the Customs portfolio his real objective
was to remove one whom he already
scented as a possible rival into a scene
12,000 miles away while he destroyed
other rivals. He acted in the same way
with Joe Cook. He told Archie Cameron
and myself that he had intended to send
Bruce back to London to negotiate
British preference “just the man for
the job”.
Mr Edwards does little to explain
either the refreshing bit of financiering
represented by Bruce’s first budget which
did so much for his reputation, or what
actually happened at the 1922 Federal
election and the effect on Bruce’s posi-
tion. Key influences were the growing
hatred of Billy, the defection of his
personal vote on the Labor side which
had so far stuck with him, the operations
of the new Country Party and preferen-
tial voting. The Hughes Government
really reaped the whirlwind. It lost five
ministers and would have lost Billy if
he had not fled Bendigo. And when the
storm had passed there was nobody
literally nobody left who would have
been acceptable to all groups or sections
of groups in the Representatives except
Bruce.
Bruce was excepted, because he was
the only able Liberal left who bad not
been there long enough to become hated
by various splinter groups. The vacuum
was even more obvious than it had been
after the defeat of the Fusion in 1910,
and he looked to the soldier vote in
particular, a refreshing change from the
Old Sweats of demagoguery.
Mr L. Edwards fails to crystallise the
story of Bruce’s reign from 1923 to 1929
in a way to make it fully understood. He
says only a passing word about the Im-
perial Conference of 1926 at which
Bruce was very much cock o’ the heap
and had a very great hand in bringing
about the drafting of the Balfour Dec-
laration which laid the solid foundation
on which to construct the Statute of
Westminster and Australia’s national
independence.
Domestic events so important in that
period he describes in a scrappy sort of
way without crystallising them into a
picture which can be clearly recognised
by those who were in the thick of it.
There is a latent sneer in his ink when
he mentions Bruce’s actions against the
“Reds”; and neither the background nor
the history of the election campaign of
1929 which drove the Bruce-Page
Government from power, receive justice
at his hands. The campaign was an hys-
terical one in which great issues were all
mixed up with such charges as wearing
spats, building a dog kennel at the Prime
Minister’s lodge and the awful crime of
“taxing the kiddies’ pictures” which, in
reality, amounted to taxing profits of the
Motion Picture monopolies. It was a
campaign in which the opponents of the
Government did not care what weapons
they used. A very large section of the
powerful unions, led by Communists and
affiliated with the Profintern, the indus-
trial world organisation of the Comin-
tern were not out to defeat Bruce and
his spats, but to use the growing depres-
sion and its hysterias to destroy the
capitalist system and break up the
British Commonwealth.
In his last twenty years of service to
Australia, Australians were scarcely con-
scious that he existed, save when he paid
fleeting visits to his native land as first
Chancellor of the Australian National
University, or to do some other duty. He
exercised throughout that period a great
influence on world and Commonwealth
affairs and had a very high reputation in
the British Parliament, sitting in the
House of Lords as the first Australian
public man to receive a viscounty.
His service to Australia, in fact,
stretches from Gallipoli to Vietnam. Yet
after 1929 he was almost a forgotten
man with the Australian public. But he
will emerge in history presently as a
world figure.
Kiev Waiting for the
Mongol Hordes
For Steve Wilson
The wind across the steppes
First told us of their coming.
Three days and nights a murmur on the
wind
Of horses, rumbling cartwheels, iron and
voices
Has kept us tossing in our beds.
How many thousands, hundred thousands
are there?
Three days, three nights the wind has
warned us,
And still there is no sign of them,
Only odd spots of distant haze.
We have stocked up provisions,
Strengthened our walls and stationed
boulders.
Most of us hardly sleep
And when we do we yell and wake up
sweating.
Peering out from our wall with haggard
eyes
We watch wind patterns in the grass
And hate the happily flitting sparrows.
We hate the sweet cold dew of summer
mornings
Crawling down stalks.
At night we envy
The clear cold waters of the stars
Mocking us in our sleepless watching.
How can we succeed
Against a hundred thousand butchers?
Our hearts pound with the pounding in
the wind.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN


You
Must
Be
Good
Now
SHORT STORY By
MARGARET CLARKE
The summer came early the year
Beth’s mother died; and in
Granny’s garden the hairy black
and yellow capeweed flowers were thick
on the disused tennis court below the
Moreton Bay fig trees.
The smooth-flowing life in the old
handmade-brick house had been broken
up into shoals and eddies. The house it-
self was hushed; solemn-eyed aunts wept
quietly and unsmiling uncles spoke to
one another in whispers.
Auntie Mary had dressed Beth in a
white frock, kissed her and told her she
must be good. And Auntie Edith, who
had come down from the country with
Uncle Philip, had put Phyllie into the
push-chair and taken her for a walk;
Phyllie was too young to understand, she
had said.
Beth hid behind one of the square,
cream-painted pillars that stood in pairs
down the long verandah; she tried to
reach a hydrangea bloom with her toe,
but she could not reach it; she wanted
to cry, but Auntie Mary had told her
she must be good.
An old man with beads of sweat on his
red forehead bent down and said to her:
“What will you do without your mother?
You’ll have to be a good girl now, won’t
you?”
Beth gave him a push. “I won’t be
good!” she cried, and jumped down from
the verandah and ran across the lawn and
climbed inside one of the Moreton Bay
fig trees and curled herself up in the
space between the soaring limbs. She
pummelled the muscular grey branches.
“It's awful!” she cried, hitting the tree.
“Awful! But I don’t care! I don’t care!
No one’s going to make me care.”
Through the trees on the other side
of the lawn Beth could discern the slow
procession of cars down the drive; she
could hear the crunch of wheels on the
gravel. When the last car had disappeared
she climbed down from the tree and ran
across the lawn into the drive. She looked
about her; she was alone. She noticed
that She had torn her frock. She paused
in the middle of the drive, where it
swept past the lawn, and looked towards
the house. It seemed to her secretive and
full of drama, with its drawn blinds and
its hush, so unlike its customary bustling
self, and out of keeping with a sunny
summer day. She turned away and stared
down towards the gate and saw, far
away, an oblong space in the direction of
which the purple-brown gravel unrolled
like an ever-narrowing carpet.
The surface of the drive had been
churned up by the motor wheels. Prue
would be angry, for he had raked it
smooth that morning, grunting, with his
old briar pipe sticking, as usual, out of
one corner of his toothless and shrunken
old mouth. You’d have thought the pipe
would knock against his nose, but Beth
had never seen it do so.
“Come on, Miss Beth,” he had said,
stuffing the pipe into his pocket and
putting down his rake. “I’ll give you a
ride in my barrow.”
Beth loved riding in the barrow. On
ordinary days Prue would hoist her on to
the pile of grass and hedge clippings and
trundle her down to the rubbish heap
behind the orange grove, her legs dang-
ling over the curled iron rim and her
hair full of grass clippings. Then he
would pretend to tip her out on to the
heap, and she would scream with laugh-
ter, and he would pick her up and throw
her into the air and pretend he was going
to drop her on to the ground.
But today he had ridden her very
sedately round the big, harp-shaped buff-
alo lawn in front of the house and there
hadn’t been any laughing or screaming.
Now there wasn’t any sign of Prue.
Perhaps he had gone to the cemetery, or
to his room, up a flight of narrow wooden
stairs beside the hayloft, where Beth and
the other children were not allowed to
go-
Eleanor, Beth’s cousin from Tasmania,
a big girl of twelve, had also disappeared,
Perhaps she was in the house helping
Auntie Mary put out the best cups on
the trays ranged along the pantry shelves
the cups from “Home”, that had
belonged to Grandpa’s Uncle Simon and
had been sent, with all his household
possessions, to his nieces and nephews in
Australia when Uncle Simon died. Alec
and Tom, Eleanor's brothers, had been
sent to spend the day with some family
friends. “They’ll only make a nuisance
of themselves,” Auntie Mary had said.
So Beth was absolutely alone. What
should she do with herself?
Suddenly she caught sight of the yellow
carpet of capeweed drowsing in the sun.
She ran across the lawn and under the
Moreton Bay fig trees and flung herself
down on the grass and rolled over and
over down the slope to the old tennis


Qgr
t
a
Leasing means new machinery to-
day. Leasing means modern equip-
ment without capital outlay. Leas-
ing can mean a lot to you. Write for
our free booklet, “Lease Plan’ 1 .
Learn all about the advantages of
leasing from our years of experience.
GENERAL
CREDITS
LIMITED
277 William St., Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
210 Alinga Street, Canberra. Ph.: 4 4231
Branch offices throughout Australia
6858/C
exporters!
MAKE AN E.P.I.C. DECISION NOW
A policyholder* writes—
“ Although we appreciated the value of E.P.I.C. cover, we had to give
very serious thought whether the benefits to be gained outweighed
the cost.
“In retrospect we undoubtedly made the right decision to go ahead.
E.P.I.C. had helped us to follow a more flexible policy on payment
terms and the increased turnover that resulted has far exceeded our
expectations. This in itself has justified the cost of E.P.I.C. but in
addition my accountant tells me that over the past five years E.P.I.C.
insurance per £lOO of exports has been progressively reduced from
11/6 to 8/-. I wish I could say this of all my other overheads.”
epic
SAFE!
Export Payments Insurance Corporation
(Commonwealth Govt. Guaranteed)
*The writer must remain anonymous. E.P.I.C. is pledged to respect the
business confidences of its clients.
EP4.43.105
court. When she reached the bottom she
noticed that she had made green stains
on her frock. She brushed at them in*
effectually, and sat down on the cape-
weed.
“I’ll make a daisy chain,” she decided,
and began to pick a bunch of the huge
yellow and black flowers. Then carefully
she slotted the stems with her forefinger
and thumbnail, the way Eleanor had
shown her, and pulled through one flower
after another, until she had made a long
chain. She held it up admiringly, then
put it round her neck. It reached to her
feet when she stood up. She picked some
more flowers and began to make a second
chain.
Presently she was aware, without actu-
ally attending to the sound, that cars
were rolling up the drive; but she con-
tinued to concentrate on her chain,
threading flower after flower, until a
shadow fell across her and an angry
voice cried: “You wicked little girl! You
simply can’t be left alone for a second
without you get into some kind of
mischief. And on a day like this! I told
you to be good. And just look at your
dress!” Beth was dragged to her feet.
“But I was making a daisy chain!”
she protested. “One for Granny and one
for you. Look.” She held out the second
chain.
“On a day like this!” her aunt repeated.
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself.”
And she threw the great golden rope of
flowers on to the ground. It fell, bruised
and spoiled, on to the dark, flattened
patch where Beth had been sitting.
Beth swallowed hard as her aunt
dragged her up the garden; her eyes
stung and her arm ached, but she was
determined not to let this horrid grown-
up person see her cry.
As they drew near to the verandah
Beth saw that her father was sitting there,
near the open French window, his elbows
On the table kept out there in the summer
for afternoon tea. His head was in his
hands. She looked at him with curiosity,
suddenly shy of him and afraid to speak.
As she passed him she noticed a tear fall
off the end of his nose. He did not
appear to notice her.
For a second or two she stared at him
as if he were someone she had never
seen before. She was afraid now, feeling
herself utterly alone among strange
People. She shook herself free of her
aunt, who clearly did not love her any
longer. Panic-stricken now, she screamed:
“I won’t be good, I won’t, I won’t!” and
ran away from the frightening and in-
comprehensible people and threw her-
self on the lawn, screaming her defiance
and kicking at the grass.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Will We Catch Cold?
FFHERE seems a strong chance that the US is about to sneeze. If so, Australia is
very likely to catch cold.
The economic situation in the US is
getting particularly tense. If the US
Government allows the inflation that is
now clearly evident to get out of hand,
then there will be real problems for
Australia; if the Johnson Administration
takes severe steps to stop inflation, that
too could hit Australia hard in the hip
pocket.
There can be no disputing Australia’s
heavy dependence on the American
economy’s maintaining itself on an even
keel, and not only because of the level
of Australian exports to the US or of
tihe inflow of US capital into Australia.
Far more important is the significance of
me US market to the countries that Aus-
tralia has as her two major customers —
japan and Britain. The Japanese econ-
omy in general (and those sectors of it
using Australian raw material in particu-
lar) is closely tied to the US boom. Any
slowdown in the US, either natural or
induced, would mean a slowdown in
Japan—and, by the chain reaction of
overseas trade, in Australia.
The British are certainly worried. “If
the American authorities are forced into
vigorous anti-inflationary measures, this
could have serious repercussions on the
most buoyant sector of Britain’s export
trade,” the “Financial Times” editorial-
ised recently, when concluding that
“signs of overheating in the American
economy are becoming more serious”.
And the “Economist” warned that: “Any
falling-off in the rate of US growth will
be felt overseas since the high level of
American imports has been one of the
main factors sustaining the world’s busi-
ness.”
Evidence of the inflationary pressures
in the US are in the facts that retail
sales hit an all-time high in January,
the consumer price index rose i per cent
in February in the largest increase since
the Korean War, and the wholesale price
index rose even more. The demand for
money is so great that bond rates are
now more attractive than at any time
since 1921. As one observer comment-
ed: “The classic symptoms of a war
economy are evident in lengthening de-
livery times, rising prices and mounting
shortages.”
America has just gone through five
years of fantastic growth, which has
averaged 5.5 per cent a year while con-
sumer prices rose by less than 2 per cent
a year. But now that unemployment
has been cut in half to a 12-year low of
3.7 per cent and industry is planning to
increase its capital investment by as
much as 16 per cent, the inflationary
pressures are really taking effect as both
labor and credit are getting tighter and
dearer.
Economists, stockbrokers and bankers
have been urging the President to take
immediate action against inflation, parti-
cularly by raising taxes, if only to end
the uncertainty that now abounds about
the action he eventually will have to
take.
But this is an election year for the
Senate and Representatives. The Secre-
tary to the Treasury has said: “My view
is that we do not have inflation now.”
So the President is asking people to
exercise restraint instead of forcing them
to.
The effect of all this on the stock
market has been very bearish. It looks
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: In a speedy comment on
the Federal Government’s stimulatory measures, the
ANZ Bank’s “Business Indicators” believes they “may
yet have a greater effect through public psychology
in helping to stabilise the economy than their monetary
value suggests”. The bank hopefully counts on the
measures’ secondary effects, a stronger balance of pay-
ments position and any later stimulus maintaining
satisfactory economic activity “until, after the outcome
of the basic wage case, the Government can be expected
to set a longer term course with the next Budget”. It’s
an open question on a Budget surplus for 1965-66, says
the bank . . . March imports, at $270.9 million, left
the month’s trading deficit $39.4 million; they included
$38.9 million for HMAS Perth and their daily rate
actually eased a little . . . The Federal and West
Australian Governments have demarcated their responsi-
bilities on iron ore: Canberra’s concern will be export
permits and prices; Perth is to concern itself with leases
and development. The problem of local equity in Mount
Newman was left for further consideration . . . Copper
residues have been added to the banned copper exports
“to conserve available supplies to Australian industry”
. . . External aid from Australia will reach $l2l million
for 1965-66, including $73.6 million to Papua-New
Guinea.
For the markets: No particularly obvious ex-
citement stirred Australian share markets last week,
yet they were able to put on quite a reasonable display
just before the Easter break. Perhaps some of the
first effects of the recent SRD releases are seeping into
the investment climate. At any rate, two rather drab
mid-week trading days suddenly put on a bit of color.
At first sight the drabness could have represented a
suspected reaction from the previous week’s brightness;
if so, too much caution did not last too long. In
fact the Sydney all ordinaries index put on only
0.83 points over the week. Much of this would have
come from a fair amount of leader direction: most
blue chips were firming. Oils appear to have shed part
of their appeal, while base metals have called forth
more interest . . . London has not been able to gain
much sense of direction from the election result,
although the drift downwards has certainly been very
mild. Buyers still look cautiously at Budget possibilities
and an indicated bout of deflationary activity. Com-
pany profits are nothing to write home about . . .
Inflation hasn’t yet ceased to be Wall Street’s major
pre-occupation. Suspense continues as the President
appears to be doing everything possible to avoid tax
increases. Blue chips and glamor issues have pulled
the market forward.
For companies: The reporting season has
taken on a 'somewhat sober air . . . Three Sydney
retailers have done their best to bring a gloomier tinge.
Anthony Hordern lost another $106,242 in the six
months to February, slightly less than for the previous
February period and still expects a small trading profit


NEW ISSUE
NOW OPEN
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION
LIMITED
<%p
(Incorporated under the Companies’
Act of N.S.W. on Bth March, 1950.)
m
The main business of the Corporation is
to make loans on the security of first
mortgages on property and the accep-
tance of selected hire purchase agree-
ments.
HOW TO INVEST
Applications can only be accepted on the
form attached to, and referred to in the
Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any branch of: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
• Any Member of the Stock Exchange.
• The COMPANY’S OFFICES: 249 George Street,
Sydney. Phone 27.8621.
REGISTERS: SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA, NEWCASTLE.
© i:
Cambridge House, 249 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, a
copy of your Prospectus.
NAME. ■_
ADDRESS
282° B
as if Wall Street is in for even further
falls following this year’s sharp drop, by
the Dow Jones index from nudging 1000
to as low as 911 a couple of weeks ago
before recovering to around the 945
mark. The chartists think New York’s
market is still in a bearish position, al-
though there are signs that there could
be a support position around 890-910.
So far the recovery from 911 has not
been on heavy turnover, which gives it
a hesitant look.
The London “Economist” is convinced
that now is the time to sell shares, as
the dismal investment outlook around
the world is largely the result of devel-
opments in America. The rise in world
interest rates —largely a result of a spill-
over of the US demands for money on to
European markets —is “pulling hard
against any rise in ordinary share prices”,
according to the “Economist”.
London’s market is more securely
caught in the interest rate squeeze than
Wall Street, and, predicts the “Econom-
ist”, it will presumably fall even though
it is being a long time about it.
There can be no doubt, however, that
a war economy in the US does bring
some short-term benefits to a commodity
producer like Australia and that, unless
anti-inflationary action by the Govern-
ment prevents it, there should be sub-
stantial scope for increasing exports
there.
But, as the Korean War showed, even
this has its disadvantages. In the current
case there is no chance of a repeat of
the 1951 bonanza in commodities as the
US stockpiles on war fears and the pros-
pects of anti-inflationary measures affect-
ing world trade are so great as to out-
weigh any temporary advantages that a
war inflationary situation in the US
would bring to Australia’s exports.
Ore for TVest Germany?
HThe West German steel industry could
A well become the first non-Japanese
purchaser of West Australian iron ore.
A party from steel company August
Thyssen - Hutte and the raw material
combine Rohstoffhandel is to visit the
WA deposits this month.
Both organisations are likely to be
particularly interested in pelletised ores.
This may give some advantage in any
preliminary discussions to Hamersley
Iron, which is already preparing for pel-
let orders to Japan. Freight rates, of
course, will assume a central position in
the talks, since current rates to Europe
are about three times higher than those
to Japan.
Apart from its direct purchases, West
Germany has been quietly and slowly
building up its still small interests in
Australia. In the 20 years since the end
of the war, the Germans have not only
rebuilt their own shattered economy but
for the second half . . . F. J. Palmer can’t compare its
$65,000 loss with last year’s figure “owing to the then
unsatisfactory nature of the company's accounts” . . .
Even Myer’s NSW subsidiary, Farmers (Holdings),
suffered a small profit downturn, partly from drought
influences on the Western Stores’ branches . . . Breweries
came to the rescue, as usual, with Swan confidently
lifting dividend on post-bonus capital ... A baker also
was not to be left out: George Weston Foods pushed
profit up by 17.8 p.c. in its first listed year . . . The
hire-purchase industry staked its regular claim by
Finance Corporation of Australia’s seventh share issue
in eight years; at l-for-7 it will raise $1 million . . .
Paper maker Spicers (Australia) earned 32 p.c. more
in the latest year . . . Sydney printer Packaging and
R. J. VICARS
Chairman,
Courtaulds (Aust.)
K. O. HUMPHREYS
Chairman, Freighters
Printing Industries remains on an upward earnings trend
. . . Recovery has assuredly not been arrested for
transport engineer Freighters: earnings moved 12 pc.
ahead and dividend goes to a predicted 8 p.c. rate . . .
Courtaulds is back to its old sorry self, principally
because of “severe competition in the viscose tyre
fabric field” . . . Weston Mining Corporation has
found a high-grade nickel ore body . . . Mount Morgan
will be allowed to develop the Mount Bundey iron ore
deposit . . . “My answer is categorically ‘No’,” said
Mr Stanley Korman, “that I have any connection with
any hotel in Melbourne or Sydney” . . . Minster has
always used “plain ordinary goat hair”, so its turnover
is unaffected by the absence of mohair from Tibet.


Absolute Security
for every investor!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
si°?o
For 10 or 15 Years
Si°/6
For 7 Years
Principal and Half-Yearly Interest Payments are
Unconditionally Guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government
Cash Applications may be
made in full or by instalments;
10% deposit on application, and
the balance by 30th June, 1966.
Conversion Opportunity.
Holders of securities in Loan No.
63 (3i%) maturing Ist May,
1966, are invited to convert to
the new Loan.
Invest or Convert Today at
any office of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of
New South Wales; Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; English, Scottish and
Australian Bank Limited; Rural
Bank of New South Wales;
through your Stockbroker; or at
the Board’s offices.
CLOSES FRIDAY!
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
29.764
have invested substantial sums around the
world. Australia ranks twelfth in the
list of countries that make up the £BOO
million of German overseas investment
between 1945 and the end of 1964.
A breakdown by lines of economic
activity shows that, of the investments
in Australia, 51 per cent went to “steel
construction, vehicle building and engin-
eering”, 34 per cent into “electrical
engineering, optical goods, etc.”, and 13
per cent into chemicals and plastics.
Minute sums, together only $560,000,
are invested in “finance and insurance”,
civil engineering, commerce, transport
(only $22,000), paper and printing, and
“all others”.
Of the total overseas investment, 37.5
p.c. was invested in America, 51.1 p.c.
in Europe, 5.8 p.c. in Africa, 3.8 p.c.
in Asia and 1.8 p.c, in Australia. Not
less than 97 countries benefited and the
76 “developing countries” received 32.8
p.c. of the total. Brazil is in the lead
with receipts of 824 million D-M
($185m.). Most of West Germany’s iron
ore comes from Brazil.
Export “Service”
•THhere is nothing new about foreign
“service” industries like accountants,
advertising agencies and banks, invading
Australia in the wake of the foreign-
owned or controlled companies they
service.
But there is something new about an
Australian “service” industry bucking
against the trend and doing business
with the foreign-owned parent company
of a local subsidiary in its homeland.
This is what Australia’s biggest Aus-
tralian-owned advertising agency, Jack-
son Wain and Co. Pty Ltd, has now done
and it is pretty pleased with itself
about getting the UK hosiery account
of Kayser Bondor Ltd against competi-
tion from 87 British agencies. This ac-
count has substantial potential, despite
the fact that the lingerie part of Kayser’s
operations have been hived off to a
British agency.
Jackson Wain only took over the local
Kayser account at the beginning of this
year, yet has already shown enough flair
to impress the British parent company,
which was recently taken over by the
Courtaulds group. The British parent
certainly needed something to lift it up;
it has a very poor earnings record, with
such high losses in recent years that even
the large profits of the Australian sub-
sidiary were barely enough to keep the
whole group out of the red.
The Kayser Bondor account is the
second that Jackson Wain have won in
the UK, the first being for the British
business of the US oil company Amoco
which it won earlier this year after hand-
ling the Australian end of the account
for some time.


o
Jlss
if:
a?
St
J°B J QO°
0 s*l
8«n "o
ttOO»
0 00
000°
C36gd o D ? sia
s§a ss?
&C>2
0«?5
[DfflS
Qo ii.
° 4 «j»bo
"»• • n
s«5
-_>i
2?*is
=5ll Q
1-
.1 •
a
Jtefl
* «.
'ixJio,
jSlfeSf
aoinct
l«Tstl
Iwh?
Mr
mass
5s if
i»- 6 .;.'
|»S«OJ
mISS
<**
*«s
»* is-.*
HSR
o
ss
MS B^
“On. 0
.ilr 7
<J3=
dL 5 o 0
Q Q /o
«».
<S*
mM:JM
® I o»j|K
%
Where’s the best office space for you?
Ask Jones, Lang, Wootton, they are “making room”
every day for Australia’s largest (and smallest)
businesses and companies.
You can view office space with an experienced
member of our staff without obligation. We invite
your enquiries which will receive our immediate
attention ... 67 8821.
JONES LANG WOOTTON
AUSTRALIAN PROGRESS THROUGH REAL ESTATE
116 Queen Street, Melbourne. Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Scottish Amicable House, HO Queen Street, U6O Bourke Street,
BP House and h 37 St. Hilda Road, a few of the buildings in which
space is currently available in Melbourne.
Sir Arthur Warner
Governments are all the better when
™ they have a few hard-headed busi-
nessmen in their Ministries. State
governments have been rather more
fortunate than Federal in this respect in
recent years, as the passing of Sir Arthur
Warner reminds us. He was a tower of
strength, not only in the Bolte Minis-
tries but in that of Holloway some years
earlier. We could do with a few like him
in Canberra. Possibly we have just found
one in the new member for Kooyong
who, even if young, yet is of the same
breed.
In Sir Arthur’s case it was not just a
question of the Government having some-
body who cculd put it straight on prac-
tical business and general economic
aspects. He could also breathe realism
into the complicated administration of
State-owned public utilities. Working
against tremendous odds, he succeeded
in bringing the Victorian railways for-
ward into the modern age, pressed with
all his restless
urge for moderni-
sation of trans-
p o r t facilities
generally, and
freely admitted
hi s frustrations
from obscurant-
ism and capital
shortages.
To Labor
people Sir Arthur
looked a bit like
an enfant terrible, yet they admired him
for his courage and even temper in his
leadership of the Legislative Council. It
was a good arrangement for them to have
a big time capitalist to fire at on the
political spot.
Sir Arthur used to say he got a great
kick out of being an Aunt Sally in Spring
Street. He certainly displayed the
thickest of skins, not only there under
heavy fire, say, from John Galbally, but
also in the business world, where his
monuments include, of course, Elec-
tronic Industries, which he nurtured to
its present national status from its begin-
ning as his own small factory in 1927,
and also GTV, over which he originally
presided.
His business acumen was widely
acknowledged. His undoubted toughness
was somewhat belied, at least in latter
years, by an outward geniality which
probably bespoke a sportsman’s heart.
For away from it all here was an expert
yachtsman who, even when he was 62,
swam 150 yards through heavy surf from
his craft wrecked off the shores of his
adopted State of Victoria.


During the year ended 31st October, 1965,
the British Tobacco Company group con-
tinued to follow, with a considerable degree
of success, the programme of activities
which was outlined in the Review published
twelve months ago.
The Chairman, Mr. T. J. N. Foley,
reported this in his Review of the latest
financial year.
Mr. Foley continued:
“There has been a continuation of
vigorous efforts in the cigarette, tobacco
and cigar market by W. D. & H. O. Wills
(Australia) Limited, a broadening of the
scope of the printing and packaging services
of Leigh-Mardon Pty. Limited, coupled with
more active penetration into existing markets
for printing and packaging, and a marked
expansion into several carefully selected
sections of the food and beverage industries
by Associated Products & Distribution Pty.
Limited.
“This combined programme has been
directed to two major objectives—the im-
provement of the immediate profit earning
of the group and further progress towards
the longer-range reinforcement of security
through strongly developed participation in
other industries in addition to tobacco.
“The immediate improvement in profits
has been attained chiefly through the suc-
cessful efforts of W. D. & H. O. Wills
(Australia) Limited, but also from an
appreciable increase in the earnings of
Leigh-Mardon Pty. Limited.
“The results of the various operating
companies in Associated Products &
Distribution Pty. Limited have been some-
what irregular for a number of reasons and
A.P.D. has shown overall a loss for the
year.
“The combined results of all activities of
the British Tobacco Company group have
given rise to a profit performance in the
year ended 31st October, 1965, which is
higher than on any previous occasion and
indicative of further growth in the future.
“The group consolidated profit, before
taxation but after providing £1,530,511 for
depreciation, was £6,219,189; after providing
the sum of £2,731,151 for income tax and
allowing for a small loss on the sale of
£3,488,038. An amount of £127,715 is
fixed assets, the group profit after tax was
attributable to outside shareholders in
various companies composing the group,
thus leaving a profit after tax of £3,360,323
directly belonging to the shareholders of
British Tobacco Company (Australia)
Limited.
“Revenue Reserves and Undistributed
Profits were increased by the amount of
£1,123,609 after a final dividend of 6% on
Ordinary and “B” Ordinary Stock had been
declared, thus bringing the total dividend
for the year to 11%.
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (AUSTRALIA)
LIMITED
“The company has had one of its most
successful years for a decade, the improved
performance consisting both of a marked
increase in sales as well as of further
advances in manufacturing techniques.
LEIGH-MARDON PTY. LIMITED
“A good deal of success has attended the
efforts to extend Leigh-Mardon’s packaging
services to a variety of industries.
ASSOCIATED PRODUCTS &
DISTRIBUTION PTY. LIMITED
“Several announcements were made during
1965 concerning the acquisition of additional
companies by Associated Products &
Distribution Pty. Limited.
“These acquisitions were all part of the
programme foreshadowed last year to
establish this new company as a large-scale
operation based on beverages and certain
carefully chosen foods.
British
Tobacco’s
Report
on 1965
“These have now broadly resolved them-
selves into three major sections: Soft Drinks,
Snack Foods and Frozen Foods.
“A wide variety of problems still faces
our group for the next few years but,
generally speaking, they appear to be the
problems attendant upon growth and the
solving of them must have a healthy and
constructive influence on the company for
the future.”
Mr. Foley, addressing the company’s
Annual General Meeting on 9th March,
1966, said:
“The markedly improved results for the
year, as shown in the printed Annual Report
and Balance Sheet, were not the outcome
of a set of circumstances easier than in
earlier years.
Mr. Foley, in his speech at the
annual meeting of British Tobacco
stockholders, referred to recent news-
paper advertisements claiming an
allegedly new manufacturing process.
The “new” process claimed by a
competitor related to the preparation
of tobacco leaf to be manufactured
into cigarettes.
Mr. Foley said the method was
known as “tipping and threshing.”
W. D. & H. O. Wills had been using
it in the factory since 1948.
Mr. Foley added: “There is no
detectable difference either in appear-
ance or smoking quality between
cigarettes made from green threshed
tobacco and those made from factory
threshed tobacco, and there is no
scientific evidence that maturation
after green threshing is any cleaner
or more efficient than maturation of
the leaf in its natural state.”
“If anything, there were more problems
than usual because to those arising normally
from vigorous competition were added the
difficulties of acquiring new enterprises, both
with regard to selection of companies
suitable for our purpose, attended by the
negotiations associated with purchase and,
subsequently, with regard to integration of
the new acquisitions and managements into
the group.
“The sales progress achieved by W. D. A
H. O. Wills (Australia) Limited in 1964/65
has continued in the current year, and the
rate of improvement has, in fact, shown
a further increase in the four months sinco
the end of October, 1965.
“Whereas the company’s cigarette sales
at 31st October were, in total, 13% higher
than in the previous year, they are currently
at a level 15% higher than a year ago.
“This most encouraging situation has
occurred despite the fact that some brands
are still declining; it follows, therefore,
that other brands are increasing in sales at
an even faster pace than the 15% per
annum would indicate.
' “Benson and Hedges sales in the year
ended 31st October, 1965, were 37% higher
than in the previous year, but in the past
four months they were 70% above the
sales level a year ago.
“Craven Filter, with its greater share of
the market, is also contributing strongly
to the improved sales results; and Escort, in
a lower price segment of the market, has
shown growth substantially above the
average for our brands.
“We believe that these trends can con-
tinue and, therefore, the prospects for 1966
are most promising.
“Our packaging interests in Leigh-Mardon
Pty. Limited reveal a degree of continued
buoyancy and, for the three months,
November-January, there is in this year an
increase in sales of 9% over the same
period of 1965.
“In the first four months of the current
year, work has continued on the more
recent acquisitions of Associated Products
& Distribution Pty. Limited to bring their
performances to the required levels.
“As I think you would expect, the heavy
and rapid programme of acquisitions of
1965 is not likely to be repeated this year,
but we can see ahead a year just as
vigorous in developmental activity, and,
despite some anticipated obstacles, a year
at least equal to 1965 in financial results,”
Mr. Foley concluded.
British Tobacco Company (Australia) Limited
ANNUAL REPORT 1965
fAoia


%
INTEREST
UP TO
PER
ANNUM
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable fronts
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE WALES* FOR DETAILS
ND.I6.N.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
EMBANK HOUSE
325 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Telephone: 62-0421
Re-thinking Export Incentives
A change in the taxation basis
By CROESUS
£JONCERNED as they are to liven up internal economic activity and to ease the problems of drought-
stricken areas, the monetary authorities have had to turn a blind eye for the moment to the over-
hanging shadow of dwindling export surpluses of rural products on next year’s balance of payments.
The awkward thing, of course, is that
nothing they can do at this stage can
have much effect on the size of these
export surpluses of rural products. As
the president of the Cobar Shire said
the other day, that particular horse has
bolted. This makes all the more urgent
any other steps that can be taken to
lift exports in other directions. The
urgency is there in spite of hopeful
medium-term prospects for improving
the balance of trade, as seen in the pleas-
ing, if still somewhat distant, vista of a
big lift in minerals exports, potential
saving of oil imports as a result of new
local discoveries, and in the impressive
and continuing build-up of additional
import-saving industrial capacity general-
ly*
We should not delay new efforts at
export stimulation in the light of the
more hopeful immediate prospects for
the balance of payments and international
reserves. Nor should we take too much
comfort from the fact that exports this
year are about 2 per cent higher thus
far than last year or from the likelihood
of a narrowing of the trade deficit in the
next few months.
It is largely because imports were so
high in the first quarter of the year that
the visible trade deficit so fat this year
has increased from $153.8 million to
$231.1 million. In recent months imports
have declined and it is unlikely on the
latest showings both of imports and in-
ternal economic activity that, for the
final three months of this year, they will
reach the high levels recorded in the last
quarter of 1964-65. Looking hopefully,
and without knowledge of the scale of
defence imports, the trade deficit for the
full year may turn out to be very much
the same as last year’s, that is $269.6
million. This may look formidable, but
it has to be remembered that it is mostly
just the other side of the coin to capital
imports.
Unfortunately there is no quick way,
say like conscription, to rustle up more
exports of goods and services. I’m afraid
that next year the level of our export
income will be more in the lap of over-
seas goods and their prices than usual.
One might hope this could stir the Gov-
ernment into more effective action to see
if it can get some of the optimistic hopes
of the Export Development Council on
the possibilities of doubling manufactured
goods exports translated into action. For
one thing, the Government should have
a very close look at the proposition to
change the basis of its tax incentives for
exporters from payroll to income tax,
as propounded by Mr W. J. Austen at the
annual meeting of the Metal Trades
Export Group in Sydney last week. It
is not that the present method is fail-
ing to produce results. Yet on Mr Aus-
ten’s showing so much more could be
achieved if the basis were changed.
For a start, in the case of small manu-
facturers (that is, those with payrolls of
less than $20,000) the question of get-
ting a rebate on payroll tax doesn't
arise because they don’t pay any. So
much is obvious. The only official ex-
port incentive for them lies in the tax
allowance for export promotion expen-


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
Incorporated in 1935. Paid up Capital $8,000,000
Debenture
Stock
YIELDING UP TO
I
8
3 mths. .. 5% p.a.
6mths. 5y 2 % p.a.
12 mths. .. 6% p.a.
2yrs 7% p.a.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications are
obtainable from:
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in
Australia.
• Any branch of Australia and New Zealand Bank
Ltd.
• The Hongkong Bank Group Representative
Office, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Any branch of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 10-14 UNDERWOOD ST., SYDNEY
N.B. Applications for Debenture Stock will pro-
ceed only on on* of th* Forms of Application _
referred to In and attached to a printed copy of •
th* Prospectus.
The main business of Mercantile Credits Limited
is the provision of finance facilities in various forms
for industrial, commercial or private purposes.
ses under a definition which admittedly
takes in the whole works. Not for them,
however, anything back from the tax
man under the magic formula whereby,
for every yearly increase in exports
amounting to 1 per cent of export turn-
over, a manufacturer gets a refund of
12i per cent of the paid payroll tax,
rising to the point at which, if an 8 per
cent increase on export turnover is
achieved, a manufacturer gets his entire
payroll tax refunded.
The position would be entirely differ-
ent if these small manufacturers could
get a rebate of income tax for their ex-
port efforts. And, of course, for larger
companies which pay payroll tax, while
it is possible for them to get back all the
payroll tax they pay under present ar-
rangements by expanding their exports
sufficiently, the incentive cuts off at the
payroll tax ceiling. The income tax
ceiling would be so much higher. Being
in a capital-intensive industry such as
the metal trades, it is understandable
why Mr Austen sees an element of dis-
crimination in the present formula. As
he pointed out, a capital-intensive or
mass-production industry must export a
considerably greater value of goods to
earn every dollar of payroll tax rebate
than a labor-intensive industry in which
payroll tax formed a larger proportion of
production costs and selling prices.
Mr McMahon, what about it?
T T If we have pretty well given up hope
that any Federal Treasurer will ever
abolish the payroll tax itself, despite the
convincing and oft-repeated arguments
for doing so, perhaps it might appeal to
you to take the weight of the export
incentives off it and put it on income
tax, the more bountiful and flexible
instrument.
If manufacturers like Mr Austen may
complain that the taxation export in-
centive carrot is not big enough, or is
at any rate badly shaped, here is how
Dr Henry Catleen, a British authority
on exporting, lecturing here under the
auspices of the Victorian Employers’
Federation recently evalued our tax in-
centives for exporters in talks to busi-
nessmen in Melbourne and Sydney:
“Perhaps the best reason for you having
a good chance to enter the markets of
the world (for consumer goods) are the
taxation incentives provided by your
Government. Recently I had to make a
study of such export incentives in all
the traditional export countries and ]
have come to the conclusion that your
incentives are the most favorable. I
would go as far as to say they are the
most favorable I have come across so
far. While you can deduct approximate-
ly $2 from your tax for every $1 spent
on export promotion, Great Britian
grants only li per cent on the export
turnover which can be deducted from
tax. In addition, you have considerable
deduction allowances off the payroll
tax”.
Dr Catleen was not concerned with
analysing the merits of the payroll tax
as opposed to an income tax basis for
tax reliefs for exporters here. However,
in case small manufacturers are listening,
his views as well as his enthusiasm about
export groups as a means of increasing
exports will be a lot of comfort, the
more so in that he is a practitioner in
the art of forming and operating such
groups and has been addressing us from
successful experience on his own ac-
count.
Without going into details, judging by
some of the letters of appreciation for
Dr Catleen’s lectures on “Creating an
Export Group” shown me by the VEF,
we can expect this comfort to crystallise
in a big way among manufacturers here,
small ones in particular. If any manu-
facturer is interested and missed the
lectures, the VEF or the Sydney Cham-
ber of Commerce have all the material.
One can only give a smattering of the
information here because there’s too
much of it, yet one can encourage the
full thought that exporting by this
method is highly practicable. It can be
very rewarding and opportunities are
ripe.
The cases Dr Catleen gave were all
particularly apposite to the problem of
broadening the base of Australia’s ex-
port trade in that his preoccupation was
with consumer goods, in which we have
only made small beginnings on the ex-
port front. Of the 160 national markets
in the world (naturally a lot of these,
such as the United States, are fragment-
ed), Dr Catleen considers there are 68
where Australian consumer goods can be
exported, 55 difficult ones for Australian
consumer goods, and 35 at present offer-
ing no hope.


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
NEW ISSUE
PER ANNUM
6-20 YEARS
FIRSTSERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for Debentures and Unsecured Notes,
accepted only on the form referred to in and attached to
the printed prospectus which is available from:
BANK OF N.S.W. BRANCHES—STOCKBROKERS
Joint Underwriters: A. B. S. White & Co./Pring Dean & Co.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange Limited)
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LTD.
316 Pitt Street. Sydney. Tel. 61-9701, 61-6421
MA2SONSW
COMMODITIES
Sugar Price Stays Depressed
Cuba a thorn in the market
pROSPECTS of an early rise in world sugar prices have all but disappeared following
A the failure of the producers’ minimum price plan to hold the market and the
withdrawal of Cuba and Mexico from the plan itself.
But the producers have by no means
given up their fight to get prices back
up to reasonable levels; in the face of
last week’s adversity they have decided
that in six months’ time they will lift
the agreed minimum price by 0.2 US
cents a lb to 2.70 cents and by a fur-
ther 0.3 cents to 3 cents a lb by January
next year—equal to about £stg2Bi a ton
compared with current prices around
£stg2oi a ton. Even though their pros-
pects look thin at present, time could
bring victory to the producers, yet it will
take more time than many had hoped.
Major sugar producers, including Cuba
(but not in writing), had decided at the
beginning of last month to sell only at
prices above the equivalent of a London
daily price of £stg23£ a ton. This price,
only marginally above the free market
level at the time, was described as “em-
barrassingly low” by one observer.
However, dealers (mostly in a long
speculative position in sugar bought
below £stg2o for resale at a quick
profit) were believed to be holding be-
tween 300,000 and 450,000 tons at the
time, thus seriously restricting producers’
control of the market. As a result, prices
were down to £2l last week. They fell
further after Dr Castro’s announcement
that Cuba would withdraw from the
rather unambitious producers’ price
scheme.
No quick solution to sugar’s problems
is in sight. World stocks are high and
forecasts indicate further additions in
1966. For although consumption growth
has resumed after the setback during
the price boom and lower prices have
slowed down the bounding production
growth in some areas, other countries
are still expanding, notably Cuba.
The reasoning behind Cuba’s with-
drawal from the producer price agree-
ment last week may simply be that, as
the plan had obviously failed, it would be
an inexpensive gesture to quit it in a
display of independence, unsettling its
rival producers and strengthening its
bargaining power in the continuing dis-
cussions on establishing a new Inter-
national Sugar Agreement. Certainly the
advantages of co-operation and higher
prices must be weighing more heavily
with the Castro Government.
Since the ISA discussions began
almost a year ago little progress has been
made, with France seeming to be one
of the least co-operative delegates. No
immediate agreement is expected and
more talks are planned.
But it is Cuba that has long been the
thorn in the sugar market. Since Dr
Castro’s accession to power Cuba has
been an increasingly aggressive exporter.
Her quotas under the International Sugar
Agreement have been ignored ror several
years.
At first Cuba’s move was very pleasant
for other producers: she was excluded
from the high-price US market and her
quota there was distributed amongst
other suppliers, including Australia.
Then hurricanes and political and social
problems within Cuba and poor European
beet crops provided the final push to
send free market sugar prices many
times higher than they had been for
several years.
The temporary nature of the supply/
demand imbalance was not appreciated.
Growers all over the world worked hard
during the 1962-64 boom to lift output.
Cuba, too, began a programme to “liqui-
date our competitors”, in Dr Castro’s
words.
And despite the chastening experience
of record low prices for the past year,
following the boom’s collapse, it is by no
means sure that Cuba is yet prepared
to co-operate with other producers.
Until it does so, the world sugar-market
seems certain to remain unsettled.
Although only a fraction of world
sugar trade goes through the free market,
it is important both in itself the
margin often provides the profit and
because many contracted sales are priced
according to open market moves.
Tungsten Easier
fTHE London market for tungsten ores
—wolfram and scheelite—eased fur-
ther last week. The new fixed-price sel-
ling policy for US stockpile disposals
and the higher rate of sales have left the
market uneasy.
On the whole, some weakness was
expected, with a fall to around 300 s.
stg. a unit seen as possible—compared
with a 3265. 6d. to 3755. range before
the new policy and 3155. to 3305. more
recently.
The market is still very quiet as
dealers weigh the US move against
China’s selling programme. China, as
the leading supplier, has been the main
factor behind the higher prices in the
past year or more; her sales are again
expected to be low this year.
Wide swings are common in the thin
London market and a further fall is in-
dicated. But average levels for 1966 of
above 300 s. seem likely. This would
be more than 30 p.c. above 1965’s
average.


CLARENCE DEGENHARDT
AND COMPANY
INCORPORATING
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
John W. Duncan, Peter Davis,
K. Rothwell, A.8.1.A.
Members of The Sydney Stock
Exchange Limited
A. A. Lakos, A.A.S.A.
H. P. Vains, A.CJJS., A.A.S.A.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
BUILDING
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
28-1751, 25-1853, 25-3327
Difficulties Among Retailers
Nothing “normal” in Sydney trade
A FTER so much “dead wood” had been pruned from Sydney city retailing last year by the closure (or
severe contraction) of so many unsuccessful city stores, there were hopes that the remaining retailers
could make a decent profit once again.
But it has not happened yet. Last
week Anthony Hordern and F. J. Palmers
came out with solid losses once again
and Farmers followed the lead set by
David Jones by announcing slightly lower
profits despite higher sales.
All this was despite the fact that no
longer was there competition coming
from the city stores of Marcus Clark,
Bebarfalds, Snows, Morley Johnsons and
other furniture retailers, and that the
retailing operations of Horderns at Brick-
field Hill had been severely curtailed.
To some extent the reason for this is
that some of the stores still in difficul-
ties have been suffering from the costs
of reorganisation. But the big leading
retailers now announcing lower profits
are blaming the drought as the major
factor.
This year the costs of switching to
decimals can be added to the steadily
growing competitive nature of the indus-
try, the rising wage costs and higher rates
and land taxes that are permanent causes
for complaint by the retailers. The
drought is an added burden.
Most of the retailers that have report-
ed so far still have to take the cost of
decimal conversion into account, although
David Jones did say that it had absorb-
ed the whole of the cost involved to
February 28 in its interim profit. But
decimals will not prove as costly as
drought to the retail trade if the latest
reports are any indication.
The retailers who stand to suffer most
from the drought are, naturally, those
like the Myer-Farmers group that have
large country stores, or those with a
large mail-order business, like David
Jones.
When Farmers last week reported a
nominal drop in profit (although they
sold in greater volume) directors put
most of the blame on drought, which
affected all branches of the Western
Store chain as well as the city Farmers
stores.
The city store, mainstay of the group,
made only a small increase in profit.
Modernisation has taken place there for
three years.
However, directors felt confident that
if expenses outside their control could
be held at their present level, “a satis-
factory trading result” could be achieved
for the full year, despite the “more
competitive trading” and the drought.
Myer’s experiences with its Farmers
subsidiary closely echoed the late March
report of its chief opponent in the fight
for retail trade, David Jones. The latter
would not be so deeply involved in the
country as Farmers, but trading condi-
tions for its city and suburban stores
would probably be very similar.
The drought has had no apparent
impact on the other of the Sydney “Big
Three” retailers, Grace Bros, whose
Broadway store long since lost most of
its considerable country clientele. Grace
Bros has no stores in the country. (It
does have country representation in its
removals and storage business though.)
/Ane of the most vigorous retailers,
Grace Bros had no complaints at the
pattern of retail development when man-
agement reviewed the group at the end
of February. The boldest step in its
history, the sl2m. centre at Roselands,
held the spotlight, but should not hide
the “basic and continuing strength” of
other members of the chain.
Extensions to facilities at Bondi and
Chatswood indicate Grace Bros’ con-
fidence in - suburban shopping. Grace
Bros seems to be one of the few retailers
actually benefiting from the misfortunes
of those of its less successful fellows who
have been forced to close up largely
because of Grace Bros’ dynamic com-
petition in the first place.
In a different category altogether is
the ailing Anthony Horderns, which last
week published yet another loss for the
half-year to February 23. The mid-city
store in the hub of city trading between
Market Street (with Farmers and DJs
and King St with McDowells) enjoyed
“very satisfactory sales and profits” but
management did not specify if they
were an improvement on last year.
The Anthony Hordern loss of $106,000
for the half-year to February (a $28,000
improvement on the same period of last
year) was due largely to the company’s
continuing costs of cutting itself down
to size. In the second half of the year
it expects to show a “small” profit, so
that the full result should show a loss
only a fraction of last year’s mammoth
$1.2 million deficit.
The Brickfield Hill store’s reduction
accounted for non-recurring losses. Stores
at West Ryde and Wollongong were not
up to expectation.
F. J. Palmer’s loss of $65,000 in the
half-year to January will not be the end
of the sad stories to come from the new
management there, as directors say that
operations are still unprofitable and that
sales have fallen (due in part to the
closure of 10 unprofitable stores and a
number of departments).
But while seven F. J. Palmer stores in
NSW and three in Victoria have closed,
a new one at Roselands was opened, and
of the 56 stores now in the group, 18
have increased their sales. So it looks as
if there could be more closures in this
chain (bringing with them inevitable
losses of one kind or another) before
the year is out.
Drought did not seem to play much
part in the losses from Anthony Hordern
and F. J. Palmer, both of which are
going through a lengthy period of re-
organisation.
The drought does not appear to have
been of too much significance at Waltons,
which issued a fairly good interim report
that spoke mostly of the success of its
new development in Melbourne.
The 17 p.c. profit lift recorded by Mc-
Dowells in the 50 weeks ended February
12 was, in fact, a recovery, not an out-
right increase.
In the chain stores, Coles is cautious
about conditions, while Woolworths
retains an optimistic view of business
as it presses on with establishing its new
headquarters and a big variety store in
the city building in which Bebarfalds
almost went broke.
All this suggests that there is no such
thing as “normal” in the Sydney retail
trade any more. But if normal times
do ever return; if the rush to the suburbs
dries up; if the city regains its domin-
ance; if the drought breaks completely;
if excessive competition eases up and if
people spend the proportions of their
incomes in retail stores that they used
to, then the industrv will hardly know
itself. It is not likely to happen.


J. & J. NORTH
Established 1867
Members of the Sydney
Stock Exchange Limited
J. F. G. North, D. A. North,
M. J. Hobbs, I. A. North,
J. H. Valder.
D. W. Guest
33 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
57 Hunter Street, Newcastle
%
0-
FOB 4YEARS
OR 6 YEARS
”* /• -w
©
or~
u
iLL
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from—
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank,
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in N.S.W.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.,
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest & Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
Tk%
3YRS.
6 3 /4%
2YRS.
6'A%
12 Mths.
5 3 /4%
9 Mths.
5V 2 %
6 MONTHS
5%
3 MONTHS
Phones
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 31 1861
Perth 21 6273
f lhAvi-fcuLndU Jftft, fWutce,
BENEFICIAL
MARKET POINTERS
Stronger Links With the US
Federated Industries' two moves
By JASON
1T is not only those in the centre of the takeover stage that are underlining the
growing links between US and Australian companies.
Other less spectacular but nevertheless
significant associations are being formed
that could eventually have a substantial
impact on the local companies involved.
One of these is Federated Industries Ltd,
the Sydney-based electrical engineering
company that is celebrating its emer-
gence from a period in the doldrums by
strengthening two existing links with US
companies Borg Warner and Reliance
Electric and Engineering.
The Borg Warner link is through
Federated’s Yorkaire air-conditioning
subsidiary, formerly owned 50-50 with
Borg Warner (which owns the US York-
aire company) until Borg Warner sold
out its interest to Federated in 1961. A
condition of the sale was that Borg
Warner would have the right to re-
purchase its 50 per cent interest within
the next five years a period that ex-
pires in two months’ time.
Borg Warner is now taking up that
option, indicating a fair measure of con-
fidence in prospects for Yorkaire, a
company that has been through difficult
times as the air-conditioning industry in
Australia suffered from overcapacity
after going through an initial boom, but
which is now trading profitably.
The other US company with an interest
in Federated, Reliance Electric, has
switched its holding in Federated’s sub-
sidiary Electric Control and Engineering
into a 10 per cent slice of Federated
itself and has taken a five-year option
to increase that holding to 21.79 per
cent.
The Borg Warner deal will go some
of the way towards lessening Federal’s
external indebtedness which, like its
stocks and debtors, looks uncomfortably
high. There are prospects of this in-
debtedness being further reduced by the
likely sale of some surplus freeholds
and a pruning of the stock position.
One thing this company needed in recent
years has been the pruning knife, and
Federated’s recovery is due to the energy
with which it has been wielded by the
managing director, Mr N. Pardoe.
The mechanical engineering division
has now been reorganised. Jobbing work
has been progressively dropped in favor
of proprietary lines of equipment for
the expanding petroleum and chemical
industries, power, mining and mineral
processing.
Electric Control and Engineering Ltd,
an important part of the electrical
division, was assisted in the past six
months by the opening of the Lane Cove
plant which is as big as the Camperdown
(NSW) production area. In South Aus-
tralia production facilities were set up
near GMH’s plant at Elizabeth, and
already has substantial orders.
Federated has lately strengthened its
position in WA to take advantage of the
industrial development there.
At prices around 60 cents, Federated
Industries’ 50-cent shares now offer a
7.5 p.c. income return and an 8.3 p.c.
earnings yield not bad in view of the
recent news of a 31 p.c. sales lift for
the first half of 1965-66, which brought
a “satisfactory” improvement in profits.
fpHE share market has responded to
“*■ “Security’s” analysis of some of its
leading packaging companies in recent
weeks in The Bulletin by marking their
shares down to the lowest levels for some
time
The reason for these falls seems to
be an uneasy view of packaging due to
the cut in dividend and 20 per cent fall
in solid container business by Fibre Con-
tainers Ltd. If so, the market is wrong.
For the situation that has affected
Fibre Containers is unlikely to have hit
the rest of the industry with anything like
the same force, if only because Fibre
Containers is clearly the biggest producer
in the solid board field. The growth trend
has been in the corrugated end of the
business rather than solid board, anyway,


Finance Corporation
of Australia Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Ik
PER ANNUM 6 YEARS
11l
PER ANNUM 4 YEARS
6k
PER ANNUM 2 YEARS
6%
PER ANNUM 12 MONTHS
WZ/O
PER ANNUM 6 MONTHS
7a
PER ANNUM 9 AND 10 YEARS
PER ANNUM 9 MONTHS
41%
PER ANNUM 3 MONIES
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only on the printed form referred
to in and attached to the prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application should
be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
and
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Canberra
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra, Perth
Cutten & Harvey,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Mount Gambier.
NIN.S
but nevertheless, other producers of
solid board containers (such as Reed,
Queensland Can and Dodge) are unlikely
to have suffered anything like the 20 per
cent downturn in consumption experi-
enced by Fibres.
The drought in NSW and Queensland
was blamed by Fibres for their experience,
and one of the major uses of solid board
containers is in export packaging of
boned meat. However, Queensland Can
would have been able to keep up a large
slice of its business with meat from tro-
pical areas, and other companies operat-
ing in Victoria would not have been so
badly affected, either.
But in any event, the solid fibre con-
tainer activities of these companies are
heavily outweighed by their corrugated
operations, which have been going ahead
nicely. This is particularly so now that
the manufacturers have been able to
agree to increase their prices in Victoria,
in the past two years the centre of some
heavy price competition from the private-
ly - owned, aggressively - managed Visy
Board company which, having won it-
self a nice slice of the trade, has no*
come to the party.
This sort of agreement indicates that
things are really looking up in the in.
dustry despite the Fibre Containers re.
suit. There are now some good buying
opportunities for shares in this business,
These will be discussed at some length in
The Bulletin in a few weeks’ time when
“Security” sums up his present investiga.
tion into the packaging companies and
our chartist gives his views of their
market position.
rocers had good reason to tremble
when Woolworths moved into the
food business in a big way late in the
19505. Clothing retailers (including the
big department stores) depending on
moderately priced goods should also be
getting worried now that Woolworths is
seriously setting out after the clothing
market.
In establishing the new policy, Wool-
worths surveyed the field and discovered
wide gaps in price and quality between
cheap clothes and expensive models. So
they aim to promote good fashions at
value-for-money prices throughout their
whole chain, not just the “Big W” junior
department stores, under the St Mark
label.
Woolworths is no stranger to clothing.
In the original variety stores, Wool-
worths sold apparel, and, of course,
took over Rockmans in 1961 and Chic
Salon lingerie chain in 1962, increasing
the retail outlets.
But the group is aiming to do much
more of its business in clothes. It began
the campaign when every Woolworths
shareholder received a lift-out shopping
guide (which gets nation-wide distribu-
tion through “The Australian Women’s
Weekly”) with his annual report for the
year to January 26, 1966.
The clothing pictured shares an ad-
vance in styling but control of price
which is reminiscent of the St Michael
range of clothing from Britain’s famous
Marks and Spencer.
HThe London “Economist” a fortnight
ago sounded fairly cautious about
the investment outlook in Australia, and
suggested that investors here should limit
their buying to mining shares with a
stake in the long-term development of
the country’s natural resources.
It sounded like a strong recommenda-
tion in particular for CRA, which has
risen by about 35 cents since then (in-
cluding one big 14 cents jump last
Friday) to about the 4.40 mark.
But the “Economist’s” other recom-
mendation —“agricultural finance shares
like Dalgety which has halved its price
since mid-1964” —was not so immedi-
ately successful. During the week the
price of Dalgety shares fell to 4.60, their
lowest for the year.


EALANCE
SHEET
SUMMARIES
o
o
o
Year to June 30
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
Current assets
805
1142
1257
2870
4686
Current liabilities
577
761
892
2109
1861
—
—
—
—
—
Working capital
228
381
365
761
2825
Land, buildings
(freehold)
46
245
321
1537
1312
Land, buildings
(leasehold)
100
119
223
66
43
Plant, etc.
341
532
865
2055
1599
Investments
10
7
8
10
L5
Intangibles
266
510
567
2034
1189
Total capital
991
1794
2349
6463
6983
Represented by:
Loan capital
71
152
265
1125
1650
Convertible notes 15
15
15
—
—
Ord. capital
555
716
791
1753
- 1758
Reserves
350
911
’278
3580
3575
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES
o
o
o
Loan interest
n.a.
3
2
19
69
Depreciation
32
63
93
303
197
Tax provided
59
109
89
293
302
Earnings
117
195
242
481
532
Ord. Dividends
79
99
138
230
293
Surplus
38
96
104
251
239
Earning rate p.c.
22.2
29.5
30.5
34.9
30.3
Div. rate p.c.
Div. yield
15.0
15.0
17.5
16.7
16.7
p.c. (a)
6.1
4.3
4.2
3.6
3.8
High price (b)
1.52
200
2.30
2 55
2.55
Low price (b)
0.95
1.45
1.82
2.03
1.82
(a) Based on the average
for the year.
(b) Calendar year.
of the
high and low
prices
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Dodge Shares Now Cheap
But earnings on funds have fallen
TTodge Consolidated Industries
” Limited came on to the Stock Ex-
change list in April, 1960, as the 1960
boom was gathering momentum. Those
investors who obtained shares then at 5s
(50c) have a 282 p.c. capital gain over a
six-year period, even at today’s depressed
level of $1.60. Dividends per share in-
creased by one-third from 1960 to 1965
and earnings per share seem to have
increased by about 80 p.c. over the same
period. Clearly, capital gain has far out-
stripped the gains in earnings and divi-
dends; this can only be ascribed to the
completely changed stature of Dodge
Consolidated over this very short period.
When the company was first listed, it
was known mainly for its novelties,
games, jigsaw puzzles and Christmas
crackers, although the original activity
seems to have been in the cardboard box
field. After listing, as one can now see
in retrospect, the company’s aspirations
seem to have changed; over the next
four years a large number of companies
in the packaging industry were acquired.
Acquisitions were made in Melbourne
(Carlton Box), Adelaide (Adelaide Fibre
Box) and Perth (Perth Fibre Box) in
September, 1960. During the remainder
of 1960/1, Saf-Pak Boxes of Victoria
was acquired, followed by Saf-Pak (Vic.)
Pty Ltd during 1961/2. South Austral-
ian Paper and Bag and J. H. Sherring
were acquired by the end of the 1962/3
year; shortly afterwards the Nosek group
of companies of Sydney joined the group.
In March, 1964, it was announced that
activities had been extended in Western
Australia by the acquisition of another
three companies in the Perth area. Six
weeks after this came the news which
was probably the most momentous in the
company’s relatively short history.
On April 27. 1964, Dodge Consoli-
dated announced that Cartons and Corru-
gated Papers Pty Ltd of Sydney had been
acquired with its wholly owned subsid-
iary National Paper Mills Pty Ltd. This
acquisition involved an issue of shares to
the shareholders of Cartons and Corru-
gated, plus cash. It seems that the cash
content was provided, at least in part, by
an issue of shares to Leigh-Mardon Pty
Ltd and S. T. Leigh and Co. Pty Ltd.
The significant part of these issues was
that the shares going to the subsidiaries
of British Tobacco were special shares,
carrying the right to have further shares
allo-ted to their ho’ders in the event of
further issues apart from a normal rights
issue, so that the proportion which were
held of the total issued capital was not
disturbed. This meant that British Tob-
acco (through its subsidiaries) had
acquired a controlling interest (in essence
if not in law), since it held and could
continue to hold about one-third of the
capital of Dodge Consolidated.
Despite the substantial issues of capi-
tal that had been made prior to this
special issue, no occasion ever arose for
the condition to be exercised. In March,
1965, it was announced that the share-
holding of the Melick family in Dodge
Consolidated had been acquired. Two
months afterwards Leigh-Mardon offered
to acquire one-third of all existing hold-
ings. This last offer resulted in Dodge
Consolidated becoming a subsidiary of
British Tobacco, as that group ended up
with 62 p.c. of Dodge Consolidated’s
capital at an average cost per share of
about $2.33.
HThe offer made to shareholders to ac-
A quire one-third of their holdings was
at a price of $2.70 per share, or nearly
ten per cent higher than the highest
price paid on the market during 1965.
It is even stranger that the offer price
should have been 25 p.c. greater than the
market price just prior to the announce-
ment of the offer. One can only assume
that British Tobacco was anxious to be
scrupulously fair to its fellow share-
holders in Dodge Consolidated, even
though this scrupulousness has cost about
$725,000 over a period of nine months.
Dodge Consolidated's role as a paper
manufacturer (through its ownership of
National Paper Mills) w'as shortlived for,
in February, 1965, it was announced that
British Tobacco had taken over the paper
mills. This sale does not seem to have
had any effect on Dodge Consolidated’s
profits, for, despite the loss of any profits
that might have been obtained from
National Paper, group profits increased
in 1964/5 and it now appears that “ . . .
sales and profits for the four months
period ended October 31, 1965, showed a
further increase as against the same
period of the previous year.” There can
be no doubt that, during the four months
ended October 31, 1964, National Paper
was in the Dodge Consolidated group and
it was not in the four months ended
October 31, 1965. As other fibre con-
tainer makers have not been able to
announce profit increases during the
period of six months ended December 31,
1965, one could easily come to the con-
clusion that National Paper might have
been a drag on the profits of Dodge Con-
solidated and its subsidiaries. There is a
possibility that, without National Paper,
Dodge Consolidated might be able to ob-
tain paperboard at more favorable prices
and, since it was unlikely that National
Paper could have supplied all Dodge
Consolidated's requirements, this could
have been of considerable benefit, since
“raw materials” probably represent nearly
two-thirds of all direct costs of a paper
converter.
Even after making adjustments for
seeming under-provision for tax, earn-
ings per share appear to have increased
fairly well over the last five years and
to have been accompanied by comparable
dividend per share increases:
Year to June 30 1961 1962 1963 1954 1965
Earnings (cents) 10.0 13.8 12.8 12.6 13.6
Dividends (cents) 6.0 6.0 7.0 8.3 8.3
Earnings index 100 138 128 126 136
Dividends index 100 100 117 133 133
When one comes to look at the return
on total capital employed, a most marked
downward trend appears to be in evi-
dence. Clearly, when numerous take-
overs have been made, the actual rates
of profitability must be in some doubt
but it would seem that these rates have
fallen by about 50 p.c. over the last
three years. It will be very interesting to
see how future trends develop, although
it is doubtful whether these will be ob-
servable this year because the company’s
financial period will cover sixteen months.
At the present time, one cannot even be
certain of the dividend rate which will
be received this year.
On the available information, it seems
that at a price of $1.60 the dividend
yield is 5.6 p c. and the earnings vield is
8.5 p.c. This would suggest that the
shares are a little cheap at $1.60.


cc
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
CREDIT
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF
$4,000,000
DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a.
o
10 YEARS
SHORT TERM STOCK
5% p.a. 3 months
5i% p.a. 6 months
5f% p.a. 9 months
6% p.a. —l2 months
LONG TERM STOCK
p.a. 2 years
7% p.a. 5 years
7J% p.a. 7 years
7i% p.a. 10 years
International Harvester Credit Corporation of
Australia Limited is engaged principally in the
wholesale and retail financing of products of
International Harvester Company of Australia
Pty. Ltd.,
UNDERWRITERS
(of $3,000,000 Long Term Stock)
lAN POTTER & CO.
(Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne)
AUSTRALIAN UNITED
CORPORATION LIMITED
Applications may proceed only on the form
attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
which is obtainable from any Member of a
recognized Stock Exchange, any branch in
Australia of the A.N.Z. Bank Ltd., any branch
in Australia of the Commonwealth Trading Bank
of Australia, any office of IHCC of Australia
Limited, or from the Joint Underwriters.
lAN POTTER & CO.
325 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
44 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
122 Alinga Street, Canberra City, A.C.T.
41 Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
84 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
288-298 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
178 Liverpool Street, Hobart.
rin&DiM
MAN ON THE LAND
Planner’s Paradise in UK
Oritish Labor’s clear victory at the
polls means that in agriculture the
planner’s paradise comes closer to
reality. But anyone who confuses this
with the one-time Labor aim of giving
the small man a fair go does not know
much about modern British Labor or
modern Britain.
Sixty-five of the new Labor MPs are
under 38 and most are university men.
They are the advocates of a system,
sponsored by Prime Minister Wilson him-
self and all the other disciples of the
Keynesian-influenced political philosophy
which allocates to agriculture an ancil'
lary place in the affluent, industrialised
society.
Agriculture in Britair is not a way of
life. It is a means of providing the
vitamins and calories for the happy
masses. The dwindling race of British
farmers is well aware that the younger
generation of planners is not particularly
concerned with farming as such. Thj s
has importance for Australia.
Neither the Tories nor Labor dwelt at
any length on Commonwealth trade ties
during the election. According to a pre-
election statement from the British
National Farmers’ Union, one gathers
that both Tory and Labor policy is to
join the Common Market sooner or later
and that differences of opinion are related
to details only.
Now that his majority is assured, Mr
Wilson can be expected to push on with
the consolidation of small-holdings plan.
The idea, briefly, is to remove from the
land all those small farmers who are
judged, by the planners, to be in the
way. If they are young enough they
will be trained, by the State, in some
other calling. If they are too old to
learn they will get a pension.
The trend appears certain to be to-
wards more grassland farming; the
estates, one imagines, will very soon be
back to what they were in Cromwellian
times. Instead of the lord of the manor
there will be university-trained managers
and boards of directors. The small
farmers will go. But no one is likely to
use the word eviction and there will be
no horror aroused should anyone, per-
chance, say it.
The factory farms will get even bigger
and Thornber Brothers will probably
build their million-bird factory and a
million-lamb and million-pig factory. A
few eccentrics will write to “The Times”
they will be merely reminders of a
fast disappearing feudal class-system.
More than likely, contracts, to be
fulfilled in order to obtain the State
subsidy, will apply to all agricultural
produce. If the farm cannot meet the
contract, then the answer will be to sack
the managers (full superannuation guar-
anteed) and get new ones.
For young men the prospect of actually
owning a farm will be tedious. If one
is clever enough to make the top 10 p.c.,
and so qualify for university, then there
will be careers with status as farm
managers. Those old-fashioned enough
to actually want to farm their own land
can always emigrate to Rhodesia.
Here, in Australia, one detects a
strange attitude, doubtless inspired by
the Country Party, that a British Labor
Government is less likely to ditch us in
Common Market negotiations than a


R&N LEASE OR PURCHASE PLAN
A Complete, Co-ordinated Service for Industry
fm
■+*+■*&&
ip*
w&gsM
&%% W$W?W$O&
*«CO0>&«O
A typical building designed, manufactured, erected and leased by
R&N PROJECT/LEASE COMPANY*
We offer you a complete, single source building system, from initial planning,
building design, manufacture, erection and subsequent lease or purchase. For
details, write for a copy of our comprehensive brochure.
RN
ii
R&N PROJECT/LEASE CO. PTY. LTD.
NEWCASTLE: 25 Pacific Hwy., Bennetts Green, Newcastle, N.S.W. Phone 4-8391 (10 lines)
BRISBANE: 179 Elizabeth St., Brisbane, QLD. Phone 2-1757 (4 lines) or 2-3721 (7 lines)
*A member of the R&N Statham Ltd. Group
Tory Government. One looks in vain for
some substantiation of this in Britain.
British farmers have no Country Party
to look after their special interests.
The Australian Country Party attitude
seems to be that, as you cannot really
trust a Liberal Government in Australia,
so you cannot really trust a Tory Govern-
ment in Britain. The facts do not appear
so comforting.
If the British NFU makes no real
differentiation between Labor and Tory
aims, then that is good enough for us.
The NFU has been waging a strong cam-
paign, directed at both parties, which is
designed to retain the right of farmer
consultation in Common Market deter-
mination of guaranteed prices and quotas.
Without this right of consultation, says
the NFU, the food bill for the nation
could rise by £stg4oo million annually.
Unless we have slipped up in our read-
ing, we gather that both Labor and Tory
official reaction has been that the
farmers are exaggerating their case.
With or without the Common Market,
the immediate prospect would appear to
be more and cheaper Danish butter and
dairy products, and more European and
home-raised beef, on British tables. Cer-
tainly Australia is exploring other mar-
kets; recent increases in meat exports to
Japan, with strong indications of con-
tinuing demand, are particularly en-
couraging. So is the noticeable increase
in US wool buying, despite the main-
tenance of the high tariff (our lending
a hand in Vietnam has brought no pay-
off there).
Perhaps the most important develop-
ment in Britain, from our point of view,
is the projected subsidy for the textile
industry. What form it takes and,
naturally, the size of it, are highly in-
teresting. Whichever way one turns in
farming today one cannot avoid the
mention of subsidy. Yet if the UK tax-
payer is asked to subsidise the British
textile industry, it does seem more satis-
factory than any kind of subsidy from
the Australian taxpayer and that, really,
is what wool promotion is.
Tf it were not for the subsidy factor,
no one would be objecting to it other
than those who, for aesthetic reasons,
dislike the actual shape of the wool
symbol. The shape does not really
matter. What it is costing does matter —
or will, eventually.
The promised subsidy is, we believe,
closely linked with the plans of Wool-
combers Ltd (Bradford) and its managing
director, Mr J. Alan Thompson, to buy
privately outside the auction system in
Australia. Strangely, Mr Thompson is
wary of questions related to contract
buying, although he has conceded that
contract buying would be logical. We
think it would be, for special super-
quality lines, but not for the bulk buy-
ing which Mr Thompson would want. It
seems pretty obvious that he would like
a subsidy at both ends (in the UK and
in Australia) in order to pay better than
auction prices, which is really the only
way it would work.
The likelihood of woolgrowers allow-
ing themselves to be influenced by long-
range theories (aimed at undermining
the auction system so that acquisition
becomes necessary), and taking a lower
price for the sake of the cause, seems
remote. But if the Wilson Government
does subsidise the UK textile industry
it will not stop there. The dog will chase
its tail.
It is by no means clear whether the
synthetics part of the textile industry is
to get the bigger share of the subsidy
and it is not clear whether the subsidy
is to be free of strings. And it is not
clear what the reaction of other UK
industries will be. Nationalisation of
steel and a subsidy for textiles seems
an unreal sort of proposition, even by
British Labor standards. Moreover, it
was an election promise which went over
well in the mill areas of Britain, suffer-
ing as they are from outdated equipment
and intense competition from other
nations.


GMAC
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN U.S.A. LIMITED LIABILITY)
UNSECURED NOTES
6io/
4/0
7%
7»
TWO
YEARS
FVE
YEARS
TEN
YEARS
SHORT TERM
30-89 DAYS 4 *A%
90-179 DAYS 5Vz%
180-269 DAYS 5 3 A%
270-360 DAYS 5 3 A%
ONE YEAR 6%
TWO YEARS 6 1 / 4 %
MEDIUM TERM
THREE YEARS 6 1 / 2 %
FIVE YEARS 7%
LONG TERM
TEN YEARS 7 1 /z%
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
Members of the Stock Exchanges
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Australia
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra
Applications will proceed only on one of the
forms of application referred to in and at-
tached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
pgoa
AGRISEARCH
Prevention of Flystrike
Otriking evidence of the value of the
mules operation in suppressing fly-
strike has been announced by the New
South Wales Department of Agriculture.
Its sheep and wool officer at Wentworth
conducted a trial comparing the incidence
of strike in radically mulesed and un-
mulesed hoggets. The former flock re-
mained completely untouched by blow-
flies during the 18-month trial, but the
sheep in the latter group suffered nearly
two strikes each. Percentage-wise, the
actual difference between the groups was
170 p.c.
The operation, moreover, halved
crutching time and reduced losses from
stained wool to virtually zero. Mulesing,
which removes surplus skin from the
caudal area and surrounding parts, is
also known to facilitate shearing, mating
and lambing. These recent findings and
figures simply reaffirm the value of a
technique that was devised and first
appreciated about 30 years ago. It is
amazing that departments of agriculture
still find it necessary to run trials such
as the one reported here in order to en-
courage graziers to adopt the practice as
a routine. This perseverance, however,
seems to be winning its reward at long
last in New South Wales, at least. There
the number of sheep mulesed has in-
creased 47 p.c. over the last three years,
a survey has shown. But mostly the
operation is being done on weaners,
whereas it is well established that mule-
sing at marketing time, besides saving
time and labor, is entirely practical.
Apparently, sheepmen have felt all
these years that the operation requires
more skill to perform than they would
be willing to acquire; it is only with the
coming of specialist contactors that
increasing numbers of sheep and their
owners are now enjoying the benefits of
this highly effective means of thwarting
the blowfly. An experienced operator with
proper facilities (revolving cradle to re-
strain the sheep and good yards) can
muiese grown sheep at the rate of one
every 20 seconds. Lambs, of course, can
be handled even faster. With such a
throughput the cost has been reduced
to a very attractive level. For instance,
some contractors appear to make a good
living though charging only $6 per
hundred, provided the farmer musters
and supplies one catcher.
Herd Improvement
New South Wales Department of
Agriculture can point with pride to
the results of its dairy-herd improvement
programme. Butterfat production by its
Friesian and Jersey cows has risen 35
per cent and 2C per cent respectively
over the last fifteen years. In the same
time, the privately owned pure herds of
these breeds in New South Wales have
only improved by 3fi per cent and 3 per
cent.
The department’s Friesian stud is
maintained at the Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College and its pure-bred Jerseys
are kept at the Wagga Agricultural
Research Station. In addition, the depart-
ment keeps a Guernsey stud at Yanco,
and AIS and Polled Jersey studs at
Grafton. Each of these has also recorded
better production figures than the State
averages for these breeds. The Friesians
last year yielded 4591 b of butterfat from
12,3501 b of milk, whereas the privately
owned Friesians gave 3431 b butterfat
from 89031 b of milk.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: IVY MYRTLE WHITEHEART (also known
as Ivy Myrtle White). TAKE NOTICE that
EDWARD WILLIAM WHITEHEART has filed
a petition for divorce No. 4747 of 1965 on
the ground of separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the sth May, 1966, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs. RONALD J. CURRY & CO.,
Solicitors, of 6a Penfold Place, Sydney. C.
A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN FOSTER formerly of Naremburn.
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA BERYL MARY
FOSTER has filed a Petition No. 710 of 1966
fqr divorce on the ground of separation and/
or desertion and seeks orders for custody,
maintenance, property settlement and costs.
If you wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Syd-
ney on or before the 19th day of May, 1966.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Messrs. JOHN D. NORTON
RICKARD & SYMONDS, Solicitors, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RENE ROSE O’DONNELL. TAKE NOTICE
that JOHN SYLVESTER O’DONNELL has
filed a Petition No. 96 of 1966 for Divorce
on the ground of separation notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in a
Discretion Statement filed herein and seeks
a Decree of Dissolution of Marriage. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the nineteenth day of May, 1966. You
may obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Messrs. F. W. HALL & CEDRIC
CULLETIN of 77 King Street, Sydney, the
Petitioner’s Solicitor. C. A. H. HARMS, Re-
gistrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: VINCENT HERBERT JOHNSTON late Of
33 Tara Street, Blacktown. TAKE NOTICE
that BETTY CLAIRE JOHNSTON has filed
Petition No. 4209 of 1964 for divorce on the
ground of cruelty and seeks order for custody,
property settlement, maintenance and costs.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer at the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, on or before the 13th day
of May, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. G. KNOX,
Solicitors, 55 Market Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Positions Vacant
TEACHERS WANTED FOR
ST. THOMAS'S SCHOOL, KUCHING, SARAWAK
To teach Geography and English up to matricula-
tion standard, from January 1967.
Before applying please note:
1. Salaries are smaller than in Australia and con-
ditions worse (salary range for a trained gradu-
ate is from $2480 to $4200).
2. Return fares are paid for a three year term and
furnished housing is provided at 10 per cent of
salary.
3. There are three Australians on the present staff
of 41, including the Principal and they are glad
they have come here
Apply to the Principal, St. Thomas's School, P.O.
Box 264, Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia.
The Bulletin Index for 1964 is
now available. It may be bought for
75c at the Australian Consolidated
Press Library, 54 Park St., Sydney,
or ordered for $l.lO including postage
from the same Library, Box 4088,
G.P.0., Sydney. A few copies of the
1963 Index are also still available.
IN MELBOURNE
People who demand the best stay at the
RESS ORIENTAL HOTEL
Paris end of Collins Street
Right in the heart of Melbourne’s
finest shops, theatres, cinemas and
business centres.
ioo rooms—newly decorated, and
new air-conditioned restaurants
including . ..
The Persian Room — Dine and
dance in Arabian Nights splendour.
It’s a discotheque, too!
Also the famous Rib Room, and
the gay Harlequin Room.
Car parking at the hotel and
prompt 24-hour room service.
Reservations Your airline or
travel agent. Melbourne 63 6031
Sydney 29 8392.
HESS ORIENTAL
MELBOURNE v *
RHIB7
"The Bulletin” Crossword No. 894
ACROSS
I —Bath for a German crook. (3)
3—Relative to the dark hospital worker. (5-6)
8— “Twelfth Night” character blushing and inflamed. (8)
9 Like some seabird to the rear. (6)
12— Raves dreadfully and swears! (5)
13— Conqueror’s home boys. (8)
16— Sheltered side backing fish. (3)
17— Our tone is dreadful but not off course. (2, 5)
18— Sarah gets four to one. Wouldn’t it make us spit! (6)
19— Lifted subject to burlesque. (4, 2)
20— Fifty that is not fast goes into hiding. (4, 3)
22—Mount Chif. (3)
23 As the orphaned panic is lean
and intellectual-looking. (8)
24 Behaved like a Volga boat-
man. which is nothing to a
Communist. (5)
26—Measures the article in fea-
tures. (6)
29 Missouri crag versus an apt
vehicle for delivery services.
(5, 3)
30— Pathetic composer. (11)
31— South Australian coppers are
mournful. (3)
DOWN
1— Colorful Capone to love grass
beef. (7)
2 Plate listener figures this
means one lowers morale.
(11)
3 Compelled by circumstances
requiring grape-juice as Nick
is chauffeuring. (5, 4,4, 3,5,
6)
4 Inexperienced Groutcraft? It’s
a job for a man of course. (12)
5 Resort in South Pennsylvania.
(3)
6 Compelled by circumstances
requiring grape-juice as Nick
is chauffeuring. (3)
7 A footing for a climber tele-
phoned. (4)
10— Method of successfully bud-
geting for the upkeep of a
horsy establishment? (6, 7)
11— Those who chose LBJ? (3-9)
14 —Compelled by circumstances
requiring grape-juice as Nick
is chauffering. (5, 6)
15—You must go on to a town
in Victoria, no contradiction
being required. (3)
19—Just the drink for sailors. (3)
21—Laterally enlarged to give an
extra to Kelly. (7)
25—Tax cost needs adjustment. (4)
27 A sloth drops the lot for tim-
ber. (3)
28— South to the Old Country
composer of Czechoslovakia,
and leader of a famous quar-
tet scheduled to tour Austra-
lia. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 893


No. of
Name of
Date
Cost
Per
Cur-
rent
Shares
Company
Bought
Share
Price
400
Pongrass
15/9/65
$1 10
$1.10
200
VAM
28/9/65
0 50
0.40
400
B. J. Ball
2/2/66
0 88
0.80
200
Western Mining
9/2/66
2.60
2.70
400
Riverina TV
13/2/66
0.74
0.75
400
West Titanium c‘g
13/2/66
1.15
1.00
1000
Fire Fighting
24/2/66
0./2
0 75
400
Coal and Allied
24/2/66
1 36
1.36
500
Amal. Chem. put
option
3/3/66
1 35
0.85
1000
Westralian
8/3/66
0.65
0.35
500
Comeng
10/3/66
1.11
1.12
200
Fowlers Vacola
13/3/66
0.45
0.45
200
W. R. Carpenter
24/3/66
2.58
2.60
500
Amal. Chem.
29/3/66
0.85
0.85
1000
Deposit and Inv.
30/3/66
0.18
0.20
100
Tyree
30/3/66
1.62
1 62
200
Cottees
5/4/66
2.96
3.00
400
Nuttall
5/4/6c
0.70
0.70
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mail—26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITAIN AND EIRE
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/ Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/ Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
USA and CANADA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43 rd Street, New York.
Surface mail—send dollar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address..
j | Renewal. | | New Subscription.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for
HELP
all the year round
SPECULATOR'S DIARY
The Meaning of Marketable
What is a “defensive” stock?
fFHERE are approximately 1000 stocks listed on our stock market. Yet perhaps only
100 of these stocks could be classified as really marketable securities. In other
words, nine out of the ten stocks are not truly marketable!
What determines this classification is,
of course, the turnover. To me, a com-
pany would have to show regularly a
monthly turnover in excess of 20,000
shares to be included. If you take out
the heavyweights, you find such com-
panies as A. G. Sims, Coal and Allied,
Tooheys and Waltons at the top of the
list.
The real need for marketability arises
when one is trying to get out of a stock.
Let’s imagine that you were a holder of
Davleco or Nuttall shares and you had
been disappointed with their respective
interim reports. A selling order placed
for either of these stocks immediately
following the report would have left you
even more disappointed, as it would
have been executed at a price of just
20 p.c. below the previous sale. For
this to happen to BHP, a gap from
$5.35 to $4.30 would have to suddenly
appear. If the word “defensive” is ap-
plicable to the stock market, then it
should be tagged to those shares where
the turnover is large enough to tem-
porarily absorb such shocks as lower
profits.
This is not a crusade against the small
listed company. It is simply to remind
readers (and myself) of the pitfalls that
may occur with lightly traded stocks. And
as if to defy what I’ve said earlier my
very first purchase this week was to be
400 Nuttall at 70c, which is just 20 cents
lower than the pre-interim report price.
Nuttall probably attracted more atten-
tion when it was being floated in 1964
than any other recent listing. It was the
first and so far only issue in Australia
to be made by tender. As it has turned
out, the people who have done best out
of the issue were O’Connell Corporation
and the shareholders of the proprietary
company. As they had originally bought
all the shares in the issue at 82c and the
final tender price was $l.OO, the gross
profit notched up by this partnership
was a cool $50,000.
In the first year as a public company,
the earning rate was an impressive 26 p.c.
Since then, alas, complications in the
form of substantial development costs
on a new lathe have cut into profits.
Thus the statement in the interim re-
port that profits had “sharply declined”
in the first six months of the current
year. It must not be overlooked that this
development cost is regarded as “non-
recurring”. -
As fast as Nuttall shares have fallen,
so has my other purchase of the week
risen. In fact, Cottees has been a fascin-
ating performer in recent months. One
of the few remaining independent food
and drink companies, it has been the sub-
ject of several takeover approaches. As
a result the share price has been up and
down like a yo-yo.
A few weeks ago, when the shares
rose to $2.85, the directors announced
that there was no immediate possibility
of a takeover. The fact that the share
price did not falter, although volume
sharply increased, vaguely registered in
my mind. When the price rose to $3.15
I was cursing my apathy. It appeared
that I would have to write it off as an-
other missed opportunity. Just as quick-
ly, however, the share price reacted to
$2.96. Rightly or wrongly, this is where
I came into the stock.
To pay for these purchases, Associat-
ed Pulp and Concrete Industries bid
farewell to the portfolio. After the slug-
gish response by Concrete Industries,
following the interim report, I was
doubtful that the shares would make
33 cents. Now that they have, it shows
a neat little profit of $23. Associated
Pulp also added to the profit of the year
with a contribution of $29. This amount
included the interim dividend paid a
short while ago.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
400 Associated Pulp $1.60 $627
500 Concrete Industries .... 33c $162
BOUGHT
200 Cottees $2.96 $606
400 Nuttall 70c $287
A small debit balance of $lO3 remains
in the account.
The portfolio now consists of:


1
;
41
i®
1
■ a
m
m
mi
m
g .
11*
•aft
i
ni
t*
v:
m
1
u.
’ll
,r
i
mx
In the time it took this girl to seal 7,500 slide-boxes ...this 3M Brand automatic taping machine seals 30,000.
You get more than tape from 3M
Kodak got T.C.E.*
*(Tape Customer Engineering Service it’s free)
Ask Kodak. 3M dreamed up an automatic slidebox sealing machine for
them. Four times faster than a hand-box sealer - takes different size
boxes in its stride - gets the slides mailed the day they are processed.
That solved Kodak’s problem. What’s yours? Drop it in the lap of
T.C.E. - via your 3M Salesman or “Scotch” Brand Tape Distributor.
Scotch
INDUSTRIAL TAPES
INDUSTRIAL TAPES DIVISION
miNNESOTA [TUNING AND mANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD
Sydney 43.0455; Melbourne 61.3841; Adelaide 51.5971 ; Brisbane 5.4131;
Perth 28.4651; Hobart 3.3104; Canberra 4.0791 ; Auckland 295.109:
3m
COmPANY
3M3/2346/66


There are 1800
reasons why
they cal! this...
THE GAR
OF THE
CENTURY
IV!ORE SPACE
Logical! No space consum-
ing tailshafts, differentials,
and thus more space to offer
than any car anywhere near
its size! No less than 70% of
the total length of the car is
devoted to passengers and
luggage. There is stretch out
room back and front. The
boot offers 17 cubic feet of
usable space. There is a full
width dashboard parcel shelf,
open pockets on every door,
six square feet of parcel
shelf behind the back seat!
IT FLOATS ON FLUID
The Austin 1800 has no
springs to sag, no shock ab-
sorbers to wear and rattle.
Instead, the miracle of Hyd-
rolastic* suspension gives
you expressway riding on the
toughest tracks. It floats
on fluid with independent
suspension for each wheel.
Pitch, sway and bounce are
out. Better adhesion and
cornering are in!
SAFETY FIRST
Seatbelts are standard up
front. The Austin 1800 has
power assisted disc brakes,
a special braking device to
prevent rear wheel locking
and skidding. You get rack
and pinion steering, safety
glass, new radial ply tyres.
MORE STRENGTH
The body shell of the Austin
1800 is the stiffest and
strongest structure ever built
into a production car. It is
completely free from rattl-
ing, twisting, vibration. This
kind of strength means
greater safety. For life.
MORE PULLING
POWER
Pulling power is a reality in
the Astounding Austin 1800!
It has the proven BMC idea
of East-West engine and
front wheel drive. Gearbox,
engine, differential are all
together in one compact
unit. Power losses are cut to
a minimum. The weight is
over the front wheels where
it counts most. Result: more
usable power, greater econ-
omy, better cornering.
THE CAR
OF THE CENTURY
These are just some of the
reasons why this car has
been greeted as the car of
the century. You must see it,
.
aammm
m
y
M
RUST PROTECTION
7 COATS DEEP
Your motoring investment is
protected by the unique BMC
Rotodip anti-rust process.
The car is completely sub-
merged and rotated in spe-
cial chemical baths, in pro-
tective undercoats so that
every square inch, inside
and out, is completely treat-
ed. This multi million dollar
process is new and exclusive
to BMC. Rotodip protection
provides the base for the
gleaming baked enamel fin-
ish, provides protection a-
gainst moisture inside the
car where rust usually starts
in other cars.
EXTRA VALUE
In other cars you could
easily pay up to $3OO (£150)
extra for the luxury features
that come completely stan-
dard with the Astounding
Austin 1800. You get a camp-
ing body, adjustable and re-
clining seats. You get heat-
er/demister/fresh air ven-
tilation system, luxurious
carpeted interior. You get
courtesy lights, armrests.
There is even a hook to hang
coats on above the rear
door! These features are
completely standard, inclu-
sive in the astounding price
of just $2,330 (£1,165).
drive it yourself. It’s at your
BMC centre now. An astoun-
ding $2,330 (£1,165) incl.
tax! *Regd. Trade Mark
Prices slightly higher in some areas.
MHo
