

The Bulletin
• ARE the vietcong losing?
MARCH 12, 1966
INCORPORATING THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES
ISRAEL
REVISITED
THE NEW JERUSALEM
The Shrine of the Book, Jerusalem
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Australia 20c, New Zealand 2/-, Singapore $l, Malaysia $1


c
The Plastisol used in the above insect screening is made by W. R. Grace Australia Pty. Ltd.
who supply Australian Fibre Glass Pty. Ltd., makers of fibre glass screening.
Qeon
lies
of
screen coating
You benefit with a flexible, tough and
durable product at economical cost.
In past years, fibreglass insect screenings
were the subject of much experiment-
ation. It is thanks to the development of
strand coatings of GEON resins that to-
day fibreglass screenings are tough, re-
sistant to corrosion and mildew com-
pletely practical in all weather conditions.
And Geon resins make these insect
screenings economical to manufacture.
Is there a bug in your manufacturing
process? Write to the address below.
You'll get technical advice and assistance
from the world’s largest, most knowledge-
able producer of vinyl materials, backed
by the research that has already given
hundreds of products a competitive edge.
BE Goodrich
B. F. GOODRICH- C.S.R. CHEMICALS PTY. LTD.
Enquiries to Dept. C. (Box P.O. 2538) G.P.O. Melbourne
MS 910


ha,lds 4/
•jtr
◄
Av>^flyAHS&*
.
m
m
"HOW CAN I SERVE
THIS BUSINESSMAN
BETTER THAN HE’S
EVER BEEN SERVED
BEFORE?"
THINKING CAP
Here are some of the ways Ansett-ANA people think of your needs before
you’ve thought of them yourself. Pleasant people giving you pleasant service.
■ They will book you on the most convenient flight
■ Arrange an Avis Rent-A-Car to be waiting when you arrive
■ Reserve accommodation for you alone, or a full convention group
■ Arrange for secretarial service ■ Organise your press conferences
■ Plan special sightseeing tours ■ Get yourtheatre tickets.
No wonder most Australian businessmen who fly regularly insist on Ansett-
ANA. Shouldn’t everyone?
ANSETT-ANA
SYSTEM OF THE GOLDEN JETS
A MEMBER COMPANY OF ANSETT TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES LIMITED
2395
The Bulletin
Established 1880
MARCH 12, 1966
VOL. 88, No. 4488
ISRAEL REVISITED
More and more like Tel Aviv 18
THE POET AS PUBLIC
FIGURE
Yevtushenko and the Adelaide
establishment 24
WHY THE VIETCONG
ARE LOSING
From Douglas Pike in Saigon 33
TRUST THE TREASURY? .... 50
TANNER .... 15 LETTERS .... 36
BATMAN 27
THIS AUSTRALIA
Whitlam’s Friendly Enemies 12
Indonesia Confronting the
Generals 12
New Guinea A Problem of
Evidence 14
Lit. A and Lit. B 14
Lord Shawcross’ Business 15
Utzon’s Space 17
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Dame Judith: “Ugly! Dirty!” 38
No Revolution for “The Firm” 38
TELEVISION: Steamroller 40
THEATRE: Robert Wales’ The Cell 40
MUSIC: Laurindo Almeida' 40
RECORDS: Tales of Hoffmann and
The Magic Flute 42
BOOKS: A. D. Hope’s Collected
Poems 44
; ■>; , The Modern Tradition .... 46
Pop Art 48
BUSINESS & FINANCE
There’s Money in Hangovers 55
Which Paper Stock to Buy 60
No Guide off the Market 63
man on the land
Wool Industry Squabbles 56
Editorial Office: Park House, 54-58 Park
Street, Sydney. Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 2504.


z&f
feo&xw
A
i. .a
n
t*#
■M
%
fix
1
m
m
P
W
M-
mm ** Y •
■
s■■ 1 My««
f.
:•• -
imrnt
kecked
187 private citizens
supervise the Mobil Economy Run
On March 22nd. next, this small army of independent observers and
officials will start a 4-day vigil to ensure that you get a true report of
what your make of car can do on a really modern petrol. These are
impartial private citizens chosen at random from many different fields.
Under the Run Director (who is appointed with the approval of the
Confederation of Australian Motor Sport and is answerable only to it),
they enforce the regulations of the Run’s 40-page rule book. They see
that drivers obey traffic laws, drive safely, stick to the route and that no
one tampers with officially sealed parts of their cars. As well as these
187 officials, many independent news reporters, television and radio
commentators, and motoring editors accompany the Run cars.
10th Mobil Economy Run Route
—1,580 miles (March 22 March
25,1966) Starts Bendigo via Narrand-
era, Orange, Taree, Grafton, Lismore,
Surfers’ Paradise, Brisbane, and
Maryborough to Bundaberg. Route
provides all types of conditions, in-
cluding city streets, to ensure a realistic
test of cars, drivers and fuel. Watch
for results. See what m.p.g. this year’s
cars can achieve with Mobil Super.
Mobil
Get top performance with Mobil Super
MER 6410.70


r
y l
One of the five 50'ton Haulpaks with special side dump bodies used for iron ore haulage at Cockatoo Island W.A.
y -*■ - - - ■ J V-
'. «c<- -sV
it to mm au - w ;.s ■? )n«hqus£
1
V
I. J
'V'
n
Hi
x ';
'- ¥ ’>S'« m
' , **.'•«*!
mm
. K ■ ;
* ' V
"> X ,£
fcSSS
MOUE
■ i m or @
The mighty Haulpak Rear, Side and Bottom Dumps are made in
Australia to exacting job requirements and backed by the
specialised technical services of the world-wide LeTourneau-
Westinghouse organisation. Australian-built LW Haulpaks can and
do cope with the toughest jobs under the most difficult conditions
throughout Australia and overseas.
Here are a few of the major projects on which Australian-made
Haulpak Trucks are used: ■ HYDRO-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION,
SNOWY MOUNTAINS ■ IRON MINING, W.A. ■ CEMENT PLANT, N.Z.
■ COPPER MINING, MT. ISA, QLD. n BAUXITE MINING, QLD.
■ RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION, W.A. ■ DAM CONSTRUCTION, N.Z.
■ PYRITE MINING, S.A.
m
E tor EXPORT
LeTOURNEAU-WESTINGHOUSEPTY.LTD.
SOUTH STREET, RYDALMERE, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA.
Specialised Sales, Service and Parts facilities inr all States.
1W249.105


‘s
' . V*- _/ ■' \
a :
MI
'.v.V
V'
<*^V v
liilill
t
'■ :<■ ' ■■:<■ •;:
lllilP*
„V*'
■■
the world
of
chemicals
An« ed
(jiemical
means quality
Whatever the .Industry... plastics,
paints, agriculture, textiles,
packaging, rubber or electronics,.
Allied Chemical Is your most
. dependable source for quality
chemicals ... over 3.00.0 in ail.
Executive Office: 40 Rector Street, New York, N.Y. 10006, U.S.A.
Australfa & New Zealand: Allied Chemical (Australia), Sales Ltd., P.O.
Box 164, Penrith, N.S.W., Australia
W. HERMON SLADE (IMPORT)-HOMEBUSH N.S.W., AUSTRALIA*
Pty. Ltd., Mandemar Avenue
ALLIED CHEMICAL-PENRITH, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
(Aust.) Sales Ltd., P.O. Box 164
68
SWIFT & COMPANY (TRADING)-ASHFIELD, N.S.W., AUSTRALIA
Pty. Ltd., 149-155 Milton Street
SWIFT & CO - WELLINGTON C. 1.. NEW ZEALAND
(Trading) Pty. Ltd, Box 1002
W. H. HUTHNANCE & CO. - LOWER HUTT, NEW ZEALAND
P.O. Box 469


V- - v
m
mm
PORT HEADLAND
r'
. .
gjggßa?
••!’. X*y&£3.
M
■
;if-©:
«*%>.:<.■■ -S
:1
*. • .-.-;«jl' -■:*
*
m m
'
■ ■
>*?<■:
.
m
FV
K
: .v.
V -
:
:V.,":,
HIH
•-••- ••...' .
f a dBS
■
'■ "' >||K
i
m m
mm
Part of 8,000 feet of dredge pipe and support pontoons supplied by Humes.
DEVELOPING AUSTRALIA
Port Hedland Harbour Project W.A.
The rugged ranges of Australia’s North-West contain
15,000,000,000 long tons of good grade iron ore—the free
world’s third largest reserves.
To enable the commercial development of these rich mineral
deposits to go ahead, deep sea ports are needed, and Port
Hedland was chosen as one of the sites. An important
feature of operations on the Port Hedland Harbour Project
is the dredging of the harbouiibed, to accommodate huge
bulk ore carriers. This is where we came into the project.
A special pipeline was needed to carry thousands of tons of
abrasive sand and silt from the suction cutter dredge,
“Alemeda”, to the shore. We supplied the 8,000 feet of
abrasion-resistant steel dredge pipe together with the
accessories—support pontoons, gate valves and laterals.
TECHNICAL DETAILS
8,000 feet of 31' O.D. x thick, special abrasion
resistant steel dredge pipes. 80 Support Pontoons.
Four 30" Gate Valves. Two 30" x 30° Laterals.
We’re proud to have played a part in this nationally important project.
'J&k
hUME
HUMES LIMITED
Head Office: 185 William St., Melbourne, C.l, Victoria, Australia. Phone 600221
STATE OFFICES:
N.S.W.: Park Road, Regents Park. 644 2351
VIC.: 12th Floor, 205 William St. Melb. 60 0221
QLD.: 189 Montague Road, South Brisbane. 4 5881
S.A.: 78 West Beach Road, Keswick. 97 1011
W.A.: Saivado Road, Subiaco. 87 2311
TAS.: 76 Liverpool Street, Hobart. 3 2741
THERE IS A HUMES OFFICE IN YOUR CAPITAL CITY
H$ lII9X


You have to take only
one record a year
You order only what you want you receive only what you order
World Record Club operates quite differently from any other
record club or book club in the world. If you send the coupon
below for details, this is what happens:
1 You receive the Club’s basic programme for the Club year
December, 1965-November, 1966. This programme lists 50
classical and 30 light-music recordings to be issued at the rate
of approximately 6 per month. To join the Club, you have to
choose ONE of these records not one a month, but one out
of the total of 80. Obviously, most members choose more than
one but you don’t have to choose any more than this.
2 For the record or records you choose, you pay 37/6 ($3.75)
eqch, a saving of up to 20/- ($2).
3 At no stage are you ever sent a record you have not specifi-
cally chosen.
Club releases are of the finest quality available pressed for
the Club by E.M.I. (manufacturers of H.M.V., Columbia, Parlo-
phone, Capitol, etc.) from masters specially imported from
the world’s greatest record companies.
W.R.C. is the Club outlet in Australia for His Master’s Voice,
Decca, Everest, Columbia, Electrola, Parlophone, Capitol,
Erato of Paris, Eurodisc and .other smaller specialist labels.
In other words, World Record Club releases in quality, diversity
and general high standards of production, are identical to any
other famous brands on the market. The pnly difference is the
label and the price!
The Club offers tremendous diversity of releases, including
''Dividend” 12" L.P.’s at only 18/- ($1.80) for every one, two or
three you buy at 37/6 ($3.75). It offers children’s records, and
runs a “Connoisseur” Division, which offers records of famous
artists of the past (Tauber, Chaliapin, Kreisler, Toscanini, etc.).
It issues recordings of Shakespeare’s Plays also, and readings
from the Bible by Sir Laurence Olivier. The Club also runs a
Print Division, offering a choice of 4 full colour reproductions
or drawings monthly. Membership of World Record Club also
provides priority should you wish to join The Record Society,
one of the world’s outstanding record clubs.
Remember World Record Club offers you 156 records
annually, from which you have to take only ONE A YEAR.
'There is no other obligation, and no “catch”. If you don’t
believe us, try us, or ask your friends one of them will be
a member!
Send or call for details of World Record Club today you are
placed under no obligation. Or ask your record-buying friends
for information many of them are members!
WORLD RECORD CLUB ARTISTS AND CONDUCTORS INCLUDE
HERBERT VON KARAJAN
VICTORIA DE LOS ANGELES
%
YEHUDI MENUHIN
SVIATOSLAV RICHTER
': Jx
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT
■ ' '. v.'
i M
mm
■
NANCY WILSON
TO: WORLD RECORD CLUB
299 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, Vic.;
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.;
Newspaper House, 93 Queen Street, Brisbane, Qld.;
60 Pulteney Street, Adelaide, S.A.;
Barnett’s Buildings, Council Avenue, Perth, W.A.
Please send me full details of World Record Club Service. I understand that this preliminary
enquiry does not in itself constitute application for membership*
(Mr.)
NAME (Mrs.)
(MiSS) PLEASE PRINT
ADDRESS WMHtMWmM—
imimmitminniH
HiMimHimmiMin
‘Membership of World Record Club is strictly controlled, and the Club reserves the right to close its membership lists at any tifne, without notice, g


ONE MORE
WEEK
Which way the wind blows
IT LOOKED sinister. The top men of
Britain’s leading electronics companies,
EMI and Pye, and the head of Philips,
the big Dutch electrical company, in
Australia just at a time when defence
spending is a real issue.
But last week the chairman or EMI,
Sir Joseph Lockwood (who has brought
out his entire board of directors in
two different planes for safety’s sake),
said that it was - no coincidence that so
many top men in British industry were
in Australia at present. “The weather is
so damn awful in Britain now,” he said.
Conversion
FOR ALL Prime Minister Holt’s work
in preparing us for decimal currency it
appeared last week that the former
Treasurer was finding it hard to get used
to the change. Handing over a 20,000-
dollar cheque to the president of the
HMS Endeavour Trust in Australia, Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins, Mr Holt said
Sydney’s ebullient Bill Wentworth had
prodded the Commonwealth into making
its contribution of £lO,OOO.
He partly retrieved the situation later
by referring to his Government’s useful
contribution of 20,000 dollars. When we
complained about his forgetfulness, he
was unabashed. “Sir Robert Menzies’
administration decided on £10,000,”
he said. “Any way, my cheque is made
out in dollars.”
That brought Mr Holt to a conver-
sion problem he shares with the secretary
of his Department, Sir John Bunting.
“The new regime takes a bit of getting
used to,” he said. “We can’t stop asking
each other, ‘Well, what did the PM decide
about this?’ ”
Competitive field
CHANNEL 7’s “Seven Days”, which has
been working its way doggedly through
sex in all its shop-worn aspects, must be
simply furious that Channel 10 has
hopped in ahead of them with a pro-
gramme on the menopause.
Blame
A DOCTOR writing (anonymously, of
course) in a medical journal has sug-
gested that the make of cars involved in
accidents should be publicised in news-
paper reports of the accident. In this
way, he suggests, the public will have a
much clearer idea of which makes are
most dangerous. But, of course, it isn’t
always the Car which is dangerous. It is
sometimes the driver. If we start appor-
tioning blame so haphazardly, we’ll finish
up publishing, as part of the funeral
notice, the name of the doctor who at-
tended the case.
Shorter working week
IN the Land and Valuation Court in
Sydney recently a plaintiff arrived in
court with his barrister at 10 a.m. The
judge delayed hearing the case to deliver
a reserve judgment. At 10.45 the case
listed for the day began. At 12.45 p.m.
the judge adjourned for lunch. Instead of
resuming at 2.15 p.m., as he had said he
would, he returned to the bench at 2.30
and adjourned for the day at 3.45.
Local enterprise
ONE DROUGHT which definitely
seems to have broken is that for Aus-
tralian playwrights. Last year local play
productions could be counted on one
hand, but so far this year the amount of
painstaking work by producers and actors
to give local writers a reasonable chance
is most impressive and cheering.
Perth Playhouse presented Alan Sey-
mour’s “A Break in the Music” as part
of that city’s festival. Adelaide’s Union
Repertory, which already has a fine
record in this field, is presenting two
early Australian plays, “Off to the Dig-
gings” and “Jemmy Green in Australia”,
during Adelaide’s Festival, although
these may not have more than curiosity
value.
J. C. Williamson’s are showing good
intent with James Brazill’s “Desire of
the Moth”, which opened last week in
Melbourne. Next month Williamson’s
will present David Martin’s “The Young
"The acoustics are the problem-
the Minister and the architect can
still hear each other."
Wife”, in association with the Union
Repertory Theatre, Melbourne. St Mar-
tin’s, Melbourne, presents Patricia Map-
per’s “The Jabberwock” this week and
Brisbane Arts is currently presenting
Helen Haenke’s “Summer Solstice”.
Sydney’s Independent Theatre, after
preparing the ground conscientiously
with monthly play-readings, is now pre-
senting Robert Wales’ “The Cell” and
will follow this with Peter Kenna’s
“Muriel’s Virtues?”. Even the Sydney Q
group, with its modest resources, is pre-
senting a local play, Colin Free’s “A
Walk Among the Wheeney’s”, as its first
lunch-hour presentation this year.
However, something much more spec-
tacular is expected from the Old Tote
Theatre at the University of NSW. The
university drama foundation, which sup-
ports the Old Tote, has recently received
$12,000 from the British Gulbenkian
Foundation. This sum is to be used to
ALL THEIR OWN WORK
The Sydney Opera House is nearly
finished now. We can carry on without
too much difficulty.
• Engineer Ove Arup.
I'm on my way back to Ghana.
—Dr Kwame Nkrumah.
Mediocrity is more dangerous in a critic
than a writer.
lonesco.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy described him-
self, in a brilliant phrase, as an idealist
without illusions. I would describe Prime
Minister Wilson as an illusionist without
ideals.
—lain Macleod, British MP.
Du Pont and ICI are like friendly
divorcees.
Sir Paul Chambers, head of ICI.
God has struck.
Bishop Thomas of Bathurst.
Sex is the most important human sport.
Alex Carey.
There is no roam for the intellectual in
Australia, particularly in politics.
Professor Frederick May.
Australian students on working holidays
in Papua-New Guinea were unwashed and
under-dressed.
John Pasquarelli.


They’re available now! with guaranteed 12 month
delivery (complete with software)
THE NEW GENERAL ELECTRIC
140 AND 141 COMPUTERS
The first medium sized computers with large scale features
G.E. makes the first big break-
through in medium scale com-
puters with the new G.E. 140 and
G.E. 141. They’re the newest of the
Compatibles-100 family of com-
puters, and are equally adaptable
to business or scientific applica-
tions. The Central Processors
incorporate three interrelated
memories high speed core;
thin film, scratch-pad memory; and
a fixed memory plane containing
basic stored logic. The fixed or
“read only” store makes it possible
for 1401 or 1500 programs to be run
directly. Thin film memory access
time is 155 nanoseconds.
High-speed channels eliminate the
traditional multiplexchannel bottle-
neck. They provide complete
simultaneity for processing and
data transfers to and from a full
range of peripheral units, including
tapes, discs, and document
handlers.
Software includes FORTRAN IV,
COBOL 65 and a, sophisticated
Operating System which handles
direct access processing and com-
munication facilities.
A truly Third Generation computer
what other manufacturers have
miniaturized, General Electric has
eliminated and the price is right!
II
i
►
m
For detailed information and a discussion of your requirements, call or write
GENERAL
gfhfgh
ELECTRIC
AUSTRALIA
103 YORK STREET, SYDNEY 29-7553 522 LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE 67-8221
GEB3/10.7


encourage local play presentation, an
enterprise which will culminate in the
production of three plays in September.
As well, the Elizabethan Theatre Trust,
also concerned with the Old Tote, will be
dispensing largesse in the form of $lOOO
each from six private companies to com-
mission local plays. The two projects,
said a director of the Old Tote, tie up
very nicely.
Further, the University of NSW is
providing the Old Tote with a tryout
theatre cost as yet unspecified for
this project. This will be the Gne Street
theatre, a converted chapel, seating about
100. Incidentally, the idea of a 100-seat
theatre as a tryout for a 180-seat one
must be something of a world record in
thinking along modest lines. The next
move could only be into a Kensington
High Street phone booth.
Calculated diffidence
WHILE we have come to accept that
British actors reach the top with a back-
ground of experience that shames the
once-over-lightly standard of so many
other countries, David Kossoff’s story
told to Don Lipscombe in Perth is still
surprising, particularly to those whose
recollection of him begins and ends with
“The Larkins”. Predictably, perhaps, he
is the son of a poor Jewish tailor and
went through school on scholarships.
He trained as a draughtsman, which
doesn’t sound very exciting. But he is
still rated among Britain’s top handful
at cut-away machinery drawing.
Before he was 21 he went quite grey,
and quickly fell into character roles as an
older man even in his part-time Unity
Theatre days, when he toured theatres
and air-raid shelters during time off
from his work as a draughtsman on air-
craft projects. He spent the first six post-
war years with the BBC, becoming a
freelance in 1951. The following year his
theatrical break came when he took over
the part of a Russian colonel in Peter
Ustinov’s “The Love of Four Colonels”,
and in 1954 he accepted his first film
role, the lead in “The Young Lovers”
opposite Odile Versois; this won him a
British Film Academy award. Carol Reed
picked him out to play Kadinsky in “A
Kid for Two Farthings.”
Since then his performing has ranged
from conducting his own court defence
(a pianist he had sacked sued him) to
taking part in a double act with Cliff
Richard at the Palladium, from recording
music-hall songs to writing books of
Bible stories, from singing with Bing
Crosby and Peggy Lee to performing
with such diverse people as Peter Sellers
and Bob Hope to Ingrid Bergman and
Deborah Kerr. And, of course, being
Father in “The Larkins”.
Out of all this has developed a one-man
show which began in cabarets where he
appeared first among the customers,
eating at a table before moving to the
microphone. Then he put together what
he calls his “rag-bag” and took it to the
Prince Charles Theatre in London. His
“Funny Kind of Evening” is made up of
anecdotes and stories which the “Evening
Standard” called “a benign evening of
gentle humor and bald sentimentality
which he serves with the calculated
diffidence of a professional chef”. This
show has developed in character as he has
trundled it from the West End, on a tour
of South Africa, and now Australia;
it opened as part of the Festival of Perth
on February 28 and goes on to the
Adelaide Festival.
Minority
BATMAN AND ROBIN, the two
American comic-book characters of the
1940 s who have been revived to bolster
the pop cult, have been given two dimen-
sions which their creators back in those
simple days never thought of art anck
sex. On the sex bit, American cartoonist
Feiffer, in his preface to “The Great
Comic Book Heroes”, discusses the
thesis that Batman and Robin are queer.
He decides they are not and suggests that
the fact that they avoid the company of
women proves nothing. “In our society,”
Feiffer says, “it is not only homosexuals
who don’t like women. Almost no one
does.”
RUSHTON’S AUSTRALIANS. ..4


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE LABOR PARTY
Whitlam’s Friendly Enemies
From ALAN REID in Canberra
When Mr Gough Whitlam emerged last Thursday from the meeting of the
Federal ALP Executive adjudged guilty of the gravest offences in the ALP rulebook
but still a member of the party, neither expelled or suspended, he had survived. But
he had not won.
He had been saved from political
liquidation not by his friends but by his
enemies. It was Queensland that saved
him: but Queensland is against him.
The Queensland Central Executive had
attacked him for his “intemperate” and
“unjustifiable” attacks on the ALP
Federal Executive and attributed these
statements to his desire to further his
leadership ambitions. And Queensland
will continue to attack him despite the
fact that it was the last-minute switch
of its delegates, Senator J. Keefe, ALP
Federal President and Mr F. Whitby,
that saved Mr Whitiam from expulsion
or suspension.
Ideologically, Mr Whitiam is not
acceptable as far as the ALP controllers
of Queensland are concerned. They are
Left wing—possibly even further to the
Left than the Victorian ALP Executive.
But the Queensland controllers are not
as sectarian (anti-Catholic) as their Left-
wing allies on the Victorian ALP Execu-
tive and in Western Australia. Lacking
this sectarianism (for which, amusingly,
the “Communist Review” has on
occasions chided the Victorian ALP
Executive), the Queenslanders are sus-
ceptible to pressure from the non-
sectarian Left-wing group who refer to
themselves as the “soft-liners”.
The ALP Left-wing “soft-liners” are
as concerned with the outcome of the
present Labor struggle as the ALP Left-
wing “hard-liners”. But their approach
is different.
At last week’s meeting of Federal
Executive the “hard-liners” wanted Whit-
iam either expelled or suspended.
The “soft-liners” operated from a more
sophisticated viewpoint. Indifferent to
State Aid, they were equally as dedicated
as the “hard-liners” to maintaining Fed-
eral Executive authority. But they
wanted the authority maintained in a less
direct, more subtle fashion. If Whitiam
was expelled or suspended, they might
split the Caucus. Whitiam, outside the
party, would have an importance which
they could deny him if he were kept
within the party.
The “soft-liners” worked out- —accur-
ately at that stage that Whitiam did
not have the numbers to challenge Mr
Arthur Calwell in the leadership until
the next elections. And after the elec-
tions, they would control the Caucus.
Thus, the “soft-liners” did not want
Whitiam expelled or suspended by the
Executive. They wanted him kept in the
party but kept in in such a fashion that
he could do little damage to the Left-
wing cause. For this reason it was not
only Whitlam’s supporters who applied
for assistance to Queensland when it be-
came known at the lunch-time adjourn-
ment of the Federal Executive that the
“hard-liners” had the numbers to expel
or suspend Whitiam. The “soft-liners”
also applied to Queensland for assistance.
It was their exertions, as much as those
of Whitlam’s own supporters, which per-
suaded the ALP controllers in Queens-
land to threaten the two Queensland
delegates to the Executive with immediate
repudiation if they exceeded their in-
structions (as at lunch-time they proposed
to do) to vote only for Whitlam’s censur-
ing and not his expulsion or suspension.
Architects of the “soft-line” are Dr
J. Cairns and his closest parliamentary
associate, Mr Tom Uren. While I have
no knowledge of any action taken by
Cairns on Thursday to influence the
Queensland attitude, Uren is making no
secret of the fact that he was very active
on the phone to Queensland on the vital
Thursday when Whitiam spent the lunch-
time break with the unpleasant belief
that his political head was already tucked
underneath his arm.
Among other arguments, including the
one that it would be “short-sighted” to
make a martyr of Whitiam and Mr Allan
Fraser, who was also in line for axing
after criticisms of the Federal Executive,
Uren apparently put forward the argu-
ment that there should be room for a
range of viewpoints in the Labor Party.
However genuinely this was put forward
it was probably Uren's least effective
argument. The Left-wing forces to which
both Cairns and Uren are allied are not
particularly susceptible to arguments of
this kind. As the recent Executive meet-
ings have shown, the Left wing is pre-
pared to drop from any Executive com-
mittee (and these Executive committees
are crucial in Labor’s policymaking) any-
one who deviates even slightly from the
Left-wing viewpoint.
The combined efforts of Whitlam’s
supporters and the “soft-liners” got Whit-
lam off with a reprieve. The reprieve
will almost certainly mean that he will-
escape expulsion or suspension but get
censured when the Lederal conference
(which on present indications looks as
if it will be controlled by the “soft-liners”
rather than the “hard-liners”) meets on
March 25 to discuss all the issues in-
volved in the present ALP struggle. On
the “soft-liners’ ” reasoning these censures
will keep Whitiam and Fraser (who will
also get a censure) in check until after
the next Federal elections. After that
neither Whitiam nor Fraser will matter.
The Left wing will not only control the
Federal Parliamentary Party from with-
out through the Federal machine; they
will control it from within, as they will
have a majority to say who shall be
leader and who shall have the various
posts.
The next round in the battle is taking
place this week. It is taking place in
the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party,
last bastion of ALP Right-wing strength
left Federally. With Parliament meeting
this week, the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party assembles with its prestige
at its lowest point for decades. It has
been humiliated in a fashion unpre-
cedented even in its turbulent and
chequered history.
INDONESIA
Confronting the Generals
From ARTHUR COOK in Singapore
President Sukarno of Indonesia may well be involved in his last struggle. Forces
are quickly building up against him and tens of thousands of students who still defy
his ban on demonstrations are openly saying now that nothing will be acceptable
but Sukarno's complete elimination.
From Djakarta comes the clearest
picture so far of Sukarno's precarious
position since he sacked his Defence
Minister, General Nasution.
A picture has emerged in which there
may be no more loyal troops than his
own presidential guard who have been
used against the students. Apart from the
air force, where loyalties are doubtful,
it appears only the marines remain in
the Sukarno camp, but there is much
disaffection in the lower ranks. Against


***&*•:
PETER O'SHAUGHNESSY
33 RPM
BULLETIN RECORD
Spirit of Anzac
The noted Australian actor presents specially recorded excerpts,
evoking the spirit of Soldiering, from the works of William
Charles Wentworth, C. J. Dennis, lan Mudie, A. B. Paterson,
John Manifold, John Masefield and Alan Seymour.
Send $1 (cheque or postal note, not cash) to "Bulletin Records", Box
7052 G.P.0., Sydney, with the coupon and address label below. Records may
also be bought over the counter from Paper Sales Department, sth Floor,
Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh Street, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN ANZAC RECORD RECORD ONLY
Name
Address
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
ORDER FORM BULLETIN ANZAC RECORD
Box 7052, G.P.0., Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price $1 each (post free). I enclose cheque/postal note.
Name of sender
Address
State A.
If more than one record is ordered, attach list giving full name, address, State
and, if overseas, country.
Sukarno are the main body of troops
under the new Defence Minister and the
man who overthrew last September’s
attempted Communist coup, General
Suharto.
It is known that Suharto’s officers are
having regular meetings with the anti-
communist students and their soldiers
are under orders not to go against the
students in their demonstrations. Much
more dangerous are the indications that
the student masses, pro- and anti-Sukarno
alike, are quickly becoming armed. So
far their clashes have been little more
than fisticuffs but a situation is develop-
ing where Suharto’s men may soon be in
bloody battle with the presidential guard
and marines, with gun-carrying students
backing their respective sides.
Foreign Minister Subandrio, now
recognised as Peking-controlled and
number one target of the students, is
practically in hiding. His ministry is at
a standstill. Even cars parked at the
ministry are daubed with posters saying
“Hang Subandrio” and similar posters
have appeared on the houses of almost
all his Foreign Ministry officials. Suban-
drio, it is known now, is on an army
assassination list and the only reason he
is alive is that he is so well guarded.
Sukarno goes nowhere by road now, and
moves from place to place by helicopter
from his palace.
A key man, if the generals decide on
conclusive action, could be General
Adjie who commands the crack Siliwangi
division which thwarted the Communists
last year. Adjie has put on a great show
of loyalty to Sukarno but this could well
be shadow play. He is a great friend of
deposed General Nasution who is stay-
ing quietly in the background but re-
fuses to leave Djakarta as General Su-
harto weighs up the possibilities of a
successful coup.
Sukarno plans to put Nasution on
trial on such charges as being respon-
sible for the deaths of 85,000 Commun-
ists, failing to press confrontation and
failing to act against neo-colonialist
journalists who have “insulted” Indo-
nesia. If he goes ahead, it could be the
signal for the army to act.
Before he can really resurrect his “con-
ference of newly emerging forces”
Sukarno faces two hurdles. He must have
a further cleanup among his generals.
This is expected within the next few
weeks but the army is expected to resist
this time. Sukarno must also avert a
famine which is threatening, particularly
in Central Java, in May, as the harvest is
running at least a month late. This could
be the signal for the army to take over
but Sukarno is known to have private
funds which are earmarked for his Com-
munist project which could be thrown
into rice-buying to forestall the generals.


NEW GUINEA
A Problem of Evidence
When the arbitration hearing on indigenous public servants’ salaries resumes later
this month in Port Moresby, indigenous workers will be anxiously awaiting a ruling
from the arbitrator, Mr A. E. Matthews.
Do they have to give their evidence
through the territory’s Public Service
Association or can they give evidence
independently? On Mr Matthews’ answer
may depend a good deal as has become
clear already.
The arbitration hearing resumed a
fortnight ago after a two-month adjourn-
ment, only to end a week earlier than
everybody expected when the Public
Service Association ran out of evidence
on the fourth day.
On Thursday morning, after his six-
teenth witness had stepped down, Mr
John Greville Smith, presenting the
PSA’s case, advised Mr Matthews that
owing largely to the fact that many of
the statements had been accepted with
little or no cross-examination from the
counsel for the Administration, Mr J. H.
Wootten, QC, he had nothing further to
offer. The arbitrator then adjourned the
hearing until March 23.
However, proceedings abruptly re-
sumed the next day, following it was
learnt later a dramatic intervention
by Lady Cleland, wife of the Adminis-
trator, who, speaking on behalf of the
Council of Social Service of Papua,
persuaded the arbitrator to continue the
hearing so that a statement prepared by
the Council could be presented.
The move to reconvene the hearing
put the PSA in a rather awkward
position because the Council had agreed
to prepare its submission at the request
of the Association, and the early ad-
journment did not become known to
Lady Cleland and other members of the
Council engaged in drawing up the sub-
mission until Thursday afternoon
after the original adjournment. The
decision to resume was therefore taken
by the arbitrator with the PSA hardly
able to do anything else but acquiesce.
When the case reopened on Friday
afternoon Mr Wootten made a strong
protest, describing the PSA’s move as
“unfair” and “unjust”, and probably
calculated to gain the maximum of pub-
licity from “inflammatory” statements
contained in it without the defending
counsels having the opportunity to cross-
examine until the scheduled resumption
three weeks hence. This last implication
was promptly denied by Mr Smith. How-
ever, the arbitrator, a little taken aback
by the vehemence of Mr Wootten’s pro-
testations, decided not to hear the Coun-
cil’s evidence after all.
All this served to point up the im-
portant part played by personalities in
the prosecution of this case, and the
confusion in the minds of many people,
both expatriate and native alike, as to
how to go about giving evidence in sup-
port of the claim for higher local officer
salaries. Should it be left only to the ex-
patriate officer-dominated PSA to defend
the interests of the local officers, or
would it be possible to sidestep this
controversial body altogether and make
an independent contribution? In any case
how far, asks the indigenous public
servant who understandably has strong
feelings on this subject, can he go in
voicing his complaints without risking
the wrath of his departmental superiors?
And perhaps most important of all to
the prospective Papuan witness. What are
the sorts of evidence acceptable to the
arbitrator which will not invite too-
formidable a cross-examination from a
very shrewd defending counsel?
Because this case is destined to have
far-reaching effects, the more evidence
that is presented the better. The arbitra-
tor is known to be surprised at the lack
of response so far from organisations
such as the workers’ associations,
who are directly concerned with wage-
earners’ welfare and are disturbed at the
likely effects of continued low rates of
pay, particularly in the urban areas.
However, this apparent reluctance is
simply because such bodies have rightly
or wrongly been led to believe that the
main task of collecting and presenting
evidence should be left to the represen-
tative union.
It could be that indigenous workers,
most of whom are pinning their hopes
on a favorable outcome to this case,
would be less reluctant to come forward
and testify if they knew they could do
so without having to go through the
PSA.
UNIVERSITIES
Lit. A and Lit. B
As freshers streamed into the University of Sydney last week for Orientation
Week, English Department lecturers were distributing a thin, 25 cent magazine called
“Harpoon”, which analyses the “split” in their department.
It contains a scathing attack on the
new “B” literature course, set by the
Professor of Australian Literature, Pro-
fessor Wilkes, who introduced it last
year, with the approval of the Arts
Faculty, as an alternative to the estab-
lished course laid down by Professor
S. Goldberg. What did the “difference
of approach” in Wilkes’ Course B amount
to? asks staff member Howard Jacobson
in an article entitled “Confessions of a
Goldbergite”. “Can he speak for his
whole staff in anything but their
joint acquiescence in teaching the
peripheral?” (For example, the “bio-
graphical” approach to literature “one
you adopt when you’ve nothing to say,
and Professor Wilkes is very partial to it”.)
The dilemma facing many English
students was whether Professor Gold-
berg’s Course A was destined to be
abolished now that he has resigned and
is going back to Melbourne after second
term. Would the University administra-
tion close down Course A next year or
would it simply be subsumed into Course
B? The question was still up in the air
as lectures resumed this week and two-
thirds of the students optimistically em-
barked on the Course A syllabus.
Professor Goldberg’s staff dismissed
suggestions that they were teaching a
doomed course and vowed they would
rather be “gone than have Wilkes as
don”. According to “Harpoon”, the
cause was more than admiration for a
man (Goldberg); it was “the belief of
independent teachers in the worth of a
course”. “As far as we are concerned,
the course will continue,” bearded Cam-
bridge recruit, Jacobson, told The
Bulletin. “If the administration decides
to quash Course A next year, none of
us will agree to teach Course B. We’ll
leave.”
Goldbergites in general are critical
of the university administration.
Lecturer John Wiltshire in “Har-
poon” says that the official support for
Professor Wilkes’ course is a “revelation
of the power of administration at Syd-
ney the power of administration to
ignore academic and educational issues
of the first importance in pursuing its
own ends”. Another factor influencing
students in their choice of courses is the
belief that the two professors represent
two different literary approaches and
that these are at the root of the argu-
ment. Some of Professor Wilkes’ associ-
ates were established figures in the de-
partment long before Professor Gold-
berg came along. The Goldbergites see
them as belonging to an era when lec-
tures and exam papers were bogged
down in definitions of literary genres
and conventions, and what the illustri-
ous critics thought of a work. The


student who wanted to say why he liked
(or loathed) a piece of literature, did
not get much of a chance.
Among the Wilkes group, on the other
hand, the Goldbergites are suffering from
literary paranoia, which has been politely
branded “evaluative criticism” that is,
saying whether a text itself is any good
and urging the students to do the same.
Students, however, seem attracted to the
Goldberg approach because it requires no
excessive wading through footnotes,
appendixes and “authorities”. Professor
Goldberg’s admiration for the English
critic, F. R. Leavis —students used to hiss
at repeated mentions of his name in lec-
tures —• has been a largely irrelevant
issue in the controversy. His supporters
do not necessarily share this admiration;
nor is Professor Goldberg’s admiration
unqualified.
How were the 1300 newly-enrolled
English I students supposed to know
about all these differences in emphasis?
The feeling in the University is
that Professor Goldberg’s influence and
literature syllabus is firmly established in
the English Department and the admin-
istration is not likely to liquidate it once
he goes. High school teachers prepare
their matriculation students for his Uni-
versity English course and his former
students are now out teaching, and, in
some cases, joining the English Depart-
ment staff.
JUDITH RICH.
Tanner
"But it's a whole new architectural concept!"
VIPs
Political
Business
It was the sort of thing that any British
businessman would say particularly if
his company had a big stake in defence
contracts and had operations spread
around the world.
But it was not any ordinary business-
man who, in Sydney last week, said some
very unkind things about Mr Harold
Wilson’s Labor government in Britain.
They came from a former cabinet
minister in the previous Labor govern-


V-
m
*. T:
-*'' '" C> ■ V W*J
‘ - v>’
- gg ;
SSSfei?
IS
.
iiiO
J:.:';UZG
Sr*
l&jWfc* ‘
VL
S 2
v<
Ji-’i;;/. ■f'j \« ,'-
ifeV
jwr*~' -f
p?&ns
r &
-sr •
££>,f
3T E*3i
.... i' vr -•. <*.-•/*
//-
SiV;
•i If. I.'. . .•’•.Witfc .- (
- .• ■ *•'«* j
>!'!!' AVJi^sr
TTtTO
• R
&.SSI
• , •* Jt
’^aar.iaf-'
;■ •:<
•A
.*• .lIT.lv
Menzies service
starts with the doors!
They open themselves, welcoming you
into Sydney’s most luxurious hotel.
Right in the heart of the city, Menzies
offers beautifully appointed bedrooms
with individually controlled air-con-
ditioning (you can open the windows
if you like), genuine twenty-four hour
room service, and free in-hotel parking
for your car. Restaurants and bars cater
for every taste. Emperor Room Theatre
Restaurant features gourmet menu with
famous musicals nightly at 9.30. Single
rooms from $10.50. Doubles from
$13.50. (Special rates for children.)
TATTKIEiP
Birnr nr bp hr rr pi>
iKEaii mm nnrir tin
rr_nr._rr.rr rn rr rr
rr rr rrrr nr rr_rr
cp rr rr. rr rr r.r _rr
rr BP FP FP PR PB BB
E-n_nn.nnnn m n n «r
Ivn. rn..nn nr nr nn nr
nn rr rr rr nr rr rn
r r~nrzrn_nni_nn_nE-E-D.
Menzies
Sydney
Hotel
! iI,UI
14 CARRINGTON ST. TEL. 2-0232.
CABLES “MENZOTEL” SYDNEY.
For immediate reservations contact: Victoria - Menzies, MELBOURNE;
Savoy Plaza, MELBOURNE; Hotel Federal, MELBOURNE. Queensland - Lennons,
BRISBANE; Lennons, TOOWOOMBA. South Australia - Hotel Australia, NORTH
ADELAIDE. Tasmania - Wrest Point Riviera, HOBART.
MZI/45
ment, Lord Shawcross. He was “very
uneasy” about the British Labor govern-
ment’s defence policy, and he thought
its restrictive attitudes to British invest-
ment overseas “absolutely mad”; he
opposed its nationalisation objectives and
hoped it would not do too well at the
next elections.
Lord Shawcross is worried about the
growing strength of the British Left and,
so, hopes that Labor does not do too
well in the coming UK elections. “It is
only their narrow majority that has kept
them sensible; their moderate foreign
policy and the way they have shied off
nationalisation means that the reasons I
left them have temporarily disappeared.
But I’d be very anxious if they got
a large majority.” He intends to have
a chat with Mr Holt, Mr McEwen and
his “dear friend, Sir Robert” while here,
and hopes to hear their views on the
new British defence policy.
“I hope no British government would
dream of abdicating its responsibilities
east of Suez and that this one realises
the necessity of having sufficient forces,
of one arm or another, in the area. I’m
very uneasy about the decision to aban-
don aircraft carriers, despite the claims
that land-based air forces would be
able to cope. The Americans feel car-
riers are a necessary element.”
But it was the Wilson government’s
attitude to overseas investment par-
ticularly within the sterling area that
aroused him most last week. “I hope the
next government will realise that foreign
investment ought to be supported, not
curbed or discouraged by taxes. I think
the present policy is absolutely mad.”
Anyway, he still sees scope for a sizeable
increase in British portfolio investment
in Australia, and thinks that the present
lack of it will be only temporary while
Britain solves her balance-of-payments
problems. Lord Shawcross likes Aus-
tralia. “There is a tremendous potential
here for industrial development. If I were
a young man I’d be inclined to come.”
The British Prosecutor at the Nurem-
berg war trials, Lord Shawcross had
plenty to say on such questions as
whether the Germans should stop prose-
cuting war criminals (he thought they
should), and on whether the Press
should be given greater freedom in the
matter of libel (yes, again), but his main
interest on this trip is business. Apart
from his EMI directorship which in-
volves all sorts of defence consider-
ations as the company has a large oper-
ation at the Salisbury long range
weapons establishment in South Aus-
tralia - Lord Shawcross is also a direc-
tor of Shell, which is searching for oil
and gas in Australia, and is an adviser
to the Morgan Guaranty finance house.
These days Lord Shawcross is a man of
big business rather than big politics.
MICHAEL BAUME


A world-wide organisation with Australian headquarters in Melbourne, operating in the
manufacture, transport and marketing of a wide range of essential consumer products
under a renowned brand name, is able to offer a limited number of opportunities to:
Successful Executives who desire to
broaden their scope for advancement in
The Management Field
Final selections will be made by the Company's senior management and will be considered
in the light of the talent already in the organisation. Successful applicants will be appointed
to interesting and challenging positions, in which they will have the opportunity of
obtaining a good knowledge of the Company's operations. The extent, timing and nature
of future moves and promotions, scope for which is virtually unlimited, will be determined
directly in relation to the energy, business acumen and special aptitudes exhibited by
successful applicants in the performance of their tasks. Overseas training assignments at
a future stage are a distinct possibility for the right man. Merit is the sole basis of
progression in this Company whose senior management maintains a direct and keen
interest in developing its employees.
QUALIFICATIONS: Must have completed a recognised tertiary course which could be either technical
or commercial in nature. Further studies or self-development activities an advantage, par-
ticularly if related to Marketing Management. At least 5 years' experience in industry or
commerce essential including some success in supervisory positions. Backgrounds in fields
such as Management Consulting, Company Law, Chartered Accounting or Industrial Engineer-
ing could be valuable. Sound business acumen and capacity for development in management
are most important.
Age range late 20s to mid 30s.
CONDITIONS: Commencing salary is envisaged in the range
$6,000 $7,000 p.a.
In cases of outstanding merit a higher figure could be negotiated. Other employment con-
ditions are excellent and will justify applications from men in well established positions.
Applicants must be prepared to relocate as their careers progress.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Our client has asked us to screen applications so that your name
will not be disclosed unless it is in your best interest. Hence please state your present Com-
pany and/or Companies or Industries for which you would not be interested in working. This
will permit us to handle applications without disclosing your present position. Interviews
will be arranged locally. Please apply by letter giving full relevant details and phone num-
bers mentioning "Management Opportunities MPS 524".
fCULLEN”
L MORTON^
CULLEN MORTON PTY. LTD.
Consultants to Management
387 ST. KILDA RD., MELBOURNE.
It is our policy to consider ALL applications received,
ARCHITECTURE
Utzon’s Space
Whether architect Joern Utzon stays
to finish the Sydney Opera House or
finds that he cannot come to any agree-
ment with the New South Wales Gov-
ernment, the news of his resignation last
week raised the question Is the Opera
House really worth all the fuss?
Senior Lecturer in Architecture at
Sydney University, Norman Edwards,
says it is. He writes:
controversy over the Sydney Opera
-*• House has had the temporary
effect of turning minds from the real
significance of this great piece of archi-
tecture to that of the local issues at
present affecting it. In the history of
big architectural competitions, it is un-
usual for the architect not to suffer inter-
ference in the execution of his work: the
classic example was that of Le Corbu-
sier’s League of Nations building. In the
case of the Sydney Opera House, the
fundamental and quite amazing thing is
that, despite all opposition, Utzon’s de-
sign, once chosen by the judging panel,
was wholeheartedly accepted; political or
aesthetic bias was subordinated to the
high ideal of creating a masterpiece.
Even the fact of an alarming increase
in cost has to date not hindered the
project. This speaks highly for those con-
cerned with the project; hopefully,
means can be found to resolve the cur-
rent issues.
Australians are conscious of the fact
that they lack a strong architectural and
artistic tradition. No major architectural
work has been completed in Sydney in
the last 50 years. We are little concern-
ed with building for posterity, or making
the grand historic gesture. Considerations
of immediacy color our attitude to
building; even Canberra’s Parliament
House stands as a “temporary” struc-
ture. The Opera House is a sign of
maturity; it represents a responsible
contribution to our history and to the
cultural needs of future generations.
Architecturally, few people, even
architects, grasp the real significance of
the Opera House. Architecture is pri-
marily a matter of organising space
the way space is controlled is an un-
selfconscious response of life at the time.
Australia has little or nothing in the
way of great spaces; the few that we
have, whether “exterior” or “interior”,
have been inherited from other cultures.
The geographic format of our country
and our way of life suggest a more
dynamic approach to space than that
typically produced by European com-
munities over the last few hundred
years. The period of the Renaissance
which preceded ours defined space
statically, and it is this tradition which
we have inherited, even though we have
discarded its forms. Earlier, the
huddling of communities around the
medieval cathedral represented a more
dynamic sequence of spatial experience,
culminating in the great space of the
cathedral itself.
This form of organisation is more
akin to Utzon’s approach. Here is a site,
a promontory, bounded on three sides
by a great harbor; inland, it joins and
becomes part of the land-mass of the
city which sweeps away from it and cul-
minates in high buildings on the peaks.
Above is the vault of the sky. A dram-
atic setting; Utzon’s response is some-
thing we can hardly call it a build-
ing which reaches out to the space
beyond and envelopes and enfolds it and
moves within itself.
The plane of reference is the mag-
nificently monumental base which de-
fines and reinforces the character of
Benelong Point, and out of which the
two theatres are scooped, like Greek
theatres, their backs to the* harbor.
From the city, the base sweeps upwards
in a gigantic series of stepped, sweeping
planes, the “processional approach”; 00
the sides, the base-form becomes
stronger, more defined, and as it moves
around, relaxes into a series of stepped
“terraces” which concede to the plane
of the harbor.
As remarkable as the poetic genius
involved in the form of the shells, is the
technical skill involved in their erection;
new methods of prefabrication and con-
struction have been devised to meet the
challenge. Australia, together with her
own technical ingenuity, has called upon
the talents and expertise of others to
realise one of the greatest works of
architecture of this period.
Spatially, architecturally, the impact
of the Opera House upon history has
yet to be felt, but it will be consider-
able. Joern Utzon is possibly as great
as any of the other “giants” of this cen-
tury; let us hope that his genius realises
this' masterpiece in its entirety.


ISRAEL REVISITED
More and more like Tel Aviv
By SAM LIPSKI
About an hour’s drive out of Tel
Aviv on the road to Eilat I saw
what looked like a Mirage jet
moving at great speed on our left. As it
passed overhead I noticed fire coming
from the tail, and said so to the driver.
“It's nothing,” he assured me. “It’s only
his after-burners.”
But by the time I looked out of the
car’s rear window it wa~. quite clear that
it was more than that. The whole under-
carriage of the jet was now a flaming
orange. Then, as if in a training film
for cadet pilots, the ejector seat came
hurtling out, a parachute opened very
close to the ground, and the jet careered
away to the right, plummeting grace-
fully into a field only a few hundred
yards from a farming village and ex-
ploding in a smoky balloon of yellow,
red and black.
By the time we turned our car back
down the road and ran across the field
to see what had happened to the pilot,
he was standing astride his neatly folded
parachute, helmet in hand, and as cool
as if the whole thing had been staged
for tourists who come to Israel unwilling
to believe all the stories about the tough
Sabras—the native-born Israelis. Dark
and good-looking, the pilot could not
have been more than 20. To the grow-
ing crowd of bystanders he said nothing
except, “Gentlemen, please do not stand
on my parachute strings.”
The next day in Eilat, sitting by the
Red Sea, an Israeli journalist listened
with interest to our story, by this time
fully embellished with details. He asked
how the pilot had taken it all. When told
that he was cool and confident, a satisfied
grin of identification spread across his
face. “Fantastic, eh? Did you know that
75 per cent of our jet fighter pilots are
sons of the kibbutzim ? It costs half-a-
million dollars to train one of them and
the Mirage costs us two million dollars
each. But they’re fantastic boys those
pilots.”
The news of the crash was, of course,
not released to the newspapers or the
radio
“military secret” is not an idle term. But
the reaction of the Israeli journalist was
much the same sort of reaction I got
from nearly every Israeli to whom I told
the story. All wanted to know how the
pilot had reacted, all were especially
gratified, almost reassured, that he had
been so tough, and all were quick to give
me the statistics.
Yet, when I think back, what strikes
me as significant is that unless I told the
story or specifically raised the subject
with them, Israelis never spoke to me
about their defence situation, or about
their military forces, or about the threat
to drive them into the sea regularly pro-
claimed from Cairo to Damascus. This,
above all else, stood out as the marked
change in the mood of Israeli life since
I was last there in 1956, the year of
Suez and the Sinai War. Then, for the
whole year that I was there, the tension
and strain were palpable.
Conversation ranged around border
incidents and reprisals: the streets of
Tel Aviv were full of khaki; red-bereted
blond parachutists and plump girls toting
their “Uzi” sub-machine guns eyed each
other as they drank their coffee in
Dizengoff street; school-children regularly
practised air-raid drill and on the border
settlements the night-guard was tripled
and quadrupled while no one went into
the fields without carrying weapons.
Army songs were high on the hit-parades
and one-eyed General Dayan was a
national hero.
Now dust and cobwebs cover the
entrances to the air-raid shelters in Tel
Aviv and the occasional broken lock
testifies only to the ingenuity of a young
couple who have found somewhere cool
in the oppressive heai of the coastal
summer. There are still soldiers in the
street, but they rarely carry weapons and
there are not so many of them. On the
border settlements there is still guard
duty, but now a member of the settle-
ment will be on duty only once every
two months for a night whereas in 1956
he might be on duty every three nights.
In Tel Aviv, Haifa and Jerusalem con-
versation is about getting an apartment,
buying Danish furniture (furniture shops
in Tel Aviv display a dazzling range of
unusually high quality and price),
taking a trip to Europe, vacations, enter-
tainment, buying a car, rising prices,
and how to pay for it all. One-eyed
General Dayan is now a member of a
small opposition party and “The Beatles”,
though banned from giving concerts,
have long replaced army songs on the
hit-parades.
In 1956 war and defence were in the
foreground. Ten years later they have
not disappeared as major concerns but


they have receded into the background.
Especially in Eilat. And perhaps, sur-
prisingly, in Eilat. For this was one of
the big prizes of the war in Sinai a
port for Israeli merchant shipping with
access to the Indian Ocean and the East
as an alternative to Suez. It is still a
frontier stockade with the Jordanian port
city of Akaba right across the bay, Saudi-
Arabia to the right and the mountains
of the Egyptian Sinai Desert rearing up
to the east. (As one Israeli remarked,
“For those tourists who like to collect
borders, this is the place.”)
Here, the army is very much around,
bumping across the desert tracks in
command cars, camped in pup-tents by
the coral beach, and manning frontier
posts. But here they are taken for
granted, almost part of the landscape.
Eilat’s main impact comes as a remark-
able vacation-resort. Perhaps it begins
with the drive from Beersheba through
the Negev desert. For four hours the
road dips and weaves south through a
landscape which changes from scrub, to
craters, to rainbow cake-colored moun-
tains, to dunes of sand pock-marked
with lumps of black volcanic stone.
Except for the occasional car or the big
lorry the desert is empty although
living just off the main road behind the
mountains and crags is a slowly growing
Negev population of 50,000. But from
the road one cannot tell; you might as
well be on the moon.
At the end of all this the “Queen of
Sheba” hotel in Eilat. Dry and dusty
from the drive through the desert one
walks into a foyer where the scent of
French perfume hangs heavy in the air,
pink-faced, sunburnt Jewish businessmen
from London, cravated and masseured,
wait for their WIZO wives in Courreges
suits, flaxen-haired Danish civil servants
sit drinking cocktails with their even
blonder women, German film stars gather
up their scuba diving equipment and
make for the coral beach. The whole
scene is so incredible after the desert
that you want to rush immediately to
tell Antonioni of a marvellous idea for a
film.
The Israeli hotel staff is on the whole
inefficient, rude and constantly at war
with the guests. A request to the
barman for a daiquiri with fresh lemon
juice makes you feel as if you have spoilt
his day, but then it is clear that his
weary sullenness is routine. If the hotel
management were to complain too loudly
he would leave and be hired within the
hour at any one of the other first-class
hotels. Eilat, like Israel generally, suffers
from some of the disadvantages of over-
full employment. It also suffers, as the
rest of Israeli’s tourist industry does,
because in a Jewish society rapidly
developing towards a middle-class ethic
(if it is not already there) and away from
a proletarian one, service in a hotel is
not regarded as one of the status occupa-
tions and those who undertake it are
resentful, despite the material rewards
they might be getting in Eilat.
★ ★ ★
'C'ilat looms so large in retrospect not
only because it is a unique place. It
also seems to have been the point at
which I first felt that I was really back in
Israel. For the previous 10 days I had
been living at Herzliya, a seaside suburb
of Tel Aviv which Israelis tend to think
of as a separate town but which, in fact,
together with a score of other districts
around Tel Aviv, is part of Israel’s bur-
geoning megapolis, the huge urban
sprawl where half of Israel’s 2,600,000
population lives.
A five-roomed “villa” by the sea at
Herzliya (anything other than a flat is
called a “villa” by the Israelis) can cost
as high as $70,000 and an average price
of a small four-roomed house can be
$40,000. Israel’s luxury hotels are nearly
all built along the Herzliya sea-front and
in summer the stretch of beach between
Tel Aviv and Herzliya will have 500,000
people sprawled along it every Saturday
afternoon. Although an American car
costs four to five times as much as it
does in the United States, because of
heavy luxury taxes, the roads around
Herzliya hum with late model Thunder-
birds, Chevrolets, Plymouths as well as
smaller European models.
On Saturday night along the four-lane
expressway between Herzliya and Tel
Aviv it seems as if every car in Israel
is driving into the city, and as if every
driver is determined to get into Tel Aviv
first to get a parking spot or smash
his car in the attempt, which many of
them do, Israel having the worst road-
accident record in the world.
Israel works a six-day week with Sat-
urday as the official day of rest. But
Friday night, the beginning of the Jew-
ish'Sabbath, is the one night of the week
when theatres, cinemas and restaurants
are closed, and there is no public enter-
tainment open until Saturday night. This
means that by then all picture theatres
are crowded or booked-out, theatres are
full and nightclubs and bars are packed.
The 'streets, or at least one street, are
full, too. Dizengoff Street, which starts
out each morning as a boulevard of side-
walk coffee shops where Tel Aviv
women come to gossip, wear dark
glasses and crunch on huge cream-
cheese cakes, by Saturday night becomes
the street of a wider cafe society, most
of it young, listless-looking and bored.
Some of the cafes are still centres for
writers, actors and artists. But most are
convenient points where knots of young
Israelis gather in the Mediterranean
style, to find security in the company of
other unattached men, to stare hard, to
make jokes and, with luck, sometimes
to pick up a chaticha a piece.
At the Frederick Mann Auditorium
Saturday night is another affair
altogether, much more like the cultural
ideal that may have once been a reality
in the Jewish community before the
State was established but which is now
still very much an ideal. I heard the first
Russian conductor to visit Israel since
Russian artists started coming in 1965,
present a programme of Prokofiev,
Tchaikovsky and Shostakovitch. Here, at
the home of the Israeli Philharmonic, the
3000 members of the audience are over-
whelmingly Israelis, not tourists. But the
faces are not those you see at the
cinema. They are the faces you see at
Musica Viva concerts in Sydney or out-
side Carnegie Hall in New York, the
faces of Vienna and Central Europe’s
Beethoven and Brahms lovers. The
women are elegant, and expensively
coiffured; the orchestra is a first-rate
combination; the auditorium is im-
pressive architecturally and acoustically;
the promenade platform with its es-
presso coffee for sale at intervals could
be in Hamburg or Rome.
The Israeli Philharmonic has a world
record 27,000 subscribers but, clearly,
the overwhelming majority of them are
not the Jews from the Atlas Mountains
of Morocco or from the shops of Bagh-
dad who now make up nearly 50 per
cent of Israel’s population and by the
1970 s will be a solid majority. It will
be a generation and probably longer
before most of them can afford a sub-
scription ticket to the Israeli Philhar-
monic and perhaps two generations or
longer before they feel the same sort
of status drive to buy them. After the
concert and the cinema, Israelis are
hungry again and the coffee shops and
restaurants fill up quickly. The range
of food in most cafes is much the same
but compared with 10 years ago the
Israeli eats well and abundantly. Fresh
meat, quality vegetables and high-stan-
dard dairy produce have replaced the
shortages of a decade ago when a steak
was unheard of in the average home.
Today, while there are still pockets of
poverty in the bigger cities, the Israeli
worker, even with the heavy taxation he
pays to finance his military security, is
earning nearly as well as many of his
European counterparts.
As if they were making up for the
lean years Israelis have turned to food
with a vengeance, so much so, that a
leading newspaper felt moved earlier
this year to feature a series of articles
on “Gluttony the new national past-
time”. Not only are shops full of food
at a price most consumer goods are
available. In recent years Israel has been
conquered by the supermarket and late


last year the giant department store
came on the scene in Tel Aviv on the
ground floor of a 32-storey building,
complete with give-aways, competitions,
muzak and price-cutting. Real estate in
the centre of Tel Aviv costs more than
in Manhattan so that three 40-storey sky-
scrapers are planned and multi-storey
apartment developments are spreading
northwards all along the road out of
Tel Aviv. Some Israeli businessmen and
economists warn of difficult times ahead
but after all the early difficulties of the
’fifties there seems to be a restless
energy and optimism driving the Israelis
on to greater and faster development.
Here in Tsafon Tel Aviv, where flats
range in price from $20,000 up, the new
white-collar classes of executives, adver-
tising men, industrialists, shopkeepers
and property owners are moving in. On
the same road work is still going on to
complete the new Tel Aviv Country
Club with tennis-courts, pool, and other
sports and recreational facilities. Mem-
bership for a couple works out to S3OO
annually. Although educational television
does not come to Israel until later this
year and general television programmes
are at least three years away 40,000 sets
have already been sold in Israel, although
they cost around S6OO. So, when the
weather is right in Tel Aviv, Israelis can
pick up “I Love Lucy” from Cyprus
spoken in English with Greek subtitles;
or bellydancers from Cairo.
Tel Aviv, despite what the tourist
brochures say, is not so much cosmopoli-
tan as fragmented there is a piece of
Vienna, a piece of Paris, a piece of New
York, something Jewish, something
Mediterranean and now something Asian
and African as well. This is Tel Aviv’s
special charm for despite its vulgarity
and rudeness Tel Aviv can be charming
but it was somehow an un-Israeli
charm or so I told myself.
★ ★ ★
Jerusalem is a city to fall in love with.
U I did 10 years ago when I lived there
for six months and driving up through the
Judean Hills to return this year was full
of associations. The final steep climb to
Jerusalem through the “corridor” had
not changed and the same rusty military
trucks lay by the roadside overgrown
with flowers and weeds. Some were
marked by a rough boulder on which was
painted the name of their convoy attack-
ed during Israel’s War of Independence;
the rusty bullet-holed hulks have been
left as a memorial.
But by the time we approached the
outer suburbs of Jerusalem the changes
were evident four-lane expressways,
shorter than Tel Aviv’s, but a sign of
the changes everywhere, not so much in
the centre of Jerusalem but in its new
suburbs spreading out across the Judean
Hills in apartment buildings in stone, in
concrete and in brick. Jerusalem’s
streets have not changed. At breakfast
from my hotel in Zion Square I could
look out along a street where the same
Yemenites still sold stamps, bearded
Hasidim still stood in front of their
goose-sausage delicatessens, Moroccan
beggars still waited at the bus-stop with
their tins, German booksellers discussed
James Baldwin’s latest play, Iraqui boys
sold shoelaces, and Hebrew University
students waited for the bus to take them
to the campus at Givat Ram. And so I
told myself I was back in Israel at last.
This was an early reaction and it was
to change. In the meantime there were
friends I had not seen for 10 years, most
of them former Zionist Youth Movement
leaders from South Africa and Latin
America.
In the talks with them which followed
in the next week it was clear that they
had changed with Israel. As one Aus-
tralian girl put it, “We came to Israel
to get away from middle-class Jewish
life in the Diaspora and it has caught up
with us here None of us who came
could stand the ostentatious weddings,
the materialism, the social round of
parties and small-chat. Now it’s creeping
in here. I thought, eight years ago when
I came, that I couldn’t bear the idea of
spending the rest of my life worrying
about what sort of lounge-room furniture
I was going to have. I was actually glad
to sacrifice my so-called high standard of
living. I’m not so sure I would be pre-
pared to sacrifice now. I can’t help
feeling that it is sometimes a matter of
joining the new Israel or being run over
by it.”
From nearly every Western immigrant
I met I heard of disillusionment with the
country, of irritation with the bureau-
cracy which impinges on Israelis at every
turn, of the collapse of pioneering ideals
amongst the Israeli youth, of the in-
efficiency of the educational system and
of the toughness of maintaining their
standard of living. What seemed to anger
and frustrate most was the failure of
Israel to live up to the implied promise
in the continuing call for more skilled
and professional Jewish migrants from
Western countries.
The Western immigrant first comes
across the reality of modern Israel when
he has to deal with the Jewish Agency—
the administrative hangover from pre-
State days which is still largely re-
sponsible for arranging immigration and
integration. This first contact often
embitters the Western migrant because
of the inefficiency, bureaucratic rudeness
and indifference which characterise
much of his early dealings with the
agency on arrival. Israelis are under-
standably cynical about the Americans
or English who come expecting special
treatment when there are such urgent and
colossal problems associated with large-
scale immigration from Africa and the
Middle East. But to the Western Jew
who has decided to migrate from South
Africa, Australia, England or the United
States and finds when he gets to Israel
that his training and special skills are
not taken seriously in the way he has
been led to believe, such arguments make
little sense. Why then do so many of the
Western immigrants who complain, stay?
A lthough few will admit it, some are
better off in a boom economy where
most special skills are at a premium. But
many of the complaints are from people
who, with all their grumblings, still
believe that being in Israel does give their
lives the Jewish dimension which it would
lack elsewhere. This view came from
irreligious Western Jews who admitted,
when pressed, that they had got used
to the psychic comfort of being Jewish
in Israel, a comfort which they would
be reluctant to give up.
Being Jewish in Israel came up in an-
other discussion that week with an old
English friend when we talked about
the prospects for peace with the Arabs.
He felt that many Israelis had not
realised the consequences of a peace
treaty with the Arabs.
“If peace broke out tomorrow and all
barriers were dropped, they could come
and go as freely as they liked, we could
do the same how long do you think
two and a half million of us would
retain our distinctive identity as Jews in
the midst of 100 million Arabs? Jews
in the Diaspora speak about the dangers
of assimilation. Well, if peace came
now we would be assimilated very
quickly not by force but because we
would just be submerged. I don’t like
the present feeling of having to be con-
tinually on guard but it’s one way of
buying time.” For what was the time
needed, I asked.
“It’s needed to allow my grandchildren
to feel it is perfectly natural for them
to marry into a family whose grand-
father comes from Casablanca, not Lon-
don or Breslau. It will take us that long
to get some sense of national identity
and the high cost of maintaining an
expensive military machine may be the
price. It wouldn’t be the first time that
an outside threat has been a unifying
force.” I looked sceptical and told him
that I thought that the strain of living
for 18 years under constant threat had
already cost Israelis a great deal not only
THE COVER
Our cover shows two members of
Chen, the Israeli Women’s Army. The
girls, who wear the red berets of a
parachute unit, are standing in the fore-
court of the Shrine of the Book at the
Israel Museum in Jerusalem. The Shrine
of the Book houses the Dead Sea Scrolls
and other recent archaelogical discoveries.


I
You’ll be amazed'with the results
you can get with the new NCR "395”
family of electronic systems. Your
processing will be handled at elec-
tronic speeds. The totals are not
mechanical but fully electronic.
You get the advantages of a fully
electronic machine in a price range
that is comparable with electro-
mechanical accounting equipment.
The NCR 395 can meet growing
demands. Its magnetic memory disc
capacity ranges from 20 to 120
electronic totals.
Requires no special program
training. It is programmed by NCR
Specialists at no additional expense.
Information is introduced through
console entry. Or punched cards can
serve as input data. Output is in the
form of complete documents and, if
desired, punched cards or punched
paper tape . . . numeric or alpha-
numeric. Electronic commands . . .
addition, subtraction, multiplication,
division,. automatic source and dis-
tribution, compare for magnitude and
equality, plus many others.
No other electronic accounting
system can compare with the NCR
.395 in price and performance; Once
you see this system in action you’ll
never be satisfied with your present
one; Whether you have 20 or 20,000
employees doesn’t matter. The NCR
395 can serve you as your primary
data processing system, or as a
satellite to a large computer system.
Learn more about this great
development. Call or visit your nearby
NCR office, or write NCR, Box 2626,
G.P.0., Sydney for booklet, “THE
NCR 395.”
NCR 395... The World's Lowest Priced
Solid-State Electronic Accounting System
m
m


jr~— *
o
w
NEW
YORK
m
TRAVELLING?
around the world ...
or around Australia
tl,c WALES Travel Service
can take care of all details
The Bank of New South Wales, Australia’s largest
travel service, ean handle every aspect of your trip —•
accommodation, bookings, insurance, passport, travel
finance.
You don’t have to be a Wales customer . . . the
Wales Travel Service is available to everyone.
\o^
\\ T &V S
Before you make any
travel bookings,
consult
mLES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
fg
in money but in the harshness and tension
which permeated so much of daily life.
He smiled.
“Don’t get me wrong, of course we
would sit down tomorrow and talk if
the Arabs really wanted peace. I meant
to dramatise the point that we have a
serious problem—the problem, in fact, of
creating a nation whether we have peace
or war. The difficulty is trying to keep
the thing in some sort of perspective
outside Israel. Do yor know the only
thing ‘Time’ or any of the American
magazines want to print about Israel is
that we are suffering from racial prejudice
and that the white Jews hate the black
Jews. ‘Look’ had an article which our
government people are very worried
about because of the reaction of Ameri-
can Jews.” I later checked on the article.
The article in “Look” magazine last
year caused particular concern because
it presented the story of “Prejudice in
Israel” in rather stark and uncompromis-
ing terms. It gave a picture of Israel
as a society dominated by European Jews
who “exhibit an urgent, almost frantic
desire to wash the Oriental swiftly into
the Israeli society” and said that “Israel
was a testament to the inability of men
to live together”.
Situations of prejudice and racial dis-
crimination are not easy to explore by
reference only to statistics or facts. But
it is undeniable that in virtually every
respect members of the Oriental com-
munity are worse off than European
Jews. They have lower incomes, less
education, larger families, a lower stand-
ard of living, a lower rate of literacy,
a higher rate of criminal behavior and
juvenile delinquency. While they account
for 55 per cent of the primary school
enrolment they have only 28 per cent in
secondary school and about 17 per cent
at university. They are under - rep-
resented in the government, in the senior
civil service, in the officers’ corps, in
the professions. Unfortunately, the gap
is widening at some points with European
migrants becoming richer and better
educated and Oriental migrants, while
improving, not catching up fast enough.
It is quite clear, also, that some basic
blunders have been made. When the
mass immigration came in the ’fifties the
view of the old Israelis, the Ashkenazim,
was that even if the parents of the new
immigrants, the Sephardim, had to be
given up as illiterate, unskilled, and un-
inspired by Zionism and the vision of an
egalitarian society, their children, by
means of the magic word education,
would become “one of us”. The ex-
perience of the last decade has taught
otherwise. There can be no integration
of children into a society which rejects
implicitly and explicitly the world of
their parents.
In talking to Israel: sociologists and
educationists there is a feeling that


FLY
Ansett-ANA
DRIVE
AVIS
RENTA CAR
m
Avis rents Falcons
and other fine cars
m
;
m
m
<
;
&
SS
•s
|;;l (Igp-
'
-. ■
am
■ y
X .
■
k v ;
FLY AND DRIVE It's time-saving . . . money-saving . . .
worry free! Drive a great new Falcon or other fine car from the Avis
fleet. Fly/Drive is the jet age way to travel . . . gives you extra time
for business or pleasure . . . lets you see more, do more. For instant
service book your Avis car when you book your Ansett-ANA flight
ANSETT-ANA
h
1593/83/6*
amongst young Israelis especially there
is a desire to be more flexible. Instead
of a monolithic society many are
gradually coming to accept the possi-
bility of cultural pluralism.
It is still true that amongst older
Israelis one hears derogatory talk of “the
black ones”, there is social prejudice of
a ritualistic kind such as “Moroccans
always carry knives”, or “the Kurds are
the dumbest of all the wild people”, or
“they’ll make this place into another
Levantine State”. But it is a facile
exaggeration to speak of Israel as a
country deeply divided by racial pre-
judice. The last elections, for instance,
overwhelmingly rejected all candidates
who tried to exploit racial differences.
yET the fear of Levantinisation is real
enough in Israel and is quite wide-
spread. It is a prediction which takes for
granted the superiority of European values
over the values brought from the Yemen
or Persia or Algiers and it comes from
Israelis, sometimes in leading positions,
who have fears about the future.
What will happen, according to this
view, is that as the non-European Jews
become a majority which, because of
their higher birth-rate, will occur in the
next decade an amoral, indeed immoral,
spirit will overtake Israeli life. On this
view the signs of moral decay and self-
ishness already evident in Israeli life
prove that the Levantine spirit is already
being felt. One American social-scientist
who has studied race relations in Israel,
Alex Weingrod, argues in a recent study
that this forecast is unlikely to come
true. For one thing, he points out that
the overwhelming direction of culture in
Israel, even among the immigrants, is to
the West, not the East. Furthermore,
while it is true that many of the new-
comers have not responded enthusiasti-
cally to the repeated calls for pioneer-
ing or to other slogans of the 1920 s or
19305, most Europeans have themselves
turned deaf ears to the same slogans.
Dr Weingrod writes: “Middle-Easterners
have not injected an amoral or immoral
spirit into Israeli life. If, for example,
corruption exists in public offices and
to a certain extent there is corruption
the failings are mainly those of Euro-
peans, and not Middle-Easterners. The
scandals that regularly rock Israeli
society mainly involve members of the
veteran European elite, not Middle-
Eastern immigrants. If personal relations
are often petty and nasty, or if the
bureaucracies are clumsy and irritating,
it is not due to the influence of the
Middle-Eastern newcomers but rather
represents the shortcomings of the
veteran Europeans, The fearsome
spectre of ‘Levantinisation’ seems little
more than a rationalisation of the inner
crisis facing the dominant European
group. Life in Israel is changing, and
some of the old dreams may not become
realised: Middle-Easterners therefore be-
come a convenient scapegoat, a sup-
posedly alien group upon which one may
focus blame.”
I bought Dr Weingrod’s book in
Steimatzky’s bookshop in Jerusalem on
my last evening in the city before going
back to Tel Aviv. As I read it, it raised
the kind of questions Israelis like to
pose at seminars. Is Israel the last
development of European nationalism
or the first viable multi-ethnic society
of the new Afro-Asia? Is it to become a
secular Middle-Eastern State with some
minor concessions to the political
pressures of the religious groups or will
there be two nations one religious,
the other opposed to it? They are ques-
tions which beg for answers. I was certain
of only one thing by the time I had
returned to Tel Aviv. For better or for
worse Israel is not the Negev or Jerusa-
lem or the kibbutzim it is Tel “Aviv,
and it will be Tel Aviv which will in-
creasingly set the pattern of develop-
ment for the country.


The Poet as Public Figure
Yevtushenko and the Adelaide establishment
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
Yevgeny Yevtushenko, the 32-year-
old poet who has electrified audi-
ences of thousands in the USA
and Europe as well as in his native
Russia, is due to arrive in Adelaide on
March 11, for the Festival of Arts. This
could be the opening of a whole new
era for poetry in Australia.
Poetry, that is a rhythmic and some-
times rhyming communication in words,
satisfies a profound and basic need in
human beings. Although nowadays more
fuss is made of painting and music,
children take immediately to poetry from
nursery rhymes and jingles onwards. The
earliest primitive literature is in poetry,
not in prose. The great epics of hu-
manity, East or West, the “Bhagavad-
Gita” or the “Odyssey”, are poems. No
great nation has failed to produce great
poets, whose works modify history. Yet
,in the English-speaking nations, under
the shadow of T. S. Eliot in particular,
there has been a strong movement to let
poetry shrink to be the property of a few.
Yevtushenko is probably not the
greatest of modern Russian poets
most people would nominate Andrei
Voznesensky but no serious poet has
reached so many people at home or
abroad, both in recitals and in the sale
of his books. Yevtushenko has been in
trouble with the authorities, but he is no
potential defector. He is a passionately
patriotic Soviet Russian, a member of a
younger generation who want freedom
of thought and speech but at the same
time fervently believe in the ideals of
Lenin and in the values of the Revolu-
tion.
All people of even moderate sanity
must long for an entente between Russia
and the West; Yevtushenko is the sort of
man who could help bring it about, for
this ardent Russian loves many things
about Western culture, from its ancient
to its most modern manifestations. To-
gether with a reverence for Shakespeare
goes a passion for Edith Piaf, T. S. Eliot,
Italian suits and pointed shoes, the twist.
His mind ranges far beyond the usual
pleasant European pastures. In a recent
letter to me he wrote: “You know, Aus-
tralia is the country I have dreamed
about since childhood.”
In East Berlin in May, 1965, I joking-
ly mentioned to Frank Hardy, who is an
old friend of Yevtushenko, and who was
shortly leaving for Moscow, that he ought
to ask Yevtushenko to visit the next Ade-
laide Festival of Arts. Frank, of course,
really wanted to show Yevtushenko
Sydney town, but he put forward
Adelaide’s case so well that on his return
to Australia a few months later he told
me that not only would Yevtushenko
love to visit Adelaide, but he would also
give Sun Books Pty Ltd, the new Aus-
tralian paperback publishing firm, world
English-language rights to a large selec-
tion of his new poems.
The theory at first was that Yevtush-
enko, Oksana Krugerskaya (a writer,
translator and interpreter) and Sofronov
(an editor) would pay their own fares,
but it soon became apparent that the
money was not to spare in Moscow,
although they were delighted with the
official invitation from the Adelaide
Festival. It is to the eternal credit of the
governors and the finance committee
of the Festival that they then offered to
pay air fares and all expenses for Yev-
tushenko and Mrae Krugerskaya, with
expenses for Sofronov.
The workings of the Adelaide estab-
lishment often baffle strangers from the
eastern States. It was extraordinary
enough for conservative Adelaide to
offer to fly a poet across the world, but
a Russian poet, an avowedly revolution-
ary Leninist poet, and a translator . ..!
Fantastic! Meanwhile Hedley Brideson,
the SA Principal Librarian, and Peter
Bennett, the assistant administrator of
the Festival, got together enough news-
paper and magazine clippings on Yevtu-
shenko from all over the world to make
it obvious that Yevtushenko was quite
the biggest world celebrity to be visiting
the Festival. The Finance Committee, of
course, was gambling on the very sound
possibility that the gate from the three
public performances in Adelaide, and
further performances in Melbourne and
Sydney (on which the Festival would, as
sponsor, take a cut), would more than
recoup the cost of the fares.
It is extraordinary that a poet speak-
ing a foreign language should be able
to command and hold such vast audi-
ences. He outlined his method of
approach in a letter to me: “My experi-
ences of readings in Paris, Rome, London,
Belgrade, Hamburg and other cities
tells me that the readings must be ac-
companied by the assistance of an actor
or actress providing, of course, that
she is not a hunchback. At the begin-
ning they will read this or that poem in
English, and then I will read these same
poems in Russian. Experience has shown
me, by the way, that some poems, par-
ticularly the musical ones, can be read
directly in Russian, with just a brief
explanation about it.” The effect seems
to be similar to that of a song recital or
an opera, where the audience is carried
away without understanding a word of
what is being sung, with the notable
difference, in Yevtushenko's case, that
the preliminary reading gives the shape
and meaning of the poem. Of course, it
is also true that Yevtushenko is a mag-
nificent reader, as well as being devasta-
tingly handsome.
Yevtushenko warned me: “It is said
my Russian is very difficult.” This is an
understatement. Altogether he has sent
me about 270 pages of poems, some
published in Soviet magazines, others in
typescript. “I think,” he wrote, “it would
be best to translate the book as follows:
two persons would have to translate it.
The first, with a thorough knowledge of


V
♦TC*
; V
, .•••:: 'if-r
Bulletin
BUST OF
MENZIES
We have arranged for the casting of a
limited number of life-size plaster copies
of Tanner's bust of Sir Robert Menzies,
which appeared on the cover of the Jan-
uary 29 issue of The Bulletin. These are
available to readers for $lO (£5) each,
post free.
Send $lO (a cheque or postal note, not cash,
please) to "Bulletin Sculpture", Box 7052, G.P.0.,
Sydney, together with the coupon and address
label below. (Busts may also be purchased over
the counter from the Paper Sales Department,
sth floor. Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
SCULPTURE
BUST ONLY
POSTAGE!
PAID I
SYDNEY I
Name ...
Address
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
ORDER bulletin sculpture
FORM Box 7052, G.P.O. Sydney
Please DISPATCH
BULLETIN BUST(S), price $lO a bust
(post tree). / enclose $lO cheque/postal
note.
Name of sender
If more than one bust is ordered
attach list giving full name, address,
State and, if overseas, country.
Russian who could do an exact, prosaic
translation. The second person, who does
know Russian, but at least has some
knowledge of English and is able to
write some poetry. I have found the
practice of such translation always gives
the best results.”
In the case of our book, which will be
published to coincide with the Adelaide
Festival, the bulk of the initial transla-
tion was done by Tina Tupikina-
Glaessner, and I myself took it through
the second stage. Igor Mezhakoff-Kor-
jakin, of the Russian department at Mel-
bourne University, completely rechecked
and revised the whole translation, and
also made the initial translation of some
poems. Rosh Ireland, of the Russian
department at the Australian National
University at Canberra, who has written
the introduction to the book, also checked
many of the poems. Yevtushenko’s poetry
is not obscure but verbally it is often
extremely difficult. Fie makes up new
words, uses archaic expressions, slings
words together in brilliant passages of
assonance, uses the latest slang, imitates
the classic Russian writers and parodies
amateur versifiers.
The major poem he sent to Australia,
which runs to more than 200 pages, is
“The Bratsk Station”, an immense series
of portraits of and reflections on modern
Russia. The Bratsk Station is the huge
complex of hydro-electric power stations
and lumber industries in Siberia; the
adjective bratskaya in Russian also
means brotherly. Yevtushenko is him-
self a Siberian, as readers of his superb
long poem about his visit to his birth-
place, “Zima Junction”, will remember.
The group of separate poems, some
very personal, some quite objective, shows
to what extent the poet in Russia enters
into the life and doings of the community.
The old days of painful social realism
seem to be over, when radiant workers
glowed at each other as they erected
power lines, and wooed each other with
the statistics of the growth of the steel
industry. Yevtushenko’s workers are
human. In one poem he comes ashore
at some far northern seaport with a
bunch of whalers, and to their horror
they find the town is out of vodka. A
resourceful sailor says he knows where
to get some spirits, and comes back with
a box of clinking bottles. They fall upon
It, open up and find the bottles are full
of eau-de-cologne. They drink it all the
same, and all weep for the sorrows of
the world, stinking like six barber
shops.
Yevtushenko has amply demonstrated
that poetry can still arouse immense
enthusiasm in ordinary people. Given a
chance, this can still happen even in the
English-speaking countries; for instance,
Witness the success of the poets who
last year hired the Albert Hall in London,
and filled it, for a poetry reading. At
the past Adelaide Festivals the poetry
readings have been given almost no pub-
licity, yet they have been crowded. A
friend of mine could not get a taxi-
driver to take her, as he wanted to stop
to listen to the poetry reading. Aus-
tralians have always had an immense
appetite for verse, even if the verse was
not always the best. “The Man from
Snowy River”, published in 1895, sold
10,000 copies within a year and has
been selling ever since. “The Songs of a
Sentimental Bloke” sold 66,000 copies in
18 months from publication, and likewise
is still selling.
Of course, there is room for private
verse and public verse, for Brennan as
well as Paterson, for Shaw Neilson as
well as Dennis. But the Russians have
shown that new, exciting, even difficult
verse can reach very wide audiences.
Voznesensky’s recent book, whose title
“The Triangular Pear” seems to dare the
Philistines to denounce it as “formalist”,
subscribed over 100,000 copies two
months before publication. Yevtushenko
regularly sells 100,000 within 48 hours.
Reduced to Australian proportions by a
comparison of population, this is equiva-
lent to editions of about 5000. There is
no reason why this should not be possible,
if poetry were openly accepted as a
part of life, as in fact, almost in secret,
it always has been in Australia. School
teachers, academics, publishers, business-
men and the poets themselves could to-
gether achieve a poetic revolution, if
they wanted to. Maybe the Russians are
right to think that the poet has a res-
ponsibility to his audience. In Voznesen-
sky’s words: “When a man writes, he feels
his prophetic mission in the world. The
task of the Russian poet today is to look
deep inside man. When I read my poetry
to a great number of people, their emo-
tional, almost sensual, expression of feel-
ing seems to me to reveal the soul of
man now no longer hidden behind
closed shutters, but wide open like a
woman who has just been kissed.”
Maybe, that well-known sardonic Aus-
tralian voice mumbles, that’s all right
for the Russkis, but you wouldn’t catch a
decent Aussie audience letting itself go
like that. Maybe but if a Russian
audience of Voznesensky is like a woman
who has just been kissed, what is an
Australian teenage audience at the
Beatles . . .? Maybe Yevtushenko is the
man who will give the relation between
poet and public in Australia the tre-
mendous lift it badly needs and so easily
might achieve.
Nothing but good can come of Yev-
tushenko’s visit (not even Dr K. could
call the governors of the Adelaide Festi-
val of Arts a front organisation!). Most
of all, poetry in Australia has a tremen-
dous amount to gain.


We make some of our chemicals for electric power companies,
some for paper companies,
mmm
some for paint companies
and some we even make for other chemical companies.
You never know where you’ll find our
chemicals. Dowex* resins precondition
boiler water to prevent scale. Dowicide*
preservatives increase the mildew resis-
tance of paper. Methocel* methyl-
cellulose products thicken and stabilise
paint. And that’s just a beginning. The
list of chemicals we make for the
chemical processing industry goes on
and on. What else? Well, name an
industry—any industry—and chances
are good that Dow makes at least one
product for it. Our products aren’t being
selected by accident, either. It all came
about because of our reputation for
reliability and uniformly high quality
chemicals, agricultural chemicals and
plastics, regardless of quantity. We’d
like to have the privilege of putting
our products into whatever you make.
May we? Dow Chemical (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., M.L.C. Building, Miller Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W.
• Trademark of The Dow Chemical Company.
fgh


AROUND MELBOURNE
For the Man Who Has Everything
Cole’s Funny Books funnier than ever
Back in the days of Nod it was
utterly essential for all us Mel-
burnian children to read Cole’s
Funny Picture Books “The Family
Amuser and Instructor”. On the cover
was a great rainbow which read: “Cole’s
Book Arcade Strange As It Looks
Contains More Than A Million Books
New And Secondhand Common And
Rare -- Can Get Almost Any Book
You Want There.”
Alas, Mr E. W. Cole’s magnificent
book arcade in Howey Court closed in
1928, 10 years after his death and all
seemed to be finished. Last Thursday
your correspondent was walking along
Flinders St when he noticed an ad. on
the front of a tram: “Cole’s Funny Books
Funnier Now Than Ever”.
It couldn’t be true. The only thing to
do was to contact Mr E. W. Cole’s
grandson, Mr Cole Turnley, out at Haw-
thorn. Said he: “Oh yes, we’ve had a
burst of advertising, but you’ve got to
realise that after 90 years these books
can only be described as Australian
classics they’ve never stopped selling.
We sell 10,000 of them a year, including
my Cole’s Funny Book No. 3, which has
new material.”
“But but,” one said, “are they
exactly the same?”
“Exactly,” said Mr Cole, “and that’s
What makes them funnier than ever.
They are so very Victorian they have
become the in thing to buy, the ideal
gift for the man who has everything.”
Twenty minutes later three Cole’s
Funny Books came to hand and it was
quite the happiest thing to take place in
1966. They were indeed exactly the same:
rainbow on cover, and on the back the
splendid pictures of Cole’s Book Arcade
with the message “Unequalled in any city
of the world. It is 3 storeys high, 600
feet deep and an average width of 45
feet. Its public walks are half a mile
long, its galleries supported on brass
pillars . . . Free music recitals are given
every afternoon and evening. Intellectual,
Well-behaved people collect and friends
meet and feel happy in the Palace of
Intellect.”
The puzzles, the rhymes, the riddles,
the trick pictures were the same, but
one’s hands trembled and almost flew
to Book 1, page 41 could it still be
there? So it was, “Cole’s Patent Whip-
ping Machine for Flogging Naughty
Boys in School.”
The whipping machine was steam-
operated, and by the use of thousands
of canes on a drum it could flog four
boys at a time. Underneath the picture
were the words:
Testimonial From a School Master.
(To Mr Cole, Book Arcade, Mel-
bourne.)
“I have not a bad boy remaining now,
but before I used your machine they
used to be a frightful lot of young
scamps. For instance, in my school of
1000, the first day the machine was intro-
duced, 741 were punished for various
misdeeds and 103 for single offences
were flogged as follows:
John Hawkins for talking.
William Winning, for grinning.
George Highing, for crying.
Edward Daring, for swearing.
Henry stealing.
Peter spitting . . . and so
on. v/ )
Oh yes, pagein there was still
Cole’s Plying Machine
“pole’s Electro-Micro Scolding Machine
for Scolding Naughty Girls.”
This incredible scolding machine
could pick up all horrid words said with-
in a range of 40 miles to north, south,
east and west, 40 up in ;he sky and
down in the mines 40 miles deep, and
play scolding words so loudly so that
mothers, uncles, sisters, fathers, etc., would
all hear her being scolded. “One great
advantage of the Electro-Micro Scold-
ing Machine is that after it has been
in use a short time the girls will all have
been shamed into good behavior; but
the Machine will not become useless, as
it can, without a farthing outlay, be
turned into a Praising Machine, for it
can be made to praise in a gentle voice
as well as scold in a harsh one. In fact,
it will repeat in exact tones anything
that is recited, preached, sung, whistled,
whispered, shouted, scolded or praised
into it and any of which will be
heard 40 miles around.”
There are 1000 names for Dollies,
Doggies, Pussies and Babies and some
solid stuff on Australia: “I think that
Australia for its size, is, all round, the
best country in the world. Its climate is
pleasant and health giving. It has no
desolating blizzards, no frost-bites and
few sun-strokes. In edible produce, for
both size and quality, it stands very
high, if not the highest,
And there’s good advice as in “The
Vulgar Little Lady”.
“Then servants are vulgar and I am
genteel
So really ’tis out of the way,
To think that I should not be better
a deal
Than maids and such people as
they.” ~
“Gentility, Charlotte,” her mother
replied,
“Belongs to no station or place . . .
Not all the fine things that fine ladies
possess
Should teach them the poor to
despise.”
Mr Cole covered everything, he was
concerned with world government, the
unity of man, with religion and with
science. On page 113 we have his re-
markable offer of October 31, 1882. “I
the undersigned firmly believe that as
man has already made machines to run
over the land and float over the water
faster than the swiftest animal, so short-
ly he will make machines to fly through
the air as fast, and finally faster, than
the swiftest birds do now. And I hereby
offer a bonus of £lOOO to any person
who shall within the next two years,
invent a flying machine, to go by elec-
trical, chemical, mechanical, or any
other means, except by gas, a distance
of 100 miles, and shall come and stop
in front of the Book Arcade, Bourke St,
Melbourne, Australia, as easily and as
safely as a carriage stops there now.”


sjunmm a e in mm
m
"* SW
> * '-i
""
There’s 5,000 more miles of Pacific Ocean to
go. But he’ll never notice them. He took our
advice and relaxed in his personal entertain-
ment centre—his seat on a PAL DCB fan jet
between Sydney, all points East, and beyond.
He started with jazz. Eased into folk, classics,
music from the shows, and hit the children’s
channel just when the lullaby started. He
might cross to first-run colour movie. But he
won’t miss the Pacific. The most
million square miles in the world. He’ll arrive
refreshed, relaxed and ready to go in Manila,
Hong Kong, Taipei, Singapore, or Honolulu.
Connections to UK and Europe. After all,
who wants hours of nothing to see but sea.
When you can travel the entertainment way.
EUROPE HONG # EUROPE VIA TOKYO
EUROPE • TAIPEI
VIA BANGKOK SAN FRANCISCO
HONOLULU
SYDNEY
SINGAPORE
!■■■■<
EUROPE
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES
fg
hfg
For PAL flight schedules, and Philippines tour infor-
mation, see your Travel Agent or mail this coupon.
PHILIPPINE AIR LINES C/- G.S.A. Ansett-A.N.A.
4A Martin Place, Sydney. 489 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Cnr. Ann St. and North Quay, Brisbane.
140 North Terrace, Adelaide.9B Williams Street, Perth.
62 Northbourne Avenue, Canberra. 178 Liverpool
Street, Hobart. 54 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NAME
ADDRESS
PHONE
MY TRAVEL AGENT
•Slot


Be sure
the next uniform you buy
is wearing this tag ...
it means you will be wearing
the best uniform...
made from the new, soft, silky,
miracle fabric called
CjUakdflfc
CESARELIA—the fashion’s there to stay. MADE FROM
Toraif' >
TETORON 05Z
FIBRE i
\ and Viscose /
CTB33
And Mr Cole gave a splendid model
for a flying machine, a floating platform
sped up and along by 21 opening and
closing umbrellas.
Yet perhaps the most useful chapter
today comes at the end of Book 1, a
treatise against drinking and smoking.
There are some excellent pictures, e.g.
“Brother who smoked thereby destroy-
ing his vital organs, his good looks and
stunting his body.” “Brother who didn’t
smoke and therefore grew good-looking,
big, healthy and strong.”
Then there’s the fine picture of two
bearded gentlemen: “Two talented men
soothing, comforting and gradually
poisoning themselves with tobacco and
brandy.”
And the editorial matter is very
strong: “Smokers are always at the
bottom of the class in school and college,
and backwards at all kinds of study.
Excessive smoking causes mental and
physical laziness in boys and men. Medi-
cal men and observing experts affirm that
many diseases are caused or accelerated
by the use of tobacco, among which are
the following Heart disease, con-
sumption, cancer, ulceration, asthma,
bronchitis, neuralgia, paralysis, palsy,
apoplexy, indigestion, dysentery, diar-
rhoea, constipation, sleeplessness, melan-
cholia, delirium tremens, insanity.
Smoking often leads to despondency.
Smoking sometimes leads to suicide.
Tobacco fumes, especially in small
and poorly-ventilated houses or rooms,
injure or destroy the health of multi-
tudes of wives and injure the health or
kill multitudes of infants and children.
It is even pretty much a security risk.
According to Mr Cole: “A third of the
recruits for the Army are disqualified
through smoking.”
TWIN BROTHERS
Brother, who smoked
Thereby destroying
His vital organs,
His good looks, and
Stunting his body.
Brother who didn't
smoke
And therefore grew
Good-looking, big,
healthy and strong.
Cole Turnley believes that the pos-
sibilities of Cole’s Funny Picture Books
have yet to be really exploited. He would
like to see a great Australian musical
written about the life of Mr Cole. For
a start, he feels, there would be two
superb numbers, one incorporating the
Scolding Machine with the girls going
“Yeah, Yeah” and one could imagine the
beautiful beat to be had in a nice Whip-
ping Machine number. The flying mach-
ine also could make a good scene, the
winner being a gentleman named Reg.
Your correspondent had hour upon
hour of happy reading and finally went
to bed with the thought:
Books, like strong drink, will drown
man’s cares
But do not waste his wealth
Books leave him BETTER, drink the
WORSE,
In character and health.
BATMAN


PILKINGTOHS
lead flie world in glassmaking
\
■
w,
JCt
~r
*<■ •
*?
* ' J
There’s no more searching test of a
glass than to make it into a mirror, and
reflect an object in it again and again.
There's no doubt which glass makes to-
day’s finest, truest mirrors Float glass,
invented and developed by Pilkingtons.
<D
Pilkington glasses made or processed
in up-to-date plants in nine countries,
and behind every product are the vast
resources of some of the glass industrys’
largest laboratories, working on quality
control, and on research and development.
Pilkington research and development
produced Float glass which, with its new
clarity and brilliance, outdates Plate
glass in modern building, for mirror
making and for toughening into
safety glass.
For the finest glass specify Pilkingtons.
Pilkingtons’ Agent in Australia ...
Pilkingtons’ service in Australia is
provided by Mr. C. Rogers who can help
you in any problem concerning the use
of glass. Just write to Mr. C. Rogers,
4 Bridge Street (G.P.O. Box 561), Sydney,
N.S.W. Pilkingtons’ glass is available
from glass merchants throughout
Australia. Head Office: Pilkington
Brothers Limited, St. Helens,
Lancashire, England.
FOR MODERN BUILDING SPECIFY GLASS RY PILHIMGTOHS- INVENTORS OF FLOAT
*K1502/63


There is
nothing
like
a dome ••
a.
lit
DDE
a
a.
c=c
C 4
OQQIr^ 00000000^
«' I •
Moscow! Now there’s a place
for domes. AIR-INDIA
flies there regularly. In fact,
it’s the only airline that can
fly you via Moscow from
Australia to London and
New York. An AIR-INDIA
across-the-world air ticket
gives you Moscow at no extra
air fare. SOME GIFT! Have
a word with your
Travel Agent. He knows
all about the AIR-INDIA
network (London, Paris,
Rome, Tokyo, Fiji... 27 cities
in 23 countries). And the
pleasure of flying in the
efficient care of our
multi-million-mile pilots,
sari-clad hostesses and all.
There’s nothing like it.
the airline that treats you like a Maharajah
AIR’INDIA
h
In association with BO AC and Qanfas
A152A.102
THE INTELLIGENT WOMAN'S GUIDE
How to Live with
a Bath
Bathrooms aren’t what they were,
either. Or, rather, they are getting
back to an improved version of
what they were if you go back far
enough (say, to the 1880 s, the period of
“Shanks’ Superior Bath Cabinet for
Eureka and Other Spray Baths”) but
not too far (say, to the 1840 s and the
soap tax).
I have here four photographs of
modern bathrooms whose luxuriance
would have brought a smile to the lips of
that Marquess of Queensberry who kept
up his notorious end of the eighteenth
century by taking a milk bath every day.
The first belongs to David Hicks and
is part of his house in Oxfordshire. The
walls are mottled black and white, the
pale grey floor-length curtains are drawn
back with gold bands tc reveal a marble-
topped basin with matching gold taps
and retractable shaving mirror. There
is a huge black and
gold leather arm-
chair. The bath
appears to be in the
centre of the room
in front of the
marble fireplace and
is white, gold-tapped
and panelled on the
outside to match the
walls. (I expected
to see John Lennon
inside, but was, as usual, disappointed.)
There is an old-fashioned, ornate, gilded
bathroom scale, and a huge glass-fronted
cabinet, “marvellous for displaying
treasures”. Occasional tables and lamps
are scattered through the room, the floor
is carpeted and several pictures hang on
the walls. The lavatory is concealed by
a studded, green leather screen. “Good
grief there is a bath in here,” a naive
person is reported to have remarked.
The second bathroom is difficult to see
in the photograph, but the description
that comes with it makes up for that.
“The bathroom is lined with anodised
aluminium panels,” it says, “and has a
sunken bath and ‘car spray’ shower
attachment with water jets angled from
two sides.” It is not clear to me what
you do with this shower. (Just as the
“Eureka Bath” has never been clear to
me, either.) The designer says, “A bath-
room must be at least as big as a bed-
room” but he does not say how big a
bedroom should be in relation to a
garage.
“The basin is set in a marble block,”
he continues reasonably, “and contrasts
With the television which dominates the
bedroom area. Set in a dramatic black
cube it swivels on a pedestal and can
be watched from the bath.” Having re-
jected the momentarily attractive idea
that “it” here means the entire bedroom
area, I am left unsure as to why you
would want to watch the basin (the only
thing you can see very clearly in the
photograph is a bidet that seems to be
surrounded by mirrors). If, however,
“it” means the television, I foresee all
kinds of domestic crises as the occupier
of the bath is forced to wrest from the
occupier of the bed the privilege of
watching the 6.30 a.m. University Ex-
tension Courses in Mechanics.
The third bathroom, white marble,
gold-plated dolphin fixtures (i.e., taps),
gold-brocaded chair, carries the simple
caption, “Mrs F.C. of Los Angeles has
tea every day in this bathroom, which
she designed herself. The white silk
curtains are never drawn across the
picture window because of the superb
view.” Through the window you can see
a garden seat and a tree.
The fourth bathroom is in Helena
Rubinstein’s London
house. It is almost
furnitureless, with
orange and yellow
walls and ceiling
luminously hand-
painted in small
panels. Even the
"ventilator is part of
the pattern.
Into one of these
exotic settings you
are invited to put “the electronic Elysian
bath”. Produced by Allied Irohfounders,
this will fill automatically at a chosen
rate, temperature, color and flavor, all
by remote control.
Perhaps, along with thoughts about
the number of people in the world who
still have no bath to call their own, the
number of members of the Great Un-
washed who still use theirs for storing
coal in, the way we all used to get
charged extra for over-bathing in English
lodgings (some Indians actually had to
be charged for two baths a day they
must have been very dirty), I can leave
you with that .charmingly ambiguous
mediaeval injunction to hygiene:
“Wine, women, baths, by art or nature
warm
Us'd or abus'd do men much good
or harm.”
And with my favorite caption of the
week, “The new trend in bathrooms is
indicated by this example which will
accommodate four people performing
different functions without interfering
with the privacy of any of them.”
CLARISSA BLACK


lit* A ,
n o
Why practical minded
accountants are attracted
to the IBM 6400
accounting machine:
Completeness!
What is completeness? You might call it a total
value package. <
Firstly: It’s an accounting system that pro-
vides you with new ways to get the right kind
of information when you need it. A system
fitted to your needs, not your needs fitted to
a limited system.
Secondly: It’s the depth and intensity of
personal IBM service that can't be matched.
Service provided by thoroughly schooled
specialists, better equipped to understand your
real problems and needs. And, what's more
important, apply real solutions, because they
have more applications knowledge and systems
design experience. . *
Finally : IBM service doesn’t forget you after
the machinery is delivered. It’s available any
time, day or night. It always will be.
Take a look at the hardware
12056
* Largest alpha numeric storage on ledger
card * Less manual operation—less risk of
operator error * Accuracy checks on both
reading and recording * Unique single-element
printing head eliminates moving carriage—*
provides better forms handling * Fully tran-
sistorised small-scale computer—one of the
most reliable computing mechanisms yet
devised by IBM. -~e-w l
The IBM 6400 not only offers you increased
efficiency in accounting operation, it also offers
greater control over operations through
numerous by-product reports and analyses.
.• m
the complete accounting system
18M.56.103


Why the Vietcong
are Losing
From DOUGLAS PIKE in Saigon
The Vietcong’s National Liberation
Front (NLF) received a strong
boost from Hanoi on January 24
when Ho Chi-minh dispatched a form
letter to leaders of the Communist
nations. In it Ho characterised the NLF
as “fighting to achieve independence,
democracy, peace, neutrality, and ad-
vancing toward the peaceful reunification
of the fatherland”. He declared that, “If
the United States really wants peace, it
must recognise the NLF as the sole
genuine representative of the people of
South Vietnam.” This position is an
exact restatement of the position Hanoi
has maintained toward the NLF over the
years. What it failed to take into account,
however, was the changed condition of
the apparatus in the South, upon which
so much of the Communist effort in
Vietnam depends.
On the morning of January 7, an
episode took place here that serves to
point up this change. A three-man Viet-
cong terror squad, led by a thirty-six-
year-old Vietcong activist named Nguyen
Anh Tuan, loaded a 264-pound chunk
of explosive plastic with detonator into
the false bottom of a three-wheeled cycle
cart and pedalled it downtown toward the
Alabama Hotel, where several hundred
US troops are billeted. A few blocks
short of the hotel the three were arrested
by suspicious police. At a Press con-
ference a week later, Tuan told news-
men that his only regret in the affair
was his failure to achieve his mission.
Tuan’s candid attitude and his unconcern
over the danger to Vietnamese children
in a school adjacent to the hotel (“such
deaths cannot be helped”) struck news-
men here as a refreshing change from
the hypocritical posturings of the Viet-
cong over the years. Here was the
enemy as he really was: a true believer
acting without remorse for his victims
and staunchly refusing to hide behind
the standard captured Vietcong prisoner’s
plea that he had been involved in the
whole thing against his will.
Yet Tuan’s act, even if he had suc-
ceeded, would "not really have been
responsive to the present needs of the
Vietcong cause. A successful explosion
at the Alabama would not have moved
the Vietcong any closer to victory, but
would only have hardened American
and Vietnamese determination, as have
similar bombings in the past. The
Alabama effort, in fact, was an old
reflexive response to new circumstances,
a failure to consider the changes taking
place on both sides. As such, it was
symptomatic in many ways of the general
condition of the Vietcong as it enters
the sixth year of the war.
The Vietcong have lost the close
identification with the people that
marked their earlier days. The ranks of
the older Vietcong cadres (roughly
equivalent to officers, but loosely used
to set full-time trained professionals
apart from local supporters) have been
thinned. There is now a dated quality
and an inadequacy about their efforts.
The idealistic attraction has faded. Viet-
cong supporters now mutter guardedly
about the “revolution betrayed”, and
splinter groups call themselves “true
Communist revolutionaries”. Individual
cadres complain in reports that the
villagers have “lost their revolutionary
vigor” or have become “mere bourgeois
revolutionaries content only with gains
in land reform”.
Chiefly this is the result of Vietcong
actions: increased taxation, forced con-
scription, and the brutal and bloody
measures stemming from the Vietcong’s
almost paranoiac preoccupation with
spies in its midst. The stepped-up air
war also has had the effect of turning
the villagers against the Vietcong. In-
stead of being their protector they now
regard it as the magnet that attracts
bombs and rockets and napalm from the
air, and shells from distant artillery
posts. The guerrilla war, once rooted
in the people, has become a giant slug-
ging match, and the ideals for which it
claimed to stand and which many
Americans here in early days regarded
with a certain sympathy - have been
trampled underfoot. Many changes have
been taking place, of which the most
significant involve Vietcong cadres and
doctrine.
The cadre has been the workhorse of
the Vietcong effort since its inception.
The cadre is told, and it is true, that
“on your shoulders rests the entire bur-
den of the revolution”. Even after years
of sifting through captured cadre reports,
one is still impressed by the incredibly
heavy loads which the cadres are ex-
pected to carry.
For example, a recent central com-
mittee directive to district cadres in-
formed them that during the following
month they were to: “(1) Increase recruit-
ment into the Liberation Army by 25
per cent; (2) Increase tax revenues in
the district by 10 per cent . . ~ (5) De-
velop an intensive Hate America cam-
paign in your aree .. .;(7) Eliminate all
spies and reactionary pro-govern-
ment] persons in your area”; —and so on,
the listing continuing for a total of 17
items, any one of which would have
occupied the full attention of a cadre for
a month. At the end of the month, back
goes the cadre’s report, packed with
statistics and evaluation. Then, a short
time later, back down the line comes
the “criticism memo”: “Although you
achieved your norms in Items 1,4, 7,
9, 11 and 17,”' it reads, “you were
deficient and therefore must rectify . . .
Nos. 2,3, 5, 6 . .
Thus the cadre can be the strength
and weakness of the Vietcong. And
while the principle that by developing
good lower-level leadership an organisa-
tion can become efficient and powerful
is correct, it also follows that such an
organisation is extremely vulnerable if
anything happens to its cadre structure.
And this precisely is what has happened.
Over the past five years the Vietcong
has lost, chiefly through battle attrition,
about six thousand cadres. This may not
be excessive considering the magnitude
of the Vietcong effort, but it represents
an incalculable loss to the organisation.
Rank-and-file soldiers can be replaced,
but loss of a cadre permanently damages


the system. In fact, the genesis of Hanoi’s
deep involvement in the South can be
traced to the cadre shortage. At first
these were the so-called “regrouped
Southerners”, Vietnamese who had gone
north during Operation Exodus in 1954-
1955. Soon this relatively small reser-
voir was exhausted, and by mid-1964
the “pure” northern cadre started appear-
ing in numbers in the South.
But the supply from the North could
not keep pace with the rank-and-file
buildup in 1965, when the Vietcong’s
strength was increased by some 20 per
cent. The overall quality of the cadre
has continued to decline, damaging the
effectiveness and efficiency of the entire
movement. Unskilled, poorly trained
leaders have been thrown into the
breach, especially in the Mekong Delta.
Being unequal to the task they face,
they have increasingly alienated the
people by what strikes the observer as
unnecessary brutality in conscription and
taxation.
Cadre morale itself is low, as is the
morale of the Vietcong rank and file.
The year 1965 had been billed as the
year of victory for the Vietcong, but
the year’s end found the Vietcong
further from victory than ever. Short-
ages in food, medicine, and almost all
other supplies except ammunition re-
sulted from the rapid expansion of man-
power. Worse, the influx of northern
cadres led to marked hostility on the part
of the Southerners, who resent the high-
handed manner of the Northerner, a feel-
ing exacerbated by deep and long-stand-
ing regional prejudices. In fact, region in
Vietnam is as important as caste is in
India. Their arrival deeply eroded the
indigenous base of the NLF, for the
Northerner is totally loyal to Hanoi.
Finally, the northern cadre has brought
what historians may record as the most
significant and disastrous change that
of doctrine.
Vietcong theoreticians have tradition-
ally held that there are three routes to
victory: (1) the Khoi Nghia, or general
uprising; (2) the famed Mao-Giap three-
stage revolutionary guerrilla war; or
(3) coalition government.
Khoi Nghia is a social myth, in the
Sorelian usage. It is similar to and may
have stemmed from the myth of the
general strike, which was so powerful in
early days of the Communist movement.
The myth is this: cadres, working
through the various liberation associa-
tions and other social movements, arouse
the social consciousness of the villager
and engage him in a series of activities
not unlike the civil-rights efforts in the
United States, that is, mass meetings,
demonstrations, protest marches, letters
to district chiefs, and petitions, all
lumped together under the term “struggle
movement”. Gradually this struggle
movement will spread throughout the
society and especially into the ranks of
the South Vietnamese Army. Then, one
morning, the whole country will explode
and struggle movements will erupt simul-
taneously in all the 2300 villages of the
nation. At the same time the final dis-
integration of the army will take place
and the soldiers will join the people en
masse. No one will be left but a few
imperialist lackeys in Saigon. With no
opposition, the people will march to
power.
This was the doctrine that dominated
Vietcong thinking from 1960 to 1964.
Basically a political or social strategy,
it was not, however, regarded as blood-
less: the Vietcong from 1958 to the
present has assassinated or executed an
estimated 61,000 Vietnamese village
leaders and governmental representa-
tives.
The doctrinal shift, which came in
early 1964, was to the revolutionary
guerrilla war of Mao Tse-tung and North
Vietnam’s General Vo Nguyen Giap. It
was speeded and reinforced by the arrival
of northern cadres, whose great political
and military experience had been the
Vietminh war against the French.
Former southern Vietcong cadres who
have quit under Saigon’s chieu hoi
(amnesty) programme have described the
transformation. One of them told me:
“The Northerners said the idea of
Khoi Nghia was all wrong, that the only
way we could win was the way the Viet-
minh won, by building up our military
forces, delivering military and psycho-
logical blows against the enemy, and
finally fighting anew Dien Bien Phu
and driving them into the sea.”
Doubts on techniques
Tlhe military doctrine continues to
dominate the Vietcong, although chieu
hoi returnees report that the whole con-
cept of victory on the battlefield is being
called into question in Vietcong ranks.
Doubts are being raised as to whether
the revolutionary guerrilla-warfare tech-
niques that won against the French are
still applicable to face an entirely new
technology of warfare.
The Vietcong leadership recognises the
condition but refuses to accept it as
serious. Captured documents refer to
the “problem” of the helicopter, whose
mobility has transformed the face of
the war in Vietnam, or the “problem”
of tactical air support and its ability to
concentrate firepower. Or, most fre-
quently, the “problem” of the high-flying
bombers from Guam, against which the
Vietcong are totally impotent. At
criticism and self-criticism sessions, re-
turnees say, high Vietcong officials try
to convince sceptical cadres that these
problems can be solved. To deal with
the problem of the helicopter, they say
to drive 16-foot bamboo spikes into the
ground, thus preventing the helicopters
from landing. To solve the problem of
the B-52, dig air-raid shelters deeper than
15 feet (or, as one American facetiously
advised, drive 16,000-foot bamboo spikes
into the ground). To solve the problem
of tactical air power, they advise closing
with the enemy in hand-to-hand combat,
or attacking in small units on many
fronts rather than by massed frontal
assault.
The Vietcong is obsessed with the air
power it faces. A significant percentage
of Vietcong casualties now comes from
the air. It was no accident that Radio
Liberation, the Vietcong station, called
the sabotage explosion at the Metropole
Hotel in Saigon last December a blow
against air power: “More than 200 US
jet pilots were killed or wounded ...
bloodthirsty pirates who daily sow death
in North and South Vietnam.” (Actually
eight persons were killed, six of them
Vietnamese; there were no pilots living
at the Metropole, which is a billet for
administrative and Medical Corps enlisted
men.)
The advice of the Vietcong officials
adds up to little more than to make the
best of a bad situation. But new secret
electronic devices and other weapons are
blunting or nullifying many formerly
effective guerrilla tactics. In all likeli-
hood, technology has made a Vietcong
military victory impossible. Lower-level
cadres now know this. Probably the
upper levels of the NLF and PRP in the
South sense it. But apparently the leader-
ship in Hanoi either cannot or will not
face the obvious.
All along, the NLF has had a minority
element which argued that the surest
route to power was through the establish-
ment of an NLF coalition with a Saigon
government. This approach, it was
argued, would call for a certain amount
of social disorder of the Khoi Nghia
type as well as some guerrilla warfare,
but basically it would be the entering
wedge of a move to bypass the enemy’s
military strength, use his owh political
disorganisation to disorganise him further,
and outflank the American presence.
However, for any serious step toward
coalition government, timing is all-im-
portant. If the Vietcong had taken this
route at the start and stuck to it, it might
very well have succeeded. Now, how-
ever, after more militant means have
failed, any suggestion of coalition gov-
ernment would probably smell of defeat
and would be widely regarded as a sign
of weakness by the Vietnamese.
All that remains of the idea of coalition
government is the slender hope that some
leverage for the NLF might be salvaged
from a return teethe Geneva accords. The
possible outcome of any free election
that might be held under such circum-
stances is worth examining. Of South


& I
m
Familiarity
breeds content
Getting to grips with things brings experience.
Always rewarding, one way or another. Makes us
useful in modern society. So we become familiar
with what makes things tick. Conventionwise,
Chevron Hotel’s management is familiar with all
the needs of convention planners. The resulting
experience is at your service. A mighty fine hotel,
Chevron Hotel, places at your disposal all its
material and human resources for successful con-
ventioneering. Our convention team cares for all
the detail. Tailors a package deal to your require-
ments. Cost-wise most reasonably. Get with it . i s
with us.
fgh
AUSTRALIA'S GREAT CONVENTION CENTRE
CHEVRON HOTEL
35-0433
MACLEAY STREET, POTT'S POINT, SYDNEY
CHE V/2190
Vietnam’s 15 million people, slightly
more than half are under 18 years of
age, leaving a voting population of about
seven million, of whom perhaps five
million could be expected to cast ballots.
The Vietcong force consists of the follow-
ing: 55,000 Main Force soldiers, the full-
time, salaried military in formal units;
about 150,000 guerrilla regionals or
territorials, the so-called part-time guer-
rilla who fights and lives in his home
territory; and about 45,000 political
agitprop, tax-collecting, indoctrination,
training, and administrative cadres, many
of whom are Northerners. In addition
there are 15,000 North Vietnamese Army
troops in South Vietnam who are now
arriving at the rate of about 4000 a
month; presumably some of these might
vote. Behind this force are an estimated
500,000 true believers, persons who for
one reason or another voluntarily support
the Vietcong cause and are willing to
take risks to do so, as in hiding guer-
rillas, feeding them, and supplying in-
formation. This totals over 730,000. If
one includes a quarter of a million ad-
ditional votes from sympathisers, the
Vietcong would get less than one million
out of the five to seven million votes cast.
Thns is a generous estimate. Others are
A less generous. A recent study of
Vietnamese village attitudes indicates that
10 per cent of the villagers are true
believers, 20 per cent waver between the
Vietcong and the Saigon Government,
vhile the attitudes of 70 per cent range
rom a sort of determined neutralism to
utright hostility toward the Vietcong.
Using these figures, the Vietcong could
only count for certain on its 10 per cent,
or 500,000 votes, plus some portion of
the one million votes of the wavering
20 per cent, depending on the cam-
paign and circumstances. But this would
leave it far short of anything like a
majority.
Nothing at the moment indicates that
the Vietcong leadership is willing to take
its chances at the polls. The Vietcong
does not have now, and never has had,
the majority of the people behind it. It
would be lucky to get 10 per cent of
the votes cast in an authentic election.
In sum, the Vietcong today finds itself
in a doctrinal box with all three of its
possible routes to victory — the socio-
political, the military, and the diplomatic
— closed to it. Consequently, it has
fallen back on the sterile thesis of the
protracted conflict that will be won be-
cause the enemy, the United States, will
tire of the whole affair and withdraw.
But this does nothing for its own morale.
Guerrillas living in swamps, without
adequate food or medical care, far from
their families, cannot be expected to fight
on indefinitely.
Copyright 1966, the “Reporter”, New York)


FOR
good news
SMOKERS
CIGAR
11111
llppl
■lli
te l§j
ralli
Schimmelpenninck Simpatia
(Actual size)
in packets of 4,75 c;
in packets of 10, $1.84;
and boxes of 25, $4.60.
Scliimmelpenninck
CIGARS
Hollands
finest cigars -
fast becoming
Australia’s favourites
Try Schimmelpenninck soon.
One cigar will tell you.
Schimmelpenninck cigars are
imported for your pleasure
By Rothmans of Pall Mall ( Aust.)
Limited sole Australian agent for
Schimmelpenninck— Sigarenfabrieken
V/H Geurts & Van Schuppen
N. V. Wageningen Holland
RPMI&4"
LETTERS
England upsets Fairbairn
SIR. Accustomed though we exiled
Poms are to reading odd accounts of life
in our homeland, Mr Fairbairn’s “Eng-
land, Whose England?” (8., Feb. 26) has
caused us to raise aristocratic eyebrows.
So a “professional aristo” (giving an
impersonation of “Young Toff who has
imbibed too well” from a “Punch”
cartoon, circa 1900), a “dark stock-
broker” and a “beautiful Jewess” in
London were either uninterested in the
Vietnam struggle or envious of the
Americans’ participation in it?
As if that weren’t sufficient, “the
English” (which presumably includes all
those chaps who survived the war in
Burma and the Jap prison camps,
plus the widows and orphans of those
who didn’t) were “cattily envious” of
those fortunate Americans or Australians
wading waist-deep through the slimy
mud of Vietnam. Not only that, but
this shocking race of people which has
twice borne the major brunt of two world
wars and who, for over 50 years, has
endured snide criticism from the Amer-
icans regarding “empire building” or
“colonialism”, now appears to be willing
to let the critics “have a go”. How
dashed ungrateful. I suggest that it was
something much more serious than the
English attitude towards Vietnam which
so upset Mr Fairbairn. Disinterest in
sectarianism, Ned Kelly, or Aussie Rules
perhaps?
S. J. PAINE
Hawthorn {Vic.).
The Berkeley Revolt
SlR.—May I comment on Dr F. Knop-
felmacher's review of the events at Ber-
keley? (8., Feb. 5).
I think Knopfelmacher has been car-
ried away by his own metaphor. Whereas
it is true that there was at least one
Communist Party member in the FSM
“steering committee” (Bettina Aptheker),
it is an entirely misleading thing to talk
about ‘Soviets” and “storming the Winter
Palace”. The Free Speech Movement,
at its height, represented a very broad
cross-section of student opinion rang-
ing from the far left to the far right.
This is eminently understandable in that
all student political organisations were
adversely affected by Chancellor Strong’s
regulations. The turmoil would probably
never have occurred if the administration
had not committed not one “minor
blunder”, but a large number of heavy-
handed acts of manifest bad faith.
What really annoys me about the re-
view is its tendentious language and its
over-simplification or just plain distortion
of what happened. His remarks about
Civil Rights and Vietnam have little
to do with the book, but they are worthy
of some comment. It is perfectly true
that these are the major preoccupations
of the activists, and that the Civil Rights
Movement gave the initial impetus to the
FSM. The latter was in existence to gain
a specific end (freedom of speech as
guaranteed under the US constitution),
and when this end was attained, the FSM,
as such, folded. Now while it is true
that some of the leaders of the FSM are
now the most vocal advocates of anti-US
Vietnam policy discussion, some are also
active on the other side.
In other words, the peace movements
and Civil Rights movements, while hav-
ing to concern themselves with the pro-
blem of being able to freely speak their
ideas, did come into the coalition of the
FSM, but both preceded the latter and
continued after it.
Discussion on Vietnam the war has
never been popular here with the general
public (whence Johnson’s continual
gymnastics to try and keep the House and
Senate in line) has many facets, and
covers the whole gamut of the political
scale: the tendency here, as in many
other universities, is “leftist” (who the
THE TREASON FELONY ACT
ffiJiulCetCn
80 Years Ago: March 13, 1886
HENRY PARKES complains that in
ascribing to him. in our last issue,
the responsibility for the "Treason Felony
Act" passed during the excitement follow-
ing O'Farrell's attempt upon the life of the
Duke of Edinburgh, we have done him
an injustice. Technically speaking,' Sir
Henry is correct. The bill was not intro-
duced by him, and he did not speak in the
debate which preceded its adoption. The
history of the Act is that it was introduced
by Mr Martin, now Sir James, who was
at the time Premier and Attorney-General.
Sir John Robertson seconded the motion to
suspend the standing orders, to allow of
the bill being passed through all stages in
a single day. The first seven or eight
clauses were simply copied from the Eng-
lish Act, passed under the excitement of
the Fenian scare; but several following
clauses were added by Mr James Martin.
Of these, the 9th clause was the most ex-
traordinary. It was worthy of the worst
features of Russian ukases. It provided
that any one speaking disrespectfully of
the Queen, or refusing to join in the toast
of her health should be liable to the
penalties of the Bill. "The Sydney Morning
Herald" expressed the opinion that, "the
moral effect of this law will doubtless be
beneficial". Sir Henry Parkes is entitled to
the benefit of the foregoing corrected
statement. There is reason to lament,
nevertheless, that Sir Henry, in lieu of
voting for the Bill, did not oppose it with
all his powers.


THE SCENIC DOME
ROUTE TO EUROPE!
m
mrnmt
J
RAIL AWAY THROUGH CANADA’S
MIGHTY ROCKIES-SEE BANFF, TOO!
On your way to Europe, take the Scenic Dome route through
Canada's Rockies aboard the “Canadian.” Stop-over in
Banff, take a side trip to Lake Louise! See all the wonder
of the Rockies through the tinted scenic dome! Enjoy the
“Canadian’s” unique cuisine, unsurpassed comfort! Your
travel agent has full details!
-4
(Incorporated in Canada. Liability of members is limited. ) Trains/Planes/Trucks/
Ships/Hotels/Telecommunications. World's most complete transportation system.
#
m
hell wants war anyway?), but not too
many people are burning their draft
cards, and although it is common to see
bumper stickers reading “Make love, not
war”, which I believe does represent in
fact a certain moral bankruptcy, there
are many minds working at new concepts
of things that may yet save man from
himself. The “adolescent revolution-
aries” feel intensely what some of us see:
that the world is in a bloody mess, and
that if any hope is to be regained, the
old solutions won’t do, and that com-
mon sense is not sufficient.
I think Dr Knopfelmacher’s article
is not so much dishonest as plain medi-
ocre. He speaks with an outdated voca-
bulary and has a poor imagination. He
is limited in understanding and has a
truncated vision of man.
DR. C. NETTELBECK
University of California.
Berkeley, California (USA).
Bobby Simpson
Jack Fingleton would like to claim
only it wouldn’t be true that he was
pulling the legs of cricket statisticians
when he wrote in his article on Bobby
Simpson (8., Feb. 19) that the Aus-
tralian captain began this season with
a triple-century in Brisbane. It was no-
thing like that. It was, in fact, a “beak”.
The 359 he did score in Brisbane was in
1963-64. Mr Fingleton thanks those
readers of The Bulletin who have,
very pleasantly, pointed out his “howler”.
Catholic Dilemmas
SIR. The same hackneyed charges are
once again used to cast the “Catholic
Worker” in the role of villain in The
Bulletin’s latest diagnostic fantasy on
the Catholic intelligentsia (8., Feb. 26).
But this time, Mr Buckley goes further
in his invention of tendencies in the
“Catholic Worker” and suppression of
material which does not suit his thesis.
We are accused of softness to Com-
munism, anti-Americanism and other
ideological shortcomings, the acid test
being our reactions to a “package deal”
ranging from willingness to condemn
Communist influence on the ALP to
enthusiasm for the writings of Dr Knop-
felmacher, Prof. McAuley and Mr Santa-
maria. As we have taken issue with
these latter, we are presumed to incur
censure on the rest of the list. The verifi-
able facts prove otherwise: we have
carried numerous condemnations of
unity tickets, and our material on the
Hungarian revolution, bogus peace con-
gresses, etc., has been what one would
expect of Catholics opposed to Com-
munism.
Mr Buckley implies that the “Critic”
group are commensurate with us as re-
presentatives of Catholic liberalism. It is
worth pointing out that “Critic” is a
roneoed broadsheet of miniscule circu-
lation, irregular appearance and Knop-
felmachinistic inspiration. He completely
garbles our reply to this group’s charges,
confusing it with our criticism of The
Bulletin’s own enthusiasm for them.
He fails to mention at all our carefully
documented reply accompanying the
charges of the “literary intellectual”
James McAuley, though the charges
themselves are carefully listed.
Mr Buckley also implies that inter alia
we have not read Orwell. In fact we
recognize a “1984” touch in his willing-
ness to turn many of our articles into
“unarticles”, and in The Bulletin’s
apparent belief that it can make some-
thing true by arranging to have it re-
peated often enough.
J. P. RYAN
Chairman,
“Catholic Worker” Editorial Board.
Melbourne (Vic.).


ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Dame Judith: “Ugly! Dirty!”
By CHARLES HIGHAM
tiTT’s dirty! Ugly!” The charming and
I volatile Judith Anderson, here for
the Adelaide Festival where she
plays excerpts from Robinson Jeffers’
“Medea” and from “Macbeth” in a
special dramatic recital was sitting in
the rather gloomy lounge of the Went-
worth Hotel, Sydney, on a recent Sun-
day morning, talking about the modern
theatre. She mentioned a string of play-
wrights she didn’t like, both English and
American. “I like to see a play that
makes me soar that elevates me! I
want to be filled with beauty! This new
theatre! 1 hate it! Ugly! Dirty!”
Was anyone writing the kind of
theatre she liked today? “Thornton Wil-
der has been away for several years. I
hope he has been working on a play.”
But she could, she said, think of no one
else.
Judith Anderson’s theatre had, of
course, been the theatre of the ’twenties
and ’thirties: of Molnar, of O’Neill, of,
notably, David Belasco, the eccentric
and brilliant stage producer who had dis-
covered her for stardom.
When she had gone from Australia
to America as an unknown 20-year-old
girl with her mother (the widow, Judith
Anderson told me, of a race-horse owner
and silver magnate who had lost his
money gambling, leaving the family
penniless), David Belasco had seen her
in a play in Chicago and had called her
to his offices. “I was terrified. They said
to me, The governor’ that’s what
they called him ‘is coming down to
see you.’ Then they said. The governor
is on the first step.’ Then, ‘No, the
governor hasn’t missed his footing, he’s
still coming down.’ Finally I began to
wish they’d stop it and he’d make his
entrance.
“He saw me finally. And later I saw
his office. It was like a church Gothic
windows, stained glass and he wore,
you know, a clerical collar. He said,
'Lenore Ulrich’ she was a star at the
time ‘has been a naughty little girl,’
he meant she had become involved
with a man ‘so I want you to have
her part in “The Dove”.’ ”
As the Mexican concert singer in the
play she hadn't been able to sing, but
had learned a technique of half-singing,
half-speaking that pleased Belasco. But
later she fell in love, and there came
the inevitable, Ulrich-like parting of the
ways.
Belasco was patriarchal then? He
treated all his performers like a father?
“I don't know if he was so patriarchal!”
Dame Judith laughed. “I went up to his
office, the one like a church, to discuss
a new play one night and he said, ‘Please
call me David.’ I said, ‘l’d rather call
you father.’ After that / was a naughty
little girl. Someone else got the role.
And then he did a terrible thing to me.
He arranged for me to go into a very
bad play, when I was under somebody
else’s management.”
She hadn’t, she said, much enjoyed
making films because of the restrictions
imposed ( 'You have to stand here, stand
there; you can’t do anything with your
voice because the sound recording does
all that for you”), although she did have
a good word to say for Hitchcock, and
for her performance as the wicked house-
keeper Mrs Danvers in his “Rebecca”.
What had been her greatest moment
in the theatre? “It was after I had done
the first version of ‘Medea’ at Carmel. I
had to work so hard the director was
no good I did all my own costumes,
all my own sets ... I was exhausted by
opening night and I ‘went up’ in
actor’s parlance, I forgot lines. Then
when I came off the stage I just cried.
Cried and cried. I was so tired it
had gone badly. Then my mother
she’s always been behind me, she had
helped me so much, given up everything,
I wouldn't be where I am today without
her she said, ‘Miss Judith Anderson,
tonight you were great.’ It was the only
time she ever said it. And it was the
greatest thing that ever happened to me.
Ever.”
No Revolution for “The Firm”
By PATRICIA ROLFE
It might have been hoped that John
McCallum, ambitious and hard-
working, and now head of J. C. Wil-
liamson’s with not a Tait left, might
accomplish a theatrical revolution. “But,”
Mr McCallum says, “you don’t have
revolutions in the theatre. It is run on
tradition.” So, perhaps, being tactful as
well as ambitious and hard-working, Mr
McCallum would call a revolution some-
thing else.
Already, in the six months since Sir
Frank Tait, joint managing director with
Mr McCallum, died, Williamson’s have
been the prime mover in the film
“They’re a Weird Mob”, have cast two
major musicals, “The Boys From Syra-
cuse” and “Funny Girl”, with Australians,
and announced productions of two new
Australian plays, James Brazill's “Desire
of the Moth” and David Martin's “The
Young Wife”. This year the firm is com-
mitted in the theatre to eight major pro-
ductions, representing an expenditure of
about $1 million, the same sum, give or
take a few thousand, which was outlayed
on the spectacular Sutherland season.
Whether he is leading a revolution or
not, it is hard to see that Mr McCallum
at this stage is not starting to feel that
the gamble he and his wife, Googie
Withers, took in 1960, when they came
here permanently, has not begun to pay
off. He himself admits to no regrets and
certainly the tide has turned against the
sort of play and film both of them ap-
peared in in England. It would be hard
to see Googie and John bashing babies
to death in prams on the London stage
or thrashing through a Beatles film. But
there must be shudders in the McCallum
household when ‘The First Joanna” is on
television late at night.
However, Mr McCallum is only being
fair to his predecessors when he says
there is no revolution—yet. “The Weird
Mob” is the culmination of efforts to
make films for television or picture-
theatres here which began six years ago
at least. Williamson’s then approached
Screen Gems, but their proposition was
too expensive.
The question of using Australian per-
formers on stage is one on which Wil-
liamson’s have, in fairness, often been
attacked on the wrong grounds. There
may have in the past been more tradition-
ally minded directors whose faith was in
imports, but more often Williamson’s
have had little hope of getting the
American owners of a musical to agree
to Australian casting. “We wouldn’t have
had a hope of an Australian ‘Dolly’,” Mr
McCallum said. “We can only have Jill
Perryman for ‘Funny Girl’ because the
producer, American Fred Hebert, knows
her work well.”
Mr McCallum has further plans for
films, although these do depend on how
“The Weird Mob” goes. At present the
company is negotiating for another Aus-
tralian property and have, incidentally,
commissioned a musical of “The Weird
Mob”. Mr McCallum hopes that his
firm’s minimum film commitment will be
two feature films or one feature film
and one television series a year. He ad-
mitted there were still some financial
problems to be solved in establishing an
industry here. He has made trips to Can-
berra to try to persuade the Federal


Artist Jim Phillips went to Shore school, North Sydney, to sketch actors and
audience in this year’s presentation for schools, prepared at the Old Tote and toured
by the Arts Council. Two companies are touring NSW, city and country, for nine
weeks. Each company is presenting shortened versions of “The Merchant of Venice”
and Richard Ill" with “Words and Music”, devised by the groups’ producer,
Alexander Hay. The companies this year will tour only for nine weeks, instead of being
strung out for most of the year. This is because of the stress of working to the
Wyndham Plan. Again, because of the complications of the Wyndham Plan, there
were about nine texts to choose from instead of the old requirement of one Shake-
speare for the Inter, and one for the Leaving. “Richard” has been given a dialogue-
plus-text treatment, with, one supposes, a graceful nod in the direction of English
actor Harold Lang, who introduced this method here. The actresses wear a rather
pleasing tunic and blouse and the actors, junior-executive suits. All this marks a
new beginning in programmes for schools. Even the name Young Elizabethans has
been dropped, although Victoria and Queensland are still sending companies on tour
under this name. NSW schools have so far responded enthusiastically to the new
presentation.
Government to introduce something like
the British Eady plan, by which distribu-
tors pay a levy on each ticket sold at the
box-office; the proceeds underwrite local
film-making. Mr McCallum envisages a
fund of something like $4 million. “This
would be a matter of pence per ticket,”
he said, “or it might be less than a penny
per ticket.”
Mr McCallum says that he is given
an exceptionally free hand “artistically”
by the board of Williamson’s, which, he
said, meets only about three times a
year. “The directors are businessmen
who go through the balance sheet very
carefully,” he said. “They are interested
in promotion, the selling end of theatre.”
“But there are difficult days for the
theatre,” Mr McCallum admitted.
“Properties are not as plentiful or as
good as they were,” he said. “And there
is furious competition from television
and the clubs. In Australia, films as re-
cent as 1960 are shown on television.
In Britain or the United States television
doesn’t get such new films.”
Mr McCallum -feels that the theatre
has to be made more attractive, more of
a night out, to compete. Williamson’s
will take advantage of Victoria’s new
liquor laws to install bars at Her Majes-
ty’s, Melbourne. The installation, he
said, would cost $30,000 and the com-
pany expected to have to subsidise the
catering perhaps to the extent of $2OO a
week.
Mr McCallum said Williamson’s were
now facing the fact that they must have
a quicker turnover in shows. ‘“Hello,
Dolly’ ran for 24 weeks in Sydney,”
he said. “It should have been only 16
weeks.” But quicker turnover means
more shows and where, Mr McCallum
wonders, will they come from?


Barry Humphries^
45 R.P.M.
BULLETIN RECORD
Chunder Down Under
is still available for only $1 post-free. It has
two of the hits from the show 'Excuse I"
the surfie's "The Old Pacific Sea" and the
skier's "Snow Complications".
Send $1 (a cheque or postal note, not cash,
please) to "Bulletin Records", Box 7052, G.P.0.,
Sydney, together with the coupon and address
label below. (Records may also be purchased over
the counter from the Paper Sales Department, sth
floor, Telegraph House, 168 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, Monday to Friday,. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
I ADDRESS LABEL
BULLETIN
RECORD
RECORD ONLY
POSTAGE
PAID
SYDNEY
Name.....
Address
State
Sender
If undelivered, please return to Box
7052, G.P.0., Sydney.
ORDER BULLETIN record
FORM Box 7052, G.P.O. Sydney
Please DISPATCH .
BULLETIN RECORD(S), price $1 a copy
(post free). I enclose $1 cheque/postal
note.
Name of sender
Address
State B
If more than one record is ordered,
attach list giving full name, address!
State and, if overseas, country.
TELEVISION
Steamroller
T ast year ABC Television's series
“Forum” went down in my book as
a failure, mainly because of format. It
gave a theoretically controversial speaker
five minutes to state a point of view be-
fore a theoretically opposed audience, and
then each questioner a few minutes before
chairman Brian Newton John tinkled his
bell to allow the speaker to answer. Once
in a while we would hear a speaker
mentally fast on his feet pitted against
an alert audience, but it was a one-sided
debate because the speaker always had
the final say. Mostly, as expected, it was
all-round dreary.
The format was continued last week
when “Forum” began a new season.
E onomist Dr Davidson, author of “The
Northern Myth”, met and vanquished
members of the “People the North”
movement who were in Sydney for a
Northern Development symposium. Their
most recent champion, Dr Patterson, was
campaigning in Dawson, but had he
been present he could only have asked
his question and received a crushing
answer, without further right of reply.
Even with limitations this episode of
“Forum” was an interesting glance at an
important subject. It deserved more than
30 minutes, as well as a better presen-
tation. Presumably it was recorded and,
on a night when the ABC introduced
two new “funnies”, one of which only
proved that morons are among those
minority groups for whom the Com-
mission insists on catering, the pro-
grammes could have been reshuffled to
give the discussion a full hour, if not
in the “Forum” format, then as a straight
discussion between a few master speakers
on either side.
As we saw it, “Forum” was a conflict
between an able economist with a wealth
of cold economic facts, and an audience
of northerners with more human reasons
for their faith. They represented the
three per cent who live in Australia above
Capricorn, including the Ord River
settlers, and those who believe the north
should be settled for a host of reasons,
including world opinion. Davidson said
land use in the south, averaging less
than one person to 200 acres, would
be less defensible before world opinion.
An invader would be a fool not to take
the south first. Why waste subsidies on
non-viable development in the north and
rob the south of all that money?
These were crushing points, but they
left me unconvinced and, from their
faces, most of the audience likewise.
They had been steamrollered but felt
there was more to be said if only their
mouths were not full of southern earth.
Any two of them would have been better
served declaring for the north on Danny
Webb’s similar programme on Channel
7, “Fighting Words”.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
Hothouse
The Cell. Robert Wales. Independent
Theatre. Sydney.
‘TFhe Cell” is a psychological thriller
set in a convent which cares for delin-
quent girls. In the hothouse atmosphere
of this closed and narrow world clashing
personalities and conflicting ambitions
breed powerful emotional tensions. The
wills of two strong women lock in a
struggle which eventually destroys them
both. The victory goes to a third strong
woman who waits on the sidelines, cold
and aloof.
It is obvious from this play that Robert
Wales has a remarkable theatrical flair.
That he has succeeded only in writing a
melodrama, although a gripping one, is
tantalising because the play seems con-
tinuously to promise the serious treatment
of issues and characters.
The central character is Sister Cathe-
rine who is in charge of the delinquent
girls. She believes in redemption through
love and trust and it is generally agreed
that she can handle the girls better than
anyone else. Her opponent is Mother
Denis, the Mother Superior, who decides
to transfer Sister Catherine to the cater-
ing department. Why? Is she just a
bureaucrat with officialdom’s dislike of a
visionary reformer? Is she a responsible
person who genuinely distrusts the open
prison system? Or is she just a malicious
villainess determined to crush the good
Sister Catherine?
Although Robert Wales toys with the
wider issues and the possible complexities
of his characters, he does not explore
them, but is content to exploit them for
melodramatic purposes.
Peter Summerton’s excellent produc-
tion has a strong cast of women. Joan
Winchester successfully presents both
the sweetness and kindliness of Sister
Catherine and her stubborn spiritual
pride. Anne Haddy is sinisterly chill as
the very melodramatic Sister Matthew.
Excellent comic relief is provided by
Doreen Warburton as the plump, down-
to-earth Sister Gonzaga, and by Mary
Baldwinsoa and Honey Andressen as
the two delinquent girls. Michelle’s set,
with its many levels and angles, cleverly
suggests both convent and prison.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG.
MUSIC
No Double
Standard
Laurindo Almeida. Sydney Town Hall.
Tt is an unfortunate fact that in the in-
struments of concert performance
status, a comparative rarity of artists in
one particular field is almost invariably
accompanied by a lowering of critical
standards. Thus, in the case of the guitar,
where Segovia is the ultimate yardstick,
little comparison is made and the small
group of fine but definitely inferior artists
are most easily recognisable simply be-
cause “they are not Segovia”. Laurindo
Almeida, the celebrated Brazilian guitar-
ist who has come to Australia for a series
of one-night stands, is an artist who
disproves the necessity for any double
standard.
No artist is, however, without preju-


OFF
INSURANCE
RATES
with Qantas Air Cargo
You can save up to 90% on insurance costs with Qantas
air freight. The main area of savings is between a very
substantial 50% to 90%. Why the lower rates? For a
start, round-the-clock Qantas security safeguards against
pilferage and loss. Breakage is virtually unheard of,
because air gives a gentler, smoother ride. Also because
Qantas-cargo’d goods are handled less frequently, and
with typical care.
So many other ways to save! Take cargo rates. Many
regular consignments qualify for special low cargo rates
from Qantas. Savings range from between 30% and
70%. Take daily deliveries. Getting your goods to any
major world market is as easy as sending a parcel to
Perth. This keeps your products in constant supply-
closes the gaps that slower transportation leaves for
competitors. Yes, you can certainly save with air freight.
Save more money - serve more markets with Qantas.
Have you really gone Into the many advantages of
exporting by air? Whatever your products - animal,
vegetable or mineral-there’s increased profit potential
for you in the world trend to jet-age cargo with Qantas.
Send for this free booklet now! Please send me, post
free, this informative booklet called ‘Eight Ways to
Profit with Qantas Air Cargo’ for the full picture on
the many benefits of air freight.
Address coupon to: Export Consultant Service, Qantas
Empire Airways Limited, 70 Hunter St., Sydney.
fg
NAME
ADDRESS.
INDUSTRY
Daily flights to the export markets of the world
Qantas, with its associates, offers you over 125 weekly flights
to and from Australia.
45 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
am mm
SANTAS AIK CASCO
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, i
Q ANT AS AIR CARGO: Qantas House,
n association with Air India, Air New Zealand, 8.0.A.Q. and S.Aj\. x'' A 29.107.85
70 Hunter Street, Sydney. 'Phone 2-0369,


wm
v
PI
!,#@S
THE ARD 52-
CRQSSSAR PABX
Available with:
2 exchange lines
and up to 10 extensions
or
3 exchange lines
and up to 16 extensions
Wall mounted no special room necessary
P.M.G. Approved
Features: Any extension can be nominated as “operator”
to answer and transfer incoming calls • Extensions
can dial each other « Outside calls dialled direct by
extension • Certain extensions can be barred • Outside
calls can be transferred without operator assistance.
Optional Extra: Common answering feature allows any
extension to answer incoming calls.
Telephones standard P.M.G. type
Cash or Rental Terms
■mm
L M ERICSSON PTY. LTD.
1257 SYDNEY ROAD, FAWKNER. PHONE 359 3544
182 BLUES POINT ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY. PHONE 921147
TAS. Agents: Medhursts Wholesale Ltd., IG3 Collins St., Hobart. 2 2911
OLD. Agents: C. A. Pearce & Co. Pty. Ltd., 33 Bowen St., B’bane. 2 3201
S.A. Agents: F. R. Mayfield Pty. Ltd., 11 Halifax St., Adelaide. 0 4131
W.A. Agents: Carlyle & Co. (1959) Pty. Ltd., 1-9 Milligan St., Perth. 219331
dice, even if only subconscious, and with
Mr Almeida it became increasingly ap-
parent as the programme progressed that
the essence of his music lay in the gen.le,
chromatically modulating harmonies of
South A m e r ' c a.
The classical section of Almeida’s pro-
gramme was limited and familiar. Tran-
scriptions of Bach keyboard and string
works have, with the ever-present
example of Segovia, become standard
fare for the concert guitarist. In the
faster movements (the two courantes) ,
there was a tendency to accelerate which
eventually produced some hurried left-
hand work in the difficult runs and ar-
peggios. A selection of six short pieces
from the book of lute works by Vincenzo
Galilei served as an illuminating intro-
duction to the art of understatement
which is an integral facet of Almeida’s
style.
The Spanish culture which brought
the guitar to South America also estab-
lished in that continent a tradition of
composition for piano and guitar. Bar-
rios, Tarrega and Villa-Lobos gave the
instrument a new dignity by writing
works specifically for the guitar, or at
least in a transcribable piano score. Al-
meida’s approach to the music of these
composers was in marked contrast to
that which he employed in the perform-
ance of European music. The tone was
noticeably more mellow, the phrasing
relaxed and the melodies were delivered
with a personal and introspective flavor.
With two Sydney jazz musicians
(drums and bass) as support, Almeida
concluded the evening with a bracket of
Bossa Nova. “The Girl From Ipanema”,
“Salute to Bonfa” and the encore “Desi-
finado” sent the audience away with
smiles as generous as Almeida’s.
DAVID SALTER
RECORDS
Fallen Angel
The Tales of Hoffmann. (Offenbach) Nico-
lai Gedda, Gianna d’Angelo, Elisabeth
Schwarzkopf, Victoria de los Angeles,
George London, Ernest Blanc, Paris Con-
servatoire Orchestra (Andre Cluytens).
Angel SAN 154/6.
The Magic Flute. (Mozart) Dietrich Fischer-
Dieskau, Evelyn Lear, Fritz Wunderlich,
Roberta Peters, Franz Crass, Lisa Otto,
Hans Hotter. Berlin Philharmonic (Karl
Boehm). Deutsche Grammophon SKL
181/3.
“ITlhe best laid plans of mice and mep
. . .” No plan could have been
better laid than the new recording of
“The Tales of Hoffmann” and no one
is sadder than I to see it fail on so
many counts. Admittedly the latest ver-
sion of Offenbach’s minor masterpiece
is the best to date, but it was clearly in-
tended to become some kind of milestone
on Angel’s highway to success. The com-
bination of Elizabeth Schwarzkopf and
Victoria de los Angeles in one set should
mean major sales and probably will long
after the critics’ opinions have been for-
gotten. The casting of Nicolai Gedda, at
the peak of a not inconsiderable career
right now, could hardly be bettered.
George London’s presence should please
his many American followers and the
large cast of French supporting singers
and Cluytens’ conducting assures good
sales in France. What then went wrong?
To begin, the production lacks theat-
rical feeling for a most theatrical subject.
There is no sense of movement or dram-
atic continuity, sound effects are dismal
and one has a mental picture of singers
standing stodgily with sheets of music in
their hands. With the exception of Gedda
none seems to have any feeling for their
parts at all. Gianna d’Angelo is best all
round as the doll, Olympia. Vocally
Schwarzkopf sounds oldish, but Giu-
lietta is surely an ageing courtesan seduc-
ing a young man, and the voice is sur-
prisingly lush for Schwarzkopf. Victoria
de los Angeles (Antonia), on the other
hand, is the greatest disappointment of
the set. Not only is the voice forced at
times, more often than not it is way off
the note. What a pity!
The casting of two baritones as the
villains of the three stories is hard to
understand. Three or one, yes. But two?
In any case George London, who sings
(?) both Coppelius and Dr Miracle, is
incredibly coarse in voice and manner,
in strong contrast to Ernest Blanc who
does very well as Dapertutto. The radi-
cal departure from tradition of using a
baritone instead of a contralto as Nick-
laus succeeds in my opinion and a new-
comer, Jean-Christophe Benoit, makes the
most of his chances.
That leaves Gedda who is superb in
every way, though £ven he allows some
sloppiness during the climaxes which he
can clearly handle with ease. Overall,
then, one can only express surprise that
Cluytens (who conducts very well in-
deed) and the producers were satisfied to
leave a basically excellent set with so
many unnecessary blemishes.
The new “Magic Flute” in contrast
is fine in all departments and starts with
the flying handicap of being fully a third
cheaper than its only serious competitor,
the Klemperer Angel set. With one ex-
ception all of Deutsche Grammophon’s
artists are as good or better than Angel’s,
only Roberta Peters being comparatively
weak as a precise, lady-like and totally
unthrilling Queen of the Night. Wunder-
lich (superb), Dieskau, Crass and Lear
excel and Boehm conducts with all the
right touches in all the right places.
Definitely recommended!
JOHN CARGHER


/
i
*x*Xwx«s£&^.SSs£&;>X;X;X<%->x»x*:*:-x<XvXv>x*Xvx*i<six
/
this is the
only true
Dry Photo-Copier
h
See it at the 3M Business Communications Centre
No inks. No chemicals. Or powders. And every copy is clean. Precise.
Sharp. On dry white bond-weight paper (instantly usable.) Compact.
Simple to use. Anyone can use the 3M Brand 107 Dry Photo-Copier. See
it now at the 3M Business Communications Centre.
MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney 43-0455 • Melbourne 61-3841 • Brisbane 5-4131 • Adelaide 51-5971
Perth 28-4651 • Hobart 3-3104 • Canberra 4-0791 • Auckland 295-109
COmPANY
3M2/1725/65


BOOKS
The Flesh and the Spirit
By VIVIAN SMITH
Collected Poems. A. D. Hope. Angus &
Robertson. $3.75.
TTope is a protean poet. Augustan epi-
gone, Manichee, derisive satirist and
sneerer, religious writer, pasticheur, a
type of Rennaissance man, Parnassian,
symbolist these are some of the labels
that have been pinned on him from time
to time. Their diversity alone pays tribute
to the variety of Hope’s work and is
bound up with the central duality of his
vision. Body and mind, flesh and spirit,
good and evil, love and hate —these op-
posites are momentarily reconciled
through the achieved poise of his best
poems.
There is throughout Hope’s work a
fruitful tension between content and
form. He has always used the basic
traditional verse patterns; a rational struc-
ture holds the irrational in. The lucidity
of his poems means so much because
so much has been faced and taken into
account. Sometimes external form wins,
as in “An Epistle from Holofernes”
(surely little more than a technical exer-
cise?); sometimes the emotional charge
is far in excess of the ostensible subject
of the poem, as in “Massacre of the
Innocents”, the excessively rhetorical
“Damnation of Byron’’ and “The Meet-
ing”. At others, and they are in the
majority in this book, this tension be-
comes the charged energy of such master-
pieces as “The Double Looking Glass”,
“A Bidding Grace” or “Pseudodoxia
Epidemica”.
The new collected edition of Hope’s
poems is arranged chronologically a
helpful device, though the chronology
oilers some ambiguities. The book starts
with “The End of a Journey”, dated
1930-1960. After such a long rewrite it
would have been interesting to have all
versions. The earliest poems in this edi-
tion are “The Explorers” and “Australia”,
both from 1939. There is no evidence
here for assuming that Hope has been a
late developer: he has simply chosen not
to release much of his output prob-
ably of the sort that forms the bulk of
many collections. The few first releases
here most notably “Morning Coffee”,
a brilliant piece of tortuous baroque,
“Phallus” and “Dragon Music” were
almost certainly held back from earlier
collections for reasons other than
aesthetic. They are as good as many
poems that appeared in “The Wandering
Islands”; and though they are not among
Hope’s greatest poems, one can only
welcome the appearance of anything from
this phase.
If Hope has chosen only to show him-
self in public as an “adult” poet and
what an example of creative integrity he
has set! —this book nevertheless allows us
to follow the curves and circles of his
development. Hope’s style has in some
respects changed; but there are no signs
here of the clear transitions between
earlier and later work that one finds in
a Rilke or a Yeats or, to come nearer
home, in a Fitzgerald, for instance. Hope
may have chosen to suppress them. But
what changes we have are less stylistic
than thematic, and the themes are less
changed than charged and intensified.
If there is a nervous abruptness about
poems like “Giving It Up”, even so rel-
atively early a poem as “Australia” or,
even more, “The Gateway”, has some-
thing of the consistency and rich ease
of a superb recent poem like “The Double
Looking Glass”.
This collection, then, hasn’t brought
forth, disappointingly enough, as many
early and previously unpublished poems
as one had hoped to see. But it does
bring together some of Hope’s later
poems that deserve more attention. The
religious arguments, the rebellions and
hostilities that rage in the early poetry
have not been put aside; nor the fertile
scepticism and the corrosive bitterness
that, give such sharpness to his satires.
At the heart of Hope’s poetry is the
refusal to let the body be bruised to
pleasure soul. Some of his most powerful
“negative” poems the fierce “Martyr-
dom of St Teresa”; the plaintive “The
Lingam and the Yoni” as well as later
pieces like “Crossing the Frontier” and
“Advice to Young Ladies” fully express
his sense of the inequality and the in-
justice of the central human conflict. But
Hope’s finest poems are those that cele-
brate the plenitude of being, the sensual
miracle when the ‘whole animal breathes
and knows its place/In the great web of
being, and its right”. One thinks here of
“The Gateway”, “Chorale” perhaps, “The
Young Girl at the Ball”, “Soledades”,
the Sackville-Digby Epistle and, above
all, “The Double Looking Glass”. The
fact that Hope's poetic world is so deeply
rooted in what Baudelaire called
“Vhorreur de la vie et Vextase de la vie”,
as well as its unusual combination of
monumentality and intensity, accounts
for the fullness of its imaginative appeal.
The vision of human isolation persists
throughout his work (doesn’t the title
of Hope's first book, “The Wandering Is-
lands” contain an ironic reference to and
rejection of Donne’s famous “No man
is an island”?). So does the view of the
poet as an elect figure; the poet as hero
set apart; and it is as present in the
earliest pieces as in the very last poem
in the book. The rapt, lofty, hieratic
“Ode on the Death of Pius the Twelfth”
(the Pope as poet?) speaks of the “voices
and visions such as mark the man/Chdsen
and set apart”. The view of poets as
exclusive brethren isn’t particularly in
favor today—and especially not among
Persephone
Snow greys the streets that the molten
pewter river
cleaves: O love, as your cloven city cleaves
you.
Cloven, I came to your other, your winter
world,
intending harm (you had done me such
springlike harm).
Coming to force an encounter, and a crisis:
for spring’s wound throbbed in the frost,
till the blood was stirred
against the voice that had said I must not
follow
“O love, I would die see, love, I
have died for you.”
I came with the wound of Spring to the
winter city
that holds my spring in one of ten million
lodgings
to find you, free you, uproot you, most
tender-rooted
hybrid, who must half die if I have my will.
And every street threatened irremediable
meetings;
in every train-shrill tunnel the winter faces
promised to turn upon me your winter face,
saying winter words. And love, I was
afraid.
Yet I would have you know I have been,
and gone.
I would have you think of me on another
island
where it is never quite spring, but an
ache and waiting,
foreshadowed nostalgia, voices once heard
half-heard.
RANDOLPH STOW


critics. But it is a traditional view and it
has an honorable past. It may, in fact, be
this vision which makes Hope’s imagina-
tive world unsympathetic to some. It cer-
tainly relates him far more to European
than to English poets and places him in
a stream that runs from, say, Alfred de
Vigny, through Leconte de Lisle to
Stephan George and Yeats in certain
phases an influence which is strong
in Hope’s work.
The long discursive poems written
during the last eight years the zest-
ful “A Letter from Rome”, the breezy
“Conversation with Calliope” present
us with combinations of all of Hope’s
skills and interests. Their threefold
structure: discussion with the Muse;
story and fable; comment on the modern
world, and their changes in mood and
tone, from the hilariously comic to the
tenderly attentive, are beautifully handled.
Though the comic sections now tend to
depend more on incident than word,
they are full of puns as brilliant as
those in “Sportfield” for instance, even
if they are without that poem’s multiple
levels of imagery. And while discursive,
they are as rooted in real sensation and
feeling as “Flower Poem” or “The Death
of the Bird”.
These poems, along with the Sackville-
Digby Epistle, the magnificent “The
Double Looking Glass” and “Pseudod-
oxia Epidemica”, are directly or indirectly
celebrations of the transforming powers
of the imagination. Where some of
Hope’s poems give an impression of a
certain remoteness, of a man speaking
only to himself, these poems give the
impression of a voice speaking directly
to others. They are not stanza-bound.
Poems on the “supreme fiction”, each
fully achieved of its kind, they are
marked by a vigorous control and ease.
In them Hope speaks with the authority
and abandon that his age and mastery
allow. This publication is a major event.
The Language of the Screen
By IAN JARVIE
Movies. Richard Schickel. Mac Gibbon and
Kee. $4.60.
This book of some 200 pages is sub-
titled “The History of an Art and
an Institution”. Its brevity and its broad
aims proclaim it an introductory work.
There are many introductions to the
movies, and quite a few of them proceed
historically. A new one has to be asses-
sed by whether it either does the job in
an interesting new way, or else does it so
much better than previous attempts that
it decisively supersedes them. Mr
Schickel’s book, while very easy to read,
does not supersede, for example, Arthur
Knight’s “The Liveliest Art”. “Movies”
must, therefore, be judged by whether it
does the job of introducing the movies in
an interesting new way.
There are a number of things in Mr
Schickel’s book which give it a claim to
originality. One is that he emphasises
that the movies in America are a product
of a quite distinctive social institution.
Another is that he is intelligently critical
of certain highly regarded schools of
movie-making and of their justification
by critics. Still another is that he makes
intelligent use of the apparently limiting
idea that the movies are a popular art
and, however interesting experimental
and avant-garde work may be, its long-
term worth is the extent to which it
nourishes the mainstream of the art and
that it is this mainstream which should
get the major part of our attention.
These points seem to me enough to war-
rant saying that Mr Schickel’s book is
well worth reading, both as an introduc-
tion and for those familiar with movies.
The structure of “Movies” is basically
that of a history of the American
cinema, with occasional excursions into
the outside world. The early sections on
the invention and exploitation of the
cinema are terse and lucidly expressed.
In particular, Edison’s initial blindness
to its possibilities, his later realisation
and attempts to monopolise it, and finally
his successful organisation of a cartel is
pointedly done. But what is particularly
to be applauded is the way the social
background is emphasised in the story of
the gradual construction and refinement
of institutions suitable to mass-producing
films.
The fact that, initially, there was no
vertical integration in the cinema indus-
try and that the pressure for the mass-
production of films came from the ex-
hibitor is interesting. Gradually, Schickel
relates, audiences became accustomed to
the feature-length film and theatres were
built and taken over to show them. Once
this was done a supply had to be dis-
covered to keep the theatres filled. Initial-
ly the move from New York to Holly-
wood was an anti-monopoly move. In
Hollywood, sunshine and rent were cheap,
and the Mexican border was close enough
for a quick decamp if things got hot.
The rise of the star system had its
socio-economic background, too. It was
difficult in an advertisement to sell the
story or the atmosphere of a film; in-
deed, in the early years it was the direc-
tors of previous successes whose names
were used as sales points. But gradually
the logic of the situation led producers
to realise that audiences liked certain of
the unnamed but glamorous young men
and women who appeared in one role
after another, carrying their charisma
with them. So the producers overcame
their horror of what it was going to cost
them when these people became famous,
and began using the names of the actors.
Thus the beginning of the stars, later to
be moulded into the “system”. The tradi-
tional highbrow view of the star-system
SWAINSVILLE
HELLO, WHAT's AU
TH/S ?
rt's our son's n>£A
OF A
PRQ7BST...
/ TOLD H/M TO FtX THE FENCE
and car the tau qfass.
fgh


is that it is a grotesque result of the
movie producers being unable to think
in terms of making good movies, but
only in terms of what will keep the cash-
registers singing. Schickel’s book quietly
dismisses this theory. The system may
be artificial, but the power of its pro-
ducts is not. He puts forward the theory
that a real star creates or carries an
image which is broader than his charac-
ter in any one film, and that he carries
the magic of this image from part to
part. It is this image and what it rep-
resents that the public goes to see week
after week.
A star is something more than the
common denominator of his roles. This
seems to me an interesting sociological
theory of stardom. It envisages the star
as simultaneously a person and a social
institution. Bankers are prepared to in-
vest in that institution, writers to write
for it, etc. The tragedy is that some stars
cease to live their lives as ordinary
people, but try to live entirely as social
institutions; still others heartily dislike
the institution they are shackled with.
In his critical discussion of German
and Russian silent films and their justifiers
Schickel is at times startling (and right).
He is quite sceptical of the watchability
of these films as entertainment. He
doesn't deny that they explored new
directions which ultimately nourished
world cinema, but he questions whether
many of the films survive today. He dis-
misses Eisenstein’s writings as rationali-
sation. and Rudolf Arnheim is held up as
the fanatic defender of silence he was.
Schickel describes neo-realism as one-
note cinema; once the note has been
struck a number of times interest begins
to wane.
Such salutary reappraisals are long
overdue. However, I fear that Schickel
goes too far in seeing the world entirely
from the American perspective. Certainly,
an entire cinema tradition is by-passed
by his book, namely Japan. Schickel only
introduces Japan after the triumph of
“Rashomon” at Venice in 1951. This
seems to me a bad gap. Certainly, Japan-
ese films were hardly seen in the West
before 1951. Yet once Japanese cinema
was discovered, a whole tradition and a
handful of geniuses were revealed to be
studied.
One occasionally finds oneself dissent-
ing from Schickel’s judgments on
Bergman, for instance; but for the most
part they are ably expounded and de-
fended and seem reasonable. The book
is marred by a few factual errors (he
believes King Vidor is dead; he confuses
Hitchcock's “Lifeboat” and ‘“Rope”) but
these are relatively minor.
The final original feature of his book
to which I wish to draw attention is the
theme that the cinema is a popular art,
with very high costs, and non-verbal in its
essence. In his discussion of Eisenstein,
Schickel draws attention to the way
editing juxtapositions were used to in-
sinuate ideas. He believes that this is
where the strength of the medium lies.
But beyond this he also believes in an
entire language of the movies which can
be better or worse handled by directors
and that this is what makes the best
cinema. He suggests that Hollywood’s
pretensious and literary epics are always
disappointing and there is often more
pleasure to be obtained from a modest
western. It is refreshing after the long
and boring tradition from Manvell to
Kracauer of earnest attention to realism,
pacifism, Eisenstein, de Sica, etc., to
have a clear alternative.
Nature Against Art
By DAVID MARTIN
The Modern Tradition. Edited by Richard
Ellman and Charles Feidelson, Jnr.
Oxford University Press. $11.70.
rpms work, remarkable for its breadth
and ambition, has been hailed all over
the world. The task it sets itself is
dauntingly difficult: tc document the
background of modern literature and,
more particularly, of the modern imagina-
tion. To do this, the editors have brought
together Tin some 950 pages, much of the
best and most seminal writing of the past
two centuries as it bears on their subject,
creative and critical, by artists, poets,
philosophers, psychologists and theolo-
gians, as well as others.
To give some idea of the scope of the
enterprise it is enough to name the sub-
divisions of a single section. Under
“Realism” we have Objectivity, in which
appear George Eliot, Shaw, Flaubert arid
Chekhov; Historical Determinism (Bal-
zac, Taine, Flaubert and Tolstoy);
Naturalistic Determinism (Dreiser, the
De Goncourts, Zola and Strindberg);
Melioristic Realism, wherein are found
some of the above together with Dos-
toevsky, George Sand, H. G. Wells and
Henry James; Socialist Realism, rep-
resented by substantial pieces from Marx,
Engels, Trotsky and George Lukacs, and
A New Realism, which simply reproduces
some essays and parts of essays by Alain
Robbe-Grillet.
To the layman chiefly interested in
literature proper, only a few buoys stand
out on this surging sea. If, following the
editors, we divide the modern tempera-
ment into the symbolic and the realistic,
assessing each by its attitude to “nature”,
we may discover how surprisingly slight
has been the influence of science on the
one as on the other, excepting the
Marxist realists, but their vision is also
as prophetic as it is. materialistic, if not
as with Blake. If anyone had thought in
Newton’s day that the great scientific
discoveries would lead art closer to
science, history would have proved him
wrong; on the contrary, the insistence on
the “lie” of art as against the “truth” of
nature has not only grown stronger but
become more proudly defiant. Para-
phrasing Hans Arp, art may be as natural
as the fruit on a tree but its begetter is
man, who (and this, of is not
Arp’s concept) is an unnatural animal.
From “The Critique of Pure Reason” to
Wallace Stevens, art as the establisher of
its own values —or the creator of its own
forms—has marched triumphantly on.
When Gide says that he is “torn by a
conflict between the rules of morality
and the rules of sincerity” he, too,
counterposes art to nature, or at least
the artist to the natural man. To
generalise perhaps too boldly, as nature is
being dehumanised the divine, super-
natural element returns to earth through
the artist-creator, protestingly in Baude-
laire (“Poetry cannot, on pain of death or
dethronement, be assimilated into science
or morality”), through paradox in Wilde
(“The extraordinary change that has
taken place in the climate of London
during the last ten years is entirely due
to a particular school of Art”) and some-
what conventionally in Eisenstein
“The juxtaposition of two separate shots
by splicing them together resembles not
so much a simple sum of one shot plus
another shot —as it does a creation . .
The second fact of general significance,
enormously far-reaching, right into the
realm of religion, is the discovery of the
subconscious. Like the discovery of
infinite space, it unfixed man’s position
in the universe and took away the old
meaning of truth as some kind of order.
Visionaries like Yeats and determinists
like Wells curiously reflect, though not
knowingly, the division represented by
the idealism of Jung and the psycho-
dialectic of Freud. Among the creative
spirits, at any rate, Jung is more often
acknowledged than Freud—a shift away
from inexorable individual to pliant col-
lective responsibility ... to historical
faith.
The state of doubts seems to have be-
come the last unifying force, with the
theologians striving to incorporate it into
a scheme of certainty. Paul Tillich, in
a brilliant essay on “The Meaning of
Meaninglessness”, taken from “The Cour-
age to Be”, seems to reason that God is
courage: He manifesting Himself in
man’s courage to face the existential
despair. Possibly it is just a sleight of
hand which reverses the old dogma that
God is life. Now life (or courage, etc.)


sap
■ . hMM
i:i :.••-'■■
V
claret
m Botfitof
wit tJ»T.'©rL«2S
\ v
fa
\
a wine label tells you
the wine it labels
about
On the neck of a bottle, you will find
the Vintage seal, which tells you
the year the wine was made, allowing
you to judge the 'age' that the wine
has achieved. In Australia, nearly every
year is a 'good' year for wine so
you don't have to memorise a long list
of 'special' years.
Dalwood is the name of the historic
Penfolds vineyard and winery in the
heart of the Hunter Valley birthplace of
many of Australia's finest table wines.
Here is your assurance that there are
at least five or six'wineglassfulls'
the exact number depends on the
size of your wineglass.
This is the name of the Vintner (the
man, family or firm that made the wine)
When the label of your wine reads
Penfolds, you know that the wine you
are about to enjoy is the product
of 121 years experience in winemaking.
Here you discover the character of
the wine. Hermitage is a variety
of grape, and Claret denotes a red wine
dry and light in body. It’s especially
suitable for meals, particularly barbecues
and good traditional English Roast Beef.
However, don't feel that red wines
must be served only with red meats
a claret can be equally delicious
with chicken or fish.
That's how easy and informative
reading a wine label can be.
Tonight, spend a couple of minutes
reading the label on the wine
you serve. In fact, why not start a
collection of wine labels.
BE WINE WISE. CHOOSE
PENF<DLDS
WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844
PWIOOB


fg
Write
your
way to
success!
Magazines, newspapers, television,
and radio use a tremendous amount of
material. You can supply this market
with saleable stories, articles and scripts.
Enrol now for one of Stott’s renowned
home-study courses:
( ) Short Story Writing ( ) Freelance Journalism
( )TV Script Writing ( ) Verse Writing
( ) Radio Script Writing
Each course has been prepared by
highly-qualified professionals. Stott's step-
by-step instruction, plus the personal
tuition will ensure fast and
thorough progress.
POST THIS COUPON NOW
STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE
157 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 383 George Street
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 45 Gilles
Street, Adelaide; 1130 Hay Street, Perth. Please
send me your Literary prospectus.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
address i
AGE j
I understand that no sales representative will
call on me „ J
is God, which is very much what the
Bishop of Birmingham teaches. To the
untutored mind this appears like wanting
to have the best of both or all worlds,
the old and the new, the ideal and
material, the religious and the atheistic.
God becomes the consciousness of every-
thing but who is to prove that it is
“good” or that it makes and creates
everything? It is a divinity whose origin
is bound up with the origin of all the
species, and if this tremendous volume
suggests anything it would be that most
of us, according to our lights, are still
struggling to make room both for Darwin
and a certain Being.
What the modern tradition is I still
do not know, but I can see that it is not
anything which one group has and the
other has not. I surmise that it is some-
thing to which Australians have not yet
had time to make an original contri-
bution, judging by the fact that no Aus-
tralian appears among the 94 con-
tributors. But then this also holds for
Canadians, New Zealanders-and South
Africans.
Sensuous Hamburgers
By LES TANNER
Pop Art. John Rublowsky. Nelson. $9.80
“T>op Art”, by John Rublowsky with
pictures by Ken Heyman, is a
book for collectors. It is designed to
excite, cheer up and cheer on the collec-
tor: Pop must be great fun to invent and
render, but collectors are never heartened
to learn that what they are about to
spend $lOOO on was fun to do. This
book should remove such doubts. Mr
Rublowsky solemnly proves that Pop is
part of the MAINSTREAM OF ART
HISTORY, that it is REVOLUTION-
ARY in throwing off the SHACKLES
OF THE PAST, that it is FASHION-
ABLE, but that it takes DISCERN-
MENT to enjoy it.
To quote Mr Rublowsky, Pop “seeks
those terrible beauties concealed in the
vulgar and the banal”. What was good
enough for Pop is good enough for me.
“Pop art reflects the times. It is an
expression of a society that puts less
emphasis on breeding, formal education,
and even wealth than on presentation.
Movie stars, not scholars, are the heroes.
It is a chic open to everyone, and quali-
fications for entry can be acquired as
easily as learning the latest dance fad.
Satisfaction comes from the acceptance
of oneself and of our mechanised and
impersonal world.” This foreword by
Samuel Adams Green, director of the
Philadelphia Institute for Contemporary
Art, is underlined by a following plate
showing five of the artists grouped around
Jean Shrimpton (a sort of British con-
sumers’ seal of approval?).
“Probably the most salient charac-
teristic of the work of these artists is its
visual strength and vitality. Consider, for
example, so ordinary a commercial image
as the label on a can of soup. The manu-
facture and distribution of this product
represents an investment, in many cases
of millions of dollars. No effort is spared
to make the finished product as attractive
as possible.
“An army of graphic designers, adver-
tising executives, company presidents and
researchers contributes to The ultimate
design. Together, this total represents an
awesome amount of human energy and
ability focused on this particular prob-
lem. The result is an image that quivers
with accumulated energy energy mar-
shalled for the sole purpose of appealing
to the consumer’s eye.” Or, conversely,
the average response of a series of com-
mittees trying to keep in fashion.
“A more subtle interpretation reveals
the hamburger as a manifestation of the
oval a perfect, universal form. The
rounded, voluptuous bun has a distinctly
feminine presence, its texture evocative
of soft flesh. It is a passive, receptive
form. Here, in one of the most popular
and characteristic of American foods,
we have an almost perfect female ex-
pression.” Consider the sensuous de-
lights involved in a hamburger and egg!
Rublowsky swings in now with this
terrible beauty. “Allan Kaprow made the
initial introduction and, with some
anxiety, Lichtenstein made an appoint-
ment to show the paintings. Aside from a
few close friends of the artist, Ivan Karp
of the Castelli Gallery was the first per-
son to see the paintings. His response
was strong and immediate. Sensitive to
the daring originality of the work, he
asked Lichtenstein to leave the paintings.
“Leo Castelli, owner of the gallery,
saw the paintings the same day. His
reaction was equally strong and im-
mediate. He recognised the imagination
revealed in the work and felt the power -
of the imagery. He agreed with Karp
-that the work should be shown. Later,
Karp admitted that he really did not
know what to make of the work. He
responded to the strength and originality
of the image, but the paintings were so
radical, so completely new, that he could
not help but question the validity of his
initial judgment. He showed the work
to people whose opinions he respected in
order to verify his own first impression.
“Among those who saw the paintings
was Ben Birillo, another New York art-
ist with a generous and uncanny eye for
the new and daring. Birillo’s reaction was
also immediate: ‘These are the most
terrible paintings I have ever seen,’ he
told Karp. ‘You better grab the artist
fast. He’s great’.”
The book’s photographs and plates are
as amusing as the text; the only thing
that prevents a satisfactory unity is that
they are meant to be.
Wind
Forgotten are the jazzwords that we
screamed.
Forgotten. Dreams replace them. Dry
dreams. ■%
Daytime comes now through the smoke
of want,
Through the wind of saplings rising from
roofs.
Rooms can be warmer. Wanting is hardest.
And waiting to want. Why wonder less?
Wonderless we have wandered too much.
Now,
Not too soon, no, not too soon, comes the
wind.
BICHARD FLANTZ


Mali -
:
mm ' f. &' ; ' fissss^lii
i
■ /j
H9HL ' -r -''
.
' . 'S/:
--' " '
ZUKKA
: ' :' ' ' ' . . . ' ■ ■ i f ,.
■ ■ xxl?
'■
\ • •
■■
> 4
1
A'
! ’ J
<%**
?Sil»iiiil!iillliiliisl
>' v - ' w; \ > Vs
V ' '
..
M
. : :; xXf imjf;
Magic card
THE ultimate in travel speed and
convenience used to be a Magic
Carpet.
Modern businessmen use this magic card
... and no businessman need be without one.
Just have your Company open a TAA credit
account and nominate you as a TAA Credit
Card holder.
All services throughout the TAA network
are chargeable. And are rendered simply for
you on one detailed monthly statement. All
air travel. All Air Cargo. All Air Express.
Plus: ‘friendly way holidays’ including bus or
rail tickets; hotel deposits; excess baggage;
overnight bags ... and travel in Australia and
Papua/New Guinea on any other airline.
Just ring TAA, quote your Card number
and we’ll post your ticket to you. Or you
can collect it.
Your TAA Credit Card will save you and
your company time and trouble. Use it to
establish your credit rating with other services
anywhere in Australia and Papua/New
Guinea (including leading hotels, Avis Rent-
a-Car and many more).
And the simplicity of its operation will
make your Accountant very happy.
If you haven’t a Credit Card yet, a phone
call to TAA will tell you how.
h
the Friendly Way
TAA is in business for your business.
TAA99»B^


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Trust the Treasury?
pRAY for rain, put your trust in the Treasury and keep your fingers crossed.
The really big problems are off businessmen’s hands now.
This does not mean that disaster is
nigh; just that it is going to take> some
good luck and good economic manage-
ment to avoid it.
Unless rain falls by the end of this
month, the drought may have brought
a situation where even the most able
juggling of the monetary structure will
not be able to insulate the economy from
the impact of the drop of rural earnings.
And unless the Treasury gets around
to admitting that things need prompting
along in the private sector by the end of
this month, the bad news (from BHP,
Coles and Lysaghts, for example) will get
worse. In Canberra the economy may
look in fine shape. But in places where
it matters —in shops and factories and
on the land business is frankly bad.
There is no money around, and Sir Edgar
Coles' complaints about a retail recession
are not as wild as they sound, by any
means.
If the prayers for rain have no effect,
it is reasonable to hope that the
Treasury’s handling of the economy in
the next three months will be a lot more
clever than it was in the last three
or the three before.
The chaps in Canberra don’t look too
clever right now. The national income
figures, showing that the economy failed
to grow at all in the last quarter, were
bad enough. The clear indications that
things will look even worse when the
figures for the current quarter are added
up make things even more depressing.
Yet the most dismal feature of it all is
that the Treasury is refusing to be
ruffled; the ‘She’ll be right” approach of
letting problems solve themselves is
really being given a run for its money in
the Treasury.
And there are some straws in the
economic wind that the Treasury will
now be clutching at in an attempt to
show things really are all right. The big
rise in savings bank deposits, for in-
stance, will probably be seen in Can-
berra as evidence that there is plenty of
money around, rather than in its more
likely role as an indicator that the public
is cutting its consumption and running
for cover because of fears about what
will happen next. After all, savings bank
deposits went up in the 1961 recession,
too.
The Canberra men will also be patting
themselves on the back about the better
balance of payments position. But there
are some people who might regard a
fall in imports to the lowest level in
almost three years more as a sign of
economic stagnation than of clever
Treasury tactics. For it is worth remem-
bering that a growing proportion of the
imports figure is made up of govern-
ment! spending and on items used in
developmental projects, rather than in
the things that keep an economy ticking
along.
If imports fall overall while these
things are going up (and they are still
going up at a great rate judging by the
Government’s casual approach to the
cost of such things as F-11l aircraft), it
clearly means that the private sector’s
use of imported goods is really suffering
a decline. Of course, a side-effect of all
this defence spending overseas is not only
that it hits the balance of payments
position, but by dragging money out of
the economy it is strongly deflationary—
or should it be “recessive”?
Apart from the Treasury’s “straws”,
the real indicators are clearly at warning
THE WEEK BRIEFLY
For the economy: On the verge of Mr Holt’s
first major parliamentary statement as Prime Minister,
advocates of the stimuiate-economy-now school were
still drawing plenty of attention to the December
quarter’s stolid Gross National Product figures. Last
week also saw a good deal more emphasis being put
upon the drought . . . February gave Australia its most
favorable trading month since July, 1964. Imports
exceeded exports by only $1.5 million and their total,
at $215.9 million, proved to be the second lowest since
May, 1963; exports, at $214.4 million, were $l.B
million higher than for January . . . The all groups
export price index put on 5.9 p.c. in January, com-
pared with January, 1965, chiefly owing to price gains
by wool, meats, hides and tallow. However, the seven-
month period to January shows a 2.1 p.c. drop on the
corresponding 1964-65 period . . . Wool exports for
the first seven months of the financial year reached
$445.1 million, $35.5 million below the same 1964-65
interval, on a considerably greater weight of wool sold
. . . Savings bank deposits rose in January by $18.7
million to $5084.9 million; they added $l5 million,
in January, 1965 . . . The latest Commonwealth cash
loan brought in $174 million after asking nominally
for $lOO million.
For the markets: Last week’s interim report
from BHP exerted the preponderant influence upon
Australian share markets, confirming, as one section of
ff did, investors’ mood of immediate uncertainty. More
of the drought’s message is playing a part too, especially
following some results from major pastoral companies.
After a heavy drift, share prices exhibited a measure
of levelling on Friday as top industrials began to pick
up a little. Once again the general tone of the interim
reports would seem to produce edginess, and nervousness
even continues to surround metal stocks . . . London
squarely met the end-March election decision by an
initial slide, though the week’s final dealings produced
quite a decided advance. Earlier selling had not been
over-dramatic, but buyers’ return, including some major
institutions, lifted many industrials. Possibilities of
higher taxation and sterling’s uneasiness may keep
London markets doubtful ... On moderately active
trading Wall Street reflects a fretting anxiety about a
host of economic problems. Experts debate and differ
on inflation. Eligher taxes and interest rates, tighter
credit and some controls could be around the corner,
so investors remain puzzled.
For companies: It was BHP’s week in a rather
different sense than usual as directors reported on falling
domestic demand for steel and rising imports. The
board returned to tradition by expressing confidence
in the long-term view. . . Another shock from the
traditionally ebullient came when G. J. Coles suffered
a sales downturn in January and February the
first retreat since 1951; expansion plans are to be


DEBENTURESTOCK
and
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
rai
up to
per
annum
Interest paid quarterly
CURRENCIES
Debenture
Stock
Unsecured
Deposit
Notes
SHORT
TERM
3 months
6 months
12 months
6i%
51%
61%
71%
LONG
TERM
2 years
4 years
5 years
6-10 years
71%
8%
81%
Bi%
71%
Bi%
HOWTO INVEST
Applications can only be
accepted on the appropriate form
issued with the
Prospectus now available
from
• Any Branch of the National
Bank of Australasia Limited
• Any Stockbroker
• Any Waltons store or office
• Waltons Credit Corporation
Limited, Box 3875, G.P.0.,
Sydney
WALTONS
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
W6O
point. Not even the pathetically small
4 p.c. rise in consumption expenditure
in December quarter (which meant
nothing at all in real terms) was an
effective rise, for the national income
figures show quite clearly that the greatest
factor in this tiny rise was in items on
which excise had been increased, for
excise revenue jumped by 17 p.c. on the
same quarter of the previous year.
Even if you look simply at the stock-
market for a guide (after all, the
Treasury does in a rising market, when
it wants to prove that inflation is ram-
pant), it is clear that the outlook is worse
than it was at this time last year and
not only in terms of share price indices.
Understanding the stock or money
markets is not the Treasury’s long suit.
The most astounding piece of Treasury
heavy-handedness is in the recent over-
subscribed Commonwealth loan. Why
take all that money out of the economy
at a time when it was so evident that
consumer demand was falling and the
economy was in danger of tipping over
in a positive decline? It is astounding
that the Government left interest rates
particularly on the short-dated bonds
so high in the February loan that it
encouraged professional investors to
make such high subscriptions to the
short bonds. These went within $l5
million of filling the $.OO million target
on their own and were the main factor
in the 75 p.c. oversubscription for the
whole issue.
The aggravating thing about the
Treasury’s smugness irritating as it
was in the recent supplement to the White
Paper—is that just when things look their
blackest, it probably will rain or there’ll
be a disaster overseas somewhere and
the Treasury will be proved right after
all. This is the sort of thing that has
happened for the last four years, with
overseas crop failures of one kind or
another, cattle diseases, and unexpected
strikes or political unrest in foreign
mineral-producing countries helping the
Treasury to get by with its “lucky
country” method of running the
economy. Perhaps the luck has run out.
Perhaps the Treasury is going to face
some real balance of payments problems
if it does give the economy a bit of a
shake-up.
So what should the Treasury do? In
the first place it simply must increase
the amount of money around, either by
monetary or fiscal means. And it must
do so right now.
Necessary Independence
VTothing can be more disarming than
the genial economic optimism of
top British businessmen. Sir Paul Cham-
bers, chairman of ICI England, exuded
it last week in Melbourne at one of his
rare Press conferences.
To the inevitable state of England
temporarily curtailed .. . Though pastoral leader Elder
Smith Goldsbrough Mort earned only “slightly” less
for the December half-year, Dalgety and New Zealand
Loan soon restored rural pessimism with a 25 p.c.
profit decline. L. J. Hooker Investment Corporation
has almost to be classed among pastoralists these days:
it sounded a cheerless farming note for the next six
months and called for official “anti - deflationary”
measures. It should be remembered that Hooker still
expects a group profit over the full 1965-66 year . . .
Both Olympic Consolidated Industries and H. C. Sleigh
are hit by increasing tyre competition; Olympic’s earn-
ings went back 20 p.c., but Sleigh’s improved on better
petrol sales . . . Financiers provide cheer after gloom
SIR PHILLIP McBRIDE
Chairman, Elders GM
SIR COLIN SYME
Chairman, BHP
and are represented this week by Alliance Holdings,
which enjoyed 19.5 p.c. higher profit on smaller out-
standings . . . Lower earnings for Australian National
Industries stemmed from motor industry difficulties and
the drought . . . Meanwhile, heavy engineer Tulloch
further confirms its recovery with “fully loaded” works
. . . Rayon yarn maker Courtaulds has to cut back
dividend; characteristically, directors don’t yet say why
. . . Building hesitancy is represented by Australian
Gypsum, which found less demand for plaster products
. . . Electric appliance maker Electronic Industries
keeps a steady interim dividend and will furnish detailed
results soon . . . Amalgamated Chemicals’ rival bidders
have matched their offers at $1.40 for each 50 cent
share.


TOR
K
S^S.
«c.
l* i
■*f"‘
§^***}:<
0 ;f*r\ 1
|^i
feJßr your
PROTECTION
It pays to put all your
‘insurance eggs’
in one basket
FOR YOUR PROTECTION and FINANCIAL BENEFIT it could pay you hand-
somely to consult us now on all your insurance requirements. Simply
complete and post the coupon below or call us and we will be pleased
to provide you with full information without obligation.
fgh
THE AUTOMOBILE FIRE & GENERAL INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Founded 1022)
Branch Offices: Melbourne 678531; Sydney 211 4099; Brisbane 54726; Perth 232148; Hobart 26403
Sub-Branches at Geelong, Canberra,. Albury, Wagga, Goulburn, Newcastle, Townsville.
SEE prompt settlement
A.F.G. * COMPETITIVE RATES
FIRST * LIBERAL POL,C,ES '
Post today:— A.F.G., P.O.'Box 1625 M, Melbourne.
Please supply me with further information regarding your special
benefits and services available to me.
I am especially interested
IN INSURANCE
NAME ADDRESS.
PHONE
:A.F.G.2786
question, he beamed his reply: Despite all
the groaners and Jeremiahs it was a fact
that the British economy had expanded
each year of the post-war period and
exports were a record in 1965. There
was nothing that a stronger Govern-
ment financial policy might not cure,
especially regarding uneconomic, State-
subsidised industries.
ICI, certainly, had never looked to the
future with more confidence. Capital
investment in the UK was over £lOO
million last year, and ICI capital invest-
ment throughout the world approached
£2OO million.
So far as American competition was
concerned, true, there was the problem
of dumping, which could not be dealt
with by counter-dumping because US
tariffs were so much higher than British.
But the growth of the world market
minimised the problem. In a number of
fields the world chemical industry could
not keep up with world demand. The
previously close relationship between
ICI and Du Pont had been broken up
by the US anti-trust laws, yet the former
partners still traded licences for all kinds
of processes; they were really like
“friendly divorcees”.
Keeping Australia in mind, Sir Paul
quickly added that he was not opposed
to restrictive trade practices legislation
as such, but he could see no virtue in
using this legal apparatus just for the
purpose of keeping industries small.
Capital-intensive industries, like chemi-
cals, could only be efficient if large-scale.
On the touchy subject of Australian
interest in overseas investment, Sir Paul
proudly pointed to the fact that the
British parent company owned only 61
p.c. of ICIANZ. “We want to keep it
that way. We want ICI here to have an
essentially Australian character in its
ownership and on the board.” Through-
out the world ICI had a policy of partner-
ship with the locals. In India it was
in production in partnership with the
Government.
As the use of fertiliser and modern
farming methods seeped into Asian soils,
Sir Paul predicted an enormous expansion
in markets and great opportunities for
ICIANZ, both in agricultural and manu-
facturing chemicals.
Would ICI England and ICIANZ be
in competition for these markets? No,
there would be a certain necessary in-
dependence, but basically a partnership.
Markets would be won by the country
best suited to meet demands.
What Price Culture?
TThe recent Current Affairs Bulletin on
the book trade has infuriated both
the retailing and publishing sections.
Ever since the university co-operative
bookshops cut into the cream of the
retailing business (in text-books, the
profits on which had been used in many
cases to subsidise their other operations),
the book retailers have been feeling
oppressed. They have even fallen back
on the “cultural need” argument in
favor of bookshops to justify what are,
in many instances, quite uneconomic
practices and high prices.
Nevertheless, on one important matter
of fact the price which Australians
pay for British books the trade has a
point that should be made. The CAB
used a price conversion list that indi-
cated retailers were getting mark-ups of
around 100 p.c. This list, however, ap-
plies to only a proportion of British
books, as most UK publishers have local
offices or agencies which provide local
retailers with their books at prices based
on a different scale altogether a scale
that the CAB did not mention at all.
It provides, in most cases, for about


Croesus
/CROESUS is now on annual holidays
and will resume his weekly articles
on his return.
Invest in
INDUSTBIU ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
fg
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
FOR 5 YEARS
(SECOND SERIES)
7% 4 YEARS
6£% 3 YEARS
b\% 2 YEARS
•
5|% 12 MONTHS
Prospectus and application form available from:
• ALL MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGE
• ALL BRANCHES OF THE A.N.Z. BANK
• ALL BRANCHES OF I.A.C.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
UNDERWRITERS lAN POTTER & CO.
9001 Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne
a 50 p.c. mark-up. And it leaves the
retail price of these British books only
10c or so above their home price after
taking into account the different curren-
cies. “Best-sellers” all come into this
category. The people who have to pay
through the nose are those who want
special books like students.
A Line on Shipping
/\ne of the mounting number of
overseas businessmen out here ex-
ploring the possibilities of making Aus-
tralia the base for Eastern trading oper-
ations, using Australian raw materials
like food, wool and minerals, is Mr D. L.
Nicolson, chairman of P-E Consulting
Group Ltd, who visited Australia last
week.
But Mr Nicolson goes one further.
He thinks that Australia, as an island
and the tenth trading nation of the
world, could have a good future in
building the ships in which to do that
trading. Cheap steel and a dry climate
give natural advantages to help offset
relatively high wage costs.
P-E has been heavily involved in
management consultant work for Brit-
ish, French and Japanese shipyards. It
also advised BHP on its Whyalla yards
seven years ago and lately Evans Dea-
kin Industries Ltd, whose new Kanga-
roo Point shipyard is now capable of
producing 50,000-tonners.
Mr Nicolson should know what he
is talking about, even if it does sound
a bit too hopeful. For, as he said when
getting in his “commercial” in a chat
last week, the growing internationalism
of business suited management consul-
tants, who could apply knowledge
acquired in doing a job in one country
to a similar job in another.
Wheat Ascendant
Wheat Board has resumed the
initiative in the verbal battle over
Australian wheat production. For the
past year the Board has gone about
quietly (its opponents say stealthily)
selling the national surplus wherever it
could find a buyer, whilst Federal Cab-
inet has turned its Nelson’s eye on
ALP, DLP and Liberal back-bench
attacks on sales to Red China and the
growing dependence of the industry on
Communist markets.
The chairman of the Wheat Board,
Dr A. R. Callaghan, told Wimmera
farmers last week that they could forget
about marketing problems and go ahead
to expand production to the limit. He
pointed out that world wheat stocks
have fallen from 2200 million bushels in
1961 to 1500 million bushels in 1964
and are still falling. The United States
surplus has fallen by almost half in the
last four years; their annual carry-over is
now down to a level equal to home con-
sumption.
Dr Callaghan said that China and the
USSR are being forced to increase their
international purchases; India needs
millions of tons to prevent famine; South
Africa is importing wheat because of
drought, and France is short because of
the failure of its winter sowing.
With the US now stretched to the
limits of its grain resources, Canada
affected by shipping problems and Ar-
gentina oversold, the Wheat Board be-
lieves that Australia is in a position to
expand its acreage. It believes that
growing demand caused by the world’s
expanding population will make us in-
vulnerable to future political pressure
applied to the wheat industry,
This opinion may not be shared by-
politicians who have been students of
Communist cold-war tactics and the
Board is likely to find itself under attack
during this parliamentary session. It may
take some comfort from the fact that
its optimism about future wheat exports
is shared by a group of North Dakota
farmers, who are at present looking for
a 5000 to 10,000-acre wheat property
in Australia. These farmers are prepared
to invest an initial $200,000 in the right
soil belt.


mm
mms
m
■m
l
R5«->
*' J
m
*ir
r
k
l ,
ti * '
mm
\ | s
If ’S
lill!
J
' if 'V ;|v
' # /f s'/.?'* / '\.
'
,i.
iili
[
v •
| m m
•'/ # .
•'•f ' . V. .•
,v>w//AV.W.v//X-. , >Xv/Xv:**/>/;wAW^®XvX<c^:'>X^/^%;y
Who shot a bullseye
100 times out of 100?
lis
UIFOU
Burroughs computers on the job at Cape Kennedy have
taken part in every U.S. space shot and missile test. The
impressive tally? More than 300 shots with 100% computer
success.
From complex tests such as these, Burroughs scientists,
mathematicians and researchers have developed highly
advanced computer systems for commercial use. Systems
with the same bullseye accuracy. The same ultra-reliability.
For example: Burroughs recently developed an Electronic
Data Processing System that does the job of three com-
puters. Capable of handling simultaneously On-Line work,
Off-Line work and Multiprocessing. But that’s only part of
the story about Burroughs new 8300 Electronic Data Pro-
cessing System. Like to find out more? Ask your secretary
to call a Burroughs man. 8U228D


/•••••••• ••• • •••••• ••• \
••• ••• ••••• • ••••• • \
• ••••• ••• • • •• •••
L
GOT IT
ITS SIMPLICITY ITSELF
TO MAKE SURE . . .
By installing the Smith-Corona “Typetronic 2215”, you
will introduce automatic operation into your office
and automatic benefits as well.
Time saved, money saved, and the certainty of correct
information at all times are sound reasons why you
should install typetronic, either by purchase or on lease.
Ask for a demonstration.
A PRODUCT OF SMITH-CORONA MARCHANT INC.
Distributed
by:
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A USTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney. 2 2033 © 167 Queen Street. Melbourne. 67 9161
“They churn things up a bit... and make you feel much better”
There’s Money in Hangovers
By JUDITH RICH
tpuE morning after is" no headache to
A the marketers of pain reliever and
indigestion preparations. They supply a
range of 200 products for the victims of
over-indulgence and their sales represent
about 10 p.c. of all pharmacy trading in
Australia. Making whoopee costs the
Australian public $23.4 million a year
for these remedies.
This is apart from the cash spent by
those who choose the hair of the dog that
bit them as a cure for hangovers. Some
people prefer to stock up with palliatives
which sell through a wide variety .of
outlets beside chemist shops, such as
grocers, chain stores, pubs and milk-
bars — these are the “open-sellers”.
Few people ask for chemists’ “nostrums”
these days named like cocktails, e.g.,
“Pinky”, “Midnight Sling”—preferring to
buy packaged lines. Three-quarters of
the products asked for are “open-sellers”
promoted through popular advertising,
most commonly showing a pain-gripped
partygoer or a migraine-smitten office
worker. The “ethicals”, available only
through chemists, sell without a pre-
scription and chemists often “counter
prescribe” them for hangovers and
general malaise.
Along with ordinary headaches and
muscular aches and pains, hangovers
nurture a $l2 million analgesic market
for popularly advertised brands, of which
a third is in powders. Bex, the most
popular “open-seller” in this field, and
Vincents come in both powders and
tablets. Aspro is manufactured only in
white tablets by Nicholas who took over
Vincents two and a half years ago. Vin-
cents dominates their home State, New
South Wales, and Aspro holds their home
market, Victoria. The two products
which make up half the “ethical” pain-
reliever market are in tablet form
Yeganin and Panadol.
Leading retail chemist Washington H.
Soul Pattinson has such faith in the
analgesic field that they include five in
their own range of pharmaceuticals.
Their own line of aspirin retails at 2s.
a bottle, compared to 6/6 for Aspro,
and sells 6000 bottles a week in NSW.
The executive from Miles Laboratories
who recommended Alka Seltzer “on the
rocks” wasn’t joking. The product is
versatile enough. Alka Seltzer, consist-
ing largely of aspirin and bicarbonate of
soda, is a market straddler which neutral-
ises an over-acid stomach as well as
making a frontal attack on aches and
pains. The company claims its adver-
tising is bigger than the combined adver-
tising for all makes of fruit salts.
A lka Seltzer’s Australian sales in-
creased 50 p.c. and advertising weight
was doubled when its US owners, Miles
Laboratories, set up an office here in
1964 to take over its existing distribu-
tion, and the company expects sales will
double again this year. The product
previously sold through a manufacturer’s
agent. Originally promoted as a cure
for general malaise and upset stomachs,
it was advertised solely for headaches a
couple of years ago and the current copy
platform had swung exclusively to the
stomach market. Although Alka Seltzer
is usually found on chemists’ shelves
beside laxative fruit salts like Enos and
Dexsal, it is not a laxative.
Also used in curing hangovers are the
straightforward indigest'on remedies
generally classed as antacids in which
tablets outsell liquids ten to one. Hardy’s
and Dewitt’s powders share half of the
$2 million market for stomach settlers
advertised to the public.
Old-fashioned liver salts are no longer
popular as a purgative of the ill effects
of living it up. Enos has dropped any
mention of liver salts from their adver-
tising, as have the other salines. “Ten
or fifteen years back, it was a popular
fallacy that all the ills of human beings
migrated to the liver,” said an executive;
of a pharmaceutical company. “Liver
pills were gut’s-ache remedy.
People don’t need to fix their livers now,”
Today’s popular effervescent salts act
primarily as a laxative, as did the liver
salts, but Australians pay $4 million a
year for them to cure a plethora of
troubles. Dexsal, a product of Drug
Houses of Australia, has the major share
of the market, followed by Enos, made
by the English Beecham company based
in Melbourne.
Dexsal contains energy-giving glucose
granules, which reputedly have an “anti-
vomiting” action. An expert, explaining
the popular appeal of the bubble and fizz
solutions said: “They churn things up a
bit you have a little belch and feel
much better.”
Once a victim of the big night out
has had his head cleared or his dyspepsia
dispersed, it takes a lot to persuade him
to abandon his remedy for something
untried. Bristol Myers have been battling
for 15 months to establish a new effer-
vescent called “Spa - Sal”.
“You don’t get sudden switches in
brand loyalties,” said an advertising
manager at Bristol Myers.
So the big hope for newcomers is in
the fact that the market for hangover
cures and settlers of upset stomachs
keeps growing at the rate of millions of
dollars every ten years. But big as this
business is, it still costs more to get a
hangover than to cure it.


a^/
FOR 4YEARS 4
OR 6 YEARS
tm
mmm
er~
u
BENEFICIAL
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications can
proceed only on the
printed form attached
to the prospectus,
obtainable from —
Stock Exchange Members
throughout Australia,
The National Bank,
of Australasia, all branches
Bank of New South Wales
in HSTM.,
S.A. Farmers Union
in South Australia, or the
Underwriting Brokers,
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.,
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange.
Guest & Bell
Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne,
hfg
Phones
Sydney 29 5244
Melbourne 62 1432
Adelaide 51 6661
Brisbane 311861
Perth 21 6273
: Rvt<mc6
BENEFICIAL
MAN ON THE LAND
Wool Industry Squabbles
A WIC must define its role
T IKE a rejected and frustrated suitor, the Australian Wool Industry Conference
seems to be developing a touch of schizophrenia.
How else can we interpret the utter-
ances of Sir William Gunn (chairman
of the Australian Wool Board) and the
conference chairman, Dr J. Melville, at
the recent meeting in Sydney?
Sir William said the “Australian wool
industry image had been damaged over-
seas” by the controversy over the defeated
reserve price plan put forward by the
board last November. “You should see
your image in Bradford, Paris, Rome and
Milan,” he said. “I can tell you it is not
very good. These people say to me, ‘What
sort of a mob do you work for in Aus-
tralia?’.”
Strange. We would have thought it
was Sir William’s image, and that of his
board, which had been damaged. We
know of several woolgrowers who also
visit Paris, Rome and Milan once in a
while and they come back and say they
are asked if they can explain what this
fellow Gunn is up to..
Dr Melville’s remarks at the Wool
Industry Conference deserve more
serious consideration, for two reasons
in particular. The first is that we always
understood the function of the appointed
chairman was to act as chairman. The
second is that Dr Melville insists on
repeating the Wool Board myth that the
reserve price scheme would have elimin-
ated price fluctuations in wool.
Dr Melville said critics before and
since the ballot had bitterly attacked the
board and the conference. He described
the criticism as “ill-founded, inconsistent
and illogical”. “Your executive is accused
of petulance and sour grapes, breath-
taking and artless irresponsibility.” There
was something else, too: “abysmal ignor-
ance of the wool market”.
He said the real aim of the critics was
not to defend the free auction system
but to discredit the conference in the
eyes of woolgrowers. This is strange, too.
We always thought the opponents of the
reserve price plan admitted to many
faults in the free auction system but
believed the reserve price plan was not
the answer.
As for the aim to discredit the Wool
Industry Conference, we somehow or
other interpreted the result of the refer-
endum as just that. Isn’t the conference
already discredited? Has it not a long,
long road of recovery to travel if it is
ever to be taken seriously again as the
“parliament” of the wool industry?
Melville probably felt he just had
to get his feelings off his chest. Sub-
sequently he announced that he intends
to retire from the chairmanship in the
next few months. The job was not an
easy one, as his predecessor and first
chairman, Sir John Crawford, discovered.
He, too, retired unexpectedly.
For any non-woolgrower chairman, or
observer for that matter, the difficulty
with the wool industry is trying to
reconcile the deep divisions which do
exist with the ready woolgrower accept-
ance of the tenet that “what’s good for
us is good for Australia”. This mystique
helps explain Sir William Gunn’s survival.
It is the elemental side of men whose
lives are touched closely by the elements.
A man of sweet reason and sensitivity
is an unhappv farmer.
Until woolgrowers, through the Wool
Industry Conference or any other spokes-
man, can state what it is they want (other
than everything) then the public at large
is likely to believe they do not know
what they want. We refer to the astute
observation of Professor Keith O. Camp-
bell at the recent conference of the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Economics Society
in Melbourne
Professor Campbell said: “Why must
there be a consensus in an industry
characterised by great political, econo-
mic and geographical differences? We do
not expect such miracles in the political
scene. We should not expect them in the
large, diversified wool industry. Political
advantages would accrue to producers if
they heeded Ministerial advice and
achieved a monolithic organisation or
even a unified opinion.
“But I challenge the thesis that such
an arrangement would be conducive to
the promotion of public interest. I can
appreciate that a Minister’s frustrations
might be reduced if an acceptable com-
modity were submitted. But a reduction
in the number of sleepless nights of
Ministers and civil servants is not the
ultimate criterion of good government.
“I would not deny the right of
indeed the necessity for the Govern-


True Measure
of Value
The true measure of value of any
article is not merely how much it
costs you ~ . but rather, how much
you get from it.
With every grinding wheel you
buy from Australian Abrasives, you
gain the immediate bonus benefits of
experience, technical know-how,
after-sales service that only A. A. can
supply.
A.A. Sales Engineers and their Dis-
tributors are immediately at your ser-
vice. To give you a free plant survey,
to check speeds and safety of your
machines, to prepare job specifica-
tions ... to offer you whatever service
you need.
If you have a grinding problem, send
this advertisement to us on your
letterhead. We’ll send a technical
expert to you immediately ... and his
service will cost you nothing.
.
■Hi
WMSIiMSk
r
-•. >. ir.
-
mm
AA2O9
AUSTRALIAN
ABRASIVES
AUSTRALIAN ABRASIVES PTY. LTD.
302 Parramatta Rd. t Auburn, N.S.W. 648 2361
ment to consult the parties when admin-
istrative policies touching their interests
are being formulated. But the broader
public interest should be protected. This
principle is in jeopardy when secrecy
and special privilege are tolerated and
even encouraged.”
Professor Campbell said much more,
and the speech in full should be required
reading for every farm organisation, but
the main point seemed, to us, to be that
the proper role of the farm organisations
should be to advise the Government
rather than to bludge on it. We feel that
unity on these terms would be desirable
if it were possible. But it probably is not
possible and might easily turn into the
sort of blackmail which other sectional
interests have attempted in the past.
Tt would not surprise us if. Professor
Campbell's views strongly influenced
the Australian Woolgrowers’ and
Graziers’ Council in dropping the pro-
jected support for an elected Wool In-
dustry Conference. It seems a pity (we
do not entirely subscribe to Professor
Campbell's ideas on unity) yet undoubt-
edly the method of election promised to
be a contentious and perhaps insurmoun-
table problem. What the conference must
do now is to sort itself out rapidly and
avoid a turning which can lead only to
self-destruction.
It is not improbable that Sir William
Gunn and Dr Melville have misinter-
preted the true feelings of the conference
in the same way that the conference it-
self misinterpreted the true feelings of
the woolgrowers it is supposed to rep-
resent. The plain fact that the conference
supported the reserve price plan, yet
woolgrowers rejected it, simply cannot be
explained away as something that did
not happen or something that was some-
body else’s fault.
It will need much more than recrimin-
ations to remove the guilt complex arising
from that shattering revelation of how
inaccurately the AWIC judged general
woolgrower opinion. Woolgrowers them-
selves, and the public, might have more
faith in the AWIC if its proper role was
established as advisory and consultative
at the highest possible level.
The Wool Board itself may be beyond
therapy. Currently it is seeking a manag-
ing director (new position) at $20,000-
plus a year; it is said to be escorting more
Red Chinese technicians around Aus-
tralia, and seems getting ready to appeal
to the Government to increase the tax-
payers’ $lO million a year contribution
to wool promotion. Is it any wonder
that some of the really worthwhile
things which the board has done (in re-
search and technology) are submerged?
Displays of go-go girls lashing about with
whips seem symptomatic of something
other than the mere selling of wool.


GENERAL CREDITS
LIMITED
1S&
Debenture Stock
’(Second Series)
"7i
L 5-10 YEARS
Applications can only proceed on the form enclosed with
the Prospectus which may be obtained from any recog-
nized stockbroker, or any branch of the Commercial Bank
of Australia Limited, and all branches of
GENERAL CREDITS
277 William St. Melbourne. Ph.: 60 0241
396 Pitt Street, Sydney. Ph.: 61 8581
Underwriters; lan Potter & Co. ' 6946
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
V
w
FLY TO TOKYO
HONG KONG, BANGKOK
h
SWISSCARE ** WORLDWIDE
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
AGRISEARCH
Research Aids Wool
New form of pleating process
HHhe Si-Ro-Set process which puts dur-
able creases in woollen garments and
helps wool compete with the synthetics
has now been modified to extend its
usefulness. The present form of the pro-
cess was patented by CSIRO eight years
ago and has since been adopted in fifteen
countries. In Australia alone, about a
million garments are given permanent
pleats each year, not counting the uni-
forms used by the armed services and
other official personnel. Overseac cloth-
ing manufacturers have also made ex-
tensive use of the process. It has been
estimated that ten million garments, at
least, were Si-Ro-Set last year.
Unfortunately, the legionary numbers
of small manufacturers in the rag trade,
who together put the greater proportion
of clothes in the shops, have tended to
neglect Si-Ro-Setting. It caused them
some nuisance. The process involved the
introduction of a “wet process” to an
otherwise “dry” plant and the installation
of some special equipment for preparing
and applying the setting chemicals. Using
the modified process the small manu-
facturer can keep his factory dry, yet
turn out permanently pleated clothes.
Soon he will be able to buy in pre-treated
cloth, make up garments from it, and per-
manent creases will automatically appear
in the final routine of steam pressing.
The CSIRO Division of Textile Indus-
try, which discovered Si-Ro-Setting,
realised that the pleats were produced in
a two-stage process and that if the two
stages were separated the small firms
would be able to confer long-lasting
pleats on their garments without fuss or
mess. Moreover, subsequent experience
in a few practical trials has shown that
costs of production will not be appreci-
ably increased.
In the first stage the cloth is sprayed
with a solution containing chemicals that
react with the wool so that in the second
stage creases can be set by steam pressing.
During the steaming, chemical bonds
between atoms within the wool mole-
cules are rapidly re-arranged and sta-
bilised in their new positions. Arrange-
ments have now been made to have the
chemicals applied as the cloth is being
finished in the mill where it is made.
Consequently, the setting chemicals are
now, of course, uniformly distributed
throughout the material. And there is
even an advantage in this: although the
chemicals are actually needed only where
the creases are to be made, some setting
occurs in pressing in all parts of the
garment, which accordingly retains its
general shape and drape better.
In future, garment makers will be
able to choose which of the two methods
of pleating suits their factories better.
Some will continue to buy untreated
bolts of cloth anu apply the chemicals by
spraying along the line of the desired
crease in the make-up garment, as they
have been doing for the past several
years. Others will be able to buy pre-
treated cloth and by taking a little extra
care at the steaming stage get the same
result.
Wool grease
than 50 per cent of the average
Merino fleece is wool. The rest is
dirt, moisture and grease. The value of
this wool grease varies with its quality,
which depends partly on the scouring
process and partly on the method of re-
covery. But, taking round figures, its
value is about $3OO a ton. The Australian
clip contains roughly 90,000 tons, i.e.
$27 million worth, of grease. The catch
is that present recovery methods fail to
retain more than about 20 per cent of
this valuable by-product. The large re-
mainder washes out of the mill, often to
cause a costly disposal problem.
The CSIRO Division of Textile Indus-


All I said was:
“We’ll save money by hiring
Chep Fork lifts and Pallets
■
■ ■ : •
m
...and they gave me a rise!”
Of course I did some research. I found that Chep have the
largest fleet of materials handling equipment in Australia.
They gave me the benefit of their advisory service. They
quoted me rates and showed me how I could save my
Company money. Now we hire fork lift trucks by the hour
or for long periods, as we need them.
Another thing that helped Chep have a fleet of mobile
radio-controlled workshops . . . Johnny-on-the-spot for
service and repairs. No more costly down-time.
Make your mark, mention Chep, the people who can put
your materials handling on a profitable footing.
fgh
iCH.B
CHEP Minogue Crescent,
Glebe, N.S.W., 68 4211.
CHEP Sandgate Road, Albion,
Brisbane, Queensland, 6 2181.
CHEP 205 Hanson Road, Athol Park,
Adelaide, 45 7922.
try has devised modifications to the usual
recovery plant so that it is now capable
of trapping up to 65 per cent of the
grease. Besides, the quality of the re-
covered grease is higher. This accomp-
lishment rests mainly on a few relatively
minute changes to existing plant and on
regulating more precisely the rate of flow
of the effluent through the plant. When
the textile industry adopts this improve-
ment it should be able to pay a trifle
more for raw wool.
Skin wool
the sheep industry the equivalent
of more than 35 million skins are
obtained annually. Much of the wool
recovered from skins, skin pieces and
dead sheep looks very inferior to shorn
wool. Surprisingly, however, it makes
cloth that is as good or even better in
most respects than cloth made from shorn
wool. This has been proved in processing
trials up to the cloth stage conducted by
the CSIRO at its Geelong laboratory.
Skin wool is recovered by different
fellmongering processes, including a new
technique developed by the CSIRO a few
years ago. In this method, known as
digestion, bacteria are used to eat up the
skin within a couple of days leaving be-
hind only the wool which, after just one
washing, looks attractive and feels good.
Ironically, it now appears that this
superior-looking wool does not make
fabric as good as the dirty-looking, harsh-
feeling wool recovered by old-fashioned
fellmongering methods.
Flocks of Polwarth and crossbred sheep
were divided into groups. Some were
shorn and some were slaughtered and the
wool later recovered from the skins by
the different methods of fellmongering.
Cloth was then made from the wool
obtained from each of the groups. Loss
in the form of noil (short wool-comb-
ings) during processing was lower for
the fellmongered wool, with the exception
of that obtained by the digestion method,
than for the shorn wool. The finished
fabrics were indistinguishable in strength,
wearing capacity and feel, except again
those made from the skin-digested wool.
Only in color were the fabrics from the
skin wools less attractive and this
is only important in white clothes.
Although 90 per cent of fellmongers
in Australia are now using the skin
digestion process, most of our sheep skins
are still sent to Mazamet, in the south
of France, where the wool is removed
from them by the traditional foul-smelling
methods. On the basis of the above
finding the textile industry can be ex-
pected to raise its respect for the wool
from Mazamet, whose fellmongers in
turn ought to be able to pay more for our
skins.


CHEVRON HOTEL’S
GOLDEN GRILL
Compliments your good taste
In an atmosphere of gracious
living, the food, cellar and service
are supreme. Whether in a hurry
or with time to tarry, the service
_ keeps pace with your wishes. A
snack, a sumptuous repast, a cof-
fee, an aperitif, all are available
from morn till midnight. The
menu is varied, reasonable in cost,
and handsomely presented. The
tvine list is recognised as one of
fhe most comprehensive in Aus-
tralia. In the evening Alexander
Grant’s ensemble provides plea-
sant background music and invites
your personal request. The inex-
pensive luxury of the GOLDEN
GRILL is yours all day, every
day.
for table reservations phone 35.0433
CHEVRON HOTEL
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY.
CHEV/1998)9
Which Paper Stock to Buy
I THINK that, of the four companies, APM is the most attractive at the present
time ... it has a consistent record in recent years both for the return on sales
and on capital employed.
Over the last three weeks, the three
major listed paper companies have
been reviewed. This leaves only one listed
company, Cellulose Australia Ltd, which
operates in South Australia and which is
basically a competitor of Australian
Paper Manufacturers. However, I do not
, , ,• 1 .
propose to devote a separate article to
this company because, firstly, profitability
cannot be judged from the results of the
last few years and, secondly, the com-
pany’s sales in value terms are only about
six per cent of those of APM. Neverthe-
less, the company will be included in the
comparisons in this article so as to com-
plete the picture as far as possible.
There can be no doubt that the most
important figures to compare when con-
sidering the value of any company’s
shares are the dividend and earnings per
share figures. The following tables make
these comparisons after making adjust-
ments for new issues in both cases and
so far as earnings are concerned other
adjustments have been effected to make
the series comparable from year to year
and from company to company:
EARNING RATES PER CENT
Year ended In 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Associated 15.9 12.1 5.6 12.2 11.2 9.6
APM 9.7 6.3 7.1 9.8 9.8 10.1
Newsprint 14.9 14 4 13.2 13.5 13.2 11.8
Cellulose 16.0 8.6 7.3 8.7 1.6 0.8
It is fairly clear from these figures that
APM has the best trend and it is the
only company whose 1964/5 earning rate
is higher than the 1959/ 60 earning rate.
Nevertheless, in absolute terms, the
1964/5 rate is quite similar to that of
the other two companies.
DIVIDEND RATES PER CENT
Year ended in 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Associated 9.9 7.6 6.0 10.0 9.0 9.0
APM 5.9 6.2 6.5 7.9 8.4 8.4
Newsprint 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.5 10.0 10.0
Cellulose 6.1 6.8 7.7 10.0 8.0
Clearly, only APM and Newsprint
show any upward trend. The other two
companies even have erratic dividend
records. The rate of growth is 1.9 p.c.
per annum compound in the case of
Newsprint and 7.3 p.c. per annum com-
pound in the case of APM.
At the time of writing, the market is
pricing the shares of these com-
panies as follows:
Price Range Last Divi- Earn-
dend ings
1965 1966 Sale Yield Yield
$ $ $ % %
Associated 1.77 1.74 , c , ca
1 34 1 50 -54 5.6 o.y
APM 1.81 1.87 , ~
1.47 1.87 18 ‘ 4 - 8 56
Newsprint 3.80 3.60 335 6Q JJQ
Cellulose 1.02 0.71 n7l .. ..
0.52 0.68 071 ml ml
These prices would suggest that some
note has been taken of the better record
of APM but, for some reason, the market
thinks that the prospects for Associated
Pulp are superior to those of Australian
Newsprint. Cellulose is selling at about
three cents more than its asset backing,
which is rather surprising having regard
to the profit record.
With a view of getting a clearer pic-
ture of the immediate past rates of profit-
ability of the four companies, I propose
to compare the following:
(a) The indices of sales, using the 1961-
62 year as a base.
(b) The ratios of net profit before tax
and depreciation to sales.
(c) The value of sales per s’ooo of
capital (shareholders’ funds plus long
term liabilities.)
INDICES OF SALES VALUE 1961/62 = 100
1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Associated 117 119 100 128 140 159
A PM 107 99 100 115 123 134
Newsprint 103 100 100 100 100 101
Cellulose 102 97 100 118 145 179
These figures indicate that, with the
exception of Australian Newsprint, the
companies have all achieved some growth
in sales since the depressed year of
1961/2. In the case of Cellulose, capacity
was doubled in July, 1963, when the
No. 2 machine came into production
and this would account for the lift in
the index. Unfortunately, high sales do
not necessarily produce high profits and,
even when they do, the capital that must
be invested to achieve those sales may
make the additional sales a disadvantage
so far as the investor is concerned.
NET PROFIT BEFORE TAX AND DEPRECIATION AS
A PERCENTAGE OF SALES
1960 1961 1962 1963 % 1964 1965
Associated 20.9 18.3 14.5 18.6 17.8 15.6
APM 20.0 17.8 19.3 20.9 20.4 20.7
Newsprint 33.8 ' 34.2 31.7 33.4 33.0 33.6
Cellulose 24.2 18.8 16.8 16.8 6.8 3.7
SALES PER $OOO OF CAPITAL INVESTED
1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965
Associated 1160 1000 750 950 1020 1140
APM n.a. 818 812 904 926 903
Newsprint 957 889 854 862 633 633
Cellulose 1079 738 585 562 695 878
I think that the profit to sales percen-
tages show remarkable consistency so far
as APM and Australian Newsprint are
concerned and it is perhaps worth noting
that these two companies show the least
fluctuations in the sales indices. Both
Cellulose and Associated show a down-
ward trend in the profit to sales percen-
tage throughout the period under review.
Associated’s figures for return on
capital have fluctuated slightly (about
2 p.c. either way) from the average,
excluding the good 1959/60 year and
the bad 1961/2 year. This might be
taken to indicate that the capital invest-
ment in the last three years has produced
a more than proportionate increase in
sales but profitability has not improved.
However, in this type of capital inten-
sive industry, there is every reason to
believe that a sharp increase in sales
without any increase in capital will pro-
duce a most marked improvement in
profits. This would happen if the plant
was operating well below its capacity
and then suddenly increased to maximum
capacity. This could well happen this
year so far as Associated is concerned.
It will be very interesting to see what
happens so far as Cellulose’s profits are
concerned this year. On the figures over
this period, profitability has continued a
steady and fairly rapid downward trend,
despite a marked increase in sales over
the last two years without any marked
increase in capital. The interim report


suggests that a reversal is about to take
place but the problems of the last few
years and the very low rate of profitability
(despite the fact that the plant seems to
have been operating at 80 p.c. capacity
last year) make one very cautious.
Australian Newsprint seems to have
been making a fairly steady profit in
relation to sales. This can only be re-
garded as a very creditable performance
because, as was mentioned in the article
on this company, the selling price of the
product has been declining while costs
must surely have been rising. The prob-
lem of a falling return on total capital
employed is in evidence but the position
is complicated somewhat by the fact that
a substantial investment was made in
Tasman Pulp which can hardly be ex-
pected to show the same rate of return
The Chartist Likes APM
rTHE charts agree with “Security” that shares in Australian Paper Manufacturers
should represent a growth investment.
But these charts (based on the market
prices paid for shares in four paper
companies over the last six years) dis-
agree with the analyst on the merits of
Associated Pulp and, despite his dam-
ning of the stock with faint praise, the
charts suggest that Associated Pulp
should rise by about 40 p.c. over the
next year while APM is expected to in-
crease by only about 13 p.c. or so.
For the other two stocks, the charts
tell as unimpressive a story as “Security”.
Australian Newsprint’s chart reveals
an unimpressive performance and a
thinly traded situation. Although the
downtrend still evident at this stage is
near penetration, no appreciable upward
move could be expected and it is more
likely that a sideways movement will
follow. There appears to be insufficient
volume over the last year to support any
sustained rise.
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited still shows premise of further
growth and a projection of $2 is
indicated from the 1965 consolidation
base. The first immediate objective of
about $1.86 has almost been reached and
it is possible that some short-term reac-
tion could be expected. The long-term
trend appears to be up and a 33 p.c.
growth rate per annum was achieved for
the three years to 1964. Although the
stock has reacted in sympathy with the
general bearishness of the market up to
the end of last year, the degree of fall
was not as sharp as the all-ordinary
index and this would suggest that the
rate of growth could continue at the
previous rate.
Cellulose’s movement for the period
1962-1964 suggested a fall to about the
50c. level which was nearly achieved in
1965. An uptrend has been evident for
the last six months but at this stage the
stock does not indicate any clear overall
direction, due particularly to its random
sales.
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills
Limited has shown definite cyclical ten-
dencies over the past five years. The
downtrend evident for the last two years
was broken early January, 1966. Inves-
tors can expect an overall rise to approxi-
mately the $2.25 level over the next
twelve months from the existing base
pattern although some short term reac-
tion would be possible.
because the income received on this in-
vestment consists of net dividends only.
The latest interim report, while stating
that profits for the half year were down,
also says that long-term contracts have
been negotiated at a higher price as from
the beginning of the next financial year.
I think that of the four companies,
APM is the most attractive at the present
time, for not only does the demand for
its product seem to be growing at a
higher rate than the demand for the pro-
ducts of Associated and Australian News-
print, but also it has a consistent record
in recent years both for the return on
sales and on capital employed. This
record has been achieved in the face of
steady selling prices and rising costs and
a programme of steady capital invest-
ment. In other words, while none of
the “paper” companies seem to represent
rapid growth situations, APM has pro-
vided steady and consistent growth over
the last five years.


Dear
Mr. Pelaco:
It’s time you met
Peter Condon
m,
m
-
I‘J
Can you spot who made this shirt, Mr. Pelaco?
(clue: it wasn't you!)
!§ mßmsm
Peter’s a North Shore type. And last week his
wife bought him three new shirts. But none
of them carried your brand name. Over
1 million shirts are sold in the TCN-9
viewing area alone, every year, and you
may be getting some of it (after all, there
are % of a million men living in Sydney
and the suburbs), but we think you could be
getting much, much more. TCN-9 puts your
name before the largest captive audience in the
country . . . seven nights a week. And they’re all
potential buyers—wide open to the potent selling skills
of TCN-9 Television. Interested?
Channel
SYDNEY
Studio and transmitter at Artarmon Road,
Willoughby. 43-0444. Sales —Sydney: Bth
Floor, Telegraph House, Park Street.
61-9931. Melbourne: 247 Collins Street,
63-8336.
A 621


&G
#
INTEREST
UP TO
%
PER
ANNUM
FIRST SERIES DEBENTURE STOCK
AND UNSECURED NOTES
Applications for Debentures and Notes only accepted on
printed forms included in the prospectus obtainable from:
All branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Your stockbroker. Any AGC branch.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
AGC House, Phillip and Hunter Streets, Sydney • 2 0324
ASK THE 'WALES’ FOR DETAILS
ND.16.N.
exporters!
TO DO OR NOT TO DO-THAT IS THE QUESTION
A policyholder* writes—
"ln our business we must offer firm by Cable as quickly as possible
to overseas enquiries. Any delay can be fatal to our prospects of
winning the business.
“It has therefore been a tremendous advantage to be able to ’phone
E.P.I.C. and get a credit approval on buyers new to us but known by
you, or to get extra cover on larger-than-usual orders from our
existing credit customers. x
“Now with E.P.I.C. cover we can act decisively.”
epic
SAFE!
You, too, can'act decisively. Use the most compre-
hensive intelligence service on overseas buyers in
Australia.
Export Payments Insurance Corporation
(Commonwealth Govt. Guaranteed)
*The writer must remain anonymous. E.P.I.C. is pledged to respect the
business confidences of its clients.
EP2.43.105
No Guide off the Market
By JASON
llThen you see large lines of off-market
sales in companies you’re interested
in, do you hit the panic button, cheer,
sound alarm bells, or just call for an-
other drink?
In the majority of cases, the last
alternative is by far the most sensible.
Many of these sales have no market
significance at least by the time they
are reported. Even though the stock ex-
change regulations now require brokers
to reveal these special sales that until a
little more than a year ago could remain
secret, there does not seem any hard and
fast rule about when these sales must be
revealed. For example, a large parcel
of Dunlop Rubber shares was placed
at varying prices over some months last
year and the sales were only reported
after the whole line had been disposed of.
Flad shareholders in Dunlop known
about the enthusiasm of this large share-
holder to quit the stock (and very
sensibly, too, in view of the tough times
now in the tyre business) and had they
seen these “specials” oozing forth with
regularity, more may have jumped on the
selling bandwagon. For these sales were
clearly satisfying and removing a poten-
tial buyer of Dunlop shares from the
market and therefore weakening that
market.
The recent big off-market deal in
Amalgamated Chemicals shares was not
reported to the stock exchanges at the
time, although the financial Press did
manage to find out about it somehow.
So if there is a message in the special
sales being done, it is not one that in most
cases has any topicality. Most of these
sales have no message, anyway. Never-
theless, a cross-section of brokers I spoke
with last week said they usually sat up
and took notice when they saw heavy off-
market parcels changing hands, and that
alarm bells rang in their hip pockets
(their most sensitive region).
I therefore took a look at the main
special sales revealed in the last few
months. I have to report that it seems
impossible to generalise about them. Just
as many of the shares have gone up
from the market price at the time the
“special” was reported as have gone
down.
It is, however, worthwhile trying to
find out why the specials took place,
although this may not provide any real
guide. In recent times there have been
repeated examples of “specials” being
reported ha stocks where a member of
the management’s family is disposing of
some of his shares for various reasons
(the new taxation requirements for public
companies have been one factor) and
that, instead of being a bearish point,
the price of the stock has gone from
strength to strength.
The main point about all this is that it
is wrong to look at “specials” simply as
evidence that someone wants to get out
of a stock; in many cases they occur be-
cause some buyer desperately wants to
get into it. For example, the Toppa
“specials” were done above last year’s
then market (the buyers were keenly seek-
ing the shares) and the price has since
fallen. On the other side of that coin, a


The man
who leaves no will
may be
leaving trouble
How many people think about making a Will? Almost everyone,
at one time or another. And how many die intestate? Their
assets are sold up, often on an unfavourable market, and the
proceeds distributed to a regulation set of beneficiaries as
laid down by the Laws of Intestacy ... often with unpleasant
results. Is this what you would want for your family?
It’s so easy to give your family the final protection of a
Will. Don’t hesitate—call the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company.
They'll help you to plan your Estate, and then have a Will
drawn up by your Solicitor that precisely expresses your
wishes.
But —why a Trustee Company? Because if you appoint
the Union-Fidelity Trustee Company to be your executor, you
have the services of a friendly, experienced, reliable adminis-
trator. Union-Fidelity gives you what no individual can . . .
security and continuity of service.
Call Union-Fidelity right away. Or send this coupon for
free booklet, “When Making a Will”.
UNION-FIDELITY
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT, GEELONG, HAMILTON, TRARALGON, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, ALBURY,
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, CAIRNS AND CHARLEVILLE
CANBERRA,
100 Exhibition Street, Melbourne
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
I would appreciate a complimentary copy of your "When Making a
Will" Booklet.
NAM E
ADDR ESS
tmH
WJ
nzix
UT50.102N
great lump of Australian Portland Cement
Manufacturers was done well below the
market in December, ac a large holder
was clearly a seller and the price has
risen quite well since then.
Companies whose shares are involved
in special deals are often reluctant to ex-
plain the circumstances, if indeed they
know.
Special sales are frequently the first
revelation of changed intentions, fresh
policy, or new men at the helm of a com-
pany. There can be no denying that in
these cases the “special” is of great sig-
nificance to the market.
Many special parcels eventuate from
takeover, when the parties taken over
quietly dispense with their new shares
without disturbing the market.
In a different category are the place-
ments which increase issued capital, made
through brokers in lieu of a small share
issue which would involve the company
in a lot of expense. As these bypass exis-
ting shareholders, the market may take a
dim view.
YlLThat sort of a company is EMI Aus-
tralia? Is it more an appliance
manufacturer than an electronics com-
pany; more a maker of recordings than
of defence requisites? The top men won’t
say. The chairman of the British parent
company, Sir Joseph Lockwood, and the
local boss, Mr J. M. Burnett, both skated
around this question at a Press confer-
ence last week. Sir Joseph has brought
out his entire board of directors to let
them all know what is going on in Aus-
tralia. For safety’s sake, they flew in
different planes.
While it seems that records probably
provide the most profitable part of the
local EMl’s operations particularly
while the Beatles keep going there is
a growing trend towards defence work
that is likely to increase substantially to
the benefit of the local company, especi-
ally now that EMI Electronics Pty Ltd
at the Long Range Weapons Establish-
ment at Salisbury in South Australia has
been transferred from the British com-
pany to become a subsidiary of the local
show.
There is no doubt that, without the
Beatles, the mighty EMl’s world-wide
profits would suffer despite the large
spread of its operations. Sir Joseph did
say the trouble with'the Beatles was get-
ling them into"the recording studios. He
hoped they would be cutting a new disc
this week. Its name? “I don’t know. I
don’t suppose it’s been written yet.”
It seems that shareholders had better
keep their eyes glued to the pop charts
and their fingers crossed.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: CLIFFORD PAUL SANDERS. TAKE
NOTICE that LOIS COLEMAN SANDERS has
filed a Petition No. 4447 of 1965 for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion and separation. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 14th day of April, 1966, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
E. B. PENMAN, Public Solicitors, 55 Market
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: RAYMOND ATHOL PATTRICK, late of
Nowra, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE
JOYCE PATTRICK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 707 of 1966 on the grounds of
desertion and/or separation notwithstanding
the facts set out in the discretion statement
filed herein. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 20th day of April, 1966, and obtain
a copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition
Without charge from MESSRS GREGG MILNE
& CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ALFRED RIGGS. TAKE NOTICE that
MARGARET ROSE RIGGS has filed a Petition
No. 3087 of 1966 for a Divorce on the ground
of cruelty. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before 15th April, 1966,
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS lAN DUNCAN, KNUD-
SON & CO., 403-411 George Street, Sydney. —-
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO; JOHN HAROLD AYTON, formerly of
Swanson. TAKE NOTICE that NERYL ADELE
AYTON has filed a Petition No. 4108 of 1965
for Divorce on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 13th day of April, 1966. You may
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS JOHN D. NORTON RICKARD
& SYMONDS, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, as city agents for BRUCE O’SULLI-
VAN, Solicitors, of Newcastle. C. A. EL
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN WILLIAM MORTON, late of Ash-
ford. TAKE NOTICE that ENA MURIEL MOR-
TON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 460
of 1965 on the ground of separation. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 22nd
April, 1966, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIS
& CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GERARD ANTHONY SEXTON, late of 4
John Street, Elthelton, South Australia. TAKE
NOTICE that IRENE JEAN SEXTON has filed
a Petition No. 4759 of 1965 for Divorce on
the ground of desertion and is asking the
discretion of the Court. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 15th
day of April, 1966, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS LACEY
& CO., Solicitors, 65 Scott Street, Liverpool.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
CASH
for
DEBENTURES
BONDS
HARD TO
SELL
Write
or other
SECURITIES.
FINANCIER
P.O. Box 56
Albert Park.
Canberra
Grammar School
Master required to teach GENERAL
SCIENCE throughout the school and to
take charge of the teaching of PHYSICS
within the General Science programme.
To start as soon as possible. Applicants to
write to the Headmaster, Canberra
Grammar School, Canberra, giving a brief
curriculum vitae and the names and
addresses of two referees.
fghfgh
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 889
ACROSS
I—Fowl which hatches out big, tough chicks? (11)
7—May have nine tails, or as many lives. (3)
9—Red hot old man being initiated by such a figure.
(5)
10— Father, behaving like a thief, is getting frantic with
fright. (9)
11— Flower brother and His Majesty operating in ex-
change. (12)
14—Turkish character from “Lakme”. (5)
16—Mussolini the Mournful meets Esmond among the
aristocratic traditionalists of Jewry. (9)
17—Le Session becomes silent. (9)
20— I wake in this dam place in
Australia. (5)
21— These politicians say 1000
ashes are enough for them.
(5, 7)
24—As some foundry worker do-
ing a slow burn. (9)
26 Animal approval given to a
factor in calculating circles.
(5)
27 Georgia’s fuel. (3)
28— Factory one on a high dud-
geon plutocrat. (11)
DOWN
1— Provision of shelves for the
drinking saloon is to be ex-
pected from the Hill. (10)
2 No, Sir! That wrecks these
pressers. (5)
3 No member lit for this im-
broglio. (11)
4 Birds suggesting Roy Rene
defies the advocates of brighter
batting. (7)
5 Charitable Communist rela-
tive. (7)
6 Sinbad was transported by this
bird from Central Morocco.
(3)
7 One’s customers including
Nellie, etc. (9)
8— —Country of equatorial Africa
is to beat it. (4)
12—Apply yourself with determin-
ation to joint feathers. (7, 4)
13—Pears again to be found in a
chemical of delicacy. (10)
15—Same limit applied when the
posts go. (4, 5)
18— Exposer? (2-5)
19— Noble Japanese port in New
Guinea. (7)
22 Watering place greeting a
French Algerian cavalryman.
(5)
23 A fringe report. (4)
25 —German city companion of
Smithy. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 888


BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
AUSTRALIA
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W,
26 weeks $5.20 52 weeks $8.40
(New Guinea Air Mai!—26 weeks, $8.25;
52 weeks, $14.50)
MALAYSIA
Woolworths (Malaysia) Ltd.,
10 Collyer Quay, Singapore,
air freight:
26 weeks $26 52 weeks $52
BRITISH ISLES
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
107 Fleet Street, London.
26 weeks .. 42/- Stg. 52 weeks .. 67/- Stg.
surface mail:
(Air Mail rates on application.)
AMERICA
Australian Consolidated Press Ltd.,
229 West 43 rd Street, New York.
Sujrface mail—send dojlar equivalent of Aus-
tralian rates. (Air Mail rates on application.)
MAIL THIS COUPON
TODAY
NEW ZEALAND
Gordon & Gotch (N.Z.) Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1595, Wellington, C. 1., N.Z.
26 weeks .. 42/- N.Z. 52 weeks .. 67/- N.Z.
(air freight—26 weeks, 52/- N.Z.; 52 weeks,
84/- N.Z.)
BULLETIN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Please send me 26/52 issues of THE
BULLETIN.
Name
Address
j j Renewal.
Tick as appropriate.
Enclosed is cheque, postal note, for.
j j New Subscription.
Remembrance of Things Past
And up to date with Amalgamated Chemicals
liffOST people regard business documents, especially company prospectuses as dull,
* yet even the most non-commercial of us would find something of interest in the
original prospectus of the Australian Gas Light Company.
Dated September 1, 1836, the three-
page document is full of surprises. Is
there a company now whose chairman is
the Police Commissioner and whose
secretary acts in an honorary capacity as
well as being a cleric? There certainly
was early last century when the Aus-
to,ban Gas Light Company had Mr H. C
Wilson as chairman and the Reverend
Ralph Mansfield as secretary.
To quote, the object of the company
was “the lighting of the large, increasing
and opulent metropolis with gas”. And
pne of the benefits of achieving such a
goal was “the pleasure of perambulating
its streets when thus brilliantly illuminated
would of itself be no inconsiderable
return tor a moderate outlay of capital”.
urt ermore, gaslight had been uni-
versa ly hailed as one of the highest
luxunes conferred by science on modern
times ‘
Half-way through the report is an
account titled Estimated Outlay”. The
final figure for the “total capital required
for lighting Sydney” is the princely sum of
$36,010. Mind you, it was estimated that
Sydney had only 500 buildings which
would consume on the average three
lights each. In addition there would be
300 street lamps.
0 n the subject of profits the prospectus
states . .. xhe Directors might content
, hems elves with a reference to the noto-
rious fact , hat in the Mother cou
Gas u ht companies have on the whole
proved , he m £ t lucrative of (he in .
numerable speculations which have been
commenced.” Rather than rest on this
laurel, directors take you through a few
swift calculations to arrive at the con-
elusion that “two years’ income would
more than refund your entire outlay”,
Unfortunately I do not have access
to the early records of the Australian
c as Light Company; otherwise I would
know how accurate was to be this pre-
diction. However, I do know that the
total capital wanted by the company to
establish the gaslight industry was
$40,000 and that the present capital is
just under $16,000,000. A four-hundred-
fold increase!
Australian Gas Light shares are not the
most spectacular security in a rising
market, but at least you know you won’t
lose half your money overnight in a fall-
ing market. And this is quite pertinent to
the current depressing market.
In this atmosphere, put options seem
to be the order of the day. The fact
that my “put” is Amalgamated Chemicals
at $1.35 is not to be taken as a sign of
annoyance at having sold the shares at
$1.31 earlier in the week. After all, that
was my stated intention some weeks ago.
I was quite satisfied with the $3O profit.
I’m simply assuming that this will be
another Cresco situation. (It has kept true
to the Cresco pattern so far.) By the
time this article is published, there could
well be a further bid by Continental Oil,
bettering the current one by Dow Chemi-
cals of $1.40 per share for 65 p.c. of the
share capilal. Nevertheless, I’m prepared
to assume we are getting close to the
finale. What’s more, I bet there will be a
horribly sharp reaction in the share price
once the successful offer goes through.
In the case of Cresco, where the final
offer was $9 a share, the reaction has
brought the shares down to the pre-
takeover level of $6. Amalgamated
Chemicals shares were selling around the
90c level before it became the subject
of a takeover battle. I’ll be quite satisfied
if the shares steady out at a dollar.
Apart from the sale of Amalgamated
Chemicals at $1.31, a couple of pleasing
profits were taken on Peko Wallsend and
Comeng Holdings. Including the dividend,
the Peko Wallsend showed a profit of
$BB. Not much less was the $6l profit on
the Comeng.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
600 Amalgamated
Chemicals, $1.31 $772
400 Comeng, $1.25 $490
400 Peko Wallsend (x-div.), $2 .. $798
PUT OPTION
500 Amalgamated
Chemicals, $1.35 $5O
Suddenly I have a balance of $1735 in
the account. One small error in last
week’s diary: Fire Fighting shares were
purchased at 73 cents, not 70 cents. The
porfolio now comprises:
, Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Pongrass 15/9/65 $l.lO $1.15
200 VAM 28/9/65 0,50 0.55
1000 L. J. Hooker 24/11/65 0.31 0.31
400 Associated Pulp 5/1/66 1.50 1.55
500 Petersvilie 13/1/66 0.55 0.60
200 Mt Morgan 13/1/66 2.08 2.10
400 B. J. Ball 2/2/66 0.88 0.90
200 Western Mining 9/2/66 2.60 2.65
400 Riverina TV 13/2/66 0.74 0.75
400 West Titanium ctg 13/2/66 1.15 1.15
500 Fire Fighting 24/2/66 0.73 0.72
400 Coal and Allied 24/2/66 1.36 1.34
500 Amal. Chem. put.
option 3/3/66 1.35 1.35


■
1
■ L J*:
Mr™ 1 , i
IP «* *** SFHKtPfj
KHKMiiM^
fi n
For
the
best
[EXPERIENCE
mm
Australia
where the SERVICE continuously embraces you with true HOSPITALITY.
ACCOMMODATION ... in the heart of fascinating King’s Cross. All rooms and suites fully air-conditioned —
own bath, toilet, TV, radio and phone—overlooking beautiful Sydney Harbour.
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT, with an excellent cellar. Golden Grill —breakfast or dining by candlelight with
soft music. Silver Spade-—unequalled cuisine, international artists and dancing nightly. Oasis Lounge—
Smorgasbord. Light entertainment and dancing nightly for the young in heart.
CONVENTIONS, RECEPTIONS, EXHIBITIONS. Ask for Chevron’s booklets, “Planning Made Easy” and
“Entertaining Made Easy.” When entertaining or staying at Chevron it will be your best experience ever.
IP
tr
SYDNEY
RESERVATIONS: CHEVRON HOTEL, MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Phone: 35-0433. Cables: “Chevron Sydney.” MELBOURNE: 51-1281, or any Travel Agent
AGENTS FULLY PROTECTED
Send for illustrated brochure. Special FAMILY RATES on application. CAR PARKING facilities
AVIS
RENTA CAR
AVIS ADDS TO YOUR EXPERIENCE
See more, do more, have more fun
when you drive a sparkling new AVIS
car. The car of your choice will be
waiting for you at the airport, railway
station, shipside, or will be delivered to
Chevron Hotel as part of the CHEV-
RON/AVIS service. And remember, you
and the car are protected by proper,
repeat proper, insurance.
ill
I | * I » 14 I I
t i ( i 1 tUt t
t I i H tl * t
i * i m 1 1
I i i' i I' If 111
I I * t S I# 1 1 *
UIJUI» ‘ ‘
f’Hk: »l
Min
■ tit
■ til
THU
II 111 tilt


■lll
’3m
%
m
e^ v
%
nN
cP
v>
I . ;v?
t V
MsamaM
■ - .: :
Hi
'-V ,V
■ \W.VI<
. v/C**-;
jAMAfC*
//
' ,'ffl V. 4
M
«
• ■ h
**
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN WALKER 1 SONS, LTD.
say
'Johnnie Walker’
and enjoy your Scotch more
The convenient square bottle, the easy-to-pull
cork, the familiar Red Label and the famous
Johnnie Walker figure, are symbolic of the
enduring quality of this world-renowned whisky.
It is the same miraculously smooth and
mellow Scotch it has been for generations.
R
In miniatures, 5 oz., and 1 3 oz. flasks, 1 3 oz. and 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 STILL. GOING STRONG
JW 2 013.FP B
